the
Observer 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


Gates to speak at 2011 Commencement 
Observer Staff Report 
U.S. Secretary of Defense Robert M. Gates will be the 2011 Commencement speak­er, according to a University press release. 
Gates will speak and receive an honorary degree at the University’s 166th Commencement on May 22 at Notre Dame Stadium. 
“The contributions Dr. Gates has made in service to our nation and to higher edu­

cation are many and signifi­will be of cons iderable inter-years, including nine years at  p r e s i d e n t o f Te x a s A & M  
cant,” University President est to Notre D ame’s graduat­the National Security Council.  U n i v e r s i t y f o r f o u r y e a r s  
Fr. John Jenkins said in the ing Class of 20 11.” He served as director of the  before becoming secretary of  
p r e s s r e l e a s e . “ I a m s o N o m i n a t e d  b y P r e s i d e n t CIA from 1991 to 1993, which  defense. From 1991 to 2001  
pleased that G e o r g e W.  B u s h , G a t e s m a d e h i m t h e o n l y c a r e e r  he was interim dean of the  
h e h a s became the 22 nd secretary of officer in CIA history to rise  G e o r g e B u s h S c h o o l o f  
accepted our d e f e n s e i n  2 0 0 6 . U n d e r to director after beginning at  G o v e r n m e n t a n d P u b l i c  
i n v i t a t i o n President Bara ck Obama, he an entry-level position. Gates  Service at Texas A&M from  
and look for-became the on ly defense sec-was also deputy director of  1999 to 2001.  
ward to wel­retary asked to  remain in his the CIA from 1986 to 1989  Gates earned his bachelor’s  
c o ming him role under a  newly-elected and was assistant to the pres- degree from the College of  
to our cam-president.  i d e n t a n d d e p u t y n a t i o n a l  William and Mary, his mas- 
p u s . I a m Af t er join in g t h e Centra l security adviser at the White  t e r ’s d e g r e e f r o m I n d i a n a  
s u r e h i s Intelligence AGatesp e r s p e c ­1966, he serve gency (CIA) in House from 1989 to 1991. d as an intelli-Gates also has experience  University and his doctorate in Russian and Soviet history  
tives on our nation and world g e n c e p r o f e s  s i o n a l f o r 2 7 in higher education. He was  from Georgetown University.  



Students March for Life in Washington 
By AMANDA GRAY 
News Writer 
Junior Veronica Stafford said the March for Life in Washington, D.C., represents the power of people coming together to show their support of one specific cause — in this case, the repeal of Roe v. Wade, the 1973 Supreme Court ruling on abor­tion. 
Stafford, along with other Notre Dame students, made the trip to Washington, D.C., over the weekend to show support in the repeal of the ruling in the annual march that brings together groups from all over the nation. 
Between 380 and 390 students from Notre Dame, Saint Mary’s and Holy Cross attended the March held Monday, junior Kyle Clark said. Clark is the co-com­missioner of the trip to the March For Life through Notre Dame’s Right to Life club (RTL). 
“It would be easy to just talk about pro-life issues. It’s alto­gether different to actually stand and walk outside in freezing tem­peratures for hours,” he said. “The March is a way for all of us here at Notre Dame, particularly in RTL, to stand together and proudly stand up for the basic right to life that is guaranteed in our nation’s founding documents but more importantly is a hall­mark of our Catholic heritage.” 
In this sense, the March fits perfectly with Notre Dame and its mission, Clark said. 
“As a Catholic institution, we have to stand up and expose the injustice of abortion, and there is no better way to do that than to travel and express that in the nation’s capital,” he said. 
Stafford said groups at the March join together in praying 
see MARCH/page 4 



Rectors’ pets call residence halls home 
became the owner of Farley, a Pekingese mix, about 10 years ago. 
“Farley was a stray, and security brought her to my attention on a bitter, cold night in December,” Etheridge said. “She would have frozen to death, but she’s been living here ever since, and it’s been a lot of fun having her.” 
For the past 10 years, resi­dents of Fisher Hall have become accustomed to the mellow, friendly basset hound named Ellie, who belongs to Fisher Hall rector Fr. Rob Moss. 
“She’s kind of a fixture,” 
see PETS/page 5 



By KRISTEN DURBIN 
News Writer 
Although animal-loving stu­dents may suffer when they leave pets behind and come to Notre Dame, residents of some dorms can still interact with the furry friends belonging to their rectors. 
New rules instated in the last decade prohibited pets in resi­dence halls, so pets already living with their rector owners in the dorms were “grandfa­thered in” as residents of their respective halls, Farley Hall rector Sr. Carrine Etheridge said. 
Etheridge unexpectedly 


Residents may face snow fine 
By MELISSA FLANAGAN 
News Writer 
A snow removal ordinance recently passed in of South Bend may penalize off-cam­pus students who do not clear their sidewalks in front of their houses within 24 hours of snow accumula­tion. 
Student body president Catherine Soler said the new ordinance reinforces a policy that was already in place in South Bend. 
“It’s been a long conversa­tion in community meetings about people not shoveling their sidewalks, not just students but everyone, ” Soler said. 
The new ordinance will impose a fine of $15 to start and $25 for noncompliance if a sidewalk is not cleared within 24 hours after snow­fall, according to The South Bend Tribune. 
Soler said student govern­ment believes off -campus students choose to be a part of the South Bend communi­ty and therefore assume all the responsibilities of a reg­ular resident. 
“We are members of the community,” Soler said. “If we want to be respected in other ways we have to par­ticipate as a normal citizen would.” 
Although students will be responsible for their side­walks while school is in ses­sion, student government is 
see SNOW/page 5 

INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER Student gov. to launch new site page 3  “No Strings Attached” review page 8  Men’s basketball clock management page 16  Viewpoint page 6 
page 2 The Observer . PAGE 2 Wednesday, January 26, 2011 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: W O WOULD YOU LIKE TO BE A GUEST SPEAKER AT ND??
THE OBSERVER 








P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Matt Gamber 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Madeline Buckley Patrick Sala 

ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Sam Werner 
ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Laura Myers 
NEWS EDITOR: Laura McCrystal 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Michelle Maitz 
SPORTS EDITOR: Douglas Farmer 
SCENE EDITOR: Jordan Gamble 
SAINT MARY’S EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Dan Jacobs 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Blair Chemidlin 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Lillian Civantos 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jane Obringer 
CONTROLLER: Jeff Liptak 

SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Joseph Choi 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 mgamber@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 mbuckley@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITORS 
(574) 631-4324 swerner@nd.edu, lmyers2@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 jgamble@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY’S DESK 
acharn01@saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
observerOnline 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Matt Gamber 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 
024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer 
Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 
and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 




TODAY’S STAFF 
News Sports 
John Cameron Mike Gotimer Megan Doyle Douglas Farmer Carly Landon Sam Gans 

Graphics Scene 
Lauren Kalinoski Jordan Gamble 

Photo Viewpoint 
Dan Jacobs Michelle Maitz 



OFFBEAT 

Chicago salesman fired for wearing Packers tie 
OAK LAWN, Ill. – A car salesman in suburban Chicago has been fired for refusing to remove a Green Bay Packers tie that he wore to work the day after the Packers beat the Chicago Bears to advance to the Super Bowl. 
John Stone says he wore the Packers tie to work Monday at Webb Chevrolet in Oak Lawn to honor his late grand ­mother, who was a big Green Bay fan. 
The sentimental gesture did not impress his boss, Jerry Roberts. 
Roberts says the dealer­ship has done promotions 
Jack Heinrich  Charley Berno  Melissa Coles  Michael Neuberger  Annie Cragg  Phil McAndrews  
junior  freshman  senior  freshman  sophomore  junior  
Duncan  Fisher  Lewis  Fisher  Walsh  O’Neil  

“Lou Holtz.”  “Warren Buffet  “The Pope,  “President  “Steve Martin,  “Wiquer  
… if Michael  because he’s an  Obama.”  he has some of  Burnz.”  
Neuberger is  awesome dude  my favorite  
booked.”  we could learn  tweets.”  
a lot from.”  


Have an idea for Question of the Day? E-mail obsphoto@gmail.com 

involving the Bears and he was afraid the tie could alienate the team's fans and make it harder to sell cars. 
Roberts adds that Stone was offered five chances to take off the tie but he refused. 
Grand piano found on sandbar in Miami bay 
MIAMI – A grand piano recently showed up on a sandbar in Miami's Biscayne Bay, about 200 yards from condominiums on the shore. 
The piano, which weighs at least 650 pounds, was placed at the highest spot along the sandbar so it doesn't get underwater during high tide. 
While officials aren't sure how it got there, they know it won't be going anywhere unless it becomes a hazard to wildlife or boaters. 
Florida Fish and Wildlife Conservation Commission spokesman Jorge Pino says the agency is not responsible for moving such items. And, he adds, unless it becomes a navigational hazard, the U.S. Coast Guard won't get involved. 
For now, the piano has become a fancy roost for seagulls. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

IN BRIEF 
Professor Gang Cao will be presenting a colloquium on the “Spin-Orbit Interaction Rediscovered in Transition Metal Oxides” today from 4­
5:30 p.m. in 118 Nieuwland Science. Professor Cao is a physics professor at University of Kentucky ­Lexington. 
Melissa Delvecchio will give a lecture titled “On Campus with Robert A.M. Stern” today from 4:30-6:30 p.m. in 104 Bond Hall. Delvecchio is a partner with Robert A.M. Stern Architects in New York. A reception will follow. 
A photo exhibit and remarks on “The Spirit of Holy Cross: Celebrating a Saint” will be held today at 
5:30 p.m. in the Main Building rotunda . This event is part of Holy Cross Week which goes from January 20-26. 
The Social Concerns Fair will take place today from 
6:30 -8:30 p.m. in Rooms B034 and B036 in Geddes Hall . This is a fantastic opportunity to learn more about the local community, and find ways to get involved and make an impact. 
“Women and War: In and Out of Uniform,” a panel dis­cussion, will be held tomor­row from 5:30-7:30 p.m. in the Oak Room of South Dining Hall. This event is being Co-sponsored by ROTC Women, the Gender Relations Center, Women in International Security, Feminist Voice and Women in Politics. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews.nd@gmail.com 


HIGH LOW 
HIGH LOW 
HIGH LOW HIGH LOW HIGH LOW 

Today Tonight Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday 



CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a 


27 22 HIGH 2429 3223
mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 


18 18 LOW 1827 1541 







Wednesday, January 26, 2011 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 


COUNCIL OF REPRESENTATIVES 
Student government launches new website 

By JOHN CAMERON 
News Writer 

At Tuesday’s meeting of the Council of Representatives (COR), student body president 
Catherine Soler walked mem­bers through an overview of the new student government web­site. 
Assembled by newly-appointed student union webmaster Frank Soler, the revamped site is intended to offer students easier access to more information on the projects being undertaken by up to date on upcoming events, the site will provide students tan­gible examples of student gov­ernment action in the form of resolutions and initiatives. 
“We put a page on here for the beND campaign, just explaining some of the characteristics of our administrations and ways to get involved,” Soler said. “We have our resolutions available to download on PDF.” 
The various Student Senate committees’ progress will also be followed on the site. 
“For each of the senate com­
mittees we have 
the chairperson’s 

the different We added different contact informa­
groups within things like Transpo tion but also student govern-what they’ve 
information and ‘365 
ment. worked on and 
“Now it has Things to Do in South what they’re 
more info about Bend,’ which is a working on what they [the now,” she said. 
blog.” 
groups] are doing Outside of stu­in student gov-dent govern­ernment instead Catherine Soler ment -related of just contact student body president activities and 
info,” Soler said. 

The new site more clearly outlined the dates and times of student government events and meetings. 
“We have a news feed that connects to our calendar. ... I think it would be great if [the COR representatives] could get all of our events together here rather than the individual group sites,” she said. “We have our meeting schedule up, because all of our meetings are open to the public if people want to come.” 
In addition to keeping students information, the 
new site will contain links to information about the surrounding communi­ty. 
“We added different things like Transpo information and ‘365 Things to Do inSouth Bend,’ which is a blog,” Soler said. 
Soler said the site must under­go evaluation by the Student Activities Office before being launched. 
Contact John Cameron at jcamero2@nd.edu 

Aquinas lecture analyzes atheism 
By BRIDGET MEADE 
News Writer 

Fr. Robert Barron addressed atheism in his lecture on Tuesday evening as part of Saint Mary’s 14th annual St. Thomas Aquinas Symposium. 
Barron, a Notre Dame gradu­ate and professor of systematic theology at Saint Mary’s of the Lake, titled his lecture, “Thomas Aquinas and Why Atheists are Right.” 
“New atheists have emerged as strident critics of religion. I have found that more often than not I agree with them, for the God they deny is one that I would deny as well,” he said. 
Barron’s address focused on the definition of truth and the perception of God in both believ­ers and atheists alike. 
Barron said atheists and Catholics define God in different ways. Atheists focus on what God is not rather than what God is. However, religions are often stig­matized in modern society. 
Barron stressed the importance of a Catholic’s ability to address and debate religion in a public setting. 
Dr. Joe Incandela, the event’s organizer and Joyce McMahon Hank Aquinas Chair in Catholic Theology, said the message of a deep and clear understanding of God’s existence is both relevant and necessary on Saint Mary’s campus. 
“Aquinas brings faith and rea­son together [in his beliefs],” Incandela said. “When we do that, we’re participating in a the­ology that, in a sense, is being done through divine revelation.” 
The College is a place to dis­cuss theology openly, he said. 
“You can do theology in public, and it can be fun,” Incandela said. “ And I think that 
Saint Mary’s is a home for that theology.” 
Barron’s renowned global media ministry ranges from YouTube to books to podcasts and DVDs, as well as the Eternal World Television Network (EWTN). As an award-winning author, he has been invited to speak across America and abroad, including the Pontifical North American College at the Vatican and the Pontifical University of St. Thomas Aquinas in Rome. 
As stated by his website, wor­donfire.org, his preaching has a straightforward and revolution­ary mission: to evangelize the culture. 
A crowd of about 150 gathered in the student center to hear Barron. The lecture was spon­sored by Joyce McMahon Hank, a 1952 graduate of Saint Mary’ s and member of the College’ s Board of Trustees. 
Contact Bridget Meade at bmeade01@saintmarys.edu 

page 4 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, January 26, 2011 
March 
continued from page 1 
the Rosary, cheering and singing. 
“RTL offers the opportunity for students to cooperate and march to prove through their actions that they value all human life, no matter how small,” she said. “I love to see all of the groups on the March for Life interact, espe­cially all of the university groups from across the country.” 
During the weekend of the annual March, Stafford said Washington, D.C., colleges hold open panels and discussions relating to issues of life. 
“While exploring the city, sev­eral people came up to me and asked about my Notre Dame affiliation and commended me on participating,” she said. “Even on the bus, the driver took time to thank us for supporting a cause that he believed worth­while.” 
The March for Life has been held since 1974, and this year marked the 38th March, accord­ing to Clark. 
“For the past two years we have been honored and grateful to have University President Fr. John Jenkins march with Notre Dame students,” he said. “His commitment to the pro-life cause is, in my opinion, beyond reproach, and his presence demonstrates that.” 
Students attending the March had several options on trans­portation and lodging, Clark said. The longer trip option, which put students in Washington, D.C., from Friday to Tuesday, cost $60, while the shorter, Sunday to Tuesday trip cost $45. 
“Chris [Stare, junior and co-commissioner] and I began organizing the March back in early October. It’s a huge under­taking,” he said. “… At times the organizational aspect of it could get to be quite a headache, but of course it is worth it in the end. We were fortunate this year to have been provided funding that allowed us to lower costs for students.” 
Junior Ashley Logsdon said this was her sixth time at the March for Life, which she has previously attended with her family. 
“I think that the March for Life fits in perfectly with the stan­dards that Notre Dame upholds as a Catholic institution — the witness of so many Notre Dame students, staff and faculty at the March for Life is truly amazing,” she said. “I don’t think anything less than this witness should be expected of such a great Catholic University.” 
A highlight for many attendees was the Mass celebrated by Fr. Jenkins and the other Holy Cross priests that traveled to the March at St. Agnes’ Parish in Arlington, Va., Logsdon said. 
“It was such a beautiful moment of solidarity as we prayed together as a community and prepared ourselves for the climax of our pilgrimage,” she said. 
Stafford said after Mass, the group traveled to Washington, D.C., by the Metro to the National Mall to listen to speakers. 
“Once the March begins, every­one funnels slowly onto the street to march up to the Supreme Court building and the conclusion of the March,” she said. “While I cannot attend every event offered, the general experience of the weekend makes me both proud to travel with so many other Notre Dame students and also to support my beliefs.” 
Contact Amanda Gray at agray3@nd.edu 

Saint Mary’s students celebrate College history 
By ALICIA SMITH 
Saint Mary’s Associate Editor 

As a continuation of the celebration of Heritage Week at Saint Mary ’s College, students met for tea in Riedinger House, the resi­dence for official friends of the College who visit cam­pus. 
Tea was offered at 2 p.m. and 4 p.m. Tuesday. The event was restricted to 25 students per session, said Kara O’ Leary, director of Alumnae Relations. 
Students were provided with fresh fruit and cookies, as well as soft drinks, tea and water. 
At the sessions, students had the opportunity to learn about Saint Mary’s College history, particularly about the Alumnae Association and Riedinger House. 
The event was part of Saint Mary ’s College Heritage Week, which cele­brates the history and founding of the College. 
O’Leary detailed the histo­ry of the creation of the Alumnae Association. 
“During the early days of the Association, the alum­nae worked closely with the sisters, and then every two years [came] to visit with old friends and to watch the progress of the current stu­dents,” she said. 
O’Leary said the Association was the oldest Catholic women’s alumnae group in the United States. The group is the seventh oldest alumnae association for women’s colleges in the United States. 
The Alumnae Association began in June 1879 as a way for graduates of the College, then called Saint Mary’s Academy, to reunite. 
“The stated purpose was, ‘to preserve the bond of affection existing between 
our alma mater and her children,’” O’Leary said. 
Since that time, the Alumnae Association expanded and now includes more than 18,500 members with 60 different clubs, O’Leary said. 

O’Leary also said the Riedinger House played an interesting role in College history. 
“The house was built in 1939, and it was the prac­tice house for Home Economics majors, ” she said. 
Students lived in the house for a semester to learn how to manage a budget, plan meals, buy food, cook, keep house and entertain guests, O’Leary said. 
O’Leary said the house was named after Adaline Crowley Riedinger, the first alumna to have her daugh­ter graduate from Saint Mary’s College. 
“The Riedinger family donated the major portion 
of the funds for the con ­struction of the house,” she said. 
According to O’Leary, the interior of the house was designed on 7/8th scale in order to save money during construction. The house cost around $21,000 to build, with $4,500 used for equip­ment such as the refrigera­tor, sewing machine and stove. 
The house now houses official guests of the College when they visit campus. 
Sophomore Meghan Feasel gave students a tour of the house. 
Events continue through­out the week including the Heritage tour and tour of the convent at noon and 2 
p.m. and Moreau Dinner held in the Nobel Family Dining Hall from 4:30 p.m. to 7:30 pm. Wednesday. The Heritage Dinner will be held in Stapleton Lounge in Le Mans Hall from 6:30 p.m. to 
9:30 p.m. Thursday, and s’mores and a meet -and ­greet with the Sisters of the Holy Cross will take place at 2 p.m. in the Lillie O’Grady Room Friday. Heritage week will conclude with the All School Formal on Saturday. 
Contact Alicia Smith at asmith01@saintmarys.edu 


Wednesday, January 26, 2011 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS page 5 
the heaviest snowfalls, but Conley said his company all said their dogs comfort home-
his tenants are responsible shovels for its residents 
sick students and help them deal for clearing their sidewalks throughout the winter. 
Snow Pets 

with difficult situations, such as continued from page 1 after light snowfall. “We make sure every ­
continued from page 1 the loss of a family member or “If it’s just a light snow thing’s cleaned for our stu­
illness. in the midst of figuring out then it’s in their lease that dents,” Conley said. “We’re 
Moss said. “She was my mother’s “Farley is very sensitive and how to help students over students will take care of constantly removing snow 
dog, and I probably won’t have will sit by a girl who is in trouble breaks, Soler said. that part themselves, ” from sidewalks and if they 
another one in the future, but I or in need of help,” Etheridge “We want to make sure Kramer said. have driveways then clear­
don’t think she’s moving any-said. “She’s particularly good that students who are away Senior Elise Gerspach ing the driveways.” 
where.” with girls who have broken up 
over break aren’t penal -leased her off -campus Conley said Campus 
Fisher Hall residents chris-with their boyfriends, but she’s ized, ” Soler said. house through Kramer Houses takes pride in the 
tened Ellie as the dorm’s unoffi-heard everything and she never “Hopefully we can work Properties. She said she fact that their maintenance 
cial mascot, and she often breaks her confidence.” out a system and provide agrees Kramer should be staff and landscapers keep 
attracts crowds during dances Similarly, Tornifolio said she volunteers.” responsible for shoveling their sidewalks clean. 
and parties in the hall, Moss encourages her residents to feel Soler said the University over breaks and the stu -“We don’t want to make 
said. comfortable around Ella and to hopes to create a volunteer dents should be account-it our students’ responsi­
“There’s one chair in the main confide in her because she is system to help both off -able for their sidewalks bilities,” Conley said. “We 
lobby that I let her sit on, so it’s “the best secret keeper there is.” campus students and those while they are at school. just want people to feel 
pretty much her throne,” Moss Sr. Sue Dunn, who resides in in the local community who However, some companies safe walking out their 
said. “She’s so friendly that she Cavanaugh Hall, said her dog are not able to shovel out-will shovel for their ten -doors.” 
practically flirts with some stu-Leo is a substitute for side their homes. This ants after any amount of Driving on snowy roads is 
dents, and she puts up a little Cavanaugh women who miss project was still in plan -snowfall. also a concern for many 
fuss if the assistant rectors don’t their own animals at home, she ning stages, but Soler said “It’s definitely an annoy-students. Gerspach said 
pet her.” said. Notre Dame and other local ance especially considering she would like to see the 
Ryan Hall rector Breyan “He came through when I had colleges want to set up a our next -door neighbor’s city become more efficient 
Tornifolio has enjoyed the com-to break hard news to residents database of students will-landlord did shovel for in their own removal of 
panionship of Ella, a cocker in the hall,” she said. ing to be contacted after them last time it snowed,” snow on the streets. 
spaniel-springer spaniel mix, In addition to supporting stu­snowfall in the area. Gerspach said. “Their side-“Maybe if my car didn’t 
since she arrived at Notre Dame dents through trying experi-The various leasing com-walk was literally shoveled slide out of control on my 
five years ago. ences, residence hall dogs often panies around Notre Dame right up to the borderline way to campus every time 
“Ella is a great companion to receive a great deal of attention have different policies between our houses.” it snows I’d be more will-
have,” Tornifolio said. “The and special treatment, including regarding shoveling. Mark One such landlord is ing to shovel my sidewalk,” 
women like having her around, walks and treats from students. Kramer, owner of Kramer Campus Housing, a leasing Gerspach said. 
and it’s nice having her there This Christmas, Tornifolio said Properties, said his policy company managed by 
when I get back from a meeting Ella even received a gift from is to shovel snow for stu-Campus Apartments. Contact Melissa Flanagan at 
or while I’m in my room.” one Ryan resident’s mother. dents over breaks and after Property manager Sean mfanag3@nd.edu 
Etheridge, Moss and Tornifolio Moss also said one Fisher stu­dent carved a wooden picture frame for Ellie a few years ago, and Ellie often rides the elevator and goes on rounds with security guards. 

Etheridge said the women of Farley enjoy dressing their dog in costumes for every occasion, including dances and football weekends, and Farley knows which students keep dog treats in their rooms. 
“We put her in a black taffeta dress for dances, and she wears either a football jersey or cheer-leading costume to pep rallies, which people love to see,” Etheridge said. “Once, we had a luau, so some girls made her a grass skirt and used walnuts instead of coconuts for her top. We have a lot of fun with her.” 
Although allergies to dogs present a point of concern, only Moss ran into issues with aller­gic students in the past, but this problem was resolved when the student moved from the first floor to an upper floor, and no problems have occurred since. 
Despite the responsibilities of having a pet in a residence hall, the rectors unanimously agreed their pets make life in their halls more lively and interesting. Tornifolio said she “couldn’t imagine Ryan Hall without a dog.” 
Other dog owners living on campus include Fr. Austin Collins, resident of Dillon Hall and owner of an Irish setter named Big Red. 
“It’s just fun having a dog,” Etheridge said. 
Contact Kristen Durbin at kdurbin@nd.edu 

The Observer 

Viewpoint 
page 6 Wednesday, January 26, 2011 
INSIDE COLUMN 
The true* home run king 
Forget Roger Maris, Mark McGwire or Barry Bonds. I am the true single-season home run king. Maris swatted a paltry 61 long balls in 1961, McGwire hit an insignificant 70 in 1998 and Bonds tallied a lackluster Michael Todisco 73 in 2001. In the summer of 1998, at Sports 
Production 
the age of seven 
Editor 
years old, I belted an inspiring 140 big flies. 
Each day my dad would return from work, I would drag him to the back yard with a bucket full of tennis balls. With the picket fence in my backyard standing maybe 100 feet from the improvised home plate, I would take aim for the neighbor’s house in the distance with each cut of the bat. That summer, as America was infatu­ated with McGwire and Sosa’s home run chase, I quietly etched my name into baseball’s record books, a true dark horse, obliterating one of the most hallowed marks. 
Clearly this logic is asinine. My “record” was achieved hitting tennis balls with an aluminum bat, pitches topping out at maybe 25 miles per hour, and a generous umpire on fair or foul calls (thanks, Dad). Bond’s record (although it may have an asterisk of its own) was achieved fac­ing formidable fastballs and behe­moth ballpark fences. 
Comparing what I did to the legends of the long knocks is unfair to both sides. Each record was accomplished against different competition and should be celebrated separately; Bonds has Cooperstown, while my record is inscribed on the back of a Christmas ornament, proudly dis­played each December. 
If only the national media could have seen the fallacy in such an argu­ment over winter break when the UConn women’s basketball team won their 89th consecutive game. ESPN touted the accomplishment as break­ing the streak set in 1974 by UCLA. 
But the sports are completely differ­ent; different strategies, styles of play, ball-size and three-point lines. Men’s and women’s basketball are distinctly separate, and the records should be viewed as such. 
Am I being chauvinistic? Not one bit. This is not about men and women; it’s about respecting the his­tory of different sports and levels of play. Heisman Trophies are not com­pared to NFL MVP awards. Those accomplishments lie strictly within the confines of their leagues. As a nation we don’t see the need to com­pare Tom Brady and Cam Newton (speaking of asterisks, cough cough). Heisman Trophy winners and MVP’s are celebrated separately. 
So was what I did as a seven year old more impressive than Barry Bonds 2001 season? Is the current UConn women’s team better than the 1974 UCLA men’s team? While one of the preceding answers is blatantly more obvious, there is no need to even engage in debate. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Michael Todisco at mtodisco@nd.edu 

The environmentally unconscious one; or, Why I love America 
This past weekend I attended the Notre Dame Film Festival. It pro­ceeded pretty much as you’d expect 
— couple great ones (big ups to the Westboro Baptist Church documen­tary), lotta decent ones, a clunker or Brooks Smith two. There was one movie about 
Humanity’s 
garbage in 
Bro 

America that fol­lowed a group called “Pick Up America,” a bunch of people whose idea of a good time is picking up trash by the side of the road and measuring it. They marshaled some impressively apocalyptic statistics about how there are a trillion kabil­lion pieces of plastic in the ocean that will be around for hundreds of thousands of years and 100 pounds of trash on the side of any ordinary road. 
Personally, I didn’t much care for these eco-Nazis, nor their Goebbels­meets-Riefenstahl approach to youth indoctrination. The comparison to the Nazis works on more than one level: that documentary was an atrocity. A well-meaning, hectoring, sermonizing, passive-aggressive bomb (and not in the sense of explo­sive power, either), it proved what anyone who’s ever littered has long suspected: environmentalists are morons who hate fun. 
But the documentary did have one stimulating effect: it reminded me why I love America so much. Where the documentary showed only the dark side of American power, I have a more positive outlook on the tons of trash that our industrial society is producing. Instead of taking litter as an index of everything that is wrong with society and humanity, I run the analysis backwards. A society is only as powerful, durable and long-lasting as the trash and toxic byproducts it creates. 
Take that statistic about plastic I cited earlier. The environmentalists say “there is a 6:1 ratio of plastic to plankton in the ocean” and that most of that plastic will not biodegrade for hundreds of millennia. Is there nobody else who finds this totally badass? What other civilization in the history of the world has wielded so much power and influence over nature? What other civilization has fabricated objects, like these pieces of plastic, which will essentially last forever? This is a form of industrial immortality. 
But we live in a society of intense political correctness. So instead of being proud that we’ve invented Coke can holders of plastic that are strong enough to choke a fish or a duck, we’re ashamed of our “adverse envi­ronmental impact.” News flash, peo­ple: the only way to have zero impact on the environment is to cease to exist, one way or another. We have shaped this planet to reflect our glory and to suit our needs! 
Take the greenhouse effect. What if someone told you, “Hey So-and-so, according to science, we’re produc­ing so many heat-trapping gases in the atmosphere that soon the entire earth will be tropically warm, the beaches will move further inland so middle America isn’t so boring and basically it’s gonna be like the world is a Caribbean paradise.” This, as I understand it, is the scientific com­munity’s predictions if “global warm­ing” and “climate change” are left unchecked. I think the question most sane people would ask, faced with this eventuality, is “How can we build as many coal-fired factories with huge smokestacks as possible?” 

So be of good cheer, my friends. Maybe the world is coming to an end if we don’t smart up and fix some piddling environmental issues. But, as one of my Facebook friends’ pro­files says in their Favorite Quotes section, “Life is a party and parties weren’t meant to last.” In other words, eat, drink, be merry and lit­ter. It’s all part of the one party I’m proud to belong to: the American Party, where the booze is cheap, the girls are cute and actions don’t have consequences because “you were too hammered to know what you were doing bro!” 
I invite all of my readers to crack a bottle as they read this last para­graph and toast to America. And when they finish their bottle, I invite them to discard it wherever the mood strikes them. 
Brooks Smith is a senior studying honors mathematics at the University of Notre Dame. He can be contacted at bsmith26@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

OBSERVER POLL 
Who do you want to win the Super Bowl? -Green Bay Packers -Pittsburgh Steelers Who do you think will win the Super Bowl? -Green Bay Packers -Pittsburgh Steelers 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com. 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“Man is least himself when he talks in his own person. Give him a mask,and he will tell you the truth.” 
Oscar Wilde Irish dramatist, novelist and poet 
The Observer 

Viewpoint 
Wednesday, January 26, 2011 page 7 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Open the tunnels 
I’m assuming you must know this by now, but South Bend winters are harsh. The chill­ing winds can bite through any article of clothing and the countless inches of snow slow us down no matter where we are head­ed. Not only do these low temperatures pose a threat to our immune system, but the idea of ice hidden on any path poses a physical threat — a broken bone or a twisted ankle is on no one’s agenda this winter. 
This is where you come in. As almost all of the campus knows, Notre Dame has an exten­sive underground tunnel system leading to and from nearly all the important buildings on campus. So here’s my simple proposition: Open those underground tunnels for students and faculty during these bone -chilling months of winter. 
Now sure, you may be thinking that this could be dangerous, letting hundreds of peo­ple trek through these passages daily. However, with proper guidelines, disciplinary action and constant surveillance, I do not think the members of the Notre Dame com­munity would be disrespectful regarding this. Instead, we all would be grateful. The num­ber of cases of sickness would decrease, the amount of snow -related injuries would decline and students would generally be hap­pier staying out of the harsh South Bend win­ter. 
Just think about it. The opening of the underground tunnels would overall increase the effectiveness of the campus during the cold months. People wouldn’t be hesitant to head to study to the library or go visit their teacher during study hours and Notre Dame would be a more effective and healthy cam­pus. 
Thanks for reading, 
Elizabeth Linnemanstons 
freshman Lewis Hall Jan. 25 
UWIRE 

Education reform necessary to return U.S. students to the top 
U.S. students are falling behind. 
This statement shouldn’t come as a surprise to most, as it’s  a fact discussed often in recent times. There’s even a movie about it, “Waiting for Superman.” Clearly, the U.S. education system is broken. The question is how do we fix it? Do we even need to fix it? Evan Marolf 
Students in America go to 
Daily 

school 180 days a year. 
Nebraskan 

Meanwhile, students in Japan have a 243-day school year. It’s no surprise, then, that so many successful young people come out of Japan. It doesn’t matter how rigorous our school systems are, we can’t keep pace with Japan if our students go to school some 60 days less per year. And Japan isn’t the only country with 200-plus school days a year. 
Unfortunately, the length of the school year is not the only problem with the U.S. education system. From kindergarten through high school at least, students aren’t challenged enough to maximize their potential. Courses move only as fast as the slowest student can learn. Therefore, almost every other learner is breezing through the class without challenging his or her brain. Imagine a weight-lifting class where everyone lifts the same amount of weight. The weakest student, Little Timmy, can only bench the bar, but everyone else can lift the bar one-handed. While Little Timmy will increase his strength, no one else will develop any muscle. That’s America’s education system in a nutshell. 
By this logic, students should be placed in separate classrooms based on their abilities. Many schools try to do this to an extent by offering advanced placement (AP) classes, but it’s mainly voluntary. On the other hand, obligating students to be in AP classes also presents problems. It would obviously require more teachers and more money. Then there would be the inevitable com­plaints from parents whose children are at a different level than they believe their kids should be. But the big­ger problem for underachieving students is that they would be in an environment where they’re expected to underachieve without any overachieving students to give them an example of how to excel academically. Therefore, low-achieving students would continue to be low-achievers. 
So, how does the problem of underachieving students affect Americans in general? Who cares about all the students who don’t have what it takes to go to college? Everyone has different abilities; the ones with less brains can take those jobs at Wal-Mart, while college students get the higher-paying jobs more suited to their abilities. Their failure doesn’t prevent our success, does it? 
Unfortunately, it does. The failure of the American education system contributed to the economic meltdown and may prevent the U.S. from continuing to be the world’s top economy. Not that the unemployment rate wouldn’t be high right now if every American went to college — lots of people with college degrees are out of jobs, too — but many industries are being sent to Japan and China because they have smarter people and more of them. It’s not nearly that simple, but education is defi­nitely a factor. We need to send more kids to college while restoring the economy, so that the U.S. can get back to being the most innovative country in the world with the most opportunity. Again, there are many other reasons for the poor economy, but having more smart people surely won’t hurt. And there’s a bonus — more students means more professors, more staff, more of whoever it is that makes this place run smoothly. More jobs. 
Forty percent of young Americans have college degrees. That is the same number as Americans over sixty. Meanwhile, 56 percent of young adults in Canada graduate from college. It’s not that we’ve slowed down, we just haven’t kept up with other developed countries. 
The point is that young people aren’t getting the edu­cation they need in order to live up to their potential. If America is to continue to be the “Land of Opportunity,” the greatest country in the world, it needs to have the best education system in the world. Education reform should be one of the top priorities for President Obama and the 112th Congress. Teachers, as well as parents, need to consistently challenge kids throughout their education. A stronger education system would help fix many of America’s problems. 
This column first appeared in the Jan. 25 edition of the Daily Nebraskan, the publication serving the University of Nebraska. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
What the NFL could teach the rest of America 
The worst recession since 1929 shat­tered American confidence in our econo­my and in our government. Global stock exchanges crashed, and the whole world lost its savings in the wreckage. Wall 
Street and Detroit  
teetered on the  Nicholas A.  
edge of insolven- Nehamas  
cy, and  
Washington,  Harvard  
when it finally  Crimson  
realized the scale  
of a problem that  

had been brewing for years, reacted in panic. 
As we attempt to reshape our politics and our badly sputtering economy, a good place to start looking for models would be a business most Americans—Tea Partiers and Marxists alike—consider a crucial part of our national identity: football. Despite the poor corporate climate, the National Football League continues to attract fans, rake in profits, and dominate the television market. Why? Because the NFL puts out a good product—entertaining games between well-matched teams—that people will pay to watch. Perhaps econo­mists and policy-makers should take notice. After all, if there’s anything more American than football, then by golly, it’s got to be capitalism. But the methods behind the success of the NFL might sur­prise many of its most loyal fans, given how loudly we proclaim our collective love of free markets and our corresponding dis­dain for their ever-encroaching enemy: European-style socialism. 

By American standards, our football league is Red to the core: The league office sets a limit on how much each team can spend on its players and fines them heavily if they fail to comply. It divvies up the rev­enue from its gigantic television contracts equally between every team. It allows the visiting team to collect forty percent of the ticket sales at away games. All these regu­lations are explicitly designed to help teams from small-markets, like the Green Bay Packers, win Super Bowls alongside big-city rivals like New York and Dallas. 
What’s going on here? Doesn’t it seem deeply un-American that the richest teams are forced to cap their spending? It’s their money; they earned it. Let them do what they want with it, not force them to give it away to less successful teams! How can Budweiser and General Motors, companies whose marketing departments make explicit the connection between owning their products and being a patriot, use this competition to hawk their beer and trucks? Why do we cheer wildly when our favorite team wins a league run like a European welfare state but lose our tem­pers about common-sense regulations on healthcare, pollution, and Wall Street? It seems like a glaring contradiction in our national psyche: We love our football league but hate the sensible policies that have made it so profitable. 
Well, maybe it’s possible that the NFL isn’t so far to the left. I mean, imagine: If our favorite sport is run by little Lenins and imitation Trotskies, what must European football be like? Most likely every player, regardless of talent, is paid exactly the same salary, one mandated by some faceless bureaucrat in a tiny office in Brussels or Geneva, and the teams line up in alphabetical order to take turns winning the league title. 
The reality is far different: In Europe, teams are allowed to spend whatever they want. There are no salary caps and rev­enues are not shared equally. And so, unlike the NFL and even Major League Baseball, where all but the most poorly-run teams have a shot at the champi­onship each season, in Europe, the same three or four soccer clubs win the league trophy year after year. In England, for example, just three teams—Manchester United, Arsenal and Chelsea—have lifted seventeen of the last eighteen English Premier League titles. Pretty boring com­pared to America. In the same time span, twelve teams have won the Super Bowl, and eleven have captured the World Series. 
But European soccer isn’t in danger of boring people or losing fans. Instead, it faces a financial catastrophe much like the one that took down so many of our banks and corporations, one caused by a boom of cheap credit, poor risk management, and a complete absence of effective regulation. With no financial watchdog, the European clubs borrowed heavily and sold them­selves hastily to corporate raiders. With no spending limits, they used their inex­haustible lines of credit to spend obscene amounts on players who flopped or got injured and coaches whom they were forced to fire. 

With their cheap credit and revenue streams drying up and interest rates sky­rocketing, all these teams are now in dan­ger of collapse. Their irresponsible behav­ior demonstrates the superiority of the NFL’s insistence on limiting spending and economic disparity. And while the clubs’ global brands most likely will allow them to stay afloat, their days of wild spending appear to be over. Michel F. Platini, the president of European soccer’s governing body, seems to mean business. He has threatened any team that does not meet a salary cap and strict accounting rules with expulsion from the fabled European Champions League, an absolute cash cow for every club involved. 
For the sake of soccer’s long-term health, let’s wish Mr. Platini luck as he attempts to turn his sport into Europe’s version of the NFL, in the process regulat­ing one of his continent’s last Wild West markets. Let’s also hope that our own politicians and business leaders here in America turn more to the National Football League and less to Goldman Sachs as they attempt to restore civic and financial responsibility to America. Even if they have to use a little NFL-style socialism to do it. 
This column first appeared in the Jan. 24 edition of The Harvard Crimson, the publication serving Harvard University. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
The Observer 

Scene
page 8 Wednesday, January 26, 2011 



By CLAIRE STEPHENS 
Scene Writer 
“No Strings Attached” is a romantic comedy for the new decade. 
Ashton Kutcher is surprisingly endearing in the role of Adam, son of a famous TV star trying to make a name for himself in the televi­sion industry. Adam finds himself putting up with his reckless father’s divorces and remarriages all his life as he struggles to main­tain a romantic life of his own. 
Natalie Portman, transitioning well from more dramatic roles, is cast as Emma, a cute and some­what funny young doctor, who for years has convinced her mother and sister she is independent and can take care of herself. 
Having been camp friends from elementary school days, Emma and Adam reunite at a college party, then again years later through Adam’s desperate, drunk­en texting. Here begins the ingen­ious plan to use each other for sex with no jealousy, cuddling or emo­tional strings attached. 
The rest of the film is fairly pre­dictable in the sense that, no, Emma and Adam do not stay emo­tionally uninvolved to the end (shocking, isn’t it?). However, “No Strings Attached” manages to sep­arate itself slightly from the cook­ie -cutter romantic comedy. Defined by some critics as a “sex comedy,” it maintains a somewhat realistic look at the character’s lives as far as sex, friendship, fam­ily and careers. 
“Attached” is a fun, funny date night flick or comedy to see with a group of friends, but also a refreshing break from the over-the -top, cheesy, painfully pre ­dictable romantic comedies most have grown up with. Though not the greatest cinematic work Portman has ever been in and not the funniest work for Kutcher, the two have good on-screen chem­istry. 
Not to be forgotten is the rest of the cast, including Emma’s friend Shira, played by Mindy Kaling from “The Office,” Kevin Kline as Adam’s ridiculous and carefree father and Adam’s bizarre ex-girl­friend Vanessa, played by Ophelia Lovibond. Significant supporting actors bring more true -to-life facets at the forefront of the film, like friendship and family, lacking from most romantic comedies. 

Credit also should be given to screenwriter Elizabeth Meriwether’s use of clever, intelli­gent humor throughout — from the entire cast — to keep the movie light, fun and modern. Reitman’s change in focus keeps the fairly simple plot moving between characters and events without becoming unbearably pre­dictable. 
Another spin on the formulaic romantic comedy is the score’s contribution to the fun, modern-day tone of the movie. While occa­sionally using the score to set the emotion of a scene, songs like “Ms. Jackson,” “I Wanna Sex You Up,” “99 Problems” and other songs of the young demographic’s time to remind the audience this is not a bad, fluffy romantic comedy of the ‘90s. 
“No Strings Attached” is proof that Natalie Portman can do come­dy well, proof that Ashton Kutcher can be more charming than “Punk’d” and hope for romantic comedies of the future. 
No Strings Attached 
Paramount 
Director: Ivan Reitman Starring: Natalie Portman, Ashton Kutcher, Kevin Kline, Mindy Kaling 

Contact Claire Stephens at cstephe4@nd.edu 
LAUREN KALINOSKI | Observer Graphic 
The Observer 

Scene
Wednesday, January 26, 2011 page 9 
An Introduction to 


Welcome to the first install-Tantrum. young lungs testing their ment of a weekly column that Tantrum: “violent, uncontrol-strength, pushing back at the will explore the grand facets of lable outburst of rage, esp. in world with arms new to their culture that pop and fizzle children.” In most cases, when agility, we knew we had lost, but around campus. Last semester, I we think of a tantrum we think we weren’t going to let the issue had the 
of a 3-year-old in a grocery die without a fight. We wanted privilege 
store, pitting his entire will the world to know where we of bring-
against a universe that won’t stood before we went down. It ing you 
allow him to have the doggie was a charge to utilize our only three 
chew toy that he’s grabbed and cards — we could refuse to artists 
wants to treat as a stuffed play-move, and, boy, could we make who were 
thing. We imagine a little girl red noise. “under 
in the face, sitting in the middle But when it was over, we had the 
of a daycare, screaming for her accepted our fate; our eyes were radar” mother. We think of children and dried by our mothers, their own every pain. But I would like to propose eyes bleary from the effort week. another view of this emotional exhorted to calm us down while This release. That which I have trying not to lose themselves in year, I have been given free reign described would most likely be maternal pity for their child. We to discuss the more savory bits of called a temper tantrum, which felt — better. Stronger. Like we music, television and movies. arises from a sharp inflation of had something to say and, by 
I plan to discuss getting re-the temper. I would like to George, had said it! Unnoticed by acquainted with your favorite TV remove the first word and focus our kid-sized minds, we had just show after it jumps the shark instead upon the second. experienced one of the great (I’m looking at you, “House”), As someone who has experi-facts of being human — the emo-conversations with people who enced a number of tantrums tional catharsis. listen to pop songs on repeat in throughout my younger years, I This is necessary training. Our order to learn lyrics they can know what it’s like to find myself emotional abilities have matured shout at the ‘Backer, what it’s powerless at the hands of others, (at least I hope) and confined our like to participate in a drum-off screaming in my infant indigna-tantrums to the dorm room, the with nearly no prior instruction tion. I’m sure you can all recall empty classroom, the blog. But on the instrument and why I more or less the attitude adopted our need to speak our minds in think “True Grit” was God’s gift by your toddler self when that that bloated moment when we to the picky critic. First, let me which you had expected was know we’ve been wronged still explain the moniker this column suddenly subverted. We all exists. Feelings cannot be con-is currently toting: Culture threw a tantrum. Wailing with trolled, only contained. We choose to unleash them to our friends, our parents or our dog. I assure you my golden retriever will, at a moment’s notice, recall for you the last 15 ways the world fell out of whack and failed to do what her loving mas­ter had expected. Such a good sport, Molly. 
What happens, then, when a tantrum moves from the dorm room to the middle of South Quad? The only way it will be taken seriously is if it adopts that last lingering Victorian virtue: civility. Our real vice is not that we are wrong, but that we’re no good at telling people why we’re right. Someone in the heat of a tantrum doesn’t know how to talk to the passing student and explain the source of her exas­peration. 
But what does any of this mat­ter? You’re going to blow off steam where and when you choose. I myself am choosing these few inches of paper. After four years as a “Scenester,” embracing the insults as well as the free CDs, I have discovered that the only way to get people to pay attention is to be civil. Too many times I have written in this spread, bashing about in a bom­bastic sea of banality and bad alliteration. Seriously. 
Today I begin a column that will run through my last semester (and out the door!), which will seek not so much to elevate my opinion in a slew of superlatives, as it will provide the view from my window. This will be tough — I may be brazen, but I know myself and my shortcomings. I’ve com­pleted a major in film slightly skewed towards television. I’m about to complete a major in vocal performance. I soak myself in copies of Entertainment Weekly and can go toe-to-toe about indie bands with nearly anyone. I like the idea of going to church and to the Oscars. So today, amid the snow and food in South Dining Hall, I offer you my column, which will be, for lack of a better title, a civil sort of culture tantrum. 
The views expressed in this article are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Stephanie Deprez at sdeprez@nd.edu 


LAUREN KALINOSKI | Observer Graphic 

page 10 The Observer  CLASSIFIEDS Wednesday, January 26, 2011 
AUSTRALIAN OPEN 

Federer advances to semifnals against Djokovic 
Associated Press 
MELBOURNE, Australia — Two points into the final game of his Australian Open quarter­final against Roger Federer on Tuesday, Stanislas Wawrinka steadied himself to try return­ing a forehand smash. 
Wawrinka playfully waved his racket over his head in a mock attempt to return it. Forget it, the ball sailed past him and Federer won the point. 
It was that kind of match for Wawrinka. 
Federer faced just one break point, won all 13 of his service games, got 77 percent of his first serves in and polished off his Beijing Olympics doubles gold medalist teammate 6-1, 6­3, 6-3 in 1 hour, 47 minutes. 
“When it’s clicking it’s really a good feeling, and I don’t ask too many questions,” Federer said of his outstanding serve. 
All facets of Federer’s game were working Tuesday as he advanced to the semifinals, where he’ll meet 2008 champi­on Novak Djokovic. 
No. 3-ranked Djokovic over­powered Tomas Berdych 6-1, 7­6 (5), 6-1 in a night match at Rod Laver Arena. 
“I was tying to change the pace, put him out of the comfort zone,” Djokovic said. “When he is in his comfort zone, he is a very difficult player, hits very strong, he has powerful strokes, powerful serve. So I needed to put some variety in the game.” 
He’s liking his chances in the semifinals. 
“If I continue playing like this, I think I have a good chance,” Djokovic said. “But in the next match I have Federer. We all know he is the best player ever, so we all know it is going to be tough.” 
Still in the realm of probabili­ty for the defending champion is a final against Rafael Nadal and a chance to prevent the Spanish left-hander from winning his fourth consecutive Grand Slam. No man has held all four major titles since Rod Laver in 1969. 
Nadal plays fellow Spaniard David Ferrer in one quarterfi­nal Wednesday, while Andy Murray takes on Alexandr Dolgopolov in the other. 
Federer is not looking ahead to Nadal just yet.” 
“It’s normal to follow Rafa in a big way because he’s going for something particularly very special,” Federer said. “My focus is not playing him in the finals quite yet. He still has to win a few matches against real­ly tough players ahead of him. I got my hands full ... I’m not quite there.” 
Top-seeded Caroline Woznacki is nearly there, advancing to a semifinal against China’s Li Na. The 20-year-old Danish player was under intense pressure early against French Open champion Francesca Schiavione before beating the Italian veteran 3-6, 6-3, 6-3. 
Li advanced to the semifinals for the second year in a row at Melbourne Park after beating Andrea Petkovic of Germany 6­2, 6-4. 
The other women’s semifinal­ists will be decided Wednesday when second-seeded Vera Zvonareva plays Petra Kvitova and U.S. Open champion Kim Clijsters takes on Agnieszka Radwanska. 
Wozniacki rallied from a set and a break down to beat Schiavone and ensure she’d maintain the No. 1 ranking after this tournament. 
Schiavone dominated the opening set and a half before the effects of her previous match kicked in. She beat Svetlana Kuznetsova in a three-set match lasting 4 hours, 44 minutes, a record for a women’s Grand Slam singles match. 

“Maybe in the third set I felt a little bit something physically, but it’s not an excuse,” Schiavone said. “I think I gave the best that I could do.” 
Wozniacki described Schiavone as a “fighter.” 
“She started off really, really well and I didn’t feel like I had the right timing,” Wozniacki said. “So it was difficult for me in the beginning, but I fought back and I’m so happy that I’m standing here as the winner.” 

The match point was con­tentious — first called out by a line judge. An overrule by chair umpire Eva Aseraki forced Wozniacki to ask for a video ruling, which confirmed the ini­tial call and ended the match. 
Schiavone knew the match was over even before the replay 
— “I saw the ball was out, was no chance,” she said. 
NCAA MEN’S BASKETBALL 

Gators surge past Bulldogs 104-91 in double overtime 

Associated Press 
ATHENS, Ga. — Chandler Parsons took control in the sec­ond overtime after the teams traded tying last-second shots, leading No. 24 Florida to a 104­91 victory over Georgia on Tuesday night. 
Trey Thompkins put back a missed shot just ahead of the buzzer at the end of regulation, capping the Bulldogs’ rally from an eight-point deficit in the final 3 minutes. Florida (16-4, 5-1 Southeastern Conference) forced a second overtime when Erving Walker raced down the court and hit a long 3-pointer with 1 second remaining. 
It was all Gators in the second overtime. They scored the first nine points of the period with Georgia (14-5, 3-3) turning it over on two straight possessions. Parsons hit a huge 3 from the corner and sent the home crowd toward the exits when he flew in for a putback that made it 96-88 with 1:40 remaining. 
Parsons scored half of his 18 points in the second overtime, and had 12 rebounds. Walker and Kenny Boynton led Florida with 24 points apiece, while Vernon Macklin added 23 and did yeo­man work underneath, grabbing six offensive rebounds. 

Travis Leslie scored 21 points for Georgia, and Thompkins had 20 points and 13 rebounds. 
The lopsided score at the end was hardly indicative of a game that was tight until the closing minutes. 
Playing off the Georgia fan who does a Rocky-themed climb to the top of the stands at every game, the teams traded punches like heavyweight fighters in the first overtime. The lead changed hands a staggering eight times, the teams never more than two points apart until Jeremy Price hit two free throws with 6.7 seconds left, giving Georgia an 85-82 lead. 
Walker got the inbounds pass and took off, flying down the court before he pulled up a good 5 feet behind the arc to launch the jumper. Nothing but net. Georgia didn’t have time to answer, and the Gators dominat­ed the final 5 minutes. 
Florida appeared to be in con­trol when Walker drove for a layup that put the Gators up 72­64 with 3:08 left in regulation. 
Turns out, there was a long way to go. 
Walker missed two crucial free throws, Gerald Robinson hit a huge 3-pointer on a tough night with 22 seconds remaining, and Georgia wound up with a chance to tie on its final possession. Robinson had just seven points and turned it over six times. 
It looked as though the Bulldogs wouldn’t even get a final shot when Price wound up with the ball at the top of the key, looking for help. Dustin Ware finally came to get the ball, hurried toward the basket and threw up a wild left-handed shot that wasn’t close. 
But it ricocheted off the back­board right to Thompkins — as good as a pass. He laid it in ahead of buzzer, the ball clearly out of his hand before the red light went off. 
Florida climbed back into The Associated Press rankings this week with wins over Auburn and Arkansas, but it’s been an incon­sistent season for the Gators. They followed big wins over Florida State, Kansas State and Tennessee with surprising losses to Central Florida, Jacksonville and South Carolina. 

CLASSIFIEDS  The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall.  Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m.  All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit  
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds.  
GRADUATION/SPECIAL EVENT  Now, some great Airplane! quotes:  Rumack: You've done the best you  
NOTICES  FOR RENT  RENTAL:  Operator: [Oveur is on the phone  could. But I want to tell you some­thing. I was in the war, medical  
If you or someone you care about  House for rent for  with the Mayo Clinic] Excuse me,  corps. I was there when they  
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY?  has been sexually assaulted, we  graduation/JPW/weddings,football,  Cpt. Oveur, I have an emergency  brought in a wounded pilot. He said,  
can help.  etc.  call on line five from a Mr. Hamm.  "The odds were against us, but we  
Don't go it alone. Notre Dame has  Walk to Campus Student Housing.  Captain Oveur: Alright, give me a  went in, the Captain made the right  
many resources in place to assist  For more information, visit Notre  1, 2, and 3 bedrooms from $465 per  Perfect location-right next to the  Hamm on five, hold the Mayo.  call." The pilot was George Zip.  
you. If you or someone you love  Dames website:  bed.  new Eddy Street Commons-walk to  ———————————————  Ted Striker: George Zip said that?  
needs confidential support or assis­ everything-safe family oriented  Rumack: I won't deceive you, Mr.  Rumack: The last thing he said to  
tance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn at  http://csap.nd.edu  Swimming Pool, Fitness Center,  street.  Striker. We're running out of time.  me, "Doc," he said, "some time  
1-7819.  Tanning Beds. Clover Village and  Ted Striker: Surely, you can’t be  when the crew is up against it, tell  
For more information, visit ND's  Clover Ridge. 574.272.8124  Email nd-house@sbcglobal.net for  serious.  them to win just one for the Zipper.  
website at: http://pregnancysup­ www.colvervillageapartments.com  additional info and photos  Rumack: I am serious... and don’t  Ted Striker: Excuse me doc, I got a  
port@nd.edu  call me Shirley.  plane to land.  
———————————————  ———————————————  ———————————————  ———————————————  ———————————————  ———————————————  

Wednesday, January 26, 2011 The Observer  SPORTS page 11 
NCAA MEN’S BASKETBALL 

Pirates stun No. 9 Orange 
Associated Press 
SYRACUSE, N.Y. — Jeremy Hazell led a long-range Seton Hall barrage with 28 points and the suddenly hot-shooting Pirates stunned No. 9 Syracuse 90-68 on Tuesday night, the Orange’s third straight loss. 
Syracuse (18-3, 5-3 Big East) had lost two straight to top 10 conference foes, on the road at Pittsburgh a week ago and on Saturday at home to Villanova before a crowd of 33,736. In both games the Orange fell behind early — Pittsburgh scored the first 19 points of the game and Villanova hit eight 3-pointers in the first half. 
That trend continued against Seton Hall (9-12, 3-6), which had lost three straight. The Pirates torched Syracuse’s zone defense for seven 3s in the first half, four by Hazell, and built a 13-point halftime lead. 



Seton Hall, the worst shooting team in the Big East, finished 10 of 17 from beyond the arc and shot 54.1 percent for the game while holding Syracuse to 5 of 21 from long range and a season-low 
36.1 percent from the field. 
Jordan Theodore had 19 points on 7-of-10 shooting for the Pirates while Fuquan Edwin had 13 points, Jeff Robinson 12 and Herb Pope 10. 
Kris Joseph led Syracuse with 17 points, all but one coming long after the game was decided, and Rick Jackson had 12 points and 11 rebounds, his 14th double-dou­ble of the season. Scoop Jardine and Brandon Triche each had 11 points. 
After their first meeting 17 days ago, a sloppy 61-56 Syracuse vic­tory, Orange coach Jim Boeheim winced at the stat sheet. The Pirates missed all 17 3-point attempts in the first half. 
It was a much different story on Tuesday, and Boeheim was winc­ing again. Seton Hall hit its first three from beyond the arc, two by Hazell, and led 26-15 on Theodore’s 3 from the right wing with 12:07 left. 
And they weren’t through. In the final 6 minutes of the half, Seton Hall slowed the pace to a crawl and the strategy paid big dividends. Hazell drained two 3s from the wing, the second at the shot clock buzzer, and Theodore followed with another — all three in a span of less than 2 minutes — to put the Pirates up 37-23 with 
3:49 left. 
The Orange missed their first six 3s, three by James Southerland, before Mookie Jones, playing for the first time since last month, hit from the wing with 2:02 left. 
MLB 

Rangers add catcher Napoli from Angels 

Associated Press 

The Texas Rangers traded former closer Frank Francisco and cash to Toronto for catch-er-first baseman Mike Napoli on Tuesday, giving the AL champions a much-needed versatile bat off the bench and the Blue Jays more bullpen depth. 
It was the second time in five days Napoli was traded, quick­ly returning to the AL West. Toronto acquired Napoli and outfielder Juan Rivera from the Los Angeles Angels on Friday for outfielder Vernon Wells. 
“It’s been a crazy couple of days,” Napoli said. “I know the division well and the lineup they have, the type of players they have. “ 
Napoli was on a cruise last week when he found out he had been traded the first time. He didn’t even talk to Blue Jays general manager Alex Anthopoulos until Tuesday, then found out he was going to Texas. 
“It was kind of weird to me. Obviously there was something going on,” Napoli said. “It’s great. I’m excited. I can’t wait to get to spring training and try to win a job and help these guys win.” 
Rangers general manager Jon Daniels said Napoli “brings a lot to the table” in his ability to catch, play first base or des­ignated hitter. 
Anthopoulos said he had inquired previously about Francisco, and a deal came together when Texas was among several teams who had already asked him about Napoli. The deal involves arbi­tration-eligible players that have not settled their 2011 contracts. 
“Frank Francisco is a guy we’ve liked for quite some time,” Anthopoulos said. “He has closing experience and will compete for a chance to close. This is going to be an open competition.” 
Kevin Gregg agreed to a two-year contract with Baltimore this winter after saving 37 games for Toronto last season. Octavio Dotel saved 22 games while with Pittsburgh, the Dodgers and Colorado last year and Jon Rauch, who signed with Toronto last week, had 21 saves filling in for injured Joe Nathan in Minnesota. 
Francisco accepted salary arbitration in December instead of becoming a free agent. He asked for $4,875,000 and Texas offered $3.5 million, only a slight bump from his $3,265,000 salary last season. 
Napoli, who hit .238 with team-leading 26 home runs and 68 RBIs in 140 games last season, requested $6.1 million from the Angels for 2011 while they proposed $5.3 million. 
After beginning last season as the Texas closer, Francisco blew two save chances the first week of the season. Hard-throwing Neftali Feliz was then given a chance in that role, and went on to set a major league rookie record with 40 saves and become the AL rook­ie of the year. 
Francisco was 6-4 with a 
3.76 ERA in 56 appearances before missing the final month of the season and the postsea­son with a muscle strain. He has a career mark of 17-15 with 32 saves and a 3.75 ERA in 277 appearances for Texas since 2004. 
“We certainly wish Frankie all the best in Toronto,” Daniels said. “He was a very good part of what we were doing for a number of years and I think the organization has done a good job of adding to our bullpen and our pitching depth over the last couple of years to where we felt we could make this type of move.” 
The Rangers recently signed veteran left-hander Arthur Rhodes and agreed to terms on a $1.251 million contract with arbitration-eligible reliever Darren O’Day. 
When free agent third base­man Adrian Beltre signed with the Rangers this month, they said Michael Young would become their primary desig­nated hitter and fill in at all the infield positions. That included sharing time with World Series rookie standout Mitch Moreland at first base, a posi­tion Young has never played. 
“(Napoli) adds a power dynamic to the lineup against anybody. He can catch. He’s caught some good pitching on winning clubs. He can play first base,” Daniels said. “He gives (manager Ron Washington) an option at DH as well on days when Michael’s in the field or Michael gets a day off. On days when he isn’t starting, he gives us a pretty good weapon off the bench.” 
Napoli played 70 games at first base and 66 at catcher last year for Los Angeles, where he played the last five seasons. 

page 12 The Observer  SPORTS Wednesday, January 26, 2011 
PGA 
Tiger prepares for 2011 season opener 
Associated Press 
SAN DIEGO — Tiger Woods can’t start a new year without being reminded of the last one. 
And the last one wasn’t very good. 
Some of his peers couldn’t help but chuckle when the pro-am tee times for the Farmers Insurance Open were posted in the locker room. For more than a decade, Woods had the first available tee time, a perk for being the best player on the PGA Tour, or not far from it. Those pro-am times are deter­mined by the previous year’s money list. 
Woods was No. 68 on the money list. 
He tees off at 11 a.m., which is about the time he used to fin­ish. 
“I can’t imagine he’ll be too thrilled with that,” Pat Perez said. 
And then there’s the world ranking. 
Woods lost his No. 1 spot nearly three months ago to Lee Westwood, so that’s old news. He dropped yet another spot to No. 3 this week when Martin Kaymer won the Abu Dhabi Championship by eight shots. And if Woods doesn’t return to his former self quickly, it won’t be long before he slips even farther. The last time he was not in the top three was May 11, 1997. 
What’s more noteworthy about the world ranking, how­ever, is it’s the first time Woods has been ranked behind some­one younger than him. He turned 35 over the holidays. 
Woods has known this day was coming, even when his game appeared untouchable. In time, there would be a play­er — or players, in this case — younger than him and not as intimidated. 
Sure, there was a brief chal­lenge from Sergio Garcia. Adam Scott reached as high as No. 3, and Paul Casey did the same a year later. 
Now, the youth brigade is coming in bunches. 
Ahead of him in the ranking is Kaymer, the 26-year-old German who won the PGA Championship last year to become the youngest major champion since Woods. Kaymer also won the European Tour money title, and started the year with an eight-shot vic­tory over what will be one of the strongest fields the European Tour will see all year. 
“He’s probably the most for­midable player in the world when he is leading,” Padraig Harrington said. 
That’s what they used to say about Woods. But in his most recent tournament, the Chevron World Challenge, Woods blew a four-shot lead in the final round to U.S. Open champion Graeme McDowell. It was the first time Woods had lost a lead that large. 
“He used to appear invinci­ble,” McDowell said that day. “Of course, he’s made himself appear more human in the last 12 months. But there’s some­thing a bit special about his golf game, and I fully expect that mystique to return.” 
McDowell is 31, and right behind Woods in the world ranking at No. 4. 
Woods also has to contend with younger players like Rory McIlroy, Paul Casey and per­haps even Luke Donald from Europe, not to mention Dustin Johnson and Anthony Kim from the American side. 
So many talented, young players will not make Woods’ task any easier. The bigger question is whether Woods is equipped for the fight. 
Some of the answers might arrive this week at Torrey Pines, a public course along the Pacific bluffs that Woods has owned like no other. His epic 
U.S. Open title in 2008 was the seventh time he had won as pro on Torrey Pines. He has not lost on this golf course since 2004, although he missed the last two years. He has never finished out of the top 10. 
But just like last year, no one is quite sure what to expect. 
His new swing coach, Sean Foley, said he spent about four hours a week with Woods on the practice range at Isleworth the last few months, and he liked what he saw. He said Woods no longer has to think as much about what he’s doing. The swing repeats more easily. What he feels matches up with the mechanics. 
How will that translate with a scorecard in hand? 
“If you want to anticipate what happens in the future, look to the past,” Foley sug­gested. “What people lose touch of, because we’re such a bandwagon society, is that for a decade there, it might have been one of the greatest 10­year runs in the history of ath­letics. Obviously, he struggled last year. But I look forward to watching him compete.” 
When Kaymer won in Abu Dhabi, it was his ninth win in his 100th start on the European Tour. That still does­n’t compare with Woods, who won 28 times — including six majors — in his first 100 starts on the much stronger PGA Tour. 
History is easily forgotten, although in this case, it’s understandable. 
Woods has overcome swing changes in 1998 and 2004. He has overcome knee surgeries, one at the end of 2002, two during 2008. Even so, he has never been humbled like he was last year, when his private failures became so public, and so embarrassing. 
His performance was such that no one fears him. 
Ian Poulter had some fun with Woods on Twitter early Tuesday, after seeing that Woods had offered to answer questions from his tweets before leaving Florida for San Diego. 
Poulter kept egging on Woods to get involved with Twitter. 
“come on tiger when are you going to join the lads for some banter,” said one Poulter tweet. That was followed by Poulter’s message to Westwood that “im not having it that No3 is writing his own tweets. He doesn’t want to play.” 
Westwood submitted this question to Woods: “is it true you’ve dyed your hair Ginger,signed a deal with IJP clothing and bought a White Ferrari cos your in awe of poults?” 
Woods didn’t take the bait. There were no replies. 
NFL 

Welker apologizes for taunts 
Associated Press 
BOSTON — New England Patriots wide receiver Wes Welker says he regrets com­ments he made referring to foot-fetish reports involving New York Jets coach Rex Ryan. 
“Yeah, sure I do,” he told the Boston Herald, according to a report on the newspaper’s website Tuesday. 
The Herald said Welker expressed his regret at an air­port in San Francisco while awaiting his flight to Honolulu for the Pro Bowl on Sunday. 
At a news conference on Jan. 13, three days before the Jets beat the Patriots 28-21 in a divisional playoff game, Welker made about a dozen references to toes and feet, a not-so-sub­tle dig at Ryan. Patriots coach Bill Belichick benched Welker for the first offensive series of that game. 
In the week before the game, the Jets’ Antonio Cromartie used an expletive in referring to the Patriots’ Tom Brady. 
Welker told the Herald that it’s sometimes tough to keep from responding to opponents’ remarks. 
“It’s not always easy to keep a lid on it,” he said, “but, at the same time, there’s a greater goal, and that’s win­ning the game and playing good football. That’s what mat­ters. All that other stuff doesn’t matter at the end of the day.” 
Welker was on the field as a punt returner on the Jets’ first series but sat out the Patriots first possession despite having led them with 86 catches this season. CBS said during the game broadcast that he was benched for his comments three days before the game. 

Asked at his postgame news conference why Welker was on the bench, Belichick said, “I don’t have any comment on that.” 
Welker told the Herald he didn’t want to go into details, but “I don’t think it’s worth putting coach in that situa­tion,” he said. “So in a sense, I do regret it. ... As much as you might want to get enticed into that stuff, at the end of the day, it’s just not worth it.” 
Among phrases Welker used during his pregame news con­ference were, “putting your best foot forward,” “sticking your toe in the water” and “being good little foot sol­diers.” 
He told the Herald “the best way to stick up for your team­mate is on the field.” 



Wednesday, January 26, 2011 The Observer . SPORTS page 13 
Tracy 
continued from page 16 
seconds in a stunning finish that came down to the wire. 
“I knew I was in front of her on the homestretch but not by much,” Tracy said. “But I remembered my friend telling me before the race of how great it would be if I beat [MacLeod]. So it just pushed me even more.” 
Not bad for an athlete who was too small to play soccer and didn’t begin to run com­petitively until she was in fifth grade. Once she started running, Tracy steadily improved, winning state championship after state championship at Barrington High School in northern Illinois. She continues to build on her past success in the college ranks, shaving a whopping seven seconds off of her personal best from a year ago in her first mile time of the season. 
“Last year, I was really intimidated by making the big jump to the NCAA,” the miler said. “Seeing all the great runners at regionals was remarkable but now I am striving to be one of 
DeSmet 
continued from page 16 
and individual tournaments outside of NCAA competition. Unlike many collegiate sports, fencers continue to fence as individuals throughout their college years. 
“I try to treat them as equal as possible and give them both equal weight,” DeSmet said. “I haven’t had any conflicts just yet but when I do I will evalu­ate and play it by ear.” 
Loudonville, N.Y., where he 

those that go on to the how it would go being the 
Championships.” first one of the year, yet I 
was a team captain, state 
Dyer

Tracy, who didn’t even knew that this would be the 
champion, and All-American, 

consider Notre Dame before one to set the tone for the 
continued from page 16 but the transition to college 
stopping by on the way to rest of the season.” 
swimming still presented 

visit the University of Almost everything from the 
freestyle, which remains in some challenges. 
Michigan, attributes a lot of 19-year old seems rushed, 
the control of senior Michael “My biggest key to being 
her work ethic and improve-from her hectic pre -med 
Sullivan. successful so quickly is to 
ment to head coach Tim “[Sophomore miler] C o n n e l l y, 
Rebecca [Tracy] is really 
who realizes 

the potential fnding her stride. She is 
of his young just starting to fnd the superstar ­
confdence that she
in-the-mak­

needs to perform at such
ing. “Rebecca a high level that she is is really 
capable of doing.” 
finding her stride,” Connelly Tim Connelly said after Irish coach Saturday ’s meet. “She schedule to 
“[Dyer]’s one of the most keep a level head,” Dyer said. 
the pace at 

versatile swimmers we have “Our first meet held such a 
which she 

and excels at just about every different atmosphere from my 
spoke, which 

distance of the high school 
should be 

freestyle meets that I 
expected by 

events,” knew that 
somewhere 

Sullivan says. just needed 
“My favorite race is the
who runs a 

While Dyer to keep doing 
500 freestyle because it
mile in under 

earns high what I had 
praise from is the perfect length to been to do 
five minutes. 
When asked 

his upper-not completely sprint but well.” 
whether she 

classman and In fact, the 
always gives you time to
ran to class, 

teammate for freshman has 
his success in set up and prepare your been doing 
the sopho ­
more 

nearly every plan of attack.” exceedingly 
answered in 

distance, one well, and has 
the broadest 

l e n g t h also assumed 
Frank Dyer 
of terms. 

remains his a leadership 
race of choice. freshman freestyler role on the 
is just starting to find the “Not really, unless I am 
confidence that she needs to late or forget something,” 
“My favorite perform at such a high level Tracy said. “I usually power-
race is the that she is capable of doing.” walk though.” 
500 freestyle,” But if there is a glowing Her power-walk is basical­
he says, “because it is the confidence from Tracy, it is ly equivalent to the standard 
perfect length to not com-buried deep behind her mod-sprint. So the next time you 
pletely sprint but always gives est grin and calm disposi-feel a gust of wind, don’t 
you time to set up and pre­tion. worry, Rebecca might just be 
pare your plan of attack.” “I was more than just a lit-late for Organic Chemistry. 
Evident in Dyer’s description tle bit nervous before 
of the 500-yard freestyle is his [Saturday’s] race,” the soph-Contact Andrew Gastelum at 
calculating mindset, the type omore said. “I didn’t know agastel1@nd.edu 
which is usually associated with a seasoned veteran. His 
DeSmet has adjusted to col­lege fencing quite successfully, as he has managed to keep his fencing at its highest level, a difficult task for many student fencers. He is coming off two impressive third-place finishes, at the North American Cups in Atlanta and Dallas, both in the top division. 
DeSmet hopes to continue his strong start to his freshman season and eventually repre­sent the team in the NCAA championships and to fence for the United States national team at the World Championships team. 
“I am com­
fortable being a leader as a freshman,” Dyer said. “I think that anyone can win races but not everyone can win races and contribute positive energy to the team.” 
Dyer’s ability to spread a positive atmosphere by doling out encouragement to his teammates has helped him win the support of the others on the team in return. 
“It’s been awesome to train with him,” Sullivan said, “and I’m really excited to see how fast he goes at the champi­onship meets this year.” 
Contact Michael Todisco at mtodisco@nd.edu 

for the fifth time. 
While the current season is important to DeSmet, like many fencers on the Notre Dame team, his ultimate goal is to fence at the highest level. 
“My eventual goal for is the Olympics,” DeSmet said. “I was maturity and desire to learn are, according to Dyer him­self, a big part of why he has been able to succeed as a freshman. 
“I have really trusted the program,” he said. 
Dyer enjoyed success during his time in high school in 
just shy of qualifying for Beijing in 2008 I am really hoping to make some finals of 
NCAA MEN’S BASKETBALL 
some World Cups, improve my world ranking, and fence in London in 2012.” 
No. 6 Jayhawks hold 
Contact Joseph Monardo at 
jmonardo@nd.edu 
off Colorado’s upset bid 

Associated Press 

BOULDER, Colo. — No. 6 Kansas built a big lead with 3-pointers, then won it at the free throw line, scoring their last nine points from there to hold off Colorado 82-78 on Tuesday night. 
Freshman Josh Selby led Kansas ' balanced scoring with 17 points as the Jayhawks (19-1, 4-1 Big 12) bounced back from their first home loss since 2007 to beat the Buffaloes for the 16th straight time. 
Alec Burks led Colorado (14-7, 3-3) with 25 points but it wasn't enough to extend the Buffs' 14 -game home winning streak. 
Burks' two free throws with 31 seconds left pulled the Buffs to 78-76, the closest they had been in the second half. Before the inbounds, Tyrel Reed was fouled and made both free throws. 
Cory Higgins drove to the hoop to make it 80-78 with 24 seconds left, but Marcus Morris hit two free throws and the Buffaloes couldn't find the basket after that. 
The Jayhawks were without sophomore sixth -man Thomas Robinson, who flew to Washington, D.C., to care for his 9-year-old sister fol­lowing the death of their mother last weekend. Lisa Robinson, 37, died Friday of an apparent heart attack. 
The Jayhawks will join their teammate on Wednesday as the team will fly to Washington for her funeral on Thursday. 
Kansas, which saw the nation's-best 69-game home-court winning streak end last weekend with a loss to Texas at Allen Fieldhouse, hit seven 3-pointers in taking a 43-39 halftime lead. The Jayhawks finished with 10 3s, four by Brady Morningstar and three by Selby. 
The Jayhawks led 69 -59 with 6 minutes left before Colorado chipped its way back but Kansas made 9 of 10 free throws over the final 3 minutes. 
Morris scored 15 points and Reed and Morningstar each had 14 for Kansas, which hasn't lost consecutive games in five years. 
The Jayhawks are 29 -1 against Colorado in Big 12 play with the loss 60-59 at Boulder on Jan. 22, 2003. They are 120 -39 against Colorado overall and have beaten the Buffs 43 times in 44 games since 1991. 
The only member of the basketball staff who will not attend the services for Lisa Robinson will be video coor­dinator Kyle Keller. He will take part in observances in Stillwater, Okla., marking the 10th anniversary of the plane crash that claimed the lives 
of 10 members of the Oklahoma State basketball program. 
Keller was on the Oklahoma State staff at the time and would have been on the plane that crashed if then-coach Eddie Sutton hadn't asked him to take another flight. 

page 14 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, January  26, 2011 
Burn 
continued from page 16 
Prior to the road upset, every time Notre Dame scored less than 60 points in a game, it stumbled to that low total thanks to abysmal shooting. 
The Irish shot a disappointing 
18.8 percent from 3-point range in a 22-point trouncing to Marquette, 20 percent from 
a loss deep in 


“We knew going in that 
to St. John’s, agg ressive and a 7.7 per-we wanted to work [the mindset the 
cent perform-shot clock] down. We rest of the shot ance from deep clock.” 
were just happy to be
in the second Thus, the half against hitting those shots Irish force their 
Kentucky. when we had those opponent to At Pittsburgh, play defense for 
opportunities.” 
the Irish shot 30 seconds at a 9-of-18 from time, rather behind the arc Scott Martin than the usual and took just senior guard 15 to 20. 
39 total shots. The vast major­ity of those shots came with only seconds left on the shot clock — neither team scored a single fast-break point. 
“We knew going in that we wanted to work [the shot clock] down,” senior guard Scott Martin said. “We were just happy to be hitting those shots when we had those opportuni­ties.” 
Martin opened Notre Dame’s scoring with two 3-pointers in the opening minutes. In the sec­ond half, senior forward Carleton Scott hit multiple 3s, ending the night five-of-six from deep. Even when the Irish took their first lead since lead­ing 8-5, it was on a 3-pointer courtesy of senior guard Ben Hansbrough, giving Notre Dame a 42-41 lead. 
“I just felt like I was in the zone last night,” Scott said. “[Martin] started out in the zone, and I guess he passed it on, and I passed it on to Ben. That’s the great thing about our team, anybody can start feeling it at any moment.” 
In the burn offense, Notre Dame works the shot clock down to 10 seconds before 
Belles 
continued from page 16 
weren’t falling.” 
Henley said she feels confident in her squad entering tonight’s game. 
“Last time we played Olivet, we 
did a good job forcing them into turnovers, ” Henley said. “Unfortunately, we had turnovers as well, which kept it a close game. As we prepare to play them tomor­row, we need to cut down our turnovers. We need to do a bet­ter job of defend­ing the drive 
“Last time we played Olivet, we did a good job forcing them into turnovers. Unfortunately, we had turnovers as well, which kept it a close game.” 
Jenn Henley Belles coach 
against Olivet and limit the num­ber of points they get in the paint.” 
Junior forward Kelley Murphy led a balanced attack for the Belles with 24 points the last time they faced Olivet. Three other players reached double-figures in looking to attack the hoop, on every possession, to the extent that on some possessions Notre Dame endures a shot clock vio­lation, and thus a turnover, rather than give the ball back to its opponent quickly. 
“We are still just as aggres­sive as we normally are, it just takes us longer to get to it,” Martin said. “We don’t stop looking to score, we just wait for it, wait for it, let the clock burn down a little bit, then we have our 
“I felt it was 
definitely frus­
trating [Pittsburgh] a little bit,” Martin said. “When you have to play defense for 30 seconds every time down the floor, it gets old. I could tell they were getting a little frustrated.” 
As Pittsburgh’s frustration grew Monday night, its deep bench stewed, not having an opportunity to create a differ­ence in the game. Notre Dame avoided foul trouble, and its starters controlled the pace throughout the slow-paced, close match. This storm result­ed in a Notre Dame upset that Brey said may be the biggest of his career. 
Now, the Irish head into a nine-day break before heading to DePaul on Feb. 3 for the sec­ond half of its Big East season. With the break, the NCAA tour­nament will be on Notre Dame’s mind, an invitation to which could come as a result of the burn, just as it did last season. 
“If it wouldn’t be for [the burn], we wouldn’t have gotten a bid last year,” Brey said. “So you have a great selling point.” 
Contact Douglas Farmer at dfarmer1@nd.edu 
scoring during the contest, and the four together combined for all but nine of Saint Mary’s points. 
“We have a pretty balanced attack on offense, so I can’t really pick out one person in particular [to lead us offensively],” Henley said. “We as a team need to step up our defense if we want to be successful. Tomorrow is all about 
defense. It has really been a focus of ours all season long.” 
Henley expects the game to be close, and knows what her team has to do in order to achieve the out­come they are looking for. 
“Olivet always plays us tough,” she said. “They 
do a nice job of attacking the paint in their offense. We really need to focus on that and keep them off the foul line.” 
Contact Laura Coletti at lcolleti@nd.edu 

Please recycle The Observer. 
Wednesday, January 26, 2011 The Observer  TODAY page 15 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

CROSSWORD WILL SHORTZ 

PLEASANDVILLE 

JAMES SOLLITTO, CODY ECKERT and JOHN FLATLEY 


JUMBLE 


Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square,to form four ordinary words. 
ROMIN  

 
 
 
 
 

©2011 Tribune Media Services, Inc.All Rights Reserved. 
MOCTE  

 
 
 
 
 

CROLIF  

 
 
 
 
 
 

BROTED  

 
 
 
 
 
 

“ 


” 
Ans: 


(Answers tomorrow) Jumbles: PRIZE DROOP MEMBER MUSCLE Yesterday’s 
Answer: What the farmer acquired when he boughtthe junkyard —A“BUMPER” CROP 
JEFF KNUREK MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Mike Argirion and Jeff Knurek 

BIBLE
Jumble
o:
http://www
.tyndale.com/jumble/ 
-
 HE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 

Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box 779  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  

Enclosed is $130 for one academic year 
Enclosed is $75 for one semester 

Name ________________________________________________ Address ______________________________________________ City __________________ State _________ Zip______________ 
The Observer

Sports
Wednesday, January 26, 2011 page 16 
MEN’S BASKETBALL 

Burn, baby, burn 
Offense’s change of pace slows down Pittsburgh 
By DOUGLAS FARMER 
Sports Editor 
Nearly half of Notre Dame’s field goals came from behind the 3-point arc Monday night. Nonetheless, the No. 14 Irish toppled second-ranked Pittsburgh 56-51. Why the low scores despite the hot shoot­ing? One word: Burn. 
Irish coach Mike Brey first instituted the burn offense late last season. Since then, when­ever Notre Dame (17-4, 6-3 Big East) breaks out the burn, it tests the patience of the play­ers, its opponent and its fans. 
“It is a drastic style of play,” Brey said Tuesday afternoon. “Everybody gets less shots, everybody touches the ball less. The mental concentration and sacrifice of reps on the offen­sive end I think is underrated and it tells you how this group 

really believes.” SARAH O’CONNOR/The Observer 
Fourth-year forward Tim Abromaitis holds the ball during Notre Dame’s 80-75 victory over Marquette see BURN/page 14 Saturday. Abromaitis and the Irish routinely let the shot clock dwindle in their burn offense. 

SMC BASKETBALL 
Belles look to rise in standings 
By LAURA COLETTI 
Sports Writer 
Saint Mary’s continues its sec­ond round of MIAA Conference play when it faces Olivet tonight at 7:30. 
The Belles (12-6, 5-4) are look­ing to rebound from a 74-60 road loss to Calvin over the weekend. They defeated Olivet (6-11, 5-4) once already during the 2010-11 season, a 72-67 victory away from home. The winner of tonight’s game will move into sole possession of fourth place in con­ference standings, behind only Calvin (9-0), Hope (8-1), and Albion (6-2). 
Belles Coach Jenn Henley said she liked parts of what she saw in her team against Calvin, even if the outcome was a loss. 
“We got good looks in our offense against Calvin in the first half,” Henley said. “Our shots just 
see BELLES/page 14 


FENCING 

Unexpected lessons from grade school lead to college passion 
my grade school back in 1999 tions on four occasions. of competitive dominance and years.” 
By MICHAEL TODISCO 

and offered a few classes,” Many of these tournaments top coaching was too good to Notre Dame’s prominence in 
Sports Writer 

DeSmet said. “When he saw were hosted in different coun-pass up. the foil has provided DeSmet that I did well he offered to give tries, an aspect of the sport that “Notre Dame [is] the power-with many mentors and role 
Elementary school gymnasi-me free lessons and free stuff, DeSmet truly enjoys. house of my weapon, the foil,” models on the team. ums are often filled with dull and from there I really got into “Fencing is a pretty unique DeSmet said. “The coach here “Our team captain (senior) activities; square dancing, gym-it.” sport in that it allows you to [Gia Kvaratskhelia], is one of the Zach Schirtz has been really nastics and dodge ball are While DeSmet did not fence travel all over the world; best, nicest, and most amazing helpful, and the upperclassmen among the pastimes dreaded by for his school, he refined his Europe, China, Japan,” DeSmet coaches in the country. Also, have helped me manage balanc­young students. For freshman skills at the Northwest Fencing said. “Turkey was my favorite. I because everyone on the team ing fencing and travel with fencer Ariel DeSmet, however, Center in Beaverton, Ore. Under got to spend three weeks right fenced at such a high level school,” DeSmet said. his elementary school gymnasi-the tutelage of top coaches, on the Mediterranean coast.” before coming here, I’m familiar DeSmet is also learning to bal­um was where his future pas-DeSmet excelled on the junior When it came time to choose a with so many of them. It’s fun ance fencing for Notre Dame sion would be identified. circuit, competing for the United school, DeSmet’s decision was to be teammates with former 
“A local fencing coach came to States team at world competi-easy. Notre Dame’s combination rivals who I have known for see DESMET/page 13 
MEN’S SWIMMING & DIVING 

Dyer leads ND in four events 
By JOSEPH MONARDO 
Sports Writer 
As a freshman, swimmer Frank Dyer is making an impact both in the lanes and in the locker room. The freestyle specialist holds the top times for the Notre Dame team in four events this year, and has become a key mem­ber of a strong Irish squad. 
When Notre Dame (5 -3) hosts the Shamrock Invitational this weekend, Dyer will be one of the swim­mers to watch. Having swum the 50-, 100-, 200-, 500-and 1,000 -yard freestyles this year, Dyer can claim the team’s best time for the events in all but the 50-yard 
see DYER/page 13 


WOMEN’S TRACK AND FIELD 
Miler rises to second in NCAA with 4:42.14 
By ANDREW GASTELUM 
Sports Writer 

As a little girl growing up in the suburbs of Chicago, Rebecca Tracy would keep a jar filled with little pieces of paper, detailing her latest aspiration. Unraveled, they spelled out dreams like soc­cer player, interior designer and paleontologist, among many more. 
At that young age, nowhere in the jar did she scribble college runner, let alone second fastest miler in the NCAA. Ten years later, the sophomore distance runner finds herself surpris­ing everyone who sees her run, as well as herself. 
“[I’m] thrilled,” Tracy said about her personal record mile time this past Saturday. “Every time that I [set a personal record] I am utter­ly surprised. Coach tells me to just run to win the race and the times come. So I just ran.” 
By just running, Tracy posted the second fastest mile time in the NCAA with a 4:42.14 at the Notre Dame Invitational. Not only did she set a personal best, but Tracy also beat out Michigan State senior and NCAA finals veteran Emily MacLeod by a mere 0.61 
see TRACY/page 13 







