the
Observer 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


Blizzard reaches SouthBend 
Observer Staff Report 
As severe winter weather hit the South Bend area Tuesday, neither Notre Dame nor Saint Mary’s had made a decision whether to remain open for Wednesday class­es. 
As of Tuesday night, the National Weather Service predicted snow accumulation could reach 12 to 18 inches by Wednesday morning, with an additional two to three inches of snow accumulation dur­ing the day Wednesday. 
University spokesman Dennis Brown said Notre Dame usually makes decisions to close offices and cancel classes based on winter weather around 5 a.m. 
The University last closed due to winter weather on Dec. 12, 2000, Brown said. Final exams were postponed for one day due to snow. 
In a weather advisory e-mail Tuesday night, Brown said stu­dents, faculty and staff should stay tuned to hear early Wednesday morning whether the University would remain open. 
“If the decision is to close, the information will be communicated via local television and radio sta­tions, as well as on the University home page,” the advisory stated. 
Patricia Ann Fleming, Saint Mary’s senior vice president and dean of faculty, sent a similar e­mail to the Saint Mary’s communi­ty Tuesday afternoon. Fleming said the College planned to make a decision early Wednesday morn­ing. 
“Should classes be canceled and offices closed, dining services will be in full operation, residence hall staff will be available and security staff will be available for emergen­cies,” the e-mail stated. 
Fleming also said if Saint Mary’s campus remained open and stu­dents felt conditions were not safe enough to drive to campus, they should e-mail their professors immediately. 
South Bend Mayor Stephen Luecke declared a “Snow Route Clearance Condition” Tuesday that will remain in effect until 8 a.m. Thursday morning. This condition prohibits parking on streets desig­nated as snow routes. 
A Monday media advisory from the City of South Bend said Luecke would likely issue a Snow Emergency on Tuesday or Wednesday, which makes it illegal to drive on all streets throughout the city. As of 10:30 p.m. Tuesday, no such declaration had been made. 


ProfrecallstimewithGates 

By MADELINE BUCKLEY 
News Writer 
The last time Professor Michael Desch saw Secretary of Defense Robert Gates was in Gates’ office in the Pentagon in 2009. The two had been colleagues at Texas A&M, and Desch was in Washington seeking the defense secretary’s help in a project to reconnect acade­mia and military policy. 
During his visit, Desch, chair of the Political Science Department at Notre Dame, got a V.I.P tour of the Pentagon and witnessed a head of state visit from Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu. 
“I was literally the only person that wasn’t part of the security details there for that visit,” Desch said with a laugh. “Netanyahu’s secu­rity people couldn’t figure out who I was. They kept eyeing me.” 
The two former colleagues will reunite again in May — this time at Notre Dame. 
Gates, who took office in December 2006, will deliver the University’s 166th Commencement on May 22 at Notre Dame Stadium. 
Desch — who held a 
see DESCH/page 4 


Outfitters drawn to Eddy St. 
By MEGAN DOYLE 
Associate News Editor 
Urban Outfitters will open a store in Eddy Street Commons in September after Notre Dame students pro­moted the location to the popular retailer, according to Gregory Hakanen, director of Asset Management at Notre Dame. 
“Urban Outfitters is a fan­tastic retailer,” he said. “It is really terrific for college-age and student audiences so we are thrilled to have them at Eddy Street.” 
Kite Realty Group, based in Indianapolis, talked with Urban Outfitters for about three years before closing the deal. 
Former student body presi­dent Grant Schmidt and vice president Cynthia Weber made a video pitch during the 2009-10 school year for 
see URBAN/page 4 




Professors receive fellowships 
By TORI ROECK 
News Writer 
Two Notre Dame professors recently received fellowships from the National Endowment for the Humanities (NEH) to pur­sue their scholarly work next year, increasing the University’s record num­ber of NEH fellowships to 44 in the last 12 years. 
Notre Dame has earned more NEH fellowships since 1999 than any other university in the coun­try, according to a University press release. The University of Michigan earned 35 NEH fellow­ships and Harvard earned 26. 
Notre Dame theology professor Eugene Ulrich received a fellow­ship this year in Ancient Languages to pursue his book, “The Bible in Light of the Dead Sea Scrolls,” a compilation of his previous work on the topic. 
“The Dead Sea Scrolls … open up a period that we had lost sight of, a period that had just been lost to h i s t o r y, ” Ulrich said. “Which is part of the period of the composition of the Scriptures.” 
Ulrich’s career has been focused on exploring this era through the scrolls, and therefore gaining a greater appreciation for and understanding of the Biblical texts. 
His work began as a graduate student at Harvard under Frank Cross, one of the two original American editors of the Dead Sea Scrolls. His dissertation became an analysis of one of the major scrolls. 
“It was being in the right place at the right time,” Ulrich said. 
Ulrich’s first NEH fellowship in 1977 enabled him to publish one of the scrolls, leading to a lifetime of research pertaining to these documents. When the other edi­tor, Monsignor Patrick Skehan of Catholic University of America, died, he left his life’s work to Ulrich because he was so 


see NEH/page 5 

INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER Students research rare disease page 3  Photo essay on underground tunnels page 8  Women’s basketball beats Syracuse page 16  Viewpoint page 6 
page 2 The Observer . PAGE 2 Wednesday, February 2, 2011 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: W AT IS YOUR FAVORITE DESSERT IN T E DINING  ALL?

THE OBSERVER 






P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Matt Gamber 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Madeline Buckley Patrick Sala 

ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Sam Werner 
ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Laura Myers 

NEWS EDITOR: Laura McCrystal 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Michelle Maitz 

SPORTS EDITOR: Douglas Farmer 
SCENE EDITOR: Jordan Gamble 

SAINT MARY’S EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Dan Jacobs 

GRAPHICS EDITOR: Blair Chemidlin 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Lillian Civantos 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jane Obringer 
CONTROLLER: Jeff Liptak 


SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Joseph Choi 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 

(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 

(574) 631-4542 mgamber@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 

(574) 631-4541 mbuckley@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITORS 

(574) 631-4324 swerner@nd.edu, lmyers2@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 
SPORTS DESK 

(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
SCENE DESK 

(574) 631-4540 jgamble@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY’S DESK 
acharn01@saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 

(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 

observerOnline 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Matt Gamber 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 

024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer 
Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 

and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
TODAY’S STAFF 


News Sports 
Megan Doyle Mike Gotimer John Cameron Kelsey Manning Graphics Joe Worth 
Lauren Kalinoski Scene Photo Jordan Gamble Dan Jacobs Viewpoint Ren Brauweiler 
OFFBEAT 
Mexican gangs catapault pot over border 
HERMOSILLO, Mexico – Drug smugglers are using an ancient invention as a new way to move marijua­na across the border from Mexico to Arizona. 
The discovery of two "drug catapults" in the Mexican state of Sonora marks the latest twist in the cat-and-mouse game traffickers play with authorities. 
U.S. National Guard troops operating a remote surveillance system at the Naco Border Patrol Station say they observed several people preparing a cata­pult and launching pack­ages over the fence late last week. 
Jordan Hoover  Claire Fisher  Ben McGowan  Father Joe Carey  Matt Lopez  
freshman  senior  freshman  priest  senior  
Alumni  Ryan Hall  O’Neill  Ryan Hall  Keough  

“Texas sheet “Banana with “German “Chocolate ice “Reese’s Pieces cake.” granola and chocolate cake.” cream.” cake.” peanut butter.” 



Have an idea for Question of the Day? E-mail obsphoto@gmail.com 

Tim Kunst of indoor soccer Team America (made up of Dillon Hall athletes) breaks past a Who’s Who United defender Monday night to win the first round of the league playoffs 12-8. 
A Mexican army officer says the 3-yard (3-meter) tall catapult was found about 20 yards (20 meters) from the U.S. border on a flatbed towed by a sports utility vehicle. 
The officer says the cata­pult was capable of launch­ing 4.4 pounds (2 kilo­grams) of marijuana at a time. He says soldiers seized 35 pounds (16 kilo­grams) of pot, the vehicle and the catapult. 
Police: N.Y. mail carrier stole discount coupons 
WESTBURY, N.Y. – A mail carrier on New York's Long Island is accused of pinch­ing thousands of discount coupons intended for resi­dents' mailboxes. 
Police say 38-year-old Thomas Tang of Baldwin stole more than 7,000 J.C. Penney Co. discount coupons he was supposed to deliver to the depart­ment store's customers. Police say Tang then sold the coupons on eBay. 
Tang was charged with grand larceny. He pleaded not guilty at his arraign­ment Friday and was ordered held on $5,000 cash bail. 
His attorney was not immediately available for comment. 
The alleged theft occurred between October 2009 and this January. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
IN BRIEF 
The Diversity Reception and the Winter Career and Internship Fair scheduled for today have been postponed. 
Rolfs Sports and Recreation Center will offer free body composition and blood pres­sure testing today in the RCRS Wellness Room beginning at 9 a.m. 
An exhibit titled “Interrogating Native American Art: Past and Present” will be on display today at the Snite Museum of Art in the O'Shaughnessy Galleries II and III. The exhibit will open at 10 a.m. 
Reference Librarian Margaret Porter will host a library workshop titled “Find it in the Newspapers” today. The workshop will begin at 4 p.m. in Room 222 of Hesburgh Library. 
The Student Players will hold auditions today beginning at 6 p.m. for “Dr. Horrible’s Sing-Along Blog.” The audi­tions will be held in the Farley Hall Chapel. Sign up at http://www.nd.edu/~stuplay/. 
Daily Rosary will be celebrat­ed at 6:45 p.m. this evening at the Grotto. 
History professors Mark Noll Brad Gregory will speak at an ecumenical lecture titled "Evangelicals and Catholics Together? Some Real Progress But Some Real Problems Too.” The lecture will begin at 7 p.m. this evening in the Oak Room on the second floor of South Dining Hall. This event is part of Christian Unity Week. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
HIGH LOW 
HIGH LOW 
HIGH LOW HIGH LOW HIGH LOW 

Today Tonight Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a 



22 19 HIGH 11 19 2428

mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 

21 8 LOW 4 18 23 23 






Wednesday, February 2, 2011 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 



Undergrads research rare incurable disease 
Class contributes clinical findings on Niemann-Pick Type C disease to The National Institute of Health 
By ANNA BOARINI News Writer  (NIH), which is currently con-affects such a small group, it ducting the only clinical trial is really hard to find people to on NP-C in the United States. do a clinical trial,” Epperson  grandchildren who died from records they research. N P -C . H e s t a r t e d t h e A r a “ We w a n t i f p o s s i b l e t o Parseghian Medical Research include actually meeting some  
According to NIH’s website, said.  Foundation to raise aware-of these patients,” Epperson  
As participants in a semes­ NP-C is an inherited metabol-Biology Professor Kasturi  n e s s a b o u t N P -C a n d f u n d said.  
ter-long course, Notre Dame  ic disorder that causes harm-H a l d a r, d i r e c t o r o f N o t r e  research. One concern with bringing  
undergraduates have the rare  f u l a m o u n t s o f f a t t y s u b -Dame’s Center for Rare and  “This is close to the commu­p a t i e n t s i n t o t h e c l a s s i s  
opportunity to contribute to  s t a n c e s t o N e g l e c t e d  nity,” Epperson said. “There respect for the patients’ pri­ 
real clinical research about  collect in the Diseases, teaches  a r e 7 , 0 0 0 r a r e vacy, Epperson  
Niemann – Pick Type C (NP-C)  b r a i n , b o n e the course.  d i s e a s e s a n d said.  
disease. The course, titled “Clinical research in developing health networks in rare and neglect­ed diseases,” is one of only a few similar courses offered at universities around the coun­ m a r r o w , Mollie Howard, “Because this disease spleen, lungs a senior biology affects such a smalland liver. NP-m aj or, i s one o f C is classified group, it is really 3 0 s t u d e n t s a s a l i p o s o -hard to fnd people to e n r o l l e d i n t h e m a l s t o r a g e c o u r s e t h i s do a clinical trial.” d i s o r d e r , semester.  with the creation “We want to “There is no cure for of the Center for r e s p e c t t h e R a r e a n d N-PC and there’s a p a t i e n t s a n d N e g l e c t e d delay from when the not make them D i s e a s e s , i t f e e l l i k e child starts to showmakes it hard to they’re on dis-just pick one [to symptoms and is play,” she said.  
try, said Katrina Epperson, program coordinator for the  w h e r e c e l l s “I was looking d o n o t t r a p Katrina Epperson for another biolo­ study]. This rela­diagnosed.” In the mean­tionship helped time, Epperson  
Center for Rare and Neglected Diseases at Notre Dame. “There are 17 symptoms of NP-C and the students track  cholesterol in program coordinator g y e l e c t i v e a n d t h e p r o p e r this sounded real-Center for Rare and m a n n e r . l y i n t e r e s t i n g , ” Neglected DiseasesC h o l e s t e r o l H o w a r d s a i d .  us choose.” said there are Mollie Howard After the stu-other ways for dents learn how senior the students to t o f o l l o w t h e understand the  
t h e n i n e m a j o r o n e s , ”  b u i l d s u p , “There is no cure  Health Insurance l i v e s o f t h e  
Epperson said. “The students  which affects f o r N P -C a n d  Portability and Accountability patients who they research.  
lo ok a t me di cal rec ords to  t h e c e n t r a l t h e r e ’s a d e l a y  Act (HIPPA), they make pre­“ T h e D i s c o v e r y C h a n n e l  
give a score to each doctor  nervous system and causes from when the child starts to  sentations about the families came and taped a show about  
visit. This then helps track  the deterioration of the brain. show symptoms and is diag­ that are suffering from NP-C NP-C, so now we can show  
the progression of the dis- Also known as “childhood nosed.”  in an attempt to put a face to the students the video,” she  
ease.”  Alzheimer’s,” NP-C effects one Notre Dame became associ­ medical records. Epperson said.  
Notre Dame gives its results  in 200,000 people, Epperson ated with NP-C through for- said students may eventually  
f r o m t h e c o u r s e t o T h e  said. mer head football coach Ara  be able to meet some of the Contact Anna Boarini at  
National Institute of Health  “ B e c a u s e t h i s d i s e a s e Parseghian, who has three  p a t i e n t s w h o s e m e d i c a l aboari01@saintmarys.edu  



page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, February 2, 2011 


Saint Mary’s students market new soda for business course 
By ASHLEY CHARNLEY 
Saint Mary’s Edior 
Many students dream of starting their own businesses in the future, but for five Saint Mary’s students, that dream is becoming a reality. 
Juniors Lindsey Downs, Hannah Hupp, Loren Sampson and Hanna Vicary and senior Jeanne Michael developed Twist O’Luck soda as part of a course called New Venture. Hupp 
d e s c r i b e d  t h e  d r i n k  a s  a  
l e m o n  l i m e  s o d a  w i t h  a  
grapefruit flavor.  

The class is new to Saint Mary’s this year and is meant to inspire student entrepre­neurship, business professor Susan Vance said. Vance, who is leading this semester’s groups, said it isn’t a normal class. 
“This is a great non-tradi­tional class,” Vance said. “In the fall semester, three 

Desch 
continued from page 1 
chaired position in Gates’ name at Texas A&M while Gates was president of the university — knows the Commencement speaker on a personal level, and has invit­ed him to speak at Notre Dame in the past. 
“I could have planted that seed for the idea of inviting Gates to be Commencement speaker,” Desch said. 
But Desch wasn’t part of the selection process for the speaker, and was pleasantly surprised when he heard his 
old colleague would come speak at the University. 
Desch said Gates was well-respected by faculty and stu­dents during his tenure as president of Texas A&M from 2002-2006. His appointment as university president was controversial, Desch said, because of his governmental ties to the administrations of Presidents George H.W. Bush and George W. Bush. The Aggies, or A&M alumni, also saw him as an outsider. 
“But Gates was so effective as president that the Aggies quickly decided he was an Aggie all along, even though he had never gone to school there,” he said. 
While leading Texas A&M, Gates displayed qualities sim­ilar to what Desch said appeared later in his leader­ship style as defense secre­tary. 
“People say what makes him teams of students developed pitching our idea to the Saint a business concept, did a Mary’s business department feasibility study, wrote a and local bankers, and going business plan and pitched through the loan process. We their idea to a then ordered loan committee the soda, sub-consisting of mitted the 
business facul­t y an d prof es -s i o n a l  “Developing our own product was a lot of  labels for print a n d p u t i t o n t h e s h e l v e s .  
bankers.” Vi c a r y s a i d t h e c l a s s w a s challenging.  fun. We had an image in mind and Northwoods Soda  We are excited t o b e i n t h e i m p l e m e n t a ­tion stage.”  
“Entering the N e w Ve n t u r e  helped us produce it.”  Va n c e s a i d she and assis­ 
class I did not r e a l i z e t h e complexities of  Jeanne Michael SMC senior  t a n t b u s i n e s s professor Bob W i l l i a m s ,  
l a u n c h i n g  a  along with  an  
small business,  a l u m n a  m e n - 
a s  w e l l  a s  t h e  tor, lead each  
amount of time  t e a m .  T h e  

and energy involved in the other teams involved in New process, ” she said. “The Venture will be debuting entire first semester we their products later in the worked on the logistics semester. including coming up with our “[Twist O’Luck] is the first idea, writing a business plan, student company in SMC his-
so influential in Washington these days is that he’s careful, he picks his fights, is smart about how he goes about things and doesn’t get up and pontificate,” Desch said. “Bob is not somebody whose ego gets in the way of getting what he wants.” 
Desch said the qualities that helped Gates win over the Aggies at Texas A&M made him ideal to serve as defense secretary under both President George W. Bush and President Barack Obama. 
“The fact that he served as secretary of defense in two different administrations, one Republican and one Democrat, is a pretty power­ful indicator of where he stands as an American states­man,” Desch said. 
Gates has also served as director of the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) and was a member of the Iraq Study Group, a bipartisan commission that examined the Iraq War. 
Desch said he is looking for­ward to seeing the former Texas A&M president speak at Notre Dame. 
Desch said he believes Gates is the “perfect” choice for Commencement speaker because of his position as a crucial statesman in the U.S. government. But perhaps, he said, what makes Gates the right choice is his record with students at Texas A&M. 
“The students loved him,” Desch said. 
Contact Madeline Buckley at mbuckley@nd.edu 
tory to launch from the newly created entrepreneur­ship initiative,” Vance said. 
The group said they enjoyed launching and creat­ing the project. 
“Developing our own prod­uct was a lot of fun. We had an image in mind and Northwoods Soda helped us produce it,” Michael said. 
“We knew we wanted a green, refreshing soda and we wanted the novelty of having a glass bottle. One of our greatest challenges was designing the label. We wanted the design to reflect the name Twist O’ Luck and create curiosity about the product.” 
A small distributor pro ­duces the soda. 
“[Twist O’Luck] is produced by a small craft soda produc­er, is definitely not mass-pro­duced and the quality shows,” she said. 
The students launched the drink at Saint Mary’s Noble Family Dining Hall with great success, Vance said. 
“The product has been doing great,” Sampson said. “There has been a lot of shown interest in our soda. We have sparked curiosity throughout our customers. We cannot wait to see how the product sells through the remainder of the year.” 
The College now sells the soda in the Student Center for $1.69 per bottle. 
“Seeing what a success the promotional event was, we are excited to see how far Twist O’ Luck can go, ” Downs said. “We plan on going to smaller local busi­nesses to market Twist O’ Luck, making it more avail­able to the public. Therefore, let’s see how far our Luck can take us.” 
Contact Ashley Charnley at acharn01@saintmarys.edu 
Outfitters was conspicuously absent.” 
The next phase for the devel­opment will expand Eddy Street Commons onto the next block south, but planning has not 
begun  for  the  new  space,  
Hakanen said.  
Hakanen  said  he  hoped  

Urban Outfitters would draw similar retailers to the develop­ment. 
“We have a strong restaurant line-up, and it is important to balance that,” he said. “Urban Outfitters will be a wonderful, wonderful retailer for the area.” 
Contact Megan Doyle at mdoyle11@nd.edu 


Urban 
continued from page 1 
Urban Outfitters with the help of other student leaders. Kite suggested the video as a “grass­roots” effort to bring the retail­er to South Bend, Schmidt said. 
“It was not just the develop­ment that wanted [the retailer] but Notre Dame students thought Urban Outfitters would be successful too,” Schmidt said. 
Schmidt and Weber asked the student body for suggestions on retailers at Eddy Street Commons in an e-mail last fall. 
“The student involvement was just extraordinary,” Hakanen said. “I have been doing this for a while, and I have never seen anything like it.” 
The video began with an introduction from Schmidt. 
“We have been working all year with Eddy Street Commons trying to evaluate what would be successful and what would be appealing to the Notre Dame student body,” he said. “And I can honestly say that an Urban Outfitters would be a huge suc­cess.” 
Schmidt wore a Polo sweater in the video. 
“The reason I am not wearing Urban Outfitters clothing is because we don’t have one,” he said. 
The video showed students from around campus explaining why they would shop at Urban Outfitters in Eddy Street Commons. The retailer received overwhelming support, Schmidt said. 
“Once we got those votes, we thought Urban Outfitters would be extremely successful,” he said. “There were really not that many retail stores that were close to Notre Dame’s campus.” 
Schmidt said the store will draw shoppers from campus as well as from the local commu­nity. 
“It is one of those trendy stores that I think will be popu­lar with both Notre Dame stu­dents and with South Bend,” he said. “I think we saw, as well as Urban Outfitters and Kite saw, that [Eddy Street Commons] would be a location that would attract both of those markets.” 
The petition and the video were sent to Urban Outfitters along with a packet of informa­tion about the local area, Schmidt said. 
Hakanen said Urban Outfitters should be successful in this area. 
“Prior to Eddy Street Commons, there was extremely limited retail close to campus,” he said. “There are a number of college-age retailers at University Park Mall but Urban 


Wednesday, February 2, 2011 The Observer . NEWS page 5 
NEH 
continued from page 1 
impressed with his research. 
“This coming year will be my 39th year of teaching here,” Ulrich said, “and 21 of those years, I have had NEH funding. They were very interested in the publication of the scrolls.” 
Ulrich’s upcoming work expands on a book he published last year, “The Biblical Qumran Scrolls: Transcriptions and Textual Variants,” which includes all of the text from the 
ent surprises there, what I’m doing now is syn­thesizing all that and putting it into one monograph so that you can get in one book a clear expla­nation and description of how the Bible came to be the way it is,” Ulrich said. 
Thomas F. X. Noble, chair of Notre Dame’s History Department, received an NEH fel­lowship in Medieval Studies to produce his book “Rome in the Medieval Imagination,” a look at how Rome was perceived by dif­ferent people and cultures during Medieval times. 
“Everyone had an opinion about Rome,” Noble said. “Good, bad or indifferent.” 
Noble’s previous work focused on Rome itself, especially Popes and the Roman Church. His new book, however, will explore Rome through the eyes of Medieval citi­zens. 
“Rome was a constant presence for Medieval people,” Noble said “It haunted their imagination, and [in my book] I am poking around inside people’s imagina­tion a thousand years ago.” 
Noble said “Rome in the Medieval Imagination” will finally provide a source for Medieval scholars to learn about their sub­jects’ perceptions of Rome. 
“Whoever studies Medieval art, literature or history runs into 

“Rome was a constant
Biblical Scrolls, but presence for Medieval 
makes it more people people ... It accessible. 
haunted their
“After going through scroll imagination.” after scroll after scroll 
Thomas F. X. Noble 
and seeing dif­

chair
ferent surpris-

Department of History 
es here, differ-Rome all the time,” Noble said. “Some people might be thinking why this author in 12th century France thought this about Rome … and they’ve never had a book to take off the shelf to look 
that up and find out. So what I’m trying to do is explain why you bump into Rome all the time if you study the Middle Ages.” 
This is Noble’s third NEH fel­lowship, but he said he still feels just as great about it as his first two. 
“When you win one of these awards, it means that an anony­mous panel of our peers thought well of what we’re doing,” Noble said. “When the NEH looks at all those worthy applications and picks yours, it feels pretty good. Notre Dame has a wonderful tra­dition in winning these so it’s nice to be part of that group.” 
Contact Tori Roeck at vroeck@nd.edu 



Obamaasksforleadershiptransition 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON — President Barack Obama on Tuesday challenged Egypt’s embattled autocratic ruler, a staunch U.S. ally, to immediately begin the process of transitioning the country to new leadership, a signal that there should be no drawn-out goodbye. 
Earlier, Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak had announced he would not seek another term in office but also would not yield to growing demands to step down now. After a hud­dle at the White House, Obama went on television to respond. 
In his brief statement at the White House, Obama invoked Egypt’s ancient and storied past in what appeared to be an appeal to Mubarak’s desire to be remembered well in history as a powerful leader and peacemaker. He said he had spoken to Mubarak to press his case for 30 minutes shortly after Mubarak addressed the Egyptian people. 
“He recognizes that the sta­tus quo is not sustainable and that a change must take place,” Obama said of Mubarak. “Indeed, all of us who are privileged to serve in position of political power do so at the will of our people.” 
“Through thousands of years, Egypt has known many moments of transformation; the voices of the Egyptian peo­ple tell us that this is one of the moments, this is one of those times,” Obama said. He added that the United States heard those voices demanding change as anti-government protests filled the streets of Cairo and other Egyptian cities. 
Mubarak delivered his speech after hearing from a special envoy, former U.S. ambassador to Egypt Frank Wisner, whom Obama dis­patched to Cairo on Monday. Wisner’s message: The U.S. saw his tenure at an end, did-n’t want him to stand for re­election in September and wanted him to prepare an orderly transition to real democracy. 
“It is my belief that an order­ly transition must be meaning­ful, it must be peaceful and it must begin now,” Obama said he had told Mubarak in the phone call. 
That suggested Mubarak’s concession was not enough, but Obama left the point dan­gling. He was careful not to say that Mubarak should have left immediately, and he stressed that it was not up to the United States to pick Egypt’s leaders. 
“Furthermore, the process must include a broad spectrum of Egyptian voices and opposi­tion parties,” he said. “It should lead to elections that are free and fair. And, it should result in a government that is not only grounded in demo­cratic principles but is also responsive to the aspirations of the Egyptian people.” 
Obama praised the “passion and dignity” of the protesters who have rallied for Mubarak’s departure as an “inspiration” to people around the world, and he hailed the Egyptian mil­itary for its poise in handling the situation. 
“To the people of Egypt, par­ticularly the young people of Egypt, I want to be clear: We hear your voices,” Obama said. “I have an unyielding belief that you will determine your own destiny and seize the promise of a better future for your children and grandchil­dren.” 
In a half-way concession to hundreds of thousands of pro­testers, Mubarak said in Egypt that he would serve out the rest of his term working to ensure a “peaceful transfer of power” and new rules on pres­idential elections. His message that he would not immediately leave was rebuffed by many demonstrators in Cairo’s main square. 
Obama warned there would be “difficult days ahead” in Egypt as the situation develops and appealed for calm. 
Tuesday’s developments sig­naled that after a week of bal­ancing support for protesters and for America’s close ally of three decades, the administra­tion had decided that long­term backing for the Egyptian president was no longer ten­able. 
They also coincided with a greater outreach to opposition figures, most notably opening talks with a possible Mubarak successor, Nobel peace laure­ate Mohamed ElBaradei, a for­mer Egyptian diplomat and chief of the U.N. nuclear watchdog. 


The Observer 


Viewpoint 

page 6 Wednesday, February 2, 2011 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Higher standards 
At work this past Friday covering the front desk at the Gug, I received not one but three calls in the course of an hour from a guy bemoaning the state of Notre Dame football. (Because clearly, a fresh­man answering Kelsey Manning phones in the football office has Sports a lot of pull when Production 
Editor 
it comes to funda­mentally altering a 120-year-old program.) 

Specifically, the man was complain­ing about the players’ irresponsible conduct off the field. Sadly, none of this kind of talk was new to my ears, particularly in light of recent events. I returned to my dorm bothered by the incident, contemplating whether the mantra I so desperately wanted to believe, namely that Notre Dame ath­letes are held to a higher standard than those at other colleges, was sim­ply naïve. The next day, something happened that rekindled my faith. 
In an unprecedented jolt of inspira­tion to do something with a Saturday afternoon other than watch Lonely Island music videos, my friends and I decided to go to the mall. On the Transpo bus back to campus, we made an extra stop. Suddenly there was a minor commotion, and the attentions of all onboard were drawn to the mas­sive snow bank just outside the door, and an elderly woman carrying sever­al bags who had fallen and was help­lessly trapped in it. Just as suddenly, a Notre Dame football player (in attire distinguishing him as such) leapt up, bounded down the stairs, pulled the woman out the snow and helped her up the stairs onto the bus. As the woman, alone, embarrassed and with tears in her eyes, made her way to the back of the bus, the player asked gen­tly if she was alright. She awkwardly nodded. As most passengers returned to their idle chatter, I remained focused on the player, who was gazing at the woman and her tear-streaked face with a look of true concern. 
Sitting there I thought about the tumultuous year that was had by Notre Dame football, about the hyper­critical media, about stories I’ve heard about players, about disparaging jokes I’ve endured by friends at other schools and about that man on the phone. And despite all that, in that moment it was impossible not to feel proud to be a part of this University and to see it represented in the man­ner it should be. 
Call me an idealist, but I choose to believe that Notre Dame athletes are in fact held to a higher standard of conduct. Any exception to that stan­dard is just that — an exception. I choose to believe that Irish coach Brian Kelly is fostering the kind of environment that forces players to acknowledge the history, tradition and responsibility that comes with wearing “Notre Dame Football” across their chests. 
And perhaps most of all, I choose to believe that my friends who make jokes are just jealous they didn’t get in. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Kelsey Manning at kmannin3@nd.edu 

The one about the dictator 
Hosni Mubarak is on his death bed. An aide comes to his side and asks if he plans to deliver a farewell speech to his people. Mubarak looks up and replies, “Why, where are they going?” 
Thus the old DeVan Ard quip in Egypt about Mubarak’s Guest grip on both Columnist power and reali­ty. Perhaps it loses some of its humor in translation. But recent events have shown that Egyptian politics are no longer a joking matter. Seven days ago, thousands of people marched through the streets in protest of the authoritarian regime. The govern­ment has done little to encourage economic growth and it severely restricts civil liberties. I studied abroad in Cairo in 2007 and I often encountered these very problems. I met people with master’s degrees in mechanical engineering and busi­ness. These were valuable creden­tials in a sound pre-recession econo­my, but they could only find work in a hotel or driving a taxi. 
I remember the omnipresent para­military guard that congregated in Cairo’s busiest squares. They wore all-black uniforms, and usually they stood lazily beside large troop carri­ers. Even without civil unrest, they took positions throughout the city, watching over pedestrians and the dense traffic (though traffic in Cairo may fairly be called civil unrest). I grew accustomed to their presence, as do all Egyptians. The frenzy of life in Cairo obscures all but the most immediate of the pedestrian’s obsta­cles — a table selling small wares in the middle of the sidewalk, suspi­cious liquid dripping steadily from a shop’s awning, or a sudden drop in the pavement. But I shudder slightly when I see those soldiers in photos now, awakened to violence by the advancing protesters. 
There is a kind of national slogan in Egypt, an Arabic word: ma’lish. It means something like “that’s okay,” “everything will be fine,” or “whatev­er.” Didn’t finish your paper on time? Ma’lish. Forgot to pick up the milk? Ma’lish. It becomes easy to use but frustrating to hear. Try renewing your student visa in a reasonable amount of time. Now, there are hun­dreds of thousands taking a decisive stand against this demeanor within civil governance. 
But it is difficult to imagine the “orderly transition” that Secretary of State Hillary Clinton has called for. Hosni Mubarak is a patriarch of the modern Egyptian state. Only two presidents preceded him, the first two Egyptians to exercise real politi­cal authority in Egypt for thousands of years. Mubarak stands in very small company. There is no living “former Egyptian president,” as both of his predecessors died in office. In Egyptian political memory, the end of a presidency means trauma: Gamal Abdel Nasser’s heart attack, Anwar El Sadat’s assassination. 
These events shook the nation and made possible Mubarak’s modus operandi. The pervasive military guard prevents “threats to security,” a line that intentionally recalls ter­rorist attacks and other violent episodes from Egypt’s recent past. Deposing a patriarch, then, will require an immense effort of not merely vocal opposition but also national self-examination. A unity coalition must confront the legacy of Sadat and Nasser as well as Mubarak. Political trauma has creat­ed a difficult history from which healthy forms of authority can emerge. In spite of this, there are many outside of Egypt who hope that current events will lead to a new epoch of inclusive democracy. And they are no longer laughing about it. 
DeVan Ard is a graduate student in the Department of Theology. He can be reached at dard@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

OBSERVER POLL 
Who do you want to win the Super Bowl? -Green Bay Packers -Pittsburgh Steelers Who do you think will win the Super Bowl? -Green Bay Packers -Pittsburgh Steelers 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com. 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“I do not feel obliged to believe thatthe same God who has endowed us with sense, reason and intellect has intended us to forgo their use.” 
Galileo Galilei Italian astronomer and physicist 
The Observer 


Viewpoint 

Wednesday, February 2, 2011 page 7 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

Kudos to Transpo 
I’ve gotta hand it to the transportation “services” that are at our fingertips here in the Bend for Saint Mary’s and Notre Dame students. What other school provides a “personal van service,” so dearly known as Blinky, to usher you from the ice rink of a parking lot to your dorm doorstep at 1 a.m. just so you can avoid the tundra known as South Bend? Kudos. 
Not to mention the great South Bend cabs (we all have our personal favorites) that shuttle all of us to our Fever and CJ’s destinations throughout the week so we can play hard after working hard all week. In addition to arriving safely, and after some good cab conversation, our Transpo service providers even throw in some extra-good loving with their customer service! Returning our missing student IDs, our sweaters and our bags. Gotta hand it to them, they deserve a gold star for their concierge. Kudos. 
And last but not least is the security hut. Although Saint Mary’s security often gets heat for its incessant distribution of parking tickets, they do deserve a little recognition for their TLC. After Saturday’s Saint Mary’s formal, I got a call from the little security hut that my “winter clothing articles” had been found and were awaiting my arrival. If that isn’t personalized and high quality service I don’t really know what is. 
Thank you, Transpo services and little security hut. You have made my winter a bit warmer and helped me to recover my precious, lost articles while always remaining chatty and loyal. 
Caitlin Guffy 
junior Le Mans Hall Jan. 31 


Stress relievers 
We need some stress relievers. Notre Dame stu­dents work hard, so we need a way to let out that stress in a fun (maybe not safe) way. I propose three ideas that, if watched over, could provide a good way to relieve that stress, along with a new way of speeding up the walk to class. 
First: sledding over Stepan Center. Imagine if all the dirt from construction projects were to be piled up on top of Stepan Center. It would stop the leaky roof, while giving students a place to enjoy themselves! Plus, the exercise involved climbing a hill would keep everyone a little bit healthier. 
Second: zip lining out of the library. Imagine if students were running late to a class because they had lost track of time in the library. Wouldn’t it be easier to just go to the top floor and zip line from there to that building? Some buildings would be too far away, but many would be serviced. Jordan, Galvin, Decio and possibly even O’Shaughnessy and DeBartolo could be connected by the web of lines! The harnesses could even have a mecha­nism for being pulled back up! 
Third: ice skating on the reflecting pool. The reflecting pool could be filled with (uncolored) water in November, and let to freeze. From there, kids could skate whenever they felt they needed a break! The proximity to the library would be more convenient than a trip to LaFortune for a study break. For many, the JACC ice rink is too far and only open at specific times. There could be a fee for renting or using the rink, for those who need some earnings from an idea. However, it would be a better idea just to make it free during the week and a fee on weekends. Plus, it would remain frozen because of the lovely weather. 
Finally, none of these have to be open all the time! During the days, the ice rink could be closed, and during the weekend the zip line could be closed. 
Thank you for considering my proposal! 
Bill Shields 
junior 
Stanford Hall 
Feb. 1 


A lesbian opposed to the PSA petition 
Progressive Student Alliance has put every effort into getting sexual orientation added to Notre Dame’s non discrimination clause (NDC), and every year it has failed. Insanity is doing the same thing and expecting different results; the petition has not worked in the past, and it will not work this time. In a time where there are count­less other things that need to be fixed, including at Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s, it is time for the Progressive Student Alliance to move on to some­thing that actually has a chance of success at Notre Dame and thus make a difference. Don’t get me wrong — as a lesbian, I am forever grateful for the unwavering support and courage that allies here show in their everyday interactions. 
After helping organize last January’s demon­stration at Notre Dame, my colleagues and I got to sit down with University President Fr. John Jenkins on several occasions and discuss with him some of the pros and cons of an NDC. He made an excellent point; an NDC is words on a page; the way to truly spark change is to do it at a grass­roots level and to try to engage the hearts of stu­dents. The efforts of administrators who have implemented programs such as Notre Dame’s CommUNITY Program and Saint Mary’s Friend to Friend Program do just that. These programs ask students to regard their lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgendered peers not as outsiders or sinners, but as humans who are struggling with many of the same things with which their straight peers struggle. 
At the end of the day, Fr. Jenkins has to consid­er the fact that to pass this NDC would mean that many donors who generously give to Notre Dame’s scholarship funds could potentially pull their future donations. The primary tenet of Christian social teaching is a regard for the greater good; to pass this would jeopardize that. I do not like that some people donate with unspo­ken conditions, however, it is the reality with which we must contend. Perhaps it is time to put aside the petition and try to speak to the humani­ty and engage the hearts of some of Notre Dame’s major donors. 
Laurel Javors 
senior Annunciata Hall Jan. 31 

UWIRE Chocolate milk more than a simple snack 
Water bottles are so last season. 
The next time you head to the gym, replace that H2O with a good old-fashioned glass of chocolate milk. 
Yes, this is what doctors and athletes are saying these days: Chocolate milk 
Hannah Muniz
is now the ultimate sports drink. 
In recent years, chocolate The Daily Trojan milk has evolved from an elementary school student’s treat to a delicious and inexpensive replacement for overpriced Gatorades and various other fitness drinks. 
Claims have been made that chocolate milk bene­fits the human body as much as, if not more than, routine energy formulas, flaunting an ideal combi­nation of natural carbohydrates and proteins. 
Since this discovery, even more studies have been conducted to determine just how beneficial choco­late milk can be for athletes. 
According to a 2009 study in Medical News Today, chocolate milk was found to meet, and in some cases exceed, the post-workout recovery benefits of an equal-calorie sports drink. 
A 2007 British study declared milk to be better at restoring fluid levels than water and other sports drinks after exercising under hot conditions. 
With the appearance of these recent studies, it’s no wonder sports drink sales plummeted in 2009. Although most would attribute this downfall to eco­nomic hardships or other sales factors, the recent popularity of chocolate milk might have affected the downward trend. 
Who wouldn’t choose cheap, delicious chocolate milk over a sports drink, anyway? 
The benefits of chocolate milk are not necessarily new. Runners in particular have lauded the drink for years, praising it as a post-run miracle. 
Only recently are other fields of fitness beginning to understand the benefits as well. Olympic gold-medalist Michael Phelps drank chocolate milk after swim sessions in the 2004 Olympics, helping to sub­tly promote the refreshment as a refueling wonder for sports other than just running or weight-lifting. 
But why is chocolate milk so good for you? What exactly is it doing to garner such high praise from the athletic and medical communities? 
Chocolate milk has a natural ratio of carbohy­drates to proteins that is ideal for muscle recovery process after intense strength-training and aerobic exercises. 
The amino acids found in chocolate milk also help to prevent future muscle damage and are capable of shortening recovery periods in between work­outs. The acids repair damaged muscle tissue while promoting leaner muscle mass. 
Additionally, chocolate milk, like plain milk, con­tains vitamin D and calcium levels that are signifi­cantly higher than those found in rival sports drinks. Such levels not only promote healthier mus­cles but also strengthen bones. 
It is a more affordable beverage than sports drinks, too. If you’re not looking to buy a whole gal­lon of chocolate milk, simply picking up a bottle of Hershey’s chocolate syrup is enough to keep you satisfied. 
For the busy college student, chocolate milk is anything but inconvenient. Whether you’re chug­ging a glass at Everybody’s Kitchen or purchasing a small carton at Trojan Grounds, you’re bound to find chocolate milk for sale in just about any place you go. 
If you’re worried about calorie content, chocolate milk shouldn’t be a problem. For something light, simply opt for skim milk. 
If the creamier texture is tempting you after a hard workout, indulge in a glass of chocolate whole milk instead. 
Either way, you’ll still be getting the same vita­mins and proteins that are necessary for your mus­cles to properly recover. 
But what about the lactose intolerant? Athletes can still reap the benefits by gulping down choco­late soy milk. 
Though soy milk contains fewer proteins than regular milk, it is still an effective recovery drink with similar vitamins and minerals. 
Aside from all the technical benefits of chocolate milk, what could be better than a sports drink that sounds like a dessert? 
It might still hold the title of a sugary and unhealthy treat, but its well-documented benefits are proof enough that a glass or two shouldn’t leave you feeling guilty. 
It’s important that all athletes understand the golden rule when exercising: Drinking something is vital in the first 30 minutes after exercising to repair any damaged or overstrained muscles. 
And when it comes to choosing something both delicious and convenient, chocolate milk reigns supreme. 
This column first appeared in the Jan. 31 edition of The Daily Trojan, the daily publication serving the University of Southern California. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
The Observer 



Scene

page 8 Wednesday, February 2, 2011 


Special thanks to Paul Kempf and John Brown of the Notre Dame Utilities Department for the tour and information 
The question gets asked every year. 
When the weather gets cold and the snow falls horizontally, some­one, usually a freshman — one of the ones who still doesn’t know how to navigate South Dining Hall at 6:30 p.m. and wears their lan­yard around the neck — will ask, “Hey, aren’t there tunnels under the quad? Why can’t we use those to get to class when it’s cold out?” 
Yes, there are tunnels beneath our feet. They transport the steam that heats all the buildings 

on campus, melting the snow over their passageways and leaving long patches of grass for the non-migratory geese to turn into mud pits. And there are several rea­sons why we can’t go in those tunnels when it’s cold outside, the least of which is that it’s just plain not allowed. 
The steam tunnels have long been an enigma to the Notre Dame student body. Precious few current students have ever been inside these mythical passageways, and they will all probably tell you the same 

Entrances to the tunnels can be found in every building on campus, but secu­rity was tightened when women were admitted to Notre Dame and again after the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks. Today, access to the tunnels is very limit­ed. Even if one were to somehow find a way inside, there is no way out. 
The Observer 



Scene

Wednesday, February 2, 2011 page 9 


The mysterious tunnels have drawn curious students for years. The power plant gives tours of the tunnels to graduating seniors during senior week every year. Before security measures were heightened, students occasionally would be found wandering around the basement of the power plant after getting lost in the tunnels. 

thing: They’re not all cracked up to be. The tunnels are exciting and cool because they are The Tunnels, the big mystery on campus. But in reality, they are cramped, dark, dirty and over­whelmingly warm. 
Four main tunnels lead from the power plant to most buildings on campus. The passageways are narrow and the ceilings are low. There is only enough room to walk single file. The pipes and wires in the tunnels are not only at risk of being damaged if thousands of students were to walk by every day, but they also make it difficult to navigate the tunnels. 
Unless you enjoy arriving to class cov­ered in sweat and grime, the tunnels are not your friend. It is hot and gross down there. Brush against the wall and your fashionable designer coat or North Face parka will sport authentic tunnel dirt for the rest of the day. Maybe you are trying to rock for the vintage/grunge look, but probably not. The Ugg boots that you so carefully weatherproofed will track dust into the your dorm room and grind into the fibers of the carpet that your parents bought for you during Frosh-O. The weather outside may be cold, but I choose to wear a hat and a coat and to cut through buildings to get to class rather than to arrive coated in dust. Maybe that’s just me. 
Contact Suzanna Pratt at spratt2@nd.edu 


Wednesday, February 2, 2011 The Observer • CLASSIFIEDS page 10 
PGA TOUR 


Despite defeat, Mickelson keeps high expectations for 2011 
Associated Press 
SAN DIEGO — One of the more compelling images from Torrey Pines apparently won’t be forgot­ten anytime soon. 
Phil Mickelson, in the middle of a five-week stretch of tourna­ments, took time off to rest Tuesday. That allowed his caddie a chance to sneak over to play golf at Whisper Rock before get­ting back to work at the Phoenix Open. 
Jim “Bones” Mackay wasn’t on the phone very long when it was time for him to play a shot, so he handed the phone off to someone in his group. That turned out to be Geoff Ogilvy, who provided details of the round. 
“We’re actually having Bones run up from the fairway to tend the flag for us,” Ogilvy said. 
He was only kidding, and Mackay can expect plenty of that. 
In yet another case of Mickelson’s entertainment value, he needed an eagle on the par-5 18th hole at Torrey Pines to force a playoff with Bubba Watson. The odds weren’t very good, and Mickelson knew that. But leaving nothing to chance, he had Mackay tend the flag as he stood over his third shot from 72 yards out in the fairway. 
Having a caddie tend the flag for a full shot from the fairway is unusual, but not unprecedented. 
Then again, it was only nine months ago when Mickelson told his caddie NOT to tend the flag when he had a birdie putt on the green. 
That happened in the third round at Quail Hollow last year, when Mickelson was trying to make a point about the severe greens. From 60 feet away, he felt his only chance at par was to putt well right of the cup. He ended up getting his par. 
Few players are more unpre­dictable than Mickelson. 
Yes, he is Phil the Thrill. 
Phil also has a plan. 
He came into this season with a pointed message that he deliv­ered first in Abu Dhabi, then repeated last week at the Farmers Insurance Open, where he shot four rounds in the 60s and had to settle for second place. 
Mickelson wants 2011 to be the kind of year he hoped 2010 would be. 
He won the Masters last year, a moment made even more special when his wife, Amy, was on the 18th green for the first time since being diagnosed with breast can­cer. His chief nemesis, Tiger Woods, was out of the picture with his personal life and golf game in a free fall. It appeared to be only a matter of time before Mickelson replaced him at No. 1 in the world ranking. 
A dozen tournaments came and went, and the baton instead was passed to Lee Westwood. 
It was only late in the season, before the PGA Championship, that Mickelson revealed he had been diagnosed with psoriatic arthritis. He never said just now much it held him back. Even now, he says only that he was lucky to have caught it early before it did any permanent damage to his joints, and that medication has allowed him to resume his normal work. 
“We thought 2010 was going to be a phenomenal year,” swing coach Butch Harmon said Tuesday. “He was in the best physical shape. Amy was on the road to recovery. And then along comes June, and the arthritic thing hit him. The mental side was the toughest. Phil hid this very well, but he thought his career could have been over with. That was playing on his mind.” 
Mickelson brought his entire family and Harmon to Abu Dhabi, where he tied for 37th. Harmon said they worked on his game in Abu Dhabi, and that Lefty’s short game showed plenty of rust from not having competed in two months. 
Beyond the swing, they talked about course management. 
“One of the things I told him at Abu Dhabi was his process of thinking wasn’t very good,” Harmon said. “We not only worked on his game, but we worked on the mental side of how he plays. I told him, ‘I never want to take away your aggres­siveness. I’m not trying to make you conservative. I’m trying to make you smart.’” 
That showed itself throughout the week at Torrey Pines, and even on the final hole. 
His mistake was a tee shot that he popped up slightly and pushed to the right, although he appeared to have a decent lie, and the tees were moved up so much that Mickelson had only 228 yards left. 

“We saw his ball and thought, ‘This is awesome.’ And when we got within 10 feet of it, going for the green wasn’t even an option,” Mackay said. “He would have had to curve it a tremen­dous amount, and it had all this grass around it.” 
The only choice was to lay up, and that’s when Mickelson sent his caddie to the green. Mackay didn’t think anything of that, either. Mickelson said a dozen or so times a year, the flag gets in the way of a wedge shot. 
NBA 


Pacers’ owner gives Bird vote of confidence 
Some fans have grown rest-with the law, and the team what he wants to do. If it’s situation for the future. It’s a Associated Press less because the Pacers have decided to make talent-deplet-something I’m comfortable very, very good job he’s done.” missed the playoffs for four ing trades. with, I’ll do it.” Simon said he expects Bird to 
INDIANAPOLIS — The straight seasons. Many have “Even though he’s had some The Pacers are building be a Pacer in some capacity Indiana Pacers have replaced been critical of Bird, an Indiana tough years, there’s a lot of around veteran forward Danny next season. their coach, but they’ll keep native and former Boston reasons that we can explore, Granger and young talents such “Larry is someone the fran­team president Larry Bird at Celtics star. why we’ve had such a tough as center Roy Hibbert, forward chise will always want to be least through the season. Bird took full control of bas-time,” Simon said. “He was left Tyler Hansbrough and guard associated with in some way,” 
Owner Herb Simon told The ketball decisions after the a very difficult situation — no Darren Collison. Bird traded for he said. “Larry’s a very inde-Associated Press on Tuesday 2007-08 season, when former cap room, big contracts, a lot of Collison in the offseason to give pendent person, and we’ll that he believes Bird has per-CEO Donnie Walsh left to problems he had no control the team the point guard it await his decision. I think he formed well under difficult cir-become the New York Knicks’ over.” needed, and the Pacers will wants to be involved with the cumstances, and he could be president. The Pacers went 36-This is the final year of Bird’s have salary cap space to get franchise.” back next year. On Sunday, the 46 in 2008-09 and 32-50 in contract. Simon says he and other pieces before next sea-Bird said he doesn’t know Pacers fired coach Jim O’Brien 2009-10. The Pacers have an Bird will meet after the season son. which way Simon is leaning. and replaced him with assistant 18-27 record this season, 17 to discuss the future. He said Simon said Bird deserves “When I talked to Mr. Simon, coach Frank Vogel. games behind the Eastern Bird’s desire to remain in the credit for giving the Pacers a he had some concerns about 
“I still have an incredible Conference-leading Celtics. role will carry significant chance to be competitive in the some things,” Bird said. “I told amount of confidence in Larry Bird was hired as team presi-weight. coming years. him I wanted to wait until after and his basketball acumen, his dent in 2003 and shared in bas-“He’s going to evaluate where “If you look at our roster, you the year is up and sit down and winning tradition,” Simon said. ketball decisions with Walsh. he is in life, and we will listen look at our players, you look at talk about it and see where he “The way he deals with the He arrived before the infamous and wait for him to tell us what the cap room we have, the wants to go. But I know if I’m basketball side is the way I brawl between Pacers players he thinks we should be doing,” whole picture, he’s done exactly not here, whoever’s here, believe it should be done. I’m and Pistons fans in 2004. Later, Simon said. “Ultimately, I’d like what he said he would do, and they’re sitting in position to very satisfied.” several players had problems to get his recommendation of he’s put us now in a pretty good turn this thing around.” 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall.  Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m.  All classifieds must be prepaid. 

CLASSIFIEDS The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit 
FOR RENT 
GRADUATION/SPECIAL EVENT RENTAL: 
House for rent for graduation/JPW/weddings,football, etc. 
Perfect location-right next to the new Eddy Street Commons-walk to everything-safe family oriented street. 
Email nd-house@sbcglobal.net for additional info and photos ——————————————— 

PERSONAL 
If you or someone you care about has been sexually assaulted, we can help. 
For more information, 
visit Notre Dame's website: 
http://csap.nd.edu ——————————————— UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? 
Don't go it alone. Notre Dame has many resources in place to assist you. 
If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819 or Ann Firth at 1-2685. 
For more information, visit ND's website at: 
http://pregnancysupport@nd.edu. ——————————————— We're all a little weird and when we find those people whose weirdness is compatible we join up with them and fall into a mutually satisfying weirdness and call them our best friends. 
-Corey Matthews ——————————————— 
FEENAY! FEENAY! FEE-HEE­HEE-HEE-HEENAY! FEENAY! 
-Eric Matthews 
——————————————— Topanga: Why don't you just marry Shawn? Cory: Because our kids would look like horses 
- Boy Meets World 
——————————————— 
Your grades, my friend, aren't good enough to get you a Slurpee. 
-George Feeney 
——————————————— Women reject me based on who I am, not what I look like. 
-Eric Matthews ——————————————— Talkity talk talk yakkady yakk 'oh look, oh look it's great, trailor boy's got all the answers' you know what’s one thing you haven't got trailor boy? BAM! Penny! 
-Eric Matthews ——————————————— George Feeney: Believe in your­selves. Dream. Try. Do good Topanga: Don't you mean do well? George Feeney: No, I mean do good. 
- Boy Meets World ——————————————— 

Wednesday, February 2, 2011 The Observer . SPORTS page 11 
NHL 
NCAA 



Devils’ manager looks 
Wisconsin upsets Purdue 

to maintain control 
Associated Press 
NEWARK, N.J. — Jeff Vanderbeek isn’t looking to sell the New Jersey Devils, unlike some of his partners. 
Vanderbeek, the managing partner of the Devils, announced Tuesday that he has no desire to sell the NHL team and expects to maintain a controlling interest. 
Vanderbeek acknowledged he and his partners have dif­ferent visions for the fran­chise, and the minority own­ers Brick City LLC are explor­ing a sale. 
Brick City LLC is the legal name for the Devils share owned by Ray Chambers and Mike Gilfillan, his son-in-law. 
Gilfillan said the Brick City has exercised its contractual rights under its partnership agreement with Vanderbeek to cause a sale of the entire team and arena rights, sub­ject to certain terms and con­ditions. 
“Our goal was to use pro­fessional sports as a catalyst for economic development in Newark by constructing a state of the art arena for the teams as well as for concerts and family shows,” Gilfillan said in a statement. “Brick City feels we have accom­plished that objective with 
our partner Jeff Vanderbeek.” 
In his release, Vanderbeek says Brick City has a right under its partnership agree­ment to explore a sale and that it has hired Moag & Co., a Baltimore-based investment bank, to assist in its attempt to sell its share of the team. 



ability to bounce back after a loss. Wisconsin, which lost 56-52 at Penn State on Saturday, has won its past 19 games after losses dating to January 2009. 
“We ’ve been talking about it all year, how we have guys on this team that you ’re not going to think twice about just because they might not be the big names or whatev­er,” Taylor said. 
“Ryan, we’ve been say ­ing what he can give to this team all year long and it ’s a little show tonight -and he can prob­ably even add from there.” 
After D.J. Byrd’s jumper in the lane put Purdue (18 -5, 7-3) ahead 59 -58 with 1:11 left, Evans got free at the foul line and calmly knocked down the go-ahead jumper. 
“Those are the shots that he can hit, ” Wisconsin coach Bo Ryan said. “That’s a very high percentage shot for him. So it wasn’t a surprise.” 
With the Badgers lead ­ing 63 -59, Evans tied up the Boilermakers ’ E’Twaun Moore as he drove to the basket and the possession arrow gave the ball to Wisconsin with 25 seconds left. 
Evans put the finishing touch on the victory with a breakaway dunk in the final seconds for the last of his 10 points -his first game in double figures since Nov. 20 and one shy of his career high. 
“It’s been a rough year for me,” said Evans, who was 5 for 9 from the field after going just 3 for 6 in conference play heading into the game. “It felt real good, and hopefully I can just continue.” 
Purdue found itself down 27-19 after a ragged first half, but quickly got back into the game. 
The Boilermakers used a 12-2 run to start the sec­ond half to take the lead, and scored 20 points in the opening 5:15 of the half -surpassing their first-half total. 
Senior JaJuan Johnson scored 17 of his 23 points in the second half for Purdue, which made 11 of its first 12 shots from the field after the break. 
“We felt fortunate at halftime just to be in the game,” said Boilermakers coach Matt Painter, whose team also got 15 points from Moore and 11 from Byrd as it lost its fourth straight road game. “And then our guys really came out and played with some life, played with some energy.” 
After Evans ’ shot gave the Badgers the late lead, Purdue turned to Johnson, but his long jumper with 36 seconds left was off the mark. The Boilermakers wouldn’t score again. 
Despite the big second half, which saw Purdue lead by seven points with 
11:37 left, Johnson could-n’t help but look back to the Boilermakers ’ poor first half. 
“Once you kind of dig yourself in that kind of a hole, especially on the road, it definitely will come back to haunt you,” he said. 
With blizzard conditions outside, the attendance at the Kohl Center was announced as a sellout of 17,230, based on tickets sold. The official turnstile count was 9,739, but the crowd appeared to be roughly 13,000 or 14,000. 
Associated Press 
MADISON, Wis.— In his first eight Big Ten games this season, Wisconsin ’s Ryan Evans scored a total of six points. 
The sophomore reserve forward nearly matched that in the last minute of the 19th-ranked Badgers’ 66-59 victory over No. 11 Purdue on Tuesday night. 
Evans hit a jumper from the free throw line with 50 seconds left to give the Badgers the lead for good, then added a key defen ­sive play. 
Senior Jon Leuer scored 24 points and junior Jordan Taylor added 15 as the Badgers (16-5, 6-3 Big Ten) again showed their 


page 12 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, February 2, 2011 
NBA 



Timberwolves propose $155 million renovation 
Associated Press 
MINNEAPOLIS — The Minnesota Timberwolves and the city of Minneapolis are teaming up on a proposal that seeks $155 million to reno­vate Target Center. 
Timberwolves owner Glen Taylor, Minneapolis Mayor 
R.T. Rybak and City Council President Barbara Johnson were expected to unveil the plan later Tuesday, but its details were revealed on a website that was publicly accessible ahead of their news conference. 
It calls for a complete remodel of the 21-year-old building. It would shift the main entrance to the corner 
of 6th Street and First Avenue, add two large glass atriums and another restau­rant that overlooks Target Plaza. It would also complete­ly remodel the inside to make the building more attractive to traveling concerts and shows. 
There’s no specific plan to pay for it just yet. The website said the Timberwolves would help, but didn’t say how much. 
New Gov. Mark Dayton set aside $8 million for improve­ments to Target Center in his bonding proposal, but that would only pay a small amount of the overall costs. 
The Timberwolves are the latest sports franchise looking for public funds to help with their arena situation. The Twins and University of Minnesota football program already are playing in new facilities after long fights at the Capitol while the Vikings and St. Paul Saints are head­ed to St. Paul this session to lobby for new stadiums. 
It figures to be an even tougher fight for the Wolves, whose struggles on the court over the last five to six sea­sons have eroded fan interest in the team. 
But their plan differs from the Vikings in several aspects. They are looking only for a renovation and not a new building, which means far less public money that needs to be committed to the project. 
The Wolves’ 41 home games per year also account for only about 25 percent of the events in the arena on a yearly basis, with the majority of events being concerts, shows and other events like the state high school basketball tourna­ments. The City of Minneapolis owns the building and AEG operates it, meaning the Wolves do not receive any revenues from events held at Target Center that are not team-related. 
Finally, the Wolves have a local partner in the city that the Vikings have been search­ing for for years during their fight for a new football stadi­um. 
This renovation of Target Center would make the NBA’s fourth-oldest building viable for another 20 years, officials said on the website. It would add more revenue-producing club suites and change the “upside-down” configuration of the arena. 
When Target Center opened in 1990, it was the last arena built with more seats on the upper level than the lower level. That configuration has become a deterrent for con­cert promoters who can sell lower level tickets at a higher price. 
The renovation also includes a remodel of the home and visitor locker rooms, which are among the smallest in the NBA. 
Perhaps more important for the future of the building, the renovation will also refurbish the concession areas, add a food court and a club over­looking the arena in addition to soaring glass atriums at the main entrance and on the back side of Target Center that overlooks Target Field. 
Of the 60 arenas that are home to NBA or NHL franchis­es across the country, Target Center is the sixth -oldest. NBA teams in Charlotte, Miami and Orlando, all of whom entered the league after the Timberwolves, are playing in their second build­ings. 



Wednesday, February 2, 2011 The Observer . SPORTS page 13 
NFL 



NFL labor woes continue 
Associated Press 
ARLINGTON, Texas — Amid the Super Bowl media-day madness — “Justin Bieber or Lady Gaga?” and “Who ’ll play in the NBA finals?” and “How are you sleeping? ” — Pittsburgh Steelers receiver Hines Ward was thrilled to get a chance to weigh in on the NFL’s labor uncertainty. 
“That,” Ward said Tuesday at Cowboys Stadium, “is the 
biggest thing that needs  to  
be talked about.”  
Wa r d  f i n d s  i t  h a r d  t o  

believe that a league with about $9 billion in gross rev­enues this season — and players who make an aver­age salary of nearly $2 mil­lion — can’t figure out a way to come up with a new col­lective bargaining agree ­ment. 
“It’s a bad situation,” said Ward, a 13-year veteran. 
Owners and players “make way too much money ... to be in the situation to have a lockout, ” he continued. “That’s what’s disappointing. I wish some of the guys would speak up about it. I can’t make anybody speak up about it. But it’s on a lot of guys’ minds.” 
The NFL and union sched­uled a formal bargaining session — their first in more than two months — for Saturday in the Dallas area, a day before the Steelers play the Green Bay Packers for the title. 
The old CBA expires in early March, and the union expects the league’s 32 clubs to lock out the players. 
Cowboys owner Jerry Jones said Tuesday he thinks the sides might not feel pressure to find a deal until the September start of the 2011 regular season is approach­ing. 
“What counts is: Are we going to be playing in the fall?” Jones said. “I’ve got 31 riding with me — as far as the owners are concerned — who want to be playing in the fall.” 
Steelers safety Ryan Clark agreed with Jones on that point. 
“If nothing happens by March, no games will be missed at that point, so they still have time to work to get something done,” Clark said. “But I am afraid that games will be missed, and as a guy going into his 10th year, you want to play every game you can.” 
While there has been little obvious progress in the talks, a ruling came Tuesday in the union’s complaint that the league improperly negotiated TV contracts — and both sides claimed victory. Special master Stephen Burbank rejected the union’s request that $4 billion in 2011 TV payments to the league be put in escrow in the event of a lockout. He also awarded the union damages from the league because of violations in “the NFL’s negotiation of lockout insurance in its con­tracts with ESPN and NBC.” 
The union accused the NFL of structuring TV contracts so owners would be guaran­teed money even if there were a lockout in 2011 — while not maximizing rev ­enue from other seasons, when income would be shared with players. The union will appeal Burbank’s ruling. 
Among the key issues in the bargaining: how to split revenues; the league’s push to expand the regular season from 16 games to 18; a rook­ie wage scale; and benefits for retired players. 
Ward spoke strongly against an 18-game regular season, saying most players are against that proposal — and questioning why the NFL would want it. 
“You know this game is a dangerous game, so if you care, why would you try to add two more dangerous games? ... You’re not think­ing about the players’ safety if you’re trying to add two more games,” he said. 
While several Steelers players were willing to talk about the labor situation, members of the Packers were not eager to address it. 
Asked about the possibility 
of a lockout, Green Bay quarterback Aaron Rodgers, a union representative, 
r e p l i e d :  “ I ’ m  n o t  g o i n g  t o  
discuss that.”  
C o r n e r b a c k  C h a r l e s  

Woodson, an alternate union rep, also declined to touch the subject. 
Ward, however, didn’t mind one bit. 
“Hopefully the two sides can get this issue done and move on, because you would hate to not have a (2011) season,” he said. “There’s no way you can not have a foot­ball season, so hopefully something will get done.” 
NFL 


Brady honored as NFL top offensive player 



Associated Press 
DALLAS — Tom Brady tore up the NFL with his precision passing and dynamic guidance of the New England Patriots’ offense. 
That was in 2007, when he ran away with The Associated Press NFL Offensive Player of the Year award. 
Ditto for 2010. 
Brady won the honor Tuesday for the second time in four seasons. The record-set­ting quarterback, who had a string of 355 passes without being intercepted, received 21 votes from a nationwide panel of 50 media members who regularly cover the league. He easily beat Philadelphia quar­terback Michael Vick, who got 11 votes. 
“To me it comes down to the mental toughness and deter­mination of the players and coaches,” Brady said. 
A unanimous choice for the All-Pro team, Brady threw for 36 touchdowns while being picked off just four times. When he won the award in 2007, Brady set an NFL mark with 50 touchdowns passes as New England went undefeated in the regular season. 
Oddly, the Patriots did not win the championship in either of those seasons, but have won it three other times. 
Brady doesn’t sense much difference in the guy who took New England to a 16-0 mark back then and a league-best 14-2 this season. 
“I feel our team really grew together over the course of the season. It was a privilege to be a part of this team,” he said. “My only disappointment is that we couldn’t take advan­tage of our opportunity in the playoffs, but hopefully we learn from that and use it as motivation toward accom­plishing our goals for next season.” 
What Brady is doing isn’t much different: He’s winning, and he’s piling up dominant stats. 
Brady led the NFL with a 111 passer rating. His 65.9 completion percentage was second to Philip Rivers of San Diego — by .1. Nobody came close to his touchdown to interception differential: near­est was Matt Cassel at plus­20. 
When not crediting everyone else, from coach Bill Belichick to his teammates to wife Giselle or his hair stylist, Brady explains his success as a matter of experience. 
“I’ve been here for a while, so I’ve seen our offense evolve,” the 11-year veteran said. “We do some different things now than we’ve done in the past. Ultimately we’re still trying to do the same thing, which is be productive and win games.” 
Receiver Deion Branch, the MVP of the 2005 Super Bowl who returned to the Patriots from Seattle in midseason, believes Brady gets his edge because he can be a nerd. 
“Tom studies a lot,” Branch said late in the season. “We get the bulk of it in the meet­ing rooms with just the play­ers when we sit down to go over the things that he’s been looking at. It carries over to the practice field as well. Tom is a dork when it comes to that, so I’m going to leave that alone, but Tom is a dork in that meeting room.” 
A dork? Hardly a description often associated with a three-time champion quarterback married to a super model. 
“Maybe, yeah,” Brady said. “I could see that, you know? I’m flattered.” 
Also flattering: Brady is the only quarterback and the only active player to win the award twice. 
Vick’s comeback season led him to the Pro Bowl. After missing two seasons while serving a federal sentence for dogfighting, then sitting as a backup for the Eagles last sea­son, Vick has a sensational year. He finished fourth in passer rating with a career-best 100.2, had 21 TD passes and just six interceptions. Using his unequaled skills as a running QB, Vick rushed for 676 yards and nine TDs. The nearest quarterback in that area was Josh Freeman of Tampa Bay with 364 yards. 
Also receiving votes were Houston running back Arian Foster with seven; Rivers with five; Atlanta receiver Roddy White, Green Bay quarterback Aaron Rodgers, and Philadelphia receiver DeSean Jackson with two each. 

page 14 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, February 2, 2011 
Schafer 
continued from page 16 
success, Schafer had many offers to run in college, but he chose Notre Dame because of his brother’s success here and the camaraderie he felt with the other members of the team. 
“He told me a ton of stories about the team and how good his experience was here and it really pushed me towards the school,” Schafer said of his brother, who graduated in 2004. “I also really enjoyed the kids that were on the team when I came to visit my senior year and decided that it was the best place for me to continue my running and my education.” 
Schafer said the biggest differ­ence between high school and college track is the overall increase in intensity and mileage. 
“The biggest difference between high school running and college running is the inten­sity and the competition. Here at [Notre Dame], we run way more miles than I did in high school at a faster pace, and the workouts are much more difficult too,” Schafer said. 
First-year student athletes often find it difficult to balance academic life and athletic life. Schafer explained that the decrease in free time has actual­ly helped him concentrate, focus and get the most out of what he does. 
“Being an athlete here, you don't have all that much free time, but I think that not having a bunch a free time has actually helped me. It has made me bet­ter with my time management and makes me more efficient when doing my work,” Schafer said. “I know that when I get back to my dorm after practice that I really need to just sit down and get my work done so that I can get a good amount of sleep.” 
Schafer said he maintains high expectations for his own person­al success, and that of the team, for the rest of the season. 
“My goals for the rest of the indoor and outdoor seasons would include hitting the Big East standard in the 5K. If I can hit that, then hopefully I could help the team out at the Big East meet and score in the 5K,” Schafer said. “Last year the team was Big East Indoor and Outdoor Champions, so we would like to repeat both of those performances.” 
Contact Joe Wirth at jwirth@nd.edu 
MEN’S SWIMMING AND DIVING 


Senior leadership is strong 
By JOSEPH MONARDO 
Sports Writer 
As senior Eric Lex approach­es the end of his diving career at Notre Dame, he carries with him the newly-earned title of school record holder. In his final meet in Rolf’s Aquatic Center, Lex recorded a score of 
405.5 from the 3-meter board, surpassing 400 points for the first time in Notre Dame histo­ry as he put his name in the record books. 
“I have definitely been eye­ing [the record],” Lex said. “Michael Bulfin, the previous record holder, is the greatest diver in Notre Dame history and being able to join him on the record board is something that is very special to me.” 
Lex is a crucial point-scorer for an Irish team that has only the Big East tournament lying ahead of it. Coming off of a strong performance in the Shamrock Invitational, the Irish (6-4) seem to be peaking at precisely the right time. 
“The season has been build­ing momentum as we’ve been going,” Lex said. “The momen­tum seems to be building right up to the Big East Tournament as it should be.” 
At least one of the reasons that Notre Dame is in such a favorable position is the lead­ership of its seniors. Along with fellow senior divers Nathan Geary and Wes Villaflor, Lex said he appreci­ates his leadership role with the team. 
“There are three of us sen­iors on the diving team, and I think we all play a big part in leading the team and especial­ly the other divers,” Lex said. 
That leadership will be help­ful in the Big East tournament, especially considering Lex’s familiarity and success with the event. As a freshman, Lex earned all-conference recogni­tion after his first appearance in the Big East tournament in which he finished third on the 1-meter board. With the added benefit of strong performances in both his sophomore and jun­ior year, Lex appears to be primed for an impressive per­formance in this year’s confer­ence tournament. 
“A reasonable goal would be to dive as well as I can and hopefully end up winning the Big East,” he said. 
Lex’s contribution will be important as the Irish try to take the conference title from Louisville as his career winds to a close. Lex, who already has a job lined up after gradu­ation, has only a few weeks left as a collegiate diver. 
“It is kind of bittersweet,” he said. “I have been diving since I was nine years old, and it is definitely not something that I want to give up. But I think that it is a point in my life that I need to move on to other things.” 
Contact Joseph Monardo at jmonardo@nd.edu 

McGraw 
continued from page 16 
game away for Notre Dame. 
“I really like to set the tone,” Bruszewski said. “… I want to be the person that sets the tone, and I really take responsibility for it when we don’t come out strong.” 
Senior forward Devereaux Peters led the Irish with 15 points and 11 rebounds. She also notched four assists and two steals. 
“Our posts are really playing well,” McGraw said. “[Peters] got her double-double tonight… They’re really carrying us right now. They’re shooting the ball well, they’re rebounding well, they’re defending. They’re doing everything.” 
Peters, who has yet to play a full season with the Irish due to injuries, said she joked around with Bruszewski about the mile­stone. 
“Guess how many points I have until 1,000? About 896,” she said with a laugh. “But it’s really nice to finally have that full season and really contribute as much as I’ve been able to this year.” 
Novosel and freshman forward Natalie Achonwa both finished with 13 points. 
Though Syracuse leads the Big East with a rebounding margin of +16.6, the Irish out-rebound­ed the Orange 44-34. 
“There was a lot of talk early on about how the posts were going to be this year, and we kind of took that to heart,” Peters said. “… Everybody’s tak­ing that role of being ‘Becca tough,’ as I call it, and really get­ting down there and being physi­cal.” 
Orange center Kayla Alexander led all players with 19 points. No other Syracuse player scored in double digits, as the Orange shot just 25.5 percent on the night and turned the ball over 24 times. 
“We’re winning with defense,” McGraw said. “And that’s what we want to do.” 
The Irish travel to Tampa, Fla. Saturday to face South Florida (10-12, 1-7). Tip-off is at 7 p.m. in the Sun Dome. 
Contact Laura Myers at lmyers@nd.edu 


CCHA 
continued from page 16 
and one of those teams will cer­tainly leapfrog the idle Irish into first place. 
After the bye week, Notre Dame welcomes last-place Bowling Green to the Joyce Center and, to put it bluntly, the Irish need six points from their series with the Falcons. Bowling Green has only won three con­ference games this season, but one of them was a 3-2 victory over the Irish earlier this season. Notre Dame’s veteran leaders need to make sure this young team doesn’t lose focus after a bye week following an emotional series against the RedHawks. Bowling Green doesn’t have a lot left to play for, so a possible win over the first-place team in the CCHA will certainly be enough motivation for them. 
Six points against the Falcons becomes even more crucial because the Irish must head up to Big Rapids, Mich., the next weekend to take on Ferris State. The Bulldogs play a notoriously tough defensive system and always play well at home. 
Following a home-and-home with Western Michigan, it’s pos­sible the Irish will still have work to do in the conference tournament to secure an NCAA bid. Unlike recent years, the CCHA is having a relative down year, with only four teams in 
U.S. College Hockey Online’s top 
25. The Irish won’t be able to rely on their strength of sched­ule to boost their tournament résumé this year, which, unlike in basketball, is done entirely mathematically. 
To lock down that tournament bid, one of Notre Dame’s goal­tenders needs to step up and claim the job. Both sophomore Mike Johnson and Steven Summerhays have looked good at times this season, but both have also struggled. One consis­tent feature of all of Notre Dame’s elite teams of the past has been a strong presence in net — recently Jordan Pearce or David Brown. That’s not saying either guy needs to stand on his head every game, but the Irish can’t afford to give up any six-goal games — as they did two weeks ago at Ohio State — down the stretch run. 
More importantly, though, Notre Dame needs to play as if it’s not taking anything for granted. This team certainly has potential to make a run in the NCAA tournament, but it cer­tainly won’t be handed to them. The most successful Irish team of my four years here came in 2008, when the Irish — who barely snuck into the NCAA tournament — became the first No. 4 seed to reach the national championship game. 
There’s no reason Notre Dame can’t get back there this year. Without a truly dominant team, college hockey’s championship race is wide open. While its fun to write about such lofty aspira­tions, the Irish veterans hopeful­ly know this team can’t afford to look past the next practice. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessari­ly those of The Observer. 
Contact Sam Werner at swerner@nd.edu 


Wednesday, February 2, 2011 The Observer u TODAY page 15 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

CROSSWORD WILL SHORTZ 


JEFF KNUREK
PLEASANDVILLE 
JUMBLE
JAMES SOLLITTO, CODY ECKERT and JOHN FLATLEY 
MIKE ARGIRION 





 HE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box 779  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  

Enclosed is $130 for one academic year 
Enclosed is $75 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________________ Address ______________________________________________ City __________________ State _________ Zip______________ 
The Observer




Sports

Wednesday, February 2, 2011 page 20 
ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 
‘Becca tough’ 
Bruszewski scores 1,000th career point in Notre Dame’s 71-48 win over Syracuse 

SUZANNA PRATT/The Observer Senior Becca Bruszewski puts up a shot over a defender during Notre Dame’s 71-48 rout of Syracuse Tuesday night at the Purcell Pavillion. Bruszewski scored her 1,000th career point in the first half of the contest. 
By LAURA MYERS 
Sports Writer 
You know something’s off when it’s February 1 and the loudspeakers at a basketball game are playing “Baby, It’s Cold Outside.” 
Notre Dame’s home-court advantage wasn’t apparent in the seats Tuesday, as inclement weather prevented the usual near-sellout crowd from attend­ing the Irish’s tilt against Syracuse at the Purcell Pavilion. 

But on the court, the advan­tage was perfectly clear. 
No. 8 Notre Dame (18-4, 8-1 Big East) defeated Syracuse (16-5, 4-4) 71-48 Tuesday night. 
Senior Becca Bruszewski scored her 1,000th career point with a layup early in the first half, and finished with 12 total points. 
“What a great day it was for 
SMC BASKETBALL 





Saint Mary’s prepares to take on No. 3 Hope 
By LAURA COLETTI 
Sports Writer 
Saint Mary’s will be put to its toughest test to date when it hosts No. 3 Hope 
on 
Thursday, a day after the MIAA conference post­poned all scheduled athlet­ic events due to forecasted blizzard conditions. 

The Belles (14 -6, 7-4 MIAA) will take advantage 

of 
that extra day to pre ­pare to face the Flying Dutch (18 -1, 9-1). Despite Hope ’s national ranking, Saint Mary ’s coach Jenn Henley said the Belles will strategize against Hope just as they would against any other team. 


“We are preparing for Hope the same way we pre­pare for any team in the MIAA,” Henley said. 
Saint Mary’s has played Hope once already this season and suffered a 19­point loss. The Belles, how­ever, trailed by just three points at the half, and their 35 points in the first period were the most allowed by the Flying Dutch in the first half of any game this season. They will have to focus on con­taining the Flying Dutch forwards in order to avenge that loss. 
“Hope has one of the best inside games that we have seen,” Henley said. “They rotate four different post players that account for over half of their offense. We have to find a way to limit their paint points.” 
The postponement of this game will result in a quick­er turnaround than nor ­mal, as it will give the Belles only one day to pre­pare for Saturday ’s game against Trine. 
Contact Laura Coletti at lcoletti@nd.edu 
Becca,” Irish coach Muffet McGraw said. “It was great she was able to get it right away. A lot of people think about it and struggle a little bit, and she went right after it, the same way she does everything. Full speed ahead.” 
Bruszewski also had seven rebounds, three steals and a block in the game. 
“It’s great. I’m in the record books at Notre Dame. I’m going to be remembered,” Bruszewski said. “I mean, a little girl from Wheeler [Ind.], it’s kind of a big deal. So I’m pretty happy.” 
The Irish took an early 13-2 lead on the strength of four points by Bruszewski and 3­pointers by junior guard Natalie Novosel and senior guard Brittany Mallory. 
They extended the lead to 34­20 at halftime, and a 12-2 run to begin the second half put the 
see MCGRAW/page 14 

By SAM WERNER 
Sports Writer 
There’s no question that this past weekend was a successful one for the Irish. 
Notre Dame’s stellar fresh­man class led the way to a series split with No. 13 Miami (Ohio). The teams tied both games in regulation — 5-5 Friday and 2-2 Saturday — with the Redhawks taking the shootout point in the first game and the Irish claiming the extra point in the second. 
Of the seven Irish goals scored on the weekend, five were netted by freshmen. After a weekend of going toe-to-toe with one of the top 15 teams in the country, the Irish had every reason to feel confident. 
There is, however, still plenty of work to be done. 
Miami is certainly a quality hockey team, but the Redhawks would be on the outside looking in on the NCAA tournament if the season ended today. The Irish would currently be in the field of 16, but plenty can change over the final six regu­lar season games, not to men­tion the CCHA tournament. 
The Irish are sitting in first place in the CCHA, but it’s a deceiving position to say the 
MEN’S TRACK AND FIELD 



Schafer looks to the future 
By JOE WIRTH 
Sports Writer 
After an extraordinary high school career, Irish freshman Walter Schafer should bolster Notre Dame’s depth during his rookie season. 
While growing up in Centennial, Colo., Schafer dis­covered his love of running through his natural talent and his family’s success in the sport. As the youngest of four children, his family had a big influence on his athletic career. 
“I first got into running as a kid for two reasons,” Schafer said. “The first reason was because all of my older brothers were runners and had some success at it. The other was because my elementary school and middle school always had mile runs and I discovered that I really enjoyed running.” 
Schafer was a multi-sport ath­lete in high school, winning 10 varsity letters in cross country, track and wrestling at Cherry Creek High School. His high school athletic accolades, how­ever, do not end there. 
Schafer was conference champion in both his junior and senior year in cross country and track and was also regional and state champion in cross country his senior year. His success as a senior led to All-American acco­lades. 
Because of his high school 
see SCHAFER/page 14 
HOCKEY 

Irish freshmen take charge 
Notre Dame ties both games in weekend series with Miami (Ohio) 

least. They’re only a point ahead of Michigan, and the Wolverines have two games in hand on the Irish. Michigan and Miami face off this weekend 
see CCHA/page 14 




