
FOOTBALL RECRUITING 
COMMENTARY 

Time for Irish to start winning by not losing 
“You can’t start winning until you stop losing …” 
Thus Irish coach Brian Kelly summed up Notre Dame’s 23­20 loss to South Florida Satur­day. It perfectly describes the situation in which the program currently finds itself. 
For the first time since Lou Holtz was roaming the side­lines, the Irish have a proven winner leading the team. 
The defense has shown it can be dominat­ing and is even more talented than last year’s squad, which suf­focated opposing of­fenses down 
Andrew Owens 
the stretch en route to a 
Associate 
4-0 finish. 
Sports Editor 
Saturday’s starting quarter­back, sophomore Tommy Rees, has won games in Notre Dame Stadium, Yankee Stadium and the Los Angeles Coliseum dur­ing his short career. He has a treasure chest of playmakers to get the ball to and an offensive line experienced enough to let him do exactly that. 
But the Irish are at a cross­roads as they head to Michigan Stadium for the first-ever night game at the Big House. 
They can’t start winning until they stop losing. 
Everything is in place for this team to succeed, and now they simply need to win. It all starts with cutting the mistakes that haunted them in Saturday’s defeat. 
Muffed punts can’t happen. 15-yard personal foul facemask penalties can’t happen — es­pecially from a senior captain. Converting only two red zone opportunities in six attempts and turning the ball over three times inside the 5-yard line can’t happen. 
Much of Saturday’s perfor­mance was encouraging, but those aspects have taken a back seat to the many errors. Junior running back Cierre Wood rushed for a career-high 104 yards on 21 carries, and it would have been much more had the Irish not been forced to pass the entire second half due to the 16-0 halftime deficit. 
Senior wide receiver Michael Floyd showed once again just how dominating he can be with his 12 reception, 154-yard day that included two scores. 
Sophomore nose guard Louis Nix overpowered South Florida offensive linemen for much of the game and is in much bet­ter game shape than when he arrived on campus a little over a year ago. But the fact is, the Irish made too many mistakes. 
People can make all the ex­cuses they want. This week, it’s Kelly’s controversial sideline demeanor, the weather delays and the fans who decided not to return after the aforemen­tioned delays that are turning the conversation away from the play on the field. 
All of those issues will take care of themselves when the team starts winning and stops losing. Now is the time to trust Kelly’s leadership in turning the momentum of this season in a positive direction. 
This weekend’s matchup between No. 1 (Michigan) and No. 2 (Notre Dame) in all-time winning percentage is unique. 2007 marked the first time the two programs met with neither team ranked in the top-25. Then it happened again in 2008, 2010 and, now, in 2011, as neither team will be ranked when they kick off Saturday night. 
Rather than jockeying for position in the top-10 in pursuit of a national championship, as has been the case so many times during this rivalry’s history, both teams have more mundane goals in 2011. 
For Michigan, Brady Hoke has replaced Rich Rodriguez after the most disastrous three-year stretch in program history. While implement­ing a completely new system and changing the culture of the program will take time, the Wolverines can expedite that process with a home win Saturday. 
For Notre Dame, it is time to prove that they are a good enough team to travel into an intimidating environment and defeat a bitter rival who has won the last two matchups in the final minute. 
When it is all said and done Saturday, Notre Dame can’t start winning until they stop losing. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Andrew Owens at aowens2@nd.edu 


Irish target OT Zach Banner 
By ALLAN JOSEPH “All four of them felt the Sports Editor same way most Irish fans felt,” Sapp said. Notre Dame’s coaching Arizona offensive lineman 
staff will not be able to talk to any recruits this weekend per NCAA rules regarding recruiting during away week­ends, but the Irish will be hoping to impress a big-time recruit nonetheless. 
Washington offensive tack­le Zach Banner will be in Ann Arbor to watch the first night game in Michigan Stadium history. Though Banner is on a visit to Michigan, Notre Dame is heavily recruiting him, Irish recruiting analyst Jason Sapp said. 
“He’s a big-time offensive tackle out of Washington, and he actually plays basketball as well,” said Sapp, the foot­ball recruiting editor at Blue and Gold Illustrated. “He’s a big, 6-foot-9, 330-pound kid.” 

Banner will visit Notre Dame for the USC game Oct. 22. 
Sapp praised Notre Dame’s pursuit of high-quality de­fensive linemen, highlighted by the recent signing of New York defensive tackle Jerron Jones. 
“Notre Dame is a pro­gram that’s really done well on the defensive line,” Sapp said. “[Recently] there have been some great efforts, even comparable with some SEC schools.” 
Four Notre Dame commits 
— long snapper Scott Daly, safety John Turner, offensive tackle Taylor Decker and out­side linebacker David Per­kins — visited campus during Notre Dame’s season-opening loss to South Florida. 
Evan Goodman also visited campus last weekend, and while he did not expect to be impressed by the Irish, he came away swayed. 
“He came into town more as a joyride,” Sapp said. “He ended up really having a good time. He talked to the staff and had some good meetings with them … Notre Dame left a good impression on him.” 
While much ado has been made about Oregon and Mary­land’s radical uniform design as a recruiting tool, Sapp does not believe the throwback uniforms Notre Dame will wear Saturday will have a sig­nificant effect on recruits. 
“I don’t think [uniforms] come down to being an actual factor,” Sapp said. “At the end of the day, the primary factor 

Tuesday - Saturday 11-2pm; 4-9pm Closed Sunday & Monday 
Serving Lunch & Dinner 
Come Dine With Our family and be our friend! Try our food - You’ll be back! Our Specialties Include Exquisite Meat Entrees & Healthy Vegetarian Dishes 

2128 South Bend Avenue 574.277.7239 www.eliascuisine.com 
Conveniently located close to the Notre Dame campus 
Appetizers • Salads • Sandwiches • Meat Dishes Vegetarian Selections • Desserts 
Reservations Accepted 
in 99 percent of these deci­sions comes down to comfort level. In my experience cov­ering and working and be­ing a recruit, it really comes down to how comfortable you are with the program. That’s why official visits are key.” Sapp said Notre Dame is ex­ceptionally good at convincing recruits during official visits. “Notre Dame does a great job of really rolling out the red carpet,” he said. “If recruits are coming into town, [the Irish] have a chance. That’s the way it is.” 
For more information on Notre Dame recruiting, check out Blue and Gold Illustrated Online. For a limited time, BGI is honoring subscriptions to any other Irish football website. 
Contact Allan Joseph at   ajoseph2@nd.edu 
2010 
61094601 

2:00PM •  Margaret Morgan Grasselli, curator of Old Master drawings at the National Gallery        of Art in Washington, DC, will present a lecture in the Annenberg Auditorium. 


All Wood needs is gloves 
Irish junior running back Cierre Wood wastes no time showcasing his talents or his gloves 
By DOUGLAS FARMER Editor-in-Chief  nator Charley Molnar said. “You’re just seeing the results  has 200-plus year.”  carries  this  
of his hard work, and I would  
Early in the second quar­ anticipate  that  Cierre  will  More, and smarter  
ter  Saturday,  Cierre  Wood  have a lot of good nights run- Just because Wood utilized a  
took  a  handoff, slipped past  ning the football as the season  career-high in carries to pro- 
a few defenders, and romped  goes on.”  duce a career-high in yards  
14 yards into the end zone.  Last season Wood started  does not mean he felt his tal- 
He then proudly displayed the  five of Notre Dame’s 13 games,  lies were enough. In fact, he is  
gloves you see on the cover of  using 119 carries to total 603  disappointed with some pieces  
this Insider to the Notre Dame  yards. Obviously, he is already  of his performance.  
Marching Band,  oblivious  to  well ahead of that pace this  “I want to explode a bit bet- 
the penalty flag behind him  season. Aside from one hit,  ter,” he said. “There were a  
which would negate the score.  Wood insisted he woke up feel- couple times where I saw a  
“These  gloves  are  nice,”  ing fine Sunday morning.  hole I could have gone to, but  
Wood said of the accessories  “My neck was really hurting,  I went somewhere else. I want  
he has been raving about since  other than that I was fine,” he  to make more decisive deci­ 
their  arrival  in  June.  “Best  said. “I was going over a guy,  sions on where I go.”  
thing  Adidas  and  started  While Wood didn’t go so far  
has  made  so  leaning,  and  as to say he missed holes, the  
far.”  he  brushed  “better reads” he should have  
When Wood  past me, and  made frustrated him so much  
first saw the gloves in the Notre Dame locker room,  “Cierre’s just a better football player than he was a year ago.”  I got a little whiplash ef­fect.” Aside from  because of the work he put in with the offensive line during the offseason. “We worked really hard over  
he  immedi­ the  tweaked  the offseason as far as the run  
ately tweet­ed a photo of himself  Charley Molnar offensive coordinator  neck — which in fact cut this inter- game goes. I was always talk­ing with the linemen, and ask­ing them how they block this  
s h o w c a s i ng  view  short  play, that play, making  sure  
the  pattern  as Wood was  everything is correct.  
which  forms  whisked off to  “That way I can make sure  
a  complete  the  trainers’  my reads are correct. When I  
leprechaun when his hands  room for treatment — Wood  fit off them, everything is cor­ 
are held just right. In similar  said he was ready for even  rect, make sure my footwork is  
fashion, the junior wasted no  more in Notre Dame’s loss.  correct. It’s a lot of hard work  
time in showcasing his abili­ “I wanted to be in the game  that got us to this point.”  
ties Saturday, in his first sea- more as the game went on,” he  And while some success has  
son as the outright starter at  said. “In the beginning I was a  come, that hard work has not  
running back.  little tired, had to get my body  stopped.  
On Notre Dame’s first snap  used to going through so many  “It was good, but it can get a  
from the line of scrimmage,  plays at one time. But after the  lot better,” Wood said. “That’s  
Wood caught a screen pass  first drive, I was good to go. I  what we’re doing. We’re work- 
near the right sideline, moved  wanted to get on the field as  SARAH O’CONNOR/The Observering day-in, day-out to make  
across the field, and covered  often as I could.”  the run game as good as pos-Junior running back Cierre Wood looks for a hole during Notre  
31 yards to enter South Florida  Wood  should  be  careful  sible. Dame’s 23-20 loss to South Florida on Sept. 3.  
territory. By the end of the af­ what he wishes for, as Molnar  “I know what we’re capable  
ternoon, Wood had set career highs in carries (21), rushing yards (104), and tied his ca­reer high in touchdowns with  said more is assuredly a pos­sibility. “He’s well prepared for it,” Molnar said. “He’s done the  of. I know what we can do. I know what we have done.” Big duties at the Big House  on the field, that is. Two years ago, Wood watched Michi­gan come from behind to up­set No. 18 Notre Dame with a  aggressive though, the edge blocking can be counter-pro­ductive — the holding penalty on Wood’s initial touchdown  
a score in the fourth quarter. Add in his three receptions for 44 yards and all in all, it was a pretty good start to the season for the California na­tive. “Cierre’s just a better foot­ball player than he was a year ago,” Irish offensive coordi­ work in the offseason as far as the weight training and the conditioning and getting him­self mentally prepared for that task, and in the spring he had a lot of carries. “As the weather gets cool­er, that’ll work in his favor. I wouldn’t be surprised if Cierre  Hitting the road, heading to the first night game in Michi­gan Stadium history, the Irish will need to silence the Wol­verines’ crowd early or suffer the wrath of 109,000 fans. It will be a familiar expe­rience for Wood, minus the darkness and the active role  last-minute touchdown 38-34. Throughout the whole game, Wood, mired in a redshirt sea­son, envisioned himself on the field. “I loved every second of it,” he said. “I was imagining my­self out there at the time, and this time around it’s going to  run against South Florida was indeed on Floyd, who was at­tempting the block which sprung Wood. “It’s a huge responsibility for me, and I think it’s a big thing for the other wide re­ceivers too,” Floyd said. “You never know when [senior] Jo- 
be a reality for me.  nas Gray or Cierre Wood is go­ 
“It was an experience that  ing to pop out of the backfield,  
I  think  everyone  who  plays  just making sure that we do  
football should have. The Big  our job, and that’s catching  
House is a real  balls,  but  
college  foot- also  run  
ball  environ- blocking on  
ment. Fans are  the  perim­ 
cussing at you, just like you’d think they are.” Wood has  “We’re working day-in, day-out to make the run game as good as possible.”  eter.” The bet­ter he is at it, the easier Floyd’s life  
plans for that crowd though, hoping to start  Cierre Wood junior running back  becomes. “That’s a huge lift off  
off in a simi­ our  shoul­ 
lar fashion as  ders  know- 
he did against  ing that the  
South  Florida.  defense  has  
Against  the  to  worry  
Bulls, not only did Wood gain  about our running game too,”  
31 yards on the opening play,  the preseason All-American  
but he also added 60 net rush- said.  “When  they  have  to  
ing yards in the opening quar­ worry about both passing and  
ter.  running, it makes it kind of  
“If we are rolling on offense  easier for us and it makes it  
as far as the run game goes,  easier for [Wood] to be able  
we’ll take the crowd right out  to split through holes and get  
of it. If we start hitting them  five, six yards for us.”  
with  20-yard  runs,  30-yard  And before long, those “five,  
runs, they’ll start backing up,  six yards” can turn into touch- 
and then we’ll hit them with  downs, to build on Wood’s five  
the air game.”  total from last season. Once in  
That air game knows it is a  the end zone, he’ll be back to  
piece of the run game as well.  displaying those gloves.  
Without senior receiver Mi­ “As long as it’s not excessive  
chael Floyd’s blocking on the  celebration.”  
SARAH O’CONNOR/The Observer  edge, Wood’s getaway speed  

Junior running back Cierre Wood runs the ball during the second half of Notre Dame’s 23-20 loss would run out of space much Contact Douglas Farmer at to South Florida on Sept. 23. Wood had a career-high 104 yards against the Bulls. more frequently. When too dfarmer1@nd.edu 
IRISH PASSING IRISH RUSHING IRISH OFFENSIVE 
Tommy Rees will not be fazed Junior Cierre Wood rushed COACHING by a crowd of over 111,000 when for a career-high 104 yards on It is safe to assume the Irish the Irish take the field Saturday. 21 carries in Saturday’s 23-20 coaches emphasized funda-The sophomore has already loss, but it would have been mentals in practice this week won games at Notre Dame Sta-much more had the Irish not after Saturday’s five-turnover 


Head-to 
dium, Yankee Stadium, and the trailed 16-0 at halftime. He eas-performance. The key for Irish 
Los Angeles Coliseum in only  ily had his best collegiate game,  coach Brian Kelly and offensive  
four career starts. Rees threw  and Notre Dame will need more  coordinator Charley Molnar is  
for 296 yards in the second half  of the same this weekend.  to establish the running game  
against South Florida Saturday,  Wood benefited from strong  early to provide opportunities  
but he will have the advantage  blocking, but he also hit the hole  for Tommy Rees in the passing  
of a running game to open up  quickly. If the offensive line can  game. The Wolverines are not  
the passing game this week, a luxury he did not have while at- create space for the junior, he could have a big day against a  talented in the secondary, so if the Michigan defense places  Notre Dame Offense  
tempting to bring the Irish back  Michigan defense that allowed  eight defenders in the box to  
from a 16-0 halftime deficit.  187.6 yards per game on the  stop the run, Rees will connect  
Senior wide receiver Michael Floyd snared 12 passes for 154 yards and two touchdowns in the first game of the season, and Rees will need to find him often  ground in 2010. Offensive co­ordinator Charley Molnar will look to assert the running game early, and to do it he will need not only Wood but also senior  with Michael Floyd, Tyler Eifert and Theo Riddick early and of­ten. EDGE: NOTRE DAME  WR WR  7 16 6 9  TJ Jones DaVaris Daniels Theo Riddick Robby Toma  So. Fr. Jr. Jr.  
Saturday if the Irish are going  Jonas Gray. In his return to his  
to pull off the road victory.  home state, Gray will need to  
Notre Dame will face a be­low average secondary that surrendered over 260 passing yards per game and 33.8 points per game in 2010. If the Irish  overcome his recurring fum­bling problem, as the Irish of­fense can afford no costly turn­overs in a difficult environment. His first quarter fumble near  RB  20 25  Cierre Wood Jonas Gray  Jr. Sr.  LT LG  70 72 66 76  Zack Martin Nick Martin Chris Watt Andrew Nuss  Jr. Fr. Jr. Sr.  
can get junior Theo Riddick in­volved, Rees will be able to take advantage of the lack of talent  the goal line Saturday shifted the momentum of the game and caused a 14-point swing from  QB  11 10  Tommy Rees  Dayne Crist  So. Sr.  C  52 57  Braxston Cave Mike Golic Jr.  Sr. Sr.  
in the Michigan secondary. EDGE: NOTRE DAME  which the Irish never recovered. Michigan senior safety Jor­dan Kovacs picked up 10 tack- RG  78 65  Trevor Robinson Conor Hanratty  Sr. Fr.  
les, two for loss, in the Wolver­ines’ 34-10 victory over Western  RT  75 74  Taylor Dever Christian Lombard  Sr. So.  
Michigan in a game that was  
shortened by weather Saturday. EDGE: NOTRE DAME  TE  80 83  Tyler Eifert Mike Ragone  Jr. Sr.  
IRISH SCHEDULE  WR  3 81  Michael Floyd John Goodman  Sr. Sr.  
Sept. 3  South Florida  
(L, 23–20)  
Sept. 10 @ Michigan  IRISH SPECIAL TEAMS  
Sept. 17 Michigan St. Sept. 24 @ Pittsburgh Oct. 1 @ Purdue Oct. 8 Air Force Oct. 22 USC Oct. 29 Navy Nov. 5 @ Wake Forest Nov. 12 Maryland Nov. 19 Boston College Nov. 26 @ Stanford  Notre Dame had a nightmarish effort on special teams Satur­day. Theo Riddick muffed two punts, one of which was a turnover that led to three South Florida points. With four minutes left in the fourth quarter, senior kicker David Ruffer, who failed to convert only one field goal in 2010, missed a 30-yard attempt that would have cut the South Florida lead to six points. The lone positive from Notre Dame’s special teams effort came courtesy of Kyle Brindza on kickoffs, as he proved to be more than capable in his debut. EDGE: EVEN  CB  Notre Dame Defense 12 Robert Blanton Sr. 23 Lo Wood So.  

Notre Dame Specialists 
45 Darius Fleming Sr. 

22 Harrison Smith Sr. 
OLB 
46 Steve Filer Sr. 

97 David Ruffer Sr. S 15 Dan McCarthy Sr. 
PK 
90 Ethan Johnson Sr. 48 Dan Fox Jr. DE 19 Aaron Lynch Fr. 
35 Ben Turk Jr. 
P ILB 
44 Carlo Calabrese Jr. 
NG 
98 Sean Cwynar Sr. 
9 Louis Nix III So. 

60 Jordan Cowart Jr. 
LS ILB 
5 Manti Te’o Jr. 54 Anthony McDonald Sr. 89 Kapron Lewis-Moore Sr. DE 7 Stephon Tuitt Fr. 
PR 
6 Theo Riddick Jr. 
55 Prince Shembo So. 

26 Jamoris Slaughter Sr. 
S OLB 13 Danny Spond So. 6 Theo Riddick Jr. 17 Zeke Motta Jr. 
KR 
2 Bennett Jackson So. 
4 Gary Gray Sr. 

27 Kyle Brindza Fr. CB 
2 Bennett Jackson So. 

KO 
Predictions 
Allan Joseph 
Sports Editor 

On the one hand, the Irish are the superior team. Notre Dame has more talent and is vastly improved from a year ago (especially on the defensive side of the ball), while the Wolverines are under a first-year coach and aren’t a huge threat be­yond Denard Robinson. 
On the other hand, there is no 
evidence the Irish can avoid re­peating last week, when they made mental mistake af­ter mental mistake. They were flat-out sloppy. Those mistakes will be even costlier in a raucous night game. Simply put, the Irish  must play mistake-free football to win this game, and after last week, that’s hard to see happening. 
Still, the Irish can win this game. They should win this game. But I’m only barely confident they will. 
FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 31, Michigan 28 
Douglas Farmer 
Editor-in-Chief 

Oh, I believe in yesterday. Er, maybe six years ago. 
Six years ago I nearly broke my ankle one Friday evening on a trampoline. I distinctly remember the next afternoon, running as fast as my crutches would carry me, to tell my father Notre Dame was about to upset third-ranked Michi­
gan in Ann Arbor. 

Two weeks ago I nearly broke my ankle being an idiot. Tomorrow, I am heading to Ann Arbor hoping for a repeat of the past. Unfortunately, I don’t foresee this ending the same way as it did when I was in high school. For one thing, the Irish are favored. Why? I’m not sure. 
A week ago, all of Notre Dame’s troubles seemed so far away. Now, it looks as though they’re here to stay. 
FINAL SCORE: Michigan 34, Notre Dame 24 
Eric Prister 
Sports Writer 

Turnovers inside the five-yard­line. Fumbled punts. Dropped passes. Missed field goals. Unac­ceptable defensive pentalties after the whistle. It was for all of these reasons that Notre Dame lost to South Florida. It was the mistakes that defined the game. 
508 yards in total offense. 254 

yards given up by the Irish defense. A 100-yard rusher and a 100-yard receiver. It was for all of these reasons that Notre Dame dominated South Florida in virtually every aspect of the game. 
The question now becomes, which is more character­istic of this Irish squad? The mistakes or the strenghts? 
Notre Dame was the better team on the field against South Florida, and they will be the better team on the field against Michigan. Now they just need to execute. 
FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 31, Michigan 27 

UM OFFENSIVE COACHING UM RUSHING UM PASSING 
Saturday will be the first test Michigan has several talented Michigan suffered a blow to in Michigan coach Brady Hoke’s rushers on its team, the most their receiving corps when Dar-inaugural season. With 111,000 explosive of which also happens ryl Stonum was suspended for fans, a rival in town and the to be their quarterback. Junior the season for his second DUI first night game in Michigan Denard Robinson gashed the arrest, but the Wolverines re­
o-Head Stadium history, there is sure to Irish for 258 yards on 28 carries turn plenty of playmakers in the be pressure on Hoke, but he can in last year’s 28-24 Wolverine receiving game. Junior receiver alleviate some of that pressure victory. His 87-yard touchdown Roy Roundtree led the Wolver­early with a strong offensive run with 1:51 remaining in the ines in receiving last year, haul-effort. The challenge will be first half was the longest run in ing in 72 passes for 935 yards letting Denard Robinson loose Notre Dame Stadium history, and seven touchdowns, and the while still sticking to the new and his two-yard score with 27 playmaker is expected to lead offensive system. seconds remaining sealed the the way for Michigan again in Michigan victory. Senior run-2011. He is complemented by 
EDGE: MICHIGAN ning back Michael Shaw scored senior receiver Junior Heming­nine touchdowns last season, way, who caught 32 passes for but this year he is sharing time 593 yards and four touchdowns in the backfield with sopho-to lead the way in 2010. 
8 J.T. Floyd  Sr. more Fitzgerald Toussaint, who Junior quarterback Denard CB 5 Courtney Avery  So. rushed 11 times for 80 yards Robinson threw for 244 yards and two touchdowns in Michi-and a touchdown in last year’s 4 Cam Gordon Jr. gan’s 34-10 win over Western 28-24 win at Notre Dame Sta-OLB 90 Jake Ryan So. Michigan. dium, but he is learning a new The Irish defense held speedy offense in Wolverines coach South Florida quarterback Brady Hoke’s first season. He 



Michigan Defense 
FS 
30 Thomas Gordon Jr. 
88 Craig Roh Jr. B.J. Daniels and running back threw for only 98 yards and no 
13 Carvin Johnson So. 
DE 55 Jibreel Black So. Demetris Murray in check Sat-touchdowns in Michigan’s 34­68 Mike Martin Sr. urday, which is especially im-10 rain-shortened victory over 
DT 73 Will Campbell Jr. 25 Kenny Demens  Sr. pressive considering the Bulls Western Michigan. 53 Ryan Van Bergen Sr. MLB 42 J.B. Fitzgerald Sr. 
led most of the day and were The Irish will depend on their trying to chew the clock. Irish safeties to keep Roundtree from 
DT 76 Quinton Washington Jr. 
junior linebacker Manti Te’o led making many plays in the verti­39 Will Heininger Sr. 32 Jordan Kovacs Sr. Notre Dame with nine tackles, cal passing game. The second-
DE 67 Nathan Brink Jr. SS 3 Marvin Robinson So. including one for loss. Senior ary as a whole will have their linebacker Darius Fleming and hands full with a talented Mich­senior defensive end Kapron igan aerial attack. 
27 Mike Jones Jr. Lewis-Moore contained the edg-OLB 58 Brandon Herron Sr. es with eight tackles each and a EDGE: EVEN combined two for loss. 
CB 
29 Troy Woolfolk Sr. 
18 Blake Countess Fr. EDGE: EVEN 
UM SCHEDULE 

Sept. 3 Western Michigan (W, 34-10) UM SPECIAL TEAMS Sept. 10 Notre Dame 
Kicker Brendan Gibbons converted 1-of-5 field goals in five games Sept. 17 Eastern Michigan last season. Punter Matt Wile was rated very highly coming out of Sept. 24 San Diego State high school, but this will be his first test on a grand stage. Oct. 1 Minnesota 
Kick returner Kelvin Grady has strong speed and is a threat to Oct. 8 @Northwestern 

Michigan Offense 
return a kick for a touchdown, but overall Michigan’s special teams Oct. 15 @Michigan State are underwhelming and are unlikely to make a positive impact for Oct. 29 Purdue the Wolverines. Nov. 5 @Iowa 
12 Roy Roundtree Sr. 
WR Nov. 12 @Illinois 19 Kelvin Grady Sr. 
EDGE: NOTRE DAME Nov. 19 Nebraska Nov. 26 Ohio State 
86 Kevin Koger Sr. 
89 Brandon Moore Sr. 

TE Michigan Specialists 
RT 
72 Mark Huyge Sr. 
75 Michael Schofield Jr. 
34 Brendan Gibbons Jr. 

PK 
RG 
65 Patrick Omameh Sr. 
P 
45 Matt Wile Fr. 
57 Elliott Mealer Sr. 
50 David Molk Sr. 16 Denard Robinson Jr. 
91 Tom Pomarico Sr. 

C 63 Rocko Khoury Sr. QB 7 Devin Gardner So. LS 
52 Ricky Barnum Sr. 
28 Fitzgerald Toussaint Jr. 
LG 57 Elliott Mealer Sr. 10 Jeremy Gallon Jr. 
RB 
20 Michael Shaw Sr. 
PR
77 Taylor Lewan Jr. LT 75 Michael Schofield Jr. 49 John McColgan Sr. 19 Kelvin Grady Sr. 
FB KR
84 Steve Watson Sr. 
45 Matt Wile Fr. 

21 Junior Hemingway Sr. KOWR 10 Jeremy  Gallon Jr. 
Andrew Owens 
Associate Sports Editor 

It’s safe to say nobody saw last week’s performance coming. Five turnovers — three inside the 5-yard  line — doomed the Irish in the opener. 
Under past coaching regimes, Notre Dame would follow up a per­formance like Saturday’s with an­other mediocre effort, but it won’t 
happen with this coach or this team. 
Tommy Rees will play with poise, manage the game and make some key throws when needed — and that is all the team will need him to do. Cierre Wood will approach 200 rushing yards against an improving de­fense that lacks speed and talent and Theo Riddick will bounce back to help the Irish top the Wolverines in Ann Arbor for the first time since 2005. 
FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 31, Michigan 21 
Chris Masoud 



“Wolverines 
Assistant Managing Editor 

Following last year’s defeat to the Wolverines, Michigan quarterback De­nard Robinson emerged as a leading contender for the Heisman trophy, for­mer head coach Rich Rodriguez earned the trust of boosters for one more week and nobody really knew who Tommy Rees was. A year later, Robinson re­mains one of the top athletes in college 

football, Rodriguez is out of coaching, and Rees is Notre Dame’s starting quarterback. 
Amidst the enormous buildup and throwback jerseys, the first night game at the Big House should be a spectacle for all but those on the field. Notre Dame is motivated to pick up its first win of the season. If the Irish can contain an explo­sive quarterback for the second consecutive week and Rees brings his usual precision and efficiency, Notre Dame earns a victory under the lights. 
FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 35, Michigan 17 
Jeff Jackson 


are known Irish Hockey Coach by drivers to have poor night vision.” 

FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 28, Michigan 17 



Robinson adjusts to new offense under Brady Hoke 
 By ANDREW OWENS 
Associate Sports Editor 
In his inaugural season as Michigan coach, Brady Hoke is relying on junior quarterback Denard Robinson to display some of the explo­ership has made preparing for the Wolverines unique in that they have a completely new sys­tem to face Saturday. 
“There is no commonality [be­
tween the two systems],” Diaco said. “Some of these teams, the same staffs will play each other five or 10 years siveness “You kind of feel like in a row. There that trans-they have 12 [players].” is a much higher formed the comfort level undersized Bob Diaco there.” quarter-The combina-


Irish defensive coordinator 
back into a Heisman candidate last Sep­tember, due in large part to his performance at Notre Dame Stadium in a 28­24 Michigan victory. 
“They have another player de­tached,” Irish defensive coordi­nator Bob Diaco said. “You have to respect that. It’s not like Wild­cat — there is a loose player who can throw the ball … You kind of feel like they have 12 [players].” 
Diaco learned firsthand just how dangerous a quarterback like Robinson can be when the Irish defense allowed 502 yards of total offense to the Michigan signal-caller in 2010, including the longest run in Notre Dame Stadium history, an 87-yard scamper that gave the Wolver­ines a 21-7 lead just before half­time. 
Robinson’s challenge this sea­son has been adjusting to a new offense — a pro-style system, compared to the spread that Robinson thrived in last year. In Michigan’s rain-shortened 34-10 win over Western Michigan Sat­urday, Robinson completed 9-of­13 passes for 98 yards and car­ried the ball eight times for 46 yards, tame numbers compared to what he was regularly posting last year. 
Despite the numbers, Hoke said he felt Robinson had a strong grasp of the offense in the win. 
“I thought he made good de­cisions,” Hoke said. “He threw the ball well. It was good to see some vertical runs by [running backs] Fitz [Toussaint] and Mi­chael [Shaw] when he was in there. 
“But I thought he felt comfort­able. I thought his timing on — I think there was an out to the field to [Jeremy] Gallon that was well-timed and well-thrown.” 
Irish coach Brian Kelly said Robinson is just as much of a big-play threat this year as he was in 2010. 
“They have kept a lot of similar principles for Denard Robinson to have the ball in his hands,” he said. “So there are some things we can build off from last year and certainly it was the big plays that hurt us. Minimizing the big plays and clearly knowing that he has elite speed, we obviously have to slow him down.” 
For Hoke, the game will mark the first true test of his Michi­gan coaching career. It will not, however, be the first time he has experienced the rivalry, as he served as Michigan’s defensive ends coach and then defensive line coach before taking head coaching jobs at Ball State and San Diego State. 
“This is a great rivalry game and one that we’re excited about,” Hoke said. “Obviously, there are some other things that go along with this game this year with playing at night, the first night game, and the throw back uniforms and all those things.” 
Diaco said the change in lead­tion of Robinson’s athletic ability and Hoke’s track record as a coach is a dangerous 
combination for opponents, Di­aco said. 
“They’re a dynamic offensive outfit ... His players produced an average of basically 35 points a game and 500 yards,” he said. “They did the same thing at San Diego State.” 
Contact Andrew Owens at aowens2@nd.edu 





Led by the line, defense prepares to contain Robinson 
By CHRISTOPHER MASOUD to 502 yards of total offense in the Assistant Managing Editor Wolverines’ 28-24 victory. 
Despite the limited success 
One of the more closely watched against Robinsons last season, contests within the larger game, Kelly maintains the experience the battle of the trenches gener-will pay dividends heading into ally provides an indication of Saturday’s game. More impor­which team has taken control of tantly, the Irish roster features momentum and, often times, the a number of players capable of lead. As such, Irish coach Brian filling the void in the trenches, Kelly has maintained that he will including sophomore nose guard be closely monitoring that battle Louis Nix. on both sides of the ball. “[Nix] has been very consistent 
While sophomore quarterback in his approach, and we’ve got-Tommy Rees’ success depends on ten to know Louis a lot better as a the protection the offensive line staff,” Kelly said. “We know when can provide, the outcome of Notre to push him, we know when to Dame’s first road game of the sea-back off. What he’s brought to son against Michigan rides large-our attention is that he can be ly on the defensive line’s ability to that consistent guy day-in and contain the Wolverines’ premier day-out.” talent, junior quarterback De-Nix recorded seven tackles, in nard Robinson. addition to forcing Bulls quar-
Anchored by junior nose guard terback B.J. Daniels out of the Sean Cwynar and senior defen-pocket on a number of occasions, sive ends Kapron Lewis-Moore during Saturday’s loss to South and Ethan Johnson, the Irish line Florida. Junior linebacker Manti has prepared extensively for the Te’o credits the entire second line 


number of offensive formations, of freshmen Aaron Lynch and schemes and run-options first-Stephon Tuitt, and Nix in particu­year Michigan coach Brady Hoke lar, for providing support in key could include in his playbook. situations. 

“All of those things have to be “I thought they did pretty well, recorded one tackle in limited position to factor into the defen-Saturday’s contest as the first part of your defensive prepara-especially Louis,” Te’o said. “Lou-action last Saturday against the sive rotation. night game in Michigan Stadium, tion,” Kelly said. “We’ve been ac-is did a real good job in there, he Bulls. “Right now things are going the unique atmosphere only adds customed to having that within was in on a lot of plays and he was “I know I’m ready to play be-well,” Tuitt said last week. “At to the defense’s challenge of con-our defensive game plan because the first one to the ball in some cause the coaches have developed first it was kind of rough because taining Robinson for 60 minutes. of last year, but we spent obvious-cases. He definitely played real me,” he said last week. “I don’t we had to adjust to the new sys-“It’s definitely going to be ly a great deal of time in making hard, and he played real well. The think I’m 100 percent ready to tem. [Our development] is due to a great challenge,” Te’o said. sure we have answers to defend other two did a good job as well. play yet, but I know I’m ready to the great coaching staff and the “Whenever you have an athlete the run portion of a quarterback.” It was definitely nice to see [them] help out the team.” great leadership of the defensive like Denard, it’s going to be a 
Notre Dame faced a number out there getting some reps.” Although Tuitt first stepped line, and due to that help we’re good challenge, so I’m definitely of dual-threat quarterbacks last An early enrollee last spring, foot on Notre Dame’s campus as able to move on and become bet-looking forward to it.” season, but none were more tal-Lynch tallied seven tackles, five a player this summer, he credits ter players on the field and off the ented than Robinson, who tallied unassisted, in the annual Blue-the mentorship of Lewis-Moore field.” Contact Christopher Masoud at 258 yards on the ground en route Gold scrimmage April 16. Lynch and Johnson for putting him in a Despite the hype surrounding cmasoud@nd.edu 

Memorial Mass Marking the 10th Anniversary of September 11, 2001 Co-sponsored by the O˜ce of the President, the O˜ce of Campus Ministry,Student Government, and the O˜ce of Student Activities  
Hesburgh Library  Quadrangle Sunday, September 11, 2011 to Honor 7:30 pmRain site: Purcell Pavilion, Joyce Athletic and Convocation Center Candlelight procession following to the Grotto of Our Lady of Lourdes  


