
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


Jenkins asks for exemption in health care act 
By SARAH MERVOSH (IOM), an arm of the National effective in August 2012, only to change the definition of “reli-physician requests them based Managing Editor Academy of Science that operates “religious employers,” which in-gious employer” to include Cath-on medical needs or for purposes 
outside the government to pro-cludes houses of worship such as olic universities, such as Notre other than contraception, ac-

University President Fr. John vide unbiased advice on medi-churches but not religious uni-Dame. cording to its 2011 Medical, Den-Jenkins wrote to the Department cal matters, reviewed preventive versities, are exempt from pro-“I am writing to urge you to tal and Vision Plan. of Health and Human Services services important to women’s viding services that go against broaden the proposed definition The law will not require Notre (HHS) on Wednesday, asking that health and their consciences. of ‘religious employer’ to ensure Dame to provide contraceptives the University be exempt from a released its 
Law Professor Carter Snead conscience protections that will on campus as part of its health condition of the new health care findings in 
said the decision to include con-allow this university to continue services at Saint Liam Hall, act that requires employers to July 2011. 
traceptives in the minimum its work as ‘a Catholic academic University Spokesman Dennis provide contraceptive services in The organi­
health insurance package was community of higher learning’ Brown said. their minimum health insurance zation rec-
expected, but the narrow defini-— words taken directly from our Brown said presidents of other packages. ommended 
tion of religious employers who mission statement,” he wrote. Catholic universities are also “This would compel Notre the full range 
are exempt was surprising. Jenkins suggested the law be writing to HHS. Today is the final Dame to either pay for contracep-of FDA-ap­
“They had a very, very nar-changed to use the tax code’s day HHS will receive open com­tion and sterilization in violation proved con-
row religious conscience exemp-definition of religious employ-ments on the law. of the Church’s moral teaching, traceptives 
tion,” Snead said. “You wouldn’t ers, which is broader and would After today, Snead said it will or to discontinue our employee and steriliza-require the Holy Cross priests include organizations that share be “a waiting game” to see if the and student health care plans in tion services to cover contraception for the “common religious bonds and Obama administration chooses violation of the Church’s social be included brothers [but] any entity that is convictions with a church.” to change the law. teaching,” Jenkins wrote in his in the minimum health insur-not a church itself is not exempt Under the University’s current If the government does not ac-open letter to the HHS. “It’s an ance package, according to the from the mandate.” health insurance plan, oral con-commodate Jenkins’ request, the impossible position.” IOM website. Jenkins asked HHS Secretary traceptives and contraceptive 
The Institute of Medicine Under the law that becomes Kathleen Sebelius in his letter devices are not covered unless a see HEALTH/page 5 


Palestinian author promotes nonviolence 
By CHRISTIAN MYERS 
News Writer 
Even in countries torn by long­term conflicts and stifled by op­pression, Palestinian author and peace activist Jean Zaru said nonviolence is the only accept­able counter to oppression. 
Zaru delivered a lecture titled “A Journey of Transformation: Nonviolent Resistance to Struc­tures of Domination” at the Hes-burgh Center for International Studies on Thursday morning. 
“Non-violence is a way of op­posing evil without becoming evil in the process,” Zaru said. 
Zaru addressed the need for non-violent resisitance to oppres­sion, especially in her native Pal­estine. 
In Gaza and the West Bank, 

see LECTURE/page 4 




SMC student bikes across country for charity 
By CAITLIN HOUSLEY 
Saint Mary’s Editor 
For one Saint Mary’s student, bik­ing is much more than a sport. 
Senior Olivia Kilian uses her bike to help eliminate poverty housing through the Fuller Center for Hous­ing. 
This summer, Kilian joined Notre Dame graduate Ryan Iafigliola and other bikers for a 3,600-mile trip across the country. The group rode from Seattle, Wash., to Washington, D.C. 
Kilian said the group easily at­tracted spectators’ attentions. A newlywed couple rode a tandem bike, and a bike mechanic traveled on a bike that rode six feet off the ground. 
“We looked like a circus coming into town, but it was actually cool because more people were interest­ed in what we were doing, and we got to tell them about the organiza­tion,” Kilian said. 
The trip began June 10 and end­ed Aug. 14. As she rode across the country, Kilian stopped at seven dif­ferent locations across the country to perform housing renovations for community members. 
“We did a lot of renovating,” 

see RIDE/page 4 



Renowned critic visits campus 
By SARA FELSENSTEIN 
Associate News Editor 
For three weeks each semes­ter, Notre Dame humanities students can interact with one of Britain’s most influential lit­erary critics and a man who is the author of more than 40 academic books on top­ics ranging from the God Debate to Shakespeare to Marxist literary criti­cism. 
Terry Ea­gleton, Notre Dame’s Excellence in English Distinguished Professor, vis­its the University twice a year to teach a miniature graduate course and deliver lectures on campus. 
Despite his prestige in the literary world, Eagleton called himself “a bookseller’s night­mare.” 
“I’ve long since forgotten what field I’m supposed to be in,” Eagleton said. “I started out in literature, and in some ways I still am. Literature is an open-ended field, it continually merges into surrounding areas [and] a lot of my work is [in] the intersection of different fields.” 
This semester, Eagleton will 
see EAGLETON/page 5 


INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER Lyons Hall to host Mara Fox Run Ssaturday morning page 3 u Viewpoint page 6 u “Secret in the Wings” page 9 u Men’s soccer takes on St. John’s page 16 
page 2 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u DAY-TO-DAY Friday, September 30, 2011 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: IF A TURTLE LOSES ITS SHELL, IS IT HOMELESS OR NAKED? 


www.ndsmcobserver.com P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 Editor-in-Chief Douglas Farmer Managing Editor Business Manager Sarah Mervosh Jeff Liptak Asst. Managing Editor: Adriana Pratt Asst. Managing Editor: Chris Masoud News Editor: Megan Doyle Viewpoint Editor: Meghan Thomassen Sports Editor: Allan Joseph Scene Editor: Maija Gustin Saint Mary’s Editor: Caitlin E. Housley Photo Editor: Pat Coveney Graphics Editor: Brandon Keelean Advertising Manager: Katherine Lukas Ad Design Manager: Amanda Jonovski Controller: Jason Taulman Systems Administrator: William Heineman Office Manager & General Info (574) 631-7471 Fax (574) 631-6927 Advertising (574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu Editor-in-Chief (574) 631-4542 dfarmer1@nd.edu Managing Editor (574) 631-4542 smervosh@nd.edu Assistant Managing Editors (574) 631-4541 apratt@nd.edu, cmasoud@nd.edu Business Office (574) 631-5313 News Desk (574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com Viewpoint Desk (574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com Sports Desk (574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com Scene Desk (574) 631-4540 mgustin@nd.edu Saint Mary’s Desk chousl01@saintmarys.edu Photo Desk (574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com Systems & Web Administrators (574) 631-8839 Policies The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College.  Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Douglas Farmer. Post Office Information The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 and additional mailing offices 024 South Dining hall Notre Dame, IN 46556-077 The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved.  
TODAY’S STAFF News Sports Megan Doyle Andrew Gastelum Adam Llorens Katie Heit Bridget Feeney Conor Kelly Graphics Scene Marina Kozak Kevin Noonan Photo Viewpoint Sarah O’Connor Amber Galik  
CORRECTIONS The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so we can correct our error.  
HIGH 53 LOW 41 


Zach Stackhouse  Alec Macdonnell  Rebecca Holmberg  Adam Joslyn  Grace Foster  Katie Suarez  
senior  sophomore  junior  sophomore  sophomore  sophomore  
off campus  Sorin  Welsh Family  Keough  Pasquerilla East  Pasquerilla East  
“Not a question.  “Pineapple.”  “It’s frightening.”  “Homeless.”  “Poor, because  “Awkward.”  
It would be  he has no home  
nothing.”  or clothes.”  


Have an idea for Question of the Day? Email obsphoto@gmail.com 


OFFBEAT 
Insurance broker launches pizza parlor policy 
CALIFORNIA — In the world of insurance, this one takes the cake. A new policy called “SLICE” specifically designed to protect the own­ers of pizza parlors. 
California insurance brokerage EPIC Programs Group said the “Safety, Loss Control, Insurance, Cover­age, Expertise” program would address liabilities pizza parlor owners face from their delivery drivers. 
The program, available in 40 states, includes mandato­ry driver training and other risk control measures. 
As unusual as it may seem, “pizza business insurance” is actually an important line of coverage in the food ser­vice industry. 
Some of the world’s best-known insurers and insur­ance brokers offer special­ized pizza programs. 
According to industry websites, delivery driv­ers’ own insurance policies usually will not cover them when they are delivering food on their employers’ be­half, leading pizzerias and other restaurants that em­ploy drivers to take out ex­cess coverage on them. 
Cat born with 2 faces lives 12 years, sets record 
WORCESTER, Mass. — Frank and Louie the cat was born with two faces, two mouths, two noses, three eyes and little hope for a future. 
Now, 12 years after Marty Stevens rescued him from being euthanized, the blue-eyed cat is not only thriv­ing, but has also made it into the 2012 edition of Guinness World Records as the longest-surviving member of a group known as Janus cats, named for a Roman god with two faces. 
“Every day is kind of a blessing; being 12 and nor­mal life expectancy when they have this condition is one to four days,” Stevens said. “So, he’s ahead of the game; every day I just thank God I still have him.” 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

IN BRIEF 
The third annual Inter­national Law Society Sym­posium “Terrorism After bin Laden” will be today in Biolchini Hall room 1315 from 9 a.m. to 3 p.m. 
The Boardroom InSights Lecture Series is today from 10:40 a.m. to 12 p.m. in the Jordan Auditorium of the Mendoza College of Business. The speaker will be Alice Martin, the Vice Chair and CPO of NIBCO, Inc. 
The tenth annual Pant­inga Fellow Lecture, en­titled “Emotions and Moral Judgments,” will be held today from 3 to 6 p.m. in the auditorium of the Eck Visi­tors Center. The speaker is Robert C. Roberts of Baylor University. The lecture is presented by the Center for Philosophy of Religion. 
Rave for the Brave is to­night in the Stepan Center from 10 p.m. to 2 a.m. Tick­ets cost $5 and  proceeds benefit the Wounded War­rior Project. The event is sponsored by Stanford Hall, Lewis Hall and the Trident Naval Society. 
The tenth annual Mi­chiana Walk for Down Sy­drome tomorrow will be held at the Stepan Center. Live music, a silent auction and carnival games will start at 9 a.m., and the walk will begin at 12 p.m. For more information, contact Anne Revell at 574-243­3808 or artrevell@aol.com 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, email detailed information about an event to obsnews.nd@gmail.com 


LOCAL WEATHER 

TODAY TONIGHT SATURDAY SUNDAY MONDAY TUESDAY 








HIGH 72 LOW 49 

Friday, September 30, 2011 The Observer u NEWS ndsmcobserver.com | page 3 
Run to raise alcohol awareness 
By VIENNA WAGNER 
News Writer 
The residents of Lyons Hall will honor a former Lyonite killed by a drunk driver with its signature event, the Mara Fox Run, on Saturday morn­ing. 
Lyons Hall president Vivien Devaney said the dorm es­tablished the event to edu­cate students about the con­sequences of driving while drunk. 
“The run was established as a memorial for Mara, who was killed by a drunk driver during her freshman year [in 1993],” Devaney said. “It’s the culmination of the week when we educate girls about alcohol use and drunk driv­ing.” 
The 5-k event also raises funds for a scholarship in Fox’s name. 
“The proceeds go to the Mara Fox Scholarship fund that goes toward any Lyonite who wishes to study in To­ledo, Spain, because Mara wanted to study there,” Dev­aney said. 
Lyons residents also sold purple hair feathers in the dining halls and LaFortune Student Center this week to benefit the scholarship fund. 
Sophomore Rebecca Rossi said the run connects cur­rent Lyons residents with Fox’s legacy. 
“The Mara Fox Run is about keeping her spirit alive,” Rossi said. “I feel like I know Mara even though I never met her.” 
Fox’s parents will have dinner with Lyons residents Friday evening, Rossie said. 

Freshman Allison McKown purchased a hair feather Wednesday. 
“I want to participate be­cause it’s a good cause,” McKown said. “I want to raise awareness about drunk driving.” 
As part of the Mara Fox Week events, Lyons hosted 
a PILLARS gath ering about “Wom­en and Al­cohol” on Wednesday night. 
Freshman Antoinette Chan, who attended the event, said the en­tire week encourages students to think about all types of wellness. 
“The run promotes both physical and mental would also feature music and free giveaways for partici­pants. 
“The music’s supposed to be really good this year, and we have a lot of people par­ticipating,” Devaney said. “We encourage people to come out.  The race is at 10 
a.m. on Saturday, and the 
“The run was established as a memorial for Mara, who was killed by a drunk driver during her freshman year [in 1993].” 
Vivien Devaney president Lyons Hall 
registration is at 9 a.m. outside of Lyons.  If you participate, you will get a bib for a buy-one, get-one free en­trée at Chi­potle.” 
Registra ­tion tables for the race are located at both din­ing halls and in LaFortune Student Cen­ter. Runners can also reg­ister Satur­day morning. 
well-being,” Chan said. 
Freshman Alexa Vega said she was excited to par­ticipate in the run Saturday morning. 
“It’s my first 5-k at Notre Dame, and I get to help a good cause at the same time,” Vega said. 
Devaney said the race 
“Through the event planned by Lyons Hall and her par­ents, Mara’s memory lives on,” Devaney said.  “Hopeful­ly the weather holds out this year, so that it can be a good event.” 
Contact Vienna Wagner at vwagner2@nd.edu 
Rave for the Brave to benefit injured soldiers 

By CHRIS BARNES 
News Writer 
Glowsticks. Three DJs. Free pizza. T-shirts. 
While students will be able to find all of these things at the Rave for the Brave tonight in Stepan Center, senior Chris Luboja said the event has a deeper meaning. 
“Rave for the Brave is …. 
All the 1,200 lasers proceeds a great way to celebrate will also be from the the lives of those men and in use tonight Rave will women who sacrifice so at Stepan,” benefit the much for us everyday.” Balhoff said. Wounded “In addition, Wa rrior a smoke ma-
Chris Luboja 
Project, an chine will 
senior 
organiza­tion that supports severely inj ured members of the military as they tran­sition back to civilian life. 
“Rave for the Brave is …. a great way to celebrate the lives of those men and wom­en who sacrifice so much for us everyday,” Luboja said. 
The Rave is co-spon­sored by Stanford Hall, Lew­is Hall and the Trident Naval Soci­ety. 
“This event is really the first ma­jor dance on cam­pus that is open to all 
students, not just those from a particular dorm,” Luboja said. “Stepan is ready for Notre Dame, Saint Mary’s and Holy Cross students to have a night filled with mu­sic, lights and smoke.” 
Standford assistant rector Andrew Balhoff said adver­tising for the event has al­ready been met with success. 
“It will be amazing,” Bal­hoff said.  “This is an inau­gural event, but even so, we have over 1,100 people at­tending.” 
The Rave will begin at 10 
p.m. tonight in Stepan Cen­ter. Balhoff said the venue would be transformed for the 
event. 
“We pur­chased 30,000 glow sticks, and 
“We purchased 30,000 
Angeles na­
glow sticks, and 1,200 
tive who has 
lasers will also be in performed use tonight at Stepan.” at locations like the Roxy Andrew Balhoff Theater, De­
licious Vi-
assistant rector 
nyl and Gei-
Stanford Hall 
emit 13,500 cubic feet of smoke per minute … We’ll have as much free 
pizza as you can eat.” 
Luboja said the organiz­ers booked three DJs for the event. 
“Two of our DJs, Stanford’s own DJ Thayer and DJ ROC, come from the Notre Dame communi­ty, and the third, Vico Ono, is a Los 
sha House,” Luboja said. “He has had multiple tracks atop 
the Hypem [Hype Machine] Top 20 list.” 
Luboja said tickets would cost $5 and include the cost of pizza and glow sticks. 
“Further donations may be made for t-shirts and addi­tional glow sticks,” he said. 
Contact Chris Barnes at cbarnes4@nd.edu 


page 4 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u NEWS Friday, September 30, 2011 
New art exhibit arrives at SMC 
By REBECCA O’NEIL 
News Writer 
A new exhibit at the Saint Mary’s Moreau Center for the Arts calls students to study humanity’s inter­action and manipulation of the en­vironment, according to artist Mari­lyn Propp. 
Propp and her husband, artist David Jones, will display their work at the center beginning today. The exhibit, titled “Industrial Recon­structions,” will be open until Nov. 4. 

The collection includes oil paint­ings on wood panels, as well and pen and ink drawings. Propp, a professor at Colombia College Chi­cago, said their works are meant to provoke thought about the environ­ment. machines. 
“You seduce people with color, In one piece, a blue lobster’s body lines or form,” Propp said. “Then, is indistinguishable from a whirring you get them to think.” propeller. In another, titled “Para-
Propp said she finds inspiration in dise Lost,” the tentacles of jellyfish 
every injustice to the natural world. 
“I was very upset about the gulf’s oil spill because my family lived down there for a number of years,” Propp said. 
“The rape of the earth has are entwined in netting and trash. 

“The rape of the earth Propp said has been bothering her work does me for 30 years.” not always re­volve around the environ-
Marilyn Propp 
ment though. 

professor 
“[My earlier 

Columbia College Chicago art was] much more interior,” she said. “There was more sym­
been bothering me for 30 years.” bolism. It was more psychologically 
Her sequence features a mixture pat. I’ve spent the past few years of animal fossils, human body parts, looking outwards.” marine life and the remnants of old The connected pieces of her col-

Lecture 
continued from page 1 
Zaru said the current situation is one of suppression by the govern­ment, military and media. 
“Normal life for Palestinians living in occupied territories has ended,” Zaru said. 
She added that withdrawal from the problem will never solve the crisis of oppression. Palestin­ians who withdraw from public life or move overseas are too dis­tant from the problem to bring about change. 
“Withdrawal cushions us from the full impact of our situation,” Zaru said. “Our perceptions are lost.” 
He added that non-violent re­sistance, however, achieves the kind of change that will eventu­ally bring piece to the region, and to resist is to be human. 
“We continue to resist because something is more sacred to us than comfort and convenience,” Zaru said. “That something can be anything. It could be God, love, respect for human life, a sense of justice or many other things.” 
Zaru defined resistance as the refusal to obey structures of con­trol. 
“We need to mobilize people not with fear, anger or blame and not through a sense of shame,” Zaru said. “We need to move them to act from a feeling of hope in service of things that they love.” 
She said people must avoid feeling morally superior and must recognize that oppressors are often driven by fear. 
“Oppressor and oppressed both live in fear and do not have peace,” Zaru said. 
She said she believes that to solve the problems of the outside world, one must look inward and act justly toward others. 
“Let us look into ourselves,” Zaru said. “The outward expe­rience is a reflection of inward state … God’s reign cannot just be inner or outer. It must be both or neither. Where I am in my in­ner struggle, I am in my outward actions.” 
Zaru said she has faced struc­tures of domination and injustice throughout her life, but her reli­gious beliefs have sustained her. 
“My experience was rooted in and filtered through my identity as a Palestinian Christian Quak­er woman,” she said. 
Recognizing God’s presence in the enemy is an everyday chal­lenge, Zaru said, but God’s will makes loving her neighbor nec­essary. 
“I recognize the divine in ev­eryone, all without exception” Zaru said. 
lection reflect “our interdependence, interconnectedness and continuity.” 
“There is ongoing movement, morphing and interaction between the organic and the metal shapes . tools, hardware, pipes and con­duits.” 
Jones worked mostly with photos for the past 10 years, but his display shows some of his recent sketches. 
He uses his art to reflect on his “obsession with mechanical things … specifically the automobile,” ac­cording to his website. 
“Machines are ubiquitous in the landscape,” Jones said on the website. “I see the drawings as a metaphor for our relationship with things, filling up our space and numbing our senses.” 
Contact Rebecca O’Neill at roneil01@saintmarys.edu 
Upon reflection, Zaru believ­ers her travels have showed her that the modern world is all in­tertwined. 
“Common needs, desires, fears and hopes bind us together,” Zaru said. 
In a similar vein, he added that all people should recognize the universal values of mutual trust, compassion, ethical priorities and justice. 
“We cannot live a single day without deciding between yes and no, life and death, war and peace,” Zaru said. “There is no escaping the question, and an­swering it is our challenge.” 
Contact Christian Myers at cmyers@nd.edu 

Ride 
continued from page 1 
Kilian said. “We would be split up into different houses working on odd jobs . everything from redoing the floors and the roof, painting, and doing siding … anything that needed revamping.” 
Each rider attempts to raise one dollar per mile throughout the trip, Kilian said. The money ben­efits the Fuller Center for Housing. 
After his graduation from Notre Dame in 2007, Iafigliola worked as the special assistant to Millard Fuller, the Fuller Center’s founder and president. 
“The Fuller Center tries to take the teachings of Jesus seriously by incarnating them into our lives,” Iafigliola said. “Our specific mis­sion is to provide opportunities for people around the country and the world to improve their own shelter and lives.  We offer helping hands, not hand-outs.” 
While working for Fuller, Iafigli­ola proposed the idea for the ride. 
“At the time [I began working with the Fuller Center], it was only two years old and growing quick­ly, but it still faced enormous chal­lenges ¬. to spread the word about our work, to raise money and to form new local volunteer organi­zations to be our hands and feet,” Iafigliola said. “I proposed the Fuller Center Bike Adventure to Millard as an annual even to help meet those needs, and he jumped at it.” 
The event kicked off in 2008 in San Diego, and riders have been raising funds ever since. Along the way, bikers also spread the word about the Fuller Center. 
“The ride’s mission is friends-raising and fund-raising,” Iafi­gliola said. “Everywhere we go, we speak to church groups, civic clubs, reporters from TV, newspa­pers or radio and anyone that will listen. 
“We tell them about how we are a faith and volunteer-driven ministry changing lives around the world, and we’re looking for people to join us.” 
While she said the ride was fun, Killian said the trip requires both mental and physical strength through early 4 a.m. wake-up calls, temperature fluctuations and days with more than 50 miles of biking. 
“When it’s dark outside [at 4 a.m.], your body can’t move be­cause you’re so sore, and you’re trying to wake up putting on your spandex,” Killian said. ‘How am I supposed to ride 90 miles today?’” 
However, Killian said the event’s mission motivated her to keep go­ing every morning. 
“It wasn’t about me,” Killian said. “It wasn’t even about the biking after a while.  The biking was amazing, but at the end of it, I think you realize the whole trip wasn’t about the bike, it was about the organization and meeting peo­ple along the way.” 
Iafigliola agreed the group’s cause is the driving force for the riders. 
“We’re on a mission to end pov­erty housing in the whole world, but we can’t do that until every­one gets involved and it becomes a matter of conscience for each of us.” 
Contact Caitlyn Housley at chousl01@saintmarys.edu 



Friday, September 30, 2011 The Observer u NEWS ndsmcobserver.com | page 5 
Health 
continued from page 1 
law will go into effect in August 2012. If Notre Dame does not comply with the law, Snead said the University would be fined $100 a day per person per infrac­tion. 
Snead added that the law has prompted a rare glimpse of agreement among Catholics on both sides of the political spec­trum. He said most seem to agree that Catholic institutions, such as universities and hospitals, should not be legally required to provide contraceptives as part of its insurance plan and should be included in those exempt under the conscience clause. 
“It’s about religious freedom, it’s not about contraception,” he said. 
Jenkins posted a copy of the letter on his website, which can be found at http://presi­dent.nd.edu/assets/50056/com­ments_from_rev_ john_i_ jen­kins_notre_dame_3_.pdf 
Contact Sarah Mervosh at smervosh@nd.edu 


Eagleton 
continued from page 1 
be in residence at Notre Dame from Sept. 19 to Oct. 7. 
Chris Vanden Bossche, di­rector of undergraduate stud­ies in English, said Eagleton began traveling to the United States to teach in 1970. Since then, he has taught at more than 100 universities across the country. 
“The opportunity to hear from and interact with some­body of that stature is really valuable for our students, especially our graduate stu­dents,” Vanden Bossche said. 
Eagleton was a Visiting Pro­fessor at Notre Dame before his current title as the Excel­lence in English Distinguished Professor was created specifi­cally for him, Vanden Bossche said.  Eagleton became a dis­tinguished professor in 2009, and the position will last for five years. 
“We created this [position] particularly because there was an opportunity to have Professor Eagleton join us,” Vanden Bossche said. “He has historically had some connec­tions [with Notre Dame, and] he’s been here to give talks in the past, so there was an exist­ing relationship between him and the department.” 
Eagleton is also a Distin­guished Visiting Professor at the Lancaster University, where he teaches for a few days a semester, and until re­cently was also a visiting pro­fessor at the National Univer­sity of Ireland, Galway. He is currently working on a book called “The Event of Litera­ture,” which he said deals with “pure literary theory” and will be released next spring. 
Eagleton said he think the most interesting academic work crosses boundaries be­tween disciplines. Through­out the 1990s, he focused on Irish Studies, but has since re­turned to an area he explored in the beginning of his career 
— theology. 
Eagleton recently completed a book on evil called “Reason, Faith and Revolution,” which focuses on the God Debate and the interconnection of religion and politics. 
“I wrote about theology in my early 20s at the time of the Second Vatican Council when things were very exciting in the Church, but over the years I’ve dents.” 
While Eagleton said forming relationships with students and colleagues may be slightly more difficult while he’s only on campus for three weeks, he said those three weeks are “terrific.” 
“It means I don’t have to spend a year in South Bend, it means I don’t have to be [away from] my children,” Eagleton said. “Whenever I go any­where, I like to have an escape. I would like to have a way out rather than feeling I have been marooned.” 
Eagleton said his short-term stay actually has advantages for teaching. 
“One of the advantages of dipping in and out is it means my relationship to the place is a purely educational one. What I do is pure teaching,” he said. 
While the individual depart­ments of universities restruc­tured over the last 20 years, Eagleton said he believes hu­manities departments could be developed even further. 
Vanden Bossche said the De­partment of English at Notre Dame has been working to­wards a more interdisciplin­ary focus for a number of years. 
“I think that’s true [at Notre Dame] as well as elsewhere. 
People use vari­
ous disciplines 
in their study 


become sort “The opportunity to hear of literature . of interest-from and interact with philosophy, for ed in politi-somebody of that stature sure, history, 
cal theolo-is really valuable for our and so on … 
gy,” he said. We tend to see 
students, especially our 
V a n d e n literature in an 
graduate students.” 
B o s s c h e interdisciplin­said Eagle-ary context,” 
Chris Vanden Bossche 
ton is one Vanden Bossche of just three distinguished professor said. “That’s main in-Excellence in English definitely been 
fluential figures in the area of Marxist criticism and literary theory, the other two being American literary critic Fred­erick Jameson and Raymond Williams, a Welsh academic, critic and novelist who died in 1988. 
“The leftist perspective has obviously been a consistent thing throughout his career, but in the broadest sense,” Vanden Bossche said. 
This year, Eagleton will teach his graduate course on psychoanalysis. He delivered a public lecture called “Jesus & Tragedy” Wednesday night, and will give an undergradu­ate lecture, “The Contradic­tions of Oscar Wilde,” on Oct. 5. 
“They’re on big topics, big questions that fit his strength as a thinker,” Vanden Boss­che said. “He just always has something interesting to say that’s really useful for our stu­the general 
trend in literary 
studies.” 
Not all of the writing Eagle-ton has published is academic. He has also written plays, film and television scripts, a mem­oir and a novel over the course of his career. 
“Writing for the theater is okay, writing for film is dread­ful,” he said. “Actors don’t re­gard the writer as the most important person. The writer takes very much the back seat in the theater [and it] causes problems if he or she inter­venes,” Eagleton said. 
Eagleton calls himself a “chameleon” when it comes to writing. 
“In some ways I think I’m just a writer . what I write is really not important to me,” he said. “I like to write in differ­ent styles. I just enjoy the act of writing so much.” 
Contact Sara Felsenstein at sfelsens@nd.edu 



page 6 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com Friday, September 30, 2011 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Notre Dame is a “bro” school 
Meeting someone new at Notre Dame is almost always accompanied by an obligatory string of “getting to know you” ques­tions. Students ask each other where they’re from, what they want to study, what hall they live in and, if they’re really short on conversation topics, why they chose to attend Marisa Iati Notre Dame. 

I couldn’t tell News Writer you how many times someone has posed me that last question. I’ve subconsciously developed a cookie cutter response in which I explain that my first visit to campus was on a beautiful, warm spring day (clearly the exception to South Bend weather, not the rule) that also happened to be Holy Thursday. I relate how I was captivated by my brief sojourn and grew to love the school even more as I learned about it. And if I feel really comfortable with someone, I tell them that not long before that Holy Thurs­day visit, Notre Dame wasn’t even on my radar. 
When I began the dreaded college application process, I compiled a list of a whopping 138 colleges that I could potentially be interested in — if the campus had Romanesque archi­tecture and the theater professors taught Oscar Wilde and I visited on a partly sunny Wednesday in October. My dad looked over the list and told me to add one: the University of Notre Dame in South Bend, Indiana. I raised a metaphorical eyebrow in confusion and distaste. 
Wasn’t Notre Dame that football-crazed institution buried in the dense cornfields of the Midwest? How could my Jersey-bred self possibly fit in there? 
I called Notre Dame a “bro school” and envisioned a student body made up entirely of 6 foot, 6 inch brawny males in Minnesota Vikings jerseys (No, I don’t know why I picked the Vikings. Maybe I just liked that they wear purple). I assumed that the only campus activities were attending foot­ball games and tailgates, interrupted by the occasional class. I imagined Indiana as a vast sea of virtual empti­ness with Notre Dame as a giant foot­ball cult in the center, never mind that I was completely unaware of South Bend’s location within the state. 
Needless to say, my dad convinced me to give Notre Dame a chance, and I’m now proud to have survived al­most two and a half semesters here. I have to say, though, my initial percep­tions of this school were not far off the mark. 
Notre Dame is definitely a “bro school.” The student body as a whole is extremely athletic, most guys seem way taller than average, football is practically a religion and love for the Fighting Irish pervades virtually every aspect of campus life. But hey, I’m not complaining. I guess I’ve been indoctrinated. 
Love thee, Irish football — I mean, Notre Dame. 
Contact Marisa Iati at              miati@nd.edu  

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Health insurance issue calls Notre Dame’s identity into question 
Sometimes, the smallest details can raise the biggest questions. 
Fr. Jenkins wrote an open letter to Kathleen Sebelius, secretary of the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) on Wednesday. Jenkins’ request was simple, but re­quires some background. 
The Affordable Care Act signed by Presi-
Notre Dame continues, in the words of its mission dent Obama in 2010 to reform the American statement, to be informed by the Catholic faith, healthcare system placed a number of regu-it has established itself as first and foremost a lations on insurance companies, including a university. No statement of faith is required to at-requirement that every plan cover a minimum tend or teach here. There is no doctrinal control 
package of basic benefits with no additional cost beyond the monthly premium. As is standard practice in lawmaking, the broad brushstrokes of the package were outlined in the bill, but the specific details were delegated to Sebelius and HHS. 
Sebelius asked the Institute of Medicine (IOM), a non­governmental organization that works to provide unbiased advice on biomedical issues, to review the issue of women’s health based on existing research. After one year, the IOM recommended that contraceptives be included in the “basic benefits package.” HHS accepted the recommendation and it became a regulation with an exception for religious employ­ers — but the exception on religious grounds was too nar­rowly defined to include Notre Dame, and, for that matter, Saint Mary’s. 
As it stands now, Notre Dame will be required to provide insurance plans to students and faculty that pay for contra­ceptives as of August 2012, a position Jenkins finds unten­able. He therefore asked Sebelius to redefine the religious exemption to broaden the requirements and move it in line with the tax code’s more expansive definition of “religious employer” before the final version of the rule is released. 
Jenkins is right. Notre Dame should not be legally re­quired to pay for insurance plans that contain contracep­tives if it feels that to do so would be immoral. 
But this is not about the morality of contraception. 
This issue strikes at a balancing act Notre Dame has been trying to manage for years. What does it mean to be a “Catho­lic university”? Are Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s educational institutions that happen to be Catholic, or are they Catholic institutions that happen to teach? Recent trends suggest 
education takes precedence over religion. Though 
over what is taught in the classroom. Faculty, staff and students are encouraged to seek the truth in what­ever form it takes, including that of scientific research. 
Yet despite its insistence on being a research university, Notre Dame clings to its Catholic identity in inconsistent ways. In this case, the Jenkins administration that has vocif­erously supported scientific research has now asked to be ex­empt from a rule based on the recommendation of America’s premier scientific researchers. This inconsistency in identity is at the heart of the matter. 
This issue is even more salient for Saint Mary’s as a women’s college. This regulation was designed to improve women’s health across the nation — the reason the religious exemption is defined so narrowly is so as many women as possible can benefit from the scientific consensus on women’s health. 
Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s must make a choice. Either they must commit to being modern universities and accept all that entails, or they must commit to being primarily Catholic. They cannot split the difference forever. To do so is inconsis­tent and smacks of political opportunism. 
So while on the surface, this may be a technical question about a small paragraph in one rule drawn from a 2,000 page bill, it is far more than that. It is an issue that forces all of us in the Notre Dame community to ask one question: when the rubber meets the road, who are we? 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 


QUOTE OF THE DAY WEEKLY POLL RESULTS 
“We could never learn to be brave and patient, if there were only joy in the world.” 
Helen Keller 
U.S. blind & deaf educator 



Friday, September 30, 2011 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 7 
The government’s not-so-insensible “conscience clause” 
This week, Notre Dame president, Rev. John I. Jenkins, C.S.C., publicly commented on the Obama adminis­tration’s proposed health regulations governing women’s preventive ser­vices. In a letter to Health and Human Gary Caruso Services Secretary Kathleen Sebelius Capitol 
— “the daughter Comments of a distinguished Notre Dame alum­nus and faculty member,” as Jenkins noted to strengthen his case — Jenkins referred to President Obama’s 2009 commencement address at Notre Dame. While speaking about abortion rights at that time, the president spoke of his agreement with Jenkins for “a sensible conscience clause” exempting religious institutions that oppose abortion pro­cedures from such mandates. Unfortu­nately, Jenkins now muddies the issue with an attempt to equate contraception with abortion.
 At the heart of Jenkins’ objection is the definition of a “religious employer.” Jenkins prefers to use a broad “church plan” financial-based IRS definition that purposely encompasses the wid­est latitude in separating church-state conflicts. This view is exactly the ap­proach the bishops in Illinois are using in court to challenge the state equality clause that requires Catholic services to place foster children in households with same-sex partners. Regardless, such a view on social issues always conflicts with a democracy’s equality doctrines.
 To the dismay of Jenkins — and more specifically the Catholic Church’s hierarchy — the HHS definition is a narrow one defining religious employers as organizations that “primarily serve persons who share its religious tenets.” However, the federal government is correctly proceeding with just that ap­proach. 
For Notre Dame to primarily serve those who share its religious tenets, both in academic content and national entertainment value, the university would need to become a seminary. The university would at that point need not offer alternative theological views. It would not need to invite pro-choice advocates like President Obama or for­mer New York Governor Mario Cuomo to speak openly about their pro-choice constituencies to whom they are ac­countable. It most certainly would be a closed, narrowly teaching institu­tion rather than one that pursues open discourse.
 Women’s preventive health services 
— more specifically, that politically charged “c” word — is not, and does not deserve to be classified with abortion services. Yet religious hardliners view contraception as vile as abortion. How preventing A from uniting with B to create C equals D, “death,” is a stretch when considered within the public health arena. It puzzles liberal Catho­lics when mentioned in the same breath with the AIDs epidemic in Africa and the Catholic Church’s gradual softening of its stance. It mystifies Domers who recall hardliners cleansing their own board of trustees when a trustee was seemingly forced to resign this past summer merely because she supported a “known” pro-choice organization. Such actions move Notre Dame towards seminary status and away from an open university.
 The Catholic Church holds a mix of opposing positions as doctrine that filters down to its learning institutions. Some Catholic universities recognize gay students while others do not. Some offer co-ed dormitories while others dare not. Notre Dame at one time never thought to become co-ed until society almost passed it by. While these are the more silly of contradictions, other dogma is not.
 American bishops are eager to deny communion to Catholic elected officials who represent their majority pro-choice constituencies rather than the Pope, as John Kennedy loudly proclaimed his independence from the Church in 1960 to assuage fears of electing a Catho­lic puppet president. Yet those same bishops turn a silent blind eye on death through execution when, for example, Virginia Governor Bob McDonnell (ND­’76) executed a woman with a 72 IQ. In the end, McDonnell solely held that woman’s life in his hands, but puffed his macho bravado through the execution rather than choose life. Therefore, it is easy for church leaders to conveniently 

Hip-hop night education 
If you ask a relationship expert what comprises a healthy sexuality, s/he will most likely talk about the qualities of respect, trust, mutual benefit, etc. If you ask someone in the general public this same question, research indicates Dr. G. David Moss that s/he would ei­ther 1) have no clue Dr. D @ the GRC or 2) believe that it means the absence of STD’s. 
Our culture has a profound lack of information and understanding when it comes to healthy sexuality. Like the laws of Physics that say air will expand to fill any non-vacuum space, the popu­lar media has expanded its influence to fill the void left by our inability or un­willingness to engage our society (and each other) in substantive conversation about this area of human development. In what could be called benign neglect, we have allowed the media to deter­mine the types of normative behavior one should expect in any given social environment. 
This was no more obvious to me than when I attended Hip-Hop Night at Legends over the weekend. It was an experience that encompassed multiple layers of meaning. Present was the full range of human interaction: desire, fear of rejection, physical connection, extreme acting out, the need to be ac­cepted/liked, individuals with privilege, social adroitness and awkwardness, fun, sensuality, oppression, autonomy, freedom of expression, etc. It was an experience I will not soon forget. No need to go into details. If you’ve ever attended this event and stood by the water coolers, you know exactly what I am talking about. 
When I asked a group of about 30 Notre Dame students (male and female) to educate me on the rationale behind this method of social interaction, they responded with many voices: It’s fun; It’s a boost in self-esteem; It’s nice to feel wanted; I don’t go to grind, I go to hang out with my girls; If you don’t want to be approached by a man, don’t go inside; This is a stressful environ­ment and this is an easy way to blow off steam; You should know what to expect when you get there; Why should I have to push guys away all night?; How people dress says something about why they came; This kind of dancing is everywhere, not just Hip-Hop Night; You see it in high schools; You see it in night clubs; It can be worse in dorm room dances. 
As I listened to the sometimes heated dialogue, it became obvious that “grinding” as a form of social interaction had never been discussed in a meaningful way. In spite of the disagreements, there were some areas of common ground: the desire to be accepted and liked; the realization that grinding is so popular because it’s easy; the one who grinds the best gets the most attention; the discomfort both men and women feel in terms of negotiating the sometimes confusing expectations of these interactions; and the fact that when alcohol is added to this sexually charged, physically per­missive, boundary amorphous activity, it can become a recipe for disaster. 
To put it plainly, given this type of sexual expression in our social in­teractions, I am not surprised by the presence of sexual violence on our campus.  When physical permissiveness is combined with media driven social expectation, an environment is created that becomes kindling for the flame of abusive alcohol consumption. It is an environment where the line between flirtation and sexual assault is often blurred in the eyes of those participat­ing. 
So what is a healthy sexuality and how is it developed? I think this is a topic worthy of extensive dialogue be­tween the brightest minds of this gen­eration ... you.  It is a question that will bracket your development as a young adult and determine your ability to form meaningful, intimate and lasting relationships. 
Although physical intimacy is just one aspect of a healthy sexuality, our culture has made it of paramount importance in how we relate socially. There are 14 steps in the progression of physical intimacy.  It begins with a look, continues with hand to hand contact, a hug is somewhere in the middle, and the final step is sexual intercourse. 
Popular media has glamorized the need to skip as many steps as possi­ble, and by doing so we fall prey to the mirage of intimacy. True to form, the mirage never fulfills or satisfies the thing we thirst for. We are told to go farther, faster and harder with many partners, but in the end there is still something missing. 
If you poll married couples, they would tell you that the most intimate, meaningful and profound moments of their marriage had nothing to do with sexual activity. I am a witness to this fact. The true nature of intimacy is commitment, empowerment, security, selflessness, mutual gain, sacrifice, personal growth and a desire to pull the best out of those you care deeply for. 
In the conversation I mentioned earlier, one student talked eloquently about the desire to hold each other to a higher standard. I’m not sure what that is supposed to look like, but I do think it’s time we move towards the Notre Dame we claim to be. 
Dr. G. David Moss is the Assistant Vice President for Student Affairs and the Interim Director for the Gender Relations Center. He can be contacted at gmoss@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
lump their perceived seriousness of con­traception with that of abortion. Such dichotomies, however, push Catholics to move away from the church.
 Jenkins’ eloquent plea to Sebelius is an attribute to the quality educa­tion Notre Dame offers its students. His rhetorical cadence makes for a compel­ling argument, although his content may not stand on its merits. But in the end, whenever the various social mores of all religious thought are considered, democratically free societies must treat everyone equally. 
That may be a hard pill to swal­low, especially when some overact; for example, using logic like their public freedoms to keep “Christ” in Christmas over others’ freedoms to ignore Christ in favor of Moses. The Illinois constitu­tion’s definition of equality of opportu­nity and the HHS narrow definition of a “religious employer” are the sensible conscience clauses of our time. Reli­gious institutions need to adjust in a way that casts off ancient and outdated traditions whose time to end is upon us. 
Gary Caruso, Notre Dame ‘73, serves in the Department of Homeland Security and was a legislative and public affairs director in President Clinton’s administration. His column appears every other Friday. He can be contacted at GaryJCaruso@alumni. nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
More than winning 
Winning matters at Notre Dame, but it is not all that matters. Christopher Lilly (“The football coaching internship continues,” Sept. 29) has that much right. What Lilly has wrong is his argument that Brian Kelly feels differ­ently. Kelly undoubtedly wants to win, but he assuredly knows other things matter as well. 
Yes, Kelly has said the coaching life at Notre Dame is different than it is at Cincinnati. There, he needed to win in stylish high-scoring affairs in order to draw fans. Here, an old-fashioned 7-0 scrum will still sell out Notre Dame Stadium. All Kelly has to do on the field to sell tickets is win. 
But Kelly has never indicated cutting corners off the field as well is good practice. His actions thus far speak of “integrity, loyalty and player develop­ment” — the very things Lilly alleges Kelly forgoes. Kelly only recruits players he deems the “right kind of guys.” His team spends as much time performing service in the summer as it does playing football. This is not a man seeking to win at all costs. 
Benching senior quarterback Dayne Crist was not a move driven by “win at all costs.” It was a move driven by win­ning. Tommy Rees is 6-1 as a starter. Debate his stats and athletic ability all you want, but the sophomore wins. 
I have no inside sources, but I sus­pect the team appreciates winning. I suspect the players also appreciate the education Kelly insists they get and the degrees they are headed toward. 
Peter Elliott 
senior Siegfried Hall Sept. 29 


page 8 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com Friday, September 30, 2011 




ADRIANNA PRATT/The Observer 

By ADRIANNA PRATT startling revelation: he is Peter Assistant Managing Editor Ward. Or, at least that’s what the doctor tells him. 
A family lives in a house. They The doctor also tells him that have British accents. They seem he lived in the ward for five perfect. Then disaster strikes. years and was released just sev-
When Will (Daniel Craig), his en days ago. wife Libby (Rachel Weisz) and Will realizes that what he their two daughters move from thought was his reality, might Manhattan into a picturesque actually be a dream. At least New England home, they revel that’s what the trailer makes 
ADRIANNA PRATT/The Observer ADRIANNA PRATT/The Observer 
in its beauty and enjoy its com-you think. 

The perfect fall dessert. fort. As Will relives the past and By ADRIANNA PRATT The homegrown treats go beyond the restau-Everything seems wonder-tries to discover exactly what Assistant Managing Editor rant. The Apple Dumplin’ Inn is part of the Mc-ful, until the family learns that happened in his home years 
Clure Orchard, where visitors can pick Jonathon, their humble abode was once ago, both suspense and tension 

You might need to lie about its distance to con-Yellow Delicious or Ida Red apples. The family the scene of a brutal and gory increase. vince your friends to head to the Apple Dumplin’ also sells other fresh produce including berries, murder. The film was not shown to Inn, but once there, they’ll thank you for your seasonal vegetables and pumpkins perfect for Will confronts his new neigh-critics before its release, so it’s crafty deception. carving. bor Ann (Naomi Watts) about difficult to tell what twists the 
The warm, cozy tastes and smells of this res-Though an omnipresent rain cloud guided our the rumors and learns that a plot will take. See it in theatres taurant just north of Peru, Ind., envelop not only visit, sunnier days guarantee a chance not only mother and her children were today and solve the mystery of the senses, but also the heart.  It’s impossible to pick apples, but also to pet small animals at shot, but the father survived. the “Dream House.” not to smile as you snuggle in for some toasty the farm zoo. At Christmas-time, the restaurant He heads to an institution to cider and tasty delights. offers breakfast with Santa and a Christmas find the suspected father, Pe-Contact Adrianna Pratt at 
When you walk in the open house. ter Ward, but encounters a apratt@nd.edu door, an old woman greets 
The inn and orchard are ac-and seats you, just as you 
companied by a special build-would expect. Cliché sayings Apple Dumplin’ Inn ing up the hill called the “Apple and decorative ornaments 
Barn,” where homemade wines coat the restaurant’s walls. 
and ciders are tucked next to 

Location: 5054 N. US 31, Peru, Ind.
Apple pickers walk past 
fall décor. Sneak upstairs and 
Autumn Hours 

enter a Christmas fantasyland and flannel shirts. A pickup the tables in jean overalls 
Apple Barn: Monday through Saturday 
that exists year-round. There truck pulls up and unpacks from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m., Sunday are enough flashing lights and supplies. Time freezes for an from 11 a.m. to 4 p.m. porcelain villages to cover the hour as you enjoy the sweet Apple Dumplin’ Inn: Tuesday through North Pole.  delicacies prepared by the 
A trip to the Apple Dumplin’ McClure family, who own 
Friday from 11 a.m. to 2 p.m., 
Inn and McClure Orchard is 
Saturday from 9 a.m. to 3 p.m.,
the place. 
well worth the hour and a half 
Sunday from 11 a.m. to 3 p.m.
Start with a few rounds 


drive, and fall is the perfect of biscuits and apple butter, 
time to go. Make sure to pick the perfect warm-up to an 
up some souvenirs, like their apple-centered meal. The 
jarred jelly, apple butter or homemade Chicken Salad 
cider. Croissant and Pork BBQ 
In fact, I’m eating a bowl (or Sandwich, both served with maybe three) of the McClure’s homemade applesauce, were hits. The Orchard Orchard applesauce as I write this review. In-Salad was a little lackluster, but the sweet cider diana might not have much going on beyond its and indulgent desserts quickly put it out of mind. cornfields, but there’s something special about 
The apple dumpling, the restaurant’s name-its charming farming ways. Take advantage of sake, was especially delicious served with a what it has to offer this fall by heading to the heaping scoop of cinnamon ice cream. Nothing Apple Dumplin’ Inn. could top the apple crisp, though. As the apples sizzled in brown sugar and cinnamon, vanilla Contact Adrianna Pratt at apratt@nd.edu ice cream melted all over their crunchy crust. 

Photo Courtesy of Universal Studios Photo Courtesy of Universal Studios 
Marina Kozak | Observer Graphic 


Friday, September 30, 2011 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 9 




By BRENNA WILLIAMS 
Scene Writer 
Tell your fairy godmother you’ll be late and leave Hansel and Gretel at home. The Depart­ment of Film, Television, and Theatre (FTT) is producing a play that puts the Grimm back in fairy tales. 
Opening Friday, “The Secret in the Wings,” written by Mary Zimmerman and directed by FTT faculty member Siiri Scott, is sure to give audience mem­bers shivers while changing the way they look at children’s sto­ries. 
The show presents a group of obscure tales, all notable for their gruesome or unsettling plots. “Most people won’t recog­nize a lot of the stories,” sopho­more cast member Katie Mullins said, “although Beauty and the Beast is one that runs through­out. It’s not the Disney version we all know, though.” 
Each tale starts out like the fairy tales we’re used to, but they get dark very quickly. 
In 70-minutes, you will see hints of incest, murder and can­nibalism, among other disturb­ing events. 
Nine actors in the ensemble cast play various roles in each of the stories. 
“We’re basically on stage the whole time. If we’re not in the scene, we’re somewhere else adding to what is happening on stage,” freshman cast member Katherine Dudas said. 
“Since we’re all in every scene, we had to come to every rehears­al,” senior cast member Kevin Barsaloux said. 
That amount of time and prep­aration together has made the cast work together extremely well, helping them bring the non­traditional stories to life. 
“The thing that has really im­pressed me about the way Siiri has directed this show is that there’s so much detail,” Dudas said. 
Scott’s direction, with Assis­tant Director Carolyn Demane­lis’s help, and their colorful choices have also added depth to 
SUZANNA PRATT/The Observer 
the performance. 
“The Secret in the Wings” is the type of event that Notre Dame doesn’t often see, senior cast member Kevin Argus said. 
“The last show that was unre­alistic like this was ‘Guernica’ a few years ago, and only seniors will remember that,” he said. “Everyone else is definitely in for something they haven’t seen here.” 
Most audience members will not have heard of the play. It has only had limited performances in major cities, and its perfor­mance at Notre Dame offers stu­dents a chance to see the kind of theatre without having to drive to Chicago. 
“This show is great because it definitely looks at fairy tales in a unique way,” cast member Jim­my Stein said. “It’s something you’ll be talking to your friends about afterward.” 
The entire tone of the perfor­mance is something theatergo­ers don’t often encounter. 
Several cast members de­scribed the play as “creepy,” and Scott instructed them to be “immense and intense,” char­acteristics that definitely shine through. 
The technical design of the show only adds to the disturbing plot.The Philbin Studio Theatre in the DeBartalo Performing Arts Center has been transformed into an abstract world some­where between a forest and an archeological dig, complete with enough spooky sound effects to make any haunted house jeal­ous. 
The most notable part of the design is that it is in-the-round, a feature that the actors have en­joyed thoroughly. 
“It really gives us an opportu­nity to interact with each other in a natural way while still be­ing open to the audience,” Dudas said. 
The in-the-round staging de­mands that something constant­ly be going on for everyone to see, so there isn’t a bad seat in the house. 
The actors and crew are posi­tioned in different off-stage ar­eas of the theatre throughout the performance, surrounding the audience and overwhelming the senses from every direction. 
“The Secret in the Wings” is certain to change the way you think about nursery rhymes, playing dress up, and bedtime stories. It will leave you question­ing whether fairy tale characters can really have the “happily ever after” our parents always told us about. It’s the perfect event for the pre-Halloween season. 
It runs tonight through Octo­ber 9 in the Philbin Studio The­atre in the Debartalo Performing Arts Center. Tickets are $7 with the new student ticket rate, $12 for seniors and $15 for the pub­
lic. They can be purchased on-line at perfarts.nd.edu or at the DPAC box office. 
Contact Brenna Williams at bwillia9@nd.edu 



SUZANNA PRATT/The Observer Marina Kozak | Observer Graphic 

page 10 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u CLASSIFIEDS Friday, September 30, 2011 
SPORTS AUTHORITY 

Wild Card Wednesday 
Wednesday night, I watched regular season baseball for the first time in about two months. 
A few weeks before returning to campus for fall semester, the Mets were on Fox Sports Ohio playing the Reds (in case you’re wondering how there’s a Mets fan in Colum­bus, Ohio, both my parents are from Long Island). I watched the series knowing the Mets were out of the playoff race . as the Phillies were on a whole other planet and no one was catching the Braves for the wild card . and I probably wouldn’t get to see them on television again. With a four-game sweep ef­fectively eliminating the Reds from an NL Central-title repeat, I was content to end my 2011 baseball viewing on a high-note. 
The truth is my interest in baseball had been waning for a few years now. I used to love watching the game but it just wasn’t that appealing to me anymore. In April and May, schoolwork and the NHL and NBA playoffs consumed most of my time. Same thing in September, and even October, except with football taking the place of hockey and basketball. Only from June to August could my attention be devoted fully to baseball, and with 162 games remaining in the dog days of summer, it starts getting repetitive. 
I had been in denial about my lack of interest, but I had to accept it after last year. 
It was Nov. 1, around 11:30 p.m., and I was in a quad in my dorm watching some TV show with friends. In the back of my mind, I knew I was forgetting to do something. It instantly hit me that it was game 5 of the World Series that night, with the Giants up on the Rangers three games to one and aiming to clinch the Commissioner’s Trophy. 
I rushed to my room and turned on FOX, just in time to see the Giants spraying cham­pagne all over the locker room and missing the final out and Brian Wilson’s subsequent want to rage … right now, in the process. 
Amazingly, shockingly and sadly, a huge self-proclaimed sports fan like myself had completely forgotten about a championship-clinching game in one of the four major sports. 

I went back to watching the show with my friends all of whom are at the minimum mild sports fans. When anoth­er member of the section from Northern California barged into the room in celebration, he was greeted by a collection of, “Oh, they won? Congrats.” 
I didn’t hear any other buzz about the game in the entire dorm that night. Perhaps I wasn’t the only one who had lost interest in America’s pastime. 
Flash-forward to last night. After what seemed in early September to be a very me­diocre postseason chase, all of a sudden there were two ties atop the wild card stand­ings entering the final day. The Braves and Red Sox had collapsed. Could the Cardi­nals and Rays complete the comebacks? 
For whatever reason, though I didn’t watch the final game of the World Series last year, I watched Wednesday. Part of it was probably due to the infamous 2007 Mets collapse and wanting to see it happen to someone else (especially the Braves). Maybe some of it was due to the fact I had more interest in the teams involved than the Gi­ants or Rangers. And maybe it’s just the natural excite­ment of four games having an impact instead of one. 
Whatever the reason, I watched as three of the games came down to the wire. I went crazy as Philadelphia — who it hurt to cheer for — pulled a double-play to send Atlanta home. I cheered when, just minutes after Jonathan Papel­bon’s meltdown had occurred in Baltimore, Evan Longo­ria sent the Rays to October baseball. 
And in both cases, numer­ous other people in the dorm were going crazy as well. 
Baseball will never die. It’s America’s pastime, the second-most popular sport in our country and its at­tendance and TV ratings are still very solid. But it seemed that perhaps overall, as in my case, people were losing interest. 
Hopefully, Wednesday changed that. 
The views expressed in the Sports Authority column are those of the author and not necessarily those of the Observer.           
Contact Sam Gans at sgans@nd.edu 
MEN’S INTERHALL 
Schwartz 
continued from page 11 
team,” Schwartz said. “We have improved a lot over the last two weeks and now we’re ready to play.” 
Starting off the day with a team breakfast, Keenan (2-0) is poised heading into the O’Neill match.
 The Knights made a statement last Sunday by proving that the talent on the team doesn’t stop at the starting lineup, but rather goes deep through the bench. 
“After seeing how our guys stepped up last Sunday to fill some slots, I feel that we’re prepared for O’Neill,” junior captain Andrew McDonough said. “We are going to have our regular lineup out there, and we’ll be running the ball with full strength.” 
Keenan and O’Neill go head-to­head Sunday at Riehle at 3 p.m. 
Contact Meghan Roder at mroder01@saintmarys.edu 
Fisher – St. Edward’s 
By JAMES SOUTHARD 
Sports Writer 
Fisher and St. Edward’s will clash Sunday, with Fisher hoping to improve to a winning record, while St. Edward’s looks for its first win of the year. 
Fisher (1-1) had a big shutout win over Carroll last week, mak­ing big plays on the ball defen­sively with two interceptions. 
“We came up with two picks, which was very important, as it got us the ball back for our of­fense,” junior captain Matt Hart said. “We definitely want to keep up our defensive intensity.” 
In preparation for Sunday’s game, the Green Wave want to cut out the mental mistakes and improve their offensive balance, Hart said. 
“Giving up big plays is what kills interhall football teams,” Hart said. “We also want to ex­pand our passing game and rely less on our running game.” 
St. Edward’s (0-1) had a bye last week. The Gentlemen lost in the first week to Carroll (1-1) due to a combination of offensive stag­nancy and costly penalties. Not only will the Gentlemen be look­ing for their first win of the sea­son, but they will also attempt to score their first points after be­ing shut out, senior captain Jay Mathes said. 
“We were watching some teams last week, and that gave us a better sense of how to play the field,” Mathes said. “We also want to improve our special teams, particularly our kickoff game.” 
St. Edward’s is looking forward for a chance at redemption this weekend. 
“It’ll be great to keep hav­ing fun, put on the pads and hit someone,” Mathes said. 
Fisher and St. Ed’s will clash Sunday at 1 p.m., with each team eager to strengthen its chances at a postseason berth. 
Contact James Southard at jsouthar@nd.edu 
Stanford – Dillon 
By ANDREW CARDOZA 
Sports Writer 
Stanford and Dillon will battle it out Sunday looking to add to the win column. 
The Big Red (1-1) are coming off a tough loss to Keenan, but have made a lot of adjustments and cleaned up the mistakes they made last week, according to ju­nior captain Will Salvi. 
“We were very sloppy last week and we just need to fine-tune the mistakes,” Salvi said. “I expect our team to bounce back from our loss last week and play smarter.” 
The Big Red have a variety of athletes that can play mul­tiple positions, but Salvi said this weekend’s game is going to be a battle of quarterbacks. 
“Turnovers will be the differ­ence maker,” he said. “It’s going to be a battle between our quar­terback [sophomore] Kevin Fink and Stanford’s quarterback.” Salvi said. 
Stanford (1-0) is coming off a win over Keough. Junior captain Paul Babiak was satisfied with the results, but he knows there is room to grow as a team and re­move the mistakes. 
“We are looking to improve on our huddle,” Babiak said. “Last week our huddle was extremely sloppy, and that is simple inex­cusable. Every part of our game needs to be perfect,” Babiak said. 
Babiak said the Griffins are enthusiastic for their upcoming game. 
“Our mentality is Bart Scott’s ‘Can’t Wait,’” Babiak said. 
Stanford and Dillon square off at 3 p.m. at Riehle Fields. 
Contact Andrew Cardoza at acardoza@nd.edu 
Morrissey – Duncan 
By PETER STEINER 
Sports Writer 
Morrissey and Duncan will meet Sunday with both teams looking to win its first game of the season. 
Duncan (0-2) has lost both of its games this season by seven points or less, and according to junior captain Neil Eveld, the Highlanders view this Sunday as a must-win game. 
“We have to get a win,” Eveld said.  “It’s now or never.” 
As their defense has been sol­id through the first two games, Eveld said that the key to the Highlanders’ success will be how well they can run the ball. 
“If we can get our run game going, we feel like we can win,” Eveld said. 
Meanwhile, Morrissey (0-1) had a bye last Sunday, but lost to Alumni on Sept. 18 in a game where the Dawgs completed a 26­yard touchdown pass with 22 sec­onds remaining to take the lead. 
Despite the loss, junior captain Alex Oloriz said the Manor were able to take some positive things from the game. 
“Our defense played well,” Ol­oriz said. “We only had one bad play.” 
In addition to playing well de­fensively, Oloriz said Morrissey hopes to increase its offensive production by simplifying the game plan. 
“Now we have one offense that we are going to stick with,” he said. 
Morrissey and Duncan will play at 1 p.m. at Riehle Fields on Sunday with both teams hoping to get into the win column. 
Contact Peter Steiner at psteiner@nd.edu 
Zahm – Carroll 
By ALLY DARRAGH 
Sports Writer 
Both Zahm and Carroll are hungry for a victory coming off defeats last Sunday. 
“This week in practice we have focused on eliminating mental mistakes to keep from beating ourselves like we did against Fisher,” Carroll junior linebacker Keith Marrero said. “Our mental­ity is to come out with a set game plan, but to be able to make ad­justments on the field is neces­sary, which is something we didnt do well last week.” 
“Eat Pizza, Play Football, Eat more Pizza,” is the motto for the Zahmbies (0-1) going into their matchup against Carroll after a season-opening loss. 
“This week we focused on of­fensive line play. Our defense played one heck of a game last week, and as an offense we let them down,” Zahm senior cen­ter Ryan Costello said. “As a line, we really need to give our skilled guys the opportunity to make the plays that we know they can make.” 
The Zahmbies will be looking to senior linebacker Greg ‘Bus of Fun’ Bennett for experience and leadership, as well as junior de­fensive end Brian Salat. 
Zahm and Carroll face off Sun­day at 2 p.m. at Riehle Fields. 
Contact Ally Darragh at adarra01@saintmarys.edu 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The 
Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

WANTED  Experienced cartoonist wanted.  TICKETS  PERSONAL  Tom Tucker: A bit of breaking news. A local family is forced out  
of their home by ghosts. Who are  
they gonna call?  
Farm Help Wanted:   USC GAs desperately needed.  UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don’t  
Hardworking, mature individual to  50 to 75 cartoons $10 each.   go it alone. Notre Dame has many  
handle various chores.  resources in place to assist you.  Diane Simmons (sighs):  
Anything from cleaning stalls,  If you or someone you love needs  Ghostbusters, Tom.  Every Day I’m Shufflin’  
painting, and shoveling, etc.   confidential support or assistance,  
$8/hour cash.   Top $$   please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819  
Flexible schedule. Must have own  Contact Professor Weber at  or Ann Firth at 1-2685.   Tom Tucker: No, Diane. Their  
transportation to New Carlisle.  For more information, visit ND’s  insurance company. That’s just  
Horse experience a plus. Please  website at:   stupid what you said.  
call Jeanine day: 574-631-9812 or  574-277-1659  
cell: 574-323-1121 evening  

weber.1@nd.edu http://pregnancysupport@nd.edu 
Friday, September 30, 2011 The Observer u SPORTS ndsmcobserver.com | page 11 
Lewis 
continued from page 12 
being their last game, the Ly­onites’ season hangs in the bal­ance Monday. 
Lewis (1-1) faces an uphill battle with a shot at the playoffs based on its two games this upcoming week. The Chicks come off this past weekend with an even record after beating Welsh Family 6-0. 
“Our last game was a great game for us defensively,” Lewis senior captain Libby Redline said. “We had really big excitement go­ing into the game.” 
Lewis and Lyons face off at 9 
p.m. Monday, a quick turnaround after both teams play Sunday. 
Contact Ernst Cleofe at ecleofe@ nd.edu 
Badin – Farley 
By NICK BOYLE 
Sports Writer 
Badin and Farley both look to carry momentum from big wins onto the field when they square off Tuesday night. 
The Finest (2-0) have kicked off their season with a flying start, with a close win over defending champion Howard in week one and another over Breen-Phillips last weekend. Farley has relied on a stiff, dominating defense that has yet to yield any points on the season. 
“Communication coupled with our depth have been the keys to our success defensively,” Farley senior cornerback and captain Analise Althoff said. 
On the other side of the ball, Badin (1-1) hopes to build off last week’s performance, when it edged out a 7-6 win over defend­ing champion Howard. 
“Last week’s win was huge for us after we came out a bit shaky in our opener,” Bullfrog senior quar­terback and captain Sylvia Banda said. “It’s been a great boost in confidence and has allowed us to really come into stride as a team.” 
Going into Tuesday’s game, the Bullfrogs know they need to be prepared for a strong Farley de­fense. 
“We understand that [Farley] has a great defense. Our offense needs to make sure we execute from the start on Tuesday,” Banda said. “We may even have a couple tricks up our sleeves.” 
Farley and Badin face off Tues­
day night at 7 p.m. at the Flag Football Fields. 
Contact Nick Boyle at nboyle1@ nd.edu 
Cavanaugh – Pangborn 
By JAMES SOUTHARD 
Sports Writer 
Cavanaugh’s defense looks to continue its domination this Tues­day against Pangborn, which hopes to improve from .500 to a winning record. 
Cavanaugh (2-0) has ridden its stellar defense to victory in two games against Badin and Pasque­rilla West. The offense has aver­aged 20 points per game, but two shutouts have been the catalysts keeping the Chaos undefeated. 
“Our defense has played abso­lutely phenomenal,” senior cap­tain Maggie Fahrenbach said. 
Cavanaugh has not played since Sept. 20, so the team would like to avoid the rust that typically ac­companies long periods between games. 
“We want to keep doing what we’re doing,” Fahrenbach said. “There’s room to improve in our offensive sets and our extra-point conversions.” 
Pangborn (1-1) is coming off a tough loss to Pasquerilla West in which the team allowed a touch­down as time expired. 
“We definitely made a lot of mistakes that cost us the game,” senior captain Liz Pawlak said. “We had difficulty connecting on passes because of drops and our defense allowed a few break­throughs.” 
The Phoxes intend to cut out unnecessary mistakes and focus on their strengths, which include a defense that forced two three­and-outs and a 70-yard intercep­tion return for a touchdown. 

“We are a very talented team,” Pawlak said. “We beat ourselves last week, and if we’re playing our best, we can beat anyone.” 
Cavanaugh and Pangborn will square off Tuesday at 7 p.m.,both squads seeking a key victory to contribute to their playoff pushes. 
Contact James Southard at jsouthar@nd.edu 
SMC SOCCER 

Belles accept hard loss, look to rebound against Hornets 
By VICKY JACOBSEN Alma (9-1, 5-1) just 15 seconds The Belles’ loss was more de-well his team played against the formance on Saturday, I think Sports Writer into its match Wednesday, and moralizing. After sticking with 2010 MIAA tournament champi-we’ll do fine.” 
spotted the Scots another goal in a tough Calvin squad for 89 ons, and said he wanted to see the Kalamazoo sits in fourth place 

When the Belles take the field the 17th minute. The Hornets ral-minutes, Saint Mary’s (5-3, 2-3) same fight from his team Satur-in the MIAA conference standings against Kalamazoo on Saturday, lied in the second half when ju-watched  a dribbler from a scrum day against Kalamazoo. with 12 points, while the Belles they will look for a strong per-nior forward Jackie Short scored in front of the goal went into the “[Kalamazoo] will be another rank sixth with six points. formance to put the memory of in the 74th and 78th minutes to tie net with 11 seconds left, giving quality opponent,” Rompola said. The Belles look to defend their Wednesday’s late-game loss behind the game at 2-2. But the Hornets’ the Knights (4-5, 4-1) a 2-1 win. “It’ll be a good opportunity for us home turf at noon Saturday. them — but so will the Hornets. comeback was ruined when Alma Although disappointed by the to take the next step. In terms of 
Kalamazoo (5-4, 4-2 MIAA) scored twice in the last 10 min-loss, Belles assistant coach Tony how we performed [against Calv-Contact Vicky Jacobsen at yielded a goal to league-leading utes, earning a 4-2 win. Rompola was impressed by how ing], if we have that kind of per-vjacobse@nd.edu 

MEN’S INTERHALL 
Dawgs seek perfection, O’Neill aims for first win 
By SCOTT FRANO 
Sports Writer 
Alumni and Siegfried will meet Sunday in a battle of undefeated squads. Unless the game ends in a 0-0 tie, at least one team will be scored on for the first time this season. 
Alumni (2-0) has not surren­dered a point through two games this season. The Dawgs defeated Duncan last week 6-0 to preserve their perfect defensive record. Senior running back and captain Dan Dansdill said the key to con­taining the Ramblers (1-0) will be quick defensive substitutions. 
“Siegfried is physically a pow­erhouse, and I think they’re look­ing to outman us,” Dansdill said, “So we’re going to try to rotate our defensive players in faster than their offense.” 
Dawgs sophomore quarter­back Will Cronin remains ques­tionable to play with an ankle injury, but freshman Tyler Bar­ron filled in admirably last week. The Dawgs have run the ball well, lessening the burden on the signal-caller. Dansdill credits his offensive line. 
“Our offensive line works re­ally together, and we’ve got a few guys on the line who are definite­ly leaders on the team,” Dansdill said. 
Siegfried (1-0) defeated rival Knott 9-0 Sunday in its opening game. Senior running back and captain John Aversa said his team is ready for the challenge of the Alumni defense. 
“We know Alumni is a good team. We know Alumni has a great defense. They were hard-hitting last year, too,” Aversa said. “We’re just looking to run our offense as best we can.” 
Alumni and Siegfried will bat­tle Sunday at 2 p.m. at the Riehle Fields. 
Contact Scott Frano at sfrano@ nd.edu 
Keenan – O’Neill 
By MEGHAN RODER 
Sport Writer 
Keenan and O’Neill will meet Sunday with each team looking to solidify its playoff chances. 
O’Neill (0-1) is ready to get back on the field as the Mob were short a couple of players during their first game against Dillon. But now the team is strapped up and looking to snag a win, senior captain Guy Schwartz said. 
“We have a good, balanced 
see SCHWARTZ/page 10 

page 12 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u SPORTS Friday, September 30, 2011 
some to conclude that it should was junior Alice Yerokun, who 
Pyros 

earn an easy win Sunday, but se-scored all three touchdowns. nior captain Maggie Fahrenbach is Yerokun played the whole game at continued from page 16 not buying any of the talk. running back until the final drive, “I’ve instructed the team to keep when she took over at quarterback. its mind fresh and prepare for “Against Pangborn we ran a between the first and second Breen-Phillips like we would pre-new offense that proved to work game,” senior captain Libby Red-pare for any other team,” Fahren-really well,” senior captain Alison line said. “Our defense was able to bach said. Lindeen said. “Against Badin you’ll make some key plays that were the Still, the Chaos come into the be seeing more of [junior] Kirsten difference for our team.” game with a powerful offense that [Danna] or [Yerokun] in the quar-The Chicks feel their team, es-has averaged 20 points per game terback spot compared to our usual pecially the defense, is gaining and a stifling defense that has yet starter [freshman] Lauren [Vidal].” momentum and has more to prove to allow a point. Moving forward, Pasquerilla against Pasquerilla East. This matchup of North Quad West is hoping to limit mistakes 
“I’m very confident about our dorms takes place at 6 p.m. Sunday and find consistency. performance so far,” Redline said. at LaBar Fields. The Bullfrogs and Purple Wea­“We have a good dynamic and are sels square off Sunday at 7 p.m. at playing well. We want to make it to Contact Brian Hartnett at LaBar Fields. the playoffs.” bhartnet@nd.edu 
The Pyros and Chicks will meet Contact Mike Monaco at Sunday at 5 p.m. at LaBar Fields jmonaco@nd.edu with playoff hopes on the line. Lyons –  Walsh 
Contact Jonathon Warren at By STEPHANIE BANTA Farley – Pangborn jwarren3@nd.edu Sports Writer 
By PETER STEINER Swan had two touchdown catch-Walsh and Lyons meet this Sun-Sports Writer es and 90 reception yards in Ryan’s Lyons – Lewis Ryan – Welsh Family day in what could be a crucial win over Walsh. 
game for both of their seasons. Pangborn’s high powered of-Ryan seems to have everything in By ERNST CLEOFE By BRENDAN BELL The Wild Women (0-2-1), com-fense will square off against a place and is prepared for contention Sports Writer Sports Writer ing off of a disappointing 14-7 loss tough Farley defense Sunday as this year. 
to McGlinn, are looking to regain both teams try to get one step clos-“There’s a great deal of team-The Lewis versus Lyons game 

Ryan and Welsh Family will their confidence this coming Sun-er to the playoffs. work,” Curtis said. “Everyone features two teams looking to keep each look to earn a win when they day. Farley (2-0) is coming off a deci-shows up to practice, works hard up the momentum from last week’s face each other at a pivotal point in “We played well for most of the sive 14-0 win over Breen-Phillips, and works together.” victories. the season this Sunday. game but struggled to keep it to-while Pangborn (1-1) is looking to On the other hand, coming off a Lyons (1-2) earned a victory last 
Ryan (2-0) is coming off a bye gether under the pressure of the use its heart-breaking loss to Pas-hard fought draw with Walsh, the week against Pasquerilla East af­week, but has a lot of momentum last minute,” junior captain Lindy querilla West as motivation to suc-Pyros (0-1-1) are seeking their first ter losing two straight to open the stemming from its previous two Navarre said. “It is situations like ceed. win of the season. season. The Lyonites won 21-6 by victories. The Wildcats’ senior cap-those that are going to make us a The Phoxes lost in the final sec-“We are working on not beating holding on after a first-half lead. tain and running back Brianna better team, for those are the mo-onds of their game Sunday, but se-ourselves with penalties or turn-“Last week, we went and took Curtis is hoping that they can con-ments that are hard to practice and nior captain Liz Pawlak recognizes overs,” senior receiver and captain care of business,” Lyons freshman tinue their winning ways. must be dealt with in a game situ-that even though mistakes cost Kristin Mannion said. captain Christina Bramanti said. 
“We had a bye this weekend, ation.” them the game, the Phoxes had set The Pyros have been practicing “We had good energy and we re­but we’re hoping to stay ready for Working under pressure and themselves up to win. on both sides of the ball this week. covered from the past weeks.” Welsh Family this Sunday,” Curtis as a unit is something the Wild “We are hoping to fix those mis-Offensively, the Pyros are unique After winning last week with an said. “We just want to work on our Women are looking to perfect as takes because we were in the right due to the fact that they use two early lead, Lyons wants to continue defense and clean up our plays to they move forward in the season, position to win,” Pawlak said. quarterbacks, fresman Macy Mul-that trend by starting early with a stay sharp.” especially in their upcoming game. To beat Farley, Pangborn hopes hall and sophomore Emma Ha-lot of energy. 
Welsh Family (2-1) is preparing “We are focused on the talent of they can avoid those errors, while duch. “We want more of what hap-for Ryan with full knowledge of the the team as a whole,” Navarre said. also recreating big plays, like a The Pyros look to ignite a blaze, pened Monday,” Bramanti said. quality team it is facing. Coming off “Walsh is not about having star 70-yard interception return for a while the Wildcats hope to squelch “We just need to keep up the posi­a tough defeat to Lewis last week, players, but rather harnessing tal-touchdown. the fire Monday at 9 p.m. at Riehle tive momentum and keep going senior captain Charlotte Seasly ent all across the board. The “We had a couple of bright mo-Fields. hard.” realizes that this will be another Lyonites (1-2), after a slow start ments on offense and on defense,” With the matchup against Lewis great test for the Whirlwind. on Monday, dominated their game Pawlak said.  “Hopefully our of-Contact Isaac Lorton at 
“Defensively, we know Ryan has against Pasquerilla East, gaining a fense will be able to work together ilorton@nd.edu see LEWIS/page 11 a prolific running and passing at-strong victory. well as a team and play our own tack, so we are hoping to shut “Our defense on Monday was game.” down both of those and limit their essential to the win, with extraor-In addition to allowing zero yards,” Seasly said. dinary secondary coverage by points in two games, the Finest are 
Seasly also noted senior receiver [seniors] Carolyn Henderson and building up their offense weekly, Natalie Baldasare as one player Caroline Maroney,” senior quar-having scored six points in their who could have a big impact. terback Kat Rodriguez said.   first game and 14 in their second. 
“[Baldasare] will definitely have   Walsh and Lyons face off at 6 p.m. Senior captain Analise Althoff an impact on the outcome of the Sunday at LaBar Fields. said there is always room for im­game,” Seasly said. provement. 
The Wildcats and Whirlwind Contact Stephanie Banta at “On the offensive side, we want face off Sunday at 5 p.m. at LaBar sbanta01@saintsmarys.edu to try to string together our com-Fields. pleted passes and not have to rely 
on the big plays,” Althoff said. Contact Brendan Bell at Badin – Pasquerilla West Farley’s success so far has large­bbell2@nd.edu ly been the result of the strong play 
By MIKE MONACO of the team’s 10 seniors. Sports Writer The matchup between Pang­Breen-Phillips – Cavanaugh born’s potent offense and Farley’s 
Coming off wins, the two teams solid defense takes place Sunday at By BRIAN HARTNETT will do battle when Badin takes on 7 p.m. at LaBar Fields. Sports Writer Pasquerilla West this Sunday. 
The Bullfrogs (1-1) got a much-Contact Peter Steiner at 

Breen-Phillips looks to pull off needed 7-6 victory over Howard psteiner@nd.edu an upset and earn its first win of last Sunday, as the win places Ba­the season when the Babes face off din’s expectations back where they against undefeated Cavanaugh. were in the preseason. Ryan – Pasquerilla East 
Breen-Phillips (0-3) has expe-“Our goal is always to be in rienced a rocky start to its season [Notre Dame Stadium for the By ISAAC LORTON so far, as the Babes have scored championship], so nothing has Sports Writer one touchdown and given up an changed,” senior captain Sylvia average of 27 points. However, the Banda said. Ryan looks to keep its winning team has seen its margin of defeat To get its first win, Badin com-streak alive Monday night against reduced in each game and has plemented its consistently stout Pasquerilla East as the Pyros seek received a stronger effort from its defense with a balanced offensive their first win of the season. defense, which made two intercep-attack. The Wildcats (2-0) are rejuvenat­tions last game. “We definitely found our run-ed and refreshed coming off their 
“The pieces are really coming ning game [against Howard],” bye week following wins over Lyons together for this team in practice,” Banda said. “The ability to have a and Walsh. senior captain Maria Lynch said. running game and a passing game “The bye week gave us some time “We just need everything to come that are effective is difficult for a to recover and make sure we have together in the game.” defense to pick apart.” no injuries,” senior captain and 
Although Breen-Phillips may be The emergence of a rushing at-running back Brianna Curtis said. a major underdog this week, the tack, led by freshmen running Although they are coming off team looks to catch Cavanaugh (2-back Dionne Sandoval, has brought strong wins, the Wildcats still want 
0) by surprise. the offense into balance. Sandoval to improve their game with the ex­
“We will definitely look to play scored Badin’s lone touchdown of tra time. off our underdog status and come the year against Howard. “We worked on tightening up out with a few trick plays,” Lynch Pasquerilla West (1-1) came up our defense in general,” Curtis said. said. with a touchdown as time expired “The offense is ready. We’re expect­
Cavanaugh’s strong offensive to beat Pangborn 18-14 Sunday. ing sophomore wide receiver Mad-and defensive production may lead Leading the charge on offense die Swan to have a big game.” 



Friday, September 30, 2011 The Observer u SPORTS ndsmcobserver.com | page 13 
Although the Red Storm (6-2­
Nature 
1, 1-1) lost their Big East con­

ference opener to No. 2 UConn continued from page 16 on Saturday, they followed the 
loss with a 3-2 overtime win 

over Princeton on Wednesday. mimicking in practice all week. “They pressure you. You “We’ve worked all week on the won’t have a lot of time turf inside Loftus [Center],” with the ball,” Clark said. Clark said. “We To compensate want to get the for potentially team used to less possession playing on field of the ball, the turf. The ball Irish will de­
bounces a little better on the  “They pressure you. You won’t have a lot of  pend on their defense to pro- 
turf, it’s much  time with the ball.”  vide  support.  
livelier,  it’s  a  The Irish have  
little harder and the game plays faster.  Bobby Clarke Irish coach  excellent lead­ership on de­fense, including  
You  have  to  the last two Big  
make decisions  East  defensive  
a  little better.”  players  of  the  
Each team will  week in junior  

be fueled by recent wins when defender Grant Van De Casteele Saturday’s kickoff arrives. Notre and most recently senior de­Dame’s win against Louisville fender Greg Klazura, who was put them at 1-0 in the Big East. key in the shutout win over then-No. 3 Louisville on Sept. 24. “It has been nice for Greg [Klazura] and Grant [Van De Casteele]. They deserve to get recognition,” Clark said. “But I think all four of the de­fenders have done very well.” On offense, senior midfielder Adam Mena established himself as an integral part of the Irish offense, playing a key role in each of Notre Dame’s last five goals. 
Mena contributed three assists and two goals, the only two scores in Notre Dame’s 2-1 overtime victory over Michigan on Sept. 16. “[Mena] was very good for us in the spring season and dur­ing the summer,” Clark said. “I’m confident Adam will keep scoring goals for us.” The Irish and Red Storm will kick off at 7:30 p.m. on Saturday at St. John’s. 
Contact Molly Sammon at          msammon@nd.edu 

Bearcats 
continued from page 16 
match, and Cincinnati prevailed 3-0 (25-20, 25-20, 25-15). 
The Irish will take on Cincin­nati first Saturday. The Bearcats (10-6, 2-0), who knocked out Notre Dame from last year’s Big East tournament, boast an impressive offense led by se­nior Missy Harpenau, whose 197 kills at the clip of 3.52/set puts her at sixth in the Big East through two conference match­es. 
The Bearcat offense is also as efficient as it is prolific. Cin­cinatti’s .220 hitting percentage puts it tied with Notre Dame at fifth in the 15-team conference. The Irish look to counter with the defense of freshman Toni Alugbue and junior Hilary Ep­pink, who lead the team with 32 and 43 blocks, respectively. 
Louisville (10-4, 2-0), coming off of straight-set victories over St. John’s and Connecticut, is led by Big East player of the week Lola Arslanbekova. The Uzbeki­stan native — one of two on the team — leads the Big East with 239 kills, contributing to Louis­ville’s .265 team hitting percent­age. 

For the Irish, a top opponent like Louisville is an opportunity to show that they really belong among the best in the Big East. 
“Performing well against them is absolutely imperative for us,” Dealy said. 
Though the Irish might be tempted to indulge in the pres­sure and excitement that sur­rounds a big match, Dealy said that the team has maintained an even keel. 
“We like to have a string of good practices leading up to a big match,” Dealy said. “We’ve had that this week. We’re fo­cused and ready.” 
The Irish take on Cincinnati at 2 p.m. on Saturday and Lou­isville at 2 p.m. on Sunday at the Joyce Center. 
Contact Conor Kelly at ckelly17@nd.edu 
SMC CROSS COUNTRY 
Belles prepare for Chicago races 
By WALKER CAREY 
Sports Writer 
Saint Mary’s will compete this Saturday at the Sean Earl Invitational hosted by Loyola University in Chica­go. 
The Belles are part of a strong field, which consists of 53 teams including Illi­nois, Iowa, Michigan State and Wisconsin of the Big Ten Conference. 
Heading into the final 5-ki­lometer race of the season, the Belles are eager for the race, but realize that they need to make some strides within their conference as the season progresses. 
Senior Joanne Almond, who led all Belles runners with a 20th place finish in last Saturday’s MIAA Jam­boree, didn’t downplay the importance of Saturday’s event, but realizes that the rest of the conference sea­son is where the team needs to direct its focus. 
“Our team is excited to race in Chicago,” Almond said. “We are looking for­ward to the last 5-k [of the season], but right now our focus is on racing well later in the season.” 
Junior Julia Kenney, who finished second among Belle runners with a 32nd place finish at the MIAA Jambo­ree, backed up Almond’s sentiments regarding the re­mainder of the season. 
“Over the next few weeks, we will continue to improve,” Kenney said. “We have to prepare to meet our [confer­ence] competition again at the conference champion­ships.” 
The MIAA championships are unique in that they de­termine two-thirds of the team scores that will decide the conference champion for the season. 
The other third was deter­mined at the MIAA Jambo­ree, at which the Belles fin­ished in seventh place. 
With four weeks remain­ing before the MIAA cham­pionships, the Belles look to continue the improvement process Saturday and carry that success forward as the regular season winds down. 
Contact Walker Carey at wcarey@nd.edu 


and Walter Schafer, along with Penn State and No. 29 Brigham 
Carlson 
Carlson. Grady and Schafer Young. both finished in the top five dur-“This is our first major com-continued from page 13 ing the National Catholic Cham-petition of the season. All of pionships. the meets from this Friday on­
“Martin Grady and Walter ward will be very competitive,” will consist of eight ranked Schafer are two guys that have senior captain Rachel Velarde schools. No. 3 Stanford, No. 10 been real solid for us so far,” said. “ND Invite has tradition-Florida State, No. 12 Princeton, Carlson said. “[Senior] Kelly ally brought a lot of top-ranked No. 14 Brigham Young, No. Lynch is another guy who has schools to race on our course. 21 New Mexico, No. 23 Notre made huge strides and will defi-This year is no different, but we Dame, No. 25 Ohio State and nitely have a strong impact on are ready to compete against No. 26 Eastern the team this these teams.” Kentucky. This year.” Junior Jessica Rydberg was meet will mark C a r l s o n spectacular in her last outing, the first time believes the winning the National Catholic 
“ND Invite has 
the Irish have meet will Championships with a 17:16 faced this level traditionally brought a lot give the Irish finish. She will try to duplicate of competition of top-ranked schools to a fair gauge that success Friday. this year. race on our course. This of how they Sophomore Alexa Aragon and 
“Something year is no different, but measure up senior Molly Hirt also return to we can work we are ready to compete to top teams. anchor the Irish. on is definitely against these teams.” “This is  “I think we have a lot of tal­being more of one of the ent and hard work on this team, a team,” Carl-most com-and if we can show that during 
Rachel Valverde 
son said. “Not petitive rac-a race, I have no doubt that we that we aren't senior captain es we run will be a very successful team,” right now, but outside of Velarde said. “We have been I think that is nationals,” working on keeping together something that Carlson said. during workouts and not [let­can always use “There are a ting] people fall off, and we work because you can't have a lot of ranked teams, which will need to continue doing that, es-nationally competitive team if give us a good chance to test pecially during the race.” it’s just a group of individuals.” our strength against theirs.” The Gold division races begin 
Junior Jeremy Rae and se-On the women’s side, the Irish at 2 p.m. while the Blue division nior Johnathan Shawel are both welcome six ranked foes to competition starts at 4:15 p.m., listed on the Irish roster for the campus for the Blue 5-kilometer both at the Notre Dame Cross race. Neither has seen action so race. Highlighting the competi-Country Course. far, but both are two of Notre tion are No. 2 New Mexico, No. Dame’s top runners. Also listed 7 Florida State, No. 18 Arkan-Contact Matthew DeFranks at   are sophomores Martin Grady sas, No. 22 Princeton, No. 28 mdefrank@nd.edu 

page 14 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u SPORTS Friday, September 30, 2011 
SMC GOLF 
Invitational postponed due to rain 
By JOSEPH MONARDO 
Sports Writer 
The Belles had to play through inclement weather once again Thursday, un­til the MIAA jamboree was suspended due to rain mid­way through the event’s only round of golf. 
The event, hosted by Albion at the Medalist Golf Course in Marshall, Mich., began at 
1:00 p.m. but was interrupt­ed around 3:30 p.m. when players were forced to leave the course. No plans have yet been announced regarding a concluding date for the third of four regular season MIAA matches, or even if Thurs­day’s results will be officially recorded in the conference standings. 
“We are checking with the commissioner of the confer­ence to see how we proceed,” Belles coach Mark Hamilton said. “The scorecards were collected, so we may go back and start again at a later date [to complete the round], we might start over 18 holes to­tally or it might be a scratch. So those are our three op­tions.” 
The match was the second consecutive event on Saint Mary’s schedule to be affect­ed by rain, as the final round of the DePauw Small College Classic was shortened to nine holes on Sunday. 
Because play was stopped in the middle of play and scorecards were collect­ed, the Belles never got the chance to see how their team score stacked up against the rest of the competitors on the day. Through the nine holes before play was suspended, Saint Mary’s had tallied a card of 169. Freshman Jan­ice Heffernan was leading the Belles with her score of 40, followed by senior Natalie Matuszak at 42, senior Chris­tine Brown at 43 and junior Jessica Kinnick at 44. Had the Belles been able to keep their pace through 18 holes, they would have completed the round with a score of 338, which would have been their lowest score in confer­ence play this year. 
Whether Thursday’s scores will eventually factor into the conference standings or not, Hamilton said he was pleased with how his team performed. 
“Actually we weren’t play­ing too badly, considering the conditions were quite horri­ble,” he said. “We were hit­ting better shots, playing bet­ter today and making some birdies.” 
Not factoring in Thursday’s results, the Belles were 22 strokes back of conference leader Hope and sitting in third place behind Olivet. 
The Belles are set to re­sume play Saturday when they travel to Kalamazoo for the final conference match of the season before the MIAA championships begins Oct. 7. 
Contact Joseph Monardo at jmonardo@nd.edu 
Waldrum 
continued from page 16 
are really on exactly the same page.” 
Notre Dame will take the field in a Sunday matinee against the Friars (4-4-4, 2-2 Big East), a matchup that al­ways proves to be a challenge for the Irish. Providence runs a system that the Irish are not very familiar with, Waldrum said. 
“Providence is an up-and­coming program, and [its] coach, Jim McGirr, has come in and really started to turn the program around,” he said. “It’s always a tough game to play because of the style. They are not nearly as [focused on possession] as Connecticut, but they have to fight a little and be more disruptive. For as good of a team that we were last year, they gave us a really tough time.” 
Friars’ senior goalkeeper Caitlin Walker will challenge the Irish offense, as she has only allowed 10 goals in 12 games for the Friars this sea­son. 
Waldrum said the key to a victory will be scoring early and often against a strong Providence defense. 
“I think we have got to be more efficient in scoring goals. We are not scoring enough goals. If we can do that, it helps the other end,” he said. “We are averaging a goal against us. It takes a lot of pressure off the team defense if we can get back to attacking. We just have to attack, attack and con­tinue to attack, and that’s go­ing to be the mantra for this weekend.” 
Notre Dame’s five losses this season mark just the second time the team has recorded five losses in a season since 2002. The Irish lost their fifth game in 2007 against Florida State in the NCAA semifinals. 
Despite the rocky start to the season, Waldrum said plenty of time remains for the defending national champions to turn their fortunes around. 
“I told them that there are probably a lot of people who have written us off already, but there are still enough games left that if we can turn it around and get it right, we would be an incredible story,” he said. “If we get into the Big East tournament and NCAAs, we have enough talent to make a deep run and make an amazing story. Nobody will care that we lost five games if we make it to the College Cup.” 

The Irish will host Con­necticut on Friday at 7:30 p.m. before returning to the pitch against Providence on Sunday at 1 p.m. at Alumni Stadium. 
Contact Megan Golden at mgolde01@saintsmarys.edu 


Friday, September 30, 2011 The Observer u SPORTS page 15 | ndsmcobserver.com 
CROSSWORD WILL SHORTz 
HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 




THE CLAMMY HANDSHAKE KELLY LYNCH AND JOE MILLER JUMBLE DAVID L. HOYT                              AND JEFF KNUREK 




Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556

 Enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year


 Enclosed
 is $75 for one semester 


Name ____________________________________________________ Address __________________________________________________ City ____________________ State___________ Zip______________ 


Friday, September 30, 2011 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 16 
MEN’S SOCCER 
No. 10 Irish look for first conference victory on the road 
By MOLLY SAMMON 
Sports Writer 
The Irish broke into the top ten this week after a 1-0 victory in this season’s Big East opener against Louis­ville, and they want to keep it that way. Notre Dame looks to continue its con­ference success against St. John’s at Belson Stadium in Queens, N.Y., on Saturday. 
“[St. John’s is] one of the top teams in the Big East, and one of the top teams in the country right now,” Irish coach Bobby Clark said. 
The No. 10 Irish (5-1-2, 1-0 Big East) will travel to No. 15 St. John’s for the first time in six years, last appearing on Red Storm turf in a 1-0 loss in the 2005 Big East quarter­finals. The matchup will be the 21st contest between the 

Eye of the Storm 


two programs, and St. John’s Storm turf, this game could different as St. John’s plays on leads the overall series 11-4-5. mark Notre Dame’s first away turf, which changes the game Luck at St. John’s has been win against the conference in a way the team has been elusive for the Irish. With sev-rival in program history. en losses and one tie on Red The nature of the field will be see NATURE/page 13 
CROSS COUNTRY 
Rivals to meet at ND Invitational 
By MATTHEW DeFRANKS 
Sports Writer 
Fresh off two victories in the National Catholic Cham­pionships, the Irish men’s and women’s squads will compete against some of the top squads in the country at the Notre Dame Invitational on Friday. 
The 56th annual race will feature 21 ranked teams and four varsity races, split into the Gold and Blue divisions. 
“I think the team as a whole is very confident right now head­ing into this next race,” Irish senior captain Jordan Carlson said. “We had a lot of guys run solid races, and with the addi­tion of a few more in this up­coming meet, we should look to do very well.” 
The men’s Blue five-mile race 
see CARLSON/page 13 
ND VOLLEYBALL 

Irish welcome opportunity for conference separation 
By CONOR KELLY 
Sports Writer 
From the season’s onset, Irish coach Debbie Brown has ex­pressed her team’s desire to win the Big East. Though only two games into the conference season, the Irish will get a chance to show that they belong at the top when they host Cincinnati and Louis­ville, the 2010 Big East runner-up and champion, this weekend. 
“This is the biggest weekend of the year for us so far,” senior out­side hitter Kristen Dealy said. “If we can take these two matches, we’ll really be ahead in the stand­ings.” 
The Irish (8-4, 1-1 Big East) sit at .500 in conference play, good enough for a share of fifth place. Cincinnati and Louisville are both 2-0 and tied at the top of the table. The pair met up last November in the 2010 Big East championship 
see BEARCATS/page 13 
WOMEN’S INTERHALL 

Pasquerilla East seeks first win against Chicks 
By JONATHAN WARREN 
Sports Writer 
Aiming to keep their playoff hopes alive, Pasquerilla East and Lewis will face off Sunday in a matchup that could shape both teams’ postseason chances. 
Pasquerilla East (0-2-1) is off to a rough start, but the Pyros still have playoffs on their minds. 
“Our goal is really just to win,” senior captain Kristin Mannion said. “We need to win all of our last games to stay in any kind of playoff contention. We’re really going to have to prove ourselves and make these last two games count.” 
Though the Pyros have yet to win a game, they remain positive about the rest of the season. 
“We’ve worked the ball up the field really well,” Mannion said. “We don’t beat ourselves. I think we’ve done a lot of things re­ally well, even though our record doesn’t reflect it.” 
Lewis (1-1) is coming off a de­fensive-laden 6-0 win over Welsh Family, who beat the Pyros 13-0 earlier in the season. 
“Our defense really improved 
see PYROS/page 12 
WOMEN’S SOCCER 
Notre Dame to begin uphill battle 

GRANT TOBIN/The Observer 
Sophomore midfielder Rebecca Twining fights for the ball against a Tulsa defender during Notre 
Dame’s 7-1 win Sept. 2 at Alumni Stadium. 
By MEGAN GOLDEN     
Sports Writer 
With the most losses of any Irish team since 2007, Notre Dame looks to get back in the win column as it hosts un­ranked Connecticut and Prov­idence over the weekend. 
The Irish (4-5-2, 1-2-1 Big East) will open the weekend on national television against Big East rival Connecticut (4­4-2, 1-1-2 Big East). The Hus­kies execute the same 4-3-3 system as the Irish. 
Connecticut enters the matchup 0-1-2 in its last three games, all of which were set­tled in overtime. Irish coach Randy Waldrum said he views the contest as a perfect oppor­tunity for the Irish to bounce back from their recent heart­breaking finishes on the road. 
“Based on what I’ve seen, the strength of their team is they’re good at keeping the ball and passing. It’s always a good rivalry because us and UConn are historically the best two teams in the Big East,” Waldrum said. “Every year we play them. It’s down to who makes the last mistake, and I think that’s how it’s go­ing to be. They’re kind of hav­ing a year similar to us, so it’s a big game for both of us.” 
Like Connecticut, the Irish have struggled to close out tight games, with four of their five losses coming in games decided by one goal. 
Waldrum said the Irish must change their mentality in or­der to eliminate a big play by the opposition in the final min­utes. 
“I think you can work on [closing out games] in train­ing,” he said. “You can talk about it and keep them fo­cused. It’s a work-in-progress, and it’s something you have to keep in front of them and keep talking about it and get that phase of them turned around.” 
Irish senior forward and captain Melissa Henderson said she is confident the team has learned from its mistakes and is anxious to get back on the field. 
“What’s in the past is in the past. We have had problems closing out games, but I think we’ve learned from it, espe­cially the end of this week­end,” she said. “We’re build­ing off of it, and I really think we’re going to execute it and make things a lot better than they were. I think we just need to get on the same page — just get focused and make sure we 
see WALDRUM/page 14 







