
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


Jeb Bush lectures on education at Forum 
Former Florida governor critiques school system, details policy change under his administration 

By EMILY SCHRANK 
News Writer 
Public education in America must maintain the same stan­dards of learning for all chil­dren, former Florida Gov. Jeb Bush said at the first Notre Dame Forum event of the year Monday evening. 
Bush outlined the sweep­ing reforms he implemented in K-12 education during his time as governor in a presentation titled, “The Architect: Radical Education Reform for the 21st Century.” 
Bush said the college atten­dance rate is a testament to the shortcomings of the current sys­tem. 
“Sadly, today, one-third of our young people get to their senior year [of high school] ready to be in college, one-third take reme­dial courses at community col­leges and one-third don’t gradu­ate at all,” he said. “The Florida story has begun to reverse that trend.” 
As governor, Bush said he found a number of excuses be­ing used in the public education realm, including a lack of fund­ing and the effects of poverty on students’ achievement. 
“The fact is, the United States spends more per student than any other country in the world,” he said. “And because we have 

see FORUM/page 3 



Professor criticizes execution 
By JOHN CAMERON 
News Writer 
The State of Georgia execut­ed Troy Davis, convicted of the 1991 murder of off-duty police officer Mark MacPhail, Wednes­day. Contro­versy sur­rounded the case as many claimed changes in witness tes­timony war­ranted a stay of execution. 
Rick Gar­nett, profes­sor of law and associate dean at the Notre 


see EXECUTION/page 4 



Students try Google+, favor Facebook 
By DAN BROMBACH 
News Writer 
Google released Google+, the most recent challenger to Facebook’s social networking dominance, this summer to a limited number of users. 
On Sept. 20, the tech giant expanded access to all users 18 years and older. 
A number of Notre Dame students created user ac­counts on the site during its trial phase this summer. While students said they liked the number of new features Google+ had over Facebook, some, like sophomore Elliot Badar, felt recent Facebook updates have closed the tech­nological gap. 
“I really liked Google+ at first because it had a lot of cool features that made it differ­ent from Facebook, like group video chat or the ability to choose who you share certain information with,” Badar said. 
“Now they’re no different be­cause Facebook just adapted and took all these features.” 
Due to the loss of this in­novative edge, many Google+ users still favor Facebook, simply because it continues to be the most popular social networking site. Facebook has over 800 million active users according to its webpage. 
Sophomore Chas Jhin con­tinues to use Facebook be­cause more of his friends and family have stuck with the site. 
“Facebook basically copied all of Google+’s new things over the past month, so I’d say that I prefer Facebook sim­ply because everyone is on Facebook and nobody is on Google+,” Jhin said. 
Other critiques ranged from the site’s layout to Google’s emphasis on integrating on-line services. 


see GOOGLE+/page 5 


LAUREN KALINOSKI | Observer Graphic 



Weaver shares experiences, offers advice to students 

By CAITLIN HOUSLEY 
Saint Mary’s Editor 
Born to an NBC executive father and actress mother, it seemed Sigourney Weaver was always destined to appear in blockbust­ers like “Alien” and “Avatar.” Early on, however, she had different ca­reer ambitions. 
Weaver wanted to be a “gypsy dancer.” 
“I was very disappointed to find out there was no real job called a gypsy dancer ... [I’m] still looking for that job,” she said. 
The Academy Award nominee spent Monday evening at Saint Mary’s O’Laughlin Auditorium sharing personal stories of Hol­lywood challenges and triumphs with students, faculty and mem­bers of the community. 
After realizing that gypsy danc­ing and ballet school weren’t for her, Weaver attended an all-girls boarding school. She emphasized the impact the knowledge and in­tellect she developed in her early school days had on her film career. 
“I’ve been extremely fortunate to have a long career in Hollywood that includes a lot of films that are beloved and commercially suc­cessful,” she said. “Some of it is luck, but the greatest part of my luck is that I have the privilege of this amazing education, and I bring it to everything I do.” 
Weaver, who graduated from Yale, said she still uses her educa­tion to evaluate scripts for poten­tial roles. 


see WEAVER/page 5 

INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER Students attend Shakespeare festival page 3 u Viewpoint page 6 u Andy Warhol comes to Notre Dame page 8 u Hockey media day page 16 
page 2 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u DAY-TO-DAY Tuesday, September 27, 2011 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: HOW DO YOU SPEND FOOTBALL AWAY WEEKENDS? 


www.ndsmcobserver.com 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
Douglas Farmer 

Managing Editor Business Manager 
Sarah Mervosh Jeff Liptak 
Asst. Managing Editor: Adriana Pratt Asst. Managing Editor: Chris Masoud News Editor: Megan Doyle Viewpoint Editor: Meghan Thomassen Sports Editor: Allan Joseph Scene Editor: Maija Gustin Saint Mary’s Editor: Caitlin E. Housley Photo Editor: Pat Coveney Graphics Editor: Brandon Keelean Advertising Manager: Katherine Lukas Ad Design Manager: Amanda Jonovski Controller: Jason Taulman Systems Administrator: William Heineman 
Office Manager & General Info 
(574) 631-7471 
Fax 
(574) 631-6927 
Advertising 

(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 

Editor-in-Chief 

(574) 631-4542 dfarmer1@nd.edu 
Managing Editor 

(574) 631-4542 smervosh@nd.edu 
Assistant Managing Editors 

(574)631-4541 apratt@nd.edu, cmasoud@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 


News Desk 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
Viewpoint Desk 

(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 
Sports Desk 

(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 

Scene Desk 

(574) 631-4540 mgustin@nd.edu 
Saint Mary’s Desk 
chousl01@saintmarys.edu 


Photo Desk 

(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 


Policies 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College.  Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Question regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Douglas Farmer. 

Post Office Information 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 and additional mailing offices 024 South Dining hall 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-077 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

Alberto Ortiz  Caitlin Alli  Chris Mathew  Ilse Zenteno  Kelsey Burke  Natalia Cuevas  
sophomore Zahm  senior off campus  senior Stanford  sophomore Pasquerilla West  senior off campus  sophomore Lyons  
“Sleeping, hydrating and  “Order Chinese food with my  “Watching Adventure  “Studying, like everyone else  “I watch the game with my  “I try to get work done while  
watching the game.”  roommates.”  Time!”  should be.”  friends.”  watching the game.”  




Have an idea for Question of the Day? Email obsphoto@gmail.com 


TODAY’S STAFF 
News 
John Cameron Marisa Iati Emma Russ 

Graphics 
Lauren Kalinoski 

Photo 
Thomas La 


Sports 

Kelsey Manning Joseph Monardo Walker Carey 

Scene 

Courtney Cox 

Viewpoint 
Ren Brauweiler 


OFFBEAT 
Thousands participate in Utah’s Undie Run 
SALT LAKE CITY — Thou­sands of people stripped to their underwear and ran through Salt Lake City to protest what they called the “uptight” laws of Utah. 
Undie Run organizer Nate Porter says the goal of the event Saturday was to orga­nize people frustrated by the conservative nature of the state’s politics. 
Nudity was prohibited by organizers. Participants donned bras, panties, night­gowns, swimwear or color­ful boxer shorts — and some added political messages by expressing support for causes like gay marriage on their chests, backs or legs. 


LOCAL WEATHER 

Porter estimates 3,000 people participated in the run, which began in down­town Salt Lake City and circled past the state Capitol building about a mile away. 
Spicy fish mistaken for bomb in Atlanta airport 

ATLANTA — Police say a bomb squad called to the world’s busiest airport found something fishy about the unclaimed luggage at Atlanta’s international air­port — spicy fish wrapped up in aluminum foil. 
Baggage handlers going through unclaimed luggage Monday thought something was amiss and called po­lice. Broadcaster WSB-TV reports that the Atlanta Po­lice Department shut down about half of the baggage claim area for an hour and ordered passengers to stand back 200 feet. 
Upon inspection, police reported they found the package didn’t contain ex­plosives. But the baggage handlers’ suspicions of something odd proved right. 
An investigator says a traveler apparently was try­ing to spice up some fish with herbs while flying, something he insisted had been seen before. Police say the fishy luggage has not been reconnected with its owner. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 


IN BRIEF 
Andre Van der Vesthuy­sen, visiting scientist at the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administra­tion, will host a seminar today entitled “High-reso­lution nearshore wave and flow modeling: Infrastruc­ture, numerics, and phys­ics.” The seminar marks the next installment in the En­vironmental Fluid Dynam­ics Seminar Series. It will take place from 11 a.m. to 12 p.m. in Fitzpatrick Hall, Room 258. 
Ernest Bai Koroma, pres­ident of the Republic of Si­erra Leone, will host a lec­ture today entitled “Faith, Tolerance and Progress.” The lecture will take place in the Decio Mainstage The­atre of the DeBartolo Per­forming Arts Center from 4 to 5:30 p.m. 
The Career Center will host Arts and Letters “What’s Next?” Week for students considering gradu­ate and professional school. The event will take place to­night from 6:30 to 8 p.m. in LaFortune Ballroom. 
The DeBartolo Perform­ing Arts Center will show the 2010 film, “The Sleeping Beauty,” tonight beginning at 7:30 p.m. Tickets are $3 for students and $6 for regu­lar admission. 
A Catholic Charismatic Prayer Meeting will take place in the Alumni Hall Chapel tonight from 7:30 to 
8:30p.m. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed in­formation about an event to obsnews.nd@gmail.com 


TODAY TONIGHT WEDNESDAY THURSDAY FRIDAY SATURDAY 












CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
HIGH 60 LOW 55 

HIGH 61 LOW 53 
HIGH 70 LOW 51 

HIGH 55 LOW 43 
HIGH 55 LOW 40 

Tuesday, September 27, 2011 The Observer u NEWS ndsmcobserver.com | page 3 



Honors students attend Shakespeare festival in Canada 
By ALEXANDER LA 
News Writer 
Thousands of miles from Shakespeare’s birthplace of Stratford-upon-Avon, Glynn Family Honors Program stu­dents attended its namesake event, the Stratford Shake­speare Festival, in Stratford, Ontario, this weekend. 
The students saw performanc­es of “Camelot,” “Merry Wives of Windsor” and “The Homecom­ing” at the Festival, in addition to visiting Avon Theatres, two of the four venues at the festival. 
Sophomore Brett Ubl said the 


Forum 
continued from page 1 
kids in poverty, it isn’t their fault. Their life circumstances shouldn’t define who they are.” 
According to Bush, these ex­cuses were allowing the per­petuation of substandard edu­cating. 
“We tried to change this cul­ture of excuses and pessimism about whether children can learn,” he said. “Every child would be held to the same stan­dard.” 
Bush implemented a wide range of reforms, including higher expectations for all stu­dents, greater academic stan­dards for teachers and more accountability for school admin­istrators. 
Festival Theatre’s layout offered an interesting vantage point and a unique theatrical experi­ence for the audience. 
“I felt like there was a person­al touch to being there,” he said. “The way the theatre was set up allowed for interaction between the actors and the audience.” 
All students in the program, not just those interested in or pursuing majors in theatre, were invited to attend. 
Freshman Wendy Liu said she did not consider herself a fan of theatre before the trip, but was glad to have attended. 
“Normally I don’t watch plays, 
Florida was the first state to create a statewide voucher program, expanding the acces­sibility to alternatives for un­derachieving public schools, ac­cording to Bush. 
“We expanded school choice in our state to include the great­est number of options for par­ents,” he said. “We have voucher programs that create choice for people who otherwise wouldn’t have it and, along the way, pub­lic education has improved.” 
Bush said he also focused on expanding the Advanced Place­ment (AP) program to urban-poor and rural areas. The AP program is offered through Col­lege Board, the same nonprofit that publishes the SAT. The pro­gram offers accelerated classes for college credit. 
“We created the first College Board partnership and gener­ated significant improvement so I was apprehensive at first,” she said. “In the end, I really en­joyed all the plays that I saw.” 
Ubl said the experience of Shakespearean times was not confined to the stage. The town itself is meant to resemble the architecture of the period. 
“Every single building there looks like it’s been around since the 17th century,” he said. “It’s got gorgeous scenery.” 
Ubl said he was surprised by the wide array of patrons drawn to the festival. While there, he met a couple visiting for its “sec­ond honeymoon” and a ’59 Notre Dame alumnus. 
in places that never would have seen an AP teacher of any kind,” he said. 
The mix of reforms, often re­ferred to as “the Florida cock­tail,” has led to a rise in gradu­ation rates within the state, according to Bush. 
“These are results are now being emulated around the country,” he said. 
Despite the successes of the “cocktail,” Bush said the reform of public education in Florida and across the United States is not finished. 
“The lesson of policymaking is that success is never final and reform is never complete,” he said. “I found in Florida’s edu­cation story that you constantly have to be rebuilding on the re­form that you have.” 
Bush said the future of pub­lic education lies in regulating the teaching profession and in-
In addition to meeting Shake­speare fans, Liu said the trip was an opportunity to get to know other students in the pro­gram in an unusual setting. 
“It was a great bonding ex­perience,” she said. “I realized [other program students] were in my classes, and I actually see them around a lot, but never really got to know them until now.” 
The Stratford Shakespeare Festival is the oldest Shake­speare festival in North Ameri­ca and is famous for its continu­ous performances, which begin in May and go through October, according to the Glynn Family Honors Program’s website. 
“I learned the term ‘festival’ is misleading,” Ubl said. “It’s more like a marathon.” 
The festival trip is a tradition for the honors program, and Ubl said he hopes it remains so. He said programming like the Stratford trip is what makes the Glynn program so unique. 
“We definitely appreciate the alumni who keep the program going,” he said. “It’s very char­acteristic of Notre Dame.” 
Contact Alexander La at ala@nd.edu 



creasing the use of digital learn­ing, and that Notre Dame can play a role. 
He suggested that Notre Dame graduates could advance the mantle of reform and digital learning throughout the world. 
“The brand of Notre Dame is world-class,” he said. “Why not take this incredible brand … and take it to many places where many other people wouldn’t ex­perience it?” 

Contact Emily Schrank at eschrank@nd.edu 


page 4 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u NEWS Tuesday, September 27, 2011 


Execution 
continued from page 1 
Dame Law School, said the exe­cution highlighted the American courts’ inability to properly han­dle new evidence in cases after a conviction has been reached. 
“The publicity [Davis’] case received had the useful effect of reminding us that it is very dif­ficult for any criminal justice system — even one that has as many safeguards as ours does 
— to deal with evidence that is discovered, or that changes, af­ter a person is convicted and sentenced,” Garnett said. 
Garnett added that if the courts fail to aptly respond to changes in evidence or testimo­ny after conviction, the parole process should be improved in order to do so. 
“The Davis case should, among other things, underscore the im­portance of the clemency and pardons processes, which do not function well in most places,” he said. “[The processes] could pro­vide a better way for responding carefully to new evidence and to cases where substantial doubts have been raised about factual guilt.” 
Outside of a debate over the evidence used in the case or the actual guilt of the accused, Da­vis’ execution shines light on the greater debate about the exis­tence of the death penalty in the United States. 
Garnett, who previously worked with the Jesuit Volunteer Corps on criminal justice reform, has handled capital cases in pri­vate practice, as well as authored academic and popular works on capital punishment, and person­ally opposes the death penalty. 
Regardless, Garnett said he respects those on the other side of the debate. 
“Responsible and reasonable people disagree about the moral­ity and utility of capital punish­ment. My view is that we should abandon the death penalty,” he said. “At the end of the day, we have to confront the question whether it is consistent with our bedrock commitment to hu­man dignity to impose the death penalty even on people who are clearly guilty of serious crimes.” 
Despite his criticism of the Davis execution, Garnett did not give much credence to claims of corruption or discrimination causing the condemnation of an innocent man. 
“We should not overstate the argument,” he said. “We should not assert too confidently, as some are doing, that Mr. Davis was actually innocent, or rush to blame his execution on racism or unfeeling officials.” 
Garnett said the justice system cannot be expected to be free of error, but should always be im­proving. 
“Our criminal justice pro­cess is not perfect . no process can be.  And, despite our many safeguards, we cannot eliminate entirely the risk, and the real­ity, of errors,” he said. “At the same time, we should never stop thinking critically about crimi­nal justice.” 
Garnett said even though the controversy surrounding the Davis case will eventually fade, citizens and politicians should remain focused on bettering the system. 
“The news cycle will move on from Mr. Davis’s case,” he said, “but we should not move on from the task of improving, and mak­ing more fair and accurate, our law enforcement and punish­ment processes.” 
Contact John Cameron at jcamero2@nd.edu 



Weaver teaches, leads theatre workshop 
By BRIDGET FEENEY 
News Writer 
Saint Mary’s theater students welcomed a well-known guest lecturer Monday, as actress Sigourney Weaver led a master class at the College accompanied by her husband, director Jim Simpson. 
Weaver, who recently added “Abduction” to a list of screen credits that includes “Avatar,” “Ghostbusters” and “Alien,” came to Saint Mary’s through the Margaret Hill Endowed Vis­iting Artist program, according to a press release on the Saint Mary’s website. The program, named after Broadway producer and Saint Mary’s alumna Mar­garet Hill, arranges for promi­nent actors to hold master class­es at the College. 
Junior theatre major Kara Quillard said despite Weaver’s high-profile name, the master class offered a relaxed atmo­sphere for students to work on their art. 

“A master class is the opportu­nity to work with a professional in an informal setting. The guest is merely the teacher, and we as students learn from their expe­riences,” she said. “We also get to enjoy lunch with them during our break and ask questions.” 
As part of the class, seven stu­dents were selected to perform monologues for Weaver and Simpson. Junior theatre student Joy Viceroy and Quillard were both selected. 
Viceroy said Weaver offered invaluable input. 
“[Any] feedback I can receive about my acting is absolutely critical at this stage in my learn­ing,” Viceroy said. “I need to find out what I’m doing right, and what could still use work.  Per­forming for Ms. Weaver gave me the opportunity to have a com­plete outsider evaluate my work, which is as close to a profession­al situation as I can get to right now.” 
Quillard said she was hon­ored to be chosen to perform for Weaver after auditioning before the Theatre Program faculty. 
“Performing for Sigourney Weaver means everything — it was fantastic,” Quillard said. “For a brief moment, I felt like she treated me as an equal and I really valued her feedback.” 
Viceroy said there was a no­ticeable change in her perfor­mance during the class. 
“I performed the monologue three times, and each time it was incredibly different.  It was cool to discover new things, and to have a fresh perspective on my work,” she said. “ I walked out with great confidence, and I have so many new ideas from watch­ing her work with my classmates too.” 
Viceroy said she was intimi­dated by the prospect of per­forming for an Academy Award nominee. 
“My [monologue] was still rel­atively new, so I’m still discover­ing new things about it and the character,” she said. “The build­up and anticipation of hearing feedback [is what] gets me jittery right before performing.  Howev­er, it’s powerful energy I’m able to use for the monologue itself, and it helps drive the piece that much further.” 
Quillard said performing at the program’s class last year prepared her nerves for Weav­er’s critique and made it easier to absorb the actress’s input.
 “This being my second mas­ter class — I performed in front of Glenn Close as a first year — I felt more confident performing,” she said. “I really valued what Ms. Weaver and Mr. Simpson said, and I really adapted it to my performance.” 
Contact Bridget Feeney at bfeene01@saintmarys.edu 




Trip highlights engineering job opportunities 
By ANNA BOARINI 
News Writer 
Professor Joannes Westerink brought a collection of 44 civil engineering and geological sci­ence students out of the class­room and into the engineering field last weekend. The group traveled to New York City and Lehigh University in Bethle­hem, Penn., to meet with firms and explore the university’s lab. 
Westrink said the trip, which he has led for the past six years, is meant to highlight the various job prospects for the engineering students after graduation.
 “What we’re trying to do with this trip is to really show what the possibilities are for a civil engineering career,” he said. “We are giving everybody a flavor of the possibilities of jobs and projects that require some really innovative civil en­gineering.” 
In New York, the students visited AECOM, the civil engi­neering firm working on the Second Avenue subway line and the World Trade Center Trans­portation Hub. 

The students had the op­portunity to explore the area around Ground Zero, accord­ing to junior Andrew Bartolini. They were not allowed to visit the actual construction site for security reasons, but were able to inspect it from afar. 
The students also visited Skanska, a firm with a “green” focus. Representatives from the firm presented on Leadership in Environmental and Energy Design (LEED) Platinum certi­fication. 
Bartolini said the presenta­tion gave him a new perspec­tive on the extensive require­ments of LEED certification. 
“One of the requirements of having a Platinum certification is that the majority of your ma­terials have to come from [less than] a certain mile-radius away,” he said. “It’s not some­thing you really think about with green engineering.” 
After the presentation, the students accompanied the Skanska engineers to their Brooklyn Bridge project site, where the firm is reconstruct­ing the entrance ramps, Barto­lini said. 
“This was our most in-depth tour,” he said. “We got to see the huge machines that grind away at rock and soil when building the tunnel, and we got to go in one of the subway tunnels.” 
Delving deeper into the proj­ect, the students also toured the facilities where the waste and byproducts from the con­struction were processed. 
“We got to see where they take all the slurry and the dirt, where they clean it and then make it so they re-use the wa­ter,” Bartolini said. “It was just cool to see how it all works.” 
The trip to Lehigh offered a look into the more academic side of the profession. Bartolini said the state-of-the-art lab is one of the largest in the nation. 
“They have a lab that focuses on structure testing experi­ments that shows how fatigue affects a structure or how it might fail,” he said. “It’s one of the best testing facilities you can have.” 
Westerink said he chooses juniors because they have built a foundation of engineering knowledge and are just begin­ning to look into post-graduate opportunities. 
“By junior year, you really want to get an internship, but also the trip is a great time for the students to bond and get to know each other in the depart­ment,” he said. “They are really focusing themselves in terms of what they want to do and where they want to go.” 
Bartolini said the trip was refreshing because it gave stu­dents a hands-on experience of the real-world applications of their work in the classroom. 
“When you do it on paper, you don’t realize the scale that it is,” he said. “I know some of the times when we were in those tunnels it was awe-inspiring to see how large these projects are.” 

Contact Anna Boarini at                     aboari01@saintmarys.edu 


Tuesday, September 27, 2011 The Observer u NEWS ndsmcobserver.com | page 5 
down condemned theaters, and I 



Weaver 
wouldn’t exchange a second of it 


continued from page 1 
“When I get a script, I literally let loose the thunderbolt of my education on the script,” she said. “I look to see if this story sus­tains itself. Does it catch me up and maintain my interest? Is the theme about something I believe in? Is it bigger than just the people in it? And very few stories make it by the skill of my education.” 
Weaver said that even after a script makes it past her rounds of scrutiny, her education continues playing a role. 
“It allows you to speak up and communicate, and solve problems in a way that a lot of times [direc­tors and producers] don’t expect actors to be able to do,” she said. 
After encouragement from a teacher, Weaver said she applied to 50 different summer stock or repertory companies before col­lege, and was accepted at one. 
While there, she said she per­formed six plays in seven weeks. It was at the stock company that she finally landed a role she loved. Weaver, however, was soon fired because of her height. 
“I called my parents [after I was fired], and my mother said to me, ‘Oh, it’s only the first of many heartbreaks that you’ll experi­ence,’” she said. 
After leaving the acting com­pany, Weaver applied to college to study drama. 
“I got into all of them, which I thought was a good sign,” she said. “I went off to Yale with high hopes in not only acting, but also in writing and directing ... a year and a half later, the two heads of the department told me I had no talent and I’d never get any­where.” 
Despite their discouragement, Weaver graduated with a Master of Fine Arts and began searching for roles off Broadway, she said. 
Four years later, she had an agent and was offered her first major role in director Ridley Scott’s “Alien.” 
“It seems like I got ‘Alien’ over­night, and everything was rosy, but, in fact, I spent years working in flooded dressing rooms with­out bathrooms in terrible, broken for anything in the world,” Weaver said. 
While the film offered Weaver a “big break” after years of chal­lenges, she was hesitant to accept the role after reading the script. 
“I had no pictures, so I just pic­tured this giant glob of yellow jelly kind of bouncing around doing something to people,” she said. 
Weaver said she was honest when Scott asked her if she liked the script. She attributes her abil­ity and confidence in articulating those feelings to her strong educa­tional background. 
“I said, ‘Well I didn’t like it very much,’” she said.  “‘I thought it was quite unbelievable. It has a picture of human life that is very bleak, and I thought the love scene didn’t make any sense at all.’ I had my education and I opened my mouth, and luckily it was Scott who really cares that I spoke my mind.” 
Weaver was ultimately offered the role and accepted it. The film was a success, and she went on to land roles in other well-known Hollywood films including “Ghost­busters,” “Working Girl” and “Holes.” 
Despite the ups and downs of her career, Weaver said she wouldn’t trade her experiences for anything. Instead, she advised students in any field to embrace failure and enjoy the path they are traveling. 
“I can’t predict what’s going to happen, but I’ve never really wanted to,” she said. 
Weaver said she looks to a speech by George Wolfe, a former producer at the Public Theatre, for inspiration. In the speech, Wolfe compares life to a casino. 
“People around you are hit­ting the jackpot, and you think, ‘Gosh, obviously there is some­thing wrong with my machine,” she said.  “I want to go over to that machine, that is obviously a bet­ter machine ... and George said ... ‘Stick with your own machine. It may take longer, you may have to make adjustments but accept that everyone has a different time­table.” 
Contact Caitlin Housley at                 chousl01@saintmarys.edu 



Google+ 
continued from page 1 
“I really don’t like how Google+ doesn’t have a wall fea­ture,” Badar said.  “I also don’t like how it tries to integrate my email and my social network­ing.” 
On the less technical side of things, some students have cho­sen to remain with Facebook to avoid the time and hassle associated with setting up and maintaining a new account. 
“I considered going on Google+,” said sophomore Kyle Craft, “but I ultimately didn’t because I knew that maintain­ing two social networking ac­counts at once would be too much work.” 
Jhin is highly skeptical of Google+’s ability to eclipse Facebook as the primary social networking tool. 
“Maybe if Facebook starts a nuclear war and everybody deletes their account, then I’ll consider embracing Google+ over Facebook,” Jhin said. 
Time and patience will deter­mine how Google+ develops and ultimately fares as a social net­working site, but some are al­ready offering bleak forecasts. 
“I can see Google+ being the [retired NFL quarterback] Ryan Leaf of social networking . get­ting off to a promising start, but ultimately proving to be an in­credible disappointment in the end,” Badar said. 

Contact Dan Brombach at dbrombac@nd.edu 



page 6 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com Tuesday, September 27, 2011 

INSIDE COLUMN 



Hey Leonardo: A love affair 
Leonardo DiCaprio is haunting me. And by haunting, I mean gracing me with his presence on an almost daily basis through some of my favorite forms of media. 
He’s on the cover of October’s GQ discussing his lead role in Clint East­wood’s newest film, “J. Edgar,” and the possibility of a directorial debut in the near future. 

He’s on E! on Saturday and Sunday afternoons, playing Jack Dawson in “Ti­tanic” and rendering me immobile for a solid four hours. I’ll never let go. 
He’s on my friend’s Netflix Instant Queue at least twice. Inspired by the “Titanic” binge, I force all surround­ing me to indulge in “The Beach” and then “Shutter Island.” His portrayal of a crazed U.S. Marshal in the latter causes us to reminisce on his outstand­ing performances in “The Departed” and “Inception,” each a favorite film of someone in the room. 
He’s with Blake Lively. On bikes in Central Park. On a boat in Italy. 
He’s donating $1,000,000 to the Wildlife Conservation Society in an effort to conserve tiger populations. He’s met with Russian Prime Minister Vladimir Putin to strategize. 
He was even at a Lakers game sport­ing a Notre Dame hat, as if I needed another reason to love him. 
Though it may seem like I’m OD-ing on DiCaprio, this resurgence of Leo in my life has only enhanced my appre­ciation for him as an actor, producer and activist. His career shows no signs of slowing, and it’s already extensive and impressive enough to incite com­parisons to the likes of Marlon Brando and James Dean. There’s no one else in Hollywood with such a repertoire today. 
So I will be continuing my affair with Leonardo in the coming months, when I see “Ides of March” in October, which he executive produced. 
And when I see “J. Edgar” in Novem­ber. 
And when I impatiently wait until next November for his depiction of Jay Gatsby in Baz Luhrmann’s take on the great American classic, “The Great Gatsby.” 
And when I re-watch DiCaprio and Luhrmann’s first collaboration, 1996’s “Romeo + Juliet,” where DiCaprio and Claire Danes play the Shakespearian star-crossed lovers. 
And when I inevitably spend another Saturday screening “Titanic” to put my not-so-difficult life as a college student into perspective (also to give me an excuse to sing “My Heart Will Go On” without shame). 
So thank you, Leonardo, for assum­ing a role in my life of which you are completely unaware. 
Contact Marissa Frobes at      mfrobes@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


The unplugged challenge 
Do you remember what boredom used to feel like? 
I don’t mean the kind of bored you are when you’re sitting around on a Friday night complaining that there’s nothing to do in South Bend.  I mean a Grace laptop-less, TV-less, Concelman cell phone-less kind of bored.  The kind Opinions and of bored you experi-Futures enced as a kid on late summer evenings when entertain­ment consisted of a bucket of sidewalk chalk and a large cardboard box. 
No, being bored in class doesn’t count, nor does being a Pitt student at last weekend’s game. 
In the age of iEverything, we nev­er have to be more than a couple of seconds away from texting a friend, checking our email or scanning the headlines. We try as hard as we can to eliminate boredom from our lives. 
As the Queen of Multitasking, I avoid boredom like I avoid South Dining Hall during the dinner rush. I surf the web while I watch TV. I play solitaire while I wait in line. I turn on my iPod for walks longer than ten minutes. 
I swore that I’d never be one of those girls who tries to ride her bike while talking on the phone and balancing a cup of coffee, but just last week I looked up mid-conversation to discov­er that I had turned into a terror on two wheels. 
When I first got a smartphone, a wise friend told me that it would change the way I thought about in-

EDITORIAL CARTOON 

formation. He was right — for better or worse, the constant connectivity of the smartphone has changed my life. I’ve become a slave to having friends, email and the wide world of Wikipedia just a four-digit passcode away. 
I didn’t realize just how addicted I had become until one day over the summer when my Dad was driving me to the airport. I looked for my phone to check into my flight and realized that I had left it at home on the kitchen table. There was no time to go back; I had to leave without it. 
All day I kept checking my pockets, reaching for my phantom phone be­cause I felt so disconnected. It wasn’t until the next day, when, Gollum-like, I greedily ripped open the FedEx pack­age my Mom had overnighted to me, that I realized how absurd the situ­ation was. I couldn’t even go a whole forty-eight hours without my precious phone. 
I saw the truth, and it was ugly. I had become totally and completely ad­dicted. 
Last week, I decided enough was enough. I was going to break the ad­diction by giving up my phone, cold turkey, for three days. Am I crazy? Probably. But I was curious to see what would happen. So, on Sunday I turned off my phone at midnight and vowed to not turn it on again until Wednesday at the same time. 
The result? A couple of fairly an­noyed friends. 
To me, it was surprisingly refresh­ing not to be in constant contact with everyone; I never realized how tiring it is to always be available and ac­counted for. But, for the people trying to reach me, it was apparently rather frustrating. 
I forgot that even though I could disconnect from the world, the world would not necessarily disconnect from me. While I was happily living off the grid, other people were wondering why I was fifteen minutes late (an­swer: until I dug my watch out of my sock drawer on Tuesday, I didn’t know the time). They were wondering if I had figured out the answer to number four on the homework, or if I wanted to grab lunch tomorrow. Nothing was urgent, but my lack of response was inconvenient and, admittedly, a little rude. So, to the friends I ignored last week, I apologize. 
Still, I highly recommend taking the unplugged challenge, perhaps with a little more advanced planning. See where the boredom, or at least relative boredom, will take you. Relax during the ten-minute breaks in your day. See what kind of creativity flows from the part of your brain that’s usually occu­pied with Angry Birds. You might be surprised by what you can do with a bucket of sidewalk chalk and a card­board box. 
Grace Concelman is a senior majoring in finance and philosophy. She can be reached at gconcelm@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily that of The Observer. 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“A paranoid is someone who knows a little of what’s going on.” 
William S. Burroughs 
U.S. author 



WEEKLY POLL 
Which band is best? 
Nickelback Creed All-American Rejects Train 

Vote by 5 p.m. Thursday 
ndscmobserver.com 


Tuesday, September 27, 2011 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 7 



Syria and Libya won’t be the same 
The case of Syria initially seems to have many parallels with Libya — an autocratic regime, in power for decades, teetering on the brink. As in Libya, the Assad regime is known for brutality, as it has demonstrated in recent crackdowns William Miller against the Syr­ian people. Assad’s Guest approach mirrors Columnist that taken by Colonel Qaddafi, who preferred violent repression to any sort of reform. In addition, the Syrian regime is heavily dependent on oil revenues, which will be cut off in De­cember when a regime of international sanctions goes into effect. This was also the case in Libya, where the lack of oil revenues ultimately undermined Qad­dafi’s ability to finance his repression. 
Unfortunately, the cases also bear some major dissimilarity. First, the inter­national community is much less likely to intervene militarily, as it did in Libya with the implementation of a no-fly zone. This is due to several factors, most nota­bly the fact that both China and Russia, veto-wielding members of the U.N. Secu­rity Council, are unlikely to support such a measure. Russia relies on access to a Mediterranean naval base in the Syrian city of Tartus and is also one of Syria’s largest arms suppliers. China, likewise, is a major supplier of arms to Syria, and both China and Russia would be loath to see a major customer disappear. 
Second, the Syrian military is much stronger than the Libyan military was at the beginning of its revolution. Syria’s army is four times the size of Libya’s, its military spending is considerably higher and the armed forces are generally bet­ter equipped than their counterparts in Libya. This is especially problematic since the military continues to place its support firmly behind the Assad re-
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 



Notre Dame bucket list 
As you know, time at Notre Dame passes with unwelcome speed. After four years it feels like it’s time to move on, but you’ve grown so much you don’t want to let go. Now that I’m an old man of 23, I recall my most lasting memories, but don’t include common items like exploring the bell tower or the tunnels, or climbing into potentially off-limits spaces (all of which I did). 
1. 
Learn the Alma Mater. Don’t mumble like you mumble some of the fight song — it was written for Knute Rockne’s funeral mass. 

2. 
Go to all the football games — this is for you disenchanted seniors. 

3. 
Talk with Fr. Jenkins during office hours. He’ll respond because your opinion is important. 

4. 
On Football Saturdays, don’t miss the band marching out of the tun­nel. 

5. 
Also, rush into the Dome right after the Concert on the Steps to hear the trumpets play the Alma Mater. 

6. 
Write to the The Observer. I was cautious in expressing my opinion because so many people read View­point every day. If you really believe in something, don’t be afraid to attach your 


name to it. 
7. 
Get to know your buddies in your dorm. Eat, play football, go to mass, study and fight with them. These are some of the closest friendships you’ll ever find. 

8. 
If you’re still on campus, check out Tenebrae and the Easter Vigil. The organ and choir make the floor shake. 

9. 
Read Father Sorin’s plaque by the lake (to the right of Bond Hall). It’s my favorite spot on campus — nice in every season and a grassy spot for lunch on warm days. 

10. 
Over break, read “Notre Dame versus the Klan.” Did you know Notre Dame stood up to the KKK, or that “Fighting Irish” was originally an insult? 


Lastly, the biggest lesson I learned at Notre Dame was to ask people about themselves. Behind that façade is an in­teresting human who’s just as cool (and even insecure) as you are. When you have no lunch plans, ask someone who’s sitting alone if they want company. 
Vu Nguyen 
alumnus Class of 2010 Sept. 26 

gime, which was not the case in Libya. Military commanders are unlikely to jump ship until the rebels score some major successes, but these successes are much more difficult to achieve given the strength of the Syrian military. 
Third, Syria is much smaller than Libya, meaning that it is harder for the rebels to concentrate before regime forces are able to attack. In Libya, Beng­hazi served as a critical base from which rebels could organize. On one hand, since the revolution was really centered in the east, it also gave the rebels a natural base of support to rely on when begin­ning their resistance. Protests in Syria, on the other hand, have been spread throughout the country, from Daraa in the south to Homs in the center to Al Hasakah in the north. While this means that the Syrian military has to respond to multiple threats, it also makes it much more difficult for the rebels to organize the critical mass of fighters necessary to put up a major fight against regime forces. 
Given these factors, it will be much more difficult for Syria’s revolutionaries to oust the Assad regime from power. This is not to say that Assad will last forever — most autocratic regimes eventually fall. However, comparing the situation in Syria to the one in Libya highlights several major obstacles that demonstrators in Syria will need to overcome. Barring major changes on the ground, it seems likely that Assad will be able to weather this storm just as his father did before him. 
William Miller is a sophomore majoring in Arabic and political science. He can be reached at wmiller3@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily that of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 


UWIRE 


Two-year colleges need investment 
As the economy struggles to recover from this recession, one facet of higher education is beginning to suffer very badly: our community colleges. 
A new report from the Education Policy Center at U. Alabama shows that Editorial Board students are taking on more and more Central debt to pay for college, Florida Future and that community colleges are unable to meet the expand­ed need to retrain workers, according to the Chronicle of Higher Education. 
The report, titled “Access and Funding in Public Higher Education,” is based on the results of the latest annual survey of the 51 members of the National Council of State Directors of Community Colleg­es, conducted from July 5 through Aug. 24, according to the Chronicle. 
This report is predicting cuts to state operating budgets at community col­leges, regional public universities and public flagship universities. Tuition is going to continue to grow, and financial aid won’t be able to keep up because it will continue to dwindle or remain flat, according to this report. 
We need to invest in our community colleges, and President Barack Obama has taken a necessary and significant first step in proposing to do so. Obama has proposed investing $5 billion to improve facilities at community colleges and tribal colleges. Ninety-four percent of the respondents of this survey said that the new money for construction and renovation was a significant need in their state. In a separate article, Jim Hermes, the director of government relations at the American Association of Community Colleges, affirmed this need. 
“This is certainly an area of great need among our institutions,” Hermes said. “We are heartened by the renewed recognition of this issue.” 
Investing in community colleges has been one of Obama’s education objec­tives for quite some time. Shortly after his inauguration, he proposed a $12 billion program to rebuild community colleges, as well as increase the number of two-year students who graduate and go on to four-year institutions. It would have also improved remedial education and forged stronger ties between em­ployers, according to the Chronicle. The plan, called the American Graduation Initiative, was dropped in negotiations over overhauling student-aid programs and health care legislation, according to the Chronicle. 

Preserving funding for community colleges is critically important to the economic well-being of this country. Many students look to community colleg­es as an alternative to four-year institu­tions for a wide range of reasons. Some students want to train directly in their chosen profession rather than spend the extra time fulfilling the general educa­tion requirements of four-year universi­ties. 
For other students, a community col­lege may provide a second opportunity to improve their grade-point average before applying to a public university. If students apply right out of high school, the high school GPA will be the one evaluated, whereas a community col­lege gives the student a shot at having the community college GPA taken into consideration as well. 
The other reason to preserve com­munity colleges is a matter of helping students save money. Some students may choose to attend a community college prior to attending a four-year university in order to fulfill their general education requirements at a lesser cost. They can then choose to transfer their credits to a four-year institution that will accept them. Let’s preserve community colleges for the sake of education and the health of our economy. 
This column first appeared in the Sept. 22 edition of the Central Florida Future, the daily publication serving the University of Central Florida. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily that of The Observer. 

page 8 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com Tuesday, September 27, 2011 

By MARY CLAIRE O’DONNELL the prints record events in Warhol’s daily life, Scene Writer which complement his diary entries that de­scribe his social life in detail.  Ordinary ob-
When you think of Andy Warhol, one of the jects, like a bedroom or a china pitcher, are first images that pops into your head is prob-transformed into novel items through Warhol’s ably a Campbell’s Soup can or an image of vision. Marilyn Monroe. And the PopArt pioneer is The Polaroids represent the most captivat­best known for these images.  An exhibit at ing and interesting part of the exhibit. They the Snite Museum, which runs through Nov. capture images of celebrities like Jane Fonda, 13, offers a look into a unique and relatively Jack Nicklaus and Giorgio Armani, as well as unknown side of Warhol with the exhibit, shots of children.  Some subjects are identified, Warhol’s Camera. but some identities have been lost, which pro-
This exhibit comprises a collection of Pola-vides a unique equalizing effect to the collec­roids and gelatin silver prints, which the Andy tion.  Unidentified children and adults sit next Warhol Foundation for the Visual Arts donated to some of the most famous faces of Warhol’s to the Snite in 2008.  These rare photographs generation, both demanding the same amount provide fantastic examples of Warhol’s use of of attention. photography in the last ten years of his ca-Gina Costa of the Snite recommends that all reer.  The exhibit highlights the residency of in the Notre Dame and surrounding communi­the Merce Cunningham Dance Company at the ty take advantage of this exceptional collection Debartolo Performing Arts Center. while it remains on view at the Snite. 
Cunningham, an American dancer and cho-“This is a unique chance for the university reographer, and Warhol were good friends in community to view not only the Polaroids, but the post-war era. Both pioneered new and in-also these beautiful gelatin silver prints that novative forms of art in their respective fields show a side of Andy Warhol that I don’t think by incorporating new media and exploring the a lot of people know,” Costa said. “These are relationship between different genres and art real intimate, sensitive images [referring to forms. Warhol also further tested the tradi-the gelatin prints], and then these Polaroids, tional limits of genre through revolutionary like the medium itself, are so spontaneous of collaborations with Merce Cunningham. his friends and other dignitaries.” 
Curator Maria Di Pasquale describes the Andy Warhol was an amazingly complex photographs as occupying a distinct place in artist, and Warhol’s Camera at the Snite offers Warhol’s works. a fantastic glance into a side of the artist that 
“They are both artworks and biographical many people do not know.  The exhibit will be documents,” she said in a description of the open until Nov. 13 and admission is free. exhibit. “In addition, they provide an interest­ing view into Warhol’s view of fame and a look Contact Mary Claire O’Donnell at into his personal vision.  The prints and Po-mcodonne5@nd.edu laroids allow the viewer to look through the camera as Warhol. 
“When the sitter looks out, he or she is look­ing at Warhol and responding to him,” Di Pasquale said. “The relaxed naturalness of On campus the celebrity subjects of his candid photos is a direct reflection of their comfort and intimacy with Andy himself.  The photos provide an in-What: Warhol’s Camera timate view into Warhol’s life and vision.” 
Warhol’s Camera includes a gorgeous and Where: The Snite Museum entrancing screen print of Merce Cunningham, emphasizing the relationship between the two When: Sept. 18 - Nov. 13 artists.  That image is one of the first you see as you enter the exhibit, but your eyes are also How Much: Free drawn to the captivating gelatin prints, and then to the engaging faces in the Polaroids.  Learn More: www.sniteartmuseum.nd.edu 
Some black and white, some color, the gela­tin silver prints show a simple look at Warhol’s vision.  From scenes of party life to still life, 
By SAM STRYKER only observe, but also experience. Scene Writer With the Observer Passport, we 
will show you what we do, see, eat, 
Greetings from across the globe! hear and learn during our time While most Notre Dame students are away from the Dome. Essentially, busy on campus taking classes, tail-this blog is your passport to see gating and cheering on the Fighting the world in the way we will for Irish, hundreds of Domers around the next semester. We hope you the world are studying abroad will travel with us often, as some-for the semester. The Observer is thing new happens every day. proud to have six of its staff mem­bers spread across three continents Be sure to check out Observer Pass-and six nations this fall. To keep up port’s first entry right now. Along with their adventures, we decided to with several other Notre Dame stu­launch the Observer Passport. dents, Sam Stryker, enrolled in the 
Studying abroad is a two-word Rome study abroad program, attend-phrase for a reason: studying is bal-ed an Italian club soccer match. Your anced with the experience of liv-friends experienced a very different ing abroad in a foreign country. As gameday environment than the typi­much as the six of us enjoy taking cal college football game. classes, our time away from South Sam Stryker is a junior study-Bend will be remembered most for ing abroad in Rome. Contact him at the rich cultural experiences we not sstryke1@nd.edu 
You can stay up to date with Observer Passport at www. ndsmcobserver.com/blogs/ob­server-passport 
LAUREN KALINOSKI| Observer Graphic 


Tuesday, September 27, 2011 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 9 

By KEVIN NOONAN 
Scene Writer 

“Moneyball” missed being the best movie of the summer by a measly two days. Since it was released on Sept. 23, it is technically in the “fall” category. Which is too bad, because it would have easily been the best movie of the summer, redeeming a lackluster sea­son for Hollywood. 
I tried my hardest to remove all of my own personal bias when seeing this film. I’m a baseball nerd. I love baseball and I love all the seemingly insignificant statistics and trivial bits of knowledge that come with it at its deeper levels. 
Billy Beane is one of my heroes. Be­fore I saw this movie I had read the book on which it was based, I knew the successes and failures of his system, I knew about his infamously volatile personality and I had even tried to read some of Bill James’s works, the man who pioneered the mathemati­cal theories on which Beane based his teams. 
I was not going into this movie as a casual fan interested in a unique sto­ry. I was going in as a self-proclaimed expert of the source material, skepti­cal that a film could capture the es­sence of Michael Lewis’ “Moneyball: The Art of Winning an Unfair Game,” one of the most influential books in baseball history. 
But they did it. They nailed it. Brad Pitt was not playing a character named Billy Beane. He was Billy Beane. Pitt was scary good. He brought Beane’s subtle sarcasm and notable charm, as well as his terrific temper to life with zero effort. 
The only thing he couldn’t do was talk like Beane, because this was a PG-13 movie. It seemed like the direc­tor of the movie squeezed in as many expletives as possible, but in the book, Beane uses four letter words like he’s getting paid for it. 
I, obviously, found the baseball part of the movie fascinating. This is one of the few chances baseball fans will ever get to see on the big screen how the baseball establishment does its business behind closed doors. 
I also noticed the movie didn’t over­whelm the audience with baseball sta­tistics and terminology, so non-base­ball fans will not get bored with the sports-specific information. 

But what made this movie great was not the specifics about sabermetrics. Rather, it was the overall focus on the human element and story behind Beane’s struggle to succeed against the established system. 
At its heart, that is what this story is about. This was two men, Beane and Paul De Podesta, fictionalized in the movie as Peter Brand and played by Jonah Hill, who had an idea. They had a new way of doing things, and ev­eryone told them they were wrong. But they believed in what they were doing, they stuck with it and in the end they changed history. 
At that level, this isn’t a niche mar­ket sports movie. This is a film about American ideals and triumph over adversity, using the drama of profes­sional sports as its backdrop. 
But the story does not stop there. The film does an excellent job of fo­cusing on the personal stories of its characters. The interactions between Beane and his daughter show him to not just be the grumpy executive that was at the stadium, but also a loving, devoted, divorced father. 
All in all, “Moneyball” is a fantastic movie, possibly the best baseball mov­ie since the turn of the century. Base­ball fans will appreciate this. 
Besides, any movie that takes a shot at Scott Boras deserves a pat on the back. 

Contact Kevin Noonan at knoonan2@nd.edu 

Starring: Brad Pitt, Jonah Hill and Philip Seymour Hoffman Directed By: Benett Miller Produced By: Scott Rudin Productions and Michael De Luca Productions 

page 10 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u CLASSIFIEDS Tuesday, September 27, 2011 


SPORTS AUTHORITY 



Jump on the EPL 
You might not want to hear this, so I’ll just get right to it: You should be watching soccer. You’ve seen people jump on the bandwag­on for the World Cup over the past two summers, and why not? It’s fun to root for the red, white and blue over the inter­national forces of evil that are Ghana, Slovenia and Sweden. Now that it’s over though, it’s easy to turn away from the beautiful game and all of its magic. Instead, try paying attention to the English Premier League ­The Most Interesting 

Jack Hefferon 
Sports Writer 

Another great EPL concept is relegation, where the bottom teams in every league are sent down, and the lower leagues’ winners get promoted to play with the big boys. Relegation can make even the worst teams’ seasons exciting to the wire, and it needs to come across the pond. 
For example, imagine that the Carolina Panthers, instead of finally getting rewarded with a winning quarterback (sorry, Mr. Clausen), were punished for their terrible play last season and sent to the UFL, losing hundreds of millions of dol­lars. Meanwhile, the Las Vegas Locomotives would have their chance at a Super Bowl. How much fun would that be? 
And while relegation may seem awesome, the Premier­ship’s most appealing aspect is its rivalries, which break 
through the 
common 
standards of a 

League in The EPL is the top tier modern society the World. of English football and must often The EPL (that other football), be contained by is the top fences in the sta­
and the skill level on 
tier of Eng-diums and riot 
display is unbelievable 
lish football police outside of 
enough to deserve 
(that other them. 
viewing on its own. 
football), The best cur-
and the skill on display is unbelievable enough to deserve viewing on its own. But there are plenty of other reasons to watch. 
For one, the passion the matches evoke is second to none in Europe. Take a nation of fifty million crazy, drunken, hooligan fans and twenty top teams and cram them onto a country the size of Alabama. Now take away the handful of teams any given fan may support in the colonies (er, states) and put all that al­legiance behind one team, and you get the hysteria that is EPL fandom. 
If that’s not enough for you, just look at the owners of these clubs, who all seem to be a cross between Mikhail Prokhorov, Mark Cuban and the Godfather. Take 2010 champion Chelsea, a club owned by Russian billion­aire Roman Abromovich, a man whose Wikipedia page has an “Alleged Crimes and Wrongdo­ing” section. Indian Lakshmi Mittal, better known as the sixth-richest man in the world, recently purchased Queens Park Rangers F.C., only to watch his shiny new toy lose their home opener 4-0 to lowly Bolton. 
Throw in the supreme goal­scoring talents of adultering Wayne Rooney, sex-taping Frank Lampard and allegedly-team­mate’s-wife-impregnating John Terry, and the EPL will keep you interested both on and off the pitch. 

rent rivalry can be seen in the derby between Manchester City and Manches­ter United, which dates back to 1881. City has been dominated by United in the recent past, winning just five of the teams’ last thirty-three league match-ups. Tension built until 2008, when City was bought by oil baron Sheikh Mansour, half-brother of the current president of the UAE, who immediately bought up the world’s best available talent. Now, the sides are considered the two front-runners for the league title. 
And if the appeal of the EPL wasn’t enough to pique your in­terest, there are other benefits for the Notre Dame student. The games are typically early on Saturday mornings, which is the perfect excuse to start your tailgating early. If you’re not a morning person, the games are now even being shown on Sundays on FOX in the normal, American football timeslot (dancing robots need not apply). 
If you missed their Chelsea-Man U broadcast two weeks ago, do yourself a favor and watch Tottenham at Arsenal this Sunday on FOX. You (prob­ably) won’t regret it. 
The views expressed in this ccolumn are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Jack Hefferon at wheffero@nd.edu 
CLUB SPORTS 


Ultimate opens with strong showing 
Ultimate Frisbee 
This past Sunday, Notre Dame women’s ultimate frisbee trav­eled to Ann Arbor, Mich, to com­pete in an early season warm-up tournament with just two weeks of practice as a full team. For this tournament, the squad split into two even teams in order to give everyone more playing time, especially the rookies. The teams each competed against one team from Michigan State and two similarly split teams from Michigan. 
Michigan State brought very few rookies to the tournament and Michigan was the national runner-up last season, so both proved to be stiff competition for the Irish.  Although neither team came home with a victory, the teams enjoyed perfect weather, great early-season playing time and a friendly, spirited competi­tion atmosphere. 
Over the course of the day, both teams saw visible improve­ments in chemistry, individual confidence, energy and effort. While the rookies learned the tricks of the game, the return­ing members became comfort­able in their new roles both on and off the field. Senior captains Vicke Hadlock and Ashely Sat­terlee kicked off the season with strong leadership, positive atti­tudes, and solid playing. Sopho­more Kelsey Fink and junior Annie Flood did a great job step­ping into the role of handlers and supporting their teammates. Lastly, sophomore Rachel Ton­nis and juniors Jackie Maas-Hull and Elizabeth Lent, all rookies, made excellent in-cuts all day and showed great potential. The Irish will get back to practice this week in preparation for their home tournament at Junior Irish Fields from Oct. 1-2. 
Cycling 
Cycling opened the mountain bike season at the Michigan Cross Country Race this past weekend. In Men’s B, graduate student Douglas Ansel and soph­omore Luke Tilmans finished third and fifth respectively for the Irish. In the Men’s C Division, junior Carl Josephson and soph­omore Colin Sidberry entered their first competitive event. Sid-berry had to pull out of the race due to a mechanical issue, while Josephson finished mid-pack. 
Women’s Rugby 
Notre Dame women’s rugby opened its season with a friendly match and 50-10 victory over the University of Illinois at Chi­cago this past Sunday afternoon. Entering their second year as a club sport, the Irish have many more seasoned players this fall compared with their previous fall season. However, there were also a few new recruits this time around who were eager to expe­rience playing in a game for the first time. The game was played in 30-minute thirds instead of the usual 40-minute halves in order to give players the chance to ex­perience different field positions while still having significant play­ing time. The Irish played a solid first game, especially in main­taining an aggressive attitude on defense and capitalizing off UIC’s mistakes to gain possession of the ball. 
The game opened with Notre Dame receiving the kickoff, and shortly after junior Ashley Okon­ta took the ball out wide for the first Irish try. Junior Amelia Vojt kicked for points, successfully putting the Irish at a 7-0 lead ear­ly in the game. Graduate student Kayla Bishop brought the ball in for another try during the first pe­riod of the game, and Vojt made the conversion again. Later in the third the Flames countered, pass­ing the ball out wide for its first try of the game. UIC missed the conversion though, bringing the score to 14-5. 
In the second period the Irish continued to put pressure on the Flames, which resulted in an­other try, again by Okonta, con­verted successfully by Vojt. After a long standoff at the UIC tryline with the Irish unable to get past the opposing defense, Vojt made the decision to kick for points off a penalty and won three more points for the Irish. UIC pushed back, bringing the ball around a scrum close to the Irish tryline and scoring again, bringing the score at the end of the second to 24-10 with the Irish in the lead. 
In the last third of the game the Irish again seized opportunities to get the ball and move it for­ward, for a total of four more tries by senior Christina Konkey, junior Janet Mostrom, and freshman Natalie Branch and senior Carli Fernandez, both rookies. Vojt again demonstrated her kicking ability by successfully convert­ing three of the four tries, bring­ing the Irish score to a total of 50 points. Notre Dame was able to successfully hold UIC from scor­ing again, and the game ended with a final score of 50-10. The squad will continue to prepare for the challenge of facing Division I teams by taking on Grand Valley State University and Iowa State University at home Sept. 25. 
Men’s Water Polo 
Notre Dame started out its season well with a victory over Iowa. Senior captain Dan Geis­man made the opening goal with a skip shot to the upper right corner, and junior Chris Jennis followed soon after with a goal off an ejection to put the Irish up two. In the second quarter ,sophomore Jack Turek managed to put a point on the board. On the other side of the ball, sophomore goalkeeper Geno Freeman man­aged a complete shutout for the entire first half. In the third quar­ter, Iowa finally managed to get on the board during an ejection play, but Jennis answered with two more goals putting the score at 5-1. Iowa came out strong dur­ing the last quarter by scoring a quick goal off the start. But Geis­man scored two goals out of hole set, finishing the game with a 7-2 Irish victory. 
Notre Dame had a rough start in its next matchup against Michi­gan State, missing two fast break scoring opportunities and two man-up situations. The Trojans capitalized on these mistakes and gained the lead by three. The second quarter did not go much better for the Irish as the Tro­jans scored six more goals. Jen­nis did manage to bar in a shot, putting the Irish on the board, but the Trojans continued to pull away, managing to score six more points in the second half. Free­man did stop a five-meter penalty shot, and Geisman scored late in the fourth, but it was not enough, and Michigan State emerged with a 15-2 victory. 
With a quick turnaround be­tween the two Michigan teams, Notre Dame next faced the Wol­verines. Though Michigan only scored one in the first quarter, the Irish offense struggled to develop. The next quarter Turek and fresh­man Dolff Hanke both scored, but their efforts were countered by three goals from the Wolverines. Although the Irish were still in the game, they simply ran out of gas in the second half, as the Wolver­ines marched down the pool and scored three more times before ending the game with a score of 7-2 Michigan. 
When the game started out, the Irish seemed to have an appar­ent advantage as Illinois had no substitutes. But after Notre Dame lost a few passes off Illini cherry picking, the Irish went down by two in the first. Notre Dame came out strong in the second, with Hanke scoring off of a five-meter foul. Jennis also scored a cross-cage skip shot to tie the game. Il­linois responded by scoring two goals of its own to maintain a lead. During the third, Geisman scored out of hole set, but again Illinois answered with a score of its own. In the final quarter, the back and forth continued as Geis­man put in another score during a man up, and the Illini scored two, temporarily widening the gap. After an Irish timeout, the Irish rallied with Jennis and Hanke putting in back-to-back scores, though they could not manage to regain the lead, and the Irish dropped the match 7-6. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The 
Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
WANTED 
ADOPTION: ND/SMC family hoping to adopt again.               Love, opportunity, security, devoted dad, at-home mom. No pressure or commitment. We work with Adoption professionals who can vouch for home study and FBI clearance checks. Contact Atty:Steven Kirsh (800)333-5736,or feel free to e-mail us directly: eneadoptagain@gmail.com Facebook.com/adoptionEJEllen TEXT or CALL: 317.473.7635 


PERSONAL 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? 
Don’t go it alone. Notre Dame has many resources in place to assist you. If you or someone you 
love needs confidential support 
or assistance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819 or Ann Firth at 1-2685. 
For more information, visit ND’s website at: http:// pregnancysupport@nd.edu 
“Fight Club was the beginning, now it’s moved to the basement, it’s called Project Mayhem.” - Tyler Durden 
“Tomorrow will be the most beautiful day of Raymond K. Hessel’s life. His breakfast will taste better than any meal you and I have ever tasted.” - Tyler Durden 
“I am smart, capable, and most importantly, I am free in all the ways that you are not.” - Tyler Durden 

“Boys, the rules don’t make much sense. But I believe in the rules. Some of us broke them. I broke them. I can’t do this. I can’t win like this.” - Pete Bell from Blue Chips 
“They gave everything they had! They played up to the *maximum* of their ability! They gave it everything. And you know, it wasn’t good enough. It wasn’t good enough for me, wasn’t good enough for you, wasn’t good enough for anybody!” 
- Pete Bell from Blue Chips “There is a natural aristocracy among men. The grounds of this are virtue and talents.” - Thomas Jefferson 
“And in the end, it’s not the years in your life that count. It’s the life in your years.” - Abraham Lincoln 
“I am always doing things I can’t do. That is how I get to do them.”­Pablo Picasso 
Naaachoooooooooo!!!! 
I’m not listening to you you crazy. 
I know that wrestlers get all the fancy ladys, and all the creams and lotions. But my life is good, really good. I get to wake up every morning, 5 a.m., and make some soup. It’s the best. I get to sleep in a bed by myself all of my life. It’s fanTAstic. Okay. Go away! Read some books! 
Get that corn out of my face! 
Go Irish. Beat Boilers. 

Tuesday, September 27, 2011 The Observer u SPORTS ndsmcobserver.com | page 11 
NFL 




Vikings top list of teams failing to close out games 
Associated Press 
Anyone searching for the se­cret to success in the NFL can find it simply by recognizing what not to do. 
Such as coaching not to lose. Or playing a prevent defense, particularly before the final minutes. Or going ultraconser­vative on offense when in the lead. Or failing to convert third downs. 
All are formulas for failing to protect a lead in the NFL. All were perfected by the Vikings, Texans, Eagles and Patriots this weekend. 
The Vikings are the poster children for blowing leads. They have been ahead at the half by 10, 17 and 20 points, outscoring opponents 54-7. Then they go into the locker room and, basi­cally, stay there. 
In the second half, Minnesota has been outscored 67-6 and has an 0-3 record to show for it. The Vikings have achieved that without turning over the ball in the second half, and are a plus-1 in turnover margin overall. 
They also are 1 for 15 trying to convert third downs in the second half, while their defense has allowed 13 conversions out of 22 chances. 
There are two words for such numbers in the NFL. Ugly is one. Winless is the other. 
“A lot of teams wouldn’t have come out with the energy and effort that our team came out with today,” Vikings coach Les­lie Frazier said after the Lions erased a 20-point deficit and won 26-23 in overtime. “We bat­tled right until the end.” 
That is the NFL equivalent of whistling past the graveyard. Less than a month into his first full season as Vikings coach, Frazier has a slew of issues to deal with, from damaging pen­alties to strange play-calling — Adrian Peterson ran five times after halftime against Detroit — to a sense of the inevitable. 
As in the inevitable defeat. 
“We are making some simi­lar mistakes when it comes to penalties. Not really the same people making the mistakes, but the penalties have been costly,” he said. “The games have come down to the last play sometimes, so they have been a factor, along with our being able to convert third downs, our being able to limit points allowed in the second half. Those have been things that have crept up in the second half of games.” 
Nobody crept up on the Patri­ots or Texans in Week 3. Anvils dropped on them in the form of prolific offenses in Buffalo and New Orleans. 
That doesn’t excuse some of the ailments plaguing each team. 
Yes, the Patriots (2-1) can score with anyone and Tom Brady is off to the fastest passing start in NFL history. New England also can’t cover anyone, isn’t produc­ing much of a pass rush and, shockingly, is making mistakes when it has a lead. 
The Pats were beating their patsies, the Bills, 21-0 in the first half Sunday, seemingly on their way to a 16th straight vic­tory against Buffalo. Instead, Brady — whose streak of 358 regular-season passes without a pick ended in Week 1 — started hitting defenders in stride. 
Four picks later, the Bills were kicking the winning field goal to take the AFC East lead, and the Patriots were looking perturbed and puzzled. 
“There were a lot more (mis­takes) than there should have been. We’ve got to learn from it and get better,” safety Josh Bar­rett said. “We’ve just got to do more across the board. We’ve got to lock receivers down. We’ve got to do a better job on their big-play guys from making plays. It comes down to just get­ting off the field when we need to.” 
For years, Houston has been plagued by having porous de­fenses that kept its potent of­fense off the field, a major rea­son it’s never made the playoffs since joining the league in 2002. Against New Orleans, in a game with five lead changes, the Tex­ans wasted a 26-17 fourth-quar­ter edge and fell 40-33. 
There is no shame in losing to the Saints. There is much con­cern when a team stops press­ing the issue, especially against a strong opponent. Houston’s blown lead and ultimate demise can be pinned on its weakness in the red zone, settling for four field goals. 
“We had some great oppor­tunities on the offensive side of the ball with a nine-point lead to make some plays that we didn’t make,” coach Gary Kubiak said. 
“We just did not close the game.” 
In a game that was a litmus test. 
“We came into the game wanting to know where we are as a football team,” star receiver Andre Johnson said. “Everyone battled and left it all out there on the field, but we just didn’t score seven points when we needed to. ... and playing against an of­fense like [the Saints’], you have to score seven instead of three.” 


The Eagles have spent two straight weeks falling behind, surging ahead, then flopping. Against the Giants in a 29-16 defeat, they were frazzled by a hand injury to Michael Vick and by the Giants’ ability to get un­heralded receivers in favorable positions against their bally­hooed secondary. 
For Philadelphia, the 1-2 start and failure to hold onto a pair of leads might have as much to do with cohesiveness as strat­egy. It’s hard to put together a “Dream Team” so quickly. 


page 12 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u SPORTS Tuesday, September 27, 2011 

WOMEN’S INTERHALL 


Badin’s goal line defense seals slim win 
Farley and Lewis post shutouts; PW earns comeback victory with last-second score 
By BRIAN HARTNETT 
Sports Writer 
The Badin defense pulled out all the stops Sunday night, mak­ing two goal line stands and stopping a key two-point conver­sion en route to the Bullfrogs’ 7-6 victory over Howard. 
Badin’s strong defensive effort began on the very first drive, as sophomore safety Liz Leonard made a key interception on third down. The Bullfrogs (1-1) then marched down the field and scored their first touchdown of the season on a 16-yard run by freshman running back Dionne Sandoval. 
Howard’s offense answered back with some high-powered passing plays, as junior quar­terback Katharine Mack com­pleted passing plays of 18 and 23 yards, before hitting sophomore receiver Amelia Vojt on a seven-yard touchdown pass. However, Mack’s two-point conversion pass fell incomplete, preserving Badin’s slim lead. 
The failed conversion was just the start of Howard’s red zone struggles, as the Bullfrogs’ defense forced the Ducks (1-2) into two turnovers on downs in the red zone in the second half. The Badin secondary, which had three interceptions, caused numerous problems for Howard and its dual-quarterback sys­tem. 
“The defense just stopped us tonight,” Mack said. “The sec­ondary really jammed us and prevented me from seeing every­thing on pass plays.” 
For Badin, the game repre­sented a marked improvement from its first game, a 28-0 loss to Cavanaugh. 
“We definitely played with more intensity today,” Leonard said. “We were really hungry to win after last week, and we com­mitted to playing our best.” 
Badin hopes to extend its newfound winning streak when it plays Pangborn on Tuesday, while Howard will try to re­bound with a victory when it takes on Pasquerilla West on Tuesday. 
Contact Brian Harnett at bhartnet@nd.edu 
Farley 14, Breen-Phillips 0 


By PETER STEINER 
Sports Writer 
Farley’s strong defense pre­vailed again Sunday as the Fin­est (2-0) completed their second shutout of the season by blank­ing Breen-Phillips. 
The Finest added offensive production to their stout de­fense, and senior receiver Kait­lyn Vitale said some of the team’s offensive success simply can’t be developed in practice. 
“It’s really just team chemis­try,” Vitale said. 
Senior quarterback Megan Bastdo echoed the thoughts of her teammate. 
“Most of us have known each other for a long time, and so we kind of know what each other is doing,” Bastedo said. 
Vitale and Bastedo combined for 43 yards in the air includ­ing, Vitale’s 12-yard touchdown catch near the end of the first half. Farley then put the game away for good when Bastedo threw a four-yard touchdown pass late in the second half. 
The Farley offense did have two interceptions in the game, but the squad’s defense prevent­ed the Babes (0-3) from scoring. 
“The defense always executes well,” Bastedo said.  “They bail us out when we make mistakes.” 
Breen-Phillips’ two intercep­tions held Farley to 14 points, a marked change for the Babes, who had given up an average of 34 points in their first two games. 
“Our team did well on defense with the interceptions,” sopho­more quarterback Molly Toner said. 
Toner played her first game at quarterback Sunday, as the Babes’ starting quarterback was injured in their loss Tuesday night. 
“It was a little intimidating at first,” Toner said.  “But I think we played well.” 
Breen-Phillips looks for its first win against Cavanaugh next week, while Farley hopes to stay undefeated against Pangborn. 
Contact Peter Steiner at psteiner@nd.edu 
Lewis 6, Welsh Family 0 


By STEPHANIE BANTA 
Sports writer 
In a game riddled with pen­alties and turnovers, Lewis si­lenced Welsh Family in a 6-0 shutout Sunday night. 
“After losing last week, this win is just what we need,” senior linebacker Margot Debot said. 
The Chicks (1-1) dominated the field with a suffocating de­fense, pressuring Welsh Family (2-1) into three turnovers and two interceptions, including one forced by Dubot. 
“We really picked up the in­tensity in the defense this week,” Dubot said. “We shut down their strong quarterback, which was really exciting”. 
The Chicks’ energetic spirit was not reserved solely for their defense though. Junior quarter­back Connaught Blood drove the Lewis offense with 90 rushing yards, highlighted by a 65-yard punt return resulting in the game’s only touchdown. 
“[Blood] has great strength on the field,” Dubot said. “She has a strong arm and really knows how to make connections on the field.” 
The Whirlwind did not go down easily though. Led by ju­nior quarterback Vicky Moreno, who threw for 110 yards as well, Welsh Family racked up 100 rushing yards. 
“We are discouraged by this loss, but overall I feel we played well,” senior captain Charlotte Seasly said. “Besides the one punt return, I feel we really dominated a lot of the game.” 
The Whirlwind held their own, sacking Blood three times and forcing Lewis into three fourth down punts. 
“Our defense held really well today,” Seasly said. “We just need to make those connections in our offense.” 
Welsh Family looks to bounce back when it takes on Ryan next Sunday, while Lewis hopes to add to its winning streak against Pasquerilla East. 
Contact Stephanie Banta at sban­ta01@saintmarys.edu 
McGlinn 16, Lyons 12 


By SCOTT FRANO 
Sports Writer 
On a chilly fall night, McG­linn held off a second-half rally by Lyons to claim a 16-12 vic­tory. 
McGlinn (2-1) dominated the first half as senior quar­terback and captain Lauren Miller constantly found open­ings for long runs. In the first offensive series, Miller found junior receiver Caitlin Day for a touchdown. Junior receiver Katie Ritter then caught a Mill­er pass for the two-point con­version to give the Shamrocks an 8-0 lead. 
Later in the first half, Mill­er hit freshman running back Emma Collis in the end zone for a one-yard touchdown pass.
 “We were confident in our ability to move the ball,” Mill­er said. “We had a good game plan from the start, and we came out with good energy and were able to execute very well.” 
Lyons (0-2) got on the board in the second half with a short run from senior quarterback Kat Rodriguez. The Lions scored again late in the game on a 10-yard touchdown pass from Rodriguez to senior re­ceiver Carolyn Henderson. But the Lions failed on both two-point conversions, which proved to be the difference in the game. 
Lyons sophomore receiver and captain Christina Bra­manti felt her team benefit-ted from the game experience, which led to improved play in the second half. 
“We haven’t had a good prac­tice yet, so the first half was like a practice for us,” Braman­ti said. “We got a good flow go­ing and got back into the game [in the second].” 
McGlinn will vie for its third win against Walsh when it next takes the field, while Lyons looks for its first win against Pasquerilla East on Monday. 
Contact Scott Frano at sfrano@nd.edu 
Pasquerilla West 18, Pang-born 14 


By MIKE MONACO 
Sports Writer 
Pasquerilla West junior Al­ice Yerokun scrambled from nine yards out for her third touchdown of the game as time expired to give the Purple Weasels an 18-14 comeback win over Pangborn. 
“We needed that win coming off a tough loss to Cavanaugh,” Yerokun said. “We just pushed to the last second.” 
Yerokun, who had played running back up until the game-winning drive, took over at quarterback with her team trailing 14-12 with under a minute left to play. Starting at the Pasquerilla West eight-yard line, Yerokun scrambled three times for 30 yards. 
The Purple Weasels (1-1), facing a fourth-and-two, took a timeout with 12 seconds left in the game. Yerokun went to the air for a 23-yard conversion to senior receiver Laura Phillips. Following a penalty, Yerokun scampered in for the score and the win. 
“We know we have the skill and the athleticism,” Yerokun said. “We need to use this game to keep moving forward and win the league.” 
Pangborn (1-1) kept the game close with strong defense and timely offense. The de­fense kept the Purple Weasels in check for most of the game, forcing two three-and-outs and a 70-yard interception re­turn for a touchdown. 
“[This loss] really hurts be­cause we beat ourselves,” se­nior captain Liz Pawlak said. “Obviously [Pasquerilla West] played well and made some plays, but we beat ourselves and made mistakes. Hopefully this loss will light a fire under us.” 
Both teams take the field on Tuesday when Pasquerilla West takes on Howard and Pangborn squares off against Badin. 
Contact Mike Monaco at jmonaco@nd.edu 
Walsh 12, Pasquerilla East 12 


By ALLY DARRAGH 
Sports Writer 
Both Pasquerilla East and Walsh came ready to play Sun­day night in a heated battle that resulted in a 12-12 tie. 
Walsh (0-1-1) dominated the first half, coming out strong and scoring on its first drive. The Wild Women would con­tinue to overpower the Pyros (0-1-1) with junior quarter­back and captain Kat Leach leading the way. 
But after making some half­time adjustments, the Pyros shut the Walsh offense down for the entire second half. 
“We just got more pumped up at halftime. We knew we were down by two touchdowns and that the offense needed to drive more,” Pyros sophomore quarterback Emma Haduch said. “We got rid of a few pen­alties, which were our biggest problem in the first half.” 
Despite the defensive strug­gle, each team only allowed one turnover.
 “I was frustrated after the interception because I didn’t realize we were so close to scoring. We needed a pick six so bad,” Pyros senior safety Nneka Ekethukwu said. “Even though I didn’t score, the inter­ception felt amazing.” 
Defense was a key part of this game, as both teams had opportunities to take the lead for the victory. 
“Our defense worked as a great unit, and I’m proud of the errors we fixed from our first game last week,” Walsh captain Lindy Navarre said. “I think flag-pulling was ex­tremely crucial, and we just went out and made it happen. Even though it wasn’t the out­come we wanted, I think every­one really stepped up tonight.” 
The Pyros took on Pangborn, while Walsh faced McGlinn on Monday night. Scores were un­available at the time of publi­cation. 
Contact Ally Darragh at Adarra01@saintmarys.edu 
NFL 




Offseason arrests get attention 

Associated Press 
CINCINNATI — Bengals union representative Andrew Whitworth is upset that run­ning back Cedric Benson and other NFL players could face suspensions for offseason in­cidents. 
Benson and cornerback Adam “Pacman” Jones are subject to league discipline for arrests that occurred dur­ing the NFL’s lockout. Eight players overall are facing discipline under the league’s conduct policy. Benson has a hearing scheduled for Tues­day. 
Whitworth said Monday he wouldn’t have supported the new collective bargaining agreement if he knew play­ers would be suspended for things that happened before the deal was reached. 
“I was very shocked,” Whit-worth said. “It doesn’t make a whole lot of sense to me. 
“I feel like it’s the wrong decision, and I also believe the union let those eight guys down. I don’t feel like that was fair. To me, if I was told that was a make-or-break, I would have said that’s a make-or­break deal, that we were go­ing to sell out eight guys to have an agreement.” 
When the deal was reached in July, it was unclear wheth­er the league could fine or suspend players who got in trouble during the NFL’s 4½-month lockout, when there was no collective bar­gaining agreement. The NFL Players Association had de­certified as part of the labor dispute. 
The league and the NFLPA eventually agreed that eight players could be disciplined for incidents in the offseason, while 25 others would not be. 
“I feel like it was the wrong decision to allow those guys to be punished,” Whitworth said. “They weren’t employed [during the lockout] and they didn’t have a job, so they shouldn’t be able to be pun­ished for it. 
“Now, I don’t think that them doing stuff is OK. But if no one else can get punished, they shouldn’t be able to, ei­ther.” 
Benson was arrested dur­ing the summer of 2010 over an alleged bar fight in Aus­tin, Texas. He was charged with misdemeanor assault. Benson met with NFL Com­missioner Roger Goodell af­ter the incident and wasn’t disciplined. He was arrested again last July and charged with misdemeanor assault over an altercation with a for­mer roommate in Austin. 
Benson reached a plea agreement to settle both court cases and served five days in a Texas jail before the season began. 
Jones faces trial in Novem­ber over his arrest at a Cin­cinnati bar last July on mis­demeanor charges. The case is being monitored by au­thorities in Las Vegas, where Jones is on probation from a 2007 strip club fracas. 

Tuesday, September 27, 2011 The Observer u SPORTS ndsmcobserver.com | page 13 
“I’m really excited for Carre-Irish are in position to make a “It’s there for us if we elimi-The final round of the Fighting 

Kubinski 

on,” Kubinski said. “He’s worked run today as they sit just 12 shots nate the big numbers,” Kubinski Irish Gridiron Classic begins this 
harder than anyone else on the off the lead. Kubinski is confi-said. “We really can’t have any morning at 8:15 a.m. at the War-continued from page 16 team this fall, and it’s nice to see dent that with a good round and tomorrow. But if we have a great ren Golf Course. him get the results.” a little luck, the Irish still have a round and some of the leaders place individually. Despite the frustrating day, the shot at taking the tournament. play a little sub-par, we have a Contact Conor Kelly at shot.” ckelly17@nd.edu 


Waldrum 
continued from page 16 
it changes what we do with our soccer program.” 
Talks of major realignment began in the summer of 2010, when Nebraska and Colorado left the Big 12 for the Big 10 and Pac-10, respectively. Following Colorado, Utah left the Moun­tain West to head to the Pac-10 (now the Pac-12), while BYU be­came independent and TCU an­nounced it will become a part of the Big East starting in 2012. 
But what strikes Waldrum is the uncertainty surrounding the situation, as talks of realign­ment have stretched over a year with questions still looming. 
“To tell you the truth, I’m tired of [the speculation],” Wal­drum said. “It’s always circulat­ing, and as a coach it’s very un­settling having been in the Big East for such a long time.” 
Waldrum has experienced great success in the Big East since taking over as coach in 1999, following a three-year stint building Baylor’s women’s soccer program from scratch. In his 12 seasons as Notre Dame’s head coach, Waldrum has led the Irish (4-5-2, 1-2-1 Big East) to 11 Big East regular-season titles and seven Big East tour­nament championships, while taking his team to the NCAA tournament every year. 
So with all of the rumors swirling, Waldrum remains uncertain regarding the future of his program and the confer­ence, but trusts the leadership of the university. 
“I would hate to see anything happen to the Big East, but I definitely trust President [John] Jenkins and [Director of Athlet­ics] Jack Swarbrick to do what’s best for the school,” the two-time National Coach of the Year said. “But you just don’t know what’s going to happen with ev­erything.” 
The 2012 season will feature the addition of TCU to the Big East while coping with the de­parture of rivals Syracuse and Pittsburgh. But with all of the changes, scheduling becomes an issue. According to Wal­drum, programs usually receive their schedules a year or two in advance based on a school’s conference. 
“It’ll be interesting heading back to Texas to face TCU, but we just don’t know how it’s go­ing to be,” he said. “Usually we get our schedules way in ad­vance so we can see what we have to prepare for and where we have to go, but it’s different now with everything that’s go­ing on, and you just want it all to be done with.” 
Despite the potential impact conference realignment could have on the Irish, Waldrum said that the problem has yet to cause any uncertainty or specu­lation among his players. 
“I haven’t even heard a word of it in the locker room, and I think that is really how it should be,” he said. “It doesn’t really af­fect our players, and our focus is just centered on this season.” 
Contact Andrew Gastelum at agestel1@nd.edu 



Media 
continued from page 16 
complications behind the scenes as far as putting things in place for us to be in a great conference, and the potential to really magnify our program on television,” Jackson said. “I know that the majority of our issues regarding television are now resolved, and now it’s just a matter of getting clearance from the conferences that we’re looking at to move forward. And I would expect that it will be resolved here in the next few days.” 
While Notre Dame is hoping to have its conference choice fi­nalized soon, it is also nearing the completion of construction of the Compton Family Ice Are­na, the team’s state-of-the-art hockey facility, which is sched­uled to open in late October or early November. With the rink now in place, the Irish were able to conduct an open skate on their new home ice for the first time yesterday. 
Although playing in a new arena is an exciting change for the Irish, they realize the im­portance of maintaining focus on the game itself, especially as they begin their home slate in the Joyce Center. 
“We’re all really excited,” junior goaltender Mike John­son said. “[But] we have talked about the distraction factor — there’s no way it’s not going to be a distraction. So we need to remember although it is really cool and exciting to get a new arena, [we need] to worry about the first few weeks before we’re even in there because they’re coming around just as quickly.” 
With the talk of conference realignment and the new arena, the announcement that could most directly impact the Irish on the ice in 2011-2012 was a bit overshadowed. Senior de­fenseman Sean Lorenz and se­nior forward Billy Maday were named co-captains by Jackson, while sophomore forward An­ders Lee earned the role of al­ternate captain for the season. 
Lorenz, who led the CCHA in plus-minus rating last season at +33, said the added dynamic of off-ice leadership will increase his role on the team even fur­ther. 
“It’s going to add a little bit more [pressure],” he said. “You’ve got a little bit more re­sponsibility [and] a little more pressure to make sure guys are keeping focused, keeping level­headed.” 
Maday is also looking forward to having more of an impact in the locker room. 
“I’m not only representing myself, but the program, and I have to lead certain players in the right direction to make sure we continue on the right path as a team and reach our goals,” Maday said. “I’m willing to take on that challenge.” 
The Irish open exhibition play against Western Ontario on Sunday, followed by the season-opening series at Minnesota-Duluth from Oct. 7 to 8. The home opener is Oct. 14 against Ohio State in the Joyce Center. 

Contact Sam Gans at sgans@nd.edu 

page 14 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u SPORTS Tuesday, September 27, 2011 
defense with its second straight was its only trip to the red zone Sophomore quarterback Joe a 14-6 win over Dillon. 


Griffins 

shutout, keeping Duncan on its in the game. Paggi scored the only points of From the bench to the start-
continued from page 16 
any kind of consistency. 
“We made a lot of mistakes and committed a lot of turn­overs on offense,” junior line­backer and captain Robert Toole said. “Our defense continued to be a bright spot for us.” 
Strong performances from sophomore safety Michael Fischer and junior linebacker Andy Heck aided the Kanga­roos’ defensive effort. 
“Once we work out some ex­ecution issues, we’ll greatly improve our chances of win­ning out the rest of this season,” Toole said. 
Keough next takes on Dillon Oct. 9, while the Griffins look to remain undefeated against Dil­lon on Sunday. 
Contact Jonathon Warren at Jwarren3@nd.edu 
Sorin 7, Zahm 0 

By BRIAN HARTNETT 
Sports Writer 
One touchdown was all that Sorin needed to remain unde­feated, as the Otters beat Zahm 7-0 in a close defensive struggle. 
Sorin (2-0) finally broke through in the third quarter when junior receiver Ryan Rob­inson caught an 18-yard touch­down pass in double coverage from junior quarterback Ted Spinelli, the end result of a me­thodical 65-yard drive. 
“We ran a basic hitch-and-go route, and I was able to use my elevation to go up and beat the defenders to the ball,” Robinson said. 
Robinson’s touchdown proved to be the one offensive highlight in a game marked mostly by de­fensive stops and turnovers. 
Sorin received its big break late in the second quarter when it forced a Zahmbie (0-1) fumble on Zahm’s 18-yard line. How­ever, the Otters wasted the op­portunity just plays later, when Zahm senior linebacker Greg Bennett intercepted a Spinelli toss in the end zone. The Otters also missed a crucial 30-yard field goal at the end of the first half. 
“We got the victory, but we are not happy with the way we played,” Robinson said. “The Zahm defense really threw us for a loop.” 
Zahm’s defensive scheme, called the “Pizza Formation,” held the strong Sorin offense in check. 
However, the Zahmbies’ of­fensive struggles prevented any comeback attempts, as the of­fense was only able to muster one first down on the day. 
Bennett, one of the leaders for the Zahmbies, concluded that the team needed to make some drastic changes heading into the upcoming game. 
“There needs to be a coup-d’état on this Zahm team,” Ben­nett said.  “I plan on starting as running back next week, and senior defensive end Luke Len­non should be our new kicker.” 
Sorin takes the field next Oct. 9 against Carroll, while Zahm looks to gain its first victory when it takes on Carroll on Sun­day. 

Contact Brian Hartnett at bhartnett@nd.edu 
Alumni 6, Duncan 0 

By ISAAC LORTON 
Sports Writer 
Alumni showed off its strong 
heels and ultimately emerging The Ramblers’ defense played from the hard-fought defensive well, containing junior quarter-battle with a 6-0 victory. back Jake Coleman in the pock­
“I was really proud of our et and holding him to only nine defense,” senior running back passing yards. The Ramblers and captain Dan Dansdill said. were led by senior defensive “We like to rotate our defensive end Mike Dineen, who had four players a lot to keep them fresh, sacks, two forced fumbles and and it worked again today.” 13 total tackles. 
Along with this mobile de-“Our defense’s great line fense, Alumni (2-0) stuck to a pressure helped our guys on smash-mouth running offense. both ends of the field,” Dineen The Dawgs ran for 128 yards, said. “It really closed up the with Dansdill running for 55 field for them.” yards and sophomore running The Ramblers look to contin­back Kevin Rolfs running for ue their winning streak against 
51. Alumni on Sunday, while the 
“We have a strong offensive Juggerknotts hope to recover line,” Dansdill said. “So we let against Alumni on Oct. 9. them work on people and run behind them.” contact Andrew Cardoza at 
There was not much of a acardoza@nd.edu passing game without the ser­vices of starting sophomore quarterback Will Cronin. How-Fisher 6, Carroll 0 ever, freshman quarterback Tyler Barron filled in, getting By ERNST CLEOFE the job done. Sports Writer 
“Tyler did a great job stepping in and leading our offense,” Fisher outlasted Carroll in a 
Dansdill said.  grueling  bat- 
The  lone  tle,  emerging  
score came on  with a 6-0 win  
a quarterback  after  scoring  
sneak, as Bar­ “We couldn’t run the ball  the  go-ahead  
ron punched it in the end zone from one yard out after  very well today, so we had to resort to passing. Once they figured that out, it was hard to pass as well.”  t o uc h d ow n in the fourth quarter. From the  
the Highland- start  of  the  
ers fumbled on their own 30-yard line.  Neil Eveld Duncan junior  game, both teams were locked in a de- 
The  High­ fensive match- 
landers failed  up  while  
to  get  their  the  offenses  
offense  run- struggled  to  

ning against the Dawgs’ stout make progress down the field. defense. Fisher (1-1) relied heavily on 
“We couldn’t run the ball very its running game and proceed-well today, so we had to resort ed to wear down the Carroll (1­to passing,” junior right tackle 1) defense. In the fourth quar­and captain Neil Eveld said. ter, the offense finally broke “Once they figured that out, it through by stringing together was hard to pass as well.” solid gains through the air with 
Duncan (0-2) struggled with quick passing routes. key turnovers and penalties, which crippled its offense. 
“We can’t make mistakes,” Eveld said. “Turnovers and penalties kill drives.” 
The Highlanders look to im­prove Sunday as they seek their first win against Morrissey, while the Dawgs hope to shut out Siegfried. 

Contact Isaac Lorton at ilorton@nd.edu 
Siegfried 9, Knott 0

 By ANDREW CARDOZA 
Sports Writer 
It took one big play from Sieg­fried senior defensive back Will Gesicki to help the Ramblers defeat Knott 9-0 in an interhall grudge match. 
Gesicki recovered a fumble on the second defensive drive of the game and returned it 47 yards for a Rambler touch­down. It was all Siegfried (1-0) would need to defeat Knott (1­1). 
“All I knew was once I saw that football, it was my job to pick it up and go the distance,” Gesicki said. “I got a great bounce and managed to take it back to the house.” 
The slick field and wet foot­ball resulted in a very sloppy game, with the two teams com­bining for only 173 yards of total offense. The conditions resulted in four botched quar­terback snaps, two fumbles, one interception and a poor snap on an extra point that was never kicked. 
The key play in the game oc­curred in the second quarter when Knott fumbled the ball on Siegfried’s one-yard line. That the game with a designed in­side quarterback run from in­side the five-yard line. 
The Green Wave held on to win after two costly penalties by Carroll. On the next Fisher drive following the touchdown, Carroll jumped offsides on a fourth-down punt, allowing Fisher to run down the clock further. 
Then on the subsequent Car­roll drive, sophomore quar­terback Jack Gardner threw a deep pass that was picked off by the Fisher defense. The in­terception, Gardner’s second of the game, halted what had been Carroll’s strongest offen­sive drive and sealed the Fisher win. 
The win gives the Green Wave their first victory of the season after a disappointing loss to So­rin in their opening game. 
“Last week was a tough one, our offense had trouble,” Paggi said. “It’s nice to be back up and win this week.” 
The loss brings the Vermin to .500, and going forward  they look to reduce the mental mis­takes that have hurt them in the first two games of the sea­son. 
“We came out and had a lot of mental mistakes,” junior cap­tain Keith Marrero said. “For us, the game was lost between the ears.” 
Carroll looks to rebound against Zahm next week, while Fisher hopes to start a winning streak against St. Edward’s. 

Contact Ernst Cleofe at ecleofe@nd.edu 
Dillon 14, Keenan 6 

By MEGHAN RODER 
Sports Writer 
Keenan was a cohesive force that took the game by storm in ing lineup, the Knights (2-0) were ready to play against the Big Red (1-1). 
“This was a team unity win. Everyone was ready to go from the snap,” junior Andrew Mc-Donough said. “Even though we were short-handed, we still came out on top. One of our captains, [senior] Erik Black-wood, was out and a few men were injured. Regardless, with [sophomore] Jeremy Riche, [ju­nior] Kevin Walsh and [senior] Nick Burley, we did what need­ed to be done and took control. Our offensive line was unstop­pable.” 
Junior receiver Nate Carr made himself comfortable in the end zone, snagging a touch­down reception. Along with Carr, Riche caught a shoestring pass and ran it into the endzone to score the second touchdown. 
On the other side of the line, Dillon’s defense kept it in the game while the offense strug­gled. 
“The blame [falls] on the quarterback. I made too many mistakes today,” sophomore quarterback Kevin Fink said. “Keenan put us in a position where we had to throw the ball to make some plays, and I didn’t make good enough decisions. The credit has to go to Keenan. Keenan has a good offense and they beat us fair and square.” 
Dillon’s defense was its sav­ing grace. Senior Evan Wray had an impressive intercep­tion that kept the fire burning for Dillon toward the end of the game, and freshman Colin Terndrup brought refreshing intensity to the field, but it was not enough to hold off Keenan. 
Both teams will take the field Sunday at 3 p.m. at Riehle Fields, as Dillon faces Stanford and Keenan takes on O’Neill. 


Contact Meghan Roder at mroder@ saintmarys.edu 



Tuesday, September 27, 2011 The Observer u TODAY ndsmcobserver.com | page 15 
WILL SHORTz 
EUGENIA LAST 


CROSSWORD 
HOROSCOPE 



JON REPINE 

EXPND 




Unscramble these four Jumbles,one letter to each square,to form four ordinary words. 
ROEAP  

©2011 Tribune Media Services, Inc.All Rights Reserved. 
FRUYR SOIGPS HWNEEP  
 

Find us on Facebook http://www.facebook.com/jumble 
HENRy ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 

“ 

” 
A: 


(Answers tomorrow) Jumbles: DRIFT DRESS GALAXY SYSTEMYesterday’s 
Answer: Paul didn’t want to put off finishing this until tomorrow — YESTERDAY 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to and mail to:  The Observer P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
 Enclosed is $130 for one academic ye ar 
 Enclosed is $75 for one semester  

Name ____________________________________________________ Address __________________________________________________ City ____________________ State___________ Zip______________ 

Tuesday, September 27, 2011 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 16 
HOCKEY 

Compton, captains, conferences 
Irish initiate 2011­2012 season with first media day 
By SAM GANS 
Sports Writer 
Though the Irish do not be­gin practice until Saturday, the 2011-2012 season got off to an unofficial start yesterday with media day. 
On a day in which Irish coach Jeff Jackson named his cap­tains and the team skated in the brand new Compton Family Ice Arena’s rink for the first time, perhaps the biggest news was no news. 
Notre Dame has still not an­nounced its plans for confer­ence affiliation after the CCHA disbands following the 2012­2013 season. The Irish have offers from both Hockey East and the newly created National Collegiate Hockey Conference (NCHC). 

Hockey East has 10 teams, including Merrimack and New Hampshire, both of whom Notre Dame defeated on the way to the Frozen Four last season, and national powers Boston College Jackson, who stated the Irish recruit and we put ourselves in ence was Notre Dame’s desire to and Boston University. will not pursue independence, position to compete against the limit conference breakups as 
The NCHC currently consists did not announce if Notre Dame best teams in the country, and much as possible, Jackson indi­of eight members, including de-has a preference toward either put ourselves in position to play cated. The Irish were also con-fending national champion Min-conference, but did say he sees in front of big crowds in great cerned about television pack-nesota-Duluth, current CCHA both as a potentially good fit. buildings every night. And I ages. rival Miami and North Dakota “I don’t think we can go think that exists in both confer-“What people have to under-and Denver, the latter two of wrong,” Jackson said. “The ences.” stand is that there was a lot of which have a combined 14 na-most important thing is that Part of the reason for the on­tional championships. we put ourselves in position to going delay in choosing a confer-see MEDIA/page 13 

MEN’S INTERHALL 
Stanford survives Keough 
By JONATHON WARREN 
Sports Writer 
In a battle of defensive wills, Stanford overtook Ke­ough, winning its first game of the season 7-0. 
The game was locked 0-0 until a 20-yard touchdown run by freshman Dan Groom in the second quarter decid­ed the game for the Griffins (1-0). 
“Overall, we looked great at times and bad at others,” junior captain Paul Babiak said. “We had some first-game jitters. We have some kinks we need to work out, but everyone was really hap­py with how the game turned out.” 
Despite a strong perfor­mance from the offensive line, Stanford’s offense strug­gled against the Kangaroos’ defense. 
“At times we looked really sloppy, and we just need to work that out in practice,” Babiak said. “We have a lot to work on, but it’s very doable. We looked very strong, and I think we’ll continue to show that.” 
The Kangaroos (0-2) failed to score on the Griffins, as the offense committed six turnovers and failed to gain 
see GRIFFINS/ page 14 
MEN’S GOLF 

Irish struggle as hosts 
By CONOR KELLY 
Sports Writer 
Hosting the Fighting Irish Gridiron Classic at the Warren Golf Course, the Irish shot a 583 through the first two rounds of the tournament, leaving them sitting at sixth place in a 12­team field. 
With the team sitting 12 shots behind Houston, the lead­er of the field, the finish was disappointing for Irish coach Jim Kubinski, who watched his talented team struggle with inconsistent and sloppy play throughout the day. 
“We certainly did not get what we were looking for,” Kubinski said. “Especially at home, we have to be better. It’s frustrating, and our guys know that.” 
Throughout the young sea­son, the Irish have struggled to put together top-quality rounds by their entire top-five golfers simultaneously, and this was certainly the case in the first round Monday. Seniors Tom Usher (E) and Max Scodro (+1) played well, while the rest of the squad failed to keep pace, finishing at a combined +14 on the round. 
Usher’s round was particu­larly impressive given that without a triple bogey on the twelfth hole, he might have fin­ished at -3 on the round. 
“Tom did a good job today mi­nus the triple on 12,” Kubinski said. “We made some birdies towards the end of the round that helped close the gap, but we just didn’t follow it up with a good second round.” 
No Irish player shot better than a +3 in the second, as the squad finished the round at +25. 
“We make enough birdies to be a heck of a team,” Kubinski said. “But we put up enough big numbers to be a bad one. It’s been our M.O. for the last year or two. Until we eliminate those, we won’t win tourna­ments.” 
One golfer the Irish might like to have back in their lineup is sophomore Andrew Carreon, who made his first tournament appearance of the fall com­peting only as an individual. Carreon’s -2 mark on the day puts him in a tie for second 
see KUBINSKI/page 13 

ND WOMEN’S SOCCER 
Uncertainty pervades Big East 

By ANDREW GASTELUM will affect college football and Sports Writer college basketball. 
But according to Irish coach 

With all of the speculation Randy Waldrum, how the surrounding conference re-changes affect other athletic alignment in college sports programs at the university level today, it’s easy to reflect on remain overlooked. how the new arrangements “People sometimes don’t un­derstand that [realignment] affects all of the programs,” Waldrum said before his team’s road trip to South Florida and Marquette. “They see the changes and don’t realize that 
see WALDRUM/page 13 





