the
Observer 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


Campus safe, but security issues remain 
By MEGAN DOYLE and 
CAITLIN HOUSLEY 
News Editor and Saint Mary’s Editor 
In the shadow of the Saint Mary’s Bell Tower and Notre Dame’s Golden Dome, students feel at home. Safe. Outside these familiar spots, fear of the unknown puts students on their guard. 
Saint Mary’s junior Sarah McCroy said she frequently walks from the Grotto to her dorm room in LeMans Hall at Saint Mary’s. She said as one of many students who walk late hours between the two campus­es, there is a distinct area where she feels less secure — the same “It’s not an issue of feeling safe area where a sexual battery was on campus,” McCroy said. “I feel reported Sunday night by a Saint very safe when I am walking on Mary’s student. both Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s campuses. It’s just that limbo part, right after the lakes and before the Avenue.” 

Notre Dame Security Police (NDSP) Director Phil Johnson said safety at Saint Mary’s and Notre Dame is built on a sense of familiarity. 
“One of the distinctions of Notre Dame is that we look out for each other, and we have that strong sense of Catholic cam­pus,” Johnson said. “The fabric of our community is woven very close together with our resi­dence program, and we need to leverage that as part of our safe­ty program.” 
Statistically, Johnson said while crime may occur any­where, campuses report lower crime levels than surrounding cities. 
“The incidents may be low in number, but there is a possibility of crime occurring here as there is anywhere,” he said. “But with a fully-engaged community, it is generally a safer community than one where we are entrenched in distrust and don’t interact with each other.” However, this sense of familiarity may dull students to potential crimes. 
“The threats to safety for women are presented, statisti­cally, by people who are known 
see SECURITY/page 5 



DirectorofUtilitiestestifysinCongressionalhearing 
By MEGAN DOYLE 
News Editor 
Notre Dame Director of Utilities Paul Kempf testified before the Congressional Subcommittee on Energy and Power April 15 in Washington, D.C., providing expertise con­cerning clean air standards. 
The air standards reviewed were first issued by the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) in 2004 as an amendment to the Clean Air Act. These standards were dropped in federal court and are now being reevaluated. 

The sub ­committee held the hearing with Kempf and other witnesses to discuss legislation to change these stan­
dards. 
“We are just trying to make sure the end result is reason­able and affordable and that the costs make sense,” Kempf said Tuesday. “We have tried to make sure we are good stewards of the environment.” 
Kempf said he hopes the EPA delays the standards pro­posed after a recent review. The EPA requested multiple times to extend its deadline for the review on the stan­dards. 
“When the EPA took com­ments on the standards, they were starting to realize some of those limits were too strin­gent,” Kempf said. “I think the EPA, to a certain effect, hur­ried through this review, and then when the staff asks for more time for a review, I think they should have it.” 
see KEMPF/page 5 



Textbookoptionsavailableoncampus 
By KRISTEN DURBIN and 


JULIA HARRIS 
News Writers 
Students may be preoccu­pied with studying for finals in coming days, but they will also be faced with an even bigger challenge — deciding between the several options available at the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s College for unloading their textbooks. 
The Hammes Notre Dame bookstore and the Shaheen Bookstore at Saint Mary’s College both are gearing up to buy books back from students during finals week. 
Saint Mary’s junior Sylvia Rojas said the convenience of selling books on campus is a major draw, despite a dimin-

Bookstore, said the bookstore see TEXTBOOKS/page 4 

Students and Professors submit films to festivals 
By AMANDA GRAY 
News Writer 
Though South Bend may not be the first place that comes to mind when one thinks of film production, Notre Dame is stak­ing its claim as a hotbed for cin­ematic talent. 
In the past year, the Film, Television and Theatre (FTT) Department saw a successful turnout on the film festival cir­cuit for students, professors and alumni, department chair Don Crafton said. 
One film from professor Ted Mandell’s “Documentary Video Production” course took home numerous accolades over the past few months, according to a press release from the depart­ment. 
“Picking Up America,” by sen­iors Michael Burke and Marie Wicht, focuses on four activists who clean up trash from coast to coast. The documentary was accepted by the Reality Bytes Independent Student Film Festival held at Northern Illinois University in DeKalb, Ill. the first week of April. It also won the Social Change Award from the 10th Annual Ivy Film Festival held at Brown University in Providence, R.I. at the end of the month. 
Wicht said the duo knew they 
see FILM/page 4 


ished resale value. 
“Selling the books back to the school is the easiest option,” she said. “They gave me back about half of the money that I paid.” 
Bob Dezenzo, textbook coor­dinator at the Shaheen will repurchase books depending on their condition and use for the following semester. Students will receive about 50 percent of the sale price back in cash, he said. 
INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER College to establish abroad program page 3 Viewpoint page 10  Humor Artists make students laugh page 12  Men’s Lacrosseto take on UNC page 24 
page 2 The Observer  PAGE 2 Wednesday, May 4, 2011 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Douglas Farmer 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Sarah Mervosh Patrick Sala ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Adriana Pratt ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Chris Masoud NEWS EDITORS: Megan Doyle Sam Stryker 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Meghan Thomassen 
SPORTS EDITOR: Allan Joseph 
SCENE EDITOR: Maija Gustin 

SAINT MARY’S EDITOR: Caitlin E. Housley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Pat Coveney 

GRAPHICS EDITOR: Brandon Keelean 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Katherine Lukas 

AD DESIGN MANAGER: Amanda Jonovski 
CONTROLLER: Jeff Liptak 


SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Joseph Choi 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 

(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 

(574) 631-4542 dfarmer1@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 

(574) 631-4541 smervosh@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITORS 

(574) 631-4324 apratt@nd.edu, cmasoud@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 
SPORTS DESK 

(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 mgustin@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY’S DESK 
chousl01@saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 

(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 

observerOnline 

www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper 
published in print and online by the students of the 
University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s 
College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is 
not governed by policies of the administration of either 
institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse 
advertisements based on content. 

The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of 
the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, 
Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. 
Commentaries, letters and columns present the views 
of the authors and not necessarily those of The 
Observer. 

Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include 
contact information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Douglas Farmer. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 

024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer 
Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 
and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 

Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 




TODAY’S STAFF 

News Sports 
Sam Stryker Eric Prister Anna Boarini Megan Golden Jillian Barwick Jack Hefferon 

Graphics Scene 
Lauren Kalinoski Troy Mathew 

Photo Viewpoint 
Suzanna Pratt Meghan Thomassen 


CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT IS STILL LE T ON YOUR ND BUCKET LIST? 







Alexa Shoen  Kale Frank  Kyle Looft  Madeline Buckley  Sean Pennino  
senior  senior  senior  senior  senior  
off campus  off campus  off campus  off campus  off campus  
“Telling my  “To call Melissa  “Don’t you  “To be in The  “Sin.”  
friends I’m not  Buddie back.”  mean who?”  Observer’s  
a Republican.”  Question of the  
Day!”  


SUZANNA PRATT/The Observer Junior Nancy Paul looks for the perfect piece of pottery at the Grad Student Pottery Sale outside of Riley Hall Tuesday afternoon. 


OFFBEAT 
Maryland men pilfer antlers from Pa. NRA event 
PITTSBURGH – Police are pointing at two exhi­bition workers in the theft of two massive sets of elk antlers following the National Rifle Association ’s annual meeting in Pittsburgh. Investigators say 46 ­year-old Gary Felts and 44-year-old Stephen Lee abducted the antlers Sunday night while a vendor at the convention center waited to load a truck. Police say the vendor reported the theft and the men were detained 
on a sidewalk outside with the antlers, valued at more than $500,000. 


Have an idea for Question of the Day? Email obsphoto@gmail.com 
IN BRIEF 
The Notre Dame women’s softball team takes on the University of Pittsburgh in a doubleheader today from 4 to 8 p.m. at Melissa Cook Stadium. 
Tonight from 5 to 7:30 p.m., student teams will present the results of their research proj­ects, which explored change across a range of topics affect­ing business and society in the atrium of Mendoza College of Business. Following the pres­entation, William Chamberlin, Principal Consultant as IBS’s Social Insights Practice, will speak on Horizon Watching: Leveraging Social Media and Communities for Foresight Research in Jordan Auditorium. 
Tune into 88.9 WSND-FM at 5 p.m. tonight to hear “The Sound of Her Name” radio interview featuring Dean John McGreevy, who will speak with notable Notre Dame per­sonalities about how they per­ceive the mission of Our Lady’s University in their per­sonal and professional lives. 
The Notre Dame men’s baseball team takes on the University of Michigan tonight from 5:35 to 7:35 p.m. at Frank Eck Baseball Stadium. 
Tonight at 7 and 8:30 p.m. come see the Collegium Musicum Spring Concert at the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. 
Humor Artists Present: Quatro de Mayo -A SalsHA Themed Night of Comedy tonight at 7:30 p.m. in the Carey Auditorium of the Hesburgh Library. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, email detailed information about an event to obsnews.nd@gmail.com 

Felts, of Joppa, Md.; and Lee, of Cumberland, Md.; were charged with theft and conspiracy and released on $5,000 bail. Phone listings for both men are disconnected. Police say they work for a Maryland-based expo company. The antlers were returned to the Rexburg, Idaho-based exhibitor. 
10-foot gator chomps 
on Florida deputy ’s cruiser 
GAINESVILLE, Fla. – A 10-foot-long alligator has taken a bite out of a Florida deputy sheriff’s cruiser. 
Authorities say Alachua County Deputy Victor Borrero spotted the gator Saturday evening near the Gainesville Golf and Country Club. It attacked the patrol car while the deputy was waiting for an alligator trapper to show up. 
Sheriff ’s spokesman Todd Kelly says the car’s front bumper was heavily damaged. 
A Florida Fish and Wildlife Conservation Commission spokes ­woman said the alligator was put down under the state ’s nuisance gator policy. Under that policy, the trapper is allowed to keep meat and hide from the gator. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

Today Tonight Thursday Friday Saturday sunday 



Wednesday, May 4, 2011 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
SMC hosts 5k promoting self-esteem 
By KELLY MURPHY 
News Writer 
A commemoration of self-respect and community amongst preteen girls will be celebrated May 25 at Saint Mary’s College, as the first annual Girls On The Run 5k walk/run will be hosted on campus. 
Girls On The Run, an interna­tional organization with chap­ters in 42 states and two Canadian provinces, is based on the principle of moving for­ward in life through the inspi­ration of fitness. 
The organization opened a council in the Michiana area in Jan. 2011 through the help of Jackie Bauter, head coach of the Saint Mary’s cross country team. 
Bauter, an ’04 alum and pro­gram coach for Girls On The Run’s Michiana Council, said Girls On The Run is about more than promoting fitness. 
“Running is not what the pro­gram is all about,” she said. “We use running as a way to get the message across in each session. We want to show the 

girls that running can be an ning and walking games with outlet for a bad day.” life skills, some including lead-Bauter said Girls On The Run ership, goal setting, coopera­is a 10-to-12 week after-school tion and healthy eating, Bauter 
program for girls in the 3rd to 5th grade. She said the girls meet twice a week. 
At the end of the program the girls and a running buddy complete a non-competi­tive 5K run/walk , Bauter said. Through the Swanson Primary Center of 
“We use running as a way to get the message across in each session. We want to show the girls that running can be an outlet for a bad day.” 
Jackie Bauter Saint Mary’s cross country coach 
said. 
The first four weeks of the curricu lum focus on self­refl ecti on, Bauter said. The next ses­sion of lessons centers on the importance of cooperation, Bauter said the girls concen­trate on learn­ing about com­munity and how they can make a differ-

South Bend, there are current­ly 12 girls involved with the Michiana chapter of Girls On The Run. 
Bauter said each session has a theme relevant to the girls’ lives, including bullying and gossip. Different activities and demonstrations are completed to help the girls grasp the sub­ject and to see positives in diffi­cult situations. 
Each session combines run­ence in the last set of meetings. 
Bauter said she hopes the program will grow in a way beneficial to participants. 
“We are about quality over quantity,” Bauter said. “It’s all about the girls and providing the experience for them along with keeping a steady pace of growth.” 
Contact Kelly Murphy at kmurph04@saintmarys.edu 
College to establish new abroad program in Peru 
By OLIVIA BRACH 
News Writer 
With developments well under way, a new summer study abroad opportunity may soon be available to Saint Mary’s stu­dents in Peru. For one Saint Mary’s pro­fessor, this means per­sonally taking a trip to the study site. 
Biology pro­fessor Tom Fogle will journey to Canto Grande, an urban area located in San Juan de Lurigancho, a district in Lima. Fogle will visit for 3 weeks, scout­ing out what could be the destina­tion of the study abroad program. 
Fogle said he is excited about vis­iting another country. 
“I am looking forward to learn­ing about the culture and people of Peru,” he said. 
In a pamphlet distributed by the College, the program was described as combining “acade-mics, service, and cultural experi­ences in a learning environment that takes students beyond the classroom.” 

If approved the study abroad trip will partner with King’s College. King’s College, founded by the Congregation of Holy Cross, is located in Wilkes-Barre, Penn. 
The trip is part of a larger initia­tive by Saint Mary’s to collaborate with Holy Cross institutions around the country and the world. 
Fogle will spend a majority of his time at the Father Patrick Peyton Family Center, home of the King’s College program, which was creat­ed through the initiative of the Congregation of Holy Cross. 
Upon returning to the States, Fogle will meet with the Center For Women’s Intercultural Leadership and give a report on the Program. 
Fogle, said he has high hopes for the program. 
“[This trip will] open up more opportunities for students, and will help them establish more connec­tions with the Holy Cross Order,” he said. 
Contact Olivia Brach at obrach01@saintmarys.edu 


page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, May 4, 2011 
COR holds final meeting, adds oversight committe 
By JOHN CAMERON 
News Writer 
At its final meeting of the semester Tuesday, the Council of Representatives (COR) laid fur­ther groundwork for next year’s student government by adding Oversight Committee chair Ben Noe to COR in a non-speaking capacity. 
COR also approved selected students as members of the Judicial Council. 
Noe, who formerly served as parliamentarian this past year, is heading a task force charged with evaluating and proposing amendments to the student gov­ernment constitution. 
Student body president Pat McCormick called Noe a neces­sary addition to COR. 
“What [Noe will] be bringing is the ability to discuss the changes he’s considering so we can discuss them here, because it’s likely he’ll be making changes that will affect all the branches of student govern­ment,” McCormick said. 
Noe said there is important work to be done on the constitu­tion. He said his presence on COR would be helpful in explaining the technicalities of amendments and receiving feed­back. 
“I think this document can be improved in a multitude of ways and, over time, these changes can be made to make the consti­tution more effective and a cleaner document with more transparency,” Noe said. “Being an approved member of COR would enable me to give almost weekly updates on the state of the constitution and to speak to the constitutionality of things going on in COR.” 
After Noe was unanimously approved, Judicial Council pres­ident Susanna Sullivan present­ed Morgan Pino as her choice for the new vice president for Peer Advocacy and also present­ed next year’s election commit­tee members. Sullivan spoke on the behalf of Pino, who is cur­rently abroad. 
“Morgan has been a peer advocate for the past two years and took a lot on last semester,” Sullivan said. “Morgan has some ideas for making [peer advoca­cy] more accessible and a less awkward process for students.” 
After Pino received unani­mous approval, Sullivan and Caitlin Ogren, vice president of elections, presented their selec­tions for next year’s election committee, all of whom were approved. 
The new election committee members are sophomores Katie Hennessy, Kaitlin Kent and Connor Geraghty and freshmen Jacob Stanton, Dan Woods, Anne Egan, and Katie Nolan. 
Contact John Cameron at jcamero2@nd.edu 

bookstore’s partnership with their orders to the bookstore by sells used textbooks to fund lit-encourages donations of books, student government. in time to determine the books eracy initiatives worldwide, though it does offer an online 
Textbooks 

“Saving the students money available for rent. Chief Executive Officer David buyback option on its website. continued from page 1 is something we like to do,” she “Our compliance rate right Murphy said. Better World This focus appeals to the social 
said. “Text rental is a great now is 60 percent, which Books runs used book drives on consciousness of Notre Dame Kristin Blitch, marketing man-way to make this happen.” means that only that percent-more than 1,500 college cam-students, he said. ager for Notre F o r m e r age of courses listed at Notre puses around “Notre Dame Dame Retail Academic Dame have books that were the country, s t u d e n t s O p e r a t i o n s , Affairs chair-designated by professors and and it has col-“Saving the students understand 
“As the Rent-A-Text 
said bookstore man AJ can be rented by students,” he lected more that simple 
money is something weprogram continues to

operations have M c G a u l e y said. “It’s on the professors to than 53 mil-actions can 
like to do. Text rentals is 

changed with grow in popularity, we said the pro-get to the bookstore about their lion books for help change this year’s gram had a book needs, so their participa-reuse or recy-a great way to make this the world, so 
expect that more titles
implementation few minor tion needs to improve in the cling since its we want to 
happen.” 

will be rented as
of the Rent-A-setbacks in future to improve the Rent-a-inception. appeal to them Text textbook opposed to purchased.” its first year Text program.” Murphy said to lead they rental program. at Notre Saint Mary’s senior Nina these drives Kristin Blitch way, and they “It’s very diffi-Dame. Midgley was satisfied with her have a posi-marketing manager do,” he said. 
Kristin Blitch
cult to predict “There was Rent-a-Text experience. tive affect on Notre Dame Retail “Even if stu­
marketing manager 
the total num-some confu-“It was much cheaper, and I communities. dents know 
Operations

ber of books Notre Dame Retail sion last knew I wouldn’t get the money “Our first they could get that we’ll be Operations s e m e s t e r back if I bought the book and book drive at their money buying back about when sold it,” she said. Notre Dame in back, they due to the pop-rented books Students also have the oppor-2002 benefited the Robinson realize what a difference they ularity of the rental program,” needed to be turned in,” he tunity to donate used textbooks Community Learning Center,” can make, especially in the she said. “As the Rent-A-Text said. “Some students were to Better World Books, a com-he said. “At Notre Dame, we local sense with the Robinson program continues to grow in charged for keeping their pany based in Mishawaka and appeal to students to donate Center.” popularity, we expect that more books if they were not turned founded in 2002 by 2001 Notre their books to continue to sup-titles will be rented as opposed in on time.” Dame graduates Christopher port the Robinson Center and Contact Kristen Durbin at to purchased.” McGauley said the future suc-Fuchs, Xavier Helgesen and to promote sustainability by kdurbin@nd.edu and Julia 
Blitch said the program is cess of the program depends Jeff Kurtzman. keeping books out of landfills.” Harris at extremely successful due to the on whether professors submit The company collects and Murphy said the company jharri01@saintmarys.edu. 
Film 
continued from page 1 
produced a good film but were not sure how it would fare in competition. 
“We didn’t realize how much success it could or would have until we won the Social Change Award,” she said. “I knew what we had was good. We’ve been on a roll since.” 
Ten student films were shown at various festivals around the nation, three of which came from Mandell’s class. 
Mandell said the films from his class were technically supe­rior and covered intriguing sub­jects. 
“They’re intriguing subjects,” he said. “They all have a human message.” 
Burke said audience feedback was crucial to the development of the documentary. 
“Anytime someone else watches your film, it’s worth­while,” he said. “Even if it’s just one person watching. Part of the process is seeing what works and what doesn’t.” 
Mandell said support from the Institute for Scholarship and the Liberal Arts’ Undergraduate Research Opportunity Program was crucial to all of the films’ development. 
“These funds allow students to blossom and make films inter­esting not only to Notre Dame, but national ones, as well,” he said. 
Student films weren’t the only Notre Dame affiliated produc­tions to earn accolades. Two films by Notre Dame professors were distinguished at festivals as well. 

“Strong Bodies Fight,” by Professor William Donaruma and Mark Weber, a 2009 Notre Dame graduate, won Finalist, Best Documentary and Audience Choice awards at the John Paul II International Film Festival in Miami, Fla., in Feburary. 
Mandell’s own film called “Inside The Legends,” which documents the 2009 Japan Bowl, screened at the Los Angeles All Sports Film Festival in July. 
Mandell said he appreciates that he got the chance to film such an important event in Notre Dame history. 
“I was really fortunate to be asked to follow the alumni team,” he said. “It turned into the last game Lou Holtz ever coached. I think that film is watching Holtz behind the scenes.” 
Crafton said members of the department have routinely entered festivals for around three years, but the department recently began actively encour­aging entrances. 
“You just have to find the right festival,” Crafton said. “The films [that were accepted to fes­tivals] I think are very high quality and this is just indicative of our peers seeing that.” 
Contact Amanda Gray at agray3@nd.edu 


Wednesday, May 4, 2011 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 5 
Security 
continued from page 1 
to them,” Johnson said. “Most sexual assaults are committed by people known to the survivor, even if they have recently become acquainted.” 
Saint Mary’s Director of Security David Gariepy said Saint Mary’s and Notre Dame do everything possible to protect students traveling between cam­puses. Blue Light services and Blinkey, a safe transport vehicle, provide security services to stu­dents, he said. 
Gariepy said the peak popular­ity hours for Blinkey are 11 p.m. to 1 a.m. The service runs between all parking lots, dorms and the Grotto. 
“Safety in numbers is critical,” he said. “It’s always good if you’re with friends and are standing together, you are less likely to have problems if you are with a group of your friends.” 
Gariepy said 26 riders traveled on the shuttle Sunday. He said more women tend to use the service when they are reminded of potential danger. 
“When we sent out the safety alert [in response to the alleged sexual battery] that night, rider­ship doubled for us,” Gariepy said. 
Gariepy said he encourages women to avoid walking alone despite the feeling of security oncampus. 
“We don’t want you walking alone,” Gariepy said. “If you’re alone and you feel fearful for any reason, I absolutely want you to call, because there is a reason normally that you’re feeling some sort of apprehension, and you’re instincts are far better in tune to what’s going on around you than your rational thought.” 
Ann Firth, associate vice presi­dent of student affairs at Notre Dame, said Notre Dame works constantly to create a secure environment. 
“I think we are a very safe community, but I don’t think any “If there is some sort of community can rest on that instinct to a reaction, some feel-notion,” Firth said. “In fact, all of ing of discomfort, there is a rea­us have an obligation to promote son for that, and [don’t] hesitate safety, to be attentive to safety if there’s not substantial evi­and to be alert to potential dence as to why you feel that threats and dangers around us.” way or feel as though you Everyone does shouldn’t feel need to keep per-that way,” she sonal security in said. “Never 


mind despite the “I think we are a very hesitate to rec-atmosphere of safe community, but I ognize that and safety on campus, to let that be a
don’t think any 
Firth said. factor in keeping 
community can rest
“Sometimes we yourself safe in talk about the on that notion.” the action you ‘Notre Dame bub-take to do so.” ble,’ and we think As senior 
Ann Firth 
that nothing bad M a r i a h 
associate vice president
could happen McGrogan pre­here, no one of student affairs pares for gradu­could ever have ation, she said anything less than the feeling of the good intentions,” Firth said. “Notre Dame bubble” can mis­“The reality is that we always lead students’ perception of need to be attentive to our own potential danger. safety, to be aware of the actions “I think a lot of people feel that of others around us. We feel so Notre Dame is the kind of place at home here we presume that where violence doesn’t happen,” we are completely safe and that McGrogan said. “They feel we don’t have to be attentive in immune to violence on our cam-that way, and the reality is that pus because of the family aspect, we do.” because everyone knows every-
Connie Adams, assistant direc-one.” tor of the Belles Against Violence McGrogan served as a member Office (BAVO), said women need and a chair for the Gender to be more attentive to personal Relations committee in Student safety. Senate, a student assistant at the Gender Relations Center and a member of the Center for Sexual Assault Prevention (CSAP). McGrogan said her experience changed the way she viewed campus. 
“I still get a little eerie walking around campus because I have had a lot of survivors of sexual assault come forward to me and tell me about their experiences,” she said. “It changes your under­standing of this place. It changes how you view darker corners of this campus.” 
McGrogan said she saw enor­mous progress in discussions about sexual assault and women’s safety on campus dur­ing her time at Notre Dame. 
“We look so telescoped in on how we focus on things but now that I am graduating I am look­ing back,” she said. “I think there is a lot more conversation about sexual assault. ... There has been more research into what sexual assault is and how it happens. There has just been a change in the kind of conversa­tions we are having about it and more of an awareness of what the policies are surrounding sex­ual assault.” 
Contact Megan Doyle at mdoyle11@nd.edu and Caitlin Hously at chousl01@saintmarys.edu 
Kempf 
continued from page 1 
The standards include specific rules for industrial boilers. Many universities, including Notre Dame, installed boilers in their power plants that comply with the standards set by the EPA in 2004. 
Kempf said he feels this step is sufficient to provide a means for sustainable energy on campuses. 
“These plants have proven to be an efficient, cost effec­tive and environmentally-sound source of energy for universities,” Kempf’s written testimony stated. “[The] EPA’s final rules, however, impose unrealistic and very costly requirements that [the] EPA has not justified by correspon­ding environmental and health protection from reduc­tions of hazardous air pollu­tants.” 


Kempf said a change in these requirements would hurt many institutions because their costly equip­ment would no longer meet the requirements of the new standards. Notre Dame invest­ed $20 million to meet the earlier standards, Kempf said. 
“For $20 million, we could provide a full year of tuition for dards. 
“I was frankly flabbergasted that an official from Notre Dame would say something so … demonstratively untrue that public safety standards such as these would not have public health and safety bene­fits,” he said Monday. 
Updating the requirements is a necessary step for envi­ronmental safety, Walke said. 
“The [EPA] is over 10 years overdue in adopting clean air standards to reduce mercury and dozens of other toxic air pollutants like lead and arsenic and dioxins from a handful of industry sectors,” he said. 
Walke said the standards set in 2004 were overturned in 
court 
because 
500 students, or provide 125 stu­dents a full, four­ “These plants have proven to be an  they violat-ed the Clean Air Act.  
yea r  s c h o l a r - effcient, cost effective  “  T  h  e  
ship,” he said. “It w as p u r c h as e d and guaranteed t o c o mply w it h  and environmentally-sound source of energy for universities.”  Republicans w e r e a r gu-ing to weak-e n a nd  
the rule that was  delay these  
issued in 2004. It is uncertain that it will be able to  Paul Kempf Director of Utilities  standards,” h e s a id . “ B ut th e y  

achieve compli­ance with the rule that will now be pro­posed.” 
Kempf said the equipment does make significant strides toward protecting the envi­ronment. He estimated the University reduced its emis­sions by 75 percent in recent years. 
In his testimony, Kempf asked the committee to allow the EPA more time to review its rules before it sets new standards. 
“I will stand by what my written statement was,” Kempf said. “But in general we were supporting the part of Congress looking to give the EPA more time to look at these regulations.” 
John Walke, clean air direc­tor for the Natural Resources Defense Council (NDRC), also testified as a witness in the hearing. His opinion, however, countered Kempf ’s state­ments. 
Walke said he felt Kempf’s testimony downplayed the health benefits of the stan­will save 
tens of thou­sands of lives a year, as testi­fied. I am taking the EPA’s projections for these sets of standards when I say they will save as many as 26,000 lives per year.” 
Delaying the new standards by even one year will negate the benefits of the legislation, he said. 
“The witnesses were argu­ing for those standards to be delayed by two or three or four years,” he said. “It would be a public health disaster.” 
The Republican members of the committee will most likely propose legislation regarding the standards sometime in June, Walke said. This regula­tion is a necessary step for public safety. 
“These standards will save more lives and avoid more mercury poisoning of children and avoid more cancer and asthma attacks than in the past 20 years,” he said. 
Contact Megan Doyle at mdoyle11@nd.edu 

page 6 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS Wednesday, May 4, 2011 
Rain, chill add to misery of tornado victims 

Associated Press 
BIRMINGHAM, Ala. — Rain added to the misery of those in several Southern states trying to salvage what they could from homes badly damaged by deadly twisters, leaving them shivering in unseasonable temperatures in the lows 50s. 
Becky Curtis sat in the bath­room, one of the only dry spots in her small red-brick apart­ment in gray, chilly, Tuscaloosa on Tuesday, sorting through old cassette tapes. In another room, rain dripped through holes in the ceiling onto her hardwood floors. 
“We’re trying to get all this stuff out of here as fast as we can to save some mementoes,” she said. The rain “definitely does not help.” 
Though the sun was supposed to be out again Wednesday in Birmingham, temperatures the next couple days are forecast to be cooler there and in other areas of the South where many lost everything, including coats, sweat shirts and sweaters, leav­ing them with little to protect themselves from the chill. 
The rain also didn’t make the grim search for possibly more bodies under splintered homes and businesses any easier. The death toll in Alabama was reduced after officials started counting again because they were worried some of the vic­tims might have been tallied twice. 
Officials believe 236 people died in Alabama, accounting for about a third of the 328 people killed in all, making it the nation’s deadliest twister out­break since the Great Depression. 
The financial and economic toll is far from being calculated. 
Besides homes, hundreds of factories and other businesses were destroyed, and many oth­ers were left without electricity, throwing thousands out of work. It comes in an area where many people were struggling to make ends meet even before the twisters flattened neighbor­hoods in Alabama, Tennessee, Georgia and Mississippi. Unemployment in March ranged from 9.2 percent in Alabama to 
10.2 percent in Mississippi. 
The tornado that obliterated contractor Robert Rapley’s house also swept away his liveli­hood, destroying his saws and his paint sprayer. He now faces the prospect of trying to recover with no way to earn a living. 
“We lost everything,” Rapley said as he climbed on the wreckage. “I can’t even go to work.” 
Curtis Frederick, 28, couldn’t find any work to provide for his three children aside from deliv­ering newspapers. Then a twister wiped out his mobile home park in Tuscaloosa. 
“There’s a lot of people that need help,” he said. “We’re struggling already from the economy being so bad.” 
In Birmingham, former Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice toured an aid and donation center in a neighborhood of her home city that was heavily dam­aged. She grew up in the city and still has family there. 
“You realize that with every home that’s flattened, there are dreams and memories that have gone with that home. So this is a very human tragedy,” said Rice, who served in former President George W. Bush’s administra­tion. 
Alabama Gov. Robert Bentley said Tuesday that his state — that he had presided over for just 100 days when the torna­does hit — is facing an unprece­dented rebuilding effort, with more than half of the state’s counties declared disaster areas. 
“Ladies and gentlemen, we cannot — and we will not — let these people down. As leaders of this state, we will see that Alabama is rebuilt,” he said. 
One of the twisters destroyed a Wrangler jeans distribution center that employed 150 peo­ple in Hackleburg, an Alabama town of about 1,500. The town is in a county with an unem­ployment rate of nearly 13 per­cent. 
“That one industry is the town,” said Seth Hammett, director of the Alabama Development Office. “Until they get back up and going again, that town will not be the same.” 
VF Corp., Wrangler’s parent company, said it is looking into setting up distribution opera­tions in another location nearby to allow people to get back to work quickly, and employees will continue getting pay and benefits in the meantime. Eric Wiseman, chairman and CEO, said VF is also establishing a help center where workers can get food, water, gift cards and other critical supplies. 
A Toyota engine plant in Huntsville with 800 employees lost power and was knocked out of commission when a twister damaged electrical transmission lines. Toyota said Tuesday it is not clear when electricity will be restored. 
In Smithville, Miss., the storms heavily damaged three facilities owned by Townhouse Home Furnishings, which makes sofas and other furni­ture, said CFO Tony Watson. With 150 employees, the com­pany was the town’s biggest employer. 


Wednesday, May 4, 2011 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 7 
NYC looks to update taxis 

Associated Press 
NEW YORK — It looks like something you'd see on a sub­urban cul-de-sac, not inching through Times Square. 
A boxy minivan made by Nissan will be the next iconic yellow cab in New York City, Mayor Michael Bloomberg announced Tuesday. 
The model, selected from among three finalists in a city competition, is designed so that it could eventually be updated with an electric engine. The city is exploring the possibility of ultimately replacing the city's entire fleet of more than 13,000 taxis with vehicles powered by electricity. 
Bloomberg conceded at a City Hall news conference that the minivan — which 
offers extra passenger legroom and enough trunk space for the luggage of four people — might make some think of suburbia, but he said the distinctive yellow paint job will make them New York icons. 
The minivan features a panoramic overhead window that will give tourists a view of the city's skyscrapers and onboard outlets and charging stations that will allow pro­fessionals to treat the cabs as mobile offices. With such amenities, city Taxi and Limousine Commissioner David Yassky said he believed the vehicles could become as beloved as the Checker cabs of yesteryear. 
"Not a week goes by when somebody doesn't say to me, 'Why can't you bring back the Checker?'" he said. "The cars that are on the road today just have not generated the same type of affection and passenger loyalty." 
The anchor of the city's cur­rent fleet of more than 13,200 taxis is Ford's Crown Victoria, which was recently discontinued. 
The Nissan van, which beat 
out proposals from Ford Motor Co. and Turkey's Karsan, will be phased in beginning in 2013 as older taxis age out of service. All current taxis, including the city's hybrid cabs, will be off the streets by 2018. 
Although the city was not legally allowed to make its decision based on fuel effi­ciency, Nissan 's vehicles would double efficiency to 25 miles per gallon from the Crown Victoria' s 12 to 13 miles per gallon, the mayor said. The Nissan was the most fuel efficient and the cheapest of the three final­ists, and is expected to cost about $29,000 — with an anticipated $1 billion in total sales. 


BP agrees to penalty for 2006 Alaska spills 
Associated Press 
ANCHORAGE, Alaska — BP’s subsidiary in Alaska will pay a $25 million civil penalty under a settlement announced Tuesday that comes five years after more than 200,000 gallons of crude oil spilled from com­pany pipelines on the North Slope. 
The penalty is the largest per barrel civil penalty assessed, exceeding the statutory maximum because the settlement, resolves claims other than the spill, according to the EPA. The settlement also calls for BP Exploration Alaska Inc. to install a system -wide pipeline integrity manage­ment program. 
“This penalty should serve as a wake -up call to all pipeline operators that they will be held accountable for the safety of their opera­tions and their compliance with the Clean Water Act, the Clean Air Act and the pipeline safety laws, ” Assistant U.S. Attorney Ignacia S. Moreno said in a conference call with reporters. 
U.S. Attorney for Alaska Karen Loeffler said the penalty underlines the seri­
ousness of BP’s conduct. She said BP Alaska admit­ted that it cut corners and failed to do what was required to adequately maintain its pipelines. 
BP Alaska spokesman Steve Rinehart in e-mails acknowledged the settle­ment terms, including an independent contractor to monitor operations at the vast Prudhoe Bay field. He said the penalty was not a per-barrel assessment. 
“A penalty was agreed upon,” he said. “We believe the terms of the agreement are fair.” 
A March 2006 leak in a transit line, also called a feeder line, between a gath­ering center and a pump station for the trans-Alaska 
oil 
pipeline in March accounted for most of the oil spilled, about 212,000 gallons. Oil from the spill reached a lake. 

BP four months later had begun inspecting pipelines with “smart pigs,” devices inserted to detect abnor­malities, when a second leak occurred. The tiny sec­

ond 
leak allowed about 1,000 gallons more to spill from another transit line. 


With data in hand indicat­ing 16 “anomalies,” or other possible corrosive spots, BP shut down part of the mas­sive Prudhoe Bay field. 
The partial shutdown brought an economic chill throughout the state and led then -Gov. Frank Murkowski to temporarily freeze hiring until the effects of the interruption on the state budget would be known. 
Cynthia Giles, assistant administrator for EPA’s Office of Enforcement and Compliance Assurance, said BP in 2007 pleaded guilty to criminal charges related to the spills and was ordered to pay $20 million, includ­ing $12 million in criminal fines. 
Cynthia Quarterman, administrator for the Department of Transportation’s Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, said her agency found serious safety problems relating to internal corrosion on the pipelines and ordered BP to correct those problems. BP had a year to address the problems but its willful fail­ure to do so led to filing civil litigation against the company, she said. 
The settlement requires BP Alaska to develop a sys­tem-wide program to man­age pipeline integrity for the company’s 1,600 miles 
of pipeline on the North Slope based on PHMSA’s integrity management pro­gram. That cost is estimated at $60 million. 
BP will be required to compile information on pipelines and what they carry, ranking them by highest risk. It will be required to provide an elec­tric Web portal and post reports. The information will be public, Quarterman said. 
The independent monitor will confirm that BP is com­plying with requirements of the settlement, Giles said. 
“We are not going to just take BP at its word,” Giles said. 
BP’s Rinehart said that since 2006, the company has made significant improvements in pipeline management. 
“This includes more staff, more spending, newer tech­nology, more frequent inspections, and fewer leaks,” he said. 
The company completely replaced Prudhoe Bay oil transit lines and added modern leak detection and anti-corrosion systems at a cost of about $500 million by the end of 2008, he said. 
“We are renovating other pipelines to make them “piggable,” he said. 
Most of the compliance requirements that are enforceable under the con­sent decree are met under current BP practices, Rinehart said. 
BP operates the Prudhoe Bay field but it’s co-owned with ConocoPhillips, Exxon Mobil and Chevron. 
The agreement was nego­tiated with the concurrence of the other working inter­est owners, Rinehart said, but he declined to discuss any financial arrangements with the other owners. 


page 8 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS Wednesday, May 4, 2011 
Osama bin Ladin unarmed at time of death 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON — Osama bin Laden was unarmed when Navy SEALs burst into his room and shot him to death, the White House said Tuesday, a change in the official account that raised questions about whether the U.S. ever planned to capture the ter­rorist leader alive. 
The Obama administration was still debating whether to release gruesome images of bin Laden’s corpse, balancing efforts to demonstrate to the world that he was dead against the risk that the images could provoke further anti-U.S. sentiment. But CIA Director Leon Panetta said a photograph would be released. 
“I don’t think there was any question that ultimately a photo­graph would be presented to the public,” Panetta said in an inter­view with “NBC Nightly News.” Asked again later by The Associated Press, he said, “I think it will.” 
Asked about the final con­frontation with bin Laden, Panetta said: “I don’t think he had a lot of time to say any­thing.” The CIA chief told PBS NewsHour, “It was a firefight going up that compound. ... I think it -this was all split-second action on the part of the SEALs.” 
Panetta said that bin Laden made “some threatening moves that were made that clearly rep­resented a clear threat to our guys. And that’s the reason they fired.” 
The SEALs were back in the 
U.S. at Andrews Air Force Base outside Washington for debrief­ing on the raid, lawmakers said after meeting with Panetta. 
The question of how to present bin Laden’s death to the world is a difficult balancing act for the White House. President Barack Obama told Americans that jus­tice had been done, but the White House also declared that bin Laden’s body was treated respectfully and sent to rest in a somber ceremony at sea. 
Panetta underscored on Tuesday that Obama had given permission to kill the terror leader: “The authority here was to kill bin Laden,” he said. “And obviously, under the rules of engagement, if he had in fact thrown up his hands, surren­dered and didn’t appear to be representing any kind of threat, then they were to capture him. But they had full authority to kill him.” 


For the long-term legacy of the most successful counterterrorism operation in U.S. history, the fact that bin Laden was unarmed is unlikely to matter much to the Americans he declared war against. President George W. Bush famously said he wanted bin Laden “dead or alive,” and the CIA’s top counterterrorism official once promised to bring bin Laden’s head back on a stake. 
Yet just 24 hours before the White House acknowledged that bin Laden had been unarmed, Obama’s chief counterterrorism adviser, John Brennan, said: “If we had the opportunity to take bin Laden alive, if he didn’t pres­ent any threat, the individuals involved were able and prepared to do that.” 

Suspicious package reports rise in NYC 
age or feed chatter online, 
Associated Press 
fueling further fright. 

NEW YORK — Within min-On Monday, with news of the utes of a news conference at dramatic military raid of bin ground zero where authorities Laden’s Pakistani lair at full preached calm and vigilance throttle, there were 62 reports after the killing of Osama bin of suspicious packages. The Laden, the alarming 911 call previous Monday, the 24-hour came in. total was 18. All were deemed 
The caller in Times Square non-threats. on Monday afternoon reported The volume of calls means that a suspicious package was more work for the NYPD, but sitting on the sidewalk at West Police Commissioner Raymond 43rd Street and Eighth Avenue Kelly said the message stays 
— a mere two blocks from the same: Keep them coming. where admitted terrorist Faisal “We anticipate that with Shahzad had failed in his increased public vigilance frightening attempt to blow up comes an increase in false a car bomb almost exactly a alarms for suspicious pack-year earlier. ages,” Kelly said at the Monday 
Unlike the Shahzad case, the news conference. “This typical-scare fizzled out in a more ly happens at times of height-familiar way: The New York ened awareness. But we don’t Police Department patrol offi-want to discourage the public. cers who swarmed the area If you see something, say quickly determined the pack-something.” age was a bag of garbage. Police procedure calls for 
The NYPD says such false patrol officers to respond when alarms have become a frequent someone sees and says some-but necessary annoyance for thing. If they sense a threat, authorities laboring to protect the area is evacuated and a nervous city in the post-9/11 heavily armed Emergency world. Service Unit officers are sum-
There were 10,566 reports of moned. If further inspections suspicious objects across the turns up evidence of a possible five boroughs in 2010. So far explosive, the bomb squad is this year, the total was 2,775 called in. as of Tuesday compared with On Tuesday, the bomb squad 2,477 through the same period was dispatched after someone last year. left a black suitcase on a sub-
The reports sometimes result way platform near Penn in the discovery of explosives Station with a front page of bin that have nothing to do with Laden stuffed in a side pocket. terror, like when a volunteer The bag contained nothing but doing gardening at a clothing, probably belonging to Manhattan cemetery last year a homeless man. dug up a discarded bag con-That scenario played out dif­taining plastic explosives. But ferently on May 1, 2010, when the vast majority of suspicious a street vendor in Times packages turn out to be noth-Square pointed out an SUV ing more than briefcases, belching smoke to an officer on backpacks or shopping bags horseback. The officer called in innocently left unattended or a report of a car fire, flagged discarded in transportation down other officers and started hubs or other high-traffic loca-evacuating the area. tions. When firefighters broke the 
The daily totals typically car’s side and back windows, spike when terrorist plot they discovered the SUV’s sin-makes headlines here or over-ister contents: three propane seas, NYPD spokesman Paul tanks, two gallon containers of Browne said Tuesday. The false gasoline and a load of fertilizer, alarms themselves sometimes with fireworks and some cheap get break-in cable news cover-alarm clocks as a trigger. 

Wednesday, May 4, 2011 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 9 
Corps of Engineers blast eases threat to Ill. town 

the same programs designed 30 miles north of New for natural disasters. People Orleans. The Morganza has who lost homes may also be been pressed into service just eligible for rural housing once, in 1973. The Bonnet loans. Carre, which was christened 
Missouri Gov. Jay Nixon, in 1932 has been opened nine who stood behind the state’s times since 1937, most failed legal fight to stop the recently in 2008. destruction of the levee , said During a news conference state leaders would do every-Tuesday night, Walsh charac­thing “within our power to terized the chances of being make sure the levee is rebuilt forced to open the Bonnet and those fields, the most fer-Carre flood gates as “high” tile fields in the heartland, are and the chances at Morganza put back in production.” as “medium.” He expects to 
By blowing the levee, the decide on the Bonnet Carre as corps hoped to reduce the early as Thursday, and on river level at Cairo and ease Morganza next week. pressure on the floodwall pro-He said there are no homes tecting the town. As of in the Bonnet Carre floodway, Tuesday afternoon, the though there are scattered Mississippi had receded to homes and farmland in the 
60.2 feet and continued to Morganza floodway. fall, a day after a record After Memphis, the crest. Mississippi River is expected 
“Things look slightly better, to crest May 12 at Helena, but we’re not out of the Ark., and further south in the woods,” Police Chief Gary following days. Forecasters Hankins said while driving his predict record levels at the patrol car past jail inmates towns of Vicksburg and assigned to fill sandbags out-Natchez, Miss. side an auto-parts store. High water has already shut 
But if Cairo and other spots down nine river casinos in were dodging disaster, omi-northwest Mississippi’s Tunica nous flooding forecasts were County, where about 600 resi­raising alarm from southeast dents have been evacuated Missouri to Louisiana and from flood-prone areas on the Mississippi. inside of the levee, said coun­

“floodways” — enormous A group of 25 farmers sued In Missouri, the town of ty spokesman Larry Liddell. 
Associated Press 

basins surrounded by giant the federal government Caruthersville was bracing for “We’re concerned, but as 
WYATT, Mo. — The dramat-levees that can be opened to Tuesday, arguing that their a crest of 49.7 feet later this long as the levee holds we’ll ic, late-night demolition of a divert floodwaters. land had been taken without week. The flood wall protect-be all right. And we don’t huge earthen levee sent A staccato series of explo-adequate compensation. ing the town can hold back up have any doubt that the levee chocolate-colored floodwaters sions lit up the night sky At a spot along the Birds to 50 feet, but a sustained is going to hold,” Liddell said. pouring onto thousands of Monday over the Mississippi Point levee, 56-year-old Ray crest will pressure the wall. “We have the strongest levees acres of Missouri farmland with orange flashes and Presson looked through binoc-Workers have been fortifying in the country.” Tuesday, easing the threat to opened a massive hole in the ulars to see just how high the the concrete and earthen bar-Retired Major Gen. Tom a tiny Illinois town being men-Birds Point levee. A wall of water stood at his 101-year-rier with thousands of sand Sands, a former president of aced by the Mississippi River. water up to 15 feet high swift-old home and the 2,400 acres bags. the Mississippi River 
But the blast near Cairo, Ill., ly filled corn, soybean and he farms around it. Presson is Memphis could see a near-Commission and former Army did nothing to ease the risk of wheat fields in southeast staying with a cousin in near-record crest of 48 feet on May Corps engineer, said the corps more trouble downstream, Missouri. by Charleston, and he’s not 10, just inches lower than the was pursuing a plan to man-where the mighty river is Upstream at Cairo, which sure when, or if, he’ll get to record of 48.7 feet in 1937. age the high water with spill-expected to rise to its highest sits precariously at the conflu-go home. Water from the Wolf and ways and other release valves, levels since the 1920s in some ence of the swollen “It could be three weeks. It Loosahatchie rivers has such as hundreds of relief parts of Tennessee, Mississippi and Ohio rivers, could be two months,” he already seeped into parts of wells that take water out of Mississippi and Louisiana. preliminary readings suggest-said. “The government’s not the suburbs, and some mobile the river. 
“We’re making a lot of ed the explosion worked. giving us any kind of home parks were inundated. The Misssissippi River is unfortunate history here in But across the river, clear-timetable.” Flooding fears prompted carrying about 2.3 million Mississippi in April and May,” ing skies gave a heartbreak-Agriculture Secretary Tom Shelby County authorities to cubic feet of water per sec-said Jeff Rent, a spokesman ing view of the inundation Vilsack said farmers who had declare an emergency for ond, and the levee system for the Mississippi Emergency triggered by the demolition. crop insurance will be eligible 920,000 residents. Authorities along it was designed to han-Management Agency. “We had The torrent swamped an esti-for government reimburse-blocked some suburban dle 3 million cubic feet of the historic tornados, and now mated 200 square miles, ments if their land was flood-streets, and about 220 people water per second at the Old this could be a historic event.” washing away crop prospects ed. were staying in shelters. River Control Structure, a 
The Army Corps of for this year and damaging or Other forms of help will be Farther south, the lower massive floodgate north of Engineers was considering destroying as many as 100 available for livestock produc-Mississippi River was expect-Baton Rouge to keep the making similar use of other homes. ers and tree farmers under ed to crest well above flood Mississippi River from divert-
stages in a region still dealing ing course and flowing into with the aftermath of last the Atchafalaya River. week’s deadly tornadoes. Back in Missouri, Mark and 
Forecasters say the river Rebecca Dugan took pictures could break records in atop the Birds Point levee of Mississippi that were set dur-their farmland — 3,000 acres. ing catastrophic floods in This year’s wheat was a 1927 and 1937. Gov. Haley bumper crop and ready for Barbour started warning peo-harvest. Mark figures it was ple last week to take precau-worth $350,000 to $400,000. tions if they live in flood -All told, he estimates he will prone areas near the river. He lose $1.8 million in gross rev-compared the swell of water enue from the breach. moving downriver to a pig The couple said the govern-moving through a python. ment owes it to landowners 
Maj. Gen. Michael Walsh — below the levee to make full the man ultimately responsi-reparations, but both were ble for the decision to go skeptical it would happen. through with breaking the “What do they say are the Missouri levee — has indicat-nine scariest words in the ed that he may not stop. In English language?” Rebecca recent days, Walsh has said Dugan said, “‘I’m from the he might also make use of government and I’m here to other downstream basins sur-help.’” rounded by levees that can Walsh acknowledged it intentionally be opened to could be late summer or early divert floodwaters. fall before the water fully 
Unlike the Missouri levee, drains off the land. Sediment these floodways can be and moisture could do lasting opened using gates designed damage. for the purpose, not explo-“This is where generations sives. and generations live,” Walsh 
Among the structures that said. “I understand that, but could be tapped are the 58-this was one of the relief year-old Morganza floodway valves for the system. We near Morgan City, La., and the were forced to use that Bonnet Carre floodway about valve.” 


The Observer 

Viewpoint 
page 10 Wednesday, May 4, 2011 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Embrace the decision 
Imagine this. 

You are a young man that has just begun been working at a small Midwestern company close to your hometown. You have recently graduat­ed with an MBA and believe you have the potential to do great things Matthew DeFranks instead of the rather boring jobs Sports Wire you have been Editor doing. 
After a few years of adjusting to the new level of work, you excel in your new executive job, leading your company into the Fortune 500 for the first time in nearly a decade. Your boss lauds your pres­ence at every board meeting, proclaim­ing you as the savior of the downtrod­den company. 
At every cocktail party you attend, you are the most loved person at the event. You are smart, friendly and great at what you do. Soon enough, after a few more great quarters and leading the company into the black yet again, you gain the attention of the national publications. 
Your hometown loves you and recog­nizes you as the prodigal son. As far as they know, you can do no wrong. In an effort to push the company even fur­ther, you ask for the company to expand into different countries and for more help around the office. 
Without your consent and out of your control, the owner of the company decides to expand into Ethiopia and Burma. You are hopeful that these moves can guide the company to the top of the business world. They, howev­er, backfire and cause a massive loss, destroying your chance to be the best business in the world. Your company has tried to help you — it just did not work. 
You have graced the cover of Business Week multiple times in the past couple years. You have been ranked in the Forbes 400 as one of the top earners in America. But that is not enough. 
All of your closest friends have moved on to bigger and better jobs, garnering international praise for their superb work. Some of them have guided their companies into the top spot on the Fortune 500 list. You are proud of them, but at the same time very jealous of their accomplishments. 
Suddenly, a reputable East Coast firm with power executives already aboard contacts you, offering the same position you had back home. You will have to sacrifice some money and some free­dom in your decisions but you realize this is your best chance to rule the business world with a few close friends. The move is popular with your family, who see this as a great opportunity. 
You do want to remain loyal to your hometown company, but they have shown that they cannot make your dreams come true and you have reached their ceiling. 
Pick a side. 

If you picked the snazzy new East Coast firm, congratulations, you have just taken your talents to South Beach. You can now stop hating on the Heat and begin to embrace The Decision. 
Because it was your choice too. 

Matthew DeFranks is a freshman looking forward to returning to 85 degrees and sunny every day with a significant chance of an NBA championship. He can be reached at mdefrank@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
For the sake of life 
Many people have written, both here in The Observer and in other publications around the world, about how the killing of Osama bin Laden is not a cause for cele­bration. They say that it is never right to rejoice at the death of another human being, Elliott Pearce no matter how heinous his crimes. They make Guest further accusations Columnist against the government that orchestrated bin Laden’s death and the people who cele­brated it that our policies of war and retal­iation only increase the hatred directed against us. Some within the Notre Dame community have also said that those Catholics who celebrated bin Laden’s death are pro-life only with respect to abortion and have failed to observe Christ’s commandment to love one’s ene­mies and forgive those who have done injury. 
I believe that these people, though they are right in many ways, are wrong in oth­ers. Americans of all religions, weary of the cost in blood and treasure that we have paid and will continue to pay in the war on terrorism, are losing sight of the reality of human evil within the world. They decry as immoral the regrettable but certainly just and necessary measures civ­ilized people must take to curb such evil and prevent it from infecting every corner of the planet. When we can find no better means of protecting ourselves and our allies, we must fight vigorously and deci­sively against those who threaten us. 
As Catholics, Christ calls us to promote a culture of life throughout the world. Such a culture respects the fundamental right that each person has to live a full life from conception until natural death. Many within the Church argue that the use of military force unjustly violates the right to life of those upon whom we wage war so often, that we can only legitimately use it against a massive direct assault upon our nation. 
I respectfully disagree with this view. Osama bin Laden and others like him are sworn enemies of the culture of life. Bin Laden could have chosen to live pleasantly and peacefully as a rich Saudi prince, but instead sought to dominate and control other human beings through violence and fear. Bin Laden’s al-Qaida massacred thousands of innocent civilians in a brutal and unprovoked attack on America and they have also killed tens and maybe even hundreds of thousands of Muslim civilians in the name of expanding their power and influence. No life has any value whatsoev­er to a man like bin Laden. His organiza­tion slaughtered the people for whom it claimed to fight and even encouraged its own members to destroy themselves for the cause by becoming suicide bombers. Such people have no cause other than power and no method other than sav­agery. 

The human race is one body in Christ, but just as our broken and imperfect bod­ies become diseased and need harsh and painful medicine in order to heal, so the body of humanity sometimes needs to be cut and cauterized to remove those parts of it that threaten to destroy the whole. We are called to love those like bin Laden who have been corrupted and to pray for their conversion, but our leaders cannot stand idly by waiting for a miracle when they have the responsibility to protect both us and the people of the nations with whom we have continuing security arrange­ments. If the infection of evil continues to fester in the world despite our best peace­ful efforts, we have no choice but to excise it through violent means. 
Martin Luther King, Jr., a great advocate of peace, brotherhood and nonviolence, once said that, “injustice anywhere is a threat to justice everywhere.” I believe that cancerous members of the human body like Osama bin Laden are a threat to the sanctity of life everywhere and that trying to ignore them into irrelevance by withdrawing from our international diplo­matic and military involvements is dan­gerous and irresponsible. The only reason al-Qaida and similar terrorist groups have not been able to acquire weapons of mass destruction and carry out the kind of dev­astating attacks that would provoke even the U.S. Conference of Catholic Bishops to take up M16s and charge into battle is that American and allied military and intelligence units have been tirelessly pur­suing and eradicating such groups throughout the globe. 
Foreign military intervention is still a regrettable occurrence. We cannot and should not deploy troops to resolve every case of injustice, oppression and illegiti­mate violence that exists in the world. We must work tirelessly to pursue peaceful solutions to the conflicts that threaten Americans and people of all nations. However, when conflicts and tensions escalate too rapidly for nonviolent means to take effect, we must reserve the right to strike quickly and decisively in the interest of our people and of humanity in general. 
The recent conflict in Libya is a good example of this. If we consider President Obama’s statements and actions leading up to the NATO air campaign, we can see that he desperately did not want to use military force again after Iraq and Afghanistan. He could not stand idly by and watch Gadhafi’s forces massacre them and their families in a hail of rock­ets, bombs and shells, so he offered what forces he had to do what they could, as they are still doing now. 
Those Americans who cheered and danced in the streets after hearing that Osama bin Laden was dead celebrated the death of a human being, an occasion for regret, not joy. However, unlike those who celebrated the fall of the World Trade Center, these Americans rejoiced at the death of a man who had dedicated his life to the pursuit of illegitimate power by any means necessary, including the mass mur­der of innocents. Bin Laden was still an important figurehead and recruiting tool for al-Qaida, the Taliban and their affili­ates up to the time of his death. His demise dealt a heavy blow to the radical Islamic terrorist movement and saved the lives of many American, European, Middle Eastern and South Asian soldiers and civilians who would have been killed in attacks by his followers, as well as the lives of those young men whom he would have rallied to death for the terrorist cause with his continued video broadcasts. The protection of these lives is an occasion for hope and happiness. I hope we never have to face such an enemy again, but if we must, I pray that we will have the strength and courage to swiftly end his reign of terror for the sake of life itself. 
Elliott Pearce is a sophomore living in Knott Hall. He can be reached at epearce1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

A sigh of relief 
On September 11, 2001 and the time following, our nation had never been so unified. Together we mourned the deaths of hundreds of innocent people and embraced those who were directly affected by this terrible event. We watched in horror and disbelief as people half a world away burned our flag and celebrated the death of our citizens. How could such evil exist in this world? 
Fast forward to the late hours of May 1, 2011. Americans are again unified. Justice has been done and the world is indeed rid of a man who killed without cause and with malice in his heart. 
But watching Notre Dame students spill out onto the quads Sunday night left me with mixed emotions. I couldn’t help but think back to those burning flags I saw 10 years ago. Is it right to be celebrating death in this way? Or should we once again take this opportunity to embrace the families this man affected and left with gaping holes in their hearts? Though we’d all like to think it, no death of any one man will ever erase what happened, or ever fill the shoes of lost loved ones. 
This is without a doubt a time to be patriotic and a time for all of us to breathe a sigh of relief. I am in no way equating the celebra­tions of American citizens to the celebrations of terrorists after the 9/11 attacks. Let’s not even make them remotely similar. Let’s make this sigh of relief a somber one and ask, “How could such evil have existed in the world, and how could such evil still remain?” 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“The camera makes everyone a tourist in other people's reality, and eventually in one's own.” 
Susan Sontag
U.S. author and literary theorist 
Felipe Murguia 
sophomore Carroll Hall May 2 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“The right word may be effective, but no word was ever as effective as a rightly timed pause.” 
Mark Twain 
U.S. humorist and novelist 
The Observer 

Viewpoint 
Wednesday, May 4, 2011 page 11 
True significance of bin Laden’s death 
Late Sunday night President Obama appeared before the nation and announced Osama bin Laden’s death. This announce­ment sparked exuberant celebration across campus and the entire country. Students 
ran cheering through  
LaFortune and  William Miller  
crowds gathered in  
Times Square. There  Guest  
is nothing wrong with  Columnist  
celebrating this  
moment. One of  

America’s greatest enemies has been brought to the end he so justly deserved. 
Unfortunately, the celebration over bin Laden’s death misses a larger point: Osama bin Laden hasn’t mattered in the global war on terrorism for several years. 
The President certainly seemed to think that bin Laden mattered. In his speech he proclaimed, “The death of bin Laden marks the most significant achievement to date in our nation's effort to defeat al-Qaida.” However, overwhelming evidence from the security community suggests oth­erwise. As Dr. James Lindsay of the Council on Foreign Relations points out, “Al-Qaida long ago ceased to be a centralized opera­tion. For the last decade bin Laden has been [more of] a figurehead than a master­mind.” Bin Laden was found in a com­pound with no telephones or internet; secu­rity was so tight that trash was burned in the courtyard rather than being disposed of outside. Bin Laden clearly posed little or no operational threat — regional cells assumed that role long ago. 
Nevertheless, many American leaders have argued that Osama’s death is a large symbolic blow to al-Qaida. This is once again incorrect. As Dr. Lindsay writes, “Men die, symbols don’t. In death, bin Laden will continue to inspire jihadists as much as he did in life.” 
This goes to the heart of the fundamental point: American bullets don’t really threat­en al-Qaida. For every terrorist killed, more will rise up to take his or her place. What really threatens al-Qaida are the rapid changes taking place across the Middle East. From Tunisia to Egypt to Syria, average citizens are calling for civil rights, representative democracy and greater economic openness. They are rejecting the oppression and stagnation of the status quo in favor of a world that looks much more like the West. 
This scares al-Qaida — not a single major figure from al-Qaida has spoken out since the beginning of the Arab Spring. Al­Qaida’s philosophy of hatred and spite sits awkwardly alongside the demands of pro­testers, and al-Qaida’s leaders now realize that their beliefs have not taken root in the population at large. Bin Laden’s death does not change the basic dynamics of the Middle East. In Egypt, the most important state in the region, 80 million citizens are waiting for economic growth and demo­cratic change. Egypt has the power and influence to help transform the region, but only if Egypt herself can become a true democracy. Economic growth would give a nascent Egyptian democracy time to grow and mature, but if this growth fails to materialize, protesters may demand more radical change, which could only benefit al-Qaida. 

The West has the power to prevent this from happening. Egypt needs an invest­ment program similar to the Marshall Plan, which used massive investments in infra­structure to rebuild post-war Europe and prevented the continent from turning towards communism. Such a plan would give Egypt’s democracy time to mature, and would help sustain the type of move­ment toward liberalization and democracy that will one day sweep al-Qaida away alto­gether. 
It is highly ironic that bin Laden’s death coincides with the greatest changes the Middle East has seen in 50 years. Bin Laden’s true legacy will be the utter rejec­tion of his philosophy by the people he sought to turn against the West. It is now clear that bin Laden himself has lost. 
However, it is far from clear that the West has won. Frustrated protesters across the Middle East may not be so moderate in the future if they have to endure another generation of broken promises. The U.S., in conjunction with her allies and the interna­tional community, has the power to prevent this. How appropriate would it be if the 
U.S. announced a major aid program to countries seeking freedom in the same year that bin Laden was killed? 
Americans do not like fighting wars in the Middle East. Nevertheless, we will find that more wars and interventions are the only way to protect our interests unless we have the collective will to invest the resources necessary to make the region forever inhospitable to al-Qaida. 
Will Miller is vice president of the International Development Research Council and a double major in Arabic and political science. He can be reached at wmiller3@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

A day of mourning 
Following the news about the death of Osama bin Laden, I found myself deeply unsettled by the reactions I observed both in the American public at large, and particularly within the Notre Dame community. After hearing the shouts and chants of the crowd on God Quad from my room on Sunday night, I ventured outside to get a closer look and was greeted with a raucous and joyous celebration not unlike the celebrations we witness after a big football win. It bears considering, however, whether this is the appropriate reaction to the undeniably momentous news of bin Laden’s death. 
I do not wish to argue about whether his death is an expression of justice, nor do I seek to demean in any way the accomplishment of this operation. However, this is not a victory in a sport­ing event, despite the nature of the celebrations on campus. First and foremost, this is the death of a human being, something that ought to be mourned, not celebrated. On this occasion, I mourn that we live in a world where it is neces­sary to end the life of a human being in order to protect the lives of others, and I mourn that we must continue this most recent cycle of violence that began nearly 10 years ago on September 11, 2001. 
To this end, I ask not that everyone agree with me, nor that such celebrations cease. I ask only this: before you use bin Laden’s death as a reason to go out and party this week, or post your next Facebook status about the glorious U.S. victory over terror, ask yourself why you are celebrating. The death of one man does not bring back the vic­tims of terrorist attacks, nor does it signal an end to the threat of terrorism. Perhaps then, this occa­sion ought to serve not as a celebration of an American triumph, but as a solemn remembrance of lives lost as we struggle even now to move on from the tragic events of the last decade. 
Erik Helgesen 
junior 
St. Edward's Hall 
May 2 

Celebrate America 
On Sunday night, most of the student body reacted positively to the successful assassina­tion attempt of Osama Bin Laden. Many ral­lied, celebrating the demise of America’s greatest enemy. Hundreds sang patriotic songs well after midnight and fireworks deco­rated the sky on Stepan Fields. 
But, on Monday, some expressed doubt whether it was right to celebrate anyone’s murder, even of someone as evil as bin Laden. After all, Jesus said, “Love thy enemies.” Can we justifiably glorify a man’s murder? The short answer is no. 
But, the real answer is that none of us were celebrating the death of one man. We were glorifying something much greater and more important than any individual. 
I’m from New York and I remember 9/11 too clearly. I remember the pain the attacks caused friends and family and I remember the fear that permeated throughout the communi­ty thereafter. All New Yorkers, even total strangers, came together. Tragedy made us remember what was truly important. 
Of course, the rest of the country embraced and supported the people of New York. A sense of patriotism swept throughout the USA and soon President Bush declared a war on terrorism that still continues. The war began with a promise to the terrorists that they couldn’t get away with attacking the world’s greatest country without facing justice. 
To that effect, America has been successful. To say the least, Iraq’s dictator has been deposed and there have been no large scale attacks on U.S. soil since 9/11. 
But, September 11’s mastermind still lived. Bin Laden still enjoyed life years after he ordered the killing of thousands of innocents. The man who caused so much suffering and who empowered the world’s deadliest terror­ist force had not been silenced. 
On Sunday, the U.S. showed the terrorists they could not attack our great nation and then hide safely in the Middle East. On Sunday, al-Qaida experienced a serious blow. On Sunday, we made good on that promise. Essentially, we weren’t celebrating a murder. We were celebrating the victory of justice over evil. 
We were celebrating America. 
John P. Hough 
senior 
off campus 
May 3 
Call to holiness 
Last week, I willingly gave up a night of sleep to watch a European event happen on live television. And no, it was not the Royal Wedding. Instead, very early on Sunday morning, I saw Pope Benedict XVI beatify his predecessor, the now Blessed Pope John Paul 
II. It was a beautiful and moving ceremony. St. Peter’s Square and the surrounding streets of Rome were filled with people there to rejoice with the Church and witness this step of the formal declaration of John Paul II’s holiness. Many of those people had probably seen John Paul sometime while he was alive, too. I myself once saw the back of his head as he drove down the street in his Popemobile during a 1999 visit to St. Louis. 
As a member of the “JP II generation,” he was the only Pope I knew growing up. I am only now beginning to realize the impact he had on the Church, and the whole world through his preaching, his writings, his leadership and his example. He proclaimed a Springtime of New Evangelization in the Church and especially inspired young people to live lives of radical holiness. He embodied the joy of Christian life, but taught us also that this joy does not come without suffering. 
George Weigel titled his biography of Pope John Paul II “Witness to Hope,” and he was exactly that at every moment of his life. He contin­ues to be even after death. He called us to holiness, and is now being held up by the Church as a model of that very holiness and as an intercessor in Heaven. He shows us that sainthood is possible; that saints are real people! More than ever, he is speaking the same words to us as he did at the beginning of his pontificate, “Do not be afraid! Open wide the doors to Christ!” 
Blessed John Paul II, pray for us. 
Caroline Cole 
senior 
Walsh Hall 
May 3 
Honor the sacrifice 
When I heard that bin Laden had been killed, I took to my friend's vuvuzela and I am not ashamed. While I myself did not lose any friends or family on 9/11, my father lost 343 brothers at the World Trade Center. As an assistant chief at my hometown fire department, my father trained in New York City and had many friends who lost their lives that day. It seemed as if he was driving to the city in his class A uniform every week to attend the funeral of a fallen brother. To this day, FDNY is being affected by the events of Ground Zero. A close family friend was forced into retirement because he developed asthma from all the dust at the scene. Every department has memori­als outside their doors in honor of those who gave their lives to save others. 
Yes, I celebrated and I will continue to celebrate for these men. I will celebrate in honor of every innocent man, woman, and child who died that day. I will celebrate in honor of those who are overseas will­ing to sacrifice their lives in order to keep me free and safe at home. 
Matt Roe 
junior 
Morrissey Manor 
May 3 
The Observer 

Scene
page 12 Wednesday, May 4, 2011 


two desires, finally bringing our work expanse facing Invalides — although researching.
By FELICIA CAPONIGRI 

onto the quad with reckless abandon in there the problem is compounded by Moreover, fret not about the wind. 
Scene Writer 

order to accomplish our study goals and very vocal, enchantingly-engaging The longer skirt will billow about you 
Every May, as the spring semester get the de rigueur tan we need to start Frenchmen whizzing by on Vespas and producing a most romantic vision of draws to a close 
and the weeks of final the summer off right, we are faced with in voitures. What is 
carefree existence. papers and exams fall upon us, I am a fearful fashion challenge. Grass this article of clothing, Color-wise, choosing faced with a most revolting dilemma. stains, wind and flying balls from which can perfectly from a darker palette This dilemma has stalked me every overzealous boys engaging in an out-meld your study expe-will deflate any wor­year of my academic pursuits, and once door game of baseball now must exist in rience with today’s ries about grass stains again I find myself in its clutches. I the same environment as books, loose-beautiful weather? I and such. Of course, if know I am not leaf paper, give you — the maxi you want to be alone in facing sticky notes dress. noticed, brights are this dilemma and high-A longer version of enticing against a of epic pro-lighters. What your favorite sundress, spring green back-portions. Due fashion item the maxi dress is char-drop. The top of the to the afore-could possibly acterized by its length. sundress can be any-m e n t i o n e d serve both the It should sweep the thing from halter to mountain of purposes of a floor, grazing your spaghetti strap to ban-a c a d e m i c study environ-ankles at the very deau — choose what commitments, ment and a shortest. Giving the flatters you most. we all find grassy knoll? illusion of a party Flats are of course the 
o u r s e l v e s In what arti-dress made for day, most practical shoe inside the cle of clothing the greatest thing with which to pair it, library or can I both about the maxi dress is although a high san­other chamber worship the its mobility. The yards dal can also give an of study soli-sun, getting of fabric in the skirt overall statuesque tude — insert your own favorite study minimal tan lines in the process, and allow you to at once impression. Material space here — typing away while that still be chic in the halls of academia and protect yourself from the dreadful air should ideally be soft cotton. Old Navy gorgeous sun calls to us with its bla-out in the elements? conditioning of the indoors, and also to currently offers a lovely bright yellow tantly impassioned rays of light. The answer to this question, my fel-artfully arrange the material around variety for $29.50. Dilemma, I vanquish 
This is a dilemma because of the pure low fashionistas, has been well hypoth-your gams, creating the illusion of a you, in the name of summer style. torment it creates between our academ-esized by our Parisian counterparts. shorter sundress. You can lay out in the ic and ‘fun in the sun’ personalities. They have faced the same dilemma sun properly and get that tan you so Contact Felicia Caponigri at However, when we inevitably meld our when studying on the wide grassy deserve after long hours spent fcaponig@nd.edu 
LAUREN KALINOSKI | Observer Graphic 
The Observer 

Scene
Wednesday, May 4, 2011 page 13 

MARIA FERNANDEZ/The Observer 

By MARIA FERNANDEZ 
Scene Writer 
Name: Shelby Grubbs 
Spotted: Lewis Hall 
As I was walking to the Lewis Hall Party Room for one of the last dorm activities of the year, I saw Shelby wearing this really cute and stylish outfit. Her dark skinny jeans look great with her ruffled and color­ful floral-printed blouse and white short-sleeved cardigan. Her brown flip-flops, big round watch and assortment of bracelets add to and complete her fashionable ensem­ble. Shelby definitely knows how to mix and match prints and solid pieces, creating the perfect end-of-the-school-year spring look. 
Contact Maria Fernandez at mfernan5@nd.edu 
LAUREN KALINOSKI | Observer Graphic 

page 14 The Observer . CLASSIFIEDS Wednesday, May 4, 2011 
NBA 

Rose named MVP, leads Bulls into Game 2 
Associated Press 
LINCOLNSHIRE, Ill. — Right from the start, Derrick Rose wondered why he couldn’t be the MVP. It turns out, nothing could stop him. 
Rose officially became the NBA’s youngest MVP on Tuesday and joined Michael Jordan as the only Bulls play­er to win the award, which was no surprise given his spectacular season and Chicago’s leap to a league-leading 62 wins. 
He has a ways to go before he catches Jordan, who won five MVPs and led the way to two championship three-peats, but he sure is off to a good start. 
“I’m not even touching that man right there,” Rose said. “I’m far away from him. If anything, it would be great to be close to him. This is a dif­ferent team, a different era.” 
In his third year, the dynam­ic point guard led the Bulls to their best season since the championship era. 
The 22-year-old Rose got 1,182 points and 113 first-place votes from a panel of media voters, supplanting Wes Unseld as the youngest to win the award with a runaway win. Orlando’s Dwight Howard (643 points) finished second, Miami’s LeBron James was third, the Lakers’ Kobe Bryant was fourth and Oklahoma City star Kevin Durant finished fifth. 
A product of Chicago’s South Side, Rose established himself as one of the top players in the league after going from Rookie of the Year to All-Star in his first two seasons. He took another step this year with one of the best all-around per­formances by a point guard. 
He averaged 25 points and 
7.7 assists while leading Chicago into contention for its first championship since the Jordan-Scottie Pippen era. For all the groaning over the Bulls missing out on James, Dwyane Wade and Chris Bosh in free agency, they did quite well for themselves anyway. 
Rose showed up to training camp openly wondering why he couldn’t be MVP. Then, he backed it up. 
“It really just came out,” Rose said. “That’s the way I thought at the time. I put a lot of hard work into my game, especially during the summer. ... I dedicated my whole sum­mer to basketball. Even though it was tough, I did it.” 
Rose was a picture of humil­ity during the news confer­ence. He thanked everyone from the fans to his team­mates, coaches and manage­ment, and he choked up when he mentioned his mom, Brenda Rose, and older broth­ers seated in the front row. 
At one point, he looked at her and paused. 
“Just thinking how hard she works,” he said. “Those are hard days. My days shouldn’t be hard because I love what I’m doing. That’s playing bas­ketball. You keep me going every day and I love you.” 
Rose ranked seventh in scor­ing and 10th in assists, mak­ing him the only player this season in the top 10 in both categories. The only other Bull to do so was Jordan in 1988­89, when he led the league in scoring (32.5 points) and fin­ished 10th in assists, accord­ing to information provided to the team by the Elias Sports Bureau. 
Throw in a 4.1 rebounding average, and Rose joins anoth­er elite group. He’s the sev­enth player in league history to average at least 25 points, 
7.5 assists and 4.0 rebounds, along with Jordan, Oscar Robertson, Jerry West, Larry Bird, Wade and James, according to Elias. 
“We all knew how good he could be,” veteran forward Luol Deng said. “It’s a big sur­prise for all of us how quick he got there. We knew he was going to get there; we said that from the start. He’s just a hard worker, a humble kid. He’s really out there just to win games.” 
In the postseason, he’s been just as impressive. 
He scored 39 and 36 points in the first two playoff games against Indiana. Then he shook off two sub-par per­formances and a sprained left ankle to score 25 points in Game 5 as the top -seeded Bulls closed out what had been a tight first-round series with a 116-89 victory. 
They stumbled in Game 1 of the Eastern Conference semifi­nals against Atlanta, losing 103-95. Rose scored 24 points, but he hit just 11 of 27 shots and did not attempt a free throw. He also limped off the court after twisting his left ankle, but expects to be ready for Game 2 on Wednesday. 
It’s been a rapid, steady climb for a player who came into the league with soaring expectations. He helped Simeon Career Academy become the first Chicago Public League team to win back-to-back state champi­onships, then led Memphis to the NCAA championship game before the Bulls drafted him with the No. 1 pick in 2008 after defying 1.7-percent odds to win the lottery. 
“I’ll never forget the morn­ing after we got that pick where we got the entire man­agement staff together to meet,” general manager Gar Forman said. 
They knew then who they were picking. 
And when they started talk­ing to him, Forman said, “It was obvious to us that not only was Derrick a very spe­cial talent, but he possessed the intangibles that you need to become a very special play­er in this league. Going into that draft, I remember our feeling was this is too good to be true.” 
Now? 
“Our feeling is still this is really too good to be true,” Forman said. 
Rose has added new touches to his game every season, expanding the range on his jumper to go with those explo­sive drives to the basket. 
“He’s been everything you could ask for,” coach Tom Thibodeau said. “He’s been a leader, a player. He’s only going to get better.” 
MLB 

Indians’ Choo arrested for DUI, remains in starting lineup 
Associated Press 
CLEVELAND — Indians out­fielder Shin-Soo Choo was arrest­ed Monday on suspicion of drunken driving after a breatha­lyzer test showed he had a blood-alcohol level of .201 — more than double Ohio’s legal limit of .08. 
Choo, the sixth major league player to be cited on a drunken driving charge this year, was arrested by police in Sheffield Lake, Ohio, after he failed a field sobriety test. An officer following Choo’s white Cadillac SUV said he was driving erratically before he was stopped. 
Choo on Tuesday apologized to fans, the team, the club and his family “for the attention stem­ming from this matter.” 
“I am hopeful that this incident will not be a distraction to the Indians organization while we remain focused on continuing to play winning baseball,” he said in a statement released by the Indians. 
The 28-year-old South Korean traveled with the team and was expected to be in the starting lineup Tuesday night, when the Indians were to open a three-game series against the Oakland Athletics. Cleveland began the week with the best record in the majors. 
Indians general manager Chris Antonetti said the club has spo­ken to Choo about the incident. 
“The Indians organization takes these issues very seriously and we are disappointed in the matter,” Antonetti said in a state­ment. “We will continue to moni­tor the situation and we will not have any further comment at this time.” 
According to police, a patrol­man first spoke to Choo at 2:25 
a.m. He told the officer he was lost and needed directions to Avon Lake. Choo was allowed to continue driving, but was later pulled over when he twice crossed the double-yellow lines and drifted into a bike path. He told the officer his GPS had bro­ken and he was unable to get directions home. 
Choo’s eyes were bloodshot and he smelled of “an alcoholic bever­age,” police said, and he was ordered out of the SUV. 
Choo was unable to complete a heel-to-toe walking test, losing his balance and he failed two other sobriety tests, the report said. He was taken to the police station and was given the breath­alyzer test. Choo was charged with operating a vehicle under the influence, having an excessive blood-alcohol level and a traffic violation. 
He was released without bond and was driven home. While being escorted outside by an offi­cer, Choo reportedly smashed his camera in the parking lot. 


CLASSIFIEDS  The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall.  Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m.  All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit  
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds.  
ITALIANATE-STYLE NINETEENTH  $200 CREDIT:  UNPLANNED PREGNANCY?  Here’s to London, Dublin and the  
FOR SALE  CENTURYARCHITECTURE. WIDE PROJECTING EAVES &  FOR RENT  Future ARCHITECTS, ENGINEERS, TEACHERS,  Don't go it alone. Notre Dame has many resources in  Exmouth Arms. Here’s to broomball and bowling.  
ORNATE BRACKETING.  LAWYERS, BARDS, AMERICAN  place to assist you.  Here’s to cake on the wall.  
BLOCKS FROM CAMPUS!  CONSTRUCTION NOT COM- House for rent.  IDOLS and other studious  If you or someone you love needs  Here’s to El Paso, The Loft, and  
3 BR Ranch in Wooded Estates  PLETE  Bohemians, writeyournext soliloquy  confidential support or assistance,  Juarez.  
OFFERING NEW OWNER MANY  Faculty-grad students near ND.  atoneofourhomes.  please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819.  Here’s to Roaton, Ceiba and Flor  
Hardwood Flrs, Fireplace,  CHOICES.  2BR 2.5BA, living room, dining  Check out:www.IrishDwellings.comto  For more information, visit ND's  de Cana.  
Bsmt & Deck Updated Bath &  4 BLOCKS FROM CAMPUS.  room, fam room, FL room. Security  findyourhomeforsummerand/orfall  website at: http://pregnancysup­ Here’s to Valentine’s Day and  
Kitchen/Appls Included  DREAM KITCHEN, 10' CEILINGS,  system. 2 car garage. Fenced yard.  semester2011-2012andbeyond.  port@nd.edu  kitchen sinks.  
HARDWOOD FLOORS, 3 BED- Colfax & Twyckenham.  ———————————————  ———————————————  Here’s to the last weekend of  
1217 Black Oak Dr. $114,900  ROOMS, 2-1/2 BATHS. MASTER SUITE W/BALCONY. LOWER  Call 262-332-0015 ———————————————  NOTICES  Here’s to Limon. Here’s to white trash parties.  February. Here’s to Bruno’s and Kildare’s.  
LEVEL FAMILY ROOM W/2  3 bedroom close to SMC/ND.  Here’s to the Peninsula, and the  Here’s to Louisville and Florida State.  
Contact Rachel Thompson  EGRESS WINDOWS, FULL BATH.  Hardwood floors, laundry, bright  If you or someone you care about  Irish Rogue.  Here’s to getting arrested.  
360-6360  and spacious.  has been sexually assaulted, we  Here’s not to Saint Andrew’s.  Here’s to Reflections and Dynamite.  
RachelT21@comcast.net  OPEN HOUSE MAY 15TH Noon to  No pets.  can help.  Here’s to Halloween and Officer  Here’s to A-Team.  
Weichert, Realtors®  4:00 CALL Kim Kollar, Weichert,  Available mid June.  For more information, visit Notre  John McClane.  Here’s to one more.  
Jim Dunfee & Associates  Realtors, 574-274-7440  269-429-6346  Dames website: http://csap.nd.edu  Here’s to Yankee Stadium.  Here’s to Alpha Mike Foxtrot.  
———————————————  ———————————————  ———————————————  ———————————————  ———————————————  ———————————————  

Wednesday, May 4, 2011 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 15 page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, May 4, 2011 

ND WOMEN’S TENNIS 

Irish have eyes set on NCAA Final Four spot 
By MATTHEW ROBISON 
Sports Writer 
Coming into the season, No. 20 Notre Dame had two goals: win the Big East champi­onship and, like last season, make a run at the Final Four and a possible national cham­pionship. After this weekend’s title win, the Irish are halfway there. 
With a 5-2 victory over South Florida in the Big East championship match Sunday at home at the Courtney Tennis Center, the Irish cap­tured their fourth straight conference championship. Tuesday, they earned a berth in the national championships in Palo Alto, Calif. 
“We are really excited for the NCAAs to begin,” Irish junior Shannon Mathews said. “Coming off the Big East tour­nament we are really happy with our doubles performanc­es.” 
Directly in their path to the semifinals is the team that ended their dreams of winning the national title last season. No. 1 Stanford is undefeated and hosts the tournament as the odds-on favorite to take it all. If the Irish want to make it as far as they did last season, they will have to knock off the Cardinals in the third round. Their task begins against Fresno State. 
“We know that Fresno State is going to be a tough first round match for us,” Mathews said. “We hope we have the opportunity to get some revenge on Northwestern who beat us.” 
The Bulldogs are 11 -13 coming into the tournament, but play in the perennially brutal Pac-10 conference. 
“We are excited to play Fresno State in the first round,” Irish sophomore Chrissie McGaffigan said. “Northwestern and IPFW are also in our bracket and are both tough.” 
Although Notre Dame’s sea­son has gone according to plan so far — a solid regular season, a Big East title and an NCAA tournament berth — the Irish have not been without their fair share of adversity this season. 
In the heart of its regular season schedule, Notre Dame dropped three straight to Baylor, USF and Duke. The Irish could have collapsed and let their season slip through their hands. Instead, Notre Dame battled back and ended the season with five straight wins, seeking vengeance against the Bulls Sunday to take the conference crown. 
“We are continuing to work hard on things the coaches want us to focus on,” McGaffigan said. “We are playing stronger with every match and are peaking at just the right time.” 
A strong corps of veterans including juniors Kristy Frilling and Mathews and sen­ior Kristen Rafael have led the Irish all season. Frilling, the No. 4 singles player in the country, played the entire sea­son at No. 1 singles and did not disappoint. She went 26-5 overall this season and has 84 career victories. Mathews, named the Big East tourna­ment Most Outstanding Player, is similarly strong in her spot at No. 2 singles, going 5-1 in conference play. Mathews has also won her last five starts. Rafael, the lone senior on the squad, went 11-9 in the duals season, earned 67 career vic­
tories and  won  her last six  
decisions.  
Wit h  an  u nusu al ly  h igh  

number of freshmen on the team, veteran leadership has been a key to Notre Dame’s success. 
Yet that does not mean freshmen have not con­tributed as well. Jennifer Kellner has excelled in her first season with the Irish, going 24-5 overall, as she spent most of the season at No. 3 singles. 
Doubles has also been a strong point for the balanced Irish squad this season. Overall, the Irish were 64-35 in doubles. Mathews said going into the singles portion with a lead is always positive. 
“We hope to continue to build on this momentum in doubles as well as the compet­itive nature we all demon­strated in our singles play,” Mathews said. 
With 64 teams in the NCAA championship bracket, the task can seem daunting. But ultimately it comes down to being the better team on any given day, Mathews said. 
“We just want to take the NCAAs one match at a time,” she said. “There are many great teams in the draw, but we are peaking at the right time.” 
The NCAA championships get underway May 13 and run until the national champi­onship in Palo Alto, Calif., on May 24. Notre Dame’s first matchup is against Fresno State May 13 in Evanston, Ill. 
Contact Matthew Robison at mrobison@nd.edu 


NFL 

Saints work out as a team 
Associated Press 

NEW ORLEANS — Drew Brees was back in the heart of a huddle, albeit an unusual one in an uncertain time. 
Gathered around New Orleans' star quarterback were not just offensive players, but defenders and specialists. There were players currently under contract with the Saints and some who are not. 
Brees secured access to Tulane's facilities and called on teammates to join him for the workouts. Nearly 40 of them did on Tuesday, taking cues from one of the few leaders they have while the NFL lockout prevents them from training on team property or contacting coaches. 
We would all be working out somewhere anyway, so why not do it together and why not do it in an organized fashion where it's very football-related," Brees said. "It's preparing us to have a championship season, and I feel like it's putting us way ahead of other teams around the league, just by the fact that we're so organized." 
Normally, May and June are months for organized offseason workouts and minicamps, all of which will be canceled if the lockout lingers into midsummer. So players on a number of teams around the league have begun to gather in some form. 
New York Jets quarterback Mark Sanchez invited team­mates to join him in California for what he's calling the Jets West Camp. Broncos safety Brian Dawkins has organized some workouts with about a dozen teammates in the Denver area. Cleveland quarterback Colt McCoy hosted some Browns teammates for workouts in Austin, Texas. 
More than a dozen Miami Dolphins, including quarterback Chad Henne and have been working out together regularly on a soccer field near the team complex. The group includes Chad Henne and offensive tack­le Jake Long. 
Falcons linebacker Coy Wire and right tackle Tyson Clabo have organized workouts that about 30 teammates have attended in Cumming, Ga. 
After Saints players broke their huddle with Brees, they divided into groups and started conditioning and agility drills. Most wore shorts and T-shirts. None wore helmets. 
Brees said work on forma­tions and plays — even film study — may come later, depending on how long the lock-out lasts, but there will be "absolutely no contact." He added that about three work­outs per week are planned for May and parts of June, mimick­ing what the Saints would nor­mally do in the months leading up to training camp. 

Left tackle Jermon Bushrod, fullback Heath Evans and safeties Roman Harper and Darren Sharper were among those who showed up despite not having contracts nailed down for next season. 
Bushrod said he saw the workouts as an opportunity to "get back to where I need to be to be successful, and that's pret­ty much how everybody looks at it, whether your contract situa­tion is a little hazy or not." 
Still, some key players whose contracts are in limbo, such as receiver Lance Moore, did not show, but Brees didn't begrudge their absences. 


Wednesday, May 4, 2011 The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
ND SOFTBALL 

Irish dominate Valpo, will host Pittsburgh in doubleheader 
By KELSEY MANNING 
Sports Writer 
With consistent pitching that kept eight Crusaders stranded on base and an explosive offensive effort kicked off by an early two-run home run by junior Dani Miller, Notre Dame disman­tled in-state rival Valparaiso by a count of 10 -2 in six innings yesterday. 
The game showcased the two elements of the game No. 21 Notre Dame (39-8, 14-1 Big East) has improved upon most this season, junior out­fielder Alexa Maldonado said. 
“Our biggest change [from the beginning of the season] is getting key hits when they are needed, ” Maldonado said. “In the beginning of the season we were leaving a lot of runners in scoring position stranded on base. Now we are getting key hits from every spot in the lineup.” 
Miller’s first-inning homer was her fourth in as many career contests against the Crusaders, a series in which Notre Dame has now claimed victory for the 30th time in a row. In just her second start as a designated hitter, fresh­man outfielder Lauren Stuhr added a two-run homer of her own during the fourth to put the Irish up four. She had two hits and four RBIs in the contest, as did senior slugger Heather Johnson, while Maldonado and senior catch­er Lex Clay both scored twice. 


Though the Crusaders (30­19-1) managed to get four hits off freshman pitcher Laura Winter and cut the Irish lead in half, two innings of scoreless relief by sopho­more pitcher Brittany O’Donnell were enough to keep Valparaiso at a safe dis­tance. 
Tonight the Irish face Big East opponent Pittsburgh in a home doubleheader in Melissa Cook Stadium. The game will be televised on ESPNU, and Maldonado said the team is ready to show how far they have come. 
“We look forward to our TV games every year,” she said. 
“It’s so exciting because it’s like being famous. We are definitely extra motivated to win because we know a lot of people are watching us. We don’t want to embarrass our­selves. We will be looking to definitely playing our best softball.” 
As the Irish try to hold on to their top spot in the Big East as the postseason grows closer, Maldonado said the main obstacle will be mental focus. 
“The most difficult thing to deal with is staying relaxed and not getting frustrated,” Maldonado said. “The better competition we play, the big­ger the challenge. Even if beating these teams is more difficult, we need to stay calm and continue to focus on getting the job done.” 
This will be especially cru­cial as the squad wraps up regular season play this weekend with a series at Connecticut. 
“The biggest challenge that Connecticut will pose this weekend will definitely be that we could have a philoso­phy to take them lightly, ” Maldonado said. “However, we will not do that. As long as we don ’t play down to their level, we will beat them. They ’re the kind of team that if we let them stay in the game they will keep fighting. We just need to put them away early.” 
The Irish will attempt to build on an eight game win streak as they take on Pittsburgh this evening at 4 
p.m. and 6 p.m. at Melissa Cook Stadium. Coverage will begin at 4 p.m. on ESPNU. 
Contact Kelsey Manning at kmannin3@nd.edu 
SMC GOLF 

Belles prepared for NCAAs 
By JACK HEFFERON 
Sports Writer 
After a dramatic come ­from-behind victory at the MIAA Qualifier last weekend, the No. 12 Belles will have a chance to prove themselves against the best field in the country at the NCAA Division III championships. 
Last year, Saint Mary’s sat several strokes behind Olivet after the first round of the qualifier, but rallied in the final two rounds on their home course to win the event. They built on that momentum at the national tournament, equaling their best -ever showing at the NCAAs with a fourth-place finish. Besides the trophies and accolades, though, the Belles also gained a wealth of experience, some­thing they hope will help carry them to the top of the leaderboard again this year. 


“The experience [from last year] is a huge advantage,” senior captain Mary Kate Boyce said. “Senior Rosie O’Connor, junior Natalie Matuszak and myself have competed in the last two national championships, so we have a feel for the nerves that come with playing in a big event like this. We hope our experience will help the freshmen keep their nerves in check for the tournament, too.” 
This year, the Belles hope that history will continue to repeat itself. For the second straight year, the team came back in the final round of the qualifier to beat Olivet, this time after trailing by as many as 12 strokes. Saint Mary’s charged back behind the strength of a phenomenal 315 in the final round, and placed all five of its scorers in the top 
10. With the team playing its best golf at just the right time, the Belles hope to ride that momentum to another high finish at the NCAA tourna­ment. 
“The berth was essential to going into the national cham­pionship with confidence,” Boyce said. “Being able to beat a tough team when we needed to has allowed us to build our self-confidence. We were able to perform well under pressure which is quite an accomplishment consider­ing we have some young play­ers. I definitely feel like we’re peaking at the right time.” 
But while they have had many successes recently, the atmosphere of the national championship will be unlike any other tournament Saint Mary’s has played this year. With so much riding on each shot, keeping their composure in check may be more impor­tant than keeping the ball in the fairway. 
“We have worked very hard this season to prepare our­selves for a shot at the nation­al title,” Boyce said. “Winning the title will take incredible mental toughness. The com­petition will be fierce, with 20 great teams all looking to achieve the same goal. The team that can deal with the highs and lows of the round will have the best shot at win­ning.” 
Despite the pressure and expectations, Boyce remains positive and excited, and said she cannot wait to take to the course for her last collegiate tournament. 
“I am very excited for the tournament because this is the icing on the cake,” she said. “We’ve made it this far, now all we can do is our best. We hope to be bringing our teammates back a massive trophy.” 
The first round of the NCAA Division III championships will begin Tuesday in Howey-in-the-Hills, Fla. Tournament action will continue all week, concluding with the final round Friday. 
Contact Jack Hefferon at wheffero@nd.edu 



Wednesday, May 4, 2011 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 19 page 20 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, May 4, 2011 

MEN’S TENNIS 

Tough schedule awaiting Irish 
By MATT UNGER 
Sports Writer 
For coach Bobby Bayliss and the Irish tennis team, a bid in the NCAA tournament has become an annual 
occurrence, as the team was named to the 64-team field yesterday for the 20th time in 21 years. Despite falling to Louisville in the Big East tournament finale Sunday, the team’s body of work impressed the selec­tion committee enough to warrant a bid. 
However, if the Irish (17­
11) look to advance out of the tournament’s first week­end for the first time since 2007, they will have to overcome a tough tandem of opponents. 
In the first round on either May 13 or 14 in Columbus, Ohio, Notre Dame will face East Tennessee State. If the Irish earn a victory in that match, they will likely take 
on the Big Ten champion, No. 4 Ohio State (30 -2), barring a first round upset by Ball St. (15-14). 
East Tennessee State (17­6), the Atlantic Sun champi­on, will look to repeat their 2008 opening round 4-2 defeat of the Irish, which also occurred in Columbus. 
The teams did not meet at any tournaments this sea­son, and their only common 
opponent was Big East 
MLB 
Liriano pitches no-no; Twins win 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO — Francisco Liriano was running low on energy in the ninth inning. A no-hitter within reach but his pitch count climbing, he relied on teammates to help him complete the best game of his career. 
When shortstop Matt Tolbert grabbed Adam Dunn's liner for the final out, completing the Minnesota Twins' 1-0 win over the Chicago White Sox, Liriano was mobbed on the mound. 
“To be honest I was running out of gas,” he said. “I just thank my teammates that they made some great plays behind me tonight.” 
Liriano (2-4) walked six and struck out two in his first complete game in 95 major league starts. The 27-year-old left-hander, who reached the big leagues in 2005, matched his career high with 123 pitches. 
“I can't explain it. I feel so nervous and so happy right now,” Liriano said. “I can't explain my feeling right now.” 
He survived a rocky ninth inning that began when Brent Morel grounded to shortstop and Matt Tolbert made a one-hop throw that first baseman Justin Morneau scooped. Juan Pierre walked and Alexei Ramirez popped to shortstop. 
Liriano fell behind Adam Dunn 3-0 in the count, then got a pair of strikes. After a foul ball, Dunn lined out to Tolbert. 
“I thought it was a base hit,” Liriano said. “When I saw him catch it I was so excited.” 
Dunn dropped to 0 for 16 against left-handers this sea­son. 
“As soon as I hit it, I saw him, and it was right to him,” Dunn said. “That's pretty much the story of the day. There were some balls that, again, they made some great defensive plays.” 

champion Louisville. Both squads lost to the Cardinals, although the Buccaneers were shutout 7-0, winning 
only the No. 2 doubles match. Meanwhile, the Irish fell to Louisville twice in a span of eight days by mar­gins of 4-3 and 4-2. 
In No. 1 singles, Notre Dame junior Casey Watt will likely face East Tennessee State senior Grega Teraz. Watt has served as Notre Dame’s No. 1 singles player the past two seasons and compiled a 17 -20 record this season, with 14 match­es against nationally ­ranked opponents. Teraz, meanwhile, was inserted into the No. 1 singles posi­tion toward the end of the season, going 6-2 in that role. 
Team depth in No. 3 through No. 6 singles has been a big strength for the Irish this season. The Irish hold at least a .640 winning percentage in each of those categories, including a 20-5 mark in No. 6 singles. 
If Notre Dame gets past East Tennessee State, they will likely face Ohio State for the right to travel to Stanford for the round of 16. 
Contact Matt Unger at munger@nd.edu 

ND WOMEN’S GOLF 

Lady Irish host tournament 
By LAURA COLETTI 
Sports Writer 
The Irish will look to add more success to their season as they host 30 teams for the NCAA Central Regional Championship tournament starting tomorrow. 
The squad has enjoyed both team and individual successes this season. Irish coach Susan Holt was named the Big East Coach of the Year, and junior Becca Huffer, senior So-Hyun Park and freshmen Nicole Zhang and Kristina Nhim were each named to the All -Big East team. 
Notre Dame is also coming 
off arguably its best per ­formance of the season and looks to carry this momen­tum into the tournament. The Irish placed first as a team at the Big East Championships, with three of the five Irish contenders placing in the top-10 individ­ually. 
Nhim led the way, placing third, while Huffer placed fourth and Park finished sev­enth. Senior captain Katie Conway, who finished 11th, said she was thrilled with her team’s performance at the championship. 
“The team is really excited about our win at Big East,” Conway said. “Having Coach Holt named the Big East Coach of the Year and four of my teammates named to the All-Conference team is a 
g r e a t  h o n o r  f o r  o u r  p r o  - 
gram.”  
T h e  I r i s h  a r e  a l s o  v e r y  

happy to play at home for the regional championship, Conway said. 
“Our golf course is in great shape and we are excited about playing at home,” she said. “While our ninth seed puts us outside the projected eight teams that will move on to finals, historically all top eight teams rarely make it and we are confident that we will be one of the eight teams moving onto finals from our region.” 
The team as a whole is very determined to finish the season on a high note and complete what they set out to accomplish. 
“Our goal is to get [to the finals] for the first time in program history,” Conway said. “And this year is the best chance we’ve ever had.” 
Notre Dame is set to tee off Thursday morning at the Warren Golf Course. 
Contact Laura Coletti at lcoletti@nd.edu 


Wednesday, May 4, 2011 The Observer . SPORTS page 21 
Lee 
continued from page 24 
of Notre Dame in the amateurs and other tournaments, I was really grateful that I had that Notre Dame experience under my belt because the Bengal Bouts stage was so huge,” Lee said. “I think that got me ready through­out the amateurs and even now in my pro career it got me used to fighting in front on big crowds.” 
After spending his freshman year of college at University of Missouri, Lee transferred to Notre Dame for his second year, fulfilling a lifelong dream of being a member of the Fighting Irish. After training for Bengal Bouts during the summer, Lee joined the club and met immediate suc­cess, winning the 175 lb. weight class championship his sopho­more year by a knockout. During his junior year, not only did Lee become a boxing captain but he also won his weight class once again and earned the Notre Dame Boxer of the Year award, an honor generally reserved for seniors. Captaining the club and winning at finals night once again 
Feeney 
continued from page 24 
Feeney has not let his lack of experience prevent him from having a great first year in the program. He hopes to culminate his impressive freshman season with a strong performance at Villanova. 
He said he will treat this week­end’s races just like any other, but in the back of his mind he knows there is a lot riding on this week­end. He also acknowledged how important these races are to the upperclassmen, who want the his senior year, Lee started con­sidering boxing as a professional career. Once Lee defeated five opponents in the 2009 Chicago Golden Gloves to win his class, the decision became clearer. 

“Mentally and physically I felt ready and I had been told by a lot of top trainers that this was something I could and should do,” Lee said. “It was one of those things that came naturally to me and I fell in love with. There was­n’t an exact moment [I made the decision to go pro], but after I won the Chicago Golden Gloves and I started getting offers from some top promotion companies, that was when I sat down with my family and told them that this was what I wanted to do.” 
Since that moment Lee has never looked back. He graduated from Notre Dame with a degree in finance, signed with Top Rank promotion company, had his father come on board as manag­er, moved to Texas, started train­ing with Shields and started win­ning. 
All the while Lee has not for­gotten his alma mater. He is spearheading an event for next fall — the first professional box­ing event on Notre Dame’s cam­pus, to take place Friday Sept. 
seniors to go out on a high note. 
“As of now I am just looking at it as another race, but our sen­iors have definitely let us know what to expect,” Feeney said. “They talked to us before the indoor meet and let us know everything, but gave us confi­dence to go out there and give our best.” 
Several Irish runners will go in to the Big East championships riding strong momentum after impressive performances last weekend at Hillsdale and Drake. 
On the men’s side, the 4x1600 relay team of senior Jordan Carlson, junior Johnathan Shawel and sophomores J.P. 
16, the night before Notre Dame takes on Michigan State on the football field.. All proceeds from the event will go to Notre Dame affiliated charities, something Lee is equally passionate about. 
“I’ve always said throughout the whole thing that I’m chasing a dream and I want to become a world champion, but I want to try to help people along the way too,” he said. “There are a lot of athletes who do that and there’s a lot of good that comes out of it and I just want to be a part of that good.” 
Lee also started a fund to donate to the Holy Cross Missions after he traveled to Bangladesh through Bengal Bouts the sum­mer before his senior year. Top Rank’s CEO Bob Arum summed up Lee’s dedication to both the sport of boxing and charitable work. 
“Mike Lee is a great example of the graduates who Notre Dame produces,” he said. 
Lee will represent Notre Dame as he defends his undefeated record at the Mandalay Bay Resort and Casino on ESPN2’s “Friday Night Fights” this week. 
Contact Kelsey Manning at kmannin3@nd.edu 
Malette and Jeremy Rae came in second at the Drake Relays and are one of the favorites this weekend. 
The women had two first place finishes last weekend at the Hillsdale Relays. Sophomore Rebecca Tracy finished at the front in the 800-meter run and freshman Megan Yanik came out on top in the 400-meter hurdles. 
The Big East championship races will take place Friday, Saturday and Sunday at Jumbo Elliot Track at Villanova University in Villanova, Pa. 
Contact Joe Wirth at jwirth@nd.edu 


MEN’S GOLF 
Irish await NCAA tournament seed 
By CORY BERNARD 
Sports Writer 
Now that the regular season has ended, Notre Dame must play the waiting game. The Irish know they will compete in the NCAA regional tournament, and find out Monday evening where they will travel and whom they will face. 
The regional competitions, held at six courses around the country, take place from May 19 to May 21. Each pool con­tains 13 to 14 teams, with the top five advancing to the national competition hosted by Oklahoma State at the Karsten Creek Golf Course in Stillwater, Okla. 
Irish coach Jim Kubinski said his team has a 50-50 chance of traveling to nearby Zionsville, Ind. to compete at the Wolf Run Golf Club. However, as is the case with NCAA basketball tournament selections, a bal­anced bracket may require teams to compete in different regions. In 2006, the last time the Irish competed on the national stage, Notre Dame travelled to Orlando to play in the east regional. 
Kubinski said he thinks his club will end up in the bottom half of their bracket due to some uncharacteristically poor performances earlier in the season. 
“I expect us to be an eight or nine seed,” he said. “We would probably have been a four or five had we not struggled com­ing out of the gate in the spring.” 
Far removed from earlier struggles, the Irish have played well in recent weeks. Kubinski said his squad proved their focus by winning the Big East championship. 
“The guys are really excit­ed,” Kubinski said. “We’ve played well, and it was nice to go into the Big East champi­onship with less pressure knowing we were likely to make the NCAAs. Still, being favored to win can be tough, but they got the lead and held it throughout.” 
The Big East took note of Notre Dame’s impressive body of work this season, naming junior Max Scodro Player of the Year and freshman Niall Platt Freshman of the Year. His peers also named Kubinski the Big East Coach of the Year. Kubinski said Scodro deserved the award. 
“Max has done everything we’ve asked of him and more,” Kubinski said. “Really, if you look at the stroke averages, he’s been our best player all year. Ultimately I think he’s proven he’s one of the best in the country and we’re so proud of him.” 
Kubinski also praised Platt’s efforts in his first collegiate season. 
“I had some pretty big expec­tations for [Niall] coming in and he lived up to those early, beginning with his second place at Kiawah,” Kubinski said. “He’s been very consis­tent for us all year and a big contributor.” 
With two weeks left before regional action begins, the Irish hope to have injured jun­ior Tom Usher back in time for the NCAA tournament. Usher has been sidelined with a bro­ken hand since early April. Kubinski said he hopes to have the junior back soon, but needs to be sure of his ability to com­pete. 
“Tom would go if he could prove he can go around or two at a high level,” Kubinski said. “He’s been hitting some one-armed shots and doing putting work because that won’t aggravate anything. Hopefully we get him fully healthy.” 
Contact Cory Bernard at cbernard@nd.edu 
NBA 
Griffin to be named NBARookie of the Year 
missing all of last year with a 
Associated Press 
broken kneecap. 
LOS ANGELES — Los Griffin averaged 22.5 Angeles Clippers forward points, 12.1 rebounds and 3.8 Blake Griffin will be named assists while playing in all 82 the NBA's Rookie of the Year games and earning a reputa­
on Wednesday, a person tion as one of the NBA's most familiar with the news told fearsome dunkers, with his The Associated Press. alley -oop slams and one ­
The person spoke Tuesday handed jams making high-night on condition of light reels nightly. anonymity because the for-The 6-foot-10 power for­mal announcement hadn' t ward made the West All-Star been made. The Clippers team, becoming the first announced a news conference rookie All-Star in eight years, at their training complex for and even won the dunk con-the presentation of a major test in front of his Staples NBA award, and Rookie of Center fans with an iconic the Year is the only award dunk while flying over a car. left. Griffin was named the 
Griffin's victory is absolute-Western Conference's Rookie ly no surprise after his spec-of the Month six times, tacular season. The No. 1 becoming the first player to draft pick out of Oklahoma in sweep that award since Chris 2009 easily led all rookies in Paul did it with New Orleans scoring and rebounding after in 2005-06. 

page 22 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, May 4, 2011 
“I think [Mancini] assumed the 

defense, which dropped to second physically challenge our individ­ball was going to get put down 
nationally with 6.36 goals allowed ual matchups a little bit more —
Aoki 
Corrigan 
instead of seeing it down,” Aoki 

per game after surrendering a be a little more confrontational in continued from page 24 said. “He wanted to make sure 
continued from page 24 season high 11 scores to the our individual matchups,” he said. that once the ball was put down 
Orange, will be called on to slow Even with the challenges pre-It was just one of those tight that he was going to get a good 
to playing our best lacrosse,” down North Carolina’s potent sented by North Carolina, the games.” enough jump to get to third base. 
Corrigan said. “I don’t think we attack. Irish are confident that their final Notre Dame (16-22-1, 7-10 Big It’s just a mistake where maybe 
lost any confidence, I think we are “They’re a very talented offen-regular season game will be one East) failed to capitalize on a he wanted to make a play.” 
more acutely aware of what it sive team that really puts a lot of of their best. solid pitching performance from Notre Dame fell quietly in the 
takes to beat the very best teams. pressure on you because they just “This week presents an oppor­sophomore right-hander Adam ninth inning, as Michigan reliever 
Every time [you play], I think you have athletes everywhere,” tunity to play a very hungry UNC Norton, who tossed six innings, Tyler Mills set the Irish down in 
should learn a little something Corrigan said. “I think they prob-team, and get back to playing the struck out seven batters and order. 
more about yourselves, if nothing ably have as good of an attack way we know we can,” Foley allowed only one earned run. Aoki’s squad takes on the 
else, so I think we have, and I unit, and particularly as good a said. Fitzgerald yielded the long ball to Wolverines (14-28, 6-9 Big Ten) 
think we’ll be better prepared to dodging attack unit, as you’ll find Though the Irish are focused on Crank, who notched his team-again tonight with a chance to 
play Friday night because of our in the country. So they put an preparing to meet the Tar Heels leading sixth home run of the even the series with a victory at 
experience in the dome last awful lot of pressure on you from in the primetime matchup, if season. home. The Irish skipper said he 
Saturday.” both ends of the offense, and I Syracuse were to stumble against While Aoki gave credit to will be looking for his players to 
The Irish took all they could think defending them is where unranked St. John’s (4-9, 2-3 Big Michigan starter Matt Broder for erase Tuesday’s loss from their 
from the game against the [our focus] will start.” East) Saturday, the Irish could subduing the Irish offense, he memories and rebound with a 
Orange and have shifted their North Carolina’s offense is led find themselves with a share of added that Norton pitched just as focused effort, unlike last season 
focus to the immediate future. by senior attack Billy Bitter and the Big East title. well. when the Irish dropped the sec­
“We know that we have to play freshman attack Nicky Galasso. “We’re just focused on getting “Broder did a good job,” Aoki ond game of a home-and-home 
our best to win every game — no Bitter was recently named to his ourselves prepared for North said. “I think he pitched the best series against Michigan 13-1. 
one is invincible at this level,” third straight All-ACC team and Carolina,” Corrigan said. “Any of game that he’s pitched all-year “Last year we came up here 
sophomore attack Ryan Foley ranks second on the team with 34 the rest of that is out of our con-long against us. Certainly give and lost a tight ballgame and the 
said. “We’ve broken the game points this season. Galasso, who trol. The only thing we can do is him some credit. [Norton] did a next day we absolutely handed it 
down, pointed out our mistakes leads the team with 51 points, to prepare ourselves to be at our really good job in a couple situa-to them,” Aoki said. “I’m more 
and hopefully we can bring including 29 assists, was named best this Friday at North tions where he was able to pre-concerned our kids are locked in 
improvement to those areas this the ACC Freshman of the Year. Carolina.” vent Michigan from scoring. They and we do a go a good job of 
week in practice. It’s all about One of Notre Dame’s keys to Notre Dame will try to conclude made one more play than we competing. Hopefully we’re able 
UNC now.” hindering North Carolina’s prolific the regular season with a win did.” to scrap together tomorrow and 
Heading into the game against offense and generating some when it faces North Carolina The Irish squandered an excel-come out with a better outcome.” 
the Tar Heels (9-5, 1-2 ACC), offense of its own will be to play a Friday at 8:00 p.m. lent scoring chance in the top 
Notre Dame must prepare to physical match, Corrigan said. half of the seventh when fresh-Contact Chris Masoud at 
match up with a talented North “I just would like to see us come Contact Joseph Monardo at man first baseman Trey Mancini cmasoud@nd.edu 
Carolina team. The Notre Dame back and challenge a little bit, jmonardo@nd.edu led off the inning with a double. However, he was picked off at second base by Michigan catcher Cole Martin after straying too far off the bag in a sacrifice bunt attempt by junior centerfielder Alex Robinson. 
Coyne 
continued from page 24 
in Arlotta Stadium April 23 for its only victory over a ranked oppo­nent this season. During the win, the Irish scored six unanswered goals in the first half and strung together four in the second half. Coyne said Thursday’s contest will again depend on her team’s effort and desire against a familiar rival. 
“We match up well [against Georgetown],” she said. “It will come down to how well we read what the defense is giving us. We need to play with intensity and heart.” 
Coyne said her teams have tra­ditionally enjoyed playing in the nation’s capital. She attributes the comfort level to the scores of Irish faithful that usually attend tour­nament games. 
“Our fans travel really well,” Coyne said. “Sometimes we’ll have a bigger crowd than the home team. In 2004 when we [as a program] were first getting things going, I remember people showing up early and tailgating in the parking lot. That kind of sup­port really sets the tone for our team.” 
Notre Dame will need the extra support, as tests and papers have curtailed the squad’s practice time recently. Coyne said the team practiced only an hour Tuesday and would not practice at all today. Once arriving in Washington, teams may practice only during specific times. Coyne said the tournament structure dic­tates that practices cover only cer­tain aspects of the game. 
“Once you get to the tourna­ment, your schedule is very regi­mented,” she said. “We’ll work on situational-type preparation. We’ll only cover the essentials — end-of-game scenarios, and things like that.” 
No. 2 seed Syracuse (10-7, 7-1) will face No. 3 seed Loyola (14-2, 6-2) in the contest immediately prior to Notre Dame’s 8:15 p.m. game against the Hoyas Thursday. 
Contact Cory Bernard at cbernard@nd.edu 


Wednesday, May 4, 2011 The Observer . TODAY page 23 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

CROSSWORD WILL SHORTZ 


JEFF KNUREK
PLEASANDVILLE 
JUMBLE

JAMES SOLLITTO, CODY ECKERT and JOHN FLATLEY 
MIKE ARGIRION 





 HE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box 779  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  

Enclosed is $130 for one academic year 
Enclosed is $75 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________________ Address ______________________________________________ City __________________ State _________ Zip______________ 
TheObserver

Sports
Wednesday, May 4, 2011 page 24 
MEN’S LACROSSE 

Carolina in my mind 
Irish look to bounce back from frst defeat 
By JOSEPH MONARDO 
Sports Writer 
Its two-week reign atop the NCAA men’s lacrosse world came to an end Monday, but No. 3/4 Notre Dame has an opportunity to regain its momentum, and per­haps a spot or two in the rankings, with a win over No. 12/12 North Carolina in the regular season finale Friday. 
Less than a week after suffering their first loss at the hands of now top-ranked Syracuse (13-1, 5-0 Big East), the Irish (10-1, 5-1) will face a challenge again when they travel to Chapel Hill. 
Irish coach Kevin Corrigan said the loss, although disappointing, provided the Irish an opportunity to gain experience against one of the country’s best, and could begin to pay dividends for the Irish immediately. 
“I think our guys are motivated to get back to work and to get back 
GRANT TOBIN/The Observer 


Notre Dame sophomore attack Ryan Foley passes the ball against Ohio State March 23. The see CORRIGAN/page 22 No. 3/4 Irish defeated the Buckeyes 8-7, and face No. 12 North Carolina Friday. 

WOMEN’S LACROSSE 
Irish take on Hoyas at Big East 
By CORY BERNARD 
Sports Writer 
Though their chances appeared slim early in the season, the Irish will make their fifth straight appearance in the Big East tour­nament Thursday. The game in Washington, D.C. pits unranked, fourth-seeded Notre Dame (9-8, 6­2 Big East) against No. 16, first-seeded Georgetown (9-7, 7-1). 
Notre Dame’s victories in the last three games came at the right time, as the team’s only winning streak of the season gave it the necessary momentum to prepare for tournament. Irish coach Tracy Coyne said her team has realized the difficulty of winning. 
“We learned how to win, how to finish games,” she said. “We had to realize that everything doesn’t always go your way in the sea­son.” 
Notre Dame defeated the Hoyas 
see COYNE/page 22 


BOXING 

ND grad Mike Lee readies for bout in ‘Friday Night Fights’ 
By KELSEY MANNING  that I was joking, but I wasn’t,” Lee said. “I spent a week down at  but has catapulted the 23-year-old into the professional boxing spot- Gilbert Gastelum at the Mandalay Bay Resort and Casino in Las  looks forward to pressure situa­tions and a bigger stage. [The  
Sports Writer  their training camp in Houston. I  light. Lee’s heavy hands have  Vegas, a fight that will be featured  pressure] doesn’t seem to phase  
remember I finished a workout  earned him an undefeated 4-0-0  on ESPN2’s “Friday Night Fights.”  me. I know I’m going to put on a  
When 2009 Notre Dame gradu­ with my dad there, and after the  record, including three knockouts  Rather than letting the pressure of  good show. We have been working  
ate and professional boxer Mike  workout I ran over to a garbage  thus far in his budding career.  his network debut along with an  really hard and with this ESPN  
Lee called world-renowned train- can and threw up. I turned to my  Most recently the light-heavy­ undefeated record get to him, Lee  fight I’m starting to show people  
er Ronnie Shields with the hopes  dad and said, ‘This is it. This is the  weight-class fighter knocked out  said he is looking forward to  how good I’ve gotten and that I  
of getting Shields in his corner, he  camp. We have to be here.’ No one  Pablo Gomez in the first round of  showing the country what he can  should  be  considered  a  top  
was asked when he could come  had ever pushed me that hard.”  a bout at The Palms Casino Resort  do.  prospect in the division.”  
down to Texas for a tryout. Lee  It is that level of dedication and  in Las Vegas, and was subse­ “Every fight I’ve had cameras in  Lee attributes this mentality in  
responded in a fashion indicative  work ethic that has not only  quently featured in a two-page  my face and my last fight was  part to his time at Notre Dame  
of his entire boxing career.  gained Lee a trainer  — one who  spread in ESPN The Magazine in  nationally televised, but ESPN is a  competing in Bengal Bouts.  
“Tomorrow,” he said. “I’ll be  has worked with the likes of world  March.  whole different animal,” he said.  “When I started to fight outside  
there tomorrow.  heavyweight champions Mike  Friday Lee will fight in his most  “But I am definitely one of those  
“He laughed because he thought  Tyson and Evander Holyfield  —  publicized match yet, taking on  athletes that performs better and  see LEE/page 21  


BASEBALL 

Bats quiet in close defeat 
By CHRIS MASOUD 
Sports Writer 
Michigan left fielder Coley Crank lived up to his namesake Tuesday, belting a solo home run in the bottom of the eighth inning to give Michigan a 2-1 victory over Notre Dame. 

The narrow margin of victory marks the second time in two years Notre Dame has fallen to the Wolverines on the road by one run. 
“Certainly we had a couple of opportunities we weren’t able to take advantage of,” Irish coach Mik Aoki said. “[Freshman reliever] Sean [Fitzgerald] made one bad pitch, the kid made a good swing on it and hit it out of the park. I thought our kids did a good job in terms of competing. 
see AOKI/page 22 

ASHLEY DACY/The Observer Irish junior infielder Tommy Chase tries to avoid the tag againstSeton Hall April 28. Notre Dame fell 2-1 to the Pirates. 
ND TRACK AND FIELD 
Notre Dame looking to improve outdoors 
By JOE WIRTH 
Sports Writer 
The Irish hope to avenge the men’s second place and the women’s eighth place finishes in the Big East indoors earlier this year by taking the outdoor title this weekend at Villanova. 
The men came up five points short in the indoors and hope they can make the difference up with the hard work they put in during the outdoor season. 
“Our team goal is to just sim­ply win. We got second in the indoor by less than six points, so we are going to give our best to get those extra points,” fresh­man Patrick Feeney said. Feeney, who is coming off a 10th place finish at the 4x400 relay at the Drake Relays last weekend, said he may be a freshman, but that does not diminish his expec­tations heading into the races. 
“For the 4x100 there is a lot of competition. We are looking to place in the top three, but defi­nitely going for the win. My goal for the 400 is to win. I know there is great competition, but that’s when my best races come,” Feeney said. 
“Our 4x400 is very close to the top times and I think it’s going to be close between about four or five teams, but with good splits all around we are going to give our best to win.” 
Despite being a freshman, 
see FEENEY/page 21 








