the
Observer 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


‘The System’ to begin Forum conversations 
By MEGAN DOYLE 
News Editor 
The 2011-2012 Notre Dame Forum will bring in four heavyweight names to discuss reform in K-12 schools today at “The System” panel discus­sion. 
“We have before us a set of unprecedented challenges and 


Outage hits dining hall, dorms 
Observer Staff Report 
A power outage struck 18 cam­pus facilities Tuesday afternoon, according to University spokesperson Dennis Brown. 
The facilities lost power around 
2:40 p.m. 
“The areas affected were gen­erally the South Quad and an area on the north end of campus,” Brown said. “The outage was a result of a boiler problem at the power plant, which required the load of two campus distribution feeders to be dropped.” 
Power was fully restored by 
3:10 p.m., Brown said. 
South Dining Hall and Rockne Memorial were among the facili­ties reported near South Quad that were affected by the outage. A number of residence halls and academic buildings lost power during the half-hour outage as well. 
opportunities in K-12 educa­tion,” University President Fr. John Jenkins said. “There are complex, multi-disciplinary questions implicated by this topic, and Notre Dame should eagerly embrace the opportu­nity to be a forum for thought­ful dialogue on this crucial issue.” 
The panel will include four stars in education reform — Michelle Rhea, Howard Fuller, John DiUlio and Sara Martinez Tucker. 
Michelle Rhee is the founder and CEO of StudentsFirst, founder of The New Teacher Project and former Chancellor of D.C. Public Schools. Howard Fuller currently directs Marquette University’s Institute for the Transformation of Learning. 
They will be joined by John DiUlio, professor at the University of Pennsylvania and the inaugural director of the White House Office of Faith-Based and Community Initiatives. Sara Martinez Tucker will also sit on the panel as the current Undersecretary of Education at the United States Department of Education. 
“This panel promises to be a great prelude to the 2011­2012 Notre Dame Forum, which will examine topics related to K-12 schooling,” Jenkins said. “We are delight­ed to have such an impressive lineup of leaders in the move­ment leading the conversation on April 13.” 
see FORUM/page 5 


ROTC PASS IN REVIEW 





Female engineers to lead next year 
By NICOLE TOCZAUER 
News Writer 
Women only account for 30 per­cent of the College of Engineering, Dean Peter Kilpatrick said Tuesday, but female presidents will lead the four most prominent engineering groups on campus next year. 
“Through the efforts of our Assistant Dean Cathy Pieronek, some of our colleagues at Saint Mary’s and a very active Student Chapter of the Society of Women Engineers, Notre Dame has man­aged to increase the percentage of women in engineering close to 30 percent, which is real progress,” Kilpatrick said. “Chemical Engineering and Civil Engineering are close to 50 percent [of] women in engineering, while other disciplines have a somewhat lower percentage.” 
Kilpatrick said the college includes roughly one female for every two male students. 
Female presidents will serve on 
see ENGINEERS/page 5 


Library challenges ‘Challenge’ 
By AMANDA GRAY 
News Writer 
Beginning Thursday after­noon, a threatening sign greet­ed students as they entered the Hesburgh Library: “Due to the problems brought on by the ‘Hesburgh Challenge,’ we reserve the right to look into bags being brought into the Hesburgh Library.” 
Dr. Susan Ohmer, interim director of the Hesburgh Libraries, said the signs address a growing problem in the library — the Hesburgh Challenge, a drinking competi­tion where students consume one alcoholic drink per floor of the library. traditions. We call it a practice.” 

“We don’t call it a tradition The Challenge began around because it’s fairly new,” Ohmer eight years ago, according to said. “Calling it a tradition is also debasing true University see CHALLENGE/page 4 

INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER Special Olympian discussed identity page 3  Viewpoint page 6  Going Geek page 8  Hockey confrences realigned page 16 
page 2 The Observer . PAGE 2 Wednesday, April 13, 2011 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: W AT’S YOUR FAVORITE SUMMER QUAD SPORT?
THE OBSERVER 








P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Douglas Farmer 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Sarah Mervosh Patrick Sala ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Adriana Pratt ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Chris Masoud NEWS EDITORS: Megan Doyle Sam Stryker 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Meghan Thomassen 
SPORTS EDITOR: Allan Joseph 
SCENE EDITOR: Maija Gustin 

SAINT MARY’S EDITOR: Caitlin E. Housley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Pat Coveney 

GRAPHICS EDITOR: Brandon Keelean 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Katherine Lukas 

AD DESIGN MANAGER: Amanda Jonovski 
CONTROLLER: Jeff Liptak 

SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Joseph Choi 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 

(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 

(574) 631-4542 dfarmer1@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 

(574) 631-4541 smervosh@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITORS 

(574) 631-4324 apratt@nd.edu, cmasoud@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 
SPORTS DESK 

(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 mgustin@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY’S DESK 
chousl01@saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 

(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 

observerOnline 

www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Douglas Farmer. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 

024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer 
Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 
and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 

Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 




TODAY’S STAFF 

News Sports 
Megan Doyle Chris Allen Anna Boarini Sam Gans Jillian Barwick Matt Unger 

Graphics Scene 
Brandon Keelean Troy Mathew 

Photo Viewpoint 
Tom La Ren Brauweiler 


OFFBEAT 

Cooking oil dump gives RI city eau de french fries 
CRANSTON, R.I. – Some 30 gallons of used cook­ing oil has been spilled over several streets in a Rhode Island city, leaving behind the smell of french fries. 
Cranston Deputy Fire Chief Keith Newman told WJAR-TV that the soy ­bean oil was kept in 5­gallon containers that apparently fell off a truck Monday. Firefighters found the containers in four spots around Cranston. 
The cooking oil was spilled along an entire block of one street, a mess left for environmen­tal officials to clean up. 
Cathy Chukwulebe  Grace Parsons  Nicole Brooke  Katharine Mack  Sara Hillstrom  Shannon Sullivan  
freshman  freshman  freshman  sophomore  freshman  freshman  
Welsh Fam  Farley  Welsh Fam  Howard  Farley  Cavanaugh  

“Hiding stuffed “Running away “Reading.” “Laying out.” “Flippin’ the “Competitive toy bananas in from people friz around hammocking.” trees.” with cameras.” with my franz.” 

Have an idea for Question of the Day? Email obsphoto@gmail.com 

Newman told The Associated Press that his clothes smelled like french fries after he got back to the fire station. 
The fire department is searching for the driver who made the mess. 
Oregon legislative prank becomes Internet sensation 
SALEM, Ore. – Who says government has to be boring? 
A dozen state lawmak­ers in Oregon are con­vinced it doesn’t need to be. They slipped the lyrics to Rick Astley ’s 1987 hit “Never Gonna Give You Up” into their speeches on the House floor last year. And they did it right under the noses of colleagues, jour­nalists, lobbyists, staff and the public. 
The video was released on April Fool’s Day and went viral this week, attracting more than 780,000 views and com­ments from fans cheering the politicians eager to have a little fun while doing the people’s busi­ness. 
The mastermind is Rep. Jefferson Smith, a 37 ­year old Portland Democrat who says he wants to drive people to politics instead of driving them away with partisan venom. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

IN BRIEF 
Today from 4 to 6 p.m. watch the Fighting Irish Softball Team take on Loyola of Chicago at Melissa Cook Stadium. 
Join in the fight against cancer with The Bald and the Beautiful Fundraiser today beginning at 4 and ending at 10 p.m. in the LaFortune Student Center. 
Eduardo Morales from Southern Methodist University will be speaking today from 4:30 to 
5:30 p.m. on American Catholic Studies. The lecture is titled “Praying Like the Middle Class: Ethnic Mexicans Make Church in Twentieth-Century Indiana” and will be held in Geddes Hall in the Center for Social Concerns. 
Professor Terry Eagleton will be giving a public lecture today from 4:30 to 6 p.m. His fourth public lecture at Notre Dame is entitled “On Violence” and will be held in the Hesburgh Center for International Studies. 
Author of the bestselling novel “The Time Traveler’s Wife,” Audrey Niffenegger, will speak about her novel as part of the Notre Dame Literary Festival at 7 
p.m. in room 105 of the Jordan Hall of Science. Book signing will follow, and books will be available for purchase. 
Today at 7:30 p.m. panelists will explore broad issues of education­al innovation and the role that higher education in general must play in effecting systemic and sus­tainable reform in the United States. Come listen to “The System: Opportunity, Crisis, and Obligation in K-12 Education” at the Leighton Concert Hall in The Debartolo Performing Arts Center. 
To submit information to be included in this section 
of The Observer, email detailed information about an event to obsnews.nd@gmail.com 

Today Tonight Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday 


CORRECTIONS 

In an April 12 article, “SMC t-shirt raises violence awareness,” Madeleva Hall at Saint Mary’s College was incorrectly identified as Magdalena Hall. The Observer regrets this error. 





Wednesday, April 13, 2011 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Fall 2011 registration begins 
By EMILY SHRANK 
News Writer 
Class registration for the fall 2011 semester begins today, and the Office of the Registrar is fully prepared to handle any “DARTing” issues that may come its way. 
Assistant registrar Lora Spaulding said the office is already busy dealing with regis­tration “emergencies,” such as student classification changes. 
Spaulding said student ath­letes, as well as those regis­tered with the Office of Students with Disabilities, are the two groups on campus that are given registration privi­leges. 
Student athletes have the opportunity to register within the first hour of the first day 


based upon their classifications as seniors, juniors or sophomores, Spaulding said. 
“Currently, ath­letes are a little less that half of the students reg­istering within those parame­ters,” she said. “The other half that have the first day and 

“I know they are keenly aware of the demand for classes and are working out the best schedule possible.” 
Lora Spaulding assistant registrar 
within the first hour are from the general student popula­tion.” 
Spaulding said classification, class schedule and the number of students that can begin reg­
istering determine DART times for the general student popula­
spaces are class. 
“I know tion. 
Despite recent problems with overcrowding in the Mendoza College of Business, Spaulding said the College accu­rately reports to the registrar’s office which business classes will be offered and how many 
available in each 
they are keenly 
aware of the demand for class­es and are working out the best schedule possible,” she said. 
Spaulding said the office noticed that more of the cours­es being offered during the fall are spread out during the day. 
“Instead of being bunched around mid-morning through early afternoon, they are spreading to earlier in the morning and later in the after­noon,” she said. 
Class registration is taking place earlier than usual this year in order to accommodate the Easter break, Spaulding said. 
Rising seniors register today and Thursday. Rising juniors choose classes on April 18 and 19, and rising sophomores DART on April 26 and 27. 
Contact Emily Shrank at eshrank@nd.edu 
College celebrates communications week 
By ABIGAIL FORNEY 
News Writer 
Fifty-eight students from the graduating Class of 2011 at Saint Mary’s will receive a degree in Communications, according to senior and com­munications major Sara Zwolski. The College will cele­brate “COMM Week” this week to honor these women. 
Senior communications major Casey Larson will attend film school at the University of Southern California after grad­uation. She said her dream job would be to edit movies or TV and movie trailers. 
“Yes, like Cameron Diaz from ‘The Holiday,’” she said. 
Marketing, public relations and advertising are the main career draws for communica­tions graduates, but Larson said the jobs within these fields are diverse. 
“Hospitals need human resource departments, schools need to be advertised, celebri­ties need public relations,” she said. “The options are endless.” 
COMM week includes a range of activities, Zwolski said. The department hosted a panel of seniors Monday to discuss sen­ior projects, internships and after-graduation job opportuni­ties. 
Zwolski said one of the stu­dents at the panel switched her major from business to commu­nications and was excited to learn she would have just as many career opportunities, if not more, in her new field. 
“Any business will need someone like a COMM major,” Zwolski said. 
A workshop promoting the creation of professional portfo­lios was held Tuesday. Other events during the week include decorating the Department of Communications hallway and hosting a discussion titled “Stop & Listen: Autism Sings at Main Street Grille” Wednesday evening at 7 p.m. 
A pizza luncheon Thursday will focus on job and internship opportunities for COMM majors. Professionals such as professor Susan Guibert, who works for Notre Dame Magazine, and WSBT reporter Colleen Ferierra will speak with students. A free breakfast will be offered in the communi­cations department for stu­dents Friday morning. 
Zwolski said senior majors were excited to talk to under­classmen about their experi­ence with communications. 
Senior Jenna Lewanski said she hopes to use her COMM degree for a career in public relations in the hotel industry. 
“People need to promote their business as is, but now even more so as the economy remains in recovery,” she said. 
Contact Abigail Forney at aforne01@saintmarys.edu 


page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, April 13, 2011 
COUNCIL OF REPRESENTATIVES 
Judicial Council vice president approved 
By JOHN CAMERON 
News Writer 
The Council of Representatives (COR) approved the new Judicial Council vice president of elections at its Tuesday meeting. 
Judicial Council president Susanna Sullivan presented fresh­man Caitlin Ogren, an American Studies and Spanish major from Pasquerilla West, as her choice for vice president of elections. Sullivan 
Challenge 
continued from page 1 
facilities manager Ross Fergerson. 
“Two years ago, it started ramping up,” he said. “We found 1,300 empty beer cans in the library then.” 
The Challenge caused more problems this year than last year, Fergerson said. This year, library security, monitors and housekeeping staff found more than 400 empty beer cans as hall election process.” 
Ogren said she did not see any significant problems in the way the committee operated under the leadership of previous vice presi­dent of elections Michael Thomas. 
“I feel [Thomas] led the election committee well this year,” she said. “I don’t plan to make any changes. I liked the way the committee was set up with the seven members.” 
Following an election season marked by a number of campaign allegations, Ogren said she under­stands her role in handling such allegations, but hopes for a less problematic campaign season next year. 
The Election Committee delayed results during the student body elections due to violations of cam­paign rules. During the delay, the committee met to discuss the alle­gations and decide sanctions for the candidates in question. 
As part of her new position, Ogren will be responsible for assembling next year’s election committee. She said she would look for a group that can both debate and cooperate well. 
“I think it’s really important peo­ple are willing to say what they think and be okay with disagreeing with each other,” she said. “It’s really important they are willing to cooperate because it is a small group that has to come to a con­sensus in the end.” 
Contact John Cameron at jcamero2@nd.edu 


well as 40 full better nature.” 
“Two years ago, it
beer cans. Ohmer said she 
started ramping up. 
Library per-believes most stu­sonnel found We found 1,300 dents would be evidence of the disgusted if they 
empty beer cans in
Challenge earli-knew the true 
the library then.” 
er this year than nature of the in the past, problems caused Fergerson said. Ross Fergerson by the Challenge. 
“In the past, it “The sad part is 
facilities manager
was [the] two to three weeks [around finals week and Senior Week], but it’s stretched out to eight weeks now,” he said. “When it started, it was mostly in the stairwells — now it’s moved out to the stacks.” 
Library security caught eight people drinking in the library already this year, Fergerson said. Security caught 28 students two years ago and 17 students last year. 
Ohmer said the library’s major concern is student safety. 
“[Putting up the signs] is a way to respect privacy and ensure safety,” she said. 
Heightened security is also designed to reduce the destruc­tive consequences of students drinking excessively in the library, such as vomiting and uri­nating on the shelves of books, Ohmer said. 
“[These actions] are putting other people in a position that’s really disrespectful,” Fergerson said. 
He said students urinate behind the elevators and vomit in trashcans and on the floor. 
“It’s really disrespectful,” Ohmer said. “It also takes time away from other housekeeping duties.” 
Since the signs were placed near the front door, Ferguson said library personnel searched 60 to 70 bags each night. No evi­dence of the Challenge has been found since the searches began. 
“One reason we implemented this is we were hearing beer cans clanking,” Ohmer said. “We wanted a way to look out for the library.” 
Fergerson said the signs are a visible deterrent for bad behav­ior. 
“Security has told me they’re seeing around 20 people a night looking at the signs and walking away,” he said. 
The anti-Challenge message has gone viral, Ohmer said. 
said Ogren would be responsible for ensuring smooth operations during next year’s student govern­ment elections. 
“The vice president of elections is charged with the duties of over­sight and administration of the election, including but not limited to approving campaign materials, dealing with allegations and over­seeing the election committee,” Sullivan said. “She’s also charged with guiding the hall election com­missioners through the residence 
Students publicized the signs’ message through Facebook and Twitter. 
“We’ve had quite a few letters saying, ‘Thank you,’” Ohmer said. “People are very happy about the policy.” 
Fergerson said if a student is caught in the library participat­ing in the Challenge, they are handed over to security for any punishment. 
“We’re working with other offices to make sure we’re fol­lowing policies,” Ohmer said. “As intelligent as our students are, we’re hoping to appeal to their 
we’re not dealing 
with the whole 
student body,” Fergerson said. “This is just a small portion.” 
Another problem caused by the Challenge is graffiti, he said. Students write on desks, walls and other furniture on every floor as they complete the Challenge, which causes a lot of monetary damage. Fergerson said removing or covering this graffiti at the end of the year can cost up to $5,000. 
“I hope for everyone’s sake and safety that this doesn’t continue,” Ohmer said. 
Contact Amanda Gray at agray3@nd.edu 


Wednesday, April 13, 2011 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS page 5 
Special Olympian speaks about discrimination 
By ANNA BOARINI 
News Writer 
Special Olympian Loretta Claiborne encouraged an appre­ciation of every person’s identity, and especially those of the dis­abled, Tuesday evening in DeBartolo Hall. 
“It doesn’t matter to me how you identify me,” Claiborne said. “It matters to me how the man above identifies me. When I go out into my community, I just want to be my best.” 
Claiborne was born partially blind and could not walk or talk until age four. Today, she is a recipient of the Arthur Ashe Courage Award presented at the Excellence in Sports Performance Yearly (ESPY) awards ceremony, and is also the subject of a Disney movie titled “The Loretta Claiborne Story.” 
Before she was an athlete and public speaker, Claiborne said she overcame adversity in school. She dealt with prejudice, even from teachers, because she is mildly intellectually disabled. 
“My teacher called me a retard, and that is a word that should never be used,” Claiborne said. 


Claiborne said her mother’s encouragement helped her get through hardships in school. 
“She always wanted me to be my best,” Claiborne said. 
Even when Claiborne’s school district wanted her to be sent to a mental health facility and school, Claiborne said her mother insist­ed her daughter receive an edu­cation from the Newark commu­nity schools. Claiborne said her mother insisted that as long there was a special education class available, her daughter would not be pulled from the school district. Her mother’s goal was that all of her children, Claiborne included, would graduate from high school. 
To help ease her stress and get rid of her extra energy, Claiborne began to run at night with her brother. She learned about the Special Olympics in school, and she said her mother motivated her to compete. 
Engineers 
continued from page 1 
Hispanic Engineers and Scientists, the Society of Women Engineers and the National Society of Black Engineers. 
Sophomore Shannon Warchol will head the Joint Engineering Council, the umbrella organiza­tion for all professional and hon­ors societies at Notre Dame. 
Kate Turner, president of the National Society of Black Engineers, said the women elect­ed for these positions were chosen for their efficiency and skill in leadership. 
“I know most of the women who are the presidents and they are extremely organized [and are] good at representing themselves, their organizations and Notre Dame,” Turner said. “They were the best people for the job this year.” 
Junior Rocio Miramontes, presi­dent of the Hispanic Engineers and Scientists (HES), said the smallest number of female engi­neers work in the electrical department. 
“There are almost as many females as there are males in my chemical engineering class,” she said. “But one of my best friends is one of two female electrical engi­neers in the junior class.” 
As the College of Engineering grows, Kilpatrick said the University provides students with tools to craft their future profes­sions. 
“We also offer a lot of study abroad and service and work experiences to sensitize students to the reality of living in a global village,” he said. “Plus our curric­ula within our departments are world class and recognized as among the best in the country.” 
Despite extensive preparation, Warchol said she worries about employment beyond graduation due to gender stereotypes. 
Others may believe she received a job or internship offer because an employer wants to increase its number of women. 
“I’ve avoided this by trying to have a strong enough work ethic so that every success I have is because of what I do, not who I am labeled as,” Warchol said. “Obviously there are very few women in that profession, so it would be easy for people to say any advances I make are due to profiling, but that just pushes me to work harder.” 
Kilpatrick said women still face difficulties after they gain a posi­tion. Women who want to have families, he said, are often put into complicated situations. At Notre Dame, faculty policy for junior fac­ulty is one year off the “tenure clock” for each maternity leave. 
“I think this is good, although I suspect there is much more that can be done,” Kilpatrick said. 
Despite these challenges, Kilpatrick said he expects the per­centage of women in engineering to rise within 20 to 40 years. 
Turner said women’s passion and drive will push them to a position equal to men in the future. 
“You almost feel like you have to be better than everyone else because you’re a woman in a male dominated field,” she said. “You have to prove that you should be there over that guy next to you. I think women have proved and will keep proving that they do deserve to be here and to be engineers.” 
Rosemary Alberico, president of the Society of Women Engineers, said women will progressively assume more engineering roles in academia and industry. Ultimately, society will focus on ideas and innovation instead of how many minorities are present, she said. 
However, before students pur­sue their professions and work to change unbalanced dynamics, Alberico said they should learn to ask questions. 
“Engineering is about solving problems, so know your resources and use them,” she said. “My advice for women: seek out female role models. Whether it’s a professor, advisor or professional, they provide great insight into life as an engineer.” 
Turner said her role models include two female members of the engineering faculty, Professor Cathy Pieronek and Dr. Joan Brennecke. 
The College of Engineering could still improve by expanding its female faculty, she said. 
Kilpatrick agreed more women faculty should represent the College of Engineering. 
“We still need to make progress in hiring women faculty in engi­neering, although we have a num­ber of truly outstanding women [on the] faculty,” he said. 
Whether faced by academic or social challenges, Miramontes said women and men at Notre Dame seeking to join engineers should never be discouraged. 
“Set goals for yourself and con­tinue doing what you love to do,” Miramontes said. “Also, get to know your classmates. Man or woman, one of the most reward­ing parts about being an engineer is being able to build strong rela­tionships with the people in your major.” 
Contact Nicole Toczauer ntoczaue@nd.edu 
Forum 
continued from page 1 
Fr. Tim Scully, director of the Institute for Educational Initiatives (IEI) and professor of political science will serve as emcee for the panel. 
“I’ve come to believe that educational opportunity is one of the most pressing social jus­tice issues of our time, and we should be as imaginative as possible as we consider ways of better serving at-risk chil­dren,” he said. “Michelle, Howard, Sara and John have meant a great deal to the mod­
“At that time, Special Olympics helped to change kids’ attitudes, “ Claiborne said. “I thought I was worthless, not worth one cent. Here was something that was changing my life, something plain and simple called sport.” 
With the help of the discipline and positive attitude Claiborne gained from the Special Olympics, she graduated from high school. 
Years later, Claiborne has run 26 marathons and competes in three different Special Olympic sports. 
She was inducted into both the Special Olympics Hall of Fame and the Women’s Sports Hall of Fame. 
After her mother’s death in 1994, Claiborne said she turned to her friends from the Special Olympics for support. 
“When my mother died, I was lonely,” Claiborne said. “ I had God, who is my strength, and I 
ern education reform move­ment, and I’m confident that they will lead a provocative conversation on where the most exciting challenges and opportunities are for our edu­cational system.” 
John Schoenig, director of the Alliance for Catholic Education’s (ACE) Program for K-12 Education Access, said ACE students can play a signif­icant role in the future of edu­cational reform. 
“I think ACE can play a role in discussing how faith-based schools, specifically Catholic schools, can and should play a role in education,” he said. 
Nicole Garnett, law professor had Special Olympics, which is my joy.” 
Even though Claiborne now serves on the board for Special Olympics International, she said she still deals with prejudice against her identity as an intellec­tually challenged person. 
People often stereotype the physical appearance of intellectu­al disabled individuals, she said. 
“Intellectual disabilities are the most prevalent disabilities,” Claiborne said. “ You can’t put a face on it, because it affects all types of people.” 
Claiborne said she wants to end the discrimination against people with intellectual disabilities and encourages others to do so as well. 
“You are now the soldiers of a new war for people with intellec­tual disability,” said Claiborne. 
Contact Anna Boarini at aboari01@saintmarys.edu 
and panel moderator, said the panel would bring attention to the failures and strengths of K-12 education that will be discussed throughout the year ahead. 
“My hope is that people leave tomorrow night thinking we really have to be part of this conversation,” Garnett said. 
“The System: Opportunity, Crisis and Obligation in K-12 Education” will be held tonight at 7:30 p.m. in the Leighton Auditorium of the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. 
Contact Megan Doyle at mdoyle11@nd.edu 
The Observer 

Viewpoint 
page 6 Wednesday, April 13, 2011 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Bleeding blue and gold from the start 
It all started on July 7, 1991. 

I don’t remember the exact time, but sometime that day, I graced the world with my presence. I was one of those privileged infants clad in 
gold and blue  
from birth and  Suzanna Pratt  
taught the  
words to the  Interim Photo  
fight song  Editor  
before I learned  
to read.  

I am a native Notre Dame fan. I was born into the tradition, and all my attempts to evade destiny during my rebellious high school years failed. Clearly. 
I was doomed to be a Domer prior to birth. My maternal grandparents met as students at Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s. 
My parents were, horror of clichéd horrors, set up at an SYR, initiating a beautiful romance that ultimately resulted in my brothers and me, one of whom will graduate from Notre Dame in a month. The other is 13 years old and likely fated to also attend this University. 
I am the 15th person in my family to reside in the shadow of the dome. Thus it was only natural for me to grow up a Notre Dame fan. 
I wore a Notre Dame sweatsuit to kindergarten. 
I hummed the fight song to myself on the swings at recess. 
I was an elementary age superfan. 
Some of my earliest memories are from Notre Dame football weekends. I didn’t care about football until high school, so I spent football games playing with my Polly Pocket and spilling my apple juice on the benches of the original stadium. 
I was a blissfully ignorant fan for most of my life: I didn’t know that other colleges existed for the first several years, and I certainly didn’t follow football until … I still don’t follow football. 
Then the rebellious phase hit. I decided that under no circumstances would I follow the family tradition and attend Notre Dame. 
I wanted to tempt destiny by attending a college more compatible with my tie-dyed, barefooted, polar-bear hugging, hippie personality (I became a Peace Studies major instead). 
My parents put up with my defi­ance. I think they knew all along. After all, they were the ones who doomed my siblings and me to be Notre Dame students. 
Fortunately, I got over my tempo­rary anti-Notre Dame sentiment. 
I feel the magic on this campus. 
I feel the tradition. 

Every walk around the lakes brings back memories of childhood visits. 
The racquetball courts in the Rock give me chills because I remember seeing them when my age was some­where in the single digits. 
South Quad rouses nostalgia when I walk to class every single day. 
I can’t not love it here. 
I love Notre Dame. 
I always have. 
I always will. 
I never had a choice. 

The views expressed in this Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Suzanna Pratt at spratt2@nd.edu 
Confessions of a True Gentleman 
I’ve got a little secret. It’s some­thing I don’t divulge too readily, even to close friends. But I’m worried other people can see it. Especially the people who don’t know me well — somehow I’m convinced they Brooks Smith can penetrate right through Humanity’s the veil of Bro secrecy and see what’s going on. The way I walk, the way I talk, the way I eat my dinner all point to one thing: I am a True Gentleman. 
Let me clear something up for everyone out there who’s wondering. Being a True Gentleman has nothing to do with good manners, thoughtful­ness, affectionate conduct towards others, fashion sense or demeanor. Rather — and this is something I’ve only learned recently — being a True Gentleman is all about sexual inhibi­tions. 
When I see a girl in leggings, my heart stops, then begins to pound. How dare that ignorant hussy wear such clothing outside the confines of her dorm room! Because leggings, and by extension other form-fitting articles of clothing, may appear to satisfy girls’ innocent desire to wear something comfortable that looks good. But I know better. It’s meant to provoke me, to set my teeth on edge with sexual frustration. It says, “Here is somebody comfortable enough with her body to show it off.” And I could never be that comfortable with myself! Not in a million years. 
Obviously, the best way to work out my love/hate relationship with the other 50 percent of the human race is to write a letter to The Observer about it, blaming other people for behaving in a way that goes against my own rather button-down, conser­vative notions of how people should behave. There are more things in heaven and earth than are dreamt of in my philosophy, and if I had my way they’d all vanish lickety-split. 
What really kills me, though, is the way these girls force me to disrespect them by dressing so sexy. I mean, it’s not like I have a choice in the matter of whether or not to disrespect some­one. Too often, the way other people dress forces me into regrettable pat­terns of behavior over which I exer­cise little or no control. That would require self-awareness and maturity 
— neither of which I naturally pos­sess, both of which take time and effort to cultivate. 
And temptation — don’t get me started on temptation — I can resist anything but that. The only thing holding me back is my inhibitions — many of which, I am convinced, are secretly justified — and what happens if those ever give way? Especially if I ever try booze, which isn’t likely the way things are going, but secretly makes me curious. 
Let me close out this somewhat rambling Viewpoint with an appeal to my female readers. Ladies — why are you frittering away your time with those jerk bros? They don’t respect you. They will use you and discard you without further thought, those carefree, lighthearted, playful idiots. (I call them “idiots” because if they were as smart as me they’d know the only proper way to behave around girls is to be heavily inhibited — or as I call it, “polite.”) 
Wouldn’t you rather have a man who could treat you properly? A man who can guarantee many awkward silences over lunch in South Dining Hall? A man who will be hesitant and nervous around you, as befits the statuesque goddess that you are? Now that’s what I call being a True Gentleman. 
So women of Notre Dame, consider this your final warning. If I see you wearing leggings or any other reveal­ing, form-fitting clothing, I will never pursue you romantically. I will never show any interest in you, as a friend or otherwise. You will never have me in your life. I hope you’re suitably frightened and abashed by this prospect. 
And finally, to all the haterz who gonna hate: I was born this way. 
Brooks Smith is a senior honors mathe­matics major and can be reached at bsmith26@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

EDITORIAL CARTOON 

OBSERVER POLL 
What are you planning for the Blue and Gold game? 
Go to the game Who cares about football? Drink all day Study for final exams 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com. 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“Take calculated risks. That is quitedifferent from being rash.” 
George S. Patton
U.S. general 
The Observer 

Viewpoint 
Wednesday, April 13, 2011 page 7 
Diagnosing health care ideas 
As Republican Presidential primaries near, “Repeal and Replace” will become one of the most commonly used phrases by the candidates on health care. “Repeal” refers to the Republican pledge to repeal 
the Patient  
Protection and  Adam Newman  
Affordable Care  
Act (PPACA), bet- Guest  
ter known as the  Columnist  
“Health Care  
Bill.” “Replace”  

refers to replacing the PPACA with “com­mon sense” ideas. There are two ideas in particular that Republicans have promoted far more than any others: medical mal­practice reform and allowing individuals to buy insurance across state lines. As Republican candidates promote these ideas, it is important for every American to understand how little they will accomplish. 
The first Republican health care idea is medical malpractice reform. Currently, doctors are very susceptible to lawsuits from mistreated patients. Lawsuits have three negative effects on doctors. First, doctors face high malpractice insurance premiums. Second, doctors sometimes per­form unnecessary tests to prevent lawsuits, a technique known as “defensive medi­cine.” Third, the threat of lawsuits places a great burden on doctors. Some doctors retire early or move away from a state with harsh malpractice laws. The Republican medical malpractice plan places limits on the amount juries can award patients for “pain and suffering” at $250,000 and lost economic productivity at $500,000. 
Medical malpractice reform is very important for the above reasons. However, Republicans falsely cite medical malprac­tice lawsuits and defensive medicine as a major driver of health care cost increases. According to the non-partisan Congressional Budget Office (CBO), the direct costs of medical malpractice are two percent of total health care spending and between zero and two percent of all health care cost increases. The CBO found the Republican medical malpractice plan would reduce national health care spend­ing by only one half of one percent. 
The second Republican health care idea is “allowing individuals to buy insurance across state lines,” also known as “inter­state competition.” In the individual insur­ance market, states regulate the amount of coverage that insurance companies must provide. Since the mandates in every state are unique, individuals in this insurance market cannot buy insurance from a provider based outside their home state. (It is important to note these rules only apply to the five percent of Americans who receive coverage through the individual market, not the vast majority of Americans who are insured through an employer or the government.) The Republicans want insurance companies to have the ability to provide coverage for an individual in any state. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

How do you like those sanctions? 
Dear Adam, 

I guess it’s hard to defy your upbringing, but your overall poor taste in college football teams necessitates a response. In reply to “Trojan Love” (April 11), I intend to expose USC football for what it really is. 
Notre Dame and USC have been playing since 1926. It has become the greatest rivalry in college football with both teams capturing their share of glory and championships. But while Notre Dame has maintained a tradition of excellence and class extending from its Catholic character, USC has taken a much different path extending from O.J. Simpson to O.J. Mayo. 
To be honest, it’s hard to respect an athletic institution that proudly displays the Heisman tro­phy of a double murderer in its trophy case. An institution that hardly graduates half of its players and condones rampant cheating and NCAA viola­tions. An institution that allows eligibility of a returning Heisman-winner who takes ballroom dancing as his sole academic course. Notre Dame on the other hand has athletes like Tim Abromitis, an MBA student, and Chris Stewart, a law stu­dent. 
You could say that much of my dislike for the Trojans extends from growing up a Notre Dame fan and being present at the 2005 game. Yes, I was there that day, and I will never forget a single detail. Notre Dame Stadium had never been more electric and the animosity for an opposing team had never been more immense. You couldn’t hear yourself shout when Zbikowski ran his punt back, when Quinn reached out to score the go-ahead touchdown, or when Leinart was sacked with 1:50 left. In an otherwise incredible game, USC had one of the luckiest and most dishonorable wins in the history of sports. They were the benefactor of PAC-10 officials who turned a blind eye to the ille­gal game winning play while adding extra time and favorable field position to USC in the final sec­onds. Obviously Matt Leinart’s foxtrot attempt across the goal-line never would have worked without being illegally pushed from behind by Reggie Bush, who was not even an eligible NCAA athlete. 
The NCAA justly came down hard on USC last summer imposing massive sanctions; ironically I was in Los Angeles the day it happened. It was refreshing to see USC get punished for its contin­ued cheating under the Pete Carroll era. While it’s true that USC has gotten on the right track with athletic director Pat Hayden, the institutional problems and overall lack of class from that insti­tution will take years to correct. Until that hap­pens, I look forward to Notre Dame assuming the supremacy of the rivalry. 
“Win one for the Gipper” is a lot more inspiring than “Win one for O.J.” 
Sean Mullen 
junior Keough Hall April 12 

A Final Four thank you 
Dear Coach McGraw, 

The thanks truly belongs to you and your team for providing those countless fans the chance to cheer for you during the Final Four games. The reason that we as students and fans felt the need to start the “We are ND” cheer was not because we saw the clock wind­ing down, but because of the team’s dedica­tion and amazing performance throughout the tournament, including the amazing victory over UConn. To many of us, you are the true champions for your performance both on and off the court throughout the tournament. So I say thank you to both you and your team, and Go Irish! 
Bill Shields 
junior Stanford Hall April 12 
While more competition is needed in insurance markets, the Republican’s “interstate competition” plan is poor policy. The Republican plan would allow health insurance companies to choose any state as their “primary state” and be subject to the regulations of that state only. This would incentivize insurance companies to make states with relatively few health care mandates and consumer protections as their primary state. Insurance companies would then offer skimpy health insurance plans that do not cover all essential servic­es. Insurance companies would then work to “cherry pick” younger people from other states while ignoring older people. Providers prefer to insure younger people because they are healthier and need less coverage than older people. 
The CBO scored a Republican bill in 2005 that allowed individuals to buy insur­ance across state lines. The CBO found that the Republican plan would raise premiums for older people while lowering premiums for younger people. The CBO also found that “interstate competition” would not affect how many people were insured, and any decrease in costs would mostly result from health care plans that contain less coverage and an insurance pool with more young people and fewer old people. 
Health care reform is vital to America’s fiscal future. Health care costs have grown faster than the economy almost every year for the past 40 years, and will continue to do so. This will lead the health care sector to increase as a share of the American economy (16 percent in 2007, 25 percent in 2025, 37 percent in 2050 and 49 per­cent in 2082 according to the CBO). As health care costs continue to rise, the fed­eral and state governments will face bank­ruptcy due to Medicare and Medicaid, employers will increasingly struggle to pro­vide health care to their employees and families will face higher premiums. 
The PPACA will make two major reforms to America’s health care system that the Republican plan lacks: It will cover 32 mil­lion uninsured Americans by 2019 and reform Medicare to make the program less costly and more efficient. According to the CBO, the PPACA will reduce deficits by $119 billion over this decade, $1 trillion over the next decade and by 2030 the fed­eral government will be spending less for health care than if the PPACA had not passed. 
While the PPACA makes landmark reforms to the U.S. health care system, it does not go far enough in reducing costs. Regardless, the PPACA is a good first step towards real health care reform and far superior to a Republican “Repeal and Replace” plan that simply rearranges the seats on the Titanic. 
Adam Newman is a sophomore. He can be contacted at anewman3@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
The Bald and the Beautiful 
Dear Students of Notre Dame, Saint Mary’s and Holy Cross, 
As many of you may know, and some of you may not, today is the kickoff day for the annual St. Baldrick’s Day event. St. Baldrick’s is a charity that helps to raise money and awareness for children’s cancer, by collecting money and shaving heads as a sign of solidari­ty with kids going through greater struggles than we can imagine. 
Cancer has touched each of us in different ways, so this event was something that we were more than eager to get involved with. We both knew that it involved giving money and shaving our heads, which was easy enough. What we didn’t know is that we would be face to face with some of the very kids whose lives we were trying to help save. We met 4 and 5 year old boys and girls and their fami­lies, who talked about chemotherapy, radiation treatments and long hospital stays. What amazed us both was how in the midst of all of this turmoil, these kids smiled, posed for pictures and stared in awe at the students who had come out to support the cause. 
These kids admire the students here. We are what they want to grow up and be, and all they really want is a chance to do just that. So during the next few days, just take a few minutes out of your day to come out and spend some time with some amazing kids, and we promise you that you will get more than you can possibly give. 
Dayne Crist 
junior O’Neill Hall 
Mike Golic 
junior Siegfried Hall 
* For everyone that is looking to help, here is all the info you will need: -Please come support the kids, your classmates and your friends! -Our website is www.nd.edu/~class12. Pre-registration is not required, just suggested! -Wednesday, Thursday and Friday 4 p.m. in LaFortune Student Center -Free dinners each night at 5:45-8 p.m.! Sponsored by Fiddler’s Hearth and Maury’s Pub -Shave Your Head and Fundraise for the St. Baldrick’s Foundation -Donate 8 Inches of Your Hair to Pantene Beautiful Lengths -Purchase a Colored Hair Extension to Benefit Memorial Hospital of South Bend 
A little thing can go a long way. Thanks so much for your support! 
Lish Elliott 
junior Cavanaugh Hall April 12 
The Observer 

Scene
page 8 Wednesday, April 13, 2011 
As many of you are well aware, my weekly tantrums tend to focus on quips about the music industry and qualms about television. Few may know, however, that my first geek title — before music geek or TV geek — is that of Lord of the Rings geek. Which if you are a Colbert Report fan who caught the James Franco episode last week, you will understand why my roommate walked in on me yelling, “Nenya! Nenya! Galadriel’s Ring of Power is Nenya, you idiot!” at my lap­top in the middle of Colbert’s rapid-fire questions to chal­lenge Franco’s Tolkien trivia superiority (Btw, Colbert pwned Franco. Fëanor and the Silmarils can get pretty tricky, if you know what I mean). So when I got the chance to interview Ethan Gilsdorf, who has quite possibly written the defini­tive book on fantasy geek culture, I was about as pleased as Pippen at elevenses. 
Have you ever played Dungeons and Dragons? (No). Do you have a World of Warcraft account? (Lost too many friends to it). Have you fantasized about taking off to New Zealand to be an extra in The Hobbit? (Uh…every day). But more importantly, would you ever admit any of this to your roommate or significant other? These are the questions asked by Gilsdorf — journalist, columnist, critic and author of “Fantasy Freaks and Gaming Geeks: An Epic Quest for Reality Among Role Players, Online Gamers and Other Dwellers of Imaginary Realms.” He’s on campus this week talking to American Studies classes and speaking with students about his extended ruminations on geek culture, and I was lucky enough to get an interview with him: 
Many of the “fan studies” books and articles are somewhat self-serving because they’re written by fans, for fans. Your book comes from the point of view of someone who seems at first to be an outsider, looking in. What kind of freedom did that give you to evaluate freaks and geeks? 
“My perspective is a funny one. I was into gaming, but not into fandom. I [long ago had] stopped playing and reading and putting on my double-edged sword, so I had freedom to approach it with a healthy sort of distance. I was very suspicious, and reluctant to admit I was into it [as a teenager]. Gaming was asso­ciated with a negative time in my life. The activity allowed me to escape. 
“As a kid, I had a vague sense of who else outside of town was into this. I knew ‘Lord of the Rings,’ watched ‘V’ and ‘Star Trek’, but it was hard to reach out. I was pleased to enter as a forty-something and see geeks be a much more vibrant, healthy, open and non-apologetic community, from Harry Potter to anime. I think it has changed, your generation ver­sus my generation, because of the internet. Opportunity for exchanges between fan communities is easier.” 


Did anyone ever distrust you because you came from outside of their geek identity? 
“I had to gain trust of people and allow them to open up. I had to communicate with people who are ‘normal’ — into online gaming, low entry, low-risk and no costume — and also people LARPing (Live Action Role Playing), who get a sword and run round around the woods beating the crap out of each other. There’s a certain risk on their part so you won’t make fun of it. 
“The media has become very shallow. They’ve been made fun of, and haven’t been given proper respect and appreciation. I said, ‘I’m looking to tell stories about why you’re into this stuff.’ I gave myself permission to embrace this. It helps that I had a book contract and a reason to finish the 
quest.” 
What was the most sur­prising thing you discov­ered on your quest? 
“In the end, the most 
surprising thing was my 
own personal journey. I 
went into the project with 
my own personal demons 
to fight with fantasy. I had 
really not changed as 
much as I thought I had. 
Games like ‘Dungeons and 
Dragons,’ fantasy, novels 
and interest in the auxil­
iary gaming community 
were always inside me. 

For the wrong reasons, I suppressed fear that people would make fun of it. But people don’t care. We’re more alike than we think, whether you’re interested in baseball stats or collecting books. Fantasy gaming is not much differ­ent from fantasy football. We all have a fantasy to bring us together and make us feel a part of some­thing bigger, not as alone. 
“I thought ‘Dungeons and Dragons’ would prevent me from becoming cool [when I was in high school]. But there is a clear path between fantasy as a kid and what I’m doing now. The imaginative space opened up in ‘Lord of the Rings,’ ‘Dungeons and Dragons’ and ‘Harry Potter’ is a kind of gift. You tell stories and imagine what it’s like to be someone else. That’s gotta be good for humanity.” 

Who are the least or most welcoming geek sub­cultures? 
Trying to break into the SCA (Society for Creative Anachronism) was pretty bureaucratic. They have press liaisons. It’s very hierarchical, [it is] organized 
around kingdoms and [has] a kind of political system. They are doing something that seems to most people to be the weirdest. They appear to do something complete­ly outlandish. To gain official access was a complicated process. 
“I went to visit the Tolkien Society in Chester. They had an attitude more like, ‘Wow, some­one’s interested in what I’m doing!’ They were thrilled I was taking what they were doing seri­ously.” 
Who are you writing for? 
“There are two groups who will find this book interesting: people into this stuff, who can gain per­spective to why it exists, and peo­ple who might have a spouse or a friend who plays World of Warcraft, but don’t understand it. 
My goal is to bring down barriers for someone who knows nothing about gamers. Don’t be afraid of it. Don’t dismiss it. Don’t make fun of it. 
“Your generation grew up hearing old stories in Harry Potter. So much of this stuff is based on a very specific time period, infused with magic and heroic deeds. Today, gaming allows for mutual achieve­ment, like sports, except you’re not on the football field, but on a battlefield. There were civil rights, then gay rights, and now we have geek rights.” 
So there you have it, folks. The boy who swore to abandon fantasy gaming in order to grow up became the man giving a lecture on Hobbits. And I, for one, couldn’t be more grateful. Ethan Gilsdorf will be speaking today at 7:00pm in DeBartolo Hall, room 
138. His lecture is titled, “Hobbits, Heroes, Gamers, Geeks.” See you there (I’ll be in the cape). 
The views expressed in this column are those of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. Stephanie DePrez can be contacted at sde­prez@nd.edu. 
On campus 
What: “Hobbits, Heroes, Gamers, Geeks,” Lecture by Ethan GilsdorfWhere: 138 DeBartolo Hall When: Wednesday, April 13, at 7:00 p.m. How much: free Learn more: ethangilsdorf.com/pressroom/ 



BRANDON KEELEAN | Observer Graphic 
The Observer 

Scene
Wednesday, April 13, 2011 page 9 


By CLAIRE STEPHENS 
Scene Writer 

Chris Brown’s new album “F.A.M.E.,” released mid-March, follows his Grammy-nominated album of 2009, “Graffiti.” This is his first album since the domestic violence controversy involving Rihanna in February of the same year. The acronym “F.A.M.E.” has two meanings: “Forgiving All My Enemies” and “Fans are My Everything.” 
Brown’s incorporation of R&B, pop and hip-hop gives the album a variety of slower songs, upbeat dance songs and his signature confident hip hop. Overall, the album’s style leans towards hit love songs like “Forever,” with a few Top 40 potentials similar to “Run It” and “I Can Transform Ya.” 
The lyrics of the slower-paced R&B sounds can be grouped into two cate­gories: emotional, romantic ballad and slow grind, in the mood music. Some of his best vocals are in the passionate and convincing lyrics of the more romantic songs like “Up 2 You” and “Next 2 You.” 
Nostalgic, regret-driven, get-the-girl­back songs include “She Ain’t You,” “All Back” and “Should’ve Kissed You.” A close listening to the words reveal some of these songs are surprisingly mature in their expression of love, life and even family. 
The slow grind-esque R&B song “No Bull****” takes a middle road between romantic and sensual, effectively using both physical and emotional imagery together. “Wet the Bed,” as the title implies, takes a much more blatantly sexual tone in the lyrics. The song fea­tures the rapping talents of Ludacris, who eliminates any doubt about the song’s meaning. 
Most of “F.A.M.E” follows pop influ­ences, while staying in the R&B genre. “Up 2 You” and “She Ain’t You” have a ‘90s boy-band pop sound to them. The electronic, upbeat dance element popu­lar in Top 40 hits today is very promi­nent in the already-hit single “Yeah 3x,” as well as “Say It With Me” and “Oh My Love.” Any of these tracks could easily become popular club favorites. 
“Look at Me Now” effectively layers the vocal skills of the artists and the music. One of the best songs on the album, its heavy, slow bass beats and claps mix with electronic effects to cre­ate an ear-catching single. Chris Brown’s self-assured rapping is remi­niscent of the single that made him famous, “Run It,” with lyrics taunting doubters to see how far he’s come. 
The presence of guest artists greatly enhances many of Brown’s songs with­out taking too much attention away from his impressive singing and rap­ping. Busta Rhyme’s mile-a-minute rap­ping with Lil Wayne’s distinct and instantly recognizable voice gives “Look at Me Now” a more diverse and power­ful boasting of success. 
Ludacris’ small spotlight and back­ground vocals scattered throughout “Wet the Bed” enhances the unashamedly graphic themes of the song. Kevin McCall and Tyga are also heard in the album’s mediocre opening song “Deuces.” 
Brown also follows Usher’s and Ludacris’ example by collaborating with Justin Bieber in “Next 2 You.” Both Brown and Bieber’s vocals are impres­sive individually and also blend and harmonize well together. The subject matter of the lyrics is unexpectedly touching considering the young age of both performers. 
“Some of the songs are more grown­up,” Brown said. “There are songs from all genres … Collectively, ‘F.A.M.E.’ is me giving fans every aspect of who I am as far as my art, my culture and my concepts.” 
“F.A.M.E.” is a strong album musical­ly and improves Brown’s image after the domestic abuse controversy. The success of “Yeah 3x” seems to suggest audiences have already forgotten or forgiven Brown’s past mistakes. “F.A.M.E” gives Brown the chance to show off his vocal and dancing abilities, while allowing him to leave his negative celebrity status of 2009 behind and move on as a singer, songwriter and dancer. 
Contact Claire Stephens at cstephe4@nd.edu 



By ANKUR CHAWLA Scene Writer From the opening frames, “Your Highness” presents a crude, humor-ridden mix between “Lord of the Rings” and “Harold and Kumar go to White Castle.” With the talent of Oscar nominee James Franco and winner Natalie Portman, it wouldn’t be much of a stretch to ask for a decent movie, but the little redeeming value doomed “Your Highness” to the likes of “American Pie 6: Beta House.” The movie begins with Thadeous (McBride) set for trial for fornicating with the dwarf king’s maiden. After returning to his kingdom in shame, his older brother Fabious (Franco) comes to the castle with the head of a slain Cyclops and a fiancée,  Belladonna (Deschanel). Festivities and honor seem to follow Fabious, while Thadeous is plagued by obesity and disappointment. Amidst the celebration of Fabious’ engagement, the evil wizard Leezar (Justin Theroux) kidnaps Belladonna so that he may fulfill a prophecy, granting him a dragon if he were to sleep with her. In order to save his fiancée, Fabious embarks on yet another quest. This time, at the king’s urging, Fabious brings Thadeous to help. Thadeous must be a hero in order to help his brother and save Belladonna from the wizard. While on the quest, the two broth­ers encounter the likes of a perverted wizard, “boobie traps” and an aroused Minotaur. These all serve as cheap ploys at humor, as the sheer distastefulness becomes the main source of comedy. While admittedly  funny at parts, the vehicle of cheesy static characters, atypical of the medieval themes and clichés just actors’ past. Overall, “Your Highness” doesn’t provide enough situational is exactly what the previews show — humor to make the movie great. a very crude comedy set in the mid-While in a gladiator-like arena after dle ages, and if that’s your thing, falling for the “boobie trap,” the enjoy. brothers are saved by the elegant and Contact Ankur Chawla atcunning warrior Isabel (Natalie achawla@nd.eduPortman). Isabel provides the muscle and wit to help Thadeous and Fabious on their quest. And it doesn’t ‘Your Highness’ hurt that the director insisted on including a completely hollow scene Universal Studios of the brothers watching Isabel bathe Director: David Gordon Green in a river. The few bright moments of “Your Starring: James Franco, Natalie Highness” come from the always-Portman, Danny McBride amazing Natalie Portman and a sur­prisingly funny Rasmus Hardiker as Courtney, Thadeous’ squire who’s sole job is to cheer Thadeous up. Franco and McBride, on the other hand, provide bland and overdone  

BRANDON KEELEAN | Observer Graphic 

page 10 The Observer  CLASSIFIEDS Wednesday, April 13, 2011 
MLB 

Rangers lose both game and Josh Hamilton 
Associated Press 
DETROIT — Now that Miguel Cabrera ’s back in Michigan with his teammates, he’s performing just as they want him to on the field. 
His spring training prob­lems aren’t forgotten, but his game -winning hit Tuesday was a reminder of why he’s so important to the Detroit Tigers. 
Cabrera’s bases-loaded sin­gle in the bottom of the ninth gave the Tigers a 5-4 win over the Texas Rangers. Less than two months after being arrested in Florida on suspi­cion of drunken driving, he’s off to a fine start hitting in the middle of Detroit’s order. 
“He does it every year. He comes to play. He’s been working hard. He’s in the weight room every day,” teammate Brad Penny said. “He’s a professional. When he comes in this clubhouse, he’s a baseball player, and he han­dles himself how he should.” 
The news was less encour­aging for Texas, which is 9-2 but could now be without slugger Josh Hamilton for two months. Hamilton is expected to miss six to eight weeks after breaking his upper right arm. 
Cabrera, whose legal issues are still pending, is hitting .385 so far this season and leads the team with four home runs and 10 RBIs. He’s picked up right where he left off when he finished second to Hamilton in last year’s MVP race. 
Brandon Inge led off with a single in the ninth off Darren O’Day (0-1) and moved to sec­ond on Alex Avila’s sacrifice bunt. After two walks sand­wiched around a strikeout, Cabrera ended the game with a single through the left side of the infield. 
“You’ve got to focus for that and prepare and try and make a good swing, try to work the count,” Cabrera said. “If you walk or some­thing like that — make some­thing good happen.” 
Detroit led 4-3 before Texas tied it in the eighth with a run off reliever Joaquin Benoit. Jose Valverde (1-0) worked a scoreless top of the ninth for the Tigers. 
Ryan Raburn had two hits for the Tigers and made a jumping catch against the left field wall. Detroit snapped a three-game losing streak and handed Texas its second loss of the season. 
Detroit starter Brad Penny rebounded from two unim­pressive starts, allowing three runs on seven hits in 6 2-3 innings. Texas starter C.J. Wilson went 6 2-3 innings as well, allowing four runs on seven hits. He struck out four and walked three. 
Hamilton left after the first inning. He slid headfirst into third when he hit a run-scor­ing triple, then tried to tag up 
on a foul pop -up near the Detroit dugout. Inge, the third baseman, and catcher Victor Martinez both ran after the ball, leaving the plate unpro­tected when Inge made the catch. But Martinez was able to take a throw from Inge while scampering back in time to tag out a diving Hamilton. 
After the game, Rangers general manager Jon Daniels said Hamilton has a non-dis­placed fracture of the humerus bone at the top of his arm, just below the shoul­der. Hamilton isn’t expected to swing a bat for a month. 
The Tigers scored in the bottom of the first — the first run allowed by the Rangers in three games — when Austin Jackson hit a leadoff triple and scored on Ramon Santiago’s groundout. Michael Young gave Texas a 2-1 lead when he hit a sacrifice fly in the third that Raburn caught at the top of the fence, pre­venting further damage. 
“I was just trying to get a good read on it,” Raburn said. “I think the wind held it up more than anything. Luckily it found my glove.” 
The Tigers tied it in the bot­tom of the fourth on a sacri­fice fly by Martinez, and Texas went back ahead on an RBI groundout by Adrian Beltre in the sixth. Raburn doubled home a run in the sixth and scored on Brennan Boesch’s single to make it 4-3. 

In the seventh, Detroit reliever Brayan Villarreal pitched a third of an inning — without actually throwing a pitch. Villarreal came on with a man on first and two out. 
Before making a single deliv­ery to the plate, he picked off Julio Borbon at first to end the threat. He was replaced by Benoit to start the eighth. 
“I actually think that’s what they wanted to happen. I think (manager Jim Leyland) pulled me out of the game so he could pick him off,” Penny said. “That guy’s got an unbe­lievable pickoff move.” 
BASEBALL 

Game signals start of Japan’s return to normalcy 
Associated Press  R a k u t e n E a g l e s Kazuo Matsui, an  i n f i e l d e r infielder  hard.” M at s ui's E ag l e s bea t th e  s o m e t h i n g a b o ut. I am  t o b e a n d my  h a p p y t e am - the bottom of the ninth but t h e r a l l y s t o p p e d t h e r e .  
C H I B A , J a p a n  — P l a y e r s  who has played in the U.S.  de fending c h ampion Chiba  mates  are  really excited  to  I w a k u m a  w a s  r e p l a c e d b y  
s t o o d  a l o n g  t h e  b a s e l i n e ,  major leagues with the New  L o t t e  M a r i n e s  6 -4 .  T h e  be a part of this.”  Ryan Speier, who closed it  
heads bowed. Fans observed  York Mets, Colorado Rockies  Eagles' home of Sendai has  This will be  a  season  like  out.  
a  moment of silence. In the  and Houston Astros.  been  one  of the hardest hit  n o  o t h e r  i n J a p a n . G a m e s  T h e  E a g l e s  a n d  M a r i n e s  
stands, spectators held signs  A crowd of 22,525 attended  by last month's catastrophe.  are  usually played  at night,  w e r e  p l a y i n g  a  p r e s e a s o n  
r e a d i n g ,  " S t a y  S t r o n g  the Pacific League opener at  The team is unable to use its  but the league is scheduling  g a m e  i n  A k a s h i  w h e n  t h e  
Japan." Away from the ball- QVC Marine Field. In the lat- stadium until April 29.  m o r e  d u r i n g  d a y t i m e  t o  e a r t h q u a k e  a n d  t s u n a m i  
park, those who  no  longer  est aftershock,  a  6.3-magni- R a k u t e n  p i t c h e r  D a r r e l l  accommodate power cuts.  struck March 11. The Eagles  
h a v e  h o m e s ,  w a t c h e d  t h e  t u d e  q u a k e  s t r u c k  e a r l y  Rasner, who has played with  Rakuten manager Senichi  have been moving from city  
g a m e  o n  t e l e v i s i o n  f r o m  Tuesday, and another could  t h e  Wa s h i n g t o n  N a t i o n a l s  Hoshino has said he wants to  to  city for preseason games  
shelters.  be felt in the stadium during  a n d  N e w  Yo r k  Ya n k e e s ,  win the championship this  since, and gathering support.  
It was time to play baseball  the game.  t h o u g h t t h e f a n s i n J a p a n  s e a s o n  f o r  t h e  p e o p l e  o f  Hisako Aoyama,  a  47-year­ 
a ga i n in J a p an  — o p e nin g  “I  want  to  carry this feel- were  glad to  see  the  season  S e n d a i  a n d  M i y a g i  old translator, lived in the  
day. It  was  also  a  time for  ing of appreciation for the  start.  Prefecture. His  team  made  To k y o  a r e a  b u t  n o w  i s  
honor and remembrance in a  whole year by playing base­ “It is  a  sense  of normalcy  an encouraging start.  behind Rakuten all the way.  
country convulsed by a dead- ball,” Matsui said. “During  f o r  t h e m , ”  h e  s a i d .  “ I t ' s  M o t o h i r o  S h i m a  h i t  a  “I  want  to  go  to  as  many  
ly earthquake and tsunami  training camp, I  went  to  a  something that's ingrained  tiebreaking three-run homer  games  as  possible that the  
a n d  w o r s e n i n g  r a d i a t i o n  s h e l t e r  a n d  I  s a w  p e o p l e  i n  t h e m  a n d ,  y o u  k n o w,  I  in the seventh inning for the  Eagles will play in the Tokyo  
leak.  t he r e wi t h e n er g y i n t he ir  think this is goin g  to  be  a  E a g l e s .  H i s a s h i  I w a k u m a  area," Aoyama said. "And I  
“Despite the difficult condi­ faces. I went there expecting  h e a l i n g  p r o c e s s .  T h i s  i s  gave up three  runs  in 8 1-3  a m  w e a r i n g  t h i s ( R a k u t e n  
tions,  we  are  able  to  open  t o  c h e e r  t h e m  u p ,  b u t  going to be  a  great thing for  i n n i n g s . K a z u y a  F u k u u r a  colors)  to  show my support  
the  s ea s o n  b ecau se e ve r y -instead they cheered  me  up.  them. Just for them to have  bro u ght th e M ari nes close  for the team and to cheer up  
body helped us to do it,” said  T h a t ' s w h y  I  w a n t  t o  p l a y  s omething  t o  c he e r abo u t ,  with  a  three-run  homer in  people in the north.”  

CLASSIFIEDS  The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall.  Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m.  All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit  
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds.  
Lucille: The company is in danger.  
FOR SALE  FOR RENT  NOTICES  UNPLANNED PREGNANCY?  PERSONAL  Michael: What tipped you off? The  
falling profit margins or the fact that  
Don't go it alone. Notre Dame has  we're a regular feature on Bill  
many resources in place to assist  THE CHRIST OF UMBRIA-­ O'Reilly's most ridiculous item of  
Home in Clay Twship-less than 3mi  SMC Women-cute house for rent.  If you or someone you care about  you.  enchanting and unforgettable! Read  the day?  
to ND. $75K. 2BR 1BA. Double lot,  has been sexually assaulted, we  this wonderful stage play on Kindle  ———————————————  
privacy fence, 30x30 pole barn, 6  3BR 1BA close to campus. $1500.  can help.  If you or someone you love needs  @ Amazon.com, under Books!  George Bluth, Sr.: Michael, this is  
person hot-tub, nice deck and  confidential support or assistance,  my brother. Do you know what it's  
firepit. Wood heat. New furnace and  Call for further details 616-292­ For more information, visit Notre  please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819.  like to have a sibling who has no  
water heater. Low taxes. Call 574­ 9829  Dames website: http://csap.nd.edu  For more information, visit ND's  ———————————————­ source of income except for you?  
261-2357  website at: http://pregnancysup­ Don’t forget - come to The  
port@nd.edu  Observer’s Open House Sunday  Michael Bluth: Just one? No. No  
afternoon  idea. It sounds wonderful, though.  
———————————————  ———————————————  ———————————————  ———————————————­ ———————————————  ———————————————  

Wednesday, April 13, 2011 The Observer  PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 11 page 12 The Observer  SPORTS Wednesday, April 13, 2011 

MEN’S GOLF 

Notre Dame takes first in home tournament 
By CORY BERNARD 
Sports Writer 
With the sour taste of two disappointing tournament fin­ishes lingering, the Irish returned to familiar grounds for Tuesday’s Battle at the Warren on the Warren Golf Course. Notre Dame played well on its home course, fin­ishing in first place by 11 strokes. 
The 18-hole tournament, played as a par 71, consisted 
only of Notre Dame and Detroit last year. This year saw the addition of Oakland, Bradley and Jackson State. 
The Golden Grizzlies fin­ished in second with an eight­over-par 292, well behind the Irish score of three-under-par 281. 
Leading the way for Notre Dame was junior Max Scodro, who carded a 69, followed by fellow junior Chris Walker’s 70. Sophomore Paul McNamara III and freshman Niall Platt both finished at even par. The low score of the day came from Oakland jun­ior Michael Coriasso, who fired an impressive 67. 
Without junior Tom Usher, Notre Dame ’s number one golfer who is out for over a month with a hand injury, senior Connor Alan -Lee assumed the fifth starting spot. Kubinski said he shot well on Tuesday. 
“Connor played well for us,” he said. “He shot a 73, which is very solid. We actually ended up throwing his score out but that was due to how well we played overall.” 
The impressive overall per­formance reflects the results Kubinski has seen from his team in practice recently. Kubinski said Scodro’s tour­nament score of 69 matched his effort from the team ’s practice round at Warren 


Belles 
continued from page 16 
Kate Mitchell said. “[After Franklin took the lead], I think we got really down on ourselves and lost our confidence, and that was a big part of why we could not really come back.” 
The Belles rebounded, as their powerful bats came alive for the day’s nightcap. Mitchell said the biggest reason for Saint Mary’s double-digit scoring in the day’s finale was its ability to get hits on a consistent basis. 
“We just started to string hits together,” she said. “In between games, that is what we talked about — playing the way we usu­ally do, focusing on getting sin­gles and just stringing hits togeth­er in order to produce runs, and that is exactly what we did.” 
Junior Angela Gillis led the Saint Mary’s offense on the day and also turned in a standout performance at second base, but top honors for the day went to junior Monica Palicki. The pitcher relieved freshman Callie Selner in game one before pitching all five innings of the mercy rule-short­ened game two. 
“She really stepped up for us, especially in the second game,” Mitchell said of Palicki. “She kind of led the way for us in terms of bringing our confidence back.” 
The Belles’ inability to earn the sweep has been a concern for Belles coach Erin Sullivan, who described her team’s weakness as its inability to “play 14 innings in one day.” However, the Saint Mary’s players have not reverted to panic mode yet, as Mitchell pinpointed her team’s ability to maintain its confidence as key. 
“It was a nice turnaround,” she said. “I think we just lost our con­fidence in our first game. It is a confidence game, so we need to bring our focus on staying confi­dent throughout the whole two games and knowing that we have the talent to wins these games.” 
The Belles will have the oppor­tunity to add both victories and confidence as they prepare to host Olivet on Saturday for the first of four consecutive home doubleheaders. With only 10 games remaining before the MIAA tournament, Saint Mary’s enters the season’s final month of play before the playoffs begin. 
“I think that we are going to [prepare by] just [doing] what we have been doing with our hitting 
— practicing our hitting, practic­ing our fielding and fine tuning the little things, and then [we will] go from there,” Mitchell said. 
Contact Joseph Monardo at jmonardo@nd.edu 
Saturday. 
Notre Dame is playing well at the right time, as the Big East championships in Palm Harbor, Fla., begin Sunday. Kubinski said the win at Warren served as a good tune-up for the tournament and assured his team the league’s top spot. 
“It was good to get some momentum going for the Big East Championship,” Kubinski said. “We’ll be the No. 1 seed for sure. That said, seeding doesn ’t really matter that much. You still have to play good golf.” 
Kubinski said his veteran team is familiar with the course in Palm Harbor. 
“I’ve been in six Big East championships since I’ ve been here,” Kubinski said. “Plus, we’ve played it before and we’re pretty comfortable there. I think the course down there suits us really well. The guys are very confi­dent.” 
Contact Cory Bernard at cbernard@nd.edu 


Wednesday, April 13, 2011 The Observer  SPORTS page 13 
Big Ten 
continued from page 16 
play beginning in the 2013-14 season. The conference will con­sist of 2011 national runner-up Michigan, Michigan State and Ohio State from the Central Collegiate Hockey Association (CCHA), Minnesota and Wisconsin from the Western Collegiate Hockey Association (WCHA) and Penn State, who will begin competing in Division I during the 2012-13 campaign. 
“Really, since Penn State came on board and said they’re going to have Division I hockey, I would think most people con­cluded that given the dynamics and how it was all evolving, there would be a Big Ten con­ference at some point,” then-CCHA commissioner Tom Anastos said March 19 in Detroit, two days before the Big Ten officially made its plans known. “My hope was that it would have been maybe five to seven years from now, but that’s not reality.” 
With the CCHA losing three of its 11 members in the historical­ly elite Wolverines and Spartans along with the big-budgeted Buckeyes, the fate of Irish hock­ey conference affiliation is uncertain. Remaining in the CCHA is a possibility, but it might be too difficult for Notre Dame and Miami (OH), the other CCHA juggernaut, to carry the conference alone. 
Another possible option is the formation of a “super confer­ence” between the Irish, the RedHawks and some WCHA members, including North Dakota and Denver, who have a combined 14 national champi­onships, and 2011 national champion Minnesota-Duluth, among others. But there are imperfections with this plan given the vast geography cov­ered and potentially devastating impact on other CCHA and WCHA teams. 


Whatever the decision, much planning will need to occur, and discussions could take years. 
“As a commissioner, I’ve talked to my other commission­er colleagues [and] we don’t feel we can just move members like checkers,” Anastos said. “It’s a very personal thing for a school as to who they feel they associ­ate with, what traditions they have in place [and] what level of resources they’re able to put into their program. Sometimes people have this tendency to simplify an issue like this, — ‘These guys are located by these guys, so this makes sense.’ I wish it was that simple. It’s real­ly not.” 
In what could be viewed as a sign of dissolution for the con­ference, Anastos left his post as CCHA commissioner to become Michigan State’s head coach two days after the Big Ten made its official announcement. 
Whether the CCHA disbands or not, Notre Dame, which has remained relatively quiet up to this point, will approach the matter carefully but with confi­dence, Athletic Director Jack Swarbrick said in a press release March 20. 
“We had anticipated the hock­ey decision by the Big Ten Conference since the time that Penn State announced it would add hockey and build a hockey facility,” Swarbrick said. “We will continue to monitor the landscape to determine what the Big Ten move will mean for college hockey nationally, but given the recent success of [Irish coach] Jeff Jackson’s teams here at Notre Dame, plus the new hockey facility that will come online here next fall, I’m confi­dent we will have every ability to continue competing at the highest level in the years to come.” 
Contact Sam Gans at sgans@nd.edu 
Falcons 
continued from page 16 
best performance.” 
While the Irish perform­ance may have been streaky and good plays came in spurts, a number of players notched impres­sive feats. Senior outfielder Brianna Jorgensborg hit her first home run of the season, Clay and senior infielder Katie Fleury each tallied home runs and sen­ior utility player Sadie Pitzenberger hit a two-RBI triple. 
The team is focused on these positive aspects and will not allow a slow start to the series affect their chemistry. 
“Our team spirit is great,” Maldonado said. “We are on the right track and are con­tinuing to roll with the wins. We need to keep the momentum moving forward and play our best game.” 
With another game tomorrow, the Irish will not have much time to make improvements during prac­tice. They are facing Loyola-Chicago, who they have had trouble with in the past. Clay said they lost to Loyola twice in the last two years in games they shouldn’t have, so tomor­row’s game is especially important to the team. 
“We can’t stoop down to their level, ” Maldonado said. “We just need to play Notre Dame softball and we will win.” 
Maldonado and Clay men­tioned playoff aspirations as their motivator to play well in every game. 
“We continued to have great at-bats for most of the [second] game, which will be very important for us as we get deeper into the season, ” Maldonado said. 
The Irish have won 28 of their last 29 home games and look to improve as they host Loyola -Chicago Wednesday at 5 p.m. 
Contact Jack Yusko at jyusko@nd.edu 



page 14 The Observer  SPORTS Wednesday, April 13, 2011 
Aoki believes 90 to 95 percent of the team has responded positively 
Aoki 
continued from page 16 
to get your job done. He’s not wor­ried to get on you and make sure that you’re focused to get your job done when the time comes.” 
Formerly the head baseball coach at Boston College, Aoki was hired on July 13, 2010 to replace Dave Schrage as the skipper of Notre Dame. Aoki inherited a team that finished with an overall record of 22-32 and 10-17 in the Big East last season. 
While the Irish stumbled out of the gate to a 4-6 start this season, they have steadily improved to an overall record of 13-16 and 5-4 within the confines of Frank Eck Stadium. 
“Overall, it’s been good,” Aoki said. “We’ve played at times at a very high level. At times, we’ve not done that, in particular on the offensive side of the ball with our hitting. For the most part, it’s a good group to be around. They’ve worked hard, they’ve done a good job. The key for us is to continue to improve.” 
In addition to a losing record, Aoki inherited a clubhouse unfa­miliar with winning at the highest level, as the Irish have not appeared in the NCAA tournament since 2006. Aoki said his responsi­bilities as a coach extended beyond the fundamental skills taught on the field and in the cages. 
“I don’t really have a basis of comparison because I don’t know what [the clubhouse] was like before,” Aoki said. “I know what it is that I want our clubhouse to be like. I think that we’re getting close to that. Guys like Dupra and [seniors] Mick Doyle and Cole [Johnson] and Todd Miller — they’ve done a really good job. Our kids are continuing to be engaged and continuing to be invested in the fortunes of this program.” 
to the changes Aoki and his staff have brought to the team. Doyle added that Aoki’s intensity is one of the main differences in practice from past years. 
“Coach Aoki brings a lot of ener­gy first and foremost,” Doyle said. “He goes 100 miles an hour. He always talks about 100 percent every day. ‘There’s no such thing as 110 percent. I want 100 percent every single day.’ I think that’s a huge deal. He brings a little more focus, a little more energy. I think the guys like it.” 
Echoing the thoughts of his teammate, senior infielder Greg Sherry believes Aoki has instilled a new confidence in his players that didn’t exist before. 
“One of the biggest things I’ve noticed about coach Aoki is he brings a lot of energy, which trans­lates to the rest of the team,” Sherry said. “He expects a lot of energy from everyone and preach­es a competitive attitude. Something about coach Aoki that’s great is he shows confidence in us, which helps us play confidently on the field.” 
With 22 games remaining in the regular season, Aoki said that much work still needs to be done before the postseason, where the coach believes his team could be particularly dangerous. Nevertheless, a new attitude could bring Notre Dame back to college baseball’s elite sooner than later. 
“The best teams are the teams where the players themselves are policing one another, are holding each other accountable for the way that they work, for the way that they conduct themselves, for the way that they take care of busi­ness on and off the field,” Aoki said. “I don’t that we’re quite there yet, but I think we’re getting closer to it.” 
Contact Chris Masoud at cmasoud@nd.edu 
SMC TENNIS 

Belles rebound from loss to defeat Alma 
By MATTHEW DeFRANKS 
Sports Writer 
With a loss against Hope Saturday, the Belles’ four-match win streak came to an abrupt end. With a 7-2 win Tuesday against Alma, they started anoth­er win streak. 
Saint Mary’s (10-6, 3-2 MIAA) turned in strong singles play, win­ning all six of its matches includ­ing a 6-4, 6-0 win by senior cap­tain Jillian Hurley over Alma’s Jen Meloche in the top singles match-up. Hurley improved to 10-5 in singles play on the year and is now 9-1 in her last 10 matches. 
“We’ve always been good in sin­gles and this brings us a lot of confidence,” Belles coach Dale Campbell said. “We said to the team before that it was important to be prepared and to take care of business.” 
For the first time since a 9-0 win over Trine April 2, the Belles won all six matches in the singles category. Freshman Mary Catherine Faller bounced back from a defeat Saturday against Hope by winning in straight sets 7-5, 6-0. 
Saint Mary’s lone doubles victo­ry came when senior Jessica Kosinski and Faller dominated the Scots’ Lauren Moreau and Katie Meloche en route to an 8-0 win. Kosinski also won her No. 2 singles match easily, 6-1, 6-1. 
With the victory over the Scots (6-8, 2-2), the Belles notched their third conference win and are once again over .500 in MIAA play. 
“We’re in a decent position, but we still have to face a couple strong conference foes in Kalamazoo and Calvin,” Campbell said. “We hope that we have built some confidence going into those games but we still have work to do.” 
Saint Mary’s has now won five of its last six matches, as the play­er have won 38 out of 51 possible individual match-ups over the span. 
“We feel like we’re playing good tennis,” Campbell said. “We still have things we’re trying to do in doubles games. We don’t view this as a stretch of wins and loss­es, but we’re trying to get better.” 
Alma salvaged two wins in dou­bles play, as each match went the full three sets. The loss snaps the Scots’ brief two-match conference winning streak and drops them to .500 in the MIAA. 
The Belles return to action Saturday when they host MIAA rival Adrian (5-8, 2-3) in their second-to-last home match of the season. 
Contact Matthew DeFranks at mdefrank@nd.edu 


Wednesday, April 13, 2011 The Observer  TODAY page 15 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

CROSSWORD WILL SHORTZ 


HENRI ARNOLD
LAURA MCGINN 
JUMBLE

TUESDAY VARIETY SHOW 
MIKE ARGIRION 





 HE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 

Enclosed is $130 for one academic year 
Enclosed is $75 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________________ Address ______________________________________________ City __________________ State _________ Zip______________ 
The Observer

Sports
Wednesday, April 13, 2011 page 16 
HOCKEY 

Big (Ten) change 
Irish could feel effect from conference switch 
By SAM GANS 
Sports Writer 
The lights have dimmed and the curtain has closed on the 2010-11 Irish hockey season. It was a successful one, as Notre Dame advanced to the Frozen Four for just the second time in program history. With twelve rising sophomores expected to return, a brand new arena opening for the 2011-2012 sea­son and just four seniors depart­ing, much talk has already moved to next year and the sea­sons to come. 
But as Notre Dame continues to establish itself as one of the top programs in the country, its future could be most affected by something they have no control over. 
On March 21, the Big Ten con­ference announced its intention to add a hockey league, with 
SUZANNA PRATT/The Observer 

Irish freshman center Anders Lee is pressured by Michigan’s Jon Merrill during the see BIG TEN/page 13 CCHA third-place game March 19. The Wolverines will begin Big Ten play in 2013-2014. 

SMC SOFTBALL 
SMCstays above .500 with win 
By JOSEPH MONARDO 
Sports Writer 
The Belles maintained a winning record with their much-needed 11-0 win against Franklin Tuesday, but only after dropping the first game of the afternoon’s dou­bleheader by a score of 9-4. 
Saint Mary’s (12-11, 1-5 MIAA) took an early lead in the day’s opener when it plat­ed three runs in the first inning, but surrendered seven runs to Franklin (5-16, 1-6 HCAC) in the second inning. The deficit proved to be too great to overcome, dashing any chances of a sweep. 
“In the first game, we went out there with a lot of confi­dence and we always play, really, to win,” junior infielder 
see BELLES/page 12 


MEN’S TENNIS 

Layoff ends with clash against Buckeyes in Columbus 
that stretch, Notre Dame earned a match at home on the season, “We feel like we’re good too,” he three-set decision against
By ANDREW OWENS 

5-2 win over then-No. 6 Illinois. sporting an unblemished 13-0 said. “We’re ready to compete, and Michigan’s Evan King, the No. 21
Associate Sports Editor 

“We’ve had an eight or nine day mark. we need to take advantage of the ranked player in the country. 
break and we’ve taken the oppor-“We need to be back in the com-chances we get. We’re coming Following today’s match, the Irish 
Facing Ohio State following a tunity to get our legs underneath petition mindset,” Sachire said. down [to Columbus] to win and will have only one match remaining nine-day layoff, the No. 28 Irish will us,” Irish associate head coach “[Ohio State] is deep and is one of we’re going to give it our best.” on their regular season docket in attempt to shake off any rust from Ryan Sachire said. “We had a really the best teams in the country. Junior Casey Watt, the No. 1 sin-2011 — a trip to Louisville April 23. the time off and knock off the No. 3 good week of practice and were They’re strong at all six positions gles player, is also a solid doubles The Irish and the Buckeyes face Buckeyes in Columbus, Ohio, today. able to address personal needs and and have really good doubles contributor and looks to lead Notre off in a battle of college tennis 
Before the layoff, Notre Dame clean up some things before this teams.” Dame against the Buckeyes. He will heavyweights today at 4 p.m. in (15-8) had won seven of its last match.” Despite the accolades of the match up against junior Chase Columbus, Ohio. eight matches, including a 7-0 vic-Ohio State (22-2) enters the con-Buckeyes players, Sachire said his Buchanan, the No. 14 overall play­tory over IUPUI on April 3. Playing test riding a seven-match winning players will not be fazed when they er in the nation. In his last contest, Contact Andrew Owens at its best tennis of the season over streak and has not dropped a take the court this afternoon. Buchanan won a hard fought aowens2@nd.edu 
BASEBALL 

Aoki changes team culture 

By CHRIS MASOUD 
Sports Writer 
Amid free agency, steroids alle­gations and commercial breaks between pitching changes, often times the business of winning takes a backseat for a professional baseball manager. While first-year Irish coach Mik Aoki deals with a different set of distractions as a collegiate coach, a professional attitude and a new focus instilled by Notre Dame’s skipper has the program headed back in a win­ning direction. 
“It’s much more of a business approach I would say,” senior pitcher Brian Dupra said. “We’ve all enjoyed coach Aoki a lot this year. He’s done a great job. You get in there, it’s time to work, it’s time 

Sophomore pitcher Adam Norton delivers see AOKI/page 14 Irish win against Western Michigan April 6. 
JULIE HERDER/The Observer 
a pitch in a 6-2 
ND SOFTBALL 
Doubleheader leads to Notre Dame sweep 
By JACK YUSKO 
Sports Writer 
Despite what some team members called “mediocre play” during Tuesday’s dou­bleheader, the No. 24 Irish managed to soundly defeat Bowling Green 10-2 and 8­
5. These two wins con ­tributed to the 11 -game winning streak the Irish (28 -7) have maintained since their home opener. 
“The score kind of tells a different story than how we actually felt,” senior catch­er Alexia Clay said. “The team was a little bit dead. We did well enough to win but just really didn’t play our ‘A’ game tonight.” 
This might sound surpris­ing coming from a team who ended the first game of the series by the eight-run mercy rule, but the Irish know they can play better. Junior outfielder Alexa Maldonado said the second game was a better showing. 
“We were more happy with the second win than the first,” Maldonado said. “Although we scored a lot of runs in the first game, it was out of character for us. We really only had great at-bats in the very beginning and very end — the middle 
of the game was not our 
see FALCONS/page 13 







