The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 46, issue 17 | WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 12, 2012 | ndsmcobserver.com 
‘It will never be stricken from our minds’ 
New York-area students mark 11th anniversary of attacks, recall tragedy at World Trade Center 
By MEL FLANAGAN 
news writer 
eleven years ago Tuesday, senior Kerriann Zier’s father pulled her out of her fifth-grade classroom in franklin lake, n.J., and told her he was all right. 
“i just remember being so confused,” Zier said. “i was just like, ‘okay then, thanks for stopping by.’ i had no idea what he meant.” 
Zier discovered only later that a plane had crashed into the world Trade center, where her father worked. he was packing for a business trip and missed his usual train. if he had made it in time, he would have been on the 78th floor of the south Tower, the begin­ning of the impact zone. 
Zier and countless other notre dame students were personally impacted by the terrorist attacks against the united states on sept. 11, 2001. 
in rockville centre, n.y., junior matt hayes’ elemen­tary school was on lockdown, but none of the students knew why. 
“it was one of those situ­ations where we were old enough to know something was wrong, but not old enough to comprehend the extent of what may have happened,” he said. 
hayes, whose hometown lost 48 residents in the terrorist at­tack, said he remembers stu­dents whose parents worked in new york city being pulled 
see 9/11 PAGE 5 




Nuclear physicists awarded grant for research 
one-year, $1.6 million grant from sites that could serve as locations mines,” wiescher said. “we also of our sun, he said. 
By ANN MARIE JAKUBOWSKI 

news writer the national science foundation for the dual ion accelerator for have graduate students who are “nuclear astrophysics is main-
to develop the first u.s.-based nuclear astrophysics (diana). measuring underground radia-ly concerned with the origin of all 
a research team of nuclear underground accelerator labora-The key site in question is the tion and determining how fea-the elements in the universe at the physicists headed by notre dame tory, enabling them to progress sanford underground research sible the site is for our purposes.” time the universe formed, about faculty members is looking to the towards a more complete under-facility in south dakota, wiescher wiescher said the goal of his 30 billion years ago with the big cosmos for the answers to ques-standing of the formation of the said. nuclear astrophysics research is bang,” wiescher said. “The heavi­tions about the origins of earth’s elements. “The grant basically covers the to understand the origin of the er elements, like uranium, gold most influential elements. physics professor and principal first test experiments going on earth’s elements and their forma-and silver, are formed through 
The team, comprised of re-investigator michael wiescher right now, like the engineering tion process. The answers to these the nuclear fusion processes that searchers from several american said the grant money will be used studies that will allow us to stabi-questions can help scientists  dis-universities, was awarded a to fund testing of underground lize the abandoned underground cover what happens in the center see nuclear PAGE 5 

dpac to host election debate 
Observer Staff Report 
Three candidates for indiana governor will take the stage at the debartolo performing arts center on oct. 17 for the second of three scheduled gubernato­rial debates, the university announced Tuesday in a press release. 
democrat John gregg, republican mike pence and libertarian rupert boneham are slated to appear at the debate, where they will field questions submitted in advance by indiana resi­dents, the release stated. 
Timothy sexton, as­sociate vice president for public affairs, said in the statement the debate would be an extension of the university’s campus engagement efforts. 
see debaTe PAGE 5 


ndsp investigates crime 
Observer Staff Report 

notre dame security police (ndsp) is investigat­ing the second incident of alleged forcible fondling re­ported on campus within 24 hours, according to an email to the student body Tuesday evening. 
The incident occurred ear­ly sunday morning outside a residence hall on south Quad, police said. 
“The victim had recently met the suspect while walk­ing to her residence hall from another hall on campus,” the email stated. 
ndsp is also investigating another incident of forcible fondling in the early hours of sunday morning, and the de­partment alerted students to that report via email monday evening. 
The Tuesday email warned students to be aware of their surroundings and watch out for friends to reduce the risk of sexual assault. 
“forcible fondling and oth­er sexual assaults can hap­pen to anyone,” the email stated. “college students are more likely to be assault by someone recently met than a stranger. This means the per­son perpetrating the assault could be part of the campus community.” 
The email also warned stu­dents that perpetrators may target victims after giving them drugs or during exces­sive consumption of alcohol. 
information about sexual assault prevention and re­sources for survivors of sex­ual assault is available from ndsp at ndsp.nd.edu and at the committee for sexual assault prevention at http:// csap.nd.edu. 


young democraTs PAGE 4 viewpoinT PAGE 6 scene PAGE 8 fooTball prepares for michigan sTaTe PAGE 16 



Have a question you want answered? 
Email obsphoto@gmail.com 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
ndsmcobserver.com If you could’ve replace Sbarro with any restaurant, what would you have picked? 
p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
allan Joseph 

Managing Editor  Business Manager 
megan doyle  Jeff liptak 
Asst. Managing Editor: andrew owens 
Asst. Managing Editor: sam stryker News Editor: John cameron News Editor: Kristen durbin 

Viewpoint Editor: meghan Thomassen Sports Editor: chris allen Scene Editor: Kevin noonan Saint Mary’s Editor: Jillian barwick Photo Editor: suzanna pratt Graphics Editor: brandon Keelean Multimedia Editor: sarah o’connor Advertising Manager: monica mccormack Ad Design Manager: sara hilstrom Controller: peter woo Systems Administrator: william heineman 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 fax: (574) 631-6927 
Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 
Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ajoseph2@nd.edu 
Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 mdoyle11@nd.edu 
Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 aowens2@nd.edu sstryke1@nd.edu 
Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 
News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 
Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
Scene Desk 

(574) 631-4540 observer.scene.editor@gmail.com 
Saint Mary’s Desk 
jbarwi01@saintmarys.edu 
Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 
Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 
Policies 

The observer is the independent, daily newspaper 
published in print and online by the students of the 
university of notre dame du lac and saint mary’s 
college.  editorial content, including advertisements, is 
not governed by policies of the administration of either 
institution. The observer reserves the right to refuse 
advertisements based on content. 

The news is reported as accurately and objectively 
as possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion 
of the majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, 
assistant managing editors and department editors. 
commentaries, letters and columns present the views of 
the authors and not necessarily those of The observer. 
viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include 
contact information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed 
to Editor-in-Chief Allan Joseph. 

post office information The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through friday except during exam and vacation periods. a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The observer is published at: 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-0779 periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices posTmasTer send address corrections to: The observer p.o. box 779 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-077 The observer is a member of the associated press. all reproduction rights are reserved. 

Christina Wiech 
senior off campus 
“panera.” 
Christopher Broughton 
Junior 
off campus 
“ruth’s chris steakhouse.” 
Flora Fang 
Junior 
ryan 
“panda express.” 


Kat Leach 
senior off campus 
“panera.” 
Natalie Baumann 
senior off campus 
“chik-fil-a.” 
Molly Millet 
senior off campus 
“a library.” 


Want your event included here? 
News Sports 

Kristen durbin andrew gastelum Email obsnews@gmail.com 
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: bridget feeney Joe wirth rebecca o’neil brian hartnett 
Graphics Scene 

Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday 
Jacqueline o’neill Troy mathew 
Photo Viewpoint 

“To Write Love on Her Barack Obama and the National Catholic Women’s Volleyball Fall Public Reception 
sarah o’connor caroline lang 
Arms” Crisis of Liberalism invitational Joyce Center Snite Museum of Art Little Theatre at SMC Law School ND Golf Course 1 p.m.-3 p.m. 2 p.m.-4 p.m. 7 p.m. 12:15 p.m.-1:15 p.m. 3:30 p.m.-6 p.m. ND vs. Loyola Free and open to the 
Corrections 

Speaker Aaron Moore. Dr. Charles R. Kesler. Cross Country event. Marymount. public. 
in the sept. 11 edition of The observer, college libertarians president Todd 
Benjamin Balthaser The Merchant of Damsels in Distress Film: Neighboring Film: Princess 
velianski was misquoted in the article “club 
Reading Venice DeBartolo Performing Sounds Mononoke 
advocates civil liberty.” in his correct quote 
Hammes Bookstore Washington Hall Arts Center Debartolo Performing Debartolo Performing 
he said voters “fail to realize that obama’s 
7:30p.m.-9 p.m. 7:30 p.m.-10 p.m. 7 p.m.-9 p.m. Arts Center Arts Center 
and romney’s foreign policy, economic 
Focus on Modernism Actors from the Film on girls helping 7 p.m.-9:24 p.m. 3 p.m.-4:34 p.m. 
policy, and policy on social issues is largely 
and Anti-Imperialism. London Stage. depressed students. Tickets $7/$5/$4 Tickets $7/$5/$4 
the same.” The observer regrets this error. 


Panel discusses depression 
professor connects 
Students share stories of struggles with mental illness 
Tolkien, homer 
By KRISTEN RICE 
news writer 
in continuation of the college’s “support a belle, love a belle” week, a group of saint mary’s students shared their personal expe­riences with depression and anxiety in a panel discus­sion Tuesday in the student center lounge. 
freshman victoria otteson opened the discussion by re­counting her battle with de­pression and anxiety to event attendees. 
“i made poor choices in my life and i made depression and anxiety define me,” she said. 
Though people deal with the challenges of their lives in different ways, otteson said her struggle with de­pression and anxiety nega­tively impacted her ability to cope with specific situations. 
“one person’s way may be different from mine. … life sometimes throws you things that you think you cannot survive,” otteson said. “you can choose to fight [depres­sion] with all you’ve got, or you can let it win.” 
sophomore molly smith shared her personal experi­ences with the audience. 
“as a kid i was very normal,” she said. “Then i started bottling up my feelings and my mood began to decline. … i completely shut down.” 
despite the challenges depression presented her, smith said recovery is an achievable goal. 
“[mental illness] can be a lifelong battle. … but no mat­
“People think that mental illness is something unstable people bring upon themselves, but it does not discriminate.” 
Rebecca Jenkins 
freshman 
ter how impossible it seems, it’s completely possible to re­cover,” she said.  “it takes pa­tience and time.” 
contrary to widespread public perceptions of men­tal illness, freshman rebecca Jenkins said mental illness can affect anyone. 
“people think that men­tal illness is something un­stable people bring upon themselves, but it does not discriminate,” she said. 
as a result, Jenkins said people who suffer from men­tal illness should muster the 
paid adverTisemenT 
courage to seek help in­stead of struggling alone. 
“my fellow belles, don’t be afraid to speak up. There is nothing wrong with looking to others for help. … we’re all here for you,” she said. “sometimes you just need someone to talk to, and that’s okay.” 
Junior allie richthammer said sup­port systems are crucial for those fighting mental illness.
 “There are always peo­ple who can make you brave,” she said. “you do not have to go at it alone.” 
The panelists also en­couraged audience mem­bers to support friends and family members who suffer from any type of mental illness by discuss­ing their personal sources of love and support, in­cluding family, friends and teachers. 
above all, the panelists stressed mental illness should never stop people from reaching their poten­tial or attaining happiness. 
“your life is worth way more than you know, and you deserve to live life to the fullest,” Jenkins said. 
Contact Kristen Rice at krice01@saintmarys.edu 


DIRTY BOOK SALE  
Wednesday, September 12 & Thursday, September 13, 2012 9:30 AM — 3:30 PM HESBURGH LIBRARY CONCOURSE Clean up on our scandalously low priced, dirty, dusty, and otherwise abused, but totally readable books! HARDCOVERS $4.00 • PAPERBACKS $3.00 30% DISCOUNT ON ALL NEW & RECENT TITLES !"#$%&'(%)%*+,-(.,/%0%12345"667237"31  
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME PRESS  

By JOHN CAMERON 
news editor 
while J.r.r. Tolkien’s epic “The lord of the rings” trilogy may be dear to fans young and old, phi­losophy professor david o’connor said Tuesday he believes the trilogy is meant to reflect on a darker side of nostalgia at the core of human nature. 
in the second installment of Tolkien 2012, the center for ethics and culture’s 10th annual catholic literature series, o’connor of­fered a talk titled “Tolkien and nostalgia,” in which he framed his approach to Tolkien’s great work as a re-imagining of some of the themes of homer’s “odyssey.” 
“i would like to approach J.r.r. as a catholic author from the per­spective of approaching him as a pagan author,” o’connor said. “i have in mind especially ‘The lord of the rings’ as a modern epic, an epic in the tradition which for us has at its foundation homer and his ‘odyssey.’ ” 
for o’connor, both homer and Tolkien’s epics revolve around the central quest to return home. much like frodo’s perilous wan­derings to mordor away from the shire, odysseus was delayed and entrapped by a number of foes and tempters, o’connor said. 
“The descent into hiding, into darkness is an enactment of a time of death, a time when odysseus is dead to the world ... it’s an inability to go home, to have no homecom­ing,” he said. 
especially relevant to the theme of nostalgia and the detachment from home are the two caves in which odysseus gets stranded, o’connor said. The two caves of polyphemus and calypso repre­sent the two extremes of human nature that can draw heroes away from their ultimate goal of return­ing home. 
“The problem when you’re in polyphemus’s savage world is that you forget how to get home ... you lose your mindfulness of what it means to live a human life,” he said. “in calypso’s, you lose your mindfulness of homecoming be­cause you are mindful of nothing but sensual ease.” 
frodo’s fellowship falls into per­ils not unlike those odysseus’s men faced, which sought to make them forget home. 
“when the travelers enter the realm of lothlórien, they lose sense of time,” he said. “That time­lessness is something they need to shake off to go on with their quest.” 
in Tolkien’s story, frodo’s entou­rage comes in danger of falling into the elvish conception of nostalgia, a failure to move forward or prog­ress, he said. 
“The elves suffer from a negative side of nostalgia,” he said. “They’re willing to live in memories, not productive or creative. we can be addicted to nostalgia as a mere participation in the past rather than a path to push forward into the future.” 
nostalgia accounts for much of the internal change in frodo over the course of his journey, o’connor said. 
“frodo cannot go home to the shire in part because of the pain he’s reminded of,” he said. “but he can’t go home because he no lon­ger has the heart for the condition of humanity. he’s been infected by a kind of nostalgia.” 
o’connor said connections can be drawn from the homeric theme of a return from a dark or danger­ous place to Tolkien’s more mod­ern epic. 
“some would say that homer was nostalgic, that in ‘The odyssey,’ he insisted on a happy ending ... so too ‘The lord of the rings’ has a happy ending,” he said. 
Tolkien’s happy endings take on a more imperfect or human ele­ment than many tales, o’connor said, drawing a symbolic meaning from frodo’s maiming injury in the final pages of the epic. 
“The ending isn’t all happy,” he said. “The pain that is required to get to the happiness does not dis­appear,” he said. “frodo has nine fingers, they don’t grow back. ... his brokenness is an emblem of the price we pay for an epic with a happy ending.” 
Contact John Cameron at jcamero2@nd.edu 



The observer | WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 12, 2012 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Young Democrats club advocates voting 
Despite lack of official Republican club, group aims to reach all students during election season 
but she also realizes other stu-
By JILLIAN BARWICK 

saint mary’s editor dents on campus may not share 
her views. she said she recog­

as the 2012 presidential elec-nizes the group has a respon­tion nears, students at saint sibility since there is no official mary’s college are gearing up to republican group on campus. vote in both indiana polls and “our organization on campus via absentee ballot. knows that while expressing our 
senior london lamar, presi-own views of the democratic dent of young democrats at party is important, we must also saint mary’s, said she wants her be a bipartisan club for those college peers to realize that ex-students who do not share the ercising their right to vote dem-same views, but express inter­onstrates appreciation to earlier est in the election and voting,” generations of politically active lamar said. women. senior young democrats 
“women fought for so many member ambreen ahmad said years for the right to vote,” she is committed to promoting lamar said. “it is our duty as the vote across party lines on 
the saint mary’s campus. 

“As educated “my primary responsibil­
ity is to make the bipartisan ef­
women, it is even 
fort about being able to vote,” 
more important 

ahmad said. “over the sum-for us to exercise mer, i was able to look at how ballot and have the organization civic duty, ahmad said. active in the community and our right to vote at democracy has affected the pay for the postage when voting “as educated women, it is remain active. by showing what 
u.s. and how voter turnout is forms are ready to be mailed. even more important for us to we stand for and not just say-
every opportunity 

still so low. by being a part of “This is an exciting time for exercise our right to vote at ev-ing it, the young democrats can 
we have.” 

young democrats on campus, i the students here. for most of ery opportunity we have,” she achieve a greater foothold here.” 
Ambreen Ahmad am hoping girls will realize that us, this is our first time voting in said. The young democrats will 
senior voting is important on so many a presidential election,” lamar as such, the saint mary’s hold a watch night for the first 
different levels.” said. “while this is a great thing young democrats’ responsibili-presidential debate oct. 3 at 8 educated women to take full ad-lamar and ahmad said to do, ambreen and i really want ties as representatives for the p.m. in room 152 of regina hall. vantage of the paths those wom-they hope to spread the word our peers to remember that elec-national organization do not The club will also meet to watch en paved for us and vote in every about the importance of voting tions happen more frequently end with the nov. 6 election, election night coverage nov. election being held throughout through the young democrats’ for our local governments. we lamar said. 6 from 8 to 12 p.m. in vander the year.” voter registration table, which want people to become politi-“it is our responsibility to vennet in the student center 
as a young democrats mem-will be open through Thursday cally aware and remain politi-keep the laws and policies that basement. ber, lamar said vocalizing her in the student center lounge. cally aware.” are a result of the election in the political interests enhances The table helps students register Taking initiative to vote in all public’s eye on campus,” she Contact Jillian Barwick at her saint mary’s experience, to vote, sign up for an absentee elections is a crucial american said. “This is our chance to stay jbarwi01@saintmarys.edu 

paid adverTisemenT 




Nuclear 
conTinued from page 1 
made in stars or supernova explosions,” wiescher said. “[These explosions] need to be explored in more detail so we can determine how strong and how fast these reactions occur.” 
The great distance between earth and the stars observed from earth means the measur­able energy from these nuclear reactions is minimal, wiescher said, so the laboratory must be located underground in order to maintain the integrity of the reaction result. 
“because these reactions are so weak, we need to go deep underground to be free of the cosmic radiation from the sun that alters our measurements,” he said. 
wiescher said he hopes his team’s research will facilitate a more comprehensive under­standing of the formation of the earth, from the visible compo­nents to the more abstract. 
paid adverTisemenT 
“all of the elements in your body have been made in stars, so you are the prod­uct of several star genera­tions,” wiescher said. “all stars are powered by nuclear fusion reactions that create elements. The light you see when you look at the stars is released from these nuclear fusion reactions.” 
Contact Ann Marie
 Jakubowski at ajakubo1@nd.edu 


9/11 
conTinued from page 1 
out of class one by one. 
The following day, his fourth-grade teacher explained the basics of the attacks to the class, but hayes said he still did not understand the extent of the day’s events. 
“i didn’t really comprehend it until i found out my cous­in’s neighbors lost their dad, who i had known and who was always around,” he said. “it didn’t hit home for me un­til there was a personal name associated with the towers. he was a firefighter.” 
now that he is old enough to grasp the enormity of the trag­edy, hayes said the memory of sept. 11 and its aftermath will remain with him forever. 
“it’s such a defining moment as a new yorker,” he said. “i feel like people not from new york will never fully compre­hend what those days after felt like or what it means to us. it will never be stricken from our minds and thoughts and feelings.” 
senior lauren antonelle, who used to be able to see the Twin Towers at night from her bedroom in white plains, n.y., said the events of sept. 11 hold acute significance for her and other empire state residents. 
“before moving outside new york, you don’t really realize that not everyone understands it the way you do,” she said. “i don’t think people realize how personal it can be. most people have a detachment to it, but you’ll always be attached to it.” 
for the 11th anniversary, antonelle visited the grotto and reached out to her fam­ily, especially her aunt, whose brother perished in the attacks. 
back in 2001, antonelle and her fifth-grade classmates could sense something was wrong on sept. 11, but only those whose parents worked in the towers were told what had occurred. 
her mother broke the news once she returned home, and they watched the news togeth­er, antonelle said. 
“i didn’t really know what the world Trade center was, but they just kept showing the planes crashing and towers falling,” she said. “once you saw the images of it, you kind of understand at least the mag­nitude, even if you don’t really understand everything.” 
antonelle said the aftermath of the tragedy was nearly as difficult for her town as the ac­tual attack. 
“a lot of it was waiting for people to call, to find out who survived and who didn’t,” she said. “it was just a lot of wait­ing. my school was religious, so there was a lot of prayer and service while we waited.” 
Zier was fortunate; she didn’t have to wait. her fa­ther was switching trains in hoboken, n.J., when he saw the plane hit the building he should have been inside, and his first thought was to drive to his daughters’ elementary school and reassure them he was safe. 
other residents on her town were not so lucky, Zier said. 
“The next day, i got on the bus and everyone was cry­ing,” she said. “lots of kids in the area had relatives who were missing. a boy in my di­rect class, his dad never came home. someone had a connec­tion one way or another in the whole area.” 
eleven years later, Zier still has a hard time discussing that day. it’s especially difficult be­ing at notre dame on the an­niversaries, she said. 
“at home there’s a sense of community because most peo­ple are somehow affected,” she said. “it’s harder being away from that on the anniversary.” 
Contact Mel Flanagan at mflanag3@nd.edu 
Debate 
conTinued from page 1 
“one of the great benefits that a university offers to its community is to bring prominent people to cam­pus for lectures and other presentations that are open to the public,” sexton said. “we have always tried to do that here at notre dame with political, business, religious, educational and other lead­ers, and we are certainly happy to be selected to host one of the gubernatorial de­bates this fall.” 
The debate will be streamed live from the indiana debate commission’s website, where the commission will also be accepting question submissions, the release stated. 
The two other gubernato­rial debates will take place on oct. 10 in Zionsville and oct. 25 in fort wayne. 




INSIDE COLUMN 

enjoy the ride 
Maria Fernandez 
scene writer 

“don’t miss out on anything; you are only in college once.” 
as we drove from chicago’s o’hare airport to south bend three weeks ago, my dad repeated this phrase over and over again to remind me to take advantage of all of the opportunities and experiences i would have here at notre dame during my senior year. 
i planned to take his advice serious­ly. i would participate and engage in all of my courses, attend every single football game and enjoy lots of nights out with my friends and classmates. 
The first two weeks of school were great. i was following my dad’s advice pretty well. 
however, when i sprained my ankle last sunday morning, i saw my whole “don’t miss out on senior year” motto sadly and slowly disappear. 
i was not able to do much last week. in the morning i struggled walking with crutches around cam­pus — i stopped to take a break ev­ery three steps — and at night the health center recommended i follow rice (rest, ice, compression and elevation). 
i had never had an injury like this before. i am not athletic at all, and i’m a bit of a hypochondriac, so imag­ine my frustration. i just wanted to be able to walk again and attend the fighting irish’s first home football game against purdue. 
Just when my mood and spirits were hitting rock bottom late Thursday night, i called my dad and vented. i told him i would have to miss out on some school activities during these first few weeks of my senior year until my ankle was completely healed and that i was not happy about it. 
after a few minutes of conversation my dad was able to quickly ground my exaggerated and theatrical self with some simple but inspirational words. 
“enjoy the ride,” he said before hanging up, and i immediately un­derstood what he meant by this other phrase. 
i had made up my mind i had a greater, more serious, more debiliat­ing injury than what i really had, and even stopped doing things i could ac­tually do with a sprained ankle — and maybe just a little creativity. 
so from that moment on, with or without crutches, swollen foot or not, i am determined to be positive and enjoy every minute of my senior year. 
watch out michigan! i will be back in the stands cheering on the fighting irish next week, hopefully aircast-less. 
Contact Maria Fernandez at mfernan5@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Christ in the dining halls 
Scott Boyle 
The sincere seeker 

deep down, i’ve always been a shy and reserved person. so imagine my frustration as my parents signed me up for as many activities as possible during my summer months off from school. i went to nature camp, farm camp and golf camp. if it was a camp, i probably tried it. i had fun, but i was always the kid who received that ambiguous per­sonalized message on the camp t-shirt that read: “you are a great listener! wish i could have gotten to know you better!” i was never really good at taking risks. 
flash forward to the spring semester of my sophomore year here at notre dame. i was faced with the decision to take one of the biggest risks of my life: studying abroad in Toledo, spain, dur­ing the fall of my junior year. i had never been outside of the country before, and although the prospect of leaving the notre dame family was quite daunting, i accepted. 
my fears were short lived, however. The semester proved to be one of the best of my life. in my travels through the green, yet foreign hills of spanish countryside, i discovered something quite comforting — life moved slower. families came together to eat and so­cialize, only to leave hours later with loosened belts and happy hearts. 
upon my return to the united states, i realized quickly that my time abroad had changed me. i was more relaxed; i no longer moved at the frenetic pace to which i was accustomed pre-departure. more importantly, the desire to achieve, a heavy burden that had weighed on my heart since high school, slowly was loosening its fetters over me. i was like a child getting glasses for the first time. being abroad had given me a new “pre­scription,” and i came back to notre dame with renewed energy and vigor to finish my undergraduate career. 
but i was not the only one who had changed during my time abroad. Things at notre dame had changed and con­tinued in my absence as well. friend groups, for one, were different. and life, unfortunately, still moved at the same frenetic pace. i was holding on by my fingertips as the days whizzed by and the semester quickly picked up speed. i realized that i no longer “fit” with the same groups and thus could not rely on them, in the same way, for love and support. 
but there was always one person who saw me as a good “fit:” Janet. Janet is one of the south dining hall monitors who i had befriended in the semesters before. and upon my return from spain, when i longed so deeply to find my place again, Janet was there, monday through friday, to remind me. 
To Janet, everyone is important; ev­eryone “fits.” when she is in charge of monitoring the dining hall exits, for example, she waves and says goodbye to every single person that leaves. That’s right, every single person. To me, she has always best lived out the truth of c.s. lewis’ words in “The weight of glory”: “it is a serious thing to live in a society of possible gods and goddesses … There are no ordinary people. you have never talked to a mere mortal.” 
i’ve always felt that Janet’s attention, in a simple yet very profound way, ac­knowledged the uniqueness, loveliness and yes, divinity, of every student. in my case, as i struggled to find my way back to love, her simple pleasantries were reminders that i was already receiving it in abundance. and although i felt i was slipping and no longer belonged, Janet was always quick to remind me i never escaped her gaze. 
and, perhaps it is the same way with god. no matter how lonely, out-of-place or discouraged we feel, god is there gaz­ing at us. gerard manley hopkins re­minds us: “christ plays in ten-thousand places, lovely in eyes and lovely in limbs not his.” christ is always there gazing at us, perhaps in unexpected people, like Janet, or in unexpected places like the dining hall. 
but god doesn’t take days off. henri nouwen once wrote, “everything that Jesus has done, said and undergone is meant to show us that the love we most long for is given to us by god, not because we’ve deserved it, but because god is a god of love…” This is a love given to us for always, for keeps, no mat­ter what we make think or how we may feel. 
i can’t be in the dining hall as much this year, but the next time you see Janet in south, give her a wave or strike up a conversation with her for me. and remember that we never talk to mere mortals, but christ, who always plays in our midst. 
Scott Boyle is a graduate of Notre Dame and intern in the Office of Campus Ministry. He can be reached at sboyle2@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

QUOTE OF THE DAY WEEKLY POLL 
“in matters of style, swim with the current; in What was your favorite part of the game matters of principle, stand like a rock.” against Purdue this weekend? 
Tweet your response with #viewpointpoll
Thomas Jefferson 

U.S. president by 5 p.m. Thursday. 



The vast shadow of a former president 
John Sandberg 
fisherman’s musings 

it’s been nearly a week since the con­fetti from “convention season 2012” was swept up. analysis of the republican and democratic national conventions var­ied, but reaction from middle of the road commentators and voters was consistent: mitt romney was solid if not exciting, president obama fell flat and bill clinton stole the show. 
of course, there’s nothing wrong with a little presidential nostalgia. better the highlight be a man who presided over a decade of economic prosperity, rather than the empty chair that bemused republicans. 
but while clinton stoked the flames of the democratic base as the race for the white house seriously gets underway, his influence is more of a detriment than ben­efit to the obama re-election campaign. 
in every instance clinton makes his presence known, we see an older, more seasoned fighter stepping in to parry jabs being thrown at the man now in the ring. 
consequently, the main criticisms of obama — the problems he faced in 2009 and the office of the presidency were too 
Malcolm Phelan 
guest columnist 
one month. 

i was supposed to stay in south bend for one month before heading east to get into trouble until my real job started in January. i had a job lined up with a con­sulting firm in new york upon graduation, but when they presented the new hires with five possible start dates, i leapt at the chance to forestall my impending adult life and took the January option. That left me with six months to do something fast-paced, exciting and vaguely irresponsible. all through senior year, i had been listing possibilities in my hip moleskin journal, such as “join start-up company in l.a.,” or “go on a Trappist retreat.” with future documentaries and merchandise deals in mind, i even named some of them. motorcycling to the grand canyon while reading all the great books i had ignored in college would be called “canon to canyon.” brilliant. 
so, with all of these thrilling and well-branded prospects in mind, i weighed my options and made my choice: i stayed in south bend. 
let me tell you why. 

i was staying on to work for the new mayor, a young and dynamic figure, who daunting for a one-term senator — are reinforced with each clinton cameo. president obama even joked saturday about appointing clinton as “secretary of explaining stuff.” 
in order for this president to win re­election, he must convince voters his approach to the economy is the right one and not have someone else do the con­vincing for him. 
clinton’s speech was effective and pow­erful because of the way it was delivered and because of the man who delivered it. but when the crowds dispersed and the sounds of fleetwood mac faded away wednesday night, nothing was revealed about obama or his plan for america we didn’t already know. 
democrats are right to put clinton’s ex­pertise to use. he has long been known to relish the spotlight, and members of both parties readily concede, despite his flaws and occasional foot-in-mouth moments, clinton remains a political mastermind. but there is a clear line between a strong endorsement and an outright comman­deering of the spotlight, and clinton’s presence in the campaign has undoubt­edly fallen into the latter category. 
should clinton have been given a speaking spot at the convention? yes. 
should he have taken the spot of officially nominating the president for re-election, a spot normally reserved for the vice president? no. 
obama’s speech wasn’t bad, but it did not sway many undecided minds. 
obama and clinton have an uneasy past. There was the time in 2000 when obama ran for congress and clinton en­dorsed his challenger, bobby rush. Then we saw the testy democratic primary between obama and hillary clinton in 2008. political enemies and friends are born and die every hour, so it’s not un­heard of that, despite their past, clinton would one day land on obama’s side. 
but the most bizarre interaction be­tween the two was in december 2010. clinton appeared alongside obama at an impromptu press conference promoting obama’s deal with republicans on tax cuts. obama spoke briefly before letting clinton take the podium. soon after, obama left the briefing completely, telling reporters, “you’re in good hands.” clinton then fielded questions on the economy. alone. for 20 minutes. 
This year’s dnc was not the same as the impromptu briefing in 2010. but it did leave me with the same feeling: president clinton is a better communicator than 
All-American city 
had offered me the chance to write some speeches for him. as it turned out, he was actually a very good speechwriter already, so i definitely learned a good deal more than i contributed and spent most of my time on a consulting case with the city. 
with a team made up of students from the mendoza college of business, we went through the departments in the city at the mayor’s request, identifying ways of cutting costs, streamlining processes and trying to make city services as effective and efficient as possible for the citizens of south bend. 
The project took me all over the city and to neighborhoods i never knew ex­isted. i saw union halls, once packed with flushed, happy faces, now quieter after the deindustrialization of the 60s. i saw hole-in-the-wall restaurants run by first gen­eration immigrants who, like the german, polish and irish workers who came over a century ago, looked at south bend as a place of opportunity and as a place to raise a family. i saw businesses opening their doors, hospitals growing and expanding and a brand new $65 million recreation center a couple blocks from downtown (it has a water slide and a lazy river.) 
all of this pointed to a history and a story that i had totally missed as a student. after my month was up, it was not hard to make the decision to stay longer. 
i moved into an apartment in the heart of downtown, in what used to be central high school. for anyone who has seen the movie hoosiers, that is where they played the south bend wildcats. i live in the gym, so that basketball court is my kitchen floor. a friend holds concerts in the pool. 
if that was not enough, once you realize downtown south bend is more than three bars and a football hall of fame, there is an absolute wealth of places to go. There are coffee shops, little cafés, used-book stores and art exhibitions, not to mention the morris performing arts center and the festivals that stretch across the entire city every couple of months. langlab has turned an abandoned warehouse into a music venue and studio that teaches the tango and hosts 24-hour plays. st. Joe’s just opened a beautiful new high school overlooking the city skyline. el paraiso has mouth-watering one-dollar taco nights on wednesdays and sundays. There is a man-made whitewater rafting course right next to the river, and the city just finished several million dollars of renovations to covaleski stadium. it took me a while to shake off the preconceived conceptions of a dreary and dull town i had held as a student, but now i have moved past the obvious thrills and gotten more creative; i have fallen in love with the city. 
south bend is not a new york or a president obama. president clinton is more confident in his party’s approach towards the economy than president obama. 
president clinton is a better leader than president obama. 
so what real implications do clinton’s speech and subsequent appearances on the campaign trail have for obama’s re-election? democrats are inspired fol­lowing the convention and republicans remain entrenched as ever in their “any­one-but-obama” mindset. 
but for independent voters looking for a reason to choose a candidate, nothing is more important than strong leadership. which individual, obama or romney, will be the stronger leader? 
The balance between respecting what clinton has to offer and keeping him out of the camera’s focus is a delicate one. but it’s a balance the current president must find if he wants to come out on top in november. 
John Sandberg is a junior political science major. He can be reached at jsandbe1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
boston, but it is a city where michelle at Tom’s restaurant knows your name and remembers your order. it is a city where you can live well while doing what you love. it is a city where experiences are measured in the people you meet and the friends you make. it is a city in transition, building off a rich past to pursue a bright future. as the national civic league said when they came to present the city with the oldest and most prestigious commu­nity award in June 2011, south bend is an “all-american city.” 
This column will feature interviews with leaders around the city, covering a wide range of topics to give some context and insight into the character of south bend. it will describe the challenges the city faces while also charting the way for­ward. it will give accounts of the groups it represents and their dreams for the city. but most of all, it will give some perspec­tive to the place you will call home for the next couple years. Then maybe one day, if you’re really lucky, you’ll live on a basket­ball court, too. 
Malcolm Phelan is a 2012 graduate of Notre Dame. He can be reached at malcolmphelan@gmail.com 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


By MEGHAN THOMASSEN 
scene writer 

Tucked inside the snite museum of art, “cassatt and beyond: graphic art from the permanent collection” displays etchings and prints from some of the fin­est french impressionist and modernist painters — manet, cezanne, pissarro and cassatt. 
The term “impressionist” usually brings to mind images of hazy water lilies and pastel landscapes, like the impressionist masterpieces found at the chicago art institute. but cheryl snay, curator of european art at the snite, said the prints are vital to understanding impressionism and how it gained influence. 
“[The movement] began in the late 1860s and was rejected by a lot of critics,” snay said. “looking at the prints extends the theme of the dissemination of impressionism, how impressionism became more acceptable.” 
academic painters rejected impressionist paintings because there was a lack of finish, snay said. 
“That lack of finish made it more authentic, more about the artist’s response to his or her environment, to the objects, to the subjects,” she said. 
printmaking had a large role in transitioning impressionism from its avant-garde, radical image to something accepted by the middle classes, snay said. 
while academic paintings were works of tortured per­fection, impressionists took their paint into account. 
“[in academic paintings] you never saw a brush­stroke, everything was smooth and shiny … when you to the impressionists working, it really is about the me­dium,” snay said. 
one french impressionist, mary cassatt, strove to translate the ideas of impressionist painting into her prints and sketches, snay said. 
“it wasn’t easy for a woman to become an artist at that time in paris,” snay said. “she never married, never had a family of her own. she painted all day, and in the evenings when dusk fell and she didn’t have any more light in her studio, she would come into her apartment area and start working on copper plates.” 
snay said cassatt’s work was a good place to start the exhibit because her work exemplified how impressionists translated the movement’s principles into a printmaking medium. 
“[impressionism is] usually a style obsessed with color and how to use color, but how do you translate those kinds of ideas from a painterly medium to some­thing that is linear?” she said. 
one small print — a soft, rural landscape — bears the signature of pissarro, another member of the origi­nal impressionists. 
“it became popular to collect these kinds of prints,” snay said. “it created an art for the masses, because it was significantly less expensive to buy these prints than the paintings.” 
by signing and numbering the prints and sketches, the artists created a market for their own paintings. 
“pissarro actually pulled this print, and he’s writing on this sheet of paper,” snay said. “This becomes an ambition of a collector to collect all the states, to see it in its various manifestations. The fact that pissarro is starting to sign in pencil, and not in the plate, but on the paper, gives it an even greater value and even greater authenticity.” 
snay said impressionist sketches are still central to art culture in paris today. 
“you’d see people lined up and the prints will be ar­ranged in windows,” she said. you can still do it today, if you go to paris and walk along the seine and there will be vendors and they will have portfolios.” 
The sketches and prints show the dimensional va­riety in impressionism a viewer might not see in the paintings themselves, snay said. 
“it offers an additional way to look at modernism in art. if you think about its not just the actual object itself, but also the processes,” she said. “it’s less of an object to make it perfectly representational.” 
Contact Meghan Thomassen at mthomass@nd.edu 

Images courtesy of the Snite Museum of Art EMILY KRUSE | The Observer 
JACQUELINE O’NEILL | The Observer 


By COURTNEY COX 
associate scene editor 

sick of settling for franzia and its bot­tled cousin, two-buck chuck? wednesday wine walks in downtown south bend might be just what you were looking for. 
Tonight from 5 to 10 p.m. you can take a leisurely stroll through downtown south bend as you eat small dishes of food and sip casually on wine pairings chosen spe­cially for each plate. 
The eight participating restaurants are café navarre, east bank emporium, lasalle grill, south bend chocolate café, Tippecanoe place restaurant, Trio’s restaurant and Jazz club, the vine and sunny italy café. each restaurant offers three different dishes and three different wines to go along with those dishes. 
This is the fourth wednesday wine walk that has been put on by the downtown dining alliance as a supple­ment to the other events put on by the alliance. 
“it started out in march of 2011 with creating downtown restaurant week,” said mark mcdonnell, founder of the downtown dining alliance. “we mod­eled it on various cities we found search­ing on the internet.” 
mcdonnell said another town in indiana inspired the group. 
“we saw that valparaiso had some­thing like this and we thought if little valparaiso can do this, we should be do­ing something like this,” mcdonnell said. 
The problem for the downtown dining alliance was maintaining interest be­tween the two downtown restaurant weeks they offer each year. The wine walks were started to occupy foodies in the downtime. The first walk in June drew about 120 people, according to mcdonnell, and it grew to include about 300 people in august. 
mcdonnell said the event draws a wide demographic of people, but they tend to be great events for couples or groups of couples. he also said that it’s perfect for a girl’s night out and many women have gotten together groups of friends for the event. 
The wine walks are a way to raise money for the downtown dining alliance as well as for other charities. This wednesday’s walk will donate 25 percent of proceeds to reins of life inc., a therapeutic horseback-riding center in michigan city, ind. The rest of the profits go toward promotion and the expenses of the event. 
one of the features of wine walks is a free carriage ride for participants of the event. The carriage rides are paid for by the downtown dining alliance and pro­vided by dream coach carriages. 
The goal of events like these is to show­case the downtown area, mcdonnell said. 
“we make no money on it, we do it as a group to highlight downtown south bend and the unique features we have, one of which is walkability,” said mcdonnell. 
participants can begin at any participating restaurant and purchase a wristband for $40 that will allow them access to each restaurant and the three wine pairings they have available. from there, it’s an easy walk to the rest of the participating locations. The $40 also in­cludes a special tasting glass etched with the “eat, drink, south bend” logo that can be kept as a souvenir. 
The food offerings are enough to make any foodie jealous, including spicy shrimp, stuffed mushrooms and wagyu beef sliders. 
The south bend chocolate café will of­fer a desert sampling for participants to serve as a perfect ending to the night. 
while wine tastings can sometimes be an intimidating event for beginners, wednesday wine walks are the perfect way to elevate your palate and experience a night of drinking, eating and enjoying eight of the best restaurants in south bend. 
Contact Courtney Cox at ccox3@nd.edu 

By MARIA FERNANDEZ 
scene writer 

what grade where you when “laguna beach” first aired on mTv? i don’t know about you, but i remember perfectly. 
i was in eighth grade and would tune in every monday night at 10 p.m. — against my mom’s wishes — to watch lc, stephen and Kristin’s love triangle unfold on the shores of the o.c. 
if i couldn’t watch a new episode the day it aired, i would make my mom record it. i knew everything about those high-schoolers’ lives. i was hooked. 
after three years and three seasons of the reality show, my “laguna” obsession shifted to the show’s spin-off, “The hills,” as i followed lc, my favorite, as she moved to l.a. The fashion, the parties, the drama — what more could a girl ask for mondays after school? 
The success of “The hills” gave way to a third spin-off called “The city,” where mTv cameras moved to record whitney — lc’s coworker and friend — and her life in the big apple. 
when both “The hills” and “The city” ended in 2010, my friends and i watched both finales together. our monday nights of lauren, Kristin and speidi drama would never be the same. 
so, after two years sans-teenage socal drama, where are these reality stars now? 
Lauren Conrad 

also known as lc, lauren was the protagonist of  “The hills” and season one of “laguna beach.” her bubbly per­sonality and impeccable style made viewers fall in love with her. 
after more than five years of exposing her personal and professional life on Tv, lc made her final appearance as a reality star in 2009. since then, she has become a celebrity and fashion mogul. 
lauren is currently a best-selling author and success­ful fashion designer. she published a trilogy of novels between 2009 and 2010, and has most recently published a style book. she also has two fashion lines: lc lauren conrad for Kohl’s and paper crown. 
lauren is due to publish a new series of novels this year. 
Kristin Cavallari 
Kristin was lc’s arch-nemesis. she was blunt, flirty and sassy, and she had a rivalry with lauren over their shared love interest, stephen. 
after two seasons of “laguna beach,” Kristin went on to pursue a career in acting. she began by co-hosting real­ity Tv show “get This party started,” which was cancelled after only two episodes, and later made several guest ap­pearances on shows such as “csi: ny” and “veronica mars.” 
from 2009 to 2010, Kristin replaced lc as the protago­nist of the last two seasons of “The hills.” she then went on to participate as a guest judge in “america’s next Top model” and as a contestant in “dancing with the stars.” 
Kristin is currently married to chicago bears quarter­back Jay cutler and gave birth to their son, camden Jack, in august. 
Stephen Colletti 
how could anyone not love stephen? after two seasons starring in “laguna beach,” lc’s high-school sweetheart made several appearances in “The hills” and went on to pursue acting. 
stephen had his big break in 2007 when he was casted to play the role of chase adams in the cw’s popular televi­sion series “one Tree hill.” he maintained his recurring role on the show until the series ended in april. 
Spencer and Heidi Pratt 
one of the most hated couples of reality Tv, spencer and heidi pratt — also known as speidi — entertained “The hills” viewers with their roller-coaster relationship and heidi’s plastic-surgery craze. 
The fame-hungry couple has been unsuccessful overall in the Tv world. They have tried their luck in reality shows, such as “i’m a celebrity… get me out of here!” and have even faked a break-up in a desperate attempt to capture the media’s attention. 
looks like the original “hills” couple hasn’t changed a bit. 
Whitney Port 

whitney, the nice and hard-working girl of “The hills” and one of lauren’s best friends, moved to new york to ad­vance her career in fashion. 
as we saw in her show, “The city,” whitney began work­ing as a fashion contributor for people’s revolution and diane von furstenberg in new york before launching her own fashion line, whitney eve. 
The reality star has also had several cameo roles in television series, such as “entourage” and “family guy,” as well as in Jennifer lopez’s latest film “what to expect when you’re expecting,” 
whitney is currently a judge of “britain & ireland’s next Top model” alongside Tyson beckford, Julien macdonald and elle macpherson. 
Contact Maria Fernandez at mfernan5@nd.edu 
JACQUELINE O’NEILL | The Observer 


SPORTS AUTHORITY 

wild events set tone for week 

Jack Hefferon 
sports writer 

when i was little, one of my favorite books was “wacky wednesday” by dr. seuss. i’d sit down with my mom and we’d read it together, but there wasn’t too much reading involved — probably why it was one of my favorites. 
The book was about a boy who wakes up to go to school on paid to win games, not hit his growth spurt. To shut his young arm down would be like taking him out of a tied playoff game in the fifth inning – because it’s past his 9:30 bedtime. 
nowhere is the craziness more widespread though than in the realm of college football. 
oklahoma state purportedly beat a team 84-0, which is a clas­sic example of how a typo can spread through the news cycle. and what kind of coach would 

And while this crazy, alternate universe now has touchbacks come out to the 25­yard line, it also is fixing the BCS — the biggest impossibility of all — so I guess it’s 
okay for now.  
a wednesday, and everything  be enough of a jackwagon to run  
about the day is off in some way.  up an 80-point lead in anything  
The red traffic light said “go”,  other than skee-ball? although i  
cars were flying through the  guess that’s a preferable alterna­ 
sky, strollers got pushed around  tive to what the hogs did down in  
by fish — and it was my job to  arkansas in losing to louisiana­ 
find all the wackiness. it was a  monroe, a school whose best  
toned-down version of “where’s  player, if i recall, was bobby  
waldo”, and it was very easy for  boucher from “The waterboy”.  
four-year-old me to understand.  elsewhere, some top-25 pro- 
however, when i woke up  gram has confused the gridiron  
this morning and took stock of  for a baseball diamond, as it now  
the world of sports around me,  has a starter, middle reliever and  
things were far too wacky for me  closer at the quarterback posi­ 
to sort out and comprehend.  tion — no word on a lefty spe­ 
it started when i checked out  cialist. pretty soon, stadiums  
the weekend’s action in the nfl.  will need field-turf bullpens just  
i’m used to overpaid players  for these throwers to warm up (i  
holding out for better contracts  hear there’ll be room for it under  
well into the regular season, but  the JumboTron).  
now it seems that someone told  and while this crazy, alternate  
the league’s referees they can do  universe now has touchbacks  
the same. now, we have school- come out to the 25-yard line, it  
teachers from idaho filling in as  also is fixing the bcs — the big- 
officials, although after their in­ gest impossibility of all — so i  
eptitude this weekend, some of  guess it’s okay for now.  
them look like their only prior  The usual day’s news has dis- 
experience in stripes was work- appeared, and today i saw all this  
ing at foot locker.  lunacy instead: usain bolt will  
and while lockouts may come  try out for manchester united,  
with the territory in football,  chipper Jones received a stand- 
when i saw on the news that the  ing ovation from mets fans at citi  
nhl is in danger of missing the  field and espn has wall-to-wall  
upcoming season due to a busi­ coverage of a 50-year-old pitch­ 
ness dispute, i knew it had to be  ing for a semi-pro team named  
a joke. The players and owners  the skeeters. i just can’t take it  
realize they’ve just returned to  anymore.  
full strength after their lockout  so have the wackiest of  
in 2004, right?  wednesdays. and let’s all hope  
and it doesn’t stop there.  it’s all back to normal when we  
somebody must have confused  wake up tomorrow.  
mlb with little league, be­ 
cause stephen strasburg, the  Contact Jack Hefferon at  
nationals’ million-dollar phe­ wheffero@nd.edu  
nom, will not pitch in the play- The views expressed in this  
offs because he threw too many  Sports Authority are those of the  
innings this year. strasburg is a  author and not necessarily those  
grown man, and one who gets  of The Observer.  


NHL 

Owners and players to resume talks Wednesday 
Associated  Press 

new yorK — The nhl and the players’ association will resume negotiations on wednesday in an effort to avoid a lockout this weekend. 
after not meeting face to face since last friday, the sides planned to get together at the league office in new york be­fore the nhlpa holds player meetings later wednesday. 
The nhl board of governors will convene on Thursday with commissioner gary bettman, while the union holds a sec­ond day of discussions with as many as 250 players. 
The hastily scheduled nego­tiating session for wednesday came just hours after nhl deputy commissioner bill daly said owners and players were both to blame for their failure to reach a new collective bar­gaining agreement before cur­rent deal expires on saturday. 
daly wrote in an email to The associated press on Tuesday that he hoped both sides would meet before saturday, but didn’t sound optimistic it would happen. 
“To this point, we have re­ceived no indication that the union has anything new to say to us. and right now, we have nothing new to say to them,” he wrote Tuesday. “it’s unfor­tunate, but it’s the reality of the situation.” 
That changed Tuesday night. whether the restart of talks will lead to a quick resolution remains to be seen. The nhl’s labor contract expires at mid­night saturday night, and a lockout seems likely. it would be the league’s fourth work 

FOR SALE 

CLASSIC 4 BED, 3 BATH RESTORED HOME, 2.5 MILES FROM CAMPUS LARGE 4 BD, 3 BA, W/D, CENTRAL AIR, NEWER APPLIANCES, HARD WOOD FLOORS, GREAT DETAILS, DECK, LARGE YARD WITH FENCE, 2+ CAR GARAGE IMMED AVAIL CALL 312-543-2243 EMAIL MAGGIEBOGUE@YAHOO.COM 
WANTED 

After-school Care Needed Seeking female college student to pick up two children from school in South Bend, bring to home in Mishawaka, and supervise homework. Hours 3 p.m. to 6 p.m. (the latest). Call 574-274-3778 

stoppage since 1992. 

“ultimately, we just want to negotiate a fair deal that will give all our clubs an ability to be stable and healthy,” daly wrote. “we hoped (and still hope) we can do that without causing any interruption to the upcom­ing season. logic would have suggested we would have been able to. The fact that we haven’t yet is extremely disappointing, and is a failure for which we both must share blame.” 
several hundred players are set to attend the nhlpa meet­ings wednesday and Thursday to discuss the current state of cba negotiations. 
The board of governors could authorize bettman to proceed with a lockout on saturday if a new collective bargain­ing agreement hasn’t been reached. 
bruins goaltender Tuukka rask fears the season will be delayed. 
“i hear november, december and new year’s,” he said monday at boston’s annual golf pre-camp golf tournament. “but no one really knows.” 
donald fehr, who took over as union head two years ago, said his players are resigned to a work stoppage, which would follow lockouts last year in the nfl and the nba. 
many of those players will gather in manhattan this week in this offseason’s biggest show of force. pittsburgh cap­tain sidney crosby, one of the league’s biggest stars, is one of them. he skated on Tuesday with some of his penguins teammates in suburban pittsburgh and expects to be in new york on wednesday. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit 
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds.  
PERSONAL  gave that right to me, And I gladly  
stand up next to you and defend her  
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY?  still today, ‘Cause there ain’t no doubt  
Don’t go it alone. Notre Dame has  I love this land God Bless the U.S.A.  
many resources in place to assist  
you. If you or someone you love needs  From the lakes of Minnesota to  
confidential support or assistance,  the hills of Tennessee, Across the  
please call Ann Whitall at 1-0084 or  plains of Texas from sea to shin- 
Karen Kennedy at 1-5550. For more  ing sea. From Detroit down to  
information, visit ND’s website at:  Houston and New York to L.A., well  
http://pregnancysupport@nd.edu  There’s pride in every American  
heart and it’s time we stand and say:  
“God Bless the USA”  
by Lee Greenwood  that I’m proud to be an American  
where at least I know I’m free, And I  
If tomorrow all the things were gone, I’d  won’t forget the ones who died who  
worked for all my life, And I had to start  gave that right to me, And I gladly  
again with just my children and my wife,  stand up next to you and defend her  
I’d thank my lucky stars to be living here  still today, ‘Cause there ain’t no doubt  
today, ‘Cause the flag still stands for  I love this land God Bless the U.S.A.  
freedom and they can’t take that away.  
And I’m proud to be an American  
And I’m proud to be an American  where at least I know I’m free, And I  
where at least I know I’m free, And I  won’t forget the ones who died who  
won’t forget the ones who died who  gave that right to me  



NHL 

Bruins forward Seguin signs six-year extension 
Associated Press 
bosTon — The bruins continued their pre-lockout signing strategy Tuesday, agreeing with forward Tyler seguin on a six-year, $34 mil­lion contract extension. 
seguin, 20, led boston with 29 goals and 67 points last season, and posted a plus­34 rating. in and out of the lineup as a rookie in 2010­11, when the bruins won the stanley cup, seguin cement­ed his place on the team last year, and played in the 2012 all-star game in ottawa. 
seguin was the no. 2 over­all pick by boston in 2010, and had 22 points in his rookie season as boston defeated vancouver in seven games to win the stanley cup. The 


paid adverTisemenT 

forward mark recchi, who re­tired after the 2010-11 season. and “it’s a great feeling” that the bruins, by offering him a long-term deal, “have faith and trust in me.” 
chiarelli is impressed by seguin’s development in his two seasons. 
“he’s a young, exciting player,” chiarelli said. “he’s maturing before our eyes, and i feel with the hard work that he’s shown us and the willingness to put in that hard work and to continue to improve, i think the sky’s the limit for Tyler.” 
deciding whether to sign players during the uncertain labor situation, is an “inex­act science,” chiarelli said, but “we’re trying to lock up our younger players and, in the context of a new cba, i’m taking the approach that if we have to shuffle our roster, de­lete from our roster, to get to a level of salary, then it will be hard from the perspective of trading players, but i’d rath­er have the player. i’d rather have him locked up. 
“i feel there’ll be flexibility enough if we have to make changes under a new system.” 
most bruins have gathered in and around boston this week, in time for a training camp that likely won’t hap­pen. but the team still held its golf outing on monday, where the lockout was an obvious hot topic. 
“you work for the owners and you work with the play­ers,” boston coach claude Julien said monday. “it’s just a matter of staying out of it and respecting both sides.” 
The bruins rookies were scheduled to report on friday, with the veterans starting training camp on sept. 21. The nhl season is sched­uled to start on oct. 11. but goaltender Tuukka rask, un­derstandably, doesn’t sound optimistic. 
“i hear november, december and new year’s,” he said monday. “but no one really knows.” 
regardless of the labor un­certainty, seguin is sure of one thing. 
bruins were eliminated last season in the first round by the washington capitals. 
on friday, they locked up forward brad marchand to a new, four-year deal. The feisty marchand, 24, a key cog in the bruins’ run to the 2011 cup, will make $4.5 million per season, starting in 2013­
14. he is scheduled to make $3 million in the coming sea­son, the last of his two-year contract. 
seguin’s salary begins with a $4.5 million salary in 2013­14 and ends with a salary of $6.5 million in 2018-19. The contract averages $5.75 mil­lion per year. 
“we’ve tried to be rela­tively proactive in extend­ing contracts for guys prior to the start of the season and we’re trying to keep our core together,” boston general manager peter chiarelli said friday. “it’s part and parcel of that in what we’re trying to do. 
“it may fly in the face of the labor situation at this time, but we feel very strongly in the core of our team,” he said. “(They’re) players that we know and i think that’s im­portant: players that we know, that have given us service.” 
despite his youth, seguin thinks he can be a leader on the bruins. 

“i adapt to new situations well. i’m a confident player,” he said during a conference call with chiarelli. “i feel like 20.” i’ve settled in. ... i don’t look he said he received advice at my age as a factor. i want to about how to act on and off be a leader even at the age of the ice from former bruins 

The observer | WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 12, 2012 | ndsmcobserver.com 

SMC VOLLEYBALL 

Belles to take on conference rival Albion 
that we need to clean up.” Kwan was able to claim three 
By AARON SANT-MILLER 

sports writer Thus, for the belles, sharp-top-three finishes in the 
ening their game is key. This conference, including a sec-
after claiming their first sentiment resonates with ond-place finish in 2008. conference win over albion the players, sophomore de-“with a new coach and a lot last saturday, the belles will fensive specialist samantha of new players, they have a look to start a winning streak grady said. lot of new faces on their ros­in the miaa as they face off “we need to go out there ter.” Kuschel said. “we don’t against rival adrian tonight. and play our game no matter really know what to expect 
“They’re going to be a who’s on the other side of the this year. it’s a new team tough team,” belles coach net,” grady said. with a new coach, so i’m sure Toni Kuschel said. “we’re go-saint mary’s wants to dic-a lot of things have changed.” ing to be focusing on what we tate the flow of the game, last year, the bulldogs need to do on our side of the Kuschel said. struggled through a rough net to win.” “we have to play more con-season. with an overall re-
for the belles (5-1, 1-1 sistent volleyball and con-cord of 8-21 and a record of miaa), that starts with im-trol the tempo of the game 5-11 in the miaa, adrian proving their play, Kuschel if we want to get the win on stumbled to a seventh-place said. despite claiming wednesday,” Kuschel said. finish in the conference. a four-set win saturday, for the belles, adrian (4-yet this year, adrian start-Kuschel said the belles can 4, 0-3 miaa) is a hard team ed 4-0, going undefeated play stronger. to read. This offseason, the in the battlefield classic 
“we need to play better bulldogs hired a new head on sept. 1. since then, the than we did this weekend,” coach in david Kwan. prior bulldogs have dropped four Kuschel said. “we had a lot of to his time at adrian, Kwan straight, including miaa unforced errors what we’re served a nine-year tenure losses against Trine, calvin just not really happy with, at defiance college. There, and hope. 
paid adverTisemenT 
NCAA MEN’S BASKETBALL 

harvard basketball involved in scandal 



despite the challenge as we pick each other up, we adrian presents, grady said will be fine.” if the belles play well and for the belles, wednesday’s support one another, saint match will also be their home mary’s will come out on top. opener. as a result, there is 
added excitement. “We need to play “it’s always great to play at home,” Kuschel said. “The 
better than we 
girls are excited to get out in 
did this weekend. 

front of the home crowd and We had a lot of show everyone what we’ve been working on for the last 
unforced errors 
two-and-a-half-weeks.” 
what we’re just not 

The belles will look to really happy with, do just that as they take on that we need to adrian in their third miaa clean up. ” match. saint mary’s hosts 
the bulldogs tonight at 7 
Toni Kuschel 
p.m. in the angela athletic 
Belles coach 
facility. 

“we’ve been playing well as Contact Aaron Sant-Miller at       a team,” grady said. “as long asantmil@nd.edu 
paid adverTisemenT 

Associated Press 
cambridge, mass. — harvard basketball co-captain Kyle casey plans to withdraw from school amid a cheating scandal that also may involve other athletes, according to several reports. 
sports illustrated and the harvard crimson reported Tuesday that casey, a senior, would take a leave of absence from school in an attempt to preserve a year of eligibility once the issue is resolved. 
co-captain brandyn curry also has been implicated in the scandal and is weighing his options, his father told the magazine. The boston herald reported curry also is expect­ed to withdraw from classes. 
The school is looking into whether at least 125 under­graduates in what has been re­ported to be an introduction to congress class of about 280 students cheated by working together on a take-home final exam in the spring. 
school officials have de­clined to release the students’ names. 
“These allegations, if prov­en, represent totally unac­ceptable behavior that betrays the trust upon which intellec­tual inquiry at harvard de­pends,” president drew faust said when the cheating scan­dal was uncovered in august. 
each student whose work is in question has been called to appear before a subcom­mittee of the harvard college administrative board, which reviews issues of academic in­tegrity. possible punishments range from an admonition, a sort of warning for a first of­fense, to being forced to with­draw from harvard for a year. 
harris emphasized that none of the allegations has been proven and said there’s no evidence of widespread cheating at harvard. 
The crimson reported that other athletes, including foot­ball players are also among those implicated. 
harvard spokesman Tim williamson declined to com­ment on Tuesday. messages seeking comment also were left for harvard basketball coach Tommy amaker, foot­ball coach Tim murphy, curry and casey. 
harvard is coming off ivy league championships in both football and basketball, where the crimson made their first trip to the ncaa tourna­ment since 1946 last season, going 26-4 under amaker. 
casey averaged more than 11 points per game, a team high and more than five re­bounds. curry averaged al­most 8 points a game. 
amaker, a former duke star, came to harvard in 2007 from michigan, where he was charged with cleaning up that program after years of scandal. 
The crimson, citing an email it obtained from John ellison, the secretary of the administrative board, said athletes involved were being asked to weigh potential ivy league eligibility issues when deciding whether or not to re­main on campus for the fall term. 



MEN’S TENNIS 

Talmadge shines in doubles competition 
Talmadge will move into the 
By PETER STEINER 

sports writer no. 1 doubles role with ju­
nior greg andrews this year, 

playing doubles in colle-and also has an opportuni­giate tennis does not often ty to compete for a singles attract the spotlight, but spot. that suits senior spencer “[spencer] has been a Talmadge just fine. great doubles player for us,” 
over the past three years, irish coach bobby bayliss Talmadge has quietly, in said. both demeanor and play, es-The hillsborough, calif., tablished himself as one of native started much of the notre dame’s top doubles last two years at no. 2 dou­players. after improving bles, beginning his junior his tennis game and fit-year playing with gradu­ness level over the summer, ate niall fitzgerald and 
paid adverTisemenT 
paid adverTisemenT 
ending with andrews. after the switch, Talmadge and andrews accumulated a record of 15-6, including doubles victories over no. 6 Kentucky and indiana. 
with the graduation of the no. 1 doubles team and oth­er singles lineup spots up for grabs, Talmadge has two clear goals for himself this fall season. 
“i wasn’t in the singles lineup last year, so my goal was to just keep improving in singles, keep getting in better shape and hopefully i can break into the sin­gles lineup with some good wins and results this fall,” Talmadge said. “in doubles, i want to get off to a good start, get as many wins as we can and try to get a good ranking going into the spring.” 
although the senior spent his summer in the philippines for an intern­ship, Talmadge focused on increasing his endurance and playing tennis when­ever he had the chance. according to bayliss, Talmadge’s fitness level im­proved greatly and it can only help elevate his game, especially in singles, which requires more endurance. 
“[spencer] has made a big commitment this year,” bayliss said. “he lost about 20 pounds this summer and he’s in the best shape of his life. his singles is much im­proved because of it. 


“his higher fitness level is really bringing him into the picture now and he has a le­gitimate chance to get some singles work in for us this year.” 
in addition to newfound stamina, Talmadge will continue to utilize the two biggest strengths his game 
“He has very good instincts at the net and really can make some magical things happen at times.” 
Bobby Bayliss 
Irish coach 
is based on — a big serve and strong volleys. 
“spencer has a big game,” bayliss said. “he hits a big ball, a very powerful ball. he’s got a huge serve and a very dominant forehand. and in doubles, his quick hands are a tremendous as­set for him at the net. he has very good instincts at the net and really can make some magical things hap­pen at times.” 
Talmadge echoed his coach’s statements, adding that three years of experi­ence is also a valuable in­tangible to possess. 
“for singles, my game is really based on my serve and being able to come to the net and volley because that’s really my strength,” Talmadge said. “obviously, [the] same thing [applies] in doubles, because [my] big­gest strength is begin able to serve and volley. 
“i guess for doubles, it’s just a matter of how well we can do as a team, working together. Just having a lot of experience playing with greg is going to help us a lot and obviously, that will be a big factor in helping us win this year.” 
his big game contrasts the quiet conduct that charac­terizes Talmadge. although this means leading most­ly by example, Talmadge hopes to also take on a big­ger leadership role this year. 
“for me personally, i’m more of a leader by exam­ple,” Talmadge said. “i just try to be one of the hardest workers out there. i’m try­ing to be more of a vocal leader.” 
no matter what additional roles Talmadge plays this year, he will continue to be an important piece of the notre dame doubles lineup. as a senior, he realizes the importance of doubles play has on the team’s success. 
“doubles really becomes much more of a factor than most people think about,” Talmadge said. “a lot of our success in the past has been based on whether or not we’re winning the doubles point. 
“from my point, i never thought any less of my po­sition because i’ve only played doubles. i really felt like if i can secure my spot in whatever doubles posi­tion i played, we just need one more team to win and that gives us the doubles point. and that just plays a huge difference in how the match comes out.” 
Contact Peter Steiner at psteiner@nd.edu 



The observer | WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 12, 2012 | ndsmcobserver.com 


Volleyball 
conTinued from page 16 
unfortunately, they have gone an unsightly 0-4 against those teams, sometimes putting forth inspired efforts, but not yet victories. 
Though the irish sport a win­ning record with a 5-4 mark, their wins have come against st. louis, alabama-birmingham, eastern Kentucky, buffalo and cal poly. Though the season is still young and the irish have yet to enter big east play, they have shown a knack for win­ning games they should win, but also a disturbing paucity of victories against the top com­petition on their schedule. Though the team took one set from no. 1 ucla in the sea­son opener and pushed no. 17 san diego to five sets this past sunday, it has failed to show so far that it belongs back in the ncaa tournament. 
Thanks in part to a rough 
Morey 
conTinued from page 16 
volleyball family. it was a big fam­ily, and always very competitive.” 
morey was a highly-touted recruit coming out of burris laboratory high school in muncie, ind. she was indiana’s 2010 gatorade player of the year and also a 2011 first-team under armour all-american. 
“i was getting recruited by ohio state, purdue, university of dayton … but i chose notre dame because it offers a lot,” morey said. “my visit was awesome, and the history and tradition behind the whole school is amazing. The connections you make every day on campus are incredible. it offers so much, not just athletically, but also academi­cally, and that’s a huge part for why i came.” 
morey credited the coaching staff and upperclassmen in easing the transition to college. 
“i think in any situation, fresh­man come in scared and nervous, and they just don’t know what to expect, and so it’s huge having [senior opposite side hitter] marie [roof] and other people who have experience help you along the way,” she said. “it makes it easier and calms your nerves so that you can come in and compete at your highest level from the beginning.” 
while it is still early in her fresh­man year, morey has played against strong competition and patch in the middle of the 2011 regular season, not even a run to the big east tournament fi­nal could salvage a spot in the ncaa’s for the irish, marking the second year in a row that the team failed to qualify. after losing only two players to grad­uation, notre dame is poised to

  In the end, it will be Big East play that determines whether the Irish deserve a seat at the table. 
make their mark on the volley­ball landscape in 2012. 
They certainly have the tal­ent to make it happen. The team is loaded in the front-court with junior captain and former big east freshman of the year andrea mchugh and the sophomore duo of outside hitters Jeni houser and Toni alugbue (combined 250 kills already for over half notre 
has been forced to adjust her game accordingly. 
“so far we have played a lot of great teams. The girls are a lot big­ger, the game is a lot faster and they hit heavier balls, but i think my ad­justment has been fairly smooth,” morey said. “The girls in college are a lot bigger and more physical and they have been playing a lot longer. we’ve already played some of the top outside hitters that i will prob­ably face in my career. i just had to make my movements a lot faster and just learn how to be more physical as a defender.” 
The irish just finished up a 1-2 road trip in california and al­though the team was disappointed with the outcome, morey said the team still has big goals for the rest of the season. 
“we lost a heartbreaker on saturday. i think we have high ex­pectations and are expecting to compete in the big east champi­onships and take our talents to the ncaa [tournament] and see how far we can make it,” morey said. “although our record is 5-4, we definitely are continuing to train, continuing to work hard, and keep­ing our goals as high as they have been.” 
morey and the rest of the irish will be in action friday night at 7 
p.m. against Xavier at home in the purcell pavilion as a part of the golden dome invitational. 
Contact Joe Wirth at                 jwirth@nd.edu 
dame’s total on the season), who have come into their own after promising freshmen cam­paigns. freshman libero Taylor morey has stepped into the starting role vacated by gradu­ated captain frenchy silva, and has been sensational in her first college matches, averaging 16.2 digs per game. 
in the end, it will be big east play that determines whether the irish deserve a seat at the table at the season, and it very well may be the case that this gauntlet of a non-conference schedule galvanizes the irish going forward. but until they show that, more than just com­peting, they can actually beat some of the best teams in the country, they will not have truly arrived. 
Contact Conor Kelly at ckelly17@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Kelly 
conTinued from page 16 
players in practice to give us that mental and physical toughness necessary to win games.” 
Spond cleared 
irish junior linebacker danny spond has been cleared by notre dame’s medical staff, Kelly said. spond was sidelined with a head injury suffered during preseason camp in august. 
“we can go back to our original plan of [sophomore linebacker ben] councell and spond at the drop position,” Kelly said. “and that would be the hope moving forward that we are able to stabilize that dropped position with danny.” 
Kelly also said sophomore receiver davaris daniels was in a boot sunday after sus­taining an ankle injury during the win over purdue. daniels should play saturday, Kelly said. 
Contact Matthew DeFranks at mdefrank@nd.edu 

paid adverTisemenT 




CROSSWORD | will shorTZ HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 

HIGHLY PUNLIKELY | chrisTopher brucKer SUDOKU | The mepham group 

LOWER YOUR EXPECTATIONS | lenny rago & paTricK cross 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: mike comrie, 32; Taraji p. henson, 42; harry connick Jr., 45; virginia madsen, 51. 
Happy Birthday: what you do for others will not go unnoticed. however, you must structure your help properly so you aren’t taken advantage of in the process. offer­ing suggestions and physically helping someone is fine, but don’t pay cash. excess will be what holds you back. a tendency to overreact and overindulge is apparent. curb your habits. your numbers are 5, 7, 19, 21, 28, 35, 42. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): (march 21-april 19): don’t stay home when you should be out meeting new people or doing something that interests you. put more em­phasis on making self-improvements and not trying to change those around you. don’t let responsibilities get you down. 


TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Keep things moving along smoothly by taking the time to listen to others and consider what you can do to make things better. you’ll have stellar solutions and should not spare detail when discussing your plans. 


GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Keeping busy is the name of the game. altering your schedule or taking a moment to enjoy someone or something will give you the boost you need and help temper any negativity you’ve faced throughout your day. love is highlighted. 


CANCER (June 21-July 22):refrain from sulking or being secretive and it will help you resolve any matter you face. you should be enjoying family and friends or doing something special with the one you love most. home improvements will pay off. 


LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): you may feel like sharing, but you are best to be secretive to avoid interference. don’t trust someone who claims to understand what you are trying to do. disloyal promises will be made to find out what you are up to. 



VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): proceed with caution when dealing with influential people. being agreeable may go against your better judgment, but in the end, it will get you what you want. Take action and show results instead of just talking about what you can do. 


LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): you can’t please everyone, so spend time improving your appearance, emotional well-being and your love life. it will be to your benefit to focus on you rather than offering to help someone who is making you feel guilty. 


SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Taking on a project that motivates you will resurrect an old goal that you shelved out of frustration. an opportunity is apparent, but do not overspend in the process. simplicity will be essential if you want to get the most out of your efforts. 


SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): expect to face opposition. you may feel confident that you can make changes without consulting the people influenced by your decisions, but in the end, you’ll wish you had been more accommodating and thoughtful. 


CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19):do your very best to help someone struggling with something you find easy. your patience and hands-on help will be rewarded. don’t let uncertainty cause you to make an impulsive decision that is likely to lead to an unexpected change. 


AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): don’t worry so much when what’s required is taking action to resolve pending problems. anger is not the answer, but striving to be successful will put you in a much better position to handle any problems you face. love is in the stars. 


PISCES (Feb. 19- March 20): go where the action is. mingling with people who can help you advance will bring results. greater opportunities are in the stars and will manifest if you are upbeat regarding your ideas and plans for the future. 


Birthday Baby: you are original, entertaining and sensitive. you are progressive and aggressive. 
JUMBLE | david hoyT and Jeff KnureK 




make checks payable to and mail to: The observer p.o. box 779 notre dame, in 46556 

enclosed is $130 for one academic year enclosed is $75 for one semester
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information 
on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
name

Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an 
indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying 
address 

form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
city state Zip 

ND VOLLEYBALL 
Freshman libero infuses new blood into squad 
By JOE WIRTH 
sports writer 
playing against older girls is nothing new for freshman libero Taylor morey. she grew up com­peting against her two older sis­ters, so it is easy to see why she is not intimidated in her first year of collegiate competition. 
volleyball is in the morey family blood. her dad and older sisters’ love of the sport influenced her at an early age, and the family com­petition has been fierce ever since. 
“my family is a volleyball fam­ily,” morey said. “i have two older sisters, and my oldest sister played when she was younger in middle school and high school, so i kind of got involved from her. 
“my dad played in a men’s adult league and my other sister is now playing at the university of dayton, so we’re definitely a 
see morey PAGE 14 

Bouncing back 

Rough stretch should not damper expectations 

Conor Kelly 
sports writer 
it is pretty standard coach-speak to say that games against big-time opponents reveal the character and true talent of a team, and it is certainly some­thing irish coach debbie brown has emphasized during notre dame’s big east tilts through the last few years. 
This year is no different. 
Just nine games into the season, the irish have already faced four top-20 opponents in ucla, nebraska, usc and san diego, a veritable who’s-who of the upper echelon of ncaa vol­leyball. To the credit of the irish and their schedule, it represents a commitment to seeking out and competing against the best competition in the country. 
see volleyball PAGE 14 
FOOTBALL 

Kelly prepares team for first true road test 
By MATTHEW DeFRANKS 
associate sports editor 
after games in ireland and at notre dame stadium, the no. 20 irish will face their first true road test of the young season when they travel to east lansing, mich., for a pri­metime matchup with no. 10 michigan state. 
The spartans (2-0) have won 15-straight games at spartan stadium, including four con­secutive night games. irish coach brian Kelly said notre dame (2-0) would make ad­justments to prepare for the extra crowd noise. 
“we’ll have crowd noise piped into practice [Tuesday]. we’ll go with some silent indi­cators [on offense]. we’ll make sure our communication is streamlined and make sure we do all of the things necessary to make sure it doesn’t,” Kelly said. “my track record has been such that on the road, we have handled those situations pretty good, but we’ll have to work on them as well.” 
Kelly said the team showed mental toughness in the 20­17 win over purdue after re­linquishing a 10-point lead at home. 
“i think you build toughness in so many ways before you get to the season, and then when you get to continue, you look to see it come together,” Kelly said. 
The irish will try to erase memories of their last trip to east lansing — a 34-31 over­time loss to michigan state on a fake field goal. notre dame won last year’s meeting 31-13 at notre dame stadium. 
“it’s not a trip to the water park,” Kelly said. “i just want a mature group that goes on the road with a focus on what the job is at hand and that is to play their very best. Toughness, mental and physi­cal, that’s universal, home and away. but just a good, mature group when you take them on the road.” 
The trip to 75,000-seat spartan stadium will be the first of four true road games for the irish this season, including three at current top-10 squads. notre dame will also go to no. 2 usc and no. 5 oklahoma. 
“we knew the schedule we were going into. you’d better be physically tough and men­tally tough, or you’re going to get run out of the stadium,” Kelly said. “so i think we are prepared for that, and we’ll continue to challenge our 
see Kelly PAGE 14 


KEVIN SONG | The Observer 

Irish sophomore quarterback Everett Golson avoids the pass rush during Notre Dame’s 20-17 victory over Purdue on Saturday. The Irish will travel to East Lansing, Mich., this Saturday to take on Michigan State. 



