
Wednesday, January 18, 2012 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com Notre Dame 14, Florida State 18 
Chopped down 
Irish stumble to another 8-5 season after surrendering second-half lead 
By ERIC PRISTER 
Senior Sports Writer 
ORLANDO, Fla. — Capitalizing on a turnover and offensive ineffi­ciencies from Notre Dame, Florida State overcame a 14-point third quarter deficit to win the Champs Sports Bowl 18-14 on Dec. 29. 
“I’m proud of my team,” Irish coach Brian Kelly said. “We have the motto, ‘the pride and tradition of Notre Dame football will not be left to the weak, the timid or non-committed.’ Our kids are strong mentally; they love to compete. They’re a committed group. I’m disappointed we lost the football game today.” 
Neither offense could put points on the board in the first half, but the Irish defense picked up the slack early in the first quarter. Ju­nior linebacker Manti Te’o forced freshman running back Devonta Freeman to fumble, and junior safety Zeke Motta scooped up the loose ball and took it into the end zone from 29 yards out. 
“It’s nice to be able to talk about a Notre Dame football team that plays championship defense be­cause they did that today,” Irish coach Brian Kelly said. “Now we’ve got to get our offense obvi­ously to play that level, as well, and that will be the next step for our football program, is getting our of­fense to play at the same level that our defense is evolving to.” 

Notre Dame came out strong to start the second half, capping an eight-play, 62-yard drive as senior receiver Michael Floyd bobbled but then hauled in a five-yard said. “We had miscues with spe-safety Lamarcus Joyner returned it away and we came up short,” and see where that takes me. touchdown pass from sophomore cial teams, we had some penalties the kickoff 77 yards, setting up Rees said. “We’ve got to get bet-“It’s the most frustrating [to quarterback Tommy Rees to give that really hurt us. When you a field goal, Florida State’s first ter closing out games, and it starts struggle when the defense is play-the Irish a 14-0 lead. play quality opposition — and points of the game. Then, after with the quarterback position. You ing so well]. When the defense is 
“It was a great catch,” Rees said. we do that week in and week out Rees was sacked and the Irish miss some things here and there playing so well, you want to do your “I tried to put a jump ball up there — you have to clean up the little forced to punt, the Seminoles and you’ve got to move forward, part and make sure they know you for him, but it looked like it got out things, and that is what I concern drove 84 yards in 10 plays to cut but we definitely let this one go.” have their back. And when you’re of his hands as he was coming myself more with than whether the lead to three after they failed After a botched Florida State unable to come up with a lot of down. But he’s such a good player we’ve got a good lead and we’ve on a two-point conversion attempt. punt, Notre Dame took over with points, especially when they’re that with his concentration to find got our hands around the oppo-Manuel connected with receiver 3:56 to go on its opponent’s 28-playing so well and so hard, it’s not it and secure it was great.” nent.” Bert Reed from 18 yards out for yard line. But on the third play of great. But it’s a team game and the 
Floyd finished the game with Meanwhile, Florida State took the score. the drive, Rees was intercepted in offense has to be better than that.” five catches for 41 yards, but was advantage, scoring on its first four Sophomore quarterback An-the end zone on a pass intended After a second-straight 8-5 fin-injured on the play. Floyd, who drives of the second half on the drew Hendrix, who split time with for senior receiver John Goodman, ish, Kelly said he is going to have finished his Notre Dame career as way to the victory. Junior quar-Rees under center for the Irish, effectively ending Notre Dame’s to go back and reevaluate his ap­the school’s all-time leader in re-terback E.J. Manuel connected on was intercepted on the next drive, chances. proach heading into the offseason, ceptions, yards and touchdowns, 20 of his 31 passes, including two which set up another Seminoles “It’s a high-low on the safety, especially on the offensive side of was forced to sit out most of the fourth-quarter touchdown passes, touchdown. and you miss a couple reads and the ball. second half. leading the way for the Seminoles. “I think [Kelly] does a good job try to force one to try to get six,” “I’m going to have to evaluate 
“He’s just an incredible competi-“I think defensively we did pret-communicating with us, letting Rees said. “That’s something that everything that I do and how we tor,” Kelly said. “This is my 22nd ty good,” Te’o said. “We still al-us get warmed up and get our I’m committed to getting better at do it because we have to get our year and I’ve had great players, lowed the opposing offense to put arm ready,” Rees said of splitting and something I can work on in offense better,” Kelly said. “And guys that have gone on to great points on the board, and that’s not snaps. “But it kind of hurts the the offseason. You’ve just got to try when I say better, I’m not talking careers in the NFL or are doctors something that we want to do, but rhythm to come in and out. But it’s to keep your head up after that.” about the way our guys compete. and lawyers, and you remember we just have to keep building off of something coach thought would Rees finished the game 16-of-27, I’m talking about we turn the ball the guys that overcome, the guys this year. It starts with the winter help our team win, so it’s some-throwing for only 163 yards and over, and we cannot win football that compete in battle, and he did and winter conditioning, and we’ll thing I’ve got to play with.” two interceptions to go along with games at the highest level if we that today.” start to get better as a team, not Notre Dame was forced to punt the touchdown pass. Despite some continue to turn the ball over, so 
But the Irish were unable to add only as a defense because we’re yet again on the following drive, rotation at quarterback, he said the coaches have to get better. The to their total, throwing two inter-going to win or lose as a team. It and Florida State marched down he did not see the bowl game as players have to get better, and we ceptions along with three punts on doesn’t matter, and we just have to the field in nine plays, a drive a try-out for the starting job next have to solve this issue if we’re go-their next five drives. Kelly said it stay together and just focus on the which ended in a field goal, giving season. ing to be in an elite football team.” was mistakes that cost his team little things.” the Seminoles an 18-14 lead. “I don’t treat a game like that,” the game. After Floyd’s touchdown put the “We had situations when we had he said. “I’ll come into the offsea-Contact Eric Prister at                       
“We turned the ball over,” he Irish up two scores, sophomore the ball and the lead and we gave son and I’ll battle and work hard eprister@nd.edu 


player of the game 
E.J. Manuel Florida State quarterback 
It was not his strongest game, but he made several big throws in the second half once Notre Dame’s pass rush slowed down. 


stat of the game 
three interceptions 
Tommy Rees threw two critical interceptions and Andrew Hendrix added another as turnovers once again doomed the Irish. 

play of the game 
Tommy Rees’ interception in the fourth quarter to seal the loss 
Down four points with 2:48 remaining, Rees’ pass to the end zone was intercepted, sealing the Seminole victory. 


quote of the game 
“The turnovers were, again, the large reason for us not being able to win this football game, and it’s been the case all year.” 
Brian Kelly Irish coach 

page 2 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u IRISH INSIDER Wednesday, January 18, 2012 
report card 



F B­B+ C B+ B B B C+ 
quarterbacks: Tommy Rees and An­drew Hendrix combined for three in­terceptions, and Michael Floyd made an incredible catch on the lone touchdown to prevent another one. 
running backs: The Irish rushed for 133 yards, but at a measly rate of 2.7 yards per carry. Cierre Wood and Theo Riddick ran hard, but could not consis­tently move the chains for the offense. 
receivers: Floyd reached the 100-recep­tion mark for the season, a Notre Dame first, on his remarkable third-quarter touchdown before leaving with an inju­ry. Eifert added 90 yards on six catches. 
offensive line: The athletic Florida State pass rush picked up four sacks and was in the backfield most of the game. The Irish could not consistently get an effec­tive push in the running game. 
defensive line: Notre Dame held Flori­da State to 41 rushing yards. The Irish were all over quarterback E.J. Manuel in the first half before Florida State’s halftime adjustments stymied the Irish. 
linebackers: Manti Te’o once again paced the Irish defense with 13 tackles and a forced fumble that was returned for a touchdown, but his supporting cast made little impact. 
defensive backs: Zeke Motta returned a fumble for a touchdown and Jamo­ris Slaughter continues to impress, but coverage breakdowns in the second half led to the Seminole win. 
special teams: David Ruffer missed a 47-yard field goal, but Ben Turk pinned the Seminoles inside the 20 four times. George Atkinson also made a touch­down-saving tackle on kickoff coverage. 
coaching: The timing of the quarterback substitutions was puzzling and Notre Dame was unable to overcome Florida State’s halftime adjustments that pro­tected Manuel in the second half. 
overall: Once again, the Irish 
dropped a game they should have won because of turnovers. A strong 
2.54 showing by the defense was over­shadowed by the offense’s struggles. 

adding up the numbers 
The number of games Notre Damelost the turnover battle during the 2011 season. 
10 
Receptions during the season hauled in by Michael Floyd, a Notre Dame re­
100 
cord. 
Jamoris Slaughter sacked E.J. Manu­

el twice in the loss, the first sacks of 
his career. 

2 
The average number of yards gained per rush by Florida State’s offense, as 
the unit gained only 41 yards. 
1.4 
The average yard per punt by Florida State’s Shawn Powell, giving the Irish 


badfieldpositionthroughoutthegame. 

47.2 
0 
The number of times Notre Dame has won a bowl game in consecutive years 
since 1993. 
ORLANDO, Fla. — After anoth­er 8-5 season, Notre Dame finds itself in the same position as a year ago, wondering what direc­tion it is headed and what quar­terback will lead it that direction. 
The pull-out-your-hair frustration by the Irish signal callers was a chaotic whirlwind in 2011 that started with a Andrew Owens fall camp po­sition battle, Associate continued Sports Editor with a quick hook of senior Dayne Crist by Irish coach Brian Kelly at halftime of the South Florida game and concluded with a turnover-riddled performance by sophomores Tommy Rees and Andrew Hendrix. 

If the Irish have any chance of contending for a prized BCS bid in 2012 against a schedule that will cause more nightmares over the next 226 days than a Stephen King novel, they need to shore up the quarterback position, and quickly. 
While the quarterback position is often the headline-grabber, Kelly has made great strides in many other aspects of the pro­gram that are often overlooked because of the signal callers’ struggles. 
The defense is on the verge of becoming one of the country’s elite units under the direction of defensive coordinator, and new­ly-named assistant head coach, Bob Diaco. If recruiting serves as trustworthy foreshadowing (it often does not), Notre Dame’s defense should be very strong in the near future, with immense depth on the defensive line and a promising secondary that will be very raw next season. 
For the first time in a few coaching regimes, the Irish are reeling in top defensive talent and, with 15 days to go in this recruiting cycle, are primed to reel in another top-10 class. 
A third reason for optimism is the ability of the coaching staff to develop talent. While offensive line coach and running game coordinator Ed Warriner and running backs coach Tim Hinton will be missed after Warriner developed the offensive line into one of the more cohesive units in recent Irish memory and Hinton’s tutelage led to the emergence of senior Jonas Gray this past season, the reshuffling of the staff was done in a way to maintain stability despite the moves. 
But, even with all these factors in mind, Notre Dame cannot take the next step as a program until it figures out how to eliminate costly mistakes at the quarter­back position. 
Rees started 12 games because of the perception he was a strong game manager and could pro­tect the football, but that was far from the case this season, as Notre Dame’s turnover issues plagued the squad throughout the season, due mostly to Rees’ play. 
While Rees’ physical limita­tions have always been appar­ent, it is the lack of growth in decision-making that has be­come an issue. On Florida State’s fourth-quarter and game-sealing interception of Rees in the end zone, the sophomore threw it deep rather than the underneath route. Kelly said after the game the ball should have gone under­neath, as the safety had commit­ted to the post route, a disas­trous mistake by Rees. 
Kelly’s decision heading into spring camp is a simple one: Does he want to continue with a known, yet limited, commod­ity in Rees or choose one of the three younger quarterbacks, Hendrix, freshman Everett Golson or newly-enrolled Gun­ner Kiel to lead the team next season. 
Sure, Golson, Hendrix or Kiel would make rookie mistakes early on, but they have a much higher ceiling of growth than that of Rees. With Navy and Purdue first and second on the schedule in September, the Irish have a larger margin for error than in recent September slates, allowing them some time to grow before being thrown to the wolves against the elite oppo­nents the Irish will face. 
The decision Kelly makes will set the tone for next year and could set the trajectory of the program moving forward: Is Notre Dame set for a revival at last, or will fans see more of the same in future years? 
Contact Andrew Owens at aowens2@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 






Irish need strong QB play to be elite 

Wednesday, January 18, 2012 The Observer u IRISH INSIDER ndsmcobserver.com | page 3 


Miscues cost Irish in bowl loss 

By CHRIS MASOUD 
Assistant Managing Editor 
ORLANDO, Fla. — It started against South Florida, it reared its ugly head against USC and, finally, it prevented Notre Dame from pick­ing up a season-ending bowl win. Turnovers once again led to Notre Dame’s demise, as Florida State took full advantage of three take­aways en route to its 18-14 victory in the Champs Sports Bowl. 
“The turnovers were, again, the large reason for us not being able to win this football game, and it’s been the case all year,” Irish coach Brian Kelly said. “We know what we need to do. We’ve already talked about it, and players that are going to be back for the 2012 football season will be committed to getting that end done.” 
The Irish finished the season with 29 committed turnovers and 14 takeaways, good enough for a minus-15 takeover differential. Against the Seminoles, Notre Dame forced just one turnover while com­mitting three, losing the turnover battle for the 10th time this season. 
“We made turnovers — that’s the biggest stat of the game. That’s where you start,” junior tight end Tyler Eifert said. 
The Irish wasted little time turn­ing the ball over. 
After forcing Florida State into a three-and-out in the first possession of the game, senior receiver Michael Floyd gave the offense excellent field position with a 41-yard punt return, the team’s longest of the season. 

Starting deep in Seminole terri­tory, sophomore quarterback Tom­my Rees marched the Irish down to the 4-yard line before throwing an interception to Lamarcus Joyner in the end zone, capping a nine-play drive and denying Notre Dame the first score of the game. 
“We turn the ball over, and we cannot win football games at the highest level if we continue to turn the ball over, so the coaches have to get better,” Kelly said. “The play­ers have to get bet­ter, and we have to solve this issue if we’re going to be an elite football team.” 
Heading into the turnovers.” 
Slaughter, who finished with a game-high two sacks, and the Irish defense came up with a key stop late in the quarter, forcing a Seminole punt with 3:56 remaining and the score 18-14 in Florida State’s favor. 
But Notre Dame’s third and final interception proved to be the nail in the coffin. On first down, Rees heaved a deep pass to senior receiv­er John Goodman and it was picked off in the end zone. Minutes later, 

fourth quarter, “The turnovers were, the Irish clung to again, the large reason for a precarious 14-9 us not being able to win lead before two this football game, and it’s more turnovers up-been the case all year.” 
ended Notre Dame. Trading snaps 
Brian Kelly 

with Rees, sopho-
Irish coach 

more quarterback Andrew Hendrix threw the second interception of the game, a short pass that was picked off by Nigel Bradham. Two plays later, Florida State took its first lead of the game. 
“Their defense made plays with turnovers close to their goal line. On defense, we always harp on mak­ing stops, no matter what,” senior safety Jamoris Slaughter said. “As a defense, we feel like we could have made more stops when they got Notre Dame’s season ended in a loss. 
“There’s defi­nitely some high points, and every season has its ups and downs,” Rees said. “There were games where our offense was fir­ing, and I think we developed some guys that really stepped up this year. There’s always things to take away, but to focus on the neg­atives — that’s 
really where you get better.” 
In Notre Dame’s case, eliminat­ing just one negative — turnovers 
— may be enough to help Kelly and the Irish avoid a third consecutive five-loss season in 2012. 
Contact Chris Masoud at cmasoud@nd.edu 




Irish  lose turnover battle again 
By DOUGLAS FARMER 
Editor-in-Chief 
ORLANDO, Fla. — As was the case for most of the 2011 season, turn­overs determined Notre Dame’s fate against Florida State in the Champs Sports Bowl. When sophomore safe­ty Zeke Motta returned a Seminoles fumble, forced by junior linebacker Manti Te’o, for a touchdown in the first quarter, it was the first Irish fumble return for a score since Bri­an Smith ran one back in September of 2008. 
But from there, Notre Dame com­mitted three turnovers, while not forcing any. The three interceptions spelled doom for the Irish, as turn­overs have since the season-opener. 

“Today, as you know, the turn­overs were, again, the large reason for us not being able to win this foot­ball game,” Irish coach Brian Kelly said. “It’s been the case all year.” 
Notre Dame finishes the season with 29 turnovers, including six games with at least three. 
Slaughter’s sacks 
Senior safety Jamoris Slaughter showed up in Orlando having played 35 games for Notre Dame. He had amassed a grand total of zero sacks in those four seasons. 
When he left the field after the loss, he suddenly had two career sacks, tying the Champs Sports Bowl record in the first half. 
“We feel like the skills the teams that spread the field so much now, Jamoris holds up in the running game there,” Kelly said. “And obvi­ously he’s a guy that can cover and blitz off the edge. 
“He’s one of the guys that has all the tools, and so we need to get him on the field, and he’s been able to impact greatly what we’ve done de­fensively.” 
Slaughter is expected to return in 2012 for a fifth year with the Irish, as he has one remaining year of eli­gibility. 
Contact Douglas Farmer at dfarmer1@nd.edu 




scoring summary 
 1st  2nd  3rd  4th  Total  
FSU  0  0  3  15  18  
ND  7  0  7  0  14  

First quarter 
Notre Dame 7, Florida State 0 
Zeke Motta 29-yd fumble recovery (David Ruffer kick) with 9:04 remaining 
Third quarter 
Notre Dame 14, Florida State 0 
Michael Floyd 5-yd pass from Tommy Rees (DavidRuffer kick) with 11:24 remainingDrive: 9 plays, 62 yards, 3:36 elapsed 
Notre Dame 14, Florida State 3 
Dustin Hopkins 42-yd field goal with 9:03 remaining
Drive: 4 plays, -3 yards, 2:08 elapsed 
Fourth quarter 
Notre Dame 14, Florida State 9 
Bert Reed 18-yd pass from E.J. Manuel (two-pointconversion failed) with 14:54 remainingDrive: 10 plays, 84 yards, 4:10 elapsed 
Florida State 15, Notre Dame 14 
Rashad Greene 15-yd pass from E.J. Manuel (two­point conversion failed) with 13:18 remainingDrive: 2 plays, 18 yards, 0:42 elapsed 
Florida State 18, Notre Dame 14 

Dustin Hopkins 29-yd field goal with 8:05 remaining
Drive: 9 plays, 71 yards, 3:23 elapsed 



statistics 
rushing yards 

passing yards 

time of possession passing 

Rees            16-27-163 Manuel                 20-31-249 Hendrix                  3-8-24 
rushing 
Wood                      18-60  Freeman        13-48  
Riddick                        8-37  Wilder         4-10  
Hendrix  4-26 Abram               1-3  

receiving 
Eifert                       6-90   Greene    5-99  
FloydToma                       5-41                        4-34   ShawSmith    4-64    4-34  
Riddick   2-7  Wilder    2-14  
Wood  1-8 Freeman             2-12  

tackles 
Te’o                           13   Bradham  9  
GraySmith  7 6  JoynerParks  7 7  
Slaughter  LynchTuitt 5 5 3  HarrisSmithWilliams  5 5 5  
Nix  3  Rhodes  4  
Shembo  2  Carradine  4  
CwynarMottaJackson  2 Reid 2 Jernigan 2 Jenkins  2 2 2  


page 4 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u IRISH INSIDER Wednesday, January 18, 2012 


New game, same story 
Notre Dame held a 14-0 advantage in the third quarter of the Champs Sports Bowl, but turnovers allowed Florida State back into the game. The Seminoles eventually won the contest 18­14 and the Irish finished the season with an 8-5 record for the second consecutive season. Sophomore quarterback Tommy Rees threw two interceptions and sophomore Andrew Hendrix added another. In his last game in a Notre Dame uniform, senior receiver Michael Floyd caught five passes, including an acrobatic touchdown reception in the third quarter. 
PAT COVENEY/The Observer 



JULIE HERDER/The Observer COURTNEY ECKERLE/The Observer 

Clockwise from top: Irish safety Zeke Motta returns a fumble for a touchdown; Lamarcus Joyner outruns the Notre Dame kickoff coverage unit; Cornerback Robert Blanton breaks up a pass intended for Christian Green; running back Cierre Wood avoids Florida State defenders; Linebacker Manti Te’o wraps up a Seminole running back. 


