The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 46, issue 66 | WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 5, 2012 | ndsmcobserver.com 
‘The next step’ 
University approves first recognized GLBTQ student organization after extensive review 
By JOHN CAMERON 
newseditor 

after a decades-long push by members of the notre dame community for official recogni­tion of a gay-straight alliance, the university has announced plans for a student organization tasked with providing services and support to gay, lesbian, bisex­ual, transgender and questioning (glbTQ) students and their allies. 
Though this is a historic deci­sion in notre dame’s efforts to better serve a diverse student body, university president fr. John Jenkins said the plan for the unnamed student organization is a natural progression of previous initiatives. 
“in the 1990s, as i said, we cre­ated the standing committee [on gay and lesbian student needs]. in 2006, that was changed to the core council [for gay, lesbian, bisexual and Questioning students], and various initiatives were undertaken in conjunction with those efforts,” he said. “i see this as the next step to be more effective.” 
The decision comes at the con­clusion of a five-month review process commissioned by Jenkins and conducted by the office of erin hoffmann harding, vice president for student affairs. 
“[harding] and her staff have had countless hours [working] ex­tremely hard and have submitted this plan, which i enthusiastically support and accept,” Jenkins said. “it grows out of our mission as a catholic university, it’s directed by that fundamental mission in a profound way, i think, so i’m en­thusiastic about it.” 
The plan, titled “beloved friends and allies: a pastoral plan for the support and holistic development of glbTQ and heterosexual students at the university of notre dame,” de­tails the establishment of a “new support and service student or­ganization for glbTQ students and their allies,” as well as a new advisory committee and the es­tablishment of a full-time student development staff position fo­cused on glbTQ issues, accord­ing to a dec. 5 university press release. 
harding said members of the notre dame community should consider more than the establish­ment of the student organization when evaluating the plan. 
“The comprehensiveness of this not only being about the organi­zation is a very important element 
see glbTQ PAGE 4 



University President, Fr. John Jenkins, left, tasked Erin Hoffman Harding, vice president of Student Affairs, with a review of support structure for LGBTQ students. 


scholar discusses catholic education 
By MEGHAN THOMASSEN 
news writer 

John haldane, professor of philosophy and direc­tor of the centre for ethics, philosophy and public affairs at the university of st. andrews in scotland, spoke Tuesday in the eck hall of law on “The future of the university: philosophy, 
education  and  catholic  
Tradition.”  
university  president  fr.  

John Jenkins introduced haldane, who is the chair­man of the royal institute for philosophy in london and consultant to the vatican’s pontifical council for culture in rome. 
“i have known John for a long time,” Jenkins said, “he is a prolific scholar of phi­losophy … who combines the serious rigor of argument that characterizes analytic philosophy with an expan­sive imagination, serious­ness about issues of faith and aesthetics — things that really characterize catholic tradition at its best.” 
haldane focused on the philosophy and theology 
see fuTure PAGE 7 


SMC expresses gratitude 
By JILLIAN BARWICK 
saint mary’s editor 


as they await the much-anticipated announcement of the ticket lottery winners, saint mary’s students said they are thankful to be in­cluded in the student body pool for the bcs national championship game against alabama on Jan. 7 in miami. 
Junior kat sullivan said she has been a notre dame football fan since before she could walk. her dad attended the university and her mom is a saint mary’s alumna. sullivan said her friendships in the joint community are an important part of her experi­ence in the student section. 
“cheering for the fighting irish is something that will always be a part of who i am,” sullivan said. “some of my best memories of college thus far have been watching the fighting irish go ‘onward to victory.’ we all share one common bond — our love of the notre dame football team. at the end of the day, the only people who should be fighting are the fighting irish.” 
saint mary’s students re­ceive access to a “proportion­al” quantity of bcs national championship game tickets that is equivalent to their percentage of the total com­bined notre dame and saint mary’s student population, according to an email state­ment from the notre dame Ticket office. There are 2,500 student tickets available in the lottery, the results of which will be announced monday. 
“however, their win rate can be no higher than that of the notre dame student lot­tery. any excess saint mary’s tickets would go to the notre dame lottery,” the statement reported. 
senior autumn nelson said she hopes the student bod­ies can remove any sense of entitlement from the lottery drawings and just provide the football team with the support and excitement of a home game. 
“i feel like the things that 
see Thanks PAGE 7 

rockne connecTion PAGE 3 viewpoinT PAGE 9 scene PAGE 10 fooTball PAGE 20 women’s baskeTball PAGE 20 




Have a question you want answered? 
Email obsphoto@gmail.com 



QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
ndsmcobserver.com 
p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
allan Joseph 
Managing Editor  Business Manager 
megan doyle  Jeff liptak 
Asst. Managing Editor: andrew owens 
Asst. Managing Editor: sam stryker News Editor: John cameron News Editor: kristen durbin 
Viewpoint Editor: meghan Thomassen Sports Editor: chris allen Scene Editor: kevin noonan Saint Mary’s Editor: Jillian barwick Photo Editor: suzanna pratt Graphics Editor: brandon keelean Multimedia Editor: sarah o’connor Advertising Manager: monica mccormack Ad Design Manager: sara hilstrom Controller: peter woo Systems Administrator: william heineman 

Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ajoseph2@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 mdoyle11@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 aowens2@nd.edu sstryke1@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 

Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 

Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 

Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 observer.scene.editor@gmail.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
jbarwi01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 

Policies 
The observer is the independent, daily newspaper 
published in print and online by the students of the 
university of notre dame du lac and saint mary’s 
college.  editorial content, including advertisements, is 
not governed by policies of the administration of either 
institution. The observer reserves the right to refuse 
advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively 
as possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion 
of the majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, 
assistant managing editors and department editors. 
commentaries, letters and columns present the views of 
the authors and not necessarily those of The observer. 
viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include 
contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed 
to Editor-in-Chief Allan Joseph. 
post office information The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through friday except during exam and vacation periods. a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The observer is published at: 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-0779 periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices posTmasTer send address corrections to: The observer p.o. box 779 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-077 The observer is a member of the associated press. all reproduction rights are reserved. 


Describe Notre Dame squirrels in one word. 

Angel Mira 

Robbie Colas 
senior 
senior 
alumni 
sorin 
“chubby-chubby.” 
“curious.” 

Peter Sullivan 

Blanca Foncillas 
senior 
junior 
off-campus 
mcglinn 
“ambitious.” 
“chubby-wubby.” 

Alesandra Mendoza 

Kelsi Klein 
junior 
junior 
pangborn 
ryan 
“spontaneous.” 
“friendly.” 



Want your event included here? 
News Sports 
Jillian barwick Joseph monardo Email obsnews.nd@gmail.com 




THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 
bridget feeney megan finneran sarah swiderski brian hartnett 
Graphics Scene 

Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday 
Jacqueline o’neill Troy mathew 
Photo Viewpoint 

Make Your Own Last Lecture Series Vigil Mass Glee Club Christmas Basilca Sunday Mass 
mackenzie sain caroline lang 
Stressballs Coleman-Morse Basilica of the Sacred Concert Basilica of the Sacred Hesburgh Library Center Heart DeBartolo Performing Heart 7 p.m.-8 p.m. 7 p.m.-8 p.m. 5:15 p.m.-6:15 p.m. Arts Center 10 a.m. - 11 a.m. 
Corrections 

Study break with Professors John Roos Immaculate 2 p.m.-3 p.m. 
The observer regards itself as snacks. and Paul Weithman. Conception Mass. $3 for students. a professional publication and strives for the highest standards 
Women’s Basketball Iron Sharpens Iron Hockey Men’s Basketball “What and When 
of journalism at all times. we do, 
Joyce Center Coleman-Morse Compton Family Ice Joyce Center Was the Christmas 
however, recognize that we will make 
7 p.m. Center Arena 7 p.m.-9 p.m. Star?” 
mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 
ND vs. Baylor 10 p.m.-11 p.m. 7:05 p.m.-9:05 p.m. The Irish will attempt Jordan Hall of Science 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
Tickets $12/Adult, $5/ Student-led praise and ND vs. Michigan State to remain undefeated 3 p.m. - 4 p.m. 
we can correct our error. 

Youth and Senior. worship. Tickets $7-$25. at home vs. Brown. Astrophysics lecture. 


Seniors graduate early, pursue other opportunities 
By TORI ROECK 
news writer 
because of the current eco­nomic climate and the high rate of tuition at notre dame, some seniors have chosen to graduate at the end of this se­mester rather than in may. 
senior finance major alex vander linde said his deci­sion to graduate early was primarily financial. 
“The reason i decided to graduate early was because i had the credits to do so and because i did not want to spend another $25,000 on tuition if i did not have to,” vander linde said. “i came into notre dame with 18 ap credits and have taken 15 credits every semester never dropping a class. i currently have exactly enough credits to graduate.” 
vander linde said he will remain in south bend and continue with his part-time job on campus while cross­ing off some other bucket list items. 
“i do plan on visiting friends at other universities, going skiing and traveling abroad given the amount of time i have before i start my job at the end of June,” he said. “while in south bend i will continue working my part time job in the development department and hope to find a hobby and several charities to occupy my time while oth­ers are in class.” 

senior brendan sullivan said despite spending the spring 2012 semester in london, he was able to com­plete his political science ma­jor early, with some help from the 14 ap credits with which he came to notre dame. 
“it wasn’t like i did any spe­cial planning. it just kind of worked out that way,” sullivan said. “i realized last year, ‘oh wow, i can graduate early.’” 
sullivan said he also plans to stay in south bend and get a job while continuing to live in his same off-campus house. 
“in a lot of ways i’ll be get­ting next semester all the easy parts about being a student and not all the hard parts,” he said. 
senior philosophy and gen­der studies major christina genovese said she is planning to work in chicago beginning in february. 
“i interned at a law firm this past summer, so i’m plan­ning to go back there and do that for a year and a half,” genovese said. “Then i would go to law school.” 
genovese said being in chicago will allow her to visit campus frequently. 

“i figure if i’ll be in chicago, i’ll probably just visit school most weekends,” she said. 
The school does not spon­sor an official graduation ceremony for those who graduate in december, but genovese said early gradu­ates get to walk with their peers in may. 
“i’m excited to be in chicago, and it’s nice that you can still walk with your class in graduation and come back for senior week and all that,” she said. 
even though he will miss seeing his friends in class ev­ery day, vander linde said he has no regrets about graduat­ing early. 
“i view it as a privilege that not many people have and am grateful for the time off,” he said. “This will probably be the last time in my life when i have six months with absolutely no obligations and when i can truly do any­thing i want. i look forward to having a great time with my friends and doing things that truly make myself happy and help others less fortunate than myself.” 
Contact Tori Roeck at vroeck@nd.edu 
paid adverTisemenT 


student’s family tied to rockne 

By TORI ROECK 
news writer 
as the notre dame com­munity anticipates the football team’s upcoming ap­pearance in the national cham­pionship game, freshman noelle langmack reflects on her family’s connection to the man who originally brought the university’s football program to prominence: knute rockne. 
langmack’s great-grandfa­ther, holger c. langmack, a professor of physical education at springfield college in mass., wrote the first book on football conditioning in 1925 with help 
from  the legendary  fighting  
irish coach.  
scott  langmack,  noelle’s  

father, said his grandfather’s work was unprecedented at the time. 
“he was really interested in … how physical fitness can re­duce the injuries that people incurred in football a lot at the time and improve perfor­mance,” scott said, “because in the early days … there wasn’t a lot of padding and the helmets were pretty sparse.” 
holger and rockne were both immigrants from scandanavia and taught together during the summers at springfield college. scott said the two men’s philos­ophies about physical fitness complemented each other. 
“[holger’s] interest in both minimizing injury and improv­ing performance aligned a lot with knute rockne’s of course because of knute’s beliefs, and [rockne] was well known as someone who believed in a disciplined physical fitness program in order to develop a really strong team,” scott said. 
noelle said she was unaware of her family’s connection to rockne before she chose to at­tend the university. 
“i was between usc and here and somehow, i remember when i visited this campus, it felt like home,” noelle said. “i remember this summer, i heard my dad mention this connec­tion to rockne and started to realize that at the university, rockne is quite idolized as a leadership character and a coach. it’s interesting to hear things about him and be able to say … that i have a connection to someone so special to the university.” 
scott said he stumbled upon his grandfather’s book about eight years ago but did not un­derstand the importance of the connection until his daughter became a domer. 
noelle said she looked up the book in the hesburgh library catalog and found that the school has a copy in the rare books collection. 
“[The book] sure looks old,” scott langmack said. “it’s fun­ny how they looked in 1925.” 
noelle langmack said she is honored that her great-grand­father could have had an im­pact on notre dame’s early football success. 
“The fact that this was de­veloped for the knute rockne program, the program that put notre dame in the spotlight at the time as a powerhouse for football and a dynasty — there has to be something about this different kind of conditioning that … probably contributed to the strength of the team and the amount of amazing seasons that they had,” she said.  
Contact Tori Roeck at vroeck@nd.edu 



The observer | WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 5, 2012 | ndsmcobserver.com 

GLBTQ 
conTinued from page 1 
to the entire thing because of the education, because of the aware­ness, because of the support and interaction with other university offices, we think this is a plan that we believe and hope will be much more than about one organiza­tion,” she said. 
harding explained the sig­nificance of the planned group’s intended status as a student or­ganization rather than a club, a distinction she said is meant to ensure the continuity of the orga­nization over time. 
“here at notre dame, a club is actually in a sense a temporary structure,” harding said. “it con­tinues and does programming at the interest of the club itself. so our organizations have more per­manence and more stature.” 
harding said the status of the planned group as a student or­ganization positions it closer in structure to student government and similar groups than typical student clubs. 
“The first [distinction] is that it’s part of someone’s full-time job to advise that group, and that pro­vides some of the sustainability and the consistency over time,” she said. 
This new position will ful­fill a number of responsibilities ranging from administrative to advisory. 
“That person will play several roles associated with a student organization: to serve as advisor; that person will participate on a new advisory committee that will work with and give input to my of­fice; and lastly, will be responsible for the consistency of the training and the awareness that we build over time,” harding said. 
while the university has great­er oversight of organizations than clubs, harding said organizations have a high level of autonomy. 
“an organization, like a club, still develops its own constitution and puts in place its own practices, it elects its own leaders,” she said. “but it does have additional input in terms of the approval of that constitution by the university.” 
members of the student orga­nization will be free to meet in­dependently, but official matters must be dealt with in the presence of the advisor. 
“students will and do meet and discuss organization issues be­yond official meetings. because of the constitutional distinction
 mentioned, official business is conducted with the advisor present, who we describe in the [dec. 5 press] release,” harding said. “This is consistent with the practices and procedures of our other student organizations on campus.” 
The timeline for the estab­lishment of this organization will hinge upon the filling of the new position, which harding estimates will occur early next summer. 
as these plans take shape, the new advisory committee will re­place the core council and take up many of its functions, while in­corporating a structure more con­ducive to performing its intended advisory role. 
“what’s interesting is the core council was started as an adviso­ry committee, and its size reflect­ed that, rather than letting it grow to a programming body,” harding said. “so its size and composition ... i think has limited its ability to grow with the growing needs of campus.” 
citing the limits of the core council, a group of eight under­graduate students and a number of representatives from her office, harding said the new advisory council will likely include gradu­ate student representation, as well as staff, faculty and additional administrators. 
harding praised the achieve­ments of the core council, and said the new advisory commit­tee will maintain and build upon these programs. 
“There’s been a lot of programs started and launched by the core council that have added great val­ue to the university, particularly, i think, when we welcome students to campus for the first time — our first-year students — and training of our hall staff,” she said. “These are programs that can, and should and must be continued.” 
The road to a decision 
harding said the process to de­velop her office’s proposal to the office of the president included months of consultation with the various constituencies involved. 
“The parameter for this solu­tion needed to serve our students well and be grounded fundamen­tally in our catholic mission as a university,” she said. “so we’ve spent time with theologians and members, in particular, of our own faculty, who have given us ad­vice on this matter and on church teaching.” 
Jenkins said the organization’s roots in church teaching had a broad practical impact, but these roots are not meant to serve as a basis for limitations the university could theoretically impose on the group. 
“it’s a rich teaching about the role of sexuality, about intimacy, about human relations, about re­sponsibilities to the community, about relationships to the church,” Jenkins said. “To put this in a ‘well you can do this, you can’t do that,’ is to distort the issue.” 

once the theological guidelines were defined, harding said her of­fice tapped the opinion of the con­stituency most heavily tied to the issue, the student body. 
“[There were] several groups of students we consulted along the way: first and foremost, students on the core council, since it is our structure in place; students who applied for club status; we also spoke with students who were un­involved particularly with either effort,” she said. “we did two focus groups, one with undergraduate students, one with graduate stu­dents, to get their perspective and input on this issue. we consulted with student government, we con­sulted with a few students who just wrote me along the way.” 
harding said her calendar held more than 40 such meetings by the end of the review. 
looking outside the commu­nity, harding’s team compared notre dame’s existing structures with those of other institutions. 
“[we] just refreshed some exter­nal benchmarking, particularly looking at other catholic institu­tions to see the breadths of struc­tures they had in place to serve students who identify as gay or les­bian,” she said. 
Throughout her office’s review, harding came to see a commonal­ity amongst many of these sources. 
“i’ve been struck throughout this process, how whether i’ve been talking to a student, an ad­ministrator, a faculty member or leaders in our church, that we all share a common goal that re­ally speaks back to the spirit of inclusion the university adopted many years ago, which is to pro­vide a welcoming and inclusive environment,” she said. 
with the vast amount of consul­tation and research conducted by harding’s office, the final decision came down to Jenkins. 
“we inform all parties who kind of have a stake in this, of what we’re doing and why we’re doing it. Just as erin did with the stu­dents and graduate students, so i did with members of the board [of Trustees], but ultimately it was a decision by the president to do this review,” Jenkins said. “[harding] made a proposal that i accepted on my authority.” 
Sending a message 
despite the challenges of tack­ling the controversial topic at notre dame, Jenkins said he is confident in the plan, which he expects will garner both positive and negative responses. 
“This is a contested area in so-ciety-at-large ... whenever an issue like that is present at notre dame, it will get attention. i expect some criticism from both people who say — who are on the left and the right — that we’re too far or not far enough,” he said. “controversy is not necessarily a bad thing. if you avoid controversy, you don’t do anything.” 
Jenkins said he believes the soundness of the plan will with­stand the scrutiny it is bound to receive from concerned parties. 
“i think if people look carefully at what we’re doing and really, in a thoughtful way, evaluate it, i think thoughtful people will see that tis makes sense,” he said. “it makes sense for a catholic university like notre dame to provide such structures to serve their students effectively.” 
Jenkins said prospective stu­dents who truly believe in the university’s mission will likely find value in the plan. 
“if you look at how graduates of notre dame reflect on their experi­ence, one of the things that comes out very strongly is that there is a deep sense of community at notre dame, and i think when you read this document, people will see what’s really front and center,” he said. “if people want to be part of that, then this is the place for them.” 
while Jenkins said expand­ing the diversity at notre dame is part of the administration’s du­ties, he said the responsibility does not end at the steps of the main building. 
“diversity isn’t just about hav­ing a bunch of different people all in the same place. it really is about building a community,” he said. “as erin said, we’re not there, we should never feel like we’ve got this down. ... it’s my responsibil­ity and erin’s responsibility to work on this, but it’s everyone’s responsibility.” 
Contact John Cameron at jcamero2@nd.edu 


paid adverTisemenT 



Class explores impact of climate change 
“it is a science topic, but we 
By CHRISTIAN MYERS 

news writer have to make political decisions about it,” Javeline said. “i make 
as the semester draws to a sure that students have enough close, the professor and students science to get at the politics.” of a new interdisciplinary course, Javeline said they examine the politics of adapting to climate current issues of climate change change, are able to reflect on the adaptation as a class and discuss course’s first semester. the political questions raised by 
The course, offered by the po-these issues. litical science department, was “The questions we look at are taught by political science profes-questions for urban planners sor debra Javeline. Javeline said and engineers. for example, in the course is open to students addition to preparing for future in any major and will be offered hurricane sandy’s, what should again in the fall semester of 2013. our major coastal cities be doing 
Javeline said the class focuses to prepare for rising seas? This on adaptation to climate change class talks about the politics of it and its political implications. all,” Javeline said. most classes dealing with climate sophomore christina change expose students to the gutierrez, a political science, concept of climate change miti-french and italian major, was a gation, she said. member of the course’s first class “The class looks at the strate-making under conditions of un-developing,” she said. “some of 
“most students who study cli-this semester. she said she enjoys gies to adapt and factors that get certainty, and it’s what makes the assignments are even drafts mate change study ways to slow, the relevance the course has to in the way — politics, econom-[climate change adaptation] a of policy statements. These allow stop or reverse climate change; current events worldwide. ics and public opinion. we also political science topic.” students to see the thought pro­that’s mitigation,” she said. “but “it’s about everything our cover the basic background of Javeline said one of the major cess of policy makers.” the fact is that we’ve reached a country, and others, do to what climate change is,” laciak areas of concern in the politics lociak said it is difficult to work point where even our best miti-mitigate and adapt to climate said. “i like that the class provides of climate change is the idea that with these drafts and other in­gation efforts can’t prevent some change,” she said. “i like being in the opportunity to do our own economic and environmental in-complete materials, but he values climate change. adaptation refers a class where all of the material research and to look at primary terests are at odds. the insight they provide into gov-to the measures taken to prepare is really relevant, and it’s great to sources,” he said. “one thing we talk about is ernmental processes. for and protect ourselves from have an idea of the changes going Javeline said an important part that politicians often present the “sometimes the research we the inevitable climate change. on in the world.” of the course is learning how to economy and the environment read is incomplete, and that can The question is how to adapt to sophomore arthur laciak, a make decisions with incomplete as competing interests,” she said. be difficult. but it shows us the this new climate reality.” political science and math ma-information. “The truth is, adapting to climate stages of the government’s re-
The topic of adapting to cli-jor with a minor in german, also “adapting to climate change could be one of the most eco-sponse,” he said. mate change is primarily the took the course this semester. is urgent; we can’t keep waiting nomically efficient things we can Javeline said she has spent the concern of environmental scien-laciak said the course also looks around. The changing climate do.” past four years working on is­tists, which makes the class thor-at impediments to adapting to is already having an impact,” she said one of her goals in sues related to climate change. oughly interdisciplinary, Javeline climate change and that he en-she said. “policy makers have to developing this new course is initially, she began by help-said. she said students do not, joyed the opportunity to engage make decisions about climate to show students the economic ing biology professors Jessica however, need a background in in research based on primary change before they have all of the benefits of adapting to climate hellmann and Jason mclachlan environmental science. sources. information. it’s called decision change. with their work related to species 
“i hope that students leave this extinction due to climate change paid adverTisemenT 
class knowing that protecting the as survey research specialist. she environment is good economics said the experience sparked her [and] is in everyone’s interest,” interest in the subject, to which Javeline said. she now devotes most of her re-
Javeline said she is excited search efforts. about the diversity of majors “it was my side-project, but among the students in the class. it’s grown to be all-consuming,” 
“most students are political sci-Javeline said. ence majors, and the second most Javeline said she created the common major is environmental course as a way to inform stu­sciences. There are also quite dents who go on to work in the a few business majors and a government or private industry sprinkling of architecture, math, about the pressing issue of adapt-economics, history, sociology, ing to climate change. russian, and italian majors and “one of the things i’ve learned philosophy, language, energy is that communicating about cli­studies and sustainability mi-mate change is important; people nors,” she said. recognize it but don’t appreciate 
Javeline said almost all course the urgency,” she said. “by teach-readings were written within the ing about it, i’m doing my part. last 10 years. she also said the i’m conveying to talented un­course is essentially paperless dergraduates the need for their with all readings available online. contributions.” 
“it is a paperless class. i tried to gutierrez said she registered be true to the nature of the class, for the course because of her past so everything is online and the experiences with Javeline. links are in the syllabus,” Javeline “i had professor Javeline last said. semester for a class we created 
she said the conspicuous lack together called food politics, so i of textbooks for the course was wanted to take another class with not the result of a deliberate her,” she said. decision. laciak said his previous in­
“no textbooks on this topic ex-terest in the subject of climate ist, so it isn’t even a choice,” she change led him to take the course. said. “when i was searching for 
Javeline said her students ben-classes, this one seemed the most efit from being exposed to recent-interesting. i have an interest in ly published and even incomplete climate change and the debate research. about what should be done,” he 
“students can learn a lot from said. seeing ongoing research. They can see how policy makers make Contact Christian Myers at decisions even as the science is cmyers8@nd.edu 



The observer | WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 5, 2012 | ndsmcobserver.com 

AIM class provides hands-on experience 
By MEL FLANAGAN 
news writer 
notre dame’s applied investment management course (aim) is true to its name: it al­lows students to directly apply their knowledge of equity evalu­ation and research through the management of a live portfolio of university funds. The handpicked students in the class, comprised of undergradu­ate seniors in the fall and mba students in the spring, manage approximately $6 million of the university’s endowment fund through the buying and selling of stocks. 
executive-in-residence Jerry langley, one of the faculty mem­bers that oversee aim, said notre dame created the course in 1995 with the intent of teaching stu­dents how to evaluate u.s. stocks and manage a live portfolio. 
“[The university] felt the stu­dents should have a hands-on experience learning equity evalu­ation, and it means a lot more when it’s real money, not play money,” he said. “we’ve put addi­tional money into the fund since, and the fund has done quite well.” 
before each semester, the ap­proximately 25 students each choose a stock from the portfolio out of a hat. 
The students then present six reports on the stock over the first half of the semester, including an overview of what the company does, an analysis of the industry and an earnings forecast. 
“They wind up doing an in­trinsic evaluation, saying this is what we believe the stock is worth intrinsically, compared with the stock exchange,” langley said. “and then they say buy or sell.” 
after that process ends right before fall or spring break, stu­dents choose their own stocks to research for the second half of the course, and they repeat the process. 
at the end of the semester, the students make a decision about the stocks in the portfolio. 
“This semester they were left with 54 stocks to vote on,” langley said. “They sold a few of the ones we held and bought some new ones, and they left 25 stocks in the portfolio for the spring.” 
senior alex vander linde, a student in this semester’s aim class, said he particularly enjoyed seeing that $250,000 of the en­dowment fund was spent to buy a stock that he personally had recommended. 
“it is really refreshing being in a class with direct practical application, instead of learn­ing about theoretical concepts,” he said. “and knowing that you and your peers are in charge of a large amount of money serves as a great motivation to do your homework.” 

while the course’s six credit hours commanded the most ef­fort he has put toward a class, 
“The class is very well known on Wall Street and in the financial services industry. The students who get in are highly desirable so I get to work with the best and the brightest.” 
Jerry Langley 
Executive-in-Residence 
vander linde said the benefits he has reaped from aim far out­weigh the workload. 
“after graduation i plan to work in investment banking where financial analysis is performed on a daily basis,” he said. “The skills i learned in this class will prove helpful, but even more im­portantly, learning how other people look at companies and think about stocks has given me a perspective i never imagined when enrolling in this class.” 
langley said the brightness of the students stands out as the main reason he enjoys teaching aim. in order to register for the course, students must submit a resume, a grade transcript and a statement on why they would like to be in the class. 
“because it’s handpicked, we get typically the top students ap­plying for the class,” langley said. “The class is very well known on wall street and in the financial services industry. The students who get in are highly desirable so i get to work with the best and the brightest.” 
senior aim student sam beres agreed the hardworking nature of the students in the class provided a unique learning opportunity. 
“The students in aim really made it what it was,” he said. “a lot of what i learned actually came from them.” 
beres said he chose to apply for aim because of its prestigious reputation as a demanding yet ex­tremely rewarding finance class. 
“i was told it was the best hands-on investing experience you could receive here at notre dame as a finance student,” he said. “also, having the opportu­nity to manage a small portion of the university’s own money and network with top finance profes­sionals across the nation was re­ally too good to pass up.” 
aim students are given several opportunities to network with in­vestment professionals, langley said. alumni who work in the field often spoke to this semes­ter’s class on the fridays before football games. 
additionally, the aim class traveled to chicago and new york to meet with investment profes­sionals and gain exposure to dif­ferent forms of investment. 
“Talking to successful profes­sionals at great firms helped us gain insight on how others go through the security research and analysis process and how they make investment decisions,” beres said. “The networking op­portunities we had during them were probably the most impor­tant takeaway.” 
The trips to chicago and new york not only offered great con­tact for the future, vander linde said, but they also provided the students with incentives to work hard in their professions. 
“we were lucky enough to speak with two billionaires on these visits, which was a pretty motivating experience,” he said. 
Contact Mel Flanagan at mflanag3@nd.edu 

paid adverTisemenT 



Future 
conTinued from page 1 
behind traditional modes of catholic education and these modes’ futures in modern institutions. 
“This is no small topic,” he said. “if you ask the ques­tion, ‘what is a catholic uni­versity?’ it seems to me you can answer that question in a variety of ways.” 
haldane said a univer­sity might consider itself catholic through its origins, liturgy or sacrament. 
“a catholic university can also operate on the principle that grace perfects nature,” he said. “[The principle] or­ganizes educational activi­ties from this perspective of human nature.” 
haldane said saint augustine’s views on edu­cation continued a secular, greco-roman concern with the practice and cultivation of wisdom. 
“human excellence and happiness require self-un­
“Higher education is in a state of flux.” 
John Haldane professor St. Andrews University 
derstanding and virtue,” he said. “This is the prop­er end of philosophy and education. it must also in­clude the study of history, culture and politics.” 


haldane said philosophy practices the love of wis­dom and clarifies concepts and arguments and there­fore corrects post-mod­ernist postures within the humanities. 
“higher education is in a state of flux,” haldane said. economic hardship and pragmatist approaches to education challenge classi­cal methods of education, he said. 
paid adverTisemenT 

“until recently, education was a privilege of the few, but increasingly it seems the right of the many,” he said. 
haldane said this change came from 19th-century progressive thought and radical philosophers Jeremy bentham and herbert spencer. 
matthew arnold saw edu­cation as an essential means for the transmission of high culture, haldane said. 
“This kind of intensive education formation in­volves a relatively small amount of students in each class tutored by a widely-read teacher, which cannot be substituted for by online powerpoint presentations,” he said. 
haldane said there was a distinction between knowl­edge and understanding. 
“newman was concerned that as well as coming to know the particular and the contemporary, humans need to understand the general and the permanent,” he said. 
as the situation in pub­lic finances worsens, hard 
Thanks 
conTinued from page 1 
saint mary’s has contrib­uted and will continue to con­tribute have played an integral role in the community that is notre dame,” nelson said. “it’s about supporting a team and supporting each other in this time of overwhelming joy and victory. i hope whoever gets a ticket will cheer just as loud as me, if not louder.” 
for senior meghan casey, the chance to go to the nation­al championship game and cheer for her team alongside notre dame students is just one of the experiences both saint mary’s and notre dame have shared for years. 
“i hope that we can look past the differences in the schools and notice that we are all part of the notre dame community and camaraderie between the students is what really mat­ters in this situation,” casey said. “saint mary’s and notre dame have great traditions that stem from the 1800s and the unity between the schools is what is so beautiful about this place.” 
like casey, senior caroline gallagher has a great love for the traditions between saint mary’s and notre dame that have been present in her life since she was a little girl. 
“i cannot remember a time choices about education will have to be made, haldane said. 
“Theologians tell us that god does not will evil, but permits it for the sake of the good that may come from it. due to that perspective, the financial crises … may yet bring forth benefits for the university if it causes us to engage in this conversation about the value of educa­tion,” he said. 
Contact Meghan Thomassen at mthomass@nd.edu 


that i didn’t cheer for the notre dame football team,” she said. “my grandfather so proudly passed on his love, for not only notre dame foot­ball, but for the university as a whole. although i may not be as fortunate as others in being chosen for the student lottery, i’m going to be cheer­ing on my football team as i celebrate my last notre dame game as a student, regardless of whether i am sitting in the student section of the sun life stadium or sitting in a miami gardens bar.” 
until the notifications ar­rive monday, students at both schools can only wait and hope that they are one of the lucky ones who will receive a ticket from the lottery. 
“notre dame is ranked no. 1 in the nation and playing in the national championship,” sullivan said. “i know what i’ll be watching on Jan. 7.” 
for gallagher, she said times like this football season make her extremely grateful for both saint mary’s and notre dame.
 “in continuing the tradi­tions and relationship alive between two wonderful insti­tutions, i am extremely proud to be a part of the saint mary’s and notre dame family,” gallagher said. 
Contact Jillian Barwick at jbarwi01@saintmarys.edu 

The observer | WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 5, 2012 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Christmas break panic

INSIDE COLUMN 

finals week isn’t so bad 

Carrie Turek 
scene writer 

while i’m definitely not looking forward to the tests and projects that next week will bring, there are a few reasons why i look forward to finals week each year. Though many of my friends resent that i have more papers than hard-core exams and more projects than cramming, i am still going to take this opportunity to put into writing the parts of finals week that can be just a little bit enjoyable (even if you do have have plenty of tests to study for). 
1) no classes. finals week allows you to focus only on those two-hour blocks of time during which you concentrate on one subject alone. There are no projects or homework, no lectures and no running from classroom to classroom. Time ex­pands (and shortens during those hours of last-minute cramming) and allows you to catch up on all of the work that inevitably kept getting pushed back throughout the semester. 
2) comfy clothes. it is perfectly ac­ceptable (and expectable!) to ignore ap­pearances during finals week. you see many pairs of sweatpants, messy hair, slipper-like shoes and studious eyewear. finals week allows for the relaxed attitude toward appearances i wish for all year round. 
3) snacking/eating. finals week days are structured around finals and eating. schedules revolve around test times and meal times — no interruptions for meet­ings or interviews and no responsibilities except striving for passing grades and staying sustained through busy nights. 
4) coffee. coffee addictions (such as my own) are not judged or suspect during finals week. it seems that everyone is run­ning on caffeine and lafortune (and now au bon pain) snacks. which brings me to point number 5... 
5) flex points. flex points expire at the end of the semester, and what better time is there to use those extra points than dur­ing finals week? i can stop being stingy at starbucks and the huddle and stock up on coffee mugs and ben and Jerry’s until my heart’s content. (or at least until my flex point balance runs low.) 
6) movies. finals week allows for some (perhaps limited) time to watch movies. and with the 25 days of christmas (and especially with the countdown to the 25 of days of christmas) on abc family, we need that extra time finals week al­lows for movie watching. if nothing else, christmas movies certainly make after-finals packing more enjoyable. 
7) christmas. finals week means christmas is just around the corner. it’s a countdown to christmas break and all of the good that comes with the christmas season. and this christmas season, finals week means one other thing: the count­down to when notre dame will take home a national championship title. go irish! 
Lissa Bill 
@ndcareercenter 

it is december of my senior year, and i am in a panic. i have finals coming up, i only have one semester left with all of my friends before being thrust into the real world, and i don’t have a job. 
as a career counselor, i would like to tell you that back when i was a senior in college i had been diligently applying and interviewing for jobs all semester, but that would be a lie. The truth is i was my career center’s worst nightmare. i had as­sumed i would just stroll into their offices and someone would hand me the perfect job. i had applied for very few jobs (okay 
— no jobs might be a better description,) and i had not given my future career plans more than a passing thought. i was fairly sure all hope for me was lost, and soon i was going to be heading home for winter break. 
i dreaded the question that would fill my holidays: “what are you going to do after graduation?” 
The good news: when i finally met with my career counselor, i discovered that i had an arsenal of activities, jobs and leadership roles to help build my re­sume. They helped me think through the wide variety of experiences to draw upon while discerning my future plans. i just needed to spend some time pulling it all together. i found out that it wasn’t too late for me, and with a lot of hard work — in a short amount of time — i was on track to find a job that was perfect for me. 
for those of you that might be in a similar situation — or perhaps you have 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
been applying and interviewing all se­mester with no luck — there is still plenty of time for you to jumpstart or redirect your career search. spending just a few hours over winter break can set you up for a strong start to the winter/spring recruiting season. 
Take time to revaluate and rebuild your resume so it highlights the things you have done during your time at notre dame. Tailor your resume to your specif­ic area of interest and make sure it shows impact by specifically demonstrating the roles you have played during your experiences. 
spend time over the break utilizing notre dame’s amazing alumni network by connecting with alums in your area of interest. search for alums on linkedin. com and on mynotredame.nd.edu to learn how they began and then moved forward in their careers. find out what they do on a day-to-day basis so you might better articulate how your skills align with those skills necessary to do the job. if you are unsure about what you ultimately want to do, talk to alums in a few different areas of interest to learn about their day-to-day work life so you may determine if their job is a good fit for you. 
Take advantage of our online resources from mom and dad’s house to help aug­ment your search. if you still need help determining your future career goals, use our online assessment tool, focus, to take a self-assessment and apply the results toward your search. search our “Jobs in the following field” section to learn about different industries and utilize re­sources associated with those industries. 
and, if you are ready to apply to a few positions but feel as though you have exhausted go irish, try careershift. it is an excellent way to search for jobs and internships as well as companies in a specific industry. download our career and Job search guide to answer ques­tions that cannot wait until you return to campus in January. 
The new year will bring new opportu­nities for jobs or internships. we have a career fair that will take place at the end of January, and employers will be posting additional jobs and internships in a wide variety of fields. 
don’t panic — it isn’t too late. you are on no one’s timetable but your own so don’t feel pressured because your class­mate already has a job — use that as motivation to take control of your search. you will need to put in the work in order to be successful, but we are always here to help guide you through this process. 
by march of my senior year i had found a great job. in that job i traveled all over the world and worked with smart and dedicated people. my first job started me down the path to a career in corporate retail and, more importantly, these expe­riences eventually led me here to notre dame and to the perfect job for me: ca­reer counselor. good luck with finals and enjoy your break! 
Welcome to the @NDCareerCenter Column. Please let us know if you have any questions you would like covered in the column. Email us ndcps@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“some people think football is a matter of life and death. i don’t like that attitude. i can assure them it is much more serious than that.” 
Bill Shankly Scottish footballer and manager 
Contact Carrie Turek at cturek@nd.edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


LETTER TO THE EDITOR 


smicket tension 
we were not aware that the student tickets for the two schools competing in the na­tional championship would be allotted to three schools. 
on the official saint mary’s website the following question is found in the faQ sec­tion: “what is saint mary’s relationship with the university of notre dame?” let us em­phasize the word “relationship.” saint mary’s has a relationship with notre dame, but they are not the same institution. notre dame, saint mary’s and holy cross students are all allowed to attend notre dame home football games during the regular season. This is an example of the strong and historic relationship that notre dame has with these two institutions — the kind of relationship that saint mary’s describes on its website. There is a difference, however, between guaranteeing tickets for home games to saint mary’s and allocating a limited number of tickets that are in high demand to them as well. a long-standing relationship between notre dame and saint mary’s should not impede notre dame students’ chances of attending their university’s participation in a national championship. 
please understand that this argument does not stem from any dislike of saint mary’s or any want to damage the relationship between notre dame and saint mary’s. The point is that the students of the schools competing in the national championship should have the better chance to be sitting in the student sections at sun life stadium. it is unfair to every notre dame student who wants to enter the lottery that students from an institution, whose athletes are not participating in the national championship, are allowed an equal chance to win a ticket to the game when they are already in such high demand. 
ideally, every person who wanted to attend the national championship would be able to, however this is not feasible. The university was allotted 17,000 tickets, and 2,500 of these are allotted to students. considering that the 2,500 tickets awarded in the lottery will clearly not meet the demands of the notre dame student population alone, it does not seem logical to open the lottery to yet another student body. giving saint mary’s stu­dents equal access to the lottery further decreases the number of notre dame students who will receive tickets. every saint mary’s student who wins a ticket is taking one away from a notre dame student. now, students enrolled at the university of notre dame have a smaller chance of winning an otherwise unaffordable ticket to their university’s participation in a national championship. 
a concerned alumnus donated a generous $375,000 to allow discounted student tickets, in order to make them more affordable, and thus, more accessible for notre dame students. we are forever grateful for this gift because, without it, many students from both notre dame and saint mary’s would not even be able to consider attending the game. however, because this generosity is extending past the notre dame student body and including the saint mary’s student body, tickets will be less accessible to notre dame students. 
we offer the following proposal: let saint mary’s students apply for the lottery once the majority of the demands of the notre dame student population are met. This same con­cept would be expected for a saint mary’s event — the majority of saint mary’s students would be guaranteed a ticket before notre dame students were offered any. saint mary’s is part of the notre dame family; there is no question about that. The question becomes who should have the majority of access to student tickets for the national championship? The university of notre dame is playing against the university of alabama on Jan. 7, 2013 in the bcs national championship game. 
Amy Porter 
junior farley hall dec. 4 
Nicole Simon 
junior farley hall dec. 4 
Jennifer Jones 
junior farley hall dec. 4 
Patrick Bedard 
junior Zahm hall dec. 4 
Charles Magiera 
sophomore keough hall dec. 4 
SMC at the BCS 
i found it incredibly disheartening to read the article, “championship ticket tension” and the comments that have arisen from it. i’m a proud student at saint mary’s, and i’ve been so blessed to attend the school that i do. however, i’ve also considered myself blessed to have notre dame right across the street. These two institutions have such a strong history, and it’s sad that instead of this historic season bringing the communities together, it’s tearing them apart. 
as a belle, i’ve cheered notre dame onto victory, along with the rest of you, and i’ve taken advantage of many opportunities that notre dame has pro­vided through clubs and activities. These comments from notre dame women that i’m “only from the sister [school]” make me question whether my con­tributions to the notre dame community and the contributions of my fellow belles go unnoticed. 
saint mary’s women are members of the notre dame marching band and cheerleading squad, take pictures for The observer, and hold leadership posi­tions in clubs and activities. both schools boast of the great relationship and community between the two, but that community seems to fall flat in reality. 
i could argue about how the ticket lottery system is fair or unfair, but in all honesty, i don’t care that much about it. it’s disappointing to find out that all of the contributions from belles, both past and present, go unrecognized by members of the notre dame student body, as we’re referred to, yet again, as “just” saint mary’s students. why don’t we all focus on the hard work and ef­fort that our football team has put forth and celebrate as one community with them as they head to miami? go irish! 
Linsey McMullen 
sophomore le mans hall dec. 4 

Tension headache 
ah, yes, what would a good thing that happens to notre dame be without its trusty confederate — controversy? 
The question being: should saint mary’s students be included in this ticket lottery? it took me a little while to synthesize my own position fully, but i have since decided, no, smc should not be included in the nd lottery. 
i came to the decision, being fully cognizant that smc represents an impor­tant and indeed, natural, extension of the nd community, that due to certain factors (tuition price, ticket availability, the nd alumnus’ donation and most importantly, namesake) smc should most logically have their own smaller lottery. 
however, the focus of my viewpoint is in relation to the proliferation of comments made by nd students (particularly our female students) against smc students. i’ve heard people refer to them as morons, promiscuous, wan­nabes and a whole host of other things that probably should be left out of the newspaper. 
indeed, i had to tell one person, who was inexhaustibly decrying the relative idiocy of her smc counterparts, to stop being contemptuous. in response, she said she would stop being contemptuous if she knew what the word meant. 
uh huh, smarter. (eye-roll.) 
i am so tired of hearing all the idiotic arguments about this controversy that make my arguments look bad. we’re supposed to be brilliant people on this side of the road, taught to think critically and argue persuasively, yet com­ments such as the aforementioned are counterproductive. 
so before you open your mouth and say something that will reflect upon you about as well as when a spoiled brat complains to nobody who is listening that they should receive more attention than his or her sister, consider that if i had my choice you would be similarly excluded from the lottery on grounds of fail­ing to uphold the basic tenets intrinsic to our beloved notre dame community and common to human decency in general. 
unfortunately, neither one of us will receive our wish. Therefore, i suggest you focus more of your attention on praying you do win the lottery than for­warding asinine comments in lieu of constructive arguments. 
Sam Mitchell 
senior knott hall dec. 4 


The observer | WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 5, 2012 | ndsmcobserver.com 

A VERY INDIE 
CHRISTMAS 
By LIZZY SCHROFF 
scene writer 


“Baby It’s Cold Outside” 
She & Him 

she & him is the pairing of m. ward and Zooey deschanel. They put a delightful twist on this christmas classic, made famous by jazz greats ella fitzgerald and louis armstrong, by reversing the male and female singing roles. 


“Coventry Carol” 
Sufjan Stevens 

This band from australia has released literally only this song thus far, but from the way this sounds, i’m anxious to hear their first full-length album. with its catchy guitar riff, you’ll feel like you’re driv­ing along a sea-sprayed california coastline at sunset (which is a nice thought considering south bend’s recent weather conditions). 


“Hang a String of Lights” 
Great Lake Swimmers 
great lake swimmers brings a steady-rocking, indie-folk vibe to the christmas decorating ritual. so if you haven’t started hang­ing those lights and putting up the tree yet, get on it — and put this song on while you’re at it. 


“Chrstmas is Going to the Dogs” 
Eels 

Those of you who love Jim carrey’s version of “dr. seuss’ how the grinch stole christmas” may recognize this song. with a crackly, vinyl-sounding effect, plenty of rock organ and an upbeat tempo, you’ll soon be singing along. and perhaps your furry friend will be howling along too. 


“The Christmas Song” 
The Raveonettes 
This track has a great old-school ‘50s rock ‘n roll vibe. you can almost picture the awkward teenagers in christmas outfits and saddle shoes slow dancing at the annual christmas dance in the high school gym…. 


“O Come, O Come Emmanuel” 
Belle & Sebastian 
“o come, o come emmanuel” is one of my favorite traditional christmas hymns. This version is pure and simple. it begins with stuart murdoch backed solely by acoustic guitar before switching to sarah martin’s breathy vocals, and finally a duet between the two 
— a characteristic of many belle & sebastian tracks. 


“Santa Stole My Lady” 
Fitz and the Tantrums 
fitz and the Tantrums are known for their old-school, soulful style and they certainly don’t disappoint with this track. with ooh and ah-ing background vocalists, saxophone and lyrics pining for lost love (thanks to that conniving santa claus), you’ll be grooving along in no time. 

“Oh You (Christmas Blues)” 
LCD Soundsystem 
what would christmas be without a little bluesy guitar and robert plant-style wailing? 

“Christmas Isn’t Safe for Animals” 
Of Montreal 
come on. i know you’ve been asking yourself whether or not christmas is safe for animals too. 

“No Christmas for Me” 
Zee Avi 
although this is yet another lonely christmas song, Zee avi’s incred­ibly charming voice, the light-hearted melody and the acoustic guitar make it a little more upbeat. 

“Christmas” 
Rogue Wave 
This song is layered with sound. from Zach rogue’s unique, whin­ing vocals, a mandolin solo, well-placed effects and folky acoustic guitar line, i know that i’ll be playing this track plenty throughout the christmas season. 

“A Change at Christmas [Say It Isn’t So]” 
The Flaming Lips 
This song is chock-full of looping, experimental effects that give the track a slightly bizarre sound and add some uniqueness to your other­wise rather ordinary christmas. 

“Just Like Christmas” 
Low 
This track features a gently-rocking beat, muffled electric guitar and the always appropriate sleigh bells for a simple, enchantingly wintry arrangement. 

“The Christmas Song [Don’t Be Late]” 
Tegan and Sara 
i have always loved alvin and the chipmunks, even though their voices can get a little annoying after a while. Tegan and sara does a remake of this classic chipmunk christmas tune (complete with high-pitched squeaky voices for the intro and ending), infused with their own unique harmonies. 
Contact Lizzy  Schroff at eschro01@saintmarys.edu 
JACQUELINE O’NEILL | The Observer 


JACQUELINE O’NEILL | The Observer 



SPORTS AUTHORITY 

An NFL player’s Christmas list 

Joseph Monardo 
sports writer 
yesterday this column de­scribed the most sought after christmas wishes of every single nfl team. The organizations in­cluded on their wish lists every­thing from good luck to andrew luck, white christmases to a.J. greens. 
but what about the players and coaches? surely roger goodell’s little helpers have a few holiday wishes of their own. 
for one, alex smith wishes he had never suffered a concus­sion. his plan to take the 49ers to new heights with his impressive set of skills hold onto the start­ing job with above-average play probably would have worked for a while longer had he only been able to stay healthy enough to take the field. now it looks as though colin kaepernick — whose features suggest he could be an abnormally tall christmas elf bringing cheer for fans in san francisco — has kicked him to the curb. 
michael vick wishes much the same as smith. before officially losing his starting job to rookie nick foles on monday, vick was held out of two games due to a concussion. or at least that is what the eagles say — vick said he thought the concussion was an excuse to sit him. 
Tony romo wishes dez bryant would grow up and string to­gether his flashes of brilliance with both consistent play and legal behavior. he also wishes Jerry Jones would stop acting like Jerry Jones and thus make the cowboys less of a parody organi­zation and more of a respectable contender. 
ndamukong suh just wishes all the quarterbacks in the nfl have a rotten christmas. maybe santa can bring suh a kickboxing bag along with his lump of coal so he can get all his leg jitters out of the way before stepping within range of signal callers. 
it is better to give than to re­ceive, but larry fitzgerald wishes it were possible to do the latter on the cardinals. he wishes arizona would bring in a quarterback who is at least halfway worthy of his talents to do the former. 
ben roethlisberger hopes santa will clear him to return to action, but if he does indeed return he will be wishing for help on an injury-plagued offense. 
ed reed wishes the nfl would forget about the whole “safety” thing because it is making life hard out there for the safety. he hopes maybe the craftsmen at the north pole can come up with some advanced equipment to protect offen­sive players and thereby allow defenders to play the way they know. or at least he hopes the league office stays away from his checkbook and the men in stripes keep the flags in their pockets. 
The falcons’ mike smith and the lions’ Jim schwartz wish the nfl had never imposed a crippling punishment for throwing the challenge flag at the wrong time. The falcons escaped after smith’s error sev­eral weeks ago, but tossing the little piece of red fabric cost the lions a game on Thanksgiving. with games against green bay, atlanta and chicago remaining in his team’s final four outings, schwartz needs to start wishing he makes it to epiphany in a seat that is growing increasingly hot. 
on a more profound note, absent colts coach chuck pagano is wishing for his health. away from the team this season after having been diagnosed with leukemia, pagano’s team has provided him with a bit of a winter miracle under interim head bruce arians. 
Tom brady has no christmas wishes. he has it all. 
which is good, because now brady is free to donate his wishes to the Jets’ quarterbacks, all three of whom have plenty to wish for. firstly, greg mcelroy just wants to stay on the bench if he knows what is good for him. he can either stay the lik­able, silent reserve player or be­come the next one to step in to receive the ire of Jets fans. mark sanchez wishes the spotlight would give him a break. and Tim Tebow, well he has the big­gest wish of all — that everyone have a blessed holiday. 
p.s. if you could figure out a way to give Tebow a start some­time, santa, he would like that too. 
Contact Joseph Monardo at jmonardo@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


NFL 
after rocky start, bryant emerges in third season 
Associated Press 
irving, Texas  — dallas coach Jason garrett implores dez bryant to run “north and south” with the ball. The cowboys receiver is listen­ing and his career sure seems headed a lot more north than south these days. 
bryant’s first catch sunday at cincinnati (7-5) could get the dallas receiver to 1,000 yards for the first time as a pro. The past four games, he scored in each one and had the same career high in yards twice. 
on the go-ahead touch­down last weekend against philadelphia, garrett called for bryant to get the ball on a screen pass 6 yards from the end zone. The only way in was “north and south,” and bryant ran through a defender at the goal line, just inside the pylon. 
“dez is growing before our eyes,” garrett said after the 38-33 victory. 
That score was actually the second time bryant heeded his coach’s words against the eagles. The first wasn’t planned, though. Tony romo scrambled to his right and turned back to see bryant wide open across the field. bryant did a little weaving on that 23­yard score, but mostly headed in the direction garrett pre­fers and beat two defenders to the goal line. 
“Tony, he believes in me and i want that to increase more,” said bryant, who has 978 yards and eight touchdowns and a career-high 145 yards in consecutive games against cleveland and washington. “it’s all about focus and not losing composure. if he calls a play and i do what i’m supposed to do, it makes a difference.” 
one other play might have been more important than bryant’s two touchdowns. 
dallas trailed philadelphia 27-24 midway through the fourth quarter and was fac­ing third-and-2, which usu­ally dictates romo throwing a short pass to trusty tight 

FOR RENT 
House for rent. Close to campus on Napoleon. 2BR 1BA. Available 1/1/13. $590 month. Yard, room for storage. Call 219-629-5483. 

end Jason witten. instead, romo went deep down the sideline to bryant, who out­ran dominique rodgers­cromartie on the 35-yard catch. The screen pass for the score came four plays later. 
“it’s dictated off of me look­ing at the corner seeing where the leverage is,” romo said. “it’s also dictated off of wheth­er or not you feel comfortable with the guy who’s over there ...” 
hold it right there, even though romo did some more explaining. 
Trust has been perceived as an issue for romo with bryant since character issues dropped the former oklahoma state star low in the first round in the 2010 draft. There’s been evidence, too — as recently as the fourth game this year against chicago, when bryant ran the wrong route and the bears kick-started a blowout with an easy touchdown on the resulting interception. 
Things appear to have changed quite a bit in two months. “he’s making less and less mistakes really every month that goes by,” romo said. “he’s done a good job of locking in and focusing in practice. he’s always worked hard.” 
There’s other evidence that bryant might be growing up. 
for all the trouble of his first year in dallas with lawsuits for unpaid bills and sagging pants at the mall, the most serious problem was a mis­demeanor family violence ar­rest after a dispute with his mother over the summer. last month, bryant reached an agreement with prosecutors that could lead to dismissal of the charge. 
a few days after the deal was announced, bryant opened up to reporters, saying he needed to “change my act up” and that his relationship with his mother was strong “even after the fact.” 
“i think in so many ways dez has matured,” garrett said. “i think he’s just been more consistent throughout the game whether he gets the ball or whether he doesn’t get the ball, running his routes, doing his job.” 
and running north and south. one of the lowest points for what garrett might call the “dancing dez” was an aborted punt return against the new york giants that end­ed in a fumble and cost bryant those return duties. bryant made a mistake even trying to field the ball, then was moving sideways when the ball was stripped. The play came while dallas was falling behind 23-0 in a 29-24 loss in late october. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit 
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
WANTED 

WINTER BREAK WORK Great Pay winterbreakwork.com 
PERSONAL 
 UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don’t go it alone. Notre Dame has many resources in place to assist you. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Ann Whitall at 1-0084 or Karen Kennedy at 1-5550. For more information, visit ND’s website at: http://pregnancysupport@nd.edu 



NCAA FOOTBALL 

Bielema leaves Wisconsin to coach at Arkansas 
coach after firing petrino for 
Associate Press 
hiring his mistress to work in 

fayeTTeville, ark. — the athletic department. wisconsin coach bret bielema bielema seems likely to is taking his brand of power bring a far different approach football to arkansas. than what the razorbacks 
bielema has agreed to be-have become accustomed to. come the new coach of the arkansas continually ranked razorbacks, according to a among the southeastern person familiar with the situ-conference’s best passing ation that was first reported teams under petrino while by yahoo sports. bielema is known for his dom-
The person, who spoke only inant offensive lines and slew on condition of anonymity be-of running backs. cause the school had not an-wisconsin running back nounced the hire, said a news montee ball tied barry conference was planned for sanders’ long-standing wednesday. arkansas athlet-single-season record of 39 ic director Jeff long tweeted touchdowns last year, and that an announcement was this year became the all-time planned Tuesday evening. fbs leader in touchdowns. 
“he’s the guy Jeff was after he currently has 82 touch-all along,” the person said of downs after running for three long. “it’s hard to get these in saturday’s big Ten title coaches to sit still.” game against nebraska — a 
another person famil-70-31 romp that secured the iar with the situation said badgers third straight trip to bielema’s deal is for six years, the rose bowl, where they will paying $3.2 million annually. play stanford on Jan. 1. 
bielema is leaving the bielema is in his seventh big Ten for the sec and a season as barry alvarez’s before being promoted to head decision,” arkansas corner-just that under petrino, who razorbacks program that hand-picked successor at coach in 2006. he played for back Tevin mitchel tweeted. was hired after leaving the opened the year with hopes wisconsin. he’s 68-24 with iowa and started his coaching The razorbacks improved atlanta falcons during the of challenging for a national the badgers, with four dou-career there as an assistant their win total in four straight season in 2007. championship only to get ble-digit win seasons, and he under hayden fry and later seasons under petrino, in-The razorbacks turned mired in the bobby petrino coached wisconsin to a 17-14 kirk ferentz. cluding a 21-5 mark in 2010-into an offensive powerhouse scandal before stumbling to a win over arkansas in his first The illinois native takes 11, and finished last season under petrino, leading the 4-8 finish. season at the capital one over a program still reeling ranked no. 5. They had talked league in scoring and total of-
The move was the second bowl. following the april scandal, openly in the spring about fense last season. after win-stunning hire this year at The 42-year-old bielema one eager for stability and competing for the school’s ning 10 games and reaching arkansas, which brought in was the defensive coordina-leadership. first sec championship and the school’s first bcs bowl John l. smith as the interim tor at wisconsin for two years “i’m excited about this perhaps a national title. game in 2010, losing to ohio 
Then came the april 1 mo-state, arkansas won 11 games 
paid adverTisemenT 

torcycle accident that led to in 2011, capped by a cotton petrino’s downfall. The mar-bowl win over kansas state. ried father of four initially still, arkansas has yet to lied about being alone during win the sec, losing in the con-the wreck, later admitting to ference championship game riding with his mistress — a three times. former arkansas volleyball while the country watched player he had hired to work in closely to see how arkansas the athletic department. would react following 
smith, who had been an as-petrino’s dismissal, smith sistant the last three seasons made headlines of his own at arkansas under petrino, throughout the season. The was chosen by long to guide a former michigan state and team that returned first-team louisville coach filed for all-sec quarterback Tyler bankruptcy during the sea­wilson and a host of other son, revealing $40.7 million key playmakers. The decision in debt he blamed on bad land was lauded by the razorbacks, deals. who welcomed the personable he was under far more fire smith back with open arms. from arkansas fans for the 
The season hit the skids mounting losses and it will be with a stunning overtime loss up to bielema to turn things to louisiana-monroe on sept. around in the loaded sec 8, starting a four-game losing west, with alabama, lsu and streak that dropped arkansas now Texas a&m. out of the rankings. The long said during the season razorbacks finished with the that the new coach would be school’s lowest win total since tasked with building on the 2005, missing a bowl game for recent success at the school, the first time since 2008. which is looking into expand­
“it’s very difficult for ing the 72,000-seat razorback me to believe that is not a stadium and is currently bowl-eligible team,” lsu building an 80,000-square­coach les miles said follow-foot football operations ing the Tigers’ win over the center. razorbacks in the season fi-“our new coach will be an nale. “watching the talent individual who shares the there, (it’s) very capable.” passion for success our fans 
arkansas struggled to find do, and who is willing to work its identity in the sec after relentlessly to achieve our leaving the former southwest goals,” long said following conference in 1992, but it ap-the announcement of smith’s peared to have finally found departure. 



The observer | WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 5, 2012 | ndsmcobserver.com 

NCAA FOOTBALL 

Boston College hires Addazio from Temple 
Associated Press 
bosTon — when brad bates arrived at boston college as the new athletic director, he had in his mind a list of football coach­es he might someday want to hire. 
he didn’t have to wait long to use it. 
Two months after arriving in chestnut hill and nine days after firing frank spaziani fol­lowing a 2-10 season, bates hired steve addazio away from Temple. 
“any athletic director has a list of names that they’re per­petually following,” bates told reporters after meeting with the football team to tell them of the new hire. “what you’re try­ing to do is match with the per­fect fit. not every great coach is a great fit for boston college at this time.” 
a connecticut native who also worked at notre dame and florida, addazio went 13-11 in two seasons with the owls since taking over for al golden. he replaces spaziani, who was fired after four consecutive sea­sons of worsening records and two straight years without a bowl appearance. 
addazio, who is scheduled to be introduced at a news conference on wednesday af­ternoon, was given a six-year contract; financial terms were not disclosed. 
“i’ve only been here six weeks. i’m looking for a partner who i can be joined at the hip with,” bates said. “This is a guy who grew up in the northeast and has dreamed about being at boston college.” 
spaziani was fired after going 22-29 in four-plus seasons as head coach and 16 overall at bc. 
addazio, 53, led the owls to a 9-4 record in 2011 and their first bowl win in 32 years — a 37-15 victory over wyoming in the new mexico bowl. a school-record three owls were selected in the 2012 nfl draft: running back bernard pierce in the third round, tight end evan rodriguez in the fourth, and linebacker Tahir whitehead in the fifth. 
nine other players from the class of 2012 signed with nfl teams as undrafted free agents, another school record. 
but this season the owls went 4-7 (2-5 big east) after leaving the mid-american conference and returning to the confer­ence that booted them out in 2004. 

“steve addazio has done a tremendous job with Temple football in his two years at the university, and we wish him nothing but the best,” owls athletic director bill bradshaw said. “Temple football has nev­er been stronger, and i am con­fident we will be able to attract a high-level pool of candidates for the position and the pro­gram will continue its upward momentum.” 

before going to Temple, addazio was also the associ­ate head coach and offensive coordinator at florida under urban meyer. addazio was on the gators’ staff when they won bcs national championships in 2006 and ‘08. 
addazio also worked at indiana, notre dame, syracuse and western connecticut state. 
he is a graduate of central connecticut state, where he was a four-year starter on the offensive and defensive lines. 
“This is a well-connected guy in the football commu­nity,” bates said, adding that he had only spoken gener­ally to addazio about assistant coaches. “he’s going to have an amazing collection of coaches that he can assemble.” 
MLB 

red sox sign victorino to bolster outfield 
if Jacoby ellsbury is traded or comes into play. and yet you try to a high priority, in that position at primarily, but with the ability to 
Associated Press 

leaves as a free agent after next combine the best range available fenway particularly.” catch,” farrell said. “we would 
nashville, Tenn. — free-season. along with offensive production. boston finished last in the al have him catch in spring training agent outfielder shane victorino “it’s probably the toughest right it might not be your prototypical east and is trying to boost its of-early on, but then certainly make and the red sox agreed Tuesday field in baseball to play, just in right fielder where it’s a power bat fense. napoli, an all-star catcher sure that we’ve got enough reps at to a $39 million, three-year con-terms of the space to cover,” new because we do value the defense with Texas this year, appears like-first base for not only him to feel tract, boston’s second big addi-boston manager John farrell said in that area. That’s not to ex-ly to shift his primary position. comfortable there, but for us as tion during the winter meetings. earlier in the day. “so that range clude anyone, but defense takes “we see him as a first baseman well.” 
nicknamed The flyin’ 

paid adverTisemenT 
hawaiian, victorino tweeted that he planned to spend the day in maui on a snorkeling trip aboard the alii nui catamaran. 
“Just agreed to join the boston (at)redsox in the middle of paradise,” he tweeted. “(hash) blessed!!! can’t wait to get to boston!” 
victorino’s deal is subject to a physical, as is the $39 million, three-year contract the red sox agreed to monday with mike napoli. 
victorino hit a combined .255 with 11 home runs and 55 rbis last season for philadelphia and the los angeles dodgers. he also stole a career-high 39 bases. The dodgers obtained victorino in a late July trade with the phillies. 
a two-time all-star and three-time gold glove winner, victorino turned 32 on friday. he also had been pursued by the cleveland indians. 
victorino played mostly center field for the phillies and shifted to left with the dodgers. he like­ly would play right field for the red sox but could shift to center 




SMC BASKETBALL 

Belles look to earn first conference win of season 


paid adverTisemenT 
By BRENDAN BELL 
sports writer 
heading into the last week of classes, the belles will remain busy by playing two games and looking to tally their first conference win of the season. 
The belles (2-5, 0-2 miaa) fell to olivet college on saturday afternoon by a score of 79-75. belles coach Jennifer henley said while the teams went back and forth in sharing the lead, failure to execute the small details of the game lost it for saint mary’s. 
“our game against olivet was a tough battle,” henley said. “both teams made their runs offensively. we gave up too many offensive boards throughout the game and that hurt us in the end.” 
The belles were up 44-39 at halftime, but let the comets (4-1, 2-0) go on a 15-2 run at the beginning of the second half to make it 54-46. saint mary’s tried to chip away at the lead and near the end of the game trailed by one point, with the score at 76-75. 
The belles had a number of good looks from the floor that they could not convert on, and were subsequently 
NFL 
forced to foul. The game ended with olivet knocking down three free throws to bring the final score to 79-75. sophomore forward ariana paul scored 20 points for the belles and led the way, with junior guard shanlynn bias adding 17 points of her own. despite strong individual performances, henley said a big factor in the close deci­sion against olivet game was rebounding. 
“we need to continue to improve in controlling the boards as well as one-on-one defense,” she said. 
looking forward  to her team’s next two tests, henley said the belles will face tough competition against kalamazoo and alma, forcing them to fix some of their flaws. 
“both kalamazoo and alma will present a challenge for us,” henley said. “we need to be ready to attack on offense and continue to play better transition defense.” 
alma (1-3, 1-0) recently captured a 65-44 victory over kalamazoo (0-4,0-2) when the two teams squared off saturday. The belles will face the hornets today when they travel to kalamazoo, mich. 
saint mary’s will then host alma on saturday. 
henley said this week will be difficult because her play­ers are concluding classes and looking to find the bal­ance between athletics and 
“Both Kalamazoo and Alma will present a challenge for us. We need to be ready to attack on offense and continue to play better transition defense.” 
Jennifer Henley 
Belles coach 
academics. 
“heading into the last week of classes before finals, we certainly need to make sure we are prepared mentally,” the seventh-year coach said. 
saint mary’s will do its best to earn a win in miaa play tonight at 7:30 p.m. in kalamazoo, mich. 
Contact Brendan Bell at bbell@nd.edu 

patriots pile wins, injuries 

Associated Press 
foXborough, mass. — rob gronkowski broke his forearm. chandler Jones injured his ankle. logan mankins hurt his hip, calf and ankle. 
now Julian edelman is out for the season. The dangerous punt returner and elusive wide receiver was placed on injured reserve with a foot injury by the new england patriots on Tuesday. 
The ailments keep piling up. 
but so do the wins. 
The patriots’ sixth straight victory last sunday clinched first place in the afc east. but things don’t get easier. That streak, in fact, will be on the line monday against the houston Texans (11-1). 
like all teams, the patriots (9-3) try to build depth. so, when a starter is sidelined, they can rely on his backup to fill in effectively, even if it means playing a different role. That happened at tight end when gronkowski, the patriots’ out­standing pass catcher and blocker, missed the past two games with a broken left fore­arm— with the likelihood he’ll miss at least two more. 
The good news in that tight-end equation is that aaron hernandez, their other star tight end, is back after missing six games with a sprained right 
ankle. 
one up, one down. 
“every player has some differ­ent strengths and so forth and you try to play to those guys’ strengths,” quarterback Tom brady said. “i don’t think you go into it and you say . there’s only one rob gronkowski; there’s only one of those in the league. 
“The guys that are going to be in there playing that role, (they) have to go in there and do the best they can do. That’s why they’re on the team and that’s why we have 53 guys on the ros­ter, so everybody can contrib­ute at one point or another.” 
Trevor scott did that at de­fensive end with two sacks in sunday’s 23-16 win at miami. scott stepped in when Jones, a rookie who is tied for the team lead with six sacks, missed his second game, and his primary backup, Jermaine cunningham, began a four-game suspension for violating the nfl policy on performance-enhancing substances. 
on the other side of the ball, donald Thomas has filled in at left guard for mankins, who was sidelined five of the past six games. 
and now someone — or sev­eral players — will try to fill in for edelman. he scored five touchdowns this season — three on receptions, one on a punt return and one on a fumble recovery. but he left sun life stadium sunday on crutches, wearing a walking boot on his right foot. edelman may have broken his foot, but the patriots provided no details of the injury. 
coach bill belichick did go out of his way, though, to praise edelman’s performance. 
“Julian’s had an opportunity to contribute offensively,” he said. “in the kicking game, he’s done a good job for us as a re­turner. he’s also done a good job for us on kickoff coverage. offensively, he’s done a good job with the ball in his hands on screens and routes where he can run it, reverses and screens and things like that.” 
The patriots re-signed donte’ stallworth on Tuesday to help out at wide receiver. They had released him aug. 27, after sign­ing him as a free agent following one season with the redskins. he spent 2007 with the patriots, one of his six teams, and made 46 catches for 697 yards and three touchdowns that year. 
“a lot of cuts in training camp are hard,” belichick said, refer­ring to stallworth. “guys come in, they work hard, they’re competitive on our team, (and) they’re competitive against competition.” 


The observer | WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 5, 2012 | ndsmcobserver.com 


Rushers 
conTinued from page 16 
junior eddie lacy and fresh­man T.J. yeldon, alabama un­doubtedly poses the biggest rushing threat notre dame’s fourth-ranked defense has seen this season. 
“The offensive line is huge and they’re really good,” irish graduate student defensive end kapron lewis-moore said. “one thing that really stood out to me was the way the run­ning backs ran. They’re physi­cal guys, lacy and yeldon. Those guys are really hard to take down. we’re going to have to wrap up in the game. we have to be prepared for their tough running.” 
lewis-moore found compar­isons between alabama’s phys­ical rushing attack and that of stanford’s — the cardinal rushed for 147 yards in a 20-13 overtime loss at notre dame on oct. 13. 
“i think they’re a lot similar to stanford, playing [senior running back] stepfan Taylor,” lewis-moore said. “he’s a real physical back, he’s always moving forward. [The crimson Tide] have a lot of similar run­ning styles, i think.” 
lacy (1,182 rushing yards and 16 touchdowns) and yeldon (1,000 yards and 11 touchdowns) combined for 350 rushing yards in alabama’s 32­28 win over then-no. 3 georgia in saturday’s sec champion­ship. of the 350 rushing yards, 304 came in between the tack­les, according to espn stats and information. 
“it’s going to be a physical run game,” irish senior safety Zeke motta said. “you watch them on film and think we stand up against these guys just fine. i’m not worried about that. 
“you’ve got to [like the chal­lenge]. you’ve got to embrace the challenge and use that to help you prepare. 
Contact Andrew Gastelum at agastel1@nd.edu 
Youth 
conTinued from page 16 
squad. 
The new faces on this irish team have taken the mentali­ty of their veteran teammates in at least one respect: notre dame is in search of revenge. and the head coach likes it. 
“i do,” irish coach muffet mcgraw said. “i think that’s a natural reaction when some­body beats you. i mean, we still felt that way when we went to ucla — they beat us two years ago and we hadn’t forgotten that one. so i don’t like them to forget about the losses, i like them to carry a little bit of that with them. 
“I don’t like them to forget about the losses, I like them to carry a little bit of that with them. If it helps us play better and motivates us, then that’s great.” 
Muffet McGraw 
Irish coach 
if it helps us play better and motivates us, then that’s great.” 
last season the irish traveled to waco, Texas in november to participate in a showdown between no. 1 and no. 2. The irish entered the game trailing the lady bears in the polls and left it trailing on the scoreboard. after the early-season loss to britney griner and co., last year’s title game was supposed to be notre dame’s shot at re­demption. now with their third game against baylor in barely over a year the irish have another chance to exact revenge. 
but this game is about more than revenge, really. it’s even about more than beating the lady bears. This game will give an indication of what this year’s irish can be. 
after reaching consecu­tive national championship games and bringing in a highly-touted freshman class (with another highly-ranked class slated to arrive next year), there is little doubt the irish program is among the nation’s best. but tonight’s matchup will deliver some evidence as to the likelihood notre dame’s april arrival to new orleans for its third-straight final four. 
in collegiate women’s bas­ketball, being in the top-10 doesn’t necessarily qualify a team as elite. That is to say, the performance gap between the title contenders and those teams filling out the rest of the poll’s top spots is significant. baylor proved this when it handed no. 6 kentucky a 34-point loss on nov. 11. notre dame proved it last year when it beat no. 7 Tennessee by 32. 
This isn’t to say title-predictors should focus only on a handful of top teams, but history has proven the few elite teams in women’s basketball tend to take the championships. in the 31 seasons since 1982 only two women’s teams have cap­tured a national title after having lost more than five times in the season. in this same period 11 men’s teams of the same qualification have won their respective national titles. 
The season is still young, of course. Tonight’s contest is a dame’s loss in the most re­cent title game, it is much more about whether notre dame has a role in the title game of the most immediate future. 
Contact Joseph Monardo at jmonardo@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

severely imperfect measure of where the two participants will be in march and april. a loss will not doom either team, perhaps especially not the irish. notre dame took early-season losses in each of the past two seasons and wound up playing for it all at the year’s close. but if the young, inexperienced, un­dersized (although against griner, who isn’t?) and largely untested irish can compete with baylor at this early stage it will speak vol­umes about their prospects for success in the postseason. it will signal the team as elite rather than merely talented. 
The irish have a chance for revenge, sure. maybe a win tonight will alleviate some of the lingering pain from last year’s loss. but as much as this game will be about notre 
paid adverTisemenT paid adverTisemenT The observer | WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 5, 2012 | ndsmcobserver.com 






Matchup 
conTinued from page 20 
The irish carried a one-point lead with 12 minutes to go in the second half and struggled to pull away from the chippewas (2-4) until the game’s final minutes. 
irish coach muffet mcgraw said defensive lapses were re­sponsible for her team’s strug­gles in its last game. 
“we went up to central michigan, and were a little lax, with a little lack of focus,” mcgraw said. “we didn’t play well defensively and, for us, we have got to rebound every single possession.” 
The irish have controlled the boards and dominated defen­sively through five games this season, out-rebounding op­ponents 214-163 and allowing only 53 points per game. notre dame’s last two games, against then-no. 19 ucla and central michigan, however, proved to be tough tests for the team’s de­fensive philosophy, as they al­lowed an average of 63.5 points in the games and trailed at dif­ferent points in both contests. 
mcgraw said the last two games have helped her team begin to develop mental tough­ness, a quality she hopes will carry over to wednesday’s contest. 
“i think communication is go­ing to be really key, and mental toughness is going to be really key,” she said. “we have played from behind before, and we have to understand that we’ve got to stick with the game plan, which is the best thing we can do.” 
mcbride said notre dame’s offensive game plan for baylor will depend on the team’s ability to make high-percentage shots. The irish struggled on the offen­sive end in their last matchup with baylor, shooting only 35.5 percent from the field in the na­tional championship game. 
“we definitely need to hit open shots, especially on the pe­rimeter,” mcbride said. “i don’t think we did that in the national championship game.” 
on defense, notre dame will look to slow down baylor’s dy­namic offense, led by preseason all-americans in junior guard odyssey sims and senior center brittney griner. griner, last sea­son’s ap and usbwa national player of the year, has averaged 21 points per game this season. 
“i don’t think there’s necessar­ily a way of stopping [griner],” mcbride said. “she’s 6-foot-8, so i think you just have to limit her touches. i think coach mcgraw has a really good game plan for that, and, hopefully, we can ex­ecute it as she wants us to.” 

unlike last season baylor en­ters the game with a loss, as the bears’ 42-game winning streak was snapped in a 71-69 loss to then-no. 4 stanford on nov. 16. although baylor has one loss, mcgraw said she believes the current bears’ squad is even more dangerous than last year’s championship team. 
“baylor is exactly the same but probably a little bit bet­ter than last year because they have a little bit more,” she said. “They have their whole team back, and they have added some freshmen, so i think they’re a lot further along than we are. i think everyone feels that they’re still the best team in the country when they’re at full strength.” 
mcbride said the rematch against baylor will serve as a great learning experience for a young irish squad with three new starters. 
“with younger kids who haven’t really played that much against a team like baylor, i think this is a good game for them to come out and say, ‘okay, i’m going to come out and do the things i normally do,’” she said. “and that is going to carry on when we play against the connecticuts and Tennessees of the world.” 
mcgraw said she is excited to see how her freshmen and the irish faithful will respond to the matchup with baylor. 
“it’s a great experience for [the players], especially the freshmen, to see what the best team in the country looks like,” she said. “and, yet, it’s in the friendly confines of the purcell pavilion. i think it’s going to be a great opportunity to see what the first sellout feels like. and, i hope it helps us shoot the ball well.” 
notre dame and baylor will meet up in a national cham­pionship game rematch on wednesday at 7 p.m. at purcell pavilion. 
Contact Brian Hartnett at      bhartnet@nd.edu 

paid adverTisemenT 



CROSSWORD | will shorTZ 


HIGHLY PUNLIKELY | chrisTopher brucker SUDOKU | The mepham group 

LOWER YOUR EXPECTATIONS |  lenny rago &                         paTrick cross 


HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Tyra banks, 39; Jay-Z, 43; marisa Tomei, 48; Jeff bridges, 63. 
Happy Birthday: you may feel like hiding out, but being a participant is your ticket to making a difference and getting one step closer to your dreams, hopes and wishes. an ostentatious approach will result in greater options with groups or supporters that can influence the outcome of the projects on your agenda this year. embrace change. your numbers are 9, 15, 22, 28, 69, 39, 45. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): sort through your personal papers and see where you stand. The realization that you need to make financial alterations to ensure a brighter future will help you put stipulations on the way you have been handling both work and personal matters. 

TAURUS (April 20-May 20): you will make a mistake when dealing with a partner­ship. don’t give in to any demands or trust in what’s being offered. To stay in con­trol, you will have to set guidelines and rules with equality being necessary. 


GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Take care of preparations for upcoming festive events or to prepare your home or surroundings to better suit your plans for the year ahead. ask questions if you need input from someone who will be influenced by the decisions you make. 

CANCER (June 21-July 22): stick to what you do best. choose a destination that will engage your mind with ideas that you can implement into your seasonal investments or social plans. share your creative thoughts and you’ll get help initiating your plans. 


LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): enjoy the company of an old friend or lover. embrace the hobbies, people and pastimes you used to enjoy. memories will help you get your life back in perspective and lead to the changes that will ease future stress.. 


VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): high energy coupled with excitement will help you spread your joy and please those around you. planning a trip or talking about your plans for the festive season or the upcoming year will help you finalize a decision that must be made quickly. 


LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): a disappointment doesn’t have to knock you off your feet. instead of skipping a beat, reorganize and reschedule quickly. you will be able to follow through with your plans, and you will gain control over your cur­rent personal situation. 


SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): diplomacy will be your ticket to good results. share information and look at alternatives offered. keep emotional matters in the background and you will avoid a problem that could disrupt your business plans. 


SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): good ideas will spring from conversations you have with a unique individual. make sure you don’t ruffle feathers when dealing with institutions or agencies that can influence what you need to complete before the end of the year. 


CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): size up your situation and make your move. counter an offer and make it clear you want to close any deal you are working on before you break for the end-of-year festivities. Trust in your ability and so will others. 


AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): listen carefully. what’s being said or offered may have underlying implications that will not suit your purpose or needs if you ac­cept. back away from any deal you feel uncertain about and rethink your strategy. Time is on your side.  


PISCES (Feb. 19- March 20): look beyond the obvious. you will recognize an opportunity to do something unique that can increase your financial future and satisfy your physical and emotional needs. love and romance are highlighted along with contracts, settlements and legal matters. 


Birthday Baby: you are a mediator and a relentless advocate. you are resilient and proficient. 
JUMBLE | david hoyT and Jeff knurek 


Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an 
make checks payable to and mail to:  The observer  
p.o. box 779  
notre dame, in 46556  
enclosed is $130 for one academic year  
enclosed is $75 for one semester  
name  

indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying  address  
form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home.  
city       state  Zip  


The observer | WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 5, 2012 | ndsmcobserver.com 
FOOTBALL 

Top ND defense prepares for Bama offense 
By ANDREW GASTELUM 
associate sports editor 

Editor’s Note: This is the second in a four-part series previewing the matchup between Notre Dame and Alabama on Jan. 7 in the BCS National Championship Game. 
for notre dame to return to the national stage, irish coach brian kelly said his defense would be the key factor. Three seasons after kelly’s hiring, on the biggest stage of them all, no. 1 notre dame will face the very team on which it modeled its de­fensive blueprint. 
“To move notre dame back into national prominence, we had to begin with our defense,” kelly said. “our focus in re­cruiting and developing our talent and recruiting in partic­ular and getting the right staff was on the defensive side of the ball. you look to the sec and the teams that were playing for national championships and obviously alabama leading that charge was built on defense.” 
notre dame (12-0) will come into the bcs national championship game with the top scoring defense in the country, allowing only 10.3 points per game. The irish gave up more than 20 points only once this season, a 29-26 triple-overtime win over pittsburgh on nov. 3. as recognition for his unit’s success, irish defensive coordinator bob diaco won the broyles award on Tuesday, giv­en to the nation’s top assistant coach. 
“defensively, they have may­be the best front seven in the country and statistically they’re in the top-10 in just about every defensive category,” alabama coach nick saban said. “it’s just an all-around good football team with tremendous balance on offense and a very physical defense.” 
on the offensive end no. 2 alabama (12-1) follows the lead of junior quarterback a.J. mccarron, who has thrown for 2,669 yards and 26 touchdowns with only three interceptions. last season, mccarron helped the crimson Tide to a national title with a 21-0 win over lsu while earning offensive mvp honors for his 234-yard perfor-it down the field,” kelly said. “i and it’s constructed the right mance on 23-for-34 passing. think everyone’s talked about way.” 


“i think what makes them their great offensive line, but but with two 1,000-yard rush-very difficult is they have a i think the backs are physical. ers in physical running backs great playmaker on the perime-it’s going to be a tremendous ter as well where you can throw challenge for our football team see rushers PAGE 16 
ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 

irish push past aside to focus on present 
No. 5 Notre Dame set to host rival No. 3 Baylor 
By BRIAN HARTNETT 
sports writer 
when no. 5 notre dame takes the court at purcell pavilion to meet no. 3 baylor on wednesday, the irish will see a program that has repeatedly denied them the chance to claim basketball’s top spot. 
notre dame (5-0) fell to baylor (4-1) twice last season, losing 94-81 in a no. 1 vs. no. 2 battle in waco, Texas last november and falling 80-61 in the national championship game in denver in april. 
irish junior guard kayla mcbride said her team still has last year’s results in mind but is more focused on the present. 
“i definitely think our team wants [a win] more, especially after losing to them twice last year,” she said. “but, i think we are a new team, a young team, and this is a real good matchup for us confidence-wise.” 
notre dame returns home after surviving a 72-63 scare at central michigan on Thursday. 
see maTchup PAGE 18 


Significance of the matchup goes well beyond revenge 

Joseph Monardo 
sports writer 
on april 3, as the irish title hopes faded away, the falling confetti glittered as it descended to the floor of the pepsi center in denver. baylor had handled notre dame for the second time of the season to push its sparkling record to 40-0 and capture the national championship. 
eight months and two days later the teams will meet again, this time in the purcell pavilion. not much has changed for the no. 3 lady bears except their record — which was blemished by a two-point loss to stanford on nov. 16. baylor relies on re­turnees as its seven leading-scorers. no. 5 notre dame, on the other hand, relies on a mix of experience and youth after graduating three start­ers from last year’s runner-up 
see youTh PAGE 16 




