

COMMENTARY 

Irish need style points to climb 


Matthew DeFranks 
Associate sports editor 
style matters — and not just in a shamrock series sort of way. 
Following the release of the initial bowl championship series (bcs) rankings sunday evening, what was once a pipe dream can realistically be thought about: a national championship berth. In order to get there, how­ever, no. 5 notre dame will need to jump three teams, two of which can finish blemish-free. 
The big Ten’s demise this year has negatively impacted notre dame’s strength of schedule. A “signature” road win over then-no. 10 michigan state has been degraded to a september victory over a mediocre, one-dimensional 4-3 squad. A charged night game win over preseason top-10 rival michigan is now just a notch on the Irish belt. 
The rest of the way, the Irish will face just two ranked teams, although both are road contests against top­10 foes. 
With the now diminished schedule, notre dame will not be able to hop over an undefeated sec champion, an unblemished Kansas state team or an 13-0 oregon squad — who would have topped stanford, Usc and oregon state. 
That’s where style points come in. 
The bcs computers will tell you that margin of victory does not matter but the poll­sters will tell you otherwise. It definitely matters if a team ekes out a 2-point win in triple overtime or if a squad wins in a 50-point blowout. 
Likewise, if there is a loss, the way you lose is impor­tant — whether it’s a goal line stand or a six-touchdown drubbing. 
If notre dame’s ultimate goal is to make the national title game in miami (and it should be now), they need to rack up style points like a GQ model. As it currently stands, the Irish are almost assured of a bcs bowl appearance if they finish 4-2 in the last half of the season. 
Problem is that the Irish and coach brian Kelly ignore the rankings. 
“I really don’t care,” Kelly said. “I’m sorry. I know all of our fans care a lot about that stuff and that’s great.” 
style points and running up the score are very distinct, though, and have vastly dif­ferent intentions. In 40-point wins over navy and miami, the Irish did not run up the score, despite what the final score indicated. 
They repeatedly ran the ball, piling up yards and points on their way to domi­nating victories over inferior opponents. They did not throw the ball around the yard up three scores in the final quarter. 
so in games against lesser opponents like bYU, Pittsburgh, boston college and Wake Forest, the Irish need to put on a similar showing. 
none of those four teams are as good as the Irish. heck, they may even struggle to compete with notre dame. so notre dame’s goals should not just be to win against those teams, it should be to win big. 
could notre dame struggle to put up points against some of those teams? sure, especially with an incon­sistent offense led by two quarterbacks and three run­ning backs. could one of those teams upset the Irish? of course, this is college football. 
could the Irish run the table and still be left out of the title game? maybe, but a little bit of style will go a long way for notre dame. 
Contact Matthew DeFranks at mdefrank@nd.edu 
The views in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


RECRUITING 



Four-star linebacker set to visit as commitment wavers 

By CHRIS ALLEN 
sports editor 
The Irish will spend the up­coming weekend hoping to so­lidify the commitment of one of their top 2013 commitments. Linebacker Alex Anzalone vis­ited Florida for its win over LsU on oct. 6, and many outlets have reported that he may be wavering in his commitment to notre dame. Anzalone, a 6-foot­3 linebacker from Wyomissing, Pa., is the third-best prospect in the 2013 notre dame recruiting class, according to esPn. Irish recruiting expert said that with Anzalone on campus for the bYU game, the notre dame re­cruiting staff will hope to keep the linebacker committed. 
“I don’t think it’s a situation where [Anzalone] is just going down to Florida for the fun of it,” said Frank, who runs the esPn­affiliated Irish sports daily. “I think he has an interest in Florida and has for a long time. Where the disconnect is with notre dame, there’s been a lot of speculation, and Alex hasn’t said one way or the other what the issue is. 
“I’m not sure what more notre dame can show him, at this point. but both sides will cer­tainly hope to meet this week­end, and talk about any sort of doubt he’s having. hopefully they can clear it up. 
Frank said Anzalone has a good idea of where he would fit in at notre dame based on the Irish recruiting pitch. 
“he knows everything about the program, and his playing time, knows where he fits at his position,” Frank said. “he gets the academic value here, and he knows the social side of things. so I’m just not sure what the real issue is, or why it would be an is­sue. I don’t think we’ll know for sure what he’s going to do after he meets with the coaches this weekend.” 
The home contest against bYU comes on the heels of a stanford weekend that went very positively for the Irish re­cruiting staff. notre dame host­ed two Usc commitments in safety max redfield and corner­back chris hawkins, and Frank said both players — redfield and hawkins are ranked in the top half of the esPn150 — came away impressed with the game atmosphere in south bend. 
“I think [redfield] — and chris hawkins — just felt like they really fit in well here,” Frank said. “They got along well with the players, and they got along well with the coaching staff. I think [redfield] really loved the fan support. here was a game where it was raining for four hours and the fans were on their feet going crazy when it was miserable outside. A lot of Irish fans don’t realize how im­portant that is to a recruit.” 
The lone listed 2013 uncom­mitted recruit on campus to see the bYU game is running back Tarean Folston from cocoa, Fla. Frank said Folston, who is listed as an athlete by esPn, would team with 2013 commit Jamel James and current Irish back Amir carlisle to create a well-rounded future running back corps. 
“It is clearly obvious that they love Tarean Folston,” Frank said, “he plays at a very high level in the state of Florida, and he just dominates. Jamel James is more of an earl campbell­type back, just a physical run­ner, but Folston is a guy who can hit the home run and make the big play. he’s a threat on every play. 
“There’s just no way you can pass up on Tarean Folston. he’s too good of a player. notre dame wants him in the fold.” 
For more on Notre Dame recruiting, check out Mike Frank’s irishsportsdaily.com 
Email Mike at mikefrank18@sbcglobal.net and tell him The Observer sent you. 




ndsmcobserver.com | FRIDAY, OCTOBER 19, 2012 | The observer 


Going with the flow 
Long-locked linebacker Dan Fox provides Notre Dame defense with consistency 
By ANDREW GASTELUM 
Associate sports editor 
According to legend, the bib­lical character samson was blessed with phenomenal strength, yet there was one con­dition to his clout: he could nev­er cut his hair. 
since his last haircut, senior linebacker dan Fox has add­ed over 20 pounds of muscle. coincidence? Fox thinks not. 
“no, no, no, it’s not true, but it’s a cool story,” said Fox, who often draws comparisons to samson from others. “People say all the time, ‘You can’t cut it or you will lose all of your strength.’ but I don’t believe that. It’s funny though.” 
Instead, the 6-foot-3, 240-pound linebacker nick­named “Foxy” finds a better comparison for his hair rooted in the locks of an nFL icon. 
“I get a lot of [Packers line­backer] clay matthews com­parisons,” Fox said. “he’s a really good player so it’s great to be compared to him. but hope­fully I can try to be as good as he is.” 
despite the uncanny simi­larities he shares with samson, Fox said he holds one defi­nite advantage over the heroic character. 
“I use shampoo and condi­tioner all the time,” Fox said. “but I just got this Garnier Fructis oil stuff. It’s kind of like moroccan oil and you put it in your hair to make it soft. It’s pretty sweet.” 
Growing it out 
When he attended an all-boys catholic high school at st. Ignatius in cleveland, Fox met hair length requirements set by the school’s administration. but once graduation came, Fox was free to create his own image. 
“I’ve been growing my hair since the end of high school. I had this dean of discipline, mr. Arthur, who made me cut it be­fore graduation [in 2009] and I haven’t gotten a haircut since. 
“At first it was just that I nev­er got it cut. I was that kid in college that never had a haircut. And then after it just started to fall back I just let it go. now it’s just like I’m never going to get a haircut. I was thinking next year if I come back for my fifth year of getting dreads. I told my mom that and she was not hav­ing it.” 
even though he does not have to adhere to the strict rules of high school these days, Fox said that doesn’t stop people from trying to get him to clean up. 
“A lot of people usually will tweet at me: ‘cut your hair,’” he said. “but then I just say, ‘Why?’” 
Fox heads a group of long-locked Irish players, which in­cludes junior defensive end Kona schwenke, sophomore linebacker Ishaq Williams, sophomore defensive tackle Tony springmann, senior tight end Tyler eifert and sophomore running back cam mcdaniel. As far as becoming a distraction during games, Fox brushed past his first and only bad hair day. 
“Actually it really hasn’t got­ten in the way. It’s crazy — the first game I played was against Purdue [in 2010],” he said. “I was running down on the first kick­off and a dude just grabs it. The first play [in an Irish uniform] and I said ‘oh is this what’s go­ing to happen?’ but it has not been touched since then.” 
Strong safety switch 
After winning a state champi­onship during his senior year at st. Ignatius, Fox committed to notre dame as a four-star-rated safety, turning down offers from stanford, michigan state and boston college among others. Fox didn’t see any action in his freshman year at notre dame, but used the time to make an ex­acting transition to linebacker. 
“I was excited,” Fox said. “A linebacker at notre dame, that’s something to be excited about. That was sweet when I first found out. I wasn’t sure how it was going to translate and how I was going to pick it up, but [de­fensive coordinator bob] diaco did an awesome job helping me out. he started me from scratch, taught me all of the basics. he “Well, I think, first of all, he’s a just took me under his wing and very physical player,” Kelly said. helped me out. he is one the “Though I would not say that best defensive coordinators in he wasn’t physical last year. I the country without a doubt.” think just overall knowledge of 



A combination of hair-trigger the position. As you know, the instincts and breakthrough [weakside] linebacker position 
“You see Dan Fox play, and he doesn’t 

hesitate.” 
Manti Te’o senior linebacker 
speed made the safety the per­fect candidate to make the switch to linebacker, as his ex­ploits as a top 110-meter hurdler in high school heightened Fox’s athletic appeal. but now, Fox has to comb his way through offensive linemen rather than meeting the ball carrier at the second level. 
“The guys coming after you are a lot bigger,” he said. “I didn’t really do anything specific to try to gain weight. I just stuck to [strength and conditioning coach Paul] Longo’s strength program and I put on about 20 pounds. so that really helps when I try to slam into [senior guard] chris Watt in practice. he’s thick, so I just remember running into him the first time and telling myself, ‘Welcome to inside linebacker.’ 
“but something that has re­ally translated for me is that speed. except in college football everyone is fast. That’s some­thing I kind of got used to in­stead of being the fastest guy on the field, now I’m just one of the fast people on the field.” 
In 2011, Fox started in all 13 games and recorded 48 tackles at his inside linebacker position. he returned to the Irish defense this season as one of only two players to start every game last season, where Irish coach brian Kelly said he made striking progress.  
for him was something new. I thought he adapted very well last year. There were times that we thought that he was clearly the no. 1 player at that position.” 
Making interior progress 
oftentimes, the linebacker’s persona on the field doesn’t get too far past being the “guy with the hair.” Fox is off to a career year in 2012, having already re­corded 31 tackles in six games, yet is often overshadowed by the heisman contender he lines up next to. but Fox said he owes senior linebacker manti Te’o the bulk of the credit for his success at his new position. 
“I kind of do [like being under the radar],” Fox said. “It’s kind of funny on defense, they snap the ball and everyone is trying to get the tackle. but there aren’t too many tackles to be had because [Te’o] is snatching up a lot. 
“he’s showed me the way, to be honest. It helps so much when you can understand ev­erything on the defense and what other people are doing so you can know why the ball is go­ing where and where you need to be. If you just understand the defense you can play so much faster and I really think that is what he’s helped me with.” 
Fox’s consistency plays a ma­jor role in in the nation’s top red-zone defense — Irish opponents are scoring touchdowns at a measly 12.5-percent rate in the red zone — and second in scor­ing defense as the Irish only give up 8.7 points per game. 
“You see dan Fox play, and he doesn’t hesitate,” Te’o said. “he is a lot more confident in his ability to make plays and comfortable in the scheme. he knows what to do, he knows that the guy next to him is doing, and he knows where I’m going to be. 
“combine that with confi­dence, you will get dan Fox’s process throughout his career here at notre dame. he’ll get better.” 
In notre dame’s 20-13 over­time win over stanford on saturday, Fox recorded six tackles, but was not included in notre dame’s goal line pack­age. so he watched the defense’s samson-esque goal line stand from the sidelines 
“I was nervous, but then again I have full confidence in every­one on that defense,” Fox said. “I just knew we were going to win. once it went to [overtime] I knew we were winning that game. 
“We just know we have each other’s backs when it comes down to it. If you make a mis­take, someone is going to get in your face about it. That’s the thing; you’re held accountable. That’s how you’re going to get good. You have your weakness­es and you have to get better at them. It’s about letting things go and knowing that we are going to get better and be one of the best defenses in the country.” 
When asked about his gold­en-brown locks, the player who comes across more as a surfer than a linebacker was breezy in­stead of flippant. 
“I don’t think the power’s in the hair,” Fox said. “I guess it’s just attached to the power. That’s pretty funny though.” 
Contact Andrew Gastelum at agastel1@nd.edu 



COUGARS PASSING 

bYU brings an experienced senior quarterback in riley nelson to south bend against a young Irish secondary. nelson has thrown for 1,059 yards and six touchdowns this season. but the bYU signal-caller, who transferred in from Utah state, has also thrown eight interceptions. nelson set a career high for a half with 244 passing yards in the cougars’ 45-13 win over Weber state on sept. 8. Last week against no. 10 oregon state, nelson threw for 305 yards with a touchdown and three interceptions in a 42-24 loss. Against the beavers, nelson set a career high in completions with 28 and attempts with 51. meanwhile, the cougar offensive line has given up 18 sacks this season for a total of 110 yards lost, which does not bode well go­ing up against a formidable Irish front seven led by sophomore defensive end stephon Tuitt and his 6.5 sacks. 
nelson’s main target is junior receiv­er cody hoffman, who leads the team in receiving with 534 yards to go with two touchdowns. hoffman has caught at least one pass in the last 26 straight games, including 32 of his 33 career games. Against oregon state, hoffman set a career high with 10 receptions and finished with 102 yards. 6-foot 5 junior tight end Kaneakua Friel serves as nelson’s main red zone target with a team-leading four touchdowns. cougar receivers also pose a deep threat, espe­cially down the middle of the field. This season, the bYU offense has totaled 104 plays of 10 yards or more as well as 31 plays of 20 yards or more. 
Junior cornerback bennett Jackson leads the Irish with four interceptions, good enough for fourth best in the na­tion. senior linebacker manti Te’o also has three interceptions, including two against senior michigan quarterback denard robinson. In last week’s 20-13 overtime win over no. 17 stanford, the Irish defense held senior quarterback Josh nunes to only 125 yards passing with zero touchdowns and two inter­ceptions. The Irish defense has not given up a touchdown in its last four games, three against ranked teams. EDGE: NOTRE DAME 

HEAD TO 
BYU 






AP 

COUGARS RUSHING 
Freshman running back Jamaal Williams leads the cougars with 345 rushing yards and five rushing touch­downs this season. The freshman back averages 5.3 yards per carry while bYU as a whole averages 4.2 yards per carry, mostly behind a veteran right side of the offensive line. Williams set a career high with 155 rushing yards against hawaii on sept. 28 in a 47-0 blowout win. nelson has also shown the ability to run the ball, with 113 rushing yards on the season. 
The notre dame defense still remain the only one in college football to have not yet given up a rushing touchdown this season. Te’o leads the team with 59 tackles and the defense has forced 15 turnovers this season. EDGE: NOTRE DAME 
COUGARS OFFENSIVE COACHING 
defensive coordinator bob diaco has relayed the importance of not falling into a trap game mentality against the cougars, and his defense is coming off yet another strong performance against stanford, its fourth consecutive with­out allowing a touchdown. EDGE: NOTRE DAME 
COUGARS SPECIAL TEAMS 
The cougars average a solid 24.1 yards per kickoff return along with 11.3 yards per punt return.  Junior kicker riley stephenson has made four of six field goals, and has yet to attempt a 
field goal of over 40 yards.  
EDGE: EVEN  
COUGARS SCHEDULE  
Aug. 30  Washington State   W 30-6  
sept. 8    Weber State                W 45-13  
sept. 15 @ Utah                 L 24-21    
sept. 20 @ Boise State  L 7-6  
sept. 28  Hawaii                W 47-0  
oct. 5  Utah State  W 6-3  
oct. 13  Oregon State  L 42-24  
oct. 20  @ Notre Dame  
oct. 27  @ Georgia Tech  
nov. 10  Idaho  
nov. 17  @ San Jose State  
nov. 24  @ New Mexico State  

AP 

(Jr.) Cody Hoffman


WR
 (Fr.) mitch mathews 10 
(Jr.) JD Falslev 


WR
(sr.) david Foote 27 
(Fr.) Ryker Mathews


LT 
 (so.) michael Yeck 77 
(Fr.) Jamaal Williams 

(So.) Solomone Kafu 
RB 


LG
(sr.) david Foote 27 (so.) brock stringham 74 
(Fr.) Riley Nelson 

(Sr.) Braden Hansen 
QB


C
 (sr.) James  Lark 7 (so.)blair Tushaus 54 
(Jr.) Manaaki Vaitai


RG
 (so.) brock stringham 74 
(Sr.) Braden Brown


RT 
 (so.) solomone Kafu 73 
(Jr.) Kaneakua Friel 


TE
(so.) devin mahina 84 
(So.) Ross Apo


WR
 (Jr.) skyler ridley 17 
(So.) Jordan Johnson 

CB
(Jr.)  Adam hogan 16 
(Jr.) Spencer Hadley


SLB 

(so.) Alani Fua 5 
(Jr.) Daniel Sorensen 
SS
(Fr.) matt hadley 17 
(Sr.) Ezekiel Ansah 


DE 
(so.) bronson Kaufusi 90 
(Sr.) Uona Kaveinga

MLB 
(Jr.) Uani ‘Unga 41 

(Sr.) Romney Fuga


NT 
(sr.) simote vea 93
(Sr.) Brandon Ogletree
BLB 
(Fr.)  manoa Pikula 22 
(Sr.) Russell Tialavea 


DE 

(Fr.) remington Peck 50 
(Sr.) Joe Sampson
FS
(so.) craig bills 20 
(Jr.) Kyle Van Noy


WLB 
(Fr.) Jherremya Leuta-douyere 56 
(Sr.) Preston Hadley

CB
(sr.) robbie buckner 26 


(Jr.) Justin Sorensen  PK  (Jr.) Justin Sorensen  KO  
(Sr.) Riley Stephenson  P  (Sr.) Joe Sampson(Jr.) Jd Falslev  12  KR  
(Jr.) JD Falslev  PR  (Sr.) Reed Homung  LS  





Allan Joseph 
editor-in-chief 

At the beginning of the year, this looked like the second of an absolutely brutal three-game stretch. At the begin­ning of the week, this looked like a textbook opportunity for the Irish to trip up. but after hearing about how notre dame’s coaching staff has prepared their team for the cougars, I just don’t see how this game is anything but an Irish victory. 
The bYU defense is stingy, but it hasn’t faced anything like the Irish offense that showed up against navy or miami. The bYU offense? Let’s just say it’s going to be five straight touchdown-free games for the notre dame defense. If everett Golson can play, he’ll have a big game to build his confidence. If not, Tommy rees and Andrew hendrix will pick up the slack just fine. bottom line: 7-0 awaits. 


Andrew Owens 
Assistant managing editor 
In 2005, the last time bYU traveled to notre dame, the Irish won 49-23 behind six touchdown passes from brady Quinn, four of which went to receiver maurice stovall. 
While saturday’s final result will be the same, the method of victory will be quite different for the Irish. 
notre dame’s offense will struggle to muster points against another difficult defense. With the up-and-down play from the quarterback position, asserting the run game will again be important for brian Kelly’s squad. With three options in the backfield, the Irish running backs should be fresh in the second half when the stout cougar defense is slowing down. A fourth-quarter score will put the game away in what will be the fifth consecutive contest in which the defense holds the opponent out of the end zone. 

Chris Allen 
sports editor 
The Irish defense has danced around it all year. Against michigan state it allowed three points. Against michigan, six. Against miami, three again. This unit that has been on a four-week tear has been so close to posting a zero on the scoreboard — and I say this is the week they finally do it, against a bYU offense that has struggled to low totals on a couple occasions. 
The output from the Irish offense this week will be a mystery as everett Golson recovers from a con­cussion. he will need to have had a good week of practice to prepare for the cougars defense. but he won’t have to do much — the Irish defense will rule the day. 

FINAL SCORE: notre dame 35, bYU 3 FINAL SCORE: notre dame 20, bYU 6 FINAL SCORE: notre dame 17, bYU 0 

ndsmcobserver.com | FRIDAY, OCTOBER 19, 2012 | The observer 


TO HEAD 

NO. 5 NOTRE DAME 

JULIE HERDER | The Observer KEVIN SONG | The Observer 

IRISHPASSING his three touchdowns on the season. before leaving the game due to a Golson’s fumbling problems still con-KeiVarae Russell (Fr.) 
concussion, sophomore quarterback tinue to limit the offensive potential of 

CB 43 Josh Atkinson (so.) 
everett Golson threw for 141 yards brian Kelly’s squad. and a touchdown in notre dame’s The cougars enter the game with 20-13 overtime win over stanford on the third best rushing defense in the 

Danny Spond (Jr.) 

OLB 
saturday. Golson looked more com-nation, giving up only 67.9 rushing 
30 ben councell (so.) 
Zeke Motta (Sr.) 



29 nicky baratti (Fr.) fortable scrambling out of the pocket yards per game. The cougars also lim-
S
Kapron Lewis-Moore (Gr.) 


for yards or time rather than throw-it opposing offenses to only 15.4 first 
DE 
91 sheldon day (Fr.) 
Dan Fox (Sr.) ing the ball into tight coverage. Junior downs per game, 1oth best in the na-

ILB 
59 carlo calabrese (sr.) 

Louis Nix (Jr.) quarterback Tommy rees came in after tion. senior inside linebacker brandon 
NG 
Kona schwenke (Jr.) 


Manti Te’o (Sr.) Golson’s injury and threw for 43 yards ogletree leads the cougars in tackles 

96 ILB 
59 Jarrett Grace (so.) 

DE 
Stephon Tuitt (So.) and a touchdown. rees led the game-with 57, six of those for a loss. Until the 
50 Tony springmann (so.) 
Matthias Farley (So.) tying drive in the fourth quarter and beavers first touchdown, the cougars 
24 chris salvi (sr.) 

S 
eventual game-winning drive capped defense had held opposing teams with-
Prince Shembo (Jr.) 

OLB 
11 Ishaq Williams (so.) off by a seven-yard touchdown pass to out an offensive touchdown for 13 TJ Jones. senior tight end Tyler eifert straight quarters. caught a touchdown pass as well and EDGE: BYU 
CB 
21 Bennett Jackson (Jr.) led the Irish with 57 receiving yards 
Jalen brown (so.) 
against the cardinal. eifert also leads IRISH OFFENSIVE COACHING the Irish with 246 receiving yards this The Irish are still struggling to find season. Ten of eifert’s 15 receptions their offensive rhythm and take advan­have resulted in a first down or touch-tage of good field position and scoring 
T.J.Jones (Jr.) 


10 
down. notre dame averages 206.5 pass-opportunities. meanwhile, bYU boasts 
WR 
davaris daniels (so.) 
ing yards  per game, which puts the one of the nation’s top defenses statis-
Robby Toma (Sr.) 


19 davonte’ neal (Fr.) team at 86th in the nation. tically despite giving up 42 points to bYU’s defense comes into the week-oregon state last week. The cougars end ranked as the seventh best scoring still rank fifth in the nation in total de-
RT 

Christian Lombard (Jr.) defense in the nation, giving up 13.6 fense, giving up 260.9 yards per game. 
WR 
64 Tate nichols (Jr.) 
points per game. Last week, oregon EDGE: EVEN 
Theo Riddick (Sr.) 
Mike Golic Jr. (Gr.) 


72 
20 cierre Wood (sr.) state junior quarterback cody vaz 
RB RG 
nick martin (so.) 
picked apart the bYU secondary for 332 IRISH SPECIAL TEAMS 
Everett Golson (So.) 
Braxston Cave (Gr.) 

C 
57 mike Golic Jr. (Gr.) QB 
11 Tommy rees (Jr.) yards and three touchdowns in a 42-24 sophomore kicker Kyle brindza made beavers win. Junior linebacker Kyle van a clutch field goal to send the game to 
Chris Watt (Sr.) 
65 conor hanratty (so.) 

LG 
noy recorded another sack last week, to overtime last week, but the Irish also 
LT 

Zack Martin (Sr.) put his total at 7.5 sacks and 11.5 tack-botched a snap on a short field goal. 
78 ronnie stanley (Fr.) 


les for a loss. Against the beavers, the notre dame ranks 105th in the nation 
TE 
Tyler Eifert (Sr.) bYU defensive line batted down three in punt returns (3.7 yards per return) 
18 ben Koyack (so.) 
passes. The bYU defense is also third abd 90th in kickoff returns (19.38 yards in the nation in 3rd down conversions, per return). 

WR 

John Goodman (Gr.) giving up a first down only 25.74 per-EDGE: BYU 
87 daniel smith (Jr.) 
cent of the time on third downs. 
EDGE: NOTRE DAME IRISH SCHEDULE 


sept. 1 vs. Navy W 50-10 IRISH RUSHING sept. 8 Purdue W 20-17 notre dame’s rushing attack found its sept. 15 @ Michigan St. W 20-3 way in the second half against stanford. sept. 22 Michigan W 13-6 
Kyle Brindza (So.) 
Kyle Brindza (So.) 


40 nick Tausch (sr.) 
40 nick Tausch (sr.) senior running backs cierre Wood and oct. 6 vs. Miami W 41-3 
KO 
PK 
Theo riddick led the way once again oct. 13 Stanford W 20-13 (OT) 
George Atkinson (So.) 
Ben Turk (Sr.) 

6 Theo riddick (sr.) 27 Kyle brindza (so.) 
KR 
P 
with 66 and 45 rushing yards, respec-oct. 20 BYU 
PR 
LS 

Davonte’ Neal (Fr.) tively. The Irish average 181.2 rushing oct. 27 @ Oklahoma 
Jordan Cowart (Sr.) 


61 scott daly (Fr.) 81 John Goodman (Gr.) 
yards per game. sophomore running nov. 3 Pittsburgh back George Atkinson finishes out nov. 10 @ Boston College the Irish rushing attack and averages nov. 17 Wake Forest 
9.1 yards per carry to go along with nov. 24 @ USC 


Andrew Gastelum 
Associate sports editor 

Teams like bYU come into notre dame stadium ready to play. And if the Irish aren’t prepared for a fight, the result will be far too close for brian Kelly’s tastes. 
bYU’s defense is extremely underrated and notre dame could have some trouble early. defensively, the Irish can­not allow the cougars to throw the ball down the field and open up the running game. 
The Irish offense is still a bit of an enigma and it can’t be caught looking forward to oklahoma next week, especially against a bYU team that was ranked in the top-25 earlier in the season. 
The Irish went away from the rushing attack too early in the first half before getting back to its success in the second half against stanford. don’t expect the same this week. 
FINAL SCORE: notre dame 24, bYU 6 


Matthew DeFranks 
Associate sports editor 
If you are tired of hearing that this game is a “trap game,” join the club. A trap game creeps on an unfocused team, jumps out from the bushes and ambushes them, ruining their season at the same time. This Irish team is not that team. 
And that is precisely why this team is different from any of the ones in the past 10 years. They have fought to win the close games while blowing out their lesser opponents. They have refused to play down to their competition and have a 6-0 record and a top-five ranking to show for it. 
so if you want to talk about how tough the cougars’ front seven is, go ahead. If you want to talk about everett Golson’s concussion, go ahead. Just don’t tell me this game is a trap game as the team looks forward to oklahoma. 
FINAL SCORE: notre dame 23, bYU 3 




The observer | FRIDAY, OCTOBER 19, 2012 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Stiff BYU defense to test Irish offense 
By ALLAN JOSEPH 
editor-in-chief 
At every media session this week, two words have come up over and over again: “trap game.” sandwiched between an emotional overtime win over stanford and a trip to norman, okla., for a night game against the no. 9 sooners, the contest against bYU seems tailored to trip up the no. 5 Irish. The cougars (4-3) come in with a low profile, and more importantly, with a suffocating defense that has every intention of stop­ping notre dame’s inconsistent offense. 
“It’s a big opportunity for us,” cougars cornerback Preston hadley told the bYU media this week. “We can really come out and make a statement.” 
If Irish coach brian Kelly has had one mission this week, how­ever, it’s to make sure his players focus on the task at hand. Kelly and his staff have drilled one message into their players. 
“It’s a trap game each week if you think that you can take a breather,” Kelly said. “but if you just stay on the course [and] continue to do what you’re do­ing, we’ll be fine.” 
The cougars boast a defense ranked no. 5 in the country in total defense, allowing their op­ponents just 261 yards per game. The bYU defense also ranks no. 3 in the country in rush­ing defense (68 yards/game), third-down conversion rate (26 percent) and red zone conver­sion rate (53 percent). 
“It’s another physical football team that plays great defense,” 
“Right now it’s BYU, and that’s all we’re focused on.” 
Manti Te’o 
senior linebacker 
Kelly said. “They have won a couple of close games this year on the backs of their defense.” 
outside linebacker Kyle van noy leads the cougars on de­fense. named to a midseason All-America second team and tied for the fourth-most sacks in the nation this year, van noy is bYU’s defensive playmaker. When asked, Kelly said van noy reminded him in some ways of senior Irish linebacker manti Te’o, though the two play dif­ferent positions in similar 3-4 schemes. 
“I think the way they ask him to play, he gets the opportu­nity to get after the quarterback much more than manti,” Kelly said. “but you know, he’s a guy that is relentless like manti. Look, the great players have the same traits. It’s just they are played at different positions, but they certainly could be interchangeable.” 
senior bYU linebacker and captain brandon ogletree also plays a key role in the cougars’ defense. Playing a similar mid­dle linebacker position to Te’o, ogletree leads bYU in tackling just like his Irish counterpart. 
“They put [ogletree] in a posi­tion where he can play downhill [and] physical,” Kelly said. 
With all of the talk from coach­es about avoiding the prototypi­cal trap game, Te’o said the Irish have taken the message to heart. 
“our team has done a great job of just focusing on the next opponent,” he said. “We don’t have oklahoma this week. We don’t have stanford. We already played stanford. right now it’s bYU, and that’s all we’re fo­cused on. Until sunday comes, you know, we’ll stop focusing on bYU. Until then, it’s all bYU.” 
Contact Allan Joseph at ajoseph2@nd.edu 
PAId AdverTIsemenT 




ndsmcobserver.com | FRIDAY, OCTOBER 19, 2012 | The observer 


Lewis-Moore brings positive energy to defense 
By ANDREW OWENS 
Assistant managing editor 
Kapron Lewis-moore represents the old guard of notre dame’s youthful defensive line. When he committed to the Irish in January 2008, Irish coach brian Kelly had just wrapped up his inaugural sea­son — at cincinnati. 
but don’t confuse Lewis-moore’s age with a lack of energy. In fact, it’s the fifth-year captain who in many ways is the boisterous leader of a re­surgent Irish defense. 
“When he feels that there is not as much energy, he’s the guy that steps out in front and really gets guys going,” senior linebacker manti Te’o said. “When we’re in a huddle or something, he’ll get guys going like that. When he makes a play, if you watch, every time some­body makes a play, you always will see [no.] 89 in there congratulating his teammate. he energizes the group in so many ways.” 
To Lewis-moore, having an ani­mated defense can be just as criti­cal to the unit’s success as proper tackling technique or possessing a knack for forcing turnovers. 
“Yeah, you have to maintain it,” he said. “You have to maintain it as much as possible and I feel like positive energy is really infectious. If somebody gets a good play, it sort of just goes all over. If you get a big play on an interception or a big tackle I just feel like that elevates everybody.” 
As notre dame students can attest, Lewis-moore’s vibrant per­sonality extends beyond notre dame stadium. At men’s basket­ball games, he typically stands underneath the basket in the front row of the student section wearing a floppy hat while screaming at the top of his lungs for an Irish victory. 
“I like to be fun but I know with this team there is a time to play and a time to be serious,” said Lewis­moore of his personality. “Usually when it is time to be serious every­body knows that it is time to get serious. Luckily I don’t have to get out there and try to put on a hard front or something like that. I just try to keep the energy up and try to be positive as much as I can and try to have my attitude as positive as possible.” 
Kelly said Lewis-moore has de­veloped as much as any player in the program during the past three years. 
“Yeah, a lot of growth, a lot of growth as a leader in our football program,” Kelly said. “Yeah, cer­tainly the dynamics there which put him front and center now in that defensive line meeting room, he has taken that over. 
“he is the guy that is respected in that room. There is clearly, from my end, a commitment from him to being a better football player — not that he didn’t want to be last year.” 
Like any influential leader, Lewis-moore realizes the impor­tance of preparing the next crop of talent to replace him, duties that include rooming with freshman defensive end sheldon day for road games and organizing captain-led film sessions. 
“I just kind of want to be a battery for the [defensive line], a battery for the team,” Lewis-moore said. “Just trying to help out as much as I can. If they have something that they need or something they need to ask, I try to help them out as much as I can. I almost want to be like a mentor but I try to be there. I try to embrace that role.” 

When Kelly named Lewis­moore one of four team captains in August, it represented a long path to success that the graduate student never envisioned when he signed his Letter of Intent to play for notre dame. 
“If you would have asked me last year or a couple of years ago, I never would have thought that. so I just try to have fun with that,” he said. 
Although his personality and ap­proach differ from that of the other captains, Lewis-moore’s role in the team’s 6-0 start and no. 5 bowl championship series ranking can­not be overstated. 
“he’s funny, so he brings that kind of energy, and then he’s seri­ous at the same time,” Te’o said. “he’s that guy that makes that group run. so Kap, there is the rea­son why he’s the captain on our team.” 
Contact Andrew Owens at aowens2@nd.edu 


PAId AdverTIsemenT 


THE COOLNESS IS 
IN THE SLEEVES 
Available to buy at the LaFortune Information Desk 
or Order Online @ theshirt.nd.edu 






