
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


Obama modifies contraceptive mandate 
Notre Dame still required to pay for contraceptive services 
By SARAH MERVOSH 
Managing Editor 
President Barack Obama’s modification to the con­traception mandate, which shifted responsibility for funding contraceptives from religiously affiliated institu­tions to insurance compa­nies, does not apply to Notre Dame because the University is self-insured. 
Law professor Carter Snead said institutions that self-in­sure effectively function as the insurance company un­der the new policy. As a re­sult, he said Notre Dame will be required to provide and pay for contraceptives in its insurance plan. 
“I’m not persuaded that this shift is meaningful for 


see REFORM/page 6 




Professor reflects on HHS bill reform, election implications 
By SAM STRYKER 
News Editor 
President Barack Obama an­nounced a compromise in the Af­fordable Care Act Friday, mandating that insurance companies, not reli­gious institutions, will be responsible for providing free preventive care to women. 
Such a move comes with signifi­cant political implications, former political columnist for the South Bend Tribune and journalism pro­fessor Jack Colwell said. 
“[Obama] certainly had politics in mind, just as his critics had politics in mind,” he said. “This is a presidential election year so everything he does is going to be, in some respects, politi­cal.” 
Under the original plan an­nounced Jan. 20, religious institu­tions would not be exempt from 

see OBAMA/page 5 



Revue receives rave reviews 

By KRISTEN DURBIN 
News Writer 
After three nights of risqué comedy and envelope-pushing musical numbers, the 37th an­nual Keenan Revue came to a successful close, director Bri­an Bettonville said. 
“We’ve received entirely positive feedback so far,” he said. “We love that people loved [the Revue,] and we’re happy to provide that for them.” 
Producer Raymo Gallagher said “The Revue Strikes Back” was a consistent success throughout all three shows. 

“All the staff and actors are very proud of the show they put on all three nights be­cause it was a great product,” he said. “We could tell by re­actions throughout the show that people were enjoying it, and we got positive reviews from students and even some parents in the audience.” 
Though the two-hour Revue included parodies of pop cul­ture and skits focused on the quirks and traditions of Notre Dame, but Bettonville said a few acts stood out to audience members. 
“The performers of the final song, ‘December 1963,’ did a phenomenal job every single night,” Bettonville said. “A short called ‘The Dark Knight Rises’ also got a good crowd response.” 
Junior Mike Butler said the “SAOPA” skit, which put a unique Notre Dame twist on the recent Internet censor­ship debate, was the highlight of his first Revue experience. 
“My favorite skit was the censorship one for sure,” he 


see REVUE/page 5 
Observer announces new Editorial Board 
Observer Staff Report 
Seven new editors will join The Observer’s Editorial Board in 2012-13 and two current editors will retain their positions, incom­ing Editor-in-Chief Allan Joseph announced Sunday. 
Juniors Chris Allen, Jillian Barwick, John Cameron, Kristen Durbin, Sarah O’Connor and Su­zanna Pratt, along with sopho­more Kevin Noonan, will assume their positions on the Editorial Board after Spring Break. 
Junior Brandon Keelean will return as Graphics Editor, while sophomore Meghan Thomassen will return as Viewpoint Editor. 
Allen, an Alumni Hall resident and native of East Brunswick, N.J., will serve as Sports Editor. An accounting major, Allen cov­ered the Notre Dame hockey team on its Frozen Four run in 2011 and coordinated The Observer’s cover­age of interhall football in 2010. 
Barwick, a communication studies major at Saint Mary’s Col­lege, hails from Wayne, N.J. and lives in LeMans Hall. Barwick will serve as Saint Mary’s Editor after a year of covering Saint Mary’s news for The Observer. 
Cameron and Durbin will take over as news editors. Cameron is a finance and political science ma­jor currently studying abroad in London. A resident of Keough Hall and native of Rolling Meadows, Ill., Cameron has significant experi­ence covering student government and reporting on campus-com­munity relations. 
Durbin originally hails from Prospect Heights, Ill., and lives in Walsh Hall. The American Studies and Arts and Letters preprofes­sional studies major has extensive experience with “ND Minute,” The Observer’s news video blog. She also covered organized-labor is­sues at Eddy Street Commons. 
O’Connor, a McGlinn Hall resi­dent and native of Omaha, Neb., will serve as Multimedia Editor. A junior computer science major, O’Connor is also a member of The Observer’s Photography Depart­ment and has spent significant time upgrading the multimedia section of The Observer’s website. 
Pratt is an anthropology and peace studies major hailing from Seattle, Wash., and a resident of Pangborn Hall. Pratt has been The Observer’s lead hockey photog­rapher and covered the campus-wide celebration following the death of Osama bin Laden. Pratt is currently studying abroad in Aus­tralia and will take over the photo department when she returns in the fall. 

INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER SMC hosts sophomore parents page 3 u Viewpoint page 8 u Literary festival page 10 u WVU upsets women’s basketball page 20 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT DID YOU THINK OF THE KEENAN REVIEW? 

www.ndsmcobserver.com P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 Editor-in-Chief Douglas Farmer Managing Editor Business Manager Sarah Mervosh Jeff Liptak Asst. Managing Editor: Adriana Pratt Asst. Managing Editor: Chris Masoud News Editor: Sam Stryker Viewpoint Editor: Meghan Thomassen Sports Editor: Allan Joseph Scene Editor: Maija Gustin Saint Mary’s Editor: Caitlin E. Housley Photo Editor: Pat Coveney Graphics Editor: Brandon Keelean Advertising Manager: Katherine Lukas Ad Design Manager: Amanda Jonovski Controller: Jason Taulman Systems Administrator: William Heineman Office Manager & General Info (574) 631-7471 Fax (574) 631-6927 Advertising (574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu Editor-in-Chief (574) 631-4542 dfarmer1@nd.edu Managing Editor (574) 631-4542 smervosh@nd.edu Assistant Managing Editors (574) 631-4541 apratt@nd.edu, cmasoud@nd.edu Business Office (574) 631-5313 News Desk (574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com Viewpoint Desk (574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com Sports Desk (574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com Scene Desk (574) 631-4540 mgustin@nd.edu Saint Mary’s Desk chousl01@saintmarys.edu Photo Desk (574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com Systems & Web Administrators (574) 631-8839 Policies The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College.  Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Douglas Farmer. Post Office Information The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 and additional mailing offices 024 South Dining hall Notre Dame, IN 46556-077 The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved.  
TODAY’S STAFF News Sports Caitlin Housley Victoria Jacobsen Nichole Michels Peter Steiner Christian Myers Scene Graphics Maria Fernandez Dan Azic Viewpoint Photo Meghan Pat Coveney Thomassen  
CORRECTIONS The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so we can correct our error.  
HIGH 32 LOW 29 


Laurel Komos  Caroline Kuse  Luis Llanos  Chantal Berry  Annalee Rice  Sam Bungum  
sophomore  sophomore  sophomore  sophomore  sophomore  sophomore  
Pasquerilla West  Pasquerilla East  Keenan  Welsh Family  Howard  Keough  
“If I didn’t have  “I left halfway  “I loved it,  “Two words: lap  “It was so  “I saw a lot of  
a boyfriend, I  through ...”  stripping was  dance.”  popular I  man.”  
would have liked  my favorite  couldn’t get a  
it a lot.”  part.”  ticket.”  



OFFBEAT 

Pakistani man disputes with police over 40 foot shark 
KARACHI, Pakistan — Qa­sim Khan waged the unlike­liest of battles with Pakistani authorities Thursday over the right to charge hundreds of curious visitors the equiv­alent of 22 cents each to see a roughly 40-foot whale shark he bought from a fisherman. 
Khan is in the business of buying fish, albeit usu­ally much smaller ones, and jumped at the chance on Tuesday to pay about $2,200 for the 20-ton behemoth, which was discovered dead in the Arabian Sea off the southern Pakistani city of Karachi. 
Business was brisk Wednesday, as several thou­sand people paid to see the brown and white-spotted shark, which Khan set up under a cloth tent next to the harbor. People crowded around to put their hands on the massive fish, and fami­lies snapped their picture with it - ignoring the pun­gent smell as it began to rot. 
But police cracked down Thursday, saying fishery au­thorities had decided people should be allowed to see the shark for free. Khan resisted and hid his prize attrac­tion under the giant piece of green cloth he had previ­ously used as a tent. 
Citizens fight to retain hidden image of pig in police decals 
MONTPELIER, Vt. — Re­member the pig hidden with­in the decal on the doors of some Vermont State Police cruisers? 
There’s now a movement under way to keep it there. 
But it turns out there was more wrong with that image than just the white pig hid­den as a splotch on the cow, made to resemble one of Ver­mont’s ubiquitous Holsteins. State law requires that the cow in the crest be red -not red and white -as a tribute to the hardy Devon cattle first brought to Vermont by English settlers. 
“What I would really like is for the governor to just leave the pigs on the car. That’s the bottom line, at no expense to anybody,” said Barre musi­cian Cid Sinclair, who creat­ed the Facebook page “Save the Vermont Pigs.” 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 


IN BRIEF 
The Ethics Week lecture, “Too Big to Exist?” will be held in the Giovanini Com­mons of the Mendoza Col­lege of Business from 12:30 to 1:30 p.m. today. 
The School of Architecture will host a Montana Society lecture titled “The Symbi­otic Relationship Between Public Infrastructure In­vestment and Private Real Estate Development: A case study of the Intersections of Michigan Ave and Ran­dolph Ave to Monroe Street (1893 to 2011)” in Room 104 of Bond Hall from 4:30 to 6 
p.m.
 today. 

The Compton Family Ice Arena will host a Student Valentine Skate from 10 

p.m.
 to 12 a.m. tonight. The admission cost is $3 for ND/SMC/HCC students and skate rental is free. 


Sonnetfest 2012 will be held in the Great Hall of O’Shaughnessy Hall from 11 a.m. to 3 p.m. tomorrow. The event features a se­quential reading of Shake­speare’s 154 sonnets. Light refreshments will be served and the event is free and open to the public. 
The Notre Dame wom­en’s basketball team will play Providence College in the Purcell Pavilion at the Joyce Center at 7 p.m. to­morrow. 
The Compton Family Ice Arena will host Valentine’s Speed Dating from 11 p.m. to 12 a.m. tomorrow night. Free food and beverages will be provided. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, email detailed information about an event to obsnews.nd@gmail.com 

LOCAL WEATHER 
TODAY TONIGHT TUESDAY WEDNESDAY THURSDAY FRIDAY 









HIGH 34 LOW 27 
HIGH 38 LOW 29 
HIGH 38 LOW 27 
HIGH 36 LOW 23 

SMC Sophomore Parents Weekend unites families 
By BRIDGET FEENEY 
News Writer 
President Carol Ann Mooney and the class of 2014 welcomed a special group of visitors Friday as Saint Mary’s College celebrated its annual Sophomore Parents Weekend. 
Allie Richthammer, com­mittee chair and community liaison for the event, said the Class of 2014 Board wanted to give students and parents a unique way to experience Saint Mary’s. 
“We hoped to have a week­end for the sophomores and their families to get to know one another and for the parents to experience their daughters’ lives at (Saint Mary’s),” she said. “Events like these serve to strength­en the bonds and friendships of Saint Mary’s girls.” 
The weekend began on Fri­day with the parents’ arriv­als, “mocktails” and a silent auction in Spes Unica. On Saturday, students and their parents celebrated Mass and attended a banquet dinner with President Mooney. The weekend concluded Sunday with brunch in the Noble Family Dining Hall. 
For some students, the distance between home and Saint Mary’s is short enough that they can easily see their parents throughout the year. However, for sophomore Christa McColl, this weekend was a special event. 
“My parents are not able to come for that many weeks out of the year because I am from Georgia, so this week­end is the perfect opportuni­ty for them to make the jour­ney up,” she said. 
Even students who see their parents on a regular basis appreciated Sophomore Parents Weekend, simply be­cause it gave them the chance to bring family to campus. 

Sophomore Hannah Karch­es said she enjoyed giving her parents a glimpse of her life at Saint Mary’s. 
“I loved spending time with my parents and introduc­ing them to my friends,” she said. “I also really enjoyed meeting some of my friends’ parents for the first time.” 
Sophomore Ellen Smith said she appreciated hav­ing the opportunity to spend time with her parents out­side of the traditional Notre Dame football game week­ends. 
“My parents usually come down for a day or two in the fall for a football game, so [seeing them for a whole weekend] is pretty rare,” she said. “I knew it was going to be a fun weekend because they were here.” 
Although the event was only three days long, the Class of 2014 Board planned Sophomore Parents Weekend for three months. 
“We started planning around November,” Rich­thammer said. “Planning the weekend was definitely stressful, but we have a great board.” 
Despite the stress and months of organization, Richthammer said the work paid off. 
“[The Board] had no idea what to expect leading up to the weekend, so seeing the events come together was in­credible,” she said. “My par­ents were surprised when they found out we were eat­ing with President Mooney. I loved seeing them rubbing elbows with the president.” 
Contact Bridget Feeney at bfeene01@saintmarys.edu 
Olympics raise awareness, funds 

By LISA SLOMKA 
News Writer 
The summer Olympics in Lon­don may not kick off for a few months, but that didn’t stop Notre Dame students from testing their athletic abilities early. Residence halls assembled teams and part­nered with the Special Olympics of St. Joseph’s County to host Late Night Olympics on Saturday. 
The event celebrated its 26th year at Notre Dame collecting donations for the Special Olympics. 
of RecSports is from IU, and she brought that idea with her.” 
The idea to team up with the Special Olympics for this event, however, originated at Notre Dame. 
“The Special Olympics ap­proached [our director] … 26 years ago,” Novak said. “[They] asked her if there was a way we could collaborate, and she thought [Late Night Olympics] might be a good way. We’ve been doing [it] 
every year since.” 
Novak said that al­though this year didn’t bring in as many dona­tions, it was still success­ful. 
“This year [dona­tions] were a little bit down from last year,” he said. “We had a little could probably be in the $3,500 to $4,000 range depending on how that adds up.” 
Novak said student participa­tion in the night’s activities also dwindled. But, she said, it’s qual­ity, not quantity that really mat­ters. 
“[Student participation has been] going down a lot lately,” he said. “It’s kind of been tapering off, but the people that come are still really enthusiastic and energetic. I really appreciate the people that take the time to come and partici­pate. People have a lot of fun.” 
Novak said RecSports is looking for ways to increase the number of participants. 
“We’re always looking for new ways to make [the event] better to encourage students to come out, so we’re always looking for feed­back from people.” Novak said. 
Despite the lack of numbers, Novak said the event will still be able to meet its fundraising goal. 
“We provide enough funds for the special Olympians to attend their summer games down in Terre Haute, Ind., so it’s definitely a big fundraiser for them,” he said. “It’s really great being able to help them out.” 
Contact Lisa Slomka at lslomka@nd.edu 
Tim Novak, RecSports coor­dinator of special events and fam­ily programming, said the idea for Late Night Olym­pics actually orig­inated somewhere besides Notre Dame. 
“Late Night Olympics has been around [Notre Dame] for 

“[They] asked her if there was a way we could collaborate, and she thought [Late Night Olympics] might be a good way.  We’ve been doing it every year since.” 
Tim Novak RecSports coordinator 

a while,” he said. “[But] it came from Indiana University (IU). They used to have an activity called Spirit of Sport, which was an all-night sporting event. Our director 
bit less of a response from the student body, but we’re still over $3,000 right now, and that’s with­out even counting a lot of the mon­ey that we got in penny wars. We 


College recognizes Women’s Appreciation 
By SARAH SWIDERSKI 
News Writer 
Women’s Appreciation Week at Saint Mary’s College kicks off today with a vari­ety of events aimed to spread awareness of issues many women encounter on a daily basis. 
“[This week approaches] women’s issues from sev­eral different perspectives because feminism comes in many different forms,” Jean Osberger, co-chair of Women’s Appreciation Week, said. 
The week, hosted by the Student Diversity Board (SDB), begins with a sup­plies drive for St. Margaret’s House, a women’s day center in South Bend. 
The drive will collect non­perishable food items, in-season women’s clothing (especially in sizes large and extra large), toiletries (in regular and trav­el sizes), fem inine hygiene products 

“It’s really great when 
and baby concludes on 
items. Do-we, as students, can help Friday with 
nations will make another woman’s life “Girl-Power be collect-a little easier.  By helping Pump-up Mu-ed through them in any way possible, sic” in the 
Friday in we are living out the Noble Family collection teachings of Saint Mary’s.” Dining Hall. boxes locat-Osberger ed in every said she en-
Anabel Castaneda 
residence courages all 
SDB representative 
hall. students to politicians, news anchors, and a lot of big names. It talks about how image is more the deciding factor in creating female celebrities rather than the news they tell or the roles they play. There should be no depth to how people see women. The film really focuses on look­ing at females as strong, ca­pable people.” 
On Thursday, Saint Mary’s will host the Internation­al Student Women’s Issues Panel in the Warner Con­ference Room at 7:30 p.m. The panel will feature Saint Mary’s students from around the globe including repre­sentatives of Tanzania, Ni­caragua, Rwanda, Australia and China. The students will discuss the daily struggles women in their home coun­tries face. 
Osberger said the aim of the panel is to change mis­conceptions about the coun­
tries and 
address chal­
lenging issues 
in each na­
tion. 
The week 
“St. Mar­garet’s is a 
safe  haven  
for  women  
who  are  

struggling in various ways in life,” SDB Representative Anabel Castaneda said. “It’s really great when we, as stu­dents, can help make anoth­er woman’s life a little eas­ier. By helping them in any way possible, we are living out the teachings of Saint Mary’s.” 
Tonight, SDB will also show the film “Miss Repre­sentation” in Vander Vennet at 7:30 p.m. Castaneda said the film portrays sexism in the media. 
“This video really helps viewers put the role of fe­males in the media into a bigger perspective,” she said. “The movie reflects on come to this 
week’s events. 
“[The week] 
will be fun 

and informa­tive,” she said. “[Students will] learn something new and the events will redefine what feminism is.” 
Castaneda said she hopes the events will broaden stu­dent perspective. 
“I really hope that students will be able to see what oth­er opportunities there are to fight the stereotypes put against women,” she said. “They will be able to see what they can do, as an in­dividual, to help better the world as a whole. One small action can then lead bigger movements.” 
Contact Sarah Swiderski at sswide01@saintmarys.edu 

Lecture explores vulnerability 
By CAROLINA WILSON 
News Writer 

The philosophy of St. Edith Stein is seen through the lens of vulnerability, Wheaton College professor Dr. Sarah Borden Sharkey said in the keynote ad­dress for the seventh an­nual Edith Stein Confer­ence held at McKenna Hall over the weekend. 
The Conference, titled “Encountering Vulner­ability: Courage, Hope and Trust in the 21st Century,” explored the role that suf­fering and vulnerability play in humans’ lives. 
Renée Roden, chair of the fundraising committee for the Edith Stein Project, said the lecture left a last­ing impact. 
“The Edith Stein Project carries on her vision by challenging all the confer­ence participants to dis­cover what our calling is as human beings – the uni­versal calling of all human beings, and our own indi­vidual vocation,” she said. “And that is the teaching that is at the core of Edith Stein’s philosophy – the transcendent nature of the human being.” 
Sharkey’s speech ad­dressed the magnitude of Stein’s philosophical and religious work, along with her unique desire to share with others the impor­tance of perseverance and vulnerability. 
Sharkey began the ad­dress with a historical description of the life of Stein. 
Born in 1891 in Breslau as the youngest of 11 chil­dren, Stein lived in a peace­ful and stable Europe. Her success in school reinforced her hopes and anticipations to continue her education at the university level. 

In 1913, Stein began work with Dr. Edmund Husserl, a professor of philosophy at Gottingen University, Shar­key said. 
After volunteering as a nurse in Austria during World War II, Stein con­verted to Catholicism while committing to the holy and celibate life. 
“[Stein] was neither mar­ried, nor pursued a career where women were wel­comed,” Sharkey said. “But, she pursued.” 
Sharkey said Stein applied to post-graduate programs, but was rejected due to her gender. 
Stein’s perseverance led her to write a letter to the Prussian ministry about sexual discrimination re­garding hiring in the work place. Her plea was re­sponded with a proclama­tion that sexism should not be allowed in hiring occupa­tions, Sharkey said. 
Sharkey used Stein’s teaching to deliver a mes­sage to the audience. 
“Protect rather than tear down others,” she said. 
She quoted Stein saying, “You can recognize faults and failings of others if you’ve experienced those faults and failings.” 
Reflecting on the title of the Conference, Sharkey said Stein felt it was a vo­cation to suffer with Christ by accepting that suffering makes us stronger. 
Sharkey said the audience should recognize that we belong to a world of mean­ing and values. Stein be­lieved these values shape the way the community en­gages with the world around them. 
Contact Carolina Wilson at cwilso16@nd.edu 


Revue 
continued from page 1 
said. “I thought it was really cool how they incorporated all the stuff that happened to [the Revue] last year and just bounced back and used it all to make the show even bet­ter.” 
While last year’s Revue was altered throughout the week­end in response to criticism about its coarse humor, Bet­tonville said this year’s Revue remained relatively constant throughout the weekend. 
“One skit was cut, and there were many more tweaks than full changes,” he said. “All these decisions are left up to us, so nothing was explicitly cut and we made alterations ourselves with suggestions.” 
Junior Dallas Bunsa said issues with last year’s Revue didn’t affect his expectations for his first time attending the Revue this year. 

“I heard some people com­plaining about the lack of original material in the Re­vue, but for me, everything was new,” he said. “I was pretty impressed with all of the choreography throughout the show.” 
Though the Revue is some­times cited as an outlet for taking campus stereotypes too far, Bunsa said he thinks the show’s jabs at different groups were all in good fun. 
“A night full of poking fun at just about every different group of people … is great,” Bunsa said. “I think it’s im­portant to be able to laugh at yourself or have fun poked at you.” 
Senior Lauren Metayer said she enjoyed the Revue over­all, even if some of the humor “seemed forced.” 
“I thought the Revue was pretty good, and the Pokemon skit in particular was really witty and creative,” Metayer said. “Some of the jokes about Saint Mary’s girls seemed forced and predictable at times, but I may just have a soft spot for Saint Mary’s since I transferred from there to Notre Dame.” 
With another year of the Re­vue under their belts, seniors Gallagher and Bettonville are optimistic about the future of the campus tradition. 
“I think this year sets it up to be a good Revue next year, and I don’t foresee any issues that would prevent them from putting on a show next year,” Gallagher said. “A lot of actors and guys on staff are coming back next year, and they know what it’s about, so it should be good.” cessors yet, but the Keenan 

Looking forward to next Revue will always move for-year, Bettonville did not give ward,” Bettonville said. specifics, but guaranteed the event will aim to please. Contact Kristen Durbin at 
“We haven’t picked our suc-kdurbin@nd.edu 
Obama 
continued from page 1 
providing preventive healthcare, including contraceptives, in their minimum insurance package. The Department of Health and Human Services (HSS) granted these institu­tions a year to comply with the legisla­tion’s specifications. 
Colwell said Friday’s move was seen as an accommodation to the religious institutions that were con­cerned about providing these ser­vices. 
The move by the president will be successful in controlling any lasting political damage, though the damage could have easily been avoided, Col-well said. 
“I think initially the president was hurt somewhat by [this],” he said. “Why on earth they thought it would take a year to reach a compromise nobody seems to understand. 
“That sounds like bureaucracy in the Health and Human Services De­partment. When the pressure was on, they quickly reached a compromise.” 

Colwell said Obama’s conciliation was made with a specific group of American voters in mind. 
“I think what he was doing was going after Catholic voters who were understandably upset about the first decision that was made … there was a lot of dissatisfaction,” he said. 
The Catholic portion of the Ameri­can population was a group Obama could not risk losing in November’s presidential election, Colwell said. 
“There are a lot of Catholic officials and voters who tend to support him,” he said. “If he was going to alienate some of them, that could have a big effect on the election.” 
Colwell said Friday’s compromise should be effective enough to satisfy this group of voters. 
“I think he did [enough]. It seems to be a reasonable accommodation,” Colwell said. “In fact, it is so reason­able you have to wonder why that wasn’t the plan in the first place.” 
At the same time, the new plan still allows for women to receive cost-free preventive healthcare such as con­traceptives. Colwell said that without this concession, Obama would have risked alienating another block of vot­ers. 
“Also, it has continued to make sure there would be birth control free of charge available to all women,” he said. “If he had gone back on that, that would have cost him a lot of votes from women who think that is very important.” 
The original decision to have reli­giously affiliated institutions provide preventive health services drew the ire of Catholic bishops. Colwell said Obama made the compromise with political allies in mind. 
“I don’t think there was so much concern with the bishops as it was about some of the people who have tended to support President Obama and the healthcare legislation,” Col-well said. “Some of them were upset and he was in danger of losing sup­port.” 
These supporters include Vice President Joe Biden and Senator Bob Casey (D-Pennsylvania.) However, Colwell said Obama did not risk losing support from Sister Carol Keehan of the Catholic Health Organization. 
“She has been a supporter of the president on healthcare matters,” he said. 
Despite reaching a compromise Friday, Colwell said Republican presi­dential candidates would not agree with any accommodation Obama proposes. Taking this approach runs the risk of driving female voters away from the Republican Party, Colwell said. 
“They have a real danger. If the Re­publican nominee is seen as opposed to birth control, then that’s a big, big plus for Obama in the election,” Col-well said. “There already is a gender gap where women tend to vote more Democratic … and if the Republican nominee would seem as opposed to contraceptives, that gap would be even wider and it would be harmful to the Republican nominee.” 
Colwell said the party is also mak­ing a gamble by shifting the focus away from economic issues. Doing so could change the dynamic of the elec­tion. 
“Republicans have wanted this election to be a referendum on the economy and how the president was handling that and budget issues,” he said. “They have tended to put some of the social issues on the back burner … now suddenly they are moving into some of those cultural issues. Maybe that will help them, but it does take some of the focus off the economic is­sues.” 
Colwell said that while the man­date seemed to initially hurt Obama politically, Friday’s accommodation could ultimately have beneficial im­plications. 
“Initially it was a negative,” he said. “It could turn out to be a positive if the Republican nominee is seen as op­posing contraceptive devices. Also, it might help him focusing on what the healthcare legislation does.” 
Colwell said since many Ameri­can’s don’t know what the Affordable Care Act does, Friday’s compromise may shed light on the positive aspects of one of Obama’s signature legislative accomplishments. 
“Now there is a lot of focus on what it would provide for women — free access to contraception,” he said. “It’s focusing on this as a preventive mea­sure, something that can hold down medical costs. If people focus on that and agree with that, then it could be a plus for [Obama.]” 
Colwell said discussion of the sub­ject would die down and only resur­face if the Republican presidential candidate pursued the matter. 
“I think it’s probably one of those issues that erupted and captured all of the headlines for several weeks,” he said. “I think it will simmer down some. It will basically be up to the Re­publican presidential candidate and Republican leadership in Congress if they want to pursue this.” 
Contact Sam Stryker at sstryke1@nd.edu 



Reform 
continued from page 1 
this shift is meaningful for us,” Snead said. 
University Spokesman Dennis Brown said Notre Dame is self-insured, but works with Meritain, a third party administrator that processes the Universi­ty’s claims and provides ad­ministrative services. Calls and emails to representa­tives from Meritain over the weekend were not returned. 
University President Fr. John Jenkins, who has spo­ken out against the con­traception mandate, called Friday’s announcement a “welcome step.” 
“The widespread concerns expressed by Catholics and people from other faiths have led today to a welcome step toward recognizing the freedom of religious institu­tions to abide by the prin­ciples that define their re­spective missions,” he said in a statement Friday. “We applaud the willingness of the administration to work with religious organizations to find a solution acceptable to all parties.” 
However, Jenkins said the University still plans to work with the govern­ment on unresolved issues regarding the contraception debate. 
“We look forward to join­ing the U.S. bishops and leaders from other religious institutions to work with the administration to re­solve them,” Jenkins said. 
Many are calling Obama’s new plan a “compromise” because it addresses con­cerns about religiously af­filiated organizations pay­ing for a product they do not believe in, while still giving women access to free con­traceptive services. 
Professor of political sci­ence Michael Desch called Obama’s plan a “bookkeep­ing” change. 
“It was clearly a compro­mise position in the sense that the contraception mandate is still there, it is just more of a bookkeeping thing,” Desch said. “It has been placed on the insur­ance companies rather than the institution.” 
Snead, however, said he does not consider Friday’s modification a “compro­mise,” even for institutions that do not self-insure. He said the new policy still re­quires religiously affiliated groups to purchase insur­ance that provides a ser­vice that goes against the groups’ moral beliefs. 
“It is naive to imagine that the services are truly cost-free and that these costs will not be passed along to the employers who purchase these plans,” Snead said. 
However, Desch said the modification was a realistic compromise for Obama and religious groups. 
“[Notre Dame’s] ideal sce­nario would have been [for the government] to com­pletely back off the mandate for contraceptive coverage, but I think it would have been unrealistic to expect that the Obama adminis­tration could walk that far back,” he said. “So this is a classic political compromise 
— both sides can point to it and say they got something out of it.” 
Desch said he believes the contraception debate will be just one of many reli­gious issues to pervade pol­itics in the future as the re­ligious and private sector of life increasingly converges with the public and secular sector. 

“There are going to be a lot more conflicts like this down the road,” he said. “It’s an opportunity to make Notre Dame the focus for creative thinking about a new balance between faith and the public sphere. 
“It’s a challenge in the sense that issues like this are difficult to resolve, but it is also an opportunity for the University to play a leading role in rethinking, moving forward, how we balance faith and the public sphere.” 
The United States Confer­ence of Catholic Bishops re­leased a statement Friday opposing the new policy. Bishop Kevin Rhoades of the Diocese of Fort Wayne-South Bend could not be reached for comment Friday because he was out of the country. 
Contact Sarah Mervosh at smervosh@nd.edu 
Midwest militants to stand trial 
Associated Press 

DETROIT — Seven mem­bers of a Midwest militia accused of plotting to over­throw the government are set to stand trial, where jurors will decide whether federal authorities prevent­ed an attack by homegrown extremists or simply made too much of the boasts by weekend warriors who had pledged to “take our nation back.” 
Opening statements are set for Monday once a jury is seated in the trial of members of the Hutaree militia, who are charged with conspiring to commit sedition, or rebellion, as well as weapon crimes. 
Following the March 2010 arrests in southern Michi­gan, Ohio and Indiana, U.S. Attorney Barbara McQuade said the time had come for authorities to “take them down.” An undercover agent had recorded the group’s leader, David Stone, saying the militia needed to “start huntin’” police soon. 
But since their capture, only one of nine people charged has struck a plea deal, an unusually low number in a case with so many defendants. Their at­torneys have maintained a consistent stance: The anti-government talk was simply colorful yet aimless bluster akin to frustrated pals drowning sorrows around a campfire. 
“I’m going to fight it tooth and nail,” David Stone’s wife and co-defendant, Tina Mae Stone, said dur­ing a break in jury selec­tion last week. “It was just a bunch of good ol’ boys out to have fun. We did sur­vival stuff. I did it mostly to spend time with my hus­band. People tell me, ‘good luck.’ I don’t need luck. I’ve got God on my side.” 
The militia prepared for survival in case of do­mestic chaos or an attack on the United States, at­torneys Todd Shanker and Richard Helfrick said in a court filing. They noted the group even had a website and promoted its weekend outings. 
“Regardless of the charg­es in the indictment, there is no dispute that the aims of the Hutaree militia in­cluded the free exercise of their 1st and 2nd Amend­ment rights, including free­dom of speech, association, assembly and the right to bear arms,” said the law­yers, who represent David Stone Jr. 
The indictment, however, describes a more sinis­ter band. The government says the Hutaree, based in Michigan’s Lenawee Coun­ty, was an anti-government group committed to fight­ing authorities who belong to a so-called “New World Order.” The defendants are accused of conspiring to someday ambush and kill a police officer, then at­tack the funeral procession with explosives and trigger a broader revolt against the 
U.S. government. 


“The Vow” outsells competition 

Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES — Love tri­umphed over action at the week­end box office with a No. 1 debut for the romantic drama “The Vow.” 
Studio estimates Sunday show that the love story starring Ra­chel McAdams and Channing Ta­tum took in $41.7 million to come in ahead of two new action tales and the first 3-D “Star Wars” re­issue. 
Landing a close second with $39.3 million was Denzel Wash­ington and Ryan Reynolds’ action thriller “Safe House.” Coming in solidly at No. 3 was Dwayne Johnson’s family action sequel “Journey 2: The Mysterious Is­land” with $27.6 million. 
And adding to George Lucas’ riches was the 3-D premiere of “Star Wars: Episode I — The Phantom Menace,” which was No. 4 with $23 million. That rais­es the lifetime domestic total for “Phantom Menace to $454.1 mil­lion. 

This was the first non-holiday weekend that four movies opened with more than $20 million each, said Paul Dergarabedian, analyst for box-office tracker Hollywood. com. The only other time when four new releases did that well was over Christmas weekend in 2008, he said. 
“It felt like a summer week­end to me,” Dergarabedian said. “This was like a great big valen­tine from Hollywood to the au­dience, or from the audience to Hollywood.” 
The four big debuts maintained Hollywood’s strong business dur­ing the normally sleepy winter. Overall domestic revenues to­taled $193 million, up 19.3 per­cent from the same weekend last year, when “Just Go with It” led with $30.5 million. 

So far this year, domestic re­ceipts are at $1.2 billion, 19 per­cent ahead of 2011’s. 
“I really believe people are in a movie-going mode,” said Nikki Rocco, head of distribution for Universal, which released “Safe House.” ‘’There have been great choices so far this year. I feel honestly that the mild weather has helped them enjoy winter­time for what it is. They’re not stuck inside, they’re not snowed in. Maybe people like to get out of the home rather than cocoon­ing.” 

Officials investigate Whitney Houston’s death 
Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES — Investiga­tors worked Sunday to piece together what killed Whitney Houston as the music industry’s biggest names prepared for a Grammy Awards show that will undoubtedly feel as much like a memorial as a celebration. 
Coroner’s officials say they will not release any informa­tion on Houston’s autopsy at the request of police detectives in­vestigating the singer’s death. Capt. John Kades says an au­topsy was scheduled Sunday, but that a security hold pre­vents him from releasing any details on its status or whether any probable cause of death has been established. 
Beverly Hills Police Lt. Mark Rosen said that his agency may release more details Monday about Houston’s death, but it will depend on whether detec­tives feel comfortable releasing any information. A member of Houston’s entourage found the 48-year-old singer unrespon­sive in her hotel room at the Beverly Hilton Hotel on Satur­day, just hours before she was supposed to appear at a pre-Grammy gala. 
Houston’s body arrived at the morgue early Sunday. An offi­cial determination of her cause of death will likely take weeks while investigators await the results of toxicology tests. 
Beverly Hills Police Lt. Mark Rosen said there were no signs of foul play when Houston was found by a member of her en­tourage. Paramedics worked to revive Houston, but were unsuccessful and the singer was pronounced dead shortly before 4 p.m. He said he could not comment on the condition of Houston’s room or where she had been found. 
Meanwhile, Houston’s daugh­ter was transported by ambu­lance to a Los Angeles hospi­tal Sunday morning and later released. A source close to the family who did not want to speak given the sensitivity of the matter said she was treated and released for stress and anx­iety. Bobbi Kristina Brown, 18, who is Houston’s daughter from her marriage to singer Bobby Brown, had accompanied her mother to several pre-Grammy Awards events last week. 
“At this time, we ask for pri­vacy, especially for my daugh­ter, Bobbi Kristina,” Bobby Brown wrote in a statement re­leased about an hour after she was transported from the hotel. “I appreciate all of the condo­lences that have been directed towards my family and I at this most difficult time.” 
Sunday’s Grammys were to feature a musical tribute to Houston by Jennifer Hudson, and the show is likely to feature remembrances from fellow mu­sicians on the red carpet and during the live telecast. During a show Saturday night at Cae­sars Palace in Las Vegas, Elton John called Houston an “angel” and the most beautiful woman he had ever seen. He then per­formed his melancholy classic “Don’t Let the Sun Go Down On Me.” 
Houston herself won six Grammys and had been expect­ed to perform at the pre-awards gala Saturday night thrown by music impresario Clive Davis, her longtime mentor. 
Davis went ahead with his annual party and concert, which were held at the same hotel where Houston’s body was found — and where it remained for most of Saturday night. He dedicated the evening to her and asked for a moment of si­lence. 
The singer seemed fine 
Houston had been at re­hearsals for the Davis concert on Thursday, coaching singers Brandy and Monica, accord­ing to a person who was at the event but was not authorized to speak publicly about it. 
The person said Houston looked disheveled, was sweat­ing profusely and liquor and cigarettes could be smelled on her breath. It was the latest of countless stories about the de­cline of a uniquely gifted and beautiful artist, once the golden girl of the music industry. 
The Rev. Al Sharpton remem­bered Houston while preaching Sunday morning at the Second Baptist Church in Los Angeles. 
“Yes, she had an outstand­ing range,” he said. “Yes, she could hit notes no one else could reach. But what made her dif­ferent was she was born and bred in the bosom of the black church.” 
The congregation applauded and answered him with shouts of “Amen” and “Tell it!” 
“A lot of artists can hit notes but they don’t hit us. Say words but they have no meaning. Have gifts and talent but no anoint­ing. Something about Whitney that would reach in you and make you feel,” Sharpton said. 
A sensation from her very first album, she was one of the world’s best-selling artists from the mid-1980s to the late 1990s. She awed millions with soaring, but disciplined vocals rooted in gospel and polished for the masses, a bridge between the earthy passion of her godmoth­er, Aretha Franklin, and the bouncy pop of her cousin, Di­onne Warwick. 
Her success carried her be­yond music to movies, where she became a rare black actress with box office appeal, starring in such hits as “The Bodyguard” and “Waiting to Exhale.” Bishop 
T.D. Jakes, a Texas minister and producer on Houston’s final film project, a re-make of the 1970s release “Sparkle,” said he saw no signs she was having any substance issues. He said Hous­ton was a complete professional and moved the cast and crew to tears two months ago when she sang the gospel hymn “Her Eyes on the Sparrow” for a scene shot in Detroit. 
“There was no evidence in working with her on ‘Sparkle’ that there was any struggle in her life,” Jakes said Sunday. “She just left a deep impression on everybody.” 
She had the perfect voice and the perfect image: gorgeous, but wholesome; grounded, but un-loving. And she influenced a generation of younger sing­ers, from Christina Aguilera to Mariah Carey, who when she first came out, sounded so much like Houston that many couldn’t tell the difference. 
But by the end of her career, Houston had become a stunning and heartbreaking cautionary tale. Her album sales plummet­ed and the hits stopped com­ing; her once serene image was shattered by a wild demeanor and bizarre public appearanc­es. 


page 8 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com Monday, February 13, 2012 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Staying the course 
It is said that our generation is largely apathetic. They say we are lazy and selfish and only care about ourselves. 
I go to Notre Dame, so I know they’re wrong. 
This university tells a different story. We have students spending spring break in Appalachia to try to understand the unique issues the region faces. We have students insisting we Marisa Iati Stand with Sudan through the Playing News Writer for Peace tour­nament. We have students traveling to Cambodia, Uganda and South Africa to provide witness to human rights abuses. 

Last weekend, college students from across the country gathered on our cam­pus to discuss prosperity and progress at the Human Development Conference. Over the next few weeks, Notre Dame students will participate in the annual Bengal Bouts boxing tournament to raise money for Holy Cross missions in Bangladesh. 
Notre Dame’s leaders address social justice issues in our local communities as well. Students are challenging food insecurity in South Bend through the eND Hunger campaign. They are developing meaningful relationships with the nuns at Saint Mary’s Convent. 
And they are advocating for an officially recognized Gay-Straight Alliance, not to contravene Church teaching, but to ensure that every member of the Notre Dame family feels at home on this campus. 
A few days ago, I met Cynthia and Felisha. They are 8 and 10 years old, they have the energy of caffeinated cocker spaniels, and they are endearingly sassy. They are also homeless. As I spend time with Cynthia and Felisha, I wonder how being homeless has shaped their child­hoods. I envision where they might be 10 or 20 years from now, and it is difficult for me to accept that I will never know. 
Cynthia and Felisha remind me that our job is not done. The students of this university do many great things, but much remains to be accomplished. The difficul­ty lies in staying the course of advocating for justice despite our overcrowded to-do lists. 
In 1842, Rev. Edward Sorin declared that our University must be “a powerful force for good” in the world. It is now on all of our shoulders to fulfill that dream and to propel it forward into the future. 
We know that we face a world in need, and we have heard the adage that to whom much is given, much is expected. Sometimes, though, we need to be reminded not to become discouraged. Seekers of social justice face many ob­stacles, and change almost never happens overnight. It is easy to consider our efforts fruitless. 
But the realities of our world pose a challenge to all of us. It is a challenge to stand up for something, even and espe­cially when it is easier to look the other way. It is a challenge to live in a manner that demonstrates our belief in the exis­tence of one human family, even though we will always encounter opposition. And it is a challenge to prove to earlier genera­tions that they are wrong. 
We are not apathetic, we do care and we are fighting. 
Contact Marisa Iati at      miati@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
What can we do about racism? “Probably not much.” “Nothing.” 
Popular answers would likely fall somewhere within that range. It’s such an embedded institution, you might say, there’s no hope of overturn-Hien Luu ing it — at least in the foreseeable Asiatic Gaze future. 
What if rac­ism isn’t even the issue? What if, akin to addressing the consequent B by addressing first its cause A, we could address a deeper issue that fuels rac­ism itself? 
Racism has nothing to do with color, just as sexism has nothing to do with sex or gender. At the end of the day, racism is based more on the attribu­tion of moral, social and political significance to a person’s pedigree. In other words, a person is to be judged based not on his or her personal ac­tions and character, but rather on the collective actions and characters of his predecessors. 
It sounds stupid to us, but only when boiled down to these sentences. It’s apparent, though, when it festers in a seemingly harmless way in our minds through preconceptions and judg­ments. In reality, this is how racism works. 
When viewed in these terms, rac­ism is simply the lowest, most crudely primitive form of collectivism. This is cause A. Collectivism manifests itself in every instance in which we hold other human beings simply as mem­bers of groups rather than individuals. 
At the core of each instance is the neglect of the individual and belief the collective is the source of identity and value. It is the driving force behind every loss of individual freedom in our personal, social and political lives. 
Here, things begin to look hope-
Individuation 
ful for us. If collectivism is at the root of racism, then it’s a simple matter of focusing on individualism, right? Well, not really. 
We should instead be looking to individuation. Individualism involves comparison and competition. It involves an imbalanced self-centeredness and self-elevation propped up by unfounded value judgments of others. Ultimately, individualism is a destructive force that drives people apart. 
Individuation, on the other hand, a term used in psychology, involves a growth that maintains both balance and unique individuality. To really pos­ses all of these things individuation en­tails — independence, self-determina­tion, original thought — is an extremely difficult feat for all of us. We bend each and everyday to others’ expectations and wishes, telling ourselves the whole time that we are freethinkers. 
Even for those of us who make it a task to be an individual, we simply look to the media to tell us how to be an individual. Through meticulously messy hipster clothing, peculiarly placed piercings, outlandish colored hair, stated obscure yet quirky interests, we can all be “individuals.” 
What they sell you, then, is merely an illusion of that individuality you so desperately seek. 
At the end of the day, the most in­dependent person could be the most normal-looking guy or gal in the room since individuation relies more on your willingness to sacrifice social accep­tance for your freethinking than your willingness to sacrifice your freethink­ing for social acceptance. 
Perhaps there is no need to go as far as the media and the industries to see the powerful arm which collectivism wields in our daily lives. We could look to our dorms, dining halls and class­rooms. How much are we learning in our classes? How striking or controver­sial or shocking are our interpersonal conversations? Are we really doing much besides getting the grades and the piece of paper called a degree? Or are we all living the lives others have told us are right, true, and a guarantee for happiness? 
You’re probably thinking this article has strayed from the issue of racism, but you cannot truly address racism if you do not first and foremost address its cause. To succumb to this method of thought and way of living is to be a victim of collectivism. To succumb to this method is to be a participant in the mainstream conversation that perpetu­ates preconceived notions of just about everything. 
We, more often than not, will make our decisions based on these embedded and unoriginal notions. We will expect whites to have it all coming to them. Or inversely, we will expect non-whites to cruise through life because of affirma­tive action and government handouts. We will expect blacks to behave one way, Asians another. 
In summary, we will expect traits independent of a person’s race to be dependent upon it. If we each could be our own individuals, we might begin to understand others as individuals as well. 
If we can begin to understand others as individuals, we wouldn’t be mak­ing value judgments of a human be­ing based on an imagined collective of many. If collectivism didn’t exist, racism wouldn’t exist. 
Thus, the most simple yet most dif­ficult solution to racism: be yourself. 
Hien Luu can be reached at hluu@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 

LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
The responsible use of contraception 
Over the past few weeks, Catholic leaders have accused the Obama administration of insensitivity to the “Catholic con­science” and called for a reconsideration of the recent H.H.S. mandate that universities and other Catholic institutions include contraceptives in their health care insurance package. 
President Obama has responded to their concerns by placing the burden of contraceptive coverage directly on the insur­ance companies. Catholic leaders should now heed the Gospel admonition that when we find fault with others, we should not overlook our own faults. “Why do you see the speck in your brother’s eye but fail to notice the beam in your own eye?” (Matthew 7:3). 
What better time than now for the Catholic community to return to a discussion of whether there is a moral difference between a “natural” and artificial contraception and to begin a discussion about the role that the responsible use of contra­ception may play in protecting women’s health and preventing unplanned pregnancies, too many of which lead to abortion. 
The discussion of the morality of contraceptives abruptly ended in 1968 when in his encyclical Humanae Vitae, Pope Paul VI over-ruled the recommendation of his own commission that the Church change its teaching on artificial contraceptives. 
The failure of this encyclical to convince Catholics and non-Catholics is a problem for the magisterium and the faithful. Catholic leaders should be no less concerned about the “sense of the faithful” than they are about expressing their objec­tions to the H.H.S. mandate. Members of the Notre Dame community can do both the Church and the country a service by engaging in humble and honest self-examination. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“Be true to your work, your word and your friend.” 
Henry David Thoreau 
U.S. author 

Clark and AnnMarie R. Power 
faculty University of Notre Dame Feb. 10 
WEEKLY POLL 
How are you? 
“I’m Sexy and I Know It” “I’m Rollin’ Like a Big Shot” “Baby I’m a Firework” “I Found Love in a Hopeless Place” 
Vote by 5 p.m. Thursday at 
ndsmcobserver.com 


Monday, February 13, 2012 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 9 
The new sexy: Authenticity 
When you hear the word “sexy,” what images or people pop into your mind? When I asked some Notre Dame students this question a few days ago, names like Rihanna, Bradley Cooper, Megan Fox, Katy Perry and Idris Elba were David Moss mentioned. In many ways the concept of Dr. D @ the GRC sexy depends on the “eye of the beholder,” and what we behold is influenced greatly by what the culture calls “hot.” 
Typically the term sexy refers to those attributes of an individual that can be easily assessed, usually by a quick glance. The new sexy isn’t really that new, but authenticity has lost its staying power in the technology driven, 24/7, competitive college environment. 
Although authenticity is based on something other than social standing or incredible good looks, it has the poten­tial to enhance a person’s sexy quotient exponentially. 
Everyone I have talked to about the new sexy agrees that authenticity creates an environment where great relationships can flourish. Both women and men say this is the kind of sexy they’re looking for. The question becomes, how do we make the new sexy a reality in our community. 
What does it mean to be authentic? When something is authentic, it is worthy of trust. You can rely on it, you can depend on it, you can believe in it.  We all know the difference between an authentic friend and one who we suspect might have a hidden agenda. In Proverbs 18:24 it talks about a friend that “sticks closer than a brother (or sister).” 
The Mayo Clinic and other medical re­searchers have written extensively about the health benefits of authentic friend­ships/relationships. These relationships can boost your happiness, increase your sense of belonging and purpose, reduce stress, help you cope with trauma and assist you in avoiding unhealthy lifestyle habits. In many respects our ability to live authentic lives will determine our quality of life both now and as we age. 
The first and most important step in authenticity is to, “Know thyself.”  So often we are encouraged to look at others to find out who we are, instead of paying close attention to who we are deep inside. What are your strengths and challenges, dreams and ambitions, likes and dislikes? What is your passion or, as they say in the South, what stirs your grits? 
Take some time to discover your family history. What makes your family story inspiring, quirky and uniquely wonder­ful? Whether we like it or not, our family is the foundation of our lives, and as we build upon that foundation, it is important to know all we can about the bricks we 
Appeal to the public first 
The past month has had me thinking a lot about Catholic teaching regarding abortion and contraception. Several of my friends went to the March for Life in Washington, D.C. a few weeks ago, and the news for the past few Andrew McGloin days has been filled with stories Guest Column about the health insurance mandate on Catholic employ­ers to provide contraceptive services to its employees. 
Although I lean left politically, I value my Catholic faith, and I can understand the efforts of Catholics to make the law correlate more closely to their beliefs. They certainly have made sound argu­ments backed by the First Amendment for their right to limit the services they provide in their health care plans, and I can certainly sympathize with their ef­forts to work against pro-choice legisla­tion. 
However, I can’t help but have doubts as to how far these efforts can really go. Many states already have laws similar to the contested mandate for contracep­tive services, and the Supreme Court has clearly established a women’s right to choose in Roe v. Wade. 
I do not mean to belittle the ambitions of Catholics involved in these pursuits, and I hope that they can fulfill their goals or reach a suitable compromise. However, to override Roe. v. Wade would likely require a constitutional amend­ment defending an unborn child’s right to life, and such a bill would be highly unlikely to even get through Congress, let alone be ratified by the 38 states required for legalization. 
The efforts of Catholics in regards to the health care mandate are a little more promising, but the Obama admin­istration seems determined to provide women with contraceptive services regardless of whether the insurance company or the Catholic employers pay for it. The ability of Catholics to promote their beliefs through legislation is at best uncertain. 
However, I think Catholics can and do have much more success in influ­encing individual people. Every day, people are drawn to the Catholic faith and are inspired by its teachings. When Catholics work to inform women about alternatives to abortion or contracep­tion, and explain their objections to certain contraceptive practices, I believe they have much more potential for suc­cess than they do lobbying government, where they face strong opposition from social liberals. 
If women working for a Catholic employer had no interest in using the contraceptive services provided to them, or if women as a whole tended to choose adoption over abortion, then the fact that these services were available would be much less significant. Furthermore, if citizens become more supportive of the Catholic viewpoint on these issues, then even Democrats will begin to ap­peal to the Catholic perspective, even if only slightly. 
I encourage Catholics to dream big and to work for legal protections to the right to life. However, I want to remind them that taking small steps can go a long way. Convincing people to make better personal decisions on their own is much more effective than forcing people to comply through legislation. By appealing to the general public first and lawmakers second, I think that Catho­lics can be successful in accomplishing their goals. 
Andrew McGloin is a freshman living in Alumni Hall. He can be reached at amcgloin@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
have inherited. 

Secondly, “To Thine Own Self Be True.” To the level you have discovered step one, apply that knowledge to the practical, everyday choices we all must make. Do I go to Fever when in fact I would rather get into a good book? Do I silently participate in the promulgation of a racist or sexist environment, or do I speak up at the ap­propriate time? 
Do I enable poor behavior by pretending that is cool when in fact it is probably one of the dumbest things I’ve ever heard? 
This step is where the rubber hits the road and a certain amount of sacrifice is mandated. If you are being true to yourself, it will be impossible for you to participate in, or approve of, everything that comes across your path. 
We’ve all done things that don’t fit who we claim to be — this is called being hu­man. If you haven’t done so already, now is the perfect time to begin the process of bringing consistency into your person­ality formation. The sooner you begin, the sooner you can move to authenticity, which becomes irresistibly sexy and a natural magnet for other authentic indi­viduals who will find you desirable. 
Forming authentic relationships is a futile process when individuals swing like pendulums . . . one day praying the Rosary and the next day scheduling a booty call. 
The third step in the new sexy is to find the authentic person in others and celebrate, encourage and support their autonomy. Once the first two steps are underway, this third step happens with very little effort. 
When you know who you are and you are able to walk consistently with that knowledge, you gain a natural apprecia­tion for the stories of other people. 
Their story is equal to yours, no bet­ter or worse. This allows you to engage socially without unrealistic expectations, to make reasonable choices about the activities you get involved in, and gives you the ability to respectfully challenge the inconsistencies you see in yourself and in your friends. 
In addition, because you have wrestled with your own inconsistency, you recog­nize the necessity of administering grace to others on this journey of growth and development. May this be the beginning of making the new sexy common place on our campus. 
Dr. G. David Moss is the Assistant Vice President for Student Affairs and the Interim Director for the Gender Relations Center. He can be contacted at gmoss@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Taxation must align with broader policies 
I was disappointed to see Thursday’s articles on the flat tax address it as an isolated issue. If there was a roughly even playing field for generating income, a flat tax would be eminently reasonable. 
If we lived in an agrarian society, for example, in which most families had a modest farm and some were more diligent in running them, we could identify merit as the operative principle of differentiation (simplifying, of course), and a flat, rather than progressive, taxation model would fit. 
I think this has been born out in some societies historically. Did we recently forget the basic principles of fairness? No, but it didn’t start with progressive taxation. It started with, among other dynamics, government policies supporting an economic model that structurally embraces enor­mous income stratification. 
For example, national investment in transportation infrastructure and communication technologies, as well as the colonization of resource-rich lands and the enactment of free-trade agreements, all create the possibil­ity of businesses and economies with a wide-based, pyramid-like struc­tures. 
The sheer size of the resulting entities and wealth concentrations neces­sitates corporate laws and direct government interventions that socialize the resulting risks, while privatizing the enormous potential profits. These profits are on a scale created not by the powers of those riding the crest of these money waves, but by the structure of the economy itself. People are needed to operate the levers of the wealth channels and populate the pent­houses on the top, and more people are needed to operate call centers and espresso machines at the base. 
As long as corporate law and government policy build upon technological and other pressures that push towards unprecedented income stratifica­tion, tax policy must reflect the resulting structural inequalities and be progressive. 
The ideal political platform will be realistic about the current need for progressive taxation, for both fairness and gathering adequate tax rev­enue, while looking to principles such as subsidiarity to create long-term policies that could chip away at the stultifying, pyramid-like contours of almost every structure in our economy. 
If the vigor fiscal conservatives put into arguing for a flat tax could be channeled into imagining some conditions for its appropriateness, that would be quite a start. 
Bert Fitzgerald 
Class of ‘09 South Bend, Ind. Feb. 10 



On campus 
What: Notre Dame Literary Festival Where: Eck Visitors Center and Geddes Hall When: Tuesday, Feb. 14 - Thursday, Feb. 16 Learn More: www.sub.nd.edu/ndlf 
DAN AZIC | Observer Graphic 


Monday, February 13, 2012 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 11 




By MARY CLAIRE O’DONNELL in 2007, but Houston was never the same. Scene Writer Whitney had a troubled last decade of 
her life, but she also had an influential 

Her words spoke to us. Her songs touched and chart-topping career. Physically she is our hearts and souls. And now she is gone, gone, but she is still here with us in spirit. taken from us on the brink of her come-So let’s celebrate her. back. Clive Davis, Houston’s mentor, said it 
Let’s take a second to pay some much-best in a statement released a few hours deserved respect for a legend, a diva in after her death about not cancelling a pre­every sense of the word. This is for you, Grammys party Houston was supposed to Whitney. My broken heart is with you now. attend. 
For those of you unfamiliar with Whit-“Simply put, Whitney would have want­ney — I know, it’s a shock, but there are a ed the music to go on,” Davis said. “And few people unfamiliar with this amazing her family asked that we carry on.” woman and her work — below is a brief And so we will, in any way we can. It’s life story. hard, because without her, we have noth-
Whitney Elizabeth Houston was born ing. But expressing grief is the best way to Aug. 9, 1963 in Newark, N.J. She grew up work through it. Social media has become in a musical household. By age 11, she was a popular way of expressing grief and performing with her gospel-singing moth-posting tributes. Channeling your inner er and received her first contract offer at Whitney through outfits and actions also 
14. works. Just remember to keep her and her 
In 1985, she released her debut album, family in your thoughts and prayers. “Whitney Houston,” to critical acclaim and Whitney truly was every woman. She embarked on a career that would span two paved the way for black female artists in decades with numerous hits and awards. the music industry, much in the way Mi-In fact, according to the Guinness World chael Jackson, another legend lost tragi-Records, Whitney is the most-awarded fe-cally early, did for black males. She fell male act of all time with 415 total career head over heels for a man and, blinded by awards as of 2010. Her top hits include “I her emotions, made some bad decisions. Want To Dance With Somebody,” “When Her bad decisions just happened to be ex-You Believe” and “I Am Every Woman.” tremely self-destructive, unfortunately. 
But Houston was not just a musical tal-She was a patriot. Her rendition of “The ent. She also appeared in a handful of Star-Spangled Banner” from the 1991 films, beginning with a starring role in Super Bowl was the only act to turn the “The Bodyguard” (1992) opposite Kevin national anthem into a huge pop hit. She Costner. Other noteworthy films, most of fought for human rights, refusing to work which she also provided soundtracks for, with agencies that did business with the include “The Preacher’s Wife” (1996) and then-apartheid South Africa. the made-for-television film “Cinderella” Carry on the memory of Whitney. Car­(1997). ry on her proud moments, her amazing 
In 1992, Houston married R&B singer achievements and her beautiful songs. Bobby Brown, and thus began her down-Remember her message of girl power, her ward spiral. Brown had a few run-ins with message of hope for the broken-hearted the law and put in some jail time. Hous-and her anthem for nights out with friends. ton’s drug use also started, or at least in-We will always love you, Whitney. It’s not creased, during her marriage. She began right that you’ve been taken from us, but showing up late to interviews and cancel-it’s okay. You’re in a better place. ling shows, and when she did appear, she was unhealthily skinny, sparking rumors Contact Mary Claire O’Donnell at                     of drug abuse. The couple finally divorced modonne5@nd.edu 
DAN AZIC | Observer Graphic 

SPORTS AUTHORITY 

Enjoy the last year of the glorious tournament 
I’m a little early on this topic, but when the proper time comes, I will no longer be contributing to the Sports Authority series. 
So if nothing else, rip this column out and set it aside until March 6. On that wonderful day, the final edition of the maddest portion of March Mad­ness begins: the Big East Tourna­ment. Un­fortunately, due to the evil known as confer­ence expan­sion, the Big East Tour­nament will never again stand as gloriously as it does now. 
Thus, I implore you: Enjoy this year’s classic. Thoroughly enjoy it, every single one of its five days. 
Enjoy the first day, Tuesday, when the bottom eight Big East teams fill Madison Square Garden with the smells of hope, despair and dwindling careers. If you doubt any of these eight teams, do so at your own risk. Connecticut started an 11­game winning John, not Jerian Grant and Eric Atkins. 

The quarterfinals were the site of the legendary Connecti­cut vs. Syracuse game in 2009. That saga stretched six over­times, even though Syracuse celebrated on the scorers’ table at the end of regulation. I repeat: six overtimes. 
Enjoy Friday’s semifinals. The Big East Tournament’s final four is a sight to behold, both on and off the court. On the court, Friday is when the hot team is revealed for what it is: either it had a good week or, with a win, it can prepare to hear CBS announce its name Sunday. 
Off the court, the stands fill with B-list celebrities, per­haps one or two A-listers for a bit. Dozens of rows behind them, fights will break out as beer hastens the arguments between Saint John’s fans and everyone else. The Garden will buzz for the last 10 minutes of the first semifinal, as fans of all four remaining teams fill Jeremy Lin’s play place. 
Enjoy Saturday, a day no Notre Dame team has ever had the chance to relish. The fifth of five days straight out of 
Jimmy Chit­
wood’s utopia, 
the winner 

streak on last year’s opening  Unfortunately, due to the evil known  receives an automatic berth  
day. You may  as conference  to the NCAA  
remember that winning streak  expansion, the Big East Tournament  Tournament. The loser holds  
ended with star guard Kemba Walker over- will never again stand as gloriously as it does now.  its breath. Enjoy this year’s Big East  

powering Butler for the National Championship. 
Enjoy Wednes­day, when the fans taking a long weekend start packing the greatest arena in sports. Of day two’s four games, I guarantee at least two come down to their last 30 seconds, if only because of the innate energy of the building. 
Enjoy Thursday, when the top four teams in the conference get off their laurels and join the fray. Those four teams, possi­bly even including Notre Dame, represent the finest basketball in the country. Yet, one will lose on this third day. One will run into a buzz saw like Connecticut was last year. At least one Tuesday or Wednesday squad will have meshed with Madison Square Garden. The ironically circular arena is known for giving shoot­ers woes. As a newcomer to this appetizer to the Big Dance, the top-four team who loses will not have adjusted to the vast sightlines. Those sightlines were designed for Billy Joel and Elton Tournament. 
Pittsburgh and 
Syracuse, last 
year’s regular season conference champion and this year’s safe bet for the same title, respectively, are both leaving the confer­ence. Don’t be too surprised if Connecticut or Georgetown follows suit. 
In their place come South­ern Methodist, Houston, Central Florida and, belatedly, Memphis. 
It won’t be the same. Will it even return to Madison Square Garden? We can only hope. 
For now, leave behind hope and worry. 
For now, rip this column out and set it aside. 
On March 6, enjoy. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer.
    Contact Douglas Farmer at dfarmer1@nd.edu 
PGA 

Mickelson wins tournament 
Associated Press 
PEBBLE BEACH, Calif. 
— He knew his game was getting close, and he broke through with flair Sunday in the Pebble Beach National Pro-Am. 
That turned out to be Phil Mickelson, not Tiger Woods. 
In a big, big way. 
Mickelson went from a six-shot deficit to a two-shot lead in just six holes, closed with an 8-under 64 for a two-shot victory over Charlie Wi and gave Woods a Sunday thrash­ing not many saw coming. 
Mickelson and Woods played in the second-to-last group, and Mickelson beat him by 11 shots. He won for the fourth time at Pebble Beach, and became only the ninth player in PGA Tour his­tory with 40 wins. 
“Pebble Beach ... it feels awesome no matter what number it is,” Mickelson said. 
It was anything but that for Woods, who was reduced to a supporting role on a cool, overcast day along the Pacific. Right when it looked as though Woods might still be in the game after holing a bunker shot for birdie on the par-3 12th, Mickelson an­swered by pouring in a 30­foot par putt. 
Mickelson seized control for good with a 40-foot par save on the 15th hole, and he played it safe — Mickelson is capable of that every once in a while — on the 18th hole and still made birdie. 
Wi, who started the final round with a three-shot lead, four-putted for double bogey on the opening hole and nev­er quite recovered. He closed with back-to-back birdies for an even-par 72 and his fifth runner-up finish on tour. 
It was the third straight week on tour that the win­ner started the final round at least six shots behind a 54­hole leader going after his first tour victory. 
The shocker, though, was how Woods fell apart. 
He has been taking big strides with his game over the past few months, and he looked poised to break through after a 67 in the third round at Pebble Beach got him to within four shots of the lead. 
But he failed to make birdie on the easy opening stretch at Pebble Beach, and even when he made his first birdie at the par-5 sixth, Mickelson poured in a 20­foot eagle putt to take the outright lead. 
“I didn’t hit it as bad as the score indicated, but I putted awful,” Woods said. “As good as I felt on the greens yesterday, I felt bad today. Anything I tried to do wasn’t working. Conse­quently, I made a ton of mis­takes on the green.” 


Two weeks ago in his 2012 debut at Abu Dhabi, Woods was tied for the lead with unherald­ed Robert Rock going into the final round and didn’t break par, tying for third. 
Woods used to own Mickel­son, but that changed at the 2007 Deutsche Bank Cham­pionship. This was the fifth straight time Mickelson posted the better score when playing in the same group as Woods in the final round. 
Mickelson has won three of those tournaments, although they have yet to be in the final group on those occasions. 
Mickelson started his season sluggishly, failing to crack the top 25 at the Humana Chal­lenge and Phoenix Open, and missing the cut at Torrey Pines. He said his putting was as good as ever, and it was a matter of getting his game in sync. 
It simply sang on Sunday, mostly his amazing touch on the greens — a long eagle putt at No. 2 that caught part of the hole, long two-putts for par and enough birdies to make him a winner at Pebble Beach again. 
“It feels just amazing,” Mick­elson said. “I felt like my game was there, but coming out the first couple of weeks, I posted some horrendous scores and started to question it. To be able to play the way I did the last 18 holes really means a lot.” 
Ricky Barnes closed with a 67 and finished third. Kevin Na tied for fifth and earned a spot in the Match Play Champion­ship in two weeks at Arizona. 
Wi talked about battling the demons of self-doubt, and they must have had the first green surrounded. Equipped with a three-shot lead to start the final round, Wi four-putted from 35 feet above the hole for a double bogey. 
Just like that, the game was on. 
That still wasn’t enough for Woods to get in on the action. Standing in the sixth fairway, Woods was only one shot out of the lead, yet the sleeves of his red shirt and his name on the leaderboard didn’t seem to make him stand out the way it has before. 
The opening holes had some­thing to do with that, and watching Mickelson play along­side him. 
Mickelson nearly holed an eagle putt across the second green; Woods missed a 5-foot birdie putt that stayed 2 inches above the hole. Mickelson holed a 15-foot birdie putt down the hill at the fourth; Woods had a 30-foot putt up the hill that was 3 feet short. Mickelson’s tee shot on the par-3 fifth settled a foot from the cup. Woods missed his birdie putt from 12 feet. 
Yes, there was a big charge at Pebble Beach — from Lefty. 
Mickelson started the day six shots behind and went two shots ahead with an eagle on the sixth hole. Woods then van­ished in a series of blunders — missing a 2½-foot par putt on the seventh, missed a 5-foot par putt on the eighth, and a third straight bogey at No. 9 when he hit his approach into the bun­ker. 
The only hope for Woods came on the 12th, when he holed his bunker shot. It looked like it might be a two-shot swing, pulling him to within three of the lead, until Mickelson made his 30-footer for par. 
On the next hole, Mickelson hit an approach to 2 feet and Woods’ tee shot landed in a divot. 
“It’s frustrating because had a chance,” Woods said. “All I had to do was get off to a good, solid start. And I didn’t do that.” 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The 
Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

Swim The currents will pull you You gotta swim Begging to tear down the dawn 
FOR RENT PERSONAL 
By: Jack’s Mannequin Away from your love Through nights that won’t end Memories like bullets 
Just keep your head above Swim for your families They fired at me from a gun 
You’ve gotta swim Your lovers your sisters Cracking me open now 
Swim for your life I found a tidal wave And brothers and friends I swim for brighter days WALK TO CAMPUS UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don’t Swim for the music Begging to tear down the dawn Yeah you’ve gotta swim Despite the absence of sun go it alone. Notre Dame has many That saves you Memories like bullets Through wars without cause Choking on salt water Great Specials! resources in place to assist you. 
When you’re not so sure you’ll They fired at me from a gun Swim for the lost politicians I’m not giving in If you or someone you love needs survive A crack in the armor Who don’t see their greed as a flaw Well I’m not giving in 
Studio, 1, 2, 3 Bedroom confidential support or assistance, 
You gotta swim I swim to brighter days I swim Townhomes available. please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819 And swim when it hurts Despite the absence of sun The currents will pull us or Ann Firth at 1-2685. For more The whole world is watching Choking on salt water Away from our love Swim, swim (574) 272-8124. information, visit ND’s website at: 
You haven’t come this far I’m not giving in Just keep your head above Just keep your head above To fall off the earth I swim I found a tidal wave Swim 
www.clovervillageapartments.com http://pregnancysupport@nd.edu 
MEN’S GOLF 

Coach signs contract extension 
WOMEN’S LACROSSE 
Irish finish preseason, look to open season 


By ANDREW GASTELUM 
Sports Writer 
Fresh off a three-month winter break, the Irish will resume their season in Florida sunshine Monday at the Match Play in Orlando with some added assurance about their future. 
During the break, Irish coach and 2011 Big East Coach of the Year Jim Kubinski signed a three-year contract extension through the 2013-2014 sea­son. The new deal follows a successful year where the Irish won their third Big East championship under Kubin­ski’s tutelage. Kubinski said the Irish return this season as favorites for the league title. 
“It’s great to be a part of the Notre Dame community for eight years,” Ku­binski said. “My wife and kids love liv­ing here and being a part of this. The sense of community and dedication to athletics is second to none. [The athletic department] liked the direction we are going and how we have positioned our­selves in the national spotlight.” 

But things haven’t fallen exactly in line for the Irish so far this season, Ku­binski said. Notre Dame’s early strug­gles have dropped them to 55th in the latest Golfstat rankings, but Kubinski is confident his team will pull through in the spring. 
“We came into the fall season with really high expectations after winning the Big East last year and we started nicely,” Kubinski said. “But those last three tournaments to end the season were pretty tough. We had guys bat­tling some injuries and changing their swings so we feel like we can improve off that.” 

Leading the Irish is reigning Big East Player of the Year senior co-cap­tain Max Scodro. According to Ku­binski, Scodro broke the Notre Dame record for least amount of strokes in a semester during the fall season. The senior was also invited to play at the Patriot All-America Invitational during the winter break, where he finished tied for 44th among some of the best golfers from every division in the NCAA. 
“The way Max is playing, the sky is the limit,” Kubinski said. “He will have the opportunity to turn pro af­ter graduation. And if he can match or better his play from the fall, he will definitely be in the considerations for All-American.” 
The Irish will play at Reunion Resort in Orlando, Fla., which will also play host to the Big East cham­pionships in late April. The double-elimination tournament features a different set of rules, more focused on individual, one-on-one matchups with members of the opposing team. 
“It’s a pretty mixed field with a lot of Big East teams,” Kubinski said. “It’ll be good to get some competition and work on things early in the season. 
“We are the No. 1 seed and are ex­pected to win, but crazy things hap­pen in match play so we will have to stay focused and kick off the season with a good start.” 
Notre Dame will begin the first round of the Match Play at the Re­union Resort in Orlando, Fla. on Mon­day against Loyola-Chicago. 
Contact Andrew Gastelum at agastel1@nd.edu 
By MATTHEW DeFRANKS 
Sports Writer 
The No. 20 Irish finished their preseason with a pair of away exhibition games against Johns Hopkins and Virginia Tech over the weekend. 
Senior attack Maggie Tama­sitis orchestrated the Irish of­
fense in both games, work­ing from be­hind the net in most instanc­es. Tamasitis 
— along with fellow seniors Megan Sulli­van and Jordy Shoemaker — was named a captain for the Irish this sea­son. Last sea­son, Tamasitis notched 46 assists while also chipping 
“I think that [the squad scrimmage the other day and 
girls] have been really 
I was pleasantly 
open to the new style 
surprised with 
we’re implementing ... 
where we were at.” 
The transformation 
On defense, the 
has been a daily 
Irish will have transformation.” huge holes to fill after the depar-Christine Halfpenny ture of Doherty and former de-
Irish coach 
in 21 goals for a team-high 67 points. 
“I think that [the girls] have been really open to the new style we’re implementing,” Irish coach Christine Halfpenny said last Wednesday. “The trans­
formation has been a daily transforma ­tion. It’s been really exciting to see them un­derstand that our change won’t be an endpoint. It’s going to be a constant work in progress.” 
While the Irish lost All-Americans Shaylyn Blaney and Jackie Doherty to graduation, sists. 
Junior midfielder Jenny Grang­er will also be back for the Irish after scoring 26 goals and dishing out 12 assists last season. Notre Dame returns three of its top four leading scorers from last year in Tamasitis, Brosco and Granger. 
“We continue to move for­
ward,” Halfpenny said. “Some days we’re like a locomotive mov­ing at light speed. We had an intra-
fender Lauren Fenlon. Doherty and Blaney com­bined for 85 of 
Notre Dame’s 188 caused turn­overs while Fenlon was crucial to the defense’s communication. 
“We lost a lot to graduation,” Halfpenny said. “This year’s team is brand new. These kids are re­ally talented. I have a number of talented play­ers that have just continued to develop right 
now.” 
“Some days we’re like 
Junior goal-
a locamotive moving at 
keeper Ellie 
light speed. We had an 
Hilling will 
intrasquad scrimmage 
assume the 
the other day and I was 
starting goalie pleasantly surprised position after with where we were at.” starting in all 19 contests last Christine Halfpenny year. She post­ed a 9.67 goals 
Irish coach 
against average and a .423 save percentage. 
The Irish will officially open 
they return a solid core of tal-their season Feb. 19 with a home ent. Sophomore midfielder Kai-date against Stanford. tlyn Brosco leads the midfield. As a freshman, Brosco scored Contact Matthew DeFranks at 32 goals and tallied eight as-mdefrank@nd.edu 


TRACK AND FIELD 

Five athletes compete at Grand Valley State 
By AARON SANT-MILLER 
Sports Writer 
With the Big East indoor championships fast ap­proaching, most of the team used this past weekend to prepare for the champion­ship meet. But last Friday, five Irish runners competed in one final meet before the team moved forward, run­ning in the GVSU Big Meet at Grand Valley State’s Kelly Family Sports Center. 
The athletes competed be­cause they either were un­able to do much racing up until Friday during the sea­son or needed another race to compete in the Big East championship meet, Irish coach Joe Piane said. 
“There were some guys who needed another race and we were happy that we were able to provide that for them,” Piane said. 
Freshman George Atkinson led the Irish with a fourth place finish in the 200-me­ter dash. Atkinson, also a Notre Dame football player, finished in a blazing 22.01 seconds. The time not only helped him place well in the race, but also qualified him to compete next weekend at the Big East championships. 
Sophomore Bennett Jack­son, who also plays for the Irish football team, finished sixth in the 60-meter hur­dles with a time of 8.23 sec­onds. 
“Bennett ran well in the hurdles and every time he runs he gets even better,” Piane said. 
Also running was Atkin­son’s brother, freshman Josh Atkinson. The brothers ran together in the 60-meter preliminaries with Josh At­kinson finishing 13th at 7.03 seconds and George Atkin­son finishing third at 6.85 seconds. George Atkinson went on to race in the finals for the 60-meter dash, fin­ishing 10th with a time of 
6.99 seconds. 
“George set a [personal record] in the 60-meter so that was a big race for him,” Piane said. “Also, Josh has been solid all year and this race was no different.” 
Sophomore Bryce Wood rounded out the men’s team. Wood also competed in the preliminaries for the 60-me­ter hurdles and placed 24th with a time of 8.80 seconds. 
The Irish women had only one racer, freshman Jade Barber. Barber competed in the women’s 60-meter hur­dles and placed 17th in the preliminaries with a time of 
9.14 seconds to qualify for the finals. In the finals, she finished 10th with a time of 
8.87 seconds. 
“Jade did a really good job with the hurdles and could very well make the finals this weekend at the Big East race,” Piane said. 
Meanwhile, the rest of the Irish runners were given the week off to prepare. 
“You can’t race every weekend, so this was a great weekend to have off for those who didn’t need another race,” Piane said. 
One of those runners who had the weekend off was ju­nior middle distance run­ner Jeremy Rae. 

“This is the first week we’ve had off in awhile, so we just took advantage of the opportunity and put in some hard work,” Rae said. 
This hard work will help the team in many ways for the race, some less obvious than others, Rae said. 
“Working hard this week­end gives us the ability to back off and rest a little bit during the week, which will pay off this upcoming weekend,” Rae said. 
The Irish will continue to prepare for the Big East championships, which take place Saturday and Sunday in New York City. 
Contact Aaron Sant-Miller at asantmil@nd.edu 
MEN’S TENNIS 

Irish win two of three over weekend 
By WALKER CAREY 
Sports Writer 
The Irish took to their home court three times this past weekend, earning wins over Wisconsin and IUPUI and suffering a loss to No. 6 Kentucky. 
The No. 30 Irish (8-4) opened the weekend sweep­ing Wisconsin (2-1) 7-0 Fri­day night. Irish coach Bob­by Bayliss said the victory had some extra significance for his team. 
“It was great to get the sweep and the victory over Wisconsin,” Bayliss said. “Wisconsin has given us some real tough matches over the year, so to go out there and play real well re­ally meant something to us. It was an important and im­pressive victory.” 
Facing Kentucky (9-0) in their first match Sunday af­ternoon, the Irish put forth a valiant fight before eventu­ally falling to the Wildcats 4-3. 
“The loss to [Kentucky] was a thriller and we unfortu­nately came out on the wrong end,” Bayliss said. “Since the beginning of the season, I have thought that we have the capability of being an elite team, so it was great to see us play a very elite team so close. You always want to get a victory, but I am really happy with the way we played and the way we fought. There are a lot of positives that we can take from that match.” 
Sophomore Greg Andrews earned a 6-3, 6-2 victory at No. 2 singles over nationally ranked No. 13 Alex Musi­alek. The victory brought An­drews’ record on the season to 10-1. 
“[Andrews] has been play­ing very well for us,” Bayliss said. “He has gotten some big victories over some very good players. He was very sharp Sunday and was able to get an impressive victory over a strong opponent.” 
The Irish finished their weekend schedule by knock­ing off IUPUI (2-5) 7-0 in a match in which Bayliss was able to give a few players some rest. 
“We had a lot of guys who were pretty spent, so it was nice to be able to give them some rest,” Bayliss said. “The guys we had in the lineup who are not usually starters came in and got the job done, so that was good for us. I was proud of the way everyone worked and was obviously happy to come away with the victory.” 
The Irish return to ac­tion this Saturday when they travel to Ann Arbor, Mich., to take on No. 28 Michigan. 
Contact Walker Carey at wcarey@nd.edu 


Big East 
continued from page 20 
sweep both events at the Big East championships. 
“I’m very happy with my per­formance,” Nemetz said. “I wasn’t really going in with ex­pectations, but the meet definite­ly worked out well.” 
Freshman, Michael Kreft, add­ed 31 points of his own, taking third and fourth in the 3-meter and 1-meter dives, respectively. Senior Sean Rademaker and freshman John Andrade also qualified for the 1-meter final and took seventh and eighth, re­spectively. 
Four of the eight finalists in the 1-meter event were Irish athletes. 
“The team’s performance was really great,” Nemetz said. “We had four guys get to finals in the 1-meter. Everyone was pretty proud of that.” 
The Irish will begin the swim­ming portion of the champion­ships Wednesday with a 57-point lead over second-place Pitts­burgh. Perennial favorite and defending champion Louisville is 102 points behind. Last season, the Irish were second to Louis­ville in the final standings, losing by 214 points. 
“It was a good weekend be­cause we gave ourselves a lead over Louisville, which will help the swimmers,” Nemetz said. 
Not only did the Irish sweep the diving events, but diving coach Caiming Xie also won Big East Men’s Diving Coach of the Year. 

“I think Coach Xie deserved it,” Nemetz said. “There weren’t any other teams with four guys in the finals of one event and a Big East cham­pion on both boards.” 
Overall, Nemetz said the Irish were happy with their performance this weekend. 
“I think this meet shows how much our team has pro­gressed throughout the sea­son,” Nemetz said. “Everyone competed much better than they have all season.” 
The swimming team will try to hold on to the lead the divers provided in Pittsburgh. For the divers, focus shifts to the NCAA Zone diving cham­pionships in March. Nemetz and Kreft, along with fresh­man Ted Wagner and junior Ryan Koter, will represent the Irish at the event. 
“I’m going to keep train­ing,” Nemetz said. “I’m going to get ready for NCAA Zones by polishing my dives, and getting more consistency is important.” 
The Irish divers will com­pete in the NCAA Zone div­ing championships begin­ning March 9. The swimming team will resume the Big East championships Wednesday in Pittsburgh. 
Contact Jonathan Warren at jwarren3@nd.edu 
ND WOMEN’S SWIMMING AND DIVING 
Irish stand in second at Big East 
By BRIAN HARTNETT 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame’s divers helped spur the Irish to a strong show­ing at the Big East diving cham­pionships in Pittsburgh over the weekend. A first-place finish and multiple top performances vault­ed the team into second place in the overall Big East team stand­ings. 
Junior diver Jenny Chiang brought home the victory for the Irish in Saturday’s 3-me­ter dive event, finishing with a score of 320.90 to win the title by 11 points. Chiang has now won three consecutive 3-meter dive titles, becoming only the sixth in­dividual and second diver to win three Big East titles in one event. 
“It’s definitely exciting to win the title for the third year in a row,” Chiang said. “I was a little disappointed after the 1-meter dive, but I came through in the 3-meter.” 
Chiang placed third in Friday’s 1-meter dive event, finishing one place behind Irish freshman Al­lison Casareto. 
Casareto concluded the event with a score of 283.80, edging out Chiang by three points and fall­ing just four points behind the winner, Connecticut’s Danielle Cecco. This performance earned Casareto and Chiang All-Big East honors, marking the first time Casareto has received such hon­ors and the fourth time for Chi­ang. 
Casareto also reached the fi­nals in the 3-meter dive, placing seventh with 247.45 points. 
“Allison performed really well for her first Big East meet,” Chi­ang said. “To be able to come in as a freshman and accomplish what she has is huge.” 
With the divers’ strong perfor­mances, Notre Dame currently sits in second place in the Big East women’s team standings. The Irish, who have accumulated 71 points, sit three points be­hind Louisville heading into the swimming portion of the Big East championships. 
Chiang attributed the team’s success over the weekend to the divers’ consistency and sharp mental focus gained during prac­tice and competition. 
“Being consistent and able to handle pressure are key in com­petitions,” Chiang said. “We have managed to stay mentally fo­cused and not let pressure affect our performances. 

“I think that these abilities come largely through practice, which is a big time commitment both in-season and during the off-season.” 
Notre Dame will look to build on the success of the diving team when the swimming team heads to Pittsburgh to compete in the Big East swimming champion­ships, which run Wednesday through Saturday. The Irish will attempt to win an unprecedented 15th title in only 17 years as a Big East member. 
Contact Brian Hartnett at bhartnet@nd.edu 



evaded his grasp. the junior Shapiro exchanged 
McGinley 

Casiano looked poised to come punches all match, but Cun­back in the third round, landing ningham gained an edge in the continued from page 17 an uppercut on Dupont early. final round and defeated Shap-
His efforts were not enough iro by unanimous decision. 
gained control midway through though, as Dupont was awarded Cunningham started out fast 
the round, ending it with a fierce the victory by unanimous deci-with a solid rally of shots to the 
uppercut. sion. body. Shapiro then countered 
Hemington was awarded the by pushing the pace as Cun­
victory by unanimous decision. Joel “Hashtag” Hlavaty def. ningham tried to respond on the 
Josh Smith move against the ropes.  Cun-
Keegan “Unicorn and Butter-The sophomore Hlavaty came ningham then threw a flurry of 
flies” Somers def. Alec “Hot out firing and took an early lead body punches, but Shapiro held 
Like Sauce” Hollis in the fight, dominating the first off the attack for the remainder 
In a closely contested fight, round due to a rally of jabs and of the round. 
the senior Hollis attempted to body punches. Shapiro could not continue to 
set the tone early, connecting Hlavaty started out the sec-hold off Cunningham in the final 
on a right hook at the start of ond round just as fast, but the round though, as Cunningham 
the first round. Hollis remained freshman Smith held off any won by unanimous decision. 
on the offensive for the rest of big shots and continued to fight 
the round, but the freshman with tenacity leading into the Peter “Ye Ye” Teneriello def. 
Somers proved able to counter third. Mike Magill 
several of his punches. In the final round, Hlavaty In a bout that changed mo-
Both boxers landed fierce showed no sign of stopping and mentum in the final round, Ten-
punches throughout the second pushed onward, ultimately win-eriello defeated Magill by unan­
round, but neither was able to ning by unanimous decision. imous decision. 
gain full control of the fight. Magill started out round one 
Hollis started out the third 158 Pounds with a flurry of jabs, as Teneri-tempo, managing to force Kim in before the final bell. 
round with a flurry of punches ello dodged and moved around into a corner. In the third round It was not enough though, as 
but Somers successfully turned Mark “Felder? I Barely Knew the ring. Teneriello became though, Kim once again took Kissling’s strong second round 
the momentum, fighting off Hol-Her!” Felder def. Michael more aggressive in the second control, knocking down Wrigley. earned him the victory by unan­
lis and landing his own series of “Uncle Ben’s Finest” Rice round, though, and dealt out Wrigley took a knee, but soon imous decision. 
punches to end the round. Graduate student Felder set jabs to Magill. Magill managed got back up and responded in 
In a split decision, Somers the tone for the fight early in to land a few jabs to Teneriello, the closing minute. Danny Leicht def. Scott “Boot­
took the victory. the first round, coming out with but Teneriello still held a solid He made a push forward, but strap” Rousseau 
a strong attack that featured a advantage heading into the Kim’s endurance proved to be The junior Leicht took ad-
Josh “Pride of the South” powerful left hook and left the third.  the difference, wearing Wrigley vantage of his experience in 
Whelan def. J.D. Zarate sophomore Rice wobbling to-Teneriello kept up this mo-down and earning Kim the vic-his victory over the freshman 
The sophomore Whelan and ward the corner at the end of mentum, and Magill struggled tory by split decision. Rousseau. In the first round, 
law student Zarate both traded the round. to make any solid contact dur-Rousseau started the fight with 
punches throughout the first The second round was marked ing the final round. Tim “Timbow Slice” Kissling intensity by constantly push-
round, with Whelan rebuffing by several punches to the upper Teneriello’s boxing skill and def. John “The Sandman” ing towards Leicht, who took 
Zarate’s attempts at low body body by Felder, two of which persistence earned him a unan-Sandberg advantage of this forward lean 
shots. knocked Rice into the ropes. imous decision win in a battle of The senior Kissling won a and found the holes in his de-
The second round followed a Felder used a few uppercuts to seniors. close match against the sopho-fense. Throughout the fight, 
similar pattern, with both box-land several headshots on Rice. more Sandberg that was decid-Leicht used precise hits to keep 
ers trading jabs, until Whelan Rice landed the first punch of Joey Kim def. Jake “Bonesaw” ed by a few key moments in the Rousseau from getting too close. 
broke away at the end, landing the third round but was quickly Wrigley second round. In both the second and third 
an intense flurry of body shots countered by Felder’s strong Two aggressive boxers went In the first, Kissling hit Sand-rounds, Leicht consistently hit 
on Zarate to conclude the round. flurry of punches. After Felder toe to toe, as the junior Kim berg hard to pause the fight, but Rousseau as he tried to rush to-
Whelan overpowered Zarate moved Rice into the ropes, the earned a hard fought victory the two then exchanged shots wards him. In the final round, 
in the third round of the fight, referee decided to stop the over the sophomore Wrigley. equally for the rest of the round. Leicht chose his spots to be ag­
utilizing a series of low body match and award the victory to Kim started out the fight with The key to the fight though, was gressive and seal the win in a 
shots to force Zarate onto the Felder. a rally of body shots, but Wrigley when Kissling knocked Sand-unanimous fashion. 
ropes twice during the round. responded towards the end of berg down in the second round. 
Whelan’s final round efforts Sean “Dark Side of the Moon” the round with counterpunches Sandberg managed to push for-Contact Brian Hartnett at 
helped him earn the victory by Mullen def. Michael “Silence to the head. In the second, Wrig-ward for the rest of the round, bhartnet@nd.edu and Brandon Bell 
unanimous decision. of the” Lamb ley was the one controlling the getting a strong rally of punches at bbell2@nd.edu. 
In a battle of Wisconsin na-

Andrew “Fess the Mess” Fes-tives, the senior Mullen came 
sler def. Pat Gallagher out swinging, unleashing a 
The senior Fessler wasted no rapid fire of punches to begin 
time getting to work in this fight, the first round. The sophomore 
landing several low body shots Lamb tried to counter with a se­
on the freshman Gallagher to ries of high jabs but was quickly 
begin the first round. Despite fought off by Mullen. 
attempts by Gallagher to fend Mullen dictated the tempo of 
off the attack, Fessler continued the fight in the second round, 
to throw and land well-timed landing several headshots and 
jabs. Fessler concluded the first high body shots. After ducking 
round with a quick uppercut to Lamb’s punch, Mullen success-
the face that left Gallagher wob-fully moved Lamb back into the 
bling back to his corner. ropes to finish the round. 
As a result, the referee called The final round saw both box-
the match at the beginning of ers swinging at each other with 
the second round, awarding fast series of punches. Lamb 
Fessler the victory. landed a few headshots, but 
his efforts were not enough, as 

Sunoh Choe def. John Gawey Mullen captured the victory in 
In a powerful demonstra-unanimous fashion. 
tion of boxing, the junior Choe 

came out and overpowered law Nick “El Toro” Yulan def. “Fat” 
student Gawey from the very Robert “Bobert” Blume 
beginning. Choe started out the The first round saw both 
round on the offensive, attack-fighters come out and establish 
ing with a strong series of body periods of intermittent domi­
shots that Gawey was not able nance. It was the sophomore 
to counter. Choe broke through Yulan’s performance, however, 
with a tough punch to the ribs that established the advantage, 
that knocked Gawey down. as he briefly knocked the junior 
With Choe showing no signs Blume down with a strong body 
of stopping his attack in the sec-shot. 
ond round, the referee decided Blume put up a strong per-
to end the fight, awarding Choe formance in the second round, 
the victory. getting out on the offensive and 
landing several upper body 

Andrew “The King of Sting” shots. 
Dupont def. Rene Casiano Fatigue set in during the 
In a close match, senior Du-third, with both boxers fading 
pont began the match with the toward the end of the round. 
upper-hand on graduate student But Yulan made his case early 
Casiano, forcing him against the in the round with a powerful 
ropes and keeping Casiano at right hook that almost knocked 
bay with a series of quick jabs. Blume down. This effort helped 
The second round was more Yulan win the fight in a split de­
of a defensive battle, with nei-cision. 
ther boxer landing too many 

punches. Dupont was able to Greg Cunningham def. Dan 
once again push Casiano onto Shapiro 
the ropes, but Casiano quickly The senior Cunningham and Garvin earn the victory in a won by unanimous decision.  



Bouts 

split decision. 
Kevin “Kat Daddy” Katalinic continued from page 20 Will O’Laughlin def. Gong def. Armando Cordoves 
“Can’t Touch This” Weng In a unique matchup between Andy Fausone  def. Bob “Little Senior O’Laughlin and junior a freshman and a law student, Guy” Pak Weng entered the ring with the younger Katalinic defeated 
In a competitive match, Fau-a visible intensity that would Cordoves by stoppage. sone rallied in the final round to characterize the entire fight. The two exchanged big win by unanimous decision.  The first round saw both fight-punches early as Cordoves first 
In the first round, Pak and ers land some big punches, put up a rally against Katalan­his fellow freshman Fausone with O’Laughlin connecting on ic, but Katalinic responded and exchanged shots early. Fau-several headshots and Weng put Cordoves against the ropes sone soon took control, trapping landing several unblocked body until the end of the round.  Pak against the ropes, but Pak shots. In the second, it appeared managed a big counterpunch Weng began the second round that Cordoves had a dead arm, that stunned Fausone. A flurry on the attack but was soon yet he pushed on and kept fight-of jabs to the face by Fausone countered by O’Laughlin, who ing. After a short stoppage to knocked Pak to the ground.  landed two headshots and kept treat his arm, Cordoves came 
Pak landed a rally of upper-Weng on the ropes at times. back and had a late rally on cuts at the end of the second Weng proved successful at Katalinic. Cordoves’ shoulder round that gave him momen-ducking some of O’Laughlin’s gave out once again, though, tum. But in the third round, strong blows but could not and the fight was stopped in the Fausone retaliated with his own evade a strong headshot and second round, giving Katalinic flurry of punches. fierce uppercut that forced him the victory.    
In a hard-fought battle, Fau-into the ropes. The two fight­sone was awarded the victory in ers traded blows throughout 148 Pounds unanimous fashion. the remainder of the match, but 
O’Laughlin did just enough to Ryan “Ho-Cro Heart” Power unanimous decision. a flurry of attacks until Calde­142 Pounds earn the victory by split deci-def. Rob Luceri ron finally landed an uppercut 
sion. True to his name, the senior Tighe “One Touch Son of a” on Charnley.  Chris “Heavy Hands” Hinman Power opened the match with Beach def. Tom “I’m Not Here Despite Charnley holding off a def. Tony “Milk Was a Bad Charles “Charlie” Lee def. a relentless series of powerful to Make Friends” O’Brien knockdown, Calderon managed Choice” Maher Connor “Mama Bear” Chelsky punches, forcing the sophomore The first round saw both to win by unanimous decision. 
The law student Hinman used In the quickest bout of the Luceri into the ropes in a matter fighters come out with strong his set of heavy and quick hands day, the junior Lee defeated the of seconds. Luceri made a val-intensity, which would continue Joe Brogan def. Garrett Garcia to overpower the senior Maher freshman Chelsky by stoppage iant attempt to stop Power, but throughout the match. O’Brien Brogan defeated his fellow from the start. Hinman began in the first round. Lee came the senior continued to knock landed a headshot to start the freshman Garcia by unanimous the fight with a set of tough rushing in and stunned Chelsky him around the ring, conclud-round, but the senior Beach decision in a closely contested body shots, quickly forcing Ma-early on, stopping the fight. ing the performance with a de-came back to force his sopho-match.  her into the corner in the first Chelsky showed persistence monstrative punch that left Lu-more opponent onto the ropes. Garcia started off the first round. and got back in the ring, but Lee ceri on the ground. Both fighters fended off flur-round with the upperhand 
The second and third round came out again with a tremen-As a result, the referee ries of punches in the second but Brogan ended the round followed a similar pattern, with dous rally, drawing blood from awarded Power the victory by round, utilizing strong defenses with a flurry of punches. Bro-Hinman landing several series Chelsky. knockout in the first round. to keep the match close. Beach gan began the second with the of low body shots to keep Maher The fight was then stopped made a slight break-through same momentum before Garcia at bay. Maher tried one last at-again, and Lee was declared the Casey “Man Beast” Allare def. by landing a strong left hook to responded with a few upper-tack in the third round, but Hin-winner. Tom La O’Brien’s face, again knocking cuts that stung Brogan. Garcia man knocked him back into the In a battle of Texans, junior him against the ropes. dodged and weaved early in the ropes, en route to a unanimous Nick Rowek def. Elliott “Elmo” Allare took control of the match Beach took control in the final third round, but Brogan eventu­season win. Trostel from the start, landing a series round with a series of powerful ally connected and started to 
Rowek stuck to a consistent of body shots on senior and Ob-jabs, nearly knocking O’Brien pin him against the corner. He Jackie “The Forgetful House-style against Trostel, ultimately server photographer La to begin through the ropes at one point. shook Garcia, and the fight was cat” Garvin def. Matt Fallon winning by unanimous deci-the first round. La made several This effort earned Beach the paused.  
This closely contested match sion.  attempts to land headshots on victory by split decision. Brogan held onto the advan­opened with an evenly-matched The junior Rowek went low on Allare but was repelled by Al-tage and won by unanimous de­first round, as the sophomore his freshman counterpart early lare’s strong defense. Alex Calderon def. Stephen cision.  Garvin and the freshman Fallon with a flurry of body shots, a Allare continued his strong “Stevie” Charnley both landed head shots. strategy he employed to his ad-performance in the second Thanks to a persistent attack, Eric “Squirrel” Tommarello 
The second round saw much vantage throughout the bout. round, landing several more the junior Calderon defeated the def. Ian Cronin of the same, with neither box-Trostel started out the second body shots and pushing La freshman Charnley by unani-Backed by a loud support­er gaining clear control of the round with a rush of jabs, but around the ring at the begin-mous decision. ing crowd, the freshman Tom-fight. Fallon tried to gain an ad-Rowek held him off and con-ning of the round. La started In the first round Calderon marello conducted strong vantage on Garvin with a set of tinued to land body and head to break through at the end of charged in, controlling the tem-punches from the outset, caus­quick, high punches, but Garvin shots. the round, notching a few body po for most of the round and ing the fight to be stopped mo-kept up a strong defense. Trostel came into the third shots to keep Allare in check. pushing Charnley against the mentarily so that the train-
Garvin distinguished him-with a good exchange and com-La made one final stand in ropes. The fight was stopped ers could tend to Cronin for a self in the third round, landing bination of punches, but Rowek the third, pushing Allare in the shortly into the second round bloody nose. Cronin came back several low body shots followed caught him off guard with a ropes early in the round. Allare as Calderon came back in for with tenacity, but Tommarello up by a few shots to the face, strong shot to the body. regained his composure to put the attack. Later in the second, countered, stopping the fight drawing blood from Fallon. At the end of the round, Row-up a strong defense, ultimate-Calderon went back in for the again with a punch to the soph-This strong final effort helped ek held Trostel’s final push and ly earning him the victory by knockout, but Charnley avoided omore Cronin’s nose.  
In the second round, Tom­marello continued to land big uppercuts to the face and body, but Cronin pushed forward and made a rally of his own in the final portion of the round.  


Tommarello controlled the tempo in the final round though, holding off any major rallies and winning by unanimous de­cision.  
154 Pounds 
Calvin Hemington def. Peter “The Wild Irish Rose” McGin­ley 
The sophomore Hemington set the tone of this fight with a strong performance from the beginning of the first round, landing a wild series of body shots on McGinley and forcing him against the ropes. 
Hemington continued his per­formance in the second round, landing several headshots and left hooks on McGinley. The freshman countered with a quick set of punches at times but was mainly on the defensive for the rest of the round. 
McGinley made efforts to­ward a comeback in the third round, beginning with a flurry of punches, but Hemington re-
see McGINLEY/page 16 


points and 14 rebounds, was a ally have that fire under us that ball over nine times in the first emiah Kelly’s 17 points. How-
Grant 

force in the low-post all after-we have had in the last couple half, leading to an 11-0 points-ever, the Irish managed to out-
continued from page 20 
points and 22 total points to seal the Irish victory. 
“[Atkins and Grant] really be­lieve we are going to win,” Brey said. “We’ve not had a backcourt like that in our history … When they sense the moment, they’ve made big plays for us.” 
Cooley, who finished with 22 noon, hitting all five of his shots in the first half while also re­cording four blocks. The junior had the task of defending the Blue Demons’ leading scorer, holding sophomore forward Cleveland Melvin to 16 points. Cooley also drew a big charge with just over a minute left in the game to stifle the DePaul at­tack. 

“In the first half we didn’t re-
Ferris St. 
continued from page 20 
about competing harder and be­ing difficult to play against. 
“I felt we were doing that, but then we gave up two early goals, and it was more a matter of try­ing to shake that up and trying to move forward. “ 
The move worked initially, as junior center Riley Sheahan scored on a slapshot later in the first, finally slipping a puck past the previously impregnable Nel­son. However, Ferris State closed out the game with three more goals, pushing their unbeaten streak to 12 games with a 5-1 vic­tory. 
“We started off with them giv­ing up a couple of early goals and got off track,” Jackson said. “I ac­tually thought we played pretty well in those next 30 or 40 min­utes before they scored the third goal. We had chances, and their goaltender played really well, but right now we’re fighting it. Scor­ing goals has really become an obstacle.” 
With the series sweep, Notre Dame now falls into a tie for sev­enth in the conference, with just four games left to play before the CCHA playoffs begin. The road will get no easier for the Irish this weekend, as they’ll have to travel to take on No. 20 Miami. There, 


WVU 
continued from page 20 
said. 
Diggins led the Irish with a career-high 32 points. Graduate student forward Devereaux Pe­ters grabbed 17 rebounds and re­corded a career-high six blocks, but added only four points. Sun­day’s game marked the fifth time in the last six games that Pe­ters has reached at least 15 re­bounds, becoming the third Irish player to have five such games in a single season. She is the first to do so since Shari Matvey in the 1979-1980 campaign. 
Despite Peters’ effort, Bussie led the Mountaineers’ domina­tion down low with her 22 points, eight rebounds and three blocks. 
“She’s an aggressive player and she really got us deep and was finishing,” Peters said of Bussie. “We couldn’t stop it. We weren’t keeping her out of the paint and she was getting easy layups. We weren’t doing our job on defense.” 
The Irish offense struggled in the game’s opening stanza as early fouls and turnovers pre­vented Notre Dame’s normally potent scoring attack from tak­ing control. The two teams traded baskets for the entire first half, with neither side open­ing up a lead of more than five points. West Virginia’s defense limited the Irish offense to a two-pronged attack, with 28 of Notre Dame’s 33 first-half points coming from Diggins and senior guard Natalie Novosel. 
“I thought West Virginia played a great game,” McGraw said. “They are a very, very good team. They are a very good de­fensive team, they got us out of our rhythm and besides Skylar, nobody could really get anything going offensively.” 
Despite their struggles, the Irish carried a 33-30 lead into halftime. Sparked by an 11-5 run to begin the second half, Notre Dame proceeded to push its lead to 11 points with just over 13 minutes left on the clock. The Mountaineers responded with a quick 7-0 run of their own and were able to stay with the Irish the rest of the way. 

“We didn’t execute the offense like we have been. We weren’t able to put the kind of numbers that we usually do on the board,” McGraw said. “We were not shooting the ball well from the perimeter, and trying to drive it, they packed it in and took it away. 
“Down the stretch, we are such a smart team and today we just looked flustered.” 
The loss snapped the second-longest winning streak in school history for the Irish, whose only other loss this season came Nov. 20 against No. 1 Baylor. 
“[I’m] really disappointed,” McGraw said. “Really, really disappointed for everybody. But hopefully that gets the pressure off our back and now we can set­tle in and start playing our game again because we really didn’t play our game today.” 
With only four games re­maining in their regular sea­son schedule, including road games at No. 20 Louisville and No. 3 Connecticut, the Irish will have to regain their composure in a hurry. Diggins said Notre Dame’s loss Sunday came from a lack of intensity. 
“We obviously became com­placent,” she said. “We didn’t play any defense. We haven’t practiced with intensity this week and it showed. So we have to come back, it’s not the end of the season, it’s a loss, a bad loss. 
“You know this league that we play in, and we know it, too — any team can lose and we were at home … We have to learn from this loss, but you have to let it go and get ready for the next game.” 
The Irish will look to rebound Tuesday when they host Provi­dence at 7 p.m. 
Contact Joseph Monardo at jmonardo@nd.edu 
of games,” Cooley said. “[The charge] was a huge defensive play. The goal from the begin­ning was to get [the ball] in the post. It allowed me to score and allowed us to get a nice little run going.” 
Notre Dame came into the game seventh in the country in least turnovers committed, av­eraging just 10.5 turnovers per game. But the Irish turned the off-turnovers margin in favor of DePaul. 
“I’m really impressed with De-Paul,” Brey said. “They just have a lot of guys who can put it in the basket. They don’t turn it over, and man do they speed you up. It wears on you and exhausts you.” 
The Blue Demons also got a major boost from their bench play, outscoring the Irish bench, 40-10, led by senior guard Jer­score DePaul with 50 points in the second half on 59.6 percent shooting from the field for the game. 
Looking to add to their six-game winning streak, the Irish will host Rutgers on Wednesday with tipoff at 7 p.m. in the Pur­cell Pavilion. 
Contact Andrew Gastelum at agastel1@nd.edu 

Notre Dame will have to earn every goal and point, as it tries to climb out of its current three-game skid. 
“I’m not worried about [getting six points at Miami], I’m just worried about getting any points right now,” Jackson said. “I want to make sure we focus on Friday night. We’ve got to get back on track. They’re a very good hockey team … and we’re playing in their building, so I expect it to be a challenge.” 
Each game takes on more impor­tance in determining Notre Dame’s postseason fate. Johnson said the key for the Irish might lie in doing the sim­ple things right and letting everything else fall into place. 
“I think that we just need to get back to the basics — back to what we do best,” Johnson said after Friday’s game. “And I think with the team we have, we need to know that good things will happen if we do.” 
Notre Dame will look to snap its losing streak when it travels to Miami this Friday and Saturday. 
Contact Jack Hefferon at wheffero@nd.edu 


CROSSWORD WILL SHORTz 
HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 



HENRy ARNOLD 
JUMBLE

LONDON EXPRESS ALEX GRISWOLD and LEE HAGGENJOS 
MIKE ARGIRION 






Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556

 Enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year


 Enclosed
 is $75 for one semester 


Name ____________________________________________________ Address __________________________________________________ City ____________________ State___________ Zip______________ 

Monday, February 13, 2012 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 20 
ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 
Too high a climb 
Mountaineer  victory ends second-longest win streak in program history 
goal from West Virginia junior center Asya Bussie as the shot clock expired tied the game with 37 seconds remaining. After a missed shot by junior guard Skylar Diggins, the Irish fouled Mountaineer sophomore guard Brooke Hampton with four seconds remaining. Hamp­ton sunk both free throws and the Irish were unable to con­vert a last-second attempt as the Mountaineers escaped with a two-point upset. 
“I feel like we have been building up to this game for a couple of weeks now. [We] haven’t really played well in a long time and I think the pres­sure really got to us today,” Irish coach Muffet McGraw 
see WVU/page 18 
MEN’S SWIMMING 
Divers grab Big East lead 
By JONATHAN WARREN 
Sports Writer 
Looking to capture their sec­ond Big East title in four years, the Irish traveled to Pittsburgh over the weekend for the Big East swimming and diving championships. Notre Dame finished the diving portion with a 57-point lead over the rest of the field. 
Freshman Nick Nemetz led the team with two first place performances in the 1-meter and 3-meter dives, scoring 40 points for the Irish. Nemetz is the first Irish freshman to ever 
see BIG EAST/page 15 


By JOSEPH MONARDO 
Sports Writer 
On a day that was supposed to be a celebration of progress and a beacon of hope, No. 2 Notre Dame suffered its first loss in 22 games, falling to West Virginia 65-63 Sunday. 
In the days leading up to the game, which was part of the national “Play 4Kay” event, the Irish raised $204,682 to help combat cancer in the name of former North Carolina State coach Kay Yow. After the suc­cessful fundraising effort, the Irish (24-2, 11-1 Big East) found themselves in a dogfight with the Mountaineers (18-6, 8-3). 
Notre Dame clung to a two-point lead entering the final 
1:30 of regulation, but a field 
MEN’S BASKETBALL 

Cooley leads charge against DePaul 
By ANDREW GASTELUM 
Sports Writer 
The Irish broke the 80-point mark for the first time in confer­ence play this season en route to a hard-fought 84-76 win over DePaul on Saturday. Led by a double-double from junior for­ward Jack Cooley, Notre Dame (17-8, 9-3 Big East) extended its season-high winning streak to six games. 
“I told our team, that’s as good of a win as the previous two Sat­urdays because of what we de­posited in the bank,” Irish coach Mike Brey said.  “We were very human today. For us to try to figure it out and get out of here and do enough to win, I’m really proud of them. We took another step forward.” 
DePaul (11-13, 2-10) troubled Notre Dame until the final min­utes, pressuring the Irish back-court with a full-court press that contributed to Notre Dame’s 12 turnovers. 
Tied at 68 with 6:38 left in the game, a technical foul on De-Paul coach Oliver Purnell jump-started a 7-0 run for the Irish, highlighted by a three-pointer from sophomore guard Alex Dragicevich. 

After each team traded bas­kets, sophomore guard Eric At­kins’ runner with 1:57 left gave the Irish a seemingly comfort­able six-point lead before DePaul sophomore guard Brandon Young hit a quick three-point­er to cut the lead back to three. But sophomore guard Jerian Grant hit four free throws late to add to his 15 second-half 

see GRANT/page 18 
BENGAL BOUTS 
Boxers compete in first round action 
By BRIAN HARTNETT and BRENDAN BELL 
Sports Writers 
133 Pounds 
James “Golden” Doan def. Jake “Rambo” Frego 
The first fight of the day be­gan with an evenly matched first round. The senior Doan began the round with a se­ries of strong punches, but the sophomore Frego managed to keep the senior on the defen­sive for the remainder of the round. 
Doan started the second round with an increased in­tensity, pushing Frego against the ropes at one point. Frego fought back with some hard punches, but Doan managed to fend off his attack. 
The final round saw the two boxers trading series of punches. Frego finished the round with a flurry of punch­es, but Doan managed to dodge several of them. In the end, Frego’s efforts were not enough to overcome Doan’s strong per­formance, and Doan won in a split decision. 
Mark Frego def. Tim “Klinks” Klinker 
Going back-to-back with his brother, freshman Mark Frego came out of the gate firing, start­ing the first round with an in­tense series of punches and keep­ing his fellow freshman Klinker on the defensive throughout the round. 
The second round took on a considerably slower pace, with neither fighter landing many punches. 
Klinker tried to turn the match around with an aggressive start to the third, but Frego regained control with a powerful set of punches, landing some body shots. This helped Frego earn the victory by unanimous decision. 
see BOUTS/page 17 
HOCKEY 

Irish drop both ends of home-and-home against Ferris State 
By JACK HEFFERON 
Sports Writer 
With the CCHA standings tightly grouped late in the season, No. 9 Notre Dame entered its weekend se­ries against No. 5/6 Ferris State look­ing to earn valuable points in confer­ence and get back to scoring goals. Despite firing 59 shots and control­ling much of the flow of play, the team was unable to do either, as the Bull­dogs (20-8-4, 14-6-4-1 CCHA) swept the Irish (16-13-3, 11-10-3-0) and held them to just one goal on the weekend. 

The weekend began with Friday’s game at the Compton Family Ice Arena, where the Irish were shut out for the first time in nearly a year, but not for a lack of trying. Bulldogs senior goaltender Taylor Nelson stopped all 31 Irish shots and junior left winger Kyle Bonis scored twice in the second period, including a power play goal to open the scoring. 
Ferris State sealed the deal in the third period, killing off two consecutive powerplays to start the period. The Bulldogs jumped on an Irish turnover in the defensive zone to put the game away at 3-0. The Bulldogs may have only taken 23 shots, but their defense ensured that the lead would stand. 
“Against a team like Ferris, you have to play a very patient game,” Irish coach Jeff Jackson said Fri­day. “We may have played better, but we still turned the puck over in a few key situations that ended up in goals against or in penalties, and that’s how they beat us.” 
After Friday’s loss, Notre Dame travelled to Big Rapids, Mich., for a chance to split the series Saturday. Sophomore goaltender Steven Sum­merhays got the start for the Irish af­ter junior Mike Johnson lost the night before, but Summerhays did not sur­vive the first period. After a few strong opening shifts, Notre Dame surren­dered the opening goal less than five minutes in, then let through another just 51 seconds later. With that, Jack­son pulled Summerhays for Johnson, in an attempt to swing momentum. 
“I didn’t blame Steven on the first goal, but I thought the second one he should have had. [Pulling him] was more about the situation,” Jackson said. “The timing of scoring two quick goals just went against everything we had talked about earlier in the day 
see FERRIS ST. /page 18 





