The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 46, issue 25 | MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 24, 2012 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Energy Week promotes sustainable practices 
Students collaborate with South Bend community to advocate responsible energy consumption 
and sustainability. geels [project specialist for 

By ANNA BOARINI 
news writer For the first time, notre the south bend department dame is collaborating with of energy] about ways we 
This week, students should the city of south bend on could encourage a student-remember to turn the lights energy week. community relationship with off in their dorm rooms and Junior lauren eckert said the shared interest of sustain-take the stairs instead of the the partnership aims to bond able energy,” she said. elevator: energy week is upon students with south bend eckert said the collabo­us. residents through a shared ration is a way for students 

hosted by the center for interest. to break out of the “golden sustainable energy student “we did the bulk of this work dome bubble.” advisory board (csend), last semester, but we basi-“as students, we can have energy week teaches students cally just communicated and about energy consumption brainstormed with Jonathan see energy PAGE 5 STEPH WULZ | The Observer 



Photo courtesy of Brogan Ryan 

Students unfurled a large Irish flag in the stands during halftime of the Michigan game Saturday. The Leprechaun Legion organized the display as a gesture of thanks to the Republic of Ireland for hosting a game between Notre Dame and the U.S. Naval Academy on Sept. 1. The marching band also assumed their monogram formation. 


Historian connects higher education and football 
By SHANNON O’BRIEN 
news writer  
american  cultural  historian  
brian  ingrassia  discussed  the  
influence of college football on  
today’s universities in a lecture  
Friday at the hesburgh center for  
international studies.  
ingrassia, an american history  
professor at  middle Tennessee  
state  university,  extensively  ASHLEY DACY | The Observer  
Middle Tennessee State University professor Brian Ingrassia          
see FooTball PAGE 4  discussed influence of college football on higher education Friday.  



professor panel discusses lawsuit 
By CHRISTIAN MYERS 
news writer 
The professors for lunch se­ries hosted a panel discussion on religious liberty and the university’s lawsuit in response to the obama administration’s healthcare mandate Friday af­ternoon in north dining hall. 
Theology professor ann astell, theology professor mary d’angelo, law professor gerard bradley and history profes­sor mark noll participated in the panel titled, “why is notre dame suing the obama admin­istration to protect religious freedom? and should it be do­ing so?” 
astell said the proper way to approach the issue is to weigh the benefits of the provision requiring employers to provide 
see proFessors PAGE 5 


google panel PAGE 4 viewpoinT PAGE 7 scene PAGE 9 noTre dame 13, michigan 6 WITHIN 




ndsmcobserver.com 
p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
allan Joseph 
Managing Editor  Business Manager 
megan doyle  Jeff liptak 
Asst. Managing Editor: andrew owens 
Asst. Managing Editor: sam stryker News Editor: John cameron News Editor: Kristen durbin 
Viewpoint Editor: meghan Thomassen Sports Editor: chris allen Scene Editor: Kevin noonan Saint Mary’s Editor: Jillian barwick Photo Editor: suzanna pratt Graphics Editor: brandon Keelean Multimedia Editor: sarah o’connor Advertising Manager: monica mccormack Ad Design Manager: sara hilstrom Controller: peter woo Systems Administrator: william heineman 

Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ajoseph2@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 mdoyle11@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 aowens2@nd.edu sstryke1@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 

Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 

Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 

Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 observer.scene.editor@gmail.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
jbarwi01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 


Policies 
The observer is the independent, daily newspaper 
published in print and online by the students of the 
university of notre dame du lac and saint mary’s 
college.  editorial content, including advertisements, is 
not governed by policies of the administration of either 
institution. The observer reserves the right to refuse 
advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively 
as possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion 
of the majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, 
assistant managing editors and department editors. 
commentaries, letters and columns present the views of 
the authors and not necessarily those of The observer. 
viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include 
contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed 
to Editor-in-Chief Allan Joseph. 
post office information The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The observer is published at: 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-0779 periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices posTmasTer send address corrections to: The observer p.o. box 779 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-077 The observer is a member of the associated press. all reproduction rights are reserved. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
What is the most underrated sport? 

Colin King 
senior 
sorin college 

“definitely soccer, especially in america.” 
Audrey McMurtrie 
sophomore 
badin hall 
“crew.” 
Jake Grefenstette 
freshman 
Fisher hall 
“ping pong.” 
Have a question you want answered? Email obsphoto@gmail.com 

Steven Waller 
freshman 
Knott hall 
“lacrosse.” 
Scott Rousseau 
sophomore 
Fisher hall 
“women’s basketball.” 
YouRong Yu 
freshman 
lyons hall 
“ping pong.” 


Students celebrate the Irish win against Michigan on Saturday night. With the win, Notre Dame moved to No. 10 in the rankings. The Irish are undefeated after four games and will next square off against Miami in Chicago on Oct. 6. 

Want your event included here? 
News Sports 

mel Flanagan Jack hefferon Email obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: christian myers vicky Jacobsen carolyn hutyra peter steiner 
Graphics Scene 

Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday 
steph wulz courtney cox 
Photo Viewpoint 

Energy Quad Display Film: The General William Kennedy ND Theatre NOW ND Invitational 
suzanna pratt amber galik 

South Quad DeBartolo Performing Reading DeBartolo Performing Burke Golf Course 
10:30a.m.-2:30 p.m. Arts Center McKenna Hall Arts Center 2 p.m.- 6 p.m. Companies promote 8 p.m.-9:20 p.m. 5 p.m.-6 p.m. 7:30 p.m.- 9p.m. Men’s and women’s
Corrections 

sustainability. Tickets $7/$5/$4 American novelist. Tickets $10/$8/$5 cross country meet. 
The aug. 21 article “charity work empowers girl abroad” reported senior 

Reflection on Catholic Literature Red Mass Iron Sharpens Iron Beasts of the 
lindsay brown is working to establish 

Nanotechnology and Series Basilica Coleman-Morse Southern Wild (2012) 
a soccer program in cambodia. The 

Society 155 DeBartolo Hall 5:15 p.m.-6:15 p.m. 10 p.m.-11 p.m. DeBartolo Performing 
observer would like to clarify that 

Stinson-Remick hall 8 p.m.-9 p.m. Celebration for those Student-led worship, Arts Center 
her work is facilitated by another 

5:15p.m.-6:45 p.m. Series on “The Lord of in the legal and accountability and 6:30 p.m.-8 p.m. 
organization that works confidentially 

Engaging seminar. the Rings” continues. political arenas. fellowship. Tickets $7/$5/$4 
with victims of sex trafficking. 



Families share Notre Dame stories 
Regis Philbin hosts ‘Love Thee Notre Dame’ event as part of gift-planning initiative 
future for notre dame and a last-belatti, a 1969 graduate, and his 
By JILLIAN BARWICK 
saint mary’s editor ing legacy for themselves and their wife cathy, as a prime example of a families.” family that loves notre dame. 
Three families in the notre philbin said all gifts, no matter “in fact, the belatti’s found a way dame community gathered the size, have had lasting effects on to share their love for notre dame saturday morning to tell their sto-notre dame. in an absolutely incredible way … ries of love, family and our lady’s “as you will hear today, planned by making it possible for an en-university. gifts made by men and women tire family to benefit from a notre 
approximately 500 people at-who love and believe in notre dame education,” philbin said. tended the “love Thee notre dame have made a remarkable a video relayed the belatti’s story dame” celebration, a gift-plan-difference, not only in the life of of building houses for habitat for ning initiative in leighton concert the university, but also in the lives humanity that transformed into hall in the debartolo performing of countless students,” he said. a relationship with a single mother arts center. philbin then told the story of and her five children. 
according to the website for his first visit to the notre dame originally from nigeria, the the office of gift planning, the campus. okonokhuas moved to atlanta and university launched the initiative “i went to a pep rally and saw moved into the 100th house that this year to focus on “encourag-[irish football coach Frank] leahy Frank and cathy belatti built. ing greater numbers of the notre speak,” he said. “he told us to trea-The belatti’s decided to make a dame family to plant seeds for the sure our time at notre dame, be-gift to the university that would future.” cause we would never experience provide scholarship assistance to 

The program began with the anything like it again. i believe that an entire family. The okonokhuas, performance of an original song being here is the closest experi-who have had three children grad-“This is a great thing for not only responded to make sure that one by John scully, a notre dame all-ence you will ever have to being in uate from notre dame and two our family, but the other families very special young man shared american and a 1980 graduate heaven.” children currently enrolled, are that will benefit from the belatti’s the notre dame experience to the of the university, sung by cathy philbin recalled one job inter-currently utilizing the gift. generosity.” fullest.” richardson, a singer recognized view he was rejected from before “cathy and i have been involved once the belatti’s exited the matt swinton, a 2012 graduate, for “here come the irish.” his career took off. after receiving with habitat for humanity for stage, philbin told the story of suffers from spinal muscular atro-
Tv personality regis philbin, a the news, philbin found himself a long time,” belatti said. “after Florence dailey, a woman from up-phy, a group of inherited diseases 1953 alum, then took the stage for driving down the indiana Toll meeting the okonokhuas and state new york who had no known that cause muscle damage and the core of the event. he began by road instead of the airport to re-building a friendship with them, association with notre dame. yet weakness. confined to a wheel-explaining the purpose of the gift-turn home. we have really seen the difference in 1966, dailey bequeathed half of chair, matt was able to make the planning initiative. “i saw the sun was shining on that this opportunity has made in her stock shares to the university. most out of his four years at notre 
“love Thee notre dame,” our lady who rests on top of the their lives. This scholarship assis-“The substantial impact of this dame with the help of his parents, philbin said. “The final four words dome as i drove past the build-tance program reminded us of all remarkable gift on notre dame friends and the university. of our alma mater sum up the ing,” philbin said. “i drove past the the ways we love notre dame.” students will last forever,” philbin “being on campus this week-powerful emotions and love we stadium and remembered coach philbin then invited laura, said. “over the past 40 years, end and seeing students with their all share for our lady’s university. leahy’s words. i was going to go selina and precious okonokhua to dailey’s original gift has grown into backpacks has made me want one goal of the love Thee notre back and make my life happen. offer their thanks to the belatti’s. a truly transformative amount, to jump in and get some learn-dame initiative is to create op-i was hired for a job in new york, “words cannot express how providing financial assistance to ing done,” swinton said. “some of portunities for alumni, parents and the rest is history.” we feel about them,” laura thousands of notre dame’s stu-my friends are here for the game. and friends to create a stronger philbin introduced Frank okonokhua, a 2010 graduate, said. dents. This school year alone, 223 These are some of the guys i will 
students will receive $4.5 million never lose touch with.” paid adverTisemenT 
in financial assistance.” during his four years at notre 
philbin then introduced emily dame, swinton lived in a room de araujo, a junior at notre dame built to be handicap-accessible so and one of the beneficiaries of he would be physically able to live dailey’s gift. de araujo moved to without his parents. the united states when she was “when matt had applied to one year old with her family from notre dame, we made several vis­brazil so her brother, who is autis-its to the campus and everyone tic, could lead a better life. here was very accommodating,” 
“we moved to michigan and matt’s father mike swinton said. had to rough it for a while,” de “The spirit and community at araujo said. “it was really hard for notre dame was unlike any other my dad, who spoke no english at school we had visited.” first. when it came time to apply “we stayed close to campus for to college, i started applying for matt’s first semester here because scholarships for low-income fami-we were concerned about him,” lies. i applied to every school that matt’s mother deann swinton allowed this opportunity.” said. “but after those first months, 
notre dame was the first school mike and i let go and let matt take to accept de araujo and offer her charge. For us, matt being at notre the financial aid she needed to at-dame was a gift from god.” tend college. Thrilled by the university’s ef­
“The acceptance letter said fort to assist their son during his ‘welcome home,’ and notre dame time at notre dame, the swinton’s was the school that gave me the made a planned gift through their first chance,” de araujo said. “i was wills to the school. offered more scholarships to other “Through our giving experience, schools as well, but that didn’t other students with mobile dis-matter. i knew notre dame was it.” abilities will see what notre dame 
after de araujo left the stage, has to offer them,” mike said. “we philbin played a video that intro-hope other students will have the duced the third and final guest of opportunity to have the experi­the day. ences matt had here.” 
“you are about to see a truly re-philbin then asked swinton markable story. it’s a story about what memory he treasured most the love of a mother and a father from his time at notre dame. for their son. it’s a story about “i’ll always remember [singing] the courage of student who, far the alma mater with my friends more than most, faced the chal-for the last time at our graduation,” lenges of attending notre dame matt said. what though the odds be great or small,” he said. “it’s a story about Contact Jillian Barwick at how the entire notre dame Family jbarwi01@saintmarys.edu 




The observer | MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 24, 2012 | ndsmcobserver.com 


alumnae discuss working at google 
By CAROLINE STICKELL 
news writer 
saint mary’s students inter­ested in working in digital me­dia learned about the career field and job-seeking process at a presentation by two alumnae Friday. 
google employees Jennifer bradburn, a 2001 alumna, and mary elizabeth ulliman, a 2010 alumna, spoke to the students about their jobs at the innova­tive technical company. 
ulliman and bradburn shared their stories of how they found themselves working at 
“Work [at Google] is all about innovation and trying new things.” 
Jennifer Bradburn 
2001 alumna, Google employee 
google. For students entering the workplace in the near fu­ture, bradburn said creativity and patience are two crucial traits to remember. 
“work [at google] is all about innovation and trying new things,” bradburn said. “There is no such thing as instant perfection.” 
ulliman said persistence is key when students are trying to obtain jobs. 
“set yourself apart in the ap­plication process and make the employer notice something unique about you,” ulliman said. 
The interview remains one of the most important aspects of the application process, bradburn said, and students should “make sure the em­ployers can tell that you have researched their company and that you are passionate about working there.” 
bradburn encouraged saint mary’s students to be mindful of the future, but to live in and enjoy the present. 
“you have a finite amount of time to enjoy here on this beautiful campus,” bradburn said. “life is a marathon, not a sprint.” 
Contact Caroline Stickell at cstick01@nd.edu 
Football 
conTinued From page 1 

studied the influence of foot­ball on american culture for his recent book, “The rise of the gridiron university: higher education’s uneasy alliance with big-Time Football.” 
“one autumn day about ten years ago, i was watching a game in person and started wondering how american colleges had end­ed up with the ritual of so-called ‘big-time’ football,” he said. 
ingrassia said he began re­searching the history of football 
“Today, a stadium is a permanent space on campus that brings about ideas of a bygone society.” 
Brian Ingrassia 
American history professor 
Middle Tennessee State 
University 

in relation to the historical chang­es in the structures and aims of universities since the 1800’s. 
“what i discovered was that many university administrators and professors consciously em­braced football in the early-1900’s progressive era as a way to help make institutions of higher edu­cation legible to taxpayers and non-academics,” ingrassia said. 
To research for his book, ingrassia traveled to archives around the country, includ­ing a number of big Ten uni­versities such as the university of michigan and ohio state university, as well as the university of chicago, harvard university and georgia Tech. he noted the views of several intel­lectuals on football’s place in top universities in the early 1900’s. 
edmund James, president of the university of illinois from 1904 to 1920, felt students and professors at top universities, who were intellectually frag­mented among different depart­ments, were united by football, ingrassia said. 
“another intellectual of the time, g.T.w. patrick, a professor of philosophy at the university of iowa and author of ‘The psychology of Football,’ explained that football was good for mod­ern men because it allowed them to re-capture the elements of darwinian civilization,” he said. 
ingrassia said social scien­tists in the early 1900’s studied football and promoted its devel­opment because they thought it would help teach morals to younger people. coaches such as Fielding yost, John heisman and Knute rockne stressed their mis­sions to discipline players as well as spectators, ingrassia said. 
“These coaches were making this argument at the same time that athletic departments were being created at many universi­ties and coaching itself was be­coming a profession,” he said. “so this argument was a way for them to assert their identities as profes­sional university educators.” 
ingrassia also discussed the significance of stadiums on col­lege campuses. 
“by the 1920s, i argue, football gained permanence at many campuses when big, reinforced-concrete stadiums — especially many war memorial stadiums 
— were built around the coun­try,” he said. “Today, a stadium is a permanent space on campus that brings about ideas of a by­gone society.” 
erika doss, professor and chair of the department of american studies, said ingrassia’s talk is relevant to notre dame because football is the largest culture that exists at notre dame.
 “all top research universi­ties have chairs of different de­partments, which compete for funds and resources,” doss said. “Football fits into this perfectly because as new rules were cre­ated and coaches’ salaries in­creased in the early 1900’s, it became another aspect of the professionalism that was occur­ring on college campuses.” 
Contact Shannon O’Brien at sobrie12@nd.edu 
paid adverTisemenT 




Professors “if one presidential adminis-“paying for contraceptives catholic in terms of abiding by noll said it is difficult to de­tration can infringe on this as-can be problematic for those church teaching, since many termine this issue based on the 
conTinued From page 1 

pect of religious freedom, what at the bottom of the pay scale,” look to it as a model of catholic constitution because the con-free contraceptives in their stops another administration she said. values, he said. stitution’s framers had no way health plans against the cost of from further infringing on this she said conscience takes “among notre dame’s re-of anticipating our modern compliance. First amendment right?” she precedence over church teach-sponsibilities as a prominent society. 
“The supposed good to be said. ing and catholics must accept catholic institution is to bear “The constitutional frame-gained from giving free contra-astell said she agreed with the church’s position for it to itself as a conspicuous model work is murky,” he said. ceptives as preventative care in the university’s decision to file truly become doctrine. but of catholic morality,” bradley “starting in the 1920s and ‘30s this particular way, when other a suit in defense of religious many individual catholics said. the reach of government went methods are available, has to freedom. have not accepted the prohibi-bradley said there are two beyond anything conceived of be weighed against the result-“when the university filed its tion on contraceptives. problems with the way the gov-at the time of the constitution’s ing loss of religious freedom,” suit, it acted courageously and she said no matter what ernment has viewed religious drafting.” astell said. “The issue is not prophetically on its own behalf the result of the lawsuit is, freedom in this case. a more general healthcare about the right of individuals and on behalf of other religious catholics will continue to de-“looking at this case, this system is needed in america to use contraceptives, but rath-institutions,” she said. cide for themselves whether or body of law, there are two instead of employers provid­er about notre dame’s right to d’angelo said it is impor-not to use contraceptives. alarming understandings of ing health insurance, noll said. stand on church teaching.” tant to acknowledge that notre “catholics must and will religious liberty: That catholic This would prevent issues of 
astell said martin luther dame and the other catholic continue to follow the dictates businesses cannot have reli-religious liberty from arising. 
King Jr. requested his aides institutions that have joined of their conscience,” she said. gious practices and that to be noll said the fact we have the suit are in the minority of bradley said notre dame’s a religious institution, the pur-not moved to such a system is all catholic institutions in the legal position rests on the be-pose of an institution must be a failure of our government 
“Paying for 

country. lief that the new health care the inculcation of religious val-to provide for the health of its 
contraceptives can 

she said the difference be-law imposes a burden on the ues,” he said. citizens. be problematic tween formal and material co-university and results in a he said a company, which The united states should for those at the operation is important in this moral dilemma. The issue petitioned for an exemp-adopt a universal health care 
case. Formal cooperation is might be simpler if it was just tion because it incorporates system modeled after either 
bottom of the pay 

remote and indirect, while ma-a matter of contraceptives, he catholic values into its busi-that of germany or canada, 
scale.” 

terial cooperation is direct and said, but some of the approved ness practices, was told it is a noll said, as this would elimi-Mary D’Angelo purposeful, she said. treatments have been found to secular business and thus its nate religious liberty concerns. theology professor institutions will still be re-act as abortifacients. practices are not considered “with either type of health 
mote from the use of contra-“The law provides for all religious. care system, religious liberty bring him to a catholic hospi-ceptives if they comply with Fda-approved contraceptives he said the exemption to the would no longer be an issue,” tal if anything ever happened the provision, d’angelo said. and some of these can act as contraceptive provision grant-he said. to him and they did so on the The effect of the provision is abortifacients,” bradley said. ed to churches does not extend noll said notre dame and day of his assassination. simply to move the cost of con-“The university can’t just ac-to catholic schools or hospi-other catholic institutions 
astell said this difference traceptives from one part of cept the purely contraceptive tals because there purpose is would be helped by their his-between a catholic and public an employee’s compensation treatments. The contracep-not the inculcation of religious tory of defending religious lib-hospital applies to all catholic to another — from salary to tives and abortifacients are a values. erty in general. institutions. she said the dif-benefits. package.” bradley said the government “litigants with a history of ference is threatened by the d’angelo said making the The university is not legally must recognize that maintain-helping other groups maintain new health care regulations. cost of contraceptives part of required to prove the catholic ing the religious freedom of religious liberty have a better 
The united states of america an employee’s benefits as op-position against contracep-notre dame and other catholic chance of success in this case,” has a long history of protect-posed to the money coming tives is objectively or defini-institutions affects more than noll said. ing religious freedom and that from the employee’s salary tively true, he said. just those institutions. this tradition is now at risk, she makes a difference for some notre dame has a greater re-“religious liberty is a com-Contact Christian Myers at said. employees. sponsibility than an individual mon good,” he said. cmyers8@nd.edu 
paid adverTisemenT “i went to the Quad display 
Energy 
and was talking with ge 
conTinued From page 1 
[general electric] and i was a tendency to dismiss south really fascinated, [and] i was bend and it was really exciting just getting into the energy to find a part of the commu-issue and they said i should nity that was progressive and come to the career dinner,” he very interested in sustainable said. “i went on a whim and energy,” she said. all these companies come and 
on saturday, eckert said talk about what their compa­there will be both a trolley ny is doing, where they see the tour and bike tour of green future of energy is.” and sustainable buildings in brach said the dinner, which the community. is taking place this evening in 
“i was very excited to find club naimoli, is a great net-out south bend has some working event. very progressive leed-“we have a lot of interest­[leadership in environmental ing companies coming, … and energy design] certified ge, innovative solar and then buildings, which will be on dayaway careers,” he said. the community energy tours,” students can attend anoth­she said. er networking event Tuesday 
The south bend community night at legends of notre is also hosting their very own dame, where maggie Koerth­energy week this week, eckert baker, author of “before the said. lights go out,” will give a pre­
“This event is not affili-sentation, brach said. ated with energy week here, wednesday, students have but in conjunction with,” she the opportunity to tour the said. “The community has notre dame power plant. taken it to a while other level. “every year, we have about what started as a notre dame 30 students go on the tour,” he event has grown for the entire said. “it is actually a fascinat­community.” ing tour, because you learn 
csend student board not only about the power but chairman daniel brach said the water and how it is all re-he became involved with the ally interconnected.” group after he visited the dis-For a full list of energy week play on south Quad of energy events, go to energy.nd.edu businesses, organizations and notre dame researchers dur-Contact Anna Boarini at ing last year’s event. aboari01@saintmarys.edu 


Copycat 

INSIDE COLUMN 
student integrity 

Carolyn Hutyra 
news writer 
after years of losses and mediocre sea­sons, it’s hard to believe that our football team is finally 4-0. during these times i realize how strong and close the notre dame community truly is. The way the fans cheer for the team shows how much we all love and support one another. it’s hard to not feel moved when the senior class unveils the irish flag, when the marching band plays the alma mater and when the student body wears leis in honor of manti Te’o. 
This past weekend we were able to take on the michigan team and win. This also meant there were a large num­ber of michigan fans present on our campus, which was definitely a test to the integrity of our students. we had to deal with our stadium being draped in michigan paraphernalia, a michigan fan running across campus with his school flag and the back-and-forth comments between the rival teams. 
with all that, one michigan fan spoke of how welcoming notre dame fans were. i would like to think that this is the case no matter who we play in football. however, i am often disappointed by the comments i actually hear. so often there are stories of fans harassing each other no matter where they go. some say this is just a natural part of sports, but i would like to think that notre dame students could rise above that. 
as a student, i feel blessed to attend such a wonderful university. what sets us apart from the other schools is the catholic foundation upon which we were founded. i realize that not everyone is religious, but as a member of this uni­versity, i feel our students should none­theless be respectful and courteous. 
when michigan beat us last year, our fans who travelled to the away game were treated poorly. There seems to be a justification for us to do the same to michigan fans when it is our turn to host a game, but in truth, there is no reason we should do this to them or any other school. 
notre dame’s academic freedom statement says “the university expects from its staff and students conduct that is truthful, honorable, compassionate, fair, just and charitable.” i dislike having to apologize for the words and behavior of my fellow students. Furthermore, i dislike trying to rationalize how a school can be both so loving and so spiteful. 
eight games remain this season, and a lifetime of games will come after that. i wish our football players the best of luck and our fans grace under pressure, for the winning team is not determined by the comments made in the stands but by the game that is played on the field. 
Contact Carolyn Hutyra at chutyra@nd.edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Bridget Galassini 
bitter bridget 
imitation is the most sincere form of flattery. i did not come up with that idea — charles caleb colton did, around the start of the nine­teenth century. although i’m sure he wouldn’t mind me using his idea, he would mind if i didn’t show that it was his originally, because humans are prideful beings. 
There are probably many explana­tions for why humans are prideful, but i think it comes down to our own survival instincts (as almost every­thing does). having pride means that someone must have done something that made a difference, that impacted something in some way. if this is the case, then a person has made some contribution to the world, which leads to a sense of self-worth and also leads others to see that the person has worth. when others see that a person is important, it leads them to value that person because of their skills, in­telligence or wit. and people like that. 
so obviously we’re proud of contri­butions we make to the world, and it makes complete sense that we want to be recognized for them. we want others to know we’re responsible for them. it was our intelligence or cre­ativity that led to the discovery, idea, or style — so people should be thank­ing us, flocking to us, worshipping us. 
i don’t think that’s selfish either (well, maybe the worshipping part would be). but i think being recog­nized for one’s contribution is a right. Just think about it. has anyone ever repeated a phrase that’s so obviously yours? or stolen your joke? or your style for something in particular? does that make you feel flattered or ripped off? personally, i sometimes feel flattered, but i do feel ripped off if people cite the discovery as their own. There’s a reason that my best friend from back home always asks, “bridget, did i show you this song?” and my response most times is “yes,” because i want to give her credit for it. 

so don’t get me wrong — i think sharing knowledge, ideas and per­spectives is great. i just think people should be recognized. since almost no idea is original anymore, credit is almost always due. austin Kleon dis­cusses this in his book, “steal like an artist,” with a quote from the bible: “nothing is original. it says it right there in the bible. ecclesiastes: That which has been is what will be, That which is done is what will be done, and there is nothing new under the sun. every new idea is just a mash up or a remix of previous ideas.” 
i doubt that many ideas were ever completely original actually. remember in science class when the teacher would say, “so John came up with this theory in 1600 and Joe came to that same conclusion in 1600, too, but John was in France and Joe was in germany so they weren’t working together and we don’t really know who came up with it first.” so, Joe probably had so much pride in his accomplish­ment, thinking that he was the only one with that idea, while John was doing the same thing over in France. The reason is that in the past cen­turies, people didn’t have all of this social media for them to see just how unoriginal their ideas were. we have that gift. we get to see that we weren’t the first ones to hate when people re­spond to a text with “K” or to question how someone can “borrow” a sheet of paper. 
but if i was the one who first hated the “K” text, and then you got that idea from me and talked about it without citing me, that’s annoying. but if you became irked with that text indepen­dently, then go ahead and talk about it as your own or write your own tweet about it. in that case we’d be like John and Joe. but in the first case, i’d want credit for my idea. 
so: retweet. reblog. share. like. pin. imitation is how we learn. That’s austin Kleon’s main argument in his book — to “stop trying to make some­thing out of nothing.” in today’s world, inspiration is everywhere. we have to allow it to influence us in order to keep making new advancements instead of just re-making previous advance­ments. in doing so, however, we just have to give credit where credit is due. 
Bridget Galassini is a freshman. She can be reached at bgalassi@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 


QUOTE OF THE DAY WEEKLY POLL 
“if you have made mistakes, even serious ones, there is 
What did you do after Notre Dame 

always another chance for you. what we call failure 
demolished the Wolverines? 
is not the falling down but the staying down.” 
Tweet your response with #viewpointpoll 

Mary Pickford American movie actress by 5 p.m. Thursday. 


‘The Avengers’ and U.S. foreign policy 
Elliott Pearce 
The human interest 
i saw “The avengers” when it played as the sub movie a couple of weeks ago. in addition to gratuitous amounts of magical and technological destruction, the movie contained one very striking scene. in it, loki, the movie’s main vil­lain, commands a group of innocent bystanders to kneel before him outside of a museum in germany. 
“Kneel before me. i said... Kneel!” he shouts. The crowd nervously kneels down. “is not this simpler?” loki asks, surveying his new subjects. “is this not your natural state? it’s the unspoken truth of humanity that you crave sub­jugation. The bright lure of freedom diminishes your life’s joy in a mad scramble for power, for identity. you were made to be ruled. in the end, you will always kneel.” one old man stands up in the middle of the crowd. 
“not to men like you,” he declares. 
“There are no men like me,” loki re­torts. he is a member of an ancient and extremely advanced alien race that the vikings once worshiped as gods when they came to earth. loki fancies himself a god and wishes to rule the world as such at the head of an alien army. 
“There are always men like you,” the old man answers back. loki, angry at being dismissed by a senior citizen, fires a bolt of energy from his glowing spear at the old man. Just before loki’s laser beam vaporizes the wide-eyed geriatric, captain america leaps in front of the old man and blocks the beam with his shield. The laser ricochets right back at loki and knocks him down. iron man and black widow soon join captain america and aid him in capturing loki. 
This three-minute scene from an ac­tion movie beautifully illustrates how the dignity of the human person always asserts itself. every so often, powerful men start to believe that they are super­human and can crush their fellows like insects. “an ant has no quarrel with a boot,” loki says later in the movie. The victims of these self-styled gods and supermen, though, recognize that these people are mere humans who have let power go to their heads. courageous people stand up to these tyrants, reveal­ing that their beliefs about the nature of the human person are wrong. we are made for freedom, not slavery, because our wills are subject to no one but our­selves. Force may be able to compel and even destroy the body, but it has no control over the mind. 
The movie also makes an interesting 
LETTER 
a call to action 
it’s eating disorder awareness week on our campus. let’s talk about body im­age. as notre dame students, we are perfectionists. as perfectionists, we notice imperfections and are critical of them. we are constantly critiquing ourselves and others, and this mentality sets all of us up for discontentment as we strive to at­tain an unattainable standard. 
you may be thinking, “wait a minute. aren’t these authors just another two perfectionists pointing out an imperfection in our environment?” maybe so. but this is not simply a critique. it is a call to action. 
we want to end our self-maintained social norm of constantly criticizing our­selves. hating on our bodies should not be an acceptable form of socializing. but how often do you and your friends complain to each other about your diet slip in the dining hall, or the fact that you had to stop and walk during your run, or that (gasp!) you missed a workout entirely? 
why are we never satisfied with our current state of being? guys are always working to get bigger, while girls will seemingly do anything to become smaller to fit into their skinny jeans. but we are so much more than a number on a scale, bench press, or waistband. Think of all of the great things we have done and will do with our lives. how many wonderful thoughts could occupy our minds if only we all could let go of our body image obsession? 
This week, we challenge you to change our student body image, one body at a time. start with yourself, and then encourage others. when you have a negative thought, recognize it and combat it with a positive one. Take a moment to compli­ment a friend on something other than his “huge muscles” or her “tiny waist.” let them know that your friendship and their self-worth go beyond superficial cul­tural ideals. 
it is good to hold ourselves to high standards, but we need to make sure those standards are conducive to living complete, positive and healthy lives. we are capable of greatness at any shape or size. let’s work to acknowledge that in our­selves and others. Take the challenge to change our student body image. Together we could have an amazing positive impact on the culture at notre dame. 
Carolyn Bates 
senior lewis hall sept. 23 
Suzy Fanuele 
senior off campus sept. 23 

statement about america’s role in the world. captain america saves the defi­ant old man from destruction and re­flects loki’s violence back at him. most americans would like their country to be a defender of freedom that shelters the innocent behind its star-spangled shield. They would like to see murder­ers, tyrants and despots “get what they deserve.” as recent events have shown, though, defending freedom is not as simple or easy in real life as it is in the movies. 
last summer, the united states worked with several other nations to help the libyan people stand up to a brutal tyrant who had been suffocating them with an iron grip for more than thirty years. The conflict ended with the death of muammar al-gaddafi, the capture of libya’s capital, Tripoli, from his forces and the installation of the national Transitional council as libya’s interim government. This outcome looked to all like a resound­ing success. however, around the same time that “The avengers” was playing in debartolo, an angry mob ostensibly protesting the release of an anti-muslim movie killed the u.s. ambassador to libya. similar violent protests have taken place throughout the middle east. 
something tells me there is more to this near-simultaneous series of attacks than a single, universally condemned movie. wherever there is a power vac­uum in the middle east, a member of the loosely affiliated network of radical islamic terrorist organizations rushes in to fill the gap. Tyranny in that region and around the world is like a hydra; if one head falls, another takes its place. For example, al-Qaeda is reported to be allying itself with the uprising in syria in the hopes of taking power there if the current assad regime falls. 
The people of libya, syria and other nations threatened by actual or poten­tial oppressors still want and deserve our help. libyans escorted our pilots to safety after an american plane went down on their soil and waved american flags once gaddafi was gone. but we cannot stomp around kicking over ant­hills and creating more problems than we solve as we have in the past. america must find a more subtle and compre­hensive way to combat tyranny in order to stand up for the dignity of the human person in today’s dangerous world. 
Elliott Pearce can be reached at Elliott.A.Pearce.12@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
UWIRE 

apple is still going strong, but iphone 5 is not for everyone 
Sara Clayton 
daily Trojan 

apple has been up to a lot recently. 
in addition to releasing the ios 6 update with a revamped map and a “do not disturb” option, apple has people clawing to get the new iphone 5, so much so that pre-orders for the iphone 5 sold out in less than an hour of its public unveiling. 
This begs the question: is it worth it to get an iphone 5? For many apple users, the answer is obvious. For oth­ers, it is natural to be a little skeptical about purchasing a new iphone, even if it is the most updated version (for the time being, anyway). 
if you currently own an iphone 4s, it might not make a lot of sense to buy an iphone 5, but e-commerce web­sites such as ebay and amazon are offering cash and gift cards for your phones. 
still not convinced? The iphone 5 comes with some fairly high-tech features. For one, the iphone 5 will utilize the icloud for wireless access from all computers and mobile de­vices.  a new processor, the a5, uses power more efficiently and increases the phone’s processing speed. you can also take vivid panoramic photos with the iphone 5’s updated camera features.  and if you haven’t heard al­ready, the iphone 5 is a little thinner and a little wider than the iphone 4s. 
Then again, even though apple consistently meets the standards of its clientele with its range of iphone products and wields the most influ­ence with its brand name, the iphone 5 may not be the best choice in terms of smartphones. For example, the samsung galaxy s iii has a longer battery life and a much larger screen. if you’re looking for something more affordable, the hTc one X costs half as much as an iphone 5. 
regardless, purchasing a smart­phone is a matter of personal pref­erences. if you keep the phrase “keeping up with the Joneses” near and dear to your heart, you might as well upgrade to a sleek and new iphone 5. but if you’re unfazed by stylish phones and current trends, then it wouldn’t hurt to look into other phones. who knows? you may fall in love with the phone you least expected to even notice. 
This article originally ran in the Sept. 23 version of the Daily Trojan, serving the University of Southern California. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


By LIZZY SCHROFF 
mosh-pit antics of some neighbor-
scene writer 
By KEVIN NOONAN 
scene editor 
grippingly intense, brutally realistic and surprisingly empathetic, “end of watch” takes audiences on a two-hour ride along that peers unflinchingly into the lives of two south central los angeles police officers. 
The film follows officer brian Taylor (Jake gyllenhaal) and officer mike Zavala (michael peña), partners in a pa­trol car in one of l.a.’s worst neighbor­hoods, as they do their jobs on a daily basis. 
The officers are simple patrolmen, not detectives or investigators as they are often reminded, but as they explore their neighborhood, they quickly stum­ble into some very serious, very violent problems. 
after a routine stop turns out to be a car loaded with money and guns, the two men begin to dig a little deeper, and quickly find themselves knee deep in drugs, bodies, illegal immigrants and the gruesome, seedy underside of the drug trade. They push the envelope fur­ther, and place themselves directly in the crosshairs of a violent drug cartel. 
Taylor and Zavala break the mold of many portrayals of l.a. cops as being corrupt, mean-spirited or incompetent, as both officers are, at least to some degree, heroic figures truly working for the better of the community. apart from being a refreshing change from the norm, it plays to the movie’s greatest strength: the exploration of the bond between these two officers, whose re­lationship goes far beyond just work associates. 
over the course of the film, the most intriguing and affecting moments are not the violence or the car chases or tra­ditional “cop” scenes as is the case with many buddy-cop action movies, but in­stead the time spent in the car with the two men. 
They work as brothers, their lives completely intertwined and depen­dent on each other. Their brotherhood goes beyond anything within their own families, or even with their wives, which is especially interesting because of the men’s backgrounds. Taylor is a former marine, a service famous for its brotherhood and camaraderie above all else. Zavala comes from a large hispanic family, which he emphasizes throughout the film is as close as tightly woven as it gets. 
but even with those brotherhood and family bonds in their background, no relationship seems important at all to these two men compared to the broth­erhood they share. That dynamic is ex­plored extensively in the film, and it sets the stage for the weight of the climax, a shocking and yet utterly believable end­ing that’s both fitting for the storyline and a chilling reminder of the nature of the subject matter. 
what pulls the whole film together, and raises it above the typical cop-ac­tion movie, is the visual direction by the films writer and director, david ayer. The movie is shot mostly in a “found­footage” style, with shots coming from police car cameras, cell phones and other types of personal cameras, giv­ing the film a documentary feel that magnifies the grittiness of the story. it feels frenetic and chaotic, reflecting the action on screen and the reality of the storyline. 
ayer, who has made his name in cop films, is most famous for writing and producing 2001’s “Training day,” which saw denzel washington in one of his most iconic roles as a decorated but cor­rupt narcotics officer. ayer’s successes have been few and far between since “Training day,” but “end of watch” re­turns him to that same level of genuine­ness and grit, which makes for his first good movie in a while. 
“end of watch” is violent, moving, at times cold and overall a fantastic in­sight into what it means to have some­one else’s life in your hands at all times. 
Contact Kevin Noonan at knoonan2@nd.edu 
“End of Watch” 
Directed by: David Ayer 
Studio: Open Road Films 
Starring: Jake Gyllenhall, Michael Pena, Anna Kendrick and America Fererra 


on Friday i made my way to the silversun pickups concert at the aragon in chicago. stalling out in the middle of chicago traffic and walking two miles from the parking garage in the chill and rain was well worth it. 
The aragon is a fantastic venue. originally built in 1926 as a dance hall, the aragon mimics a spanish castle with an elaborate staircase leading up to the main floor, white stucco bal­conies with red and gold roof and ac­cents, and a starry night sky painted with galaxies and lit by softly twin­kling lights. The stage is elevated sever­al feet off the wooden floor, which has a standing room and balcony capacity of about 4,500. 
The first opening band, atlas genius, came on at about 7:00 p.m. atlas genius is an indie rock band from australia composed of brothers Keith, steven, and michael Jeffrey and keyboardist darren sell from england. The band released their ep “Through the glass” this summer and has an album in the works for the future. They played all of their songs from their ep as well as a few from the future album, ending with their popular single “Trojans.” having only heard “Trojans,” before seeing them in concert, i really enjoyed their short set and the crowd was defi­nitely getting into them too. lead sing­er and guitarist Keith Jeffrey played some great guitar solos and interacted well with the audience. 
next up was school of seven bells, an aloof, dream pop band from new york. They were a stark contrast to the more down-to-earth atlas genius, featur­ing lots of synth and vocal effects (not to mention the comment my friend made to me as they came out on stage: “i bet they’re all vampires.”). seven bells played a decent eight-song set, but some of the quality was lost in the massive amounts of synth and distor­tions, which left a bit of ringing in my ears at the end. 
by the time seven bells finished, the crowd was antsy in their anticipation of silversun pickups. Finally, at 9:00 p.m.on the dot, the pickups came on stage, building up to the hard-hitting chorus of their “skin graph” from their latest album “neck of the woods.” The pickups played a great set list featur­ing songs from all three of their full-length studio albums. Their second song, “The royal we” brought on the ing fans and got much of the audi­ence jumping and head banging. They followed with “bloody mary (nerve endings)” which had the fans belting out the chorus and several other songs from “neck of the woods.” 
lead singer and guitarist brian aubert took some time in between several songs to interact with the in­fectiously wild, screaming, sold-out crowd. aubert commented on the crowd’s enthusiasm declaring, “is it al­ways this radical?” he took a moment to introduce bassist sarah negahdari of the happy hollows, who was filling in for nikki monninger. monninger is due to give birth to twin baby girls this fall. here’s to hoping that there are two more sick female bassists in the music world in 20 years. 
despite monninger’s absence, there was nothing lacking in performance from the band. aubert was spot-on with his distinctive vocals, Joe lester was in his otherworldly zone on the keyboards, chris guanlao rocked hard in a flurry of long black hair on the drums and negahderi, overtly appre­ciative of the crowd’s positive response to her substitution for monninger, was terrific on bass. 
There were plenty of crowd pleas­ers for dedicated silversun pickups fans, but their energy and extremely engaging performance would get any rock fan on their feet. The ever-popu­lar track “panic switch” was soon fol­lowed by their hit “lazy eye,” featuring a flurry of flashing multi-colored stage lights during the chorus that had ev­eryone hyped up and screaming for more as the band left the stage. 
The crowd chanted and stamped their feet for a solid five minutes before the pickups ran back out on stage for an encore, rounding out the set with “busy bees,” “out of breath,” and “well Thought out Twinkles” before depart­ing the stage. The concert was a fan­tastic whirlwind of face-melting guitar distortions, whirring, atmospheric effects and delectable bass lines and drumbeats. whatever quiet moment emerged within songs was filled with the cheers and applause of an audience fully engrossed in the music. i couldn’t help but embark on the two-mile walk back to the car feeling like i was on in­die rock cloud nine. 
Contact Lizzy Schroff at eschro01@saintmarys.edu 
STEPH WULZ | The Observer 



the art of this period. given the theme of opulence, 
By JESSIE CHRISTIAN 
it is no surprise that baroque has been one of the most popular styles on runways this month. across 

in the world of fashion, september is the most the world, designers have reintroduced the intricate significant month of the year. For fashion junkies detailing and expensive material that so strongly worldwide, it is the month when a normally man-resembles the baroque period. The balmain col­ageable list of magazine subscriptions grows into lection bared the strongest resemblance to this a chaotic mass of hundreds of additional pages historical era, as the patterns of many of its pieces to read. it is the month when matching designer resembled those of baroque architecture. pieces names to their respective 30-piece collections such as the long-sleeved white mini dress look al­becomes about as challenging as memorizing the most as though they are made of pure ivory, silver, contents of a foreign dictionary. it is the month and gold. when models, designers, consumers, bloggers oTher baroQue colecTions: and fans from all over the world explore the phe-new yorK: Jason wu, l’wren scott, marchesa, and nomenal details of a shared thread. it is the oh-so-prabal gurung glorious month when it finally becomes acceptable milan: bottega veneta, dolce and gabbana, to wear the trends we saw in the Fall and winter salvatore Ferragamo, and versace runway shows last year, and i’m giving you the run­down on some of the top trends and trendsetters Who’s on the Runway hot off the catwalk. 
scene writer 
What’s on the Runway Colorblocking: 
if you’ve flipped through the pages of any major magazine in the past couple of years, then chances are – you’ve seen these two girls. 

Karlie Kloss is the all-american girl next door turned supermodel extraordinaire. born in chicago For those of you who are unfamiliar with the and raised in st. louis, Karlie took ballet classes like term, colorblocking is a method of clothing con-many young girls. unlike many, however, Karlie struction that consists of sewing different-colored continued to train until she had established a strong solid fabrics together in a block formation. The foundation in classical ballet. when the young bal­trend was extremely dominant in the 1960’s with lerina turned thirteen years old, she was discovered style icons like Twiggy blazing the trail in mod at a charity fashion show in st. louis and was en-fashion, and has been spotted occasionally on run-couraged to pursue a career in modeling. she took ways ever since. This year in particular, however, this advice and was eventually signed to elite model the style has made a tremendous comeback, flour-management, one of the largest and most promi­ishing as a dominant form of inspiration for many nent modeling agencies in the world. since then, designer collections. céline designer phoebe philo Karlie herself has reached a level of prominence built the brand’s entire Fall/winter collection on within the modeling world, as she models for high-the colorblocking concept. each look is comprised fashion clothing brands such as victoria’s secret, either of pieces that are individually colorblocked, lacoste, and alexander mcQueen. she rarely fails to or different colored solid pieces that mesh together recognize her training in ballet as the origin of her to create a striking colorblocking image. elegant positions and dancer’s physique. The con­oTher colorblocKing collecTions: fidence that she brings to the runway, however, is new yorK: band of outsiders and bcbg something she was born with, and without it she just london: acne and antonio berardi wouldn’t be as fierce.  want to see Karlie work the paris: balenciaga runway? check out photos and video footage of the anthony vaccarello and ellie saab fashion shows 
Baroque: for Fall 2012, or catch her on the dual-cover of the July 2012 issue of w magazine that she shares with model Joan smalls. 
speaking of Joan smalls, she was born and raised in puerto rico and is the product of a multi-ethnic family. she knew at a very young age that she want­ed to become a model, but was encouraged by her family to complete both high school and college before pursuing a career in the modeling industry. after graduating from the interamerican university of puerto rico, she moved to new york and signed with elite model management. like her all-ameri­can counterpart, smalls quickly reached success and found herself modeling for top designer brands such as coach, oscar de la renta and Fendi. in addi-

The term “baroque” refers to the historical period tion to gracing the covers of major magazines, you that began in italy in the early 1600s and quickly can catch footage of smalls from all over the catwalk spread across europe.  The period is defined by an during these past few weeks of top-notch fashion. explosion of extravagance that took over all forms she was one of the most highly sought-after mod-of art. artists, architects and designers alike worked els last February during the Fall shows, walking for to incorporate the smallest and most opulent de-dolce & gabanna, emilio pucci, proenza schouler, tails into their bodies of work. precious jewels, gold altazarra, and many more designer collections. embellishments and intricate patterns are just some of the basic components that help to define Contact Jessie Christian at jchrist7@nd.edu 




STEPH WULZ | The Observer 


SPORTS AUTHORITY 
Best overall player deserves MVP 

Mike Monaco 
sports writer 
The Triple crown. 
it’s a historic award, up there in the pantheon of sporting achievement with feats like hit­ting .400, completing a grand slam and breaking 60 on the links. and it hasn’t been done in 45 years, when legendary boston outfielder carl yastrzemski topped the american league in batting average, home runs and rbi, the three categories mak­ing up the crown. 
since yaz, no one has done it. but this year, with just 12 games left in the regular season, Tigers slugger miguel cabrera is first in batting average, tied for first in home runs and first in rbi. cabrera’s shot at the Triple crown has fans and media members everywhere asking if he should be the hands-down fewer games than cabrera, as he was still dominating the minor leagues. 
according to Fangraphs, cabrera has been the better batter. slightly. he is +55.1 runs batting while Trout is at +52.4 runs. but Trout’s elite base run­ning adds more than six runs to his offensive total. Trout has the ability to score from second base on a ball to the outfield. he steals bases at a prolific and efficient rate (46 steals in 50 at­tempts) and he can go from first to third on a base hit. 
cabrera, on the other hand, has a few pianos parked on his back. listed at 240 pounds, the big fella has cost his team nearly three runs on the base paths. 
it’s the same song and dance in the realm of fielding. Trout has captivated fans everywhere with his web gems. but on a more quantifiable level, Trout has been a top outfielder, add-
If Cabrera wins the Triple Crown that will be an undisputedly amazing feat, but it won’t make him the most valuable player 
in the game.  
mvp if he completes such an  ing 13.0 runs to his angels squad  
historic accomplishment.  with his glove work.  
no.  cabrera, on the other hand,  
don’t forget about mike Trout.  is a third baseman by designa­ 
simply put, the angels rookie  tion only. he wasn’t much of a  
has been the most valuable  first baseman, either, but when  
player in baseball. if cabrera  prince Fielder signed with  
wins the Triple crown that will  the Tigers before the season,  
be an undisputedly amazing  cabrera made the switch across  
feat, but it won’t make him the  the diamond, where he has cost  
most valuable player in the  his team 9.4 runs.  
game.  so, to recap: Trout has been  
let’s start with what would  the better offensive player and  
seem to be cabrera’s strongest  the (much) better defensive  
(or, rather, only strong) area of  player while cabrera has been  
the game. his supporters will  a slightly better hitter. oh, but  
cite the fact that he is the best  cabrera might win the Triple  
hitter in all of baseball. They’ll  crown. while an interesting  
note his batting average, home  historical occurrence, the feat  
run and rbi totals and his posi­ doesn’t make him the most  
tion in those categories on the  valuable player.  
al leaderboard. but the problem  another stat that attempts  
with those three numbers is that  to quantify the value a player  
they don’t show who the best  adds to his team is wins above  
hitter in baseball is.  replacement (war). while  
Fangraphs.com, a baseball  imperfect, war summarizes  
website that provides advanced  a player’s total contribution to  
statistics for every player in  his team in one statistic. it’s  
mlb baseball history, has a  essentially how many wins that  
stat that measures the total of- player has added to his team as  
fensive performance of a player  compared to a very good minor  
by adding the runs created by  leaguer (a replacement).  
his hitting to the runs created  according to Fangraphs,  
by his base running, the two  cabrera has a war of 6.9. Trout’s  
components of offense. The  number of 9.5, which would  
stat is then compared to the  be even higher with those 21  
average offensive performer to  games, is the 25th best single  
provide context in plus/minus  season mark since 1975.  
format. going into sunday’s  now that’s historic.  
action, mike Trout’s offensive  
performance was +58.5 runs  Contact Mike Monaco at  
better than the average player,  jmonaco@nd.edu  
while miguel cabrera’s work  The views expressed in this  
was +52.2 runs better. and not  Sports Authority are those of the  
that it should aid his candidacy,  author and not necessarily those  
but Trout has also played 21  of The Observer.  

NFL 

NFL Players’ Union calls for end to referee lockout 
new yorK — The nFl play­ers’ union sent an open letter to team owners calling for an end to the lockout of on-field officials and hinting that it’s a violation of the contract between the players and the league. 
The players were locked out for four-and-a-half months last year, and they emphasized in the letter, posted sunday on the union’s website, that a lack of a safe working environment exists with replacement officials work­ing the games. 
domonique Foxworth, president of the nFl players association, drew brees and scott Fujita are among the union members who signed it. 
“your decision to lock out of­ficials with more than 1,500 years of collective nFl experi­ence has led to a deterioration of order, safety and integrity,” the nFl players association wrote. “This affirmative decision has not only resulted in poor calls, missed calls and bad game man­agement, but the combination of those deficiencies will only con­tinue to jeopardize player health and safety and the integrity of the game that has taken decades to build.” 
The nFl did not respond to a request from The associated press for comment. 
in the letter signed by 12 cur­rent or former players, the play­ers also ask why commissioner roger goodell issues suspen­sions and fines “in the name of player health and safety” while the regular officials the league entrusts to maintain health and safety are locked out. 
“as players, we see this game as more than the ‘product’ you reference at times,” the letter 

FOR RENT 

IRISH CROSSING 4BDR/3.5BTH. Available ‘13/’14 year; ND alum owner. 281-635-2019 
PERSONAL 

UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don’t do it alone. Notre Dame has many resources in place to assist you. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Ann Whitall at 1-0084 or Karen Kennedy at 1-5550. For more information, visit ND’s website at: http://pregnancysupport@nd.edu 
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
“The Great Gatsby” Written by F. Scott Fitzgerald Published on April 10, 1925 
In my younger and more vulner­able years my father gave me some advice that I’ve been turn­ing over in my mind ever since. 
“Whenever you feel like criticizing any one,” he told me, “just remember that all the people in this world haven’t had the advantages that you’ve had.” 
He didn’t say any more, but we’ve al­ways been unusually communicative in a reserved way, and I understood that he meant a great deal more than that. In consequence, I’m inclined to reserve all judgments, a habit that has opened up many curious natures to me and also made me the victim of not a few veteran bores. The abnormal mind is quick to detect and attach it­self to this quality when it appears 

said. “you cannot simply switch to a group of cheaper officials and fulfill your legal, moral, and duty obligations to us and our fans. you need to end the lock­out and bring back the officials immediately.” 
The nFl locked out the offi­cials in June after their contact expired. it has used replacements for the first time since 2001, when the regular officials missed only the first week of action. 
but those replacements had experience at the highest levels of college football, and the cur­rent replacements come from lower college levels or from other leagues such as arena Football. 
There have been numer­ous complaints by players and coaches about the officiating 
— certainly more than when the regular officials work — and sunday was no different. in one particularly embarrassing epi­sode an official was removed from working a new orleans game because he posted pho­tos of himself in saints gear on Facebook. 
“The removal of the veteran officials from regular-season games left a group of your re­placements who have proved to be incapable of keeping pace with the speed of the game,” the players wrote. “coaches and players have complained of numerous errors and failures including: erratic and missed calls on egregious holds and hits, increased skirmishes between players and confusion about game rules. many replacements have lost control of games due to inexperience and unfamiliarity with players and rules.” 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit 
in a normal person, and so it came about that in college I was unjustly ac­cused of being a politician, because I was privy to the secret griefs of wild, unknown men. Most of the confi­dences were unsought — frequently I have feigned sleep, preoccupation, or a hostile levity when I realized by some unmistakable sign that an inti­mate revelation was quivering on the horizon; for the intimate revelations of young men, or at least the terms in which they express them, are usu­ally plagiaristic and marred by obvious suppressions. Reserving judgments is a matter of infinite hope. I am still a little afraid of missing something if I forget that, as my father snobbishly suggested, and I snobbishly repeat, a sense of the fundamental decen­cies is parcelled out unequally at birth. 
And, after boasting this way of my tol­erance, I come to the admission that it has a limit. 



SMC VOLLEYBALL | smc 3, oliveT 0; alma 3, smc 2 
SMC TENNIS | miaa FlighTed TournamenT 
Campbell happy with play 
belles split results 
By KATIE HEIT 
sports writer 
in their only competi­tion of the fall season, the belles proved they could per­form well at all levels with a successful showing at the miaa Flighted Tournament in Kalamazoo, mich., on saturday. 
belles coach dale campbell said he was impressed by his 
“I think it was motivation enough to prepare for this one tournament. We’ll start to analyze what we need to work on based on a little bit of our performance in the tournament. We have a measuring stick to go by to see what we need to do for the spring season.” 
Dale Campbell 
Belles coach 
team’s performance consid­ering the small amount of time they had to prepare. 
“i thought we did well overall,” campbell said. “especially with only two weeks to get ready, it’s not bad for preseason.” 
saint mary’s had players in several different flights. in singles, the belles had two players in the a flight, three in the b flight and three more in the c flight. 
Two doubles pairs made it to the semifinal of the a flight. sophomore shannon elliott and freshman shannon golden reached the semifi­nals but fell 8-0 loss to albion freshman irene chen and sophomore marissa cloutier. Junior mary catherine Faller and sophomore Kayle sexton battled until losing 8-3 to Katie clark and sarah woods of Kalamazoo, 8-3. 
Faller had a solid tourna­ment in singles, winning the consolation round in the a singles flight. elliott made it to the finals of the b con­solation round before ania latal of Kalamazoo clinched the win 6-2, 6-7. sexton had a good start in a singles, win­ning her first match against junior chrissy uphaus of Trine, 6-4, 6-1, but a loss to freshman morgan spencer of adrian put her into the semifinals of the consolation bracket. 
campbell said he was im­pressed by Faller’s perfor­mance in singles. 
paid adverTisemenT 
“she had a lot of matches decided by tiebreakers and 
over weekend 
was playing with a sore ankle for the last four matches of the tournament,” campbell said. “it was a strong perfor­mance for her.” 
campbell said it wasn’t hard to get the team de­termined for their only fall competition. 
“i think it was motivation enough to prepare for this one 

“I thought we 
did well overall. 
Especially with 
only two weeks 
to get ready, it’s 
not bad for the 
preseason.” 
Dale Campbell 
Belles coach 
tournament,” campbell said. “we’ll start to analyze what we need to work on based on a little bit of our performance in the tournament. we have a measuring stick to go by to see what we need to do for the spring season.” 
The belles will begin their spring season on Feb. 9 when they travel to case western to take on the spartans. 
Contact Katie Heit at kheit@nd.edu 

By AARON SANT-MILLER 
sports writer 
This weekend, the belles split two conference matchups, going 1-1 on the weekend in the miaa. on Friday, the team dominantly defeated conference rival olivet 3-0, but lost 3-2 to alma in heart­breaking fashion saturday. 
“everybody just brought their game to the next level, espe­cially versus alma,” belles coach Toni Kuschel said. “They are a great team and we just really rose to the challenge. i’m just very proud and happy of the way my team played.” 
The belles (8-6, 4-2 miaa) started the weekend hot with a sweep of olivet (2-12, 1-5 miaa). in the first set, saint mary’s out­hit olivet .214 to .080, and then went on to hit over .400 in the following two sets. senior setter danie brink, sophomore mid­dle hitter melanie Kuczek, and freshman outside hitter Katie hecklinski all hit over .500 on the day to lead the team. 
“i thought we had a great win,” Kuschel said. “we won in three, which was a goal for us going in. our middles really stepped up and blocked well.” 
coming out of that win over the comets, the belles’ 4-1 miaa record was the best conference start a saint mary’s volleyball team has had since 1997. 
against alma (9-5, 4-2 miaa), the team had more difficulty. after losing the first set 25-22, the belles were able to claim the following two. The scots forced a fifth set with a 25-20 win in the fourth. alma squeaked out a 15­12 win in the fifth set, ending the belles’ weekend on a sour note. 
“it was a very hard-fought five-set match,” Kuschel said. “we hit really well as a team. 
we did really well defensively. we really stepped out well at the net defensively blocking. i’m re­ally proud of the way our team played.” 
once again their captain, brink, led the belles. brink had her third career match of more than 50 assists with 52 helpers, and also contributed a team-high 18 digs. 
“brink again had an amazing match,” Kuschel said. “To put up the number she did as a setter is pretty spectacular.” 
sophomore outside hitter Kati schneider had a strong perfor­mance as well, as she notched 22 kills, which led all athletes in the match and tied her career high. 
The belles can still play better as a team, Kuschel said. 
“There are definitely ar­eas that need improvement,” Kuschel said. “we need to elimi­nate some of our errors behind the service line and some of our receiving errors. when we had our errors, we were constantly forced to play from behind. 
“still, we stepped up to the challenge and played very well. we were just on the wrong end of a 15-12 decision.” 
still, saint mary’s showed marked improvement, Kuschel said. 
“we hit really well,” Kuschel said. “we transitioned much better, we had a great transition game. we were really communi­cating well as a team. everybody just brought their game to the next level.” 
For the belles, the road doesn’t get any easier. on wednesday, the team hosts no. 2 calvin college (13-1, 6-0 miaa) for a 7 
p.m. match. 
Contact Aaron Sant-Miller at asantmil@nd.edu 



The observer | MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 24, 2012 | ndsmcobserver.com 


SMC SOCCER | alma 2, smc 1 

Belles fall for first time this season 
By MIKE MONACO 
sports writer 
The belles lost their first game of the season as they fell 2-1 to alma on saturday afternoon in alma, mich. 
The teams were tied at one goal each for much of the game, but the scots (6-1-1, 3-0-1 miaa) scored off a rebound with just 
7:44 remaining in the game to claim the victory. 
“i’d say alma was the best team we have played so far,” senior captain and midfielder maddie meckes said. “i think we still played pretty well, we just sort of let up in the last part. we didn’t play a full 90 minutes.” 
saint mary’s had allowed just two goals total going into saturday’s matchup with the scots. despite the two goals al­lowed to the scots, meckes said the defense played very well overall. 
“we have four really great defenders back there,” meckes said. “They’re really, really solid. [sophomore goalkeeper chanler rosenbaum] is great. she makes amazing saves time after time. They’ve been great. we can’t fault them for either of the goals. without them, it’d be a different story in our season thus far.” 
alma got out to a quick lead when freshman forward Kelly wilson scored on an unassisted goal in the eighth minute. The belles (4-1-1, 2-1) knotted things up, however, in the 24th minute after freshman midfielder/for­ward beth ruff found junior for­ward Jordan diffenderfer, who buried her team-leading third goal of the season. 
The goal from diffenderfer was just the second shot the belles had in the half. saint mary’s outshot alma 7-1 throughout the rest of the first half. 
“i think we played very, very well,” meckes said. “we were more than competitive. we know we can play with one of the best teams [in alma]. we’re having the best start to a year since i’ve been here and it shows we can [perform well in the] conference tournament if we stay focused and play with our full effort.” 
after the equalizing goal from diffenderfer, the game was scoreless for roughly the next 60 minutes as both defenses tightened up. rosenbaum made seven saves in the match behind a back line led by sophomore de­fenders mary Kate hussey and Kerry green. 
but with time winding down, the scots broke through. after allowing three consecutive cor­ner kicks, the belles blocked an alma shot. The rebound found the foot of freshman midfielder/ forward agatha weddle, who blasted her first collegiate goal into the back of the net. 
“They had three corner kicks right in a row,” meckes said. “[rosenbaum] hit one out and then a defender hit one out. every corner is a scramble in the box and it deflected off a player to one of their players and there was nothing [rosenbaum] could do. There’s nothing we can do — it’s really fast in there. [belles] coach [michael Joyce] described it as not being hungry enough but it just happened and it’s nobody’s fault.” 
The scots held on for the win the last 7:44. despite the loss, meckes said the belles are pleased with their performance against a top opponent like alma. 
“it was disappointing to lose but there is a lot to take away from the game,” meckes said. “alma is probably one of the 
paid adverTisemenT 

best teams in the conference. so it was good to play a good team and see how we match up and know we can play with them and be competitive with one of the top teams. 
“The biggest thing we can take from this is to make sure we play a full 90 minutes. They scored in the last eight minutes so we need to make sure we don’t let up at all.” 
saint mary’s returns home Tuesday to square off with albion at 4 p.m. 
Contact Mike Monaco at jmonaco@nd.edu 




SMC GOLF | FourTh place 
poor weather befuddles belles 
By PETER STEINER 
sports writer 
playing their second miaa conference round in rainy conditions, the belles fin­ished in fourth place in the alma Jamboree on saturday at pine river country club in alma, mich. 
saint mary’s turned in team score of 340, placing them 20 strokes behind first-place olivet. 
“we didn’t have our best day for whatever reason,” belles coach mark hamilton said. “The conditions were a little difficult. The course wasn’t that hard. we had a lot of good shots, but couldn’t hit the ball up and down, for whatever reason, and ultimately that is what cost us.” 
Freshmen amanda graham and claire boyle led the belles, both shooting a score of 83 on the day. The remain­ing belles starters all shot 87 to put the belles 30 strokes ahead of fifth-place alma. 
“i think two of our fresh­men played relatively well,” hamilton said. “amanda graham and claire boyle gut­ted it out and had a pretty good performance yesterday. They played well and will continue to play well and get even bet­ter. They’ve got a lot of great things ahead of them.” 
wind and rain plagued the Jamboree all day saturday, 
“We didn’t have our best day for whatever reason. The conditions were a little difficult. ” 
Mark Hamilton 
Belles coach 
making great shots hard to come by. despite the condi­tions, hamilton knows they can’t use the rain as an excuse for poor play. 
“it was cold and windy and on-and-off rain,” hamilton said. “but the conditions are the same for everybody. we just didn’t handle it as well as some of the other players.” 
olivet finished first for the second straight conference 

“We are really hitting the ball quite well, hitting a great drive, hitting a great iron shot somewhere up by the green and then not converting. If our up-and-down percentage goes up, our scoring average is going to drop.” 
Mark Hamilton 
Belles coach 
round and the first two of six rounds in the fall. with a total score of 644, the comets now lead the conference race by 28 strokes over next-closest team hope. The belles sit in fourth place behind olivet, hope and calvin. 
with four conference rounds remaining, the belles know what aspect of the game they must improve. 
“we are really hitting the ball quite well, hitting a great drive, hitting a great iron shot somewhere up by the green and then not convert­ing,” hamilton said. “if our up-and-down percentage goes up, our scoring aver­age is going to drop pretty dramatically.” 
The belles will prepare this week to compete as they host the conference Jamboree on wednesday at the blackthorn golf club in south bend. 
Contact Peter Steiner at psteiner@nd.edu 
paid adverTisemenT 



Cardinals 
conTinued From page 16 
“it was an amazing performance from the team,” brown said. “we took the momentum that we had from the comeback in the fourth set and took it into the fifth game. we totally took the crowd out of the game. it was pretty cool to hear such a silent arena.” 
against cincinnati (2-11, 0-1) on Friday, the irish were pushed to five sets as well, but rallied on the strength of sophomore outside hitter Toni alugbue’s ca-reer-high 26 kills. Together with fellow sophomore outside hitter Jeni houser, alugbue shouldered the lion’s share of the offensive load for the irish, combining for 71 kills in the two matches. 
“it’s critical to us that the two of them perform well offensive­ly,” brown said. “we have other players making great digs and sets, but we rely on Toni and Jeni to put the ball away.” 
That ability was on display in the fourth set comeback against louisville, as houser’s two kills in a critical situation forced the fifth set that eventually secured notre dame’s victory. 
“Jeni had a monster fourth set to keep us in it,” brown said. “in the two of them, we have two hitters that have great, strong arms and really intelligent placement of the ball. i’ve been really pleased with their play.” 
brown said she hopes the weekend’s matches will prove to be a turning point for her team as they transition from the out­of-conference preseason into their big east schedule. 
“i think that it’s really a con­fidence thing,” brown said. “we’ve competed really well ev­ery time against ranked teams, but we haven’t won until now. it’s about having the confidence to know that we can finish off games.” 
The irish will continue their big east schedule saturday at 2 p.m. against marquette at purcell pavilion. 
Contact Conor Kelly at ckelly17@nd.edu 

SMC CROSS COUNTRY | siXTh place 
Biek leads team at Jamboree 
By LAURA COLETTI 
sports writer 
saint mary’s finished sixth in a field of nine teams at the miaa Jamboree this weekend. 
a group that included two ranked opponents in no. 8 calvin and no. 17 hope edged 
“We went into the meet feeling very excited to be able to race on our home course and finally be able to have students to be able to make it to our race to support us.” 
Angela Nebesney 
Senior 
the host belles from the top spots. Filling in the third through fifth slots were alma, albion and adrian, respec­tively. belles senior angela nebesney said her team was proud of their performance in the 6k race and happy to be running on their home course. 
“we went into the meet feel­ing very excited to be able to race on our home course and fi­nally be able to have students to be able to make it to our race to support us,” she said. “we did perform as expected and fin­ished better as a team this year than last year with some new personal records.” 
Junior Jessica biek led the way for saint mary’s with a time of 23:19, good for 19th overall. nebesney finished sec­ond for the belles and turned in a time of 24:46, just six seconds shy of a new personal record. Finishing third was senior elizabeth majewski, who gave a personal-best effort, at a time of 24:47 for 53rd place overall. The entire team finished close with each other, with nobody finishing slower than 28:55. nebesney said it was good for the team to run as a group. 
“This meet we ran as a group throughout the race, which we will continue to do because it allows us to push and help each other,” she said. 
moving forward, nebesney said it is motivational for saint mary’s to be facing ranked opponents. 
“[when we compete against ranked teams], we remain fo­cused and prepared to reach our goals, and we use the ranked opponents to push us towards our goals,” she said. 
The belles will look to biek, nebesney and majewski to con­
“This meet we ran as a group throughout the race, which we will continue to do because it allows us to push and help each other.” 
Angela Nebesney 
Senior 
tinue to pace the team when they head to the pre-national in Terre haute, ind., for their next race. This year’s install­ment of the pre-national will fall on oct. 6, and the race will begin at 12:30 p.m. 
Contact Laura Coletti at lcoletti@nd.edu 


The observer | MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 24, 2012 | ndsmcobserver.com 





Waldrum 
conTinued From page 16 
just letting [the ball] go out of bounds.” 
waldrum said the mistakes his team has made this season have yet to hinder the irish as much as last year. 
“i think maybe the difference this year from last year from that standpoint is last year we made those mental mistakes and we weren’t getting the re­sults that we wanted,” he said. “This year, even though we’ve made some mistakes and given up some late goals, we’re get­ting the wins and that’s the important thing. To be 3-0 in the big east, it’s really a great performance.” 
notre dame dominated pos­session again sunday against the golden grizzlies (3-3-3). Though they were held score­less in the first half by a stingy oakland defense, the irish had a 22-2 advantage in shots, in­cluding an 11-0 advantage in shots on goal. Freshman for­ward crystal Thomas finally broke through in the 69th min­ute, scoring off assists from roccaro and sophomore for­ward lauren bohaboy. roccaro netted the team’s second goal in the 81st minute, and freshman forward anna maria gilbertson finished off the scoring for the irish with a goal two minutes later. 
waldrum was impressed with notre dame’s ability to execute in a game sunday afternoon af­ter having played Friday night. 
“it was a good weekend again,” he said. “i thought last weekend we put a good sunday game together. Today was a lit­tle bit of a slow start, but overall i’m pretty pleased with the per­formance for a sunday game. it’s so difficult to play Friday and then turn around and play sunday, but i thought the kids did well with it. it was nice to see we held them to nothing late.” 
preventing oakland from making the game interesting at the end marks an impor­tant step in the maturation of the young irish, according to waldrum. 
“it’s been getting better ev­ery week,” he said of the play of the freshmen. “you see the addition of roccaro and what 

“This year, even though we’ve 
made some 
mistakes and 
given up some 
late goals, we’re 
getting the wins 
and that’s the 
important thing.” 
Randy Waldrum 
Irish head coach 
she brings back to the team. normally she is a center back and here we’ve been playing her upfront. i think she’s got three goals in her four games back. of course crystal Thomas con­tinues to impress. she’s such a hard worker and a fighter. and it was nice to see anna get a goal today. she needs that to build her confidence.” 
notre dame heads east next weekend to face providence in providence, r.i., on Friday be­fore taking on connecticut in storrs, conn., on sunday. 
Contact Cory Bernard at cbernard@nd.edu 
Clark 
conTinued From page 16 

given the other penalty al­ready, there was no ques­tion,” clark said. “[lesch] got an arm on him and [Farrell] went down. it was going to get called.” 
an injury to the solid back four also may have contrib­uted to the irish loss, clark said. irish junior defender andrew o’malley went out in the 63rd minute and was replaced by lesch. moving forward, clark said he wants the irish to contin­ue working on making ad­justments and overcoming injuries 
“andrew o’malley picked up an injury in the second half and we have to react to that,” clark said. “This is the first time this season we’ve changed something in the back four. we have to learn to make adjustments when this happens.” 
although this is the first loss for the irish, the team 
took  both  positives  and  
negatives  away  from  the  
match.   
“we  played  well  all  

around,” clark said. “we just weren’t able to finish. we had more shots, but we need to make them bet­ter shots and make them 
paid adverTisemenT 
count. our passes need to be better in the final third so we can connect. 
“we handled the strong winds well, we handled being away well, and we handled a tough team well. The goal keeping was solid. going into games like that, there are not going to be many teams who will win in louisville. They are a tough team and we have taken some.” 
The irish will seek to bounce back against indiana in bloomington this wednesday. 
Contact Isaac Lorton at ilorton@nd.edu 




CROSSWORD | will shorTZ 


HIGHLY PUNLIKELY | chrisTopher brucKer 

LOWER YOUREXPECTATIONS | lenny rago & paTricKcross 


Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
SUDOKU | The mepham group 


HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Jason alexander, 53; bruce springsteen, 63; mary Kay place, 65; mickey rooney, 92. 
Happy Birthday: don’t let your emotions lead to mistakes. wager the pros and cons of a situation before you make a move. be strategic and protect what you want and have first and foremost. set your game plan in motion after you have made sure that your motives are legitimate. impulsive action will lead to greater challenges. strategic measures are required. your numbers are 6, 11, 19, 28, 36, 43, 47. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): a partnership will undergo change. don’t instigate something you cannot finish. enjoy activities that you find stimulating or creative and you’ll avoid thinking about a worrisome situation. avoid impulsive, unpredict­able people. electronic devices are likely to cause problems. 

TAURUS (April 20-May 20): leave work and dealing with peers for another day. Focus on what you can do to improve your life. don’t give in to demands when you should be doing something to help your own interests. Travel to a place you find peaceful. 

GEMINI (May 21-June 20): look over financial papers and reassess your status. avoid someone putting demands on you. it’s best to avoid spending on others or on luxury items you don’t need. stick close to home and enjoy working on creative pastimes. romance is highlighted. 

CANCER (June 21-July 22): explore your talents and you will find a new way to bring in extra cash. don’t be discouraged by what someone says or does. a job you do will bring you great satisfaction if you do it for the right reason. 

LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): you will meet with opposition if you are demanding. Take control by offering to do your share and asking for suggestions. injuries or mishaps are likely if you don’t approach physical encounters with caution. practicality is imperative. 

VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Take care of small but important details and you will feel satisfied with what you accomplish. a chance to develop something you’ve wanted to do will lead to recognition and new possibilities. invest in your abilities and your future. 

LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): remain levelheaded regardless of what others do or what you are faced with. a change may not be welcome, but acceptance will be your ticket to freedom. Focus on the future and how you can expand your interests and friendships.  

SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): indulge in creative endeavors that interest you. The more unusual a direction you take, the more enticing it will become. determination and skill will far exceed any challenge you face. proceed with confidence. 

SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Take on a task that will help you change your lifestyle or make alterations at home that are more conducive to your current situ­ation. love is in the stars. making a move that will encourage someone to join you will pay off. 

CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): avoid being sidetracked by others or thinking that someone else has a better idea or superior way of doing things. believe in your abilities, and follow your own path quietly until you reach your destination. an unusual interest will entice you. 

AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): a past problem is likely to reappear. use your intu­ition and experience to ward off any repercussions that might occur should you ignore the situation. a love relationship can alter the way you do things. discuss your feelings and intentions. 

PISCES (Feb. 19- March 20): have fun, but don’t let excessive habits get out of hand. Too much of anything will be costly financially, emotionally or even physi­cally. limit what you do and stick to company you trust. moderation is essential. 


Birthday Baby:you are ambitious, determined and pragmatic. you are goal-orient­ed and strong-willed. 
JUMBLE | david hoyT and JeFF KnureK 


make checks payable to and mail to: enclosed is $130 for one academic year enclosed is $75 for one semester  The observer p.o. box 779 notre dame, in 46556  
name address city       state  Zip  


ND VOLLEYBALL | nd 3, cincy 2; nd 3, louisville 2 
irish get first win against top-20 team 

MEN’S SOCCER | louisville 2, nd 1 
Nobody’s perfect 
Cardinals hand Irish first loss of season in Big East opener 

By CONOR KELLY 
sports writer 
after failing to secure victo­ries in their first four matches against top-20 opponents this season, the irish succeeded on their fifth try, knocking off no. 10 louisville on sunday in five sets at louisville. The win snapped the cardinals’ ten-match winning streak and marked the first time notre dame has defeated a top-ten team since the irish beat stanford in 2009. on Friday, the team claimed a victory as well, taking its big east opener at cincinnati 3-2 (19-25, 25-21, 21-25, 25-20, 16-14). 
“i’m so proud of the team in both of these situations,” irish coach debbie brown said of her team’s two five-set victories. “playing on the road, to come up with both of these wins was huge.” 
against louisville (12-2, 1-1 big east), the irish (9-5, 2-0) dropped the opening two sets before storming back to take the final three. notre dame was outplayed early, but held on to take the third set 25-20. Facing match point at 24-21 in the fourth set, the irish rallied for five straight points to force a fifth set.  having seized the momentum, the team played a near-perfect fifth and decisive set, winning 15-3 to secure the victory. 
see cardinals PAGE 13 
By ISAAC LORTON 
sports writer 

until saturday, the no. 2 irish had only known per­fection, but after a trip to louisville for the squad’s big east opener, the irish now know defeat, losing to the cardinals 2-1. 
“any loss is tough,” irish coach bobby clark said. “but this being the first loss of the year, especially after a good run, it is difficult. however, winning and los­ing are a part of the game, so we bounce back and move on.” 
louisville (5-3-0, 1-0) jumped out to an early lead as redshirt sophomore dylan mares netted a head­er coming off a crossing pass in the 33rd minute. mares’ goal ended the 268:06 score­less streak the irish (7-1-0, 0-1) had amassed. 
penalty kicks were a key element in saturday’s game, as the game-tying and game-winning goals came off of fouls in the box. 
in the 62nd minute, se­nior forward ryan Finley put the penalty kick away and brought the irish even with the cardinals. The goal brought Finley to a team-leading six goals on the season. 
at that point, the momen­tum seemed to swing in notre dame’s favor, clark said. 
“i thought it was ours after the [penalty kick,]” clark said. “we were very good for long periods of the second half, but [the cardinals] closed well, very professionally.” 
but the momentum did not last long. in the 76th minute, sophomore irish midfielder brendan lesch committed a foul on junior midfielder andrew Farrell in the box. a pen­alty kick was awarded and Farrell put the game-win­ner away. 

“i thought [the penalty] was a little softer but having 
see clarK PAGE 14 
ND WOMEN’S SOCCER | nd 2, piTTsburgh 1; nd 3, oaKland 0 

Youngsters take a big step 
By CORY BERNARD 
sports writer 
The “baby irish” took an­other step toward maturity this weekend. 
notre dame kept its big east record a perfect 3-0 by defeat­ing pittsburgh by a score of 2-1 on Friday at alumni stadium. at home again sunday, the irish shut out oakland by a score of 3-0. 
irish coach randy waldrum has said his team has focused in on winning their first big east championship since 2009, and the irish (7-3-1, 3-0 big east) stayed true to that prom­ise Friday. Freshmen midfield­ers cari roccaro and glory williams each found the back of the net against the panthers (5-7-1, 0-3-1) as notre dame dominated possession. Though waldrum was pleased with the victory, he was not happy his team surrendered a goal with 
4:39 remaining in the game. he said the goal came about as a result of mental mistakes rather than physical fatigue. 
“we’ve done that about three times this year,” waldrum said of allowing a late score. “we have given up late goals and it’s typically boiled down to young players making young mistakes. That late goal could have been avoided on Friday by 
see waldrum PAGE 14 


LILY KANG | The Observer 

Junior midfielder Mandy Laddish, right, strikes the ball during Notre Dame’s 2-1 home win over Pittsburgh on Friday. The Irish finished the weekend with a shutout over Oakland. 





