
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


‘The Shirt’ unveiling to take place Friday 
Event will feature free food and prizes as well as appearances by former Notre Dame football stars 
By ANNA BOARINI will perform at the event, players.” charitable aspect of The Project website, the profits News Writer including Project Fresh, Couey said the event will Shirt. from The Shirt support stu­
the band, cheerleaders, the also feature games and Couey said Fr. Tom Doyle, dent groups on campus and 
Every year, Notre Dame bagpipe band and the Glee food. vice-president for student establish memorial awards fans wait with bated breath Club, among others. “There will be inflatables affairs, will appear at the for particular Notre Dame to see what The Shirt, their Former football play-for kids, a corn hole toss event for the first time to students. uniform on football Sat-ers will also appear at the tournament, trivia with speak about the late Sr. Baranay said the final de­urdays, will look like. The event, Couey said. prizes and free food,” she Jean Lenz, one of the found-sign has been in place since wait is over Friday when “Robert Hughes, Golden said. “Jimmy John’s and Hot ers of The Shirt. early February, and while The Shirt will be unveiled Tate and Allen Pinkett, Box have donated food, so Baranay said the event he cannot explicitly reveal at 5:30 p.m. in front of the who will also be our MC for we are pretty excited about will highlight not only The anything about The Shirt, Hammes Notre Dame Book-the day, [are coming],” she that.” Shirt’s design but also the he said the format of the store. said. “Having former play-Senior Paul Baranay, vice charitable efforts made event gives a hint. 
Junior Lauren Couey, The ers will be pretty exciting, president of The Shirt Com-possible by proceeds from “One thing I can say is Shirt unveiling coordinator, along with [Irish coach Bri-mittee, said this year’s un-The Shirt. said many student groups an] Kelly and the [current] veiling will showcase the According to The Shirt see UNVEILING/page 5 

Panel affirms immorality of capital punishment 
By MARISA IATI 
Associate News Editor 
Two Notre Dame professors and a retired local priest as­serted capital punishment is immoral at a Wednesday panel discussion. 
Adjunct Instructor of Writing and Rhetoric Ed Kelly said he opposes the death penalty for three reasons. 
“First of all, there are systems of privilege and oppression in place in this country that I think make it virtually impossible for the death penalty to be applied fairly and justly,” he said. “Con­sequently, we have many people of color and many, many poor people who find themselves on death row, and that’s unfair.” 
Kelly said he believes it is impossible to combat violence with violence, and that state-sanctioned violence is nonsensi­cal. He said he also opposes the death penalty because people who are not imprisoned often have much more in common with prisoners than they expect. 
“I have four children,” Kelly said. “None of my daughters has been raped. Our only son has not been killed … Still, I would argue that all people are redeemable, that redemption is possible for everyone. Thus, I’m opposed to the death penalty.” 
Fr. Tom McNally, a retired priest who volunteers as a chap­lain at the Indiana State Prison, shared his experience speaking with prisoners on death row 


see PANEL/page 6 



ROTC PASS IN REVIEW 


Scholars to discuss Catholicism, Islam 


By MARY KATE NELSON 
News Writer 
Muslim and Catholic scholars will engage in in­terreligious dialogue dur­ing “The Church and Islam: An International Collo­quium at the University of Notre Dame” on Thursday and Friday. 
Keynote speaker Fr. Samir Khalil Samir, who advises Pope Benedict XVI on Is­lamic matters, will discuss the relationship between the Catholic Church and Is­lam Thursday at 8 p.m. in the Andrews Auditorium in Geddes Hall, according to a University press release. 
Prominent Muslim scholar and president of the World Religions Research Cen­ter Dr. Abdolrahim Gavahi will then respond to Samir’s speech. 
Professor John Cavadini said these two addresses serve as a valuable example of official interreligious di­alogue. 
“It is important not just to talk about [interreligious dialogue], but to actually do it,” Cavadini said. “This 


see COLLOQUIUM/page 5 

INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER Saint Mary’s fashion internship page 3 u Viewpoint page 8 u Coachella 2012 page 10 u Women’s lacrosse extends win streak page 20 
page 2 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u DAY-TO-DAY Thursday, April 19, 2012 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT IS YOU FAVORITE SONG RIGHT NOW? 

www.ndsmcobserver.com P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 Editor-in-Chief Allan Joseph Managing Editor Business Manager Megan Doyle Jeff Liptak Asst. Managing Editor: Andrew Owens Asst. Managing Editor: Sam Stryker News Editor: Kristen Durbin Viewpoint Editor: Meghan Thomassen Sports Editor: Chris Allen Scene Editor: Kevin Noonan Saint Mary’s Editor: Jillian Barwick Photo Editor: Suzanna Pratt Graphics Editor: Brandon Keelean Advertising Manager: Katherine Lukas Ad Design Manager: Sara Hillstrom Controller: Jason Taulman Systems Administrator: William Heineman Office Manager & General Info (574) 631-7471 Fax (574) 631-6927 Advertising (574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu Editor-in-Chief (574) 631-4542 ajoseph2@nd.edu Managing Editor (574) 631-4542 mdoyle11@nd.edu Assistant Managing Editors (574) 631-4541 aowens2@nd.edu, sstryke1@nd.edu Business Office (574) 631-5313 News Desk (574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com Viewpoint Desk (574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com Sports Desk (574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com Scene Desk (574) 631-4540 knoonan2@nd.edu Saint Mary’s Desk jbarwi01@saintmarys.edu Photo Desk (574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com Systems & Web Administrators (574) 631-8839 Policies The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College.  Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Allan Joseph. Post Office Information The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 and additional mailing offices 024 South Dining hall Notre Dame, IN 46556-077 The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved.  
TODAY’S STAFF News Sports Tori Roeck Katie Heit Dan Brombach Ernst Cleofe Abi Hoverman Matthew DeFranks Graphics Scene Elisa DeCastro Kevin Noonan Photo Viewpoint Mackenzie Sain Caroline Lang  
CORRECTIONS The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so we can correct our error.  
HIGH 75 LOW 53 


Daidreana Payton  Jenni Sanchez  Andrew Anderson  Lindsay Smith  Elyse Stachler  Rachel Dever  
junior Lyons  junior Welsh Family  junior Keough  junior Welsh Family  junior Cavanaugh  junior Cavanaugh  
“‘Elle Me Dit’ by Mika.”  “‘Because I’m Stupid’ by Kim Hyung Joong.”  “Father Pete’s rendition of ‘Ice Ice Baby.’”  “‘Mami Ven Conmigo’ by Daddy Yankee and Prince Royce.”  “‘Sydney’ by Brett Dennen.”  “‘Glad You Came’ by The Wanted.”  


Have an idea for Question of the Day? Email obsphoto@gmail.com 


OFFBEAT 
Phone call from ‘Baby’s momma’ helps nab suspect 
BAY CITY, Mich. — Thanks to a ringing cell­phone with an incoming call from “Baby’s momma,” police in Michigan say they were able to track down a suspected robber. 
Investigators in Bay City said a cellphone was found on the ground of a convenience store follow­ing a break-in last Septem­ber. When it rang, officers glanced at the odd caller ID and answered the phone. 
The female caller said the phone belonged to Kyle Schmiege but had recently been stolen. But during their investigation, police linked Schmiege to a February 2011 home burglary. 

He pleaded guilty to second-degree home inva­sion. MLive.com reported Wednesday that the 20-year­old Schmiege was sentenced to between 23 months and 15 years in prison, with credit for about four months served. 
Airport stripper says he was ‘nude but not lewd’ 
PORTLAND, Ore. — A high-tech worker who stripped naked at Portland International Airport as a protest against airport security screeners said Wednesday he was being “nude but not lewd,” and characterized his act of de­fiance as protected political speech. 
John E. Brennan, 49, of Portland was charged with disorderly conduct and in­decent exposure after tak­ing off far more than this belt and shoes during the screening process before a Tuesday evening flight to San Jose, Calif. The incident report from the Port of Port­land, which operates the airport, said some passen­gers covered their eyes and the eyes of their children. Others laughed and took photos. 
Port police officers arrest­ed Brennan after he ignored requests to get dressed. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 


IN BRIEF 
Notre Dame Softball will play Cleveland State today at 5 p.m. in the Melissa Cook Stadium. Students with an 
I.D. get in to the game for free. 
The Nanovic Institute for European Studies will host Lord Patten of Barns for the forum “Europe, America and the Changing World Order” today at 5 p.m. in the Andrews Auditorium of Geddes Hall. 
The Gender Relations Center will host “Take Back the Night” tonight start­ing at 7 p.m. at the Grotto. The event aims to break the silence surrounding sexual crimes and will include a candlelight vigil service, march around campus, speak out and bonfire. All members of the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s communi­ties are welcome. 
The Dance Company of Notre Dame will perform their Spring Show tonight at 
7:30p.m. in the Washington Hall Mainstage Auditorium. The show will include ballet, pointe, jazz, modern, lyrical, and hiphop dances, and tick­ets are $5 at the door. 
Saint Mary’s will host a public lecture as part of the Social Work Community Forum by Theresa Flores, a former victim of sex traf­ficking, Friday at noon at the Vander Vennet Theater. Flores, a licenced social worker. will discuss her per­sonal story and  an overview of sex and labor trafficking. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed in­formation about an event to obsnews.nd@gmail.com 



LOCAL WEATHER 

TODAY TONIGHT FRIDAY SATURDAY SUNDAY MONDAY 









HIGH 54 LOW 38 
HIGH 54 LOW 34 
HIGH 56 LOW 38 
HIGH 51 LOW 40 

Thursday, April 19, 2012 The Observer u NEWS ndsmcobserver.com | page 3 




Saint Mary’s student enjoys New York fashion internship 
By BRIDGET FEENEY 
Associate Saint Mary’s Editor 
For some, living in New York City and working in the fashion industry is an unattainable dream. For Saint Mary’s senior Brenna Lasky, that dream has become a reality. 
Lasky has spent this semester interning in New York City for Rent the Runway, a company that allows customers to borrow designer dress­es and accessories at a reasonable price. 
Lasky said Rent the Runway is the “Netflix of fashion” because it is con­venient, affordable and easy. 
“It allows you the opportunity to wear amazing designer dresses and jewelry for only a fraction of the cost [90 percent off the retail price],” she said. “It’s perfect for those times that you want something really special, or even just for the weekend, because honestly who wants to wear the same thing twice?” 
In addition to offering dresses for rental, Lasky said Rent the Runway sends customers an extra dress in a larger size as a backup and offers in­surance for spills, snags and tears so customers are not responsible for the entire price of the dress if an accident happens. 
“It’s really just the whole package and any fashion lover’s dream,” she said. 
Lasky said Rent the Runway is more than just a store that provides customers with designer dresses. She said the company provides a unique way for college students to participate in exciting entrepreneur­ial opportunities. 
“As cheesy as this may sound, it’s what’s becoming a culture,” Lasky said. “With over 150 major schools across the country now participat­ing, it’s a solid network of entrepre­neurial, fashion forward college girls who are working together to pro­mote this amazing brand, and quite frankly, what many believe is the fu­ture of e-commerce.” 
Last semester, Lasky said her in­ternship as a runway rep at Rent the Runway allowed her to relate her professional responsibilities to Saint Mary’s. She said it was a fun way to stay involved at the College while gaining valuable experience. 
“As a Runway rep, your main job is to create and execute a comprehen­sive strategic marketing plan to drive Rent the Runway membership, cus­tomer acquisition and engagement on campus,” she said. “Runway reps aim to promote Rent the Runway in the style of their school, while devel­oping entrepreneurial, leadership and business management skills in marketing and fashion.” 
Lasky said she took this semester off to participate in two internship opportunities. Currently, she is living in New York City serving as an intern with Rent the Runway’s College Mar­keting team, which is responsible for managing over 150 schools around the country, and is also completing an internship at Condé Nast. 
Though her entire time spent with Rent the Runway has been a ben­eficial and worthwhile experience, Lasky said moving to New York City to intern in the company headquar­ters and working with other people who share her passions have been the most exciting aspects of her in­ternship. 
“Honestly, it’s all been great, but my time spent here in New York working at their corporate 
offices has definitely been a high­light,” she said. “The office is full of smart, energetic and passionate peo­ple who love fashion so it’s definitely a fun environment to be in and some­thing I look forward to every day.” 
Though Lasky said she has not had the opportunity to travel or meet designers, she has had her share of “cool opportunities.” Last month, Rent the Runway hosted their sec­ond annual Capstone weekend in New York City, which Lasky said was a great learning experience with fun events planned throughout the weekend. 
“Tons of reps from all around the country flew in for [Capstone],” she said. “The weekend was full of de­signer speakers including Lilly Pulit­zer, Halston Heritage and Lancome, so we were able to learn and take away a lot from that.” 
Lasky said the weekend was not all business. 
“Interviews for full-time and sum­mer internship positions [with Rent the Runway] took place, as well as an exclusive designer sample sale where season-old dresses at all price points were sold for only $50 each, so that was really great,” she said. “I swear it was like that scene from ‘Confessions of a Shopaholic’ in there at one point.” 
Despite the glittering gowns, be­jeweled accessories and designer shoes, Lasky said her job posed some challenges. On top of her Rent the Runway responsibilities, Lasky said she also had to balance her school­work with her internship responsi­bilities. 
“Like any extracurricular, I’d say just juggling my time and trying to fit it in with school [was a challenge],” she said. “In my case, Rent the Run­way was usually the one that won out though!” 
Lasky said she will continue her work with Rent the Runway as a merchandising intern this summer and is in the process of recruiting interested students for next the 2012­2013 Rent the Runway team. 

Contact Bridget Feeney at bfeene01@saintmarys.edu 




SENATE 


Group suggests changes to IDs 
By MARISA IATI 
Associate News Editor 
Student Senate discussed possible changes to University identification cards at its meet­ing Wednesday. The group also passed resolutions concerning discriminatory harassment and campus safety. 
Robert Casarez, senior busi­ness analyst for the Office of Aux­iliary Operations, said the Uni­versity is considering expanding the services offered by identifica­tion cards. 
Senators suggested improve­ments such as accepting Domer Dollars for food sold in residence halls, creating the capability to scan cards through wallets and enabling students to distribute their dining hall meals more free­ly instead of restricting them to swiping into each meal only once. 
Casarez said other community members suggested making iden­tification cards more aestheti-dence of harassment presented cally pleasing and using them to at the March 5 town hall meeting record attendance at events. and publicly condemn harass-
Casarez also said his office ment of any kind.” plans to facilitate the use of Domer The resolution also asked the Dollars off campus, beginning in Office of Student Affairs and Of-the fall. He said this arrangement fice of Institutional Equity to com-
would  initially  pile  a  task  
apply to one or two vendors but could expand if it proves profit­able for the mer­chants and the  “It doesn’t have to be limited to just food at Eddy Street Commons ... It could be Martin’s, it could be Walmart,  force to inves­tigate Notre Dame’s dis­cr i m i nat ion policies and the Univer- 
University.  it could be Meijer.”  sity’s  efforts  
“It  doesn’t  to address di­ 
have to be lim- Robert Casarez  versity.  
ited to just food at Eddy Street Commons … It  senior business analyst office of auxilliary operations  A no t he r resolution re­quested the  

could be Mar­tin’s, it could be Walmart, it could be Meijer,” he said. 
Senate passed a resolution re­questing the University “directly and promptly respond to the evi-University in­


vestigate and improve the perception of safety on campus, possibly by increas­ing lighting and video surveil­lance on Mod Quad, God Quad, D2 and D6 parking lots, and the outskirts of campus. 
The group also passed a reso­lution implementing the Co-Campus Council as a permanent entity. 
Kelsey Eckenrode, director of community relations for student government, said representatives from Notre Dame, Saint Mary’s, Holy Cross College, Indiana Uni­versity South Bend and Ivy Tech Community College participate in the Council. 
“It’s just a good way to get rid of the ‘everybody hates Notre Dame, slash, Notre Dame thinks they’re better than everyone’ [perception],” she said. “It builds community, and I’m hoping we could implement this Co-Campus Council as a permanent entity instead of just a one-year trial run.” 
Senate also passed a resolu­tion to add the position of Cam­pus Ministry Representative to student government’s executive board. 
The group approved fresh­man Maggie Wilmouth to serve as student body secretary. The previously approved secretary had to resign due to scheduling conflicts. 

Contact Marisa Iati at miati@nd.edu 


Thursday, April 19, 2012 The Observer u NEWS ndsmcobserver.com | page 5 



Activist gives speech advocating food industry reform 
By KAITLYN RABACH 
News Writer 
Food activist Temra Costa gave the keynote address of Saint Mary’s Food Week, titled “The Roots of the American Meal,” in Carroll Au­ditorium on Wednesday evening. The week is sponsored by the Saint Mary’s Sustainable Food Commit­tee. 
Kimberly Roland, the head of this committee, said she believes Costa was the perfect activist to in­spire Saint Mary’s women to make a change in the food industry. 
“I think it is important to raise awareness on the variety of food issues that exist,” Roland said. “It is important to have Temra on our campus because she focuses not only on food issues, but how wom­en are involved in this industry. Her talk can inspire and empower women on this campus.” 
Costa talked about the history of the food industry to date. 
“How did we get here?” she asked. “How did we get to the point where we praise big farm lands that are making us money, but are simultaneously making us sick?” 
She said events such as the Great Depression, both world wars and the rise of companies such as Mc­Donald’s all impacted the food in­dustry we know today. 
Costa said the government has played an essential role in shaping the food industry. 
“The dust bowl disaster was due to the government teaching farm­ers to produce the most goods with­out teaching them how to properly care for their soil,” she said. “Even today, the foods that make us the most sick are owned by the govern­ment.” 
She also discussed women’s his­torical role in the food industry, which was the topic of her book, “Farmer Jane: Women Changing the Way We Eat.” 
“A lot of people do not know about the ‘farmerettes’ of World War I,” Costa said. “This ‘Women’s Land Army’ was composed of women who were empowered to work in the fields and take over for the men that were overseas.” 
Costa said she believes women are a driving force in the food in­dustry. 
“Women take charge of putting the food on the table in their own homes and in the community,” she said. “This is a responsibility that comes naturally to women. Some­one once told me that a good orga­nizer organizes women first, and I think this is true when fighting for justice in the food industry.” 
Costa expressed the need for ed­ucation and awareness on sustain­able agriculture. 
“Today, I think we are in a real literal food fight,” she said. “We as eaters need to push the agenda and change the way we look at food.” 
She said the first step in chang­ing the agenda is examining your own diet. 
“Start with what you are eat­ing,” Costa said. “Start looking at the foods you are consuming and remember to buy locally.” 
Educating the youth on these is­sues is essential in making a differ­ence, Costa said. 
“If we start healthy habits at a young age it will continue into adulthood,” she said. 
Costa said she encourages all college students to raise their voic­es and demand for their schools to buy locally. 
“Being a college student you have little say in what your dining hall provides, so you must step up and ask that your food service buys lo­cally and provides organic foods,” she said. “Voice your opinion.” 
Contact Kaitlyn Rabach at krabac01@saintmarys.edu 



Women’s soccer club excited to debut next fall 
By ANNALEIGH MCDONALD  large  difference  between  the  games.  said they would like to see any- existence, Pala said the girls  
News Writer  varsity  and  interhall  teams.  They will compete against  one with any interest in soccer  already have high hopes for the  
Many  female  students  have  teams in the Midwest Alliance  try out .  team’s success.  
The Women’s Soccer Club will  played competitive soccer in  Conference,  which  includes  “We are looking for talented  “We would love to be a domi­ 
take to the field this fall when  high school, but neither the in- schools  such  as  Purdue  Uni- players, of course,” she said,  nating club within our league,  
RecSports allows the formation  terhall nor the varsity teams  versity,  the  “but also team  but more than that we want to  
of club teams for sports with Notre Dame varsity teams for the first time.  provide a comparable environ­ment to that of their high school teams, she said.  U n i v e r s i t y of Michigan, M i c h i g a n  “This club is for girls who are committed and have  players well.” Pala  as said  be a valuable addition to this campus and be a good outlet for female students,” Pala said.  
Freshman Ally Kirst, an offi­cer of the Women’s Soccer Club,  “This club is for girls who are committed and have a love for  State Univer­sity and Indi­ a love for soccer, but don’t want the commitment that  the team wants to bring  “Our goals are to be successful, to create a strong team envi­ 
said the team came to be after junior Emma Russ spent the  soccer, but don’t want the com­mitment that the varsity level  ana Univer­sity, she said.  the varsity level calls for.”  the spirit of soccer to non­ ronment, and to grow as people and players.”  
past year negotiating with Rec-Sports. “We are very excited to finally  calls for,” Pala said. “It’s more serious and competitive than intramurals, but less than a  The club is looking for a roster of  Alexis Pala women’s club soccer officer  varsityers. “It   play-will  An information meeting for the Women’s Soccer Club took place Wednesday, but interest- 
be able to start up,” Kirst said.  varsity sport.”  about 24 girls,  bring back the  ed students can contact any of  
Freshmen Alexis Pala and  Kirst said the team will prac- Kirst said. Al- feeling of be- the officers. Tryouts will take  
Shannon Hogan will join Kirst  tice two to three days per week  though the officers are mostly  ing a part of a team and having  place in the fall.  
as officers of the club team.  and have 10 regular season  looking for girls who have some  a commitment to it,” she said.  
Pala said Notre Dame needed  games during the fall  semes­ experience and skill from play- Even though next year will  Contact Annaleigh McDonald at  
a soccer club because of the  ter,  not  including  tournament  ing competitive soccer, Kirst  be the first year of the team’s  amcdona5@nd.edu  

Unveiling 
continued from page 1 
that there is a reason we are focusing on players this year,” he said. “[This sea­son] is the 125th anniversa­ry of the football program, and that will be worked into the unveiling as well.” 
Couey said she is excited to see who turns out for the event. 
“Since I’ve been setting everything up, doing all the little pieces, it is hard for me to even picture it all to­gether to see it actually all come together,” Couey said. “Seeing everyone there and the excitement is what I am really looking forward [to].” 
Baranay said he is excited for the student groups to perform. 
“I’m most excited to see the students and the com­munity turn out. It is al­ways a huge event,” he said. “As for the program itself, I am actually most excited about the student groups because they are the ones that benefit from The Shirt so it is always great to see them perform.” 

Contact Anna Boarini at aboari01@saintmarys.edu 




Colloquium 
continued from page 1 

is an example of real live dialogue on a theological level. I’d like our students to see it happening.” 
Friday morning at 9 a.m., Catholic Notre Dame pro­fessors Gabriel Said Reyn­olds and Lawrence E. Sul­livan and Muslim scholars Mehdi Azaiez, Rashied Omar and Rasoul Rasou­lipour will participate in a panel discussion on re­
specting  each  other’s  re - 
ligion,  according  to  the  
press release.  

Reynolds and Sullivan will discuss their appreci­ation for the Muslim faith, and Azaiez, Omar and Ra­soulipour will discuss their appreciation for the Catho­lic faith. 
Reynolds said this panel discussion will prove indi­viduals can recognize holi­ness in religions different from their own. 
“The purpose of this is to show that the more deep­ly rooted you are in your faith, the more you can recognize the logic and beauty of another religious tradition,” he said. “There are too many examples of believers who don’t recog­nize this logic and beauty.” 
Cavadini said he also sees great value in Friday’s panel discussion. 
“This is a beautiful exer­cise of the imagination,” he said. 
Friday afternoon at 3:30 p.m., Samir will return to present a lecture on the relationship between Arab Christians in the East and their Muslim neighbors in DeBartolo Hall 126. 
“This is often a forgotten, neglected topic,” Reynolds said. 
Jean-Louis Pierre Car­dinal Tauran, whom Pope Benedict XVI delegated to undertake official inter-religious dialogues, was originally scheduled to speak Thursday. He can-celled due to health rea­sons less than two weeks ago, Cavadini said. 

Despite that setback, Ca­vadinitsaid he is looking forward tt the colloquium. 
“I think it will be a very high profile and interesting event,” he said. “We need all the mutual understand­ing between Christianity and Islam we can get.” 

Contact Mary Kate Nelson at mnelson8@nd.edu 

page 6 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u NEWS Thursday, April 19, 2012 


Panel 
continued from page 1 
shortly before their execu­tions. He said tensions run high in the small rooms where ex­ecutions occur near midnight. 
“The men come in [and] they’re on a gurney,” McNally said. “I always wave and bless them, a last blessing, and they wave back … They close the blinds, and then a poison is in­jected … All the time that this is going on, there’s just this heavi­ness in my heart.” 
McNally said his experiences witnessing prisoners’ execu­tions have caused him to con­sider capital punishment “ter­ribly unfair.” 
Jay Tidmarsh, a professor of law, said capital punishment is unjust because some pros­ecutors will ask a court to put a prisoner to death while others will not. 
“Different capital punishment does not de­ter crime. 
“In fact … the surest way to make a person violent is to pun­ish him, and of course, capital punishment is the worst form of punishment,” he said. 
It is difficult, however, to ar­gue capital punishment is “cru­el and unusual,” as described by the United States Constitu­tion, Tidmarsh said. 
“If you believe that the Con­stitution ought to be interpreted faithfully to the meaning of the people who originally adopted it, they executed people back then for lots of crimes that to­day we would never execute someone for,” he said “[But] what wasn’t cruel 200 years ago might be cruel today.” 
If most states abolish the death penalty, the Supreme Court might rule capital pun­ishment cruel and unusual un­der evolving notions of decency, 
Tid marsh 
said. 
Kelly said 
although he 
is generally prosecutors “In fact ... the surest in favor of in the state way to make a person sentencing have differ-violent is to punish him, prisoners of ent attitudes,” and of course, capital capital crimes Tid marsh to life impris­


punishment is the worst 
said. “The ar-onment, pa-
form of punishment .” 
bitrariness in role should be that sense of possible for 
Ed Kelly
the death pen-prisoners who alty is, to me, adjunct instructor prove they 
stunning. 
It’s not the quality of the act [that determines whether someone is put to death] … In many circumstanc­es, it is the quality of the person who decides whether or not to seek the death penalty.” 
The judicial system deludes all involved to believe they are not responsible for putting someone to death, Tidmarsh said. 
“We’re supposed to have sys­tems of rules that are relatively fair and neutral,” he said. “The reality is in our system no one actually is responsible for put­ting someone to death. We have divided up the system of respon­sibility in such a way where it’s always somebody else, or we believe, at least, that it’s always somebody else.” 
Tidmarsh said the Supreme Court has made clear that au­tomatic death sentences for cer­tain crimes are unconstitution­al. Instead, whether someone is put to death must be decided on a case-by-case basis. 
“You have to allow individu­als to mitigate, to explain,” Tidmarsh said. “It can’t be au­tomatic.” 
Kelly said he does not believe have changed 
for the better. 
“What you 
really need 
to do is take prisoners who have been put in prison and have them work on transforming,” he said. “It’s quite possible for the lives of people who have done terrible things to be halfway decent, even the imprisoned.” 
Tidmarsh said he thinks many prisoners are sentenced to death because victims’ fami­lies demonstrate an unwilling­ness to forgive the perpetra­tors. 
Kelly said executing crimi­nals rarely helps family mem­bers heal. 
“People talk about closure,” he said. “But there’s really no closure for many families.” 
It is important for Catholics to oppose the death penalty, Kelly said. 
“I think Sr. [Helen] Prejean [an advocate for the abolition of capital punishment] would argue that all life is sacred, not just innocent life,” he said. “And if you believe all life is sa­cred, how can you believe capi­tal punishment is okay?” 
Contact Marisa Iati at miati@nd.edu 




Secret Service agents dismissed 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON — Mov­ing swiftly, the Secret Ser­vice forced out three agents Wednesday in a prostitu­tion scandal that has em­barrassed President Barack Obama. A senior congress­man welcomed the move to hold people responsible for the tawdry episode but warned “it’s not over.” 
The agency announced three agents are leaving the service even as separate U.S. government investigations were under way. 
The Secret Service did not identify the agents being forced out of the government or eight more it said remain on administrative leave. In a statement, it said one super­visor was allowed to retire and another will be fired for cause. A third employee, who was not a supervisor, has re­signed. 
The agents were implicated in the prostitution scandal in Colombia that also involved about 10 military service members and as many as 20 women. All the Secret Ser­vice employees who were involved had their security clearances revoked. 
“These are the first steps,” said Rep. Pete King, R­N.Y., chairman of the House Homeland Security Commit­tee, which oversees the Se­cret Service. King said the agency’s director, Mark Sul­livan, took employment ac­tion against “the three peo­ple he believes the case was clearest against.” But King warned: “It’s certainly not over.” 
King said the agent set to be fired would sue. King said Sullivan had to follow collec­tive bargaining rules but was “moving as quickly as he can. Once he feels the facts are clear, he’s going to move.” 
The embarrassing scandal erupted last week after 11 Se­cret Service agents were sent home from the colonial-era city of Cartagena on Colom­bia’s Caribbean coast after a night of partying that report­edly ended with at least some of them bringing prostitutes back to their hotel. The spe­cial agents and uniformed officers were in Colombia in advance of President Barack Obama’s arrival for the Sum­mit of the Americas. 
A White House official said Wednesday night that Obama had not spoken directly to Sullivan since the incident unfolded late last week. Obama’s senior aides are in close contact with Sullivan and the agency’s leadership, said the official, who re­quested anonymity because they were not authorized to speak publicly. 
In Washington and Colom­bia, separate U.S. govern­ment investigations were al­ready under way. King said he has assigned four con­gressional investigators to the probe. The House Com­mittee on Oversight and Gov­ernment Reform, led by Rep. Darrell Issa, R-Calif., sought details of the Secret Ser­vice investigation, including the disciplinary histories of the agents involved. Secret Service investigators are in Colombia interviewing wit­nesses. 
In a letter to Sullivan, Issa and Rep. Elijah Cummings of Maryland, the committee’s ranking Democrat, said the agents “brought foreign na­tionals in contact with sen­sitive security information.” A potential security breach has been among the con­cerns raised by members of Congress. 
The incident occurred be­fore Obama arrived and was at a different hotel than the president stayed in. 
Sen. Chuck Grassley, the ranking Republican on the Senate Judiciary Committee, said news of the three agents leaving Secret Service was a positive development. 
“I’ve always said that if heads don’t roll, the culture in a federal agency will never change,” the Iowa lawmaker said in a statement. “Today’s personnel actions, combined with the swift removal and investigation, are positive signs that there is a serious effort to get to the bottom of this scandal.” 
New details emerged Wednesday. A 24-year-old self-described prostitute told The New York Times that she met an agent at a disco­theque in Cartagena and af­ter a night of drinking, the pair agreed the agent would pay her $800 for sex at the hotel. The next morning, when the hotel’s front desk called because the woman hadn’t left, the pair argued over the price. 
“I tell him, ‘Baby, my cash money,’” the woman told the newspaper in an interview in Colombia. She said the two argued after the agent ini­tially offered to pay her about $30 and the situation esca­lated, eventually ending with Colombian law enforcement involved. She said she was eventually paid about $225. 


Thursday, April 19, 2012 The Observer u NEWS ndsmcobserver.com | page 7 


Beloved TV host passes away 
Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES — Dick Clark, the ever-youthful television host and produc­er who helped bring rock ‘n’ roll into the mainstream on “American Bandstand” and rang in the New Year for the masses at Times Square, has died. He was 82. 
Spokesman Paul Shefrin said Clark had a heart at­tack Wednesday morning at Saint John’s hospital in Santa Monica, where he had gone the day before for an outpatient procedure. 
Clark had continued per­forming even after he suf­fered a stroke in 2004 that affected his ability to speak and walk. 
Long dubbed “the world’s oldest teenager” because of his boyish appearance, Clark bridged the rebel­lious new music scene and traditional show business, and equally comfortable whether chatting about mu­sic with Sam Cooke or ban­tering with Ed McMahon about TV bloopers. He long championed black singers by playing the original R&B versions of popular songs, rather than the pop cover. 
Ryan Seacrest, who took over main hosting duties on the countdown show from Clark after years of work­ing beside the legend, said in a statement Wednesday that he was “deeply sad­dened.” 

“I idolized him from the start, and I was graced ear­ly on in my career with his generous advice and coun­sel,” Seacrest said. “He was a remarkable host and busi­nessman and left a rich leg­acy to television audiences around the world. We will all miss him.” 
He thrived as the founder of Dick Clark Productions, supplying movies, game and music shows, beauty contests and more to TV. Among his credits: “The $25,000 Pyramid,” ‘’TV’s 

Bloopers  and  Practical  
Jokes” and  the  American  
Music Awards.  

“Dick Clark was a true pioneer who revolutionized the way we listened to and consumed music,” record executive Clive Davis said in a statement. “For me he ranks right up there with the giants of our business.” 



Subway terror suspect confesses, apologizes 

Associated Press 
NEW YORK — An admitted al-Qaida recruit testified Wednes­day that he and two friends were determined to “weaken America” by strapping on suicide bombs and attacking New York City sub­ways around the eighth anniver­sary of 9/11, but now hopes for redemption. 
“I believe my crimes are very bad,” Najibullah Zazi said on cross-examination. “If God gave me a second chance, I would ap­preciate it and will be a very good human being.” 
Earlier, Zazi told a federal jury at his alleged accomplice’s trial that he slipped detonator ingre­dients into the city on Sept. 10, 2009, after the chemicals ex­tracted from beauty supplies passed a test run. 
Using code words, he then frantically emailed one of his al-Qaida handlers to get the exact formula for building homemade bombs to go with detonators. 
“The marriage is ready,” Zazi wrote —  signaling that he and two of his radicalized former high school classmates from Queens were ready to die as martyrs. 
Zazi said the plot _ financed in part by $50,000 in credit card charges he never intended by to pay back — was abandoned af­ter he noticed that everywhere he drove in New York, a car fol­lowed. 
“I think law enforcement is on us,” he recalled telling one of his co-conspirators, Zarein Ahmedzay. Later, he said he told the third man, Adis Medunjanin, in a text message, “We are done.” 
The 26-year-old Zazi testified for a second day at the trial of Medunjanin in federal court in Brooklyn. He was to return to the witness stand on Thursday for more cross-examination. 
Prosecutors say that Zazi, Me­dunjanin and Ahmedzay — after growing upset over the U.S. inva­sion of Afghanistan and receiv­ing terror training at an al-Qaida compound in Pakistan — togeth­er hatched what authorities have described as one of the most seri­ous terror plots since the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks. 
Medunjanin, 27, a Bosnian-born naturalized U.S. citizen, has pleaded not guilty to conspiracy to use weapons of mass destruc­tion, providing material support to a terrorist organization and other charges. 
Medunjanin has denied he was ever part of an al-Qaida opera­tion. His lawyers have sought to show that — unlike Zazi and Ahmedzay — he had no direct involvement in the efforts to as­semble bombs. 
Zazi and Ahmedzay, both of Afghan descent, pleaded guilty in 2010 and were jailed without bail after agreeing to become govern­ment witnesses in a bid for leni­ency. Ahmedzay testified earlier this week. 


Thursday, April 19, 2012 


INSIDE COLUMN 

Olympicsoust baseball 
As I am writing this, there are 99 days, 22 hours and 11 minutes until the opening of the 2012 Summer Olym­pics in London. 
But really, who’s counting? 

Every four years the world comes to-Isaac Lorton gether to celebrate in the competition Sports Writer of sports. Fight­ing across the world seems to be at a stand-still as sports give us something to cheer for, something to hope for and above all something to agree upon. Yet sadly, there is something missing this time around. 
Is it the table tennis, badminton, synchronized swimming or even hand­ball? No … Unfortunately, baseball and softball will not be making an appear­ance this year. These two sports are the first events to have been cut since polo in 1936. 
Seriously, why baseball and softball? Baseball and softball have spread their popularity across the globe in the past decade. That is everywhere but Europe, which holds a tremendous amount of power in the International Olympics Committee (IOC). Since both baseball and softball are truly Ameri­can sports, is this a shot on the world level against America? 
Some might say yes, and I might be inclined to agree, but this is also a shot against many South American coun­tries and many Asian countries. In the 2009 World Baseball Classic (WBC), the final four teams were Japan, Ven­ezuela, Korea and the States, but the 
U.S. did not even advance. It was Japan against Korea with Japan coming out on top. The IOC claimed that baseball was not popular enough, especially with the best of the best, our MLB play­ers, staying home. Ironically, the IOC also argued baseball played in favor of the U.S. Yet, as the WBC showed the world’s best players can compete and even beat players — Major League players at that — of the U.S. 
So tell the IOC baseball has not be­come a world sport. 
The dominance factor for the U.S. might have been a more valid and compelling argument when voting to get rid of softball at the world level, as they out-scored their opponents 51-1 in the 2004 Olympics. But there have been plenty of other sports dominated by one country, such as Great Brit­ain and soccer, which was not voted away. As time went on, other countries overthrew the powerhouse. Also, why would the 98 males on the 106-person IOC vote against seeing the likes of Jenny Finch and Kat Osterman com­peting on the television all summer, throwing fastballs at the equivalent of a 100 mph baseball. As some girls enjoy watching the Patriots for Tom Brady and the Yankees for Derek Jeter, why can guys not enjoy softball for Jenny Finch and Kat Osterman? It is definitely better than watching the weight lifters. 
There is hope, though, for baseball and softball in the 2016 Olympics. Since the dreaded 2008 vote which caused baseball and softball to be re­placed by golf, there have been events, like the WBC, to give the IOC some­thing to consider. So hopefully in 2016 we can all sit down and enjoy a hot dog and watch baseball and softball, instead of racewalking and equestrian. 
Contact Isaac Lorton at      ilorton@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 



The Notre Dame option 
I’m sure you’ve seen them. They meander through campus clutching folders with a sense of bewilderment, trailed by sets of parents snapping photos. They wear sweatshirts from the bookstore so new that Grace Concelman they still have the tags. Their Options and moms stop you Futures in front of CoMo to ask how to find South Dining Hall. 
They’re the accepted students of the Class of 2016, and they have fewer than two weeks to decide where to at­tend. It’s time for them to weigh their options. 
In finance, an option is a contract between a buyer and a seller that includes the “option” of a future transaction. There are two basic types of options: calls and puts. The buyer of a call option has the right to buy an asset at a specified price from the seller if he chooses to exercise his op­tion. The buyer of a put option has the right to sell the asset if he chooses to exercise. 
In both cases, the seller of the op­tion is obligated to take the other side of the trade if the buyer chooses to exercise. But, if the buyer chooses not to exercise, the contract is void. To compensate the seller for the risk of not knowing whether the buyer will exercise, the buyer pays the seller at the outset to purchase the option. 
The bright-eyed accepted students probably don’t realize they hold a call option with Notre Dame. They paid for 

EDITORIAL CARTOON 

the option via their application fees, and, after being accepted, they have the right, but not the obligation, to enroll next fall. 
They probably hold options with other schools as well, all expiring May 1, but, unlike financial options, they can only exercise one. 
How should they choose? From an economic perspective, it’s simple: Of the options they hold, which will give them the highest payoff? 
When they exercise the option, they’ll be purchasing an asset, specifi­cally a Notre Dame degree. Yes, they still have to put in the time and hard work, but if they pay the tuition and take the classes, they’ll put them­selves on the track to graduation. The payoff is the value of the degree minus the cost of tuition. 
But how should they measure the value of a diploma from Notre Dame? Should they look at rankings, curricu­lums or class sizes? How about job placement or alumni networks? 
These metrics are certainly useful in valuing a college degree. They’re rational, quantitative and easy to organize into pro and con lists that get spread out over the kitchen table. With something as important as a college choice, it’s comforting to know the numbers support your decision. 
But if I still think numbers are everything, I’ve failed to learn Notre Dame’s greatest lesson. It might be possible to assign a value to a Notre Dame degree, but, in the end, that value isn’t the payoff of the option. 
During four years here, while you’re busily sitting in a lecture, logging late nights at the library or dashing to another group project meeting, what you’re really getting is not just a Notre Dame degree, it’s a Notre Dame education. 
There’s a difference between a degree and an education. The degree is made up of credit hours, papers, and exams. It’s necessary because it gets us a job or entrance to gradu­ate school, but it doesn’t shape us as young adults. That’s where the educa­tion comes in. 
The education is made up of the kinds of discoveries that will stick with us throughout the rest of our lives. Discoveries like the fact that sometimes it’s important to study and sometimes it’s important to play pickup basketball, that getting coffee with your professor might help you find your passions and that the best way to make friends is spontaneous late-night puddle jumping. 
The education makes the op­tion payoff much harder to assess. It doesn’t lend itself to quantitative values. In the end though, it’s all that really matters. It’s the true payoff of the option. That’s why I’m thankful I chose Notre Dame. 
Grace Concelman is a senior major­ing in finance and philosophy. She can be reached at gconcelm@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 



QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“You can only be young once. But you can always be immature.” 
Dave Barry US columnist & humorist 



WEEKLY POLL 
What’s your favorite 
place for a first date? 
Starbucks The dining hall The Mark Chicago 
Vote by 5 p.m. on Thursday at 

ndsmcobserver.com 
Thursday, April 19, 2012 

I’ve been waiting and hoping for a chance to write about baseball this entire school year. And with this being the last column I’ll write this year, it’s now or never. 
Yeah, a few small John Sandberg opportunities came and went, but not Guest Columnist once did I take advantage. First there was the World Series last October, but to be honest I just couldn’t bring myself to write about the Cardinals. 
Then a new semester arrived and with it spring training. But my grand notions of writing about the wonder of warm days in states far away, full of green grass, blue skies and our favor­ite teams arriving at their respective camps while we toiled away under a grey Indiana sky were undermined by 60-degree days here in February and March. 
And just a few weeks ago there was Opening Day, the one day a year when all teams are equal, full of hope and eager to prove their worth over the 162 games that lie ahead. And just like 



Why baseball matters 
that, after one day my beloved Cubs were in last place and haven’t budged since. Don’t get me wrong — I’m not giving up hope yet. But I didn’t think it was appropriate for me to be writing about the abundant signs of hope that come with a new season when it wasn’t even May yet and my team was already giving games away. 
But now my day has come and I’m not letting it slip away. It isn’t just for my enjoyment that I write about base­ball. I write about baseball because it matters. 
It matters because without it a sig­nificant portion of English vernacular and American culture would be absent. Answering a big question would not be “hitting a home run.” That weird guy who lives around the block would be somewhere other than “out in left field.” Teachers couldn’t throw you curve balls on tests, Jay-Z would be forced to wear a New York hat instead of his signature Yankee cap and the word ‘Sox’ would just be a typo. 
Baseball is important because it has the extraordinary ability to simplify things. When studying DNA models, ATC curves and GOP history gives you headaches, give your brain a break by studying Lincecum’s ERA, Pujols’ RBIs and Cabrera’s OPS. 

Speaking of stats, baseball is a prime lesson in attention to detail. Every sport keeps track of numbers, but none to the extent that baseball does. Ridic­ulous as it may be, there is something to be said about a group of people that keep track of every last measurable fact, all the way down to the number of changeups a certain pitcher throws to left-handed batters during away games at night in August. Some might call a baseball fan’s obsession with statistics weird but you’ll never hear it called careless. 
Our nation’s presidents have known for many years the importance of base­ball. In fact, every president since Taft has thrown out at least one ceremonial first pitch while in office except for Jimmy Carter, who went on to do so after he had left office. Baseball has forever been and always will be our national pastime. Love it or hate it, you still have to respect a sport that began in America and has stayed basically the same for more than two centuries. 
In the grand scheme of things base­ball is insignificant, which makes it matter that much more. 
Baseball parks are filled each night with fans waiting to watch their teams face off. Players of all ages from all different countries continue to come together just to play a game. Given the status quo of the world around us, a world which too often seems to be en­veloped by conflict, taking the time to play a game seems all the more worth­while. Games matter. Baseball matters. 
So with summer approaching and the long days and warm nights almost here, do yourself a favor and spend some of that time taking in all of the greatness that baseball has to offer. 
John is a sophomore English major from Littleton, Colo. He can be reached at jsandbe1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 

UWIRE 

Think before you swipe 
As our generation continues to more frequently use credit cards to pay for most of our transac­tions, it has become increasingly important to protect our financial and identity security. 
Global Payments Inc. (NYSE: GPN) reported 
March 30 a security breach  
which could affect 1.5 mil- Matt Robertson  
lion credit card users in North  
America. The criminals who  Cavalier Daily  
hacked the data system po­ 

tentially left with “Track 2” information: account numbers and expiration dates. This information was not entirely useful for the hackers, as they did not come away with cardholder names or Social Security numbers. 
Global Payments is a payment processor com­pany which serves as an intermediary between retailers and banks, processing transactions for MasterCard (NYSE: MA) and Visa (NYSE:V). When you swipe your card somewhere, your card num­ber and other sensitive financial information is directed to firms such as Global Payments, which then send it to Visa or MasterCard before those firms finally send the information to the bank which issued the card. 
Although computer hackers have been and will continue to prey on all financial service compa­nies, these payment processor companies are the most vulnerable aspect of our credit card system. Banks have taken aggressive measures to pro­tect themselves and their clients’ information, but these intermediary companies have remained vulnerable. 
As a common countermeasure to these breaches, banks, credit card companies and payment pro­cessors such as Global Payments are encouraging credit card users to regularly check their transac­tion history online for unauthorized payments. 
This is something which should be done routine­ly, not just because the media reports a potential security breach to your credit card provider. If you think you may be a victim of theft you should also inform all three credit bureaus (Equifax, Experian and TransUnion). 
Projections show mobile Internet usage will sur­pass desktop computer Internet usage in the next two years, causing the number of online purchases made with mobile phone applications to jump as well. 
This unfortunately gives hackers the upper hand: The small screen sizes allow illegitimate sites to trick viewers more easily than they would when viewed on a desktop computer. Even the touch screen feature of all smart phones poses serious risks for users as they may unknowingly touch a hidden link. Another huge problem is that mobile browsers and their operating systems do not get updated regularly with security fixes in the same way laptop and desktop systems do, leaving mobile phones more vulnerable to malicious online activities. 
There are several ways to protect yourself from theft. First, you should try making purchases on desktop computers, not your smartphone. The next time you pay for gas, use an ATM, or any stand­alone kiosk. And whenever possible, pay for goods and services with a credit card, not a debit card. Some hackers can set cameras nearby and record you entering the pin number of your debit card. They are also able to record the information on the magnetic strip of your card. This gives hackers access to your financial information, so they can make withdrawals straight from your bank ac­count. 
Though hackers have been increasingly success­ful stealing personal financial information, we may be on the cusp of a new technology which could potentially make credit cards extinct. This new technology is called Near Field Communication, more commonly referred to as NFC. 
This technology looks to take smartphones to an entirely new level. We currently enjoy using smart phones for emailing, texting, playing with count­less apps and uploading Facebook photos. NFC seeks to combine all of these smartphone features and our wallets together. 
When two NFC-compatible devices are within a few inches of one another, they will wirelessly transfer data. This would mean you can pay your bar tab, rent movies or pay for parking meters and vending machines by simply tapping your smart­phone. The proximity of the wireless transfer of data significantly reduces the chances of theft. 
To gain a head start on this new industry, credit card companies are partnering with firms such as Verizon (NYSE: VZ), AT&T (NYSE: T), and others to develop NFC-enabled devices. 
Currently, smartphones are essential to many individuals’ daily lives. But in the future, smart­phones will also contain a person’s life. This tech­nology is expected to replace credit cards, business cards, driver’s licenses, student IDs, fake IDs and even the actual keys to our cars and homes. 
Until this technology is fully developed, I would recommend following the steps previously men­tioned for protecting credit card usage and limit­ing online payments on mobile phones. 
With an eye to the future, however, I would en­courage investors to research tech companies and phone companies such as Verizon as they expand their research and development into NFC technolo­gies. 
This article originally ran in the April 18 edition of Cavalier Daily, serving the University of Virginia. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 





By MARIA FERNANDEZ 
Scene Writer 

The annual Coachella Festival in Indio, Calif. is the place to be for music and fashion enthusiasts alike. This year, the event has been extended from the usual three days of parties and music to two con­secutive three-day weekends. 
The Coachella Festival began Friday and ended its first weekend on Sunday. Although some performances far exceeded others, the event was an overall success. 
Here are some of the best performances and fashion trends to ex­pect for this coming second weekend. 
Rapper Eminem

 Lily Collins (left) and Emma Roberts The Music 
From rock and indie to hip-hop and electronic 
The Trends 

music, the festival showcases many of the top and 
You cannot talk about Coachella without men­up-and-coming artists from around the world, 
tioning fashion. The festival is the perfect venue to singing live in different tents and stages through-
sport new and upcoming trends while still keeping out the Coachella Valley. 
it comfortable and casual. Some of this year’s artists include The Black 
Florals and bohemian prints along with relaxed Keys, Afrojack, Bon Iver, Beirut, Florence and the 
silhouettes dominated this year’s Coachella scene. Machine, Avicii, among many others. 
Brazilian model Alessandra Ambrosio sported Friday was marked by its evening performances. 
a short and flowy light pink dress paired with The Black Keys’ popular and energetic rock tunes 
brown boots and a bright printed scarf, perfect for attracted a large crowd of music lovers. They per-
a warm day in the California desert. formed some new songs such as “Lonely Boy” and 
Nicole Richie and Lily Collins also followed this “Hell of a Season”, as well as “Everlasting Light”, 
boho-chic trend with loose flower-printed dresses. one of their top hits. 
Another trend that was very much present After The Black Keys came Swedish House 
among celebrities and festivalgoers was leather Mafia, also with an incredible performance and 
and animal print items. amazing bright stage lights. Electronic music fans 
Kate Bosworth wore black leather shorts com-went crazy when they performed one of their best 
bined with a leopard print t-shirt, while Alexa tunes, “Save the World”.  
Chung also opted for safari tones, wearing an army Saturday was also filled with great performanc­
green oversized shirt over a beige dress. es. Some of the artists were Bon Iver, Radiohead, 
Overall, Coachella’s first week was filled with Kasabian and Miike Snow. 
amazing artists and performances and with a lot However, David Guetta’s always-entertaining 
of trendy people, suggesting an even better second show pumped up the audience, especially when he 
weekend. played one of his latest songs, “Without You,” with 
Check out the highlights of some of the first surprise guest, Usher. 
weekend’s best performances on the Coachella Sunday’s performances ended Coachella’s first 
2012 channel on YouTube. week on a great note. Both Goyte and Florence and the Machine hit it big by singing their famous hits 
Contact Maria Fernandez at 

“Somebody I Used to Know” and “Dog Days Are 
mfernan5@nd.edu 





Over” respectively. 

However, it was Dr. Dre and Snoop Dogg’s clos­ing performance that exceeded everyone’s expec­tations and perfectly concluded this first weekend. 
They stole the show with special guests such as Eminem, 50 Cent, Warren G and Wiz Khalifa, and a hologram of West Coast rap legend Tupac. 
Featuring the same lineup, Coachella’s second weekend promises to be as exciting and entertain­ing as the first. 
Pelle Amqvist, The Hives 





firstfashionews.info firstfashionews.info 

Nicole Richie Alessandra Ambrosio 

APAP AP
Thom Yorke, Radiohead Alex Turner, Arctic Monkeys David Hasselhoff 
ELISA DE CASTRO | Observer Graphic 


Thursday, April 19, 2012 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 11 
Masters of Chilean Cinema  Bowling for Soup  Blue-Gold Football Game  Blue Man Group  
Panel Discussion When: 7 p.m. Where: DeBartolo Performing  When: 10 p.m. Where: Legends How Much: Free  When: 1:30 p.m. Where: Notre Dame Stadium How Much: Free  When: 4 p.m. Where: Morris Performing Arts Center  
Arts Center  How Much: $34  
How Much: Free  
The pop band most famous  Football season is almost  
This weekend’s Chilean Film  for its nostalgic single “1985”  here. It can be smelled in the  The  group  known  for  out- 
Festival  kicks  off  Thursday  will be at Legends on Saturday  air, although that might be  rageous performances while  
night with a free discussion  to give Notre Dame and Saint  those weird trees. In any case,  decked out in all blue and not  
with three prominent Chilean  Mary’s students the chance to  the first sign of next season  speaking (even after the show  
directors — Ignacio Agüero,  remember how awesome it was  comes Saturday, when the foot- they stay in character) trav- 
Andres  Wood  and  Gonzalo  to be in eighth grade. So grab  ball team takes the field for its  els to South Bend this week- 
Justiniano. The directors will  a group of friends and head to  spring game. Who will start at  end to perform at the Morris.  
discuss Chilean film, past and  Legends, and reminisce about  quarterback? Who will start at  They are in the middle of a  
present, and one of Justinia­ the times before you had a cell  designated fair-catcher? The  nationwide tour, and the show  
no’s films will follow the dis- phone or knew what an iPod  first clues come Saturday.  promises to be an exciting. No  
cussion. Check it out all week- was.  word on if Tobias Fünke will be  
end.  there.  


According to the tagline for “Beastly,” the “Beauty and the Beast” rip-off, love is never ugly. 
This mov­ie however, well ... it’s like one of those dogs that gets crowned ugliest dog in the world: So unbeliev­ably hideous it’s totally adorable, which is what makes “Beastly” a perfect best worst movie. 
Vanessa Hudgens plays a soft-spoken smart girl named Lindy, and the only explanation given for her name is that her father is a drug addict. Enter Alex Pettyfer’s character, the rich and hot popular guy Kyle, who is smart, self absorbed and universally hated. 

Mary Kate Olsen is no stranger to best worst movies, as shown by any of the Olsen twins’ many atrocities, includ­ing several straight-to-video masterpieces. 
However, her role in “Beast­ly” takes the best worst cake, eats it too and then casts a spell on it. 
Olsen plays Kendra, a teen­age Wicca who sports what can only be described as a blonde Snooki poof that has been nest­ed in by birds for a few months. Wearing leather and odd black eye liner is all one needs to cast life ruining spells apparently, which she does after Kyle of­fends her. 
Kendra casts a spell on Kyle that makes him “as ugly as his soul” — harsh. Especially since he’s actually not that bad look­ing, just kind of veiny, bald and with a lot of tattoos. So he can’t have been that awful. 
The gist of the spell is Kyle has to find someone to love him in one year or he will be hideous forever. He can see that time is passing by a tree tattoo on his arm that changes with the seasons and actual trees outside that change with the seasons. 
Naturally, Kyle finds out once he leaves school that stalking people via a Facebook-like page that he was not as well liked as he thought he was. 
However, as Lifetime warns us, Facebook-stalking turns to actual stalking. Kyle begins fol­lowing Lindy at night, wearing a black hoodie. 
He sees her going through her various charitable deeds, like being kind to homeless people. You know, typical stuff 17-year-old girls do in New York. All the stuff people would see you do if they followed you for a day. 
After Kyle sees one of Lindy’s father’s drug deals go bad and the drug dealers threaten to kill her, he blackmails her father into having Lindy come live with him “so he can protect her.” 
A strange twist for a love story to borrow from a stalk and murder story, and it is a complete surprise when Lindy doesn’t end up like that girl in “Taken”. 
Once he has her captive in her house, he tries to buy her love with Chanel and Tiffany, which she of course scoffs at because, you know, she’s deep. Give her Goodwill and home­less person garb any day of the week. 
Kyle finally manages to win her over by providing a huge carton of her favorite candy, and begins building her a greenhouse. Now their love story makes sense. Anyone who buys me a lifetime supply of Peanut M&Ms and builds me a greenhouse filled with roses can look like Chucky, stalk me all they want and I’ll be smit­ten. 
At the very last possible sec­ond, Lindy tells Kyle she loves him, breaks the curse and finds out he’s actually a super hot rich guy. If only the same rules applied when going through pictures from Finny’s on Satur­day morning. 
“Beastly” can be summed up perfectly by Lindy: “What can I say, I’m substance over style.” 
Contact Courtney Eckerle at cecker01@saintmarys.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily of The Observer. 
ELISA DE CASTRO | Observer Graphic 

page 12 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u CLASSIFIEDS Thursday, April 19, 2012 




SPORTS AUTHORITY 

Tannehill’s quick rise looking Russell-esque 
It’s time to break out the industrial-sized bucket of hair gel, Mel Kiper, Jr. The 2012 NFL Draft approaches. 
A week from tonight, the an­nual spec­tacle that is the NFL Draft will commence with much fanfare as the nation’s best college football players will hear their names called at Radio City Music Hall in New York, take pictures with NFL commis­sioner Roger Goodell and then get to work on becoming as successful as last year’s top picks — Pro Bowlers Cam New­ton, Von Miller and A.J. Green among others. 
Let’s run down what we know is true. 
Stanford quarterback An­drew Luck has been viewed as the prototypical NFL quarter­back from the time he took the reigns of the Cardinal offense years ago. He has the ideal size, strength, athleticism and mental acuity to be an NFL signal-caller. He would have been the No. 1 pick in last year’s draft, and he will be the No. 1 pick in this year’s draft. Nothing controversial here. 
Baylor quarterback Rob­ert Griffin III came about as close as anyone possibly could have to unseating Luck as the top prospect in this draft. He dazzled fans en route to win­ning the Heisman Trophy in a tremendous season in Waco. After posting an impressive workout at the NFL Combine, Griffin solidified his position as the second-best prospect in this draft class. He will likely go under center for the Wash­ington Redskins next season as one of the best athletes to ever play the quarterback position. Nothing controversial here, either. 
Even behind Luck and Grif­fin, there is little doubt about the prospects who make up the next tier of talent. USC offen­sive tackle Matt Kalil, whom you might have last seen own­ing the line of scrimmage at Notre Dame Stadium last Oc­tober, Alabama running back Trent Richardson and LSU cor­nerback Morris Claiborne are generally seen as the players to round out the top five. But they might not be the top five play­ers picked, because of the hype 

Chris Allen 
Sports Editor 
surrounding a third, lesser-known quarterback. Now we have some controversy. 
His name is Ryan Tanne­hill, and you may have last seen him leading Texas A&M to a sub-.500 record in the Big 12. He was a receiver at the beginning of his junior season, but because of supe­rior athleticism and a strong arm, he is shooting up into the top-10 and top-five of some draft boards being com­posed. Many draft analysts have projected the Miami Dolphins as the team to select Tannehill, whether at their No. 8 draft slot or in a trade up in the draft order. 
If you are a Dolphins fan, you should be very con­cerned. As if the fact that David Garrard was your team’s offseason answer under center wasn’t concern­ing enough, the Dolphins now seem poised to pull the trig­ger on a huge potential draft bust. The days of Dan Marino seem a long way off now, don’t they? 
The cautionary tale in quarterback draft busts is former Raiders quarterback JaMarcus Russell. Despite many concerns on tape, Rus­sell jumped high on draft boards because of a big arm and a big body. He made it all the way to the No. 1 pick in 2007’s draft. He is now out of the NFL, and will likely never return. His play during his brief NFL career was laugh­able, and many wondered what the Raiders and oth­ers ever saw in him. Now, in 2012, Tannehill boasts a similar boom-or-bust profile, yet many NFL teams seem to have not learned the lesson taught by Russell’s disastrous career. If a player is a win­ner, he wins in college, and wins in the pros. He finds a way. Look at Bengals quarter­back Andy Dalton if you need proof. If a player was a high school quarterback, but was moved to wide receiver in col­lege, he probably doesn’t have the chops to be a top NFL draft pick. These points seem so intuitive, so basic, that it is amazing so many NFL front offices are disregarding them. 
Buyer beware, Dolphins. 
Contact Chris Allen at callen10@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
NFL 




49ers GM speaks with Williams 
Associated Press 
SANTA CLARA, Calif. — Ap­parently, there are no hard feel­ings on 49ers general manager Trent Baalke’s part regarding the Saints’ targeting of San Francisco players in their boun­ty program. 
The GM recently reached out to suspended former New Orleans defensive coordinator Gregg Williams to discuss the matter. 
He and Williams worked to­gether during the 2004 season in Washington and Baalke still considers him a friend. Baalke said Wednesday they had a nice chat and that he has long re­spected Williams as a football coach. 
“I don’t feel any differently about him today than I did 20 days ago,” Baalke said. “I’ve worked with Gregg. Gregg’s a friend and he’s been a friend. It was only fitting that you reach out and speak with him, and I felt very good about the conver­sation.” 
Williams oversaw and con­tributed money to the illegal bounty fund for planned vicious hits on opponents and has been suspended indefinitely from the NFL for his involvement in the scheme from 2009-11. 
Earlier this month, a record­ing emerged of Williams in January telling players to “put a lick” on 49ers receiver and re­turn man Kyle Williams to see if he had lingering effects from a concussion. San Francisco beat Drew Brees and the favored Saints 36-32 in the NFC divi­sional playoffs. 
“I have no untoward feel­ings about the game. It was a great football game. Both teams played extremely well and we got the better of it. I have great memories of that football game,” said coach Jim Harbaugh, who insists he doesn’t have enough information on the bounties to speak specifically. 
“I mean, it would be like try­ing to comment on the clean water crisis that our world is facing,” he said. “I don’t have all the facts on that, you know? Who’s going to be the best po­litical candidate for president? I don’t know. I mean, I’m im­mersed in football. So I don’t think there’s any need to be an­other guy jumping on the band­wagon having an opinion on it. The NFL is handling it, and that’s good enough for me.” 
In the NFC championship game Jan. 22, Kyle Williams fumbled a punt in overtime of San Francisco’s 20-17 loss to the eventual Super Bowl champion New York Giants to set up Law­rence Tynes’ winning field goal. 
The 49ers insist he will still be in the mix this season de­spite the costly misplay. 
“I’m not down on Kyle Wil­liams, nor is anyone else in this organization. It’s done, it’s over with and we’re moving forward,” Baalke said. “I’m very confident that Kyle will get past the incident of last year and is ready to move on. And he’ll get better because of it.” 
Baalke said wideout Randy Moss isn’t among the 60 players participating in the team’s offsea­son workouts at team headquar­ters, where the 49ers on Thursday will hold a formal groundbreak­ing ceremony for their new $1 bil­lion stadium that’s already in the works. 
The team facility is a gigantic construction zone, with a sign advertising the franchise’s “new home” and a huge blowup 49ers helmet on site. The project plan calls for a 1.85-million square-foot facility with a 68,500-seat stadium featuring 165 luxury suites and 9,000 club seats. 
Harbaugh said Moss is ex­pected to be in town by April 30, plenty of time before organized team activities begin May 21. The coach suggested to Moss, who was out of football last year, that he train in West Virginia and spend more time with his family. 
So, the 49ers have plenty to look forward to rather than fo­cusing on how last season ended — or the bounty news that has dominated this offseason nearly as much as the pursuit of Peyton Manning, who wound up in Den­ver instead of the Bay Area. 
Gregg Williams has admit­ted to his role in overseeing the bounty system that offered Saints defenders payment for painful hits. He left New Orleans after last season — his third with the Saints — and was hired as defen­sive coordinator by the St. Louis Rams. 

San Francisco cornerback Car­los Rogers insists he, like Baalke, has moved past the bounty scan­dal. He played for Williams with the Redskins and considers him among the top coaches he has played for. 
“I don’t really look too much into it, because Gregg is one of my best coaches ever,” Rogers said. “I never experienced the bounty stuff. All the stuff I heard about, I didn’t read too much into it be­cause for me, sitting in that lock­er room, he’s just an aggressive coach. He talks aggressive. The whole bounty thing is just a word that is used as a bad word but also he’s not out to hurt anybody. Everything I’ve seen him do, even when I watched clips, I’ve never seen anybody carted off. If you really want to go after somebody, it’s easy to do — you just go hit their knee or hit whatever you want to target every time.” 
Rogers has made a name for himself with the 49ers, sharing the team lead with six intercep­tions last season for the NFC West champions. He was re-signed to a $31.3 million, four-year contract last month. 
Rogers, for one, is pulling for Williams to recover both per­sonally and professionally. They spoke when the news initially broke about the bounties. 
“That’s one of my closest friends, coaches. We’re still close,” Rogers said. “I know he regrets it. I hope he gets a second chance.” 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The 
Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 

CLASSIFIEDS 

FOR SALE PERSONAL Devil Went Down to Georgia And the devil jumped upon a soul, ‘cos I think I’m better than and the devil deals the cards.And By Charlie Daniels hickory stump and said: you.” if you win you get this shiny fiddle made of gold. “Boy let me tell you what: The boy said: “My name’s Johnny 
MUST SELL! UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Dont The devil went down to Georgia, “I guess you didn’t know it, but I’m and it might be a sin, But if you lose, the devil gets your go it alone. Notre Dame has many he was looking for a soul to steal. a fiddle player too. soul. resources in place to assist you. “But I’ll take your bet, your gonna 
21915 Locust Bend, SB If you or someone you love needs He was in a bind ‘cos he was way “And if you’d care to take a dare, regret, ‘cos I’m the best that’s ever The devil opened up his case and confidential support or assistance, behind and he was willin’ to make I’ll make a bet with you. been.” he said: “I’ll start this show.” please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819. a deal. 
Gorgeous! ND neighborhood 4BD “Now you play a pretty good Johnny you rosin up your bow and And fire flew from his fingertips as 3BTH For more information, visit When he came across this young fiddle, boy, but give the devil his play your fiddle hard. he rosined up his bow. ND’s website at: http:// man sawin’ on a fiddle and playin’ due: Jackie 574 276 8530  pregnancysupport@nd.edu it hot. “I bet a fiddle of gold against your ‘Cos hells broke loose in Georgia “Lost in the World” is the best. 
Thursday, April 19, 2012 The Observer u SPORTS ndsmcobserver.com | page 13 
NFL 



Colts keep draft pick a secret, consider Stanford’s Luck 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS  — The In­dianapolis Colts have decided who to take with the No. 1 draft pick. 
They’re just not planning to let the secret out until April 26. 
After months of speculation, scouting and scrutinizing, Colts general manager Ryan Grigson finally told report­ers Wednesday that the Colts have a plan for their first No. 1 overall selection in 14 years. 
“We’ve known for a little while. We’ve done all our due diligence,” Grigson said dur­ing a 30-minute news con­ference. “Unless there’s an unforeseen problem or some­thing like that, we know what we’re doing.” 
Team owner Jim Irsay has repeatedly said the team will choose Peyton Manning’s suc­cessor, presumably either Stanford’s Andrew Luck or Baylor’s Robert Griffin III, the Heisman Trophy winner. If the Colts take Luck, the Washing­ton Redskins are expected to take Griffin with the second pick next Thursday night. 
Luck was expected to go No. 1 in 2011 before returning to school for his fourth col­lege season. His resume looks like an exact replica of Man-ning’s—both stayed in school one year longer than expect­ed, both finished as Heisman Trophy runner-ups and both had fathers who played quar­terback in the NFL. 
While the Colts sent a larger contingent of scouts to Grif­fin’s pro day in Texas than Luck’s pro day at Stanford, Luck had a personal workout for the Colts and traveled to Indianapolis for a personal interview. Griffin was advised by his agent to do neither and, apparently, it wasn’t the only reason Griffin didn’t come to town. 


“You get to a point where you know what you’re going to do,” Grigson said. 
Grigson would not say whether the Colts have started negotiating with either player. 
In an email sent to The As­sociated Press, Luck’s agent, Will Wilson, declined to com­ment on whether the Colts had told him of their decision or whether contract talks had begun. Luck’s father, Oliver, also did not provide those an­swers. Luck has been attend­ing classes at Stanford, and is trying to finish one archi­tectural course that is offered only in the spring. 
“I have not had any commu­nication with any of the folks with the Colts. I stay out of all that,” Oliver Luck said in a phone interview. “And I’ll keep my conversations with Andrew private.” 
Whether the Colts would start talking about a contract over the next week, in hopes of having a deal in place be­fore next Thursday, remains unclear. 
“We’ve kicked it around. I don’t know what the true ad­vantage is to go early,” Grig­son said. “At this point, we’re March 7, a move designed to help quicken the rebuilding process, and eventually signed with Denver. Two days later, the Colts cut a handful of other veterans including defensive captains Gary Brackett and Melvin Bullitt, Pro Bowl tight end Dallas Clark and running back Joseph Addai. Longtime center Jeff Saturday, emerg­ing receiver Pierre Garcon and backup tight end Jacob Tamme all left in free agency. 


And those who returned, like Wayne, are still trying to get acclimated to their new surroundings. 
“I’m moving around, can you believe that? It’s the first time in 11 years.” Wayne said, drawing laughter. “My game plan is the same whoever throws the ball—catch and make something happen with it. I met Drew Stanton, I know that guy.” 
By next week, Wayne will have to introduce himself to another new quarterback. 
Until then, he’ll be catching passes from someone else. 
“I don’t know his name,” Wayne said when asked about quarterback Trevor Vittatoe. “I know it starts with a V.” 
Inside the locker room, play­ers are content to stay out of the great draft debate. Most have only seen Luck or Grif­fin play in small bits on tele­vision, and nobody wanted to debate the merits of how the new quarterback would fit in with a team that is trying to replace Manning and starting almost completely over. 
Instead, they’re trying to get their minds wrapped around a playbook that Wayne de­scribed as Greek. 
Not everything is new, though. 
“I was very fortunate to play with a guy like that (Manning) and you see the work habits he had and I try to emulate those habits every day,” running back Donald Brown said. “He will always have an influence here, him and guys like Jeff, like Dallas, like Joseph, they left a footprint on us and we’re trying to carry that legacy on.” 
With a new quarterback un­der center. “I think when you know, you know,” Grigson said. 
focused on picking the guys.” 
The Colts are still try­ing to figure out where they are in their mas­sive offseason overhaul, too. 
Gr igson ’s comments came less than an hour after the Colts wrapped up another voluntary workout at the team complex, a 
practice that included peren­nial Pro Bowl receiver Reggie Wayne, who usually stays in Miami for workouts until the team’s mandatory offseason mini-camp. 
Wayne altered his tradi­tional plans because of all the 

“We’ve kicked it around. I don’t know what the true advantage is to go early ... At this point, we’re focused on picking the guys.” 
Ryan Grigson Colts general manager 
changes Indy has made. 
Grigson re­placed the fa­ther-son front office tandem of Bill and Chris Polian in January, then brought in new coach Chuck Paga­no to replace the fired Jim Caldwell . 
Pagano  has  
almost  an  
entirely  new  
staff,  and  
some  play­ 

ers have even found new 
spots for their lockers. 
The biggest change, of course, is not seeing No. 18 around town. 
Manning was released 


page 14 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u SPORTS Thursday, April 19, 2012 

NASCAR 


Biffle aims to be first to complete title trio 
Associated Press 
KANSAS CITY — Greg Bif­fle roared through the early stages of his NASCAR career. 
Biffle gave Jack Roush his first NASCAR season title in 2000 by winning the Trucks Series, two years after he was the rookie of the year. Then came the natural progres­sion to the Nationwide Series, where Biffle won another rookie of the year award and followed immediately with the 2002 season champion­ship before moving up again. 
A decade later, Biffle is still trying to become the first driver to complete the NAS­CAR title trio. 
This could finally be the year for the re-energized Bif­fle, who is coming off a vic­tory at Texas that reinforced his standing as the early-season Sprint Cup points leader. 
“When I moved from the Trucks gas. A pair of 13th-place fin­ishes are the only ones out­side the top six. 
“It was really an unusual thing when we went after the team the way we did last year and said, you know, we just got great people but they’re not just working together as well as they need to and we need to organize ourselves differently,” Jack Roush said after the Texas victory. “That’s a rarity that we do that. But that certainly was the key to getting the momen­tum that we’ve got going right now.” 
Biffle is certainly off to a much better start than last season, when the same open­ing three-race stretch set the tone for a frustrating season. 
There was a 35th-place fin­ish at Daytona, before finish­ing 20th at Phoenix and 28th 
at Las Vegas. 
This week’s 
Cup race is 
in Kansas, 
where Biffle 
had last won 

Series to Na­ “I know that we’re  before  Sat­ 
tionwide, it was a huge step. It was much, much harder. And when I moved from the Na­tionwide to  probably not going to lead the points the whole way. So I’m happy and proud of our team fighting to stay in the points lead running as good as we can every week.”  urday night in the Lone Star State. He has gone to Victory Lane twice in Kansas with eight top-10  
the Cup Se­ries, I had no  Greg Biffle  finishes in the 11 previ­ 
idea that the  NASCAR driver  ous races at  


Associated Press 

ALBANY, N.Y. — Now led by an ex-Olympian in stiletto heels, a fighter known for twisting arms until her opponents quit, an effort to legalize professional mixed martial arts is attempt­ing another comeback in New York. 
The state Senate approved legislation again Wednesday, voting 43-14, to make New York the 46th state to legalize and regulate the sport, though op­position remains among some lawmakers in the Assembly who say they oppose its violence and that influence on children. That chamber has beaten back legalization for seven years, recently keeping it out of this year’s budget. 
Ronda Rousey, MMA’s newest guest lobbyist, urged lawmak­ers at the Capitol on Wednesday to approve it. The winner of a 2008 Olympics bronze medal in judo, she is the unbeaten Strike-force women’s champion at 135 pounds. She said nobody was of­fering her a judo salary, and she made $32,000 for her last MMA fight. 
“I’ve never gotten a scratch or a bruise or anything,” Rousey said. In winning all five profes­sional fights in the first round with an “arm bar,” she used her body as leverage and bent her opponent’s elbow in the opposite direction of the joint. Most op­ponents quickly gave up, though some had their elbows dislocat­ed. 
“It’s not a serious injury but it’s serious at the time. It hurts a lot,” Rousey said. She has had both elbows dislocated multiple times, she said, and noted that judo is likewise rough, but spec­tators can’t see that under its loose garments. 
During Wednesday’s debate, Sen. Kevin Parker, a Brooklyn Democrat, said data show that from 1990 to 2003 there were 79 deaths related to soccer and 300 related to football while there were only two worldwide from mixed martial arts. “There are far less concussions in MMA than there are in boxing because many of the bouts end in submis­sion or ‘taps,’” he said. 
Sen. Joseph Griffo, an Oneida County Republican who spon­sored the bill, said giving the state Athletic Commission au­thority to regulate MMA like professional boxing would alle­viate many safety concerns and help prevent underground fight­ing. He believes there’s support competition was going to be what it was,” Biffle said. “I knew it was going to be hard. But this year is my year.” 

Biffle’s fifth top-five fin­ish in seven races this season came in the fastest Cup race ever in Texas and snapped his 49-race winless drought. With only two early cautions, and 234 consecutive green-flag laps to end the race, he got a big boost in the pits from crew chief Matt Puccia and the rest of his team at the 1½-mile, high-banked track. 
“That gives me huge con­fidence,” Biffle said. “I know that from about the third race, that these guys, the guys that Matt had put to­gether, we kind of held the handcuffs on them a little bit last year until we got to the end of the season, and he re­vamped the entire team over the winter. I really, really like my guys.” 
Puccia, who like Biffle worked his way up through the Roush organization, re­placed Greg Erwin midway through last season. The No. 16 Roush Fenway Ford had its only three poles of the season after that, but wasn’t enough to keep Biffle from finishing 16th in points, his worst since 2004 in his second full Cup season. 
“That guy, I promise you, if anybody can take me to winning a championship, it’s Matt Puccia,” Biffle said. “He never gives up, never leaves a rock unturned.” 
They started this season with third-place finishes in each of the first three races, taking over the points lead after the third race in Las Ve­the 1 ½-mile 
track. 
Even 
though Biffle 
hasn’t won a 
Cup season title, the 42-year-old driver has had success on NASCAR’s highest level. The win in Tex­as was his 17th in the Cup Se­ries. 
In 2005, Biffle won six times, and had 15 top-five finishes. He tied for second in season points with teammate Carl Edwards, only 35 behind Tony Stewart. 
Three years later, Biffle rebounded from missing the Chase two years in a row, and was third behind Jimmie Johnson and Edwards, who won nine races in 2008. Bif­fle became the first driver to win two of the 10 Chase races in the same season though those were his only victories. 
For now, Biffle is enjoying being on top while realizing there are 19 more races be­fore the final 10-race Chase starts in mid-September. He hopes to be in the same spot at the end of the season, no matter what happens before then. 
“I know that we’re prob­ably not going to lead the points the whole way. So I’m happy and proud of our team fighting to stay in the points lead running as good as we can every week,” Biffle said. “If and when that happens, certainly I’m not going to let that take the wind out of our sails. ... We’re going to work as hard as we can to keep the points lead, keep in the top five, keep in the top three. 
“If we continue to lead the points, that’s a bonus,” he said. “If we’re not leading the points, we still are going to have that positive attitude.” 
MMA 


Committee vies for NY sanction 
and wants the Assembly to per­mit a floor vote to see, he said. 
“The day of the gladiator, I think it ended with the demise of the Roman Empire,” said Sen. Stephen Saland, a Poughkeepsie Republican who voted against the bill. He agreed with con­cerns about other violent sports, including concussions from foot­ball that could eventually turn out to be hundreds of thousands of injuries as awareness contin­ues to grow. 
Assembly Speaker Sheldon Sil­ver said he doesn’t think there’s “a groundswell of support” for mixed martial arts though strict regulation might be an option, acknowledging it is already on television in every child’s home. “I have mixed feelings about it,” he said. 



page 16 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u SPORTS Thursday, April 19, 2012 
NHL 


Phoenix forward Torres banned for hit on Hossa 


Associated Press 
CHICAGO — The NHL sus­pended Phoenix Coyotes for­ward Raffi Torres indefinitely on Wednesday for knocking Chicago’s Marian Hossa out of the game — and maybe the playoffs — with a shoulder blow to the head. 
Hossa won’t play in Game 4 on Thursday with the Coyotes leading the series 2-1. He was at home resting, exchanging texts with his Blackhawks team­mates less than 24 hours after he was carried off the ice on a stretcher and taken to a hospi­tal. 
The hard knock by Torres was the latest in a first round that has been dominated by brawls and violent hits. The NHL scheduled a Friday hear­ing in New York for a player who has a reputation for big — and some say dirty — hits. 
Depending on the locker room, the severity of the blow — one year after Torres did the same thing to Chicago’s Brent Seabrook while playing for Vancouver — differed and took the spotlight from a competi­tive first-round matchup that has seen all three games go to overtime. 
“I’ve seen a lot of other hits like it in the league. It’s a fast game,” Coyotes coach Dave Tippett said Wednesday. “The thing about TV is you can slow it down and you can click and click and click it. When you’re out there on the ice, it’s not slowed down and click, click, click. It’s a fast game.’ 
“I don’t think there was any malicious intent on Raffi’s part,” he added. “He’s a hard hitter. That’s the way he plays the game. He turned, coming full speed, caught a guy right in the chest. Unfortunately, the player was injured.” 
Torres’ skates were off the ice as he hit Hossa and sent Chi­cago’s regular-season points leader crashing to the ice in the first period. Hossa had just passed the puck when he was hit. 
“There’s only been one dirty hit in our series and you saw the same thing from that guy last year in the same series,” Chicago’s Patrick Sharp said. “You know it’s coming. You try to warn your linemates and be aware when he’s on the ice. He’s got a history of targeting guys’ heads and having questionable hits. It makes it that much more frustrating to see it happen, but we got to rally behind Hoss.” 
Chicago coach Joel Quenn­eville reiterated that the hit on Hossa was “brutal.” He said there was little change in Hos­sa’s condition without being specific, but said he was defi­nitely out for Thursday’s game. 
Asked if Hossa’s injury was long-term, Quenneville said: “We’ll see.” 
Hossa went to a hospital for tests Tuesday night before he was taken home. A team doctor said a full recovery is expected but there is no timetable. 
Torres, who wasn’t available Wednesday, spoke after the game and said: “I felt like it was a hockey play. I was just trying to finish my hit out there.” 
The Blackhawks weren’t buy­ing it. 
“In the history of the game, hitting is used to dislodge a player from the puck, not the intent to injure when you don’t have the puck because you aren’t aware. To me, that wasn’t a hockey play,” Blackhawks for­ward Andrew Brunette said. “When you don’t have the puck, there shouldn’t be that kind of contact.” 
MLB 


Walker, Pirates top Arizona 
Associated Press 
PHOENIX — Neil Walker’s two-out bloop single fell near three players in shal­low center field and drove in Clint Barmes with the go-ahead run in the top of the eighth inning, and the Pittsburgh Pirates beat the Arizona Diamondbacks 2-1 Wednesday. 
The Pirates, who won two games in the three-game se­ries with Arizona, got back-to-back two-out singles from Barmes and Andrew McCutchen in the eighth off Diamondbacks starter Dan­iel Hudson before Walker’s hit off reliever David Her­nandez. 
Chris Resop and Tony Watson combined to pitch a scoreless eighth inning, and Juan Cruz earned his second straight save after allowing a leadoff single in the ninth. 
The Diamondbacks went ahead 1-0 after leadoff man Willie Bloomquist tripled and scored on Jason Kubel’s single in the first inning, the 10th game of 12 overall this season in which Arizona has scored in the first inning. The Diamondbacks turned three double plays in the first four innings. 
Hudson (1-1) allowed both Pirates runs on six hits, in­cluding a solo home run to Pedro Alvarez in the top of the seventh, over 7 2-3 in­nings. Hudson struck out five and walked three in his best start of the season to date, but was tagged with the loss. 
Pirates starter James Mc­Donald lasted four innings and threw 78 pitches. Brad Lincoln, making his first major-league appearance of the season, re­lieved and tossed three shut­out innings, striking out four and escaping a jam in the sixth with a double play with run­ners at first and third and one out. 
Alvarez entered the game batting .042 with one hit in 24 at-bats. His home run was his second, and second hit, of the season. 
Diamondbacks rookie A.J. Pollock made his major-league debut, batting seventh and playing center field in place of Chris Young, who was placed on the 15-day disabled list Wednesday with a bruised right shoulder. Pollock went 0-for-3 with a walk, was caught stealing when he overslid the second base bag in the seventh inning and hit into the last out of the game. 



Thursday, April 19, 2012 The Observer u SPORTS ndsmcobserver.com | page 17 
MLB 



Giants’ Wilson undergoes reconstructive elbow surgery 
Associated Press 
SAN FRANCISCO — All-Star Giants closer Brian Wil­son will undergo Tommy John reconstructive elbow surgery Thursday in Pensacola, Fla. 
Renowned orthopedist Dr. James Andrews will perform the surgery after doing a similar procedure on Wilson when the right-hander was in college at LSU in 2003. San Francisco team orthopedist Dr. Ken Akizuki was set to travel to Florida on Wednes­day night to assist with the operation. 
Andrews examined Wilson on Wednesday and confirmed the Giants’ diagnosis of a torn ulnar collateral ligament that will sideline him all season. While the timeframe can be longer than the standard 12­18 months following Tommy John surgery, the Giants hope Wilson is a quick healer and you have the second one it in the elbow last Friday and could take a little longer. It’s was sent for an MRI exam. not like there’s a large sample Wilson threw 32 pitches at 
the series finale with the Philadel­phia Phillies. “On the re­ “He’ll come back here and resume his rehab and I’m sure he’ll be around to support his teammates.”  saves in 2010 and recorded the final out in Game 5 of the World Se­ 
hab side of it,  ries at Texas  
they’re doing a better job of getting these  Bruce Bochy Giants manager  to clinch the f r a n c h i s e’s first champi­ 
guys back on  onship  since  
the  mound,  moving  West  
t h r o w i n g  in 1958.  
a  little  bit  The three- 
sooner.  From  time All-Star  
what I under­ compla i ne d  
stand,  when  of discomfort  

Colorado last Thursday while working on back-to-back days, and had to be checked on once. Groeschner said Wilson felt something in the elbow that day, but told the team Friday. 
Wilson finished 6-4 with a 3.11 ERA and 36 saves in 57 appearances last season, held out down the stretch as a precaution. He had taken all of the important steps in his rehab this spring, so the injury caught everybody by surprise. 
Bochy expects Wilson to re­join the team at home next weekend after its upcoming road trip East to New York and Cincinnati. 
“He’ll come back here and resume his rehab and I’m will be able to pitch in 2013. 



“We’re all set to have the surgery done and get that over with,” manager Bruce Bochy said Wednes­day before 
size to show that. Hopefully it 
all goes well and Brian will be pitching next year.” The 30 -year-old bearded clos­er led the ma­jors with 48 


sure he’ll be around to sup­port his teammates,” Bochy said. 
The Giants are confident in their current bullpen struc­ture with Santiago Casilla in the closer spot — he filled in for Wilson last year — and Sergio Romo and Javier Lopez are also capable ninth-inning options to hold a late lead. 
In fact, center fielder An­gel Pagan said the bullpen will “protect it like an upside 


Ganeff 
continued from page 20 
The Irish will have another chance to prove themselves Thursday at home against Cleveland State (13-30, 5-7 Horizon). Despite a few key in­juries for the Vikings, Ganeff said Notre Dame knows it should not underestimate them. 
“You can’t ever count them down cat.” 
Casilla earned his first save in Tuesday’s 4-2 win, follow­ing up scoreless innings by Romo and Clay Hensley. 
“Our staff is well-armed,” Romo said. “We can pitch in whatever situation. Tonight we showed how we mesh and blend well. We complement each other. We’re just trying to get outs. There was really no pressure to get the first close game out of the way.” 
out,” Ganeff said. “Tradition­ally they’ve been a strong re­gional competition. They’ve taken some knocks, but they’re going to fight for the win, and we have to come at them offensively right out of the gate.” 
The Irish will continue their homestand against Cleveland State on Thursday at 5 p.m. at Melissa Cook Stadium. 

Contact Katie Heit at kheit@nd.edu 


page 18 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u SPORTS Thursday, April 19, 2012 

pionships are only two weeks 



Urssery 

away, the Irish aim to remain focused on the meets at hand. continued from page 20 “[We focus on] one meet at a time. We have this weekend as a faster,” Urssery said. chance to run a couple more fast 
While she looks to improve times,” Tracy said. “Maybe a on her career-best time from couple more people can qualify last weekend, Urssery said she for [the] Big East [tournament], 
also  aims  to  but at the mo- 
ensure she is  ment, a good  
able  to  per- number of us  
form her best  are  already  
at the confer­ence cham­p io n s h i p s, which begin on May 4. “I am trying to stay con­sistent during the outdoor season so that in the event  “Maybe a couple more people can qualify for [the] Big East [tournament], but at the moment, a good number of us are already qualified so now it is just a little more fitness before we get there.”  qualified so now it is just a little more fit­ness before we get there.” This week­end, the Irish will look for another win­ning perfor­mance from  
that I do run faster, I will be able to keep  Rebecca Tracy junior  senior pole-vaulter Kev­in Schipper.  
running faster  Schipper, who  
so that when it  was  named  
comes time for  the  Big  East  
the  big  meet,  Men’s  Field  

I will run a [personal record] Athlete of the Week on Monday, there rather than run a [person-has finished first in three out of al record] too early,” she said. his four outdoor meets this sea-
Although the Big East cham-son. 
While a majority of the team will visit the Hoosiers, junior middle-distance runner Jeremy Rae and senior middle-distance runner Johnathan Shawel will travel to Walnut, Calif., for the prestigious Mt. SAC (San Anto­nio College) Relays. Both Rae and Shawel will compete in the 1500-meter run, an event in which Rae currently holds the second-best time nationally. 
For Irish athletes, regardless of whether they are headed to Indiana or Mt. SAC, the meets present valuable opportunities before the conference champi­onships. 
“This weekend is to go out there and try to run fast,” Tracy said. “Everybody is in, for the most part, their primary event, so the goal is to run some fast times. If you haven’t qualified for regionals, hopefully get a mark that will get you there.” 
While Rae and Shawel head west for the Mt. SAC Relays, Notre Dame will compete in the Polytan Invitational. Both meets begin Thursday and conclude Sunday. 
Contact Joseph Monardo at jmonardo@nd.edu 
SMC SOFTBALL 



Belles strive for tournament spot 
By MATT UNGER 
Sports Writer 
With just six conference games remaining, the Belles look to secure a top-four spot in the standings to qualify for the MIAA tournament when they face Albion this afternoon. 
Saint Mary’s (20-10, 5-5 MIAA) is currently tied for fourth place in the standings with Albion (11-21, 4-4) and Calvin. 
“We need to win out [in con­ference games] in order to take our destiny into our own hands,” Belles coach Erin Sul­livan said. “If we beat the teams we’re supposed to beat, we’ll be in good shape.” 
The Belles look to rebound from a Tuesday doubleheader sweep at the hands of first-place Trine. The Thunder defeated the Belles 7-1 and 6-1, respectively. Early Trine leads victimized the Belles as the Thunder were ahead 6-0 in the fourth innings of both games. Also, the Belles offense could only manage two runs despite 13 combined hits in the two games. 
“We left too many runners on base and lacked timely hitting,” Sullivan said. “Trine’s a good team, but a tight strike zone forced each team’s pitchers to throw over the plate, and Trine capitalized on those pitches.” 
Saint Mary’s also did not help its own cause by committing a combined six errors in two games while the Thunder only registered one. Belles sopho­more pitcher Callie Selner was victimized by three unearned runs in her outing in game one. 
“We had a couple of misplayed balls in the gap and some mis­communication,” Sullivan said. “However, we worked out those issues in practice and feel confi­dent going forward.” 
Meanwhile, the Britons were recently swept by seventh-place Hope in a doubleheader Sunday, including one game that ended after five innings by mercy rule. Despite their matching confer­ence record with the Belles, they have struggled in non-con­ference play with just a 7-17 re­cord outside the MIAA. 
“Albion is a scrappy team,” Sullivan said. “While they’re not loaded in any one area, they rely on team effort and capital­ize on mistakes to win. We need to play our game and be really confident.” 
The Britons have struggled offensively, batting just .234 as a team on the season compared to a .306 average for the Belles. Their top pitcher, senior Erin Giannotta, is 9-10 with a 2.85 ERA so far this season. 
First pitch for Saint Mary’s and Albion is set for 3:30 p.m. Thursday. 
Contact Matt Unger at munger3@nd.edu 



Vandy 
continued from page 20 
close win provides the Irish with valuable experience, Halfpenny said. 
“They play in one of the toughest conferences in the country,” Halfpenny said. “Right now, actually, in their conference, all six of their teams are ranked in the top­20, so they are battle tested every time out. It did give us experience that we needed.” 
Irish junior goalkeeper El­lie Hilling picked up her 10th win of the season between the pipes for the Irish, pick­ing up 13 saves in the pro­cess. 
“When you look at the stat sheets, we didn’t win one line except for we outscored them and out-saved them,” Halfpenny said. “So Ellie Hilling was huge today for us … Our defense in front really did their job in locking it down and giving her more savable shots, but at the same time, she had point blank [saves]. I am thrilled with her effort.” 
Although the Irish ended up on the wrong side of the draw control battle in the game, Halfpenny said she was pleased with the work of freshman de­fender Barbara Sullivan on the draw. 
“It was back and forth all game but when we really need­ed it she was pulling those down uncontested so I am re­ally proud of her,” she said. 
After gutting out a tough win at home, the Irish will travel to Washington, D.C., to face No. 14 Georgetown in a matchup heavy with Big East implica­tions at 2:30 p.m. Saturday. 

Contact Joseph Monardo at jmonardo@nd.edu 


Thursday, April 19, 2012 The Observer u TODAY ndsmcobserver.com | page 19 
CROSSWORD WILL SHORTz HOROSCOPE EUgENIA LAST 

HENRy ARNOLD 

LEE HAggNJOS ALEx gRISWOLD 

JUMBLE
LONDON EXPRESS 
MIKE ARgIRION 






Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556

 Enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year


 Enclosed
 is $75 for one semester 


Name ____________________________________________________ Address __________________________________________________ City ____________________ State___________ Zip______________ 

Thursday, April 19, 2012 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 20 
WOMEN’S LACROSSE 

Closing the ‘Dores 
Senior Kelly Driscoll and junior Jaimie Morrison lead Irish to three-game winning streak with defeat of Vanderbilt 
By JOSEPH MONARDO 
Sports Writer 
It took an offensive explosion at the start and lockdown de­fense at the end, but the No. 6 Irish did just enough to secure a 12-11 win over No. 18 Vander­bilt Wednesday in Arlotta Sta­dium. 
The contest was all Notre Dame (11-2, 4-2 Big East) in the opening minutes, as the home team jumped out to an early lead, scoring the first five goals of the game. After Irish senior attack Kelly Driscoll broke open the scoring, junior attack Jaimie Morrison notched four straight for the Irish. 
“I was excited about the start that we had,” Irish coach Chris­tine Halfpenny said. “That is something that we have been focusing on and we got out of the gate strong and then con­tinued to do so.” 
The Commodores (7-7, 1-4 ALC) responded with their first goal nearly 15 minutes into the game and added two more goals while keeping the Irish off the board over the last 14:03 of the half to reduce the deficit to 6-3 at halftime. 
The Commodores began the second half on a tear, taking the first four draw controls of the half and netting three straight goals to even the score. Irish senior attack Maggie Tamasitis finally ended Notre Dame’s 20-minute goal drought by weaving through the defense and bouncing in a score with 
23:50 remaining. 
“We hit a little bit of a lull there when we let them back into the game,” Halfpenny said. “That is something we have to figure out, but I am really proud of these girls — how they continue to fight and play this game to the final whistle.” 
The two teams traded goals for the remainder of the half as the Irish were unable to open up a lead larger than three goals. Notre Dame never trailed in the game. Leading 12-11 in the final minute-and-a-half, the Irish defense was able to turn the Commodores away empty-handed to secure the win. 
The loss drops Vanderbilt to .500, but six of its seven loss­es have come against teams ranked inside the top- 11, in­cluding four defeats at the hands of top-six teams. Consid­ering Vanderbilt’s track record against tough competition, the 
see VANDY/page 18 


GRANT TOBIN/The Observer 

Irish sophomore midfielder Lindsay Powell carries the ball past a Vanderbilt defender during No. 6 Notre Dame’s 12-11 win over No. 18 Vanderbilt on Wednesday. 
TRACK AND FIELD 

Irish participate in Invitational 

ALEX PARTAK/The Observer 

Irish junior Rebecca Tracy competes in the women’s distance medley at the Alex Wilson Invitational on March 2. 
By JOSEPH MONARDO 
Sports Writer 
One week after teaming up with Indiana to defeat Louis­ville and Kentucky in the Texas Roadhouse Border Battle, the Irish will travel to Bloomington, Ind., for the Polytan Invitation­al. 
The Irish recorded nine event wins in the Border Battle last weekend. Less than a month into what has been a solid out­door season, the Irish are al­ready beginning to eye the Big East outdoor championships on the horizon. 
“So far it has been a really im­pressive spring for everybody so we are really looking forward to this weekend running a couple more fast races before we get into Big East,” junior middle-distance runner Rebecca Tracy said. 
Tracy earned a first-place finish in the 800-meter run on Saturday with a Border Battle record time of 2:07.49. Also com­ing off a strong performance for the Irish is sophomore sprinter Aijah Urssery, who finished just .03 seconds behind Irish fresh­man sprinter Jade Barber in the 100-meter dash for second place. 
“Last weekend I [ran a per­sonal-record] in the 100[-me­ter dash], a lifetime [personal record], so this weekend I am hoping that I can run a little bit 
see URSSERY/page 18 
ND SOFTBALL 
Ganeff sees potential for postseason success 
By KATIE HEIT 
Sports Writer 
The Irish bounced back from a rough weekend against Syracuse with a 6-3 win over Valparaiso on Wednesday. 
Notre Dame (22-13, 5-3 Big East) was out of the gate fast, scoring all six of its runs in the first two in­nings. Freshman infielder Katey Haus got the ball roll­ing with the first of eight Notre Dame hits with two outs in the bottom of the first. Freshman outfielder Emilee Koerner and junior catcher Amy Buntin also had hits and gave the Irish a 2-0 lead. Valparaiso (28-11, 12-0 Horizon) was unable to respond in the second in­ning. 
Buntin had the highlight of the game, blasting a three-run homerun in the bottom of the second inning that brought the Irish lead to 6-0. 
Irish assistant coach Kris Ganeff said the early offen­sive success was key to the victory. 
“We actually played a re­ally good game,” Ganeff said. “Defensively we were solid and offensively we came out with a bang. We outpitched them, we outhit them, over­all we did a really good job.” 
The Irish win marked the end of an 11-game winning streak for the Crusaders, who have made a name for themselves this season with their stellar hitting. 
“They are a fabulous hit­ting team,” Ganeff said. “They have a player up for [Horizon League] player of the year. She didn’t get a single hit off of us, which I thought was incredible.” 
Two solo homeruns and a double helped the Crusaders bridge the gap to 6-3, but the Irish held their ground and snatched the win. 
Ganeff said the win was just what the Irish needed to head into the remainder of their season with confi­dence. 
“We needed to come back from the losses against Syr­acuse,” Ganeff said. “We learned a lot from those losses. We evaluated where we were at and were able to fine-tune a few things in practice. It really helped the girls to realize that it’s not too late for them to make a name for themselves. There’s always another chance to come out and compete.” 
see PITCHERS/page 17 





