The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 46, issue 32 | WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 3, 2012 | ndsmcobserver.com 
New era of printing 
Students, research professors utilize 3-Dimensional printers to assist with research projects 
By SARAH MCCARTHY 
news writer 
in the basement of the galvin life sciences center, students and research professors are propelling notre dame into the new era of modern printing. 
Two 3-dimensional (3d) printers, called a cubify and maker-bot replicator, have recently been installed in the lab of dr. w. matthew leevy, a research assistant professor in the department of chemistry and biochemistry. 
evan doney, a sophomore chemical and biomolecular en­gineering major and student of dr. leevy, explained the print­ers’ innovative processes. 
“you can find hundreds of designs online, then download one that you want to print,” doney said. “The [3d] printer then prints the design layer by layer until you have the full [3d] object.” 
doney said 3d printing al­lows users to print extremely customized objects and has three main benefits. 
“first, you can print anything you can think of . . . things that are unbelievably complex and custom to what you want,” he said. “second, you can have unlimited digital inventory.” 
doney said the digital inven­tory is stored on the computer and is what allows users to print their desired objects, he said. 
“The final thing is it’s really quick,” doney said. “i can have an idea in my head and have 
see 3d PAGE 6 



Lecture discusses NCCW, Vatican II 
By JILLIAN BARWICK 
saint mary’s editor 
mary J. henold, associ­ate professor of history at roanoke college in salem, virginia, gave a lecture at saint mary’s on Tuesday night titled “Teaching vatican ii: how change reached the woman in the pew.” 
henold is also an author whose first book is centered she said. 

“why discuss the reality of the church if half of the church is not here?” she said. 
henold noted that the second vatican council charged these laywomen to become more active about their roles within the church. 
“These women coached themselves — they knew something monumental was emerging,” henold said. “The people who go down in 
fTT professor uses Twitter as teaching tool 
By NICOLE MCALEE 
news writer 

christine becker is look­ing beyond traditional re­search studies and surveys to the musings of everyday media fans, trimmed down to 140 characters or fewer. 
becker, associate professor of the department of film, Television and Theatre, has taken an unconventional 
approach to teaching and re-
appreciation for Twitter as an informational asset grew over time. 
“at first, i thought it was just sort of a fun, cool way to have conversations with people,” she said. “but i also then started following even more academics, more Tv critics, more people, ac­tors, writers, directors and started to see it as just this for her blog, “news for Tv majors,” where she discuss­es ratings, media writers and federal communications commission policy. 

Twitter has become a teaching resource, she said. 
“right now, i’m teaching a class called ‘film, Television and Theatre now,’ and the concept is we have weekly structured topics like mar­keting or economics, but our case studies are things that 
are happening right now,” 
becker said. “Twitter is real­
ly helpful for that because it 
helps me keep up on things 
that are going on right now.” 
becker says that Twitter 
has helped to globalize me-
on 
catholic feminists in history are always the loved searching at the university, 

america. her next publica­ones, but what about those tapping into Twitter as an 

tion, which is in the works, is who weren’t so obnoxious academic tool. 

about the national council [about their opinions]?” becker said when she 

of catholic women (nccw), while it did not become a joined Twitter in 2009, she 

the feminist movement and feminist movement for these approached the medium ca-

the second vatican council. women, henold emphasized sually but with an academic 

“i can’t speak definitively about all lay women,” henold said. “The women in pews are much too diverse.” 
since her research has been based on the nccw, henold has found that catholic lay­women have been viewed as the “least important” people in the church. women ex­pected to be excluded from the liturgy and priesthood, 

that they “flirted with femi­nism without claiming it.” “They were quiet agents in the army of christ,” she said. 
henold noted that bishops studied laywomen who were claiming their right to lead­ership in the church. 
“These persons were pos­sessing full dignity,” henold 
see vaTican ii PAGE 5 
eye.

 “i started out with my group of friends who were grad school friends of mine, so i essentially started out with people who were part of the media studies academia world,” she said. “i started out already kind of steeped in using Twitter as part of media studies academia.” 
becker said her really incredible resource of information.” 
becker runs three Twitter accounts with a combined follower base of nearly 2,500: her personal account, @crs­becker; @goodTveets, which she calls a collection of “the funniest, most clever, in­sightful Tv-related tweets;” and @n4Tvm, the handle dia studies by opening a worldwide dialogue online. 
“The information and the connections possible on Twitter are what really led me to see it especially as kind of vital to my role in the discipline,” she said. “i can communicate with other professors at other 
see TwiTTer PAGE 6 





ndsmcobserver.com 

p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
allan Joseph 

Managing Editor  Business Manager 
megan doyle  Jeff liptak 
Asst. Managing Editor: andrew owens 
Asst. Managing Editor: sam stryker News Editor: John cameron News Editor: kristen durbin 

Viewpoint Editor: meghan Thomassen Sports Editor: chris allen Scene Editor: kevin noonan Saint Mary’s Editor: Jillian barwick Photo Editor: suzanna pratt Graphics Editor: brandon keelean Multimedia Editor: sarah o’connor Advertising Manager: monica mccormack Ad Design Manager: sara hilstrom Controller: peter woo Systems Administrator: william heineman 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 fax: (574) 631-6927 
Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 
Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ajoseph2@nd.edu 
Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 mdoyle11@nd.edu 
Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 aowens2@nd.edu sstryke1@nd.edu 
Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 
News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 
Sports Desk 

(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
Scene Desk 

(574) 631-4540 observer.scene.editor@gmail.com 
Saint Mary’s Desk 
jbarwi01@saintmarys.edu 
Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 
Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 
Policies 

The observer is the independent, daily newspaper 
published in print and online by the students of the 
university of notre dame du lac and saint mary’s 
college.  editorial content, including advertisements, is 
not governed by policies of the administration of either 
institution. The observer reserves the right to refuse 
advertisements based on content. 

The news is reported as accurately and objectively 
as possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion 
of the majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, 
assistant managing editors and department editors. 
commentaries, letters and columns present the views of 
the authors and not necessarily those of The observer. 
viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include 
contact information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed 
to Editor-in-Chief Allan Joseph. 

post office information The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through friday except during exam and vacation periods. a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The observer is published at: 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-0779 periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices posTmasTer send address corrections to: The observer p.o. box 779 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-077 The observer is a member of the associated press. all reproduction rights are reserved. 


Have a question you want answered? 
Email obsphoto@gmail.com 




QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
If you could change one of the rules at Notre Dame, what would you like to change? 



Emily Horton 
freshman 
cavanaugh 

“having to take pe while being a walk-on for a varsity sport.” 



Garrett McGrath 
freshman 
stanford 
“parietals.” 


Emmy Popovich 
freshman 
lewis 
“freshmen can’t have cars on campus.” 



Jack Sheridan 
freshman 
knott 

“single-sex dorm.” 

Fernando Garcia 
freshman 
fisher 

“not being able to swipe more than once each meal at the dining halls.” 



Noelle Langmack 
freshman 
mcglinn 

“not being able to take a panini from the dining hall.” 

Want your event included here? 

News Sports 
Jillian barwick Jack hefferon Email obsnews.nd@gmail.com 



THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 

bridgetfeeney mike monaco sarah swiderski brian hartnett 
Graphics Scene 

Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday 
Jaqueline o’neill Troy mathew 
Photo Viewpoint 

Lecture:  Nature Talk Science Seminar Nano Research Men’s Soccer vs. Women’s Soccers vs. 
sarah o’connor caroline lang 
and Naturalism in Jordan Hall Contest Finalists Georgetown Rutgers Byzantine Art 7 p.m. - 8 p.m. Stinson-Remick Hall Alumni Stadim Alumni Stadium Snite Museum Current research by 3:30 p.m.- 5:30 p.m. 2 p.m. - 4 p.m. 1 p.m.- 3 p.m. 

Corrections 

5 p.m. - 6:30 p.m. students and faculty. Poster session. 
The article “media day kicks off new season” in the oct. 2 edition of The 
Voting Q & A 2012 Red Smith Nanovic Film: Habeus “Much Ado About ND Theatre Now 
observer had a mistake in the date of 
LaFortune Student Lecture: “Journalism Papam Nothing” DeBartolo Performing 
notre dame’s home opener. The irish 
Center in the Age of DeBartolo Performing Washington Hall Arts Center 
play the usa under-18 Team on sunday, 
7 p.m. - 9 p.m. Twitteracy” Arts Center 7:30 p.m.- 9 p.m. 2:30 p.m.- 4 p.m. 
oct. 7 at 5:05 p.m. The observer regrets 
Questions on Eck Visitors Center 6:30 p.m.- 8:15p.m. Student-run theater $10/ $8/ $5 
the error. 

student voting will be 7:30 p.m. - 8:45 p.m. $4-7 production. answered. 



CSC to host collaborative research workshops 
By MEL FLANAGAN 
news writer 
The center for social concerns (csc) will host two community-based research workshops for students in­terested in collaborating with community residents and organizations to con­duct research projects. 
naomi penney, the csc’s research collaboration li­aison between notre dame and south bend, will intro­duce the workshops, which will take place Thursday at 6 p.m. and oct. 10, at 6:30 p.m. 
senior kaitlin wegrzyn, a speaker at the work­shops who has participated in community-based re­search, said the csc is aim­ing to help students better understand what this type of research is about. 
“we’re trying to get more 

“We’re trying to get more students involved in community-based research and academic research. We also want to offer them a student’s perspective.” 
Kaitlin Wegrzyn 
senior 
students involved in com­munity-based research, and to kind of tell students what the differences between community-based research and academic research are,” she said. “we also want to offer them a student’s perspective.” 
wegrzyn is currently col­laborating with south bend residents through no parent left behind, a non-profit or­ganization that holds work­shops for parents to learn how to be involved in their child’s education. 
her job focuses on finding out what parents learned from the workshops and how they can be improved, wegrzyn said. 
“we’re going through and doing qualitative re­search on all the focus group transcripts that par­ents completed after they went to the workshop,” she said. “i’m working directly with another parent that went through the program. we’re working to go through them together and coding it together.” 


senior luke horvath, a student assistant for penney who will also speak at the workshops, said he became involved with community-based research when he par­ticipated in an international summer service learning program this past summer in uganda. 
“notre dame has a part­nership with a university to run development projects like community gardens and things like that,” he said. “i was conducting research about saving silc [savings and internal lending communities] groups, groups of people in the com­munity who come together and pool their savings.” 
community-based re­search projects aim to help community organizations that have identified re­search needs, horvath said. 
participating south bend organizations include memorial hospital of south bend, where students can work on child development projects, and the center for the homeless, where stu­dents work with residents of the shelter to develop re­search projects together. 
“it’s rigorous research, it has surveys and different methods that go along with it,” horvath said. “it’s just a different way of going about it, to utilize the relations in the community to get the information that profes­sional researchers might not be able to get because they don’t have relations within the community.” 
The workshops will discuss the differences be­tween community-based research and academic re­search and the role of the former in the community. after, wegrzyn and horvath will discuss their own expe­riences in the field. 
“we’re going to talk about what things we’ve learned from community-based re­search that we wouldn’t 


“It’s not just giving service hours to help people and see the outcome immediately. You’re working directly with them through a research process and using different methods to figure out what you’re trying to accomplish.” 
Kaitlin Wegrzyn 
senior 
have necessarily have learned just working in a lab or working in a research apprenticeship through our majors,” wegrzyn said. 
The key  is to begin with a question from the commu­nity, wegrzyn said, to ac­complish a genuine need for the community. 
“it’s not just giving service hours to help people and see the outcome immediately,” she said. “you’re working di­rectly with them through a research process and using different methods to figure out what you’re trying to accomplish.” 
Contact Mel Flanagan at mflanag3@nd.edu 


paid adverTisemenT 

paid adverTisemenT 





class discusses culture shock 
By JOHN CAMERON 
news editor 
after spending a summer in a remote part of the world, any stu­dent would find settling back into life at notre dame a challenge. for a group of students who par­ticipated in service or research abroad this summer, a course titled “cultural differences and social change” offers tools for integrating their abroad experi­ences back to life at home. 
The course, taught by anthro­pology professor vania smith­oka, is designed to facilitate reflection and cooperative learn­ing fueled by the students’ di­verse experiences, senior alyce kanabrocki said. 
“our summer experiences are the foundation of the class. professor smith-oka is our guide, but she does a great job of steering us in the right direction and then letting us go,” she said. “while we have readings that we do for most classes, we only use them as a very basic theme of what to talk about.” 
kanabrocki spent her sum­mer in helekpe, a small village in the volta region of ghana, work­ing with an ngo called adaklu youth education committee (ayec), providing consult­ing services and teaching local youth. 
The course has helped kanabrocki expand upon the development she experienced in ghana, she said. 
“being completely immersed in notre dame and american culture makes it really hard to continue to continue working through issues and carrying over lessons that i learned while in ghana,” she said. 

kanabrocki said her class­mates can relate to her experi­ence in a way most others cannot. 
“Though we all went to dif­ferent places around the world and did different things, it’s so helpful and refreshing to talk to 
“[The class] helps you deal with the realities of reverse culture shock and think critically about your time abroad.” 
Kristen Kelly 
senior 

people who understand the oth­erwise unexplainable,” she said. “it’s also great to be surrounded by people that want to talk about their experiences as much as you do.” 
senior kristen kelly, who spent the past two summers doing re­search in uganda, said sharing in other students’ stories and chal­lenges has offered her greater perspective into her own. 
“Talking to other students who also traveled abroad allowed to me to reflect on my own experi­ence in a new light,” she said. “as we discover similarities and dif­ferences in our reflections, we all learn to think about our service and research in new ways.” 
kelly said the course has of­fered a cushion for transitioning between two differing realities. 
“[The class] helps you deal with the realities of reverse cul­ture shock and think critically about your time abroad,” she said. 
kelly said one of the course’s primary projects, developing a specialized website, provides students with a tool for building off their foreign experience be­yond their in-class work. 
“These websites provide an avenue through which students might continue dialogue about their experiences,” she said. “by publishing their thoughts and analysis online, they create a last­ing exposition of their summer service or research experience.” 
despite their diversity of ex­perience, the common lessons learned by members of the course have served as a strong reminder for kanabrocki of the commonalities across human culture. 
“it really shows how small the world is and emphasizes the fact that even though there are so many different cultures around the world, we’re all human be­ings with desires, dreams, fears and a responsibility to not fall victim to ignorance of the world’s problems and cultural richness that exist everywhere,” she said. 
Contact John Cameron at jcamero2@nd.edu 



paid adverTisemenT 

Vatican II 
conTinued from page 1 
said. “Their identity won’t be submerged by roles as a wife and motherhood.” 
organizations like catholic daughters of america (cda) and daughters of isabella (di) began to emerge for women at the turn of the 20th century, henold said. 
“cda and di even had se­cret passwords for its mem­bers,” she said. “They had crazy customs and pageant­ries as well. They shredded ideological diversities.” 
laywomen in these groups were constantly warned of impending doom and a “spir­itual black death,” henold 
“The world was on the verge of a moral and spiritual death. Women were responsible for saving it. They were the silent but active form in Church affairs.” 
associate professor of history 
Roanoke College 

said. 
“They operated on words of fear and threat,” she said. “They looked to the future to see loss and feared change.” 
paradoxically, obedience to these groups and those around them gained them power and elevated their sta­tus in the church, henold said. 
“it was like an episode of ‘mad men;’ the catholic women in the 1950s and 60s doted on the priests,” she said. “There was an awk­
“Loyal women judged the spirit of Vatican II and chose for themselves the degree of their transformation.” 
Mary J. Henod 
associate professor of history 
wardness of celibate clergy and married women working in close proximity, but with a mutual admiration. 
“The world was on the verge of a moral and spiritual death,” henold said. “women were responsible for saving it. They were the silent but ac­tive form in church affairs.” 
The implementation of vatican ii was spotty at first and women in the pew re­ceived mixed messages, henold said. 
“loyal women judged the spirit of vatican ii and chose for themselves the degree of their transformation,” she said. “These laywomen were the middle of the road people. The more educated they were, the more radical.” 
Contact Jillian Barwick at jbarwi01@saintmarys.edu 




3D 
conTinued from page 1 
the object in my hand in a mat­ter of hours.” 
depending on the object be­ing printed, doney said the actual process of printing can range anywhere from two to 12 hours. 
compared to normal print­ing, 3d printing allows users to give life to their designs, doney said. 
“in normal manufacturing, it is beautiful 3d data getting stuck on a 2d screen,” he said. 
doney said the 3d printers in galvin are primarily used by faculty for research projects. 
“researchers in galvin can use it to scan protein mol­ecules,” doney said. “[The replicas] can then show how a certain drug fits into that protein.” 
doney and his fellow class­mates also use the printers for biological studies involving cT scans, peT scans and mris, he said. 

“we are developing medical applications for the printers,” doney said. “They can create replicas of heart valves, mole­cules, rats, rabbits, lungs, livers and cancer tumors. The even­tual goal is to make an exact and complete copy of whatever we’re working on,” he said. 
eventually, doney hopes  3d printing will be accessible to all notre dame students. 
“we’re looking to expand our printer inventory to get it to the point where it’s open to any­one,” he said. 
Contact Sarah McCarthy at smccart6@nd.edu 


Twitter 
conTinued from page 1 
institutions and grad students as well — that’s another huge thing.” 
she said the benefits of communicating with students working on advanced degrees in the discipline are two-fold. 
“i think a connection be­tween grad students and professors at different insti­tutions is really enormous for both pedagogical and research implications,” she 
said. “The connections that you can make within the dis­
“I wanted to know why people were so captivated by TV storytelling.” 
Christine Becker associate professor Department of Film, Television and Theatre 
cipline, i think it’s really suf­fused the discipline with a lot more knowledge about what everyone is up to, and i think that can only be a good thing.” 
becker said in addition to being a great academic and social tool, social media has helped her better understand fan culture. 
“i wanted to know why people were so capti­vated by Tv storytelling,”
 she said. “The extent to which people care, get wrapped up, are fascinated by televi­sion: i think that’s one of the most compelling things to come out of my social media 
paid adverTisemenT 

experience, and it’s really been sort of eye-opening and thrilling.” 
in addition to teaching, blogging and tweeting, becker will officially become the first online editor of cinema Journal, the journal of the society for cinema and media studies, in 2013. 
“There’s an incoming edi­tor — his name is will brooker 
— and will decided he wanted to essentially bring cinema Journal into the 21st century and have some online con­tent for it,” becker said. “i’m coming up with resource ideas and reading and editing them.” 
becker said she hopes the notre dame community will continue to grow its presence on Twitter and benefit from it as an academic tool. 
“i would love to see more people at notre dame tweet­ing,” becker said.  “i really like getting a feel for what things are going on at notre dame beyond film and television.” 
Contact Nicole McAlee at nmcalee@nd.edu 




pennsylvania not required to show photo id for election 
Associated Press 
harrisburg, pa. — pennsylvania voters won’t have to show photo identi­fication to cast ballots on election day, a judge said Tuesday in a ruling on the state’s controversial voter id law that could help president barack obama in a presiden­tial battleground state. 
commonwealth court Judge robert simpson de­layed pennsylvania’s voter id requirement from taking effect this election, saying he wasn’t sure the state had made it possible for voters to easily get ids before nov. 6. 
“i am still not convinced ... that there will be no voter disenfranchisement” if the law took effect immediately, simpson wrote. 
republican gov. Tom corbett, who had champi­oned the law, said he was leaning against an appeal of the decision, which was wide­ly viewed to favor obama in pennsylvania, one of the nation’s biggest electoral college prizes. obama has been leading in recent polls 
over  republican  nominee  
mitt romney.  
pennsylvania’s  6-month­ 

old law, among the nation’s toughest, has sparked a 

debate over voting rights ahead of the presidential elec­tion. about a dozen primarily republican-controlled states have toughened voter id laws since the 2008 presidential election. but states with the toughest rules going into ef­fect — including kansas and Tennessee — aren’t battle­ground states, making their impact on the presidential election unclear. 
one civil rights lawyer said the decision cemented the principle that a photo id law can’t disenfranchise voters. opponents had said young adults, minorities, the elder­ly, poor and disabled would find it harder to cast ballots. 
“The effect of the decision in pennsylvania is not just theoretically, can voters get id, but actually, can they get id,” said Jon m. greenbaum, chief counsel of The lawyers’ committee for civil rights under law. 
simpson, a republican first elected to the bench in 2001, based his decision on guide­lines given to him two weeks ago by the state supreme court to determine whether the state had made photo ids easily accessible. 
he ruled after listening to two days of testimony about the state’s efforts to ease 
paid adverTisemenT 


requirements, as well as ac­counts of long lines and ill-informed clerks at driver’s license centers. 
on nov. 6, election work­ers will still be allowed to ask voters for a valid photo id, but people without it can use a regular voting machine in the polling place and will not have to cast a provisional ballot or prove their identity to election officials after­ward, the judge ruled. 
The law could still take full effect next year, al­though simpson could also decide to issue a permanent 

embassy possibly injunction. 
“This decision is a big win for voters in pennsylvania,” 

targeted by police 
said witold J. walczak of the 
american civil liberties union of pennsylvania, which helped challenge the law. 
The plaintiffs included the homeless advocacy project, the league of women voters of pennsylvania and the pennsylvania chapter of the national association for the advancement of colored people. 
corbett said he still be­lieved that his administra­tion would have made it possible for every registered voter who needed a valid photo id card to get one. 

Associated Press 
meXico ciTy — a senior 

u.s. official says there is strong circumstantial evidence that mexican federal police who fired on a u.s. embassy vehicle, wounding two cia officers, were working for organized crime in a targeted assassination attempt. 
meanwhile, a mexican official with knowledge of the case con­firmed on Tuesday that prosecu­tors are investigating whether the beltran leyva cartel was be­hind the aug. 24 ambush. 
The mexican official said that is among several lines of inves­tigation into the shooting of an armored suv that was clearly marked with diplomatic li­cense plates on a rural road near cuernavaca south of mexico city. federal police, at times battered by allegations of infil­tration and corruption by drug cartels, have said the shooting was a case of mistaken identity as officers were looking into the kidnapping of a government employee in that area. 
“That’s not a ‘we’re trying to shake down a couple people for a traffic violation sort of opera­tion. That’s a ‘we are specifical­ly trying to kill the people in this vehicle’,” a u.s. official familiar with the investigation told The associated press. “This is not a ‘whoops, we got the wrong people.’ “ 
photos of the gray Toyota suv, a model known to be used by drug enforcement administration agents and other u.s. embassy employees working in mexico, showed it riddled with heavy gunfire. The 
u.s. 
embassy called the attack an “ambush.” 

when asked by the ap if the mexican federal police officers involved in the shooting were tied to organized crime, the 

u.s.
 official said, “The circum­stantial evidence is pretty damn strong.” 


both the u.s. and mexican officials spoke on condition of anonymity because of the sensi­tivity of the diplomatic issue. 
a federal police on Tuesday maintained the position that their agents fired on the vehicle by mistake, thinking it belonged to a band of kidnappers they were pursuing, according to a spokesman who was not autho­rized to speak on the record. 
The u.s. state department declined to discuss details. 
“we will not comment on an ongoing investigation,” said william ostick, a spokesman. “This is a matter of great sig­nificance to both our countries and we will continue to cooper­ate with mexican authorities in their investigation.” 
The mexican official said one line of investigation is that members of the beltran leyva cartel were interested in at­tacking the people in the car because some of their lookouts had seen them passing through the area and presumed they were investigating the cartel. it’s possible they didn’t know they were americans. 
The rural road near cuernavaca where the attack took place is known territory of the remnants of the beltran leyvas, a once-powerful car­tel now run by hector beltran leyva since the navy killed his brother, drug lord arturo beltran leyva, in cuernavaca in late 2009. beltran leyva was once aligned with mexico’s powerful cartel, sinaloa, head­ed by fugitive drug lord Joaquin “el chapo” guzman. but the groups split in 2008 and con­tinued government hits on beltran leyva leadership since then have splintered that cartel into small gangs warring for the area. 
The cia officers were head­ing down a dirt road to the mili­tary installation with a mexican navy captain in the vehicle when a carload of gunmen opened fire and gave chase. The embassy suv tried to escape, but three other cars joined the original vehicle in pursuing it down the road, according to the original navy statement. occupants of all four vehicles fired. 


INSIDE COLUMN 

Career baby steps 
a salute to campus icons 

Jacqueline O’Neill 
graphics 

over my last four years there have been people whom i have either come to know either by name or from their campus reputations. This is a salute to those special individuals with their awesome personalities, extreme good looks or quirky habits. Thank you for making our campus a unique place. 
To John, who is always waiting with a riddle or joke when you’re about to swipe into south dining hall. you can brighten a day with just one swipe. also, i apologize for all of the fruit i have tried to sneak out. 
To the man who makes the om­elets in the morning for all the sleepy south dining hall goers. your easy way about you makes me feel like i’m at home in my own kitchen. you know a surprising amount of names almost rivaling another one of my favorite campus icons, alvin. 
alvin, your hugs are sometimes the only thing that can pick up my day. you never cease to grace everyone with your amazing smile. Thank you for being yourself and always greet­ing people with your friendly hellos. (unless you’re playing humans vs. Zombies, then you’re a force to be reckoned with.) 
To the kid cruising on the razor scooter. we love your 90s throwback vehicle of choice. you undoubtedly always bring a smile to my face when i see you zipping by with your red wheels. rock on. 
To the boy who roams south Quad in your backwards cap and bathing suit-like shorts (despite the weather.) you are both tall and skinny with a personality like no one i have ever met. rumor has it you can sometimes be spotted at brothers with a notepad and glasses impersonating professors. 
To the campus cowboy, i love both your boots and your hat. your country pride reminds us not to forget where we came from. keep up the style. 
finally, to everyone’s dining hall crush. we all have that special someone whom we love to stare at mesmerizingly in the dining hall or library. Thank you for being our eye candy during our everyday mundane tasks. 
it is individuals like you all who set our campus so unique. you show us how being yourself can be what makes us special and sets us apart from the others. Thank you for being yourselves and celebrating all of our differences. 
Contact Jacqueline O’Neill at joneill6@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not 
The observer | WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 3, 2012 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Julie Gray 
The career center 
i have many students who come into my office with a sense of panic wondering what they are going to do after college and if they are truly expected to know exactly what they want to do for the rest of their lives. while there is not always a defini­tive answer to these questions, we are here to help guide you through some of those tough questions and help you to understand your skills, personality, values and strengths and how they can translate to success upon graduation from notre dame. 
There is a common misconcep­tion among students that the career center is geared toward a specific major or college or year. but whether you know exactly what you want to do after graduation or have no idea what direction to pursue, we have valuable resources available to help you. it really is about you and what you need when you come visit us. we want students to feel comfortable coming to us with any of their career concerns. in fact, there are no ques­tions that are too stupid or unimport­ant or irrelevant to ask. sometimes the questions are as easy as “will you look at my resume?” at other times the questions aren’t quite so black and white and require longer, more in-depth appointments. sometimes the questions just need to be asked and heard. more times than not, we simply provide some basic guidelines and encouragement. it truly doesn’t matter what you major in or if you are a senior and have never been to the career center — if you need help, we hope to be there for you. 

There are many ways to be involved with the career center from making an hour-long appointment with one of our career counselors, attending one of our many workshops, partici­pating in one or more of our career exploration programs, to just fol­lowing us on Twitter and facebook to receive job-seeking tips and event updates. as in all things in life, you will get out of it what you put into it. 
don’t feel like you have to have all the answers — this time in your life is about exploring. some might know what they want between the ages of 18 and 22, but most don’t. even that first job, service experi­ence or walk into your first class at graduate school is just the beginning of many career decisions that you will be making in your life. rarely is this ever final and you always learn from each and every experience — both the positive and not-so-positive experiences. 
however, no matter where you are in your college career when you are reading this, the time to start is now. over and over i hear students say they wished they would have come into the career center sooner to start exploring their options. we are not expecting you to have your future planned out before coming to the career center; we are here to offer guidance, support and encourage­ment to help you through your tran­sition to life outside of notre dame. 
That being said, you have to take the first step. you can find us on the second floor of flanner hall. in fact, we have walk-in hours everyday from 1-4:45 p.m. if you prefer an appoint­ment just give us a call at (574) 631­5200. we have students trained to answer your questions and to set you up with the right career counselor. 
Welcome to @NDCareerCenter Column. Please let us know if you have any questions you would like covered in the column. Email us at ndcps@ nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

wind down wednesday 
as fall break appears on the horizon, many of you are probably starting to feel the pressure of upcoming midterms and projects. and as you all know, being stressed out about school work can be detrimental to your health and hap­piness. since we’re not likely to be able to skip our midterms or projects, pillars would like to help you reduce your stress level during these next few challenging weeks. 
first and foremost, you can reduce stress by eating right and getting enough sleep. in fact, studies in the journal child development show that students who get eight hours of sleep and eat a healthy breakfast perform better on tests than the students who stay up all night to cram. The more rem cycles you get, the more information you can re­tain. other helpful tips include talking to friends about what’s stressing you out and getting regular exercise. outside activities, even a walk around the lakes, can be especially effective at reducing stress and mental fatigue. finally, if you feel that your stress has gotten the best of you, we have wonderful counselors and resources at st. liam hall that can help you manage the academic pressures more effectively. 
we also encourage you to fight stress by scheduling some play time. To help you with that, your friends at pillars have organized a study break party at legends tonight from 8-9:30 p.m. This event is designed to offer students some well-deserved down time and hopefully a bit of fun. appetizers, desserts, lemonade and iced tea will be provided. stress-reducing activities will include karaoke, apples to apples, catchphrase and card games. for those of you who want to relive a bit of your childhood, there will be craft stations with legos, play-doh and drawing materials. 
all of us at pillars hope to see you at legends tonight for some of these stress reducing diversions. 
go irish, beat midterms! 
sincerely, 
pillars of notre dame
 John Galeziewski 
senior siegfried hall oct. 2 

QUOTE OF THE DAY  WEEKLY POLL  
“i would visualize things coming to me. it would just make me feel better. visualization works if you work hard. That’s the thing. you can’t just visualize and go eat a sandwich.”  Where in the world is Carmen Sandiego?  

Jim Carrey Tweet your response with #viewpointpoll 
U.S. actor by 5 p.m. Thursday. 


The observer | WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 3, 2012 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Virtual birthdays and gifts seldom given 
Blake J. Graham 
erudite Techno-lust 

birthdays are the quintessential unit of social interaction on facebook. from the beginning of facebook time, birthdays have been prominently displayed, and ever since it’s practically been law that you respect the birthday and always pay your dues. in a way, it’s the most basic form of virtual commerce on the site. whenever a birthday rolls around, we essentially throw our hands up in the air and think, i don’t really know this person, but i appreciate him letting me look at his photos and friends and sta­tuses — essentially peer into the fabric of his social identity — so i should prob­ably wish them a happy birthday so i can keep looking at his photos and friends and statuses for the next year. 
it’s this type of behavior that makes facebook work, and it represents the last stronghold of manners on the social web. now facebook is trying to ruin it by making the entire social mirage star­tlingly real. on sept. 27, facebook an­nounced facebook gifts and the death of the virtual and benign birthday. 
in may, right after its ipo, facebook purchased a small social-commerce company called karma for a cool $80 million. The karma app, which only launched in february, connected to facebook to pull information about your friends and recommend gifts for them. if it was, say, suzie’s birthday, karma would pull suzie’s profile see she liked one direction, arrested development, planet earth and huey lewis and the news. from that it would recommend something else suzie would want, e.g. a season of bbc television show The iT crowd. you’d then spend your hard-earned money on a completely lazy gift for your dear friend. she’d receive a notification and be asked to enter her shipping information, and the gift would arrive at her door. facebook saw this as the perfect opportunity to waltz into the e-commerce market and potentially make some money. 
This isn’t the first time facebook tried to get into the gifting market. in 2007, facebook launched an initiative to sell what was ostensibly digital garbage. The program, which allowed you to pay $1 to put a troll avatar on your friend’s wall, was such a failure that facebook seldom mentions it. 
The new gifts allows you to search through a collection of physical goods from things like sunglasses to starbucks cards and cupcakes and send them to someone on facebook much like karma originally did. 

The problem is facebook (or more ac­curately, facebook investors) really want to see this work so facebook can start actually generating the cash it needs to in order to maintain its astronomical valuation. This means that in the future, gifts will be completely and totally in your face wherever you go on the site. some users have already reported that the quick option to write on someone’s timeline for his birthday has been re­placed with “give him a gift.” 
The net benefit for facebook could be massive. if someone has 1000 friends and 300 would normally post on his wall for his birthday, maybe they can convince one — just one — to buy the birthday boy a present through facebook. if this happens to all facebook users, that’s nearly a billion gifts every year. even a miniscule fraction of that would be an incredible success. but when a company really wants to push that type of conver­sion, the cost is always its customers’ tolerance. 
facebook will be mining personal data harder than ever while simultaneously attempting to expand their gift options. The ideal result is that facebook can recommend the perfect gift every time 
— mind you all of someone’s friends will also have access to facebook’s perfect gift. gifts will take priority over the ca­sual “happy birthday” post and therefore threaten the glue holding mutually as­sured friendship together. 
facebook wants the unit of commerce underlying the reciprocated facebook friendship to be gifts and no longer just a simple wall post. The problem is many users don’t know their facebook friends as people, but rather as a collection of information — i’d like someone with 1000+ friends to attempt seriously to tell me otherwise. gift giving is a particu­larly intimate thing, even if the version of it present in facebook gifts is severely malformed, lazy and desensitized. gifts are meant to embody thought and caring and act not just as a good to interchange but as a symbol of the mutual affection and respect that builds friendships and makes them last. it’s hard to imagine someone who normally buys a gift for a close friend to now defer to facebook in hope of finding the right thing. and it’s equally unlikely that the facebook stranger will now start buying gifts for those he or she only appreciates as an amalgamation of data. in one swoop, facebook is now challenging the merits of both substantial and virtual birthdays. 
Blake J. Graham is a sophomore. He can be reached on Twitter @BlakeGraham or 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

we’re still waiting 
To whom it may concern at sao, 
last may, you stated that a decision about alliancend’s application for official club status would be decided at the beginning of this academic year. in fact, the student body was informed that a decision would be announced “early in the fall 2012 semester.” 
it is now october. it is no longer “early in the semester.” by my clock, “early in the semester” indicates two or three weeks, but school has now been in session for six. have you reached a decision? 
as i am not a cynical person, i choose to believe that sao will make the appropriate decision regarding alliancend and the overwhelming good it can do at notre dame to sup­port lgbTQ individuals and their allies on campus. 
please know that we have not forgotten alliancend’s still-pending application for official club status. interest and curiosity about the club still thrive on campus, and i know i am not alone in my desire to hear an official decision from sao soon. i would hope that sao does not define “early” as merely “before the midpoint of the semester,” and i there­fore hope to hear an official decision on alliancend before fall break. 
in hope,
  Julia Kohne 
senior lewis hall 


csc pledge for virtuous discourse 
every year the center for social concerns (csc) centers its events around a theme; this year’s revolves around a document called “pacem in Terris,” written 50 years ago by pope John XXiii. in it, pope John en­courages respectful relationships between people, societies and nations as well as the utilization of one’s talents to add to the greater good of society. 
This message holds a special place in my heart. last spring, i studied in washington, d.c., and interned on a senate committee. when one thinks of discourse in washington, especially congress, “civil” is not the first description that comes to mind. however, that’s where i learned the importance of respectful dialogue and articulating opinions in an inoffensive way. 
a senate committee is comprised of a majority office (run by the party who holds the majority in the senate) and a minority office. when an issue comes up, the two offices work together to draft legislation. The committee then presents a bill and hopes to get enough support to make it a law. obviously, the of­fices in a committee have different perspectives on how problems should be solved. sometimes argu­ments get heated; on some committees democrats and republicans rarely spoke to each other because of previous disrespectful fights. 
The offices that comprised my committee, however, had a great relationship with each other. They had lunch together; they went to happy hour together; they chatted about kids and life. They had differences in opinion and thus belonged to different political parties, but when issues arose, they engaged in civil arguments instead of heated rhetoric. They realized success depended on cooperation and cooperation depended on civil discourse. 
one way the csc is integrating “pacem in Terris” into its work is by urging students to engage in re­spectful dialogue such as this. This reminder could not have come at a better time. with the presidential election quickly approaching, students with different opinions may not know how to discuss controver­sial issues respectfully. The pledge includes ideas for students on how to talk about topics with people with whom they may not agree. 
however, the csc does not want to limit its reach to discussions surrounding the election; the center believes we should respect our peers’ opinions all the time. To help guide students down a path to per­manent virtuous dialogue, professor John duffy authored the notre dame pledge for virtuous discourse. The pledge encourages students to embrace seven ways of incorporating civil dialogue, urging students to support their claims with evidence, tell the truth and consider the possibility they may be wrong. by sign­ing the pledge, a student makes a promise to respect their peers and make notre dame an environment where differing opinions can flourish. 
if students are interested in taking the pledge, they can sign it at socialconcerns.nd.edu. sign the pledge; help make notre dame a place where respect and dialogue can grow.
   Jenna Nizamoff 
junior lewis hall 

The observer | WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 3, 2012 | ndsmcobserver.com 


flow.” nobody is off-limits for mr. west, who 
By DAN BROMBACH 

takes irreverent stabs at a variety of celebri­ties, including the late whitney houston, be­fore casually comparing himself to moses. 
The album falls slightly short, in my opin­ion, due to its inclusion of rapper 2 chainz, who actively strives to ruin all tracks on which he is featured. i’m still not sure why kanye west chose to invite 2 chainz into the good music crew. at first i thought it might be an act of charity, like picking the kid with the broken leg to play kickball in grade school, but then 
i’ll admit i have a tendency to be slightly irrational when it comes to mumford & i remembered kanye’s swollen ego, and his sons, but i thought the band’s newest album “babel” was simply fantastic.  “babel” is swollen ego’s swollen ego, and promptly went one of those albums you can listen to beginning to end without skipping any tracks back to being confused. 
scene writer 

— an increasingly rare feature in this modern era of auto-tune, stale beats and nicki kid cudi also strikes out on his track from minaj. the album, “creepers.” i’m offering a reward The album starts strong with “babel,” a song infused with the band’s signature for whoever finds kid cudi’s talent, which he 
folksy sound and boot-stomping rhythm, and doesn’t slow down from there. “i will seems to have misplaced during his brief and wait” is another of my favorite tracks ill-fated debut on the rock music scene. which channels this sound, with its fran-overall, “cruel summer” is solid yet slightly tic, banjo-plucking beat and soaring vo-disappointing, outclassed by kanye west’s previous collaboration efforts.  however, i cals never failing to get my feet tapping. would definitely still recommend giving the album a listen. 
as in their first album “sigh no more,” mumford & sons taps into a more mel­ancholy vibe for a number of their songs. Tracks like “holland road” and “ghosts That we knew” are certainly mournful at times, yet their simple beauty and lyri­cal depth should make them appealing to those looking for something beyond just a sugarcoated party song. 
i’ve heard some people criticize “babel” 

for failing to significantly depart from the band’s first album, “sigh no more.” This may be a valid point, but if their music ain’t broke, then why fix it? There’s no need for mumford & sons to experiment with some it may not be fair to give lupe fiasco’s new album “food & liquor ii” a discard rat-new, avant-garde sound just so fedora-wearing “grey’s anatomy” enthusiasts can ing, but i feel it’s somewhat appropriate given my current frustration with the direc­sleep well at night. The band has found a style that works for them, and i hope they tion his music has taken. continue to draw inspiration from that style moving forward. i understand lupe fiasco’s musical identity is defined by his intelligent, and often 
radical, lyrical critiques of political, racial and social realities. however, i feel like he fo­cused too much on producing inflammatory lyrics and political commentary in “food and liquor ii” while neglecting the other integral components of enjoyable music — production value, memorable hooks and some degree of catchiness. 
songs like “lamborghini angels” certain­ly contain a socially charged message, yet are simply not songs i would listen to more 
after going through months of kanye west withdrawal, i was thrilled when west 
than once, let alone buy. and his good music crew finally dropped their new album “cruel summer” this 
The song i would recommend from the september. west brought together a star-studded cast of rappers, including big sean, 
album, “around my way,” is one of the few Jay-Z, pusha-T and kid cudi to create one of this year’s most widely-hyped set lists. 
managing to provide social commentary unfortunately, “cruel summer” revealed that the difference between hype and real-
without sacrificing listenability. ity can be large indeed. 
lupe’s music has simply gotten too don’t get me wrong — i thoroughly enjoyed a number of songs on “cruel summer.” 
preachy for my tastes. if i want someone to “mercy,” “clique” and “The morning” feature fantastic, bass-heavy beats and lyrical call me names and accuse me of being a ter­wordplay from some of the best rappers in the game today. Jay-Z is certainly at his rible person, i don’t need to buy one of his albums. i have plenty of friends living right arrogant best on “clique,” smoothly flowing over the track while making sure to po-down the hall who would happily do it for free. litely remind you of his superiority in all aspects of life. 
refusing to be outshone on the album he put together, kanye teams with his part-Contact Dan Brombach at ner in crime from “runaway,” pusha-T, to produce a memorable verse on “new god dbrombac@nd.edu 





JACQUELINE O’NEILL | The Observer 

The observer |WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 3, 2012 | ndsmcobserver.com 

until 10 p.m.  saturday. fountain. don’t even worry about looking like a tourist. 
Scene Staff Report 

millenium park will have everyone going instagram-everyone will be doing it. 
The art institute has the largest collection of french happy with all the fantastically unoriginal photo-ops it chicago is known for its deep-dish pizza, and gino’s impressionist paintings in the world. The exhibit itself is offers. make funny faces and take hilarious mirror pic-east is one of the best. regularly featured on “best of” worth a trip to chicago. The museum is beau-
lists of both chicago eateries and national tifully built and the permanent collections, 
pizzerias, this restaurant was founded in from medieval armor to the Thorne miniature 
1966 by two taxi drivers, along with a friend, rooms, could keep an art fan busy all day. one 
who were tired of braving rush hour traffic. of the newer exhibits features photography 
still in its original location just off michigan and film from new york in the 1920s and 1950s 
avenue (along with a few newer locations 
— think paul strand and weegee. The muse-
around the city), the pizza kitchen hand um is on michigan avenue, just a few blocks 
makes all of its pies. be sure to bring friends, from soldier field. 
because these pizzas are meant to be shared. cafe descartes is a philosophy major/hip­
There’s football too, you know. hopefully ster’s dream. The coffee house’s motto — “i 
you were one of the lucky 288 students who drink, therefore i am” — is enough to verify 
managed to win tickets, but if not there’s lots that. paintings of famous thinkers hang in the 
of options to watch the game with other nd cozy, russian-tea-house-inspired seating area 
fans. check out the outdoor patio at citizen that overlooks michigan avenue. The cafe bar. There, you’ll surely find fellow domers serves delicious concoctions, such as the Turtle mocha tures at The bean. go get your picture taken beneath cheering on the irish, especially considering the bar’s and oatmeal latte, and mouthwatering oversized pas-marilyn monroe’s giant billowing skirt at pioneer court. saturday drink and food specials revolve around notre tries. it’s located right past the loop and will be open pose overlooking lake michigan or at the buckingham dame football. 


wrapped pastries you see in the dining hall and grab the café has a line out the door — are around 9:30 a.m. 
By CLAIRE STEPHENS 

scene writer ‘n go are okay choices, waddick’s sets itself apart with and any time between classes. 
its fresh baked goods. warm muffins and cinnamon what you didn’t know they had: waddick’s has great 
once you pass through the grand, expansive en-rolls are available alongside cookies, danishes, donuts, lunch specials and soups. The middle of the week offers trance of o’shaughnessy hall, you find yourself in the bagels, pecan rolls, scones, soda bread and coffee cake. some diverse flavors, like mostaccioli with garlic bread, long white hallways, constantly colored with hundreds The muffins, coming in flavors like chocolate chip, chicken mesquite and taco wraps, while mondays of posters advertising arts and letters events, inviting blueberry and pistachio, smell and taste heavenly when and fridays are reserved for childhood classics like you to take latin or go to an art exhibit. across from the 
chicken tenders with macaroni and cheese and pizza, small walk-in art gallery you’ll find the ‘50s style cafe 
respectively. waddick’s, a welcome break from the hustle and bustle 
i checked out the mostaccioli, which is the Tuesday of classes and a place to just sit and soak in the thought-
special. The special is surprisingly good italian food, ful, scholarly vibe of the liberal arts. 
and is offered hot with plenty of meaty sauce and soft, what they’re famous for: waddick’s most popular 
fresh bread to complement. The soup of the day, tomato, choices are its breakfast egg sandwiches and multitude 
was just as good — hot, creamy and smooth with small of coffee flavors. breakfast sandwiches are popular all 
chunks of tomatoes to give it a little extra substance. day long, with egg and your choice of ham, bacon or 
why people go: although waddick’s isn’t one of the sausage on a croissant or bagel. over 500 egg sandwich-
newer spots for students to eat on campus, it’s certainly es are made weekly. it is also set apart from other cafes 
one of the most popular. waddick’s has a welcoming on campus by its wide variety of free trade coffee fla­
atmosphere and is a good place to run into people you vors. in addition to house, espresso or breakfast blends, 
know — who are either there as customers or student coffee flavors include unique choices like island coco-workers. a popular spot for office hours, waddick’s is a nut, mocha nut fudge and pumpkin spice (there are also they are still warm from the oven. The chocolate chip great location to lounge and go over a paper, read litera­over a dozen different flavors of tea to choose from). muffin had a dark, crunchy exterior, but stayed spongy ture, chat with friends or just sit and think, wallowing 
what else is in stock: while there’s only a moderate and fluffy inside, even after being out of the oven for a in the intellectual, collegiate feel that only an arts and amount of sides, such as chips, energy bars, cereal, fruit while, and the cake options looked just as promising. letters building can offer. and grab ’n go sandwiches, there’s a good amount of who goes there: waddick’s serves some faculty and drinks and pastries to choose from — soft drinks, ener-staff, but is mostly patronized by students who have Contact Claire Stephens at gy drinks, coffee drinks and flavored waters. while the classes in o’shaughnessy. The busiest times — when cstephe4@nd.edu 

JACQUELINE O’NEILL | The Observer 


The observer | WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 3, 2012 | ndsmcobserver.com 

SPORTS AUTHORITY 

Pairing sports and pop culture 

Joseph Monardo 
sports writer 
The wildly entertaining slate of commercials marched out for the release of madden ‘13 has got me thinking. The commer­cials, which place paul rudd and ray lewis together on a couch playing out an endless stream of video game match-ups, are pretty near perfect. 
one commercial shows the pair collecting delivered chinese food. another shows rudd taunting lewis with a re­play of his touchdown — again, and again and again. rudd wears a Troy polamalu jersey and sings “black and yellow” and lewis delivers convincing pep talks (“madden is home … i am your family!”). all this to say the content of the commer­cials is genuinely amusing. 
however, what really makes the commercials so effective is the relationship between its two characters. i want to be­lieve that paul and ray spend time playing a video game as a way to play out a friendly rival­ry. i wish that paul and ray re­ally did spend time together on a touring troupe in their youth before a dramatic break-up of the group. how cool would it be if paul actually did teach ray his trademark dance? above all, we all wish that paul and ray held so strong a bond that they cherished their monogamous gaming relationship so dearly. 
This series of commercials has succeeded in presenting a convincing and entertaining story of friendship and madden between the most feared player in the nfl and one of the best comedic actors of the age. so what other duos could the mar­keting world create between the world of sports and pop culture? here are a few suggestions. 
Kobe Bryant and Kanye West 
The superstar pair, both of whom appeared together in nike ads earlier this year, carry with them some experience working together to sell … well, what those commercials were selling, i am not sure. and nei­ther was kanye. but i want to see more of these two together on the small screen. neither name needs much of an intro­duction, but i will just say that kanye west is the kobe bryant of rap. and kobe bryant is the kanye west of basketball. 
somebody please put west and bryant together, regard­less of what they are selling. i think they would fit nicely in a car commercial, since kanye enjoys rapping about them (and cutting them up and rid­ing around in them) and kobe enjoys jumping over them. or just put them back in more nike spots. let’s make this happen, nike. 
James Harden and Aziz Ansari 
This one could be great. harden has been the victim of russell westbrook’s mustard attacks and yelled at kate upton in his previous cameos, which has allowed him to display some of the same versatility he shows on the court. The third wheel on one of the nba’s most exciting teams would finally have the chance to truly shine away from his teammates in an ad with ansari. The comedian and actor is so entertaining that i could see this duo cashing in on any promotion opportunity. 
whatever the pair would sell, the scene doubtlessly involves ansari inspecting harden’s massive beard. maybe he makes fun of it or tries to grow one of his own. in fact, nike could rehash the mustard scene with aziz replacing westbrook (although, if the point guard’s affinity for the basketball is any indication, he may not be deposed without a fight). westbrook could just rip off one of his infinite beards and give it to ansari, who wears it gleefully 
around town.  
Peyton ManButters Stotch either this is  ning and pure genius  

or just insanity. but peyton’s transfer to denver has placed him right in the vicinity of south park, colo. butters, the hilariously hapless character from the outrageous animated show, would do quite well with the four-time mvp. manning is a commercial veteran and probably the most accom­plished athlete in the field of ad appearances. he has flashed his acting chops before, so why not call on him again? 
i see butters stuttering through a polite request that turns into an ad for the up­coming broncos game. Then maybe the couple could run some promos for south park as well. it would be like denver’s very own power couple (much improved from last year’s Tim Tebow – demaryius Thomas connection, which took the top spot in the absence of other entrants). 
These are only a few ideas i humbly propose. but for now, i am just glad paul and ray gave us all an idea of the promotion­al possibilities out there. 
Contact Joseph Monardo at jmonardo@nd.edu The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
NCAA FOOTBALL 

stanford sticks with nunes 
Associated Press 
ndsmcobserver.

sTanford, calif.  — There will be no quarterback change at stanford this week. and if david shaw had his way, there will be no questions about the quarterback’s job status either. 
The second-year coach stood behind redshirt junior Josh nunes on Tuesday, de­livering an unprompted and unscripted message at the beginning of his weekly news conference that his struggling quarterback will start for the no. 18 cardinal (3-1, 1-1 pac­12) against arizona (3-2, 0-2) on saturday. 
The only quarterback change shaw wants to see is a change in nunes’ play. 
nunes completed 18 of 37 passes for 170 yards and an in­terception in stanford’s 17-13 loss at washington last week. The offense converted 5 of 18 third downs, never scored a touchdown and looked lost for the first time since andrew luck left. 
after last Thursday night’s game, shaw took exception to a reporter asking if he’d switch quarterbacks. before any­body had the chance to ask at stanford, shaw squashed the subject. 
“Josh is the starting quarter­back,” shaw said. “he played well the first game. he played much better the second game. he played an ok half against usc, then an outstanding half against usc and is com­ing off a bad game. we’re not changing quarterbacks. That doesn’t make any sense to me. we wanted to bronze his arm and his legs after usc, and then now i have to answer a hundred questions about how come we’re not changing 

FOR RENT 

Football  Rental.  Available  
BYU  and  Stanford.  1BR  
Varsity  Club.  Call  847-602-817  

Rent Knute Rockne’s home for foot­ball weekends. 2 blocks from campus. Contactrentlikeachampion.comtoday! 
WANTED 

WANTED: BOOKSTORE PARKING PASS for Stanford, BYU or Wake. ND alum. Call 847-842-9971 
Math-Tutors Mathnasium seek­ing qualified math tutors. Experience working with children. 10-20hrs/week. Resumes:granger@ mathnasium.com 888-850-6284 

com | 
AP 

Stanford junior quarterback Josh Nunes drops back to pass in the Cardinal’s 50-13 victory over Duke on Sept. 8. 
quarterbacks. it’s asinine.” 
shaw, nunes and every­body else on The farm rec­ognize the quarterback play has not been up to stanford’s standard. 
while nobody expected nunes to live up to luck’s legacy, shaw wants the quar­terback to complete 60 per­cent of his passes, not turn the ball over and manage the running game. nunes is 65 of 125 (52 percent) for 785 yards, six touchdowns and four inter­ceptions in four games. 
dropped balls by receiv­ers have not helped. neither has an inconsistent running game, which racked up a school-record 446 yards on the ground in a 65-21 stampede past washington last year but totaled only 68 yards in the loss to the huskies this season. 
most of that is a product of defenses stacking nine players 
— even 10, at times — close to the line of scrimmage to dare nunes to complete passes. 
and until he does so with more consistency, nunes knows that will not change. 
“i’ve just got to get settled in early,” he said. “it’s something that, well, now i know.” 
outside of a second-half surge highlighted by a pair of game-changing runs to upset usc, nunes’ arm has been mostly off target this season. while receivers have created little separation and dropped several deep balls, includ­ing Ty montgomery’s miss on the final possession against washington, nunes has un­derthrown fades, tossed at the feet of tight ends across the middle or panicked in the pocket to take an unnecessary sack. 
on one play last week, he underthrew an uncovered screen pass by 5 yards and showed a rare display of emo­tion, pumping his arms in the air, hitting his hands against his helmet and yelling in frustration. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit 
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
PERSONAL 

UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don’t go it alone. Notre Dame has many resources in place to assist you. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Ann Whitall at 1-0084 or Karen Kennedy at 1-5550. For more information, visit ND’s website at: http://pregnancysupport@nd.edu 
“Who Says You Can’t Go Home” by Bon Jovi 
I spent 20 years trying to get out of this place/I was looking for something I couldn’t replace/I was running away from the only thing I’ve ever known/Like a blind dog without a bone/I was a gypsy lost in the twilight zone/ I hijacked a rainbow and crashed into a pot of gold/ I been there, done thatand I ain’t lookin’ back on the seeds I’ve sown,/Saving dimes, spending too much time on the telephone/ Who says you can’t go home 
Who says you can’t go home/ There’s only one place they call me one of their own/ Just a hometown boy, born a rolling stone, who says you can’t go home/ Who says you can’t go back, been all around the world and as a matter of fact/ There’s only one place left I want to go, who says you can’t go home/ It’s alright, it’s al­right, it’s alright, it’s alright, it’s alright 
I went as far as I could, I tried to find a new face/ There isn’t one of these lines that I would erase/ I lived a million miles of memories on that road/  With every step I take I know that I’m not alone/ You take the home from the boy, but not the boy from his home/ These are my streets, the only life I’ve ever known, Who says you can’t go home. 



MLB 

Nationals rest Gonzalez, most regulars 
Associated Press 

m | WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 3, 
washingTon — a day after clinching the nl east, washington nationals man­ager davey Johnson rested most of his regular lineup 
— and saved left-hander gio gonzalez for game 1 of the playoffs. 
gonzalez originally was slated to start Tuesday night against the philadelphia phillies, if the next-to-last game of the regular season still mattered for the division title. 
but with that champion­ship wrapped up monday, Johnson decided to make sure gonzalez, who is 21-8 with a 2.89 era, is fresh for washington’s nl division se­ries opener. 
right-hander Jordan Zimmermann (12-8, 2.94) will pitch game 2. Johnson will wait to decide whether to use right-hander edwin Jackson or left-hander ross detwiler in game 3. 
The nationals still don’t know which team they’ll face to begin the postseason or which day they’ll open play. it could be saturday (in which case gonzalez would only have had three days’ rest had he pitched Tuesday against philadelphia) or sunday. 
“i know that they have high hopes for me, and it’s one of those things where you take it as an honor. They’ve got something planned for me, and i want to go out there and try to show this team that i’m going to go out there and try to do the best i can,” gonzalez said. “i want to get enough rest, but not too much.” 
another lefty, reliever Tom gorzelanny, was picked by Johnson to start Tuesday’s game instead and was expect­ed to go about three or four in­nings before turning it over to other members of the bullpen. a marker-on-paper sign hang­ing in gorzelanny’s locker in the nationals park clubhouse before the game read: “game (hash)161 is my game!” 
center fielder bryce harper and first baseman adam laroche were the only ev­eryday players in Tuesday’s starting lineup, with Johnson opting to sit third baseman ryan Zimmerman, right field­er Jayson werth, left fielder michael morse, shortstop ian desmond, second baseman danny espinosa and catcher kurt suzuki. 


not necessarily the best way to try to earn the top seeding for the playoffs for a nationals club that entered Tuesday 
paid adverTisemenT 

with the same best-in-base­ball record (96-64) as the nl central champion cincinnati reds. 
“i’m rewarding the guys that have been grinding through a tough schedule. ... set back, gather your thoughts, we’ll get back up tomorrow, and go from there,” Johnson said. “listen, i have all the confidence in the world in the guys i’ve got out there. Those guys have been regulars.” 
among the members of the makeshift lineup was mark derosa, getting his first start at shortstop since sept. 2, 2006, when he was with the Texas rangers. it’s the sixth position he’s played this sea­son for washington. 




The observer | WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 3, 2012 | ndsmcobserver.com 
NBA 

76ers open training camp without Bynum 

Associated Press 
philadelphia — dressed in his team-issued practice gear, andrew bynum looked the part of a philadelphia 76er. 
bynum just couldn’t run, practice or play like the rest of the team. 
wearing his sixers tank top for the first day of training camp, bynum was reduced Tuesday to an all-star bench player. he participated in some light work­outs, then took a seat on the bleachers behind doug collins, watching nonplussed as the third-year sixers coach directed the season’s first scrimmage. 
The preseason will go on without bynum. The sixers ran a full-court scrimmage, com­plete with refs, with bynum not much more than a sideline ob­server. The sixers are resting the all-star center for three weeks as precaution after he received knee treatment in germany. 
The sixers remained optimis­tic that bynum, acquired from los angeles as part of a four-team trade, will return in time for the oct. 31 opener against denver. 
but the sixers will play pre­season games, gameplan, and scrimmage all without their biggest presence. That can only complicate the next month for a later. franchise that has designs on a “it’s not frustrating, but it deep playoff run. does complicate things a lot for 
The party line on bynum at us,” forward Thaddeus young the first day of camp at saint said. “bynum is a big part of our Joseph’s was, better now than offense and what we’re trying to do. we have to simulate a lot of stuff we’re going to do with a, how should i say it, a dummy bynum on the court.” 

spencer hawes and kwame brown are a bit more than man­nequins simply filling in for bynum. hawes was penciled in as the starting forward before bynum went down. hawes and bynum would give the sixers two 7-footers in the middle, making them one of the more formidable duos in the east. collins will mix and match in the preseason, giving hawes, brown, young, and lavoy allen shots at center or power forward. 
collins advised the sixers not to think the mishmash of line­ups run out there will be the way it stays on opening night. 
collins leaned on bynum during drills, asking the big man, “is there where you want the guys to be? how do you like them cutting?” 
only 24, bynum came to philadelphia with massive ex­pectations to be The man on the team. sitting out was a tough way to start. 
“he knows that, come time when he’s going to get out on the floor, people are looking for him to help take this franchise to new heights,” collins said. “he’s well aware of that. i think he’s ready to take on that challenge. 
“but it’s not a one-man thing.” 

collins, who likes a nine-deep rotation, knows all the big men are going to have to bang and score whether bynum is there or not. The increased playing time in the preseason can only help them. but the sixers didn’t invite fans to a splashy press conference at a historical site for signing brown. They did it for bynum. 
and now, it’s time to look forward. bynum, who has a his­tory of knee issues, has to play at least 75 games for the sixers to truly become a threat in the east. 
“he’s the piece,” young said. “he is the piece to our success. we believe he can make plays for us all around the basket, all around the court.” 
The sixers can’t wait to see him in action. 
collins, who had his 2013­14 option picked up monday, opened his third camp trying to find a way to mesh all the new faces on the roster. That doesn’t even include bynum. allen, hawes, young, Jrue holiday and evan Turner are, amazingly, the only returning players off a team that reached the east semis. 
collins stressed to his team this week the importance of teamwork and communication. They’re all going through this new experience together. 
holiday (22) and Turner (23) have staked their claim already as locker room leaders. andre iguodala and elton brand were the elder statesman, but they were dumped in the offsea­son, as was lou williams, who brought swagger and catch­phrases to the locker room. 
“i know me and evan had a different mindset, kind of say­ing, this is our gym,” holiday said. 
They want bynum to come out and play. The 7-footer also has a bone bruise on his right knee, though it’s unrelated to the injections on his knee. 
“andrew wants to be out there and compete,” general manager Tony dileo said. “we’re hold­ing him back. we want to be cautious. This is preseason, we don’t want to get him out there too soon until he’s healed and ready to go.” 


paid adverTisemenT 


SMC SOCCER 

Belles take on Trine in MIAA matchup 
By MIKE MONACO 
sports writer 
off to their best 10-game start since 2004, the belles return home after a weekend sweep to take on Trine today in an miaa matchup. 
in 2004, saint mary’s (7-2-1, 4-2 miaa) also began the season 7-2-1. sophomore goalie chanler rosenbaum said the belles are optimistic about the possibility of postseason play given their strong start to the season. 
“we’re excited,” rosenbaum said. “we feel good about our­selves. we see a very bright fu­ture for us, close to the [division iii national championships] and we feel like we can make that. … and we see ourselves making the [miaa championships]. 
The belles, who defeated kalamazoo 1-0 on saturday and followed it up with a thrilling 3-2 double overtime victory over rochester on sunday, are tied for second place in the league. The top four teams in the miaa advance to the conference tour­nament, and the winner of that tournament advances to the division iii national tournament. 
The belles will have another chance to keep ascending in the conference standings against the Thunder (1-7-2, 0-5-1). rosenbaum said each conference match is im­portant and saint mary’s cannot look past Trine despite its record. 
“i think we’re feeling pretty con­fident,” rosenbaum said. “Their record isn’t as good as ours but we can’t overlook any team. we just have to go show up and play.” 
The Thunder is riding a nine-game winless streak, which in­cludes three straight losses in which Trine has failed to score a goal. The saint mary’s defense, led by rosenbaum and sopho­more defenders mary kate hussey and kerry green, has been stout throughout the season. The belles have five shutouts and have held their opponents to no more than one goal in eight games. rosenbaum said communication has been the key to the defense so far. 
“our defense is really strong,” rosenbaum said. “we have [hussey] and [green] and they play a very similar game and communicate very well. and then i communicate with them and we make sure everyone is marked and has an option to pass the ball. i think we really communicate pretty well.” 
on the other end of the pitch, the saint mary’s offense has net­ted 11 goals in the last four games. Junior captain and midfielder mollie valencia, who scored the game-winning goals against albion and kalamazoo, was named the miaa offensive player of the week on monday. The goals were valencia’s first of the season. rosenbaum said she has great trust in valencia, who was named to the all-miaa second team in each of her first two seasons. 
“mollie is a great player,” rosenbaum said. “she’s been all-conference the past two years. every time i’m in the goal and see her with the ball, i know we’re in good hands. i know that if she has the ball in crunch time she can get the job done.” 


saint mary’s will look to valencia and the rest of the of­fense to keep the offensive out­burst going against the Thunder, who has given up an average of 
2.5 goals per game. rosenbaum said the belles’ persistence in get­ting quality shots has been impor­tant to scoring goals and winning games. 
“[The key has been] our persis­tence,” rosenbaum said. “we just keep going and keep shooting. we like to take it right inside the [18­yard box] and try to shoot because that’s obviously a better area to shoot from. That’s our key. we’re dribbling in and getting a closer shot on goal.” 
saint mary’s squares off with Trine at home wednesday at 4 p.m. 
Contact Mike Monaco at jmonaco@nd.edu 
SMC VOLLEYBALL 

Saint Mary’s falls to .500 with loss to Hope 
By AARON SANT-MILLER 
sports writer 
after almost a week off, the belles fell to no. 4 hope college 25-7, 25-15, 25-23. 

“in the first set, we were just psyched out, but then we started kuschel saud sophomore mid-not ready. we didn’t look ready,” to settle in. in the second set, we dle hitter melanie kuczek and belles coach Toni kuschel said. were able to go point-for-point senior setter danie brink devel­“we made a lot of errors and with them halfway through the oped chemistry throughout the didn’t play the level of volleyball match. Then we let up a couple match. we’re capable of. we were a little big runs and that was it. in the “[kuczek] really came alive 
third set, we finally came alive tonight. her and danie re­
paid adverTisemenT 
and played good volleyball. we ally connected,” kuschel said. just progressively got better.” “when the passing was on, it 
as a team, the belles (8-8, was great. it was just a lot of fun 4-4 miaa) struggled with their to watch. melanie really played hitting, as they hit at a com-great tonight and did a great bined 15 percent. The team job.” 
“Our communication was lacking. We need to be able to communicate the way we did 

in the third set.” 
Toni Kuschel Belles coach 
had trouble keeping pace with the nationally-ranked flying dutch (15-2, 7-1 miaa), who hit at 41 percent. sophomore out­side hitter Jenna grasmeyer led hope with 13 kills while hitting 42 percent. 
“as a team, we just weren’t quite able to capitalize on the balls that were being put out by our teammates,” kuschel said. “our hitters were having a hard time connecting in the first and second set, but in the third set they did a nice job.” 
despite the team’s struggles, a few belles did shine Tuesday. 

on the night, kuczek finished second on the team with eight kills, behind sophomore out­side hitter kati schneider, who finished with nine. even though she didn’t lead the team in kills, kuczek was very efficient and effective when she hit, as she led the team by hitting 47 per­cent, kuschel said. 
“she just played very well,” kuschel said. “To be able to hit at .471 is very impressive against such a good team.” 
so far this fall, saint mary’s has prided itself on its teamwork and team skills, something that took some time to get going Tuesday, kuschel said. 
“our communication was lacking. we need to be able to communicate the way we did in the third set. we need to play tough and disciplined defense,” she said. “in the third set, we were coming up with some big digs and we were able to trans­fer those into some big kills. That’s what it’s all about and that’s what we’re capable of. i have no doubt we can do that [going forward].” 
for the belles, the team will look to play at their full poten­tial this weekend, kuschel said. on friday, the belles host an­other conference opponent in Trine. 
“i’m happy about the way we played in the third set, but i know we can play better vol­leyball. i’m happy that we made adjustments to play better,” kuschel said. “i know my team can play consistent volleyball, beginning, middle, and end. That’s something we’re going to have to put together to get a win against Trine.” 
The belles will look to do just that friday when they host Trine for a 7 p.m. conference match. 
Contact Aaron Sant-Miller at asantmil@nd.edu 


The observer | WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 3, 2012 | ndsmcobserver.com 

Pangborn 
conTinued from page 20 
their opponent in three of five games. pasquerilla east (0-2-2), meanwhile, leaves monday’s contest still searching for its first win of the year. 
The first half was largely a back-and-forth defensive battle between the two squads. The pangborn offense finally found its rhythm with less than two minutes remaining in the first half. The phoxes marched on a five-play, 67-yard drive that was capped off with a two-yard touchdown pass from sopho­more quarterback caitlin gargan to junior receiver molly shawhan. gargan executed the two-minute drill to perfection, going 4-for-4 for 49 yards and the touchdown. The phoxes convert­ed the two-point conversion and went into halftime leading 8-0. 
“[The touchdown] was huge,” pangborn senior captain colleen bailey said. “going into the sec­ond half up eight points helped us stay focused. it was good for team strategy and morale.” 
pangborn’s defense respond­ed to the late first half touch­down by not allowing a yard on pasquerilla east’s drive to start the second half. bailey said she was impressed with her defense. 
“To have our defense come out so strong and shut them down gave us confidence and good field position,” bailey said. “whenever we have a strong showing from one side of the ball, it motivates the other to step up.” 
The offense stepped up in­deed, as gargan connected with senior receiver meredith angell for a touchdown to make it 14-0. 
The pyros had a strong de­fensive stand late in the fourth quarter when senior captain anna perino intercepted a pass on the pyros’ own goal line, pre­venting a touchdown. although pasquerilla east went on to lose, perino found some positives in the pyros’ performance. 
“defensively, we were able to make some adjustments which led to the interception, and of­fensively we were able to string some plays together,” perino said. “i think we played well against a really good team.” 
pasquerilla east plays farley on sunday at 5 p.m. at labar fields, while pangborn  doesn’t play until oct. 28 against lewis. 
Contact Alex Wilcox at awilcox1@nd.edu 
Walsh 7, Badin 6 
By RICH HIDY 
sports writer 
in a thrilling Tuesday night de­fensive showdown, walsh edged badin by the narrowest of mar­gins, stopping a late extra point attempt to earn a 7-6 victory. 
after both teams traded in­terceptions to start the game walsh drove the ball down the field, and senior quarterback kat leach found an open receiver in the middle of the end zone to give the wild women (2-2) a 6-0 lead. sophomore receiver meredith kelly then secured the extra point on a rollout pass by leach. 
early in the second half, badin sophomore cornerback melissa whelan intercepted a leach pass and took it the other way for a touchdown. The bullfrogs (1-3) were stopped short on the subse­quent extra point though, leav­ing walsh with a 7-6 lead. 
with two minutes left in the game, badin started to drive the ball methodically down the field. The bullfrogs were stopped short of the end zone, however, as walsh sealed the win with an interception. 
walsh senior cornerback lindy navarre said she was extremely impressed with her team’s effort. 
“we played with a lot of heart tonight,” navarre said. “we real­ly wanted to win this game and it was a great battle on both sides.” 
navarre said she was particu­larly pleased with the play of the secondary. 
“on defense we had some key interceptions,” navarre said. “our safety play was tremendous with a couple of picks.” 
on the other side, badin senior receiver Tommasina domel said she was upbeat even after the heartbreaking loss. 
“it was a really close game that could have gone either way,” domel said. “we put up a valiant effort, and we had a couple of re­ally close plays on offense. we had a lot of opportunities that we didn’t cash in on both sides of the ball.” 
walsh will look to extend its winning streak when it plays lyons on sunday, while badin will look to rebound when it bat­tles cavanaugh on oct. 28. 
Contact Rich Hidy at rhidy@nd.edu 
Breen-Phillips 20, Lyons 18 
By ALEX WILCOX 
sports writer 
finally, the girls of breen­phillips know what a win feels like. The babes won their first game in over three years, as they defeated lyons 20-18 Tuesday night. 
for the team’s seniors, the game marked their first interhall victory. 
“The seniors have never won before, the juniors have never won before, so all the upper­classmen are really excited, and the freshmen now have some­thing to build off of,” breen­phillips junior captain molly Toner said. 
The babes (1-2) opened the game with the look of a defeated team, as they allowed lyons (1­
3) to march down the field and score a touchdown on its first drive. 
after an offensive turnover­on-downs, the babes slowly began to make a comeback. They intercepted lyons senior quar­terback erica miller on the next play and scored a touchdown on the ensuing drive to take a 7-6 lead with six minutes left in the first half. after allowing another touchdown to lyons, breen­phillips received some defensive help, as freshman cornerback stephanie campo stepped in front of miller’s pass and took it back for a score just before halftime. The babes went into the half with a 14-12 lead, which they would not relinquish for the rest of the game.. 


“[The interception] was huge,” Toner said. “it made our offense work better and everybody was more confident. when you have a big play like that early in the game, everybody plays better.” 
breen-phillips widened its lead in the second half, scoring on a one-yard touchdown run by Toner on the opening drive to go up 20-12. 
lyons put the game’s outcome in doubt when it scored a touch­down with just two minutes left in the game, closing the babes’ lead to 20-18. on the lyonites’ ensuing three-point conversion attempt, miller’s pass intended for senior captain christina bramanti fell incomplete, secur­ing the victory for breen-phillips. 
breen-phillips will go for back-to-back wins sunday against cavanaugh, while lyons will look for a win when it plays walsh on sunday. 
Contact Alex Wilcox at awilcox1@nd.edu 


paid adverTisemenT 


ND WOMEN’S GOLF 

Irish finish seventh at Windy City Classic 

MACKENZIE SAIN | The Observer 

Irish sophomore Kelli Oride attempts a putt during the Mary Fossum Invitational on Sept. 15 at Forest Akers West in East Lansing, Mich. The Irish finished in seventh place out of 15 teams at the Windy City Collegiate Classic on Monday and Tuesday at Northwestern. 
teams ranked in the top-50, to her right foot, the four irish playing bad, you hurt your freshman lindsey weaver 
By ISAAC LORTON 

sports writer including no. 1 Texas Tech golfers had to post every score. team as well as yourself,” holt was not going to let any obsta­and no. 2 washington, but There was no safety net of said. “it adds a lot more pres-cle prevent her from finishing facing a tough field of com-no. 6 arizona came out on top throwing out the lowest fifth sure. They were tested and they strong, as she tied for second petition and rough conditions, with a 15-over par 879. The score, holt said. passed the test. we averaged with uc davis senior demi the no. 26 irish dropped three irish proved they could com-“playing with four players under 300; i’ll take that.” runas. weaver shot scores of 70 spots yesterday to finish sev-pete with the best, as they beat in that tough field, i am happy The wind picked up in and 71 in the first two rounds enth out of 15 teams at the Texas Tech by 8 strokes. how we did,” holt said. “it puts chicago, presenting another on monday, finishing three-windy city collegiate classic “overall, it was a successful a different spin on things. you obstacle for the irish. under par. yesterday, weaver hosted by northwestern. notre weekend,” irish coach susan are hoping that if you are play-“it was a lot tougher condi-shot a 74 and finished one-un­dame posted a total score of holt said. “it was one we could ing bad, the others have your tion wise,” holt said. “There der overall for the tournament. 305 for the third round and fin-build on. we went out and com-back.” was lots of wind and the greens holt said she was excited about 
ished with a tournament score peted well.” holt said the irish overcame were harder because the wind what she saw out of weaver. 
of 893. with sophomore ashley missing armstrong. dried them out. but saying that, “i thought lindsey did great,” The field consisted of nine armstrong out with an injury “in this situation, if you are i think we did well.” holt said. “she’s not happy with her performance, though. she paid adverTisemenT 

left some shots out there and she knew she could do better. it was only her second collegiate event. as a freshman, to even be in that position, on the sec­ond day, is incredible. she’ll get her win.” 
freshman Talia campbell, four strokes behind weaver, also finished in the top 10, as she tied for 10th with a 219. 
“she went out there and fought through it all. she was two under at the turn in [yes­terday’s] round,” holt said. 
The irish hope armstrong will be back in time for the three-day susie maxwell berning classic, which will be­gin oct. 15 at oklahoma. 
“we have two weeks to make sure she’s completely healthy,” holt said. “she hasn’t tried to swing a club yet, but we are not in any rush. we will take it slow, take our time, and get her back for oklahoma, where the field will be even tougher.” 
Contact Isaac Lorton at ilorton@nd.edu 


The observer | WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 3, 2012 | ndsmcobserver.com 


MACKENZIE SAIN | The Observer 

Irish senior linebacker Manti Te’o  awaits a snap during Notre Dame’s 20-3 win over Michigan State on Sept. 15 in East Lansing, Mich. Te’o, who made 12 tackles and recovered a fumble against the Spartans, has 38 tackles and three interceptions this year. 
Miami 
conTinued from page 20 
to be a team that can make big plays, but i don’t think there is anything from a schematic standpoint that they haven’t seen from our offense. 
“They’re a tempo team. They like to go fast. They’ve caught their last couple of opponents not prepared for that … They’ve got some big weapons on the pe­rimeter, two outstanding backs and a quarterback that’s playing better and better each and every week.” 
The hurricanes defense has allowed more than 33 points per game this year, placing them 100th in the football bowl subdivision. notre dame’s of­fense, meanwhile, has man­aged to score more than 33 points just once — in the 50-10 opening win over navy. 
“we want to be more of an offense that can have big play capabilities,” kelly said. “we need to score more points, no question about that. we’re not scoring enough points. but as you can see — and it’s been the theme — we’re going to be careful with the football. we’re not going to be careless with it. until we’re ready to amp it up, so to speak, we’ll be careful with the football.” 
HeisManti 
senior linebacker manti Te’o, recently featured on the cover of sports illustrated, has gar­nered a spot on some experts’ heisman Trophy watch list after his blistering start. Te’o leads the irish with 38 tackles (16 solo) while also recording three interceptions and two fumble recoveries. 
Te’o would be the first defen­sive player to win the heisman Trophy since charles woodson did in 1997. woodson, however, also played on special teams. 

“if you go with he has to be a quarterback or an offensive player, well, i don’t think [Te’o] plays on offense,” kelly said. “but if you’re looking for one of the best, if not the best college football players that impacts your program — look, if you said it was the mvp, does it have to be an offensive player mvp? sure. he’s got to have some of­fensive numbers or statistics. but you’re also judged by how you impact your team and what you do on the defensive side of the ball. 
“so heisman Trophy, mvp, top collegiate player, we think he fits those categories.” 
Injury updates 
graduate student defensive end kapron lewis-moore and freshman defensive end sheldon day are both close to full health, kelly said. 
sophomore defensive end chase hounshell will have sur­gery on his shoulder and miss the remainder of the season. 
Contact Matthew DeFranks at mdefrank@nd.edu 
paid adverTisemenT 
same time, the stadium 
Pittsburgh 
won’t win you the game. 
conTinued from page 20 
we’ll have to do that. but if we come out with the right 

following seven straight mentality and play properly, wins to start the season, i think we’ll be able to han­the irish went 1-2 in their dle any team.” past three contests, all clark said after the rough away from alumni stadium. start in conference play, the 
“If we come out with the right mentality and play properly, I think we’ll be able to handle any team.” 
Bobby Clark 
Irish coach 

a win over then-no. 10 irish are aware of how cru­indiana was sandwiched be-cial it is to earn positive re-tween conference losses at sults in upcoming big east louisville and undefeated matches, starting against connecticut. pittsburgh. 
The match against “i think we’ll be very hun­pittsburgh will be notre gry,” clark said. “The boys 
“The boys are very conscious that we’re 0-2 in the Big East and we’ve got to start picking up some points.” 
Bobby Clark 
Irish coach 

dame’s first in alumni are very conscious that stadium since a 2-0 win over we’re 0-2 in the big east and michigan state on sept. 14. we’ve got to start picking up while the irish are excited some points.” to return to their home soil, The irish and panthers clark said it will not be the kick off wednesday at 7 p.m. deciding factor. in alumni stadium. 
“it’s nice to be home,” clark said. “you get a bit of Contact Sam Gans at home-cooking, but at the sgans@nd.edu 



CROSSWORD | will shorTZ 


HIGHLY PUNLIKELY | chrisTopher brucker 

LOWER YOUR EXPECTATIONS |  lenny rago &        paTrick cross 


Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
SUDOKU | The mepham group 


HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: kelly ripa, 42; lorraine bracco, 58; sting, 61; donna karan, 64. 
Happy Birthday: don’t let stubbornness stand in your way. believe in your abili­ties and trust your instincts. build a comfortable place to explore new avenues and develop talents. your home is your castle and must be pleasing if you want to advance personally and professionally. an even pace and positive attitude will make a difference to your future. your numbers are 9, 16, 22, 26, 30, 39, 47. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): your ambition may bother the people around you. find a quiet spot where you can work diligently and stay out of the way, or take your interests and head out to places where you will encounter people who share your concerns. 


TAURUS (April 20-May 20): share your thoughts, but be open for suggestions. much can be accomplished if you don’t allow emotional discord to stand in your way. a partnership may disappoint you if you are heading in different directions. you must fulfill your creative dreams. 


GEMINI (May 21-June 20): expect to have problems with a colleague. Take time out to enjoy someone’s company who isn’t judgmental and wants to explore activities that you find more fun. moneymaking and friendship will lead to trouble. 


CANCER (June 21-July 22): don’t be a martyr. Taking on responsibilities will leave you depressed and tired. delegate work to others so everyone can have a balance between hard work and play. don’t let a pushy client or colleague cause you to make an impulsive move. 

LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): a financial gain is risky but possible. be fearless and time your moves precisely. putting pressure on others will not work. you will have to take care of business on your own. in the end, you will reap what you sow. 


VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): focus on you and what you want, but don’t overspend to do so. you can make money if you pursue your own business. Take a chance if it will allow you to show what you have to offer. exude confidence.  


LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): look over your personal papers and consider your op­tions. you need to clear up loose ends contractually, legally or financially before you can make your next move. Travel or research will expand your knowledge and philosophic outlook. 

SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): keep your emotions well hidden. not everyone is trustworthy, and ulterior motives are likely to come into play in business deal­ings. stick close to home and focus on developing what you do best. a service you have to offer will flourish.  

SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): stick to the rules. exaggeration will lead to sorrow. make positive changes at home that will help you expand your interests personally and professionally. mishaps and injuries are apparent if you aren’t careful. avoid disagreements. make love, not war. 


CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): opportunities to make money may interfere with your plans. you are likely to disappoint friends and relatives. organize out­ings that will be fun for everyone. you may feel obliged to help an outsider, but remember charity begins at home. 

AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): listen to advice being offered, but do your own research. you know what you are capable of doing and what you can afford. a change at home will do you good. avoid anyone putting pressure on you by us­ing emotional guilt tactics. 


PISCES (Feb. 19- March 20): you will enjoy get-togethers and activities. a relationship with someone will change, creating the necessity to alter your own lifestyle or plans for the future. emotional blackmail will help you get what you want initially, but not long-term. 

Birthday Baby: you are entertaining but intent on getting your way. you are outgoing and outspoken. 
JUMBLE | david hoyT and Jeff knurek 

make checks payable to and mail to: enclosed is $130 for one academic year enclosed is $75 for one semester  The observer p.o. box 779 notre dame, in 46556  
name address city       state  Zip  


The observer | WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 3, 2012 | ndsmcobserver.com 
FOOTBALL 

Team prepares for hurricanes 
Kelly says Miami possesses big-play ability 
By MATTHEW DeFRANKS 
associate sports editor 
instead of 1988’s “catholics vs. convicts” or 2010’s sun bowl, it will be 2012’s shamrock series when no. 9 notre dame takes on miami in chicago on saturday. 
The irish (4-0) will be com­ing off a bye week while the hurricanes (4-1, 3-0 acc) beat 
n.c. state 44-37 in the last min­ute saturday. in the win, miami junior quarterback stephen morris threw for a confer-ence-record 566 yards and five touchdowns. 
“we’re not going to be fac­ing a one-dimensional team,” irish coach brian kelly said. “obviously they’re going to want to stretch the field. They’re looking for one on one match-ups.  They’re trying to stretch the football down the field.” 
miami has topped the 600­yard mark of total offense in each of its last two contests, both conference victories. in their lone game against a ranked opponent, then-no. 21 kansas state, the hurricanes failed to muster 300 yards. miami has also relied on the big play, registering 14 plays of 40 or more yards this season. 

“They’re a team that certain­ly would like to be balanced,” kelly said. “They have proven SUZANNA PRATT | The Observer 
Irish coach Brian Kelly looks on during Notre Dame’s 50-10 win see miami PAGE 18 over Navy on Sept. 1 in Dublin. 

WOMEN’S INTERHALL 

Welsh Family improves to 4-1 
By MARY GREEN 
sports writer 
in a game dominated by the defenses in the first half, it was welsh family’s offense that broke free in the third quarter en route to a 27-7 victory over farley on monday. 
The whirlwinds (4-1) stopped an early threat from the finest (0-4) with senior linebacker lynn Tasker’s red zone inter­ception, but a pesky farley sec­ondary prevented welsh family from capitalizing. 
riding the momentum from their defensive stand, the finest found the end zone first with a bizarre 15-yard touchdown pass from junior quarterback lauren ladowski that bounced off the head of junior receiver wendy hatch and landed in the wait­ing arms of sophomore running back madison nelson. 
“our offense did a good job of keeping calm under pressure tonight and allowing us to score early,” nelson said. 
The whirlwinds, however, quickly responded with a touch­down of their own, as senior quarterback vicky moreno scored on a four-yard rush to close the first half tied at seven. 
a different welsh family team emerged from the sidelines in the third quarter, though. on its second play of the half, moreno connected with senior receiver kirsten groody for a 65­yard touchdown that began the team’s scoring torrent. 
“we started off slow, but we didn’t put our heads down,” moreno said. “i told the team that we had to get it done be­cause every game is important.” 
The whirlwinds responded and scored on all three of their possessions in the second half. moreno tacked on a pair of touchdown passes to sopho­more natalie branch and senior grace corrigan that solidified the win. moreno, who finished with 198 passing yards, said the victory gives the team confi­dence heading toward the end of the season. 
“we lost a tough one to ryan [on sept. 23] but we’ve gone forward, and we’re looking for­ward to playing mcglinn, which is our big rivalry,” moreno said. 
The whirlwinds face their west Quad adversaries sunday, and the finest seek their first win against pasquerilla east the same day. 
Contact Mary Green at mgreen8@nd.edu 
Pangborn 14, Pasquerilla East 0 
By ALEX WILCOX 
sports writer 
after a frustrating defeat last week, pangborn bounced back and won in familiar fashion, shutting out pasquerilla east 14-0 on monday. 
The phoxes (4-1) have shut out 
see pangborn PAGE 16 
MEN’S SOCCER 

Irish look for first league win against Pittsburgh 
By SAM GANS 
sports writer 
after a four-game road swing, no. 10 notre dame will try to notch its first big east win of the season when it hosts pittsburgh tonight. 
The irish (8-2-0, 0-2-0 big east) will face a panther squad that has lost its last three matches. pittsburgh (6-3-2, 0-2-0), similarly to notre dame, performed well in out-of-conference play, but has struggled in big east matches. The panthers dropped their first game this season against cincinnati on sept. 22 and lost to navy and georgetown the following week. 
irish coach bobby clark said the panthers will pro­vide a tough matchup, as is typical with big east opponents. 
“it’s going to be a very tough game,” clark said. “all big east games are very dif­ficult. There’s not an easy game on your schedule in the big east. i think they were unbeaten just over a week ago … it’s another big east game; it’s a difficult game.” 
pittsburgh junior forward nico wrobel and freshman midfielder and elkhart native nick wysong share the team-lead in goals with five apiece. The rest of the panthers have combined to score just six goals this season. 
see piTTsburgh PAGE 18 


SARAH O’CONNOR | The Observer 

Irish senior midfielder Kyle Richard tries to get past an Akron defender during Notre Dame’s 3-1 win over the Zips on Sept. 9 at Alumni Stadium. 




