The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 46, issue 35 | MONDAY, OCTOBER 8, 2012| ndsmcobserver.com 
‘We’re deciding our future’ 
Twenty-nine days remain until Election Day, students consider economy most important in voting booth 
By MEGAN DOYLE 
managing editor 
Twenty-nine days. 
Twenty-nine days until the votes are cast. Twenty-nine days until the die falls for one candidate or another. 
as election day looms one month away, students are studying for the voting booths on november 6 as well as their midterm exams. Freshman emily collins cast her vote for the first time in a primary elec­tion in georgia this summer. she will also send an absentee ballot back to her home state from indiana to participate in the general election. 
“it was very exciting to be a part of something, to know my voice was being heard in some­thing bigger,” collins said. “it was exciting to do something small that was actually some­thing really big.” 
as she prepares to finally par­ticipate in an election, collins said she watched last week’s presidential debate with a more attentive eye. 

“i thought it was definitely interesting to see president obama, because it was my freshman year of high school when obama was elected,” she said. “it was interesting watch­ing him now compared to then.” 
breaking out of the cycle of college life to stay informed about the election is sometimes difficult but necessary, collins said. 
“it’s really hard being a col­lege freshman, you kind of for­get [the election] is going on,” collins said. “being kept in your college life, it’s hard to re­member what’s going on in the real world. Keep in touch. Keep checking the news.” 
in order to encourage stu­dents to follow election issues, college democrats and college republicans will co-host a watch for the vice presidential debate Thursday at 9:30 p.m. in week’s presidential debate, also the laFortune ballroom. hosted alongside the college 
college democrats presi-republicans. dent camille suarez said she “personally, my issue isn’t was pleased with the response whether or not people vote to the bipartisan watch of last democrat,” suarez said. “it’s whether people vote. i think a lot of people don’t vote be­cause they think their vote doesn’t count. The choices that 


see elecTion PAGE 4 



espn to visit campus 

Observer Staff Report 
shortly after notre dame’s 
41-3 victory over  miami in  
soldier  Field  on  saturday,  
espn’s  popular  pregame  

show “college gameday” an­nounced it would be broad­casting live from notre dame’s campus before next saturday’s game against stanford. “gameday” last visited campus in 2005 before then-no. 9 notre dame’s 31-34 loss to then-no. 1 usc. 
“college gameday” started broadcasting in 1987, when it was filmed at espn studios in bristol, conn. its first on-location broadcast took place on nov. 13, 1993 from notre 
see espn PAGE 3 




goerner passes away 

Observer Staff Report 
edward goerner, professor emeritus of political science, died oct. 2 at memorial hospital in south bend. he was 82. 
a brooklyn native and a 1952 alumnus of notre dame, goerner served in the u.s. navy and earned a doctoral degree in political science from the university of chicago in 1959, according to a university press release. he also taught at yale for a year before he joined the notre dame faculty in 1960. 
goerner, whose academic interests included the interac­tion of religion and politics, was one of notre dame’s most popular teachers. according to the release, he was once 
see goerner PAGE 5 


viewpoinT PAGE 6 scene PAGE 9 noTre dame 41, miami 3 WITHIN 




Have a question you want answered? 
Email obsphoto@gmail.com 



QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
ndsmcobserver.com 
p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
allan Joseph 
Managing Editor  Business Manager 
megan doyle  Jeff liptak 
Asst. Managing Editor: andrew owens 
Asst. Managing Editor: sam stryker News Editor: John cameron News Editor: Kristen durbin 
Viewpoint Editor: meghan Thomassen Sports Editor: chris allen Scene Editor: Kevin noonan Saint Mary’s Editor: Jillian barwick Photo Editor: suzanna pratt Graphics Editor: brandon Keelean Multimedia Editor: sarah o’connor Advertising Manager: monica mccormack Ad Design Manager: sara hilstrom Controller: peter woo Systems Administrator: william heineman 

Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ajoseph2@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 mdoyle11@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 aowens2@nd.edu sstryke1@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 

Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 

Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 

Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 observer.scene.editor@gmail.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
jbarwi01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 

Policies 
The observer is the independent, daily newspaper 
published in print and online by the students of the 
university of notre dame du lac and saint mary’s 
college.  editorial content, including advertisements, is 
not governed by policies of the administration of either 
institution. The observer reserves the right to refuse 
advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively 
as possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion 
of the majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, 
assistant managing editors and department editors. 
commentaries, letters and columns present the views of 
the authors and not necessarily those of The observer. 
viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include 
contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed 
to Editor-in-Chief Allan Joseph. 
post office information The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The observer is published at: 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-0779 periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices posTmasTer send address corrections to: The observer p.o. box 779 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-077 The observer is a member of the associated press. all reproduction rights are reserved. 


How would you describe the game this weekend in one word? 

Nancy Joyce 
junior welsh Family hall 
“domination.” 

Jacob Nichter 
sophomore 
o’neill hall 
“exhilarating.” 

Carolyn Green 
junior pasquerilla east hall 
“Killer.” 



Matt Jewell 

junior morrissey manor 
“riveting.” 


Rachel Talley 
senior 
lyons hall 
“Triumphant.” 


Chad Meyer 

graduate student off campus 
“dominating.” 




Want your event included here? 

News Sports 
mel Flanagan sam gans Email obsnews.nd@gmail.com 




THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 

christian myers matthew deFranks carolyn hutyra brian hartnett 
Graphics Scene 

Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday 
steph wulz courtney cox 
Photo Viewpoint 

Work Off Your “The Fourth Stage Elevator Pitch “There is No Such Right to Life 
suzanna pratt amber galik 

Weekend of the Arab-Israel Workshop Thing as a Secular Information Table Rolfs Sports Conflict” 202 DeBartolo Hall Society” LaFortune Recreation Center Hesburgh Center 2 p.m.-3:30 p.m. Hesburgh Library 3 p.m.-6 p.m. 
Corrections 

All day 4 p.m.-5:30 p.m. Craft a well-prepared 5 p.m.-6:30 p.m. Part of Respect Life 
The observer regards itself as Personal training. Political science lecture research description. Lecture. Week. a professional publication and strives for the highest standards 
“New Media: From SSLP Session “Going the Distance” Concert: Men’s and Women’s 
of journalism at all times. we do, 
the Middle Ages to 135 Geddes Hall Peace Corps Panel ensembleND Swimming: Dennis 
however, recognize that we will make 
the Digital Age” 4 p.m.-5 p.m. Geddes Hall DeBartolo Performing Stark Relays 
mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 
107 O’Shaughnessy Summer Service 6 p.m.-7:30 p.m. Arts Center Rolfs Aquatic Center 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
5 p.m.-6:30 p.m. Learning Program Information session by 7 p.m.-8:45 p.m. 5 p.m.-8 p.m. 
we can correct our error. 

Roundtable discussion. question forum. returned volunteers. Tickets $15-30. Free admission. 


Women’s Boxing Club emphasizes service 
Baraka Bouts tournament and Power 24 Hour raise money for schools in Uganda 
By NICOLE MICHELS 
news writer 
The notre dame women’s boxing club trains women to fight  — and to serve. 
Through their annual baraka bouts tournament, club members raise money to send to two schools in uganda, team co-president Katherine leach said. 
“baraka means blessing in swahili, and we have had a longstanding relationship with the holy cross missions in uganda through bengal bouts,” leach said. “we do­nate the money we raise to two schools in uganda.” 
Team co-captain ragan Todd said the club has a dual focus, a fact many students are not aware of. 
“we really want to empha­size that this is not just an ath­letic club, but a service club as well,” Todd said. “a lot of girls started out getting into it be­cause they thought it would be a great workout, but sending money over is a huge part.” 
To qualify for the upcoming two-day tournament that be­gins nov. 5, women must com­plete physical training with the team and meet a fundrais­ing requirement, leach said. 
“we have a minimum of $250 fundraising each year per girl, which includes a variety of methods: selling tickets, plac­ing ads in our program [and] things on our own,” leach said.  
leach said the team also 
raises money through partici­pation in the power 24 hour, 
“The amount of boxing and technical skill the girls have is incredible and keeps increasing, just as the donation amounts keep increasing.” 
Katherine Leach 
co-president 
Women’s Boxing Club 
the club’s signature fundrais­ing event. 
“we also have our newly in­stated power 24 hour — last year was our first year [run­ning the event for 24 hours in­stead of one hour] and we more than doubled what we did in any previous year … we will be running it again this Friday,” she said.during the event, the team solicits donations by ex­ercising together, Todd said. 

“we have girls out in front of south dining hall in shifts doing pushups, jumping jacks and sit ups … raising money and collecting donations from people,” Todd said. 
The power 24 hour attracts a lot of attention, Todd said. 
“we try to do it on home football weekends to target the alumni … trying to get dona­tions from college students probably is not going to be as successful as getting donations 
paid adverTisemenT 


from people who have graduat­ed and come back to campus,” Todd said. “usually we see a lot of curiosity and confusion and then when they find out what it is a lot of incredulous looks; it’s fun to be able to explain [our mission] to people who don’t know what we’re doing.” 
The club raised a total of $20,000 last year, its highest total ever. 
“$20,000 is a huge thing, even bigger for the communi­ties we help,” leach said.  “i just remember how much it means to each individual stu­dent and to each school as a whole … being able to remain a highly respected institution, to give these kids the resourc­es that they need so that they can stay in school, to not have to make kids commute impos­sible distances so that they can support themselves.” 
leach said the club focuses intensely on maintaining its charitable purpose. 
“we try to make sure the girls are reminded for why we do these things — just this week we had Fr. alobo with holy cross who has worked over there [talk to the team] about his experience,” leach said. “he thanked them for their participation and encouraged them in their efforts … we also have captains who have visited the schools talk.” 
Fr. leonard olobo, director of the holy cross mission center, was born in uganda and served as the district steward in east africa for the center for social concerns from 2003 to 2009. 
leach said she hopes to see the club continue growing in size and strength. 
“we hope to increase the amount of participation in the club — this will be our tenth baraka bouts year, and just the fact that we made it this long and that the club still seems to be growing year by year is huge,” leach said. “The amount of boxing and tech­nical skill the girls have is in­credible and keeps increasing, just as the donation amounts keep increasing.” 
Contact Nicole Michels at nmichels@nd.edu 
ESPN 
conTinued From page 1 
dame’s campus before the so-called “game of the century,” when then-no. 1 Florida state visited then-no. 2 notre dame. 
notre dame is ranked no. 7 this week, and stanford is ranked no. 17. 
The broadcast will begin at 9 a.m. on espnu and then continue from 10 a.m. to noon on espn. The location of the “gameday” set on campus has not yet been announced. 



HANDS reaches Saint Mary’s 

By JILLIAN BARWICK 
saint mary’s editor 
Four years after it was con­ceived in south bend, hands, a non-profit organization that provides yearlong volunteer opportunities with the goal of high social impact, continues to offer saint mary’s students the chance to assist central american countries. 
Three notre dame stu­dents from guatemala created hands in the summer of 2008. maria bosch, stephanie hurst and mariana diaz sought a way to make a difference in their country where poverty is a huge threat. 
The organization “creates alliances with organizations focused on sustainable devel­opment that assist economi­cally distressed communities in central america,” according to the hands website. 
according to the website, staff members at hands work year-round to “ensure a dy­namic placement of volunteers that is in line with the interests of the volunteer and one that will integrate smoothly with the developing goals of the participating organization.” 
meghan lefeld, a junior at saint mary’s, is the hands volunteer recruiter for the college. 
“i volunteered abroad last fall break for hands,” lefeld said. “i traveled with three other girls from notre dame and it was an experience of a lifetime.” 
lefeld and the other students lived together with a host fam­ily in antigua, guatemala, and helped build a house for a low-income family. 
“i was involved in the housing and community de­velopment part when i stayed in guatemala,” lefeld said. “it was hard work, but so much fun at the same time.” 
as a volunteer recruiter, lefeld said she informs saint mary’s students about the or­ganization and encourages them to get involved with the non-profit. 
“hands gives saint mary’s and notre dame students the opportunity to help people in need in the areas of education, housing and community de­velopment,” she said. “This is a chance for students to make a real difference in developing countries.” 
while notre dame and saint mary’s are currently the only schools involved with hands, the organization hopes to reach out to other universities in the future. 
according to its website, “each month, the number of volunteers, projects and orga­nizations supported by hands continues to rise, strengthen­ing its effort and dedication to promoting social responsi­bility and action among youth around the world.” 
hands currently boasts 180 volunteers and supports 18 projects and 12 organizations, according to the organization’s website. 
“hands is available for students to volunteer over all breaks and they can apply on the website for volunteer work as well,” lefeld said. 
Job and internship oppor­tunities with hands can be found at www.handsorganiza­tion.org 
Contact Jillian Barwick at jbarwi01@saintmarys.edu 


Election 
conTinued From page 1 

politicians make now affect us later.” 
students need to actively in­vest themselves in the political life of the country, suarez said. 
“i think we do understand [election issues], but it’s al­ways easier to be indifferent,” she said. “i know it’s easy for me to be indifferent. i have to push myself to vote in every election. 
“i think we all have a stake in this country, and letting your voice be heard is the most important thing. not a lot of people in this world can vote, and we kind of disregard that right.” 
as college students take out loans and manage their finances, suarez said under­graduate voters have a par­ticularly high stake in this election. 
“whatever president will be serving the next four years will have an impact on that interest rate and whether or not we’ll be paying for five years or ten years or even longer,” she said. 
college republicans presi­dent mickey gardella agreed the economy should be the most important issue for young voters. 
“our generation is going to have to pay off our debt,” gardella said. 
college republicans have been campaigning in mishawaka for their party’s candidates in the indiana elections —mike pence in the gubernatorial race, richard mourdock for the state’s senate seat and Jackie walorski for the house of representatives. even though the club’s mem­bers are not all from indiana, gardella said they chose to campaign for the local can­didates because the elections could have a larger impact on national politics. 
“They have a direct effect on u.s. policy, u.s. governing policy,” he said. “one of our goals is to gain majority of the senate, and right now richard mourdock is trying [to win a] close race against [democratic challenger] Joe donnelly.” 
gardella advised students to seek out election coverage and resources that are bipartisan and unbiased as election day approaches. 
“pick up a newspaper, read reliable media sources,” he said. “both on the left and right, you’re getting pounded with slanted information. The most important thing you can do is to read reliable information.” 
Junior shivani goel has followed election covered through cnn and other news sources, but she also follows both presidential candidates on Twitter. 
“i think if you only follow one candidate, you would get a very biased view,” she said. “because i follow both of them, i can see both of their sides. but i do think both of them try to exaggerate … so i wish they would talk more about their own viewpoints rather than just the other candidates.” 
social media has played an important role in making young people aware of elec­tion news, goel said. 
“That could be a good thing or a bad thing,” she said. “i think it’s good because it keeps people aware … but people post things that are wrong or exaggerate things.” 
because social media can be biased or limited, goel en­couraged her peers to turn to more traditional news sources as well. 
“There are people who only learn about things by social media. … people will only hear about [news] when people post articles on Facebook,” she said. “i wish more people would be willing to watch the news.” 
For sophomore John olson, staying educated during the election is a must for college-age students. 
“do your homework on each candidate, what their goals are,” he said. 
olson said he feels the stu­dent population should be more aware of what each can­didate represents going into election day. 
“we’re deciding our future,” olson said. “we’re getting to the point where the policies that are going to be enacted are going to be reflected on us. we’re making a choice on who is going to make the policies and laws that are going to dic­tate our lives.” 
Contact Megan Doyle at mdoyle11@nd.edu 

paid adverTisemenT 



Goerner 
conTinued From page 1 
characterized in a student pub­lication as “a compelling lec­turer who discusses political theory not in the intricate lan­guage of the academician, but rather in terms of the layman” and “one of those unique indi­viduals you can build an educa­tion around.” 
in the release, law professor donald Kommers said goerner was an invaluable asset to the political science department. 
“ed goerner was a towering figure in notre dame’s political science department and one of its most respected and consci­
“We cherished him for his broad intellectual perspective and ever-inquiring mind.” 
Donald Kommers 
law professor 
entious members,” he said. “ed was more than an esteemed colleague. he was an accom­plished political theorist, a brilliant teacher, a friend and mentor to hundreds of students, a notre dame loyalist to the bone and a person of enormous personal grace and elegance.” 
Kommers said goerner’s per­sonal interests extended beyond politics and the classroom. 
“ed was also much more than a political scientist. he was a person steeped in liberal learn­ing and catholic thought and totally committed to the lib­eral arts,” Kommers said. “we cherished him for his broad in­tellectual perspective and ever-inquiring mind. 
“i shall miss him not only for the colleagueship we shared over the decades, but also for the conversations we have had in recent years owing to our common interest in opera and symphonic music.” 
goerner contributed to sever­al political science journals and authored and edited books on political theory. he also served as associate editor of notre dame’s journal of political the­ory, “The review of politics.” 
he is survived by his wife, iris mensing goerner; daughters liza, meg, Kate and becky; son peter; ten grandchildren and two sisters. 
a mass of christian burial will be celebrated at 9:30 am monday in the basilica of the sacred heart. memorial con­tributions may be made to the center for the homeless, sacred heart parish or the snite museum of art. 

Pennsylvania voter reflects on candidates 
Associated Press 

doylesTown, pa. — when the recession cost Jerry Krone his longtime accounting job several year ago, he turned to his hobby — making gour­met jam in his Fountainville kitchen. now he’s a fixture at doylestown’s weekly farmers market, selling his lilac jelly and rose petal jam for $4 and $8 a jar. 
ask him about the election, and he will tell you that nei­ther president barack obama nor mitt romney truly under­stands what average families are going through. a registered republican — but “that doesn’t really mean anything,” he said 
— the 58-year-old Krone voted for obama in 2008, before his experience among the unem­ployed soured him. 
still, he is leaning toward vot­ing for obama again, but wants to see the president deliver a stellar performance in the re­maining debates: “he can’t be so wimpy. he has to stop being nice.” 
across bucks county over the weekend, people spilled into farmers markets and harvest festivals and fairs, celebrating a glorious fall day and talking about politics as well as pump­kins. more and more places in the united states are deep blue or red, but bucks is not one of those; the county is politically eclectic, with some households divided into different political camps and plenty who say they are undecided. people were eager to discuss the aftermath of the debate and what to an­ticipate in the last month of the campaign. 

and while jobs are a huge concern in this country north of philadelphia, the recent un­employment numbers, which brought the jobless rate down to a level unseen since January 2009, did not impress. 
paid adverTisemenT 


The real war on women 

INSIDE COLUMN 

chicago state of mind 

Mel Flanagan 
news writer 

growing up on long island, there was never any doubt in my mind that new york city was the greatest city in the country. it has everything an in­dividual could possibly expect from a city — from amazing restaurants and shopping areas to diehard sport tradi­tions, and, of course, ridiculously high prices. i remember visiting boston and philadelphia in middle school and feel­ing superior to all the residents because my city was larger and more cosmo­politan than their cities. To be honest, i never really even spent that much time in new york city, even though i only live about thirty minutes away from manhattan. i’m more of an outdoors person and crowds overwhelm me, so new york’s tightly packed buildings and busy streets are not exactly up my alley. 
but once i came to notre dame, i acted as if new york city was my second home. i enjoyed telling people i was from new york because i automatically assumed that unless they were from paris or sydney, my hometown was probably more entertaining than theirs. even with the wealth of notre dame students from the chicago area, it never occurred to me that chicago might rival new york. maybe san Francisco or washington, d.c., but never a random city in the middle of the midwest. 
but over the past few years, i’ve vis­ited chicago several times, and each time i leave liking the city more and more. yes, it’s smaller than new york, but that only makes it easier to navi­gate. prices, while still high, are much lower than new york’s, and chicago na­tives are almost as infatuated with their athletic teams as notre dame students are with our football team. The city is cleaner overall, and lake michigan of­fers a nicer view than new york harbor. i always assumed that if i lived in a city after graduation it would be new york, but as i think about post-notre dame life more frequently, i think i might rather spend a few years as a young professional in chicago. 
This past weekend only cemented those feelings. chicago and its inhabit­ants welcomed notre dame students and fans alike with open arms, and i can’t think of a better weekend i’ve had in several months. The bars were lively, the food was tasty and the notre dame network was huge and comforting. even though i’ll always be a new yorker at heart, i’m starting to think a chicago state of mind might be just what i need to start my life after notre dame. 
Contact Mel Flanagan at mflanag3@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Elliott Pearce 
The human interest 
This week is respect life week here at notre dame. some of you may think this week brings out the best in notre dame students by allowing us to stand together and make a strong statement supporting the rights of all human beings to live long and happy lives. others believe it brings out the worst in us, with the rows of crosses that line south Quad pointing a hateful and accusatory finger at any woman who steps on our campus who has found herself in the difficult situation of considering abortion. whatever your views about abortion and respect life week, i hope we can all agree on the topic about which i am writing today: sex-selective abortion. 
sex-selective abortion is exactly what it sounds like: aborting a baby because the parents desire a child of a different sex. it is most common in asian countries, particularly india and china, where the ratio of males to females at birth was as high as 1.2 to 1 in some parts of india and most of china (according to the indian census and various u.n. population statistics in 2010). although sex-selective abor­tion is far less common in the united states, it is not unheard of — especial­ly among communities of immigrants who come from nations where sex-selective abortion is widely practiced. 
The u.s. house of representatives recently rejected a bill that would make knowingly participating in a sex-selective abortion a federal of­fense punishable by up to five years in prison. while i think the maximum penalty might seem excessive to those who do not believe that abortion is the killing of a human person, i believe that everyone, including those who would permit abortion in most cases, should support some kind of ban on sex-selective abortions in the united states. i will now offer three reasons why i hold this position. First, sex-selective abortion demeans the worth and dignity of women. second, it is often a symptom of a broader culture of abuse and coercion of women that must be brought to light. Third, ban­ning sex-selective abortion would allow the u.s. to exercise moral and practical leadership on an issue that will have drastic consequences for the futures of many nations. 

regarding offenses against women’s dignity: i am not a woman, but if i were, i would find it profoundly in­sulting that people seek medical pro­cedures to allow them to have sons instead of daughters. This practice goes beyond sex-selective abortions to in-vitro fertilization, where parents can use some of the latest technolo­gies and techniques to control the sex of the embryos they implant. womanhood is not a genetic disorder to be eliminated through abortion, nor is it an undesirable trait that we should reject when building the per­fect “designer” baby. women are half of humanity. some would even say they are the better half. let’s keep it that way. 
it should not surprise anyone, then, that in many cases, the women who undergo sex-selective abortions do not do so of their own free will. The father, under cultural pressure to pro­duce sons in order to appear “virile” and “manly,” might convince or even compel the mother to abort a female fetus so he can try for a son next time. in this way, men who disdain woman­hood impose their warped value sys­tem on their own wives by preventing them from bearing female children. it’s difficult for me to think of a more tragic example of male oppression of women. allowing the authorities to investigate cases of sex-selective abor­tion could help put an end to this form of coercion and also bring to light re­lated offenses like domestic violence. 
Finally, banning sex-selective abor­tion in the united states would give the u.s. a chance to speak out against the rampant overuse of the practice in other countries. a congressional report on china said recently that the chinese could have as many as 40 million “surplus males” by 2020. These men will never get the chance to marry or have children and may lead “lost and lonely” lives, accord­ing to washington post reporter mary curtis. sources in china say the rate of sex-selective abortion is increas­ing as more families become wealthy enough to afford abortions. in fact, more sex-selective abortions are tak­ing place throughout the entire de­veloping world for this same reason. The u.s. must take a stand against this practice that threatens the happi­ness of men and the dignity and safety of women around the world. we can start by banning it at home. 
Elliott Pearce can be reached at Elliott.A.Pearce.12@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“it is absurd to divide people into good and bad. people are either charming or tedious.” 
Oscar Wilde Irish dramatist, novelist & poet 

WEEKLY POLL 
What’s your favorite stress-reliever for midterms week? 
Tweet your response with #viewpointpoll by 5 p.m. Thursday. 


Imaginary friends 
Bridget Galassini 
bitter bridget 

mark sloan died last week. This name may mean nothing to some people, but to every “grey’s anatomy” fan, dr. mcsteamy will always be re­membered as the sexiest, cockiest, best plastic surgeon that’s ever existed. 
he may be just a character on a Tv show, but when the years of his life flashed across the screen at the end of the episode, i felt like i was at a funeral reading his tombstone. i cried alone in my dorm room about the death of a fictional character. sad, i know. but he was more than a fictional character to me. he was the man who always had a witty comment to make me laugh on any given Thursday, the man who taught me that we all make mistakes, yet some people suffer worse conse­quences, the man who was enthralled by lexie grey, but didn’t admit it until it was too late. 
it made me wonder — is it right that i feel so much emotion for this person who isn’t even real? when i read sto­ries about shootings in chicago or the war in iraq, of course i think it’s sad and horrible, but it doesn’t really faze me. i’ve become desensitized to it. i have this numbness toward the trag­edy in our world because it happens so much. 
it’s like if you put a frog in boiling water, it hops out immediately. but if you put it in room-temperature water and slowly heat it up, the frog will die because it won’t know to jump out. That’s how i’ve become unaffected by all of the injustices in our world — be­cause the temperature has been rising slowly, i’m unable to jump out, unable to be shocked by any of it. 
but witnessing mark sloan’s death was like putting the frog in boiling water for me. The sadness hit me right away because he was suddenly gone. That’s shocking and sad and hard to deal with. but then why aren’t the in­justices in our world as shocking and sad and hard to deal with? 
it could be because they’re far away from us. characters are close, they’re relatable. but these problems in our world, they’re distant and maybe too much to handle. it’s like when some­one is seriously injured and blacks out because the brain can’t deal with the pain. There’s too much to deal with, so the brain doesn’t deal with any of it. it’s in shock. 

dealing with problems in smaller doses is easier. setting up one food pantry or one good school is more doable than solving world hunger or bringing good education to poor areas. curing a disease on a case-by-case basis is easier than eliminating it com­pletely. if you look at the big picture, things may seem hopeless — but if you zoom in, a solution seems possible. 
That’s what fictional Tv show char­acters do for us. They take general problems and make them specific. That single figure represents many problems from reality, but they’re re­latable, sympathetic, loveable. 
and they make us love them. They welcome us into their lives for a fleet­ing moment once a week, and in those moments we come to love them for the lessons they teach us. They teach us about love and heartbreak, life and death. i swear i’ve learned more than half of my life lessons from “grey’s anatomy” (specifically from meredith’s monologues). we live vi­cariously through these characters, because they represent real problems that we face every day, though on a greater and more exaggerated scale. 
so, these characters affect us, we feel like we know them. no wonder we’re sad when they leave us. They’re our friends — which isn’t necessarily a bad thing, just a little strange. For instance, it’s strange to me that watch­ing “grey’s” while doing my chemistry homework gives me extra motivation to keep studying science or pre-med or whatever i choose. it’s almost like these doctors are my role models, but they’re not even real. 
sometimes i think i could better invest my time in reality, in real rela­tionships, in crying for the tragedies in our world instead of crying for mark sloan’s death. Then again, maybe not. i’m still learning lessons and feeling human emotions. so what if it is a fic­tional Tv character who brings them out? at least i feel something. if only this empathy could be extended to more people in real life. 
i think it could, though, if i find a cause that makes me love it just as much as mark sloan made me love him. That would be the best of both worlds. 
Bridget Galassini is a freshman. She can be reached at bgalassi@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
UWIRE 

reshaping the ‘ism’ debate 
Derek Olson 
minnesota daily 

one can hardly think of two more contentious words in the american po­litical lexicon than socialism and capi­talism. neither can i think of two words as highly misused and misunderstood. in the aftermath of the recent financial crisis, just as in the aftermath of every deep recession, there is heightened discussion of these concepts. if these concepts were understood more clearly, perhaps we could have more construc­tive conversations about the size and scope of government. 
There is some confusion surround­ing the meaning of socialism. in the economics discipline, these colloquial “isms” are generally not used. economic systems are described as market econo­mies or command economies, roughly analogous to capitalism and commu­nism, respectively. in the former, prices are determined by markets and capital is privately owned. in the latter, prices are determined by a planning board and capital is publicly owned. 
From time to time, i hear befuddling discussion about the socialist econo­mies of europe. many americans seem to consider much of europe, especially scandinavian countries, as socialist because of their expansive programs for wealth redistribution. however, these are economies with private capi­tal, successful corporations and prices determined by markets. if norway, sweden or denmark were socialist economies, it would not be a stretch to say the same of the u.s. among americans, there is some ambiguity surrounding the term socialism, but for most of the world, and for much of history, the varieties of socialist theory have been recognized as roughly syn­onymous with communism. 
This ambiguity resulting from con­ceptual discussion points to the second major flaw in the debate between capi­talism and socialism. These are theo­retical concepts. They do not actually exist in reality. 
since the constitution was writ­ten, the u.s. has operated a publicly financed post office. milton Friedman even referred to the military as a social­ist activity, because the capital is owned by the state and proposed that the u.s. is 45 percent socialist. These examples illustrate how the united states’ econ­omy has never consisted of complete private ownership of capital. in the 20th century, with the surge of entitlement programs, the economy shifted much further from strict capitalism. we must recognize the inadequacy of simply labeling the u.s. with capitalism. 
For real world observations, it is nec­essary to imagine a spectrum. consider a pure market economy on one side and a pure command economy on the other, from complete private ownership to complete public ownership, from mar­kets to collective planning as the sole mechanism to determine prices. like the u.s., there are no pure market econ­omies among developed nations. at no point in the history of the soviet union or any other planned economy was capital ever 100 percent publicly owned or markets completely abolished. what we must recognize is that there are no examples in modern history of an econ­omy at either extreme end of these spec­trums. in other words, all developed economies of the world consist of some mix of capitalism and socialism. 

has capitalism failed? is capitalism in crisis? These are not constructive ques­tions. pure capitalism is not the eco­nomic system of the u.s., or any country for that matter. The real question we need to ask is this: where is the optimal place on the spectrum between private and public ownership, between free markets and planned controls? 
so how do we determine the optimal place? economics is a relatively young science, and it is still clouded with some theoretical subjectivity. additionally, scientific experiments are impossible. it is not feasible to instruct two coun­tries into a situation where all but one variable is held constant. however, data collection methods are improving, available data is expanding and every day we have more history to analyze. 
For example, modern empirical evidence supports the incentives ar­gument of neoclassical economics. edward prescott, a former university of minnesota professor and nobel prize-winning economist, has done substantive research comparing the tax rates of g-7 nations. americans now work more than germans, French and british, when this was not the case in the 1970s. prescott’s findings show that the large disparity in marginal tax rates that has arisen between the u.s. and other g-7 nations since the 1970’s ac­counts for the decreased productivity in europe, canada and Japan. prescott’s studies show that even relatively small moves along the spectrum from private to public ownership of capital can have large, disincentive effects on the pro­ductivity of workers. workers are most motivated when they earn the reward for themselves. while increasing equal­ity is a noble goal, we must not forget the adverse effects of redistribution. when you try to cut the economic pie more evenly, the pie gets smaller, and there’s less to share. 
americans need to change the way they talk about capitalism and social­ism. The appropriate discussion is not a debate of alternatives. it’s a question of balance. The next time you hear some­one say capitalism has failed or advo­cate socialism, remind him or her those economic systems don’t truly exist. 
This column originally ran in the Oct. 1 edition of the Minnesota Daily, serving the University of Minnesota. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


By COURTNEY COX 
associate scene editor 

limos, galas, champagne, cocaine and headbands. The inner sanctum of elite private schools in manhattan was infiltrated five years ago when “gossip girl” transformed from a young adult series into a can’t-miss television show. 
Today marks the beginning of the end. The window into the completely sensationalized lives of privileged twenty-somethings will close next may at the end of the show’s sixth sea­son, and we will simply have to imag­ine what the future holds for serena, blair, nate, chuck and dan. 
The importance of “gossip girl” for the fashion world cannot be overes­timated. it rivals “sex in the city” in terms of most coveted costume clos­ets and is often compared to the hbo show because of its setting and over­all concept. it created two archetypal girls that were inspirations for count­less high-fashion collections and mimicked on the street by hundreds of fans. 
blair waldorf, the self-proclaimed “queen bee” of private girls school constance billard, is portrayed as the proper lady with a billionaire bud­get. in the first season she is shown in blazers, lace and headbands with huge bows. her style embraces the traditional preppy schoolgirl style but elevates it to a much more stylized fashion. 
serena van der woodsen is the hot blonde who returns back to constance billard after a year in boarding schoo, l only to become the most interesting person at school. she is the portrait of easy and free-spirited style, but con­strained to the acceptable modes of expression common on the upper east side. she deconstructs the traditional school uniform by adding leather jack­ets, sequined cardigans and dishev­eled men’s ties. 
unlike blair, who’s hair is always perfectly curled or pinned in an el­egant fashion, serena’s hair is always beachy, with shimmering golden waves and the occasional tiny braid hidden in with the rest of her long locks. she’s the “cool girl” to blair’s “good girl.” 
like any other dualistic paradigm, the serena vs. blair dynamic also has a hidden third option. 
vanessa abrams is the brooklyn­based filmmaker who is introduced to the upper class constance girls through her best friend and serena’s occasional boyfriend, dan humphrey. 
at first, vanessa was portrayed as street-wise and almost athletic, but as the first few episodes of the first season panned out, vanessa came to embody the artsy, flea-market chic sensibilities that brooklyn has become associated with. 
it isn’t just the ladies who reaped the benefits of being on one of the most fashionable television shows. The men also received plenty of atten­tion from the fashion world, but they fit into the same roles as their female counterparts. 
nate archibald is the popular stoner with traditionally preppy style. similar to blair, he frequently wears clothes that look they have been ripped straight from a ralph lauren adver­tisement. much like his character development, nate’s wardrobe is stag­nant in a classically handsome way. 
chuck bass, the vulnerable woman­izer who is constantly in an on-again, off-again relationship with blair, is the fashionable counterpart of serena. he is the one male character who tries dif­ferent things with fashion, from floral bowties to checkered scarves. he isn’t traditional in the way nate is, but he certainly displays his wealth through his attire. 
dan humphrey is similar to vanessa in the sense that he too wears vintage tees, jackets and military supply back­packs. as the series goes on, his style becomes more sophisticated the more he engages more with the upper east side culture. 
The show’s inspirational fashion choices have been a staple of the past half-decade, and once it’s over, a new show will fill the time slot it leaves open, but nothing will ever fill the void it leaves for the observant style fanatic. 
Contact Courtney Cox at ccox3@nd.edu 

By LIZZY SCHROFF 
scene writer 

on Friday night, i made my way to legends for the maps and atlases concert. i learned my lesson from last Friday’s experience and made sure to arrive at the venue with plenty of time to spare. maps and atlases is an indie-rock band hailing from chicago. They have been described as a math rock band (i had to look this one up) whose characteristics consist of ir­regular, syncopated rhythms in which the guitarist often uses a “tapping” method of play and the drumming is a focal point. The band has released two full-length studio albums, “perch patchwork” and “beware and be grateful,” as well as a handful of eps. 
The show opened with student group, in euphoric company. The band is composed of seniors Tyler eto (guitar and lead vocals), Kino lee (bass), lacey chochran (electric gui­tar and backing vocals) and duncan smith (drums). They are a self-de­scribed ambient-pop group that has been together for three years. 
eto and a friend from home, gerek edrosolan, write all of their music. in euphoric company played an ethereal four-song set with sounds reminiscent of groups such as The xx and local natives. The group is in the process of writing some new music they hope to play at future shows at notre dame. if you would like to check out more of their music, visit their Facebook page where you can download their full-length album. i did, and i’m certainly enjoying it. 
maps and atlases soon followed, opening with the delightful “pigeon” from their album “perch patchwork.” lead singer and guitarist dave davison thanked the audience for their enthusiastic clapping, saying, “That was a really impressive clap performance. steady, consistent. it was great.” They soon dove right into “winter,” another upbeat song from their most recent album, “beware and be grateful.” Their next song, “artichokes,” featured a drum open­ing played entirely on the rim of the snare drum. 
one of the highlights of the night was “old and gray.” The song fea­tured more effects than their previous songs, with an electronic-sounding voice distortion and eclectic sound bites throughout. The effects contin­ued with the opening to “The charm,” which began with a buzzing looped sound. The song was mainly driven by the marching drums of chris hainey and a lone-standing bass drum played by bassist shiraz dada, as davison longingly sang “i don’t think there is a sound that i hate more/than the sound of your voice/when you say that you don’t love me anymore.” 
a soulful guitar riff led into “solid ground,” which had everyone sway­ing with the catchy beat and melody. The upbeat rhythm continued with “silver self” and “remote and dark years.” davison, who appeared to be on the shy side throughout the show, disclosed to the audience he would be uncomfortable if he had to sing with­out his guitar. “i think i could do it for 10 seconds, and then i wouldn’t know what to do with my hands,” he said. 
The other standout from the show was a 10- to 15-minute-long ver­sion of “old ash.” The instrumentals throughout were exceptional, partic­ularly the interlude filling the major­ity of the song. solos shifted between athletic drumming of hainey and the tapping guitar of davison. The audi­ence couldn’t help but jam along with the music. The band finished their regular set with “Fever,” featuring an intriguing, almost oriental-sounding effect, among others, from guitarist and effects-man erin elders. 
maps and atlases obliged the audi­ence’s call for an encore, leading into “be Three years old” with a little riff of “stairway to heaven.” (i was wait­ing for someone to clamor for an en­tire rendition of the led Zeppelin song.) The song featured a great bass line and fantastic, quirky drumbeat. They closed out the show with “living decorations,” leading in with an echo­ing forest-sounding effect. 
having only heard one or two songs from maps and atlases’ repertoire be­fore i attended the concert, i didn’t re­ally know what to expect. however, i was pleasantly surprised by their per­formance. From what i could tell, they expanded their songs. rather than playing each track exactly as they had on their albums, the band members featured more instrumental inter­ludes (highlighted by hainey’s superb drumming and davison’s mesmeriz­ing tapping guitar), making for a very well rounded show. They struck a bal­ance between experimental sounds, simple melodies and syncopated, complicated rhythms. This is one band that i will definitely be keeping my eye on in the future. 
Contact Lizzy Schroff at eschro01@nd.edu 
STEPH WULZ | The Observer 



yikes! Try shoes that are easy to slide on and 
By JESSIE CHRISTIAN 

off like flats, zip or slide-on boots, or loose 
sneakers. 
Fall break is right around the corner, and Shoes that are worn without socks — yes, i for many of us this means gearing up to head did state that keeping it simple is the way to go. home. between home and the dome, we en-however, be forewarned that when you get to counter the inevitably tiring and unpleasant the security checkpoint, taking off your shoes airport struggles. They leave us considering the is mandatory. in other words, walking on the advantages of taking the next homeward trek floor with no shoes on is mandatory. walking by foot. on the same floor that thousands of different 
after suffering through the classic luggage-people walk on everyday, shoes or not, is man­repacking-meets-behind-schedule-dash, you datory. choosing a shoe that you don’t wear end up questioning whether you bought a plane socks with will leave you in germ-paradise 
scene writer 

easy to access and then putting them on on the with no metal connectors. other side of the security checkpoint. Too many hard-to-remove layers — Tank 
Shoes that are hard to remove — let’s be tops, t-shirts, sweaters, vests, sweatshirts and honest: if you’re choosing between two se-jackets galore! boxers, spandex, shorts, sweats, curity lines, one with a family of five children tights, pants, and more! i’m warning you now and another with a group of businessmen, that if you’re wearing more than two items then choosing line number two is a no-brainer. from either of these lists, then your time at the why is that? well, because businessmen ap-airport will be nowhere near as enjoyable as it pear simple and efficient, and children fall on was for you to read that little jingle. sometimes the ground and throw endless hissy fits. we all if you’re lucky, you’ll run into a lenient Tsa want to move through security as quickly as agent who will let you through, wearing a light possible and with the least amount of trouble. sweater. more likely, chances are that you’ll although this seems obvious, what oftentimes have to take off everything except for your shirt is not is the concept of wearing simple shoes. and any extra bottom layers. my advice would you may have 90 percent of the security equa-be to wear one layer, covered by a zip-up sweat­tion down (laptop out, jacket off and all), but er, jacket or sweatshirt of some sort. unzipping the minute you bend down to unlace that pair will be easy enough and you won’t find yourself of doc marten high tops, you’re going to realize lugging 10 pounds of clothing to the nearest that you’ve just tacked five to 10 minutes on to bench when you emerge on the other end. your routine. This struggle will result in rush­ing, and you’ll come out on the other side with a Contact Jessie Christian at broken nail and your sweatshirt on backwards. jchrist7@nd.edu 

Photo Courtesy of Zimbio 
STEPH WULZ | The Observer 



SPORTS AUTHORITY 

Injuries make NFL unpredictable 

Mike Monaco 
sports writer 
with countless football fans around the world glued to their couches, unable to pick them­selves up off the leather, there is no doubting the popularity of the nFl. but while those die-hard fans couldn’t move due to sheer enjoyment, some of the players being watched were in a similar position: unable to lift themselves up off the turf be­cause of injury. 
The list of sunday’s injuries in just the early games is seem­ingly endless. redskins rookie wunderkind robert griffin and steelers defensive stud Troy polamalu headlined the injury report, but proven veterans like cedric benson, b.J. raji and matt cassel went down as well. 
every week there are start­ers lost to tendons, muscles, ligaments and bones being torn, pulled and broken. but forgot­ten in all these injuries is the underlying fact that in no sport is there a shorter shelf life than football. 
when a player goes down with even something as harmless as an ankle sprain, there are a slew of backups with much to prove clamoring for that vacated play­ing time. it doesn’t matter if it’s a household name or an un­drafted rookie. if a player gets injured, he may be out of a start­ing spot when he does eventu­ally return. 
one of the most famous situ­ations was when Tom brady ef­fectively forced drew bledsoe into the twilight of his career after bledsoe suffered a concus­sion on a bone-crushing hit by mo lewis of the Jets (youTube it.) 
it’s easy to get caught up in the thrill of a huge hit while sitting on your couch. but, as is often the case, one of those tackles or blocks can end a career, or at least knock a player from a starting spot. in a sport where players make a living based on how quickly they jump, cut and juke, a chronic ankle injury or a crippling knee injury can leave a former starter on the unemploy­ment line. 
and in no sport are injuries more debilitating than football. baseball players might tear a rotator cuff or their ulnar col­lateral ligament, but Tommy John surgery has become so successful that requiring the surgery is no longer a career-ending prognosis. obviously, without the constant collisions, baseball players are at a much lower injury risk. 
There’s also usually a large talent discrepancy between a major-league regular and a Triple-a replacement, whereas in the nFl it often simply comes down to opportunity. baseball players return from the disabled list to the same spot in the start­ing rotation or the same home in the batting order. nFl play­ers, meanwhile, have capable undrafted fill-ins trying to hold onto their opportunity. victor cruz, arian Foster, benjarvus green-ellis, wes welker, James harrison, antonio gates and Kurt warner were all undraft­ed and capitalized on their chances. 
in the nba, the injuries aren’t usually career-ending. derrick rose suffered a devastating knee injury in the playoffs and might not be able to play when the season starts. whenever he is able, though, he most certain­ly will reclaim his starting role. 
The nhl is one of the few sports than can at least keep pace with the nFl’s rate of con­tact and collisions. yet, with the exception of concussions, your typical hockey injuries don’t end careers. 
Football injuries are a differ­ent animal. a high-ankle sprain can linger for the whole season and force a player to the waiver wire. with contracts not com­pletely guaranteed, players are more quickly cut when they don’t produce. mlb contracts are notoriously lengthy and ex­pensive, so even if a player is washed-up and injury-prone, he still cashes his checks and puts on his uniform. but in the nFl, injuries are a matter of playing again. 
For fans, football sundays are like clockwork. we’ll set our fantasy lineups, post up on our couches and settle in for hours on hours of exciting football ac­tion. Those are the constants. The only variable: the players themselves. 
Contact Mike Monaco at jmonaco@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


SMC SOCCER | smc 1, hope 0 
saint mary’s shuts out hope 
By KATIE HEIT 
sports writer 

The belles continued their successful season with a 1-0 shutout win over conference opponent hope on saturday. 
senior midfielder ashley morfin secured the only goal of the match for the belles (9­2-1, 6-2 miaa) in the 16th min­ute after she received a pass from junior midfielder mollie valencia. morfin responded with a 12-yard shot past the hope goalkeeper. belles coach michael Joyce said he admired the way morfin handled herself under the pressure. 
“ashley had a great finish on her goal — chipped it past the sliding hope goalie,” Joyce said. 
“she was tremendously poised in an intense situation.” 
Joyce said the most challeng­ing part about taking on hope (8-4, 5-3) was matching its speed. 
“They get some very fast play­ers wide in some open spaces and try to take advantage of that,” Joyce said. “our outside backs did a tremendous job keeping them in check.” 
belles sophomore goalkeeper chanler rosenbaum domi­nated in goal from beginning to end, completing her fifth shutout of the year and saving a season-high 11 shots. 
“we’ve got a lot of confidence in our goalkeeper,” Joyce said. “we’re usually not too con­cerned with shots from outside the box.” 
Joyce said the belles were a little too defensive in the second half, but acknowledged the safe play was necessary. 
“That is how it can go when you’re up by a goal and trying to preserve that lead,” Joyce said. “They ended up with a lot of shots on goal, but only a couple were from dangerous spots. i think we did a nice job defen­sively not giving up anything easy.” 
saint mary’s will look to continue its string of success­ful outings when it squares off against olivet at home Tuesday at 4 p.m. 
Contact Katie Heit at kheit@nd.edu 

SMC GOLF | adrian Jamboree 
belles win tournament round 
By BRENDAN BELL 
sports writer 

at the adrian Jamboree, saint mary’s won the fourth of six miaa tournament rounds, compiling a score of 345 at lenawee country club in adrian, mich. 
belles coach mark hamilton said the belles were able to win this week­end because of a combina­tion of saint mary’s depth and ability to play under tough conditions. 
“we are deeper than the rest of the conference and it is getting to be a battle to be in the top five on our ros­ter,” hamilton said. “we are also looking for some players to separate themselves and shoot under 80 in the future.” 
saint mary’s had the small­est spread between its golf­ers out of any team in the competition. belles fresh­man amanda graham shot a team-low score of 85. Junior Justine bresnahan followed close behind graham with a round of 86 while freshman claire boyle and sophomore Janice heffernan both turned in rounds of 87. rounding out the top five for the belles 

FOR RENT 

Football Rental. Available BYU and Stanford. 1BR Varsity Club. Call 847-602-8170. 
WANTED 

WANTED: BOOKSTORE PARKING PASS for Stanford, BYU or Wake. ND alum. Call 847-842-9971. 
was junior alexi brown, who scored a 91. The six-stroke difference between the first and fifth finishers for the belles gave them the edge over rivals calvin college and hope college. calvin finished with a score of 348, three strokes behind saint mary’s, and hope had a team score of 350. 
relative to the first three rounds of conference play, the average scores for each team were much higher during the fourth round on saturday. saint mary’s win­ning round of 345 compared to the three prior rounds, which were won with scores of 320, 324 and 329. hamilton said that the high scores were due to a combination of the course and the weather on saturday. 
“weather played a part, as the greens were faster and hard to put on,” hamilton said. “it was tough to play for the first time due to the blind shots and dog-legs, as well. we were able to perse­vere, though, and play better under those conditions than the rest of the conference.” 
after earning their first tournament victory of the season, the belles transition into their final two tourna­ment rounds next weekend. saint mary’s is peaking at the right time, as the belles have the most critical point of their schedule remain­ing as the miaa end of season Jamboree wraps up the conference play. The belles will travel to bedford valley country club in battle creek, mich., on Friday and saturday for a two-day event. hamilton said that with the belles in the mix of the standings, back to back days of competition will give saint mary’s a chance to rise up the standings quickly. 
“our goal this weekend was to make up 10 strokes on the first place school in the conference and we did that,” hamilton said. “now we need to be able to do that two more days and it will give us a chance to win the tournament.” 
The first golfers will tee off Friday 10 a.m. at bedford valley country club, as the belles will finish up the fall season and miaa play. 
Contact Brendan Bell at bbell2@nd.edu 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit 
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds.  
PERSONAL  New York Yankees Postseason  
Results:  
2011-AL Division Series-Detroit  
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don’t  Tigers - Lost, 3-2  
go it alone. Notre Dame has many  2010- AL Championship Series ­ 
resources in place to assist you. If  Texas Rangers-Lost, 4-2  
you or someone you love needs confi­ 2009 - World Series- Philadelphia  
dential support or assistance, please  Phillies - Won, 4-2  
call Ann Whitall at 1-0084 or Karen  2007-AL Division Series-Cleveland  
Kennedy at 1-5550. For more informa- Indians - Lost, 3-1  
tion, visit ND’s website at:  2006-AL Division Series-Detroit  
http://pregnancysupport@nd.edu.  Tigers-Lost, 3-1  



MEN’S GOLF | FighTing irish gridiron golF classic 
Irish sit in eleventh after first day of play 
round of 84 (13-over-par). sciupider the leaders after one round, a defi-
By JOSEPH MONARDO 

sports writer closed out his round with an effec-cit that represents a lackluster day tive stretch. from the home team, Kubinski 
cold weather and persistent “i was really happy to see cory said. rain greeted participants of the finish one-under the last five, be-“really it was below what we ex-Fighting irish gridiron golf classic cause i saw him during the rain pected to do today,” he said. “so it during the event’s opening round delay and i just asked him, i said was disappointing, but we are only sunday. The irish, coming off a ‘let’s make a bunch of pars and one-third of the way there, so two fourth-place finish in their last out-make a birdie coming in,’ and sure good rounds, and we are right back ing, finished the day in 11th place enough, he did do that,” Kubinski in it.” with a 16-over-par 300. said. “so that was really nice.” although the weather presented 
The seventh installment of the all 11 irish athletes took the a significant difficulty for the irish annual tournament began with course sunday, with the remaining on sunday, notre dame failed to the first round of three on the par-six playing as individuals. Junior handle the circumstances as well 71 warren golf course, up this and captain andrew carreon fin-as some of its competitors, the irish year from the traditional par-70. ished tied for 18th by carding a two-coach said. 
senior paul mcnamara iii led over-par 73, while freshman Zach “if you look at the board, the notre dame’s starting five by fin-Toste finished tied for 28th with an teams from the warm areas played ishing tied for fifth with his round opening round of 74 (3-over-par) in just fine today,” Kubinski said. of even-par 71, while juniors his first collegiate outing. “and we should be at least as good andrew lane and niall platt fol-houston and michigan state as that and we just didn’t play well lowed with matching rounds of sit atop the team leaderboard with it. it’s tough to have the high-four-over 75 and tied for 35th. heading into monday after hav-est round of the year on your home 
“paul played a great round, i ing aggregated total scores of 287 course. so i know the guys are go-mean even-par given the condi-each, three-over-par. Junior curtis ing to be motivated by that, and i easy shots,” he said. “The putts in-heart and willpower to just get that tions was super,” irish coach Jim reed currently leads the cougars expect us to go out tomorrow and side of five feet we can’t give away ball in the hole.” Kubinski said.  “i think the other at 2-under-par after shooting an really play a better round.” multiple times in a round, we’ve The irish will look to begin an guys missed out on a good oppor-opening-day 69, while michigan with the participants playing got to take care of the short irons — ascent up the leaderboard today tunity to play well today.” state relied on the performances the remaining two rounds today the 7, 8, 9-irons — and wedges bet-at the warren golf course for the 
irish freshman cory sciupider of carson castellani and matthew and Tuesday, Kubinski said his ter than we are doing. second round of the Fighting irish occupied the team’s fourth posi-moseley, both of whom shot 1-un-team will have to improve around “we are driving it well, and gridiron golf classic, with play tion in his first collegiate event der rounds of 70. san Francisco the hole in order to climb the lead-seemingly that is about it right now. spanning all day. with an eight-over round of 79 and completes the top three and sits at erboard before the tournament’s so i think we just have to score bet-sophomore Tyler wingo rounded 8-over-par after the first day. end. ter. some of it is confidence and Contact Joseph Monardo at out the starting lineup with his The irish sit 13 strokes back of “we’ve got to take care of the some of it is just having a little bit of jmonardo@nd.edu 

paid adverTisemenT 



The observer | MONDAY, OCTOBER 8, 2012 | ndsmcobserver.com 

SMC VOLLEYBALL |smc 3, Trine 2; FranKlin 3, smc 2; smc 3 manchesTer 2 
Saint Mary’s moves above .500 with wins 
season, and moved the tesm a lot for our team,” Kuschel said. in a big conference match. The battle against lymphoma. we 
By NICK BOYLE 

sports writer into a fourth-place tie with “after losing in five sets against match will also serve as a fund-hope that you will all come and Trine. Kuschel said she hopes Franklin, it would have been raiser match for the belles. wear white to our match in sup-
saint mary’s finished the her team can use the win to keep easy to give up. we proved to be “wednesday will be a big port of anne.” weekend with a 2-1 record, de-the momentum rolling into the very resilient and forgot about match for us as it is our ‘crush for saint mary’s takes on albion at feating conference foe Trine 3-2 tournament. the loss and came back with the the cure’ night,” Kuschel said. home wednesday night at 7 p.m. on Friday, while splitting games “we are looking forward to the big win verses manchester.” “The team will be raising funds against Franklin andmanchester competition that is coming our Though not conference for a saint mary’s alumna anne Contact Nick Boyle at on saturday. The belles dropped way,” Kuschel said. “everyone matches, Kuschel believes her blair payne in her courageous nboyle1@nd.edu a 3-2 contest against Franklin is playing well right now in the team can still take a lot away 
paid adverTisemenT 
before defeating manchester 3-2. miaa. every match we play will from saturday’s results and work 
“[Friday’s win] was a big win,” matter [in the conference stand-to improve for the future. belles coach Toni Kuschel said. ings] going forward.” “we felt good about how we “we really played well as a team after a dramatic win over ri-played at times on saturday,” and fought hard for the fifth set. val Trine, the belles had a quick Kuschel said. “The biggest thing we were very happy with the way turnaround saturday, traveling we need to work on is our serve we played.” to manchester for a pair of non-receive and serving going into 
The win put saint mary’s (10-conference matches. this week.” 9, 5-4 miaa) over .500 for the “going 15 sets in two days was The belles will face albion next 


SMC CROSS COUNTRY | pre-naTional meeT 
paid adverTisemenT 
belles place 22nd in Terre haute 
the training basically remains the 
By LAURA COLETTI 

sports writer same,” nebesny said. “i actually 
find it easier to race in the cold 

The belles placed 22nd this than in the heat.” weekend in a highly competi-The belles ran in a field of six of tive field of 30 teams at the the top 30 ncaa division iii pro­rose-hulman gibson Family grams this weekend, while sever­pre-national meet in Terre haute, al other teams participating were ind. regionally ranked. nebesny said 
no. 3 Johns hopkins won the racing against ranked opponents event with a team score of 52, pushes the belles to perform bet-followed by no. 6 claremont-ter in future meets. mudd-scripps. olivet nazarene “we will remain focused and rounded out the top three teams prepared to reach our goals and with a score of 108. The belles fin-use the ranked opponents to push ished with a score of 578. us towards our goals,” she said. 
Junior Jessica biek led the way The belles will be going up for the belles with a time of 24:22.0 against some more tough com-for a finish of 105th overall in a petition in future meets. belles field of over 320 runners. seniors coach Jackie bauters said her emma baker and elizabeth squad is anxious to finish well in majewski finished within a few conference competition. seconds of each other and good “The team has their eyes set on for second and third overall for breaking back into the top half saint mary’s with times of 24:47.4 of the conference after a disap­and 24:49.6, respectively. pointing team finish in the con-
The shift in weather has pre-ference last season,” bauters said. sented little change in the way The belles will return to ac-the belles prepare for their races. tion oct. 13 when they partici­senior angela nebesny said that pate in the uw-oshkosh brooks some of the runners even pre-invitational. fer when the temperatures get cooler. Contact Laura Coletti at 
“we need to dress warmer, but lcoletti@nd.edu 



ND VOLLEYBALL | nd 3, connecTicuT 0; nd 3, sT. John’s 1 MEN’S TENNIS | Tom Fallon inviTaTional 
Team takes two Big East wins 
By JOE WIRTH 
sports writer 
after sweeping connecticut and st. John’s this weekend, the irish have won six of their last seven matches, including three straight wins. 
with the two victories, the irish (12-6, 5-1 big east) climbed into a tie for second in the big east, just one game behind conference leader marquette. 
on saturday, the irish were in full control of the huskies from start to finish, defeating connecticut 3-0. irish coach debbie brown said it was a solid win for the team, as players who do not get a lot of playing time made solid contributions to the victory. sixteen irish players saw action against the huskies (12-8, 3-2). 
“we played well against [connecticut],” brown said. “They really did not give us a lot of pres­sure, but we hit a high percentage of our shots and we were able to get a lot of players playing time.” 
Junior maggie brindock’s 27 assists led the irish while senior hilary eppink added nine kills and four blocks. it was eppink’s fourth straight match with at least nine kills. 
sunday’s game brought a differ­ent challenge to the irish. brown said although st. John’s was ahead of the irish in the conference standings, the team did not feel that beating the red storm (17-4, 4-1) was an upset. 
“They were on top of the con­ference standings, but they have played a softer schedule and, go­ing into the game, it was a team we thought we should beat,” 

paid adverTisemenT 


brown said. “we played well and we are happy to come out with a win, but i would not say that this win gave us an extra confidence boost.” 
sophomore Jeni houser had 16 kills and seven blocks in the match as the irish beat the red storm 3-1. houser now has 16 straight matches with at least 10 kills. Freshman Taylor morey chipped in 13 digs, four assists and three aces. 
as the irish hit a critical junc­ture of their season, brown said the team is on the right track, but there are still things they can improve upon. 
“our biggest strength at this point of the season is prob­ably our balanced offense,” brown said. “we still have to get better at scoring when we are serving, but our big hitters have stepped up and andrea [mchugh] and Taylor [morey] have really done well passing, which has helped our offense.” 
The irish will be in action next this Friday as they hit the road for a match against depaul in chicago. 
Contact Joe Wirth at jwirth@nd.edu 


paid adverTisemenT 

irish collect 37 matches at home 
By MEGAN FINNERAN 
sports writer 
The irish defended their home court this weekend, winning 30 of 37 singles matches and seven of 10 doubles matches during the Tom Fallon invitational at the eck Tennis pavilion. 
Four members of the squad earned a spot on the all-tour­nament team and senior co-captain blas moros earned mvp honors. This tournament marked the first time notre dame welcomed competition as the home team this season, welcoming michigan state, northern illinois, alabama and michigan. 
“playing at home is always nice, because you save the time that you usually spend travel­ing either resting or somehow getting ready,” moros said. “it’s always great playing in front of our home crowd as well.” 
Friday saw the irish square off with northern illinois in the afternoon and alabama in the evening. underclassmen started the first day on a good foot, with freshman nicolas montoya and sophomores dougie barnard and michael Fredericka winning their respective sets against members of the huskie squad in singles play. montoya took down Jovan Zeljkovic in three sets, 6-3, 4-6, 1-0, while barnard and Fredericka beat max phillips, 6-3, 6-3, and simon Formont, 6-4, 6-2, respectively. 
in the evening session, notre dame dominated alabama, winning seven of the eight singles matches. moros closed the night with a close three-set win, finally triumphing over daniil proskura 7-5, 5-7, 1-0. Freshmen Quentin monaghan, alex lawson and Kenneth sabacinski, sophomore wyatt mccoy, junior ryan bandy and senior spencer Talmadge also collected wins. 
The irish approached saturday with a confidence that helped them continue racking up wins. The squad turned out 12 of 13 singles matches and five of eight doubles matches, improving in the doubles area where they previously strug­gled. bandy and mccoy picked up two singles wins each. additional individual wins came from senior michael moore, 
“We have all the necessary tools, we just need to be able to call on it during the heat of competition.” 
Blas Moros 
senior 
junior billy pecor, Talmadge, moros, lawson, Fredericka and montoya. 
on the doubles court, ju­nior greg andrews returned from the iTa all-american championships in oklahoma to join Talmadge, taking down alabama’s Jarryd botha and becker o’shaughnessey 9-7 and michigan’s barrett Franks and alex buzzi 8-4. pecor and lawson also defeated Franks and buzzi, beating the wolverines 8-6, while two oth­er irish pairs knocked off two alabama squads. 
The irish closed out the tour­nament sunday, adding another eight singles victories and two doubles victories for the day. after each adding another win on the singles courts, moros, andrews, Talmadge and mccoy received recognition for their ef­forts throughout the weekend with spots on the nine-person all-tournament team. 
pecor, monaghan and moore also contributed singles wins, while the barnard and Fredericka teamed up against members of the michigan state team and andrews and Talmadge took down a pair from northern illinois. 
“we have all the necessary tools, we just need to be able to call on it during the heat of com­petition,” moros said. 
after this weekend, the irish showed their ability to perform. They next head to east lansing, mich., for the usTa/iTa midwest regional championships be­ginning oct. 18. 
Contact Megan Finneran at mfinnera@nd.edu 


USA 
conTinued From page 16 
hard to get it past [demko], he was always there and always in the way.” 
The game went to overtime, but the irish and the usa u-18 team were unable to capitalize in the sudden-death period and the game ended in a draw. 
“Sometimes those are the most difficult games and [Summerhays] did what he had to.” 
Jeff Jackson 
Irish coach 
in the shootout, each team’s second shooter — usa forward anthony louis and irish junior center T.J. Tynan — were the only ones to make their shot in the first four rounds. after usa de­fenseman scott savage missed his shot in the fifth round, irish junior right-winger bryan rust was able to deke demko and bury the shootout-winner home. 
“i’ve been working on that at practice a lot,” rust said. “i came down, faked the shot, made [demko] bite a little, turned my whole body to my backhand and then made a hard cut to my fore­hand, and there it was the open net.” 
The irish controlled the first period. They held the majority of the possession and led 12-4 in the shots category. The combination 
Rutgers 
conTinued From page 16 
(9-6-1, 2-5-1). notre dame had a hard time clearing the ball in the 10th minute, and rutgers red-shirt senior defender shannon woeller took advantage, bury­ing a rebound past sophomore goalkeeper sarah voigt. 
The irish were bailed out a lit­tle bit later though, thanks to the finishing of freshman forward crystal Thomas on a pair of von rueden free kicks. von rueden’s first entry bounced around a bit but was eventually corralled by Thomas, who tucked it inside the post to tie the game in the 29th minute. six minutes later, another service was flicked on through the box perfectly, find­ing Thomas all alone on the back post for her second goal of the day and team-leading eighth of the season. 
waldrum was quick to credit the two stellar freshmen with leading the quick turnaround. 
“we’ve been rotating brittany with [sophomore defender] Taylor schneider, but brittany’s crossing and service ability is so good that that’s why we left her in, and she did a great job today,” he said. “crystal was on fire to­day, too, but she’s been doing that all season. she’s been a real sparkplug for us.” 
however, the irish celebration lasted just 66 seconds, as once again an error in the back would of irish junior captain and cen­ter anders lee and sophomore winger peter schneider looked to be a formidable duo throughout the game, especially in the first period, Jackson said. 
“i want to put [schneider] in some offensive situations,” Jackson said. “he’s got good skills and a good shot and he has a history of scoring goals. i want to play him on the right side with anders, not the left, but for the time being we have to play peo­ple out of position because we are short on the left side.” 
in the second period, the usa u-18 team had a slight up­per hand, as it led the shots cat­egory 9-5. irish junior goaltender steven summerhays, who start­ed the game, was replaced with 
6:05 left in the second period by Johnson. summerhays had 12 saves on the night, while Johnson had eight. summerhays was not challenged much, Jackson said. 
“sometimes those are the most difficult games and [summerhays] did what he had to,” Jackson said. “he had to be focused. all of the sudden, there’s a little traffic at the net and a play is going on right in front of you, after going periods of time with­out that, it’s harder to play goalie like that, and he did a good job. and so did [Johnson].” 
with an exhibition under their belts, the irish will take on maine in the season-opener as part of the ice breaker Tournament in Kansas city, mo., on Friday at 7 p.m. 
Contact Isaac Lorton at ilorton@nd.edu 
allow rutgers an opportunity. voigt tried to save a low shot on the rain-soaked surface, but it skipped past her, where the scarlet Knights easily poked it in to equalize. The teams played another 75 minutes of regula­tion and extra time soccer, but it wasn’t enough to break the draw. 
“outside of the two goals we gave up — and that was kind of the game right there — i thought we were actually pretty good,” waldrum said. “i think we head­ed in the right direction and cre­ated enough chances to win. it’s just unfortunate that we had a couple mistakes in the back, but the overall performance was good.” 
Following its solid weekend against teams from new Jersey, notre dame now heads into its most important matchup of the season at no. 11 georgetown on Friday. The hoyas (12-1-2, 6-0-1) also dropped their first confer­ence points of the season in a tie sunday, keeping them and the irish in a tie atop the big east’s national division. 
bragging rights, important conference points and the upper hand in the division title race will be on the line when notre dame travels to georgetown on Friday. That match will kick off at 3 p.m. in washington, d.c. 
Contact Jack Hefferon at wheffero@nd.edu 
Finley 
conTinued From page 16 
wall were both sharp and made numerous diving saves. 
clark said the play of both sides made for a great colle­giate soccer match. 
“it was a great win, but what a great college soccer game,” clark said. “what a great advertisement for col­lege soccer. it was two very, very good teams and it was just exciting.” 
The win over georgetown puts the irish back into the big east championship hunt. The irish started 0-2 in con­ference play with a pair of losses at louisville and connecticut, before beating pittsburgh 7-1 on wednesday and defeating the hoyas on saturday. 
clark said saturday’s re­sult for the irish was critical as they continue toward the ncaa tournament. 
“it is important. it’s very important, just to get back, to get going,” clark said. “but these are good teams. you’re playing a team that’s no. 3 in the country and you’re beating them 3-0. i think that’s important. because make no mistake about it, georgetown is a very, very good team. so that was a big result for us. 
“The two teams we lost to were two very good teams, [we] played them both on the road. louisville and connecticut, these are tough assignments and we played well Tuesday when they play their in both of these games. on an-final non-conference regu­other night we could have won lar season game of the year at both these games, as well. but northwestern at 8 p.m. we’re still growing, and hope­fully we’re still getting better.” Contact Sam Gans at 



The irish are next in action sgans@nd.edu 



CROSSWORD | will shorTZ HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 

HIGHLY PUNLIKELY | chrisTopher brucKer SUDOKU | The mepham group JUMBLE | david hoyT and JeFF KnureK 

LOWER YOUREXPECTATIONS |  lenny rago &        paTricKcross 



Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: shawn ashmore, 33; Toni braxton, 46; simon cowell, 53; Joy behar, 70. 
Happy Birthday: Time and patience will be required. you must adapt to the changes necessary to reach your goals. Travel will pay off. The knowledge you gain through experience will prepare you for any challenge you must face in order to reach your destination. sincerity coupled with self-preservation will lead to victory. your numbers are 3, 6, 14, 22, 27, 32, 41. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): avoid confrontations with people you need to work alongside. problems with contracts and partnerships can be expected if you are overly sensitive regarding who does what. do something that will make you feel good, like pampering or a hobby that eases stress. 


TAURUS (April 20-May 20): The more versatile you are, the easier it will be to fit into a vocation that is in demand. use your skills and practical ability to get things done and someone will recognize what you have to offer. love and romance are highlighted. 

GEMINI (May 21-June 20): don’t overdo it physically. stick to what you know and do not venture off the beaten trail. if you travel into unknown territory, you will be faced with situations that are riddled with problems. sorrow is apparent if honesty doesn’t prevail. 

CANCER (June 21-July 22): you may get your feelings hurt if you are too sensitive to criticism. don’t take the foolishness of someone else to heart. it’s your performance and how happy you are with what you do that count. an unusual destination will lead to love. 

LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): you’ll thrive on change, trying new things and meeting new people. getting involved in a hobby, activity or event that gets you thinking about future prospects is your best bet. expect someone who depends on you to feel jeal­ous by your progress. 

VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): don’t spend money you don’t have. Taking on too much and overdoing it will be your downfall. organize your time wisely and add disci­pline to whatever task you take on in order to ensure success. self-improvement projects will pay off. 

LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): get out with friends and explore interests. Turn some­thing you enjoy doing into a moneymaking endeavor. don’t let an emotional inci­dent stand in the way of participating in something you’ve been looking forward to. 

SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): look for unusual sources of entertainment and you will meet someone offering alternatives that will help you apply what you do best to different end users. love is on the rise. mixing business with pleasure will pay off. 

SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): being evasive or running away from conflict will only add fuel to the fire. honesty will be your best bet and help you resolve pending problems so you can get on with your life. Focus on personal happiness. 


CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): put greater effort into your goals and you will achieve success. greater discipline coupled with experience will enable you to make the right choice when it comes to love, relationships and commitment. share your personal feelings and seal a deal. 


AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): don’t be misled by false information being used to tempt you to make a commitment. stick close to home, and do the things that will add to your comfort and productivity. change old ways to make room for new beginnings. 

PISCES (Feb. 19- March 20): do a little redecorating or make a residential move that promises to improve your lifestyle. you can make money in an unusual way if you get involved in a domestic product or service. concentrate on a moneymaking venture, love and romance. 

Birthday Baby: you are loving, emotional, kind, generous and considerate. 

worK area 
make checks payable to and mail to: The observer p.o. box 779 notre dame, in 46556 

enclosed is $130 for one academic year enclosed is $75 for one semester name 
address 

city      state Zip 

MEN’S SOCCER | nd 3, georgeTown 0 
Defending their turf 
Finley scores twice as Notre Dame tops its third top-10 team of the season 

JULIE HERDER | The Observer 

Junior defender Conor Miller, pictured during Notre Dame’s 7-1 win over Pittsburgh on Oct. 3, and the Irish topped No. 3 Georgetown on Saturday at Alumni Stadium. 
By SAM GANS 
sports writer 
The no. 10 irish raced out of the gates with a fast start and utilized a strong second half en route to a 3-0 win over no. 3 georgetown in alumni stadium on saturday. 
senior forward ryan Finley scored two goals 23 seconds apart in the 66th minute to give notre dame (10-2-0, 2-2-0 big east) breathing room against the hoyas (10-2-1, 2-2-0). 
The irish struck first in the eighth minute when junior for­ward alex priede tapped in a goal from inside the 6-yard box. priede put the irish ahead after irish senior captain and mid­fielder dillon powers’ corner kick could not be cleared. 
“it’s a big ole alex priede goal 
– he gets goals like that,” irish coach bobby clark said. “it was a great start. That gets you in front and then they’ve got to come, and when they have to come at you, then it opens their back, and i thought we were re­ally able to open their back.” 
Finley benefited from this in the second half when he re­ceived a through ball behind the defense from irish junior forward harry shipp. Finley dribbled around charging georgetown junior goalkeeper Keon parsa and calmly placed the ball in the net. 
Just 23 seconds later, Finley again found the goal. irish freshman midfielder patrick hodan corralled a long pass near the corner and dribbled toward the side of the 18-yard box. he then passed to Finley, who fired a shot from the mid­dle of the box off the bottom of the crossbar to put the irish up three. 
“we talked about at halftime, once we got the second goal, we thought the floodgates would kind of open up, so it was nice to get that third one and ice the cake,” Finley said. 
both the irish and hoyas had many scoring chances through­out the match. The two teams combined for 40 shots and each hit multiple posts. parsa and irish junior goalkeeper patrick 
see Finley PAGE 14 

HOCKEY | nd 1, usa under-18 1 
nd ties exhibition against usa u-18 
By ISAAC LORTON  By JACK HEFFERON  
sports writer ward the th shane eiserman 1:10 into ird period. usa forward  sports writer  
in a tight contest, the no. 10 michael  mccarron grabbed a  no. 24 notre dame closed out  
irish had to come from behind puck  behind the net, wrapped  alumni stadium in fine style  
in the third period to earn a 1-1 aroun d the side and passed it  over the weekend, notching  
tie in an exhibition against the across  the face of the goal to  a 5-1 win over seton hall and  
united states under-18 team eiserm an, who put it past lung- a 2-2 tie against rutgers in its  
sunday evening. ing iri sh senior goaltender mike  last home stand of the regular  
The usa u-18 national team Johnson.  season.  
came out for the first period ag-The  irish, with renewed vigor,  on Friday, the irish (10-3-2,  
gressively and with something to were a ble to finally connect at  6-0-1 big east) took time before  
prove. notre dame had to match the 13: 45 mark as sophomore de­ the game to honor their two  
this intensity, while figuring out fensem an eric Johnson passed  graduating seniors, defender  
what lines played well together. the pu ck to junior right-winger  Jazmin hall and midfielder  
“[The usa u-18 team] are mike  voran, who was able to  nicole borner, then went out  
good opponents to play,” irish slide  by an incoming check.  and dominated the pirates (6­ 
coach Jeff Jackson said. “They voran  moved the puck to wide­ 10, 1-7).  
are skilled, they skate well and open j unior center david gerths  Junior midfielder elizabeth  
they are not cheap. i give them in fron t of the net. gerths put it  Tucker opened the scoring with  
a lot of credit. it was good for us past  usa goaltender Thatcher  a headed goal in the 18th min- 
because [the usa u-18 team] demk o to tie the game up.  ute, and freshman defender  
made it on hard on us, and that’s dem ko amassed 25 saves and  Katie naughton added her sec- 
what we need to do to prepare was named  no. 2 star of the  ond career goal six minutes  
for the season and it shows us game.  gerths said demko was a  later, with both goals coming  
what we need to focus on for the hard g oalie to attack.  off crosses from freshman de­ 
upcoming game. “it w as nice to have time for  fender brittany von rueden.  
“This includes [line] combina­once,”  gerths said. “usually  The irish added three more  
tions, which we switched around you d on’t run into that situa­ goals after the half to cap their  
a little bit in the third period, just tion w here you have 10 seconds  impressive offensive night —  
trying to get a feel for who works to take  a shot. it was nice to get  although the defense might  
well with who.” that go al, it’s been awhile. it was  have shined even brighter.  
with no scores in the first or  notre dame’s back line of  
second periods, the scoreless  see usa PAGE 14  hall, von rueden, naughton  

tie was broken by usa u-18 for-

ND WOMEN’S SOCCER | nd 5, seTon hall 1; nd 2, ruTgers 2 
Irish run unbeaten streak to eight with win, tie 

SUZANNA PRATT | The Observer 

Junior midfielder Mandy Laddish looks for a teammate during Notre Dame’s 2-2 tie with Rutgers on Sunday at Alumni Stadium. 
and sophomore sammy scofield held seton hall to just three shots, and the one goal they surrendered was only their third allowed in the past seven games. 
irish coach randy waldrum was pleased with the con­tributions from the defense, and credited their continued growth as much of the reason for notre dame’s current eight-game unbeaten streak. 
“They’re growing, and they’re getting used to each other,” waldrum said. “all these young freshmen are starting to grow up, and that’s what we hoped for and expected them to do. so we’re excited that they’re mak­ing progress back there and helping us win games.” 
The irish defensive unit looked a little bit shakier on sunday though when the irish took on the scarlet Knights 
see ruTgers PAGE 14 




