
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


Council to host tourney 
By ADAM LLORENS 
News Writer 
After the final home men’s basketball game of the season tonight, the Sophomore Class Council will host a knockout bas­ketball tournament in the hopes of breaking a world record. 
Sophomore Krystal Al­varez, a class council and athletic committee mem­ber, said event organiz­ers hope to have enough participants to enter the Guinness Book of World Re­cords. 
“The tournament will take place right after the game is over on the court at Purcell Pavilion,” Alva­rez said. “It’s a rare oppor­tunity to play on the court and a chance to come to­gether as a community to put Notre Dame in the re­cord books.” 
Alvarez said Keough Hall rector Fr. Pete McCormick tried to hold a similar tour­nament on South Quad last spring, but only had 200 participants. 
“We need at least 380 participants to break the 

see KNOCKOUT/page 5 


Alumni showcase leadership 
22 ND alums serve as presidents of colleges and universities 


Students register for DSLC 
By BRIDGET FEENEY 
News Writer 
Registration for the Di­verse Students’ Leader­ship Conference (DSLC) be­gan this week as the Saint Mary’s Student Diversity Board (SDB) prepares to host its annual spring con­ference for students, faculty and community members. This year’s DSLC Conference will be held on March 20 and 21. 
Senior Guadalupe Quin­tana, SDB vice president and chair of the DSLC Commit­tee, said the Saint Mary’s DSLC is one of the largest student-run conferences in the Midwest. 
She said the DSLC will of­fer participants a range of assorted workshops, speak­ers and discussions aimed at exploring the theme of this year’s conference, “To change the world, you must start with yourself.” 
“We have a rich list of presenters this year,” she said. “Our opening keynote speaker, Arn Chorn Pond, is a survivor of the Cam­bodian genocide. … closing keynote speaker is Zainab 

see DSLC/page 6 
By KRISTEN DURBIN 
News Writer 
Notre Dame students gen­erally maintain a consistent reputation of being motivated student leaders who strive for excellence both inside and outside of the classroom. 
But the 22 Notre Dame alumni who currently serve as presidents of American colleges and universities demonstrate the drive to lead others does not stop when students graduate from the University. 
University Spokesman Den­nis Brown recently tweeted about the current contingent of university presidents with ties to Notre Dame, including 32 other living alumni who are retired college presidents. 

University President Fr. John Jenkins, a member of this group, attributes the dis­play of leadership to Notre Dame’s success in developing students into the leaders of society 
“At Notre Dame, we seek to develop individuals who will, as our mission statement puts it, ‘take leadership in building a society that is at once more human and more divine,’” he said. “Our alumni are doing that in many fields.” 
Several members of this group have also held posi­tions in the Notre Dame ad-



Conference stresses communication 
By AMANDA GRAY 
News Writer 
The 2012 Communications Conference will stress the impor­tance of effective communication in the workforce for all students, regardless of major or career path, organizer and junior Cath­erine Flatley said. 
“Notre Dame students have in­credible ideas that they can bring to careers,” she said. “It’s essen­tial to learn how to communicate those ideas in such a fashion that they can be fully appreciated.” 
Saturday’s Conference will fea­ture six speakers and a workshop, Flatley said, and students will re­ceive a certificate of completion after they attend the events. Reg­istration for the conference is full and closed earlier this week. 
“What I appreciate the most is that all the speakers come from a 


see COMM/page 5 


ministration after graduat­ing from the University with undergraduate or graduate degrees. 
Carol Mooney, an alum­na and president of Saint Mary’s College, and Fr. Wil­liam Beauchamp, president of the University of Portland, both earned law degrees from Notre Dame, served as mem­bers of the Law School faculty and spent several years in the upper levels of University ad­ministration before assuming their current positions. 
Mooney said her education­al experiences at both Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s pre­

see ALUMNI/page 6 

Stand Up to Cancer Club hosts prom for patients 
By CAITLIN HOUSLEY 
Saint Mary’s Editor 
Saint Mary’s College Stand Up to Cancer Club is en­couraging cancer patients, survivors and caregivers to “Don’t Stop Believing.” This Journey-inspired theme will provide the atmosphere for the club’s dance for cancer patients, family and com­munity members tonight at 6 
p.m. in Haggar Parlor. 
Junior Devon Graham, co­ordinator of the prom, said this night was a way to give patients and loved ones the opportunity to recreate missed experiences.
 “Unfortunately a lot of cancer patients miss out on really important events like prom, weddings and re­unions,” Graham said. 
Graham said she developed the idea for a prom when vol­unteering at Memorial Hos­pital last semester. 
“They had mentioned that they wanted to do some­thing for the patients, like a dance,” she said. “I had wanted to do a dance for my club anyway, but never re­ally thought about combin­ing the two. Then I thought, ‘Prom.’” 
She said the evening will feature prom traditions in­cluding evening gowns, dec­orations and the election of a prom king and queen. 
The club has also hired a 
see PROM/page 4 

INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER SMC hosts feminst speaker page 3 u Viewpoint page 8 u Asian Festival brings culture to ND page 10 u Men’s basketball prepares for Providence page 20 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT DO YOU WANT YOUR LAST WORDS TO BE? 

www.ndsmcobserver.com P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 Editor-in-Chief Douglas Farmer Managing Editor Business Manager Sarah Mervosh Jeff Liptak Asst. Managing Editor: Adriana Pratt Asst. Managing Editor: Chris Masoud News Editor: Sam Stryker Viewpoint Editor: Meghan Thomassen Sports Editor: Allan Joseph Scene Editor: Maija Gustin Saint Mary’s Editor: Caitlin E. Housley Photo Editor: Pat Coveney Graphics Editor: Brandon Keelean Advertising Manager: Katherine Lukas Ad Design Manager: Amanda Jonovski Controller: Jason Taulman Systems Administrator: William Heineman Office Manager & General Info (574) 631-7471 Fax (574) 631-6927 Advertising (574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu Editor-in-Chief (574) 631-4542 dfarmer1@nd.edu Managing Editor (574) 631-4542 smervosh@nd.edu Assistant Managing Editors (574) 631-4541 apratt@nd.edu, cmasoud@nd.edu Business Office (574) 631-5313 News Desk (574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com Viewpoint Desk (574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com Sports Desk (574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com Scene Desk (574) 631-4540 mgustin@nd.edu Saint Mary’s Desk chousl01@saintmarys.edu Photo Desk (574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com Systems & Web Administrators (574) 631-8839 Policies The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College.  Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Douglas Farmer. Post Office Information The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 and additional mailing offices 024 South Dining hall Notre Dame, IN 46556-077 The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved.  
TODAY’S STAFF News Sports Nicole Toczauer Chris Allen Jillian Barwick Megan Finneran Bridget Feeney Brendan Bell Graphics Scene Marina Kozak Kevin Noonan Photo Viewpoint Kirby McKenna Meghan Thomassen  

Katie Riojas  Corey Brady  Joe Garrity  Catherine Russell  Saad Kahn  Liam Taylor  
senior  senior  senior  senior  Carroll  junior  
Breen-Phillips  off-campus  off-campus  off-campus  sophomore  Carroll  
“Poof!”  “There’s  “Gandhi called,  “Don’t forget  “Respawn.  “There are still  
something I need  he said, ‘Peace.’”  to...”  5..4...3...2...1...”  a few pages left  
to tell you...”  for you.”  

Have an idea for Question of the Day? Email obsphoto@gmail.com 


OFFBEAT 

Man dies after accidentally drinking gasoline, smoking 
HAVELOCK, N.C. — A 43-year-old man in North Carolina died Tuesday after drinking gasoline and light­ing a cigarette, police there say. 
Gary Allen Banning of Havelock, N.C., was taken to a local hospital late Monday af­ter police responded to a 911 call from a resident report­ing an apartment fire. Ban­ning was transported to the University of North Carolina Jaycee Burn Center in Chapel Hill where he died early Tues­day. He had suffered severe burns. 
According to police, Ban­ning accidentally drank from a salsa jar containing gaso­line at a friend’s apartment, spitting it out and getting it on his clothes. He later lit the cig­arette that ignited his clothes. 
“It was just a freak inci­dent,” said W.K. Preslar, an investigator with the Have-lock Police Department, told the Shelby Star newspaper. 
Monkeys use iPads to com­municate with fellow apes 
HOUSTON, Texas — Orangutans across the world may soon join the ranks of millions of humans as proud owners of new iPads. As strange as that may sound, a conservation group is testing its “Apps for Apes” program, allowing orangutans to com­municate with each other remotely via the iPad’s video chat technology. 
Orangutan Outreach founder Richard Zimmer­man says has iPads have al­ready been donated to zoos in Milwaukee, Atlanta and Florida. A board member of the Houston Zoo also recent­ly donated an iPad. More of the tablets will soon be sent to the Memphis Zoo, the Cen­ter for Great Apes in Flori­da and to the Toronto Zoo. Orangutans are considered to be amongst the most intel­ligent of primates, making them a good case study for the interactive technology. 
“It’s not a gimmick,” Zim­merman told Yahoo News. “If they don’t want to do it, they won’t. There are actual measurable benefits.” 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

IN BRIEF 
Today from 3 to 5 p.m. at the Knights of Columbus Council Hall, the Student Government Department of Consituent Services and Circle K will host a stress-relieving event for students. Come play with puppies to avoid the stress of mid­terms. 
Today from 3 to 4:30 p.m., in Geddes Hall, the Center for Social Concerns will host “Stations: A Journey to Justice.” The event will feature student groups’ re­flections on social justice issues of today as they per­tain to biblical passages. 
Today from 6 to 8 p.m. in the Fischer Graduate Cent­ter, there will be a free dinner and tour of the art studio of Father Martin Nguyen, C.S.C. The event will also be hosted by Fisch­er O’Hara Grace Graduate Residences. 
The DeBartolo Perfor­maning Arts Center will show the 2011 film “No One Killed Jessica” today from 
6:30 to 8:30 p.m. as part of the Asian Film Festival. Tickets are $3 for students. 
The Student Union Board will host the Collegiate Jazz Festival today from 7 to 11 
p.m. on the Mainstage Au­ditorium of the Washington Hall. The event is free to ND and SMC students. 


The Student Union Board will show the 2011 film “The Muppets” tonight at 10:30 
p.m. in DeBartolo Hall. Tickets are $3 for students. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, email detailed information about an event to obsnews.nd@gmail.com 

HIGH 44 LOW 31 
HIGH 37 LOW 27 
HIGH 33 LOW 23 

HIGH 35 LOW 29 
HIGH 52 LOW 41 



LOCAL WEATHER 
TODAY TONIGHT SATURDAY SUNDAY MONDAY TUESDAY 












CORRECTIONS 

Thursday’s “Green Summit” article quoted Mike Stahly on soy biodiesel fuel. The Observer wants to clarify Transpo uses B20 in the summer and B5 in winter months. 
The Observer incorrectly attributed a Physical Education Department photo to RecSports in Thursday’s paper. 
SMC hosts feminist speaker 
By KAITLYN RABACH 
News Writer 
Saint Mary’s students gained a glimpse into competing views of femi­nism last night during the lecture titled “War­rior Women vs. Ragpick­ers: Divergent Paths in Contemporary Feminism” last night in the Stapleton Lounge. 
Mary Caputi, politi­cal science professor at California State Univer­sity Long Beach, explored two camps of contemporary feminism in her lecture and said criti­
“A lot in our culture equates femi­nism with consumerism, liberation and facile abuses of power. We need to use critical think­ing skills to analyze what is really presented in fem­inism,” Caputi said. 
Caputi said the two schools of thought in con­temporary feminism can best be described by the nicknames of the “New Girl Order” and “ragpick­er feminism.”
 “New Girl Order can also be referred to as wake-up-and-smell-the ­lip-gloss feminism or sti­letto feminism,” Caputi said. “This type is very much centered on the mot­to ‘feminism is whatever I as an individual say it is.’” 

Caputi said this school of thought often lacks the skills of critical thinking. 
“This feminism cel­ebrates the neoliberal of current capital and glob­al capital,” Caputi said. “It often lacks the ability to step back and ask why money, power and sex are 
cal thinking “A lot in our culture should play equates feminism with a more sig-consumerism, liberation nificant role and facile abuses of 
in analyzing 

power. We need to use 
modern femi­

critical thinking skills to 
nism. Caputi 

analyze what is really 
also taught at 

presented in feminism.” 
Saint Mary’s College in the early 1990s. Mary Caputi 
speaker 
being offered.” 
Caputi said the New Girl Order is based on rugg ed Ameri­can in-div idu ­alism. It aggres ­sively uses pow­er and risks buy­ing into models of mas­

culinity, she said. 
Caputi said she believes ragpicker feminism, the second school of thought, is the better path in the di­verging road of contempo­rary feminism. This femi­nism focuses on more than the individual through an analytical lens, she said. 
“Feminists should be like ragpickers,” Caputi said. “They need to have their eyes open to focus on what got left out. They need to search for what is part of the mix, but didn’t get a voice.” 
Ragpicker feminism aims to help those who are oppressed and specif­ically looks at economic and sociopolitical politi­cal problems within the global community, she said. 
“This school of thought wants to use critical thinking to help anyone who identifies as a femi­nist, whether it be a man or women, ask the ques­tion of how power is being used,” Caputi said. 
Stacy Davis, associ­ate professor of religious studies and coordinator for the Women’s Studies Program, said it is impor­tant to recognize femi­nism in its multiple con­temporary forms. 
“On this campus spe­cifically, I think a lot of people believe feminism is something that other people did,” Davis said. “It is often marginalized 
or  diminished  without  
truly  knowing  the  dif­ 
ferent ways you  can  be  a  

feminist and use feminist theory.” 
Caputi said society needs to practice ragpick­er feminism more than New Girl Order feminism. 
“It is necessary that we adopt the mindset of the ragpicker because femi­nism is not an issue only about women, but also issues that concern the world,” she said. 
Contact Kaitlyn Rabach at krabac01@saintmarys.edu 
Anthropology major focuses on career path 

By SAM STRYKER 
News Editor 
The field of archaeology may conjure images of exotic locales and adventure thanks to Indiana Jones’ cinematic exploits, but for one Notre Dame senior, the discipline represents a very real career path. 
Senior Carleigh Moore spent last summer cataloguing a collection of roughly 20,000 Native American artifacts at the Morristown National Historical Park in New Jer­sey. Moore’s project was more than a summer job, however, as she wants to use the expe­rience as a springboard to fu­ture employment. 
Moore said a large portion of her task included sorting the artifacts in an efficient manner after years of neglect. 
“I needed to figure out what was in the collection … and how to organize them in a way that would benefit the Na­tional Park, interested Native American representatives and future researchers,” she said. “I went through every artifact in the collection and created a reference book that included descriptions of the artifacts and photos.” 
Moore said her work might have an even greater legacy at the National Park. The or­ganization is exploring the possibility of making a lasting display with some of the arti­facts she worked with. 
“After I left, the park took on a new intern from a local college who worked through­out the semester to make a temporary exhibit of some of the artifacts. The park is con­sidering making a more per­manent exhibit,” she said. “If they do have enough money to finance the project, the cata­logue system and reference book that I created will be used as a resource in the de­velopment of the exhibit.” 
Moore said it was gratifying to know her work paid direct dividends to the site. 
“I was fascinated by the re­lationship between legislation and the constraints of running a museum,” she said. “Know­ing as an unpaid researcher that I could help the park in learn more about a collection that they previously couldn’t because of money and time constraints was interesting and rewarding.” 
After studying abroad last spring in Australia, Moore said she was inspired to learn about Native Americans after studying the aboriginal com­munity.
 “As an anthropology ma­jor I was itching to put my education to practical use. I thought that carrying out an independent research project would be a great way to test and strengthen my skills,” she said. “It was a way to take the larger ideas and lessons I learned abroad and apply them to a project in my own community. 
Moore said she obtained her position by sending out her resume to different organi­zations after she decided to work on a research project at a museum. 
“It just so happened that they had a need for someone to work with the Native Amer­ican collection and I was in­terested in the working on it,” she said. “It turned out that my interests and goals met the needs of the park.” 
The Department of Anthro­pology was also very helpful in the process of realizing her 
research  experience,  Moore  
said. 
 “The  department  helped  

me realize that as an under­graduate I could carry out a unique research project that could hopefully be beneficial to others,” she said. 
Though she has no imme­diate plans for the summer, Moore said her experiences working in the National Park have inspired her to explore similar career opportunities. 
“This project also sparked my interest in working for the federal government, since I was working in a museum that was run by the National Park Service,” she said. “I am now looking into ways my in­terests in anthropology and archaeology can be used in a position within the govern­ment. 
Contact Sam Stryker at sstryke1@nd.edu 


Students create app for Day of the Dead 
By CHRISTIAN MYERS 
News Writer 
In honor of Dia de los Muer­tos, or the Day of the Dead, a group of Notre Dame students created an education applica­tion for iPads and iPhones. The students were working with Tracy Grimm, head of the Insti­tute for Latino Studies Library and Archives, and visiting pro­fessor Joseph Segura. 
The app, called “Day of the Dead — Experience the Tradi­tion,” is the first internally pro­duced app at Notre Dame made available to the general public, Grimm said. 
Segura said while the app is designed as a tool for teachers, it also represents Notre Dame’s involvement in the Day of the Dead. 
“It will help teachers present the Day of the Dead in a more logical way, especially in pri­mary and secondary schools,” Segura said. “The app also gives another view of Notre Dame and shows the significant number of people here with an interest in Latino art.” 
Junior Stephanie Aguilera, a student who worked on the app, said the app provides a new way to learn about the holiday’s impact in the United States. 
“The Latino population is the largest, fastest growing minor­ity group in the nation so it’s important to share its culture in order to create a society that is more understanding and ap­preciative of the many cultures that come together at Notre Dame and in the United States,” Aguilera said. 

Segura said the application features images and informa­tion compiled by the Institute for Latino Studies during 10 years of Day of the Dead cel­ebrations at Notre Dame since Elizondo, so there was more information that I would have liked to include,” Aguilera said. 
Li served as Information Technology manager for the In­stitute for Latino Studies from spring semester of his senior year until the end of summer in 
2001. Student involvement was vital to the collabora­tive effort of developing the app, Segura said. 
“They put the passion on the table to drive it,” Se­gura said. 
Grimm said 2011 graduate Kevin Li, se­nior Stephanie Pedicini, IUSB senior Ma­clovio Cantu and Aguilera worked on vid­
“We didn’t just do the skull thing because it was cool. [The skulls] tend to be 3D physical art pieces and it made sense to depict the skull in a way that let users experience that these artifacts exist in a physical space versus being on a canvas or a screen.” 
Kevin Li alumnus 
2011. Li said he enjoyed the creative freedom stu­dents were given in cre­ating the app. 
“My favor­ite part of working on the app was seeing how far we could push the en­velope. One of the most promot ed features of the app is a sugar skull. You can ac­

eo production, programming and graphics for the app. 
“Working on the app was more interesting and reward­ing than any class project be­cause all the students involved contributed our own areas of interest,” Aguilera said. 
Aguilera said she had the most difficult part of the pro­cess was organizing informa­tion and narrowing the mate­rial included in the app. 
“We interviewed various scholars who have a passion for Latino culture, like Rev. Virgil tually turn the skull around to view it from any angle by mov­ing it with your hand,” Li said. 
Li also said the app’s creative and entertaining elements each serve an educational purpose. 
“We didn’t just do the skull thing because it was cool. [The skulls] tend to be 3D physical art pieces and it made sense to depict the skull in a way that let users experience that these ar­tifacts exist in a physical space versus being on a canvas or a screen,” he said. 
Grimm said her favorite part of the project is its collabora­tive and interdisciplinary na­ture. 

“We were able to work across campus with the Snite Mu­seum, FTT students, Fine Arts students and students in Latino Studies. It was like a real world project,” Grimm said. 
Grimm said the most chal­lenging part of the process for her was understanding the technological possibilities. 
“The most difficult part was orienting myself to understand the potential of the technology 
— I’m not a computer person. Kevin Li … translated his tech­nical knowledge into something we non-technical people could understand,” Grimm said. 
Grimm said there are plans to create new apps similar to this one. 
“The Julian Samora Library would like to produce another app to display our collection of original documents,” Grimm said. 
Aguilera said the app is im­portant to her personally due to her heritage. 
“Dia de los Muertos is a day to honor those who have come before us in a celebratory man­ner,” she said. “It’s also impor­tant to me because it’s a tra­dition shared by both sides of the border, it began in Mexico but has traveled to the United States.  In a way, it’s a union be­tween my Mexican and Ameri­can roots.” 
Contact Christian Myers at  wc­meyers8@nd.edu 
Prom 
continued from page 1 
DJ to play family-friendly music which will appeal to dancers from age three to 50, Graham said.
 “We have DJ 3J com­ing, and we met with him and said we need all kinds of music for all ages,” Gra­ham said. “There will be the dorky Justin Bieber and Mi­ley Cyrus to oldies.” 
Grahman said local orga­nizations have also helped to make the evening very spe­cial. 
“We’ve had tons of gently used formal gowns donated, so it’s been pretty awesome,” she said. “[And] we’re get­ting flowers completely do­nated, so we don’t have to pay for [much, thanks to do­nations].” 
While the club volunteers mainly at Memorial Hospi­tal, Graham said cancer pa­tients and survivors from all over the Michiana area are welcome. 
“We didn’t want to close it down to other people,” she said. “We want everyone to feel welcome to come.” 
Overall, Graham said the theme of Journey’s song “Don’t Stop Believing” is a perfect way to summarize her hopes for the night. 
“It’s just a night for every­one to forget what they are going through — their trou­bles — and just celebrate life and have fun,” she said. 
Contact Caitlin Housley at chousl01@saintmarys.edu 


Writing Center offers variety of workshops for students 
By CHARITHA ISANAKA 
News Writer 
Every semester, the Writing Center offers a variety of work­shops designed to cater to the specific needs of students at Notre Dame. 
Director Matthew Capdevielle said the center will offer over 20 workshops this semester. Each event will have a different focus, ranging from medical school ap­plications to successfully com­pleting essay exams. 
“In the workshop setting, we can address common writ­ing concerns in specific writing genres, like cover letters, per­sonal statements, or scientific re­search papers,” Capdevielle said. “Our workshops complement the tutorial services we offer in the Writing Center, but they are by no means a replacement for our face-to-face consultations.” 
Second year graduate student Colleen Fitzsimons, a tutor at the Writing Center, is working on six workshops this semester. 
She said one workshop, “How to Write a Research Paper in One Week: Making Massive Manu­script Manageable,” will place a special focus on academic pa­pers. 
Fitzsimons said the workshops feature a collection of the most useful tips she has learned dur­ing her time as a writing tutor. 
“I then organized the material into presentations and looked in my own writing for examples of what I wanted to get so they could see how some of these strategies can be implemented in an actual paper,” she said. 
Fitzsimons said past work­shops on academic papers have been extremely successful. 
“So many people registered for my first presentation last se­mester, called Academic Writing Guidelines, that we had to find a bigger classroom,” she said. “And according to the surveys we sent out after the workshops, the stu­dents seemed to gain a lot from them.” 
Fitzsimons said in addition to workshops, the Writing Center offers two writing camps with Hesburgh Library. 
“Thesis Camp is a week-long, intensive writing workshop for senior thesis writers offered over fall break,” she said. “Disserta­tion Camp, which is held over Spring Break, is a similar camp designed for graduate students writing doctoral dissertations.” 
The Writing Center is also an important site of research on tu­toring methods, Capdevielle said. For the past two years, 13 tutors have presented their research at national conferences on gender dynamics in the tutorial environ­ment and the role of empathy in writing pedagogy. 
Capdevielle said the center is also actively engaged in a num­ber of community initiatives. Tu­tors work through the Power of Writing project, a joint initiative with the Notre Dame Institute for Educational Initiatives, to help students in two South Bend mid­dle schools improve their writing. 
Capdevielle said writing is a form of conversation through which words can be brought to life. The Writing Center promotes this dialogue in all of its activi­ties, he said. 



“All writers benefit from talk­ing about their writing with other writers because [it] heightens our 
Comm 
continued from page 1 
variety of backgrounds,” she said. “Their individual careers are across a variety of spectrums. I think it’s interesting to look at the universality and the differences across different career paths.” 
Flatley said the Conference, which is the first of its kind held on Notre Dame’s campus, is es­sential for students who need to learn how to effectively commu­nicate. 
“There aren’t a ton of clear avenues through which one can learn those skills,” she said. “I was trying to create an opportu­nity for students to gain insight into how communication skills are relevant in every facet of one’s career.” 
The Conference is not Flatley’s first endeavor to promote in­creased communication on cam­pus, she said. Flatley also found­ed Speech ND, a speech club on campus. 
“The reason why I am so in­terested with communication at Notre Dame is that Notre Dame students have never-ending, valuable ideas, which I’m struck by in every class, or in random conversations,” Flatley said. 
Though she had the original idea for the Conference a while ago, she said planning for the Conference picked up around Thanksgiving. Flatley said she worked across colleges with Dean Greg Crawford from the College awareness of the choices avail­able to us in writing,” Capdevielle said. “[It] makes us more sensi­tive to the power that our words hold to move our readers.” 
Contact Charitha Isanaka at cisanaka@nd.edu 
of Science, Dean John McGreevy from the College of Arts and Let­ters and Dr. Dominic Chaloner, the undergraduate research co­ordinator for the College of Sci­ence. 
Crawford said the Conference focuses on the important con­cepts and skills everyone needs to succeed. 
“Being able to communicate with different constituencies, across disciplines, is more im­portant now than ever before,” he said. “So many problems in the world will require interdis­ciplinary solutions, so being able to communicate effectively is vi­tally important in the future, no matter what career path one pur­sues.” 
Crawford said students will leave the workshop with a new perspective on communication essentials and communication’s importance in all disciplines and vocations. 
“Being able to communicate effectively is vital in leadership 
— being able to articulate an ar­gument well, to inspire others to follow and lead, and to have influ­ence in an organization,” Craw­ford said. “Notre Dame students are the best of the best in the country … and I see them all as future leaders. So this conference is, in some respect, more about shaping future leaders.” 
The Conference will be held Saturday in 101 Jordan Hall of Science. 
Contact Amanda Gray at agray@nd.edu 


DSLC 
continued from page 1 
Salbi, founder of Women for Women International, an or­ganization that helps women survivors of war and civil strife get back on their feet.” 
Quintana said the DSLC carefully selects speakers and events to provide the most enriching experience possible for participants. 
“We choose speakers who have a sto­ry that is unique to them, in­spiring and moti­vationa l,” to supply them with new knowledge about it by bring­ing in workshop presenters and keynote speakers.” 
She said the conference will address a number of other issues such as over­population, domestic vio­lence and the expression of diversity through tango. Chaddah said she is most looking forward to a perfor­mance by a step group from Ivy Tech. 
“The step group performed earlier this week at the Saint 
she said. 

“[The SDB] is always 
“Students 

seeking to create a forum 
then are 

to examine the positive 
able to see 

impact diversity provides
the world 

for all types of settings.” 
through a differ­ent lens, Rachel Chaddah 
learn how SDB member 
to build up their own courage and be ap­preciative of their lives and the lives of others because everyone has challenges to overcome.” 
Junior Rachel Chaddah, a member of the SDB, said the conference is crucial in help­ing the SDB reach its goal of expanding the appreciation of other cultures. 
“[The SDB] is always seek­ing to create a forum to ex­amine the positive impact diversity provides for all types of settings,” she said. “We want to provide the stu­dents, community, and fac­ulty with an outlet to voice their thoughts and opin­ions on diversity as well as 
Knockout 
continued from page 1 
world record,” Alvarez said. “Hopefully playing on the court at Purcell Pavil­ion on Senior Night will be more of a draw.” 
Alvarez said the Sopho­more Class Council decided to make the knockout tour­nament free of charge to anybody who attended the game to increase participa­
tion.  
The  athletic  committee  
came  together  w ith  the  
Marketing  and  Ticketing  

Office to create a deal to promote more participa­tion, Alvarez said. 
“We were able to score Ma r y’s first Apollo Night for Black His­tory Ap­preciation week and they were absolute ­ly great,” Ch add ah said. 
Quintana said she expects the confer­ence to be a huge suc­cess. 
“I hope ever yo ne takes this great op­
portunity and joins us in our biggest celebration of diver­sity,” Quintana said. 
Registration for the DSLC ends March 5. The confer­ence is free and open to stu­dents of Saint Mary’s, the University of Notre Dame and Holy Cross College. Members of the South Bend community are also invited to participate. To register for the event and find a com­plete schedule of the DSLC events, visit http://www3. saintmarys.edu/DSLC. 
Contact Bridget Feeney at bfeene01@saintmarys.edu 
a deal where the first 50 students who commit to participate in the knockout tournament and do not al­ready have a ticket to the game will have the oppor­tunity to purchase a five-dollar ticket instead of the full 15-dollar price to the game,” Alvarez said. 
Alvarez said the Sopho­more Class Council hopes both students and fans are able to come together to get into the record books. 
“It’s not limited to stu­dent participation, it’s open to the community also,” Al­varez said. “Anyone who attends the game is encour­aged to participate.” 
Contact Adam Llorens at allorens@nd.edu 
Alumni 
continued from page 1 

pared her well for the duties of being president of the College, a position she has held since 2004. 
“My academic experience as a student at Notre Dame’s Law School … honed my analytic abilities and taught me to focus on the heart of a problem and its solution,” she said. “Above all, as both a Saint Mary’s undergraduate and a Notre Dame law student, I learned to 
a former executive vice presi­dent of the University, said his experience working as an ad­ministrator with Fr. Theodore Hesburgh, Fr. Edmund Joyce and Fr. Edward Malloy provid­ed him a great deal of insight on how to be a successful uni­versity president. 
“Being part of their admin­istrations, seeing how they functioned and spending as much time as I did with Fr. Hesburgh was a valuable ex­perience, especially to see how a person at his level operated,” Beauchamp said. “I had a lot of things to deal with on a daily basis working as execu­tive vice president under Fr. 
Though Reilly serves as president of a secular univer­sity system, he said the Catho­lic education he received at Notre Dame gave him a unique perspective. 
“Part of what I got out of Catholic intellectual tradition was that knowledge itself is a good thing, and a greater un­derstanding of the universe and the world is worth pur­suing in its own terms. The search for it ought to be tied to using knowledge … for improving the lot of human­kind,” he said. “The ability to help more and more Ameri­cans achieve higher education is how I always thought about getting an education, and I think about being president as a service to others.” 
Casey said his Notre Dame undergraduate experience was the most energizing of his higher education experi­ences, which also include a law degree from Stanford and a doctorate in history from Harvard. 
“Notre Dame opened up an entire intellectual world for me. I came as a fine student but became a better student there,” he said. “It’s a place of energy, excitement and com­munity, so I always thought universities should be marked by such things and be alive with ideas, connection, friend­ship and joy.” 
Casey said the strong sense of pride and community at Notre Dame provides a model for American institutions of higher education. 
“When I arrived at Notre Dame, I came to a place that was an academic, social and spiritual community,” he said. “It’s a place where things come together, and for me it has been a model of what an insti­tution ought to strive for.” 
Contact Kristen Durbin at kdurbin@nd.edu 

Malloy, but I learned over time what works and what doesn’t and learned from my mistakes. When I came to Portland I brought with me that sense of how to be an administrator.” 
Kevin Reilly, president of the University of Wisconsin sys­tem, said Hesburgh and his visionary work at Notre Dame provide Reilly a constant mod­el of excellence. 
“Fr. Hesburgh is a shining instance of what you can ac­complish as a university presi­dent, so as I thought about the possibility of becoming a president, I had his example in 
never lose sight of the people in­volved in any situa­tion and to be sensi-“When I arrived at tive to the Notre Dame, I came to fact that a place that was an 
decisions 

academic, social and 
impact the 

spiritual community.” 
lives of hu­man be-

Brian Casey
ings.” Beau-president of 
champ, DePauw Univeristy 
mind,” Reilly said. 
Brian Casey, president of DePauw Uni­versity, said He sbu rgh ’s omnipresence on campus significantly influenced his undergradu ­ate experience at Notre Dame and the phi­losophy he ad­heres to in his current posi­tion. 
“We abso­lutely revered Ted Hesburgh 
… It was like Hollywood cen­trally cast him as president of Notre Dame,” Casey said. “I learned from Fr. Ted that he viewed one of his jobs as em­bodying and promoting the pride of an institution, so I could feel that and I view that as one of my jobs at DePauw. I try to learn from the master.” 
Casey, a member of the last graduating class of Hesburgh’s presidential tenure, also said Hesburgh contacted him with­in the first month of Casey’s term at DePauw. 
“I cannot tell you how much that touched me,” Casey said. 


Trial builds in Rutgers suicide case 
Associated Press 
NEW BRUNSWICK, N.J. — A Rutgers University police offi­cer told jurors Thursday that he knocked on the door of a dorm room shortly before 10 p.m. on Sept. 22, 2010, for a well-being check on one of the residents, Tyler Clementi. 
The other freshman who lived in the cramped room an­swered, the officer testified, and said that when he’d last seen Clementi five hours earlier, ev­erything was normal. 
The jury will likely hear oth­erwise in coming days in the trial of Dharun Ravi, who is accused of using a webcam to spy on Clementi’s intimate en­counter with another man. Ravi faces 15 criminal counts, in­cluding invasion of privacy and bias intimidation, a hate crime punishable by up to 10 years in prison. 
Prosecutors appear to be us­ing Thursday’s testimony from Officer Krzysztof Kowalczyk, which lasted less than 45 min­utes, to lay groundwork for the case there was a cover-up — a major theme during the fifth day testimony in the trial. 
The jury hasn’t yet heard a timeline that is laid out in legal filings but which might help the prosecution’s case. 
According to those docu­ments, Clementi posted to Face­book at 8:42 p.m.: “Jumping off the gw bridge, sorry.” After that, he jumped to his death from the George Washington Bridge. 
And Ravi sent Clementi long text messages at 8:46 p.m. and then 10 minutes later describ­ing the use of his webcam as “a petty misunderstanding.” 

Kowalczyk said Ravi didn’t mention anything about that 
— just that he saw Clementi at about 4:30 p.m. when his room­mate finished the day’s classes and dropped off his book bag in the room. 
The officer, who didn’t say what led to his being dispatched to the dorm room at 9:46 p.m., said Ravi did volunteer one oth­er piece of information: “He had stated that an individual had stayed in the dorm room with Tyler a couple days prior,” Kow­alczyk said. 
Prosecutor Julia McClure asked if Ravi mentioned that the guest came back the night before the officer came to the door. He hadn’t, Kowalczyk said. Authorities say Ravi used a webcam to spy on the man’s first visit and attempted to do so again on the second. Witnesses have said only seconds of the streaming video was viewed and that it included nothing more graphic than two shirtless men kissing. 
Kowalczyk’s testimony sug­gested that Ravi didn’t bring up another matter: A dorm resi­dent assistant had testified that he spoke with Ravi earlier on Sept. 22 on Clementi’s request to change rooms. 
The testimony from the of­ficer was the second instance Thursday in which prosecutors seemed to be building a cover-up case. 
They also interviewed a uni­versity administrator who said that she looked at Ravi’s Twitter posts the morning of Sept. 23 
— the day after Clementi went missing. 
GREECE 

3 wounded, 2 hostages after shooting 

Associated Press 
KOMOTINI, Greece — An un­employed man shot and wounded three people and took two others hostage Thursday at a plastics factory in northern Greece, police said. State TV said police special forces were drawing up plans to storm the factory, but authorities have not confirmed that report. 
The incident occurred in the northern town of Komotini, 800 kilometers (500 miles) northeast of Athens, at a factory that makes trash bins and other plastic prod­ucts. The shooter, identified by his former employer as 52-year­old Dimitrios Manikas, was fired from the factory six months ago. 
Police said Manikas burst into the site Thursday with a shot­gun, firing at the chairman of the company and a Bulgarian employee, who were both hospi­talized with gunshot wounds not considered to be life threatening. A police officer also has been shot and injured in the hand. 
Employees at the company said that about 40 of the company’s 85 employees were at the factory when the gunman burst in, at 1 p.m. 
Authorities said the two men taken hostage were company drivers. 
Shortly after 10 p.m., police provided Manikas with unspeci­fied medication he takes regu­larly and which he had been de­manding since the afternoon. 
“The gunman had worked as an employee at our factory in Komotini, between July 20, 2000 and Aug. 31, 2011, when he was dismissed, after displaying an unstable, inappropriate, and de­linquent behavior over a long period of time in the workplace,” the plastics company, the Ath­ens-based Helesi Corp., said in a statement. 
The company said its chair­man Athanasios Adrianopoulos, 51, was shot in his office and wounded in the neck, arms and elsewhere, and taken out of the building by employees, who inter­vened to try to stop the gunman. Employee Emil Ilen Marinov, 30, was wounded in the legs. It iden­tified the two hostages as Theo­fanis Diggiaris, 51, and Dimitrios Gritzelis, 64. 
Police said the gunman had demanded payment of €31,000 ($41,250) in money he said he was owed by the company. The company denies it owes Manikas any back pay. 
Unemployment has risen rap­idly since the start of Greece’s fi­nancial crisis — roughly doubling to nearly 21 percent following more than two years of auster­ity measures. The jobless rate is highest in the northern Macedo­nia and Thrace regions, at nearly 24 percent. The work force at the Helesi factory has been reduced from 130 to 85 over the past two years. 
Pantelis Magalios, head of a la­bor center in Komotini, told the AP that the gunman had run out of money. 
“He had been employed at the plant for several years ... They had promised to rehire him,” Magalios said. “His colleagues told me that he had not eaten anything in four days.” 

Banks lead stock rally on Wall Street 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK — Banks dodged a big hit from the Greek debt crisis and rallied Thursday to lead the stock market higher. Strong retail sales and more encouraging news about the 
U.S. job market also helped stocks rise. 
The banks of the world are on the hook for as much as $70 billion in bond-insurance pay­ments if Greece defaults on its debt. But a panel ruled that Greece’s plan to restructure its debt should not trigger any in­surance payments, at least not yet. 
Bank stocks pushed higher in relief. Goldman Sachs jumped 
5.2 percent, and Morgan Stan­ley gained 3.5 percent. 
JPMorgan Chase and Bank of America were the top gain­ers in the Dow Jones indus­trial average. The Dow added 28 points to close at 12,980.30. That’s a gain of 0.2 percent. 
In the latest sign of improve­ment in the job market, the number of people seeking un­employment benefits fell last week to the lowest point since March 2008. The four-week average was also the lowest in four years. 
Oil climbed $1.77 to $108.84 
a barrel. The surging price of oil has weighed on investors’ minds in recent weeks. Quincy Krosby, chief market strategist at Prudential Financial, said higher oil prices could even­tually cause a sharp drop in the stock market. They could also give money managers an excuse to take some winnings off the table after the S&P 500 gained 9 percent over the past two months. 
“We’re going to have a pull­back at some point, because money managers want to lock in their profits,” she said. “The catalyst could be these escalat­ing oil prices.” 
The drop in unemployment claims helped pushed Trea­sury yields up. The yield on the benchmark 10-year Treasury rose to 2.03 percent from 1.99 percent late Wednesday. 
The S&P 500 index rose 8.41 points to 1,374.09, its high­est closing level since June 5, 2008. 
The Nasdaq composite index rose 22.08 points to 2,988.97. The Nasdaq briefly topped 3,000 for the first time in more than a decade Wednesday. 
The government also re­ported that consumers earned a little more in January and spent most of it. The Commerce Department said consumer spending increased 0.2 percent in January. Americans’ income rose 0.3 percent, the second straight monthly increase. 
Costco Wholesale, Target Corp. and other retailers re­ported better than expected February sales, as more cus­tomers showed up to shop. 
In other news out Thursday, Ford, Honda and other auto­makers reported strong sales for February. Ford Motor Co. rose 2.3 percent after report­ing a 14 percent sales gain. 
Among stocks making big moves: 
• Gap soared 7.2 percent, the most in the S&P 500 index. The clothing retailer said a key sales figure rose 4 percent in February, helped by strong de­mand for spring clothing at its Banana Republic chain. Ana­lysts had expected Gap’s same-store sales to drop. 
• Kroger gained 2.7 percent. The grocery store chain said its adjusted earnings beat ana­lysts’ expectations and it also raised its full-year earnings forecast. 
• Sotheby’s plunged 9.1 per­cent after the auction house re­ported earnings and revenues that were well below what Wall Street analysts were expecting. 



page 8 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com Friday, March 2, 2012 
INSIDE COLUMN 

To writers and readers 
Substitute “The Observer” for “Hotel California” and the old Eagles classic rings even truer for us in South Dining Hall’s basement. 
“This could be heaven or this could be hell … You can check out any time you like, but you can never leave.” 
One difference separates The Observer and the hotel, such lovely places they both may be. There, you bide your time with only the “mirrors on the ceiling” for company. Here, we toil as a unit, a full newsroom support­ing all within it. That comforting fact became more and more apparent, and more important, to me during my term as Editor-in-Chief, which ends today. For the last year, that newsroom sup­ported me, motivated me and encour­aged me. 
Sarah Mervosh went to Egypt, yet held me accountable. Adriana Pratt made a movie about me, yet cut me slack. And Amanda Jonovski criticized me, yet covered my mistakes. 
Pat Coveney humored and humbled me. Brandon Keelean served as my taskmaster of a teacher. Eric Prister laughed while maintaining my sanity. 
So, after a year of watching this newsroom’s collective efforts add up to the paper I was in charge of, I bow in gratitude to that newsroom. I bow to ev­ery member of that newsroom through­out these last four years. 
First on that list would be 2009 graduate and former Sports Editor Dan Murphy, who advised me to rewrite my email address more legibly on Activi­ties Night in August 2008. Between Dan and those now rising up The Observer’s ranks are a few crucial people com­pletely separate from the bowels of South Dining Hall. Call them my per­sonal newsroom. 
A thank you to my friends for not forgetting about me when I disappeared for whole weeks at a time. 
A thank you to my mother for under­standing, though assuredly not liking, when I chose El Paso, Texas, or New York City over a few days at home. 
Even a thank you to my professors, assuredly fed up with my attendance habits, yet understanding (I hope) at heart. 
But lastly, and easily most impor­tantly, a thank you to whoever takes the time to read this. On a personal level, every time I was complimented on an article, be it on quarter dogs, Dayne Crist or Snoop Dogg, it drove me to a higher level the next time I put fingers to keyboard. 
On a paper-wide level, your reader­ship is the only reason we exist. Your two moving eyes motivate and hold us to a higher standard. 
Each person at The Observer, myself especially, survives and thrives thanks to the newsroom. That newsroom gives us reason to neither check out nor leave. 
The newsroom, meanwhile, survives and thrives thanks to you, our readers. You give some light and purpose to the dark, desert highway I have traveled these four years, now reaching its bit­tersweet end. 
Contact Douglas Farmer at      dfarmer1@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

For Abromitis and Martin, a round of applause 
For two Notre Dame student athletes, the past five years son, when both started every game they played for the Irish, have been filled with trials and tribulations. They have Notre Dame was undefeated in its home arena. faced injuries, transfers and controversy. But over the past Remember Notre Dame’s four straight Big East wins to end three seasons, there is one thing these two have not faced the 2009-10 regular season, when without their star Luke 
— failure. Harangody, the Irish instituted the burn and earned a spot 
The past three basketball seasons have not met with in the NCAA tournament. Abromaitis averaged 16 points overwhelming success, but certainly can-
per game over that stretch and was a crucial not be called failures. Likely two seasons in factor in Notre Dame’s success. Remember se­the top four in the Big East Conference, two nior night last season, when Abromaitis hit (with the possibility for a third) appearance nine 3-point attempts as part of Notre Dame’s in the Big East tournament semifinals, three record setting performance against Villanova straight 20-win seasons and three straight in the Purcell Pavilion. NCAA tournament berths describe but do Remember Martin’s valiant 23-point effort 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
What’s in a meme? 
Good Guy Greg. Scumbag Steve. Courage Wolf — we find resonance with these and other characters and meaningful expression in creating their episodes. 
A quiet citizen can now find a voice in his editorial cartoon about “Scumbag Obama” and people can use video clips of Hitler to make their anger about dining hall trays known (yes, Hitler has become the voice of the people once again, thanks to the Internet). 
Like Seinfeld or Carlin, our gallery of macro-characters has shown us that the sharing of trivial things can make for a profound connective experience indeed. And the promise of anonymity gives meme authors the potential to surpass even great comedians in sharing the unshareable and speaking the unspeakable. 
Unfortunately, memes’ unique merit as a form of personal expression also becomes their critical weakness. Their content and the rhetoric of their very existence is dehumanizing and impersonal. 
TVTropes has become infamous for implicitly arguing — and proving — that everything under the sun is easily compartmentalized into a highly limited number of categories and that everything you see, do or think has been seen, done and thought before. 
Memes have the same effect on everyday life: besides assuming that moods, personalities and economic classes can be stereotyped, they do so with gusto. 
After all, every caption job within a meme ultimately rehashes its core joke, usually a certified-funny caricature. This is why meme creators are virtually guaranteed laughs, but only if they play by the rules. 
There is no room for either deviation or nuance. Eventually, all of Insanity Wolf’s comics sound like they were writ­ten by the same person. The quality-guarantee mechanism behind the images is also its downfall as a sustainable means of real expression. 
So I implore you, dear reader: stop creating memes and simply express yourself as yourself. 
A few months ago, we rallied to defeat congressional bills that we feared would chill the liberties we enjoy online. I think we’d all agree that everyone has the right to his/her own voice. 
I just think it’s foolish that he should use a fictional penguin to raise it. 
Bill Shields 
senior 
Stanford Hall 
Mar. 1 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“Great is the art of beginning, but greater is the art of ending.” 
Lazarus Long fictional character 


not define the past three seasons.  And nei­ther do they define Notre Dame’s fifth-year senior leaders Tim Abromaitis and Scott Martin. 
Abromaitis’ career was filled with successes and had very few of these trials and tribulations until this season. But Abromaitis was first found to have violated eligibility requirements and had to sit out the first four games of the season, and then tore his ACL in practice, forcing him to the sidelines for the rest of the season. Notre Dame’s de facto on-the-court leader was relegated to the bench where he would have to become a leader of another sort. 
Martin’s career started out with more difficulty. He trans­ferred from Purdue after his freshman year and so had to sit out the entirety of his sophomore season. He also missed all of his junior season because of a torn ACL. But this sea­son, when Abromaitis fell to injury, Martin was forced to step up as the on-the-court leader and has done so with great success. But despite the difficulties they have faced, Martin and Abromaitis have brought great excitement to Notre Dame fans. 
Over the past three years, seasons in which either Martin or Abromaitis played a major role, Notre Dame lost only four games in the Joyce Center. And in the 2010-11 sea-
in Notre Dame’s semifinals loss to Louisville in the Big East tournament. 
And remember how Martin led Notre Dame this season, a season in which many counted the Irish out of conten­tion after a slow start, to a school-record nine-straight con­ference wins with his excellent defense and on-the-court calming presence. 
Despite the difficulties, Martin and Abromaitis brought Notre Dame a No. 2 seed in the NCAA tournament, some­thing no one expected. With their leadership, they almost certainly brought the Irish a NCAA tournament berth this year when many thought they would struggle to make the NIT. 
Neither Abromaitis nor Martin has ever been the star of a Notre Dame team, but their leadership brought Notre Dame to a point over the past three seasons where an NCAA tour­nament berth wasn’t good enough any more. Fans wanted more, and rightfully so. 
But as the Big East and NCAA tournaments approach, let’s take a step back and remember how we got to this point. Let’s take a step back to remember what Martin and Abromaitis have done for the Notre Dame basketball pro­gram. And let’s give them a round of applause. 

Friday, March 2, 2012 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 9 
Faith, reason and Nietzsche 
Immanuel Kant, in his “Critique of Practical Reason,” argues that there are three postulates of practical reason. We should have faith in our freedom, in God and in our immortality. For only 
if we understand  
ourselves as free  Daniel Sportiello  
can we understand  
 
ourselves as ratio- Bound Variables  
nal — as acting,  
that is, for reasons.  

If we are not to be mere machines, pushed and pulled by desire and fear, then we must ask ourselves not what we want to do but rather what we should do. We must be free to disobey our desires and fears when we have reason to do so. 
And yet, even if we are not mere machines, we nonetheless learn from experience, even if somehow free, we are nonetheless bound within a mecha­nistic world — one in which all are de­termined by forces beyond our control. And so we must presuppose that God has designed the mechanistic world of experience such that it does not contra­dict the purposeful world of our ac­tions. We must presuppose that God has designed us such that we can lead lives that make sense to us without thereby destroying ourselves. 
And yet it is clear that, at least in this world, there will be situations in which we cannot lead rational lives without tending to our own destruc­tion, when we cannot do what we have reason to do without getting ourselves killed. For this is what morality some­times requires. Morality is, for Kant, just another word for rationality. If we are not to despair of practical reason altogether, if we are not to relinquish our hope of understanding ourselves as rational by nature rather than by luck, we must postulate a life after death, one in which we can work to perfect our rationality forever without fear of oblivion. 
Kant, then, argues that we should have faith in our freedom, in God and in our immortality, even if his immortality looks suspiciously like purgatory. 
Friedrich Nietzsche, of course, argues exactly the same thing. Of course, he also argues exactly the opposite. But bear with me. 
Nietzsche argues that theoretical reason teaches us at this late hour that men are nothing more than the playthings of blind mechanism; they are born beneath an empty sky and doomed, just and unjust alike, to oblivion. And yet, Nietzsche holds, Kant was right about the postulates of practi­cal reason. 
For, in understanding ourselves as rational agents, we must indeed postu­late freedom, God and immortality. We must have faith, even as we know that our faith is false. 
That our striving toward rational agency forces us to postulate freedom, God and immortality means only that we are gripped by illusions. but illu­sions every bit as inevitable as Kant 
UWIRE 

Jumping to conclusions at Chardon 
Chardon High School, a public high school about 35 miles outside of Cleveland, Ohio, was the scene of a deadly shooting Feb. 27. 
According to multiple reports, a student en­tered the cafeteria and opened fire, killing one student and wounding Tufts Daily Editorial four others. Board 
The senseless tragedy is made even worse by Tufts Daily the fact that it brings back memories of other school shootings, most notably those at Columbine High School in 1999 and Virginia Tech in 2007, America’s two deadli­est school shootings of the last 40 years. 
The news of the events has pervaded the Inter­net, with virtually all of the major media outlets reporting on the tragedy. 
Most of the articles circulating now echo the testimony of various students at the school: They discuss how the gunman was a bullied outcast who came from a broken home and various other aspects of his background as they try to make sense of the tragedy. 
It may be relevant that the gunman had been a victim of bullying and had come from a broken home. 
These are facts that could conceivably shed light on the gunman’s motives, though to attempt to prematurely draw conclusions from them now with so little information to go on is undoubtedly irresponsible. 
If news sources want to report on the gunman’s living circumstances or rumors that he’s been bullied, they must take care that what they’re saying is rooted in fact, not just speculation and hearsay. 
But news sources are also quoting a student who says the shooter was in the midst of a “gothic phase.” This is a very serious mistake on the part of the media, as it propagates the negative stereotypes associated with an already maligned high school clique. 
The Associated Press and other major news sites treat the idea that he was going through a goth phase as if it is just as relevant or just as enlightening as his possibly having been bullied. 
To state facts about his background is good journalism; to lend credence to a negative stereo­type is not. 
The media made a similar blunder follow­ing the Columbine massacre in 1999. The major networks reported that the two shooters in that case, Dylan Klebold and Eric Harris, had been involved in a goth cult. 
Given that the members’ personal life choices were portrayed as driving forces in their descent into violence, the subsequent culture war was hardly a surprise. 
In fact, some have argued that multiple culture wars were ignited by the media’s irresponsible reporting on the Columbine shooters’ lives. 
Their avid playing of games like Doom and Quake led to a backlash against violent video games. 
High school cliques were scrutinized and blamed for allowing frustration to boil over into violence. And, of course, any attachment to non-mainstream groups was dissected. 
In trying to find the perfect answer to such tragedies as quickly as possible, the media takes groups they don’t quite understand — but that seem somehow sinister — and throw them into the national spotlight, where they’re consumed by readers who are desperate to blame someone for an unthinkable act of violence. 
But all this accomplished after the Columbine shooting was to exacerbate cultural tensions. When Associated Press hears rumors that the gunman was a “goth,” it needs to be very, very careful about how it reports them, and it needs to keep lessons from Columbine in mind. 
The tragedy at Chardon was a harsh reminder that violence can erupt out of nowhere and end innocent lives. 
In the coming days and months, the motives of the shooter will be dissected and analyzed. For now, the media should content itself with spread­ing the story of the people hurt by this to as many ears as possible. 
It shouldn’t concern itself with amateur psy­chology. 
This article originally ran in the Feb. 28 version of the Tufts Daily, serving Tufts University. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
argues his postulates are. In his “On the Genealogy of Morality,” Nietzsche articulates just how these illusions are inevitable, though his explanations are rather different than those of Kant. 
Regarding freedom, for example, Nietzsche writes that “to demand of strength that it not express itself as strength, that it not be a desire to over­whelm, a desire to cast down, a desire to become lord, a thirst for enemies and resistances and triumphs, is just as nonsensical as to demand of weakness that it express itself as strength.” 
Nietzsche argues that the illusion of freedom comes, ultimately, from the weak — ever resentful of the strong, who exploit them. The weak insist “that the strong one is free to be weak, and the bird of prey be a lamb.” In other words, the strong one is free to disobey his will to power if he sees reason to do so. 
Nonetheless, Nietzsche admits, we do sometimes disobey our will to power. We do sometimes disobey our desire to dominate one another. Yet this self-con­trol, Nietzsche argues, comes not from freedom but rather from guilt, since the power of society checks our aggression toward one another, this aggression is suppressed and turned against itself. 
For “all instincts that do not dis­charge themselves outwardly turn themselves inwards — this is what I call the internalizing of man. Thus first grows in man that which he later calls his ‘soul.’” 
Our self-control, Nietzsche argues, is just the will to power turned against itself, that is, guilt. Self-control, then, is less a kind of freedom than a kind of slaver, albeit a slavery to oneself. 
Though we can understand ourselves as rational agents, Nietzsche implies, doing so requires that we lie to our­selves. We fracture our rationality amd ourselves into theoretical and practical. We cannot actually be rational agents, for reason is at war with itself. 
Understanding ourselves as rational agents forces us toward conclusions that understanding the world rationally forbids. And the harder that one works to resolve this tension, the more fully one becomes one for whom there are no reasons at all. It becomes the Last Man, who is not really a man at all. 
Does reason really reveal that free­dom, God and immortality are illu­sions? This is perhaps not as clear as Nietzsche would have us believe. Nonetheless, his question is one that each of us ought to ask himself: do we believe what we believe because we have reason to do so or only because we cannot admit to ourselves the truth? Do we live, in other words, in bad faith?. 
Daniel John Sportiello is in his fourth year in the philosophy Ph.D. program. Listen to his radio show on WVFI. He can be reached at dsportie@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Spend a night dancing in the jungle 
The time of year has come again for a night of week­end dancing outside of the dorm room. Yes, the campus-wide ballroom-swing formal has returned. This year is a throwback to the first one of these held, which was held in the Knights of Columbus building by the gracious as­sent of the knights. This year it will be there again this Saturday. March 3rd from 9 p.m. - 2 a.m. If you have a dorm dance, come beforehand and get the legs warmed up. 
Now remember this is campus-wide so anybody is welcome to this event, it only costs one dollar if you are not a due-paying member. For due-paying members, it’s free; join the clubs next year you’ll save two bucks for the year. Also, this is a formal in attire, not bring-a-date formal. I’ll be there stag for one, so any girl looking to rumba, waltz, swing, foxtrot, salsa etc, you know you’ll definitely have a lead for that. 
And for all you boyfriends, this is the way you get classy without breaking the bank. So girls, throw on that breath-taking dress, and guys, dust off your dress shirt and tie. The theme is jungle, so interpret it as you will. 
P.S. Happy 5th Birthday. Adam Llorens. 
Joshua Gaston 
junior Siegfried Hall Mar. 1 




By TESSA DEMERS 
Scene Writer 
Showcasing the creativity of contemporary Asian filmmak­ing, Notre Dame’s annual Asian Film Festival will bring four contemporary Indian films to Browning Cinema at the De-Bartolo Performing Arts Center (DPAC) this weekend. 
Even if you’ve never seen any Asian cinema, this is a won­derful opportunity to see a few critically acclaimed films. 
Brian McLaughlin, a visiting professor in the Department of Film, Television and Theatre, is a loyal advocate of the film fes­tival and believes that film is a wonderful and easily accessible window into the complexities of different cultures around the world. 
“The world is so connected 
— culturally, economically and politically — that a thorough understanding of international cultures is vital to personal and professional success,” McLaughlin said. 
“Students from every field of study will gain global exposure from these films that will add to their intellectual growth and better connect them to the rest of the world.” 
This year, Ted Barron, the se­nior associate director of DPAC, 
By CARRIE TUREK 
Scene Writer 
After listening to “A Year of No Returning,” it will certainly be difficult to turn back from Ezra Furman. 
Steeped in independent charm and full of Furman’s signature witty lyrics, “A Year of No Returning” is a true suc­cess. 
Furman self-released his first solo album Feb. 7. He is the lead singer and songwriter of the folksy, alternative band, “Ezra Furman and the Harpoons.” 
Furman was raised in Evan­ston, Ill. and he and the Har­poons began their careers with a following on the indie music scene in Chicago and on the east coast.
 Furman and the other Har­poons (Job Mukkada, Adam Abrutyn and Andrew Langer, who Furman met while at Tufts University) take a personalized, self-made approach to their music. 
Their third and most recent album, “Mysterious Power” was released on April 5, 2011. Fans who ordered this album online received copies in hand-addressed envelopes. 
Those who pre-ordered Fur­man’s “The Year of No Return-made the decision to bring the litical role in the world is at-series of Indian films to the tracting greater attention,” said screen. Jonathan Noble, director of the

 “For seven years, we’ve fo-Center for Asian Studies. 
cused on East  “The  films  
Asia:  Chi- selected all re­ 
nese,  Japa­ “The world is so connected —  flect important  
nese and Ko­ culturally, economically and  contemporary  
rean  films.  politically — that a thorough  issues in India.  
This  year  understanding of international  We hope that  
there was a  cultures is vital to personal  the  film  fes­ 
lot of excite- and professional success,”  tival  will  en­ 
ment for fea­ courage great­ 
turing ‘Bolly- Brian McLaughlin  er intellectual  
wood’ films,”  visiting FTT professor  en g a g emen t  

“The benefit is not only a couple hours of enjoyment, but also a deeper appreciation of the craft of moviemaking and of film tradition,” McLaughlin said. 
The films that make up the festival encompass a thriller, a drama, a coming of age film and even a Bollywood musical. 
“No One Killed Jessica” (2011) Friday, March 2, 6:30 p.m. 
This is a non-fiction thriller about the murder of supermod­el Jessica Lall, and the subse­quent search for her killer by a reporter and the victim’s sister. 
Despite the fact that the mur­der happened in a populated area surrounded by 300 wit­nesses, they all claim to have seen nothing. These two women take on the masses to find jus­tice. 
“Mumbai Diaries” (2010) Friday, March 2, 9:30 p.m. 
This film shows the intersec­tion of the lives of four people: a painter, an aspiring actor (cur­rently a washer), a journalist and a banker turned photogra­pher. The film follows the pro­gression of their relationships and shows how their lives are changed by the presence of one another. Will it be for better or for worse? 
“Udaan” (2010) 
even know where to start/So let me put your mind to rest/It’s a useless antique tucked away in the chest.” 
It is Furman’s knack for lan­guage and lyrics that make his songs appealing and curious. 
Closing out the album with a strength similar to the opener, “Queen of Hearts” leaves you wanting more of Furman’s mu­sical thoughts. 
The moody saxophone solos in “Queen of Hearts” are in­terspersed between Furman’s characteristic moderately-paced, drawn-out lyrics to cre­ate a surprising pairing. 
The addition of the organ again lends an unexpected quality to the song, combining for a blend that is difficult to pinpoint. 
The resulting sound seems to lie somewhere between drawly elevator music and folksy bal­lad. 
Though Furman may be an acquired taste, his place on the indie music scene is set and his reach could extend into the mainstream for those willing to take time to listen to the offbeat instrumentation and ingenious lyrics on “The Year of No Re­turning.” 
Stand-out tracks include “Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde,” “Sinking 
Saturday, March 3, 3:00 p.m. 
This is the heartwarming coming of age story of a hard working boy, recently out of boarding school, who has a hard time choosing between following his dreams or doing what his parents wish him to do. 
Sound familiar? 
If you’re struggling with this question, perhaps this film will give you some insight on what to do. 
“3 Idiots” (2009) Saturday, March 3, 8:00 p.m. 
This film tells the story of the reunion of three best friends who were engineers in college together at the equivalent of an Ivy League school and their subsequent recollections and flashbacks of their collegiate antics and a long-forgotten bet. They go in search for another friend, and discover a few se­crets along the way. 
For more information or to get tickets, visit http://perform­ingarts.nd.edu or call 574-631­2800. 
For trailers for the films to be showcased, visit http://kellogg. nd.edu/asianfilm. 
Contact Tessa DeMers at tdemers@nd.edu 
Slow,” “Bad Man,” “Queen of Hearts” and “Are You Gonna Break My Heart?” 
Side A of “The Year of No Re­turning” is available as a free digital download on Furman’s website: http://www.ezrafur­man.com/site/index.html. 
Ezra Furman will be per­forming at Shuba’s Tavern in Chicago on Apr. 28. 
For more on Ezra Furman and his quirkiness, visit Tum­blr, “Ezra Furman: A Guide for the Perplexed” at http://ezra­furman.tumblr.com/. 
Contact Carrie Turek at cturek@nd.edu 
A Year of No Returning 
By: Ezra Furman Label: Self-Released 

says Sharon Schierling, associate di­rector of the Kellogg Institute. 
McLaughlin believes this to be a “natural progression.” He also believes it necessary to realize how big of an impact Indian filmmaking has on the world. 
“India produces about twice as many films as Hol­lywood every year and has a greater worldwide audience,” McLaughlin said. “Their cul­tural impact is huge and is something Americans should understand.” 
More incentive to focus on In­dia this year comes from grow­ing interest in India among the Notre Dame community. 
“This is not surprising given that India’s economic and po­
ing” were promised hand­written, individualized album covers. 
It is these details and close contact with fans that make Furman and his music so ap­pealing. 
Despite Furman’s departure from his three band mates on “The Year of No Returning,” his songs retain their signature charm, made up of gravely, whiny vocals belting out deep, poetic lyrics.
 “The Year of No Return­ing” breaks away from the Harpoons’ usual style, with its use of saxophone, clarinet and bells. 
Furman takes the opportuni­ty, on his solo album, to explore various new instrumentations, which serve to enhance his al­ready self-explorative and in­trospective style and lyrics. 
On “Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde,” the use of bassoon, bass gui­tar, clarinet and bells unite to form a strange Western sound. This song is contagious and ex­tremely easy to listen to. 
It has a strong bass line that seems to run counter to Fur­man’s melody. 
As the opening track on “The Year of No Returning,” “Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde” makes a strong first impression. 
with issues re­
lated to India 
within a com­parative and global context.” 
These films showcase stories that have captured audiences all over the world, and now they are being made available to the Notre Dame community. 
There is an assorted selec­tion of films to be showcased, and no matter your story or your background, there’s sure to be a film in the festival that creates a connection with the audience. 
“We think we’ve selected a lineup that will appeal to di­verse audiences,” Schierling sayid. 
McLaughlin recognizes the intrinsic value in these wonder­ful experiences offered by the Browning Cinema. 
“Sinking Slow” is an unex­pected, unclassifiable piece of “The Year of No Returning.” At its start, it immediately sends shivers through your spine. 
With the tinny reverberations layered underneath the moody and simple piano and violin in­troduction, this track begins as a reflective ballad. 
Suddenly, though, it becomes an upbeat, almost campy tune, with the switch to a more major key and the addition of Ezra’s overlaid harmonies. 
Furman alternates beauti­fully between the slower tempo, drippy sadness and his more upbeat pleas to his “honey.” 
Furman’s tunes are far from meaningless. He references both religion and politics in tracks like “American Soil” and “Cruel Cruel World.” 
These two are more akin to older Furman tracks, utilizing the tambourine, a stronger gui­tar line and the harmonica. 
Furman manages to touch on romance, as well. In “Are You Gonna Break My Heart,” he somehow keeps the beat up-tempo and the mood light, while still producing dramatic lines like, “Come on and get the scissors out/Show me what love is all about” and “If you ever got to use your heart/You wouldn’t 


MARINA KOZAK | Observer Graphic 


Friday, March 2, 2012 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 11 

By BRENNA WILLIAMS “The interviews were in-sity, anywhere. Every year, Scene Writer credibly poignant. I am in people come up to us and 
total awe of the honesty thank us, and tell us that 
The topic of sexuality is of the individuals I inter-it helped them heal from still taboo on Notre Dame’s viewed. It is not an easy similar things that have campus. Since 2006, the thing to tell your story, no happened to them,” Sulli-Gender Studies Program matter what your point of van said. has sponsored “Loyal view is, to a stranger with “It’s a bit of an emotion-Daughters and Sons,” the knowledge that it will al roller coaster, because (LDS) a student written, somehow be performed.” while much of it deals with directed and produced The team worked togeth-painful experiences, there play based on issues sur-er to finalize the script and are also stories of hope, rounding sexuality and direction of the show. love, joy, even humor. sexual assault. “This year’s perfor-The fact that every char-
Sophomore Andrew Ta-mance includes female acter that you see onstage tis, this year’s director, and male survivors of is based on a real person said why he thinks LDS is sexual assault, and deals who is or was at one time an important tradition for with difficult questions a Notre Dame student also the Notre Dame commu-of responsibility and pre-sets it apart from other nity. sumptions. It also portrays shows,” Hughes said. 
“I have always thought students’ experiences The show not only about theater as an amaz-and ideas about marriage sparks thought, but also ing medium to show beau-plans, sexual orientation, encourages healing, Sulli­ty and truth in ordinary when to have sex, the role van said. life — a way to express the of religion, self esteem, in-“Every year, people come untold or unseen,” Tatis timacy, and love,” Hughes up to us and thank us, and said. said. tell us that it helped them 
The play, with a script Each year, LDS fea-heal from similar things that changes every year, tures new scenes as well that have happened to is designed to bring these as scenes from previous them,” Sullivan said. topics to the student body’s years’ shows. This year, “I wanted to make this attention. the scene “Unicorn” has play a healing experience 
The producer, junior received a high-tech face-for the cast members, the Athena Hughes, said, “The lift, exemplifying the idea people being portrayed, goal is to draw attention that the show is continu-and members of our ND to the silence that too of-ally changing. community,” Tatis said. ten surrounds the issue of Additionally, new Every person involved rape and sexual assault, as scenes, like “Explaining,” with the show is dedicated well as promote awareness illustrate the commitment to encouraging the con-of the diversity of students’ to including different ex-templation and dialogue experiences and beliefs. In periences and voices. within the Notre Dame so doing, we hope to break In addition to being community, Sullivan said. the silence and foster dis-shorter and more varied “We have worked really cussion and dialogue.” than past performances, hard to make it so that ev-
The production team Tatis said there was an ef-eryone can relate to it, and has been working on this fort to make sure the ma-we would love for people to year’s show since the fall, terial resonated with the come and watch and share when senior Tara Duffy audience. this with us,” Sullivan said. and junior Jodie Sullivan, “LDS always aims to give “Loyal Daughters and this year’s writers, be-voices to those who have Sons” runs until March gan compiling the script been silenced. I hope every 3rd at 7:30 p.m. in the by conducting interviews member is able to connect Cary Auditorium of Hes-with volunteers. to at least one of the scenes burgh Library.  Tickets are 
“Some of our interview-or characters in a very $1 for students, $3 for non­ees might recognize their personal way,’ Tatis said. students and can be pur­exact words in the scenes, There’s no denying LDS chased at the door or the and others were used as is a uniquely Notre Dame LaFortune Box Office. inspiration, and some-tradition, Sullivan said. times combined with other “There is no other proj-Contact Brenna Williams at interviews,” Sullivan said. ect like this at any univer-bwillia9@nd.edu 
When you’ve got to go, you’ve to go. No time for meandering, no time for chitter chatter. Doing your business means business. 
In few places is this urge more com­pounded or frustrating than at Finny’s, where the line to the girls’ restroom snakes the length of the pong table, all the way to the dance floor. Many a Notre Dame lady has whined about the line for the “loo,” and a few brave souls have even attempted to dash into the boys’ room for relief. 
But as bad as we think we have it, we’re far better off than women in China, who launched an “Occupy Men’s Toilets” protest a little over a week ago. Chinese women, you’re having the worst week ever. 
In China, the national standards call for a one-to-one ratio of men’s to women’s public street toilets in cities, according to The New York Times. 
Women, who as we all know typi­cally take a longer time in the bath­room, use it more frequently and also often travel in clusters, have an issue with this. United Press Inter­national reported last week that a few women in the southern Chinese city Guangzhou got fed up with the wait and took charge. 
They gathered outside a men’s public restroom holding a banner that said “more convenience for women, more gender equality,” and alternately occupied male stalls. 
Overall, the protest went peaceful-ly in Guangzhou, but women ready to occupy men’s toilets in other cities didn’t meet such a welcoming recep­tion. 



In Beijing, 10 officers and three police vehicles awaited their arrival, according to The New York Times. The same happened when the group tottered off to other toilets. 
One of the protest leaders, a woman who went by the pseudonym Li Maizi, told NBC News that the government had responded to her efforts, but their decision to build 
1.5 more female bathrooms than male wasn’t enough. 
Fliers the protesters passed out called for at least twice as many, and also asked for more unisex bathrooms at places like malls and train stations. 
As a fellow woman who has suf­fered through many a restroom line, I can attest that when it comes to ladies, the more bathrooms the merrier. 
Chinese women are refusing to stand at the back of the bathroom line, determined to push forward an agenda for change. 
The issue might seem trivial at first glance, but try telling that to someone on the verge of breaking public urination laws because they can’t find a restroom.  
Tonight, I promise to do my part and stand in solidarity with my suffering sisters. As I wait in that long, laborious restroom line at Finny’s, the Chinese women will be in my thoughts. Protesters, you’re an inspiration to us all. Maybe, just maybe, we Notre Dame women will start an “Occupy” movement of our own. 
Contact Adriana Pratt at                     apratt@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this col­umn are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
MARINA KOZAK | Observer Graphic 

SPORTS AUTHORITY 

Look at what we can do by the power of sports 
The crack of a bat. The snap of a basketball hitting noth­ing but net. The pop of two players colliding in football. These are sounds we associate with sports, sounds which bring about a nostalgia of games we’ve been to, experi­ences we’ve had. 
But we don’t follow sports just for these simple pleasures. We follow, we watch so we can see some­thing we’ve never seen before. We watch to see greatness. 
We watch to see the most dominant hitter of all time stand at home plate, point into the outfield bl eachers and then hit 

Eric Prister 
Senior Sports Writer 
from baseball. 
Sports lift us up to a place higher than we could on our own. We don’t just watch — we become a part of the glory and the defeat of the athletes we follow. When they succeed, we succeed with them, and when they fail, we feel the pain too. 
We celebrate with the “Iron Man” when he starts his 2,131st straight game, cheer alongside “Big Mac” when No. 62 clears the fence and praise “the Great One” as he be­comes hockey’s all-time scor­ing leader. 
We feel the pain of calling a timeout when you have none left, of having your ear bitten off during a fight and of see­ing one of the best ever run away, not from opponents but from the police in the back of a Ford Bronco. 
And we definitely celebrate with the underdogs, with the 
Davids who 
overcome 
the Goliaths, 
because we 
do believe in 
miracles. 


a home run While
We can do great things, 
to that spot. watching a
unimaginable things, 
We watch to man ascend 
and these abilities 
see a black the slopes 
are in no way better 
man walk of Mt. Ever-onto the field expressed than through est, Dan for a Major sports. And in sports, Rydell from League Base-even non-athletes can the television ball team for be a part of the we. show “Sports 
the first time and begin a career that would take him to the Hall of Fame. 
We follow sports so we can hear “the shot heard round the world,” see “the greatest game every played,” and stand in awe watching the band run onto the field during “the play.” 
We watch to see players transcend sport itself, knock­ing out Sonny Liston and de­claring oneself “the greatest,” leaving a hand up after hit­ting a shot to win one’s sixth championship or pumping a fist after sinking a putt on the 18th at Augusta. 
We watch to see barriers broken as someone scores 100 points, runs a sub-four-min­ute mile or finishes the third leg of the Triple Crown with a 31-length lead. 
We even watch to see trag­edy, as the ball rolls between someone’s legs, is knocked out of midair by a fan who will forever live in infamy or the all-time hits leader is banned Night” sums up the feel­ings of every sports fan when watch­ing great­ness. 
“Look at what we can do.” 
We can do great things, un­imaginable things, and these abilities are in no way bet­ter expressed than through sports. And in sports, even non-athletes can be a part of the “we.” 
The roar of the crowd when a team runs onto the field to start a game, the explosion of sound when a player hits a last-second 3-pointer and the screams of excitement that arise when a pitcher re­tires his 27th batter in a row are what really make sports 
great. Look at what we can do.  
Contact Eric Prister eprister@nd.edu The views expressed  at in  

this Sports Authority col­umn are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
TENNIS 

Djokovic to face Murray next 
Associated Press 
DUBAI — Novak Djokovic defeated fellow Serb Janko Tipsarevic 6-1, 7-6 (6) Thursday to set up a Dubai Championships semifinal with Andy Murray, who he beat in a marathon five-set­ter at the Australian Open last month. 
Roger Federer will face Juan Martin del Potro in the other semifi1nal at Aviation Club. Del Potro beat Jo-Wilfried Tsonga 7-6 (1), 6-2 for the second time in two weeks. 
Murray advanced by de­feating fifth-seeded Tomas Berdych 6-3, 7-5. Roger Fe­derer had another routine encounter, stopping Mikhail Youzhny 6-3, 6-4. 
The top-ranked Djokov­ic, gunning for his fourth Dubai title in a row, broke the seventh-seeded Tipsarevic twice and closed out the first set when his opponent returned long. Tipsarevic rallied the sec­ond set, holding his serve throughout and taking a 4-1 lead in the tiebreaker. 
Tipsarevic missed a set point at 6-5 when he dou­ble-faulted, and Djokovic won the next two points. 
“We know each other re­ally well,” Djokovic said. “We both got a little bit nervous toward the end, I guess, and it was just luck to prevail.” 
Tipsarevic admitted nerves got the better of him in the second-set tiebreak­er, but not because he was facing a friend. 
“Obviously, it’s like little butterflies in the stomach having the set point on 6-5 in the tiebreak after a one-hour set,” Tipsarevic said. “It’s not only against Novak. It would have happened against anyone. Normally you’re trying your best on this point. It’s just that I tried too much for no rea­son.” 
Murray has lost his last three matches against Berdych but broke early to take control of the first set. 
In the second, the play­ers twice traded breaks of serve. Murray broke to go up 6-5 but squandered six match points before clinch­ing it when Berdych hit long. 
“That’s one thing I’ve al­ways been very comfortable with, closing matches out,” Murray said. “I played three great serves to bring it to 40-Love and then missed a few first serves in a row and he went for some big shots. Then once you’re back at deuce you’re thinking, ‘God, I’ve just blown three match points.’ So you kind of just want to try get through it if you can.” 
Berdych had a chance to break to take the second set to a tiebreaker. Murray deliv­ered a serve that was initially called out but overturned on review. Umpire Mohammed Lahyani gave the point to Murray, leaving Berdych an­gry because he felt the point should have been replayed. 
Lahyani argued that Berdych had already played his return into the net when the call came. 
“When the point end up like this, actually this is some­thing you don’t expect at all,” Berdych said. “You just trying to be focus on the game and go point by point, and then something like that came and you know you are right. What you can do?” 
Murray said he was looking forward to his semifinal clash against Djokovic. 
“I would like to get a chance to play him again,” Mur­ray said. “Before the Indian Wells-Miami stretch it would be good to see exactly what I need to work on, where my game is. 

“I had a great match with him in Australia, and hope­fully I can reverse the result tomorrow.” 
Federer, who is looking for his fifth Dubai title, defeated Youzhny for the 12th straight time. He has had similar suc­cess against Del Potro, car­rying a 9-2 record into their match. But one of those losses was in the 2009 U.S. Open fi­nal, a win that will be on the Argentine’s mind Friday. 
“I always think about that final. After the final in Rot­terdam (last month), he (Fe­derer) told me ‘You have the big one, so don’t be sad,’” Del Potro said. “All the matches are different, all tournaments are different, and I’m try­ing to find a way to beat him again. It’s really difficult for me, his game. He plays slices, drop shots, and he’s one of the best in history. So I just want to be ready for a fight.” 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The 
Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

Famous Birthdays 1917-Desi Arnaz from “I Love 1917-Puerto Rico became a U.S. 
FOR RENT PERSONAL WANTED 
1985-Kooks guitarist Luke Lucy” territory Pritchard 
1981-Bryce Dallas Howard 1933-King Kong the movie X FURNISHED REMODELED UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Artist needed for children’s book 1977-Coldplay singer Chris Martin premiered in New York City RANCH 10 minute walk 2 bedroom Don’t do it alone.  Notre Dame program Contact mkarle@alumni. On This Day in History 574-309-3758 rmfopen@gmail.com has many  resources to assist nd.edu for more information. 1968-Actor Daniel Craig 1962-Wilt Chamberlain scores 100 
you.  If you or someone you 1863-Texas declared its points in a game love needs confidential support 1962-Singer Jon Bon Jovi independence from Mexico or assistance., please call Sr. 1956-Morocco gains Sue Dunn at 1-7819.  For more 1904-Author Dr. Seuss 1877-Rutherford Hayes became independence from France information visit ND’s website at President of the United States http://pregnancysupport@nd.edu 1931-Leader Mikhail Gorbachev 1923-TIME magazine premiered on 
newstands. 

TRACK AND FIELD 

Irish face last chance to qualify for NCAAs 


By AARON SANT-MILLER 
Sports Writer 
Many would argue it is hu­man nature to fear ending something without being re­membered. In other words, some would argue that every­one wants to leave some sem­blance of a legacy, which for­mer Irish runner Alex Wilson achieved. Wilson was a three-time All-American runner at Notre Dame who never lost in both the quarter-mile and the half-mile races. Further­more, Wilson was a successful Olympic runner, earning both a bronze and silver medal. After this prestigious run­ning career, Wilson went on to coach the Irish some years later, committing himself for 22 years and leading the team to an NCAA cha mpi ­onship in 1957. 
men’s distance medley. 
“We really want to get the distance medley qualified for the NCAAs,” Rae said. “But also, as a team, we just want to get as many people quali­fied for the NCAA champion­ships as possible.” 
Last week, the men’s team won the Big East champion­ships, while the women fin­ished fourth. The team has higher goals than simply a conference championship, Rae said. 
“Sure, we won at the confer­ence level, but we’re still far from being very competitive at the national level,” Rae said. “The change won’t be imme­diate, but we’re trying to shift the focus more toward success in the NCAAs.” 
Notre Dame’s Heritage Hall 
showcases 
two Olympic 
medals Wil­
son earned, 
which con-

This “Sure, we won at the nects Wil­weekend, conference level, but we’re son’s legacy the team still far from being very with today’s 
will host program. Pi-
competitive at the national 
the Alex ane said the 
level ... The change won’t be 
Wilson In-team’s histo­
immediate, but we’re trying 
vitational, ry motivates 
to shift the focus more toward 
n a m e d the current 
success in the NCAAs.” 
after Wil-squad. son. With “Any time the NCAA Jeremy Rae our athletes 
cha mpi -junior middle distance runner run and wear 
onship s lo oming overhead, this meet provides a unique opportunity for the Irish. 
“This is a last chance for kids to get qualified for the NCAA championships,” Irish coach Joe Piane said. “We’re hoping we can get a relay qualified, a pole vaulter, a women’s distance medley, a men’s distance medley and maybe even a quarter-mile [runner] qualified.” 
Junior middle distance run­ner Jeremy Rae, who has put on an impressive junior cam­paign, is very invested in this competition as well, as he is one of the runners in the 
the jersey, they are rep­resenting the university, its legacy, as well as the team,” Piane said. This weekend, the Irish will attempt to honor the Univer­sity just like Wilson did. While one meet cannot replicate what he was able to accom­plish in his tenure as a Notre Dame runner, the Irish hope to leave their own legacy this 
weekend  while  they  prime  
themselves  for  the  NCAA  
championships.  

The Alex Wilson Invitation­al kicks off at 5:00 p.m. Friday at the Loftus Center. 
Contact Aaron Sant-Miller at asantmil@nd.edu 

MEN’S TENNIS 

Buckeyes pose as Notre Dame’s toughest opponent yet 

By PETER STEINER 
Sports Writer 
After dropping a 5-2 decision to No. 29 Indiana on Wednesday, the Irish will attempt to get back on track this weekend when No. 2 Ohio State and No. 58 Maryland come to the Eck Tennis Pavilion. 
The Buckeyes (14-1, 2-0 Big Ten) finished as runner-up in the ITA National Indoor championship two weeks ago and enter Saturday’s match as the toughest opponent the Irish (11-5, 1-0 Big East) will face all year. 
“[The Buckeyes] have two of the really elite players in the country,” Irish coach Bobby Bayliss said. “[Se­nior] Chase Buchanan, who when he was 18 years old won the US National Junior Championships and the US Open Juniors, and [sophomore] Blaz Rola, who is from Eastern Europe, have been ranked in the top five to 10 in the country off and on all year.  It may be the best one-two punch any team in the country has.” 
In addition to facing Buchanan and Rola at the top of the singles line­up, the Irish will square off with a strong set of doubles teams that likes to power through their opponents. 
“They play great doubles,” Bayl­iss said. “I don’t think they’ve lost a doubles point all year. 
“They have a slightly different style.  They really hit the ball big in the backcourt and try to force you into errors at the net.  Off the ground, they have several guys that probably hit the ball as big as any thing you’ll see at the college level.” 
After playing Ohio State on Satur­day, the Irish face another ranked squad in Maryland (3-5) on Sunday. Although the Terrapins are a step down from the Buckeyes, Bayliss said the Irish will still need to play at a high level to overcome an expe­rienced Maryland team loaded with upperclassmen. 
“[Maryland] returned all its start­ers from last year and added a couple of new guys,” Bayliss said. “They are pretty solid top to bottom. They are not as good as Ohio State, but they’ll be a formidable match for us and we’ll have to play our best.” 
While senior Casey Watt and sophomore Greg Andrews were both victorious at No. 1 and No. 2 singles in Wednesday’s matchup with In­diana, the Irish were unable to win a singles match in the lower end of their lineup.  Bayliss said the entire team needs to perform well for Notre Dame to have a chance to win this weekend. 
“We are going to hope to get the kind of play we got from the top of the lineup [Wednesday] in Bloomington and get a little better play at the bot­tom of the lineup,” Bayliss said. “We feel like we should be stronger at the bottom than any place in our lineup and it just didn’t happen [Wednes­day]. But we’ve been pretty darn good in the lower part of the lineup, so we need to see our guys bounce back there.” 
With only eight matches remain­ing before the Big East champion­ships, Bayliss said the Irish are ea­ger to prove themselves against two tough opponents. 
“We are ready to meet that chal­lenge,” Bayliss said. “We are excited about it. If you can’t get excited about a weekend like this, you shouldn’t be playing college tennis.” 
The Irish will take the courts against Ohio State on Saturday at 11 
a.m. and then square off with Mary­land on Sunday at 11:00 a.m. Both matches take place in the Eck Tennis Pavilion. 
Contact Peter Steiner at psteiner@nd.edu 
ND SOFTBALL 

Irish travel to Florida with hopes of improving record 
By KATIE HEIT  The Irish will now face opponents  program with a lot of great power hit­ “The transition from playing out- on and off the field,” she said.  
Sports Writer  from multiple conferences in the Dia­ ters.”  side in freezing South Bend to hot and  Senior infielder and former all­ 
mond 9 Citrus Classic. The weekend  Maldonado said the Irish are hop- humid Florida will put a toll on our  American Dani Miller was named the  
With four wins in their last six  kicks off Saturday with a doublehead­ ing to play consistently as a team in  bodies,” Maldonado said. “We need to  most recent Big East player of the week  
games, the Irish look to build more  er against Long Island (2-13) and Ohio  every area of the game.  make sure we stay well hydrated.”  for her performance in last weekend’s  
momentum this weekend in Buena  State (9-5). Action concludes Sunday  “We’ve been a bit back and forth  Despite the rocky start to the sea- games. Miller currently has a .438  
Vista, Fla., when they take the field for  as the Irish take on both Fordham (10­ with greatness these past few week- son, junior catcher Amy Buntin said  batting average and hit a grand slam  
the Diamond 9 Citrus Classic.  7) and Virginia Tech (7-3).  ends,” Maldonado said. “We are look- Notre Dame’s team chemistry is  against North Carolina at the Caro- 
After a tough opening weekend  Senior outfielder Alexa Maldonado  ing forward to breaking out to consis­ strong in the early part of the season.  lina Classic. Miller has knocked in 14  
during which Notre Dame (4-5) won  said Ohio State is the biggest challenge  tently great softball.”  Buntin said the way the players get  RBIs in only nine games.  
only one out of its five games, the  of the weekend.  Maldonado said the most challeng­ along is an advantage between the  The Irish get underway against  
team managed to turn its luck around  “I would say that Ohio State will  ing part of the weekend is the change  lines.  Long Island at 2:30 p.m. Saturday.  
in the Carolina Classic last weekend,  be our toughest competition,” Maldo­ in weather between Notre Dame and  “The team chemistry this year  
claiming three victories in two days.  nado said. “They are usually a solid  Florida.  brings a whole new level of excitement  Contact Katie Heit at kheit@nd.edu  

ND WOMEN’S GOLF 

Sping season opens in S.C. tournament 
By NICK BOYLE 
Sports Writer 
The Irish will open their spring season this weekend when they travel to Hilton Head, S.C., to participate in the Darius Rucker Intercollegiate Tourna­ment. 
After a long winter off the golf course, the team is excited to get back to competition. 
“The players are very excited to play again,” Irish coach Su­san Holt said. “They know they need to play better than they did in the fall and I know they’re ca­pable to do better. We’re ready to get the season going.” 
With the winter weather in South Bend, the team has not been able to get outside much to practice. Holt said she is ready for her team to be able to get outside to compete as the spring season begins. 
“This tournament is a great opportunity to get back outside and play rounds,” Holt said. “We were able to get outside in the last week to hit off the grass, but we’ve not played competi­tively. This weekend will be good to get back into competi­tion mode and adjust again to tournament play.” 
With at least seven ranked teams slated to compete in the tournament, Holt believes the weekend’s competition can serve as a confidence booster for her team. 
“This tournament will be a great chance for us to get qual­ity wins over quality competi­tion,” Holt said. “This can be a huge confidence boost for us, especially if we come out and play the way we are capable of.” 
The Irish will depend on se­niors Becca Huffer and Katie Allare to lead a small squad of only five golfers. Sophomore Kristina Nhim and freshmen Ashley Armstrong and Kelli Oride round out the roster. 
“Huffer is the leader of this team,” Holt said. “She’s played every tournament for us since freshman year. She’s our solid rock, and we will definitely look to her for leadership.” 
While Huffer may be the lead­er of the team, Holt says it will take a team effort to succeed this weekend. 
“We really need a big team effort this weekend,” Holt said. “We need four good scores to compete in every round, not just one or two.” 
The Darius Rucker Intercolle­giate tournament will tee off to­day at 9:30 a.m. in Hilton Head, S.C. 
Contact Nick Boyle at        nboyle1@nd.edu 


SMC TENNIS 

Belles seek comeback after losing to Case Western 
By ISAAC LORTON 
Sports Writer 
Saint Mary’s looks to bounce back after its loss to ranked Case Western when it faces off against Olivet on Sunday. 
Belles coach Dale Campbell said the squad’s 9-0 loss to the Spartans should not affect the team in its matchup this week­end. 
“Sure, the girls were dis­appointed after that match, but I think we will come back strong,” he said. “We have a young resilient team, who I think will do well against Oliv­et. The first match was a way for them to become acquainted with this level of competition. The Spartans showed us what we can work on. I’m not wor­ried.” 
Campbell said the Belles have been working hard to improve a few key aspects and prepare themselves for the start of con­ference play during the two-week break between matches. 
“We are trying to be more purposeful with our shots,” Campbell said. “In singles, we need to be more aggressive and also [be] more strategic. In doubles, we are working on our offensive play. Our defense is pretty good so far.” 
Campbell thinks the inexpe­rienced Belles match up well against Olivet (0-0). 
“We have beat them in the past, but we can’t overlook that,” Campbell said. “They have experience on their side. I think we will match up well and the matches should be very competitive.” 
Campbell claims the top two single matches will be ex­tremely competitive. No. 1 seed sophomore Mary Catherine Fuller and No. 2 freshman seed Kayle Sexton will be fea­tured in the matchups for Saint Mary’s. 
“Olivet’s 2011 No. 1 and No. 3 seed will be returning this year in singles,” Campbell said. “I think Mary Catherine and Kayle Sexton will do very well.” 
Campbell said the Belles are excited to begin competition this weekend. 
“The returning players have the experience in conference games and you can tell that they are excited,” Campbell said. “This excitement is rub­bing off on the first-time play­ers. There is anxiety in the freshman but I think once the matches start this will all go away.” 
Saint Mary’s will face Olivet in East Lansing, Mich. on Sun­day. 
Contact Isaac Lorton at ilorton@nd.edu 
FENCING 

Irish to host Midwest Conference championships 


By MIKE MONACO 
Sports Writer 

After a few weeks of small-squad and individual competi­tions, the Irish get back in ac­tion this weekend as they play host to the Midwest Fencing Conference Championships. 
The championships will be­gin Saturday, with individual events going on all day, and continue Sunday when the team bouts will take place. 
The competition is impor­tant for Notre Dame not only as preparation for the upcom­ing NCAA championships but also for evaluating the squad against its regional foes, Irish coach Janusz Bednarski said. 
“[The conference champion­ships] are one of the finals of our season,” Bednarski said. “It’s the first one because then we will have the NCAA cham­pionships in two stages — re­gionals and finals — so it’s very important for us. It’s one of the most important events in our season as far as telling us how we are prepared in rela­tion to our Midwest rivals.  It’s a good prognostic for us in the region.” 
The event attracts roughly 20 local universities and more than 600 fencers, Bednarski said, and as a result the com­petition will be fierce. Bednar­ski said he is expecting strong performances from some of the team’s rivals, such as Ohio State, Wayne State and North­western. 
In addition to showing the Irish where they stack up against the region’s top squads, the Conference Cham­pionships provide individual fencers, especially the under­classmen, with the opportunity to make one last impression on the coaches heading into the NCAA championships. 
“[This weekend] will be also a tryout for the younger kids who were showing signs that they can be good athletes and good starters in the future,” Bednarski said. “They will hopefully show us they can compete and they can go can far against experienced rivals. So it’s a very important event from that standpoint.” 
Bednarski noted the regu­lar season success of a group of freshmen, including foilist Madison Zeiss and epeeists Ashley Severson, Dale Purdy and Ryan McDonough. 
Zeiss led the way for the fe­male foil squad with her 42-5 record, including an impres­sive 15-1 outing at the Notre Dame Duals on Jan. 28. 
Severson compiled a 37-7 mark for the Irish in the regu­lar season and earned a bronze medal at last month’s United States Fencing Associations National Junior Olympics. 
Purdy and McDonough both saw action for the men’s epee squad and finished with re­cords of 37-13 and 17-8, re­spectively. 
Bednarski is hoping his young fencers continue their strong performances this weekend. 
“We will see how they will compete in this event to show us the skill they have,” Bednar­ski said. “I hope that they will fence well.” 
The Irish also feature a strong group of upperclassmen that are looking to conclude their careers with solid out­ings, Bednarski said. 
“I believe that we have a few seniors who would like to show that in their senior year they did not waste their time and they are showing skill and helping our team to get better,” Bednarski said. 
Among those upperclassmen are junior Grant Hodges and seniors Enzo Castellani and Nicholas Crebs. Together, the three foilists took first place in last weekend’s United States Collegiate Squad Champion­ships at NYU. In addition to that trio, fellow senior foilist Reggie Bentley has been con­sistent throughout the year with a 38-17 record. Bednarski said he expects the group’s suc­cess to continue this weekend. 
“Our foil upperclassmen don’t have to show skill neces­sarily,” Bednarski said. “They have to win competitions like they won [at the Squad Cham­pionships]. Seniors like Bentley and Castellani are top NCAA champions and I know they will lead the team this week­end.” 
Bednarski knows not to ex­pect a repeat of last year’s performance, when the Irish claimed gold medals in all six of the squad events. Nonethe­less, the team is still hoping to head into the NCAA champion­ships on a high note, Bednarski said. 
“Last year we were so good that we won six gold medals in the squad tournaments,” Bed­narski said. “Obviously it will be very hard to repeat but we will still try to get a high posi­tion.” 
The Irish take to the mats Saturday inside the Joyce Cen­ter Fieldhouse for individual competition and return Sunday for the squad events. 
Contact Mike Monaco at jmonaco@nd.edu 



ND WOMEN’S TENNIS 

Irish host pair of dual meets 

Manos 
continued from page 20 
the Cavaliers in check in a 9-8 Drexel loss. 
Even with a talented goalie like Manos standing in their way, the Irish know they need to improve on their offensive output from the Penn State game, Corrigan said.  In the loss to the Nittany Lions, the Irishonly netted three goals on 21 shots. 
“We have just got to shoot the ball better,” Corrigan said. “You cannot make three out of 21 shots on the cage. You’re just not going to win many games doing that so we need to shoot the ball better.” 
The Irish hope to get back to the offense that found success against Duke, when Notre Dame reeled off seven unan­swered goals from a variety of goal scorers. 
On the other end of the field, Notre Dame’s defense will at­tempt to continue its strong play. The Irish, led by junior goalie John Kemp, have held their first two opponents to three and four goals, re­spectively. The netminder, a preseason member of the Tewaaraton Award watch list, has set career highs in saves in both games thus far, with 14 in the opener and 18 on Sunday. 
Stopping the Drexel offense will be a tough task, though, as the Dragons feature a ca­pable crew of scorers, Cor­rigan said. That being said, the Irish are confident in how they match up. 
“We stack up fine against them but we just need to de­fend some of their guys,” Cor­rigan said. “They have some very nifty offensive guys who are very skilled around the goal. So we have to keep them out of those opportunities in front of the cage where they can be dangerous.” 
One of Notre Dame’s keys to stopping the Drexel attack will be to limit transition chances. The Irish learned the impor­tance of doing so the hard way against Penn State, when the Nittany Lions capitalized on their open field chances. 
“I think [defending Drexel] starts at the other end of the field,” Corrigan said. “We need to be smart and not let them get out in transition. We gave [Penn State] some transi­tion opportunities that really came back to bite us.” 
Despite those few break­downs, Corrigan said he knows his defense has been tremendous in the early going. The Irish hope such stout per­formances continue Saturday. 
“Our six-on-six defense has been tremendous so far in the season,” Corrigan said. “I think if we control the transi­tion game against Drexel we should be fine.” 
Notre Dame looks to get back to its winning ways when it takes on the Dragons at Vidas Field at 1:00 p.m on Saturday. 
Contact Mike Monaco at jmonaco@nd.edu 


By VICKY JACOBSEN 
Sports Writer 

The Irish will face off against some of the best young players in the country this weekend, as they take on Iowa and a freshmen-lad­en Duke squad in a pair of home matches. 
The No. 3 Blue Devils (9-1, 0-0 ACC) may have three freshmen in their singles lineup, but their only loss this season came in the ITA National Women’s Team Indoor championships final in Charlot­tesville, Va., on Feb. 13, when they dropped a 4-0 decision to UCLA. Irish coach Jay Louderback said Duke would pose a great chal­lenge to his squad. 
“The biggest thing with [the Blue Devils] is their depth — they’re very good all the way through,” Louderback said. “They’ve got probably four or five players who could be playing [in the No. 1 position] at most schools, their depth’s so good.” 
The Duke squad includes fresh­man Beatrice Capra, who moved to No. 2 in the new ITA women’s singles rankings released Tues­day. Capra has won seven of her 10 collegiate matches against ranked opponents as part of an overall singles record of 13-3. Capra and her doubles partner, freshman Ester Goldfeld, are the No. 16 dou­bles tandem in the nation. 
The Blue Devils come into South Bend fresh off a 7-0 sweep of no. 42 VCU at home Sunday. 
Although Iowa (4-2, 0-0 Big 10) is not ranked by the ITA and has just two upperclassmen on the roster, the Hawkeyes have held their own against several strong teams this season. 
“Iowa is probably in the middle of the pack in the Big Ten; we re­ally don’t know a lot about them,” Louderback said. “They went down and played Oklahoma and Oklahoma State, and lost tight matches. Those teams are both ranked about No. 30 or No. 40 in the country right now.” 
The Hawkeyes dominated their last match, toppling Northern Iowa by a score of 7-0. 
The No. 17 Irish (8-3, 1-0 Big East) have won their last three matches, including wins over No. 65 Indiana (9-3, 0-0 Big Ten) and No. 16 Georgia Tech (5-5, 0-2 ACC) on Feb. 24 and 26, respectively. The impressive weekend show­ing moved Notre Dame up by six spots in the rankings, while Irish senior co-captains Shannon Mathews and Kristy Frilling are now ranked No. 2 in the ITA dou­bles rankings after winning both doubles matches in those Irish victories. 
“We did a great job last week­end with Georgia Tech — we played very well against them,” Louderback said. “Last week was probably the best back-to-back matches where we really com­peted well, and that’s just some­thing we’ve been working on and we want them to do that again this weekend.” 
Louderback said Notre Dame can upset Duke if the team plays like it did against Indiana and Georgia Tech. 
“I think they’re big matches, especially getting a shot at Duke, a team that’s No. 3 in the country. We have a chance to beat them if we play well,” Louderback said. “Our kids are looking forward to playing a team ranked that high this week.” 
The Irish will take on the Hawk-eyes at 3:30 p.m. Friday at the Eck Tennis Pavilion, and will return at the same time Saturday to chal­lenge the Blue Devils. 
Contact Vicky Jacobsen at vjacobse@nd.edu 


Maday 
continued from page 20 
past, and we’re just looking forward and trying to put to­gether a string of wins.” 
The Irish pulled off a split against No. 15 Michigan State at home last weekend, and the three points enabled the Irish to move into a tie in points with Ohio State (15-13-5, 11­12-5-1) for eighth place in the CCHA. Because they hold the tiebreaker over the Buckeyes, the Irish received home ice in the crucial first-round series and now will benefit from the playoff atmosphere in Compton Family Ice Arena’s first post­season game. 
“[Getting home ice] was re­ally important,” Maday said. “We recognize the road you have to go through to get to [Joe Louis Arena in Detroit] is a tough one, and any time you can grab a home series for at least one round is huge. Play­ing in front of your home fans will definitely help with playoff hockey.” 
The match-up with the Buck­eyes pits two teams who have had remarkably similar sea­sons against each other on the ice. Ohio State got off to a blis­tering start in both non-con­ference and early CCHA play and climbed to No. 2 in the na­tional rankings at its highest point. Since then, the team has slid dramatically and fell out of the national polls after being swept by Miami last weekend. Maday said the team is aware that Ohio State, like Notre Dame, has struggled heading into this weekend’s series. 
“We understand that they were pretty hot early on, then fell into a similar situation that we did,” he said. “We’re ex­pecting a hardworking team that’s going to do whatever they can to try to win the se­ries, just like we are. We have to bring our effort, we have to play disciplined and execute our system, I think, in order to advance.” 

Sophomore winger Jeff Costello, who recently re­turned from prolonged injury to deepen the top Irish lines, said the series will come down to confidence on the ice. 
“Ohio State is very good. They’ve been struggling re­cently, but so have we, and we know the potential threat of teams that haven’t been playing as well as they want to,” Costello said. “I think we need to just play physically, play with confidence, which is something we haven’t been do­ing too much lately.” 
The series is critical for Notre Dame’s chances at se­lection in the NCAA tourna­ment. The Irish and Buckeyes are tied for the No. 18 spot in the PairWise rankings. The top 11 teams in the PairWise rankings, after automatic bids have been awarded to confer­ence champions, round out the tournament field. If Notre Dame wins this weekend’s series they will travel to play against No. 3 Ferris State, No. 6 Michigan or No. 16 Western Michigan. Maday said it is cru­cial the team takes advantage of the home series to boost its PairWise ranking. 
“I think everyone’s been looking at the rankings and doing some math problems, and I think we control our des­tiny to have a legitimate shot, and this is something we defi­nitely need – to put a couple of wins together here,” he said. 
The puck will drop in Friday and Saturday’s contests at 7:35 
p.m. at Compton Family Ice Arena, with the rubber game Sunday getting underway at 
7:05 p.m. if necessary. 
Contact Chris Allen at callen10@nd.edu 

Rivalry 
continued from page 20 
of this rivalry.” 
The Irish (2-0) are 9-7 all-time against the No. 10 Buck­eyes despite dropping a 13-8 decision last season. 
Last week, Notre Dame dropped Duquesne 17-7 by ripping off nine unanswered goals after trailing early. 
“It was an interesting feeling out there [in the first half],” Halfpenny said. “A little sense of frustration was setting in on offense but in reality, we were getting all the looks we want­ed. Once we stepped in and got a little bit of a better angle, we were able to get back to feeling good about ourselves.” 
Sophomore attack Lindsay Powell, sophomore midfielder Margaret Smith and junior at­tack Betsy Mastropieri all tal­lied three goals in the victory. 
“Being down in the first 10 minutes is completely different than being down in the final 10 [minutes],” Halfpenny said. “Our girls stayed very poised and they made the adjust­ments they had to so our shots would fall.” 
The Buckeyes (5-0) are very similar to the Irish from sever­al statistical standpoints. Both teams average at least 17 goals per game and both squads shoot over 50 percent. 
“They’re a very athletic team, aggressive,” Halfpenny said. “On paper, we match up really nicely. They have a number of different scoring threats. You almost look at it and go ‘Wow, that sounds like us.’” 
Halfpenny also likened Ohio State senior attack Alayna Markwordt to Irish senior at­tack Maggie Tamasitis, the catalyst for Notre Dame. Markwordt, the nation’s lead­ing scorer, has scored 13 goals and assisted on 15 more this year. Last season, she notched 52 goals and 27 assists. 
“She’s been a huge contribu­tor for them over the course of her career,” Halfpenny said. “Is it how you stop her or is it how you limit her? The beauty is that we have to play against Maggie every day and she gives us that look as a righty.” 
Halfpenny said she is not concerned the Buckeyes have played three more games than the Irish and foresees a close contest in Columbus, Ohio. 
“We’re looking forward to a really evenly matched game,” Halfpenny said. “Their style is similar to what we do. We’re expecting a fast, aggressive, confident team. We’re excited for the challenge.” 
The top-15 clash between the Irish and Ohio State starts at 1 p.m. Sunday. 
Contact Matthew DeFranks at mdefrank@nd.edu 



Pitching 
continued from page 20 
some solid innings from the bullpen in the latter stages of the game. The one glaring spot is our middle relief to setup [relieving]. If we can figure out that bullpen and the roles they are comfortable in, we can im­prove even more.” 
Meanwhile, Notre Dame (5­
1) finds itself on a three-game winning streak of its own, fresh off a three-game sweep of Hofstra in North Carolina where the Irish totaled 21 runs. Senior first baseman Casey Kalenkosky leads the Cougars into the showdown with Notre Dame in the midst of a seven-game hitting streak Irish sophomore first baseman Trey Mancini has built on his breakout freshman year with an even bigger start to his sophomore season. In the last 25 years, only former Irish first baseman Tim Hutson has more RBIs (13) to kick off the sea­son than Mancini’s 12. Coupled with Mancini’s hot start, the emergence of junior catcher Joe Hudson — who is batting .591 with two home runs and nine RBIs — has given the Irish offense the boost it so often lacked last season. 
“Trey has been great,” Aoki said. “Even when he hasn’t made good contact he gets on base. He is a really good hitter and doesn’t give away many at-bats and pitchers have to make really good pitches to get him out. 
“I’m also really pleased with Hudson and performing at a level that is on-par with how he good has been defensively.” 
Despite losing a core group of veteran players from last year’s squad, Aoki said he is not shocked by the fast start, given the rare mix of chemis­try and focus the young team has shown thus far. 
“As our practices went on I started to feel like our team had a chance to be really good,” Aoki said. “There are some concerns regardless of the 5-1 start, but it is a team that has really jelled and the chemistry and mindset has been really good. It’s fun to go to practice and coach. I don’t have to coach the expectations or the approach or the effort. At the end of the day, I’m not surprised we are 5-1. I love the way our kids have approached it and do a really good job of competing.” 
Notre Dame will head south to take on Texas State in a three-game series, with to­night’s opener slated for 7:30 
p.m. in San Marcos, Texas. 
Contact Andrew Gastelum at agastel1@nd.edu 
MEN’S GOLF 

ND alumni to reunite with current team in Fla. 
Brey 
continued from page 18 

Notre Dame (20-10, 12-5) has the opportunity to clinch a double-bye in next week’s Big East tournament with a win over the Friars. The Irish face the added emotions of senior night, as the program will honor forward Scott Mar­tin and injured forward Tim Abromaitis, who has missed all but two games with a torn ACL. 
Both Abromaitis and Mar­tin, who missed the 2009-10 season due to injury, have ap­plied for a sixth year of eligi­bility, but Brey said he under­stands the possibility neither will suit up for the Irish in Pur­cell Pavilion again after Friday night’s contest. 
“We’re going to honor them both and maybe we’re going to have one or two guys have the first back-to-back senior days, so it’s a little bit unusual,” he said. “I look at it as certainly we could not get either of them back, but I think Scott’s case has a better chance, so I really look at it as a night to honor Tim and everything he’s done for our basketball program. 
“It’s been a tough year for him, but I think we’ve hurt for him more than he’s hurt for us, as we’ve gotten going and he hasn’t been a part of it.” 
With the offense in a funk at St. John’s and Georgetown in the back-to-back losses that included a combined 7-of-48 performance from beyond the arc, Brey said the friendly con­fines of Purcell Pavilion could not come at a better time for Notre Dame. 
“I think it’s always good for us when we lose or struggle on the road to come back and get practice reps on our floor and get the Wilson balls back in our hands and play a little bit,” he said. “I think it’s important for our group … in practice to play and get in a rhythm, be­cause we didn’t have [rhythm] in either game over the week­end.” 
Notre Dame will add former Irish star Adrian Dantley to the Ring of Honor during half­time of the game. Dantley, the former two-time all-American and national player of the year, averaged 25.8 points per game during his career and will join former greats Luke Haran­gody, Ruth Riley and Austin Carr in the Ring of Honor. 
The Irish and Friars will tip­off at Purcell Pavilion at 7 p.m. tonight. 
Contact Andrew Owens at aowens2@nd.edu 


By CONOR KELLY 
Sports Writer 
Coming off a victory at the Match Play in Orlando, Fla., and facing a month off of NCAA competition before the presti­gious Schenkel Invitational, the Irish will bridge the gap with the Alumni Match Weekend beginning Saturday at the Sea Pines Resort in Hilton Head Is­land, S.C. 
The event will feature the present Irish team paired with Notre Dame golf alumni, both as a practice round for the team and as a means of building co­hesion within the program. 
“It’s a two-fold goal we have here,” Irish coach Jim Kubinski said. “One on hand, it’s a huge part of our preparation for the spring, but it’s also a nice bonus to have the guys interact with the alumni. They have a chance to talk to the graduates, and they learn a lot from these in­teractions.” 
Continuing their strong, con­sistent play from the opening event of the season will be a pri­ority for the Irish. Sophomore Niall Platt was named Big East golfer of the week for his 4-0 re­cord at the Match Play. 
“It’s pretty neat for Platt be­cause he has a lot of competi­tion not just in the conference but on his own team, with guys like Max [Scodro] and Tom [Usher] who have previously taken home honors,” Kubin­ski said. “The attention is well-deserved. He has a great all-around game.” 
Kubinski attributes both Platt’s and the team’s strong early performance to the un­usually high number of rounds the Irish have gotten in out­doors, outside of the confines of the Rolfs Family Varsity Golf Facility at Warren Golf Course. 
“For the first time that I’ve been here, we’ve played five times in February,” Kubinski said. “I think it really makes a difference, and the more that we play outdoors the better off we’ll be.” 
The Irish may not have to wait long to be outside for good. With temperatures on Wednes­day reaching the 60s, the fore­cast is good for an early opening of Notre Dame’s home course. Currently, the Warren is sched­uled to open for play March 15. 
“We’re really excited about the prospect of getting out on the course early,” Kubinski said. “I’ve been over there, and it doesn’t look like it took too bad of a hit from winter. It’s en­couraging.” 
Following the Alumni Match Weekend, the Irish will stay in the south for their spring break, playing practice rounds along the route from South Carolina to Statesboro, Ga., the location of the Schenkel Invitational. 
Contact Conor Kelly at                 ckelly17@nd.edu 


WILL SHORTz 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 
CROSSWORD 



HENRy ARNOLD 

THE CLAMMY HANDSHAKE JOE MILLER and KELLy LyNCH 
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 





Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556

 Enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year


 Enclosed
 is $75 for one semester 


Name ____________________________________________________ Address __________________________________________________ City ____________________ State___________ Zip______________ 

Friday, March 2, 2012 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 20 
MEN’S BASKETBALL 

Friar fighters 
Providence poses challenge in Purcell 
By ANDREW OWENS 
Associate Sports Editor 
After suffering back-to-back losses for the first time since mid-January in a stretch that snapped a school-record nine-game Big East winning streak, the Irish return home for se­nior night Friday against Provi­dence. 
The Friars (15-15, 4-13 Big East) have struggled through­out most of the season, but have won consecutive games head­ing into the matchup with Notre Dame, including a 72-70 win over Connecticut on Tuesday. 

“We’ll have a heck of a chal­lenge,” Irish coach Mike Brey said. “Providence, with what they did against [Connecticut] and what they did against Lou­isville up at Providence, they can really score the ball. But practice time on our floor and playing in our building has al­ways been a remedy to hit the reset button [after losses].” JULIE HERDER/The Observer 
Freshman forward Pat Connaughton shields the ball from a Rutgers defender during Notre Dame’s see BREY/page 18 71-53 victory on Feb. 15. The Irish host Providence tonight in Purcell Pavilion. 

WOMEN’S LACROSSE 
Halfpenny, Irish off to Horseshoe 
By MATTHEW DeFRANKS 
Sports Writer 
The last time a Notre Dame team played in Ohio Stadium, it was the men’s lacrosse team in 2009. This Sunday, the No. 14 Irish will become the next team to face off with Ohio State in the famed stadium. 
Ohio Stadium, the 102,329-seat home of the Buckeye football team, will host its fourth women’s la­crosse game of the year Sunday. 
“Whenever you get an op­portunity to play in a venue that could be a once-in-a­lifetime opportunity to play in, it’s neat,” Irish coach Christine Halfpenny said. “It’s something else that just adds to the experience 
see RIVALRY/page 17 
MEN’S LACROSSE 

Drexel provides new opportunity after overtime loss 
By MIKE MONACO convincing win over then-No. the Duke game,” Corrigan facets of the game, Corrigan Manning the cage for Drexel Sports Writer 2 Duke on Feb. 18 before fall-said. “That was playing with said. is senior goalie Mark Manos, ing to the Nittany Lions. an intensity level and a focus “[The Dragons] are a very a two-time all-American. Coming off Sunday’s over-Saturday’s matchup against that allowed us to compete so good team,” Corrigan said. Though his team has a losing time loss to Penn State, the Drexel (1-2) provides the Irish well and so hard. I don’t think “They’re probably a team that record, Manos has kept the No. 9 Irish look to get back with an opportunity to get we brought all that to the compares to Penn State. They Dragons close throughout the on track Saturday when they back to playing the way they Penn State game.” have excellent goalie play and early part of the season. In hit the road to take on No. 20 did in the season opener, Irish That focus and intensity they have a few offensive guys the season opener against No. Drexel in Philadelphia. coach Kevin Corrigan said. will be necessary against the who are extremely dangerous 1 Virginia, Manos helped keep Notre Dame (1-1) opened “I think we have got to get Dragons, who are similar to — and they’re a well coached 
up the 2012 campaign with a back to what we did going into the Nittany Lions in multiple team.” see MANOS/page 16 
BASEBALL 

Aoki, team hope to maintain strong start 
By ANDREW GASTELUM 
Sports Writer 
Off to their best start since 2004, the burgeoning Irish bats will face their biggest test of the young season on the road against a first-rate Texas State pitching staff. 
The Cougars (5-3) come into the series on a three-game winning streak, including a 1-0 win over No. 18 TCU on Tuesday. The shutout over the Horned Frogs (2-5) marked the fourth straight game where a Cougar starter did not give up an earned run, while also add­ing to the 23 consecutive score­less innings streak compiled by the Texas State rotation. 
“They are a good team. They have made the NCAA tourna­ment a number of years in the row and have been contend­ers,” Irish coach Mik Aoki said. “They are well-coached and a phenomenal pitching staff with some good power arms. They have been able to win games on the strength of their pitch­ing. It’ll give us a barometer for where we are and what we need to do to get better.” 
The Texas State offense also poses a threat to the young Irish pitching staff, which lost all of last year’s starting rota­tion to graduation Although the young pitchers have held up well through the first six games, Aoki said the bullpen and middle relief is what con­cerns him most. 
“The one place where I would especially like to see improve­ment is our relief pitching,” Aoki said. “We need to [get] 
see PITCHING/page 18 
HOCKEY 

Postseason begins with OSU 
By CHRIS ALLEN 
Sports Writer 
After a disappointing regular season in which Notre Dame dropped from preseason No. 1 to No. 18 at the close of the schedule, the Irish (17-16-3, 12-13-3-0 CCHA) begin the postseason in the first round of the CCHA tournament by hosting Ohio State in a three-game series. 
Irish senior captain and forward Billy Maday said the team has the opportunity to define its season with a play­off run, regardless of how the regular season ended. 
“I think there’s nowhere else to go but up,” Maday said. “Our attitudes are good right now, everyone’s posi­tive, and we look at the play­off season as a fresh season. Everything else that hap­pened negatively is in the 
see MADAY/page 17 


SARAH O’CONNOR/The Observer 

Sophomore center David Gerths looks to pass during a 3-2 Irish loss on Feb. 4 against Bowling Green in the Compton Family Ice Arena. 




