The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 46, issue 43 | MONDAY, OctOber 29, 2012 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Declan Sullivan Memorial Fund helps youth 
Sullivan family selects Horizons for Youth foundation as beneficiary for memorial fund 
declan’s 40, a group of new stu-football team. saturday marked “This was a kind of gener-horizons for youth emerged 
By MEGAN DOYLE 

managing editor dents admitted to the horizons the second anniversary of his osity, it caught us off guard,” as a perfect fit for the sullivan for youth program because death. barry said. “we sat down and family. The program’s founders Jocelyn. emari. alexander. of support from the declan barry sullivan, declan’s fa-we talked about the things that graduated from benet academy, deJon. micah. sophia. drumm sullivan memorial ther, said the family wanted to mattered to us as a family and where barry and his wife alison 
These children are just six stu-Fund. put the outpouring of donations the things that we knew were attended high school, and its dents at the chicago non-profit declan sullivan died october they received after his son’s important to declan, and we address is right next door to old horizons for youth, which pro-27, 2010, after a video tower from death to good use in their com-came up with a set of criteria st. patrick’s church, where the vides need-based scholarships, which he was filming football munity. The sullivan family es-for a memorial fund. it included couple was married and bap-long-term one-on-one mentor-practice fell. he was double-ma-tablished the declan drumm education, supporting the local tized all three of their children. ing and enrichment programs joring in marketing and Film, sullivan memorial Fund and community, things that would most importantly, the to area children. These children Television and Theatre, and was chose horizons for youth as its have an immediate impact in are just six students among a student videographer for the primary beneficiary last year. the local community.” see sullivan PAGe 6 



electiON 2012 


Election ads slam candidates 
By MADDIE DALY 
news writer 

with the election right around the corner, it is impossible to turn on the television without seeing political campaign ads that often slam the opponent and provide little, if any, significant information. 
marketing professor Joe urbany said this election’s ads are especially inef­fective and confusing for voters. 
“negative advertising has an impact because it stands out from our natu­ral tendency to view people in a positive light,” he said. 

“voters are confronted with a firestorm of conten­tious ads, each followed by an immediate and aggres­sive denial, almost all of it devoid of evidence.” 
The candidates spent ex­ceptional amounts of mon­ey on ads that hardly hold real information and po­tentially lessen the quality of the campaign, urbany said. They do not add much to a campaign and have not substantially helped either part y.  
“The irony this year — with estimates of [more than] 80 percent of both parties’ budgets spent on negative messages about the opponent — is that neither ad campaign stands out,” he said. “it’s become like a prisoner’s dilemma in game theory. each cam­paign has gone progres­sively more negative, only to be matched by the other. The ad campaigns are can-celling each other out.” 
voters receive mixed messages from the ads that may even contain false in­formation, urbany said. 
“it is impossible to dis­tinguish fact from conjec­ture from fiction,” urbany said.  
although it is common for politicians to speak in vague terms, urbany said 
see elecTion PAGe 5 


ndsp investigates forcible fondling 
Observer Staff Report 
notre dame security police (ndsp) is investigating a week­end report of forcible fondling that occurred at a student-spon­sored event in the late hours of Friday evening, according to an email alert sent to students saturday. 
Forcible fondling is defined in the email as “the touching of the private body parts of another person for the purpose of sexual gratification, forcibly and/or against that person’s will; or, not forcibly or against that person’s will where the victim is inca­pable of giving consent because of his/her youth or because of his/her temporary or permanent mental incapacity.” The defi­nition is legally established by federal law, cited in the email as the Jeanne clery disclosure of campus security policy and campus crime statistics or the clery act. 
The incident, which was re­ported to ndsp on saturday, oc­curred in a building on the north side of campus where a student-sponsored event was taking place, the email stated. 
“Forcible fondling … and oth­er sexual assaults can happen to anyone,” the email stated. “being aware of your own safety and watching out for your friends are important steps you can take to 
see police PAGe 3 


meaTless mondays PAGe 4 viewpoinT PAGe 8 scene PAGe 10 men’s baskeTball PAGe 20 



ndsmcobserver.com 

p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
allan Joseph 

Managing Editor  Business Manager 
megan doyle  Jeff liptak 

Asst. Managing Editor: andrew owens 
Asst. Managing Editor: sam stryker News Editor: John cameron News Editor: kristen durbin 

Viewpoint Editor: meghan Thomassen Sports Editor: chris allen Scene Editor: kevin noonan Saint Mary’s Editor: Jillian barwick Photo Editor: suzanna pratt Graphics Editor: brandon keelean Multimedia Editor: sarah o’connor Advertising Manager: monica mccormack Ad Design Manager: sara hilstrom Controller: peter woo Systems Administrator: william heineman 

Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ajoseph2@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 mdoyle11@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 aowens2@nd.edu sstryke1@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 

Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 

Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 


Scene Desk 

(574) 631-4540 observer.scene.editor@gmail.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
jbarwi01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 


Policies 

The observer is the independent, daily newspaper 
published in print and online by the students of the 
university of notre dame du lac and saint mary’s 
college.  editorial content, including advertisements, is 
not governed by policies of the administration of either 
institution. The observer reserves the right to refuse 
advertisements based on content. 

The news is reported as accurately and objectively 
as possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion 
of the majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, 
assistant managing editors and department editors. 
commentaries, letters and columns present the views of 
the authors and not necessarily those of The observer. 
viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include 
contact information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed 
to Editor-in-Chief Allan Joseph. 

post office information The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The observer is published at: 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-0779 periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices posTmasTer send address corrections to: The observer p.o. box 779 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-077 The observer is a member of the associated press. all reproduction rights are reserved. 


Have a question you want answered? 
Email obsphoto@gmail.com 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: 

What is one word to describe the ND vs. Oklahoma game? 

Morgan Hankamer 
sophomore pasquerilla west hall 
“epic.” 
Dennis Lee 
freshman keenan hall 
“divine.” 
Anna Ruggirello 
senior lyons hall 
“relevant.” 

Jumi Cadmus 
junior mcglinn hall 
“magical.” 
Devin Velasco 
freshman dillon hall 
“Te’o.” 
Patrick Meade 
sophomore 
carroll hall 
“electrifying.” 


Students and fans packed the Purcell Pavilion on Friday night for an NBA preseason exhibition game between the Chicago Bulls and Indiana Pacers. The Bulls beat the Pacers in a tight 97-90 contest. 

Want your event included here? 
News Sports 

mel Flanagan sam gans Email obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 

ann marie Jakubowski conor kelly carolyn hutyra aaron sant-miller 
Graphics Scene 

Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday 
Jacqueline o’neill courtney cox 
Photo Viewpoint 

“The Effective BAVO Speaker Jewish religious A Time to Heal Dinner Readings from 
suzanna pratt caroline schurz 
Leadership” Student Center (SMC) expression in ND Stadium Dante’s “Divine Carole Sandner Hall 7 p.m. Byzantine Palestine 5 p.m.-6:30 p.m. Comedy” 3 p.m.-4:30 p.m. The Belles Against McKenna Hall Foster community Campus-wide 
Corrections 

An Irish perspective Violence Office hosts 2 p.m.-7 p.m. healing against sexual 2 p.m.-5 p.m. 
The observer regards itself as from Mary Hanafin. Debbie Riddle. Register online. violence. Public performance. a professional publication and strives for the highest standards 
Film: “Alotrolado, To Art Dept. Fundraiser “Know Your Rights as El Día de los Muertos ND Chorale Concert 
of journalism at all times. we do, 
the Other Side” Riley Hall an Author” Hesburgh Cener DeBartolo Performing 
however, recognize that we will make 
Geddes Hall 11 a.m.-2 p.m. Geddes Hall 6 p.m.-8 p.m. Arts Center 
mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 
7 p.m. Chili cookoff. Funds 4 p.m.-5:30 p.m. Day of the Dead 8 p.m.-9 p.m. 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
Screening and panel go to breast cancer Lecture by Nick festivities. Free and Renaissance to 
we can correct our error. 

discussion. screenings. Shockey. open to the public. present-day works. 

ndsmcobserver.com | MONDAY, OctOber 29, 2012 | The observer 

Students intern in fashion 
By BRIDGET FEENEY 
associate saint mary’s editor 
sometimes work can be more than just tedious — per­haps even fashionable. senior miranda peretti’s internship this year serves as a learning ex­perience and a fun activity that allows her to explore her inter­ests in the fashion industry. 
peretti interns with rent the runway, an online company that allows customers to rent designer dresses and accesso­ries for a fraction of the price. The company attracted her be­cause of its unique method for girls to switch up their ward­robe frequently, peretti said. 
“with a roster of [more than] 150 top designers and 25,000 of the season’s hottest dresses and 4,000 accessories, [rent the runway] is designer fashion delivered to your doorstep for a fraction of the price,” she said. 
according to the company’s website, rent the runway of­fers high-quality products and individual customer service to each girl who rents a dress or accessory, because “users benefit from the expertise of professional stylists and the shared wisdom of like-minded fashion-forward members.” 
peretti became involved with rent the runway after a con­versation with saint mary’s graduate and fellow rent the runway intern brenna lasky. after applying online, peretti was selected and began work right away. 

“i began as the marketing rep this year, but became co-man­ager when one of our other co-managers stepped down,” she said. “brenna brought rent the runway to smc last year and started our on-campus team. she also interned at the cor­porate office in new york this 
“My favorite part about Rent the Runway is it combines two of my favorite topics, business and fashion.” 
Miranda Peretti 
senior 

summer.” 
peretti and her co-manager, senior katie Thompson, over­see the promotion of rent the runway through various events at saint mary’s. They are responsible for encouraging students to sign up to be mem­bers and borrow from rent the runway. The pair man­ages a team of five interns who brainstorm ways to increase business. 
“we are the go-to people for team communication and also provide direction and leader­ship,” peretti said. “we also re­lay information from corporate in relation to goals for the month.” 
For peretti, this internship is a great way to gain experi­ence in the professional world, but also to work in the fashion industry. 
“my favorite part about rent the runway is it combines two of my favorite topics, busi­ness and fashion,” she said. “i love getting the update emails of upcoming trends and new dresses [and] accessories that are available.” 
despite her love of fashion and business, peretti said there are still some obstacles she, Thompson and their team of interns must overcome in order to ensure the company goals are met. 
“our biggest challenge is ad­vertising,” she said. “we have to be creative to grab girl’s atten­tion, but we must still comply with saint mary’s rules.” 
regardless of any difficul­ties, peretti said she is looking forward to the events she and Thompson have planned for this year. 
“we plan on having several events on campus this year, including tabling, trunk shows and a fashion show,” she said. “Trunk shows allow girls to try on various dresses while ta­bling helps to spread the word about the company.” 
Contact Bridget Feeney at bfeene01@saintmarys.edu 
paid adverTisemenT 


CLC discusses diversity, inclusion 
By CAROLYN HUTYRA 
news writer 
dr. g. david moss, a se­nior consultant in the office of student affairs, updated campus life council at its Friday afternoon meeting on progress in the department. 
moss said there is cur­rently confusion on how to report acts of discrimination on campus, and his office is working on a one-place stop to report issues of “harass­ment, discrimination, sexual violence, sexual assault [and] sexual misconduct.” 
“we are hoping to have that in place this academic year,” he said. 
The office of student affairs highlighted diversity for staff this year, and the department required addi­tional diversity training for hall staff and multicultural commissioners. moss said the First year of studies office also used training videos for first-year faculty members. 
“iris [outlaw, director of multicultural student programs and services] has created a video that we can use to facilitate discussion,” he said. “That will be the cornerstone of our work with residence halls and residence hall staff.” 
The video, coupled with en­gaging conversation, is nec­essary to improve upon the university’s acceptance of di­versity, moss said. 
“we want to celebrate di­versity, [but] we don’t want to do it in such a way that it creates wedges between peo­ple,” morrissey manor rector Fr. ron vierling said. “i think we need to do a better job of preaching catholic social Justice based upon the first principle, which is human dignity.” 
one way to build up human dignity is through the resi­dence hall staff, moss said. 
in order to accomplish this, outlaw said the university should consider revamping its resident assistant selec­tion process. 
“some institutions have a class that their [resident as­sistants] have to go through,” she said. “Four to five hun­dred students apply, but they have to go through a semes­ter-long course or a six-week course.” 
such a class would help dis­suade students from using the position as a resume builder, outlaw said. also, chosen res­ident assistants would form diversity programs during the class that they could im­plement in their dorms dur­ing the academic year. 
moss said the student affairs office has already taken steps toward this goal, most recently by reviewing the websites of 70 depart­ments and halls to make sure their online presences appear inclusive. 
moss is scheduled to attend an upcoming undergraduate studies council to discuss implementing a statement on all course syllabi that dem­onstrates the university’s commitment to diversity. The clause would read similar to the sentence, “This class val­ues inclusivity and diversity.” 
The office is also looking into the establishment of a new course, “introduction to cultural competency,” that may be required for all incoming freshmen in the future, moss said.  The class is currently going through a pilot stage with nineteen freshmen. 
moss said he wants to cre­ate more interest on the topic, and his office is look­ing for any opportunities to help progress the message of diversity. 
Contact Carolyn Hutyra at chutyra@nd.edu 
Police 
conTinued From page 1 
reduce the risk of sexual assault.” 
information about sexual as­sault prevention and resources for survivors of sexual assault is available from ndsp and the committee for sexual assault prevention online. To report a crime in progress, suspicious ac­tivity or another emergency, dial 911 from any campus phone or 574-631-5555 from a cell phone. 



ndsmcobserver.com | MONDAY, OctOber 29, 2012 | The observer 

Dining halls join meatless campaign 
Office of Sustainability sponsors national program to promote healthy eating, nutritional awareness 
week, it is a logical day for start-
By CLAIRE BRADY 

news writer ing new habits and resolutions. 
meatless Fridays in lent 

Today marks the second week would continue unchanged of notre dame Food services’ alongside meatless mondays participation in meatless next semester, wenzel said. mondays, a nationwide cam-“Fridays in lent will not go paign to encourage healthy, sus-away. it’s a separate thing,” she tainable and cruelty-free dining. said. “This is more of an educa­
lisa wenzel, assistant director tional campaign with national of catering and special events at support.” Food services, said the move-wenzel hopes students will ment aims to offer a wider range embrace the opportunity to go of meatless options, which she meatless for a day, or at least hopes will give students expo-sample some of the new meat-sure to both new foods and new less options. ideas. “i would encourage people to 
The monday campaigns, a give it a try,” wenzel said. “it’s an campaign that dedicates the opportunity for new experience first day of each week to health, and exposure.” and the humane society of the united states coordinated the Contact Claire Brady at movement, which is co-spon-cbrady5@nd.edu sored at notre dame by the 
paid adverTisemenT 
office of sustainability. 
“The humane society actu­ally approached us first about starting meatless mondays” wenzel said. “They introduced us to the concept, and we really liked its educational benefits and its benefits for nutrition and sustainability.” 
while the dining halls will continue to serve meat on mondays, consistent with oth­er universities implementing the program, wenzel said it is important that students learn about the nutritional and envi­ronmental advantages of eating less meat. These include de­creased rates of heart disease, obesity and several types of can­cer, as well as a reduced carbon footprint and of course the pro­motion of animal welfare. 
“you might not be worried [about the health risks] as stu­dents, but later in life, it’s good to be aware of,” wenzel said. 
in order to keep the new op­tions appealing to students, wenzel said the dining halls would try to serve meatless ver­sions of familiar dishes, such as fajitas and burgers, along with some unique ethnic options. 
“last week we had vegetar­ian sliders, like veggie burgers and falafel burgers on a smaller scale, and people seemed to like them,” she said. “it’s all about having something you like and enjoying it without meat.” 
some meatless dishes in store at the dining halls today include portabella fajitas, along with goat cheese and asparagus pas­ta, quinoa rice corn cakes, sa­vory vegetable pancakes and an indian stew. 
in regards to the relationship between meatless mondays and the catholic tradition of meatless Fridays, wenzel said monday was designated as the dining halls’ day to incorporate less meat because of the support from the national program. The monday campaigns organiza­tion promotes various move­ments to make monday a day of increased commitment to health because, at the beginning of the 




ndsmcobserver.com | MONDAY, OctOber 29, 2012 | The observer 

ROTC battalion undergoes tactical exercises 
Navy ROTC Marine options join Notre Dame International Security Program Fellows in weekend training 

definitely the most fun,” 
By NICOLE MICHELS 

Thomas said. “it was nice to continue training in a more most members of the notre 
news writer 

relaxed and fun atmosphere.” dame community woke up 
campbell said he was Friday morning looking for-
awed by the way that the ward to one last day of work 
marines accomplished each before the weekend, but the 
objective. notre dame international 
“There was that one super-security program (ndisp) 
hero moment where the gun-Fellows and the marine op­
nery sergeant picked up the tions in the navy roTc bat-
flag and ran by two people, talion instead geared up for 
shooting with one hand and tactical exercises conduct-
carrying the flag in the other ed at the sherwood Forest 
— he shot them both in the paintball arena. 
head and won the game,” 
Friday’s event marked the 

campbell said. “i’m just so second time ndisp and the 
impressed with the commu­navy roTc marine options 
nication and execution of the have collaborated on this marines and especially their usmc small unit Tactics officers, their ability to move seminar, michael desch, co-without being detected and director of ndisp, said. our own tactical exercises,” said. “myself and the other option working out with the to arrive in places where you 
“The purpose was twofold: mccormick said. “when amazing members of fire marine battalion to gain a didn’t expect them and then familiarize ndisp fellows ndisp arrived and got the team two had to decide en-better sense of military col-you get shot in the face.” with what goes on on the equipment, we listened to a ter the building on our own laboration, said flexibility is Thomas said he walked ground with a marine squad, quick safety brief, and then and had to compete the mis-essential to any mission. away with an increased un­and to give the fellows and the [marine options] dem-sion with a hasty plan that “if you are not constantly derstanding of the impor­the marine option cadets the onstrated the orders process we developed on the fly.” changing the original plan tance of communication. opportunity to get to know and a hvT capture exercise.” campbell said his fire team and adapting to new situa-“The biggest lesson that i each other in a non-academ-mccormick said this was took the two hTv officers tions, you will undoubtedly think everyone learned was ic environment,” desch said. the most memorable part of by surprise when the squad fail,” Thomas said. “no plan the importance of communi­“i hope we were able to com-the seminar. reached them. is ever perfect, no matter cation; without communica­bine national security edu-“it demonstrated the diffi-“i think in some ways we how much time is spent plan-tion you have three fire teams cation and a bit of fun.” culties caused by casualties surprised them, they didn’t ning, so being able to adapt trying to implement their 
marine option pla-and the importance of a suc-know we were coming in the and make split second deci-own plan of attack,” Thomas toon commander mike cession of command and ag-front door, and we went in sions will be the difference said. “communication al­mccormick said the roTc gressiveness in overcoming 
between life and death.” lows for the integration of program asks its cadets to casualties,” mccormick said. 
The biggest struggle for the the fire teams so that the 
“We train to be 

ndisp participants complet-objective can be completed cal and mental real-world campbell said he was most 
participate in both physi-ndisp Fellow peter 
leaders both ing the mission was main-using teamwork, which min-simulations. impressed by the marines’ 
with physical taining communication and imizes the amount of casual­“we train to be leaders obvious training and 
coordinating improvisa-ties experienced.” 
training to develop 

both with physical train-communication. 
tion between the squads, For campbell, the seminar 
the requisite 

ing to develop the requisite “The thing that stands out 
campbell said. put a human face to mili­self-discipline, toughness in my mind was their amaz­
self-discipline, “That really drove home tary operations and tactical and endurance, and we train ing ability to work as a team, 
toughness and the friction, the complex-decisions. for the moral and mental as-and their extensive training 
ity, the uncertainty and the “For me it really brought 
endurance and 

pects of leadership through in this kind of operation and need to just act,” campbell home the inherent difficulty 
we train for 

leadership positions within advance,” campbell said. 
said. “There is such a temp-of even the most simple mili­the unit and through exer-“it was impressive to watch 
the moral and tation to stay where you are tary operation,” campbell cises like tactical and ethical them work together, and to 
mental aspects of to stay safe, but what’s really said.  “The take-away, when-based decision games,” he watch their communication 
needed is to do the opposite ever you ask the military to 
leadership.” 

of that: keep moving, that’s carry out an operation, is said. and improvisation as the ex-
Mike McCormick 
the safest thing to do even that it always carries that mccormick said the first ercise unfolded.” 

platoon commander 

though it’s contrary to your sense of uncertainty and game called for the marine next, the ndisp fellows 
Marine option NROTC 

options to assault a guarded were organized into three 
human instinct.” difficulty… it is not some-fortress to retrieve two of-squads and asked to com-
after both groups execut-thing to be taken lightly … ficers who were acting as plete the same hvT exercise, the front door, up the stairs ed the objective, they com-hopefully this will give [the high-value targets (hvTs). campbell said. and onto the balcony with-bined forces to play multiple ndisp Fellows] a better un­
“The marine options ar-“The first fire team [squad] out them even knowing,” he two-sided paintball games, derstanding of the difficulty rived at sherwood around took heavy casualties and said. “There’s such a strong Thomas said. inherent in those tasks.” 
10:30 a.m., checked out got pinned down very soon element of chance in the ex-“playing a few rounds of equipment, walked over the in our operation, so we had ecution of these things.” paintball with ndisp after Contact Nicole Michels at course and did a couple of to improvise,” campbell Tyler Thomas, a navy assaulting the fortress was nmichels@nd.edu 

paid adverTisemenT 
election 
conTinued From page 1 
ads go a step further in pro­jecting negativity on oppo­nents, masking any valuable information of their own in the process. 
Film, Television and Theater professor susan ohmer teaches a course specifically addressing presidential elections and media and sees differences between this year’s ads and those in previous elections. 
“we can say that this campaign is distinguished by the level of targeted ad­vertising, ads that are run in particular states or even particular counties,” ohmer said. “some areas, such as indiana, get very few, while others, such as ohio, are bombarded. The differences between states have been true for a while, but not the micro-targeting we are see­ing this year.” 
although a great deal of time and effort are put into these ads that attempt to sway specific audiences, ohmer said most voters are able to see through the ads that lack substance. 
ohmer also said the nega­tive ads for this year’s elec­tion have increased in both number and degree of nega­tivity. in spite of this, she agreed the ads have not held much weight in the election. 
“it is hard to say if nega­tive ads have been effective at this point, but we can say that this campaign has set a record for spending on ads and on the sheer number of ads,” ohmer said. 
Contact Maddie Daly at mdaly6@nd.edu 


The observer | MONDAY, OctOber 29, 2012 | ndsmcobserver.com 

Sullivan 
conTinued From page 1 
program’s mission was one barry said his son would have appreciated. 
“[declan] had a great interest in film, and i know he was doing a lot of writing. … he was com­ing to appreciate the benefits that he had, the kind of educa­tion that was allowing him to achieve his dreams,” barry said. 
“That’s what we really ap­preciate about horizons, and declan would appreciate this. it’s giving children who proba­bly would not have the opportu­nity to have that kind of success, giving them the support they need to achieve those things. … i think dec would approve of what we’re doing.” 
The family hosted the first annual “no ordinary evening” fundraiser to support horizons for youth in april at navy pier in chicago. The proceeds from the fundraiser allowed the program to admit declan’s 40, which according to the website of horizons for youth is the largest group to be accepted to the pro­gram at one time. The names of these students are listed on the horizons for youth website. 
barry and his daughter wyn were able to sit through some of the interviews involved in the rigorous application process for horizons for youth applicants. 
he said he was impressed with the way the organization tries to admit students with families interested in furthering their children’s educations but often are lacking the means to do so. 
“one of their criteria is to iden­tify students who really do have the kind of family support that will allow them to succeed, and then they augment that with the kind of mentoring and tutoring with these kids that would en­sure their success,” he said. 
The sullivan family met many of the students admitted to the program with declan’s 40 at a picnic to begin the school year. a group of students from the horizons for youth program also traveled to the notre dame football game against byu last weekend. 



Two years later, barry said the memory of his son’s death still hurts. a member of his family is missing. but seeing the immedi­ate impact of the funds donated in declan’s memory is “a very positive thing,” barry said. 
“i do think about that but for our loss, we would not have got­ten connected with horizons, and out of a very saddening and 
paid adverTisemenT 
painful experience for us, some­thing positive can come out of that,” he said. “we’re working with the children and seeing the impact. There’s no pain in that. it actually helps to [alleviate] the pain we feel after that loss.” 
on saturday, barry said his wife and youngest son remem­bered declan with mass at old st. patrick’s church in chicago. Their daughter wyn, a junior at notre dame, is currently study­ing abroad in dublin. 
“we spent the evening with some friends who toasted to declan’s memory with us, and we watched a notre dame victo­ry,” barry said. “so we tried to do things that were in keeping, we try to celebrate his memory. … i’m sure [wyn] was remember­ing her brother. she asked us to remember her as we are remem­bering him, as we were toasting his memory.” 
The family has already begun planning the second annual “no ordinary evening” fund­raiser. The event will take place in april at navy pier in chicago. 
“Throughout all of this, we’ve enjoyed a lot of support from the whole notre dame family,” barry said. “The university ad­ministration has been very good to us. i guess i would just like to say that we really appreciate all the thoughts and prayers that we have felt from the notre dame family.” 
alison, declan’s mom, said in an email that she and her hus­band received texts from friends with photos of declan’s campus memorial near the guglielmino athletics complex with a sign that read “For dec” on saturday afternoon and evening. 
“at night, the site was lit up brilliantly with candles,” she said. “we were very touched that people on campus were re­membering dec on the second anniversary of his death.” 
Contact Megan Doyle at mdoyle11@nd.edu 
paid adverTisemenT The observer | MONDAY, OctOber 29, 2012 | ndsmcobserver.com 



iNSiDe cOluMN 

great pumpkin 

Christian Myers 
news writer 
what is halloween? 

is it a pagan festival to celebrate de­monic spirits and deceased ancestors? is it a release before the solemnity of all saint’s day, in the spirit of mardi gras? is it a manufactured holiday created and maintained by mars, inc. and other players in ‘big candy’? 
i think, in the end, we can all agree it’s a celebration centered on a giant, sen­tient pumpkin flying through the air and bringing toys to children. 
yes, i’m talking about the great pumpkin, the magnificent orange squash that appears only once a year to a lucky few. 
you may not know about the great pumpkin, but that’s only because he doesn’t get the same publicity as a certain jolly coca-cola spokesman. without corporate sponsorship or catchy songs, and with only one profile-raising movie, he has a limited following. 
however, the great pumpkin’s devo­tees remain undeterred, even in the face of derision from the spectacular vegeta­ble’s main cynics: beagles and sisters. 
in fact, the great pumpkin appears to relish his obscurity. he actively avoids large audiences, choosing to rise only out of the single most sincere pumpkin patch and distributing his gifts only among the well-behaved and sincere. 
Join me in the pumpkin patch to wait for the great pumpkin to arise. don’t join us if you don’t sincerely believe. also, it might take all night, but he will definitely show … probably. 
here’s an idea of the festivities: 

8 to 9 p.m.: arrive and make sure to find a comfortable spot. 
9 to 11 p.m.: wait in cheerful anticipation. 

11:11 p.m.: regress to maturity of high school student. 
12 a.m.: separate group by gender. 
12 to 12:06 a.m.: complain about 
temperature. 

12:07 a.m.: “was that . . . no it was nothing.” 
12:08 to 2 a.m.: wait in increasingly irritable anticipation. 
2 to 2:05:55 a.m.: hum Queen’s bohemian rhapsody to self. 

2:05:55 to 2:30 a.m.: wonder if the great pumpkin has food and or is edible. 
2:30 a.m. to 3 a.m.: wait in increas­ingly sleepy anticipation. 
3:15 to 3:45 a.m.: collectively discover and subsequently forget answers to all of life’s questions. 
4 a.m to zzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzz. 
9:15 a.m.: blend in to equally sluggish, disheveled and previous-night-regretful student body as they go to class. 
Finally, it can get chilly out there, so don’t forget to bring your blanket. 
Contact Christian Myers at cmyers8@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Bridget Galassini 
bitter bridget 
you don’t get a second chance to make a first impression. researchers have found that people make an initial judgment of one another within the first three seconds of meeting. Talk about pressure. 
This judging is inevitable because it’s done subconsciously. people’s ap­pearances send us a message, whether we want them to or not. That’s why we dress nicely for business meetings, interviews and dances. That’s why we dress appropriately for toga parties, abc parties and america parties. we want to be wearing the correct clothes for the occasion to feel comfortable. imagine if someone wore jeans and a hoodie to his job interview. That per­son would be discounted almost im­mediately, regardless of his knowledge or expertise in the field. 
on one hand, this is understand­able. one’s appearance shows the amount of effort that person has made to look his or her best for the occa­sion. Therefore, looking better means the person put in more effort, which means the person wants the posi­tion more. conclusions are inevitably drawn. 
on the other hand, this is disadvan­tageous because it leads to false con­clusions. instead of focusing on the person’s words and ideas, the appear­ance of the person gets great attention. 
a perfect example involves the presidential election of 1960 and the debates between John F. kennedy and richard nixon. These presidential de­bates were the first ones that were ever televised. according to history.com, nixon appeared tired from the previ­ous few days of campaigning. he had a five o’clock shadow and wore a dreary gray suit. kennedy was well rested and tan. Then, regarding performance, nixon looked off to the sides at report­ers, while JFk looked into the camera. 

Therefore, though “most radio lis­teners called the first debate a draw or pronounced nixon the victor,” the Tv viewers declared JFk the winner. 
The radio listeners actually heard the ideas of both candidates without any bias from their appearances, con­sequently choosing nixon. it’s a shame Tv listeners had their visions clouded by the appearances of the candidates. whether the debates altered the result of the election is unknown, but they did have a large impact. 
The same idea holds true regarding the current debates. i first listened to the second debate on the radio. when i later watched the debate video online, my perspective changed. i still heard the candidates’ points and ideas, but i was also focused on their gestures, facial expressions and interactions with one another. i real­ized that these are unimportant and distracting. 
For the final debate, i again listened on the radio. i focused on the can­didates’ ideas and arguments, and i sometimes found them weak and repetitive. perhaps instead of focus­ing so much time and energy on their appearances, politicians and their supporters could strengthen their ar­guments and develop better solutions. 
They could take a hint from matt damon’s speech in “The adjustment bureau” when he, a politician, finally calls himself and his focus group out on their “bull.” he explains that al­though everyone calls him authentic, his focus group has pretty much made him the opposite. 
what matters is what’s inside a per­son’s mind, not what’s covering his or her body. 
some of the best companies like apple and google have a relaxed dress code. They’ve figured it out. what people wear is pretty insignificant because it’s their ideas that matter. 
presidential debates and other events of that nature should be ap­proached in this same manner. our society would be more idea-oriented and less appearance-oriented. 
imagine if all of the presidential debates were exclusively on the radio. we’d be forced to ignore the ridiculous subliminal messaging. This would never happen because viewers would become too bored. hearing voices on the radio is not engaging enough for many people. The picture on the tele­vision is our entertainment. we need it, unfortunately. but hopefully we can see past it to what people really are. 
Bridget Galassini is a freshman. She can be reached at bgalassi@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
eDitOriAl cArtOON 


QuOte Of the DAY WeeklY POll 
who is your favorite football player? 
“kindness, i’ve discovered, is everything in life.” 
Tweet your response with #ViewpointPoll 
Isaac Bashevis Singer
 by 5 p.m. on Thursday 
American novelist 



The observer |MONDAY, OctOber 29, 2012 | ndsmcobserver.com 

Venturing into the neighborhood 
Molly Howell 
directionally challenged 

notre dame’s campus is a bubble. For those who live here and do not have the luxury of a car, it would appear the university and campus is self-sustaining. it has the necessities — housing, food, classes and a long list of extracurricular activities. it incredibly easy to forget about the outside world, especially about what it is going on in south bend, the university’s backyard. 
For the most part, i would argue that notre dame students are blessed finan­cially. Tuition is not cheap and schol­arships are few and far between. The majority of students are here not only for their academic and athletic achieve­ments, but because their families are able to financially support them. yes, there is financial aid, but that does not change the fact that tuition is steep. due to the fact that the student body has this background and that the campus is such a bubble, there is a concern that notre dame students are becoming elitists, 
letter tO the eDitOr 
nTds 

nd Fighting neglected Tropical diseases was born four years ago out of a simple reality: nTds can be treated for just 50 cents per person per year, but no one really knows these diseases ex­ist. The members of nd Fighting nTds feel this reality needs to change. 
nTds are a group of seven easily treatable but devastating diseases that cause blindness, grotesquely swollen limbs, malnutrition, mental retardation and intestinal cancers. all seven are easily preventable with medicine al­ready developed and donated by major pharmaceutical companies. The main obstacle is the cost associated with distribution, a cost of 50 cents a year for each of the 1.4 billion suffering people. 
This week is our third annual nTd awareness week. event highlights include a slumdog millionaire movie watch in keough hall tonight at 7 p.m., and our harry potter Trivia night on Tuesday. on Thursday we host an “avenues to africa” open house in the laFortune student center, and on Friday stop by our global health panel with free lunch at noon in coleman morse center. 
we have two fundraisers this week: on wednesday, 10 percent of any pur­chase you make at Five guys on eddy street will be donated to nTds if you put your receipt in the marked box next to the cashier. students will be collect­ing money from their dormmates. 
i look forward to seeing you all this week help nd Fighting nTds work for the dignity of 1.4 billion lives. 
Eileen Lynch 
senior ryan hall oct. 29 
that they are not exposed to the real world. it’s a worry my parents had for me when sending me here. They knew the student body was not among the most diverse in regards to race, religion or economic class in the nation. 
however, though many students are coming from more privileged lifestyles back home, many have a background in community service. and not only do they have this background, but they are encouraged by the university and up­perclassmen to further pursue service while on campus. This can be witnessed in the long list of service programs and organizations promoted on the begin­ning of the year’s activities night. There are clubs and programs that cover ev­erything from providing clean water overseas, to building homes throughout the u.s., to tutoring underprivileged kids in the community. i felt called to become involved with a community service pro­gram. a friend from home invited me to come to the program he had become involved with. so, i ventured outside the bubble to tutor south bend kids one monday afternoon. 
Elliott Pearce 
The human interest 
as many of you know, “Fisher vs. university of Texas,” a case that could determine the future of affirmative ac­tion in the u.s., is currently before the supreme court. This case has brought the debate over affirmative action to the forefront of the public consciousness. i am going to join this debate by arguing that the practice of accepting “under­represented minority” (urm, in college admissions parlance) applicants with weaker records of academic achieve­ment than non-urms harms the very people it aims to benefit. First, it curbs urms’ academic achievement by plac­ing them in difficult and discouraging environments where they are less likely to succeed than their counterparts. second, it perpetuates negative stereo­types about the academic abilities of urms by populating colleges and uni­versities at all levels of selectivity with urm students that are less qualified than the rest of the student body. 
all colleges and universities want to build diverse student bodies and to welcome people into the academic community from groups that have tra­ditionally been denied access to higher education. sadly, the disproportion­ately high poverty rates of certain races in this country have resulted in fewer members of these races being able to qualify for admission to elite universi­ties than these universities would like to admit. 
To make up for this difference, uni­versities have been accepting urm stu­dents who would not ordinarily qualify for admission. For example, urms admitted to duke university scored 

 The program is called Teamwork for Tomorrow and meets twice a week for a couple of hours in an old church 10 min­utes from campus. There, notre dame student tutors meet with elementary school kids to help them in reading and other schoolwork. after tutoring, there’s always gym time or free time for the tu­tors and students. a couple of weeks ago while the boys were playing dodgeball in the gym, i was drawing with the girls. a friend and i starting making “cootie catchers” out of the construction paper. one person holds the cootie catcher and asks the questions printed on the sides of the origami, while the other chooses among the answers. some prediction or fortune is eventually revealed for the per­son answering the questions. my friend was wearing a disney world sweatshirt that day, so we made one of the predic­tions, “you will visit disney world.” one of the young girls happened to get that prediction and immediately asked, “really?” it was almost heartbreaking as my friend explained to this seven-year­old that she would not actually be going. 
i would argue that a large majority 
urm debate 
an average of 140 points, or twelve per­centiles (96th vs. 84th), lower on the saT than non-urm admitted students. The saT is only one measure of college readiness, but the study by three duke university economists from which i took that number shows equally large disparities across all other categories that admissions counselors use to eval­uate students. likewise, other studies have shown that similar achievement gaps exist between urm and non-urm students at other universities, and not just the elite ones. Therefore, the urm students who show up on campus are less qualified, and therefore less pre­pared for college, than their classmates. 
proponents of affirmative action say that these less-prepared urms uni­versities admit to balance their racial compositions may face a rough start when they first get to college, but will quickly adjust and begin to fit in aca­demically like any other students. The duke study, however, demonstrates that this does not occur. it found that urms are more than twice as likely to switch from “harder” majors (determined by average gpa and time spent studying) to “easier” ones. The study found that the majority of students who changed majors were passing their classes when they switched, so they did not leave be­cause they could not handle their origi­nal courses of study. rather, the authors of the study and i agree that the strug­gling urm students likely changed their majors because they felt that they “did not belong” in classes where they saw the other students consistently outperform. 
instead of showing them that they are as good as anyone else and that they can achieve anything they want to, being accepted to universities they of notre dame students have been to disney world. and if they haven’t, i would also argue that many notre dame students have been on at least one vaca­tion. however, almost all of the kids at Teamwork for Tomorrow have never been out of the michiana area. none of them have been to disney world. 
That day i realized the disparity be­tween notre dame and south bend. south bend is a small town whose econ­omy is heavily reliant on the neighboring university. This fact places an enormous responsibility on the university and its students. students cannot forget about the outside world during their time here. it’s never too early to start giving back; the notre dame community owes it to south bend to venture outside the bubble and step into our backyard. 
Molly Howell is a freshman anthropol­ogy and international economics major, as well as a gender studies minor. She can be reached at mhowell5@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
would not ordinarily qualify to attend shows urm students that for the next four years, they will be a cut below their peers academically and that they cannot pursue the most challenging subjects their school offers without humiliation and frustration. excellence and mediocrity, therefore, come to characterize different racial communi­ties within the university. This is the opposite of what affirmative action is supposed to achieve. 
if universities admitted only those urms who were fully qualified to at­tend, there would be fewer urms on the campuses of america’s elite universi­ties, but each would know that he had his university’s full confidence that he could study anything with anyone. The other students would see these urms performing at or above their own level and recognize that traditionally mar­ginalized students can be just as intel­lectually capable. Furthermore, the less selective universities that educate the vast majority of america’s college graduates would not have their own qualified urm applicants stolen from them by the “elite” schools and would also be able to admit only those urms who qualified. 
education is about much more than the name on one’s diploma. it’s time to start placing under-represented minor­ity students in the educational environ­ments they need to achieve their full human potential instead of stunting their academic achievements for the sake of promoting artificial diversity. 
Elliott Pearce can be reached at Elliott.A.Pearce.12@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


The observer | MONDAY, OctOber 29, 2012 | ndsmcobserver.com 

rihanna has had a vast array of different 
By JESSIE CHRISTIAN 
hairstyles, so many in fact, that she has been 
honored with the title of the “fashion chame­

it has come to my attention that there is a dis-leon.” most of the time she lives up to the title, ease that is spreading through pop culture like sporting trends from the latest designer collec­wildfire. The disease has plagued many well-tions while being conveniently spotted by pho­known hollywood starlets, and is slowly but tographers wherever she may go. The world has surely starting to grow out of control. i say, with become her runway, and people love to watch a heavy heart, that it has even begun to infect the fashion show. what most people don’t the minds of everyday individuals that once know, however, is that riri has had an on-and­had hopes of living a normal life. Those hopes off struggle with “mane madness.” currently will forever be tainted by the disease, which she has subdued the illness, and we pray that will leave a permanent mark on their image. this time it has been defeated for good. Join me, as we acknowledge and pray for those if you want to be a style chameleon, the best who have fallen gravely ill with a case of “mane way to try new styles without spiraling out of madness.” control is to focus in on what won’t look good 
on you, and then make sure you factor these MILEY MALFOY  things into the decision-making process every symptoms: scissor-happy | addiction to bleach time. rihanna, for example, is known to have | showing resemblance to one or more charac-a larger forehead and smaller facial features. ters from “harry potter” because of this, the styles that work best on her current condition: critical are those that conceal this area such as blunt 

cut or swooping side bangs. since the days of her first album release, she has moved away 
from tight off of the forehead ponytails, and 
hair that has been slicked back. she still has 
her fair share of styling issues, but this is one 
that occurs less often. Find your stylistic don’ts 
and steer clear. 
scene writer 
WEEPING WILLOW 
symptoms: scissor-happy | dye-addict | odd obsession with futuristic space life current condition: critical 

let’s face it. The moment that miley cyrus put on that blonde wig to star in disney’s hit show “hannah montana,” she was doomed to contract the “madness.” what were once deli­cately laid, long brown tresses on the innocent adolescent girl, gradually transformed into the Frankensteinian image that we see today. keep her in your hearts and souls, for we can only hope that the disease will pass and we will have our normal miley back. 
however, there are some fundamental traits that make this bold chop a bad choice for miley, but could make it a good or bad choice for you. willow smith is the youngest of our unfor-First of all, be conscious of your facial struc-tunate bunch to have contracted this trying ture and skin complexion. This look is strik-disease. since the release off her surprisingly ingly ghostly because of the similarity between successful single “whip my hair” in 2010, the miley’s pale skin and the platinum blonde child of superstars will and Jada pinkett smith shade she chose to use. Try to stay away from has dealt with an undying strain of “mane hair colors that are too similar to your own skin madness.” Take preventative measures and tone, a combo that is generally referred to as don’t let this happen to the children in your the “washed-out” look, and is rarely executed lives. hide the scissors, hide the dye, hide the successfully. mirror because “mane madness” is getting ev­


in addition to color, take the shape of your eryone out here — even children like willow. face into account when picking out a new cut. she may not be able to relive her childhood, but miley’s face is round and full — two character-we can only wish her the best on her future en­istics that often don’t work with short avant-deavors. no pun intended. garde cuts like this one. narrower faces often willow has proven that some things just work best with short cuts, while voluminous aren’t a good idea for anyone. yellow hair? not hair and bob cuts often frame rounder faces a good idea. cotton-candy afro? not a good well. still, every face is different, and so the idea. skunk-inspired dye jobs? not a good idea. best thing to do is to go to a professional stylist cornrowed hearts? not a good idea. preteen with an idea and/or picture references in mind bowl cuts? not a good ides. stay away from for additional help. these things unless you’re channeling your in­
ner willow, nikki minaj, or dennis rodman for RASTA RIRI halloween, and frankly i would advise against symptoms: dye-addict | hit-or-miss hair even attempting that. some may give her a pass current condition: stable because she’s young. i, on the other hand, find 

most of these styles to be a no-no at any age. 
These celebs have indeed proven that “mane 
madness” is out and in full effect. stick with 
these preventative measures, however, and 
you’ll be spared from enduring the same gruel­
ing fate. keep it classy up top and have fun! 
Contact Jessie Christian at jchrist7@nd.edu 
JACQUELINE O’NEILL | The Observer 

The observer | MONDAY, OctOber 29, 2012 | ndsmcobserver.com 

By KEVIN NOONAN 
scene editor 

whenever a feature film debuts based on a novel or play or some other source material, there without fail is always some pretentious, stuck-up, high-soci­ety know-it-all to let you know that the book was better, no matter how fabulous the film is. 
well, with “cloud atlas” hitting the theaters this weekend, i may as well start wearing a monocle, using words like “pedantic” and join the sailing team, be­cause i’m here to tell you that the book was better. 
The 2004 novel by david mitchell of the same name is an epic tale of inter­twining stories, characters and genres spanning hundreds of years, told in the style of a matryoshka, or russian nest­ing doll. 
six different narratives are followed in the book. each is presented in half chronologically, and then snakes back in opposite chronological order in the second half to reveal the conclusion. The exception is the sixth and final sto­ry, which takes place more than a hun­dred years after the fall of earth’s future corporation-controlled civilization and is told in full as the center of the novel. 
The first story follows the journal of a young lawyer named adam ewing on board a 19th-century ship in the pacific ocean taking him back to his home, wife and son in san Francisco. he is act­ing as a courier for his law firm and car­ries with him an unspecified amount of wealth, attracting the attention of many on board the ship. he comes into peril as he becomes increasingly ill with a mys­terious parasite.
 The second is told through the letters of robert Frobisher, a young musician, to rufus sixsmith, a physics student at cambridge and his male lover, as he flees his home in the early 1930s and heads to belgium to work with a syphilitic but brilliant english composer. it is from Frobisher that the title originates, as his masterwork composition the “cloud atlas sextet,” is the defining work of his life and the source of both his greatness and his fatal flaw. 
a mystery novel comprises the third, following a gossip reporter, louisa rey, as she stumbles onto a deadly scandal at a nuclear power plant in the 1970s after running into the grown up and now re­spected physicist rufus sixsmith. 
The present-day story follows Timothy cavendish, an aging and failing publish­er who comes into success after one of his writers murders a literary critic after receiving a horrible review. cavendish runs into trouble with some ruffians, and is tricked by his brother into being committed into a nursing home, where he constantly plans his escape. 
The fifth takes place in a dystopian future society controlled by corpora­tion in which society has created a class of clones to perform what is essentially slave labor. one clone, sonmi 451, has awakened to her own existence, and, doomed to execution, tells her story in a final interview. 

The final story is a post-apocalyptic future tale of a new civilization of people that resembles in many ways the “sav­age” peoples adam ewing runs into in his south pacific journey. Zachry, one of the men of the village, crosses paths with meronym, a woman whose people has managed to hold onto the technol­ogy of the former world but is threatened by disease. 
The novel, as may be apparent, is wildly complex and interweaves with impressive and subtle skill. at just over 500 pages, the narrative fully fleshes out the stories of its characters to expand beyond just the time connections, mak­ing it a through and through spectacular of epic storytelling. 
The film does its best to convey the complexity and philosophy of the nov­el, and makes an impressive effort at a three-hour run time, but overall falls short of the grand nature of the book. 
The film, adapted for the screen and directed by Tom Twyker (“run lola run”) and lana and andy wachowski (“The matrix” trilogy), stars Tom hanks and halle berry and an ensemble cast of familiar faces all playing multiple roles throughout the movie. 
it is visually stunning, and the creation of six vastly different and intricately de­tailed worlds is certainly fantastically undertaken. but the problem of turn­ing such a complex story into a film is that in the book, the author has enough freedom to allow his complexities and connections subtly. in a film setting however, these connections are much more overt and make the story feel flat. 
The movie is still impressive because of the sensational source material and story, but in comparison to the novel, the verdict is clear: The book is better. 
Contact Kevin Noonan at knoonan2@nd.edu 



JACQUELINE O’NEILL | The Observer 


SPOrtS AuthOritY 

harden moves one season too soon 

Mike Monaco 
sports writer 
pack up the razors and the shav­ing cream, because the beard is going to houston. 
while everyone on campus was watching a certain football game saturday night, news broke that another sooner state squad, the oklahoma city Thunder, had traded reigning sixth man of the year and recent olympian James harden to the houston rockets. The return for okc? guards kevin martin and Jeremy lamb, two first-round picks and a second-rounder. 
my initial reaction? The same as kevin durant’s: “wow.” while durant was succinct with his tweet just before midnight, let’s look a little closer at the deal: big three breakup Think back to June, when the Thunder were three games away from winning an nba title. it looked as if we could have a dy­nasty in oklahoma to challenge the vaunted big Three in miami. harden, durant and russell westbrook were young, talented and still improving. and most importantly, they loved playing together. 
but the Thunder needed to decide by halloween on whether they would give harden a con­tract extension before the season. oklahoma city already had hefty contracts signed with durant and westbrook, as well as the amnesty-worthy kendrick perkins and serge ibaka. if it wanted to pay harden, it was going to have to go over the luxury tax threshold while paying harden a maximum-level contract, something the small-market Thunder clearly did not want to do. 
so, the Thunder made the best out of a bad situation, right? in the words of lee corso, not so fast. oklahoma city could have played out the whole season and made another run at a championship and then faced a similar decision in the offseason. They could have signed him then or worked out a sign-and-trade. no matter what the Thunder decided, they would have had (at least) another season with harden. 
and having another season with the playmaking southpaw is certainly better than the new al­ternative. kevin martin can score with the best of the two-guards in the league and Jeremy lamb is oozing with potential, especially as a lockdown defender. but no one can replace harden and his facial hair in the short run. 
in the long run, the Thunder will have two first-round picks — one that will likely be a lottery pick and one that is top-20 protected 
— to add more young talent to the nucleus that now includes lamb, perry Jones iii, reggie Jackson, ibaka and what’s left of the big Three. 
in the end, it came down to money, and oklahoma city gm sam presti took a hit in the short run to maintain cap flexibility while solidly positioning the fran­chise for years to come. houston finds a stud 
They tried to get pau gasol. They tried to get dwight howard. and now gm daryl morey finally gets something resembling a superstar in James harden. 
houston had assets; it just didn’t have guys to carry the team in a league where superstars win. plain and simple. with young talent everywhere and draft picks galore, the rockets finally compiled its ample arcade tickets and bought the big prize behind the counter. 
while harden might not be a superstar capable of carrying a team solely by himself, he is a play­er worthy of a max contract. with harden on the floor last season, oklahoma city outscored its op­ponents by more than nine points per 48 minutes. when he was on the bench, the Thunder were just 
1.4 points better. 
and let’s think about what the rockets now have. The top dogs will be Jeremy lin and harden, to go along with an endless crop of young talent such as Terrence Jones, donatas motiejunas, patrick patterson, royce white, chandler parsons and omer asik. heck, they could parlay some of that potential into another proven commodity. 
oh, and don’t forget about their cap flexibility. The rockets still have max cap room for next summer. 
The rockets (finally) made a blockbuster trade that will cer­tainly help, while the Thunder got an acceptable return for someone that likely was going to be traded at some point. 
my only question: why now? 
Contact Mike Monaco at jmonaco@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


hiGh SchOOl 

Blind students play tennis 
Associated Press 
FremonT, calif. — learning how to play tennis is hard enough. now try it when you can’t see. 
That’s what students are do­ing at the california school for the blind. They’re learning a form of tennis adapted for the visually impaired — and expanding the boundaries of what the blind can do. 
The state-supported cam­pus in Fremont is one of three american schools for the blind that recently began teaching adapted tennis, which was in­vented in Japan in the 1980s. a nonprofit group called Tennis serves is working to promote the sport throughout the u.s. 
“i didn’t know someone with no vision could play tennis until i came to this school,” said a 16-year-old student from modesto named Jonathan. The school declined to provide his last name, cit­ing a state law that protects the privacy of students with disabilities. 
blind tennis features a smaller court, lower net and junior tennis rackets with big­ger heads and shorter handles. string is taped to the floor so players can feel the boundar­ies with their feet. players use a foam ball filled with metal beads that rattle on impact, allowing them to locate the ball when it hits the ground or racket. once served, they have to return the ball before it bounces three times. 
“The most difficult thing to teach is timing their stroke,” said sejal vallabh, the 17-year­old founder of Tennis serves. “being able to listen to the ball, locate it using their sense of hearing and swing at the precise moment the ball goes by is really difficult to teach.” 

while experienced players can keep the ball in bounds and stage extended rallies, just hitting the ball over the net can be a chal­lenge for beginners. during a re­cent visit to the california school for the blind, students mostly swatted balls into the ground, the net and toward the ceiling and walls. Few balls were re­turned, but teachers say some are developing that capability. 
blind tennis was created in 1984 by miyoshi Takei, a blind Japanese high school student who designed the adapted ball and helped the sport gain popu­larity in Japan and other asian countries. he dominated blind tennis competitions until he was killed in a train accident last year at age 42. 
vallahb, an avid tennis player who is now a high school senior in newton, mass., first encoun­tered blind tennis two years while doing a summer internship in Japan, where her grandmother lives. 
“after i saw it there, i knew that i wanted to recreate the sport that i had seen back in the u.s.,” she said, so she started Tennis serves. 
vallabh first began teaching at perkins school for the blind in watertown, mass. with help from her high school tennis team­mates. she then helped start similar programs at lighthouse international in new york city and the california school for the blind. 
vallabh is working with engi­neering students at harvey mudd college in claremont, calif. to design a ball that continuously beeps to make it easier for blind players to track it. 
at the california school for the blind, staff members said they were skeptical when vallabh first approached them about teaching the adapted sport. 
“we were thinking, ‘how are we going to teach tennis?” said mary alice ross, who teaches adapted physical education. “my colleague said, ‘Tennis is like teaching football. it’s not some­thing we really do.’” 
The california school for the blind, which has about 90 stu­dents ages 5 to 22, offers many adapted sports activities and sports, including bowling, boat­ing, swimming, hiking, ice-skat­ing and goal-ball. 


The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit 
WANTED 

PART TIME WORK $14.25 base­appt earnparttime.com 
PERSONAL 

UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don’t go it alone. Notre Dame has many resources in place to assist you. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Ann Whitall at 1-0084 or Karen Kennedy at 1-5550. For more information, visit ND’s website at: http://pregnancysupport@nd.edu 
“Big Eyed Fish” ­ Dave Matthews Band 

Look at this big eyed fish swimming in the sea/Oh how it dreams he wants to be a bird, swoopin’, divin’ through the breeze/One day, caught 
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
a big old wave up on to the beach, now he’s dead you see,/Beneath the se is where a fish should be/But oh god under the weight of life/Things seem brighter on the other side 
Story of a man decided not to breathe/He turned red, then blue, purple, colorful indeed/No matter how his friends begged and bleed-ed/The man would not concede/ And now he’s dead, you see, the silly man should know you got to breathe 
But oh God,/Under the weight of life/ Things seem brighter on the other side/ Oh God/But under the weight of life/ Things seem better on the other side/ No way, no way, no way out of here 
See the little monkey, sitting in his monkey tree/One day, decided to climb down and run off to the city/ Look at him now, lost and tired, living in the street/As good as dead, you see, you are a monkey thus stay up the tree But oh God,/Under the weight of life/Things seem brighter on the other side/Oh God/But un­der the weight of life/Things seem so much better on the other side/ No way, no way, no way out of here 
But oh God,/Under the weight of life/Things seem brighter on the other side/Oh God/But un­der the weight of life/Things seem so much better on the other side/ No way, no way, no way out of here 
But oh God,/Under the weight of life/Things seem brighter on the other side/But oh God,/But under the weight of life/Things seem brighter on the other side/ No way, no way, no way out of here But oh God/Under the weight of life/ Things seem brighter on the other side/Oh God/But under the weight of life/Things seem so much better on the other side/No way, no way, no way, no way... 


ndsmcobserver.com | MONDAY, OctOber 29, 2012 | The observer 

Nfl 

Richardson leads Browns to victory 
Mlb 

giants win world series 

Associated Press 
cleveland — Trent richardson broke one tackle, then another and was gone. 
The san diego chargers couldn’t stop the rookie running back who might be the one to make cleveland relevant once more. on a day when every yard counted, richardson delivered a dominating performance that even made hall of Famer Jim brown swell with pride. 
“great running backs break tackles,” brown said follow­ing cleveland’s 7-6 win sunday. “you do that, you are in control. you keep the ball. The other team is disheartened. That’s football.” 
and that’s why the browns chose richardson. 
cleveland’s rookie running back, still playing with a rib inju­ry, rushed for 122 yards in nasty weather and scored the game’s only touchdown on a 26-yard run to lead browns (2-6) to their second straight win at home. 
Following the game, brown, who called richardson an “ordi­nary” back on the day cleveland selected the alabama star no. 3 overall in april’s draft, was wait­ing at the young star’s locker. 
richardson has made even brown a believer. 
“That’s my partner,” brown said. “i’m so happy he didn’t take anything i said the wrong way. he’s a player. he’s making sac­rifices for his team. he’s hurting now more than you think and he’s out there making plays.” 
richardson, pulled last week at indianapolis when he was ineffective because of a rib car­tilage injury, carried 24 times as the browns gave new owner Jimmy haslam his first win since taking over the franchise. haslam was presented with a game ball by coach pat shurmur in cleveland’s jubilant locker room. 
“it feels good,” linebacker d’Qwell Jackson said of reward­ing haslam, who shelled out $1.05 billion for the browns. “you always want to put a smile on his face.” 
richardson’s Td to cap cleveland’s first drive was like many they used to get from the incomparable brown, who ei­ther outran or carried defend­ers to the end zone. it was no. 32 who helped make the browns one of the league’s most storied teams, and cleveland has a new runner who may one day get them back to the top. 
Two plays after quarterback brandon weeden converted on a fourth-and-1 with a sneak to keep the drive alive, richardson took a handoff up the middle, broke two tackles and was kept upright by right guard shawn lauvao, who wrapped his hands around his teammate, before scampering in for his fifth Td. 
richardson said once he was deep in san diego’s secondary there was no stopping him. 
“They don’t want no prob­lems,” he said. 
The chargers (3-4) dropped their third straight. san diego had a final chance, but quar­terback philip rivers’ pass was batted away by browns corner­back buster skrine with 1:24 left. rivers finished 18 of 34 for 154 yards but had a potential touch­down pass dropped by robert meachem in the third quarter. 


Associated Press 

deTroiT — Finally pressed in the world series, the san Francisco giants finished off a most unexpected and stunning sweep. 
marco scutaro delivered one more key hit this october, hitting a go-ahead single with two outs in the 10th inning that lifted the giants over the detroit Tigers 4-3 in game 4 on sunday night. 
nearly eliminated over and over earlier in the playoffs, the giants sealed their second title in three seasons when Triple crown winner miguel cabrera looked at strike three right down the middle for the final out. 
on a night of biting cold, stiff breezes and some rain, the giants combined the most im­portant elements of champion­ship baseball — great pitching, timely hitting and sharp defense. 
series mvp pablo sandoval and the underdog giants cel­ebrated in the center of the dia­mond at comerica park after winning six elimination games this postseason. 
“Tonight was a battle,” said giants star buster posey, who homered. “and i think tonight was a fitting way for us to end it because those guys played hard. They didn’t stop, and it’s an un­believable feeling.” 
cabrera delivered the first big hit for detroit, interrupting san Francisco’s run of dominant pitching with a two-run homer that blew over the right-field wall in the third. 
posey put the giants ahead 3-2 with a two-run homer in the sixth and delmon young hit a ty­ing home run in the bottom half. 
it then became a matchup of bullpens, and the giants prevailed. 
ryan Theriot led off the 10th with a single against phil coke, moved up on brandon crawford’s sacrifice and scored on scutaro’s shallow single. center fielder austin Jackson made a throw home, to no avail. 
sergio romo struck out the side in the bottom of the 10th for his third save of the series. 
The giants finished the month with seven straight wins and their seventh series champion­ship. They handed the Tigers their seventh straight world series loss dating to 2006. 
“obviously, there was no doubt about it. They swept us,” Tigers manager Jim leyland said. “so there was certainly no bad breaks, no fluke. 
“simple, they did better than we did.” 
an nl team won the title for the third straight season, a run that hadn’t occurred in 30 years. some find the streak surpris­ing, considering the al’s recent dominance in interleague play. yet as every fan knows, the club that pitches best in the postsea­son usually prevails. 
until the end, the Tigers thought one big hit could shift the momentum. it was an all­too-familiar october lament — Texas felt the same way when the giants throttled them in 2010, and Tigers knew the feeling when st. louis wiped them out in 2006. 
howling winds made it feel much colder than the 44 degrees at gametime. Two wrappers blew across home plate after leadoff man angel pagan struck out, and fly balls played tricks in the breeze. 
The giants started with their pregame ritual. They clustered around hunter pence in the dugout, quickly turning into a bobbing, whooping, pulsing pack, showering themselves with sunflower seeds. a big league good-luck charm, little league style. 
and once again, san Francisco took an early lead. pence hit a one-hop drive over the center-field fence for a double and brandon belt tripled on the next pitch for a 1-0 lead in the second. 
The next inning, cabrera gave the Tigers a reason to think this might be their night. 
with two outs and a runner on first, cabrera lofted an opposite-field fly to right — off the bat, it looked like a routine out shy of the warning track. but with winds gusting over 25 mph, the ball kept carrying, pence kept drifting toward the wall and the crowd kept getting louder. 
Just like that, it was gone. 
cabrera’s homer gave detroit its first lead of the series, ended its 20-inning scoreless streak and reaffirmed a pregame ob­servation by Tigers hall of Famer al kaline. 
“The wind usually blows to right at this time of year,” kaline said. 
in the fourth, max scherzer and catcher gerald laird teamed on a strike ‘em out-throw ‘em out double play. scherzer yelled, first baseman prince Fielder clenched his fist and the Tigers ran off the field on a chilly, windy, rainy eve­ning. at last, it seemed, all the el­ements were in their favor. 
Trailing for the first time since game 4 of the nl championship series, posey and the giants put a dent in detroit’s optimism. scutaro, the nlcs mvp, led off the sixth with a single and clapped all the way around the bases when posey sent a shot that sailed just inside the left-field foul pole for a 3-2 lead. 


The observer | MONDAY, OctOber 29, 2012 | ndsmcobserver.com 

ND crOSS cOuNtrY | big easT championships MeN’S SWiMMiNG AND DiviNG | dual meeTs 
ND grabs top-five finishes 
By AARON SANT-MILLER 
sports writer 
in a field of 14 men’s teams and 15 women’s teams, both squads snagged top-five finish­es in the big east championship on Friday. The men’s squad fin­ished third on the day, while the women finished fifth. 
“we’re satisfied, but we’re still kind of hungry, too, because we always want to win,” senior Jeremy rae said. “our goal was to win all three big east men’s titles in one year: indoor [track], outdoor and cross country. so, we kind of fell short of that. we didn’t really think we were go­ing to win and a third place fin­ish is still very good, so we’re satisfied with how we did.” 
For the women, there was more disappointment than sat­isfaction following the meet, senior rebecca Tracy said. 
“we really wanted to be in the top three. we really do have a team with a lot of potential, we just have yet to put it all to­gether on the same day,” Tracy said. “it was a little disappoint­ing to come in fifth. we felt this would have been the year to finish above fifth, which we haven’t done in my four years here. we were within 10 points of the third-place team, so if each person could have gotten one more spot, it could have made a huge difference. To come that close, it was kind of disappointing.” 
rae, who finished third over­all with a time of 24:39, led the men. Following rae were junior martin grady (24:46), senior J. 
p. malette (24:58), sophomore Jake kildoo (25:13) and junior walter schafer (25:14), who fin­ished eighth, 14th, 22nd and 23rd, respectively. 
Junior kelly curran led the irish women with a time of 
21:21 and finished 12th overall. curran was followed by Tracy (21:25), sophomores hannah eckstein (21:33) and gabby gonzales (21:36) and fresh­men molly seidel (21:45) and danielle aragon (21:54), who finished 15th, 20th, 21st, 22nd and 25th, respectively. 
For the men’s team, a large goal for the big east meet was bouncing back, rae said. Two weeks ago, the irish stumbled to a 26th place finish in the wisconsin adidas invitational. 
“we didn’t do well in wisconsin; we were 26th. it was a competitive race, but we got beat by a lot of teams we should have beaten,” rae said. “we were just really down after that, but we had two weeks of good training over fall break. i think we were a lot more confi­dent going in. since we finished third, we met our expectations of finishing in the top three. it’s a big step up from where we were a few weeks ago.” 
along with the top overall team finishes, the irish also earned some individual acco­lades. led by curran and rae, the irish had five runners earn all-big east honors. curran, rae, Tracy, grady and malette were all recognized as top run­ners in the big east. 

“it was exciting [to win all-big east],” Tracy said. “This year, my senior year, one of the things i really wanted to do was finally be all-big east. so, de­spite the [overall] finish, i can’t be terribly upset.” 
For notre dame, wrapping up the big east championship meet brings the team one step closer to the ncaa champi­onship meet. on nov. 9, the team will travel to madison, wis. for the ncaa great lakes regionals. if the irish can fin­ish in the top two at that meet, they will earn an automatic bid to the ncaa championship. doing so is the goal, as neither squad wants to wait for at-large points, Tracy said. 
“our expectation is to go in and make nationals. we need to go in with that mentality, that we have the type of team that is absolutely capable of be­ing one of the top two teams in the region,” Tracy said. “we shouldn’t have to wait for at-large points to compete at the national level.” 
The irish will look to bring a well-rested squad to madison in just under two weeks, as notre dame will race for a spot in the ncaa championship in the great lakes regionals on nov. 9. 
Contact Aaron Sant-Miller at asantmil@nd.edu. 
Irish take two dual-meet wins 
By NICK BOYLE 
sports writer 
notre dame won two dual meets over the weekend, tak­ing down oakland (mich.) in rochester, mich., on Friday night before winning at michigan state in east lansing, mich., on saturday. 
The irish claimed first place in 11 of 16 events Friday at oakland, earning a 191­107 victory over the hosts. 
all-american junior Frank dyer was a double race win­ner for the irish, winning the 50-yard freestyle with a time of 21.23 seconds, before put-
after defeating oakland on Friday, the irish took a quick bus ride over to east lansing where they took down the spartans on saturday. notre dame posted a convincing 178-120 win over the host school. 
“we definitely did what we went to michigan to do,” Johnson said. “we wanted to win and we were able to do that.” 
dyer was a double winner for the second contest in a row, winning both the 100­yard and 200-yard freestyle. 
sophomore swimmer cameron miller took home 
“We definitely did what we went to Michigan to do ... We wanted to win and we were able to do that.” 
Christopher Johnson senior swimmer 
ting in a time of 1:38.73 to take the 200-yard freestyle. 
sophomore divers nick nemetz and michael kreft swept the diving events for the irish. nemetz won the one-meter with a score of 321.90, while kreft took the three-meter with a score of 291.37. 
senior swimmer christopher Johnson said having seen oakland at the dennis stark relays earlier in the season helped the irish topple the hosts. 
“seeing oakland last week­end was good for us,” Johnson said. “i felt like we were able to come out strong, especial­ly knowing how strong they usually are at the start.” 
gold in the 100-yard and 200-yard breaststroke, his first multi-win meet of the season. 
nemetz swept the div­ing events in east lansing, placing first in both the one-meter and the three-meter dives. 
“moving forward, we need to go even faster,” Johnson said. “This Friday, purdue comes in and that’s a meet we really want to win. Fan support would be huge on Friday.” 
The irish host the boilermakers on Friday at 5 
p.m. in rolfs aquatic center. 
Contact Nick Boyle at nboyle1@nd.edu 


paid adverTisemenT paid adverTisemenT 


The observer | MONDAY, OctOber 29, 2012 | ndsmcobserver.com 

ND vOlleYbAll | nd 3, usF 0 ND WOMeN’S GOlf | The landFall TradiTion 
irish continue streak with wins 


By CONOR KELLY 
sports writer 
notre dame concluded a dom­inant and undefeated month of october with victories over pittsburgh and usF on Friday and sunday, respectively, and extended its winning streak to eight games in the big east. The team’s last loss came sept. 29 at home against marquette. 
since then, the irish (17-6, 10-1 big east) have rattled off eight consecutive wins in the heart of their conference schedule, drop­ping just two sets in the process. irish coach debbie brown said that the team’s challenging pre­season non-conference sched­ule has been the most important factor in notre dame’s transfor­mation from a young, promising group into a dominant big east team. 
while the irish failed to knock off any of their three top-10 foes during the preseason, the expe­rience has proved invaluable. 
“it really all comes back to the preseason and the prepara­tion that we put in,” brown said. “we had as strong a schedule as you could imagine in non-conference. we then followed it up with playing the two stron­gest teams in our conference [louisville and marquette] right out the gate.” 
against pittsburgh (14-12, 5-7), the irish prevailed 3-1. Junior setter maggie brindock paced the irish offense with 43 assists and a career-high eight kills and seven blocks, hitting .571 while controlling the notre dame at­tack. sophomore outside hitter Toni alugbue recorded a team-high 14 kills, while senior middle blocker hilary eppink notched 
13. The irish proved dominant on both sides of the net, outhit­ting the panthers .320 to .110. 
“we really allowed maggie to be able to run an effective of­fense,” brown said. “we used a lot of different hitters and different shots. we really were able to take advantage of their weaknesses.” 
despite the effort on Friday, brown said the team was not totally happy with its defensive play, and resolved to do better against usF on sunday. 
“we had better passing against usF and the team made a concerted effort to play bet­ter defense,” brown said of her team’s 3-0 victory over the bulls (13-12, 5-7). “we accomplished those goals.” 
on dig pink day at purcell pavilion, the irish raised mon­ey and awareness for the fight against breast cancer and dis­patched usF in straight sets. notre dame slugged at a .333 clip and held usF to just .119 hitting, while sophomore right side hitter Jeni houser paced the team with 11 kills. eppink contributed nine and brindock notched 35 assists. 
“we’re passing and receiving very well,” brown said. “we’re freeing maggie to make choices as to her sets. it really allows us to spread the ball around.” 
with just four regular season matches remaining until the big east tournament, brown re­alizes that her team, tied with marquette and louisville atop the conference standings, needs to take its remaining matches to retain hopes of winning the regular season and grabbing the top seed for the conference tournament. 
“we have pretty lofty goals as far as regular season champions and the big east championships are concerned,” brown said. “we need to win out, so it’s what we practice each day for. each op­ponent is another step in the process.” 
The irish travel to seton hall on saturday for a big east match-up at 2 p.m. 
Contact Conor Kelly at ckelly17@nd.edu 

sandy shortens tournament 
By ISAAC LORTON 
sports writer 
in a fight against time and the elements, the no. 19 irish were able to clinch the fifth spot at The landfall Tradition after 18 holes of golf, after which the tournament was cancelled due to the heavy rainfall of hurricane sandy. 
irish coach susan holt said she was pleased with how the irish performed on the first day despite the less-than-optimal conditions. Freshman lindsey weaver fin­ished with a two-under par 70, which earned her a tie for third place. sophomore kelli oride shot an even-par 72 and was in a four-way tie for 11th place. The irish finished ahead of no. 4 arizona, no. 11 north carolina state and no. 12 michigan state who finished 12th, 7th and 6th respectively. 
“all in all, i’m pretty happy finishing fifth, considering the circumstances,” holt said. “our mindset going in was it could conceivably be an 18-hole tour­nament because of the weather coming from hurricane sandy. 
“we had two players under par and we beat a few teams who were ranked ahead of us. we put ourselves in a better position for the spring season.” 
on saturday, notre dame was in third place after 27 holes, but the rest of the day and sunday were rained out. 
“it’s hard to speculate how we would have finished,” holt said. “most of our kids got nine holes in on saturday, but other teams still had a lot more to go. There were just downpours of rain, greens accumulated water and the girls couldn’t putt and there was too much water on the course to play.” 
with the fall tournament schedule now over, The irish will now begin their offseason train­ing, in order to prepare for the spring. 
“we go into our offseason schedule,” holt said. “it’s eight hours of training a week, no more than two playing golf. we will mainly do strength training and conditioning. our time for golf is significantly cut back, so we will focus on academics. most of the players are from warm-weather climates — hawaii, california, arizona — so i’m glad they will be getting some rounds in over winter break.” 
as the irish look to the spring season, holt said they want to fo­cus on maintaining their scores. 
“There were a handful of times this semester where we put our­selves in a pretty good position to be under par as a team for a round, but we weren’t able to ob­tain it. we want to get there as a team and keep it there. we need to prepare for the championship tournaments in may.” 
The irish will pick up compe­tition Feb. 15, when they head to Tallahassee, Fla., for the three-day mash up tournament. 
Contact Isaac Lorton at ilorton@nd.edu 

ND WOMeN’S SWiMMiNG AND DiviNG | nd 166, auburn 132 
Notre Dame falls to Tigers 
By KATIE HEIT 
sports writer 
The irish hit a rough spot in their season saturday with a close 166-132 loss to auburn. 
notre dame and auburn each won eight events, but auburn managed to earn the upper hand in the no. 2 through no. 5 spots and take the win. 
senior Jaime malandra said she was proud of her team’s ef­fort despite the loss. 
“as a whole, our team re­ally stepped up to the meet,” malandra said. “auburn is a very talented team. while we knew that this meet was going to be a challenge, our coach re­minded us we had to approach it just as we would any other dual meet.” 
The irish did rack up a large number of individual event winners. sophomores emma reaney and suzanne bessire and senior kim holden post­ed individual wins. reaney claimed the 200-yard individ­ual medley and the 200-yard breaststroke. holden won the 100-yard backstroke and 100­yard butterfly, and bessire won the 200-yard freestyle. 
senior diver Jenny chiang also claimed the gold in the 3-meter dive. malandra said chiang had one of the 
more  impressive  wins  of  
the  competition,  winning  
the  event  after  spraining  

her ankle early in the day. “she exemplified the toughness and perseverance of a notre dame athlete,” malandra said. 
sophomore allison casareto won the 1-meter dive after fin­ishing fourth in the 3-meter. The irish also claimed victory in the 200-yard freestyle relay. 
despite all these wins, the Tigers managed to put enough people in second and third place in multiple events to snatch the meet victory. 
malandra said she thinks the loss will give the irish momentum and drive heading into the bulk of their season. 
“i think a lot of people sur­prised themselves with how fast they swam,” malandra said. “That seemed to build our team confidence as a whole. The swimming season is a pro­cess and i think we’re off to a great start.” 
malandra said the irish will have to face tough competition the remainder of the season, but the encouraging nature of her team will help it find success. 
“we work well together,” malandra said. “we push each other and most importantly, we enjoy being around each other. it’s a special thing to be a part of.” 
The irish look to bounce back in a home meet against purdue on Friday at 5 p.m. in the rolfs aquatic center. 
Contact Katie Heit at kheit@nd.edu 


feNciNG | nd 60, ohio sTaTe 37 
irish take down defending national champions 
the foil. freshman John hallsten claimed 
By AARON SANT-MILLER 
For the women, freshman one of the two men’s sabre bouts. and fellow olympian lee kiefer kaull battled to two ties in both 

The irish opened the castellan and sophomore madison Zeiss of his bouts in the epee. Family Fencing center with a earned critical wins, as both “There was no real reason for bang saturday, as both the men’s won all four bouts in the foil. me to rush when i have such and the women’s squads topped at the start of the women’s foil a good fencer behind me in the defending national champi-bouts, notre dame was trailing garrett,” kaull said. “That was ons ohio state in an exhibition 40-39. The four wins earned by the game plan. They wanted to match, with wins of 60-37 and the irish underclassmen led the attack garrett and garrett made 60-51, respectively. irish to victory. them pay when they did. That 
“i think we did incredibly well “i think both gerek and lee was definitely encouraging to in the team matches,” senior ewa kiefer really carried the team, es-see out of [a] freshman.” nelip said. “ohio state is a very pecially late,” kaull said. “i think For the women, the irish saw good opponent and the reign-we set them up to make a domi-a little more difficulty, as ohio ing national champions. beating nating performance against state claimed four of the 12 them in the first tournament was some of ohio state’s best fencers. bouts. still, victories from nelip our major goal, and i think we “They just really came through and sophomore ashley severson accomplished it completely.” and beat them down. i mean, we in epee, as well as a win from se-
Though it was an exhibition expect it of them, but it’s hard nior lian osier in sabre, helped match, the match against ohio for them to step up with all that to the squad cut the deficit to 40­state gave the team an opportu-pressure. They really did an ex-39 following the sabre and epee nity to test itself against one of cellent job.” bouts. From there on out, kiefer the nation’s best, senior James The women weren’t the only and Zeiss took over, winning kaull said. ones to shine in foil bouts on their four combined bouts by a 
“we were just trying to see saturday,. in the men’s foil score of 21-11. where we are as a team right matches, meinhardt and junior The irish also saw success in now. it was an exhibition match, ariel desmet managed to win the individual competitions. of so there was nothing really on their four matches by a com-the six tournaments, the irish the line,” kaull said. “it was our bined score of 29-7, including a claimed three. meinhardt won first test of the season to see 5-0 shutout by desmet. the men’s foil competition, while luckily for the irish, that op-on where you are going into the how we would compete against “we just played it patient, and kiefer won the women’s foil and portunity is right around the season, and we’re hoping to do another good team, and it was then let the olympians take nelip won the women’s epee. corner. on sunday, the irish will pretty well while we’re there.” pretty even throughout, which over,” kaull said. “when you still, the irish hoped to claim compete in the penn state open, The irish will look to continue is a very good sign of things to have that capability, it makes more than half of the individual which is solely an individual on an impressive start, while also come.” sense to just let them do it, and tournaments, nelip said. tournament. improving on the individual lev­
on the men’s side, senior and they did.” “individually, i think we could “we’re going to fence a lot of el, on sunday in the penn state olympian gerek meinhardt led on the day, the men’s squad have done a little better,” nelip different schools and we’re going open at university park, pa. notre dame, as he advanced a only lost one bout, as fresh-said. “we have a lot of talent and to have an opportunity to com­31-30 irish lead substantially by man garrett mcgrath won two i think that’s still an area for us to pare ourselves to them,” kaull Contact Aaron Sant-Miller at winning 14-5 in his first bout in matches in the men’s epee and improve.” said. “it’s a last individual check asantmil@nd.edu. 
sports writer 
paid adverTisemenT 
Waldrum 
continues to get better each week, and i think katie can ar­
conTinued From page 20 
guably be one of the best cen­
ter backs we’ve had in 10 years, we get, and we have to be more which is saying a lot. with [von composed when we get around rueden and naughton], we’ve the goal. i think it’s just that got two center backs that are we’re young up front and we a really difficult tandem to get just have to continue to work at past.” it and improve with those play-waldrum said his team’s ers up front.” physical style of play helped 
notre dame’s struggles on the it survive a challenge from a offensive end continued into tough syracuse squad. the second half, as freshman “as much as we want to keep defender brittany von rueden’s the ball and be a possession-ori­corner kick knocked off the left ented team, we’ve got enough crossbar in the 56th minute. balance in that physical play,” after syracuse senior midfield-waldrum said. “i think it was er alyscha mottershead missed two teams fighting to get to the an attempt in the 66th minute, next weekend.” the irish offense pushed the with the victory, notre ball in its half of the field be-dame, the no. 2 seed in the fore roccaro found the net with big east national division, 
12:47 remaining in the game. will play no. 12 marquette, the 
on the other end of the field, top seed in the conference’s the notre dame defense re-american division, in the corded its third consecutive semifinal round of the big east shutout, limiting the orange conference championship. (9-7-2) to two shots on goal and The golden eagles (14-2-2), who seven shots overall. Freshman beat connecticut 4-1 sunday, goalkeeper elyse hight made are undefeated in conference two saves to record her third play and unbeaten in their last consecutive solo shutout. 12 matches. 
waldrum said von rueden The irish will take the next and freshman defender katie step toward their goal of a big naughton played major roles east championship when they in shutting down syracuse’s play marquette on Friday at 4 offense. p.m. at morrone stadium in 
“The two freshmen we have storrs, conn. playing [on defense] have got­ten more and more experience,” Contact Brian Hartnett at waldrum said. “i think brittany bhartnet@nd.edu 




clark 
conTinued From page 20 
came out and they scored their goal,” clark said. “but he had a terrific save there, and anoth­er good save later in the game when he put a header over the crossbar.” 
walsh recorded a career-high eight saves in the game, while marquette redshirt sophomore goalkeeper charlie lyon used five saves to keep notre dame off the scoreboard for much of the game. 
“both goalkeepers were out­standing, actually,” clark said. “it was a pretty good [adver­tisement] for college soccer, there was a lot of neat things happening. as i said, we could have won the game but so could they, in fairness.” 
Finley finally put the irish on the board in the game’s closing minutes when he sent a loose ball past lyon and into the marquette net from the top 
brey 
conTinued From page 20 
figure out the minutes and the roles in the game for 40 min­utes,” brey said. “so i think to play against somebody else that will give us another step in evaluating our team early in the year.” 
The irish return 89 per­cent of their scoring and 93 percent of their rebounding from last year’s squad that went 22-12 overall and 13-5 in the big east. senior for­ward Jack cooley, graduate student forward scott martin, sophomore guard/forward pat connaughton and junior guards Jerian grant and eric atkins will again start for notre dame. senior center garrick sherman, who sat out last season after transferring from michigan state, will be the sixth man, though brey said he is essentially a “sixth starter.” 
brey will give the majority of the minutes to those six players monday. 
“i want to really get a feel of playing our key guys,” brey said. “you’ve heard me talk about six starters, those guys have to get a lot of minutes playing together. i want to re­ally evaluate that.” 
of those top six players, brey said he is primarily con­cerned with getting sherman, who appeared in 70 games in two seasons with the spartans, comfortable play­ing with his teammates. 
“my focus is going to be those six guys getting the bulk of minutes and getting the feel in at game situations and playing together again, espe­cially for garrick sherman,” brey said. “he’s a veteran, but he hasn’t played for us yet. i want him comfortable and confident early in the year.” 
brey said notre dame would use both sherman and cooley together at times through­out the season, presenting of the penalty box. The goal was Finley’s 11th in the past seven contests and secured his stance atop the league leaders in the category. 
The goal came despite dif­ficult conditions on the field, clark said. 
“[Finley] did well, a lot of the guys did well,” he said. “it was a difficult field. you don’t like to make excuses, but the thing their coach said to me was he apologized for the field at the start of the game when i met him. The field was very [slippery], a bit bumpy. it wasn’t a field that would allow too much good soccer, but i thought we actually did a good job on it.” 
Finley and irish junior for­ward harrison shipp both put shots on net early in the overtime periods, but neither team was able to break the tie after 110 minutes of play. clark said several irish players per­formed particularly well in the 


opponents with a tall order down low. 
“i’ve been happy with how those guys have kept our spacing good,” brey said. “we haven’t got jammed up. They’re good together, they like playing together, they like passing to each other and man are we big and physical with those two in there.” 
cooley will be looking to build off a breakout season in which he averaged 12.5 points and 8.9 rebounds per game en route to a spot on the all-big east second team. cooley was named to the preseason all-big east first team oct. 17. brey said he is thrilled with what he has seen from the 6-foot-9, 246-pounder so far. 
“Jack cooley has been just match. 
“i thought [sophomore mid­fielder] nick besler was su­perb,” he said. “i thought, for me, he was just winning balls … The player that i thought re­ally did well yesterday — the two boys who did well actually, shared the left side — [were se­nior midfielders] kyle richard and bob novak. bob started the game and really did well, and then kyle came on and i thought kyle had a really good game, maybe one of his best games, so hopefully he’s com­ing into form. we really need good production from out in that left midfield position.” 
The irish will face syracuse in the first round of the big east tournament on saturday in syracuse, n.y. The orange (12-5-0, 5-3-0) are the no. 2 
Jackson 
conTinued From page 20 
seed in the conference’s red division. 

The irish kept that momen-Contact Joseph Monardo at 
tum rolling saturday, as a break­
jmonardo@nd.edu 
out performance from freshman center steven Fogarty propelled 
notre dame to a 3-2 victory. deadlocked at one in the second period, Fogarty took a pass and fired a wrist shot from the right faceoff dot through the legs of wildcat junior goaltender Jared coreau. 
Fogarty put the irish even fur­ther ahead nine minutes later, when he chased a rebound on the power play and slung it to­wards the net, where it deflected off coreau and in for the score. 
The goals were the first two of Fogarty’s short collegiate career, something that Jackson said is a big step in his development. 
“[Fogarty] is still feeling his way through college hockey,” Jackson said. “we know that he has the offensive ability, so i’ve been sticking with him even though he’s adjusting and gain­ing experience. saturday was a big step forward offensively for him, and that should give him some confidence going forward.” 
while it was Fogarty that put the irish ahead, it was se­nior goaltender mike Johnson that kept them there. with the lead cut to 3-2 and northern michigan bringing on an extra attacker, Johnson made some huge saves to close out the vic­tory. Johnson, who started most of notre dame’s games last sea-
dominant, flat-out domi­

son, made his first start of the nant,” brey said. “he has 
season and finished with 26 picked up another level from 
saves. where he left off. i am so 
“we need to keep guys fresh, and having mike helps with that,” Jackson said. “There might be a point where we need him this season. [summerhays] is our guy, and i don’t expect that to change, but mike did a very good job on saturday. he’s been practicing well, and he de­served an opportunity to get in there this weekend. he’s been a big part of our team for the past three years, and having him can only be a good thing for us going forward this year.” 
The weekend performance in a hostile conference environ­ment is a great start to notre dame’s conference slate, but a tough stretch of both ccha and non-conference games await. notre dame will host no. 10 western michigan next weekend, while a murderer’s row of no. 1 boston college, no. 6 michigan and no. 4 north dakota awaits the irish through the balance of november. with such a demanding stretch com­ing up, Jackson was able to find several areas that will need to be tightened up, even after an un­defeated weekend. 
“it’s still early in the sea­son, and we have a number of things to continue working on,” Jackson said. “we still showed deficiencies on the power play, and face-offs still have to im­prove. The key is just to keep getting better with every game and every series.” 
The irish are next in action Friday when they host western michigan at 7:35 p.m. at the compton Family ice arena. 
Contact Jack Hefferon at wheffero@nd.edu 

paid adverTisemenT 
pleased with the maturity and the focus and the play­er he’s become. it’s really impressive.” 
with upperclassmen like cooley still fully realizing their potential, brey said his team is not a finished product. 
“we understand we have room to improve even though we have veterans back,” brey said. 
The irish battle the hawks on monday at 7 p.m. at purcell pavilion. 
Contact Mike Monaco at jmonaco@nd.edu 


ndsmcobserver.com | MONDAY, OctOber 29, 2012 | The observer 

crOSSWOrD | will shorTZ 


hiGhlY PuNlikelY | chrisTopher brucker 

lOWer YOur exPectAtiONS|lenny rago & paTrickcross 


SuDOku | The mepham group 


Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an 
hOrOScOPe | eugenia lasT 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Joaquin phoenix, 38; brad paisley, 40; Julia roberts, 45; bruce Jenner, 63. 
Happy Birthday: regroup and you will discover what’s required to get your money flowing and your ideas growing. let your willpower lead the way to victory. your ability to use diplomacy with force will put you in an ideal position regarding work. your thoughtful actions will bring about recognition and advancement. your num­bers are 5, 18, 23, 25, 32, 39, 48. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): don’t jump from one thing to another. choose what needs your utmost attention and complete the task before moving on. set param­eters that will ensure you do what’s right and best for you. a unique relationship will build if you collaborate. 

TAURUS (April 20-May 20): don’t let little annoyances get to you. Festering is a waste of time and will only lead to troubled relationships. rethink your plans and proceed in a positive direction that will interest everyone you care about and keep mishaps to a minimum. 

GEMINI (May 21-June 20): you may not be able to put work aside. if problems are pending professionally, redo your resume and scan online job sites for positions that better suit your needs, skills and goals. rethink your future and make adjust­ments. 

CANCER (June 21-July 22): Focus on what you can do for others and you will inevitably get more in return. it’s what you offer that will set the stage for your personal encounters with others. a creative project or hobby will lead to new social acquaintances. 

LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): don’t fight a losing battle. if someone doesn’t agree with you or doesn’t want to do the same things as you, move along. giving everyone the space needed will help you bypass turmoil that can spin out of control. do your own thing and enjoy. 

VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): a short trip will lead to an interesting option you didn’t realize existed. don’t let anyone stand in your way or pressure you to not follow your own path. you will prosper if you take action based on past experience. 

LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): a lack of honesty prevails. whether it’s you keeping a secret or someone being evasive regarding circumstances, you are best not to make a decision until everything is out in the open and you have a better view of the outcome. 

SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Take care of personal business before you move on to more entertaining pastimes. greater emphasis on love and romance late in the day will help to improve the connection you have with someone special or could lead to meeting someone new. 

SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): a social gathering will lead to an opportunity to improve your status. interact with people who understand your need for adventure and who share your interests. an emotional change will improve your life and ease your stress. love is on the rise. 

CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): backtrack if you must, but don’t let someone get away with taking advantage of your hospitality. Trying to buy someone’s favor will end up dissatisfying, not to mention the emotional, physical and financial losses you will encounter. 

AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): don’t disregard change, especially if someone is try­ing to curtail your freedom. routine may be good for some people, but you need a change in order to feed your curiosity, creativity and your sanity. Touch base with old friends. 

PISCES (Feb. 19- March 20): you’ve got a healthy attitude and some great ideas. expand your interests and discuss your plans with someone who has something to contribute. Teamwork will lead to a solid agreement and a long-lasting partnership. secure your future. 

Birthday Baby: you are courageous, forceful and impulsive. you see, you do, you advance. 
JuMble | david hoyT and JeFF knurek 


make checks payable to and mail to:  The observer p.o. box 779 notre dame, in 46556  
enclosed is $130 for one academic year enclosed is $75 for one semester  
name  

indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying  address  
form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home.  
city  state  Zip  


The observer | MONDAY, OctOber 29, 2012 | ndsmcobserver.com 
MeN’S bASketbAll ND WOMeN’S SOccer | nd 1, syracuse 0 
Team to open with Quincy roccaro’s goal 
By MIKE MONACO 
sports writer 
Two hundred and twenty-seven days later, the road to redemption finally begins. 
The no. 22 irish, who in march were knocked out in the first round of the ncaa tournament, kick off the new season monday with an exhi­bition game against Quincy. 
irish coach mike brey said his veterans have used last season’s early exit from the tournament as extra moti­vation and are focused and ready. 
“a veteran team that’s very hungry comes back focused, comes back with a chip on their shoulder because they wanted to play deeper in the ncaa tournament,” brey said. “i have great cap­tains. my leadership is good. They’ve set the tone and i’ve really liked our prac­tices. we’re focused. we’re concentrating.” 
brey said he is looking for­ward to squaring off with the hawks, who play in division ii in the great lakes valley conference, after roughly a dozen practices. 
“it’s just good to play against somebody else,” brey 
beats syracuse 
we could turn the ball over which is pretty much what happened,” irish coach randy waldrum said. “[roccaro] is so composed with the ball that, once she cut it past the first defender, she had a huge gap to run in between and, with the goalkeeper being out of position, she had the open net to hit it in.” 
notre dame struggled to take advantage of several of­fensive opportunities in a physical first half. anghel made a diving save to stop roccaro’s header in the game’s 
opening  minute,  and  irish  
junior  forward  elizabeth  
Tucker’s  header  smashed  

off the crossbar in the ninth minute. 
waldrum emphasized the need for the irish to convert opportunities, especially as the team advances further into postseason play. 
“right now, we don’t have that player who can score 20 goals a year for us,” waldrum said. “so, we’ve got to be ef­ficient with the chances that 
see waldrum PAGe 17 

By BRIAN HARTNETT 
sports writer 
For the second straight game, no. 24 notre dame struggled to score until the end of the game. but, for the second straight game, the irish only needed one goal to win, as they defeated syracuse 1-0 in the quarterfinals of the big east conference champi­onship on sunday at alumni stadium. 
Freshman forward cari roccaro provided the late-game heroics for notre dame (13-4-2) on sunday, as she scored the game’s lone goal in the 78th minute. 
roccaro took a long pass from junior captain and midfielder mandy laddish, beating syracuse junior goal­keeper brittany anghel to the ball at the top of the box. she then fired into an empty net 

said. “when you have a vet-playing time. from 15 yards out to put the 
eran team banging against “i think you need to now irish on the board. 
each other for two weeks, it sit on the same bench and “one of the things we talk-
gets old really quick.” they all need to see what the ed about all week is that their brey said he would use the pecking order is and i need to goalkeeper plays off her line 
exhibition game to begin to really high and we felt like, 
establish roles and determine see brey PAGe 18 if we pressured her enough, 
MeN’S SOccer | nd 1, marQueTTe 1 
nd battles marquette to tie 
By JOSEPH MONARDO 
sports writer 
one of the primary goals of notre dame’s season re­mained just out of reach saturday, as the no. 7 irish played to a 1-1 draw with no. 3 marquette in milwaukee, wisc., in the squad’s regular-season finale. 
irish senior forward ryan Finley scored the tying goal in the 88th minute for his 17th score of the season. The tie denied notre dame (13-3­1, 5-2-1 big east) a share of the big east regular season title and seeded the irish as the third in the conference’s blue division. 
“[i’m] obviously disap­pointed we didn’t get a win and a share of a champion­ship,” irish coach bobby clark said. “having said that, get­ting a tie on the road against a top-ranked team isn’t the end of the world. i think this game hopefully can prepare us for … ncaa games. so this certainly was far from a di­saster, but it was still a little bit disappointing.” 
The game was the final in­stallment of a double-header against marquette (14-2-1, 5-2-1). notre dame won the first contest, 3-1, in alumni stadium on wednesday. 
Following almost the same script as wednesday’s contest, marquette red-shirt freshman defender axel sjoberg put the golden eagles on the board in the 29th minute. sjoberg scored marquette’s lone goal against the irish on wednesday in the 25th minute. on saturday the 6-foot-7 defender netted the go-ahead goal off a rebound from a shot saved by irish se­nior goalkeeper will walsh. 
“well, he had a fantastic save, that’s how the rebound 
see clark PAGe 18 

hOckeY | nd 5, norThern michigan 2; nd 3, norThern michigan 2 
irish take two victories 
By JACK HEFFERON 
sports writer 
no. 9 notre dame had the up­per hand in the upper peninsula over the weekend, claiming two road wins over no. 16 northern michigan to start their last season in the ccha on the right note. 
The perfect weekend started Friday, when the irish (5-1-0, 2-0-0-0 ccha) put together one of their most complete perfor­mances of the year in a 5-2 vic­tory. Junior netminder steven summerhays made 22 saves in the win, and the defense didn’t allow a goal after the wildcats (3­3-0, 0-2-0-0) scored twice to end the first period. 
offensively, the team got its five goals from five different scor­ers, with goals coming both from marquee scorers — like junior center and captain anders lee — as well as less-heralded offensive players like junior center david gerths, who tallied his second goal in as many games. 
“That balanced scoring means a lot,” irish coach Jeff Jackson said. “it takes some of the pres­sure off of guys like lee and [junior center] T.J. Tynan, which is important, and shows other teams that we have other guys that can score. if we can get three or four other guys to consistently contribute, that can only make us that much better offensively.” 

That play on both ends of the ice left Jackson happy with his team’s performance, although he still found it to be a little less than complete. 
“i’m very pleased with our play on Friday,” he said. “we still played poorly for the second ten minutes of the first period, but i thought we played the other 50 minutes very well.” 
see Jackson PAGe 18 





