The independenT 
To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 


FRIDAY, DecembeR 7, 2012 | ndsmcobserver.com 


INSIDE THIS ISSUE 
NOTRE DAME 
PAge 3 
OFFICE OF THE STUDENT BODY PRESIDENT AND VICE PRESIDENT 
PAge 4 

STUDENT SENATE 
PAge 5 

STUDENT UNION BOARD FACULTY SENATE 
PAge 6 
CAMPUS LIFE COUNCIL CLASS COUNCILS FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT BOARD CLUB COORDINATION COUNCIL HALL PRESIDENTS COUNCIL GRADUATE STUDENT UNION 


SAINT MARY’S 
PAge 7 
OFFICE OF THE STUDENT BODY 
PRESIDENT AND VICE PRESIDENT STUDENT GOVERNMENT ASSOCIATION 
PAge 8 

STUDENT ACTIVITIES BOARD RESIDENCE HALL ASSOCIATION STUDENT ACADEMIC COUNCIL CLASS BOARDS 
PRODUCTION STAFF 

JOHN CAMERON KRISTEN DURBIN BRIDGET FEENEY ANN MARIE JAKUBOWSKI CHRISTIAN MYERS BRANDON KEELEAN SARAH O’CONNOR 



‘We’re in full support’ 
Rocheleau, student government mark establishment of GLBTQ student organization 

By JOHN CAMERON 
news editor 
while “beloved Friends and allies,” the plan for ex­panding services to gay, bisexual, Trangender and Questioning (glbTQ) stu­dents and establishing an official student organiza­tion, is a collaborative ef­fort by the office of the president, student affairs and a number of consulted groups, student body presi­dent brett rocheleau said he considers the resolution to be his administration’s most important project thus far. 
rocheleau said he and his predecessors in student gov­ernment have been pushing for this move forward for decades. 
“we’ve advocated for this since 1986,” he said. “pretty much every administration along the way has advocated for more inclusive [glbTQ] environment in the notre dame community whether it be a variety of different causes but definitely a stu­dent organization was one of them.” 
he said student govern­ment’s coordinated efforts in advocating for a student organization have spanned his two years in an executive position. 
“The last two years, i know [student body president emeritus] pat [mccormick] and i and [student body vice president] Katie rose and i have made this a ma­jor issue on our platforms,” he said. “The effort was definitely reenergized by the [progressive student alliance’s] 4 to 5 movement, it got a lot more discussion on campus. ... you had stu­dents not involved in the process talking about it.” 
rocheleau’s initial role in the effort was a presentation to the university’s board of Trustees last semester. 
“student government chose to present to the board of Trustees about this issue back in may of 2012, and when we came back to campus we found out they’d done some extensive bench­marking effort,” he said. 
over the course of vice president for student affairs erin hoffmann harding’s review, rocheleau said his office gave extensive input. 
“They brought us in, current members of core [council for gay, lesbian, bisexual and Questioning students], the petition hold­ers for the [proposed] gradu­ate students [glbTQ] club, and [unofficial gay-straight alliance] alliancend,” he said. “we had meetings with student affairs where we collaborated on various ideas on how we wanted this to work.” 

while much of the effort came from the administra­tion, alliancend, the core council and other students, rocheleau said his office was behind the movement at every step. 
“Through the whole pro­cess we’ve been in contact with [progressive student alliance co-president] alex coccia, when he would send any recommendations or different materials to stu­dent affairs, when it was pat and i, we’d have our names on those,” he said. 
rocheleau said he was proud of the plan announced wednesday by university administration. 
“we’re in full support,” he said. “we think this is a great step forward for the university and we’re proud to be a part of the process.” 
now that the plan has been established, rocheleau said his administration’s role will now be to help fig­ure out some of the practi­cal implementation of the organization. 
“The next big step is sort of how to define it ... and how the organization can get its funding,” he said. “Those are things our [oversight committee] is sort of work­ing on. That’s going to be the second semester project, sort of answering to some of the more minor details.” 
while the plan is in its early stages, rocheleau is confident it will benefit the campus community. 
“it’s been a great collabo­ration between all the par­ties coming to a middle ground. i think this will be an excellent student organi­zation,” he said. “i’m inter­ested to see how it happens in practice, i think it’s going to be positive. it won’t nec­essarily be around in our term but i think it has the potential to be extremely successful.” 
This collaborative ef­fort, rocheleau said, is what made the plan possible. 
“i’m thankful for all the help from all the different parties. no one could have done this alone,” he said. “without everyone working together this couldn’t have been accomplished.” 


Contact John Cameron at jcamero2@nd.edu 


ndsmcobserver.com | FRIDAY, DecembeR 7, 2012 | The observer 




Steps, not strides 
Rocheleau, Rose manage smooth student government operation, lay groundwork but lack innovative vision 
aside from these visits, the 

By KRISTEN DURBIN 

news editor improvements in constituent 
services have largely come from 

in their 34-page campaign plat-the work of the department and form, “advancing the vision,” se-its head, junior liza manfred, to nior student body president brett survey students and distribute rocheleau and senior vice presi-the subsequent results to other dent Katie rose outlined their department directors. plans to “build upon the founda-“[constituent services] is great tion that took a whole year to es-because they are able to give tablish” during last year’s student information out to the student government administration. body and answer questions, and 
last spring, the duo cam-if they can’t answer them, they paigned on both long-term, find those answers,” rocheleau large-scale goals and less expan-said. sive initiatives to continue the student body leadership prec-Student safety edent set by rocheleau and for-rocheleau and rose also em-mer student body president pat phasized the improvement of mccormick. student safety on and off campus 
while rocheleau and rose in their platform, and they have have done a commendable job overseen collaboration between of overseeing the smooth op-student government and the eration of student government university to make progress to-as a whole, they have relied too ward their goal. heavily on the ideas of previous rocheleau said he and rose met committee, the office of student foreseeable future. rose said. administrations and have not ef-with executive vice president affairs, dorm multicultural com-in terms of modernizing notre despite these shortcomings, fectively used their roles as presi-John affleck-graves to discuss missioners and other campus dame, the administration’s tan-rocheleau and rose said they dent and vice president to effect on-campus security issues such organizations have worked to gible results have come in the area are pleased with progress that innovative change on campus as campus lighting. bring the university “up to the of increasing eco-friendliness on has been made and are optimis­through major initiatives. “[The university] is doing a standard of embracing diversity” campus by installing hydration tic about the remainder of their 
review of lighting on campus through more than 15 different stations and Xcelerator hand dry-term. constituent services to make sure the perception as initiatives, including an exten-ers in buildings. student govern-“we’re really happy with every-
after the mccormick-students walk around campus at sive internal diversity audit com-ment did, however, play a role in thing we’ve accomplished in the rocheleau administration night is a feeling of safety and not pleted by student affairs, rose the university’s plan for gay, les-past nine months in office, and oversaw the creation of the a feeling of fear,” rocheleau said. said. bian, bisexual, transgender and we have a lot of things checked department of constituent in the wake of increased traf-“it was at that point [in march] questioning student resources, off our platform and currently in services, rocheleau and rose fic safety concerns at crosswalks that we kind of looked around in keeping with rocheleau and progress,” rocheleau said. “next prioritized continued improve-near campus and accidents at and said, ‘why all of a sudden rose’s goal of updating school semester, we hope to revisit issues ment and expansion of the de-the intersection of Twyckenham does it feel like we’re decades policies. of the nondiscrimination clause partment’s service to students in drive and vaness street, junior back on an issue we really should rocheleau and rose have fall-and medical amnesty, which will their platform. director of university affairs be at the forefront of?’” she said. en quite short in their goals for be interesting due to changes in 
in general, they and the de-michael masi has “built fantastic in response to that question, connecting notre dame with the indiana state legislation.” partment have made progress in relationships” with notre dame rose said she and rocheleau global community, as rocheleau even if rocheleau and rose achieving this goal through sev-student police (ndsp) and was created a subcommittee in the said a previously proposed social “check off” all the tasks outlined eral avenues, including encour-involved in conversations lead-department of residence life to justice concert event for playing 4 in their platform next semester, aging student feedback through ing to the installation of a new tackle “less formal interactions” peace will not feasibly take place their work so far lacks any prog­recently created Facebook and signaling device at that intersec-related to racial discrimination. during his term. progress has ress toward implementing a ma-Twitter accounts, collecting in-tion, rose said. although rocheleau and rose been made, however, on two new jor new initiative that will leave a formation from student surveys The rocheleau-rose admin-did not anticipate collaborating websites — serve.nd.edu and lasting legacy on the university. and communicating with hall istration continued previously closely with the career center, summeropp.nd.edu — that will governments on dorm-specific established student safety initia-rose said they have facilitated connect students with opportu-Contact Kristen Durbin at issues. tives by holding a “well-attended” cooperation and helped gen-nities to serve and study abroad, kdurbin@nd.edu 
“one thing [constituent second annual safety summit erate student feedback on the services] has done this year is earlier this fall and maintaining center’s services and its percep­formalizing that first platform frequent email communication tion among students as providing initiative, so they’ve run things with students about safety issues, business-oriented services. through the Facebook page rocheleau said. “it was good to hear what stu­like ‘on-call week,’” rose said. despite the efforts of student dents thought about the career “we’ve had a lot of really con-government groups to improve center so they can remedy some structive and new ideas come safety through discussions and negative associations and change through in feedback, so i think meetings with ndsp and lo-the perception of it back to where it’s initiatives like that the depart-cal police forces, rocheleau and it was,” rose said. ment has really bulked up on.” rose have not fully implemented 
rocheleau said he, rose and any new safety initiatives thus far An unfulfilled legacy? senior chief-of-staff Katie baker in their term. although progress has been visited hall government meet-a promise to develop a mobile made in the areas of constituent ings to obtain direct student safety app through collaboration services and safety, rocheleau feedback on issues pertaining to with ndsp and the department and rose’s plans for deepening individual dorms. a discussion of campus Technology has notre dame’s relationship with of water quality problems in one proven empty aside from brain-south bend, modernizing the such visit to Fisher hall prompt-storming at the end of spring university and connecting it to ed the administration to push for semester, though rose said app the global community have gen-installation of hydration stations development may be explored in erally not moved from discussion in every dorm at the beginning of the future. into concrete action thus far. the semester. The administration’s work in 
“going to hall governments changing focus the south bend community has has helped us out a lot by seeing after taking office, rocheleau merely expanded on previously what students want. … by being and rose had to address the on-created initiatives and events, able to have a close pulse of the going discussion about racial dis-including the end hunger cam-hall governments, we can hear a crimination at notre dame as a paign and community picnics, lot about students and the feed-result of the call to action move-and rocheleau and rose’s idea back they have,” rocheleau said. ment and town hall meeting in to bring a specialty grocery “it helps us improve our constitu-march. during the first months store to eddy street commons ent capacity on campus.” of their term, the call to action will not come to fruition in the 



GRADE: B-

President and Vice President 
Rocheleau and Rose campaigned in an unopposed race largely on ideas produced by previous administrations rather than their own unique innovations. They admit to the influence of the McCormick Rocheleau adminis tration in their platform, promising to continue the work of that administration by “advancing this vision we all share and delivering measurable results.” However, tan gible results have given way to prolonged discussion and limited action during the current administration, despite the significant collaboration Rocheleau and Rose cited between the Office of the President and Vice President, other student government departments and University entities. Lacking an innovative vision of his own, Rocheleau has depended on the work of his prede cessor to drive his term as president of a reactionary, not revolutionary, administration. To their credit, Rocheleau and Rose have adequately met the requirements of their positions in overseeing solid work and collaboration by student government as a whole. Without getting any sig nature initiatives off the ground, they have not gone be yond the minimum expectation of their work to leave a unique legacy on Notre Dame. 


StuDent SenAte 




Senate increases efficiency since merge with COR 
By MADDIE DAly 
news writer 
This year’s student senate has been more productive than past groups due to the dedication of the senators and the new format of meetings, student body presi­dent Kate rose said. 
“i’m really happy about our successes so far,” rose said.  “i could not be happier with the engagement and enthusiasm of the senate members and depart­ment heads.” 
last december, the council of representatives merged with the student senate to form one larger governing body. as for the new format of meetings, rose said the group is able to get more done and have more time for discussion. 
“i’m very excited about the merger [between senate and the council of representatives],” rose said.  “last year, the rep­resentatives from all 29 dorms and off campus sat around the table while the directors of each department sat at the front. The agenda included updates from all ten department heads which took up a lot of our discussion time, leaving senators sitting there with blank stares. 
“by having just one update a semester we have increased effi­ciency and are able to have thirty to forty more minutes of discus­sion per meeting.” 
This year’s senators have ap­proved more resolutions than their predecessors, rose said, be­cause the merged setting allows them to actively engage with the group’s agenda. 
“it’s so exciting to see people engaged during the meetings, and the fact that we’ve passed 34 resolutions so far — more than previous senates have passed in entire years — is a testament to the senators themselves,” rose said.  “The resolutions that war­rant more discussion then oth­ers have pushed us to strengthen our arguments and keep every­one engaged and alert.” 
although 34 is a large amount of resolutions to be passed in such a short amount of time, it is important to look at the qual­ity in addition to quantity.  some of the resolutions are more triv­ial than others, accomplishing little more than creating titles for positions or approving thank-you notes to be sent to various departments. 
one of the more controversial resolutions sparked debate on the formation of a sub-committee of the gender relations department, which in turn prompted discus­sion of a gay-straight alliance. senate members argued quite heatedly and needed interven­ing on rose’s part to stay on topic and stay professional rather than getting too involved in personal opinions.  The resolution ended up being passed on sept. 12 de­spite the debate. 
another important resolution dealt with community relations and appeared before the senators after the sept. 28 community summit meeting.  The resolu­tion stated the ideas brought forth at the debate would be put into action within the 2012-2013 academic school year in order to better the relationship be­tween students at notre dame and members of the south bend community. The resolution passed with no objections. 
previous senates have had problems with attendance and interest, but this year’s group has had a near-perfect record. 
“student senate has held its discipline so far,” rose said. “sometimes enthusiasm wanes a little bit, attendance declines, things get busy — but this year is the first year we haven’t had to call senators asking where they are.  we’ve had no attendance problems and always get emails from senators who can’t attend or who plan to send a proxy.  i’m very proud by the amount of work everyone has put in.” 
looking ahead to next semes­ter’s transition, rose said she feels confident that her job will be passed into good hands. 
“i love the fact that transitions happen in February and we are able to have department heads appointed by march,” rose said. “That way we can have plenty of talks with our predecessors to establish a good relationship. Transition month is crucial.” 
as for the transition itself, rose said the most difficult part will be acquainting new members with parliamentary procedure. 
“it’s tough to get all the lingo down, and a lot of it has to be learned as you go,” rose said. “before the first senate meet­ing we have a senator training program where we go through a fake resolution to practice.  i like parliamentary procedure because it makes sure everyone has an equal voice and ensures that the meetings run smoothly. it’s good because it keeps every­thing formal.” 


even though this year’s sena­tors have been very successful in bettering the school, rose said more important is the fact that they have grown as individuals and leaders. 
“it’s fantastic if we can improve the school, but it’s an even better opportunity for people to work together and find new avenues when there’s a roadblock, learn how to divide up tasks,” rose said.  “To hear people on senate talk about how they’ve become more engaged in the school and developed personally, that’s what makes me happy.” 


Contact Maddie Daly at mdaly6@nd.edu 
GRADE: A-

Senate 
Because of the enrich ing discussions, atten tive participation and respectable quantity of resolutions passed, this year’s Senate deserves an A . The group has accomplished some tangible goals, like the approval of a HAWK sys tem near Twyckenham Road, and maintained a disciplined and pro fessional atmosphere. However, many of their resolutions were puppet statements, adding to the group’s filed paper work but not actually accomplishing much. 

The Department of Academic Affairs worked to reform several academic policy measures, and revised its own constitution. department director maxwell brown led the department as it coor­dinated the last lecture series, assisted in the library renovation process and advocated for the restructuring of other university policies related to dulac. academic affairs also created an interactive study spaces map on insidend and continued the college readership program.  despite the department’s achievements, academic affairs earns a b+ because it failed to meet its own objective of marketing its initiatives to the student body. 

The Department of Campus Technology appointed technol­
ogy commissioners in each dorm to resolve students’ technical 
support problems more efficiently, fostered the development of mobile technology through multiple events at a “mobile summit” and sup­ported academic affairs’ initiative to create maps of campus study spaces. department director yiting Zheng led her department as they worked to place computers in o’shaughnessy hall, better support cell phone service on campus and support initiatives undertaken by the university council for academic Technologies.  The department earns an a for its work this semes­ter because the initiatives both thoroughly addressed the needs of the notre dame community and were efficiently implemented. 


The Department of Community Relations hosted several large 
events for students, including a new student bus tour, a welcome 
picnic with the robinson community learning center and a community earlier this fall.  department director Kelsey eckenrode guided her department through collaboration with the co-campus council, which has allowed connections between area campuses and residents to multiply. community relations also has planned a communiversity day for the spring and a student discount program but because the department has pursued a thin array of initiatives, it earns a b-. 


The Department of Constituent Services made its presence known 
on campus through visits to hall council meetings and a Facebook 
campaign aiming to connect students to their representatives in student government.  department director liza manfred guided her team as they organized student feedback and suggestions to the appropriate depart­ments, and has planned several initiatives for the spring including ‘senate sparknotes,’ an on-campus farmer’s market and a leftover apparel sale.  The department earns an a- because its initiatives are creative and varied, but it could still engage more deeply the student community. 

The Department of Gender Issues pursued an extremely wide ar­
ray of initiatives, including revision of the discrepancies across 
the residence hall alarm system, improvement to contemporary Topics, promotion of a gay-straight alliance, assistance in the planning of sexual violence awareness week and revision of language in ndsp sexual as­sault email notifications.  department director matt devine plans to continue his department’s support for their initiatives already in place, and to work to­ward planning a more effective freshmen orientation.  gender issues earns an a+ for the excellent variety of its initiatives and its success in seeing them put into place. 

The Department of Internal Affairs monitored revisions to last 
year’s student union reform, the creation of new class council by­
laws and adjustments to the student union secretary position and the orientation for new senators.  department director benjamin noe also led his department as they crafted a new rule for the senate permitting proxy at­tendance for unavailable senators, the new campus ministry representative position and the write-in amendment for campus elections.  internal affairs earns an a for effectively monitoring recent reforms while also continuing to streamline student government further. 

The Department of Residence life installed hydration stations in 
rolf’s sports recreation center, the rockne memorial gymnasium 
and in the residence halls.  department director parker dwyer led his department as it installed hand dryers in the residence halls, worked to delete meal times in the dining halls and installed a sub-committee specifi­cally promote diversity in housing. The department plans to also install high efficiency washing machines in the residence halls and further promote di­versity in housing.  residence life earns a c+ because though it has effectively responded to diversity issues, it has focused in too much on the installation of hydration stations and has neglected to pursue a variety of policy initiatives. 

The Department of Social Concerns has finalized a “servend” 
website to make it easier for students to pursue service opportuni­
ties and nearly has competed a food nutrition booklet to aid south bend residents using food stamps.  department director pail digiovanni guided his team as it ran a sept. 11 letter-writing campaign and a lecture on syrian conflict and refugee situation as a join effort with acousticafe.  The department has planned a broomball event, charities to benefit hurricane sandy victims, a documentary series and a charity run.  social concerns earns an a- for its efforts this semester; although the department has con­centrated its efforts on a few initiatives, those initiatives have been extremely successful. 



The Department of University Affairs worked to promote general 
safety on campus by conducting safety audits, expanding ndsp 
safewalk services and renovating sidewalks.  department director michael masi led his department as they reviewed the incoming hawK sys­tem on Twyckenham road, student id cards, implemented hydration stations in debartolo hall and restored campus statues.  The department also plans to collaborate in planning of the 2012-2013 Forum, while promoting efforts to­wards sustainability in student government.  university affairs earns a b+ for its effective initiatives, especially for those related to campus safety; however the scope of its initiatives is limited and too heavily focused on sustainability efforts. 


ndsmcobserver.com | FRIDAY, DecembeR 7, 2012 | The observer 

StuDent unIon boARD 





SUB broadens appeal, prepares for spring events 
Representatives seek to gather more student input, adjust plans to meet student needs next semester 
By MEl FlANAGAN 
news writer 
The student union board (sub) has focused the first se­mester of its term on gauging stu­dent interest in different types of events the board could host on campus. 
board manager ashley markowski said the board’s pri­mary goal for the year was receiv­ing input from a greater number of university students on sub’s activities. 
“we’ve been trying to send out more surveys through our dorm representatives to send out to their halls,” she said. “we want to know what artists do you know, what artists would you attend concerts for, things like that.” 
although the majority of sub’s events will take place in the spring, markowski said the orga­nization has seen great success in some of their events they have held in the fall. 
on sept. 7, “saturday night live” head writer seth meyers performed a comedy act that marked the largest event in sub’s history. about 2,100 people at­tended the Friday night event in the stepan center, and another 3,000 watched on a screen outside the dome. 
markowski said other popu­lar events included a lecture by pat brown, an award-winning author and criminal profiler, a christmas sale and showings of popular summer blockbusters such as “The avengers” and “21 Jump street.” 
“one of the things we’ve heard about Fall mall is it’s so early that most people can’t come to it so they wanted a different sale later in the year,” she said. “it had christmas lights, decorations, mini trees, any christmas prod­uct that bed, bath & beyond sells.” 
sub, the largest programming organization on campus, has also worked on incorporating two new programs to its previous 13 departments. 
The new Festivities program organizes holiday-themed events geared toward building morale for students. during the fall semester, markowski said Festivities has planned pumpkin picking and painting activities. 
despite its success, markowski said the group faced several chal­lenges this semester, particularly when the elevator in laFortune student center was being repaired. 
“we hold the majority of our events in the ballroom because it’s the biggest space where we can pass out food, etc.,” she said. “but we wanted to make sure all our events were available to all of campus so we had a difficult time planning the first half of the year with finding new locations.” 
looking forward to the spring, markowski said the board has several items on its agenda. The group is currently searching for both an act and an alternate loca­tion for the annual spring concert. 
“we’re trying to move it out of stepan because we’ve seen com­plaints due to space that not ev­eryone can attend if they want to,” markowski said. “we’ve been looking at compton [Family ice area] since they just had a concert there.” 
The board is also charged this year with organizing the annual holy half marathon for the first time in the run’s history. 
“The run is normally bounced around between different people and class councils so we wanted a permanent home,” markowski said. “That’s been a really big challenge, trying to do such a large event for the first time.” 
sub is also making changes to the notre dame literary Festival. 
“most people go to events in the first two to three weeks of the se­mester so we’re trying to move the nd literary Festival to the second week of classes,” markowski said. “we’re looking at some authors for that. we want the theme to be authors that have books that have become movies, and we’re trying to have a movie watch go on with the authors.” 


on a larger scale next se­mester, the group will work on reaching more students with its advertising. markowski, who lives off campus this year, said she realized how isolated some members of the student body are. 
“i notice i don’t ever see the posters, and i don’t go to hall council, so it’s really hard to reach some people,” she said. “we have a Facebook group, which just got one thousand followers, and we’d like to expand that to as many un­dergrads as possible.” 

Contact Mel Flanagan at mflanag3@nd.edu 


GRADE: A 

Student Union Board 
SUB hosted an incred ibly successful fall event when Seth Meyers came to town, but will need to brace itself to handle the Holy Half on top of its regular duties. 

FAcultY SenAte 


Faculty Senate discusses graduate program issues 
Senate chair focuses on standardizing faculty expectations, graduate student healthcare coverage 
Doug Archer
Faculty senate chair 

university’s non-discrimination they can’t purchase it for fami-progress in complying with teach].” 
By TORI ROECK 

news writer clause are still at the forefront. lies,” archer said. Faculty senate’s requests. he also archer said different de-The board of Trustees struck The resolution urges the grad-said the forthcoming wellness partments have different ex-
The Faculty senate did not pass down the motion to amend the uate school to subsidize more center will better address health pectations. For example, the any resolutions this semester, but non-discrimination clause in health care costs for students’ concerns for graduate students architecture department re-the group addressed the impli-the spring, but the university ap-dependents because most of the and their dependents. quires its faculty to continue pri­cations of controversial resolu-proved an unnamed official stu-affected parties are ineligible currently on the agenda is the vate practice. The Faculty senate tions passed last semester and dent organization for gay, lesbian, for state-sponsored medicaid university’s lack of a conflict of seeks to standardize these expec­

bisexual, transgender and ques-programs. commitment policy, archer said. tations somewhat, he said. tioning (glbTQ) students earlier “given that the university of notre dame has a conflict of inter-another concern for Faculty this week. The plan also included notre dame is attempting to est policy stating professors can-senate is examining new master’s the creation of a new advisory encourage more talented and not invest money in companies degree programs to ensure they board and the future hire of a full-brighter graduate students to at-associated with the university, are keeping up with notre dame’s time staff member to liaison be-tend the university and work with but no policy exists that addresses standards, archer said. tween the administration and the the faculty, the Faculty senate professors’ time commitments, “There has been a growth in student body. believes one of the ways in which he said. the number of proposals coming 
in addition to the resolutions the university can show its com-“[a conflict of commitment down the pike,” he said. “The con-thoroughly discussed the conse-supporting student senate, mitment to graduate students policy] specifically refers to those cern is that the quality of our grad­quences of future resolutions. Faculty senate passed an im-and their families is to better pro-things that don’t fall into the cat-uate programs be maintained.” 
although the group passed no portant resolution last semester vide for their health care needs at egory of teaching or research,” archer said the group focused resolutions this semester, Faculty concerning health care for gradu-a level on par or better than our archer said. “examples would be mostly on research this semes­senate chair doug archer said last ate students which continues to aspirational peers,” the resolution serving on professional boards or ter and will work on drafting semester’s resolutions supporting spark debate with administrators, states. committees, serving as an editor and passing resolutions come student senate’s decisions to ad-archer said. gregory sterling, dean of the of a journal, which are perfectly January. vocate for a gay-straight alliance “graduate students can pur-graduate school, responded to appropriate things to be doing but (gsa) on campus and the addi-chase insurance through the the resolution citing the weak could theoretically interfere with Contact Tori Roeck at tion of sexual orientation to the university for individuals … but economy for the school’s slow one’s primary responsibility [to vroeck@nd.edu 


cAmPuS lIFe councIl 




Collaborative effort 
By CAROlyN HUTyRA 
news writer 
campus life council (clc) hit the ground running this semester at its first meeting in september, and the drive has not let up since. while the group has experi­mented with different meeting styles in recent years, including a committee-based approach, clc operated as a whole this semester to work today improving the stu­dent experience at notre dame. 
student body president brett rocheleau said all clc mem­bers ranked the most important concerns facing notre dame stu­dents and compiled a final list of 12 primary issues. he said the council decided to tackle each problem individually. 
“[we] look into each issue, bring in the relevant student affairs members or the relevant administrators for the conversa­tion, talk with them, give recom­mendations,” he said. 
rocheleau said the clc focuses on giving recommendations to the university administration rather than on passing resolutions like other representative bod­ies. if a resolution is passed, the vice president for student affairs must respond within an allotted amount of time, rocheleau said. 
Questioning the feasibility of proposed changes is the primary question, he said, and moving for­ward from answering that ques­tion is clc’s subsequent goal. 
The first issue of focus for the clc dealt with offering consul­tation to the board of Trustees on the problem of discrepancies across residence halls and factors encouraging students to move off campus, rocheleau said. The council concluded the primary issues with living on campus were affordability and independence. 
“if you look at being at irish row [apartments], you pretty much save money from being on cam­pus and you have more space, more freedom,” he said. 
students often desire a step­ping stone between campus life and post-graduation residence in large cities like chicago or new york, rocheleau said. other focus areas for the clc and board of Trustees in terms of residence life stemmed from a comprehensive strategic plan for the university from 2003 in which a number of goals went unfulfilled.
 “[we] brought highlights back to the board, saying these are some things we would like to re­visit,” he said. 
some suggestions from that plan included tearing down stepan center and replacing it with a new, larger-scale version of the laFortune student center and exploring options to reduce on-campus beds by 10 percent in all residence halls to prevent overcrowding and allow for open study spaces, rocheleau said. 
“our [university housing] size, if we didn’t want to do overcrowd­ing, is built for 8,000 students. 
right now we have 8,400,” he said. “The class acceptance size has slowly been going up.” 
clc also discussed the poten­tial construction of additional residence halls and new senior housing options on campus, rocheleau said. The council sug­gested both co-ed dorms and themed housing, but the group’s main focus remained solving the on-campus housing incon­sistencies, especially the current overcrowding issue and inequali­ties in living amenities between dorms. 
“The board was very shocked to see the differences across dorms,” rocheleau said. 
some dorms lack basic ameni­ties such as kitchens or a 24-hour space, he said, and evidence of overcrowding and dorm in­consistencies are manifested in forced triples, a “quint” five-person room in pangborn hall and comparisons between dou­ble room sizes in morrissey and duncan halls. 
“Five girls living in a study area, that’s something that shouldn’t happen on campus especially with everyone paying the same amount of room and board,” rocheleau said. 
The council presented this in­formation, along with additional data, to the board earlier this semester. 
additionally, rocheleau said clc has increased interac­tion with other administrators and outside sources, including a review of the call to action movement, a result of acts of on-campus racial discrimination in February. 
“clc was very happy seeing that the call to action was mov­ing forward, and it wasn’t just a one-semester thing,” he said. 
The council invited g. david moss, senior consul­tant for student affairs, to speak about the call to action’s accomplishments. 
“They want a ‘one-stop shop’ for reporting [acts of harrass­ment],” rocheleau said. “right now they’re piloting a class about educating students [about diversity].” 


most recently, council discus­sions have focused on campus safety, engaging in conversation with notre dame security police (ndsp) and sgt. Tracy skibins to review lighting on campus, rocheleau said. 
since a new sculpture park, which will be erected between compton Family ice arena and eddy street, will include a paved walkway, rocheleau said ndsp knows students will walk through the area and need proper lighting to feel safe. 
looking to next semester, the council members will turn their attention to medical amnesty, off-campus safety and modifica­tion of the university’s non-dis­crimination clause. 
overall, rocheleau said he con­siders the past semester a pro­ductive one for clc.
 “i think clc has been a great success this year,” he said. “i’ve been really happy with the differ­ent discussions we’ve had.” 


Contact Carolyn Hutyra at chutyra@nd.edu 
GRADE: A 
Campus life Council 
CLC started the year by creating an effective system of drawing attention to the main issues affecting the Notre Dame campus and students. They voted on the most important top ics, and overviewed them in a timely fashion. CLC also reached out to and in cluded outside sources in their conversations in order to gain sufficient informa tion on topics of discussion. Council members, students and faculty alike, provided insightful information and viewpoints that helped pro duce informed recommen dations that were presented to the Board of Trustees. 




GOVERNMENT IN BRIEF 
Graduate student union (GSU) expands grants, ups event attendance 
This semester, the notre dame graduate student union saw a substantial increase in attendance at its events, including its halloween party, skat­ing and trivia events, gsu president doug rice said. rice said one of the gsu’s major recent accomplishments was changing its presentation grant request limit from $200 to $2,000, allowing students to attend and finan­cially cover more conferences than in past years. rice said the gsu has also started offering a grant encouraging collaboration across disciplines. The gsu will host its annual christmas party today and is in the process of planning a charity gala for this coming march, rice said. 
-Dan Brombach 

Board collaborates with The Shirt, will review expenditures 
The Financial management board (Fmb) spent the semester consulting with student organizations and working with The shirt charity Fund, Fmb chairman alexa shaw said. “[The fund] distributes proceeds from The shirt to those with extraordinary medical conditions and financial needs,” shaw said. “Financial management board also strives to stimu­late collaboration within different clubs and organizations through our collaboration Fund.” Fmb will prepare next semester’s expenditures in the next few weeks, shaw said. “our winter spending review and realloca­tion process and our annual spring allocation will continue to provide funding for student organizations and class councils as they look towards planning exciting programs for the student body in the spring,” she said. 
-Tori Roeck 


Council fosters interaction between residence hall leaders 
The hall presidents council (hpc) forged connections between dorm representatives to strengthen its event-planning capacity, co-chair matthew lynch said. “we decided to focus on having ways to make the meetings more interactive between dorms,” lynch said. “we spent time during our weekly meetings splitting up into groups based on quads in order to make the meetings more interactive between dorms.” This initia­tive has helped the dorms to collaborate on large-scale events like the hunger games event, lynch said. hpc continued to improve its selection process for hall of the year, lynch said. “The biggest challenge we have had is finding the perfect and most transparent process,” lynch said. 
-Nicole Michels 
Club Coordination Council revamps funding allocation process 
The club coordination council’s (ccc) cardinal task for the fall semester was to improve the allocation process of distributing money to individual clubs, ccc president hannah burke said. “The whole council saw a lot of issues with it and saw the need to revamp it,” she said. “The allocations will not happen until april, so we still have time.” burke said the ccc has broken down the allocation process into several steps. “all of the dead­lines we’ve set for ourselves have been met,” she said. 
-Adam Llorens 
Senior Class Council seeks feedback, offers transitional programming 
senior class council (scc) focused on opening up communication this semester. “we’ve really tried to follow through with these goals by open­ing up the discussion of senior week planning to the whole class via a town hall meeting,” scc president Tricia corbran said. popular events have included a cooking class in legends, a “campus cuisine” event featuring foods from campus eateries and a “senior slump” discussion on life after notre dame. next semester, corbran said the council will look into continuing with programming focused on transitioning to post­graduate life. 
-Mel Flanagan 
Junior Class Council organizes events, designs apparel 
Junior class president lizzie helpling said the Junior class council (Jcc) has met its goals for the semester. “Jcc set out to program events and activities that would unite the junior class in a way that was accessible to the students,” helpling said. This semester, the council organized a glow­in-the-dark rosary, a pumpkin painting service project, a halloween ice skating night, a stanford game tailgate, a trip to cedar point and new “bro tanks.” helpling said Jcc effectively maintains communication with the junior class through monthly newsletters, which keep students abroad informed and unify the junior class. 
-Christian Myers 
Sophomore Class Council offers well-rounded programming schedule 
class president Tim scanlan said the sophomore class council worked to achieve social, spiritual, and service goals this semester by planning events like a block party and a byu class tailgate. “we’re doing an all-year program called the class cup which includes events like trivia night, a hot dog eating contest, and a strobe light volleyball tournament last weekend called ‘strobe set spike.’” scanlan said the council collaborated with campus ministry to put together a class mass and a recurring rosary event. “on the service side, we decided to start a new initiative called ‘Take 5,’ where the idea is to take five minutes to do something nice,” scanlan said. 
-Ann Marie Jakubowski 
Freshman Class Council starts off ND years on high note 
class of 2016 president hugh phelan has been in office for less than a semester, but he has already organized several impressively attended events with. The Freshman class council’s hosted the monster mosh halloween dance. Fcc also hosted a bonfire on holy cross hill, which phelan said attracted several hundred students. currently, phelan and his council are fundraising for operation smile, a charity providing surger­ies for children with facial deformities. They are working on “prayer partners,” a program that matches more than 200 freshmen to pray for each other. 
-Maddie Daly 



Smc StuDent boDY PReSIDent AnD VIce PReSIDent 
Leading the transition 
Senior duo ushers in new government structure, looks to collect more feedback around the College 
originally concerned with the a large role in creating aware-“almost all of the departments mary’s and its student body. 
By JIllIAN BARWICK 

saint mary’s editor communication between coun-ness of orgsync, a place where have a representative on the coun-“we are implementing a com­
cils and the student body and students are able to access all cil and students should know that ment box that will be placed in the 
as the restructuring of the saint how it might get lost during the communication from clubs on if there is something they need, student center at the beginning of mary’s student government restructuring. campus. it is easily fixable through com-next semester where students will association (sga) settled in, stu­
“i hope that orgsync really munication with the council and be able to let us know what they 

dent body president 
maureen 
parsons 
and vice president 
meghan casey found the transi­
tion smooth as they took office 
last spring. 
when the year began, parsons 
was unsure of how the students 
would handle the new structure 
Maureen Parsons 

senior 
helped clubs and organizations myself.” like and don’t like, as well as what 
stay organized and efficient. The both parsons and casey said they would want to see during the 
new software, called the belle they are looking forward to next semester, which is something we 
Tower, creates a central location semester when the college cel­are really excited about,” casey 
for clubs to communicate with ebrates heritage week. said. “Feedback from the students 
their members as well as other “i think it is important week is extremely important to us and 
clubs,” parsons said. “it also cre-to highlight the tradition of the maureen and i hope that it will 
ates one spot for students to go college and for girls to appreci­only improve where saint mary’s 
of sga, however she found that to learn about upcoming events. ate what saint mary’s is all about,” can go from here.” students were increasingly recep-“continuing to improve com-in terms of finances and forms, parsons said. tive of the changes and welcomed munication through the new the belle Tower allows students students at saint mary’s show Contact Jillian Barwick at them happily. sga structure is a huge priority to complete most all processes pride in the education receive at jbarwi01@saintmarys.edu 
“i think with the new struc­online.” the college and thoroughly enjoy 


ture, we have done a good job of 
completing our goals and staying 
focused on what we want to ac­
complish within our respective 
councils. one worry i had at the 
beginning of the year was that the 
councils would not stay connect-The belle Tower will cut down sharing their stories with alum-

on all-school emails that students nae, parsons said. 
Meghan Casey 
senior 
receive at the college, parsons “This year, we are working on 
said. Through this new software, bringing alumnae back to campus 


GRADE: A-

students can sign in and see ev-and having them share their sto­
erything they need regarding stu-ries of their experiences at saint SMC President, VP 
dent involvement. mary’s,” she said. “i personally The duo successfuly helped 
“i hope that the belle Tower will love the tradition and sense of sis-in the restructuring efforts ed with each other,” parsons said. 
“however, i think we have done a  increase student participation in  terhood here at saint mary’s and  with SGA, resulting in a  
good job of communicating be- of ours,” casey said. “also, work- organizations as well as student  really want to make sure heritage  more efficient, effective  
tween councils and keeping up  ing to get more students to events  attendance at various events,”  week this year brings students  governing student body.  
to date on what everyone is doing,  on campus, whether it be sport- parsons said.  together to learn more about the  However, the usability of  
the senate sat on the councils this  ing events or other activities held  one of casey’s priorities for next  heritage of the college.”  the Belle Tower remains  
semester as well to be informed  at saint mary’s is a big priority of  semester is improving communi­ ultimately, student input is a  uncertain and leaves room  
on what sga is doing.”  ours as well for next semester.”  cation between students and the  huge part of the success parsons  for clarification.  
casey, like parsons, was  parsons and casey have played  student academic council.  and casey want to see for saint  

StuDent goVeRnment ASSocIAtIon 
sga adjusts to new structure, promotes programming 
By BRIDGET FEENEy 
associate saint mary’s editor 
The revamped student government association (sga) spent this year adapting to its new structure while incorporating new initiatives into its traditional pro­gramming. The new sga layout, approved by last year’s leader­ship, took effect at the start of this semester. 
student body president maureen parsons said this year’s primary task has been to complete this restructuring. 
The result, she said, has been positive. 
“we have been working hard to lay a strong foundation for what the new sga will look like and how it will operate,” she said. “it is making sga more efficient and successful.” 
under the previous model, sga was one governing body that en­compassed all its members — ex­ecutives, class board presidents and representatives from student diversity board, the residence hall association and student activities board. 
parsons said the new layout al­lows all these members to be more vocal in contributing their ideas. 
“now we have five councils com­prised of class boards, commit­tee chairs, the big boards, student academic council and clubs,” she said. “ now clubs have a bigger role within sga. The senate was also added to the new structure.” 

with this new structure, parsons said the reorganization has re­quired some adjustments. 
“with the new structure, we’ve had to shift responsibilities and take a look at who should be doing what,” she said. “each person’s role on sga is more clearly defined. This allows each area of sga to really focus on their purpose and work to get things done.” 
vice president of external af­fairs Kat sullivan also praised the group’s reorganization. 
“The new structure has been working really well,” she said. “having different groups for each council … makes our meetings more focused and productive.” 
Ringing in the Belle Tower 
saint mary’s students experi­enced another major change this year when the college integrated a new online network called the belle Tower, which features the all-school events calendar and online club information. The network hosts orgsync, a new software that parsons said is a unique way for students, clubs and adminis­trators to communicate. students were encouraged to sign up on the belle Tower beginning in october.
 “many students compare it to a Facebook for clubs,” she said. 
“clubs can advertise events and communicate with members and other students through the portal.” 
The move to the belle Tower was a joint effort between sga and student involvement and multicultural services (sims). 
“sims approached sga to par­ticipate in various webinars to decide which program best suited saint mary’s,” she said. “so, this summer i worked with sims in picking a portal. 
sullivan said the initiative has been a great addition to the cam­pus and hopes students take ad­vantage of the new offerings. 
“[orgsync] utilizes technology in a way that we haven’t before,” she said. “club presidents, big boards and sga members are able to use this resource to plan and ad­vertise events. This transition will make things like budgeting, plan­ning events and organizing group members much easier. 
leslie wilson, vice president of internal affairs, said while the switch to the belle Tower has brought some difficulties, it has been an overall success. 
“it has been an adjustment for the student body — but it is defi­nitely a necessary adjustment,” she said. “The main issue was and will be to get students comfortable with navigating the site and encourag­ing them to check it regularly to see what is going on campus.” 

Promoting programming 
parsons said how sga has main­tained its focus on social issues. 
“at the beginning of the year, we cosponsored [the] belles against violence office kickoff to make sure girls were aware of the re­sources available to them in regard to relationship violence,” she said. 
“support a belle, love a belle” was another important week-long initiative, which parsons said was designed “to show support to our sisters struggling with anxiety and depression.” 
while much of campus winds down for break, parsons said the sga is planning ahead for a busy spring semester.
 “we want to make sure that clubs and organizations aren’t planning too many events on the same days because we don’t want our organizations to compete.” 
wilson said the communication and feedback from students is cru­cial to sga’s goals for next semes­ter, and she envisioned orgsync playing a bigger role in alerting the campus about events and other news. 
“we have recently sent out evaluations to all sga members to hear their thoughts on how the semester has gone so far and what we can do to move forward next semester,” she said. 
Two of next semester’s biggest events, love your body week and heritage week, already have some events planned, parsons said. 
“we are really excited about heritage week this year,” she said. “This year’s theme is connecting the tradition of the college to the present and taking it into the fu­ture. ” 
Though the year has been marked with many changes and transitional periods, sullivan said everything has gone well and ac­cording to plan. 
“i am really happy with the way this year is going,” she said. “i think sga will always be a work in progress but things have been go­ing well so far. we are constantly asking how we can move forward and learn from our past and i feel that is so important to any organization.” 
Contact Bridget Feeney at bfeene01@saintmarys.edu 
GRADE: A­
SGA 
The board  has responded well to the new structure. However, not enough attention has been given to the smaller clubs and organizations on campus. 


StuDent ActIVItIeS boARD 

SAB engages students, builds on traditions 
Board pleased with success of events in fall semester, begins planning spring schedule 
“it’s our annual give-back continue this collaboration. 

By ANNA BOARINI 

news writer event,” she said. “[guests] can “This was the first time we were 
bring their families, siblings. it’s really able to focus on the goal of 
as the “premiere programming just a fun-filled event for families incorporating the other campus-board at saint mary’s college,” that may not be able to buy things es, not just notre dame but iusb student activities board (sab) for christmas for their families.” and ivy Tech, too,” she said. has combined tradition with cre-both Kraig and schwab serve sab kicked off the year with ativity and looked for outside in-on co-campus committee, a belles bash, a luau-themed event spiration, sab president liz Kraig group of students from local col-that included inflatables, an ap­said. leges, including saint mary’s, pearance by dJ rough cut and 
“we wanted to maintain the notre dame, holy cross college, snow cones, Kraig said. smaller-popularity of traditional events, indiana university south bend scale events were held at the be-bring in new events and collabo-and ivy Tech community ginning of the semester as well, rate with different campuses,” college. including a bow-making event to she said. Kraig said the committee has promote the belles cross country 
schwab said the group’s goal facilitated community outreach team and the notre dame foot-was to gather more student feed-through a halloween party and ball team prior to the michigan back on programming. community luncheon.  now in game. 
“This was the first year we sent its third year, Kraig said the event Throughout the year, sab class unity that includes the an-got points for the most participa­out a survey for Tostal, asking expanded with involvement by hosts sundaes on sunday, a nouncement of the Tostal per-tion and the Turkey bowl,” she who girls would be interested in the co-campus committee. movie screening series that has forming artist. said. “it’s our flag football tourna­having,” Kraig said. “it was nice “[member schools] brought included titles such as “The leading up to midnight ment, which was even featured to get the feedback to see who in their own students, as well holiday” and “snow white and madness, Kraig said smaller on the video for the [college’s] girls would like to bring most to as their own games and crafts,” the huntsman,” Kraig said. events are scheduled to help capital campaign, which is campus. she said. “iusb’s disney club looking to next semester, Kraig classes earn points for the main exciting.” 
Kraig said sab’s biggest event had someone [play the part of] said sab is looking forward to event. this year was the community santa.” midnight madness, a traditional “so far, we’ve done balloon Contact Anna Boarini at winter wonderland. Kraig said she hopes to school-wide event promoting bombardment … where seniors aboari01@saintmarys.edu 

GOVERNMENT IN BRIEF 
Student Diversity board 

saint mary’s student diversity board [sdb] works to spread awareness of the many different cultures on campus. 
senior president maggie galvin said the group began with its annual sdb bonfire, which aims to “showcase of the tal­ents from different cultures on both campuses.” 
The group also hosted a brand new event this year called “watch your mouth,” to promote awareness of the language people use in everyday speech. 
galvin also said that group is trying to work with more of the multicultural clubs on campus. 
sdb will kick off its work next semester with “sugar makes the world go ‘round,” which will feature dessert dishes from around the world. later in the semester sdb will spon­sor its annual events disabilities awareness week, women’s appreciation 
week, and conclude with its diverse student leadership conference (dslc).
 - Sarah Swiderski 
Residence Hall Association 
saint mary’s residence hall association (rha) has been hard at work this year under senior president sarah copi. 
rha facilitates interaction between the hall councils and promotes a community atmosphere through its pro­gramming. copi said that fall rha events were a success. 
“rha held a tailgate for the michigan state vs. [notre dame] football game,” she said. “This was a great way for girls to meet new people and show their spirit. we even had a few people doing push-ups.” 
The rha also hosted a haunted house before halloween. 
“all four hall councils worked together to decorate and create fun games and a haunted house,” copi said, “it was amazing to see the hall councils come together to plan such a successful event.” 
rha is also responsible for spirit week, where dorms compete for the title “hall of the year.” next semester, rha is planning the all-school formal and lil’ sibs weekend. 
- Sarah Swiderski 
council of Student Activities 
council of student activities [csa] is one of five councils that fall under the student government association  of saint mary’s. The council is composed of representatives from student diversity board, student activities board (sab), and residence hall association. 
csa is chaired by  student body president and senior maureen parsons. parsons said the council functions as a way to bring the various student activity groups together. 
“we work to enrich campus life through the collaboration and coordination of campus programming. This council seeks to identify the primary responsibilities of each respective board, and capitalize on opportunities of overlap,” parsons said. 
in its first year, csa is setting a precedent, she said. 
“we are trying to lay the foundation for future years. our main focus is improving campus programming by building on events we have and creating new ones. we also really want to show support for all events and programs on campus,” parsons said.
 - Sarah Swiderski 
First Year board 

The First year board’s top priority this semester was creating a community ser­vice event in which they accepted dona­tions for a local family. The board has seen an excellent turn out and is expect­ing more donations to come,  board presi­dent bri o’brien said. 
“Through this event we are hoping to encourage charity and community with­in our class and school,” o’brien said. “we also made a video wishing our class a happy Thanksgiving called the ‘gobble’, which is a parody of the ‘wobble,’ and was a huge hit with our class.” 
The board is utilizing Facebook polls on the first-year class page in order to better communicate with the class, o’brien said. 
next semester, the board is planning to put on the first ever “belle games,” an event based off the “The hunger games.” 
“The main purpose of ‘The belle games’ is our class to have fun and get to know some belles they might not other­wise have had the opportunity to connect with.” 
- Jillian Barwick 
Sophomore board 

over the course of the fall semes­ter, the sophomore class board planned the sophomore 
Formal. The formal was held nov. 
16. with a 1920s theme, the formal was a huge success for the board, president amy Trahan said. 
“i am so grateful to my vice presi­dent anna Fanelli and to our class board for how much hard work they put in to make this fun event pos­sible,” Trahan said. 
as for next semester, sophomores can look forward to sophomore parents weekend, which will be held the weekend of Feb. 8. 
“Karen Johnson is helping us plan this event, as it is quite a big event, and it is important for par­ents to have a fun weekend with their daughter,” Trahan said. “after sophomore parentsweekend, we will be planning an easter fun­draiser and service event for our class.” 
-Jillian Barwick 
Junior board 
The main priority of the junior class this year is unity. The majority of the class is back from studying abroad sophomore year, and the class is well into their perspective majors, class board president carolyn backes said. 
“as we get older we want our class to be closer with one another. as the small­est class at saint mary’s we want to work together to remember these great four years that we will spend here,” backes said. 
The class held their Junior Formal, which was themed “Famous couples,” this past weekend and it was a big suc­cess for the class. 
“our next big event is in april and it will be Junior mom’s weekend,” backes said. “[This is] a weekend that many of the girl’s on campus have looked for­ward to since their freshman year.” 
This event will include a silent auc­tion, a class ring blessing and many oth­er events around campus celebrating the tradition and history of the college. 
-Jillian Barwick 
Senior board 
The group is now planning a second buffalo wild wings Trivia night, hoping it will prove as successful a fundraiser as the first. 
This semester, senior board planned and hosted senior dad’s weekend, which board president silvia cuevas called a huge success. 
“senior dad’s weekend was a great time and starred hypnotist Tom deluca on the Friday night of the weekend,” cuevas said. “it was an overall success­ful weekend full of great memories the seniors and their dads will definitely cherish forever.” 
also included at senior dad’s weekend was a beer garden held in the noble Family dining hall and a boston college game watch at the century center in downtown south bend on saturday. 
For next semester, the senior class board will be busy preparing for the events during senior week, which in­cludes the senior Formal that will be held on may 10. 
- Jillian Barwick 






