
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 

SENATE 


GSA resolution passes 
By MARISA IATI 
News Writer 
Student Senate passed a resolution requesting the University approve an appli­cation for a gay-straight al­liance (GSA) on Wednesday. The resolution also requested the University offer a public statement explaining its deci­sion on the application. 
Twenty-one members of Senate voted to approve the resolution and two members abstained from voting. 
Junior Katie Rose, gender issues director for student government and vice presi­dent-elect, said student gov­ernment’s records show the possibility of an official gay-straight alliance has been discussed since at least 1989. 
Senate entered into closed, executive session for much of its discussion about the reso­lution. When public discus­sion resumed, student body 

see GSA/page 6 


Whole Foods to open in fall 
High-end grocer will offer more dietary options to students 

By TORI ROECK 
News Writer 

Health-conscious stu­dents will have options be­yond the Huddle’s limited organic and gluten-free options when Whole Foods opens in Mishawaka in the fall. 
After investigating the South Bend area for years, the high-end grocery chain will take over the 24,000 square foot space on Grape Road formerly occupied by Borders, according to the South Bend Tribune. 
Sophomore Kelly Cronin 


Mendoza students aid local Montessori school 
By NICOLE MICHELS 
News Writer 
Four Mendoza College of Business students are apply­ing project management skills learned at Notre Dame to a lo­cal Montessori school. 
Juniors Stephanie Boggs, Patrick Cotter, Barbara Smith and Devlin Lynch are using professor Corey Angst’s Proj­ect Management class to help Good Shepherd Montessori School increase enrollment. 
Good Shepherd develops a child’s love of learning through a unique combination of Catholic social teaching and Montessori teaching methods, according to co-founder and director of community rela­tions Felicia Leon-Driscoll. She and her husband, co-founder Daniel W. Driscoll, established the school after studying at Notre Dame. 
“We’re doing what Notre Dame taught us,” Leon-Driscoll said. “We’re applying the principle of Catholic Social Teaching to our work and our lives, [taking] the preferential option for the poor and [mak­ing] the world a place where it is an easier place to be good.” 
Room exists for improve­ment and expansion from the 16 students the school had when it opened 10 years ago, Leon-Driscoll said. Good Shep­herd wants to increase class size, with the immediate goal of generating enough interest to open a preschool classroom. 
“Our goal is to attract 20 new elementary-age students and 15 new preschoolers,” Leon- Driscoll said.  “That will make a huge difference.” 
Through the Project Man­agement course, students, including Boggs’ group, will apply what they learn in the classroom directly to real world experience after choos­ing their clients from a list of interested organizations, Angst said. 
“We want to send the mes-

see SCHOOL/page 6 
said she is greatly looking forward to shopping at the new Whole Foods. 
“There’s so much good food there,” Cronin said. 
Cronin said she suffers from Celiac disease, which restricts her to a gluten-free diet. Although the dining hall offers special meals for her, Cronin said she is excited to take ad­vantage of Whole Foods’ vast inventory of gluten-free products. 
“Whole Foods has some really great gluten-free breads and muffins, and they’re not in the refrigera­tor,” Cronin said. “Whereas the gluten-free stuff — at least at South [Dining Hall] 
— is in a little fridge, and you have to heat it up.” 
Cronin said the presence of Whole Foods might also improve the gluten-free op­tions provided in the dining halls. 
“[Whole Foods] is going to allow the dining hall to offer more services be­cause they won’t have to dig or order or do special things to get us food,” she said. 

see WHOLE/page 6 



Council elections take place 
By SAM STRYKER, SARA FELSENSTEIN, KRISTEN DURBIN, MARISA IATI and NICOLE TOCZAUER 
News Writers 
The Judicial Council approved 10 tickets to run for Class Coun­
cil. Six tickets are running for Sophomore Class Council, while two tickets are running for Ju­nior and Senior Class Councils each. Elections will take place online today from 8 a.m. to 8 p.m. 
SOPHOMORE CLASS COUNCIL 
Juan Rangel, Alison Leddy, Christina Gutierrez, Paul Luczak 
Juan Rangel, Alison Leddy, Christina Gutierrez and Paul Luczak hope to unite their class through communication and programming. 
“We will ensure that we com­municate with the entire class on a regular basis, as well as allow plenty of opportunities for the class to communicate with us,” 


see COUNCIL/page 5 

SUSAN ASIYANBI ADDRESSES STUDENTS ON THE WORK OF TEACH FOR AMERICA 

INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER Comedian visits Saint Mary’s page 3 u Viewpoint page 8 u Westminster Kennel Club Dog Show page 10 u Men’s basketball clobbers Rutgers page 20 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT IS YOUR FAVORITE SONG TO SING IN THE SHOWER? 

www.ndsmcobserver.com P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 Editor-in-Chief Douglas Farmer Managing Editor Business Manager Sarah Mervosh Jeff Liptak asst. Managing Editor: Adriana Pratt asst. Managing Editor: Chris Masoud News Editor: Sam Stryker Viewpoint Editor: Meghan Thomassen Sports Editor: Allan Joseph Scene Editor: Maija Gustin Saint Mary’s Editor: Caitlin E. Housley Photo Editor: Pat Coveney Graphics Editor: Brandon Keelean advertising Manager: Katherine Lukas ad Design Manager: Amanda Jonovski Controller: Jason Taulman Systems administrator: William Heineman Office Manager & General Info (574) 631-7471 Fax (574) 631-6927 Advertising (574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu Editor-in-Chief (574) 631-4542 dfarmer1@nd.edu Managing Editor (574) 631-4542 smervosh@nd.edu Assistant Managing Editors (574) 631-4541 apratt@nd.edu, cmasoud@nd.edu Business Office (574) 631-5313 News Desk (574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com Viewpoint Desk (574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com Sports Desk (574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com Scene Desk (574) 631-4540 mgustin@nd.edu Saint Mary’s Desk chousl01@saintmarys.edu Photo Desk (574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com Systems & Web Administrators (574) 631-8839 Policies The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College.  Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Douglas Farmer. Post Office Information The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 and additional mailing offices 024 South Dining hall Notre Dame, IN 46556-077 The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved.  
TODAY’S STAFF News Sports Amanda Gray Andrew Gastelum Tori Roeck Katie Heit Dan Brombach Laura Coletti Graphics Scene Lauren Kalinoski Alex Kilpatrick Photo Viewpoint Mackenzie Sain Caroline Lang  
CORRECTIONS The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so we can correct our error.  
HIGH 38 LOW 36 


Adrienna Perales  Allie Schultz  Alyssa Baz  Grace Urankar  Jordie Wasserman  
junior  freshman  junior  sophomore  freshman  
Holy Cross  McCandless  Holy Cross  Holy Cross  McCandless  
“‘It’s Raining  “‘I Wanna Dance  “‘The Sun  “‘Friday’ by  “‘You Belong  
Men’ by The  With Somebody’  Will Come Out  Rebecca Black.”  With Me’ by  
Weather Girls.”  by Whitney  Tomorrow’ by  Taylor Swift.”  
Houston.”  Annie.”  

Have an idea for Question of the Day? Email obsphoto@gmail.com 

OFFBEAT 

Bulldog adopts 6 wild boar piglets in Germany 
BERLIN — Forget the three little pigs hiding from the big bad wolf. These six little pigs have found a new friend in a maternal French bulldog named Baby. 
The Lehnitz animal sanc­tuary outside Berlin said Baby took straight to the wild boar piglets when they were brought in Saturday, three days old and shiver­ing from cold. 
Sanctuary worker Nor­bert Damm said Wednes­day that, as soon as the furry striped piglets were brought in, Baby ran over and started snuggling them and keeping them warm, even though they’re almost her size. 
The 8-year-old bulldog has stayed right by their side since then, making sure they’re OK, Damm said. 
“She thinks they’re her own babies,” Damm said. 
It isn’t the first time Ba­by’s taken to new guests at the sanctuary - she’s also raised raccoons, cats and many other animals, Damm said. 
“She’s an uber-mother,” he said. 
Man wore ‘Scream’ mask in two robberies 
MERIDIAN, Miss. — Po­lice have arrested an India­napolis man in connection with two convenience store robberies in Mississippi where the thief wore a mask like the one used by the vil­lain in the 1990s slasher flick “Scream.” 
Meridian police charged 33-year-old Jerry Jones with two counts of armed robbery. 
Jones is suspected of rob­bing the two stores roughly four hours apart early Fri­day, 
Both times, authorities say, he was wearing a mask like the one worn by the vil­lain in the film, “Scream,” which starred Neve Camp­bell, Courteney Cox, Drew Barrymore and David Ar­quette. 
No one was injured in ei­ther incident. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
IN BRIEF 
Tim Hart, president of Credibility Consulting, will give a lecture titled, “Financial Services: The Broken Promises,” today at 12:30 p.m. in Giovanni Commons, located on the lower level of the Mendoza College of Business.  This lecture is part of Ethics Week, which seeks to en­courage discussion of eth­ics in and out of the class­room. 
The Nanovic Institute Film Series is sponsoring a showing of the movie ‘Melancholia’ today at 6:30 
p.m. in the DeBartolo Per­forming Arts Center. Di­rected by Lars Von Trier, the movie is rated R and has a running time of  136 minutes. 
National Book Award Fi­nalist Bonnie Jo Campbell will have a book reading today at 7 p.m. in the Eck Visitors’ Center as part of the Notre Dame Literary Festival. The reading will be followed by a Q&A ses­sion as well as an author signing. 
Professor David Solo­mon, professor Michael Baxter and Reverend Bill Miscamble will conduct a panel discussion titled, “The Most Controversial Decision: Harry Truman and the Bomb,” today at 
7:30 p.m. in the Hesburgh Center Auditorium.  The panel will discuss Presi­dent Truman’s decision to drop atomic bombs on Hi­roshima and Nagasaki to end WWII. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed in­formation about an event to obsnews.nd@gmail.com 


LOCAL WEATHER 
TODAY TONIGHT FRIDAY SATURDAY SUNDAY MONDAY 










HIGH 44 LOW 31 
HIGH 35 LOW 23 

HIGH 33 LOW 24 
HIGH 39 LOW 33 

Comedian O’Shea makes College laugh 

By ANNA BOARINI 
News Writer 
Comedian Eric O’Shea had Saint Mary’s students in stitches Wednesday as he performed his routine in Carroll Auditorium, sponsored by the Student Activi­ties Board (SAB). 
O’Shea has been nominated for College Performer of the Year five times. 
“I say that humbly [referring to his five nominations] — I expect the very best out of myself every show and want to leave a great impression,” he said. “I am very proud to be around after 17 years and to be working so much and, as I say, it is not hard to get there, it’s hard to stay there.” 
Along with his five nominations, O’Shea has over 4 million hits on YouTube, has received a rave re­view from Steven Spielberg and was able to present at the Creative Emmys with Betty White, who he calls, “my golden girl.” 
O’Shea said he has performed at colleges around the country for 17 years and has done about 60 shows a year since 1996. 
“I became a comic because my thoughts could not survive in a nine-to-five world,” he said. “I’m curiously opinionated.” 
Even though O’Shea has per­formed all over the country, he said he does not have a favorite place to do his act. 
“I love what I do and to share my thoughts with young minds,” he said. “I don’t have a favorite place, although there is nothing like a show where the chemistry is perfect.” 
O’Shea said his writing is for ev­eryone — young and old, male and female. While he does not write for the college market specifically, he said his material fits in really well.
 “[The college market] seems to be a good fit where they appreci­ate wit, pg-13, unique humor with a sizzle factor,” he said. “Colleges keep you honest. You can’t get away with cheap club bits and the students are privy to the very best, have a little swagger and have seen it all in terms of entertain­ment. 
“It is a frustrated, self-deprecat­ing look at everyday life with ran­dom ideas and thoughts thrown in for fun. It moves fast and keeps you relating.” 
SAB member senior Allie Court­ney said the group brought O’Shea to campus in an effort to make February a month full of fun. 
“This semester we really tried to up our events in February and of­fer a different event every Wednes­day,” she said. “February can be the worst month on campus with the weather and no break so we are just trying to make it better.” 
This month, SAB has also shown the film “The Help,” hosted a tie-dye event and will show the film “50/50” next week. 
Contact anna Boarini at aboari01@saintmarys.edu 


Professor researches violence 
By ANNA BOARINI 
News Writer 
While working in Northern Ireland over the past six years, Dr. Mark Cummings’ research team found that political vio­lence affects the way families function, which in turn causes behavioral and men­tal health problems in children. 
The team’s re­search was published on “Child Develop ­ment’s” website and will run in a future issue of the journal, according to a Feb. 8 University press release. 
Cummings, chair of the psy­chology department, said he first became interested in the conflict in Northern Ireland while he was a Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies fellow. 
“I became interested in ex­ploring the impact of political vi­olence on families and children as a way to better understand possibility for peace process,” he said. “If you understand those pathways, then you understand more about how you might re-mediate problems by first un­derstanding what the problems are at that level.” 
In conducting the research, Cummings and his team worked with faculty living in Northern Ireland. The researchers from Northern Ireland conducted all the interviews, he said. 

“When we started, the chil­dren were between 10 and 15,” he said. “Now we are on our sixth year studying approxi­mately 1,000 families in Belfast.” 
Mothers and children were in­terviewed and filled out a survey to assess the different measures of political violence they encoun­tered, Cummings said. 
“We developed measures of sectarian community violence and non-sectarian community violence,” he said. “We assessed interparental conflict, fam­

“This violence increases 
ily conflict could be gen-
conflict between 
and parent-eralized to a ing, especially parents, increases certain ex-parents con-family conflict, and that tent. trol over chil-increases insecurity “We do dren’s behav-that children have think that ior.” every soci­
about their communities 
Cummings ety would 
and their families.” 
said the re-be different, sea rcher s but differ-
Mark Cummings 
were also ex-ent levels of amining the professor society effect creases insecurity that children have about their communities and their families,” he said. “And that leads directly to them having problems with depres­sion, aggression, anxiety.” 
The team has also found that social identity matters in this conflict. 
“We’ve found that kids identi­ty as Catholic or Protestant also factors in,” he said. 
The identification as Catholic or Protestant can be both an in­dicator of youth resilience and risk, he said. 
Cummings said that, while he and his team have only stud­
ied one area, 
their results 
emotional se­curity of their participants, as well as the chil­dren’s adjustments. 
Through interviews and sur­veys, the research team found that political violence, specifi­cally that of Northern Ireland’s political and religious divisions, affects family units, which in turn affects children.
 “This violence increases con­flict between parents, increases family conflict, and that in-children,” he 

said. “Chil­dren’s emotional security about their community, their culture and their family’s matter to their adjustment.” 
Cummings said this research would also help understand youth and how political violence affects them everywhere, not just in Northern Ireland. 
Contact anna Boarini at aboari01@saintmarys.edu 
SGA 

Association prepares for student elections 
By KRISTEN RICE 
News Writer 
Saint Mary’s Student Govern­ment Association (SGA) is prepar­ing for elections set to take place at the beginning of March. 
The Observer reported Monday that SGA introduced a new orga­nizational structure for the 2012­2013 school year. SGA held a meet­ing Wednesday night for potential candidates running for positions within the new structure in Sen­ate, SGA, Student Activities Board (SAB), Student Diversity Board (SDB), Class Boards and Residence Hall Association (RHA). 
SGA chief of staff and senior Em­ily Skirtich gave attendees informa­tion about campaigning, highlight­ing its positive elements. 
“This should be a fun process for everyone,” Skirtich said. 
Students were informed about campaign platforms, which stu­dents will use to advertise their views, beliefs and why they want to run for office. 
Any student running for Senate will have their own personal plat­form, while students with running mates will have one platform for the entire ticket. There are spe­cific guidelines that each candidate must follow in order to participate in elections, Skirtich said. 
Concerns about election viola­tions, such as vandalizing another candidate’s poster or students vot­ing for their own tickets more than once, were also addressed. 
All candidates must get approval for all campaign materials by the Elections Committee and the Office of Student Involvement, Skirtich said. For Senate and SGA, the last day to get approval is Feb. 24. Any student planning on running for election on a Class Board, SAB, SDB or RHA must get approval by March 2. 
Any student who may not get a position in the Senate or SGA still has an opportunity to be involved in one of these activities, Skirtich said. 
“There are plenty of ways to be involved, so do not be discouraged if you do not get the initial position that you want,” she said. 
Changes will be made to the vot­ing process to raise awareness, SGA vice president and senior Jacqualyn Zupancic said. SGA has decided to not only send links by email, but also allow students to vote in the Student Center from 8 
a.m. to 8 p.m. 
Another informational meeting will be held tonight at 6 p.m. for in­terested students. Campaigning for office will begin at the end of Feb­ruary. 
Voting for SGA and Senate will take place March 1, while voting for Class Boards, SAB, SDB and RHA will take place March 8. 
Contact Kristen Rice at krice01@saintmarys.edu 


parel to generate pride in the proposes a variety of initiatives Helpling, Neal Ravindra, Jessica from our opponents is our spe-
Council 

class of 2015. that would give voice and power Puricelli and Greg Yungtum will cific ideas and originality,” he 
“To do this, we plan on throw-to the sophomore class. These circulate a class council newslet-said. “We are beyond driven and continued from page 1 ing an off-campus Winter Ball items include converting Class ter, amongst other things. excited for this.” 
and hosting a year-long Class Council meetings to a town hall “We want to make student Rangel said. “We also will en-Cup that will pit dorms against format, pushing for acceptance government activities catered to SENIOR CLASS COUNCIL sure that we offer something for each other in various competi-of Flex Points and Domer Dollars (the students’) expectations and everyone when it comes to pro-tions,” Scanlan said. at Eddy Street Commons and giv-more accessible, while accom-Tricia Corbran, Claire George, viding programs and events for The campaign also calls for in-ing students choice in the Class of modating their busy schedules,” Daniel Klodor, Chris Champlin the class.” creased communication between 2015 spirit gear. she said. 
Rangel, Leddy and Gutierrez students and the Class Council. McKenna also said class fund-Class unity is a huge focus of Tricia Corbran, Claire George, are currently members of Fresh-“We will have a ‘Class of 2015 raising should focus on improv-the ticket’s platform, Helpling Daniel Klodor and Chris Cham­man Class Council. Luczak is a Stimulus Package’ that will al-ing dorm amenities and giving said, which includes involv-plin hope to make senior year member of the First Undergrad-low anyone to submit an idea to back to the greater South Bend ing students who are studying about “the class as a whole,” Cor­uate Experience in Leadership Sophomore Class Council and community. abroad in campus life. bran said. program. Rangel said he and his we will help fund and run their “We especially want to make “The focus of our senior year running mates are enthusiastic event,” he said. Billy Christy, John Mueller, sure that our classmates who are should be on making an unfor­about enacting a number of ini-The ticket also emphasizes de-Maggie Wilmouth, Kelsey studying abroad are still con-gettable experience filled with tiatives. signing class bro tanks and snap-Hutchinson nected with the students here on events that everyone feels includ­
“We are excited to begin work-backs as a priority. campus,” she said. “We plan to ed in and that people actually ing on allowing Domer Dollars Billy Christy, John Mueller, organize care packages and out-want to go to,” she said. to be used on Eddy Street, ap-Kevin Walsh, Martin Walsh, Jea-Maggie Wilmouth and Kelsey reach efforts to students abroad.” Some of those events would parel like sunglasses and rugby nette Kim, Shannon Hogan Hutchinson aim to unify their The ticket also looks to con-include a “Senior Bar Throw-shirts, short and concise weekly class through constituent out-tinue successful activities the back Night” at Legends, as well newsletters, service opportuni-The platform presented by reach, spirit promotion and class of 2014 enjoyed in the past, as tours of the Stadium, tunnel ties with Habitat for Humanity Kevin Walsh, Martin Walsh, Jea-council-to-council communica-Helpling said. and 14th floor of the Hesburgh and teaming up with other stu-nette Kim and Shannon Hogan tion in event planning. “We also want to bring back Library. dent organizations to plan great aims to foster class unity. To improve council efficiency some of the more popular events Another area of focus, Corbran events,” Rangel said. “Our main focus is giving the and “personalize the interac-that our Class Councils have put said, is helping students transi­
class of 2015 their most enjoy-tions between student body and on in the past, such as the Class tion from Notre Dame to the real Kevin McMannis, Cristin able experience at Notre Dame to government,” Christy said his Mass and expanding the 2014 world. Pacifico, Ryan Newell, Kai date,” Kevin Walsh said. team will focus on reaching out class merchandise,” Helpling “We hope to hold a series Gayoso Many of their ideas include an to their peers through individual said. comprised of several workshops 
outdoor ice rink, class trips to interaction and a four-member … with speakers on managing 
The main focus of Kevin Mc-the Indiana dunes, a capture the outreach committee. Nicholas Desmone, Kerry Hunt, personal finance … how to cook Mannis’ ticket is to establish a flag tournament, themed school “We’re the only campaign that Jacob Kaminski, Matthew more than Easy Mac but stay tight-knit class by catering to days, a class barbecue and mul-has promised to go door-to-door Schmit on budget, and getting students students’ ideas, he said. tiple fundraisers for charity. to meet with every member of into contact with alumni clubs 
McMannis said his ticket’s “To us, our duty as leaders of the class of 2015 at least four dif-Nicholas Desmone said the and other students in the loca­ideas include organizing a “fare-the Sophomore Class Council is ferent times during our term,” members of his ticket are focused tions where they will be working well picnic” after final exams, to provide the most opportunities Christy said. on delivering a number of excit-following graduation,” Corbran creating neon class apparel and for students to enjoy themselves Christy said his team plans to ing experiences to the members said. holding a class Mass and month-during their sophomore year work with other class councils of the class of 2014 next year. She said a main strength of her ly town hall-style meetings. here,” he said. to create both bigger and better “Simply put, our ticket wants ticket is the experience each can­
“We’d like to host a festival on The ticket also plans to stream-events for the sophomore class to create events for the class of didate has. Irish Green near the end of fall line communication between the and the general campus commu-2014 that are worthwhile,” he “We feel that our ticket is a and enjoy the last of the ‘warm’ council and students. nity. said. “Instead of focusing on an good representation of the senior season together,” he said. “We The ticket’s platform also pro-array of smaller events, we want class,” Corbran said. “We have a want to bring in a band, rides Jack McKenna, Andrew poses organizing class-sanc-to pursue large goals.” large range of experience from a and food to celebrate the fall and Pemberton, Caroline Chang, tioned trips to Notre Dame var-Desmone said potential event president that has been involved get ready for a white winter.” Therese Germain sity athletic events to unify the ideas include having a new con-with Class Council since fresh-
McMannis is running with sophomore class in both class cert on campus in the fall se-man year to a secretary whose Cristin Pacifico, Ryan Newell The time is now to change the and school pride. mester and planning multi-day involvement has been outside of and Kai Gayoso. The four ticket Class of 2015’s Notre Dame expe-Christy said these specific pro-service trips coupled with recre-student government.” members serve on Freshman rience for the better, Class Coun-posals all converge in the goal ational activities such as a trip to Class Council. McMannis is the cil candidate Jack McKenna said. of outreach on multiple levels: Cedar Point. Megan Rodts, Caitlyn freshman class vice president McKenna, who is running with Dorm to dorm, section to section, The ticket, which also includes Koscielski, Kevin Mitchell, and Pacifico is also a member of Andrew Pemberton, Caroline door to door, person to person. Kerry Hunt, Jacob Kaminski and Louis Medina the Student Union Board. Chang and Therese Germain, “We’ll be the ticket who knows Matthew Schmit, also wants to 
“We understand what is ex-said his team hopes to bring vi-if we’re successful because of our plan a charity dinner as one of The goal of Megan Rodts’ ticket pected of us and we have crucial sion and passion back into stu-vast outreach,” Christy said. their signature events. is to be “student-centered” and programming experience,” Mc-dent government after an “un-“We’d like to host and sell tick-stay in active communication Mannis said. “At the same time, satisfying year” on Freshman JUNIOR CLASS COUNCIL ets to an on-the-quad dinner for with the Class of 2013, Rodts we have fresh ideas and a fresh Class Council. sophomores with delicious food said. start, which we think is also very “We believe this deficit of ex-Elizabeth Helpling, Neal (such as) steak, seafood, amaz-Rodts runs with Caitlyn Kosci­important.” citement is a detour and not a Ravindra, Jessica Puricelli, Greg ing deserts and music,” he said. elski, Kevin Mitchell and Louis 
destiny,” McKenna said. “We Yungtum “The money collected would go Medina. Timothy Scanlan, Nathan Foje, deserve better than what we’ve to a charitable cause.” Their platform, titled “Enrich-Andrea Palm, Emily Voorde been offered and we intend to Increasing class unity while Desmone said what sets his ing Our Futures,” aims to help 
challenge the status quo in a way making student government ticket apart from other potential prepare students for post-college 
Tim Scanlan, Nathan Foje, no one else can.” available to students’ needs is a candidates is the group’s spirit of life by offering cooking classes Andrea Palm and Emily Voorde In order to get the sophomore priority for Elizabeth Helpling’s innovation. and a monthly lecture series. want to use class events and ap-class back on track, the ticket ticket, she said. To do this, “I believe what separates us “We’re really excited about 

this lecture series because it will involve current faculty or Notre Dame alumni who have excelled in their professions, and will be focused on what they did during their senior years and immedi­ately after college that they found successful and vital to their ca­reer path,” she said. 
The ticket also hopes to hold social events including a “Fall Senior Week” in addition to the senior week before graduation, as well as a senior tailgate at the last home football game, Rodts said. 
She said her ticket has a great combination of “super experi­ence” and “fresh perspective.” 
“We find that this is really important because the current structure of the Class Coun­cil system is very effective for younger classes; yet as we grow, the system also needs to grow and change,” she said. “We ac­knowledge that and look forward to restructuring the Council in order to provide for these more mature needs and program suc­cessfully for our class.” 
Contact Sam Stryker at sstryke1@nd.edu, Sara Felsenstein at sfelsens@nd.edu, Marisa Iati at miati@nd.edu and Nicole toczauer at ntoczaue@nd.edu 

School 
continued from page 1 
sage to the students that you can do good things, support whatever mission you want, if you generate enough revenue to be able to do those things,” Angst said. 
Boggs’ group plans to capi­talize on Good Shepherd’s strong connection with Notre Dame to help it achieve its goals, she said.
 “A lot of the parents at the school are connected to the University,” Boggs said. 
One of those parents is Christina Wolbrecht, profes­sor of political science at Notre Dame. Wolbrecht said she chose Good Shepherd because the school embodies a number of values really important to her family. 
“The basic teaching phi­losophy of the school really emphasizes independence, ex­ploration and love of learning,” Wolbrecht said. “What we re­ally like about this philosophy is that it recognizes each child as unique, and lets the child work both at the pace and in 


is needed,” Rocheleau said. “With a peer-to­peer advocate, they are afraid that this need of the counsel­ing won’t be as well met.” 
Morrissey Hall senator and sophomore Cal Belden said if Core Council were the only resource needed by students that identify as gay, lesbi­an, bisexual or transgender (GLBT), more students would utilize it. 
Sophomore Gaby Nunez, Cavanaugh Hall senator, said Student Affairs might not un­derstand the value of peer-to­peer interaction. 
“In a situation like a gay-straight alliance, if you have a gay student who has come out mentoring a questioning stu­dent through the experience, that might be more effective because the student has been there,” she said. 
Tom Lienhoop, a Core Coun­cil member and sophomore, said a GSA would augment Core Council’s work. 
“There’s so much value in having a peer-to-peer orga­nization that is recognized at the University,” he said. “Without speaking on behalf of other Core Council mem­bers, that is something that has been expressed before — the fact that a GSA would be a benefit regardless of what Core is already doing.” 
Student body president and senior Pat McCormick said the effort to request the recogni­tion of a GSA is not a criticism of the Student Activities Of-to create a world of peace,” Driscoll said. “We want to cre­ate an environment that allows a child to be self-confident, di­rected, motivated and to love the universe so much that it opens a new type of world.” 
Contact Nicole Michels at nmichels@nd.edu 
Whole 
continued from page 1 

Besides opening up pos­sibilities for the dining hall, Cronin said having a Whole Foods would give her more options for snacks and meals in her room. 
“[Whole Foods has] bet­ter gluten-free cereal,” Cronin said. “Before I was diagnosed 
opening in Mishawaka, Ro­cheleau said he and Rose are entertaining different ideas for a new store in Eddy Street Commons. 
“Now we’re going to … really open it up to the stu­dents and do more surveys to see what the students would like to be on Eddy Street,” he said, “as well as communicate with South Bend and the mayor’s of­fice to see what they think 
would be a 

[with Celiac d i se a se ] , I used to eat a lot of cereal. Gluten-free Chex is great, but sometimes I want some­ “[Whole Foods’ price point] is better than any of the other health food stores around here. Obviously it’s a little bit more expensive than Meijer, but I’m willing to spend that much extra if it’s better food.”  nice place to open up there.” R o c he -leau said S t u d e n t S e n a t e ’ s C on s t i t u ­ent Services Com m it tee  
thing  other  will  send  
than Chex.”  Connor White  out  email  
J u n i o r C on n or  junior  surveys to s t u de nt s  

the way that works best for [them].” 

Driscoll, who acts as head of Good Shepherd, said his school embodies the Montessori mis­sion to stimulate children’s minds and natural intellectual creativity. 
“The first and foremost vi­sion of a Montessori school is 
fice (SAO), but rather, an at­

tempt to engage in dialogue. “I think that as an admin-continued from page 1 istration we are also seeking 
to advance that spirit of in-vice president and president-clusion,” McCormick said. “I elect Brett Rocheleau, a ju-think the hope of the resolu­nior, clarified the position of tion is that sense that we can the Office of Student Affairs do more on this issue, that on the recognition of a GSA. we can include more fully, “They believe that with [the and that this resolution isn’t 
GSA 

Core  Coun­ an attempt to  
cil for Gay,  criticize  the  
Lesbian, Bi- attempts  that  
sexual and Questioning S t u de nt s ] , the pastoral counsel that comes with these ques­ “There’s so much value in having a peer-to­peer organization that is recognized at the University.”  have already been made, but an attempt to move them forward.” R o c h e le au said the next  
tions [of se x ua l i t y ]  Tom Lienhoop Core Council member  step is to pro­mote collabo­ 

ration between SAO and stu­dents that file an application 
to create a GSA. 
Senior Joanna Whitfield, vice president of the Progres­sive Student Alliance, said af­ter the meeting she was glad Senate took time to discuss the resolution and the effects it would have on the student body. 
“I think that this resolution affirms that Notre Dame re­ally is inclusive to all its stu­dents,” Whitfield said. “Stu­dents really want to further inclusion and they really want to help out GLBT students on this campus … We’re also re­ally happy that it’s the Stu­dent Senate, so it does show that the students really do support this movement.” 
In addition to approving the GSA proposal, Senate also ap­proved junior Alexa Shaw as the next student union trea­surer and passed two other resolutions. 
One resolution changed the transition date for Student Union Board positions from April 1 to May 1, effective this spring. The other resolu­tion imposed restrictions to maintain the balance of the “carry-forward” financial ac­count that exists as a source of emergency funding for stu­dent government. 
Contact Marisa Iati at miati@nd.edu 

White said he is excited for Whole Foods to open because of the variety of organic foods sold there. 
“I try to find more organ­ic foods to eat here,” White said. “I’m stoked [for Whole Foods] because that’s where I do all my grocery shop­ping back home.” 
White said despite Whole Foods’ notoriously high price point, organic food is cheaper there than at other local food stores. 
“[I’m ex­

“Now we’re going to ... 
cited about] have a car,” 
really open it up to the 
getting or-she said. ganic pro-students and do more “[Wh ole duce that’s surveys to see what the Foods] is not $5 for students would like to not on the an apple,” be on Eddy Street.” bus route, White said. which is “[Whol e not so con-
Brett Rocheleau 
Foods’ price venient.” 
vice president 
point] is bet-Instead 
regard­ing not only a new store in Eddy Street Commons, but also a new LaFortune Stu­dent Center restaurant to replace Sbarro’s when its contract expires next year. 
Cronin said she thinks student government should not abandon plans to open a specialty grocery store in Eddy Street Commons. 
“Having some sort of gro­cer would be really nice within walking distance [of campus] so you don’t have to 

ter than any of the other health food stores around here. Obviously it’s a little bit more expensive than Meijer, but I’m willing to spend that much extra if it’s better food.” 
A large part of student body president and vice president elect Brett Roche­leau and Katie Rose’s cam­paign platform was opening a high-end grocery in Eddy Street Commons. 
Now that Whole Foods is of Sbarro’s, 
Cronin said she would like to see a Chi­nese restaurant in LaFor­tune, such as Pei Wei, P.F. Chang’s or a more health-conscious establishment. 
“For those midnight munchies, we already have Reckers and the Huddle,” Cronin said. “I think we’re pretty well set on our high-caloric junk food.” 
Contact tori Roeck at vroeck@nd.edu 


Romney campaigns in home state 

Associated Press 
GRAND RAPIDS, Mich. — Re­publican presidential candidate Mitt Romney is wooing tea party­ers in his home state of Michigan with a potentially risky strategy: blasting the auto industry bailout that many people credit with sav­ing the state’s most vital industry. 
The tactic seems designed to undermine Rick Santorum’s popularity with conservatives who dislike government inter­vention in business, even when the results appear defensible. It also reinforces Romney’s image as an experienced capitalist who understands the pain sometimes involved in making companies work. 
Santorum’s fast rise in na­tional polls has forced Romney to sharpen his criticisms of the for­mer Pennsylvania senator. Santo-rum says his team will “plant our flag” in Michigan while also cam­paigning in other states. 
A Romney loss in Michigan’s Feb. 28 primary would be hugely embarrassing, or worse, to his campaign. His team has pro­moted an aura of inevitability for months, but Romney has failed to persuade the party’s most conser­vative segments to embrace him. 
Romney’s father was a top auto executive and three-term gover­nor of Michigan, and Romney still holds big financial advantages over Santorum, Newt Gingrich and Ron Paul. Thus far, he has bought far more TV advertising time than they have. 
When longtime Michigan politi­cal analyst Craig Ruff was asked if a Romney loss here is conceiv­able, he said: “I’m astounded, but yes.” Ruff worked for Republican Gov. William Milliken but now is an independent. 


He said he was surprised by how vigorously Romney is criti­cizing the government rescue of General Motors and Chrysler in 2008-2009. 
“Many, many Republicans have ties to the auto industry,” through investments or current or former employment, Ruff said. “He’s got a lot of explaining to do.” 
Some GOP activists, however, said Romney’s actions make sense. He already was on re­cord opposing the bailouts. So his Tuesday op-ed in the Detroit News gave him a chance to elabo­rate, they said. And his stance will appeal to business-oriented Republicans as well as more libertarian-leaning voters who oppose government intrusion in general. 
“It may be dicey in the general election, but it’s not dicey in the primary,” said Lansing-based Re­publican strategist Steve Mitchell. “Republicans opposed the auto bailout. They opposed other bail­outs. They oppose bailouts.” 
A May 2010 poll conducted by EPIC-MRA for the Detroit Free Press found that nearly two-thirds of Michigan adults thought the auto bailout was a good idea. Republicans were more closely divided, with 51 percent calling it a good idea, and 43 percent call­ing it a bad idea. 
Santorum, Gingrich and Paul also criticized the auto industry rescue, but Romney’s remarks have drawn more attention be­cause of his ties to the state and the auto industry. 
Santorum hopes Michigan’s tea party supporters will vote in big numbers, possibly overwhelming Romney’s advantage with party insiders. Insurgent candidates have done well here at times. Pat Robertson won the GOP primary in 1988. John McCain beat George 
W. Bush here in 2000 after then-Gov. John Engler promised Michi­gan would be Bush’s firewall. 
Romney made no mention of his GOP rivals or direct refer­ences to the auto bailout in an 18-minute speech to several hun­dred people at a rally Wednesday in Grand Rapids. He stuck to his standard attacks on President Barack Obama’s handling of the economy. 
The auto bailout started when the Bush administration loaned money to GM and Chrysler to keep them from collapsing during the 2008 financial crisis. 
The Obama administration brought the total to $81 billion, and Obama now calls the results a triumph. 
“When I took office, the Ameri­can auto industry was on the verge of collapse. And there were some folks who said we should let it die,” Obama said Wednesday in Wisconsin in a veiled swipe at Romney. “With a million jobs at stake, I refused to let that hap­pen.” 
GM emerged from bankruptcy as a considerably smaller com­pany. It has repaid billions of dol­lars, but the federal government still holds much of the firm. 
Chrysler was forced to join forces with Fiat. The federal gov­ernment and the United Auto Workers union also became big stockholders. 
General Motors says it made $8 billion in profits in 2011. Chrysler claimed profits of $225 million for the fourth quarter of 2011. 
In his op-ed, Romney said the car companies should have gone through regular bankruptcy procedures. Obama rushed in to help pro-Democratic labor unions while putting taxpayers at risk, Romney said, calling it “crony capitalism on a grand scale.” 
“Without his intervention, things there would be better,” Romney wrote. “Managed bank­ruptcy may sound like a death knell. But in fact, it is a way for a troubled company to restructure itself rapidly.” 
Steven Rattner, who oversaw the auto rescue for Obama, told the Free Press that Romney’s re­marks were “a complete denial of the facts.” There was no private financing at the time to sustain the car companies, which would have been shuttered and sold in pieces in normal bankruptcy pro­cedures, he said. 
Many nonpartisan economists agree with that view. 
John Feehery, a Washington-based GOP strategist, said Rom­ney is taking a risk. “My own view is that the auto bailout was pretty popular in Michigan, so re-litigat­ing that is stupid,” Feehery said. 
As for Romney’s stakes here, Feehery said: “Losing Michigan could be fatal.” 
Romney was campaigning in Grand Rapids on Wednesday. Both he and Santorum planned to appear in the Detroit area Thurs­day. 
Michigan voters are just start­ing to see the sort of TV ads that flooded Iowa, South Carolina and other early states. Romney and Santorum, and the independent committees that support them, are airing or preparing to put up positive and negative ads. 
A pro-Romney spot notes he “grew up in Michigan.” 
An anti-Santorum ad, which ran in earlier states, says Santo-rum voted five times in Congress to raise the federal debt ceiling, an issue the tea party has turned into a battle cry. The ad calls Santorum a “big spender” and “Washington insider.” 
Santorum is pushing back with an ad in which a Romney look­alike fires mud from a gun but ends up splattering himself. “Mitt Romney’s ugly attacks are going to backfire,” the narrator says. 



page 8 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com Thursday, February 16, 2012 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Chocolate sentiments 
Valentine’s Day is a polarizing holiday. Some love it and go all-out every year, wearing pink and red and handing out boxes upon boxes of conversation hearts. Others are extremely anti-Valentine’s and can’t stand all the gooey sentiment. There’s one thing, however, that unites the two factions: candy. Especially choco­late. 
No matter where the choco­late comes from, be it a secret admirer, a care package from home or the post-Valentine’s candy sale at Martin’s, it never fails to make life just that much better. If you happen to be lucky enough to receive a bag of Dove chocolates, even the wrappers can brighten up an otherwise lousy day. 
Every delicious, melt-in-your­mouth chocolate square comes with a short message intended to help each chocoholic feel a little bit better about him or herself. 
These messages range from good-natured words of encouragement such as “Memo to self: you’re the best,” to well-concealed advertise­ments like “Linger over chocolate longer.” Sometimes they’re a little strange, like my personal favorite: “Draw yourself a bath.” Other times, they dispense advice that, frankly, every college student could use and tell consumers to get more sleep. Whatever the wrappers say, though, they always make you look forward to reading the next one. 
If you think about it, writing mes­sages on candy wrappers is a pretty good marketing strategy, especially if they’re entertaining. I got a bag of Dove hearts in a care package last week, and I always read the mes­sages on the wrappers. The best part is still the chocolate of course (I mean, come on, it’s dark chocolate,) but I always look forward to what those little foil squares have to say. If I happen to be eating the chocolates with a group of people, we always read them to each other. The candy is delicious, and a source of enter­tainment. There is no downside. 
As I was eating one of the choco­late hearts earlier today, I began wondering what would happen if I implemented all of the chocolate’s advice. If I followed each wrap­per’s instructions, I would “be more mysterious” and “remember my first crush.” I’d “hug someone today.” Honestly, that’s not a bad plan. I have absolutely no problem lingering over chocolate a bit longer, and I could always use more sleep. Better living through chocolate? 
Whether or not you take the advice of those little red foil squares, there’s no denying that eating a little (or a lot) of chocolate makes life a little happier. Whether it’s in bar form or molded into little hearts, whether it’s milk chocolate or dark, it’ll brighten up a crappy day. And if that deli­ciousness happens to come with an entertaining missive to read while you enjoy it, so much the better. 
Contact Mackenzie Sain at      msain@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

Reflections from the ring 
No other arena compares to that of a canvas square bounded by taut rope. No other environment relates to a brilliant white light thrust upon a timeless clash of muscle, heart and guts. No other atmosphere can John Sandberg imitate the para­dox of one man, Columnist backed up by so many, standing alone against his challenger. 
Three minutes and 45 seconds. For some of us, that’s all we get. 
I’ll never forget the words that coach Tom Suddes spoke to us that one foretelling day at practice. More so than anything else, he told us, it is imperative that we enjoy the training. Enjoy the sore legs, the piercing ab workouts and hundreds upon hun­dreds of pushups. Enjoy the aching shoulders, the monotonous hand wrapping and the repetitive tech­nique drills, because for exactly half of those who were in the room that day, our version of the 2012 Bengal Bouts would be over after the first fight. More than four months of train­ing would culminate in less than four minutes of battle. 
Yet in victory or defeat, the simple realities of life that are reflected in those brief few moments are unlim­ited. 
You learn about strategy. You go in with a plan. And if you’re sitting in your corner after the first round with scarlet drops of blood painting your white Nikes, you decide that maybe it’s time to rework that plan. You adapt. You sacrifice breathing out of your nose for the next couple rounds 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
because just plugging up the left nos­tril isn’t going to stop those scarlet red drops from appearing on your shoes. Plans, adaptations and sacrifices, working together to ensure that the fight goes on. 
You learn about complexity. The con­stant juggle between being the aggres­sor while playing defense at all times is a balance that even the most seasoned fighters must find. You learn about misconception, how stumbling on your own feet can look like a knock-down or how it is easy to judge from the side­lines yet once inside those ropes it is an entirely different ball game. 
You learn about defeat and how to tip your hat to your opponent when he takes advantage of those three short rounds better than you do. The warn­ing from your trusted veteran coach just a few weeks back, which you never wanted to believe but always knew was possible, appears at the front of your mind. You’re glad you took the time to enjoy the training, but the frustration of an immediate end to such a long journey is undeniable. 
With that it is time for more strat­egizing, more adapting and more train­ing, because there will surely be more challenges on the road before then. But no matter what happens between here and there, another fight awaits and it certainly must go on. 
The things boxing reveals about life are what make it so enjoyable. Indeed, it is what makes sports as a whole so enjoyable. They speak messages about people that are greater than the com­petitors themselves. They reaffirm the innate capacity of human beings to rise up to challenges, continue in battle and find virtue in defeat. 
A look at the world outside the boxing ring is enough to produce a sense of hopelessness in even the most optimistic among us. From the indis­criminate killing in Syria to starvation in the Horn of Africa to talks of nuclear build ups between bitter enemies, it is easy to wonder what we have to look forward to in the months and years ahead. 
It’s unclear exactly what role the U.S. should have in international affairs. It’s more unclear how so many world­wide problems have perpetuated for years and yet we’ve found no way to stop them. However, what is obvious is that something must change. Strategies need to be adapted and sacrifices have to be made. Lessons from yesterday’s defeat have to be applied in winning today. The killing and the starvation have to stop. The threats and the fears have to end. 
Victory over all evil is unfortunately not entirely possible, but when the alternative to fighting back is indif­ference, the fight must go on. With so many questions remaining with regard to the misfortunes of the world around us, one question remains above all oth­ers: Win or lose, what will the human family choose to make of its lessons learned from three minutes and 45 seconds in the ring? 
John Sandberg is a sophomore 
political science major from Littleton, Colo. He can be reached at 
jsandbe1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not 
necessarily those of The Observer. 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“A sense of humor is part of the art of leadership, of getting along with people, of getting things done.” 
Dwight D. Eisenhower 34th U.S. president 

WEEKLY POLL 
How are you? 

“I’m Sexy and I Know It” “I’m Rollin’ Like a Big Shot” “Baby I’m a Firework” “I Found Love in a Hopeless Place” 
Vote by 5 p.m. on Thursday at 
ndscmobserver.com 


Thursday, February 16, 2012 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 9 
Stuff the Fed says 
The Federal Reserve. Ben Bernanke. Monetary Policy. 
You’re probably about to stop reading this column because it sounds about as exciting as your freshman philosophy lecture. But, if you think what Grace Concelman the Fed says only matters to the Options and wannabe bank-Futures ers in Mendoza preparing for Wall Street interviews, you might want to read on. Monetary policy affects businesses, your parents and, yes, even you. 
But first, what exactly is the Federal Reserve? 
The Federal Reserve is the central bank of the United States. Its responsibil­ities range from regulation to providing banks with financial services, but one of its main tasks is to conduct monetary policy, which means it controls the sup­ply of money. The Treasury prints cash, but the Fed gets to decide how much of it should be circulating in the economy. 
Controlling the supply of money cer­tainly makes monetary policy sound a whole lot sexier, doesn’t it? And Ber­nanke, the current Chairman, only adds to the effect. (For the record, I’m kidding, although he does have a great beard.) 
But does monetary policy really matter to you? 
Well, do you buy things? Do you want a job someday? Do you eventually want to take out a mortgage or car loan? 
Monetary policy affects all of these things. The Fed manages employment, inflation and how much money is in the economy by influencing interest rates. 
If the Fed increases the money sup­ply, the unemployment rate declines, but inflation and interest rates rise. If the Fed decreases the money supply, the un­employment rate rises, but inflation and interest rates decline. 
Ideally, there is a delicate balance: em­ployment is high, inflation is stable and interest rates are moderate. However, in extreme situations where the economy is expanding or contracting, the balance is thrown off, and the Fed must intervene. 
Since the crisis in 2008, there has been some unprecedented intervention. 
The latest mechanism the Fed is using to jump-start the economy is a new com­munications policy. The goal is clarity, but even clear communication sometimes needs a little interpretation. Here are some excerpts from the Jan. 25 statement by the Federal Open Markets Committee: 
“While indicators point to some further improvement in overall labor market conditions, the unemployment rate re­mains elevated.” 
Thanks, Ben, you didn’t have to tell us that the job market hasn’t fully recov-
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Missing the point 
I am writing in response to yesterday’s “Both genders can support the Center” article pertaining to Siegfried Hall’s Day of Man. I was disappointed that for the second year in a row, a Viewpoint article has been written attacking the fund­raiser for having flawed principles. Day of Man is not at all about gender roles. It is about only one thing, and that is helping the homeless.
 We men of Siegfried Hall are not trying to make any attempts to prove our masculinity. We are not trying to prove anything to anyone. We are simply try­ing to help those that are less fortunate than we are. We do not stand out in the cold wearing nothing but shorts and a t-shirt to feel tough. We do it to remind everyone that there are people who don’t have many things that we take for granted each day.
 Furthermore, the slogan “Be a Man for the Homeless” does not mean to imply that only men are capable of helping the homeless. Such an idea is absurd. Rather the slogan tries to promote the idea that “being a man” has nothing to do with being the stereotypical emotionless tough guy. It is saying that real men are those who are socially conscious enough to go out of their way to help oth­ers.
 Again, we are not saying that only men can help the homeless. Going into the day, I did not once think about how “manly” I was going to look standing out in the freezing cold. My lone goal was to get out there and help the homeless as much as possible.
 Siegfried’s Day of Man has proven itself a very effective fundraiser, and therefore we keep doing it. It is no different than any of the other fundraisers and benefit events other dorms put on all the time. When considering these events it is important to focus on the main goal and do what you can to make the world a better place. 
John Quinn 
sophomore Siegfried Hall Feb. 15 

‘Never’ is a strong word 
Dear Josh, 

You claim, “the Church has never been known to waver on its teaching,” (“Church over society,” Feb. 14). 
We respond: Galileo. 
Robert Niehaus 
senior Alumni Hall Feb. 15 

Tony Schlehuber 
senior Alumni Hall Feb. 15 
ered. 

Although the national unemployment rate has declined to 8.3 percent from as high as 10 percent in 2009, the rate for people aged 20-24 is higher at 14.2 percent. Good luck with that job hunt, seniors! 
“The Committee decided today to keep the target range for the federal funds rate at 0 to 1/4 percent.” 
The target federal funds rate is the mechanism through which the Fed influences other interest rates. Reducing the rate encourages borrowing, which facilitates the flow of money throughout the economy. 
It’s like when your professor curves a test to boost everyone’s grade. The curve allows more people to pass, increas­ing confidence. Of course, the danger is grade inflation. 
“Inflation has been subdued in recent months, and longer-term inflation expec­tations have remained stable.” 
Oh good, inflation isn’t an issue, so Professor Bernanke can keep on curving away. 
However, barring extra credit, a curve can only go down to zero. It’s the same with interest rates. Since zero is as low as the target rate can go, this tool has been less effective, which is why Bernan­ke is enacting the new communications policy to tell us that these rates are going to be low for a very long time. 
The hope is that increased communi­cation and transparency will help the public manage expectations about the future, reduce economic uncertainty and facilitate decision-making. If you know ahead of time what the curve on a test is going to be, it affects how much you study. 
“The Committee expects to maintain a highly accommodative stance for mon­etary policy ... and currently anticipates that economic conditions … are likely to warrant exceptionally low levels for the federal funds rate at least through late 2014.“ 
Despite a generous curve, the economy is still collectively doing pretty poorly. So, now Professor Bernanke is telling us that he’s going to keep the curves coming until the economy starts passing. Actu­ally, more than just a curve, he’s going to throw in a couple of review sessions, too, just to make sure that he’s being per­fectly clear. 
Let’s just thank goodness this is a finance test and not organic chemistry. 
Grace Concelman is a senior majoring in finance and philosophy. She can be reached at gconcelm@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
UWIRE 

Twitter policy promotes transparent censorship 
Since Twitter’s creation in 2006, the website has been a hub of unre­stricted news. Now, six years later, Twitter has announced a new cen­sorship policy that could once again change freedom of expression on Braden Kelner the web. 
Simply put, The Tartan Twitter’s new cen­sorship policy will allow the removal of tweets on a country-by-country basis. 
When a government orders that a post be taken down, the post will be replaced by a statement saying, “This tweet from @username has been withheld in: Country.” However, the post will remain visible to users in all other countries where no such order was issued. 
Twitter is also partnering with the website chillingeffects.org to an­nounce when a post has been cen­sored. The openness regarding cen­sored material is crucial to positively shaping censorship on the internet. 
With the introduction of the new policy, Twitter has indirectly urged other websites to follow suit with transparent censorship policies. Transparent censorship, in terms of Twitter’s policy, means the company in question promises to be honest about removing posts while ensuring minimal censorship. Secretive censor­ship will occur rarely, if at all, on Twit­ter due to the openness of censored posts. Additionally, the fact that posts will not be taken down universally will allow a maximal number of users to see a post. Hopefully other web servic­es like Twitter will alter their censor­ship policies to create an environment of free speech. 
Many critics claim this new policy will entail heavy monitoring of tweets; however, the company will only review content if there are requests to take it down. 
The lack of monitoring, in addition to censorship notifications, will increase information availability on the web. 
Twitter will adjust its censorship policy to accommodate strict laws and, in doing so, revolutionize censorship. 
Both users and governments are ac­commodated regarding the removal of posts through this transparent policy. 
Twitter is once again pioneering a new trend of unrestricted free speech across the globe with the introduction of its transparent censorship policy. 
This column first ran in the Feb. 12 edition of The Tartan, serving Radford University. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 

By KEVIN NOONAN 
Scene Writer 

Yeah, I saw “The Vow” this weekend. Big whoop, wanna fight about it? And you know what? It wasn’t very good. But you know what else? I didn’t mind that much. 
As with many things in my life, I walked into this movie with such extremely low expectations, that it would’ve taken a Justin Bieber cameo and a Nickleback inspired soundtrack in order to fail them. 
And since neither of these things happened, this was a decidedly average romantic comedy. Of course, and it goes without saying, an aver­age romantic comedy means that’s it’s a pretty terrible movie by regular standards, but that’s neither here nor there. 
Rachel McAdams (Paige) is, as always, a like-able leading lady in this film and plays her part, sappy and unchallenging as it is, well. 
Channing Tatum (Leo) is, as always, completely ripped, but plays his part, sappy and unchalleng­ing as it is, with a complete lack of acting ability. 
On some levels Tatum’s continuing inability to portray any believability or deliver lines without sounding like he’s in a high school drama class production has a certain endearing quality to it. His completely unabashed lack of acting skill gives him an unexpected likability that someone like Ben Affleck (who at the beginning of his career also couldn’t act) lacks. 
But on another level, come on. The guy can’t act. And in romantic comedies, despite the fact that many moviemakers see acting ability as optional at best, the ability to make the audi­ence care about your situation is the most crucial factor to success. And if you can’t act, you can’t make anyone care that your wife doesn’t remem­ber whom you are and that your life is really hard. 
This movie elicits little to no emotion, and if you’re not going to make me secretly want to cry (à la “The Notebook”), then I’m not going to enjoy your movie very much. 
The only time any kind of reasonable emotion is felt is when the resident jerk of the film mouths off to Leo enough that we get to see Tatum, who makes up for all lack of acting ability with his generally shredded physique, break the guy’s face. I was pretty pumped about that. 
The plot isn’t that interesting, but at least the surrounding characters are really, really annoy­ing. Leo’s friends are as stereotypically hipster as it gets. Leo and Paige get married in an art museum using vows they wrote themselves on the back of café menus. 
It’s supposed to be endearing and original, but it came off as just kind of pretentious and stupid. But hey, that’s hipster for you. 
Paige’s family is all wealthy out of their minds and act like it. But they made up for all of their annoying personalities by being completely unin­teresting characters. 
Despite all of this, this is not the worst movie I’ve ever seen, which surprised me so much that I even decided to give it one whole shamrock. Guys, if you’re in the doghouse because you didn’t do anything for your significant other for Valentine’s Day, there are worse options than “The Vow.” There aren’t many, but I’m sure there are some. 
Contact Kevin Noonan at knoonan2@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

“The Vow” 
Directed by: Michael Sucsy Starring: Rachel McAdams, Channing Tatum, Sam Neill, Scott Speedman, Jessica Lange 
Thursday, February 16, 2012 



By SHANE STEINBERG 
Scene Writer 

Self-proclaimed “best director in the world” Lars von Trier has a way of being larger than his films. “Larger” in the sense that despite enor­mous hype, film festival awards and controver­sial subject matters, his films always tend to take a backseat to his antics. 
His latest film, “Melancholia,” is his latest ca­sualty. It had a successful showing at the Cannes Film Festival, was one of the best-reviewed films of 2011, and had a relatively good box office per­formance. Despite von Trier’s highly publicized, unsavory remarks at the post-screening inter­view at Cannes, which prompted his indefinite ban from the festival, “Melancholia” stands on its own. 
“Melancholia” tells the story of a family’s last days as they struggle through their strained re­lationships while watching a strange planet inch closer to colliding with Earth. Kirsten Dunst (whose performance won her the Best Actress award at Cannes last spring) plays Justine, a bride-to-be who goes about her wedding day as if it were a sentencing. 
Charlotte Gainsbourg shows once again why von Trier considers her his go-to actress, with a gut-wrenching performance as Justine’s sis­ter. She can’t keep from thinking that the planet, which her scientist husband John (Kiefer Suther­land) insists won’t hit Earth, will in fact do so. 
By highlighting the two sisters, Justine with her almost sadistic don’t-care attitude, and Claire (Gainsbourg) whose worrying reflects our fear of our fleeting lives, von Trier paints a claustro­phobic view of what it looks like at the end of the world. He draws on our desire to reassure our­selves in the face of inevitability and hang on for dear life much better than other directors have in the recent bevy of apocalypse films. In doing so, he nearly creates a movie that tugs at the strings, if only it were injected with more of a story and more likable characters. 
Instead, “Melancholia” suffers from the classic case of style over substance. As the trailers for this film were quick to highlight, “Melancholia” is full of show-stopping shots that would make even Terrence Malick and the team behind “Tree of Life” awestruck. Yes, the cinematography here somehow managed to do the impossible and be better than “Tree of Life’s.” 
However, it also shows that once again von Trier, whose earlier works include “Antichrist,” “Dogville” and “Dancer in the Dark,” crafts high­ly stylized yet highly polarizing films that some will love and some will hate — mainly for their stories, or lack thereof. 
While “Melancholia” is one of those classic “love it or hate it” films, it’s still a film that begs to be watched. Von Trier is a rare talent who somehow gets raw emotion in its rawest form. He serves it cold in the form of visually striking and perplex­ing films. In that way, “Melancholia” is a dish best served cold — just don’t be surprised if you don’t like it once you take a bite. 
Contact Shane Steinberg at ssteinb2@nd.edu 
On campus 
What: “Melancholia” Where: Browning Cinema in the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center When: Thursday 6:30 and 9:30 p.m., Friday 6:30 and 9:30 p.m. and Saturday 6 and 9 p.m. How Much: $3 for students Learn More: 
http://performingarts.nd.edu/ 
Thursday, February 16, 2012 
Bowling Alley and Lebowskifest Legends 10 p.m. Free 

Only once in a blue moon will you have the opportunity to go bowling on campus. Stick around after bowling some strikes to enjoy “The Big Leb­owski.” The cult classic about a man who gets caught up in a case of mistaken identity and a host of other zany antics is a must-see for those who’ve missed it. The Dude abides. 
By PATRICK McMANUS 
Scene Writer 

The Westminster Kennel Club Dog Show, the dog world’s most eagerly anticipated event, cel­ebrated its 136th occurrence this week. The ca­nine competition took place Monday and Tuesday in New York’s Madison Square Garden and was televised on USA and CNBC. 
The 2012 winner, a Pekingese named Malachy, is the 10th dog from the Toy Group to win the competition. The Pekingese, known as the “lion dog,” reached the height of its popularity during China’s Tang Dynasty, when the Emperor exclu­sively owned the breed. 
Many other notable dogs were also in the field. Some were renowned for their work with autis­tic children and the elderly. One Tibetan Terrier in show was lucky to be alive, having survived a nearly fatal bobcat attack a few months ago. Mar­tha Stewart’s dog won Best in Breed. 
The Westminster Kennel Club Dog Show is the second oldest continually held sporting event in the United States, having started two years after the Kentucky Derby. Since its first show in 1877, 131 dogs have won the prestigious title Best in Show to become, for the next year, America’s Dog. 
The Westminster show has sold out the Garden every year since 2005, with another 3 million people watching on cable. That’s more than the average Knicks’ game before Linsanity! 
Twenty-five hundred dogs compete annually. This year that number included six new breeds that have been admitted to compete. The new breed to receive the most attention has been the Xoloitzcuintli, a breed commonly called the Mexican hairless but whose original Aztec name 
“Melancholia” Browning Cinema 
6:30 and 9:30 p.m. $3 
Lars Von Trier’s latest film, loosely about the end of the world, has popped up on top critical lists since its release last year and has won a string of awards, including Best Ac­tress for Kirsten Dunst at the Cannes Film Festival. “Mel­ancholia” will also play at the Browning Cinema at 6:30 and 
9:30 p.m. on Thursday and 6 and 9 p.m. on Saturday. 
“The Twilight Saga: Breaking Dawn Part 1” DeBartolo 101 7 and 9:30 p.m. $3 
In case you missed the lat­est incarnation of sparkling vampires and shirtless were­wolves, SUB has you covered. It’s wedding time for the star-crossed Edward and Bella, and nothing will be the same when it’s over. Prepare yourself for this fall’s finale by watching the set-up that has the most shocking conclusion to date. 
L.A. Theatre Works presents “The Rivalry” Decio Mainstage 2 p.m. $15 
“The Rivalry” uses original transcripts from the famed Lincoln-Douglas debate of 1858 to bring to life a heated presidential election. This riv­eting production will also be presented on Friday at 7 p.m. and Saturday at 7:30 p.m. These presentations will in­clude pre-performance talks with Notre Dame scholars. 
means “dog of the gods.” 
Purebred dogs are judged by how well they conform to their breed type, as determined by a judge familiar with the breed. The breed type incorporates both arbitrary physical attributes, like color, and functional qualities, like the task that breed might have been bred for. The best dog in each breed goes on to compete in Group, and winners there get the chance to compete for Best in Show. 
An organization known as Dogs Against Rom­ney staged a protest outside of Madison Square Garden, protesting the GOP presidential hopeful’s treatment of animals. The specific issue was an oft-told story of how in 1983 the Romney family drove from Massachusetts to Canada with their Irish setter in a dog crate on top of the car. The demonstration drew about a dozen people. 
Between the public’s continuing outrage with Michael Vick and the popularity of the Puppy Bowl, it seems like man’s best friend is as loved as ever in America today. The first annual Golden Collar Awards took place in Hollywood on Mon­day, honoring the work of dogs in film and televi­sion. “The Artist’s” Uggie, a Jack Russell Terrier, took home top honors. 
For many people, dog shows are nothing more than fodder for Christopher Guest comedies. But millions more will dedicate countless hours to preening over pretty pooches. So, as long as breeding is done in a responsible way, who’s to judge (besides the judges, of course)? I have no problem with dogs receiving as much attention as people want to give them, as long as they don’t make another “Air Bud” movie. 
Contact Patrick McManus at pmcmanu1@nd.edu 

SPORTS AUTHORITY 

Take the ESPN Challenge until spring training starts 
It’s that time of year again, that slow lull when the sports world doesn’t quite know what to do with itself. From Super Bowl Sunday to Selection Sunday, fans wade through the eye of the storm as the networks desperately search for anything that can grab our at­tention. 
2012 was heading in that usual direction until its path was unceremoni­ously disrupted. SportsCenter was debating the legacy of Tom Coughlin and Eli Manning in the morning and suddenly discuss­ing the sensation of Jeremy Lin by the evening. 
But let’s assume I can go through the next 560 words without making a single Lin-sanity pun or reference to the phenomenon. Sports Illustrated, Yahoo! Sports, Fox Sports, ESPN, the New York Times, the Wall Street Journal and every other publication have done a pretty good job of dissecting every remotely possible angle of this story. I will respectfully abstain. 
Instead, if the Knicks had lost Feb. 4 — which would have been their sixth loss in seven games 
— we’d probably be interested in my Most Extreme ESPN Chal­lenge. 
Too worried about police find­ing certain beverages in your backpack to take on Hesburgh Library? Too hungry to accept Waste-Free Wednesdays in the dining halls? Then sit back, take Friday off and tune in to ESPN.
 12:00 a.m. The first of 12 straight hours of SportsCenter begins. Scott Van Pelt and Stuart Scott guide you through the NBA and NHL circuit, breaking up the highlight commentary with tweets from LeBron James and Mark Cuban. A brief segment of an exclusive interview with CC Sabathia and a piece on Tom Brady’s wife appear amidst the highlights as well.
 2:00 a.m. Late-night snack and more SportsCenter.
 3:00 a.m. Just as you begin to memorize the lines, the set changes and Neil Everett and Stan Verrett begin hosting SportsCenter L.A. Don’t be fooled 
— they’re the same highlights.
 9:00 a.m. The set changes again and Sage Steele leads the commentary of the same highlights you saw last night. 

The segments are the same. The Top 10 plays are the same. The hair and the tweets are different.
 12:00 p.m. No-name hosts lead the broadcast for the next three hours. Fresh sports news has started to come in, and for these aspiring anchors and potential primetime replace­ments, nothing is more impor­tant than delivering the latest and greatest in witty form.
 12:45 p.m. Adam Schefter reports Ben Roethlishberger didn’t like his breakfast. Bill Belichick bought a new sweat­er. Tom Brady’s wife will be on a photo shoot in the Caymans.
 2:30 p.m. Mel Kiper, Jr., and Todd McShay cross-examine each other’s draft board. Kiper has Michael Floyd as the No. 3 wide receiver taken off the board. McShay has him at No. 2.
 3:00 p.m Veteran Bob Ley begins the broadcast of Outside the Lines. Ley narrates an interesting discussion on con­cussions in high school football and the implications for the NFL. For the first time since 
12:01 a.m., you are listening.
 3:30 p.m. Baseball Tonight is airing in February. Opening day is April 4. Wow.
 4:00 p.m. NFL Live is on. The Super Bowl ended less than two weeks ago. Wow.
 5:00 p.m. Tony Reali ran­domly awards points for who­ever talks louder on Around the Horn.
 5:01 p.m. You throw the remote control at the televi­sion screen when Woody Paige opens his mouth.
 5:30 p.m. Finally the only reason you have a television set: Pardon the Interruption. The Emmy Award-winning show features intelligent banter, humorous mini-games and au­thentic interviews. Kornheiser and Wilbon, we thank you.
 6:00 p.m. The most unnec­essary hour of SportsCenter comes on. You wish you had a class that began this late.
 7:00 p.m. NBA Countdown and live NBA action take you to the end of the night. 
As you take out the T.V. din­ner from the microwave, you resign yourself to the subpar basketball of a 66-game season and live cut-ins to Lob City. 
But why are the Knicks on again this week? 
Contact Chris Masoud at cmasoud@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
NCAA FOOTBALL 

Police arrest four TCU players 
Associated Press 
FORT WORTH, Texas — Authorities arrested 17 students at Texas Christian University on Wednesday as part of a six-month drug sting, an especially embar­rassing blow to the school because it included four members of the high-profile football team. 
Arrest warrants painted a startling picture of the Horned Frogs, with a hand­ful of players who allegedly arranged marijuana sales after class or around prac­tice and who told police that most of the team had failed a surprise drug test just two weeks ago. 
According to police, play­ers sold undercover offi­cers marijuana during the season and as recently as last week. 
“There are days people want to be a head football coach, but today is not one of those days,” coach Gary Patterson said in a prepared statement. “As I heard the news this morning, I was first shocked, then hurt and now I’m mad.” 
The 17 people arrested were caught making “hand­to-hand” sales of marijuana, cocaine, ecstasy and pre­scription drugs to undercov­er officers, police said. They said the bust followed an investigation prompted by complaints from students, parents and others. 
TCU has an enrollment of about 9,500 students, but the athlete arrests drew the most scrutiny. The bust came just one day after a thrilling overtime victory by the men’s basketball team over a ranked opponent and less than 24 hours after TCU released its football schedule for next season, its first in the Big 12 Confer­ence. 
Three prominent defen­sive players on the team were arrested: linebacker Tanner Brock, the leading tackler two seasons ago, defensive tackle D.J. Yen­drey and cornerback Devin Johnson. The other player is offensive lineman Ty Horn. 
While school Chancel­lor Victor Boschini said he didn’t think TCU had a “football problem,” the ar­rest affidavits raise the pos­sibility that other players were involved. 
In November, a Fort Worth police officer was informed that Horn was selling marijuana to “col­lege students and football players at Texas Christian.” The officer allegedly bought marijuana that day, Nov. 3, two days before a road game at Wyoming, from both Horn and Yendrey. 
Officers during the next several months allegedly set up drug deals with the play­ers outside restaurants, a grocery store and other areas around campus. On Jan. 19, Brock allegedly sold an offi­cer $200 worth of marijuana after Yendrey ran out. 
“After a short conversation about the marijuana, Brock and I exchanged phone num­bers, telling me to come to him from now on instead of (Yendrey),” according to the affidavits. 
Horn and Johnson scoffed at the Feb. 1 team drug test ordered by Patterson, police said. Brock allegedly told an undercover officer that he failed the surprise test “for sure,” but that it wouldn’t be a problem because there “would be about 60 people screwed.” 
Horn had looked through the football roster and “said there were only 20 people that would pass the test on the team,” Brock said, ac­cording to the warrant. 
And six days after the test, Johnson allegedly sold an officer $300 worth of mari­juana. Asked about the test, he said: “What can they do, 82 people failed it.” 
In response to that allega­tion, TCU cornerback Kolby Griffin posted a tweet on his personal account Wednesday that read, “This rumor about 82 of us failing a drug test is false completely false.” 
TCU released a statement late Wednesday afternoon that said the school tests its athletes for drug use “on a regular basis.” 
“The comments about failed drug tests made by the separated players in affida­vits cannot be verified simply because they were made in the context of a drug buy,” the school said. Patterson declined to answer questions beyond his prepared state­ment. 


Phone messages left at the homes of Horn, Johnson and Yendrey were not immedi­ately returned. Brock did not have a listed home number. All of the players are 21 ex­cept for Yendrey, who is 20. 
Brock was being held on $10,000 bond at the Mans­field city jail. Johnson and Horn were being transferred to the jail on Wednesday af­ternoon and Yendrey had not been arraigned. 
Police said they had yet to determine if other football players were involved or would be charged. 
Officials said the students had been “separated from TCU” and criminally barred from campus, but it wasn’t clear if the players had been kicked off the team. But their names had already been removed from the football roster posted on the school’s athletic website. 
“I expect our student-ath­letes to serve as ambassadors for the university and will not tolerate behavior that reflects poorly on TCU, the athletics department, our teams or other student-athletes within the department,” athletic director Chris Del Conte said. “Our student-athletes are a microcosm of society and unfortunately that means some of our players reflect a culture that glorifies drugs and drug use. That mindset is not reflected by TCU nor will it be allowed within athlet­ics.” 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The 
Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds.
CLASSIFIEDS 

Six student rental for the 2012-13 school year. LYRICS: JOY TO THE WORLD Singin’...Joy to the world DLF is the greatest artist in the
FOR RENT PERSONAL 
Extra nice, 3 year old house, one mile BY: THREE DOG NIGHT All the boys and girls now history of the world. south of campus at 330 Sunnyside Joy to the fishes in the deep blue Avenue. Three two student furnished Jeremiah was a bullfrog sea WALK TO CAMPUS suites with common living area, UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don’t That’s a lie. 
hardwood floors, granite, stainless go it alone. Notre Dame has many Was a good friend of mine Joy to you and me Great Specials! appliances, 40” flat screen TV, cable, resources in place to assist you. If I were the king of the world Studio, 1, 2, 3 Bedroom wireless internet, ADT security. $3,600/ If you or someone you love needs I never understood a single word 
month. Please contact Rob or Bob at confidential support or assistance, he said Tell you what I’d do Townhomes available. 574-271-4060 please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819 I’d throw away the cars and the But seriously. 
(574) 272-8124. or email or Ann Firth at 1-2685. For more But I helped him a-drink his wine bars and the war 
robpryor@cressyandeverett.com information, visit ND’s website at: And he always had some mighty Make sweet love to you www.clovervillageapartments.com or bobdunbar@cressyandeverett.com http://pregnancysupport@nd.edu fine wine Sing it now... 
NCAA FOOTBALL 

Deaf fan wins lawsuit for closed captioning at UK 
Associated Press 
LOUISVILLE, Ky. — Charles Mitchell won’t be able to hear the crowd noise or announcements when he goes to a University of Kentucky football game this fall, but he will be able to track an­nouncements and read the words to “My Old Kentucky Home.” 
Mitchell, a deaf football sea­son ticket holder from Lancaster, and the university have settled a lawsuit over closed-captioning at Commonwealth Stadium. The parties told U.S. District Judge Joseph M. Hood on Tuesday they had reached an agreement. 
One of Mitchell’s attorneys, Laren Knoll of Columbus, Ohio, told The Associated Press that captions for all public address announcements, including play­by-play and player introductions, should be on the scoreboard and ribbon boards, as well as tele­visions in the concourse areas when the Wildcats kick off on Sept. 8 against Kent State. Knoll said the practice started late last year, but should be fully imple­mented by the 2012 season. 
“It’s a good start,” Knoll said. “Hopefully, he feels more includ­ed this year.” 
University of Kentucky spokes­man DeWayne Peevy said the school added the captioning when it spent $6.5 million to in­stall new scoreboards and ribbon boards at the stadium last year. Peevy did not have a specific cost for adding closed-captioning to the boards. 
“We put it all in together,” Peevy said. 
Mitchell sued in May seeking to force the Southeastern Con­ference school to put captions for all game announcements on the scoreboards of the stadium under the Americans With Dis­abilities Act, which bars discrim­ination against people with dis­abilities. The suit was similar to cases brought against Ohio State University of the Big 10 Confer­ence and the NFL’s Washington Redskins. 
The Kentucky lawsuit arose about a year ago after Mitchell sent an email to the University of Kentucky requesting the school provide captioning at Common­wealth Stadium for home foot­ball games. Knoll said the school didn’t respond to that request and denied a similar request from individuals who were deaf or hard of hearing. 


NFL 

Measles outbreak blamed on Super Bowl events 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS — Indiana is battling its second measles out­break in two years, even though its vaccination rate exceeds the national average. Health officials say the cases, traced to a Super Bowl event, illustrate just how vulnerable the public is to expo­sure from sources at home and abroad. 
The 13 cases confirmed this month have been confined to two counties, Boone and Hamilton. But all cases are linked to two in­fected people who visited the Su­per Bowl Village together on Feb. 3, prompting Indiana officials to reach out health departments in New York and Massachusetts for fear that the outbreak could cross state lines. 
Concerns about a widespread outbreak are well-founded, said University of Minnesota professor Kristen Ehresmann, who was part of a research team that studied the disease’s spread across a large sporting event. In 1991, a track and field runner from Argentina participating in the Special Olym­pics in Minneapolis unknowingly started an outbreak of measles, infecting spectators, athletes and event organizers. 
“This was kind of Murphy’s Law of disease transmission, with a highly infectious disease in a very, very crowded place so as to spread the disease as much as possible,” Ehresmann said. 
The Super Bowl setting has the same potential to spread the no­toriously infectious disease, even though health officials in 2000 de­clared endemic measles — cases of the disease that originated in the United States — to be elimi­nated, due largely to increasing vaccination rates. 
About 90 percent of all Ameri­cans are vaccinated against mea­sles, said Dr. Greg Wallace of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. And in Indiana, more than 92 percent of children ages 19 months to 35 months received the vaccine in 2010, the latest year for which figures are available. 
But concerns over the vaccine’s safety have kept some parents from immunizing their children. In 2005, an outbreak of 34 mea­sles cases in Indiana were traced back to a group of parents who didn’t vaccinate their children be­cause they believed it caused ad­verse health effects, according to a study published in the New Eng­land Journal of Medicine. Ehres­mann said claims that the vaccine causes conditions such as autism were debunked in several major studies. 
In other countries, vaccina­tion rates are dropping, raising the risk of exposure. The number of cases in Western Europe has particularly spiked, with France reporting the third-highest num­ber of measles cases in the world. More than 750 people have con­tracted measles in an ongoing out­break in Québec, Canada, despite the country’s high immunization rate. 
The U.S. typically sees about 50 cases of measles each year. There were 223 cases in 2011 — a 15-year high. Officials said the increase was due to Americans picking up the disease while abroad. Three-quarters of U.S. measles cases can be traced to importation, with the rest originating from contact with a visitor from another country, Wallace said. 
Indiana’s outbreak has prompt­ed state health officials to issue near-daily updates on the number of cases and places visited by those infected in hopes of stopping the disease’s spread. In Noblesville, where a suspected measles case has been reported, school officials have been cleaning classrooms and canceling evening activities. Spokeswoman Sharon Trisler said 98 percent of Noblesville students are immunized against the dis­ease, and the rest are being asked to get the vaccine. 


OLYMPICS 

Group demands Saudi Arabia end Olympic discrimination 
Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES — A human rights group called on the In­ternational Olympic Committee to require that Saudi Arabia’s participation in Olympic sport­ing events, including the up­coming London Games, be con­tingent upon the Arab country allowing girls and women to play competitive sports. 
Human Rights Watch issued a report Wednesday saying that Saudi Arabia is violating the IOC charter’s pledge of equal­ity. The country has never sent a woman to compete in the Olympics. 
Neither has Brunei or Qatar, although Qatar said last sum­mer it hopes to send up to four female athletes to the 2012 Games. 
In interviews with Saudi women and international sporting officials, the group found that Saudi government restrictions put sports beyond the reach of almost all women in the Gulf na­tion. The few lim at the same time. It was an­other contradiction to people,” said Kureshi, who chose not to compete in a traditional heads­carf or long sleeves. 


“It’s not that Saudi 
women who Wilcke said “It was really powerful to 
Arabia doesn’t have 
play sports the Saudis have that opportunity to go and are limited to the money to do this or have no wom-educate them. They’re not mu-exercising at women who want to ... en currently tually exclusive. That was the home or at ex-We have listened to Saudi prepared for question I got from everybody pensive gyms, promises for decades. Olympic-level in terms of foreign policy in our or playing in This is not good enough.” competition; country. I was able to say as an segregated however, he American I don’t have to agree underground urged the with all the foreign policy in my 
Christoph Wilcke 
leagues. g o v er n men t country. This country allows 
senior researcher 
W i t h i n to nominate me to practice my religion.” a year, the Human Rights Watch women for Kureshi, a family practice 

group wants Saudi Arabia to start intro­ducing physi­cal education for girls in all schools, and allo­cate money for women’s sports in the youth ministry, the Saudi national Olympic committee and Saudi sports federations. Human Rights Watch says such steps are necessary to prove the Saudis’ efforts to end dis­crimination against women in sports and allow the country to be represented in Olympic events. 
“It’s not that Saudi Arabia doesn’t have the money to do this or women who want to,” said Christoph Wilcke, a senior researcher in Human Rights Watch’s Middle East and North Africa division who authored the 51-page report titled “Steps of the Devil.” “We have listened to Saudi promises for decades. This is not good enough.” 
The report’s name comes from the comments of some Saudi government clerics who oppose sport as “steps of the devil” that would lead women to un-Islamic behavior and moral corruption. 
The IOC has previously criti­cized the Saudis for failing to send women athletes to the Olympics. However, according to Human Rights Watch, the IOC hasn’t attached any condi­tions to the nation’s participa­tion in the games. 
The IOC charter states that sports are a right for every­one and bans discrimination in practicing sports on the basis of gender. 
“The IOC strives to ensure the Olympic Games and the Olympic Movement are univer­sal and non-discriminatory, in line with the Olympic Char­ter and our values of respect, friendship and excellence,” IOC spokesman Mark Adams said in a statement. 
“NOCs (national Olympic committees) are encouraged to uphold that spirit in their del­egations. The IOC does not give ultimatums nor deadlines but rather believes that a lot can be achieved through dialogue.” 
A senior sports official in Saudi Arabia told The Associ­ated Press that the rulers in the kingdom are not opposed to women’s participation in sports, but changing mindsets in the deeply conservative Mus­lim country that is the cradle of Islam is hard work that takes a lot of time. 
“We are supporting women here to be in sports but that means fighting deeply en­trenched traditions in Saudi Arabia,” the official said in a phone interview Wednesday. 
“We are trying to overcome them and we are seeking sup­port from the IOC to have a woman in our delegation at the London Games,” the official added. He spoke to the AP on 
condition of 
anony mity 
because of the 
sensitivity of 
the issue. 

slots available doctor who teaches at George-
in track and town University, said she 
field, where knows people working in Saudi 
the competi-Arabia who say that strides are 
tors don’t have being made. to be top-level. There are slots available in swimming, but Wilcke said the Saudis would not tolerate women wearing swim suits in public. 
He noted that equestrian Dal-ma Rushdi Malhas attracted widespread attention in Saudi Arabia after winning a bronze medal in show jumping in the 2010 Youth Olympic Games. Human Rights Watch said Mal-has may be invited to partici­pate in the London Games by an international sports federation, and it said the Saudi national Olympic committee has indi­cated it won’t interfere with a female athlete attending after being invited. 
Adams said the IOC has been in regular contact with nation­al Olympic committees of Saudi Arabia, Brunei and Qatar. 
“As a result of fruitful discus­sions, the three NOCs included women in their delegations competing at the Youth Olympic Games in Singapore last sum­mer,” he said, citing Malhas. “We are very pleased with this evolution, which can only been seen as a promising develop­ment leading towards London 2012.” 
Sarah Kureshi, an American-born Muslim with Pakistani parents, supports allowing Saudi women to have equal participation in sports, wheth­er on a competitive or recre­ational level. 
A former distance runner at the University of Central Flor­ida, Kureshi was the first U.S. woman to compete in the Is­lamic Women’s Games in Iran in 2005. She wore pants when she ran, in adherence to her re­ligious beliefs. 
“They didn’t understand how I could be American and Mus­


UEFA SOCCER 

AC Milan shuts out Arsenal 
Associated Press 
MILAN — The most highly an­ticipated matchup of the Champi­ons League’s first knockout round was hardly even a contest. 
AC Milan outclassed Arsenal on Wednesday to plant one foot firm­ly in the Champions League quar­terfinals, beating the English club 4-0 in the first leg of their round of 16 series. 
Zenit St. Petersburg also se­cured a slimmer advantage by beating Benfica 3-2 at home ear­lier, but Milan produced the most convincing display of the knockout round so far as the meeting of two top teams turned into a rout. 
Robinho scored twice at the San Siro after Kevin-Prince Boateng had given Milan the lead with an unstoppable volley, and Zlatan Ibrahimovic all but finished off the Gunners with a penalty in the 79th as the hosts repeatedly exposed Arsenal’s weakness in defense. 
“We played a perfect match, es­pecially in defense,” Milan coach Massimiliano Allegri said. “We played very well as a team, we didn’t give them any goalscoring chances. We deserved this night, this win. It’s the best game we’ve played this year.” 
The result puts the Italian club on the verge of its first quarterfi­nal appearance since it won the tournament in 2007, and goes some way toward erasing the memories of the team’s struggles against English teams in recent years. It was eliminated by Pre­mier League clubs at this stage of the Champions League in three of the past for years. 
For Arsenal, it was another let­down in a season that has already seen it fall out of the Premier League title race and struggling to secure a spot in next season’s Champions League. 

“We were never in the game,” Wenger said. “We were very poor offensively and defensively. It was shocking to see how we were beat­en everywhere. It was our worst performance in Europe by far. Not once in the 90 minutes were we in the game.” 
It also provided a disappoint­ing finish to Thierry Henry’s loan spell at Arsenal, as he played his last game before returning to the New York Red Bulls. 
Henry came on as a second-half substitute but could do little to inspire a lackluster Arsenal, although his neat flick-on set up Robin Van Persie for the visi­tors’ best chance in the 66th. Van Persie unleashed a hard shot that forced a stellar diving save from Christian Abbiati, who pushed the ball just wide. 
By then, though, Milan had al­ready decided the game. 
Boateng, making his first start in a month after tearing a thigh muscle, put Milan ahead in the 15th after received a pass from Antonio Nocerino on the edge of the area. The midfielder downed it with his chest and then unleashed a fierce volley from a tight angle that sailed in via the crossbar past a stunned Arsenal goalkeeper Wojciech Szczesny. 


Milan was just getting started, and repeatedly harassed Arsenal’s defense on quick counterattacks. Ibrahimovic was at the center of many of them, and it was the Swe­den striker who set up Robinho for both of the Brazil forward’s goals. 
Ibrahimovic streaked down the left flank in the 38th before cross­ing back to Robinho, who headed the ball past Szczesny inside the far post to make it 2-0. 
Arsenal manager Arsene Wenger put on Henry for the in­effective Theo Walcott after the break to chase an away goal, only to see Robinho add the third just four minutes after the restart. 
NBA 

Harvard capitalizes on Lin’s rise to fame 
Associated Press 
BOSTON — Jeremy Lin majored in economics, enjoyed video games and didn’t care much for the spotlight. He also was his college’s best basketball player. 
But at Harvard, a school known more for its GPAs then points per game, that only gets you so far. 
“He wasn’t a nerd,” current captain Oliver McNally said. “He was just nor­mal. You take out basketball and he’s a very normal student at any school.” 
There’s nothing normal about what Lin has done for the New York Knicks,though,withatleast20points and seven assists in each of his first five starts. 
Back on campus, Crimson coach Tommy Amaker expects Lin’s run to help him recruit new players. That, and Harvard is pretty good, too. 
In fact, at 21-3 overall, the Crim­son lead the Ivy League with a 7-1 record. With six games left, four at their 2,196-seat homecourt with fold­out bleachers, the school that had its last NBA player 48 years ago would reach the NCAA tournament for the first time since 1946 if it finishes atop the conference. 
And now Lin has taken the NBA by storm with his surprising success. 
In short, Harvard’s hot, folks. 
“He is so deserving of it. He is such a good kid,” said McNally, Lin’s teammate in the backcourt for two seasons. “There’s no better repre­sentation of Harvard basketball or Harvard University to be at such a big stage.” 
Lin’s meteoric rise and nonstop publicity can be a huge recruiting tool, even more important than Har­vard’s third straight 20-win season. 
Lamar Reddicks helped recruit Lin, who received no athletic schol­arship offers coming out of Palo Alto High in California. Harvard doesn’t offer them and Reddicks, who said he knew Lin would be good, recalled him as a weak “stringbean.” 
The NBA? The last Harvard player to get there was Ed Smith. And he lasted just 11 games with the Knicks in 1953-54. 
But by Lin’s senior year, he was Harvard’s strongest player. And last Friday, he scored 38 points against the Los Angeles Lakers in Madison Square Garden. 
“It really does help recruiting,” said Reddicks, now athletic director and basketball coach at Milton Academy, a high school just outside Boston. “Those same kids that don’t think that they can reach the NBA from Harvard, that they need to go to the big-time schools, now might take an­other look.” 
Keith Wright, Harvard’s other cap­tain, has caught a close-up glimpse of the Linsanity. 
“Everywhere I go it’s like, `Did you play with Jeremy?’ or `Have you talked to Jeremy?”’ Wright said. “I’ll be out at Target. They see me (with) a Harvard basketball shirt on and oh, like, `Jeremy Lin’s doing awesome.”’ 
Amaker didn’t know much about his players when he became coach in 2007-08, Lin’s sophomore season. His background had been at major bas­ketball schools — point guard and as­sistant coach at Duke and head coach at Seton Hall and Michigan. 
Now, he’s in the Ivy League, coach­ing back-to-back games on weekend nights, a conference tradition. 
“One of the things you learn right away about Jeremy is how much he loves basketball,” Amaker said. “It’s pretty cool and it’s pretty neat to see how he has kind of become somewhat of a global figure and a global star, but he has many layers to him. … being a Harvard grad, being an Asian-Amer­ican kid, being an outstanding bas­ketball player, being a person whose faith is very important to him, being an incredible person, being a great teammate. 
“You can go on and on about this kid.” 
Reddicks does. 
He remembers his first season after leaving Harvard to become an assistant at Boston University when Lin, then a sophomore, went there for a game. He chatted with Reddicks while other players were warming up. 
“He comes over and he doesn’t leave,” Reddicks said. “Finally, I’m like, `Jeremy, go get warmed up, man, you’ve got a game.’ And he goes, `Coach, I have 30 games this year. I only have one where I get to see you, so I’m going to spend as much time as I can with you.’ 
“My eyes start to water.” 
NFL 

JaworskicutfromESPN’s Monday Night Football 
Associated Press 
BRISTOL, Conn. — “Monday Night Football” is switching to a two-man booth. 
Analyst Ron Jaworski has signed a five-year contract ex­tension to appear on other pro­gramming on ESPN and will no longer join play-by-play an­nouncer Mike Tirico and color commentator Jon Gruden on Monday nights, the network said Wednesday. 
Jaworski, the former Philadel­phia Eagles quarterback, will work various ESPN studio shows year-round, often focusing on his specialty of breaking down video. 
“With him doing one game each week, we don’t necessarily believe we were getting the best Ron Jaworski had to offer to the network,” executive vice presi­dent Norby Williamson said. 
Jaworski called “Monday Night Football” games the past five seasons. Gruden, the former Raiders and Buccaneers coach, joined MNF in 2009 and agreed to a five-year extension in Octo­ber. This is the first time in 15 years ESPN has used a two-per­son lead team on its NFL game coverage. 
“There was nothing broken about `Monday Night Football,”’ Williamson said. 
He said network executives believed Tirico and Gruden worked well as a two-man booth and there was no need to add a third person. 
“I fully expect Mike Tirico and Jon Gruden to be together for the foreseeable future,” Wil­liamson said. 


PGA TOUR 

No. 1 Donald returns to Riviera hoping to repeat success 

Associated Press ter. 
“Obviously, a decent amount 

LOS ANGELES — Luke of my work had already been Donald was on the practice done,” Donald said. “I’d had range at Riviera before dawn a great season up until that Wednesday, so point. And dark that only in a way, temporary those couple floodlights al-weeks were lowed him to very tough. 
see where the ball was going. It was a snapshot of the perks that come with be­ing No. 1 in the world, and  “I think the best part of being No. 1 is knowing that my best golf is good enough to get me to that No. 1 spot, just from a confidence and mental standpoint.”  I think the birth of my second d a u g h t e r helped shed a little bit of grace on the whole  
what got him  situation. It  
there.  Luke Donald  helped with  
The best player gets his  PGA golfer  the ing  pass-of my  
choice  of  tee  father. And  
times for the  I  think  I  
pro-am,  and  came out of  
the early spots  it a stronger  
go first. Along  person with  

with being No. 1 in the world, a little bit more perspective.” Donald sits atop both the PGA His father rarely went to Tour and European Tour mon-golf tournaments. He was ey lists, the first player ever proud of his son more as a to lead the two biggest tours. person than just a golfer. 
As for the work ethic? Get-The last two years had been ting to the top wasn’t an ac-a struggle, as his father went cident. from double knee replace­
“I think the best part of be-ment to an addiction to pain ing No. 1 is knowing that my killers, then bouts of depres­best golf is good enough to sion. get me to that No. 1 spot, just One moment stands out for from a confidence and men-Donald, and he wasn’t even tal standpoint,” Donald said. there. “That’s gratifying to know He was at Wentworth, fight-that the hard work is paying ing a flawed swing to stay in off.” the hunt long enough to get 
The hardest part might be into a playoff with Lee West-the encore. wood, beat him on the first 
Donald is coming off a year extra hole and replace him as he won’t ever forget, and it all No. 1 in the world. began at Riviera with a round Donald’s brother, Christian, he would like to erase from was home that weekend with his memory. In his first event, their father, watching it un­he shot a 79 in the second fold on television. round to miss the cut. “He looked in Chris’ eye, 
Toward the end of his sea-and it was a proud moment,” son, he had won a career-Donald said. “He’s always best four times, including been proud and supportive, the most exciting finish this more proud of the person I side of a major when he bird-turned into.” ied six straight holes to start Donald opened his season in the back nine at Disney and Abu Dhabi with a tie for 48th, closed with a 64 for a two-the first time since August shot victory. It gave him the that he did not finish among double money title, and was the top 12. That’s still bet-enough to make him a land-ter than missing the cut, as slide winner of PGA Tour he did at the Northern Trust player of the year. Open a year ago. 
Off the course was joy and Riviera is where Donald grief. comes full circle. 
His father, Colin, died of He leads a field at the North-heart failure just a few days ern Trust Open that features before Donald’s wife gave two-time winner Phil Mick-birth to their second daugh-elson, coming off his six-shot comeback to win last week at Pebble Beach; a pair of Aus­sies in Jason Day and Adam Scott, who are playing the PGA Tour for the first time this year; and Padraig Har­rington, who started to show some long lost form at Pebble Beach. 
Also playing is Sergio Gar­cia, a regular partner of Don­ald in the Ryder Cup. Garcia once talked about winning money titles on both sides of the Atlantic, and he was im­pressed — as was most every­one — that Donald got it done. 
“Very remarkable,” Garcia said. “It’s never really been done by a guy that is a mem­ber of both tours, so it shows you how difficult it is to do it. For a guy like Luke to be able to do it, as well as No. 1, it was great to see.” 
Donald finally is getting the respect for his feats, especial­ly his world ranking. 
Westwood got the same questions, mostly from an American audience — how can a guy be No. 1 without ever winning a major? Those questions mainly were born out of comparisons to Tiger Woods, who had been No. 1 for 10 years of his career, and who won majors with regu­larity. The world ranking is about accumulating points, and no one was more consis­tent than Donald. 
By the end of the year, there were no questions about who was No. 1 in the world. 
“I think the way in which I won in Disney helped, and winning both money titles,” Donald said. “People, espe­cially my peers, realized what an accomplishment that was, playing a limited schedule and pulling off both money titles. I think I went up in the estimation of my peers.” 
As for the majors? 
That’s a priority. 
The Masters is two months away, and Donald is building toward that. He’ll play the next two weeks, including his first title defense at the Match Play Championship, then play consecutive weeks in Florida at Doral and Tampa. 
Donald talks about a strong will to succeed, and there’s no reason to think that won’t apply during the four biggest weeks of the year. 
“I feel like my game is good enough right now to win ma­jors,” Donald said. “I don’t feel like there’s a huge weak­ness. If I can win four times in a year, I should be able to win a major. There are still things I can improve on to give my­self better opportunities.” 



SMC SWIMMING AND DIVING 
Belles rely on senior leadership at MIAA championships 
By JOE WIRTH can always count on them for Sports Writer motivation.” 
Sophomore Alex Kane, who 

Despite three straight swims the breaststroke for losses, the Belles can turn the Belles, agreed with her around a mediocre season coach. with a strong performance at “I would say leadership is this weekend’s MIAA cham-just as, or even more impor­pionships. tant in an event like this,” 
The conference champion-Kane said. “The seniors have ships take place in Holland, worked so hard this season. Mich., and give the Belles Without their leadership and an opportunity to establish drive, our team would not be themselves where we are as one of the today.” elite squads Though she in the MIAA. won’t partic-
Through -ipate in the out the sea-conference son, coach champion ­
Mark Ben-“If you think too much ship, Kane ishek has about it, you might psych said she un­lauded the yourself out. Usually dersta nds leadership before an event all of us how impor­of his just listen to music that tant it will 
se­niors, which be for her 
gets us pumped up.” 
he said the teammates Belles will to keep an 
Alex Kane 
need this even keel weekend. Belles sophomore swimmer leading up to 
“Our senior the event. leadership “Like any has been a athlete, you strong point have to just all year. [Se-think that niors] Katie this is just 

Donovan, Megan Price and Audrey Dalrymple have all had strong performances,” he said. “Their senior lead­ership has been great and they have backed it up with strong swims. We know we any other sporting event,” Kane said. “If you think too much about it, you might psych yourself out. Usually before an event all of us just listen to music that gets us pumped up.” 
Kane said her teammates see the championships as a chance to show how far they have come since the beginning of the season “This event will just show how much work the team has put into every practice,” Kane said. “The team is going to do well at this meet without a doubt. We have worked so hard and have come this far, too, and now it’s time to show how hard we have worked.” 
The MIAA championships will begin Thursday and go through Saturday at Holland Aquatic in Holland, Mich. 
Contact Joe wirth at jwirth@nd.edu 
SMC BASKETBALL 

Knights lay siege to Saint Mary’s 
By BRENDAN BELL 
Sports Writer 
The combination of poor shooting and rebounding is usually a bad omen for a team. It was no different when Saint Mary’s fell to No. 5 Calvin 73-52 on Wednes­day. 
Calvin (23-1, 15-1 MIAA) outrebounded Saint Mary’s (12-12, 8-7) by a 38-27 mar­gin. Go­ing into the game, Belles coach Jen­
nifer Henley 

“I think our kids took care 
emphasize 

of some business down 
the impor­

the stretch here to ensure 
tance of 

that we are one of those 
winning the 

top four teams so I think 
battle on the 

it’s a testament to them.” 
boards. 

“I would like to say Jennifer Henley our rebound-
Belles coach 
ing has come along, but
 wasn’t happy with it against Adrian,” Henley said of the Belles’ last game. 
The Knights grabbed 25 defensive rebounds com­pared to the Belles’ 16. One contributing factor to the Knights’ defensive re­bounding margin was accu­rate shooting.  Saint Mary’s struggled shooting from the floor, only making 20 field goals on 35 percent shooting. Calvin, on the other hand, shot 50 percent for the game. 
Despite Calvin’s dominant statistics, Saint Mary’s man­aged to lead in the first half. With 3:22 remaining before halftime, the Belles scored to go up 20-19. Calvin re­sponded quickly and scored eight unanswered points to 
take a 27-20 lead before the half. 
In the sec­ond half, Saint Mary’s made an­other push to close the gap, making it a six-point difference. 
The Knights proved to be too much, though, as they re­sponded with 
a 14-0 run. From that point, Calvin never relinquished control. 
The Belles utilized a bal­anced attack from senior guards Patsy Mahoney and Maggie Ronan, who scored 11 and 10 points, respectively. Saint Mary’s senior forward Kelley Murphy led the team in scoring with 12 points. 
Despite the tough loss, the Belles still look forward to their final regular season game and the conference tournament, Henley said 
“We are at least fourth in the conference,” Henley said. “I’m not so sure we can get any higher than fourth but we definitely can’t do any worse than fourth.” 
From 3-7 and under .500 in the league to fourth place at 12-12, the Belles have dis­played an upward trend in their performance over the second half of the season, and with the fourth-place finish earned the final spot in the conference tourna­ment. 
“It’s a goal of everybody in this league to make the top four teams as this is the first year they have switched to this format,” Henley said. “I think our kids took care of some business down the stretch here to ensure that we are one of those top four teams so I think it’s a testa­ment to them.” 
Before the MIAA tourna­ment, the Belles return home Saturday for Senior Day against Kalamazoo at 3 p.m. 
Contact Brendan Bell at bbell2@nd.edu 
Medley 
continued from page 20 

1:40.94. Their finish time was the squad’s fastest on the year by over two seconds. 
“The times dropped be­cause our swimmers were well-rested and ready to go,” Irish assistant coach Kate Kovenock said. “Both our relays were strong, but we were pretty keyed up and 
need to get our emo­tions under control.” 
Each re­lay swim­mer also earned All-Big East hon­ors with a top -three finish in an event, and Prestinario and Re­aney each earned two. 
“[Presti­nario] has really de­

“We need to have a Notre Dame was sec-
balanced lineup and 
ond with 71

take advantage of all 
points, trail-

opportunities. We also 
ing first-

must realize [success 
place Louis-

at this meet] requires 
ville by only 

a whole team effort.” three points. The Irish Kate Kovenock continue the 
second day 

Irish coach 
veloped into a true leader since the beginning of the year,” Kovenock said. “And [Reaney] has a tremendous learning curve and poise, es­pecially for her first time at this kind of meet as a fresh­man.” 
The Irish must have a bal­anced effort to catch the first place Cardinals, as 15 Notre Dame swimmers will com­pete in scoring events today. Only six competed Wednes­day, Kovenock said. 
“We need to have a bal­anced lineup and take ad­vantage of all opportunities,” she said. “We also must re­alize that [success at this meet] requires a whole team effort.” 
The events today kicked off the swimming portion of the Big East champion­ships, as the diving competi­tion spanned last Friday through Sun­day. Enter­ing the day, 
of the Big East champi­onships with four events at Trees Pool at the Uni­
versity of Pittsburgh. Prelim­inary races for the 500-yard freestyle, 200-yard Individu­al Medley, 50-yard freestyle and 200-yard freestyle relay begin at 10:00 a.m. with the finals starting at 6 p.m. 
Contact Matt Unger at munger3@nd.edu 




Cooley 
continued from page 20 
The Irish struggled out of the gate offensively in the first half, but kept Rutgers (12-14, 4-9) in check with a strong defensive showing that led to eight Scarlet Knight turnovers in the first half. 
Notre Dame’s defensive pres­sure was a stark contrast from the Jan. 16 matchup in Piscat­away, N.J., a 65-58 Rutgers vic­tory, Brey said. 
“I thought our defense was fab­ulous, and that was the key,” he said. “We could not guard them a month ago and I thought we were very efficient offensively.” 
Brey said one of the qualities of the team that makes him most proud is its continued hunger to keep winning. 
“One of the things [the coaches] … reinforced with this group: Since the Syracuse win, they’ve never really kind of rested on their laurels or been distracted,” he said. “This is the first game they’ve played as a ranked team … They continually … want to get better and want the next chal­lenge, and that’s a great sign of maturity. 
The Irish return to action Sat­urday when they travel to Villa-nova for a 9 p.m. tip-off. 
Contact andrew owens at aowens2@nd.edu 
Lorenz 
continued from page 20 

aren’t going our way, is that you can yell and scream all you want but when it comes down to it, as long as you’re working hard and trying to lead by ex­ample, that’s when they’re go­ing to follow you the best.” 
Entering the second-to-last series of the regular season, the Irish head to Ohio to take on Miami in a crucial pair of games. To turn around its re­cent struggles, the team will need to find the back of the net more consistently, a facet of the game Lorenz said would come from the Irish playing within themselves. 
“We all want to win and it’s frustrating,” he said. “Some­times you start to grip the stick a little tighter and try to force plays. We can’t do that unfortu­nately. 
“You’ve just got to play the game like you can and play re­laxed and that’s how you’re going to come back and kind of bounce back out of this cold streak.” 
Lorenz will lead his team onto the ice for a 7:05 p.m. puck drop Friday night in the opener of a two-game set against Miami in Oxford, Ohio. 
Contact Chris allen at callen10@nd.edu 


Tsipis 
continued from page 20 
told him she did not want him to feel as though he needed to change anything in his coach­ing style. However, he said he noticed a difference in how his new team adapted to his guid­ance on the court. 
“They pick things up quick­er than when I was trying to say some of the same things on the men’s side,” Tsipis said. “The fundamentals of basket­ball are the same, but it’s dif­ferent in the approach. To me, it’s what makes the women’s game a more pure game. 
“I feel like I don’t deal with a lot of the same ego problems that I had on the men’s side. I think that end goal is different for them. For the men, no mat­ter if they start or if they sit the bench, they still think they’re going to play professional bas­ketball. That was something on the men’s side that I had to do, I had to tell people they maybe weren’t as good as they thought they were. I quite en­joy not working with egos and teaching people to have great self-confidence.” 
Tsipis attended North Caro­lina and graduated with a bachelor’s degree in phar­macy, but could not ignore his passion to be a coach. While in college he worked on the men’s basketball staff at Duke under prestigious head coach Mike Krzyzewski, before moving through the coaching ranks at Le Moyne College in New York, Cornell, Elon and UNC-Greensboro before ultimately arriving at Notre Dame. 
For the Irish, Tsipis works specifically on season sched­uling, building recruiting classes and mentoring specif­ic players — namely fifth-year senior guard Brittany Mallory and senior tri-captain guard Natalie Novosel. 
“I really enjoy the player development and the mentor-ship part of my job,” Tsipis said. “Seeing them coming in as freshmen, helping their game expand and recruit­ing them has been a big part of my job at Notre Dame.” Aside from the mentoring, Tsi­pis said he enjoys his annual assignment of forming the team’s schedule. 
“I really enjoy taking on some of the best teams in the country, preparing the film and getting everything for the game plan ready to pres­ent to coach McGraw,” Tsipis said. “When we play the [Con­necticuts], the Dukes and the Tennessees of the world and are successful doing that, we need to be well-prepared in that sense, and it’s great to be given that responsibility.” 
Contact Molly Sammon at msammon@nd.edu 


Big East 
continued from page 20 
sophomore Bertie Nel, freshman Cameron Miller, Johnson and ju­nior Bill Bass surpassed last year’s Big East conference record of 
1:28.86. They touched the wall at 
1:28.73 to take third place behind 
Louisville and Pittsburgh. With only a small portion of the championships underway, the Irish continue to look forward. 
“Tomorrow the rest of the guys get their first chance to compete. It’s important for us to come out swinging, and I know we can do that,” Johnson said. 
Competition kicks off today at 10 
a.m. with the 500-yard freestyle. 
Contact Megan Finneran at mfinnera@nd.edu 

WILL SHORTz 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 
CROSSWORD 



DAVID L. HOyT 

JON REPINE 
EXPND 
JUMBLE 
JEFF KNUREK 





Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556

 Enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year


 Enclosed
 is $75 for one semester 


Name ____________________________________________________ Address __________________________________________________ City ____________________ State___________ Zip______________ 

Thursday, February 16, 2012 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 20 
MEN’S BASKETBALL 

Cool comeback 
By ANDREW OWENS 
Associate Sports Editor 
Sparked by a 17-point second-half performance from junior for­ward Jack Cooley, the Irish pulled away in the second half to win their seventh consecutive game, 71-53 over Rutgers. 
Cooley scored 22 points and snatched 18 rebounds — a career-high — for No. 23 Notre Dame (18-8, 10-3 Big East). Until sopho­more guard Eric Atkins made a layup and was fouled with 11:57 to play in the second half, Cooley had made every Irish 2-point field goal with the exception of one. 
“We like throwing it in to him,” Irish coach Mike Brey said. “Their speed bothered him at first. They got underneath him. 
“But he does a good job of play­ing off of Eric and [sophomore guard Jerian Grant’s] drives, and we certainly want to go to him. He’s the go-to guy when he gets offensive rebounds. He gets us ex­tra possessions.” 
Brey said he was worried Cool­ey might be less motivated as his performance improves, but that has not been the case. 
“I think at times when he was a younger player he could take a day off and maybe not be as en­gaged, but I wasn’t as engaged in him because he was the seventh guy,” Brey said. “Now that he’s a main guy, he’s more of the focal point, but I’ve been very pleased to see when Jack has had success, he wants to have more.” 
Cooley, the reigning Big East Player of the Week who accounted for 18 of the team’s 37 rebounds, said the play of the Irish guards has enabled him to produce of­fensively. 
“The whole program has helped me to become what I am right now,” he said. “Everyone’s getting me the ball well, the eryone’s filling me with so much coaches helped me get my cardio confidence it’s hard to not play back up, and everyone’s giving well.” me confidence. Confidence is key for any basketball player, and ev-see COOLEY/page 18 


MEN’S SWIMMING AND DIVING 
Irish leading Big East going into day three 
By MEGAN FINNERAN 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame entered Wednes­day’s Big East Championships at Trees Pool in Pittsburgh with hopes of carrying on the top finishes by freshman diver Nick Nemetz, and the Irish did not dis­appoint. They currently lead the finals with 197 points, followed by Pittsburgh with 132 points. 
Defending-champion Lousiv­ille is tied with West Virginia for third with 110 points. 
“We’re in a better position than we were last year,” junior Chris Johnson. “We are riding the mo­mentum of two school records into tomorrow.” 
In Wednesday’s two races, the Irish racked up new school re­cords in two relay events. The team of sophomores Frankie Dyer and Colin Babcock and juniors Kevin Overholt and John McGin­ley beat the previous school re­cord of 6:27.19 from a 2009 meet in Indianapolis, coming in second at 6:24.11 behind Louisville in the 800-yard freestyle relay. 
In the 200-yard medley relay, 
see BIG EAST/page 18 

ND WOMEN’S SWIMMING AND DIVING 
Strong relays leave ND competitive in Big East 
By MATT UNGER 
Sports Writer 

In the opening events of the Big East Championships, the Irish saved their best season times for the finals of each relay race. Notre Dame took third in both the 800-yard freestyle relay and 200-yard medley relay. 
The Irish sit in second place with 135 points in the team standings, only nine points behind first-place Louisville. 
In the 800-yard freestyle, the Irish team of senior Amy Prestinario, sophomore Kelly Ryan, and freshmen Suzanne Bessire and Emma Reaney finished third with a time of 
7:15.31. They beat their pre­vious top time on the season by more than six seconds. First-place West Virginia set a meet record with a time of 7:06.87. 
Meanwhile, junior Kim Holden, sophomore Sarah Dotzel, Prestinario, and Ryan also earned third in the 200­yard medley, finishing in 
see MEDLEY/page 17 
HOCKEY 

Lorenz named finalist for Lowe’s Senior Class Award 
By CHRIS ALLEN 
Sports Writer 
The 2011-12 Irish season has been a campaign of remarkable highs and lows, with last-second victories balanced by big losses at home. Amid the inconsistency, senior defenseman and captain Sean Lorenz has been a consis­tent force on the blue line and in the locker room. 
As a tribute to his leadership and performance on and off the ice, Lorenz was named one of 10 finalists for the Lowe’s Se­nior Class Award in hockey. The award is considered the premier honor given to a senior student-athlete in each sport. The defen­seman from Littleton, Colo., said the nomination came as a sur­prise. 
“It’s a great honor. I didn’t find out until [hockey sports informa­tion director] Tim Connor told me about it,” Lorenz said. “I’m very honored to be thrown into a group with names of [former Irish players] Calle Ridderwall, [Erik] Condra and [Jordan] Pearce and some of those kinds of guys. So it’s an honor, definitely.” 
On the heels of a 2010-11 sea­son in which he received the CCHA Defensive Defensemen of the Year honor, Lorenz was named co-captain of the squad, along with fellow senior right wing Billy Maday. The duo has faced a difficult assignment as captains, having to guide a young Notre Dame squad through a pressure-packed campaign. 
The No. 13/9 Irish (16-13-3, 11­10-3-0 CCHA) sit seventh in the CCHA standings with only two regular season series left to play. Lorenz said he and Maday have adjusted their leadership style in the midst of recent struggles. 
“I think [Maday] and I have kind of both talked about it. We just try to lead by example,” Lo­renz said. “I think that’s the best way to lead a team when things 
see LORENZ/page 18 

ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 
Assistant coach stresses team play 
By MOLLY SAMMON 
Sports Writer 

When Irish associate head coach Jonathan Tsipis ar­rived at Notre Dame nine years ago, he had never coached a women’s basket­ball team. After helping the Irish program improve its all-time winning percentage to .728 and come within six points of a national champi­onship, he has no intentions of going back to the men’s game any time soon. 
“I like the teaching aspect of the women’s game better,” Tsipis said. “There is this great learning curve that the women’s game has, and the game has really grown. We’re getting faster, stron­ger, bigger athletes now, but it is still more of a team-based game. Every year it’s getting better.” 
Tsipis said he favors the cohesive technical structure of the women’s game and dis­likes the trend of the highly-individualized play he no­ticed on the men’s side. 

“There are five people in-the women over the men.” volved in almost every play,” When he started with Notre Tsipis said. “That’s only in the Dame in 2003, Tsipis said women’s game. And with that Irish coach Muffet McGraw involvement comes a team chemistry that you see with see TSIPIS/page 18 






