
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


NDeRC to host annual conference 
By ADAM LLORENS 
News Writer 
The Notre Dame extend­
ed Research Community 
(NDeRC) will host its fifth 
annual Collaborating for 
Education and Research Fo­
rum tomorrow in the Jordan 
Hall of Science. 
Thomas Loughran, a pro­
fessional specialist in the 
Department of Physics and 
member of NDeRC, said the 
event is designed to en­
hance interaction between 
local K-12 teachers and 
University administrators. 
The forum fosters a vibrant 
science, technology, engi­
neering and mathematics 
(STEM) community between 
the educators, he said. 
“The forum presents a 
broad spectrum of engage­
ment opportunities for 
STEM professionals for both 
researchers and educa­
tors at the university and 
K-12 levels,” Loughran said. 
“We’re trying to foster an 
integrated STEM commu­
nity.” 
Loughran said a function-

see FORUM/page 3 


State seizes student houses 
Houses to be demolished for improvement of State Road 23 

By SAM STRYKER 
News Editor 
Living off campus is a rite of passage for many Notre Dame seniors, but the state of Indiana threw a wrench in several students’ housing plans for next year before they could even move in. 
In an email sent Feb. 9, Mark Kramer of Kramer Properties notified students who held leases for the 2012-13 school year at 916, 920 and 922 South Bend Ave. that their houses were being seized by the state under eminent domain. 

Jim Pinkerton, director of communications at the In­diana Department of Trans­portation, said the houses would be demolished as part of a larger project to improve State Road 23 in the Five Points area. 
“The entire project is de­signed to increase mobil­ity and safety through that area,” he said. 
Pinkerton said the state claims properties under eminent domain far in advance for preliminary work. He said the project is 


Candidates explore religious life 
By TORI ROECK 
News Writer 
Candidates at Moreau Sem­inary and undergraduate seminarians at Old College deciding to become Holy Cross priests or brothers may live on Notre Dame’s campus but lead very different lives than the average student. 
Fr. James Gallagher, direc­tor of the Office of Vocations, said Moreau Seminary and Old College give young men the opportunity to experience religious life and determine if it is their calling. 
“The Moreau Seminary and Old College Undergraduate Seminary are run indepen­dently from the University of Notre Dame,” Gallagher said. “They are programs the Con­gregation of Holy Cross offers to help men consider a voca­tion as a Holy Cross priest or brother and helps to prepare 


see MOREAU/page 6 

Professor discusses Barbie doll’s impact 
By CAITLIN HOUSLEY 
Saint Mary’s Editor 
With blonde hair and blue eyes, Barbie seems like an all-American girl next door — but behind the plastic doll lies a mysterious past and a troubling message, according to Terri Russ. 
Russ, a communication stud­ies professor at Saint Mary’s College, outlined the truth be­hind Barbie’s life and her im­pact on women in her lecture “Barbie — Love Her, Hate Her, Who Cares?!” on Thursday eve­ning in the Saint Mary’s Student Center. 
“[Barbie] is this really inter­esting toy,” Russ said. “She’s been around for well over 50 years now … [but] even though she’s a doll, she … represents more than that. Clearly, she’s part of our cultural under­standing of a lot of things.” 
Barbie, whose full name is Barbie Millicent Roberts, is a teenager with an interest in fashion. She hails from a make-believe town in Illinois where she lives with her architect fa­ther and stay-at-home mother, Russ said. 
The story behind Barbie’s cre­ation is guarded closely by her manufacturer Mattel, , Russ said. 
“One of the things [Mattel] has … done is been very protec­tive of what the public knows and doesn’t know about Bar­bie,” she said. “One of the ways we see that play out is in terms of the creation of Barbie.” 
Mattel advertises that Barbie was named for the daughter of her creator, Russ said. However, there are other possible stories 
see BARBIE/page 7 


expected be completed by the end of 2013. 
“[There will be] utility relocations, which in this urban area, will be quite detailed,” he said. “The properties are acquired … before construction begins so they can be cleared to make way for these types of operations.” 
Juniors Kelly Taylor and Betty Graham signed a lease for 920 South Bend Ave. in October 2010 with three other people. 
see HOUSES/page 7 

Construction causes issues for parking 
By NICOLE MICHELS 
News writer 
Construction of the Well­ness Center in the D2 South lot has forced students to park further away from their on-campus destinations. An­other project planned for the B1 lot this spring will also temporarily restrict parking. 
Notre Dame Security Po­lice director Phil Johnson said students still have space to park on the North side of campus, though there is de­creased capacity in D2 South. 
“With respect to D2 Lot and construction of the Wellness Center, occupancy surveys indicate that there is capac­ity in the adjacent lots, D2 Middle and D2 North, to ac­commodate spaces lost in D2 South due to construction,” Johnson said. 
But construction began to frustrate students after the semester break. 
Senior Colleen Coley said commuting to and from her job off-campus at the Logan Center is problematic due to the lack of parking spaces. 
see PARKING/page 5 

INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER Students compete in mobile app summit page 3 u Viewpoint page 8 u Scene judges the Oscars page 10 u Men’s basketball takes on St. John’s page 20 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT ARE YOU DOING FOR LENT THIS YEAR? 

www.ndsmcobserver.com P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 Editor-in-Chief Douglas Farmer Managing Editor Business Manager Sarah Mervosh Jeff Liptak Asst. Managing Editor: Adriana Pratt Asst. Managing Editor: Chris Masoud News Editor: Sam Stryker Viewpoint Editor: Meghan Thomassen Sports Editor: Allan Joseph Scene Editor: Maija Gustin Saint Mary’s Editor: Caitlin E. Housley Photo Editor: Pat Coveney Graphics Editor: Brandon Keelean Advertising Manager: Katherine Lukas Ad Design Manager: Amanda Jonovski Controller: Jason Taulman Systems Administrator: William Heineman Office Manager & General Info (574) 631-7471 Fax (574) 631-6927 Advertising (574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu Editor-in-Chief (574) 631-4542 dfarmer1@nd.edu Managing Editor (574) 631-4542 smervosh@nd.edu Assistant Managing Editors (574) 631-4541 apratt@nd.edu, cmasoud@nd.edu Business Office (574) 631-5313 News Desk (574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com Viewpoint Desk (574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com Sports Desk (574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com Scene Desk (574) 631-4540 mgustin@nd.edu Saint Mary’s Desk chousl01@saintmarys.edu Photo Desk (574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com Systems & Web Administrators (574) 631-8839 Policies The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College.  Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Douglas Farmer. Post Office Information The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 and additional mailing offices 024 South Dining hall Notre Dame, IN 46556-077 The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved.  
TODAY’S STAFF News Sports Nicole Toczauer Molly Sammon Jillian Barwick Megan Finneran Bridget Feeney Mike Monaco Graphics Scene Lauren Kalinoski Kevin Noonan Photo Viewpoint Kirby McKenna Caroline Lang  
CORRECTIONS The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so we can correct our error.  
HIGH 35 LOW 33 


Albany Zweber- Tony Villano  Blake Weaver  Nick Schmeidler  Daniel Rish  Will Holmes  
Langer  
sophomore  freshman  freshman  sophomore  sophomore  sophomore  
Farley  Duncan  Morrissey  Zahm  St. Edward’s  Duncan  
“I will be  “This Lent, I  “I’m giving  “I’m doing the  “Elevators,  “I am giving up  
going to extra  am reading  up Facebook,  Howard Hall  specifically the  video games and  
weekday Masses  Bible verses  Twitter and  Chapel Crawl  St. Ed.’s ‘Vater.’”  unhealthy food,  
every week and  aloud with my  Dining Hall  and Zahm  and I will go to  
giving up DH  roommate Phil  desserts.”  Mass.”  daily Mass at  
desserts.”  Shiv.”  least once.”  

Have an idea for Question of the Day? Email obsphoto@gmail.com 


Family receives $100k bill 
CHICAGO — A family liv­ing in the Chicago suburb of Oak Park was shocked to dis­cover their monthly electric bill was more expensive than most families make in an en­tire year: $107, 625.16. 
Kathy and David Rajter had used 2,236 kilowatt hours the previous month and re­ceived a bill for for $276. But the following month, their bill said the couple had used closer to 1,647,499 kilowatts. “The taxes (and fees alone) on the bill were $16,000,” Kathy Rajter told the Chicago Sun Times. 
And to add to the anxiety, the Rajter’s home is signed up for automatic bill pay­ments. Thankfully, they con­tacted Integrys, who supplies the local electricity to their home, and ComEd, who han­dles the billing. 
While neither company is exactly sure how the strange meter error took place, ComEd assured the Rajter’s that the six-figure total would not be deducted from their account. In fact, ComEd has reset their bill to zero while they investigate the issue. 
Woman cons email scammers 
BRISBANE, Australia — Nigerian email scams have become nearly as common­place as the Internet itself. But one Australian woman wound up in jail after turn­ing the tables--to the tune of $30,000--on a group of con artists. 
Sarah Jane Cochrane-Ramsey, 23, was employed as an “agent” in March 2010 by the Nigerians, but didn’t know they were scam art­ists. Her “job” was to provide access to an Australian bank account opened in her name where the Nigerians could then transfer money they had received from a phony car sales website. Cochrane-Ramsey was told she could keep eight percent of the transfers. 
But, then she decided to steal from the thieves them­selves. According to the Cou-rier-Mail, she received two payments, totaling $33,350, but spent most of it on herself. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

IN BRIEF
    The Faculty Lecture Series will host a lunch with profes­sors today from 12 to 1 p.m. in in the Oak Room of South Dining Hall. Today’s speaker will be professor Brad Grego­ry of the history department. Complimentary lunch will be provided for those without meal plans. 
The Annual Graduate Stu­dent Research Symposium is today from 2:30 to 4:30 p.m. in the Jordan Hall of Science. The symposium is an oppor­tunity to see research done by graduate students in the Hu­manities, Social Sciences, Sci­ences and Engineering. For more information, email Ellen Childs at echilds@nd.edu. 
Today at 5 p.m., Kristen Hawkins, the executive di­rector of Students for Life of America, will speak during the lecture “Pro-life Apolo­getics Training: Learn How to Defend Your Views.” The lecture is in room B34 of Ged­des Hall. Free pizza will be provided. 
Student Affairs is now ac­cepting nominations for the Denny Moore Award for Excellence in Journal­ism, named after the Uni­versity’s late Associate Vice President for Public Affairs. Candidates must be seniors who exemplify the qualities for which Denny Moore was known, including personal integrity and character, commitment to Notre Dame and writing ability.  Candi­dates may be nominated by faculty, staff or fellow stu­dents. The deadline is Fri­day, March 2. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, email detailed information about an event to 
LOCAL WEATHER 

TODAY TONIGHT SATURDAY SUNDAY MONDAY TUESDAY 










HIGH 32 LOW 23 
HIGH 41 LOW 37 

HIGH 39 LOW 28 
HIGH 41 LOW 32 



Students to compete in Mobile Summit app contest 
By LISA SLOMKA 
News Writer 
Students interested in mo­bile apps can satisfy their curiosity at the Notre Dame Mobile Summit 2012, a two-day event held by the Uni­versity Council of Academic Technologies (UCAT). 
Junior Yiting Zheng, the campus technology direc­tor for Student Government, said the summit features speakers, brainstorming sessions and discussion on Notre Dame’s mobile strat­egy. 

Zheng said the Mobile Summit has been in the works since last semester. She said Ron Kraemer, vice president of the University and chairperson for UCAT, wanted students to be very involved in the weekend’s events. 
“I had the idea of doing a competition among students, and as we discussed, we de­cided to have a mobile app idea contest,” Zheng said. 
Zheng said today’s events include discussions on the mobile strategy at Notre Dame. Saturday is geared toward student participa­tion in the mobile app idea contest, she said. Student teams will send in their con­tent today for approval be­fore their presentations. 
“We have about twenty-eight registered teams right now who will be presenting five minutes each, and then it’s basically a contest to see who has the best idea,” Zheng said. driven audience response 

Zheng said students will system used by Google and share their ideas on post-the US Census, she said. ers accompanied by de-Zheng said the contest scriptions allows for a of how the wide range app will of academic function. fields to join 
Hig hly and brain­
s oph i s t i -cated mo­bile apps are not neces sa r y for the con­test. How­ “I had the idea of doing a competition among students, and as we discussed, we decided to have a mobile app idea contest.”  storm togeth­er in one sum­mit. “We have some IT man­agement stu­dents, two  
ever,  some  p s y c ho l o g y  
s t u de nt teams are working on their apps  Yiting Zheng Campus Technology director Student Government  majors, two science pre­p r of e s s i on -al students  
a l r e a d y ,  and all sorts  
she said.  of  majors.”  
J u d g e s  Zheng  said.  
and  audi­ “It’s not lim­ 
ence  will  ited to  a  cer­ 

vote to determine the win-tain group of students.” ners. The Notre Dame Mobile 
“We have three judges, Summit 2012 will be held and then a fourth prize will from 9:30 to 4 pm today and be decided by an audience from 1 to 4 pm on Saturday vote,” Zheng said. in the Mendoza College of 
Audience members will be Business. able to text in votes for their favorite competitors on Poll Contact Lisa Slomka at Everywhere, a technology-lslomka@nd.edu 
Forum 
continued from page 1 
ing STEM community is es­sential for both teachers and students. 
“Teachers and adminis­trators know one another and have a sense of belong­ing to the same social en­tity, and because they be­long, they give invitations to students to belong too,” Loughran said. “That issu­ing of effective invitations into the STEM community is the model of STEM educa­tion we are working with.” 
To reach teachers, Loughran said the NDeRC emails registration invita­tions to approximately 350 Michiana STEM educators. 
The event promotes con­versation among profession­als from local schools and universities. Loughran said the forum averages around 150 teachers every year. 
“In years past we had 25 spots for our BioEYES ini­tiative, a study of the de­velopment of zebrafish, and received 100 applications,” Loughran said. “At another forum, we launched a blog and got 100 subscribers over the weekend.” 
Loughran said the fo­rum’s commitment to build­ing STEM education and research locally is gaining momentum. 
“It’s an enduring atmo­sphere,” Loughran said. “You know the community is alive because we keep meet­ing and collaborating.” 
The Collaborating for Edu­cation and Research Forum will be held tomorrow from 
8:30 a.m. to 2 p.m. in Jordan Hall of Science. 
Contact Adam Llorens at allorens@nd.edu 



‘The Glee Project’ contestant speaks about true beauty 
By CHRISTIN KLOSKI show discussed their defini-News Writer tion of beauty and self es­teem as a part of Love Your 
The cast of ‘The Glee Proj-Body Week. ect’ presented True Beauty The Glee Project’s con-at the Carroll Auditorium in tender, Hannah McIalwain, Saint Mary’s Madeleva Hall said the True Beauty Pro-last night. Members of the gram promotes confidence in and held their sign in front of strangers. 

“My insecurity was sim­ply, fat. I felt embarrassed before the cameras were on and broke down,” McIalwain said. “ But … It does not de­fine me; it does not matter.” 
McIalwain said she re­mained in Los Angeles for two months after the show ended for auditions, but no jobs were offered. She left Hollywood and moved back home with her mother. 
“I felt like I was being left behind,” McIalwain said. 
McIalwain said she worked minimum wage jobs until she had enough money to move back to Los Angeles. She is currently looking for more opportunities there, she said. 
“You have to keep going. All of us are beautiful and perfect,” McIalwain said. 
Through the True Beauty Project, McIalwain speaks to women about the influence the media, peers and par­ents have on the definition of beauty. 
“You have to know your confidence. You have to re­alize what is beautiful and redefine what beauty is,” Mc-Ialwain said. 
Contact Christin Kloski at cklosk@saintmarys.edu 
women’s self-image. 
“Everyone is going to struggle with some insecu­rity, but come back to your­self and say, ‘Yes, I am good enough,’” McIalwain said. 
McIalwain said she strug­gled with self-image in her younger years but gained confidence before entering 
high school. She said she became active in school plays and felt hap­pier. 
When her parents di­vorced dur­ing her junior year, she ate for comfort, McIalwain said. 
“I felt alone and I contin­ued to gain pounds. This was a low point,” she said. “I had no one else who 
“Everyone is going to struggle with some insecurity, but come back to yourself and say, ‘Yes, I am good enough.” 
Hannah McIalwain contestant ‘The Glee Project’ 
knew the real me and I por­trayed myself as happy and bubbly.” 
In her senior year, audi­tions for MTV’s Made ar­rived at her high school, she said. McIalwain auditioned and landed a spot. The show 
Parking 
continued from page 1 
“My conception of a good parking spot is so different than it used to be,” Coley said.  “It used to be the first two rows, but now it’s the changed her life, she said. 
“I went for everything in the show. I turned around and I felt beautiful and con­fident,” McIalwain said. 
McIalwain said she attend­ed college at Queens Univer­sity with a fresh perspective. Though a heartbreak set her back, McIalwain decided to 
audition for The Glee Project as well. She was chosen to be in the show with eleven oth­er contend­
ers.  
“  T h  i  s  
gave  me  

more self-confidence than be­fore, but I still felt like I was not good enough, but each week I kept grow­

ing,” McIalwain said. “Even­tually, I gained a strong self-confidence out of the show.” 
The most difficult task in The Glee Project was the week of vulnerability, she said. Contenders wrote their insecurities on a white board 
“We have opened the visi­tor’s lot to provide additional spaces for faculty who are displaced from lot B1,” John­son said. “The impact from the Stadium project should not have a significant impact on students who use [neigh­boring] lot C1.” 
To adapt to these chang­es, students like sophomore Jack McLaren strategically 
plan when to search for a spot on cam­pus.
 “I’ve no­ticed since the first two lots.” 

Smyth said the loca­tion for the  “My conception of a good parking spot is so different than it used  constr uction started that it’s harder to  
new  Well- to be. It used to be the  find  a  spot,”  
ness Center is incon­venient for  first two rows, but now it’s the first two lots.”  McL a r en said.  “I just try to time it  
students.  “ S i n c e they fenced  Colleen Coley senior  so I get back when people are leaving,  

Coley said the most conve­nient lots for her schedule are full when she returns from work on Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays. This forces her to scramble for a spot to make it to class on time, she said. 
“The problem is it … is frustrating for people who have nowhere else to go and need to park every day,” Coley said. 
Soph o-more Dan 

off half the lot, you can’t drive all the way through any of the close aisles,” Smyth said. “It’s always a gamble when you’re browsing for a spot.” 
Doug Marsh, associate vice president and University ar­chitect, said another project is scheduled to begin in the B1 lot by the Stadium. Plans to install a new storm sewer system will temporarily af­fect the number of parking spaces there. 
“There is a temporary loss of 100 spaces,” Marsh said. “These spaces will be re­stored by the third week of March.” 
An email sent to the stu­dent body on Feb. 12 said the project schedule was modi­fied to minimize impact on faculty and staff parking during the academic year. 
Johnson said construc­tion by the Stadium lot will not present significant long­term challenges for students or professors. 
so I get a good 
spot.” 
Senior El­
len Reinke 
said walking 

back to cam­pus from the more removed lot next to the Stepan Center creates safety concerns.
 “You’re standing out in the middle of Stepan,” Reinke said.  “Sometimes when I’ve come back really late, I‘ve debated calling Safe Walk because it’s a really far way to walk by yourself in the dark.” 
Johnson said calling Safe Walk is a wise choice for students returning from the further lots.
 “Safety is of paramount importance.  I encourage ev­eryone to make use of Safe Walk, especially if you are walking to or arriving at a perimeter campus parking lot during hours of dark­ness,” Johnson said.  “A Safe Walk team will walk you to any point on campus.” 
Contact Nicole Michels at nmichels@nd.edu 
Moreau Seminary candi-
Moreau 

date Walter Pruchnik III said candidates, who are mostly continued from page 1 Notre Dame graduates, take the same classes as gradu­them for that life and minis-ate students in the Masters in try.” Divinity program. They also must meet the same USCCB The Process academic requirements as un-
Young men without under-dergraduate seminarians, he graduate degrees reside in Old said. College, where they live for up “[The candidate program] to three years while enrolled focuses on academic prepara­at either Notre Dame or Holy tion for the Masters in Divin-Cross College, according to ity Program and growth in … the Office of Vocations web-spiritual formation and for-site. mation for community life in 
Stephen Barany, an under-Holy Cross,” Pruchnik said. graduate in Old College study-Moreau Seminary candidate ing philosophy and industrial Brendan Ryan said all of his design at Notre Dame, said classes this semester arewith seminarians fulfillspecific undergraduates. academic requirements from “I’m 26. For some of the un­the United States Conference dergrads, they probably think of Catholic Bishops (USCCB). it’s a little strange I’m in their 
“[The USCCB] requirements classbut I think that makes us involve mostly philosophy and a little more well-rounded,” he they profess formal vows for ning prayer, he said. and Old College are separated some theology,” Barany said. said. the first time after the novi-“Morning prayer, Lauds, from the University, Gallagher “Beyond that, if it’s possible, After their candidate year, tiate year. and evening prayer, Vespers, said the Notre Dame commu­we are allowed to major in the seminarians become nov-“After that year in Colorado, frame our day and help build nity plays a large part in semi-something else.” ices and spend a year of con-you take for the very first time a structure of prayer in our nary life. 
According to the Office of templation at a novitiate in the vows of poverty, celibacy lives,” he said. “What makes our seminary Vocations website, men who Colorado Springs, according and obedience,” he said. “You Moreau Seminary and Old programs unique from stand already have undergraduate to the Office of Vocations web-profess them for one year at a College come together for full alone seminaries is that it of-degrees enter Moreau Semi-site. time and renew them for one community events a few times fers our men an opportunity nary and spend one year as a Brian Ching, a temporar-year at a time for the next a week, Pruchnik said. to study side by side with their candidate. ily professed seminarian, said three or four years. The pur-“We play basketball here peers, who are training for a pose of that is to live it but Sunday nights,” Pruchnik whole range of other jobs and to also have an out if … you said. “About half the guys par-vocations,” he said. “They are decide this isn’t part of your ticipate.” ready and able to understand life.” The seminarians train for and interact with the men 
Ching said seminarians the Mundelein Seminary Shoot and women who will be their then return to Moreau in the Out, a basketball tournament parishioners as well as their professed program and learn among regional seminaries in peers in academia.” about being a priest or broth-late January, Pruchnik said. Pruchnik said going to un­er. Ryan said other sports are dergraduate classes some-
popular, as well. times feels like “commuting.” Seminary Life “We play racquetball a lot “I’m not staying up ridicu-
Barany said life in Old Col-here,” Ryan said. lously late anymore hang­lege is more structured than The seminarians also gath-ing out with the guys in the students’ experiences in ot-er every Thursday at Moreau dorm playing video games, herdorms. Seminary for a meal, attend but you’re still embedded in 
“Prayer is more organized a larger Mass and host pub-the culture at Notre Dame,” and our formation schedule lic Lucernarium, an evening he said. “We’re still very much is very organized,” he said. prayer service, in the semi-active and involved.” “Consequently, that leads to nary chapel with a social af-Ryan said he feels some dis-the rest of our lives essential-terward, Pruchnik said. tance from undergraduates is ly having to be organized, as “We have a larger Mass, a a good thing. well, whereas the average col-fancier dinner,” he said. “It’s “It’s nice to have some sepa­lege student is able to basical-a good night to invite guests, ration because we’re not fifth ly come and go as they please.” faculty from our classes or year seniors,” Ryan said. 
Residents are required to friends from the community.” However, Ryan said students wake up for 7:10 a.m. morning The Old Collegians host a should reach out to the semi-prayer in the Log Chapel, Ba-public Log Chapel Mass and a narians in their classes. rany said. Eucharistic adora-social afterward every Tues-“I think some people are tion runs until 7:45 a.m. day at 9 p.m., Barany said. afraid to talk to us,” he said. 
Pruchnik said candidates “We’re just normal guys.” follow a similar routine. They Role of Notre Dame Com-attend a 7:15 a.m. prayer, dai-munity Contact Tori Roeck at ly Mass at 5:05 p.m. and eve-Although Moreau Seminary troeck@nd.edu 



Indiana election official sentenced for perjury and theft 
Associated Press 
NOBLESVILLE, IN — In­diana’s ousted top elec­tions official was sentenced Thursday to a year of home detention for six felony con­victions that a judge refused to reduce to lesser crimes — a ruling that, if upheld on appeal, will likely cost him not only his office but also his law license and liveli­hood. 
Hamilton Superior Court Judge Steven Nation said the intentional disregard that Secretary of State Charlie White showed for the law outweighed portrayals of him as a loving father and husband. The judge refused to reduce the six felony con­victions to misdemeanors that would have given the 42-year-old Republican a chance to hold onto his of­fice. 
“I believe he violated the trust of the people,” Nation said. 
White told the judge he would appeal the one year’s detention on each of the six felonies, to be served con­currently, and Nation stayed the sentence pending that. The judge also fined White $1,000 and ordered him to serve 30 hours of commu­nity service. 

But White, his wife, and his attorney said his le­gal problems have cost him much more than part of his freedom and his political and legal career. Defense attorney Carl Brizzi said White and his wife, Mi­chelle, have stopped mak­ing mortgage payments on the condo that was at the heart of his legal troubles and likely will lose owner­ship of it. White said his as­sets have dwindled to what­ever equity he might have in the home and small stock and bank accounts and a 5-year-old, beat-up Jaguar automobile. 
“His life is in tatters,” Brizzi said. 
White said the charges he was convicted of Feb. 4, in­cluding perjury and theft, ignored a complicated per­sonal life in which he was trying to raise his 10-year­old son, plan a new marriage and campaign for statewide office in 2010. He said he stayed at his ex-wife’s house when he wasn’t on the road campaigning and did not live in the condo until after he remarried. 

Prosecutors said White listed his ex-wife’s address instead of the condo on his voter registration form be­cause he didn’t want to give up his Fishers Town Council salary after moving out of the district he was elected to represent. 
“I never intentionally meant to do any of the things I was convicted of,” White said in a nearly 30-min­ute statement to the judge, pausing at times to regain his composure. 
Nation didn’t buy that ex­planation, and neither did special prosecutors John Dowd, a Republican, and Dan Sigler, a Democrat, who also rejected defense argu­ments that White was the victim of a political perse­cution. 
“He’s wreaked havoc with a statewide office. He’s wreaked havoc with the whole election process,” Dowd said in court. 
White declined to com­ment on the sentence as he left the court with his wife, walking swiftly to a waiting elevator and saying only, “I’m going to be with my wife. I’m really happy to be with my wife.” 
Indiana law prohibits public officials convicted of felonies from holding of­fice. White’s conviction bars him from reclaiming the job he held onto for more than a year despite calls from Democrats and Republi­cans, including GOP Gov. Mitch Daniels, for him to step down. 
White could be reinstated if his conviction is reversed on appeal. 
The appeal isn’t the only legal wrangling left in the case. Another battle contin­ues over who will replace him permanently. 
Daniels named White’s chief deputy, Jerry Bonnet, interim secretary of state after White’s conviction, but he isn’t expected to make a permanent appointment until the Indiana Supreme Court rules in a civil law­suit over White’s candidacy. 
The state Supreme Court has scheduled oral argu­ments next week in the law­suit, in which Democrats contend White was never eligible to run for office because he was improper­ly registered to vote. They want White’s candidacy de­clared invalid so that run­ner-up Vop Osili, a Demo­crat who lost to White by about 300,000 votes, can be named to the job, which also oversees business registra­tions and enforces Indiana’s securities laws. 
downhill, so [Ryan] needed to 
Barbie 

find something to do,” Russ 
said. “He was really good with continued from page 1 plastics, so he went to work for Mattel.” of Barbie’s creation. Some believe Ryan’s interests 
“[One] story is that Ruth Han-dictated the appearance of Bar­dler, the woman who we think bie, Russ said. came up with the idea of Bar-“Jack was kind of like the bie, wanted to design a doll Hugh Hefner of his time,” she for her daughter, Barb, so that said. “He had a preference for 
her  daughter  thin, blonde  
and her friends  women with  
could  practice  big  boobs.  
being an adult  The story is  
in  play  and  that he de­ 
make believe,” Russ said.  “While we all know Barbie  signed bie.”  Bar- 
At that time, the only other popular dolls on the mar­ket were made of paper, she  is just a doll and she’s unrealistic, there’s still that part of us that asks, ‘Well, what if? What if I could do that?’”  However, Russ said most Bar­bie scholars believe the true creation  
said. Handler wanted to en­rich her daugh- Terri Russ Saint Mary’s professor  story is blending the two.  a of  
ter’s  playtime,  B eyo n d  
so she turned  m ys te r y  
to another doll  s ur r oun d - 
on the market  ing  Barbie’s  
for  inspira­ creation, the  
tion — a highly  doll also has  

sexualized German fashion doll a powerful effect on the lives of named Lilli. little girls around the world. 
“Lilli was a sex toy doll mar-“[Barbie] is this idea of little keted to men in Germany and girls getting to practice being other places in Europe,” Russ a woman, and they do that by said. “So, you can kind of tell buying Barbie,” Russ said. “But, why Mattel would want that buying Barbie is never enough, [sanitized].” because she only comes with 
The second story, Russ said, one outfit, and the whole pur­starts with a man named Jack pose of Barbie is to dress her Ryan — an engineer employed up. To do that, you have to buy in the defense industry. more outfits, and all the acces­
“After World War II, the de-sories.” fense industry kind of went This constant need to pur­chase Barbie accessories in­stills consumer behavior in girls, Russ said. 
“As we know from other re­search, that whole consumer identity continues in other forms,” she said. “We’re mar­keted that we can improve our­selves if we buy the right prod­uct. That presents this really interesting phenomenon.” 
Despite Mattel’s idea that Bar­bie should inspire girls to pur­sue careers as doctors, teach­ers, dentists and more, there is a strange reality left out of this empowering thought, Russ said. 
“It’s interesting, because we’re supposed to view Barbie to help us be anything we want to be as a girl, but it’s very con­trolled by Mattel,” Russ said. “If you think about all the careers Barbie has been, which is a lot, there’s also a lot of things she hasn’t been.” 
Barbie has never been a pro­fessor, single mom or other re­alities women face, Russ said. 
“If [Barbie] is supposed to represent what it’s like to be grown up as a woman, it pres­ents a very narrow view, not just physically, but holistically,” she said. 
Russ said Barbie’s physique creates an ideal body that is un­realistic. 
“We’re not going to find any­one who even comes close to looking like Barbie,” Russ said. “Even if they are blonde and thin, still nobody can really look like Barbie. She’s just complete­ly unreal. I mean, hopefully no one has feet like that.” 
In fact, she’s creating a body image paradox that is not ideal, Russ said. 

“While we all know Barbie is just a doll and she’s unrealis­tic, there’s still that part of us that asks, ‘Well, what if? What if I could do that?’” she said. “There is this ambivalence. We love her, but we know we shouldn’t love her, but we don’t really hate her, and she’s hard to hate. She’s a doll.” 
Despite Barbie setting unre­alistic physical standards, mys­terious career paths and dis­jointed thought paradoxes, Russ said Barbie does not have to be hated. 
“Nothing … is good in ex­cess and nothing is good in a vacuum. It needs to be contex­tualized,” she said. “At the end of the day, [Barbie] is a toy — a doll — but a really, really fa­mous doll.” 
Contact Caitlin Housley at chousl01@saintmarys.edu 
Houses 
continued from page 1 
“We were given no idea that we might lose the house when we signed the contract,” she said. “Even if there were plans … we were not aware of them.” 
Kramer said the state noti­fied him around late Novem­ber the houses were going to be taken, but was not sure when demolition was going to occur. 
In the time between the state notification and the email sent to students, Kram­er said he explored arrange­ments to physically relocate the houses. He said this would allow students to re­tain their lease during con­struction. 
“At that time, we started to negotiate to allow us to turn the houses around and face the new access road. [The state] denied that,” Kramer said. 
When the state turned down his idea to move the houses across the street, Kramer notified his tenants of the demolition plans. He said he did not inform stu­dents until he was certain a compromise could not be reached. 
“We were negotiating with the state, and thought we had a solution to the problem … In the midst of all that, the state changed their mind,” he said. 
Taylor said her future housemates heard about this possibility and looked into the matter before they were officially informed of the de­molition. 
“We sent multiple emails to Kramer awaiting a response, and finally had to personal­ly call him only to hear that our house was getting demol­ished,” she said. “He techni­cally never even reached out to us, we had to reach out to him.” 

Juniors Duggan Everage and Ryan Kelleher planned to live in 922 South Bend Ave with three other friends. Everage said he wished Kramer alerted the group of the situation as soon as it came to light. 
“According to [Kramer Properties], they told us as soon as they knew for a fact that they would not be able to move the houses,” he said. “If we had known about the possibility of this hassle, we would have asked Kramer to allow us to change our lease to a different house to pro­tect ourselves.” 
Kramer said he believed moving the houses was the best solution. He said ground planners and movers were prepared to relocate the houses in time for students to move in this fall before the state denied his request. 
“We did the best we could with what was available as far as information is con­cerned,” he said. “Until we had answers to those ques­tions, it was difficult to give answers to the students de­finitively.” 
Kelleher said while Kram­er Properties offered to help find alternative housing in addition to returning their full deposits, the group opted to search on their own. 
“I spent a great deal of time the past few weeks co­ordinating with all the oth­er housing companies try­ing to find suitable housing, much more than I would have liked,” Kelleher said. 
Kramer said he advocated for current residents of the homes, who the state origi­nally would have required to move out this semester. 
He said after negotiating with the state, these students were allowed to maintain their lease through the end of the year. Additionally, ten­ants received compensation from the state for moving costs and disparity of cost in future rent and utilities. 
Senior Paul Scheel, a cur­rent resident of 920 South Bend Ave., said the state was very blunt with both Kramer and his fellow tenants. 
“It all kind of hit us at once and we were very much taken aback by it,” he said. “We def­initely did not want to move out of the house prematurely, especially in the middle of the school year, because that just creates undo hassle.” 
Scheel said he and his housemates were ultimately able to complete their lease and were pleased with how Kramer handled the situa­tion. 
“From our perspective Kramer was our advocate,” he said. “He too seemed frus­trated with how it was han­dled because he told us the state just walked in and gave him a price.” 
Kramer said there was no way his company could suc­cessfully stop construction on the properties. 
“When you’re dealing with the state and eminent domain, there is really no fighting,” he said. “It’s ‘fait accompli.’ They hold all the cards, and the best you can do is try to negotiate with them.” 
Graham said while she un­derstands Kramer is not at fault for the houses being torn down, she believes he could have handled the situ­ation better. 
“The fact that it took for us to call him seems back­wards,” she said. “It seems that even when potential dis­cussions about the future of the home came into conver­sation, we should have been notified and made aware of the situation.” 
Contact Sam Stryker at sstryker@nd.edu 


page 8 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com Friday, February 24, 2012 
INSIDE COLUMN 


What I Don’t Know 
Last week, a friend told me light roast coffee has more caffeine than dark roast. 
“Um, that can’t be true,” I said as I frantically turned to Google to verify my preconceived Sarah Felsenstein understanding of the beverage. Associate It’s a Wikipedia-News Editor confirmed fact, however, that caffeine content is ac­tually burned off during the roasting process. In most cases, the darkest roasts are the least stimulating. 
I tried to justify why I’d assumed the opposite, but came to no conclu­sions. Everything I thought I “knew” about coffee was shaken. I was a victim of the placebo effect. 
This incident got me thinking about all the things I “know” and “don’t know.” About the many things I have always assumed to be “true,” without ever consciously arriving at their truth. 
In a college environment like Notre Dame, we’re constantly revising, molding and adding to our perspec­tives on truth. The process is both exciting and uncomfortable. It re­minds us of how little we know. 
In an introductory history class my sophomore year, I assumed the entire semester a girl I had befriend­ed was a freshman, simply because almost everyone was. On the second to last class day, she arrived wearing an engagement ring and brought up her plans to get married after gradu­ation. 
She was a senior? And getting married? I couldn’t believe it. 

My views on her were turned entirely upside down. I realized she had knowledge I didn’t have — about relationships, Notre Dame and life in general. I didn’t know how to relate to her because I was no longer the older one. 
I felt ridiculous for making that assumption, because while other characteristics might have led me to realize her age, the fact that she was in a freshman class overruled them all. First impressions do matter — I had closed my mind off to revisions after that first class day. 
As a senior English major, I’ve realized the liberal arts education is as much about changing one’s way of thinking as it as about studying texts. The liberal arts education forces students to be cautious about making assumptions. 
Every point must be supported, ev­ery thought defended. Reasoning and critical thinking are essential. These skills are applicable not only in the job world but in everyday life, and I’d argue that’s what makes a liberal arts education so strong. 
Over my four years, I’ve gained a wide range of knowledge, some of which I’ve retained and some which is stored in some locked part of my memory. 
But my English major education has also encouraged me to be com­fortable with the unknown. 
It’s a terrifying thought that in a few months, I’ll be leaving a place of comfort, a place that was home for four years. But it’s also it’s thrill­ing. There are so many things I don’t know. 
Contact Sarah Felsenstein at       sfelsens@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

Forgoing the pity party this Lent 
In case you didn’t notice people walking to class with ashen crosses on their foreheads this Wednesday, Lent has officially begun. At Mass on Ash Wednesday, we were told, “Remember that you are dust and to dust you shall return.” 
This somber attitude will continue through the days lead­ing up to Easter. The dining halls will stop serving meat on Fridays and the usual “Alleluia” will be removed from daily Mass. The campus takes on a more reserved 
mood overall. It’s a time of contemplation and penitence. 
And to commemorate Christ’s 40 days of fasting and temptation in the desert, as well as the month proceeding Easter, Catholics traditionally give up some kind of luxury. 
 On Tuesday night, Twitter statuses fea­tured Notre Dame students’ well-intentioned Lenten plans. We bid adieu to our guilty pleasure television shows and our favorite desserts. The University held multiple Masses throughout the day, even though Ash Wednesday isn’t a Holy Day of Obligation. The Observer even had a poll and ran an article: “Lenten promises: a how-to guide.”
 When it comes to choosing something to give up for Lent, Notre Dame favorites include television, chocolate, Face­book, video games and other modern day vices. 
But as the Lenten season approaches, what we choose to let go seems to escalate.
 “I’m giving up Facebook.”
 “Well, I’m giving up social networking.”
 “Then I’m giving up the internet altogether.”
 This seems more like a contest than a commemoration. And as a result of this contest, we might find ourselves thinking we should have made a bigger sacrifice. The students who give up the most are “good Catholics,” while those of us who give up something small are “bad Catho­lics.”
 These sacrifices should challenge us to look inwardly at our own faults and draw us closer to Christ’s sacrifice, but the competiveness can become distracting. When it comes to Lent, it’s easy for us to lose sight of its true purpose. As usual, Notre Dame students feel the need to be the best at whatever we do, especially if that includes being a “good Catholic.” 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
 Lent is a time of mourning, penitence and self-denial, but we also face temptation. Within every sacred holiday or observation, we run the risk of feeding one of our worst characteristics: our pride.
 It becomes too easy for us to focus on what we gain and forget about what we lose, and why. For example, some of us might give up junk food with the intention of getting back into shape after a 

long South Bend winter. While stepping back from the fro-yo and heading for the fruit might bode well for our Spring Break plans, Lent isn’t spring training. If giving up dining hall des­serts will be one of the biggest challenges for us, we should give it up. During Lent we prac­
tice self-discipline without reaping a reward. 
But if we don’t purposefully disrupt our day-to-day rou­tine, we’re not really making a sacrifice. By removing some­thing from our lives, we create a space. We need discipline and reflection to choose something selfless and meaningful to fill that void.
 And having an ulterior motive certainly won’t get us into a selfless state of mind. When we’re too busy thinking about how much we miss our venti Mocha Frappuccino, we might have the temptation to complain about how much we’re giving up. This fills the space with concerns about caffeine-withdrawal headaches — not exactly a construc­tive pastime.
 If Lent is about self-discipline, we should focus our thoughts as much as our actions. The mindset behind our sacrifices is as important as the sacrifices themselves.
 So maybe for Lent, instead of giving up another item on the dining hall menu, we can choose to yield a selfish way of thinking. Pity parties may run rampant as we mourn the loss of Huddle candy or video games, but consider the alternative: What if we forgo the time spent feeling sorry for ourselves and spend it thinking about the suffering of others?
 Even though Lent is characterized by mourning and pen­ance, focusing on the solidarity of sacrifice is something we can celebrate to the fullest. 



QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“But screw your courage to the sticking-place, and we’ll not fail.” 
William Shakespeare English dramatist & poet 

Friday, February 24, 2012 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 9 

Vanquishing my Lenten death in Madrid 
Count me among the scores of Catho­lics who greeted Lent this year by barely giving a damn. I have been numbed by our American bishops’ recent stodgy obstinacy and refusal to oppose once again a modern complex issue Gary Caruso without offering measured modern Capitol solutions. Comments 
They follow Pope Benedict XVI, who last month cal­lously pronounced the family unit so fundamental for the development of individuals and states that gay mar­riage “threatens human dignity and the future of humanity itself.” 
Call me crazy, but the future of hu­manity ain’t going into decline from the small percentage of gay couples who adopt children, period. 
With the Catholic Church dwindling throughout Europe and North America, parishioners — in my archdiocese Hispanic heritage members — either quit attending any church or moved to the “feel good” offerings of the relatively new so-called megachurches. These churches offer the “how to get out of debt” and “how to better raise your children” or “how to be born again and beam with joy and confidence” feelings not presented by the Roman Catholic Church. So many flee because of the Vatican’s tone-deafness to the modern needs of parishioners. 
The Vatican need not move from Christ’s core values, but for God’s sake, it should at least realize the next pontiff better revise out-of-date, man-decreed dogma that is seen by the flock as simply silly. For example, currently, another religion’s married priests can convert and become a married Catholic priest. Furthermore, Eastern Orthodox priests can marry. Where is the universal and modern consistency? 
Politically, newly elevated Cardinal Timothy Dolan sends mixed messages to publicly elected Catholics. Notre Dame graduate and Virginia Governor Bob McDonnell is considered a good pro-life politician for opposing abortion, but not considered an outright killer for execut­ing a convicted woman with an IQ of about 72 — especially when McDonnell, and only McDonnell, held the authority to stay her execution. Are bishops out­raged over the actual death of a living person through a preventable execution, or are perceived forced contraception rules more outrageous to them? 
Purely put, Jesus reached out to ac­cept rather than reject. Little today is as black-and-white as when the Bible’s chapters were selectively assembled by our — as a fellow Eucharistic minister at St. Matthew’s Cathedral likes to call them —  “old-men rulers.” The inconsis­tencies of man-made policies and con­stant backwards thought persist from our Vatican “old-men rulers.” Dolan proves that it will continue as he enters the College of Cardinals. With bombast Irish bravado he swore during a “60 Minutes” television interview never to support marriage for priests. 
Others leave Catholicism for a myriad of unreasonable conditions perpetrated by the Church. Divorced Catholics face huge hurdles if they care to remarry. Contraception sometimes is necessary as a medical remedy to regulate a Cath­olic woman’s debilitating irregular cycle rather than prevent pregnancy. Tax-exempt American churches oftentimes discriminate using religious freedom claims while also “double-dipping” by accepting public funds for services. Un­fortunately, Church leadership prefers to preach about how to exclude. 
In Illinois, while accepting public funding, bishops sued to prevent gays as foster parents. The Catholic Chari­ties threatened to end all services to the poor. Fearing that their philosophi­cal differences might provide “special rights” afforded to others, Notre Dame refuses to include sexual orientation in workplace anti-discrimination clauses and refuses even to recognize gay stu­dents on campus. 
Our church leaders must collectively become more like Jesus who did not give a damn to sit with the hated Gentiles, eat with tax collectors and speak to prostitutes. Otherwise, leaders alien­ate Catholics like me who reach out to everyone without nuanced conditions. 
For me, Fat Tuesday is typically the time for one last-ditch party before per­sonally contemplating a Lenten sacrifice and preparing for death on Good Friday. But I spent Fat Tuesday in Spain. I had no Lenten plans, no proposed sacrifices and no desire even to consider Lent — that is, until I wandered through the corridors of Madrid’s famed national art museum. The Museo del Prado houses iconic masterpieces by Spanish artist Francisco Goya. I happened upon his so-called “Black Paintings” collection 
— scenes painted nearly 200 years ago directly on the walls of his house and never intended for public display. 
“The Dog,” his simplest but most powerful of paintings teared my eyes. A drowning dog’s head peers for help at his owner’s shadowy figure against a dirty-yellowed backdrop. It gazes above the dark depths and unidentifi­able waterline. It is visually lost in the vastness of the overall painting’s size. While everyone assumes that the dog will drown, I see myself in that painting peering at the Church, which optimisti­cally saves both itself and me from our current conditions. Our paths, like Lent, may survive our sacrifices if each of us has the courage to vanquish death within our existences. 
Gary Caruso, Notre Dame ‘73, serves in the Department of Homeland Security and was a legislative and public affairs director in President Clinton’s admin­istration. His column appears every other Friday. He can be contacted at GaryJCaruso@alumni.nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 


A gliding star 
Impossible means nothing to young Krista Kellner, who is a perfect example of an individual who has persevered through both physically and mentally limiting obstacles and has inspired ath­letes of all abilities from all over the world. Krista’s genuine passion for ice-skating acts as a driving force to prevent her from being defined or limited by her disability. 
Krista is a figure skater who was born with autism, yet embraced the opportunity to learn to skate through a program called Gliding Stars when she was just 3 years old. When Krista began skat­ing she was nonverbal, and her fine motor skills, balance and tactile senses were below average. 
At first she was intimidated by this new activ­ity, and she was not particularly thrilled about the loud arenas, the large crowds, or the tricky ice skates. However, with the support of her coach, Elizabeth O’Donnell, Krista has built up the confi­dence as a skater to perform in front of over 2,000 fans and has even had a performance broadcast on TV. 
Krista has achieved national recognition for her skating and was given a solo performance in “Mus­selman’s Applesauce Presents the Music of Seal on Ice,” which starred singer and songwriter Seal performing live along with a cast that consisted of Olympic gold medalists Kristi Yamaguchi and Brian Boitano and many other world and national champion skaters. The show was broadcast on NBC in 2009. 
Krista has been able to take the skills and disci­pline that she has learned through skating and apply them to other areas of her life. In high school, she was in advanced Spanish, held an A-average in most of her classes, and won hardest working senior in her class. She also maintained honor roll status since the fifth grade, was in­ducted into the National Honor Society, and won an award for one of her short stories published by Canisius College. 
This weekend Krista and her coach will travel from Amherst, N.Y., to put on a special ice performance for the students and members of the local community. The event will take place on Sunday, Feb. 26 at 6:30 p.m., at the Compton Family Ice Arena. It will be hosted by speaker Charlie Adams and will also include perfor­mances by the Notre Dame Figure Skaters and Notre Dame hockey goalie Joe Rogers. The night will conclude with a quick game of Sled Hockey. 
With joined efforts from students involved in Best Buddies, SuperSibs, Special Olympics, Inspire and LOGAN Rec. we have planned a very special evening that will allow people to recognize and be inspired by the great accom­plishments and talent of those who have not let having a disability prevent them from pursuing their dreams. 
Madison Maidment 
freshman McCandless Hall Feb. 23 


A case for progressivetaxation 
Mark Easley (“A case for fair taxation,” Feb. 23), 
We should have the same marginal tax rate for every­one. It makes sense, doesn’t it? In reality, a progressive tax structure is the most equitable taxation system in existence because of diminishing marginal utility of wealth. In non-economic terms, think of the willingness of a millionaire to shell out $100 versus the willingness of a minimum wage earner. The millionaire derives less utility from that $100 because she has less need and more disposable income than the laborer. Also, as a per­son’s income increases, marginal propensity to consume decreases. A progressive tax targets individuals who contribute less to aggregate demand and places a lesser tax burden on those who consume more at the margin. 
Our economy is suffering from a lack of demand rather than any sort of crowding out scenario, showing a failure by politicians and the populace to understand liquidity trap economics and the Fisher equation. In addition, pro­gressive taxes provide a deterrent to income inequality, which has greatly risen in America, as real wages have not been keeping up with productivity since the ‘70s. Some income inequality is necessary to motivate work­ers, but too much leads to situations comparable to that of Latin America and the violence stemming from wealth disparity. Progressive taxes are not an attack against the wealthy. They are an attack against a large wealth gap and on the destructive nature of said gap on the country as a whole. 
Mr. Easley, there are some things that need to be ad­dressed concerning your statements other than your un­derlying logic and lack of a proposed solution. You equat­ed a higher tax on the wealthy to discrimination against minorities such as African Americans and Jews. This is at best, ignorant, and at worst, extremely offensive to these communities that have suffered through things such as slavery and the Holocaust. The trivialization of such atrocities should never be condoned in our political or economic discourse. Furthermore, your comparison of arguments supporting a progressive tax to communist tactics is again ignorant, if not McCarthyist, in nature. A rational debate that results in the best possible action is not possible when one side stigmatizes the other. 
J.P. Zivalich 
junior Stanford Hall Feb. 23 



Scene staffers make their Oscar predictions 
Best Picture Best Director 

Kevin Noonan 
Associate Scene Editor 


The best picture category is cluttered as ever, but no film can compete with the award sea­son momentum of “The Artist.” It just has so many qualities awards voters love. It’s weird. It’s a movie about a movie about a movie about a movie or something like that. Like 13 people saw it, and, best of all, it has that intangible quality of giving those 13 people an undeserved sense of being cultured. Also, it’s a really good 
movie and deserves the award. 
KEVIN’S PICK: “THE ARTIST” 

Best Actor 

Patrick McManus 
Scene Writer 
This is Allen’s seventh nomination in the Best Director category, with his only win com­ing for 1977’s “Annie Hall.” “Midnight in Paris,” Allen’s nostalgic paean to the city, is his best movie in a long time. It is a timeless tale with a unique message and is deftly woven together by the septuagenarian director. 
PATRICK’S PICK: WOODY ALLEN, 

“MIDNIGHT IN PARIS” 

Best Original Screenplay 
Maija Gustin 
Scene Editor 

It’s a neck and neck race between Dujardin and Clooney. Clooney had long been favored to take home his second Oscar (the first was for “Syriana”) but the tide has swiftly been mov­ing in Dujardin’s favor, with wins at the Screen Actors Guild and BAFTA awards. Dujardin is riding high on the tails of “The Artist’s” sweep­ing success this awards season. At this point, it seems the award is Dujardin’s to lose. 
MAIJA’S PICK: JEAN DUJARDIN, 

“THE ARTIST” 


Best Actress 

Meghan Thomassen 
Viewpoint Editor 

“Midnight in Paris” is the obvious winner in this category. Woody Allen charmed his audi­ences by fulfilling everyone’s fantasy of living in a different era. The eclectic cast of literary and artistic figures comes together seamlessly. But ultimately, it’s about pursuing the ideal life, and against the backdrop of Paris, it’s per­fectly enchanting. 
MEGHAN’S PICK: “MIDNIGHT IN PARIS” 

Best Foreign Film 
Brandy Cerne 
Scene Writer 

This one belongs to Viola Davis. Streep com­pletely embodied Margaret Thatcher, but Davis captured our hearts. Taking what could have easily been an offensive role in the hands of someone less talented, Davis infused her down­trodden Southern maid with real pathos. She made audiences feel joy, heartache and weari­ness with each nuanced facial expression and her body language. Davis deserves it for this 

role. 

BRANDY’S PICK: VIOLA DAVIS, “THE HELP” 

Best Supporting Actor 

Felicia Caponigri 
Scene Writer 
Apart from the absolute disgrace that Ange­lina Jolie’s “In the Land of Blood and Honey” was not nominated, this year’s Foreign Film nominees pack a hard-hitting international punch. This fashionista’s bet, however, lies with Iran’s “A Separation.” The film centers on a wife who desires to divorce her husband because he will not leave the country with her due to his father’s ill health. However, she must stand by him when he is accused of murdering that same 

father’s caretaker. 
FELICIA’S PICK: “A SEPARATION” 

Best Original Song 

By MARIA FERNANDEZ 
Scene Writer 
The Oscars are not only the most-awaited awards of the year, but they are also one of the most important events for fashion. From choice of col­ors to innovative dress silhouettes, actresses have walked the Oscar’s red carpet wearing amazing ensembles that embody the trends of the moment, becoming unforgettable pieces in fash­ion history. 
Although I might dare to predict some of the trends our favorite actress­es will sport on Sunday (lace, pastels and deep red and blue colors are so in right now!), we have yet to see the final result. So, while we wait, let’s reminisce on some of the Oscar’s most avant-garde and iconic gowns of all time. 
Audrey Hepburn, 1954 

Audrey Hepburn was already a style icon before she won an Oscar for Best Actress in 1954 for her role in “Roman Holiday.” However, the Givenchy dress she wore that night made fashion head­lines and continues to be a source of 
Mary Claire O’Donnell 
Scene Writer 


In “Beginners,” Christopher Plummer plays a father who comes out of the closet at age 75. Plummer portrays the role beautifully, em­bracing his character struggling to come to terms with his sexuality. Nick Nolte, however, in his role as the alcoholic father of two mixed martial arts fighters, however, should have garnered more praise and Oscar buzz. 
MARY CLAIRE’S PICK: CHRISTOPHER PLUMMER, “BEGINNERS” 

Best Supporting Actress 
Mary Claire O’Donnell 
Scene Writer 


This was a tough choice. Bérénice Bejo played Peppy Miller fantastically, especially given that she was in a silent film. But in the end, Octavia Spencer’s performance as Minny Jackson captured hearts and minds. She is sassy and speaks her mind, but at the same time must deal with a tough situation at home. 
MARY CLAIRE’S PICK: OCTAVIA SPENCER, 
“THE HELP” 
LAUREN KALINOSKI | Observer Graphic 

Alexandra Kilpatrick 
Scene Writer 

This catchy piece, written by Bret McKen­zie of “Flight of the Conchords,” was just one of a number of Oscar-worthy songs in the all-ages appropriate comedy, among them “Life’s a Happy Song” and “Pictures in My Head.” Performed in the movie by Gary (Jason Segel) and his brother Walter (voiced by Peter Linz), “Man or Muppet” is the third Muppet song to be nominated for an Academy Award. 
ALEX’S PICK: “Man or Muppet” (BRET MCKENZIE FOR “THE MUPPETS”) 

Best Original Score 
Alexandra Kilpatrick 
Scene Writer 

Although there is some controversy over the film’s inclusion of Bernard Hermann’s “Ver­tigo” score, Bource’s grand and stately score carries “The Artist.” It both celebrates and comments on Hollywood during the late 1920s and early 1930s as silent cinema gradually falls out of fashion. 
ALEX’S PICK: “THE ARTIST” 
LUDOVIC BOURCE 

Friday, February 24, 2012 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 11 


inspiration for designers and fashioni­stas alike. 
Her simple and sophisticated signa­ture style is perfectly exemplified in this sweet and delicate floral-adorned belted gown. Hepburn’s style will never cease to influence the fashion world.  
Nicole Kidman, 1997 

Accompanied by her then-husband Tom Cruise, Nicole Kidman made her entrance into fashion royalty with a Christian Dior Couture gown at the 1997 Academy Awards. 
With elegance and poise, Kidman turned this creative and eclectic hand­made masterpiece into a fashion hit. The dress’s bright green color, embroi­dered details and thigh-high slit defi­nitely captivated everyone’s attention that night. 
Halle Berry, 2002 

The 2002 Oscars were undeniably Halle Berry’s night. Not only did she win Best Actress for her role in “Mon­ster’s Ball,” but she also stole the show with a daring Elie Saab creation. Its deep red skirt and sheer embroidered top are not easy to pull off, but Berry did so successfully. Her simplicity and effortlessness went perfectly with this intricate gown, encouraging viewers to embrace the sheer trend that is still en vogue. 
Jessica Alba and Michelle Williams, 2006 

Who can forget Jessica Alba and Michelle Williams’ ensembles for the 2006 Oscars? I know I can’t. Although very different gowns, both stars rocked gold and yellow tones that evening.  
Alba’s curve-hugging gold Versace gown is a classic dress full of unique and unforgettable details. She looked spectacular, and since then has been thought of as a leader in fashion. 
Williams was also a red carpet fa­vorite in 2006, as she accompanied her former beau, Oscar nominee Heath Ledger, to the awards.  Her bright yel­low Vera Wang dress gave her an edgy, but elegant look that has inspired many fashion lovers. 
Jessica Biel and Reese Witherspoon, 2007 

The 2007 Oscar fashions were all about bright and bold colors, and Re­ese Witherspoon and Jessica Biel per­fectly embodied this trend. Biel opted for a fuchsia Oscar de la Renta gown. Its simple halter silhouette and thin black belt paired with diamond jewels is a classic combination that can never go wrong. 
After a heart-breaking divorce, With­erspoon quickly reinvented herself and her style by wearing a jaw-dropping purple Nina Ricci gown to the Academy Awards. This strapless gown with a beautiful scale-like skirt will remain in fashion history as the dress that proved Reese was back and ready to continue her successful acting career. 
Sandra Bullock, 2010 
Sandra Bullock showed off her fash­ionable side to the public with a silver embroidered statement gown from Marchesa as she received her Oscar for Best Actress in 2010. The actress made an unexpected choice with this origi­nal dress and confirmed she was not only Oscar material, but also a fashion icon in the making. 
Let’s see what new and unforgettable gowns will these 2012 Oscars bring. 
Contact Maria Fernandez at mfernan5@nd.edu 


SPORTS AUTHORITY 

Trade deadline comes with risks and rewards 
Next Monday marks one of the most exciting days of the NHL season. It is one of a hand­ful of days throughout the whole year where fans of both Stanley Cup contenders and cellar-dwellers alike have something to look forward to. I am of course talking about the trade deadline. 
The Boston Bruins made three different trades within two weeks of the deadline a season ago on their way to the Stanley Cup. The blockbuster deal that got most of the media attention was for Toronto defenseman Tomas Kaberle, for whom the Bruins gave up a first-round pick, a conditional second-round pick and touted prospect Joe Colborne. The deal was useful for the Bruins, who were looking for an im­mediate boost in the playoffs. It was also beneficial to the Maple Leafs, who were out of the play­off race and looking for pieces for the future in exchange for Kaberle, a free agent at the end of the season. 
While the Kaberle trade got the most buzz, two other trades the Bruins made were not as big, but arguably more important. Boston acquired Chris Kelly from Ottawa for a second-round pick and Rich Peverley from Atlanta for NHL-proven young players Mark Stuart and Blake Wheeler. While the trades were both a bit risky and not as high-profile as the Kaberle trade, Kelly and Peverley each finished in the top eight in scoring in the playoffs for the Bruins, play­ing an integral role in Boston’s championship. 
There has already been buzz this the past week that Co­lumbus Blue Jackets star Rick Nash, one of the best power forwards in the world, might be on the trading block. The New York Rangers are the rumored front-runners for Nash, but some are critical of whether the Eastern Conference leaders should mess with strong team chemistry. Toronto and Los Angeles are among other teams interested. 
What makes the Nash case particularly unique is unlike most stars traded near the deadline, Nash is not an unre­stricted free agent at the end of 

Sam Gans 
Sports Writer 

the season. Quite the contrary, in fact, as Nash is signed through 2018 at a salary cap hit of $7.8 million per season. In addition, Nash’s contract has a no-trade clause. 
The contract is notable for a few different reasons. The first is Nash has the ultimate say in where he ends up, due to the no-trade clause, as he can block a deal to any destination he does not want to go. 
The second is while the Jackets are hurt by Nash’s no-trade clause because it limits their options, they are also in no rush to move him, since he is signed for the next six years. They do not have to worry about him walking at the end of the season and getting nothing in return. If a team doesn’t offer what the Jackets are looking for, Columbus can try again in the offseason or keep its captain and face of the franchise indefinitely. This means that if he is traded at the deadline, the team he ends up going to would likely have to pay an extremely hefty price. 
And of course, the contract means the team he would be traded to not only would have to deal with changing the chemistry in the locker room and giving up lots of assets, but they would also be taking on his salary for the next half-decade. As good of a player as Nash is, there is some debate as to whether he’s worth $7.8 million on his own, before even factoring in the pieces the Jackets would require in return in a trade. This would likely include some combina­tion of draft picks, prospects and/or an elite young goalten­der. 
It will be interesting to see if Nash gets dealt and what other big-name players end up on the move by Monday. But it will also be interesting to look back in June and see what small moves, if any, went largely unnoticed in February but propelled a team to hoist the Cup. Further, it will be interesting to see four or five years from now if the pieces acquired by a seller in a major deal help to turn that fran­chise around. 
Sit back and enjoy these next three days, NHL fans. They should be a treat. 
Contact Sam Gans at sgans@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority column are the views of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
MLB 




Braun’s suspension overturned 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK — National League MVP Ryan Braun’s 50­game suspension was over­turned Thursday by baseball arbitrator Shyam Das, the first time a baseball player suc­cessfully challenged a drug-related penalty in a grievance. 
The decision was announced Thursday by the Major League Baseball Players Association, one day before the 28-year-old outfielder was due to report to spring training with the Mil­waukee Brewers. 
Braun’s urine tested posi­tive in October for elevated testosterone, and ESPN re­vealed the positive test in De­cember. 
Braun has insisted that he did not violate baseball’s drug agreement. 
“I am very pleased and re­lieved by today’s decision,” he said in a statement. “It is the first step in restoring my good name and reputation. We were able to get through this because I am innocent and the truth is on our side.” 
MLB executive vice presi­dent Rob Manfred said man­agement “vehemently dis­agrees” with Das’ decision. 
Das, who has been base­ball’s independent arbitrator since 2000, informed the sides of his decision, but did not give them a written opinion. He has 30 days to do so. 
“Today the arbitration pan­el announced its decision, by a 2-1 vote, to sustain Ryan Braun’s grievance challeng­ing his 50-game suspension by the commissioner’s office,” a statement from the players’ association said. 
Manfred and union head Michael Weiner are part of the arbitration panel, and man­agement and the union al­most always split their votes, leaving Das, the independent panel member, to make the decision. 
“MLB and cable sports tried to sully the reputation of an innocent man,” Green Bay Packers quarterback Aar­on Rodgers said on Twitter. “Picked the wrong guy to mess with. Truth will set u free” 
Brewers closer John Axford added on Twitter: “All I can say is that Braun has exem­plary character is continuing to handle this in an unbeliev­able manner.” 
An evidentiary hearing on Braun’s appeal was held Jan. 19-20 in New York, ending the day before the player accepted the NL MVP award at a black-tie dinner. 
“We provided complete co­operation throughout, despite the highly unusual circum­stances. I have been an open book, willing to share details from every aspect of my life as part of this investigation, be­cause I have nothing to hide,” Braun said in his statement. “I have passed over 25 drug tests in my career, including at least three in the past year.” 
A person familiar with the situation told The Associated Press that, after being in­formed of the positive result, Braun asked to have another urine test taken, and that the second test was within normal range. 
During the hearing, Braun’s side challenged the chain of custody from the time the urine sample was collected by Com­prehensive Drug Testing Inc. to when it was sent nearly 48 hours later to a World Anti-Doping Agency-certified labo­ratory in Montreal, the person said. The person spoke on con­dition of anonymity because what took place in the hearing is supposed to be confidential. 
Baseball’s drug agreement states that “absent unusual circumstances, the specimens should be sent by FedEx to the laboratory on the same day they are collected.” 
Positive tests for perfor­mance-enhancing drugs have been relatively rare under the major league testing program, with just two others in 2011: Tampa Bay outfielder Manny Ramirez and Colorado Rock­ies catcher Eliezer Alfonzo. Ramirez at first retired rather than face a 100-game suspen-sion for a second positive test. Wanting to return this year, he is serving a 50-game penalty 

— the length was shortened because he missed most of last year. 
“It has always been Major League Baseball’s position that no matter who tests positive, we will exhaust all avenues in pursuit of the appropriate dis­cipline. We have been true to that position in every instance, because baseball fans deserve nothing less,” Manfred said. “As a part of our drug testing program, the commissioner’s office and the players’ associa­tion agreed to a neutral third party review for instances that are under dispute. While we have always respected that process, Major League Baseball vehemently disagrees with the decision rendered today by ar­bitrator Shyam Das.” 
Braun hit .312 with 33 hom­ers and 111 RBIs last year and led Milwaukee to the NL championship series, where the Brewers lost to the even­tual World Series champion St. Louis Cardinals. The Brewers are counting on his offense fol­lowing the departure of Prince Fielder, who became a free agent and signed with the De­troit Tigers. 
Braun already was signed through 2015, but the Brewers gave him a new deal running through 2020 that added $105 million and guaranteed him a total of $145.5 million over a decade. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
FOR RENT 
WALK TO CAMPUS Great Specials! Studio, 1, 2, 3 Bedroom Townhomes available. 
(574) 272-8124.  
www.clovervillageapartments.com 

Six student rental for the 2012­13 school year. Extra nice, 3 year old house, one mile south of campus at 330 Sunnyside Avenue. Three two student furnished suites with common 
living area, hardwood floors, 
granite, stainless appliances, 40’ 
flat screen TV, cable, wireless 
internet, ADT security. $3,600/ month. Please contact Rob or Bob at 574-271-4060 or email robpryor@cressyandeverett.com or bobdunbar@cressyandeverett. com 
PERSONAL 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don’t do it alone. Notre Dame has many resources in place to assist you. If you or someone you love needs 
confidential support or assistance, 
please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819. For more information, visit ND’s website at:  
http://pregnancysupport@nd.edu 
WANTED 

Artist needed for children’s book/ program 
Contact mkarle@alumni.nd.edu for more information. 
Born on this day: 
1974 - Simeon Rice, defensive end (Arizona Cardinals) 
1974 - Chad Hugo, American musician and producer (The Neptunes) 
1974 - Mike Lowell, Puerto Rican baseball player 
1974 - Bonnie Somerville, American actress and singer 1975 - Ashley MacIsaac, Canadian 
fiddler 
1975 - Maurizio Giuliano, writer and traveller 
1976 - Matt Skiba, American musician (Alkaline Trio,Heavens) 
1976 - Eric Griffin, American rock 
guitarist 
1976 - Bradley McGee, Australian cyclist 

ND WOMEN’S TENNIS 

Irish use loss as inspiration prior to double home matches 


By KELSEY MANNING 
Sports Writer 
In their second of three consecutive home weekends, the No. 23 Irish will take on two formidable opponents — No. 16 Georgia Tech and a No. 74 Indiana squad on the rise. 
Notre Dame (6-3, 1-0 Big East) battled through two 4-3 decisions last weekend, fall­ing to No. 13 North Carolina on Saturday before turning around to top No. 57 Illinois on Sunday. 
Irish coach Jay Louderback said the loss to North Caro­lina helped his team refocus in practice this week. 
“It was a tough one just because we definitely had chances to win,” he said. “We lost at a few positions we’ve been winning at, and those kids were really not happy with losing. I think that’s something that they didn’t like, and I think it was pretty motivating. 
“We had really good prac­tices all week, and I think that was a lot of it — know­ing we were right there with UNC and definitely could have won that match.” 
Though the Hoosiers (8-2) arrive in South Bend today as a team that has just recently cracked the top-75 for the first time this season, their ranking belies their talent, Louderback said. 
“[Indiana] is a good team. They beat DePaul who’s ranked. But that’s the only ranked team they’ve really beaten so they just haven’t played a really tough sched­ule so far,” he said. “I would put them pretty even with Il­linois right now, and we had a tough match with Illinois over the weekend. I think they’ll be anywhere from No. 25 to No. 40 this year. They’re very good, they just haven’t played the schedule yet. So it should be a really good match.” 
This will not be Notre Dame’s first encounter with the Hoosiers, as a few Irish players saw Indiana play­ers in individual fall tourna­ments. At the Indiana Invita­tional on Sept. 25, both junior Chrissie McGaffigan and sophomore Julie Sa­bacinski dropp ed two-set 
matches “Our kids know they’re hasn’t been to Indi-going to be good.” con sistent . ana fresh-[For example], men Alecia we won at No. 
Jay Louderback 
Kauss and 1 and No. 2 
Irish coach 

they’re good,” Louderback said. “They’re a legitimate top 20 team, so for us it’ll be two really tough matches this weekend.” 
A major focus for the Irish will be the elusive dou­bles point. Despite boast­ing the No. 3 doubles team in the country with seniors Kristy Frilling and Shannon Mathews, Notre Dame’s dou­bles play has not been as con­sistent as anticipated, Loud­erback said. 
“Going into the year, we 
really felt like [doubles] would be our strength,” he said. “I don’t know what it’s been — it just 

Katie Kly­czek, re­spectively. McGaffigan will get an­other shot at Kauss at the five spot today. 
“Our kids know they’re go­ing to be good,” Louderback said. 
The Irish will have one day to recover before they take on Georgia Tech (4-4). The Yel­low Jackets have a .500 re­cord. Their only dual match losses have come from Geor­gia, Virginia, North Carolina and UCLA – all teams ranked in top 13. 
“[Georgia Tech] played in the [ITA National Team In­door Championships] and they went 0-3, but they lost three tough matches, but against North Carolina, and then we turn around the next day and 
lose at No. 1 and No. 2 to Il­linois. And we lost at No. 3 to North Carolina and we beat Illinois at No. 3, so it’s been a little inconsistent. 
“We haven’t played big points really well in the dou­bles, and it’s definitely some­thing we’ve been working on a lot.” 
The Irish will look to build off a week of practice as they take on Indiana today at 3 
p.m. and Georgia Tech on Sunday at 9 a.m., both at the Eck Tennis Pavilion. 
Contact Kelsey Manning at      kmannin3@nd.edu 

MEN’S TENNIS 
Irish return home to host double dual meets 


By PETER STEINER 
Sports Writer 
After defeating No. 28 Michigan 4-3 on the road last Saturday, the Irish re­turn to their home court Sunday against Michigan State and Big East opponent Marquette. 
The No. 56 Spartans (8-5) enter the match with a re­cord similar to the Irish (9­4). Irish coach Bobby Bayl­iss said his team will not underestimate the Spar­tans. 
“Michigan State has al­ways played us really close matches,” Bayliss said. “They probably have the 
SARAH O’CONNOR/The Observer 

Junior pitcher Adam Norton winds up to throw during an Irish practice Jan. 27. The Irish travel to North Carolina this weekend for a three-game series against Hofstra. 
best team they’ve had at Michigan State in 20 years. I think they are un­derrated. We anticip ate having our hands full with Michigan State and hav­ing to play a great match in order to win it.” 
In their sec­ond match, the Irish will face a Golden Eagles (5-3) 

“There is also going to be a short turnaround because we are going to play Michigan State and only have an hour to get ready to play Marquette ... We think our team is in great shape and we feel we are going to be able to do this, but that’s going to present some challenges as well.” 
Bobby Bayliss Irish coach 
squad that has yet to win a match on the road this sea­son. Despite their struggles away from home, the Gold­en Eagles boast a strong set of doubles teams and two solid No. 1 and No. 2 singles players, Bayliss said. 
“Marquette is a Big East opponent and they are very well coached,” Bayliss said. “They traditionally play re­ally good doubles. They are very strong in their top part of their lineup. The chal­lenge for us is going to be making sure we win at the top to get that match in the win column.” 
In the last few matches, the Irish have relied on strong play from No.1 sin­gles player senior Casey Watt and No. 2 singles player sophomore Greg An­drews to lead them to vic­tory. 

“We are starting to win and play really good tennis in the top of our lineup,” Bayliss said. “Casey Watt played a terrific match at Michigan. He lost 7-5 in the third set to the No. 6 player in the country. Greg An­drews won comfortably at No. 2. 
“I consider our team to be a team that essentially has two number one play­ers, and either one of them 
is com­fortable of play­ing one at this time. I’m happy to see Ca sey’s improve­ment and I look forward to more strong play at the top of our lineup.” 
Be­cause 

the Irish play two matches in a row, fatigue is anoth­er obstacle the Irish might face in the match against Marquette. 
“There is also going to be a short turnaround be­cause we are going to play­ing Michigan State and only have an hour to get ready to play Marquette,” Bayliss said. “We think our team is in great shape, and we feel we are going to be able to do this, but that’s going to present some challenges as well.” 

Contact Peter Steiner at          psteiner@nd.edu 
SMC BASKETBALL 
Belles fall to Calvin in playoff opener 
Observer Staff Report 
Saint Mary’s lost their MIAA playoff opener against Calvin College, falling to the No. 5 ranked Knights 78-50 at Calvin on Wednesday. 
The Belles faced a very strong defensive perfor­mance from Calvin. The Knights held the Belles to 
30.2 percent shooting on only 19 made baskets. 
Turnovers also proved key in the game, as Calvin was able to capitalize on 28 Belles turnovers for 26 points. 
Calvin started the game strong, jumped to a 10 -point lead early into the game and caused an early Saint Mary’s timeout. 
The Belles kept the game close for much of the first half, but Calvin finished the half on a strong run to take a 40 -21 lead into the break. 
Saint Mary’s cut the Calvin lead to 14 midway through the second half, but that was as close as the Belles came for the re­mainder of the game. 
Calvin closed the game on a 30-16 run, ending Saint Mary’s MIAA tourna­ment title hopes. 
Senior forwards Jessi­ca Centa and Kelley Mur­phy led the Belles with 10 points each. 
Saint Mary’s will wait to see if they receive a berth in the NCAA Division III tournament. 
BASEBALL 
Hudson sets example for weekend 


By VICKY JACOBSEN 
Sports Writer 
The Irish will try to keep the bats smoking as they head to Carey, N.C., this weekend for a three-game series against Hof­stra. 
Notre Dame (2-1, 0-0 Big East) collected 26 runs on 44 hits during the three-game Big East/Big Ten Challenge on Feb. 17 and batted .379 as a team. Junior catcher Joe Hudson led the Irish onslaught, racking up seven hits, two home runs, three runs scored, seven RBIs, two runners caught stealing and the Big East Player of the Week award. 
“I think it was certainly very well deserved,” Irish coach Mik Aoki said. “It was a monster weekend for him, and I’m really pleased for him. He’s one of the coolest guys on our team and he’s an extremely hard worker, so I was happy to see him have some recognition for an unbe­lievable weekend.” 
Although the Notre Dame bat­ting order put up high numbers in the team’s first three games, Aoki said he’d like to see tighter play from the pitchers and field­ers, who accumulated 17 walks, 11 hit batters and 10 errors over the same stretch. 
“I’d like to see our pitching staff be in the strike zone a little bit more,” Aoki said. “I’d like to see us take care of the baseball a little bit better than we did last weekend on defense, and then continue to improve on some of the things that we did well. 
“I thought we did a really good job of competing and play­ing very hard, and I thought that offensively that our at-bats by and large were really good at-bats. I just want to see our team continue to develop and get better from game to game and week-to-week.” 
The Irish will send sopho­more pitcher Sean Fitzgerald to the mound for the first game of Saturday’s doubleheader, while junior right-hander Adam Nor­ton will start the later contest. Senior right-handed pitcher Will Hudgins will take the ball in the series finale on Sunday. 
Fitzgerald allowed six runs in two innings in the season open­er Feb. 17 while Hudgins gave up three runs in five innings in Notre Dame’s eventual 15-8 loss to Purdue (3-0, 0-0 Big 10) on Monday. Norton shined against Iowa (1-2, 0-0 Big 10), allowing just two runs in a complete-game victory. 
The three will face a Hofs­tra lineup that dropped three games to No. 8 Florida State (4-0, 0-0 ACC) over its open­ing weekend, Feb. 17 to 19. The Pride (0-3, 0-0 CAA) held leads in each contest, but a sixth-in­ning grand slam in the opener, a four-run fifth inning on Sat­urday and a five-run Seminole rally in the finale ruined Hofs­tra’s chance at an upset. 
Aoki said a short series against one of college baseball’s perennial powers does not give a full picture of what Hofstra is capable of. 
“They swing the bat pretty well. They’re aggressive on the base paths. They stole a bunch of bases against Florida St. last weekend,” Aoki said. “It’s a little bit hard to tell. The only thing you have to go on is a three game sample set based off of one of the storied programs in college baseball in Florida St. 
“They’re going to come out and do a really good job of com­peting. They have some talented young arms on the mound, so I think we need to worry less about the opponent than us making sure that we’re getting better as a team and that we’re playing as close to our potential as we can.” 
The first pitches will be thrown at 12:05 p.m. and 3 p.m. on Saturday and 12:05 p.m. Sunday at the USA Baseball Complex in Carey, N.C. 

Contact Vicky Jacobsen at           vjacobse@nd.edu 
WOMEN’S LACROSSE 

Halfpenny, Tamasitis to face off with Duquesne 


By JOSEPH MONARDO 
Sports Writer 
After capturing a 17­14 victory over then-No. 6 Stanford in the season opener, the No. 15 Irish will host Duquesne on Saturday in their second game under first-year coach Christine Halfpenny. 

In Halfpenny’s first game, the Irish (1-0) scored 12 goals in the opening half and recorded nine assists in the game. Senior midfielder Maggie Tamasitis notched a career-high seven points and tied the school-record six assists, en route to being named Big East Offensive Player of the Week. 
Despite the team’s offen­sive success in the season-opening contest, Halfpenny said the Irish still have plen­ty to work on. 
“Defensively, we would like to get closer to our goal of keeping our opponents in single digits,” she said. “That’s absolutely one of our goals this year. We would like to limit some of the un­forced errors that we had, limit some of the fouls … win the ball control battle. 
“We are really honing in on the few mistakes that we made and fixing those be­cause we see the kids hav­ing ‘a-ha’ moments right now. That is what this week is about — looking back, seeing what went well and seeing what we want to im­prove on.” 
Against Duquesne (1-1), Notre Dame’s defense will face a challenge right away. In their first game of the season, the Dukes used an overpowering offense to hand Bucknell an 18-4 loss. 
“They are very scrappy, aggressive … they have some really nice one vs. one drivers,” Halfpenny said. “They are certainly going to compete in their conference. They compete in the top four of [the Atlantic-10] for a bid to the tournament, so we are expecting a battle. We are expecting them to give us all they’ve got. 
“They opened it up [against Bucknell,] so they can score goals. We are well aware of how much offensive power they have, so we have some things to fix.” 
Following their impres­sive season debut, Duquesne dropped their next contest on the road, suffering a 16-5 loss to No. 20 Penn State. 
Regardless of their oppo­nent’s early season results, Halfpenny said the Irish will concentrate on getting ready to play Saturday. 
“We are really focused on what we are doing and what we can control,” she said. “We are not as focused on the opponent. It is mostly, ‘This is what they do, and this is the brand we are go­ing to play.’ 
“We scout our opponents, but again, we feel confident in the style that we are go­ing to play, and we are going to control what we can con­trol. We are showing up and being consistent, [and] we are staying away from look­ing too far ahead.” 
As they head into the sec­ond game of the e Halfpenny era, the Irish have managed to avoid any external pres­sure to perform. 
“The only pressure that we should feel the whole sea­son is the pressure we put on ourselves, and we don’t really have any pressure,” Halfpenny said. 
Looking to improve to 2-0, Notre Dame will host Duquesne in Arlotta Stadi­um on Saturday at noon. 

Contact Joseph Monardo at              jmonardo@nd.edu 
FENCING 

Bednarski, Irish look to retain national championship title 


By MATTHEW ROBISON find their best men’s and wom-“The conference champion-Sports Writer en’s foil, sabre and epee contes-ships will give us some answers,” tants during the Squad Cham-Bednarski said. “We have a pret-As the postseason rapidly pionship event and select them ty big group of fencers who are approaches, the Irish are pre-to represent Notre Dame at the equal to each other, and we have paring to defend their national Midwest Conference champion-to look at their positioning and championship. This weekend, ships and the NCAA champion-at their form. Selection is a frus-Notre Dame will travel to New ships in March. trating time for fencing coaches.” York, N.Y. to compete in the “We are in the final process of Last season, the top perform-Squad Championships hosted by preparation,” ers for the NYU. Bednarski Irish were The event will give the Irish said. “We are clear-cut, as 
“We are in the final 
an opportunity to prove them-seeing who is there was an 
process of preparation ... 
selves against some of the best the best. The obvious up-
We are seeing who is the 
fencers in the country. The No.1 most impor-per echelon of 
best. The most important 
Irish women’s sabre squad will tant question fencers on the face No. 6 Columbia, No. 8 Penn, is who will question is who will be squad, Bed-NYU, Yale and North Carolina. be a quali-a qualifier. We have to narski said. The No. 1 men’s foil squad will fier. We have make those decisions in This year’s face No. 4 Penn State, No. 5 Ohio to make those the next two weeks.” team has a State and Johns Hopkins. decisions in much more 
Janusz Bednarski 
Irish coach Janusz Bednarski the next two equitable dis-
Irish coach 
said that while the players are weeks.” tribution of working hard to prepare them-Before the talent and selves for postseason play, the Irish can at-ability among coaches have to make the diffi-tain their goal of a second-con-the fencers, which Bednarski cult decisions of who to select for secutive national championship, said will make the decision-each tournament. they must decide who to send making process difficult for the 
Bednarski compared this onto the mat for the Irish. The Irish coaching staff. weekend’s Squad Champion-conference championships will NYU’s Squad Championship ships to a football tryout in be another chance for the Notre competition will last all day Sun-which the coaches try to deter-Dame coaching staff to see the day. 
mine who the best linebacker Irish fencers compete against 
and quarterback are. other fencers, rather just than in Contact Matthew Robison at The Irish coaches will have to practice. mrobison@nd.edu 

Lee 
continued from page 20 
us,” sophomore center David Gerths said. “We have to get our confidence back and start believing in ourselves again. Pucks will start going in, and after that first one I’m sure the floodgates will open and we’ll start feeling better.” 
Lee said his team is close to a breakthrough. 
“Everyone just seems a little bit off,” he said. “We’re playing well, we’re clicking, everyone’s on the same page. Right now, we’ve just been scattered a lit­tle bit. It’s been a good week of practice, and we’re getting al­right here.” 
Gerths said a fresh mindset heading into the regular-sea­son finale will help the Irish defeat the Spartans (18-12-4, 13-10-3-2). 
“We just have to kind of put everything behind us,” he said. “We have to learn from mis­takes throughout the season 
— stuff that we’ve done wrong as a team and individually — and put that behind us, and just move on and believe in our­selves again.” 
The Spartans, however, will pose a stiff challenge to Notre Dame. 
“[Michigan State] is playing pretty good right now,” Gerths said. “They’re a pretty hot team right now, so we’re pretty excit­ed for the challenge.” 
The Irish host Michigan State Friday at 8:37 p.m. in a game televised by CBS Sports Net­work and again Saturday night at 7:38 p.m. Both contests will take place in the Compton Fam­ily Ice Arena. 


Contact Allan Joseph at               ajoseph2@nd.edu 



Big East 
continued from page 20 
great defensive league. There are a lot of really good teams, but for us to really have an explosion like that on offense really felt good. I think we all just kind of relaxed a little bit and said, ‘Finally, this is it, we are back,’ and we’ve had really good practices since then.” 
The Irish will welcome a South Florida team (15-13, 7-7 Big East) boasting a three-game winning streak. In the Bulls’ 62-50 vic­tory over Pittsburgh on Saturday, senior guard Jasmine Wynne scored a team-high 14 points in her first game back since missing three games due to concussion symptoms. Wynne leads the Bulls in scoring and rebounding, aver­aging 15.6 and 5.8, respectively, and heads the versatile South Florida offense. 
“Their guards are really good 
— they are athletic, they are fast, they can shoot,” McGraw said. “Their post players like to shoot threes, so it is a little different look for our post.” 
South Florida currently occu­pies the ninth spot in the Big East rankings, while the Irish sit atop the conference standings. On se­nior night, the Irish will have to be especially careful to not over­look their opponent. 
“Sometimes we can play down to our competition’s level,” se­nior guard Natalie Novosel said. “I think with South Florida, we need to come in and take care of it. It’s going to be an emotional night.” 
Senior guard Fraderica Miller, graduate student forward De­vereaux Peters and graduate student guard Brittany Mallory join Novosel as this year’s Irish graduating class. In an attempt to help the team focus, the Irish will wait until after Saturday’s game to celebrate the careers of these four players. 

McGraw said emotions will run high, despite the fact that the team will play in the Purcell Pa­vilion during the opening rounds of the NCAA Tournament. 
“We are going to try to push the festivities after the game,” she said. “I think that will maybe lessen the emotion at the begin­ning. Because we are hosting the first and second rounds, this won’t really be the last game we are playing here, but … when I look at those seniors, it’s sad for me … It’s going to be emotional for me.” 
Only two days after facing off with South Florida, the Irish will travel to Connecticut to conclude their regular season Monday against the Big East’s No. 2 team. 

“Once we take care of [South Florida], it will be easier to go into Connecticut, to get some momentum going,” Novosel said. “We’ve got a lot of seniors and a lot of good veterans coming back, so I think with that experience we will be able to calm the team down and take one game at a time.” 
Notre Dame will tip off against South Florida at 2 p.m. at the Pur­cell Pavilion on Saturday before travelling to battle the Huskies at 9 p.m. Monday. 

Contact Joseph Monardo at jmonardo@nd.edu 

ND SOFTBALL 
Irish set to face tough opposition at Chapel Hill 
By KATIE HEIT 
Sports Writer 
Coming off of a four-loss weekend, the Irish look to prove their worth as they head to North Carolina to face four new opponents at the North Carolina In­vite in Chapel Hill, N.C. 
The Irish (1-4) have another tough weekend ahead of them in North Carolina. The weekend starts with a doublehead­er Saturday against Penn State and North Carolina (2-0). 
Notre Dame will face Minnesota on Sunday, fol­lowed by a rematch with North Carolina directly following. The tourna­ment will mark the begin­ning of the season for both the Nittany Lions and the Golden Gophers. 
Despite the amount of competition Notre Dame will face, junior pitcher Brittany O’Donnell said she is not worried about the other teams. 
“The biggest competition this weekend will be our­selves,” O’Donnell said. “If we can play the game within our control to the best of our ability, we will be able to beat any team.” 
O’Donnell said that if Notre Dame wants to be successful this weekend, it needs to start strong from the very first game against Penn State and carry that momentum through the entire week­end. 
“The team goals heading to North Carolina are to go out there and play to the best of our ability, attack every game with intensity, and to get four wins.” 
The Irish are a fairly young team, and no clear leaders have risen in the ranks. Instead, O’Donnell said that every teammate does her best to encourage one another. 
“With this team there is no one successful lead­er,” O’Donnell said. “Each person on the team con­tributes in different ways making this team success­ful. There are different people everyday stepping up to make the team bet­ter.” 
O’Donnell said that her goal is to perform to her own highest ability to set a standard for her team to follow. 
“My personal goals this weekend are to put the team in the best possible situation to be successful and to get some wins for the Irish,” O’Donnell said. 
The Irish will kick off the North Carolina Invite with a double header against Penn State and North Car­olina on Saturday, before playing two games against the Tarheels and the Gold­en Gophers on Sunday. 

Contact Katie Heit at kheit@nd.edu 

Freshman 
continued from page 20 
face the majority of Big Ten teams, including the meet hosts, the Boilermakers. Pur­due defeated the Irish 168-131 


in South Bend ear­lier this season. 
“The competi­tion will definitely be diffi­cult, es­pecially since our [NCAA] zone con­sists of a major­ity of the Big Ten schools,” Chi ang said. “It is 
“We have all been working 
really fo­

extremely hard this year cusing on and have greatly improved repetition ... Now that it is the end of during the season, this is the time practice 
that all your work throughout and fo­cusing on
the year pays off.” 
strength­ening

Jenny Chiang 
the weak 

junior diver dives in 
also focusing on repetition of the skills they spent all sea­son perfecting. 
“We have all been work­ing extremely hard this year and have greatly improved,” Chiang said. “Now that it is the end of the season, this is the time that all your work through­out the year pays off. We have been 
a much higher level of com­petition than we are used to, but it is by no means out of reach for any of the girls on the team. It could be any­body’s day on the day of com­petition.” 
As the season approaches its conclusion, Chiang said the team will strive for im­provement and growth while our lists. I person­ally know how to do all my 
dives, it’s just a matter of con­ditioning them to be techni­cally sound and consistently correct.” 
The Boiler-Make-It-Last Chance Meet will begin at noon at Purdue’s Boilermaker Aquatic Center. 

Contact Andrew Cardoza at acardoza@nd.edu 


Undefeated 
continued from page 20 
undefeated. 
“It’s always good to beat a team like them with the rivalry we have and the high ranking they had,” Kemp said. “It’s im­portant to not have too much overconfidence, but [it helps get­ting] a boost of confidence and knowing we can compete with pretty much anyone.” 
Penn State (1-1) received a dose of confidence of its own in a dominant 16-9 victory over Michigan of Feb 18. 
Brey 
continued from page 20 
off a noteworthy week filled with significant accomplishments. Fresh off a 20-point comeback win at Villanova on Saturday, the Irish victory over the Moun­taineers (17-11, 7-8) broke the Notre Dame record for Big East conference wins with nine and gave Brey his sixth-straight 20­win season. 
“It’s very special,” Brey said. “They really wanted that record. It’s really special for this group to do it. It’ll be a great story in the history of our basketball program, and [we will] see if we can keep riding it past nine.” 
The Irish benefitted from four scorers in double-figures and shot at a season-high clip — over 60 percent in each half 
— against the sluggish Moun­taineers, who could only tally 16 points in the entire second half. 
“I think we are shooting the ball better,” Brey said. “We are trending up as shooters. Our numbers were so bad in early January from the 3-point line. Thankfully people weren’t shooting very (well) against us and that has continued. We are more confident shooters.” 
The road test against St. John’s (12-16, 5-10) provides the Irish with a chance to preview the same court hosting the Big East tournament, as well as the opportunity to exact revenge af­ter last season’s 72-54 drubbing at the hands of the Red Storm. But for some of the young Irish team, the matchup grants a spe­cial prospect of playing at the know they’re going to be hard to defend.” 

The Nittany Lions will look to break through a solid Irish de­fense, led by senior defenseman Kevin Randall and Kemp. In his first match of the season, Kemp recorded 14 saves and allowed just three goals. 
Kemp said the Irish will look to limit turnovers and penalties against Penn State. 
“We have to come out and take care of the ball,” he said. “We’ve got to have good posses­sions and make sure the game is played the way we want to play. [The key will be] getting good shots, taking care of the ball and also not getting a lot of penalties.” 
Penn State’s defense allowed 23 goals in its first two games this season, but the defense fea­tures several dangerous play­ers, Corrigan said. 
“They’ve got an excellent goalie,” he said. “They’re a little unknown as a defensive group because they’re young, but they’re extremely athletic.” 
Corrigan said the Irish have no choice but to focus on one game at a time and cannot af­ford to overlook Penn State. 
The Irish face a daunting first-half schedule, which fea­tures matches at Hofstra and at Ohio State. Four of Notre Dame’s next five opponents are current­ly ranked. 
Kemp said the Irish captains have made an effort to keep the team focused on this weekend. 
“We kind of try to think about [one opponent at a time] as a team and coaching staff,” Kemp said. “Our schedule is pretty challenging, but it’s a challenge we look forward to. It lets us know where we are as a team and it gets us toward our goal of winning a championship in May.” 
The Irish will face off against the Nittany Lions at 1 p.m. Sun­day at Notre Dame’s Arlotta Sta­dium. 
Contact Megan Golden at        mgolde01@saintmarys.edu 

The Nittany Lions scored nine goals in a heavily offensive third quarter, which featured six dif­ferent scorers. 
Penn State bounced back from a season-opening loss to North Carolina, when it fell to the Tar-heels despite scoring 10 goals. 
Penn State senior attackman Jack Forster, who recorded five goals and six assists in two games, will present the Irish with a challenge on the defen­sive side of the ball. 
“In a lot of ways it’s a simi­lar challenge to Duke because they’ve got a number of good offensive players,” Irish coach Kevin Corrigan said. “Part of the challenge is keeping them out of a situation where you 
world-famous arena for the first time. 
“It’s big for me. [Madison Square Garden] is just a historic place,” sophomore guard Jerian Grant said. “I want to play well, I want the team to play well. 
“We are going to be back there in two weeks so it’s impor­tant for the whole team to play well … It’s a bonus to be able to get in there, play a game and get a nice rhythm in there. It’ll be good for us when the tourna­ment comes.” 
The “Fresh Five,” St. John’s all-freshmen starting lineup, leads the Red Storm, who have won two-straight at home with recent victories over UCLA and DePaul. Freshman guard D’Angelo Harrison leads the Red Storm in scoring with 16.9 points per game and anchors an athletic attack that ambushes teams with the fastbreak. 
“We will get a little rest to­morrow and get some spacing,” Brey said. “It’ll be a tough week­end for us at St. John’s and on Monday down there [at George­town]. 
“[Last season, St. John’s] toyed with us there, pressured us and beat us up. And Monday is a heck of a challenge. We are a lot different than the team that was in D.C. in that building in December. That’s the amaz­ing thing … It’s another great challenge for a team that loves challenges.” 
The Irish will head to New York City to take on St. John’s on Saturday at noon in a game tele­vised on ESPN2. 

Contact Andrew Gastelum at       agastel1@nd.edu 

WILL SHORTz 
EUGENIA LAST 
CROSSWORD 
HOROSCOPE 



HENRy ARNOLD 

CLAMMY HANDSHAKE JOE MILLER and KELLy LyNCH 
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 





Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556

 Enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year


 Enclosed
 is $75 for one semester 


Name ____________________________________________________ Address __________________________________________________ City ____________________ State___________ Zip______________ 

Friday, February 24, 2012 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 20 
MEN’S BASKETBALL 

Going to the Garden 
By ANDREW GASTELUM 
Sports Writer 
Following a 71-44 rout of West Virginia on Wednesday, the No. 18 Irish can clinch a coveted double-bye in the Big East tour­nament with a win against St. John’s. They can do it on the same court where they hope to apply it: Madison Square Garden. 
Rather than worry about the prospect of a double-bye, Irish coach Mike Brey said his team’s performance at the Garden on Saturday carries more clout. 
“It’s very simple what I talked about [with the team]: playing well on that floor because we will be back there in two weeks to try and win a championship,” Brey said after Wednesday’s win. “That’s kind of where it’s at and the bye stuff will take care of it­self. That is our focus these next two days.” 

Notre Dame (20-8, 12-3 Big East) will strive to add its sec­ond-straight double-bye to top KEVIN SONG/The Observer 
Sophomore gaurd Eric Atkins runs to catch a loose ball during Notre Dame’s 71-53 win over see BREY/page 18 Rutgers in the Purcell Pavilion on Feb. 15. Atkins contributed ten points in the victory. 

MEN’S LACROSSE 
Irish look to start first win streak 
By MEGAN GOLDEN 
Sports Writer 
Coming off a win over then-No.2 Duke on Saturday, Notre Dame looks to carry its momentum into action against No. 20 Penn State on Sunday. 
The No. 4 Irish (1-0) net­ted seven goals in their win against the Blue Devils last weekend and moved up five spots in the rankings. 
Following Notre Dame’s upset over Duke, junior goal­keeper John Kemp garnered Big East Defensive Player of the Week honors, and senior midfielder and co-captain Max Pfeifer earned a spot on the honor roll. 
Kemp said the Irish are looking to stay levelheaded in their attempt to remain 
see UNDEFEATED/page 18 
HOCKEY 

Squad hopes to break out of slump in regular season finale 
By ALLAN JOSEPH Now, the Irish host No. 14/13 Billy Maday said. “But I think it their contests, falling behind in into it, and set us up great for Sports Editor Michigan State in the last series makes our game a little simpler 20 of their 34 games this sea-the rest of the game,” Lee said. of the regular season. They’ll to look at one game at a time, son. In the first period this sea-While Notre Dame has 
No. 18 Notre Dame started look to break out of their slump because we know what we need son, Notre Dame has been out-struggled to score in its last the season ranked No. 1 in the heading into the CCHA tourna-is just to accumulate wins one scored 37-22. few games, especially at full country. This week, the Irish ment with home ice in the first game at a time. So right now, Sophomore wing Anders Lee strength, the Irish believe they (16-15-3, 11-12-3-0 CCHA) fell round on the line. we’re just focused on Michigan said the Irish haven’t scored the have the ability to regain their out of the USA Today poll on “We’re definitely looking at State, and we’ll worry about first goal very often this year. scoring touch. the heels of a five-game los-the standings a little bit, and playoffs later.” “It would be huge to get a big “Right now it’s kind of all on ing streak that began nearly a trying to do some math prob-The Irish have particularly momentum goal to start off this month ago. lems with it all,” senior captain struggled at the beginning of game, and get the crown back see LEE/page 16 
ND WOMEN’S SWIMMING AND DIVING 
Freshman Reaney to lead team at West Lafayette 
By ANDREW CARDOZA 
Sports Writer 
The Irish will travel to Pur­due in West Lafayette, Ind., on Saturday for the Boiler-Make-It-Last Chance. The meet represents one final op­portunity to qualify for the NCAA championships on Mar. 15. 
The Irish (5-5) are com­ing off a second place finish in the Big East Conference championships. Freshman Emma Reaney led the Irish and added another first place as she propelled past the field in the 200-IM to claim the gold medal for a meet, pool and Notre Dame record time of 1:56.42. 
Junior diver Jenny Chiang also won points for the Irish, placing first for the third-consecutive time in the 3-me­ter diving event. She became the sixth individual to win three conference titles in the same event in Notre Dame history. 

Chiang said that the Irish have to bring the same inten­sity to this weekend’s meet. 
“This meet gives us the op­portunity to focus on being able to perform both in pre­lims and in finals,” Chiang said. “I think the freshmen did a really good job at their first conference meet, and the set-up is much different than any meet they have been to. I think they were able to handle it very well and will also do the same this week­end.” 
At Purdue, the Irish will 
see FRESHMAN/page 17 

ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 
Seniors to play last home game 
By JOSEPH MONARDO 
Sports Writer 
As the Irish head into the fi­nal two games of their season, the team’s seniors prepare for their final regular season game in the Purcell Pavilion. 
On senior day Saturday, No. 3 Notre Dame will attempt to take another step toward earning the Big East regular season championship when it hosts South Florida. 
After suffering their second loss of the season on Feb. 12 when unranked West Virginia escaped from South Bend with a 65-63 victory, the Irish (26­2, 13-1 Big East) responded with two convincing wins, most recently at Louisville. 
“In the second half against Louisville we scored 40 points. We haven’t done that in a long time,” Irish coach Muffet Mc­Graw said. “The Big East is a 
see BIG EAST/page 16 


SARAH O’CONNOR/The Observer 

Senior guard Fraderica Miller battles for positioning during Notre Dame’s 66-47 win over Providence on Feb. 16. 




