The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 46, issue 26 | TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 25, 2012 | ndsmcobserver.com 
University invites candidates to campus 
Jenkins, Rocheleau extend speaking invitations to presidential nominees, running mates 
By SAM STRYKER 
assistant managing editor 

if notre dame has its way, the road to the white house may take a pass through south bend. 
notre dame announced monday that university pres­ident Fr. John Jenkins and student body president brett rocheleau have extended in­vitations to president barack obama and republican presidential candidate mitt romney to speak on cam­pus during the fall election campaign, according to a university press release. 
continuing a 60-year university tradition, Jenkins and rocheleau addressed letters to each candidate of­fering the university as a “forum for serious political discussion,” the press release stated. 
The invitations are also open to both of the candi­dates’ running mates, vice president Joe biden and rep. paul ryan (r-wisc.), accord­ing to the press release. The invitations are intended “to provide the campus com­munity a firsthand impres­sion of the contenders and their messages,” the release stated. 
university spokesman dennis brown said any ap­pearances on campus would 
see candidaTes PAGE 3 




Fencers honored at white house 

By TORI ROECK 
news writer 

after representing the united states in this sum­mer’s london olympics, two notre dame students and one alumna were recently given another once-in-a­lifetime experience — this time, stateside. 
senior fencers gerek meinhardt and courtney hurley and hurley’s sis­ter, 2010 alumna and fencer Kelley hurley, were invited to the white house to be honored alongside other re­turning olympians on sept. 14. 
meinhardt, a member of the fourth-place-finishing men’s team foil, said he was impressed by the welcome the u.s. olympians and paralympians received from 
see Fencers PAGE 3 


Week fosters positive body image, eating habits 

By NICOLE MICHELS 
news writer 
at a university full of talented students, ath­letes and leaders, a group of psychology students are taking the initiative to re­mind their peers of the im­portance of positive body images. 
These students are bringing what they’ve learned in the classroom to the student body in hope of educating students about the causes and dangers of eating disorders as part of eating disorder awareness week. 
senior carolyn bates, a psychology major cur­rently studying eating dis­orders in an upper-level psychology class, said notre dame’s competitive environment can leave students susceptible to de­veloping unhealthy body images. 
“we’re hoping to raise awareness of the fact that as students on this cam­pus we’re always trying to be the best in every area of our lives, and have overly critical cultural opinions on body images,” bates said.  “we want to be sure that while trying to be the best that we still keep ev­erything in perspective.” 
bates said she and her co-organizers are bring­ing the message of positive body images to the student body from a number of directions. 
“all of us are doing things to raise awareness on campus: some girls are doing things in the 
LAURA LAWS | The Observer 
dorms, some girls will be at the dining halls with a pledge about ending nega­tive body talk, and [se­nior] suzy [Fanuele] and i wrote a viewpoint article for [monday’s] observer,” bates said.  “some girls are planning on doing some art with sidewalk chalk to get positive body messages out there … it seemed like a lot of our class wanted to focus on helping positive body affirmations reach a 
see awareness PAGE 5 


walk to fight mental illness 

By JILLIAN BARWICK 
saint mary’s editor 
For saint mary’s junior alex del pilar, the statistics on sui­cide are a painful reminder of a personal tragedy. as a sopho­more in high school, del pilar lost a brother to suicide, which compelled her to get involved in its prevention. 
“it was only [once] i learned the seriousness of mental ill­nesses that i knew i wanted to make a difference in other peoples lives by spreading awareness,” she said. “since his death, i believe he has given me the power and courage to reach out to those in need. everyone has a story, and i believe every­one should be heard.” 
del pilar got involved with project hope: get grounded, a suicide prevention walk, in the hope of using her experience to 
see walK PAGE 5 


nanoTechnology PAGE 3 viewpoinT PAGE 8 scene PAGE 10 inTerhall PAGE 20 digger phelps PAGE 20 



Have a question you want answered? 
Email obsphoto@gmail.com 



QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
ndsmcobserver.com 
p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
allan Joseph 
Managing Editor  Business Manager 
megan doyle  Jeff liptak 
Asst. Managing Editor: andrew owens 
Asst. Managing Editor: sam stryker News Editor: John cameron News Editor: Kristen durbin 
Viewpoint Editor: meghan Thomassen Sports Editor: chris allen Scene Editor: Kevin noonan Saint Mary’s Editor: Jillian barwick Photo Editor: suzanna pratt Graphics Editor: brandon Keelean Multimedia Editor: sarah o’connor Advertising Manager: monica mccormack Ad Design Manager: sara hilstrom Controller: peter woo Systems Administrator: william heineman 

Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ajoseph2@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 mdoyle11@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 aowens2@nd.edu sstryke1@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 

Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 

Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 

Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 observer.scene.editor@gmail.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
jbarwi01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 

Policies 
The observer is the independent, daily newspaper 
published in print and online by the students of the 
university of notre dame du lac and saint mary’s 
college.  editorial content, including advertisements, is 
not governed by policies of the administration of either 
institution. The observer reserves the right to refuse 
advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively 
as possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion 
of the majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, 
assistant managing editors and department editors. 
commentaries, letters and columns present the views of 
the authors and not necessarily those of The observer. 
viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include 
contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed 
to Editor-in-Chief Allan Joseph. 
post office information The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The observer is published at: 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-0779 periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices posTmasTer send address corrections to: The observer p.o. box 779 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-077 The observer is a member of the associated press. all reproduction rights are reserved. 


If you could compete in any Olympic sport, which would it be? 

Kristina Hamilton 

Charlie Labuz 
junior 
freshman 
badin hall 
siegfried hall 
“Table tennis” 
“Table tennis” 

Annie DeMott 

Dennis Coulter 
junior 
freshman 
cavanaugh hall 
stanford hall 
“Figure skating” 
“badminton” 

Dottie Schlueter 

Matt Doherty 
freshman 
sophomore 
lewis hall 
dillon hall 
“rowing” 
“soccer” 


Want your event included here? 
News Sports 
John cameron chris allen Email obsnews.nd@gmail.com 




THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 

dan brombach Katie heit adam llorens matthew deFranks 
Graphics Scene 

Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday 
laura laws ankur chawla 

Photo Viewpoint 

Film: The General Postgraduate ND Theatre NOW ND Invitational Domer Run 
Kirby mcKenna meghan Thomassen 
DeBartolo Performing Service Fair DeBartolo Performing Burke Golf Course Legends Arts Center Joyce Center Arts Center 2 p.m. - 6 p.m. 9 a.m. - 10 a.m. 8 p.m. - 9:20 p.m. 5 p.m. - 8 p.m. 7:30 p.m. - 9 p.m. Men’s and women’s Register online for $15 


Corrections 

Tickets $7/$5/$4 Speak to over 80 Tickets $10/$8/$5 cross country meet. through RecRegister. The observer regards itself as service program reps. a professional publication and strives for the highest standards 
Catholic Literature Red Mass Iron Sharpens Iron Beasts of the Great Communicator 
of journalism at all times. we do, 

Series Basilica Coleman-Morse Southern Wind Debate Series 
however, recognize that we will make 
155 DeBartolo Hall 5:15 p.m. - 6:15 p.m. 10 p.m. - 11 p.m. DeBartolo Performing Washington Hall 
mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 
8 p.m. - 9 p.m. Celebration for those Student-led worship, Arts Center 6 p.m. - 7:30 p.m. 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
Series on “The Lord of in the legal and accountability and 6:30 p.m. - 8 p.m. Final debate free and 
we can correct our error. 

the Rings” continues. political arenas. fellowship. Tickets $7/$5/$4 open to the public. 

paid adverTisemenT 




Professor advocates public engagement in sciences 
Fencers 
conTinued From page 1 
president barack obama, First lady michelle obama and vice president Joe biden. 
“The First lady, michelle obama, gave a speech about how she was in london and led the delegation there,” meinhardt said. “Then president obama gave a speech as well about how the olympics in­spired him. it was really nice. The three of them waited and stayed there for an extra hour and shook hands with every single athlete — every olympian and paralympian that was there — which was about 500 of us.” 
meinhardt said obama was per­sonable and welcoming. 
“he was very laid-back and re­ally friendly with us. he seemed really humble,” meinhardt said. “he was really, really cool, and he definitely tried to make us all feel special.” 
courtney, who earned a bronze medal as part of the women’s team epee, said she was anxious prior to meeting the commander-in-chief. 
“i was very happy and nervous,” hurley said. “i couldn’t get any words out of my mouth because i was so nervous. biden was a little less intimidating, and michelle gave us a hug, which was nice.” 
meinhardt said obama ex­pressed his gratitude for the stu­dents’ dedication to honoring america in the games. 
“i said it was an honor to meet him, and he said congratulations and that they appreciated us repre­senting the u.s.,” meinhardt said. 
courtney also had the rare op­portunity to meet fellow olympian michael phelps at the event. 
“i did meet phelps,” she said. “but to be honest, i wasn’t even interested compared to obama. i was like, ‘move out of the way. i’ve got to meet obama.’” 
after the meet and greet held on the great lawn, meinhardt said the olympians and paralympians were offered a tour of the white house interior. 
“we were able to walk through a short tour of some of the white house rooms, like the big library that they have,” he said. 
meinhardt said she will never forget the opportunity. 
“it was a really short trip, but they were really accommodating with us,” he said. “it was a great experi­ence, and it was really nice that the olympic committee and obvious­ly the white house were able to or­ganize something like that for us.” 
Contact Tori Roeck at vroeck@nd.edu 

By CAROLYN HUTYRA 
news writer 

public participation in the dialogue about scientific topics is crucial, regardless of complexity, according to Jameson m. wetmore, as­sociate professor at arizona state university’s center for nanotechnology in society (cns). 
in a lecture held monday ti­tled “Facilitating reflection on nanotechnology and society,” wetmore said the goal of public engage­ment at the cns is to build a broader societal capacity for anticipating the future of scientific regulation by helping the public recog­nize the ways values and technology interact. 
“in the united states technologies are typically regulated only once bad things start happening,” wetmore said. “The idea of anticipatory governance is to think about the social implications of technology even while it’s still in the lab.” 
wetmore, a notre dame 


Candidates 
conTinued From page 1 

help continue the tradition of political discourse on campus. 
“universities provide for the free exchange of ideas, and that’s especially important when it comes to electing our president,” he said. “we have a 60-year tradition of inviting candidates to notre dame ev­ery four years, and we’re hope­ful that one or both campaigns will send either their presiden­tial or vice presidential candi­dates to our campus.” 
rocheleau, who also reached out to both campaigns earlier in the year via email, said he does not anticipate any time­line for a response. however, should any of the candidates accept, he said they will find a politically-balanced student body and an exceptional ven­ue for political dialogue. 
“i think it would be inter­esting to have the candidates speak at notre dame because we are a place of intellectual curiosity,” he said. “we’re pretty evenly mixed [between political parties]. i think it would be an interesting op­portunity to spark intellectual conversation and i’d love for them to come visit and speak.” 
rocheleau said colleges and universities, especially a school like notre dame, offer a unique and important politi­cal avenue for the candidates to explore. 
“i think they can hear what students and younger voters are interested in, and the issues graduate, is currently working to implement na­noscience technology in museums across the nation in hopes of more actively engaging the public with these important topics. 
“science museums are a key place where people go to learn about science,” wetmore said. “[They] are actually one of the most trusted sources in this country for scientific re­search. They already have the credibility and the pub­lic coming to them.” 
For wetmore, science ed­ucation in museums is cost-effective and user friendly. 
“This is the idea of mak­ing science more informal so the public is willing to engage,” wetmore said. 
wetmore said his ap­proach to educating those outside the scientific com­munity began with adapt­ing high-level research and information to suit a broad­er audience. 
“we started taking grad­uate student research, turning it into table­top demonstrations, and 
that we truly care about,” he said. “i think it would be bene­ficial for them to visit colleges, especially notre dame, where we can talk about some of the issues we really care about.” 
notre dame would ben­efit from a visit from any of the four candidates as well, rocheleau said, as such an event would offer a means to spark important conversation. 
“i think it would, overall, go to fostering intellectual curi­osity and intellectual conver­sation on campus,” he said. “i think having one or both of the candidates speak at notre dame would be a great op­portunity for students, under­grads as well as graduates, to hear and to think about things that are social and political.” 
notre dame in particular has always been an academic institution heavily involved in the american political sphere, rocheleau said. 
“[look] back to [university president emeritus] Fr. [Theodore] hesburgh work­ing for civil rights with martin luther King Jr., involvement with all the different presi­dents we have had in the past,” he said. “i think we have al­ways had a tie to politics and the president of the united states.” 
hesburgh started the tradi­tion of inviting presidential and vice-presidential candi­dates to speak at notre dame during election years, accord­ing to the press release. he in­vited dwight eisenhower and adlai stevenson in his first presenting it on the science floor,” he said. 
wetmore said he sees museums as an interactive platform for dialogue, not just a venue for indepen­dent learning. 
“This is the idea of 
making science 
more informal so 
the public is more 
willing to engage.” 
Jameson Wetmore 
associate professor 
Arizona State 
“what we’re proposing here is to actually make science museums a public space where the future of science and technology can be discussed, where the at­titudes, the values and the interests of the lay public can be infused into this conversation that is already happening at many levels,” he said. 
Contact Carolyn Hutyra at chutyra@nd.edu 
year as university president, and both accepted. 
according to the press re­lease, other candidates who have accepted the invitation to speak at notre dame include richard nixon, henry cabot lodge, warren miller (a gradu­ate of the university), edmund muskie, george h.w. bush, bill 
“I think having one or both of the candidates speak at Notre Dame would be a great opportunity for students, undergrads as well as graduates, to hear and to think about things that are social and political .” 
Brett Rocheleau 
student body president 
clinton and Joe lieberman. 
notre dame already has one significant election season event on the calendar. on oct. 17, the debartolo performing arts center will host one of the three indiana gubernatorial debates. libertarian rupert boneham, democrat John gregg and republican mark pence are expected to partici­pate in the event. 
Contact Sam Stryker at sstryke1@nd.edu 
paid adverTisemenT 





Walk 
conTinued From page 1 
help others deal with the issue of suicide. 
“if suicide is 100 percent preventable, then why is it ranked the third leading cause for death?” del pilar said. “i decided to become a part of this event to share my experience with others who are suffering and to make it known to everyone that they are not alone.” 
The walk, which will be held this sunday at notre dame, is intended to honor those lost to suicide, sup­port those dealing with suicidal thoughts and raise awareness for the issue. 
notre dame senior amanda bruening, event chair, was also drawn to the project by personal experience. 
“someone once told me that mental illness is some­thing you learn about only because you have to,” she said. “i probably would not have started this crusade if my life had not been turned upside down by suicide.” 
like del pilar, bruening suffered the loss of a sib­ling to suicide before com­ing to college. 
“Two weeks before i graduated high school, my little sister took her life at the age of 12. There were no signs of mental illness 
— just a girl struggling to navigate through seventh grade, bruening said. “losing my sister sparked my own spiral into depres­sion and battle with suicid­al thoughts throughout my freshman year.” 

after taking part in an american Foundation for suicide prevention (aFsp) walk in miami, bruening was inspired to devote her­self to the cause. 
“after i transferred to notre dame as a sopho­more, it seemed like no co­incidence that notre dame was the only school in the state of indiana to be with­out a student organization dedicated to supporting those with mental illness,” she said. “until last year, there also had never been an aFsp suicide walk in south bend.” 
This year’s walk will ben­efit several local mental 
health-related  nonprofit  
organizations,  bruening  
said.  

“i was inspired from a social concerns seminar where students went to portage manor and visit­ed with residents who are homeless due to chronic mental illness,” bruening said. “memorial epworth center and the oaklawn Foundation are two mental health facilities students may use as resources if they ever need to use re­sources off campus.” 
as suicide affects peo­ple of all ages and back­grounds, del pilar said she 
paid adverTisemenT 
hopes the event will con­nect the colleges and local community behind a single cause. 
“i think this will give a good opportunity for notre dame, saint mary’s, holy cross and our surround­ing community to come together and support one another,” del pilar said. “people who suffer from mental illnesses or have lost loved ones from sui­cide are not alone and the purpose of this event is for everyone to know that and to give those who are struggling hope.” 
bruening said the event is meant to remind those struggling with mental dis­orders or suicidal thoughts of the support resources available, and to highlight the need to expand upon those resources. 
“by creating a commu­nity around these issues, we can generate a conver­sation that lead to more prevention programs, more lives saved, and more ill­nesses in control,” she said. “many resources from the community and on-campus will also be at the event to answer any ques­tions and provide informa­tion on their services.” 
registration for the walk will begin sunday at 12:30 
p.m. outside the rockne memorial gymnasium. 
Contact Jillian Barwick at jbarwi01@saintmarys.edu 


Awareness 
conTinued From page 1 
larger population of the stu­dents at notre dame.” 
bates said these disorders can be difficult to distin­guish from a healthy diet or exercise regimen. 
“we’ve been talking a lot in class about how some­times it can be a blurry line between normal behavior, trying to live healthfully, and stepping into this zone where you’re engaging in a disordered way of living,” bates said.  “There some­times can be a fuzzy line be­tween doing that and having that be a supplemental way to live healthfully and hav­ing that take more control of our lives.” 
bates said she hopes the notre dame community learns more about the re­sources available on and off campus for those struggling with a disorder. 
“The goal of these ac­tivities is that we’re doing something to get attention and to give people the op­portunity to get more infor­mation to help themselves or their friends,” bates said. “also, a lot of these activi­ties will have either more information from the na­tional eating disorders awareness website or from the university counseling center.” 
bates said she encourages any student struggling to maintain a positive body im­age to visit the counseling center. 
“it’s free, completely con­fidential, and you can go in anytime without being diag­nosed with anything,” bates said.  “you can talk to some­one about anxiety, stress or whatever’s bothering you … you can learn great techniques for students struggling with everyday stresses as well as students with something more seri­ous going on in their lives.” 
coordinator of eating disorder services at the university counseling center valerie staples said the counseling center tai­lors its aid to fit the specific needs of students. 
“The counseling center provides individual and/or group counseling services to students struggling with eating or body image con­cerns … That may be expe­riencing disordered eating or may have a serious eating disorder,” staples said.  “For many students, these eating behaviors may be a symp­tom of other concerns as well that must be addressed: difficulty with emotional expression, stress, per­fectionism, relationship/ family issues … Therapy can help students develop healthy ways of managing these concerns and develop an improved sense of self.” 
Contact Nicole Michels at nmichels@nd.edu 




Pakistan leaders disavow bounty 
Associated Press 
islamabad — Thepakistani government on monday dis­tanced itself from an offer by one of its cabinet ministers to pay $100,000 to anyone who kills the maker of an anti-islam film that has sparked violent protests across the muslim world. 
The film, “innocence of muslims,” has enraged many muslims for its portrayal of the prophet muhammad as a fraud, a womanizer and a child molester. at least 51 people, in­cluding the u.s. ambassador to libya, have been killed in vio­lence linked to protests over the film, which also has renewed debate over freedom of expres­sion in the u.s. and in europe. 
adding to the anger in the muslim world was a decision by a French satirical magazine to publish lewd pictures of the prophet last week, prompt­ing French authorities to or­der the temporary closure of around 20 overseas missions out of fear they’d be targeted by demonstrators. 
some of the most intense and sustained protests have come in pakistan, where the role of islam in society is sacrosanct and anti­american sentiment runs high. but even in that atmosphere, the bounty offered by railways minister ghulam ahmad bilour has drawn criticism. 
bilour said saturday that he would pay $100,000 out of his own pocket to anyone who kills the man behind the inflam­matory film, nakoula basseley nakoula. The filmmaker was forced into hiding after the 14-minute movie trailer rose to prominence. 
bilour also appealed to al-Qaida and Taliban militants to help eliminate the filmmaker. 
pakistan’s Foreign office said in a statement monday that the bounty on the filmmaker’s head reflected bilour’s personal view and was not official government policy. 
The minister belongs to the secular awami national party, an ally in the government of president asif ali Zardari. his comments struck a nerve within his own party, which is con­sidered anti-Taliban and has lost several leaders in the fight against the insurgency. 


The observer | TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 25, 2012 | ndsmcobserver.com 



Envoy urges quick action to end Syrian crisis 
Associated Press 
uniTed naTions — syria’s civil war is worsening and there is no prospect of a quick end to the violence, interna­tional envoy lakhdar brahimi said monday in a gloomy as­sessment to the u.n. security council. 
The new envoy leavened his message, however, saying he was crafting a new plan that he hoped could break the im­passe, but refused to give de­tails or say when it would be ready. 
despite president bashar assad’s refusal to end his fam­ily’s 40-year grip on power, some tentative hope of a solu­tion remained, brahimi said in his first briefing to the council since he took over from Kofi annan on sept. 1 as the u.n.­arab league special represen­tative for syria. 
“i think there is no disagree­ment anywhere that the situa­tion in syria is extremely bad and getting worse, that it is a threat to the region and a threat to peace and security in the world,” brahimi told re­porters after the closed-door talks. 
activists claim nearly 30,000 people have died in the upris­ing which began in march 2011, including in attacks monday by syrian warplanes in the north­ern city of aleppo. 

brahimi had just returned from syria and refugee camps in Jordan and Turkey. his gloomy report of a looming food crisis, battle-damaged schools and shuttered facto­ries, contradicted his insis­tence that he saw grounds for optimism, including “some signs” that the divided syrian opposition may be moving to­ward unity. That is key for any political negotiations brahimi would oversee. 
“i refuse to believe that rea­sonable people do not see that you cannot go backward, that you cannot go back to the syria of the past. i told everybody in damascus and everywhere that reform is not enough anymore, what is needed is change,” said brahimi, who has met with assad and other regime officials in damascus. 
“paradoxically, now that i have found out a little more about what is happening in the country and the region, i think that we will find an opening in the not too distant future,” brahimi said. 
brahimi said he wanted to hold further discussions before dis­closing precisely what action he plans to propose. “i do not have a full plan for the moment, but i do have a few ideas,” he said. 



according to a diplomat in­side the council’s private brief­ing, who demanded anonymity because he was not authorized to publicly to reveal details, 
paid adverTisemenT 

brahimi was also reluctant to discuss the proposals with the security council. “he kept his cards very close to his chest,” he said. 
in the private talks, brahimi urged security council mem­bers to overcome the diplomatic deadlock which has paralyzed their ability to help end the crisis. 
The security council is the only u.n. body that can impose global sanctions and authorize military action. russia, syria’s key protector, and china have vetoed three western-backed resolutions aimed at pressuring assad to halt the violence and open talks with his opponents on a transition of power. 





European woes hurt stocks 
in germany is that an econ­omy on the rebound will be weighed down by the rest of the european countries, half of which are already in recession. 
germany’s economy grew 
0.3 percent in the second quarter from the previous quarter, but a number of econ­omists now believe the coun­try will fall into a recession in the second half of the year. 
in the u.s., stocks have gone from underpriced to fairly priced, said doug cote, chief market strategist at ing investment management. if recent weakness in u.s. manufacturing is any guide, he said, traders will be disap­pointed next month by com­panies’ quarterly results. 

Associated Press 
wall sTreeT — u.s. stocks meandered sideways monday as fears about europe over­shadowed recent excitement about central banks’ efforts to boost the market. 
stocks opened lower, re­covered by mid-afternoon to nearly flat and closed down modestly. 
an index of business confi­dence in germany, the biggest economy in europe, fell for a fifth straight month. many economists had expected it to at least remain flat. some think germany is headed for a recession. 

The threat of the years-Krosby, market strategist with old european debt crisis has prudential Financial. The seemed less immediate in re-next catalyst, Krosby said, is cent weeks as central banks third-quarter earnings, which unveiled measures aimed at companies will begin to an-encouraging investment and nounce next month. boosting the global economy. The dow Jones industrial The german report reignited average closed down 20.55 those fears. points, or 0.2 percent, at 
stocks had risen strongly 13,558.92. The standard & in recent weeks as traders poor’s 500 index declined 3.26, anticipated, then received, or 0.2 percent, to 1,459.89. its help from the Federal reserve two strongest groups were in the form of an open-end-utilities and telecommunica­ed bond-buying program. tions, safer stocks that tend to The Fed will buy $40 bil-do well in a weaker economy. lion of mortgage bonds per The nasdaq composite in-month until the economy has dex dropped 19.18 points, or improved. 0.6 percent, to 3,160.78. The 
“it’s not unusual after big nasdaq is heavy in technology moves for the market to, in shares, which were dragged essence, go quiet and wait for lower by apple. the next catalyst,” said Quincy as in the u.s., the concern 
paid adverTisemenT 


muslim extremist 
to stand trial for 

alleged terrorism 
Associated Press 
london — a european court ruled monday that radical muslim cleric abu hamza al-masri can be ex­tradited to the united states to face terrorism charges, including allegedly trying to set up an al-Qaida train­ing camp in rural oregon. 
The decision ends a long-running legal battle and means that al-masri, con­sidered one of britain’s most notorious extremists, could be deported within weeks along with four other ter­rorism suspects in britain. 
authorities in the u.s. have for years asked for al-masri and the others to be handed over, but the process had been delayed because the men raised hu­man rights objections. 
The men had argued be­fore the european court of human rights that they could face prison condi­tions and jail terms in the 
u.s. that would expose them to “torture or inhu­man or degrading treatment or punishment” in breach of the european human rights code. 
in april, the strasbourg, France-based court rejected those claims. al-masri and the four others lodged an appeal to the court’s high­est judges, but on monday the court said it refused to hear it. “Today the grand chamber panel decided to reject the request,” the court said in a brief state­ment. it did not give a rea­son for refusing the appeal. 
britain’s home office and the u.s. department of Justice welcomed the decision. 
“we will work to ensure that the individuals are handed over to the u.s. au­thorities as quickly as pos­sible,” said the home office. 
The suspects, who are accused of crimes such as raising funds for terrorists, could face life sentences in a maximum-security prison. 
al-masri was arrested in britain in 2004 at the re­quest of u.s. authorities, who have called him “a terrorist facilitator with a global reach.” 
They accuse him of assist­ing the taking of 16 hostages 
— including two american tourists — in yemen in 1998 and of conspiring to set up a terrorist training camp in bly, oregon, between 2000 and 2001. 
he also is accused of conspiring with a u.s. citi­zen to facilitate a jihad — or holy war — in afghanistan and providing material sup­port to al-Qaida and the Taliban. 
The cleric, who is blind in one eye and wears a hook for a hand, lost sev­eral british court cases in his fight against extradition before taking the case to the european court in 2008. 
Known for his fiery anti-western and anti-semitic outbursts, he claims he has lost his egyptian national­ity, but britain considers him an egyptian citizen. he is currently serving a seven-year prison term in britain for separate charges of in­citing hatred. 
The other four suspects due to be extradited to the u.s. are babar ahmad, syed Tahla ahsan, Khaled al-Fawwaz and adel abdul bary. 
ahmad and ahsan are charged in u.s. federal court in connecticut with run­ning a terrorist website in london, providing material support to terrorists, con­spiring to kill u.s. nation­als, and money laundering. supporters of ahmad, who was arrested in 2004 and has been held in a british jail since then without charge, are trying to help him get a trial in britain because his alleged offense happened in london. 
al-Fawwaz and bary, ac­cused of being key aides to osama bin laden in london, are wanted in a new york federal court for the 1998 bombings of two 
u.s. embassies in Kenya and Tanzania that killed 224 people. al-Fawwaz faces many counts of murder. 
The human rights court said that it has not decided on the case of a sixth sus­pect, haroon rashid aswat, who was accused of being al-masri’s co-conspirator in attempting to set up the camp in oregon. The court said it needed to consider more information about his case. 
in washington, dean boyd, spokesman for the national security division of the u.s. justice depart­ment, said: “we are pleased that the litigation before the european court of human rights in these cases has come to an end, and we will be working with the u.K. authorities on the arrange­ments to bring these sub­jects to the united states for prosecution.” 

The observer | TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 25, 2012 | ndsmcobserver.com 

INSIDE COLUMN 

sharing the magic 
Brian Hartnett 
sports writer 

“and there’s a magic in the sound of their name …” 
okay, this verse may be part of “here come the irish,” an unconventional game day pump-up tune, but it expresses what i believe to be a certain truth: notre dame is a magical place. From its unique landmarks to its century-old traditions to the numer­ous stories of perseverance involving its sons and daughters, notre dame simply possesses a mystique rivaled by few other universities. 
yet, even in this catholic disneyland, there is a dark side to paradise. admittedly, factors like occasionally overwhelming aca­demics, dismal weather and awkward gen­der relations have clouded my view of the golden dome at times. in a shocking twist, i’ll admit i’m not a legacy, nor did i grow up rooting for the irish every saturday. yet, some time in the middle of my angst-ridden college search, i became enchanted by the university and knew it was the place where i wanted to spend my college years. 
in the more than two years that have elapsed since that point, i’ve found that it’s more enjoyable for me to see how notre dame’s affected all those closest to me than it is to see how it’s affected myself. nowhere was this effect more apparent than dur­ing my family’s recent visit from its new Jersey home to my new home here in south bend. in their short time on campus, i was thrust into the role of tour guide, acquiesc­ing to my parent’s requests to show them major campus sights like the golden dome, basilica and “Touchdown Jesus.” although i didn’t enjoy posing for pictures at these landmarks, i was genuinely surprised to see how many people, including my family members, were thrilled to be at the same sights i pass by daily. 
my parents cited praise for everything from the dining hall food to the classrooms, while one of my brothers found it amazing that i could live on the same campus as many of his football heroes (who go to class, no less) and another brother was simply surprised that i could possibly sleep on a loft. 
last weekend held even more signifi­cance for me because i had the opportunity to also welcome my grandmother to cam­pus. as thrilled as i was to see her, i feared she wouldn’t enjoy notre dame (she’s con­fessed that she’s known too many zealous notre dame fans to ever become one). yet, she was struck by the midwestern friend­liness of the school and so awed by the presentation of football weekend that she’s already planning a visit for next season. 
it’s experiences like these that truly allow me to see how fortunate i am to be at notre dame. sure, it will never be perfect, but the minor gripes i have are so puny compared to the great benefits it offers. 
Contact Brian Hartnett at bhartnet@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Alex Coccia 
shard of glass 
“any man’s finest hour, the greatest ful­fillment of all that he holds dear,” former nFl coach vince lombardi wrote, “is that moment when he has worked his heart out in a good cause and lies exhausted on the field of battle — victorious.” competition, as lombardi makes clear, is not only healthy, but also an integral part of an individual’s fulfillment. competition in life does not preclude human decency, nor the ability to achieve a mutually beneficial re­sult. competition balances and enhances the natural drive to achieve meaning in life, as dr. cornel west exclaims. life is “a carnival to enjoy and a battlefield on which to fight.” but in these instances of competi­tion, what are we fighting for? 
it is easy in today’s high-pressured soci­ety focused on growing gains and lessen­ing losses, magnifying the material and stripping the spiritual and intensifying the individual and curtailing the com­munal to fall into a zero-sum mindset. For every winner there is a loser. an increase in one’s happiness equates to a decrease in the happiness of others. it is us against them. The zero-sum mentality reframes the question, “what are we fighting for?” to “whom are we fighting, constantly?” The zero-sum attitude says, “i got mine,” and believes that if the rest of the community is unable to reach the same level despite not having the opportunity to do so, it is a personal failure not a failure of collective responsibility. The zero-sum mentality accompanies our politics, into “wars” on religion or “class warfare,” pitting free­doms against freedoms. The zero-sum mentality pervades partisanship at home and couches conflict abroad. 

The zero-sum mindset is a wonderfully simplistic way of thinking that ignores the complexities of human emotions, relation­ships and motivations. we have written this mindset into our way of life through athletic competition. sports give us an op­portunity to take life and force it into a box of simplicity, which says that one side will win and one will lose. when the box score is printed, none of the emotions, the rela­tionships, the pre-game preparations or the personal backstories matter. on paper, there is a winner and a loser, determined in a specified time frame. 
but we cannot force life into a box of simplicity. The emotions and relation­ships that influence our behaviors are not limited to 60 minutes every week through a few months of a season. of course, par­ticipation in sports does not preclude us from compassion. likewise compassion does not bar us from the joys of competi­tion. but in the arena of life, where we actively make the rules and shape policies that affect the existence of individuals and communities, the competition in which we engage cannot be tethered by a zero-sum mindset. 
what is needed is a positive-sum men­tality. each individual achievement is a success for the community, rather than being in spite of others. celebrating the diversity of races, ethnicities, cultures or sexual orientations ultimately celebrates our humanity, rather than poses a threat to normative society. compromise is a way forward merging varying opinions rather than a loss for all sides. 
a criticism to a positive sum approach is the observation that when a bus is crowd­ed, those waiting in line push and shove to get to the empty seat. one will find more courteous behavior when it is very clear there will be enough seats for everyone. 
however, when opportunity is scarce, it should be our goal to create more. life should not be a bus with a set number of seats, limited to a certain group of people. 
The difference between a zero-sum mentality and a positive-sum mentality is the difference between closing down dialogue and fostering it, between denying what we owe to others and appreciating and respecting those who have helped us along the way, and between being a christian in name and a christian in prac­tice. in life we most certainly are fighting, but not each other. we are fighting the in­justices that hold some of us back and the hypocrisy that allows such injustice to ex­ist. we are fighting for opportunity, not in spite of others but for others. and our fight does not end with a whistle, indeed “noth­ing that is worth doing can be achieved in our lifetime.” 
Freedom to be exceptional does not mean that one’s exceptionalism denies the opportunity to others. we are better as a community, a nation and a world when we are working together, when we are our brothers and sisters’ keepers. we are better when we are providing all people the op­portunities that mark the zeal of human­ity. we are better when there is a positive sum mentality, when we are thinking creatively about how to expand the bus and when opportunity is seen, not as a threat to individual good, but as the com­mon good itself. 
Alex Coccia is a junior Africana and Peace Studies major, and a Gender Studies minor. He appreciates late night conversations in the Siegfried Chapel. He can be reached at acoccia@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 


QUOTE OF THE DAY  WEEKLY POLL  
“life is what happens to you while you’re busy making other plans.”  What did you do after Notre Dame demolished the Wolverines?  
John Lennon English musician  Tweet your response with #viewpointpoll by 5 p.m. Thursday.  



The observer | TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 25, 2012 | ndsmcobserver.com 
From the factory to the gridiron 
Jacob Palcic 
raising voices 

in addition to being the first time notre dame’s team has beaten michigan since i started as an un­dergrad three years ago, saturday’s football game marked two other im­portant “firsts” for our university. amidst the excitement of the evening home game, i looked around me and two things caught my attention: people were wearing union-made, living wage produced t-shirts and hawaiian leis. i think there is an im­portant connection behind these two apparently distinct adornments. as i looked around me, i saw two visual signs of solidarity that, led by notre dame students, were proudly donned throughout the stadium. and i was filled with hope! 
both the leis and the living-wage made t-shirts reflect two time-appro­priate, incredibly needed aspects of solidarity on our campus and in our world. students wore leis to show love and support for our fellow brother, manti Te’o. This gesture symbol­ized genuine concern for one of the members of our community; it showed that students were mindful of his sor­row and accompanying him in it. in the case of the shirts, students col­laborated with notre dame’s faculty to order our student shirts from alta gracia, the only college apparel facto­ry that pays its workers a living wage, allows them to unionize and thus maintain a dignified quality of life. This intentional decision shows how students can choose to be in solidarity with people far beyond our campus community by recognizing our com­mon humanity and caring for them as we need them to care for us. having recently visited the factory and spoken with workers, i can attest that student solidarity through buying alta gracia apparel is having an incredible impact on the community where alta gracia’s factory is located in the dominican republic. 
solidarity can embody many forms. however, its spirit is always the same. characterized by accompaniment, it fosters resilience which transforms and unites the community. at the heart is a genuine concern for hu­man well-being that seeks to cultivate not only sympathy, but also empathy toward one another. sometimes this takes on the form of mobile action such as students pooling resources to send clothes and food to victims of a recent natural disaster or refusing to buy clothing made in sweatshops until workers’ rights are respected. in such cases, this can contribute to economic and social resilience. yet other times, the action is something quieter, but just as strong, like students support­ing a classmate who just lost a loved one. i believe that the psychosocial resilience such a response can con­tribute can be just as powerful as the former example. in light of this, it seems that the challenge to live in solidarity as a campus-wide commu­nity is not separate from living in soli­darity with the rest of our world. The more we are unified as a campus, the more we can understand the idea of a universal community. 

in a world wide climate of discord and cut-throat competition that in­stills fear into individuals to survive by “looking out for number one,” our solidarity as students and as global citizens is needed here at notre dame more than ever. as incredibly privi­leged young people, this is what we need to intentionally focus the pur­pose of education on. solidarity need not remain an abstract theological idea. as a community, we can and must channel all aspects of our educa­tion toward making it as tangible as the words of the hymn we sang in the basilica on sunday after the game: “let us build a house where hands will reach beyond the wood and stone, to heal and strengthen, serve and teach and live the word they’ve known.” There is much that we can do as notre dame students; the social concerns of our time are many. with the holy cross of notre dame as our witness, let us focus our education toward development by living in solidarity. events like that football game give me hope that together we can raise our voices much louder to sing “all are truly welcome in this place!” after all, solidarity at its core is about under­standing the relationship of our hu­man family. 
Jacob Palcic is a junior. He can be reached at jpalcic@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

democrats support right to choose 
dear mr. whichard (“catholics and liberals,” sept. 18), 
The democratic party supports the right of a woman to choose whether or not to abort a pregnancy. There is an important difference between this and advo­cating abortion. The position is that a woman has this right and should have the resources to abort or not abort a pregnancy; we pray she would choose not to do so. Furthermore, we work to prevent abortions through programs like planned parenthood. most of the work of these organizations consists in providing educa­tion and resources to avoid unwanted pregnancies and situations where a mother would be unable to provide for her child. 
it is not a “government take-over” for public policy to address the concerns of poverty, hunger, homelessness, etc. by your own interpretation of church teaching, the government should help accomplish what individuals cannot do by themselves. people are still poor and hungry in our nation of plenty and this is a testament to the fact that efforts on the individual level are not enough to address poverty. our government is a representative democracy and thus it is through government that we can address the underlying structural problems that perpetuate poverty. The ef­forts of private individuals and organizations should also be valued, but the govern­ment can and should do more to help “the widow, the orphan and the stranger.” 
we find it very hard to accept the idea that the religious freedom of catholics is being “attacked” and “dismantled.” This was true in the past when catholic im­migrants were publicly disparaged because of their faith, but america has since become a more tolerant nation (though not perfect) and catholics no longer face such persecution. we think the government should find some means of exempting catholic institutions from the provision that requires they provide contraceptives to employees, one that still allows those employees free access to this care. yet, the way to accomplish this goal is through continuing political and legal processes that don’t require manufactured suffering. 
Finally, we should all take the time to thank god we live in a country where our individual convictions have political power. 
Brittany Dunn-Pirio 
senior off campus sept. 24 

Be there for the Notre Dame family 
last night, i walked past a fellow student, perched precariously on a bench outside the grotto, head held in his hands, quietly mourning something or someone. i slowed down, just a bit and thought that, if he looked up with red-rimmed eyes, if he acknowledged my presence, i might stop, ask if he’s alright, if he’d like some silent company or needs some­one with whom he can talk for a moment or two.  he didn’t look up, and i didn’t dare put myself out there and tap him on the shoulder.  i was fresh out of the gym, wet and itchy and increasingly cold, hoodie notwithstanding, and besides, i’m an agnostic. i was there only because a friend who isn’t could use a prayer or two right now, even from someone who doesn’t know if he’s talking to anyone in particular.  now i wish i had. 
i have no idea if he needed or wanted me around. For all i know he might have angrily ordered me on my way, but i didn’t ask.  i really should have asked.  as my time here draws rapidly to a close, i find myself more and more dwelling on the phrase “notre dame family.” it’s not something i paid much attention to for a long time. i had my friends, i had my classmates and i interacted outside of those two circles as necessary or as entertaining. now, though, i come to realize that i have quite a bit more in common with the rest of my school than i do with the vast majority of the rest of humanity, some of my own family members included. no one ever demanded that i personally come to know every one of my classmates or teachers, but perhaps it’s worth it, once in a while, to put yourself out there, especially if you see that a member of your family, biological or not, might be in need of help you can offer. 
so, as for my brother (that was awkward, maybe the notre dame family only entitles us to be cousins, or something?), i’m sorry i said nothing, that i walked right by with no more effort than was required to slow down.  i can offer as an excuse only the fact that it’s a lot easier to build up walls between my life and yours, to keep your problems at bay, than it is to tear them down and let your problems into my life.  next time i see you, or someone like you, i’ll try to make myself stop, at least long enough to ask if you need help. maybe, at least, knowing someone thought of you, however briefly, might offer some solace. still, i am sorry i didn’t stop and ask if you needed a family member to be by your side for a while. 
David Loughery 
fifth-year senior off campus sept. 24 


The observer | TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 25, 2012 | ndsmcobserver.com 


fabric of “veckatimest,” “shields” weaves a single, “yet again.” on the former, rossen haunting vocals among crests and troughs KRISTEN DURBIN darker, more instrumentally intricate tap-and bear again drive the band from a sub-of volume and instrumentation. 
scene writer 

estry of sound that employs the band’s sig-dued opening to a powerful climax with it may not have a crossover pop single fit nature blend of vocal harmonies, orchestral train-like guitar and drum parts reminis-to accompany a european car commercial 
i’ve been a fan of grizzly bear since iheard arrangements and rhythmic guitar to frame cent of the dynamic opener off veckatimest, a la “Two weeks,” but “shields” is a satisfying two tracks of its 2009 breakthrough album its introspective lyrical content. “southern point,” while droste and rossen’s auditory experience through and through. “veckatimest” at the end of my senior year as usual, lead vocalist ed droste’s utterly vocal harmonies add another layer to the but even after enveloping my ears in 47 min-of high school. after spending a summer unique voice distinguishes the band from multifaceted production. utes of excellent music, something leaves and a year of college getting lost in their lush, its contemporaries, but christopher bear’s on the somewhat old-school “yet again,” me wanting more from the band and hop-layered, hard-to-categorize folk pop melo-drumming is a true highlight of this record, grizzly bear’s signature production style ing their seemingly definitive proclamation dies, i saw the brooklyn quartet perform live whether it drives the standout album opener shines through, as the atmospheric echoes of “so long/i’m never coming back” doesn’t at lollapalooza 2010 in one of my favorite “sleeping ute” or provides some syncopated of the tambourine, percussion and vocals apply to their recording career. sets of a weekend that included the likes of retro flavor to the single “yet again.” create the illusion of having been recorded Contact Kristen Durbin at arcade Fire, phoenix, The national, mgmT but on the whole, the band sounds more in a cavernous room. during the chorus, kdurbin@nd.edu and spoon. cohesive and unified on shields than in al-everything but the drums drop out to high-The views in this column are those of the au­
against such stiff competition, grizzly bums past, striking the delicate balance light a piece of the band’s advice for rolling thor and  not necessarily those of The Observer. bear held its own and rose above the fray of between a wide variety of instruments and with life’s punches: “Take it all in stride/ 
festival mediocrity as its four members per-accent sounds to tie everything together. speak don’t confide.” formed in a horizontal line across the stage. The album gets off to a rolling, guitar-led at once distant musically and intimate 
“Shields” 
now, after two years of frequently return-start with one of its first singles in “ute.” lyrically, “shields” weaves through the ing to “veckatimest” and the band’s ear-daniel rossen’s slightly twangy guitar prodding piano and lovelorn vocals of “The 
Grizzly Bear 
lier releases, “yellow house” and “horn of complements bear’s rollicking drumbeat, hunt,” the strong strings and dissonant 
Label: Kanine, Warp 
plenty,” and wondering when i’d be hearing and the two instruments merge with chris chords of “what’s wrong” and beachy pop from them again, grizzly bear’s fourth full-Taylor’s auxiliary percussion sounds to cre-sounds of “gun-shy” before arriving at its 
Tracks: “Speak in Rounds,” “Yet Again” 
length release, shields, has risen above the ate a psychedelic yet classic grizzly bear epic, seven-minute ending with the ex-
If you like: Indie Rock 
barrage of new fall albums to become one of track. pansive “sun in your eyes.” beginning and my top albums of the year. Two of my favorite tracks off the album fol-ending with sparse, lingering piano chords, Though it retains the sumptuous sonic low with “speak in rounds” and the second the album’s “Foreground” features droste’s 


and chefs made it feel as if they were already and the racially insensitively named “me-of the week. in my professional opinion, i packed. within the first four minutes of our so-spicy” (more like “me-so-offensive”) would not go with wings etc. again anytime 
ANKUR CHAWLA 

scene writer visit the waitress stopped by three times to which offended both my morals and my soon. ask if we were ready to order, and our wings taste buds. while i can’t complain about the Contact Ankur Chawla at were like a do-it-yourself project with sauce chicken wings themselves, it’s hard to come achawla@nd.edu 
last week i compiled and published a unevenly distributed and in one case not across bad breaded chicken, the sauces on The views in this column are those of the au­weekly calendar for the best wing deals in even poured on the wings. balance were heavy and detracted from the thor and  not necessarily those of The Observer. the south bend area. like many of you, i in the spirit of being as unbiased and fair flavor of the chicken more so than adding have already found the calendar invaluable as possible, i tried four of their sauces and anything good. for deciding where to get food on any given both boneless and bone-in wings with al-a pet peeve of mine when getting wings 
day. in order to further help you out i will  most every tier of spice level on the menu.  at a restaurant is when extra is charged for  
bear the burden of visiting each of the wing  an avid fan of “man vs. Food” and spice  ranch or bleu cheese dipping sauce. it would  
establishments and sharing my opinions.  fanatic, i even sampled their hottest sauce,  be understandable if clearly marked on the  
The first of the fine restaurants i’ve visited  the “wall,” which carries with it a challenge  menu as being an additional cost or if the  Wings Etc.  
was wings etc. while this is a fairly wide- of finishing 16 wings with no water or other  waitress would mention that when taking  
spread and well-liked chain, i feel it neces­ beverages. while this visit i did not elect to  an order. however, at wings etc. it was given  
sary to lodge a few of my complaints.  try the challenge, i did order four of those  the impression of being complimentary and  Location: 6502 Grape Road,  
i went on a monday, which meant 49-cent  wings and they were more than manage- once seeing the check it cost more than the  Mishawaka, IN  
boneless or jumbo bone-in wings with your  able though did have a nice flavor.  wings did. admittedly, wings were 49-cents  Hours: 11 a.m. - 11 p.m.  
choice of their “18 signature sauces.” Though  The other sauces i sampled included their  that night and “extra dressing” was 59-cents,  
i went well before the deal and monday  “spicy hot honey” which was an okay at- but as a matter of principle charging for a  
night Football brought in a sizable crowd  tempt at hot honey mustard, “major Jerk”  condiment is not something i endorse.  
(there were three tables occupied in the ear- which was overly creamy and thick to be  as shown last week, there is no shortage of  
ly evening while i was there), the waitresses  considered true to its caribbean namesake,  places to get cheap wings on any given day  

LAURA LAWS | The Observer 

The observer | TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 25, 2012 | ndsmcobserver.com 

exact copy of the one from “bridesmaids,” don’t run too long. most are either good however, the plot isn’t too predictable to 
By CLAIRE STEPHENS 

scene writer it’s not unexpected that the film’s humor because of the quality of singing or funny make watching it boring. The music is fun, 
is a pg-13 version of it. The entire movie because of how bad they are; what singing and the movie itself is pretty funny from 
in a refreshing change from corny musi-is as funny as the trailer implies, keeping movie can leave out the auditions montage beginning to end. you’ll leave the theater cals that pervade the genre, “pitch perfect” the audience laughing at its mildly shock-of terrible or weird singers? happy and humming. is a college version of “glee,” without all ing humor throughout. From the cast of unlike most musicals, the movie includes the singing about feelings and ridiculous “bridesmaids” australian actress rebel rap, hip-hop and dubstep numbers and Contact Claire Stephens at drama. wilson plays Fat amy and christopher remixes that are actually good, including cstephe4@nd.edu 
“pitch perfect” follows becca (anna mintz-plasse, mclovin from “superbad” “Titanium” and “no diggity,” as well as re-Kendrick), an aspiring dJ whose father in-has a brief cameo. cent pop hits done completely vocally that sists she go to college where he works. in a as a comedy, “pitch perfect” definitely manage to avoid sounding as cookie-cutter quintessential liberal arts college, the sar-works. The verbal wit is present in both the and white-bread as “glee.” 
castic becca tries to survive all of the out-dialogue and surprisingly funny musical when looked at closely, the time spent rageous college clichés around her. most puns scattered throughout the movie. For on musical numbers is probably the cause specifically, the extremely feminine a ca-a musical it has an unexpected amount of for some of the underdeveloped subplots: 
“Pitch Perfect” 
pella group she joins — The bellas. irreverent humor, though it is still a much becca’s relationship with her divorced fa-instead of the beaten-to-death high milder form of the r-rated shock value com-ther, the station manager who always hits 
Director: Jason Moore 
school stereotypes of nerd, jock and artsy edies of today (but brace yourself for some on her, the jerk leader of the rival group that 
Studio: Universal Pictures 
kid, the a capella crowd includes college physical humor involving vomit). never seems to get his just desserts and the 
Starring: Anna Kendrick, Brittany Snow 
stereotypes like promiscuous girl, star wars as a musical, it manages to incorporate a chemistry between becca and a member geekcontrolling perfectionist, obnoxious lot of songs and some dance numbers with-of the rival group. Though the plot moves jerk, lovable guy and the grounded, normal out being annoying or having songs serve as well enough and has these different layers protagonist with a unique quirk or talent a poorly veiled attempts to parallel the plot along with the main plot about the a capella that makes her special. of the movie. all of the songs are motivated group, many of them seem like they were set 

considering the movie poster is nearly an by the characters actually performing and up to be more but never finished. 

no one seemed to care too much. The big sean is the album’s mvp. hand to some new-school jams, even if 
By MAC HENDRICKSON 

scene writer iTunes digital store didn’t feature the al-ghostface Killah, mase and raekwon they didn’t sample gil scott heron, and bum until mid-release day, and physical make worthwhile appearances. The honestly, “don’t like” isn’t half bad. 
For the pessimistic few whose too-copies didn’t appear in stores until days intra-label rappers, i.e. cyhi the prynce, Kanye brings his touch to the mix many-cooks-in-the-kitchen theories later. The album’s title is less of a misno-pusha T, Kid cudi, also contribute oc-well without completely removing its were proven wrong by the excellence mer than an indication of the weakness casionally worthwhile rhymes. The essence. but ‘not half-bad’ isn’t what lis­of 2011’s “watch the Throne,” good of its promotion. september is techni-best collection of lyricism is on the teners have expected since 2003. Thus, music’s 2012 collaborative effort “cruel cally still summer, but no one is blasting mid-album chill track “The morning,” though a few of these tracks will not be summer” might be a better target. “To the world” on the way to the beach. which features seven artists in less than soon forgotten, three years from now the Though his presence on the album is in the strict sonic sphere, “cruel five minutes. “higher” features forget-whole “cruel summer” concept won’t be ubiquitous, Kanye did not author this summer” is a success. The productions table Timbaland-style production and remembered. one alone, and it shows. The album are consistently unique if not excellent. a strange hook you’ll hope doesn’t get lacks both the merit and cohesion of a There is a general sense of cohesion if stuck in your head. Contact Mac Hendrickson at solo west release. This is not to say the one pays as little attention as possible. The album closes with “don’t mhendri1@nd.edu album is a failure. viewed as a collec-most tracks change and develop near like,” a track as artistically controver­tion of solid rap songs, the album fares the end, as Kanye productions tend to sial as Jay-Z and Kanye’s “h.a.m.” “don’t well. Tracks such as “clique,” “new god do. on a micro-scale, everything is im-like” is a remix of fellow windy city rap-
Flow” and “sin city” bump with a grace-pressive or at the very least acceptable. per chief Keef’s underground hit of the ful coalescence of style and modernity. lyrically, the good music crew same name. despite the geographical The good music crew knows what is doesn’t bring much to the table. on the relation between the two rappers, their going on in hip-hop everywhere, and whole, that which isn’t awkward is un-styles could not be further apart with­
“Cruel Summer” 
though “cruel summer” sounds more interesting. r. Kelly’s impressive vocal in the genre. Keef’s music, part of the 
Various Artists 
like an imitation than a response the performance in the album’s opener “To chicago scene that favors heavy repeti­songs are proof that the good music the world” is compromised by horrible tive and southern-esque rawness, is for 
Label: GOOD Music 
crew won’t die as quickly as other hip-lyricism. “The world is a couch / … i’m all intensive purposes a response to the 
Tracks: “Clique,” “New God Flow” 
hop collectives. rick James tonight.” it’s hard to allude to late aughts’ educated rap scene. west’s 
If you like: Kanye West, R. Kelly 
Kanye fans are used to album releases the almighty “chappelle’s show” with refusal to be categorized as anything being events, and the release of “cruel such strangeness, but r. Kelly pulls it more specific than a great pop star has summer” was most decidedly unevent-off, and Kanye finishes the song with permeated his career, evidenced most ful. The consistently pushed-back re-yet another bizarre reference to feces. by his brave but successful “808’s and lease date built confusion rather than he might want to talk to someone about heartbreak.” Thus, it shouldn’t be sur­

anticipation. The album was leaked, but that. prising that Kanye would extend his 
LAURA LAWS | The Observer 


SPORTS AUTHORITY 

big Ten teams disappoint in 2012 

Sam Gans 
sports writer 
say that it’s because of some tough out–of-confer­ence games. blame the ncaa sanctions. cite the shift in demographics from the midwest to other areas of the nation. 
no matter the reasons, september has shown one thing about the big Ten: it’s not a good football confer­ence in 2012. 
Through week four of the college football season, be­fore conference play has even started, the big Ten is already all but eliminated from bcs title contention, with just three undefeated teams left. 
one of those teams, ohio state, normally would be a realistic contender at this point. There is only one problem: The buckeyes are ineligible to go to a bowl performance the big Ten put on display in september, it is unlikely any one-loss big Ten champion would be cho­sen for the title game over a one-loss sec, big 12 or pac­12 champion or 11-1 notre dame (yes, i went there, but relax, readers, it’s just a hypothetical). 
so the leaves haven’t even changed colors yet and the big Ten already knows al­most certainly that none of its teams will be playing Jan. 7 in miami. 
but it’s not even just that the big Ten has lost, but how they’ve played. michigan state didn’t just lose to notre dame, the irish dominated in the trenches in east lansing, and the spartans struggled the next week against 0-4 eastern michigan. wisconsin lost to oregon state and beat northern iowa and utah state by a combined seven points. illinois lost to 

“With the performance the Big Ten put on display in September, it is unlikely any one-loss Big Ten champion would be chosen for the title game over a one-loss SEC, Big 12 or Pac-12 champion or 11-1 Notre Dame (yes, I went there, but relax, readers, it’s just a hypothetical).” 
game. 
i have great admiration for the play of the other two, northwestern and minnesota, up to this point in the year. however, i don’t see either of them as real threats. after all, the last time either of them won 10 or more games was when the gophers went 10-3 in 2003. The big Ten, underwhelm­ing as it may be, consists of tougher opponents than ei­ther have played so far. 
The only bcs confer­ence with fewer undefeated teams is the acc, and that is largely because they have already begun confer­ence play (the only losses clemson, wake Forest and georgia Tech have are to other acc teams). The big Ten and big east each have the same number of un­defeated squads, and this despite the fact the big east has four fewer teams and is widely considered the worst bcs conference in college football. 
every team in the big Ten besides ohio state, northwestern and minnesota has at least one loss.  This includes preseason top-20 teams michigan (now out of the top 25 with two losses), wisconsin, michigan state and nebraska. with the louisiana Tech by 28 points. iowa fell to iowa state and central michigan. indiana dropped a game to ball state. 
and all of that is before factoring in penn state and the absolute mess its pro­gram is in at the moment, both on the football field but even more off of it. 
The big Ten is entrenched as the fourth-best confer­ence in america, according to usa Today analyst Jeff sagarin’s computer ratings. The big Ten is closer to fifth-place acc than third-place pac 12. 
it’s easy to believe this is a fluke. The big Ten has won four bcs bowl games in the past three seasons. ohio state, michigan and nebraska are three of the top programs in college football history, and many of the other members have a strong history on the gridiron. 
it’s a proud conference, and one that tradition­ally plays some of the best, though perhaps not the most exciting, football in the land. 
Just not this year. 
Contact Sam Gans at sgans@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
NCAA FOOTBALL 

meyer, ohio state prepare for michigan state 
Associated Press 

columbus, ohio — urban meyer has not hidden his dis­satisfaction with the way his ohio state team has played this season. 
so, with his team hitting the road for the first time in its big Ten opener at michigan state on saturday, he switched gears and accentuated the positive. 
“i know we’re ohio state, and there’s all kinds of expectations here,” he said monday. “i still am not giving up. i think by the end of the year this might be a hell of a football team. i mean, it might be sooner than that.” 
in his first year at the helm of the buckeyes, meyer has been brutally frank in his evaluations of players and positions. after saturday’s closer-than-expect­ed 29-15 victory over 37-point underdog uab, he followed his usual pattern and climbed all over his team. 
he said after the game that his players were very passive, that it pained him to watch at times, that the buckeyes had depth issues and were playing too many freshmen and that he was disappointed with all as­pects. whew. 
Then, with those criticisms still ringing in their ears, he threw a change-up at them. 
meyer had a short clip of high­lights created that he showed to the buckeyes on sunday. here was offensive tackle reid Fragel laying out a defender 10 yards downfield, there was defensive tackle Johnathan hankins lev­eling a ball-carrier. The offense looked invincible, the defense was unyielding. 
meyer said the video made 

FOR RENT 
IRISH CROSSING 4BDR/3.5BTH. Available ‘13/’14 year; ND alum owner. 281-635-2019 
Football Rental. Available BYU and Stanford. 1BR Varsity Club. Call 847-602-8170 
PERSONAL 

UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don’t go it alone. Notre Dame has many resources in place to assist you. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Ann Whitall at 1-0084 or Karen Kennedy at 1-5550. For more 

the players feel better about themselves. since he said he felt terrible about his team after the game, it also improved his spirits. 
“i just put together a reel of four drives and it was about as well as we’ve played all year,” he said. with a grin, he added, “i did that more for me, i think. i have to eat lunch and i wasn’t about to eat lunch after what i saw.” 
The players loved it. 

“i felt better, even moreso than about myself, but the entire offense,” center corey linsley said. “it kind of showed everybody how good we can be.” 
The star of the show, Fragel, a converted tight end who is still learning the tackle position, said it was a refreshing change. 
“coach meyer kind of mixed it up on us a little bit,” Fragel said. “normally we come in and we watch the entire (previous game) film. what he wanted to do was show us the positive drives that we had, focusing on the positives instead of the neg­atives and the bad things.” 
so, two thumbs up from the buckeyes. 
meyer knows that his team cannot continue to play as er­ratically and sporadically as it has in its four victories so far. Forget expectations and point spreads, the buckeyes have had difficulty moving the ball at times and have had a hard time stopping other teams. There have been stupid penalties, missed assignments and turn­overs. The result has been a per­fect record even though cracks have been visible on both sides of the ball and in special teams. 
michigan state (3-1), which is also disappointed by its early play, provides a perfect gauge of whether the buckeyes are actually learning from their mistakes. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit 
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds.  
information, visit ND’s website at:  (1)  
http://pregnancysupport@nd.edu  
2005  Gus Frerotte (15) / Sage  
Rosenfels (1)  
Miami Dolphins starting quarterbacks  
since 1997  2004  A.J. Feeley (8) / Jay Fiedler  
(7) / Sage Rosenfels (1)  
2012 Ryan Tannehill (3)  
2003  Jay Fiedler (11) / Brian  
2011 Matt Moore (12) / Chad  Griese (5)  
Henne  
2002  Jay Fiedler (10) / Ray Lucas  
2010 Chad Henne (14) / Chad  (6)  
Pennington (1) / Tyler Thigpen (1)  
2001  Jay Fiedler (16)  
2009 Chad Henne (13) / Chad  
Pennington (3)  2000  Jay Fiedler (15) / Damon  
Huard (1)  
2008 Chad Pennington (16)  
1999  Dan Marino (11) / Damon  
2007 Cleo Lemon (7) / Trent  Huard (5)  
Green (5) / John Beck (4)  
1998  Dan Marino (16)  
2006 Joey Harrington (11) /  
Daunte Culpepper (4) / Cleo Lemon  1997  Dan Marino (16)  



Lewis 
conTinued From page 14 
comes to the small details,” Justilien said. 
pasquerilla east will look for its first win when it fac­es welsh Family on sunday, while lewis will meet Farley the same day. 
 Contact Dong-Hyun Kim at dkim16@nd.edu 
Walsh 20, Breen-Phillips 
By GREG HADLEY 
sports writer 
in a matchup of two teams looking for their first wins, walsh used its experience to earn a 20-6 victory over breen-phillips on sunday. 
early on, it appeared that the youth of breen-phillips (0-1) would not be a factor, as its secondary shut down walsh (1-1) on its initial drive. walsh quickly recov­ered on its next drive, as  the wild women took advantage of several long rushes and costly penalties by the babes to move down the field and score on a scramble by senior quarterback Kat leach. 
From that point on, the wild women never looked back, as their defense inter­cepted four passes. senior cornerback lindy navarre added to walsh’s lead with an interception return for a touchdown. 
“it was great to get a de­fensive touchdown obvi­ously,” navarre said. “That hasn’t happened at walsh in a while. our offense got into a good flow too.” 
walsh’s offense sealed the victory when senior receiv­er carmen lopez ran for a touchdown just before the half. 
The babes, however, were not too discouraged by the result, since their roster consists largely of freshmen playing in their first interhall game. 
“we haven’t been playing together very long,” junior captain molly Toner said. “we just need to work on communication on defense and memorizing plays.” 
Toner said the babes will look to take away positives from the game, such as the defense’s second half shutout of the wild women. 
moving forward, the babes will look for contin­ued improvement as their players develop more famil­iarity with each other, while walsh will try to keep up its momentum. 
“we’re just taking it one game at a time,” navarre said. “obviously we want to keep winning … but we need to stay focused.” 
breen-phillips next plays Farley on sunday, while walsh will face pasquerilla west on Tuesday night. 
Ryan 7,  Welsh Family 6 
in a game featuring two stout defenses filled with tal­ent and depth, ryan managed to come from behind and steal a 7-6 victory from welsh Family on sunday afternoon. 
For most of the game, it appeared welsh Family’s first-possession touchdown would allow the whirlwinds (1-1) to emerge victorious. whirlwinds senior quarter­back victoria moreno rushed the ball in for a score after orchestrating an impressive opening drive of mixed pass­es and runs, 
after moreno’s touchdown, the game took on a defensive tone, with both defenses pre­venting any big plays. 
with less than two minutes in the game, ryan (2-0) drove furiously down the field, utilizing a previously dor­mant passing attack. senior quarterback maya pillai then connected with junior receiver maddie swan for a short passing touchdown to tie the game. on the ensuing extra point, pillai and swan 
paid adverTisemenT 


connected again to give the wildcats the lead. 
“They have some great safe­ties … but we were able to use the line a little more,” swan said about the scoring drive. “it was great just to come out with a win.” 
The whirlwinds, on the other hand, felt the regret of wasted opportunities on offense. 
“it wasn’t that we weren’t driving,” moreno said. “we just couldn’t finish.” 
The whirlwinds saw sev­eral promising drives ended by big plays from the ryan defense.. 
despite the loss, welsh Family’s defense was encour­aged by its strong defensive effort. 
“They played a slow game but we kept our eyes open and adjusted,” senior line­backer lynn Tasker said. 
Contact Greg Hadley at ghadley@nd.edu 



The observer | TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 25, 2012 | ndsmcobserver.com 

Lyons 
conTinued From page 20 
win when it plays sunday. 
Contact Stephanie Zuba at szuba@nd.edu 
Cavanaugh 13, Howard 0 
By CASEY KARNES 
sports writer 
in a battle of vaunted de­fenses, cavanaugh pulled out a hard-fought 13-0 victory over howard on sunday. 
cavanaugh (3-0) had not allowed a touchdown going into the game, but howard (1-1) challenged its shutout streak with several strong offensive drives. despite howard’s offense, chaos se­nior cornerback michelle young and senior defensive 
“We need more practice ... We have a very young team, and I’m hopeful for the future, but now we need to work on our communication.” 
Amelia Vojt 
junior center 
Howard 
lineman Tegan chapman re­pulsed the ducks’ red zone attack, as they made several goal-line stands. 
“we’ve been practicing really hard, playing really physical, and focusing really hard,” young said. “we’ve been getting the job done.” 
howard’s defense displayed similar aggression , stifling cavanaugh’s aerial attack. sophomore linebacker claire Kozlowski played a major role in stopping the chaos’ rush­ing attack. 
late in the first half, cavanaugh senior quarter­back rosemary Kelly broke through howard’s defense, finding sophomore receiver marielle blumenthaler for a long touchdown pass. 
despite the strong play of junior quarterback clare robinson, the ducks were never able to recover from the initial deficit. 
“we need more prac­tice,” howard junior center amelia vojt said. “we have a very young team, and i’m hopeful for the future, but now we need to work on our communication.” 
cavanaugh’s second touch­down came on a Kelly run in the final minute of the con­test, which iced the game for the chaos. blumenthaler said she was proud of her team’s performance. 
“our quarterback rosemary [Kelly] played awe­some, and our defense is just the best,” blumenthaler said. 
cavanaugh will look to re­main undefeated when it plays pasquerilla west on sunday, while howard will look to rebound when it faces badin on Tuesday. 
Contact Casey Karnes at wkarnes@nd.edu 
Pangborn 13, McGlinn 0 
By DONG-HYUN KIM 
sports writer 
in a battle of undefeated teams and preseason fa­vorites, pangborn bested mcglinn in a 13-0 shutout sunday afternoon. 
mcglinn (2-1) got off to a shaky start when senior quarterback emily golden threw an early interception. pangborn’s offense capital­ized on the interception, as sophomore quarterback caitlin gargan dished pass­es to senior receiver Kristin ruekert and junior receiver molly shawhan. gargan fin­ished the drive by scoring a 15-yard rushing touchdown for the phoxes (2-0). 
The shamrocks could not answer in the first half, as the phoxes pressured golden with constant blitzes. 
soon after the half, gargan ran for another touchdown, giving the phoxes a 13-0 lead. The shamrock offense strug­gled through the rest of the game. golden threw two in­terceptions in the game and saw her receivers miss sever­al catches in the second half. 
despite the struggles, golden did not place any blame on her receivers, in­stead putting the blame on her shoulders. 
“i think it was many things i could have done,” golden said. “it wasn’t one thing.” 
with the win against mcglinn, pangborn has not 
“We knew McGlinn was a solid team, but we just came out better.” 
Magan Ngoto 
senior coach 
Pangborn 
allowed a single point this season, as the phoxes beat Farley 20-0 in their first game. 
“we knew mcglinn was a solid team, but we just came out better,” pangborn senior coach magan ngoto said. 
mcglinn had to quickly re­group for a monday matchup with ryan, while pangborn will try to remain undefeated when it faces ryan on sunday. 
Pasquerilla East 7, Lewis 7 
in a battle of winless teams, pasquerilla east and lewis fought hard until the end but neither team could pull away, as the contest ended in a 7-7 tie. 
pasquerilla east (0-1-1) was aggressive on its first play, when sophomore quarter­back macy mulhall ran for a first down. on the ensuing 


lewis faced an emergency late in the game when blood went down. Junior running back colleen haller took over as quarterback for the rest of the game. 
despite the draw, lewis se­nior coach gabe delatte saw several positives in the game. 
“we spent this past week learning about the funda­mentals,” delatte said. “now we need to actually execute the things we learned.” 
pyros senior coach purt Justilien also saw the draw as an improvement from the team’s last game. 
“we made improvements from last game, and now it 
see lewis PAGE 13 
play, muhall threw a 20-yard touchdown pass to sopho­
“We spent these past weeks learning about the fundamentals ... Now we need to actually execute the things we learned. ” 
Gabe Delatte 
senior coach 
Lewis 
more receiver alex good. 
lewis  (0-1-1)  responded  
quickly,  as  senior  quar­ 
terback  connaught  blood  

penetrated the pyros’ defen­sive line with her rushing. 
blood attempted five of her seven rushes in the first half, scoring the game-tying touchdown on one of them. 
“i knew they were blitzing and coming around the sides, so i rushed through the mid­dle line,” blood said. 
with the game tied, the defense took over for both teams. late in the game, the pyro defense, led by junior caroline Kuse, pressured blood and forced her to throw an interception to senior safety anna perino, who ran 40 yards for the touchdown, but the play was called back for a roughing the passer penalty. 
paid adverTisemenT 




Keenan 
conTinued From page 16 
o’neill looks to rebound against stanford on sunday. 
Contact Alex Wilcox at awilcox1@nd.edu 
Morrissey 7, Duncan 3 
By LESLEY STEVENSON 
sports writer 
with help from a couple deci­sive penalties, morrissey won its first game of the season, leav­ing a struggling duncan squad empty-handed. 
The manor (1-0) started the scoring with a third-down catch by freshman receiver cooper cohen, who ran an extra 50 yards for the touchdown. 
“it was very exciting,” cohen said. “it was fun to be out here to­day. … it was a little messy but we came out with a win.” 
From there, the battle came down to penalties and turnovers. 

duncan (0-2) fought through a second quarter drive to secure a field goal, and just before the half the highlanders thought they had taken the lead with a touch­down pass to junior receiver robbie hammer. The play was called back due to an illegal for­mation penalty. 
morrissey’s defense then stopped a field goal attempt, which kept the score at 7-3. 
“it was a bit of a rough game,” duncan junior captain gerrit hobson said. “The blocked field goal was pretty disappointing.” 
Turnovers plagued both teams but never resulted in points. in the middle of the second half, highlanders sophomore eric Krakowiak intercepted a pass at the morrissey 30-yard line. The ensuing drive, however, ended with an interception by morrissey junior defensive back James peterson. The manor im­mediately lost the ball on a fum­ble recovered by duncan senior neil eveld, but they regained sophomores matt garcia and pete mcginley. 

“i thought they both did a great job today,” hobson said. “i was really proud of them.” 
duncan will look for its first win when it takes on siegfried after a bye this weekend, and morrissey will square off with the ramblers on sunday. 
Contact Lesley Stevenson at lsteven1@nd.edu 
SMC SOCCER 
Belles  take on Britons 
By KATIE HEIT 
sports writer 
Fresh off its first loss of the season, saint mary’s will take the field at home Tuesday against albion and hope for a bounce-back effort. 
belles coach michael Joyce said he is not wor­ried about the belles’ (4­1-1, 2-1 miaa) motivation for the upcoming matchup after the belles dropped a 2-1 decision at alma over the weekend.“everyone was disappointed,” Joyce said. “everyone is hungry for the next league challenge.” 
Joyce said he does not think it is always the role of the coach to motivate his play­ers. he said the desire to win should be present for a team to play successfully. 
“as a coach, if you feel like the motivation or focus isn’t there, you’ll have to bring it up,” Joyce said. “but the play­ers are in a good spot, excited for the next challenge and anxious to show what we can do.” 
Joyce said that conference competition in the miaa is tough this year. with only four spots in the playoffs at the end of the season, every opportunity counts. 
“we did talk about how important every game is,” Joyce said, “There are prob­ably six teams good enough to earn one for the four play­off berths, so every game is crucial. every point you can earn is very important.” 
while albion (0-6-1, 0-2-1) might not be the strongest opponent on saint mary’s schedule, it does not mean the belles won’t take the game seriously. 
“i think we took albion a little lightly last year and had some close games,” Joyce said. “you can’t take anything for granted. They haven’t had a successful sea­son so far, haven’t won, but if the game stays close they’ll be working hard to erase that zero in the win column.” 
Joyce said the key to a victory over albion is the strength of his offense. 
“i’m looking to the attack­ing players to play strong and finish their chances,” Joyce said. “if we have that quality in front of the goal, we should be fine.” 
The belles will take on albion at 4 p.m. Tuesday at home. 
Contact Katie Heit at                kheit@nd.edu 
control on an interception by junior defensive back andrew gastelum. 
“we knew our defense com­ing into the game was going to be our strong point and that showed when we had those two big inter­ceptions,” morrissey senior cap­tain Taylor stein said. 
The highlanders played with­out their usual starting quar­terback, junior Josh whelan, and instead rotated between 
paid adverTisemenT The observer | TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 25, 2012 | ndsmcobserver.com 




MEN’S INTERHALL FOOTBALL 
Green Wave grabs defensive victory from St. Ed’s 
Vermin dominate Zahmbies 10-0; Knights snatch a decisive win 21-0 from the Angry Mob 
ddthe first vermin touchdown. defense. he had four intercep-
By ALEX STEMBAUGH 

sports writer “[The offense] has some things tions, including the game-chang­
to work on but we played a lot bet-er at the end of the third quarter 

The anticipated defensive ter than last week,” junior quar-that led to dillon’s first touch-showdown between Fisher and terback Tommy spoonmore said. down. Junior captain Kevin Fink st. edward’s certainly lived up to “we want to make sure we keep said field position on the play was the hype, as the green wave (1-0) working and keep our passing key. emerged with a 6-2 victory in a game open.” “in the second half we got bet-scrappy, low-scoring game. at the end of the first half, Zahm ter field position,” Fink said. “our 
Fisher set the tone early with (0-2) drove the ball down the field defense gave our offense some a strong opening drive, led by with only 1:12 remaining. with breathing room.” 38 rushing yards from junior the ball on the 15-yard line, senior dillon took advantage of big quarterback Joe paggi, who . quarterback alex bowman threw blocks to run in two fourth-quar­paggicapped the first possession three incomplete passes and the ter touchdowns, both following with a two-yard touchdown run Zahmbies were unable to put any interceptions. Ferry said staying to take the lead. points on the board. focused on its approach allowed 
“we did really well on that first last season, Zahm scored just the offense to score late. drive,” green wave senior cap-one touchdown, something the “we made a commitment to tain matt hart said. “we just need Zahmbies are looking to change running the ball, and the two or that intensity and consistency this season. 3-yard runs turned into big plays on offense throughout the whole “our goal for the season is to behind big [senior offensive line-game.” score a touchdown,” freshman man] rob burkett and his beard,” 
The Fisher defense pres-defensive back ryan Tang said. Ferry said. alumni junior captain Tom an ankle injury. with larson out, sured the st. edward’s offense although the offense was un-dillon will look to continue its o’sullivan had mixed emotions o’neill hoped to control the game and forced punts on each of the 
momentum against Keough on about the game. The dawgs (1-1) with its rushing attack, but the gentlemen’s first two posses­
sunday, while stanford will try briefly led the ramblers 8-7 after a angry mob was held to just nine sions. st. edward’s (0-2) was able 
“Our goal for the to rebound against o’neill on safety, a touchdown pass to fresh-yards rushing on 15 carries. to pick up two first downs with 
sunday. man receiver Tyler Thompson “we have to improve our run-
season is score a 
a series of completions by junior and a failed two-point conversion. ning game, that is our main pri­

touchdown.” 
quarterback paul rodriguez to 

Contact Samantha Zuba at “we’re pretty bummed,” ority,” reed said. “we need better sophomore tight end John wetzel 
Ryan Tang szuba@nd.edu o’sullivan said. “we played well, attendance at practice. people before it was the green wave halt-
freshman defensive back   well enough to win, but it was just didn’t know their blocks.” ed the drive. 
Zahm Siegfried 15, Alumni 8 one or two mistakes that could Keenan was able to stonewall The Fisher offense, however, 
have been alleviated if we had o’neill’s rushing attack even 
By LESLEY STEVENSON 

had difficulty getting the ball to sports writer practiced.” the quarterback. after four bad able to score, the Zahmbies o’sullivan said his team strug­
“We told the young 

snaps — one recovered by st. stopped the vermin from scoring in a heated contest of rival de-gled to come together for a strong edward’s — for losses totaling any points in the second half. The fenses, siegfried edged alumni practice in the week leading up to 
guys all week it’s  

over 30 yards, a fifth snap sailed defense was led by sophomore 15-8 in a game that evens both the game and that in the future 
your chance to 

over paggi’s head. he recovered it defensive back sam Zappa and teams’ records. more emphasis will be placed on 
step up ... They 

in the end zone and was tackled Tang. Zappa made many key tack-The ramblers (1-1) found suc-expanding the offense. 
really did that and 

by st. edward’s junior defensive les and forced a fumble late in the cess with freshman receivers with both teams looking to se­
played one heck of 

end Jon chepkevich for the safety. game. grady schmidt and spencer Judd, cure a winning record, alumni “we had a lot of good pen-The Zahmbies look to get their who combined for siegfried’s two faces Knott and siegfried squares 
a game. ” 

etration on defense, forcing a few first win of the season against touchdowns and one two-point off against morrissey on sunday. 
Andrew McDonough 

turnovers,” chepkevich said. “on Fisher on sunday, while carroll conversion. 
senior quarterback 

offense we couldn’t really get it tries to stay undefeated against “our offense was really work-Contact Lesley Stevenson at 
Keenan 

worked out yet, but our defense sorin the same day. ing with the run and the pass,” lsteven1@nd.edu came up big when we needed it.” senior captain and running back 
Fisher’s defense recovered a Contact Sarah Connors at david whitmore said. “our run-Keenan 21,  O’Neill 0 without starting senior linebacker fumble and had three intercep-sconnor1@nd.edu ning was setting up our passing, adam holzmeister, who was side-
By ALEX WILCOX 

tions, enforcing what the Fisher and that’s how we scored our first sports writer lined with a sprained ankle. defense likes to call a “no-fly Dillon 14, Stanford 0 touchdown.” “we told the young guys all zone.” siegfried took control early Keenan’s motto all season week it’s your chance to step up,” 
By SAMANTHA ZUBA 

“our defense played exception-sports writer with a touchdown from schmidt has been to finish the job. after mcdonough said. “They really ally,” senior captain matt hart on the game’s first drive, but most sunday’s 21-0 shutout win over did that and played one heck of a said. “we operated today with a despite facing strong play at the 
o’neill, the Knights (2-0) are one game.” no-fly zone, and a no-run zone as line of scrimmage from stanford, 
step closer to that objective. mcdonough shined once again well.” dillon ran the ball to a 14-0 victory 
“We played well, “we played really well,” senior for the Knights, going 10-for-15 Fisher looks for a win against sunday. 
well enough to captain and quarterback andrew for 163 yards and two long touch-Zahm on sunday, while st. in the first half, dillon (1-1) 
mcdonough said. “all phases of down passes, a 40-yard comple­
win, but it was 

edward’s has the weekend off be-tried to pound the ball up the the game: offense, defense, spe-tion to freshman receiver John 
just one or two 

cial teams.” gregory to put the Knights up fore taking on Zahm on oct. 7. middle, but the stanford (0-2) de­
mistakes that 

The defense was once again the 14-0 before the half, and a 30-yard Contact Alex Stembaugh at the big red to small gains. in the fense clogged the lanes and held 
could have been story for the Knights, tallying four score to junior receiver Jeremy astembau@nd.edu fourth quarter, however, dillon 
sacks, including two by senior riche on fourth down to make it 
alleviated if we 
took control after several inter-defensive lineman Tyler gregory, 21-0. 

had practiced. ” 

Carroll 10, Zahm 0 ceptions. stanford senior captain 
and an interception by freshman mcdonough got it going on the paul babiak said turnovers made 
Tom O’Sullivan defensive back J.c. sullivan on the ground as well, leading his team 
BY SARAH CONNORS 
all the difference. 

junior captain 3-yard line to end o’neill’s final in rushing with 72 yards and a “The turning point was turn-
sports writer 

Alumni drive. touchdown on 12 carries. carroll beat Zahm 10-0 in a bat-overs,” babiak said. “we’d get 
For o’neill (0-1), it certainly with two dominating wins to tle of quarterbacks sunday. to the red zone and not be able of the ramblers’ yardage came wasn’t the start to the season they start the season, Keenan’s goals 
junior in their first possession to capitalize. … it’s frustrating from whitmore’s carries. still, the had hoped for, junior captain eric are sky high. of the ball, the vermin (2-0) ran knowing we dominated on the captain knows exactly where his reed said. “if we can do this all year, i the ball down the field but came line and didn’t get the win.” team needs to improve. “[it was] very disappointing,” see no reason why we shouldn’t up just shy of the touchdown. babiak said stanford has a lot of “i saw improvement in our ex-reed said. “Keenan’s a very good be in [notre dame] stadium,” Forced to kick a field goal, carroll work to do in the coming weeks. ecution of the plays, but not in our team and we probably were a mcdonough said. took a 3-0 lead. “we just have to start from the mental focus,” whitmore said. little more unprepared than we Keenan has a bye before taking 
at the beginning of the sec-ground up, at square one,” babiak “That was a big problem in our thought.” on stanford in the battle of the ond quarter, senior running back said. last game and it was a problem not only was o’neill shut out, chapel in two weeks, while david stitcher rushed into the senior defensive back ben Ferry again today.” but they also lost starting fresh-end zone from a few yards out for was the star of a solid big red on the other side of the ball, man quarterback Jack larson to see Keenan PAGE 15 



CROSS COUNTRY 

Coach handles logistics of Invitational 
By VICKY JACOBSEN 
sports writer 
he’s a meet official. he’s pro­cessed all the race entries. he’s painted the trail the runners will follow, and he’ll be keep­ing an eye on the official timer. if that wasn’t enough, he’ll also be coaching the women’s cross country team. 
The annual notre dame invitational might be a highlight of the season and a great oppor­tunity to compete at home, but for irish coach Tim connelly there’s no doubt that hitting the road would mean less work for him, as he does a majority of the prep work ahead of big home meets. 
“an outside timing guy actu­ally does the timing,” connelly said. “but in terms of setting up packets — each team has their numbers in it and the electronic timing chips — that’s stuff that we do, and it’s just very, very time consuming. and then set­ting up the course, and put­ting all those flags and stuff out there, that’s stuff that we do.” 
connelly said that do-it-your­self nature of hosting meets is part of what separates cross 
R U 
country from other sports. 
“i think our sport is a little dif­ferent from most in that we’re actually involved in putting on the event, whereas say a soccer game, someone else is going to line the field and do all that, and we’re actually doing all that,” connelly said. “The first time we lined the cross country course i was the one out there pushing the paint sprayer.” 
although connelly and men’s coach Joe piane have overseen dozens of national catholic 
“There’s definitely pressure to make sure that the event goes off right.” 
Tim Connelly 
Irish coach 
championships and notre dame invitationals between them, connelly said he’s al­ways concerned about making it through the meet without any problems. 
“you want to make sure that things are done right, and so you’re always worried about making sure the timing system’s working, and that there aren’t mistakes on the course,” connelly said. “There’s definite­ly pressure to make sure that the event goes off right.” 
The pressure of running a tight meet is heightened by the caliber of teams flying in to race. 
“This is the 57th annual notre dame invitational, so it’s been going on a long time. it’s one of the oldest continuous meets in the country,” connelly said. “people decide this is a good op­portunity for them. you look for meets where there’s going to be teams from other regions, and this has become one of those meets on a national scale, where teams from other regions will give people at-large points, as­suming that you run well and been them.” 
connelly said the process of organizing entries began just as last track season ended. 
“all the meet entry stuff, we sent that out during the sum­mer, in June right after the ncaa outdoor meet,” connelly said. “we sent out entry information to all the teams that expressed interest, and then we have those teams confirm with us.” 
one thing connelly and piane don’t have to worry about is the playing surface itself: the golf course on the west side of campus. 
“over the years we’ve been forced to change the course, because at one time that golf course was 18 holes, so where the new bookstore is and those [new dorms are],” connelly said. “so when they started doing all that building we had to make all kinds of changes to the course. 


but the course that we’re run­ning now we’ve probably run for the last 10 to 12 years. it’s been fairly consistent.” 
That leaves one fewer item on connelly’s to-do list.The irish coaches will play host  at the notre dame invitational on Friday. The starting gun goes off at 2 p.m. 
Contact Vicky Jacobsen at vjacobse@nd.edu 


paid adverTisemenT 

“MOBILE U” NOTRE DAME 
MOBILE DEVICES 

MOBILE SUMMIT
AND THE FUTURE 

9:00 a.m.–4:15 p.m. 


Phelps 
conTinued From page 20 
stanford. so what’s changed for football? nothing. it gives us credibility being a member, and even though it’s not foot­ball, and gives us more clout with the new bcs formula.” 
Basketball’s benefits 
with an acc schedule that will send the irish along the entire east coast, phelps said he expects the recruiting divi­dends to be enormous. 
“look back at my recruiting in the ‘70s: washington d.c., pittsburgh, philadelphia, Jersey, long island, new york,” he said. “now all of the sudden you’re notre dame 
“It’s going to be the best conference in the country by default.” 
Digger Phelps 
ESPN college basketball analyst 
and you’ve got boston college, pitt, syracuse, maryland, virginia going in those same areas, whoops. we’re not go­ing to get those kids. but now that we’re in that hunt for those kids back east, it saves us. 
“if we didn’t go with pitt and syracuse and now you have this two or three time zone big east, who wants to go play there when you can play in the acc or the atlantic 10?” 
phelps said the men’s bas­ketball program should aim for a top-five finish in the acc annually. 
“we’re going to recruit a different type of player, like the dukes and the carolinas, like nc state … i told [irish 
“It’s going to be the greatest thing we’ve ever done.” 
Digger Phelps 
ESPN college basketball analyst 
coach mike] brey yesterday, ‘when i look and see what’s out there, i want to see teams with juniors and seniors and teams with great guards,’” said phelps, who added that the acc’s style is finesse com­pared to the physical play of the big east. “we’ve got both. with that experience of ju­niors and seniors and an ex­perienced backcourt, bring it on. i think this year is going to be a statement year for us.” 
Following the defections of pittsburgh, syracuse and west virginia from the big east and the moves of miami, boston college and virginia Tech from the conference to the acc in 2004, phelps said the move guarantees notre dame’s place among men’s basketball’s elite for years to come. 
“it’s going to be the best conference in the country by default,” he said. “no offense to the big Ten or sec or big 12, but are you kidding me? 
you get [the conference tour­nament] in madison square garden, it will be better than the [elite eight] or the Final Four because of those teams. 
“i think we’ll be in [the acc] next year. whatever we have to do, we have to be in next year. The acc wants us next year with pitt and syracuse.” 
Big East stability 
phelps said he thinks connecticut is the most ob­vious victim of notre dame’s decision to join the acc. 
“[The acc is] not going to go [with divisions of] eight and seven for football. They’d have to bring in two more schools 
“I give [Director of Athletics] Jack Swarbrick all the credit. He delivered. It’s a big move for us in all ways. Let’s get in it next year, and let the games begin.” 
Digger Phelps 
ESPN college basketball analyst 
that are football schools, and that’s not going to happen,” he said. “now you’ve got 15 [conference members], you’re not going to have 17 teams. From that standpoint, i think connecticut is done as far as their shot of getting into the acc for football.” 
despite the attrition the big east has suffered during the past couple years, phelps said he expects the conference to survive and should rival the quality of the improved atlantic 10, who recently add­ed butler and vcu. 
“don’t forget the original big east was eight schools,” phelps said. “we’ll still play villanova, st. John’s, marquette and depaul, even if it’s once a year. why? Traditional schools, tradi­tional rivals, and we want to be in [philadelphia] because 
paid adverTisemenT 
no acc school plays there.” 
overall, phelps said he thinks the irish hit the jack­pot with the acc agreement. 
“it’s going to be the great­est thing we’ve done,” phelps said. “i give [director of athletics] Jack swarbrick all the credit. he delivered. it’s a big move for us in all ways. let’s get in it next year, and let the games begin.” 
Contact Andrew Owens at aowens2@nd.edu 
Keepers 
conTinued From page 20 
nation in goals-against-av­erage with a mark of .80. The notre dame keeper tandem, 
“It’s a nice thing for our team to have two really great keepers.” 
Bobby Clark 
Irish coach 
along with the defense, is tied for 24th in the nation for shut­out percentage with .50. 
“it’s a nice thing for our team to have two really great keepers,” clark said. “The goal keeping this season has been pretty solid. They both have done really well.” 
still refusing to commit to a single keeper, clark kept his preferences quiet on who will be starting the next game. 
“we evaluate during the week and we decide on a week-to-week basis,” clark said. 
The one certainty this wednesday as the irish take on indiana is — whether it is walsh or wall in the goal — a formidable keeper will be waiting to meet the hoosier offense. 
Contact Isaac Lorton at ilorton@nd.edu 





CROSSWORD | will shorTZ 


HIGHLY PUNLIKELY | chrisTopher brucKer 

LOWER YOUR EXPECTATIONS | rago & paTricKcross 


Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
SUDOKU | The mepham group 


HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: spencer Treat clark, 25; erin chambers, 33; nia vardalos, 50; Kevin sorbo, 54. 
Happy Birthday: a levelheaded approach to personal matters will also help your productivity at work. don’t let anyone burden you with responsibilities that don’t belong to you. don’t lose sight of your goals, but remember to take time out to indulge in activities that inspire and encourage you. Keep an open mind. your numbers are 6, 10, 27, 31, 36, 45, 47. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): don’t get into a scuffle over money or contracts. either the deal you are doing suits your needs, or it doesn’t. Keep things amiable so that you can readdress what you want to accomplish when you are likely to get a better reception. 


TAURUS (April 20-May 20): stick to the job you are asked to do and move on. let­ting emotions affect the way you perform will hurt your reputation. put pressure on anyone who is not contributing equally. accept change positively and you will avoid criticism. 


GEMINI (May 21-June 20): put your skills to work. demonstrate and articulate what you have to offer. networking and reconnecting with people you have worked with will pay off. ask and favors will be granted. love is highlighted. 


CANCER (June 21-July 22): experiment with ideas and you will come up with a tangible way to best use your skills. Traveling or getting involved in activities foreign to you will help you elaborate and execute an idea you want to get off the ground. 


LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Fix whatever isn’t working for you. anger won’t solve anything, but doing what works best for you will. don’t waste time when change is what’s required. speak up and announce what you are doing and proceed with confidence. 


VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): impulse is the enemy. Take a backseat and let others take chances. Focus on you and being the best you can be. meditation or putting more time and energy into your past, present and future will lead to greater mind­fulness and inner success. 

LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): choose your words wisely. opposition at home can be expected. concentrate on work, money and saving. use diplomacy and charm in order to reach an agreement. a change of heart can be expected if someone disap­points you. compromise will lead to victory.  


SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Try something new. a break from your routine will help you see projects or people differently. an emotional situation will be difficult to rectify due to limitations set by someone else. Travel down the path that leads to your success. 


SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): go on an adventure. romance is highlighted. plan a little excitement, travel and playtime and you will enhance a relationship that brings about positive changes. Take care of professional problems swiftly so you can move forward. 


CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): avoid anyone trying to instigate something you don’t want any part of. avoid rumors or taking part in a situation that will hurt someone’s reputation. Taking the high road will lead to your advancement. Keep travel and communication to a minimum. 


AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): abide by the rules when it comes to financial, legal or medical decisions. dealing with institutions will be difficult if you show anger. put your energy into love, home and family as well as accumulating what you need to improve your lifestyle. 


PISCES (Feb. 19- March 20): alter your home to better suit your needs. having a workspace that will inspire you to be more productive will bring positive results. a skill you have can be used more diversely. one of your peers, friends or a pet may need your help. 


Birthday Baby: you are direct, persuasive, observant and honor your beliefs. 
JUMBLE | david hoyT and JeFF KnureK 

make checks payable to and mail to: enclosed is $130 for one academic year enclosed is $75 for one semester  The observer p.o. box 779 notre dame, in 46556  
name address city       state  Zip  


OBSERVER EXCLUSIVE 

WOMEN’S INTERHALL FOOTBALL 
Phelps applauds ACC move 
Former Irish coach says University will benefit with the move 
By ANDREW OWENS 
assistant managing editor 
several years before he landed his dream job as the irish men’s basketball coach, richard “digger” phelps called then-football coach ara parseghian and told him he intended to use basketball to promote the university’s brand the way parseghian did east and get into the atlantic coast conference when [con­ference realignment] was starting to happen.” 
phelps said the migration to the acc made perfect sense for the university, and not only for its athletic programs. 
“nothing against the big Ten or the big 12, but the to keep our power base going with all these cities to play in.” 
with college football mov­ing to a four-team playoff sys­tem in 2014, phelps said notre dame’s primary objective was to remain a powerful voice in the sport moving forward and retaining its ability to play for national championships. 
“i didn’t like the way we, 

opening drive secures lyons win 
By SAMANTHA ZUBA 
sport writer 
lyons’ opening-drive touchdown proved to be just enough to defeat badin, as the lyonites earned a 6-0 win sunday. 
The lyonites (1-1) started from their 48-yard line after Kareh dominated the line of scrimmage. 
Fifth-year quarterback carli Fernandez returned to the field for badin (0-2) af­ter missing the team’s first game. badin senior captain Tommasina domel said Fernandez helped the team settle down on offense, al­

a badin punt and pushed the though the bullfrogs were 

power structure for us as a university with alumni clubs is chicago and milwaukee to new orleans and east all the way to maine to Florida. That’s who we are,” he said. “we’ve still got southern california and the bay area, dallas and the rest of Texas, but the ma­jority of our clubs and power bases, especially for develop­ment and fundraising is east of the mississippi [river]. 
“That to me gives us that instant credibility, not just for recruiting athletics, but with football. 
as an independent, could ball down the field quick-unable to score. 

a 
 few years later, 
survive and get in the bcs 

ly. The drive ended when “it helped having 
notre our 
dame hired phelps to coach 
beginning with the 1971-1972 
national championship 

freshman receiver mary-regular quarterback back,” 
game,” he said. “i thought all 

sue Kaetzer pulled down domel said. “she’s been our 
the bcs conferences were go-

a long touchdown pass in quarterback the last four 
ing to forget notre dame. so 

the right corner of the end years, and i could move back 
from that standpoint, how do we get credibility and respect back?” 
phelps said the acc pro­vides an optimal landing spot for irish athletics and should not alter notre dame’s foot­ball scheduling tendencies too drastically. 
“so now we play five acc schools in football,” he said. “That means you still have [the possibility] of scheduling michigan, purdue, michigan state, southern cal, navy and two other schools, like 
see phelps PAGE 18 
zone to put the lyonites on the board. senior captain christina bramanti said scoring first was important for the lyonites after they were shutout last week. 
“i think that gave us the confidence to keep going,” bramanti said. “i thought we were finally the team i thought we could be.” 
lyons displayed stout de­fense as well. bramanti re­turned an interception more than 70 yards, and the duo of freshman defensive lineman alexa lodenquai and senior defensive lineman aurora to receiver, where i belong.” 
The bullfrogs showed po­tential on offense, as junior receiver Jane herrmann made several receptions for long gains. 
in the end, though, the lyons defense dominated, as it prevented badin from scoring on a final drive in the last minute of the game. 
both teams will face breen­phillips next. lyons will try to keep rolling against the babes on Tuesday, while badin will look for its first 
see lyons PAGE 14 
he won nearly 400 
season. 
and graduated ev­
games 
ery four-year athlete during a span of 20 seasons while taking his teams across the country to challenge the na­tion’s best. now, over 20 years after his retirement and with the ink drying on the newly signed deal with the atlantic coast conference (acc), phelps sees the move as the newest method to maximize the university’s brand. 
“Two years ago, i started pushing us for the acc,” said phelps, who now works as a college basketball analyst for espn. “i just felt that it was time for us to get out of the big 
MEN’S SOCCER 

Tandem goalkeepers defend irish net 
By ISAAC LORTON 
sports writer 
it would seem to be a prob­lem for a team to not have one elite goalkeeper who has played in every game. For most teams, lacking one elite goalkeeper is a problem. in the case of notre dame, it’s a good problem, as the irish have two elite keepers. 
The irish can rest easy in any game, knowing either fifth-year senior will walsh or junior patrick wall has con­trol of the goal. 
last season, as a senior, walsh started every match and went 9-5-4 in the 18 matches. he had five shutouts with a 0.83 goals-against-av­erage (gaa) and a .795 save percentage. 
as a sophomore, wall played in the last five minutes of the regular-season finale with the irish up 4-0 against seton hall. 
with another year of eli­gibility, walsh seemed to be the clear shoo-in for starter at the keeper position. however, irish coach bobby clark gave wall a chance to prove him­self in the offseason and then in the preseason games on a rotating basis with walsh. after a sterling preseason performance, clark has given him three starting nods this season and has consistently rotated the keepers. 
“we started doing this in the preseason, and it seemed to work out,” clark said. “Then we continued doing it into the season and they have both done really well.” 
This season the duo has put up four clean sheets in eight matches — three belong to walsh while one belongs to wall. prior to louisville’s first goal on saturday, walsh and wall had a combined scoreless streak of over 268 minutes. walsh and wall have given up only six goals and are 33rd in the country in goals-against­average of .74. on an individ­ual basis, walsh is 46th in the 
see Keepers PAGE 18 


JULIE HERDER | The Observer 

Irish junior goalkeeper Patrick Wall lines up to defend the goal during Notre Dame’s 3-1 victory over       Akron on Sept. 9. Wall and fifth-year senior Will Walsh share the role of Irish goalkeeper. 




