
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


SUB hosts literary festival 
Authors visit campus for readings, panel at annual event 

By ANN MARIE JAKUBOWSKI 
News Writer 
Four renowned authors will visit campus this week for the annual Notre Dame Literary Festival (NDLF). 
Sponsored by the Student Union Board (SUB), the 45th annual festival begins today and ends Thursday. The event is organized by a committee of students and co-chaired this year by junior Arnav Dutt and sophomore Aubrey Butts. 
Dutt, who worked on the committee last year before becoming co-chair this year, said he was pleased with this year’s lineup of writers. 

“We are very excited be­cause we were able to get all of the people we invited, and that’s a big deal to us because it’s not easy to do,” Dutt said. 
The set includes poet Dan­iel Borzutzky, novelists Jaimy Gordon and Blake Butler, and Bonnie Jo Campbell, novelist and short story writer. 
Dutt said the NDLF commit­tee selects which writers to invite by reading a variety of literary works and then con-


Event raises funds for homeless 
SGA introduces new organizational structure 
By TABITHA RICKETTS 
News Writer 
Major changes are in the works for next year’s Student Government Association (SGA) at Saint Mary’s. 
Senior Emily Skirtich, SGA chief of staff, introduced the new structure in a slideshow presentation Monday night. 
“We’ve broken up [SGA] to cover all aspects of student life,” Skirtich said. “We don’t want to have the power con­solidated in one place.” 
The voting body will be re­structured into five councils and one senate. 
The updated SGA will have a minimum of 15 new elected po­sitions under the new Student Senate, comprised of four ris­ing seniors, four rising juniors and four rising sophomores, in addition to three first year stu­dents who will be elected next fall. 
“[SGA is] a small, sample population of the student body,” Skirtich said. “That’s why we broke it up by class — to get fair, objective represen­tation.” 
Senators’ responsibilities will include voting on the SGA budget and approving legisla­tion for the Student Activities Board, Residence Hall Associ­ation, Student Diversity Board and Class Boards. 
Senior Liz Busam, SGA ex­ecutive treasurer, said the Senate’s job will be to effect change on campus. 
“The job of the Senate is to be a governing body that is able to pass legislature and make changes,” Busam said. 
SGA will include a six-branch split of executive pow­ers, run under the direction of the student body president and vice president, as well as the vice presidents of internal and external affairs and finance, respectively. 
The Council of Activities, 

see CHANGES/page 4 
sulting with professors. 
“We took a lot of recommen­dations from professors in the English department, and read stuff by the authors to try to determine who we’d be able to bring,” he said. 
Dutt said English profes­sor William O’Rourke helped bring author Jaimy Gordon, winner of the 2010 National Book Award for fiction, to campus for the festival. 
Gordon won the award for her best-selling novel, “Lord 

see LITERARY/page 4 




Week explores ethics of financial sector 
By MARISA IATI 
News Writer 
The Mendoza College of Business (MCOB) is challeng­ing members of the Notre Dame community to discuss the financial services industry and its role in the current eco­nomic crisis this week. 
Notre Dame’s Ethics Week 2012, which began Monday and continues through Thurs­day, offers a series of lectures that examine the risk factors large firms face and how eth­ics come into play in the finan­cial services industry. 
The talks take place each day at 12:30 p.m. in MCOB’s Giovanini Commons. 
Jessica McManus, professor of business ethics, said MCOB chose this year’s theme of “Failed versus ‘Fantastic’ Fi­nancial Institutions” because the way financial institutions operate affects consumers, in­vestors and citizens. 
“Mendoza has a strong tradi­tion of looking at the ‘Ask More of Business’ framework, which involves individual integrity, organizational effectiveness and greater good at the macro level,” she said. “The finan­cial services industry has rel­evance to all three areas.” 
McManus said accountancy professor Ken Milani founded Ethics Week to honor the late John Houck, who was a profes­sor of management. 
She said the event strives to take an in-depth look at ethi­cal issues, giving students the opportunity to learn firsthand from people in the industry. 
“While we have a required ethics course [in MCOB], this is a way to learn from people in the field who are kind of on the front lines of these kinds of issue in the business world,” McManus said. 
Brian Levey, professor of business law and ethics, said the financial services sector is particularly relevant to ethics studies because it goes through cycles of scandal and stability. 
“Maybe regulation isn’t enough,” Levey said. “Maybe we need to focus on not only what’s lawful, but also on what the right thing to do is.” 
MCOB aims to offer a wide range of perspectives through the Ethics Week lectures, Mc-Manus said. Presenters include faculty members as well as practicing businesspeople. 
see ETHICS/page 5 


By DREW PANGRAZE 
News Writer 

The men of Siegfried Hall will brave the frigid February weather Wednesday in nothing but a T-shirt, shorts and flip-flops. 
The annual event, called the “Day of Man,” helps raise mon­ey for the South Bend Center for the Homeless. 
Sophomore Eddie Linczer, Siegfried Hall president, said the Ramblers will take shifts accepting donations across campus throughout the day. 
“All the men of Siegfried will be carrying around cups to ac­cept donations,” Linczer said. “We will be standing outside of both dining halls at meal times and classroom buildings in between periods in order to raise money.” 
Day of Man Commissioner junior Andrew Ritter said the event is about more than just raising money.  
“It also works to raise awareness that many people in the South Bend community fight the incessant cold of win­ter,” he said. “They are cold ev-has grown in recognition and become one of Siegfried Hall’s signature events, Ritter said. 

“The event does a good job of uniting the guys under one cause,” he said. “There’s noth­ing quite like the camaraderie of guys standing outside in the cold, freezing together, that 
see MAN/page 5 

ery day, so we exaggerate the situation…to raise awareness. As we say, if the homeless are cold every day, why can’t we be for one [day]?” 
Day of Man is now in its sixth year. Former Rambler Robbie Bernardin came up with the idea for the fundraiser back in 2007. 
Over the years, Day of Man 
INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER SGA promotes mission statement page 3 u Viewpoint page 6 u Valentine’s Day movies page 8 u Women’s basketball vs. Providence preview page 16 
page 2 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u DAY-TO-DAY Tuesday, February 14, 2012 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHO WAS YOUR FAVORITE GRAMMY WINNER? 

www.ndsmcobserver.com P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 Editor-in-Chief Douglas Farmer Managing Editor Business Manager Sarah Mervosh Jeff Liptak Asst. Managing Editor: Adriana Pratt Asst. Managing Editor: Chris Masoud News Editor: Megan Doyle Viewpoint Editor: Meghan Thomassen Sports Editor: Allan Joseph Scene Editor: Maija Gustin Saint Mary’s Editor: Caitlin E. Housley Photo Editor: Pat Coveney Graphics Editor: Brandon Keelean Advertising Manager: Katherine Lukas Ad Design Manager: Amanda Jonovski Controller: Jason Taulman Systems Administrator: William Heineman Office Manager & General Info (574) 631-7471 Fax (574) 631-6927 Advertising (574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu Editor-in-Chief (574) 631-4542 dfarmer1@nd.edu Managing Editor (574) 631-4542 smervosh@nd.edu Assistant Managing Editors (574) 631-4541 apratt@nd.edu, cmasoud@nd.edu Business Office (574) 631-5313 News Desk (574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com Viewpoint Desk (574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com Sports Desk (574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com Scene Desk (574) 631-4540 mgustin@nd.edu Saint Mary’s Desk chousl01@saintmarys.edu Photo Desk (574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com Systems & Web Administrators (574) 631-8839 Policies The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor­in-Chief Douglas Farmer. Post Office Information The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame and P.O. Box 779 additional mailing offices 024 South Dining hall Notre Dame, IN 46556-077 The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved.  
TODAY’S STAFF News Sports Sara Felsenstein Kelsey Manning Marisa Iati Jack Hefferon Adam Llorens Walker Carey Graphics Scene Elisa De Castro Alex Kilpatrick Photo Viewpoint Sarah O’Connor Ren Brauweiler  
CORRECTIONS In the Feb. 13 edition of The Observer, a photo caption misnamed the musician who performed at the halftime show of the women’s basketball game against West Virginia on Sunday as Tim Scott. The muscian’s actual name is Tim Stop. The Observer regrets this error. In the Feb. 13 edition, the article “Observer announces new editorial board” mentioned sophomore Kevin Noonan would be joining the Editorial Board, but did not provide details of Noonan’s appointment. Noonan, a marketing major living in Zahm House, will serve as Scene Editor in the 2012-13 year. Noonan will assume his position after spring break. The Observer regrets this error.  
HIGH 35 LOW 28 


Tori White  Rob Luceri  Kelsey Weber  J.B. Britian  Jason Wang  Dre White  
freshman  sophomore  freshman  junior  sophomore  freshman  
Ryan  Duncan  Ryan  Duncan  Duncan  Duncan  
“I didn’t even  “Kanye West”  “Adele”  “Katy Perry”  “Betty White!  “I didn’t watch.”  
watch it!”  LOL, she  
actually won  
one.”  


Have an idea for Question of the Day? Email obsphoto@gmail.com 

OFFBEAT 
VW beetle pulls over pickup driver 
ELIZABETHTON, Tenn. — A Volkswagen beetle owned by the Carter County Sher­iff’s Department became an improvised pursuit vehicle 
— at about 20 mph. The beetle won. 
Deputy Shane Watson was leaving the courthouse Feb.2 when a man reported a pickup truck being driven erratically. Watson jumped into the bug and soon caught up with it. He turned on the little car’s lights and siren, but the driver ignored him, according to The John­son City Press. 
Deciding the women be­hind the wheel showed no signs of stopping for a red light, Watson went around her and braked, expecting to sacrifice the beetle, but the truck stopped inches off the back bumper. 

Driver Cynthia Ann An­des of Hampton said she drank half a liter of vodka and took prescription pain pills. 
Ky. school officials say bedbugs at school a hoax 
AUGUSTA, Ky. — Au­gusta Independent School Principal Robin Kelsch had enough to worry about with the flu. Kelsch didn’t need a student’s report of bedbugs at the school to make things worse. 
But, that’s what he got. 
Kelsch told The Ledger Independent that the report turned out to be a hoax, but school office phones were ringing with concerned par­ents on the other end. 
Kelsch said the rumor started when a student brought in a water bug and squashed it, then told her friends it was a bedbug “just to scare them.” 
Kelsch said officials checked the school, then bleached and cleaned it and found “absolutely no” bed­bugs. 
As far as can be deter­mined, Kelsch said, no one used the bedbug rumor as an excuse to skip school. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
IN BRIEF 
Sonnetfest 2012 will be held in the Great Hall of O’Shaughnessy Hall from 11 a.m. to 3 p.m. today. The event features a sequential reading of Shakespeare’s 154 sonnets. Light re­freshments will be served and the event is free and open to the public. 
The Ethics Week lecture, “Success or Worth: What is True Net Worth?” will be held in the Giovanini Commons of the Mendoza College of Business from 
12:30 to 1:30 p.m. today. 
Samuel Handlin will give a lecture titled “The Politics of Polarization: Legitimacy Crises, Fac­tional Contestation, and the Consolidation of South America’s ‘Two Lefts’” to­day at 12:30 p.m. in Room C103 of the Hesburgh Cen­ter. 
Richard Guan will pres­ent a seminar titled “Nano­pore Stochastic Sensing: A Versatile Tool” today at 
3:30 p.m. in in Room 115 of DeBartolo Hall. 
The Notre Dame wom­en’s basketball team will take on Providence College in the Purcell Pavilion at the Joyce Center at 7 p.m. tonight. 
The Compton Family Ice Arena will host Valen­tine’s Speed Dating from 11 p.m. to 12 a.m. tonight. Free food and beverages will be provided. 
To submit informa­tion to be included in this section of The Observer, email detailed informa­tion about an event to obsnews.nd@gmail.com 

LOCAL WEATHER 

TODAY TONIGHT TUESDAY WEDNESDAY THURSDAY FRIDAY 










HIGH 41 LOW 35 
HIGH 39 LOW 30 

HIGH 37 LOW 27 
HIGH 40 LOW 28 

Tuesday, February 14, 2012 The Observer u NEWS ndsmcobserver.com | page 3 




SGA  promotes College mission statement 
By KEELIN McGEE 
News Writer 
Love one another. Celebrate di­versity. Extend hospitality. Strive for unity. 
These are the four guiding prin­ciples of the Saint Mary’s College Mission Statement, values that students and faculty will have the opportunity to thoroughly reflect on this week. 
Junior Silvia Cuevas, mis­sion commis­
values,” Cuevas said. “Each ban­ner has one of the four different values of either ‘love one another,’ ‘celebrate diversity,’ ‘extend hos­pitality’ or ‘strive for unity.’” 
Cuevas said she hopes this week’s new displays around cam­pus will help get students and fac­ulty interested in continuing the College’s mission. 
“The two displays each have a poster of the French cross with the mission statement and our 
core values, along 

sioner for Saint “We are given the with sheets for Mary’s Student students to sign 
mission statement 
Government their names,” 
freshman year, but we 
Association Cuevas said. 
tend to forget about it.” 
(SGA), said the “There are also Mission Coun-booklets and 
Silvia Cuevas 
cil has set up bookmarks for displays in the mission commissioner students to take.” 
Student Center SGA atrium and the Cushwa-Leigh­ton library to remind the Saint Mary’s community of the Col­lege’s mission in education, faith and service. 
Students can sign their names on a sheet next to the displays, af­firming their support of the mis­sion statement. 
“The Mission Council and my­self thought it was important to promote the mission statement, especially toward students, to know what we stand for and what we believe,” Cuevas said. “We are given the mission statement freshman year, but we tend to forget about it.” 
Students may be unaware that the core values of the mission statement are all around them as they hurry to class each day, Cue­vas said. 
“All of the banners [on the light poles] promote this year’s core The displays 
are not the only 
way students can reflect on the College’s mission statement, Cuevas said. 
“When I look around, our girls are always doing something, they are always on their feet,” Cue­vas said. “Whether it’s with their clubs or in the community, they are always promoting the core values even if they don’t know it.” 
Cuevas said she hopes the ini­tiative will extend to other as­pects of Saint Mary’s life. 
“I hope this project will be ex­panded in the future and in a way where we can promote the mis­sion at our events around cam­pus,” she said. “I also hope that for those who work in the com­munity and are a part of clubs will keep the mission in mind as they do these activities.” 
Contact Keelin McGee at                  kmcgee01@saintmarys.edu 

CAMPUS LIFE COUNCIL 

Group discusses sustainability strategy 
By NICOLE TOCZAUER 
News Writer 

Members of the Campus Life Council (CLC) discussed how to best meet goals set by the com­prehensive Sustainability Strat­egy and 2030 Challenge in their meeting Monday. 
Student body president Pat McCormick said student gov­ernment’s plan focuses on con­serving resources, reducing emissions by 50 percent per gross square foot by 2030 and increasing awareness of the connection between sustain­ability and Notre Dame’s mis­sion. 
“It is of note to recognize [University President] Fr. Jen­kins for signing the St. Francis pledge [Nov. 30], which focuses on the adaption of poor popu­lations and climate change,” McCormick said. “We want to go from setting these goals to implementing them, given their connections to Catholic teach­ing.” 
Dr. Rachel Novick, education and outreach program manag­er for the Office of Sustainabili­ty, said the Green Summit V will be the next big event on campus to promote sustainability. 
“This year’s theme is trans­portation and it will be held in Stepan Center so we can bring in electric and alternative fuel vehicles, as well as other exhib­its,” she said. “It will be on [Feb. 
29] over lunch.” 

Members of the CLC also dis­cussed how sustainability prac­tices in dorms and classroom buildings can work to reduce waste. 
Sr. Mary Donnelly, rector of Pangborn Hall, said hydration stations located in dorms could lessen the number of plastic bottles used on campus. 
“We use a lot of plastic water bottles because the water tastes terrible,” Donnelly said. “The hall president asked if we could get [a hydration station] to pro­vide filtered water.” 
Novick said the University Ar­chitect’s Office fully integrated this idea into its designs since it has begun renovating dorms. Four dorms have these stations now, she said. 
“We need to move faster than that, but we need to find out how to fund it,” she said. “With each installation, it’s a couple thousand dollars. It’s especially a priority for DeBartolo Hall as a main classroom building.” 
The other route to waste re­duction in dorms includes re­cycling and purchasing energy star appliances, McCormick said. Donnelly said providing larger recycling bins would en-courage more students to think about what they throw away. 

“The recycle bin is smaller than the trash bin. Can it be flipped?” she said. “The visual cue would help.” 
Novick said these and other concerns can be reported to the Office of Sustainability on its website. 
“There are places on campus that need to be fixed, like rooms with lights but no switch, or a radiator that won’t turn off,” she said. “We find someone who can address it.” 
Novick said the best way to solve the sustainability issue on campus is to change campus culture. 
“Do you just walk away and leave lights on? We need to change it so that we say we pri­oritize this and will take the ex­tra time,” she said. 
Contact Nicole Toczauer at              ntoczaue@nd.edu 


page 4 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u NEWS Tuesday, February 14, 2012 


Students learn about Jewish prayer, history 

By  CAROLYN GARCIA 
News Writer 
Each day, masses take place in chapels all over campus, but in the Hammes Student Lounge Monday night students gathered to learn about Jewish prayer and history. 
On Monday night, Campus Ministry’s Prayer Around the World series hosted a rabbi from a South Bend temple to help students connect aspects of Jewish prayer to their own spiritual lives. 
Rabbi Eric J. Siroka of South Bend’s Temple Beth-El spoke about the role of the media in historical and contemporary Jewish prayer. 
“I wanted to look at the con­cept of media, which is any­thing having to do with com­munication,” Siroka said. “How do we go from an oral tradition to a written tradition to a print­ed tradition to a digital com­munication tradition and yet weave through the sacredness of a given religious tradition?” 
A frequent guest-lecturer at Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s in the political science and theology departments, he has participated in the Prayer from Around the World series for six years. 
Coordinated through Campus Ministry, Prayer from Around the World provides a forum for members of the Notre Dame community to learn about and take part in different religious traditions. 
Siroka said that the Jewish tradition has always faced the challenge of how to incorporate new media in appropriate ways, and technology is just another point on the continuum. 
“No matter how we look at media, the communal wor­ship experience is all about relationships,” he said. “It’s not about the material we use, it’s how we use it that becomes im­portant.” 
Saint Mary’s College fresh­men Hillary Burton and Lorena Mirmontes said they attended the talk as part of their Intro­duction to Religious Studies course, but were also personal­ly intrigued by the opportunity to learn more about Judaism. 
Before taking the course, Burton said, she had never studied other religions besides her own, and feels that doing so helps to broaden her perspec­tive. 
“It’s good to get an under­standing of where other people are coming from in their faith,” Burton said. 
Mirmontes said she was ea­ger to learn more about the faith of her Jewish friends and to gain deeper knowledge of other religions. 
“We’ve had so much exposure to our own faith,” Mirmontes said. “I think college is a good time to explore other beliefs and see how they are different and how they are similar to our own.” 
Priscilla Wong, associate di­rector for Campus Ministry’s Cross-Cultural Ministry, orga­nized the Prayer Around the World series. 
She said a graduate student first came to her with the idea for the series eight years ago. The student wanted a series of faith-related talks for the grad­uate student population, which contains a range of faith back­grounds, Wong said. 
Wong said Campus Ministry decided to focus the series on prayers from different religious traditions, making it more ac­cessible to people of different faiths. 
“We thought it would be good to help people actually get a feel for what other people do in their faith, and the common thing that we share is prayer,” she said. 
She said another goal for the series is to help those who attend to develop spiritually within their own respective re­ligions. 
““I think that as we are ex­posed to something different, it helps us to appreciate what we do in our own tradition,” Wong said. “It’s up to each individual to grow from that experience.” 
Contact Carolyn Garcia at         cgarcia7@nd.edu 


Literary 
continued from page 1 
of Misrule”. 

“The professors here are well-connected with other au­thors, so they’re a big help,” Dutt said. 
O’Rourke, who teaches “Lord of Misrule” in his fall graduate fiction workshop, said he had first intended to bring Gordon to campus for a reading sponsored by the Cre­ative Writing Program. 
“I’ve known Jaimy Gordon for over thirty years, and since she won the 2010 Na­tional Book Award for fiction, I knew she would be getting a lot of requests for readings,” O’Rourke said. “In the fall, I mentioned to [Dutt] that I had arranged for her to come in the spring and suggested, be­cause of her prominence, that we could share her with the literary festival if they were interested.” 
Borzutzky’s Tuesday night poetry reading will take place in the Geddes Hall coffee­house and the other readings will be held in the Eck Visitors Center. 
Dutt said that he hopes the readings will have appeal for non-English majors as well. 
“We expect to get the read­ing major types in the audi­ence, but we like to think that we’re serving the whole stu­dent body, that there’s some­thing in these authors that anyone can get behind,” Dutt said. 
Gordon and Campbell will also hold a panel discussion, titled “Writing and Weather­ing the Literary World in the 
mittee chairs. Each commit­
tee chair will have the power 
to appoint a minimum of two continued from page 1 and a maximum of five mem­
bers to their committee. Council of Class Boards, “You have a voice and an Council of Committee Chairs, opinion in a lot of the big issues Student Academic Council and that are going on around Saint Council of Mary’s.” Clubs will Ski rtich 

Changes 

“I think the new structure 
also offer said. “It’s 
will really help the flow 
new oppor-really in-
of information from those 
tunities for creasing
who make the decisions 
student in-student
down to those who are 
volvement. participa-
The new affected by them.” tion … Our Council of old struc-Committee Liz Busam ture just Chairs of-wasn’t
executive treasurer 
fers a min-serving all 
Student Government Association 
imum of the pur­30 new ap-poses that pointed positions for students. 2012 necessitates. I think it’s 
Ten committee chairs are important for future posterity being proposed to SGA on and for future Belles. It’s a step Wednesday, including a Com-towards mittee for Social Concerns, an a better International Committee, a student 21st Century,” in the Notre Dame Room of LaFortune Stu­dent Center on Thursday. 
Dutt said the panel will em­phasize taking questions from students. 
“They’ll talk about what it’s like to be a writer and really focus on connecting with stu­dents,” he said. 
Dutt said he expects the Borzutzky and Butler read­ings to be very accessible, even to students who are not familiar with their work. 
“Gordon and Campbell are more of ‘writers’ writers’ in the sense that you appreciate them more if you’ve read their novels, but Borzutzky and Butler are very accessible for someone who just wants to go on a lark,” Dutt said. 
Contact Ann Marie Jakubowski at ajakubo1@nd.edu 

Committee of Food Services, govern-“We’re trying to streamline a lot student a Sustainability Committee ment.” of our efforts, collaborate forces govern ­and a Committee of First Year T h e and operate more efficiently.” ment po-Concerns. Student sition s “I think the new structure Academ-Feb. 15
Emily Skirtich 
will really help the flow of ic Coun-and 16 at 
chief of staff 
information from those who cil will 6 p.m. in 
Student Government Association 
make the decisions down to be com-the stu-
The Council of Class Boards will contain the president and vice president for each class of Saint Mary’s students, as elected by the students. 
The Council of Activities also has elected positions, and contains the offices of Resi­dent Hall Association presi­dent and vice president, the Student Activities Board pres­ident and vice president and the Student Diversity Board president and vice president. 
The Council of Clubs will include the presidents, vice presidents, and treasurers of the approximately 80 clubs on campus. 
“We’re trying to streamline a lot of our efforts, collaborate forces and operate more effi­ciently,” Skirtich said. 
Informational meetings will be held for those interested in 
running 
for next 
yea r’s 
dent gov­ernment office of 
the Saint Mary’s Student Cen­ter. 
Contact Tabitha Ricketts at tricke01@saintmarys.edu 

those who are affected by them,” Busam said. “Overall it’s going to benefit the student body and make everything we do more efficient.” 
The student body president and the vice president of in­ternal affairs choose the com­prised of aca­demic representatives chosen by the educational departments to serve as liaisons between those departments and the student body. 

Tuesday, February 14, 2012 The Observer u NEWS ndsmcobserver.com | page 5 

Ethics 
continued from page 1 
“Typically, we look at alum­ni because a lot of graduates of the University or friends of the University are people whose careers have taken them into these industries, but who also connect with the University and speak well with the students who are here,” she said. 
Levey said part of the goal of Ethics Week is to encour­age people to discuss business ethics inside and outside the classroom. 
“It’s not necessarily to pres­ent a single point of view, but to present a variety of differ­ent ways of looking at a prob­lem,” he said. 
Ethics Week presentations are purposefully designed to be more intimate than many academic lectures, and they provide an opportunity for at­tendees to ask questions, Mc-Manus said. 
“I hope that people will get a good sense of the cur­rent trends and the status of some of the decisions that are being made right now, [and] that people will come up with [an] up-to-date, relevant un­derstanding of the financial services industry and the re­lationship of ethics and integ­rity to these questions,” she said.  

McManus said ethics is wo­ven throughout MCOB’s un­dergraduate and graduate curriculums. The College fo-cuses on creating human and social capital, as well as envi­ronmental innovation. 

“Ethics is part of our DNA at Mendoza,” she said. “I think that thanks in large part to the leadership of former Dean [Carolyn] Woo, we really have this sense of asking more of business.” 
Contact Marisa Iati at miati@nd.edu 



Obama announces budget plan 
By Associated Press 
WASHINGTON — Taking a pass on reining in government growth, President Barack Obama unveiled a record $3.8 trillion election-year budget plan Monday, calling for stim­ulus-style spending on roads and schools and tax hikes on the wealthy to help pay the costs. The ideas landed with a thud on Capitol Hill. 
Though the Pentagon and a number of Cabinet agencies would get squeezed, Obama would leave the spiraling growth of health care pro­grams for the elderly and the poor largely unchecked. The plan claims $4 trillion in defi­cit savings over the coming decade, but most of it would be through tax increases Re­publicans oppose, lower war costs already in motion and budget cuts enacted last year in a debt pact with GOP law­makers. 
Many of the ideas in the White House plan for the 2013 budget year will be thrashed out during this year’s election campaigns as the Republi­cans try to oust Obama from the White House and add Sen­ate control to their command of the House. 

“We can’t just cut our way into growth,” Obama said at a campaign-style rally at a community college in the vote-rich Northern Virginia suburbs. “We can cut back on the things that we don’t need, but we also have to make sure that everyone is paying their fair share for the things that we do need.” 
Republicans were unim­pressed. While the measure contains some savings to Medicare and Medicaid, gen­erally by reducing payments to health providers, both pro­grams would double in size over the coming decade. 
“It seems like the president has decided again to cam­paign instead of govern and that he’s just going to duck this country’s fiscal prob­lems,” said House Budget Committee Chairman Paul Ryan, R-Wis. 
By the administration’s reckoning, the deficit would drop to $901 billion next year 
— still requiring the govern­ment to borrow 24 cents of every dollar it spends — and would settle in the $600 bil­lion-plus range by 2015.The deficit for the current budget year, which ends Sept. 30, would hit $1.3 trillion, a near record and the fourth straight year of trillion-plus red ink. 
Obama’s budget blueprint reprises a long roster of prior proposals: raising taxes on couples making more than $250,000 a year; eliminating numerous tax breaks for oil and gas companies, and ap­proving a series of smaller tax and fee proposals. Similar proposals failed even when the Democrats controlled Congress. 
Man 
continued from page 1 
pulls people together. 
“The event also lets the guys contribute back to the com­munity and become an inte­gral part of it by helping out such a worthy cause with all of the other Ramblers.” 
He said the fundraising goal for this year is to reach $7,000 in donations. 
Ritter said that each year, advertising has been the big­gest challenge. 
“We want to make sure word gets out early that the event is coming because students do not typically carry much mon­ey with them around campus,” he said. “More importantly, advertising brings aware­ness … Any help for the event would be much appreciated.” 
The men of Siegfried will also be sporting an official Day of Man T-shirt tomorrow. Extra shirts will be sold in Siegfried Hall, Ritter said. 
“Anyone is more than wel­come to buy one,” he said. “Proceeds from the shirt [will] contribute to the fund-raising effort.” 
Contact Drew Pangraze at apangraz@nd.edu 


NJ Senate bill recognizes same-sex marriages 


By Associated Press 
TRENTON, N.J. — In a move that supporters called a civil rights milestone, New Jersey’s state Senate on Monday passed a bill to recognize same-sex mar­riages, marking the first time state lawmakers officially en­dorsed the idea — despite the promise of a veto by Gov. Chris Christie. 
Monday’s vote was 24-16 in fa­vor of the bill, a major swing from January 2010, when the Senate rejected it 20-14. 
“It means the world isn’t chang­ing, it means the world has al­ready changed,” Steven Goldstein, chairman of the gay rights group Garden State Equality said after the vote. “So wake up and smell the equality.” 
Before the vote, Marsha Sha­piro squeezed the hand of her longtime partner Louise Wal­pin, and reflected on how a body that rejected gay marriage two years ago was about to change its stance. “The pride will overpower the sorrow,” she said. 
But opponents say it’s “an exer­cise in futility” even if the Assem­bly passes the bill Thursday as ex­pected, given Christie’s veto vow. 
Len Deo, president of New Jer­sey Family Policy Council, called the vote “something we have to go through” and said it would be made moot with a veto. 
While New Jersey differs from most states in that it has no law or state constitutional amend­ment banning gay marriage, neither its court nor lawmakers have allowed gay nuptials. Seven states and Washington, D.C., al­low gay marriage. Washington state joined the list Monday when Gov. Christine Gregoire signed a same-sex marriage law. 
In 2006, the New Jersey’s Su­preme Court ruled that the state had to give the legal protections of marriage to committed gay and lesbian couples, but that it need not call those protections marriage. 
Lawmakers responded by cre­ating civil unions rather than marriage. 
Gay rights advocates say civil unions have not provided true equality. They complain that they set up a separate and inherently unequal classification for gays — something social conservatives dispute. 
Seven gay couples, along with several of their children, filed a lawsuit last year to try to get the court to order gay nuptials be al­lowed. 



page 6 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com Tuesday, February 14, 2012 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Practice safe 

irrationality 
I think I understand irrationality bet­ter than most. It’s a part of my everyday life, even integral to my personality. Ask my friends; they’ll tell you. The amount of unreasonableness with which I approach every pos­sible daily situation Kevin Noonan can frustrate those around me at times. Scene Writer I know that; it’s one of the main reasons I do it. Things like “maturity” and “rationality” aren’t ex­actly staples of my vocabularic diet. 
And I, more than anyone, understand using irrationality to win an argument. I find myself often following the old prov­erb “Talk loudest and listen least and eventually your opponent will give up.” 
And people are always like, “That’s not true.” And, “You’re an idiot.” And, “Those two statements are not con­nected.” 
But I don’t care. No matter what, as long as I yell that at the top of my lungs and don’t listen to anything they say, I win once they give up. 
But irrationality and the abandon­ment of reason have a time and a place. And that time and place is when you’re trying to get your friends in a huff over some topic of miniscule or, even better, no importance solely for the purpose of your own personal entertainment. 
The time and place in which chaos-inducing rhetoric and mind-numbing foolishness are not appropriate is in the discussion of serious topics with the gravity and complexity that demand a measured, respectful debate. 
For instance, if two people are dis­cussing the merits of different candi­dates in this year’s election, and one person is screaming that all Republi­cans are Nazis and the other is yelling back that all Democrats are secretly Communist sleeper cells, then that conversation is not going to accomplish much. 
Or say someone expresses an opin­ion on the recent controversy over this university being forced to supply birth control in its health care plan. 
Now, if that person gives a reasonable argument for or against birth control, and someone responds with incendi­ary comments that viciously attack and insult the character, morals and/or intelligence of all those with whom he or she disagrees, then that respondent is incorrectly exercising irrationality, and is being a nincompoop. 
“But Kevin,” you say, “that’s absurd. No one would do something like that to someone’s face.” 
Well yeah. But take five minutes, find a news story on the internet on a con­troversial topic (or any youtube video) and read the comments. Once you’ve done that, take another five minutes, say a prayer for humanity, and then think about this every time you feel the need to comment on a topic, especially online. 
Read your comment aloud to yourself, and ask yourself, “Am I being an irra­tional jackwagon? Do I sound like Kevin Noonan right now? Because that kid’s an idiot, and nobody really likes him.” 
Then, realize that your comment probably won’t make a difference and will probably just serve to fuel the fires of people who haven’t read this. Once you’ve come to that realization, delete your comment, turn off your computer, go outside and be a productive member of society. 
Contact Kevin Noonan at      knoonan2@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


It’s all about the Zuck 
On Feb. 1, everyone’s Internet love af­fair (Facebook) filed its S-1 registration statement with the SEC. This is not the first tech IPO to occur in recent his­tory, but it is perhaps the most iconic and personal. The document unrav-Blake J. Graham els some startling truths about the Erudite company where Techno-Lust before there was only conjecture. The numbers and statistics of Facebook’s rise to success are codified in a government document available to the public domain: 845 million monthly active users, 2.7 billion likes and comments per day, 250 mil­lion photos uploaded daily and over 100 billion friendships. With a valuation of around $100 billion, Facebook has finally arrived. 
But wait. These users, likes, photos and friendships didn’t just materialize. We built this city just as much as Face­book did. Our romances, comments, heartfelt proclamations, drunken party photos, pokes, flourishing farms, animal pictures, memes, break ups and mirror pictures filled in the walls that Facebook developed. We, the collective members of the Facebooksphere — the Army of Zuck — turned this house into a home. It’s time enough to pat each other on the back. This coming of age for the Internet is also a coming of age for ourselves. 
In a letter to investors Mark Zuck­erberg said, “I started off by writing the first version of Facebook myself because it was something I wanted to exist.” Not because he wanted to become the preeminent hub of online interaction or make $30 billion dollars, but because he wanted Facebook to exist. In accordance with the numbers, it appears that we wanted it to exist as well. And because of our desire for a information nexus, we made choices 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

to give up certain liberties. Privacy has always been an issue with Facebook, and never have they clearly apologized for the manner in which they treat your data. But when something occurs on Facebook, you can be assured it will last. 
As a general rule, people will not stop to think before they offload their ad­dress, location, tastes, preferences, cred­it card number, closest relations, etc., to Facebook’s servers. It’s not because people assume that their data is secure (it isn’t), but because the dangling lure of being immersed in the Facebook ecosys­tem is too much. The result is a codepen­dency between the users and the service. Sherry Turkle, a professor at MIT and prominent writer, said, “I can’t think of another piece of passive software that has gotten so embedded in the cultural conversation to this extent before.” When people look at that gigantic $100 billion figure, they see success and are hesitant to make the connection that Facebook is profiting off the intimate details of your life. 
Facebook makes money in two main ways: advertising and Facebook pay­ments. They collect your life details to better target advertisements to your preferences and they take a cut of pay­ments made to companies like Zynga when you upgrade your Farm-, City- or Whatever-Ville. To achieve a valuation of $100 billion, each active Facebook user is worth a theoretical $117. 
But if you compare Facebook’s current methods of monetization, each user only generates $4.39. The level of information you share equates to a little under four percent of your theoretical worth. To remedy this, Facebook needs to extract significantly more data from you. To give you another comparison, if Facebook grows to three billion users — half the world’s population — it will only gener­ate $13.2 billion in revenue if it doesn’t find ways to get more money from your information. 
I pass no judgment on whether Face­book is good or bad for people, but I do know that now Facebook is a publicly traded company and it definitely has a bottom line imposed by its investors. Doing so will require higher levels of sharing and optimized advertisement placing. The processes have already been set into motion. The newest update to the Facebook photo viewer may ap­pear to be a nod to the Google+ viewer, or an attempt to better show images and comments together, but it has an effect of ad placement with higher click rates. The ticker may seem like a great place to see what’s going on instantly, but it also drives people to click on apps, songs, photos, etc. 
As Facebook works to meet that bot­tom line, its mission will begin to seem fuzzy. While Mark Zuckerberg may claim he intends “to make the world more open and connected,” it will become harder to accept for those with a keen eye. But you should also recognize that the savviest moneymakers are involved in putting such a high price tag on the service. They assume that increasing the user value from $4.39 to $117 is a surefire bet and nothing will get in the way of that happening. We, the users of Facebook, do have a sense of agency and are shareholders in a company where we invest our information. Zuckerberg may say, “We don’t build services to make money; we make money to build better services,” take heed of the transactions being made. Remember, Facebook is only as good as you and your 845 million best friends make it. 
Blake J. Graham is a freshman. He can be reached on Twitter @BlakeGraham or at bgraham2@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“Anyone who can handle a needle convincingly can make us see a thread which is not there.” 
E. H. Gombrich Austrian historian 


WEEKLY POLL 
How are you? 

“I’m Sexy and I Know It” “I’m Rollin’ Like a Big Shot” “Baby I’m a Firework” “I Found Love in a Hopeless Place” 
Vote by 5 p.m. Thursday at 
ndsmcobserver.com 


Tuesday, February 14, 2012 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 7 
Trading places: Engineering vs. Arts and Letters 
Throughout the past week I shadowed my friend enrolled in the College of Arts and Letters to explore, on a first-hand basis, the common complaint that nontech­nical majors do little work. I am a sophomore chemical engineering student and very involved with several clubs and organizations around campus. Life is busy. 
So, what do these students do all day? I must say I was less unimpressed than I expected to be going into the week. Discussion-based classes do teach critical thinking. Students in a moderated argument ultimately reach a narrower spec­trum of contestable material to analyze through collective thought and further debate. Understanding opposing rationales and viewpoints allows students to gain a more in-depth understanding of the subject and reach a self-realization of pos­sible solutions to a given problem. 
However, one criticism I have of the college is that the curriculum does not require students to have a higher level of technical proficiency. Scientific facts and technical knowledge are vital to analyzing societal problems and bettering one’s own world view. DNA patents, the right to life and ecological conservation are only a few examples of important discussions that require extensive technical knowl­edge to formulate an educated, factual argument. Students also need to know how to conduct research, analyze technical data and synthesize this data into a well-formulated argument in order to narrow the spectrum of argumentation. Having an opinion is far less valuable than having an opinion based in factual data. 
Whereas I could comprehend the upper-level Arts and Letters courses I at­tended (even having previously read an article they were to discuss the following week), nontechnical majors cannot sustain a discussion beyond general chemistry or elementary physics. This should not be the case. On the whole, yes, the home­work and general classwork is easier for these nontechnical majors, and it is far less time-consuming. But now I realize why. This is only true because engineer­ing and science majors at Notre Dame possess a high proficiency for the language arts. The same cannot be said about technical proficiency for nontechnical majors, hence the frustration behind the daily complaints. 
Recognize that we engineering and science majors should not demean the value of a liberal arts education. Rather, we should channel our complaints toward in­dividuals who do not use their free credits (something we are deprived) wisely or challenge themselves in pursuit of a technically balanced higher education. 
William Leigh 
sophomore Knott Hall Feb. 13 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 


Day of Man 
This Wednesday, Feb. 15, is Siegfried Hall’s Day of Man. Siegfried residents will wear only a T-shirt, shorts and sandals as a display of solidarity with the homeless of South Bend. On our way to classes and outside the dining halls, DeBartolo and Fieldhouse Mall, we will collect money from students and staff for the South Bend Center for the Homeless. 
By participating, we show solidarity with those who suffer from the cold South Bend winter on a regular basis. If the homeless are cold every day, why can’t we be cold for one day? We hope that our day of sacrifice will assist the individuals in our community who receive support from the Center for the Homeless. 
This Wednesday, we challenge you to support the homeless as the men of Sieg­fried brave the cold. We know this year may not reach the frigid conditions of previous years, but for the homeless, the cold is a challenge every day. Please bring money to class or to the dining hall. You can also send a check made out to “South Bend Center for the Homeless” to Fr. John Conley, CSC, 100 Siegfried Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556. We will accept donations throughout the month of February. Show some love for those in need, and help by donating whatever you can. 
Here at Siegfried Hall — where tough meets classy — we’re ready to make the sacrifice. Are you? 
Johnny Dang 
sophomore Siegfried Hall 
Andrew Ritter 
junior Siegfried Hall Feb. 13 


Fit for a coach 
Dear Coach Kelly, 

The men of 919 E. Washington St. cordially invite you to an evening of fine dining as a token of our appreciation for all your hard work. Our residence is home to eight Notre Dame seniors who are all equally passionate about our school’s football program and would be honored to host the head coach of the Fighting Irish at our humble abode. 
With our senior year concluding in a few short months, we feel that it would be a travesty not to at least attempt to reach out to you in the hopes that you might find it in your heart to accept our invitation. We also hope that you would appreciate this opportunity to casually meet some of the members of the Notre Dame community and  enjoy a free meal! 
We have tried to reach out to you over the past couple of months via Twitter, but, as a result of your schedule, we have not received a response. Therefore, we have drafted this Observer letter in the hopes that it might reach you. If you are interested in joining us, please send us an e-mail (agreybar@nd.edu) so we can start marinating the steak (and please inform us of any food allergies!). 
Thanks and Go Irish! 
Andy Greybar 
junior off campus Feb. 13 

I’m a political science/Arabic double-major, and my classes are interesting, the workload is manageable and I have time to do things outside of the class­room. As I visited my friend’s classes over the last week, I found that this is not the case for most engineers. The students themselves are smart, talented and good-humored. The major, however, does these students no credit, and cre­ates a situation where some of our most talented students consistently struggle despite their best efforts. 
The first thing I noticed was that everyone in the engineering classroom looked like they’d had a long night. I asked the guy sitting next to me what he’d done the night before. His answer? A homework assignment that took eight hours ... and had only four problems. This alone was enough to shock me, but the surprises were only beginning. During class the professors spoke quickly and would not walk students through formulas and proofs. The professors clearly knew the material, but students often had to choose between writing the formulas themselves or writing down the professor’s commentary. As a re­sult, many people had stopped taking notes halfway through class, preferring instead to listen to the professor’s comments. The problem with this is that the commentary and formulas need to go together. With only a formula people will constantly be confused. But without the formula on paper, it’s difficult to con­nect the professor’s comments with their actual implementation. 
During one class someone mentioned an engineering final from the year be­fore. Everyone laughed in the way that you laugh when recalling an unpleasant dating experience or a particularly gruesome injury. The average on the final? Rumored to be less than 60 percent. So why did these students get an average grade of less than 60 percent? It turns out that the professors make the tests so difficult that no one can do particularly well. As a result, it’s simply a dog­fight in which engineers are battling the curve and not the material. 
The final thing I noticed was that many engineers aren’t as involved outside of the classroom. I have time for two jobs, sports and several clubs. My engi­neering friends? Not as much. The result is a major where some of our best and brightest consistently struggle, don’t learn as much as they could and don’t have the chance to get as involved outside of the classroom. Now I respect the engineers even more. 
William Miller 
sophomore Knott Hall Jan. 28 


Twitter policy promotes transparent censorship 
Since Twitter’s creation in 2006, the website has been a hub of unre­stricted news. Now, six years later, Twitter has announced a new censor­ship policy that could once again change freedom of expression on the web. 
Simply put, Twitter’s new censorship policy will allow the removal of tweets on a country-by-country basis. 
When a government orders that a post be taken Braden Kelner down, the post will be replaced by a statement saying, “This tweet from @username has been The Tartan withheld in: Country.” However, the post will remain visible to users in all other countries where no such order was issued. 
Twitter is also partnering with the website chillingeffects.org to an­nounce when a post has been censored. The openness regarding censored material is crucial to positively shaping censorship on the Internet. 
With the introduction of the new policy, Twitter has indirectly urged other websites to follow suit with transparent censorship policies. Trans­parent censorship, in terms of Twitter’s policy, means the company in question promises to be honest about removing posts while ensuring minimal censorship. Secretive censorship will occur rarely, if at all, on Twitter due to the openness of censored posts. Additionally, the fact that posts will not be taken down universally will allow a maximal number of users to see a post. Hopefully other web services like Twitter will alter its censorship policies to create an environment of free speech. 
Many critics claim this new policy will entail heavy monitoring of tweets; however, the company will only review content if there are re­quests to take it down. 
The lack of monitoring, in addition to censorship notifications, will increase information availability on the web. 
Twitter will adjust its censorship policy to accommodate strict laws and, in doing so, revolutionize censorship. 
Both users and governments are accommodated in regards to the re­moval of posts through this transparent policy. 
Twitter is once again pioneering a new trend of unrestricted free speech across the globe with the introduction of its transparent censorship policy. 
This column first ran in the Feb. 12 edition of The Tartan, the daily publication serving Radford University. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

page 8 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com Tuesday, February 14, 2012 
SCENE STAFF REPORT 
“Moulin Rouge” 

Freedom, beauty, truth and love are the ideas that animate the colorful and spectacular Bohemian world of Baz Luhrmann’s musical spectacular, “Mou­lin Rouge!” Starring Nicole Kidman and Ewan McGregor, it tells the story of a lovelorn writer and the courtesan he falls in love with at the world-famous club for which the film is named. Featur­ing the music of everyone from Madonna and Elton John to Nirvana, this film has something for everyone. It’s not your av­erage period piece. In fact, there’s noth­ing average about it (other than perhaps Kidman’s singing ability). 
“Titanic” 

Coming soon to theaters in 3-D, “Ti­tanic” is the ultimate romantic movie. It is the perfect interpretation of love over­coming all obstacles. Leonardo DiCaprio and Kate Winslet couldn’t have done it any better. Relive Jack and Rose’s love story as part of your Valentine’s date with your special someone, letting him or her know you heart will go on. 
“Shakespeare in Love” 

A young William Shakespeare strug­gles to make ends meet while trying to create new and exciting plays so that his theatre is not shut down. Learn how he came up with the idea for his most fa­
“Inglourious Basterds” 

Valentine’s Day is all about spending time with the person you love, revel­ing in each other’s company and being the most romantic you can be all year. Well, there’s none of that in this Tar­antino hit. A revisionist approach to World War II, the film finds Brad Pitt (in his best role to date) leading a pack of Nazi-scalpers and a young French-Jewish woman (“Beginners’” Melanie Laurent) plotting to kill the Nazi elite in one fell swoop. It may not seem like it, but “Inglourious Basterds” is one of the most unconventionally funny movies of recent years and is the perfect antidote to V-Day’s heavy romance. 
“Heavy Weights” 

Sure, there’s a little romance in this ‘90s classic about a weight-loss camp run by the truly mad Tony Perkis (Ben Stiller), but the Perkisizing and anti-authoritarian plotting tend to distract from anything in the way of love. The takeaway of “Heavy Weights” is less about finding true love and more about learning, “Don’t put Twinkies on your mous play, Romeo and Juliet. Follow Jo­seph Fiennes and Gwyneth Paltrow on their entertaining journey through for­bidden love, tragedy, comedy and a bit of cross dressing. This movie is sure to leave you laughing, crying or both. And who doesn’t love Renaissance costumes and Colin Firth? 
“Dirty Dancing” 
This Valentine’s Day (or every day), choose “Dirty Dancing” as the movie you want to watch. It’s the love story every girl wants. Baby, on a family vacation, meets the attractive and dangerous (in terms of “dirty” dancing — get it?) John­ny Castle (played by Patrick Swayze). When circumstances arise that cause her to need to quickly learn to dance like a pro, she spends nearly every moment with Johnny — how could they not fall in love? By the end, you’ll be breathless and teary. 
“50 First Dates” 
Adam Sandler plays the male lead that is afraid of commitment (what else is new?), until he meets the girl he didn’t think existed in the world, Lucy, played by Drew Barrymore. Everything in their relationship is going swimmingly until he finds out she suffers from short-term memory loss and can’t remember day-to­day who he is. Now, the man that once was afraid of settling down uses every power of his to help her remember and 
pizza.” Don’t let breakfast be cancelled due to lack of hustle — pop “Heavy Weights” in your DVD player instead for a night of raucous entertainment sure to cure even the most love-struck of their googly eyes. 
“The Sandlot” 
Trying to forget Valentine’s Day and all the cheesiness that comes with it? “The Sandlot” will take you back to your childhood days, when love was the least of your concerns and boys and girls had cooties. Join Scotty Smalls and friends as they laugh, fight and have fun while playing baseball. You will definitely feel good after watching this classic movie. 
“Warrior” 
Forget romantic love this Valentine’s Day. Celebrate the bond between sib­lings with “Warrior,” a sports drama film about two estranged brothers. Tommy (Tom Hardy) and Brendan Con­lon (Joel Edgerton) are both mixed martial arts (MMA) fighters, entered in the same tournament. And the two to stay by her through her struggles. This movie is filled with a few tears and quite a few more laughs. The epitome of a romantic comedy, it’s perfect for Valen­tine’s Day. 

“10 Things I Hate About You” 
It’s a story for every guy who has ever tried, for every girl who has ever hoped and for anyone who has ever been tak­en completely by surprise. Love comes in all forms in this modern adaptation of Shakespeare’s play, “Taming of the Shrew.” The film beautifully captures the relationship between Kat (Julia Stiles) and Patrick (Heath Ledger) as it changes from love-hate to love-love. And despite Patrick’s ulterior motives for dating Kat, it’s impossible not to fall in love with Led­ger’s disarming smile. And the scene in the stadium is one of the most romantic scenes in film history. 
“Step Up” 

Yes, it’s cheesy. Yes, it’s formulaic. But isn’t that what Valentine’s Day is about? Channing Tatum and Jenna Dewan (now Dewan-Tatum) prove that love can cross all boundaries in this musical flick. Ta­tum plays a boy from a rough neighbor­hood that meets Dewan during his com­munity service hours. A love and talent brings them together, with of course the necessary fight that ends up bringing them closer together. This movie won’t leave you with any life-changing per­
haven’t talked in years, driven apart by their alcoholic father (Nick Nolte) and Brendan’s elopement with his girlfriend (Jennifer Morrison) at 16. The movie is a gripping testament to the power of unconditional love, reconciliation and the human spirit. The movie does por­tray MMA fighting, but it does so very well, and makes sure not to focus too much on the fighting but instead the human drama. Nolte received a Best Supporting Actor nomination for his role in this riveting, don’t-miss drama. 
“Saving Private Ryan” 
Spend this Valentine’s Day with some great war films instead of love films. Be sure to include the epic war film from Steven Spielberg. The story follows 
U.S. Army Captain John Miller (Tom Hanks) and a band of Rangers who are charged with a mission to find PFC James Francis Ryan (Matt Damon), the last-surviving brother of four service­men. The film is gripping, depicting the struggles of the Rangers as they try to locate Ryan and the enemies they find themselves up against. And the movie spective on the human condition, but the love story, the fantastic dance numbers and the general attractiveness of the en­tire cast will leave you with a smile on your face. 
“Roman Holiday” 
Go classic this Valentine’s Day with Audrey Hepburn and Gregory Peck. Hep­burn plays a crown princess wholly over­whelmed by the demands of her royal duties. And so, she sneaks off for a few days of unscheduled fun. She runs into Peck, an expat American journalist, who doesn’t recognize her at first. He offers to give her a tour of Rome, hoping to even­tually end up with an exclusive inter­view. As they frolic through Rome, they eventually fall in love. Hepburn’s naiveté as Princess Ann is endearing and Peck is heartwarming in his role, making the movie deserving of its classic status. 
“Love, Actually” 
It may not be Christmastime anymore, but this British rom-com is more than appropriate all year round. While this British comedy is decidedly romantic, it has its tongue firmly in its cheek and presents with stunning accuracy the way love makes people do the cheesi­est of things. Charming, funny and all about love, “Love, Actually” is the perfect way to please girlfriend and boyfriend alike with an non-gendered look at what makes humanity crazy for love. 
ends with one of the best lines in movie history, as Miller tells Ryan to earn the sacrifices the Rangers made to ensure he survived. Tears may fall during this film, but not as a result of being love­less on Valentine’s Day. 
“The Expendables” 
There may or may not be a love story in this film, but there is a definitely a lot of action movie stars doing what they do best, killing a whole lot of dudes. The all-star cast includes Stallone, Sta­tham, Li, Lundgren, Willis and more. This movie is definitely a way to vicari­ously relieve yourself from frustration. 
“Louis CK: Hilarious” 
While taking a cold, hard look in the mirror and laugh at your own short­comings, or laugh at Louis CK’s and forget all about how awful you are. Louis CK is the preeminent comedian working today, with a style that is as emotionally rich as it is hysterical. Af­ter listening to Louis talk about people and life for an hour, you may forget why you ever wanted a Valentine. 

ELISA DE CASTRO | Observer Graphics 


Tuesday, February 14, 2012 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 9 

By SAM STRYKER 
News Editor 

Once again, that bastion of American commercialized holidays, Valentine’s Day, has ar­rived. For many students, today will be spent alone (unless you count chocolate as a satisfac­tory lover, which you might). That doesn’t mean you can’t fantasize about the perfect Valen­tine you may never have. 
When you think about the perfect Valentine, good looks, a charming personality and a pen­chant for buying chocolates and roses may come to mind. Unfortunately, the pickings seem to be dangerously slim here at the University. 
With that in mind, you are going to jump far outside of the Notre Dame bubble in order to land your dream date. In fact, you’ll have to look far, far outside of the Midwest, into the land of tabloid magazines and paparazzi. This is because your fantasy romantic interest for Feb. 14 has to be a celebrity. Tell Cupid to aim his arrow accordingly and dare to dream about landing a date with one of the following A-listers. 
The Hunk 

You could go the hipster rout and choose Joseph Gordon Levitt, but there aren’t any hipsters at Notre Dame. If you’re into athletes, Tom Brady might be the one for you, but not all students are jersey-chasers. I’m looking for the man who will win over the hearts of all the ladies (and some gentlemen) of Notre Dame and there really is only one choice — Ryan Gosling. 
I had the pleasure of watching Ryan smolder for two hours on perhaps the largest screen on campus Saturday night. “Drive” happened to be the SUB Movie of the Week. Ryan is your total Valentine’s Day package — handsome and talented. He seems like the type of guy who would buy you a Recker’s pizza at the end of a romantic evening. 
Not only does he have his own meme devoted to his alleged feminist ways, the guy was even in the Mickey Mouse Club. He truly is a man after a Notre Dame girl’s heart. 
However, the thing that sets Ryan apart is his earnest, soulful blue eyes. He barely had any dialogue in “Drive” because his eyes said it all. The whole movie, his wistful stare was pulling the heartstrings of the audience, like he wanted to take a long, romantic walk with you around St. Mary’s Lake. Ladies of Notre Dame, Ryan Gosling is your celebrity Valentine. 
The Babe 

Picking the perfect lady for the gentlemen of Notre Dame was no easy task. Taylor Swift seems like an obvious choice, but Austin might make things awkward after the last two Keen­an Revues. Mila Kunis comes to mind, but have you seen her in “Black Swan?” Mila is more the type of girl to break parietals with than bring to a dorm Mass. So that leaves one choice 
— Emma Watson. 

You know Emma would totally dig a South Dining Hall date on Valentine’s Day — the place is practically the Great Hall from Hogwarts! I’m pretty sure she also would appreciate the fact she has escaped the snooty halls of the Ivy League for Notre Dame. She not only plays a brai­niac but she is one in real life. Nothing says sexy like smarts and Emma has the looks to boot. 
What makes Emma the perfect Valentine for the boys of Notre Dame, however, is her trade­mark spunk. We all saw her in the “Harry Potter” movies punch Malfoy and brew some illegal Polyjuice potion. She’s the type of girl who would be down to complete the Hesburgh Challenge with some butterbeers on Valentine’s Day and then go to Chipotle afterwards. 
Emma also played a character that dated a bad Quidditch player, so a transition to Notre Dame football would be natural. Gentlemen of Notre Dame, order a dozen roses by Owl Post because Emma Watson is your dream Valentine. 
So there you have it, Notre Dame. Before you pop in your DVD of “The Notebook,” curl up on your futon with your pint of Ben & Jerry’s and go Valentine’s Day solo, imagine a world where you are under the Lyons Arch with Ryan or Emma. The fantasy may just help you cope with the sad reality. 
Contact Sam Stryker at sstryke1@nd.edu 




SCENE STAFF REPORT 

Vermont-based ice creamers Ben & Jerry have long been associated with heart-broken girls and single peo­ple alike. While there is no shame in spending some quality time this Valentine’s Day with the best men in your life — Ben and Jerry — don’t be fooled into thinking this delicious ice cream treat is only for those not otherwise engaged in romantic dinners and dates. Ben and Jerry are the perfect companions for your night of single rev­elry and as the dessert at the end of your date. But with so many options to choose from, Scene is here to make the choice a little easier with a guide to our favorite Ben & Jerry’s flavors. 
FroYo Cherry Garcia 

Sure, Cherry Garcia is a great Ben & Jerry’s flavor. But if you already love that perfect blend of chocolate and cherry, then do yourself a favor and grab the green pint of FroYo instead. If you feel so inclined, claim that this decision is based on the obvious health benefits of FroYo over ice cream, particularly in this lead-up to Spring Break. Health benefits aside, this FroYo concoction is actually better than its ice cream cousin. When you pop open that pint of FroYo, you’ll find a stronger cherry flavor and bigger chunks of the fruit than in the obviously inferior ice cream version. While we all love chocolate, the cherry is the hallmark of this Ben & Jerry’s classic, so take a chance on the FroYo to find the altogether better rendition of chocolate-cherry combination. 
Chocolate Chip Cookie Dough 

Celebrate Valentine’s Day by treating yourself with a nice big pint of Ben & Jerry’s Chocolate Chip Cookie Dough ice cream. It is a classic yet delicious flavor for a perfect Valentine’s night in. The creamy vanilla flavor never gets old and the unexpected chunks of chocolate chip cookie dough make every spoonful different.  You deserve it! 
Phish Food 

Vermont being a small state, it seems only natural that its two greatest products, Ben and Jerry’s ice cream and the band Phish, should collaborate. And it’s a good thing they did. The flavor consists of chocolate ice cream, marshmallow, caramel and schools of fudge fish. It’s a delicious combination that can take your mind off loneliness, one spoonful at a time. 
Boston Cream Pie 

This delicious mix of yellow cake pieces, fudge flakes and pastry cream filling is as irresistible as the fall foliage of Boston. Don’t have enough time to make an actual pie or whip up pudding? No problem. Just grab a carton of this flavor from your nearest grocery store for the perfect mix of both. Turning this delightful pastry into an ice cream flavor was almost as revolutionary as the Minutemen, but decidedly less violent. Brighten up any dreary day — or dateless Feb. 14 — with a carton. 
Half-Baked 

It’s widely agreed that the best part of baking is licking the spoon, and our friends Ben and Jerry have made it socially acceptable to do so with the welcomed addition of ice cream. In their Half Baked flavor, chocolate chip cookie dough, brownie batter and a mix of chocolate and vanilla ice creams come together for a sweet treat that delivers the best of classic desserts. This Valentine’s Day, you can have ice cream and lick the spoon in one bite without having to look over your shoulder to make sure no one is looking. 
ELISA DE CASTRO | Observer Graphics 

page 10 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u CLASSIFIEDS Tuesday, February 14, 2012 
SPORTS AUTHORITY 



The world should get to know Jeremy Lin 
Happy Tuesday. Happy Feb. 
14. But most importantly, Happy Va-Lin-tine’s day. 
While much of the world celebrates the romance be­tween two lovebirds, small pock­ets of the globe will celebrate the newly created holiday that worships Knicks guard Jeremy Lin. Oh, but these small pockets just happen to be New York City and basically the entire country of China. 
Linsanity has been all the rage in the past week, honor­ing the second-year guard from Harvard that came out of nowhere to post ridiculous numbers in his first significant playing time. While I am not discounting his great start, I am not quite ready to name him the next great point guard. 
Yes, I realize Super Lintendo has dropped 109 points through his first four starts, the highest total since the ABA-NBA merg­er. Yes, I realize the Knicks are averaging 11 more points per 48 minutes when Linderella is in on floor. And yes, I get that Mr. Lincredible is sixth in the league in scoring since Feb. 4, averaging 26.8 points. 
In leading the Knicks on a five-game Linning streak, he has also averaged eight assists per game. These wins, however, came against three regular cellar dwellers (New Jersey, Washington and Minnesota) and two above-average squads (Utah and the Los Angeles Lak­ers). Lin did have his best game against the Lakers, scoring a career-high 38 points in a na­tionally televised contest in the world’s most famous arena. 
But I don’t think he is quite Linvincible yet. He has played more than 35 minutes in just five games in his career, with all five games coming in the last week. To give you some perspective on how short a week is, the Kim Kardashian-Kris Humphries marriage lasted 10 times that span. And I bet we all thought that would last forever too. 
Lin is still a player who never averaged more than 13.6 minutes per game in any month before this one. He is still a player who scores a measly 5.6 points per game in his career. He may turn out to be a great 

Matthew DeFranks 
Sports Writer 
player but I am just not buy­ing it right now. 
Even though the media has already adopted The Linstiga­tor as the next chosen one, the sample size is just too small to conclude that he is the next John Stockton. Even if he does eventually flame out when star forwards Carmelo An­thony and Amare Stoudemire return to the Lin-up, he has already become a Linspiration to many across the globe. 
On the Linternational stage, he should become a rock star. Pretty soon, we will see Lin starting in the All-Star game (which, I remind you, doesn’t matter) after starting just five games. Think that’s crazy? Yao Ming, another Chinese basketball hero, did it just one year ago. 
There has never been an Asian-American star in the NBA. 
Much like Tiger Woods in golf, Lin has singlehandedly taken the hopes and dreams of a race on his back. Except this time, he has the Linternet and Twitter and Facebook and LinkedLin to spread the news of his sudden and quick eruption. 
Just how crazy have people gone over Lin? 
According to ESPN.com, ownership of Lin in fan­tasy basketball leagues has jumped from six percent to 100 percent. Sportsbook.com has reduced the odds of Lin winning the MVP down to 75-to-one. A yearbook mes­sage Lin wrote is now selling for $4,800 on eBay. His jersey is the top seller in the NBA since Feb. 4. Stock of Madison Square Garden reached an all-time high Monday. 
Here’s the biggest shocker: According to Forbes, the Lin brand is now worth $14 mil­lion, tying him for sixth in the league with Lakers star guard Kobe Bryant. That’s right, he is now worth just as much as the five-time champion Bryant, who has Lin there and done that. This is the same Kobe Bryant that once scored at least 50 points in four consecutive games — the same amount of career starts Lin has. 
I think its time for the world to have a Lintervention. 
Contact Matthew DeFranks at mdefrank@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
PGA 



Woods still has progress to make 
Associated Press 
PEBBLE BEACH, Calif. —  Ti­ger Woods keeps saying his game is close. 
Standing on the 18th green at Pebble Beach, he never looked so far away. 
With the red sleeves from his shirt sticking out from a black vest, Woods could only watch Sunday as Phil Mickelson made one more birdie putt for an 8-un­der 64, the final touch of a six-shot comeback to win the Pebble Beach National Pro-Am. 
The white scoreboard behind the 18th green was telling. 
The first stunner was seeing Mickelson go from a six-shot defi­cit to a two-shot lead in just six holes. Then he poured it on with a magnificent shot into 2 feet for birdie on the 13th and an aggres­sive play on the 14th for another one. 
Equally shocking was Woods. 
He three-putted for par and a 75, a whopping 11 shots worse than Mickelson. Only four other players had a higher score than Woods in the final round, none of whom started the day within range of the leader. 
Woods was two shots out of the lead when he walked off the sixth green and then bogeyed the next three holes. 
The two biggest names in golf played together in the second-to­last group, both feeling as though they were close to breaking through, both needed a dramatic charge at Pebble Beach. 
That player turned out to be Mickelson. 
In a big way. 
“To put it together this week, and especially the final round, just feels terrific,” Mickelson said. “And it gives me a lot of confi­dence, but also inspires me. Be­cause I believe now that what I’m doing is correct, and that I’m able to play some of my best golf.” 
Woods attributed this mess to only one club in his bag — the putter. 
The putting carried him to a 67 at Pebble Beach in the third round, giving him a chance to win for the first time since Sept. 13, 2009 on the PGA Tour. It let him down Sunday, when he missed five putts from under 5 feet. 
“I could not get comfortable where I could see my lines,” Woods said. “I couldn’t get the putter to swing. I just could not get comfortable. It was frustrat­ing, because I was looking to somehow getting off to 2- or 3-un­der par through six. Phil got off to that start. I had a chance to pick it up through the middle part of the round. Instead, it went the other way.” 
Lost in all this was Charlie Wi, who started the final round with a three-shot lead. Wi four-putted for double bogey on the opening hole, dropped another shot on the fifth, then three-putted from 15 feet for bogey on the sixth. Only a late rally gave him a 72 to finish two shots behind Mickelson for his fifth career runner-up finish. 
The win gave Mickelson his 40th career victory — his goal is to get to 50, and this will help. He also became the third straight winner on the PGA Tour to start the final round at least six shots behind. 
And to do it with Woods as a mere bystander? 
“I just feel very inspired when I play with him,” said Mickelson, who has posted the better score the past five times he has played alongside Woods in the final round. 
“I love playing with him, and he brings out some of my best golf. I hope that he continues to play bet­ter and better, and I hope that he and I have a chance to play togeth­er more in the final rounds.” 
Mickelson took more satisfaction over having his wife, still recover­ing from breast cancer, come up for the weekend and even give him a pep talk when Mickelson was go­ing nowhere in the second round. 
“I was moping. It was terrible,” Mickelson said. “And she said, ‘Come on, now, cheer up. Let’s go make some birdies.’ And she was so positive, and it just changed my attitude.” 
He became a four-time winner at Pebble Beach, where his grand­father used to caddie. 
It’s more about the momentum he hopes this will give him going into the rest of the year. Mickel­son had not won since the Houston Open last year and had fallen out of the top 10 in the world. He started this season believing his game was about to turn the corner, only to miss the cut at Torrey Pines and finish out of the top 25 in two other tournaments. 


“It’s one of the more emotional victories for me than I’ve had, and the reason is I’ve had some doubt these last couple of weeks, given the scores I’ve shot,” Mickelson said. “Having these great practice sessions, I started to wonder if I’m going to be able to bring it to the golf course. So this gives me a lot of confidence and erases the doubt.” 
Despite the six-shot deficit, Mick­elson drew optimism from recent history — not only his record play­ing alongside Woods, but the na­ture of Pebble Beach. He was tied for the 54-hole lead in 2001 when Davis Love erased a seven-shot def­icit in seven holes, shot 63 and won. 
As for the confidence he gets playing with Woods? 
“I just seem more focused,” Mick­elson said. “I know that his level of play is so much greater when he’s playing his best that it just forces me to focus on my game more in­tently, and hit more precise shots.” 
That’s what he did. 
After picking up birdies on Nos. 2 and 4, Mickelson got a bonus with an 8-iron that plopped down 2 feet from the cup for a tap-in birdie at the par-3 fifth. His approach to the par-5 sixth hopped onto the green and then came another break. He knew the putt broke to the right and had a line picked out. 
Dallas Cowboys quarterback Tony Romo — Woods’ partner — went first from a similar line. 
“I saw that it broke more right than I thought, so I adjusted by a couple of inches,” Mickelson said. The ball curled in from the right side of the cup, giving Mickelson the outright lead. 
Woods had to make a 6-footer for a two-putt birdie — his first — but that didn’t last long. He three-putted the seventh from 18 feet, missed a 5-foot par putt on the eighth badly to the right, failed to save par from the bunker on the ninth. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The 
Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 

CLASSIFIEDS 
Welcome to the real world Pat. I’ll 

WALK TO CAMPUS Born on this date: 
FOR RENT PERSONAL
be restraining until NYC, but we’ll cable, wireless internet, ADT 1818 - Frederick Douglass - 
 appliances, 40 flat screen TV, 
make up for it there. security. $3,600/month. Great Specials! American abolitionist Six student rental for the 2012-13 UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don’t 
And A, thanks for putting up with school year. go it alone. Notre Dame has many 1944 - Carl Bernstein - American 
Pat. Studio, 1, 2, 3 Bedroom resources in place to assist you. journalist Extra nice, 3 year old house, Please contact Rob or Bob at 574-Townhomes available. If you or someone you love needs Lastly, Clark, your birthdays don’t one mile south of campus at 330 271-4060 confidential support or assistance, 1960 - Jim Kelly - Buffalo Bills really matter anymore, do they? Sunnyside Avenue. please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819 quarterback or email robpryor@ (574) 272-8124. or Ann Firth at 1-2685. For more Plus, Dawg Hockey just beat 
Three two student furnished cressyandeverett.com or information, visit ND’s website at: Stanford. Solid, fundamental suites with common living area, bobdunbar@cressyandeverett. 1971- Gheorge Muresan - hockey beat immature tactics. hardwood floors, granite, stainless com www.clovervillageapartments.com http://pregnancysupport@nd.edu Washington Bullets center What else would you expect? 
Tuesday, February 14, 2012 The Observer u CLASSIFIEDS ndsmcobserver.com | page 11 

Boxing 
continued from page 11 
multiple swings in momentum with both trading time in the lead. In the first round, as the fighters judged the style of their opponent, Kraska was opportunistic and found spots to throw punches. 
In the second round, Kraska lost ground as Caton started the round with intensity and landed a few open shots. 
Then, in the third, Caton tried to take the round by rushing Kraska, but Kraska held his ground and threw sol­id counters against the pres­sure. Kraska defeated Caton in a close split decision. 
188 Pounds 
John Mapelli def. Justin Rumps 
Soon after the referee’s sig­nal, both fighters’ techniques became clear. Mapelli was able to deliver quick, successive blows, while Rumps landed a few more powerful punches. 
The second round began again with a strong start from Mapelli, but Rumps soon countered with a vicious right hook. After a few stoppages to fix Rumps’ nose, Mapelli con­tinued his quick assaults on Rumps. Even though Rumps connected with more powerful punches, Mapelli’s consistent jabs earned him the split deci­sion in a battle of sophomores. 
Carl Ianiro def. Max “The Mayor” Maier 
The first round of this bout between the junior Maier and the sophomore Ianiro con­sisted of a few short battles, in which neither fighter gained a significant advantage. Maier was able to push Ianiro into the ropes on numerous occa­sions in the second round, but Ianiro connected on a few left jabs to keep the match close. 
Then in the third round, Ian­iro delivered strong counter punches to Maier’s attacks and gained the advantage in these short tussles. With a slightly better third round, Ianiro de­feated Maier. 
Matt Enzweiler def. Michael Worthington 
The junior Enzweiler beat the MBA student Worthington in a close fight in which both fighters liked to keep the ac­tion in close quarters. Ini­tially, Worthington took ad­vantage of his quickness and power, which left Enzweiler unable to properly counter. 
But momentum shifted in Enzweiler’s favor in the sec­ond round. Enzweiler stayed patient and started to shorten his punch movement, which led to Worthington staying on the edges of the ring. The third round continued the same strategies. But it was Enzweiler who stayed consis­tent with solid combinations throughout the round. Enz­weiler was named the victor unanimously. 
204 Pounds 
Tom “Son of Ted” Carnevale def. Ryan “Rhino” Lim 
The fight began with a furi­ous attack from the senior Car­nevale, while the freshman Lim attempted to counter with jabs to the body. Both boxers were able to connect solid punches, but Car­nevale seemed to hold the advan­tage after the first round. 
The second round began like the first, but Lim was able to work his way back into the fight with a few solid offensive maneu­vers. The pace of the third round was much slower and Carnevale displayed impressive jabs. At the end of the match, Carnevale took home the win in a unanimous de­cision. 
Evan “Heavy Duty” Escobedo def. Nick “Tha Donz” Donnelly 
When the bell rang, the fresh­man Escobedo began the bout with the upper hand, delivering powerful punches to the sopho­more Donnelly. Behind raucous crowd support, Escobedo finished the first round clearly on top. 
Donnelly, however, started out the second and third rounds strongly, landing jabs to the body and head of Escobedo. Though Escobedo was less aggressive in the final rounds, he finished strongly with a few potent punch­es. Even after two fairly even final rounds, Escobedo’s finish helped him defeat Donnelly in a split de­cision. 
Ricky “Scooter” Neville def. Tom “Deuce” Reilly. 
The sophomore Neville over­whelmed the senior Reilly early to earn the victory. Neville used efficient blows in tight spaces. In the middle of the first round, the referee paused the fight due to Reilly’s bloody nose, brought on by Neville’s blows. 
Then, in the second round, Neville’s quick hits reopened the bloody nose, which prompt­ed the referee to call the contest in Neville’s favor. 
Brian “Caesar” Salat def. Robert Hammer 
In the last fight of the night, the junior Salat earned the vic­tory against the sophomore Hammer. In the first round, the two fighters traded hits early. Then, Salat pulled away by starting to push forward against Hammer. 


Salat continued to dominate by moving Hammer into the ropes with quick body blows. Then, Salat finished off the night in overwhelming fashion with an all-out offense on Ham­mer. Hammer eventually tired out and let down his defense, al­lowing Salat to seal the victory with a unanimous decision. 
Contact Ernst Cleofe at             ecleofe@nd.edu and Peter Steiner at psteiner@nd.edu 
CLUB SPORTS 



Late comeback over Chippewas caps Irish weekend 
Figure skaters end season with silver medal; Knoedler’s alpine performance leads the way for Notre Dame 
Special to The Observer 
Women’s Ice Hockey 
Despite a late arrival by Wis­consin, the Irish were able to play a full three periods at home Fri­day night, taking down the Bad­gers 3-1. 
In the first period, freshman Suzanne Fitzpatrick started the Irish off with a goal at 11:16 with an assist from freshman center Tori White. Both teams skated hard and did not score again, al­though the Irish had six shots on goal. 
Scoring was held until the end of the second period. Wisconsin’s Stevi Matz served a 1:30 penalty for holding, but the Irish were unable to capitalize on their one-man advantage. Two seconds after the penalty ended, sopho­more Kate Bowie scored the sec­ond Irish goal of the game, with assists coming from White and sophomore defenseman Meaghan Ayers. 
Wisconsin struck with only 
1:56 to play in the third period, as Matz scored the unassisted goal for the Badgers. The Irish responded with a goal from Ayers with only four seconds to go. The Irish finished on top with a final score of 3-1. 
In their second of four games this weekend, the Irish struggled with scoring as they fell to Wis­consin 6-2 on Saturday. The Irish had 14 shots on net compared to the Badgers’ 15, but Badger goal­ie Erica Dale played well, holding the Irish to just two goals. 
The first period started with two Badger goals — one from Matz, with assists from Lorna Ca­gann and Rachel Kirsch, and the other from Megan Duffy, assisted by Stephanie Derks. White scored an unassisted goal for Notre Dame with 3:32 to go in the first to make it 2-1. 
The Irish struck first in the second period when Fitzpatrick scored off assists from Bowie and freshman Megan Covington. White served a penalty for body checking, but the Irish were able to kill the penalty. However, the Badgers followed up after the penalty with three unanswered goals. With six seconds to go, Badger Sarah Neddo was called for tripping and the Irish started the third period on a power play. 
Dale held the Irish off in the third period, and Badgers for­ward Stephanie Derks scored off of a pass from Katie Hansen. Engstrom served a penalty for checking, but the Irish were again unable to capitalize. Though dis­appointed with the result, Irish coaches noted that the team played hard despite the 6-2 loss. 
Notre Dame next hosted Central Michigan on Saturday evening at the Compton Family Ice Are­na. Both teams started out with strong skating, and great offen­sive maneuvers in the first period led to a late score by White off an assist from senior captain Brinya Bjork and center Covington. 
With strong coaching from Der­ek Wolf, EJ Borg and Tim Gan­natti, the Irish held off the Chip­pewas through a scoreless second period and started the third peri­od strong.  The Irish strengthened their lead after an early third pe­riod goal from Bjork off an assist from senior Kristin Hepburn. A strong defensive showing by ju­niors Mara Catlaw and Veronica Ryan, Ayers and freshman Ka­leigh McLaughlin, combined with a great game between the posts from Salvi, kept the Central Mich­igan offense at bay throughout the game. 
Amanda Steffy put a goal on the board for Central Michigan late in the third period, but the Irish re­taliated with a last minute score from White, who clinched the 3-1 victory for the Irish with an open net goal scored with only six sec­onds left. 
In their fourth and final game of the weekend the Irish looked lethargic in the first period Sun­day against Central Michigan. Two quick goals from Chippewas’ Jaimee Cronk and Caitlin Lariscy gave CMU a 2-0 lead. 
After yet another unanswered goal from Central Michigan in the second period, the Irish skat­ed out full force. The game was rough, with the Irish drawing five penalties from the Chippewas, including three in the second pe­riod. Ayers snagged Notre Dame’s first goal on a power play, and af­ter that the Irish offense was un­stoppable, with the Irish scoring twice more in the second period. Fitzpatrick knocked one in with an assist from White and Catlaw ripped the nets on yet another power play. Notre Dame’s defen­sive line had a strong showing with some great saves from senior goalie Elissa Cmunt. 
The Irish entered the third period with a 3-3 tie, but pulled into the lead after Ayers scored once again on a power play early in the period. With Notre Dame now leading the game, Fizpatrick cemented the win, scoring Notre Dame’s final goal with an assist from White and Bowie. The Chip­pewas put up a strong fight, scor­ing once more in the third period, but it was not enough to stop the Irish who ended the game with a 5-4 win. 
Figure Skating 
The Irish finished their season with a great skate at the Tri-State Synchronized Skating Champion­ships. The team earned the sec­ond place medal, while Miami (OH) and Michigan State placed first and third respectively. 
The club’s next performance will be at the Disability Aware­ness Day with the Logan Center on Feb. 26. The skating team will celebrate an award-winning sea­son at its annual club exhibition April 1. 
Field Hockey 
Notre Dame played six games in Cleveland this weekend against college, high school select and post-graduate teams. Notre Dame opened play with a 1-1 tie with Michigan. Senior Jenn O’Neill scored with a cross-goal assist from freshman Colleen Furey. Senior Kim Weisenberger and freshman Jackie Price played stellar defense, and Notre Dame’s offensive line — consisting of freshman Kathryn Peruski, Furey and O’Neill — was particularly aggressive. 
The Irish dropped the remain­der of their games to high school select team TGT (6-0), Roraimo (2-0), Cleveland (6-1) and Kili­manjaro (5-4). In the final game of the weekend, Peruski scored all four Irish goals, three of which came on corner shots. 
Ski 
The Irish travelled to Crystal Mountain, Mich., Feb. 3-4 to com­pete in the annual Michigan Di­visional championships with six other teams from the area. The team had to deal with a lack of snow cover on the hill. 
“I noticed before I even got on the course that there were some brown patches,” sophomore An­drew Verwilst said. 
“With snow conditions like this, it’s pretty easy to get lost out there,” added sophomore Mike Robbe. 
Despite these inconsistent snow conditions, the team had a strong outing. Junior Thomas Knoedler led the men’s alpine team with a fourth place individual finish in both the slalom and giant sla­lom events, paving the way for a second place team finish in giant slalom. 
Freshman Meg Bryck led the way for the women’s alpine team, which placed sixth in slalom. The women’s and men’s teams snow­board teams finished fourth and fifth respectively. Sophomore Ni­cole Michels led the women’s team with a ninth place finish, and ju­nior Kevin Condit led the way for the men with a 13th place finish. 
“Divisional Championships are always a big test for us,” Condit said. “I was just trying to go down as fast as I could.” 
The team travels to Marquette, Mich., this weekend for the Mid­west Regional Championships. 
Gymnastics 
Notre Dame-Saint Mary’s par­ticipated in the Golden Grips In­vitational hosted by Purdue this past weekend. Some standouts in women’s competition included the performances of Notre Dame staff member Gianna Ventrella (8.3), Notre Dame senior Liz Bonne 
(8.5) and Saint Mary’s freshman Christa Costello (8.5) on the vault. Costello and Ventrella posted 7.6 and 6.8 respectively on Floor. Ventrella also registered 7.3 on the Beam and 4.1 on Bars. 
Mike Hannigan’s scores in men’s competition included a best of 7.1 on the Vault, followed by a 
3.0 on Horse, 5.3 on Floor and 2.0 on High Bar. 

page 12 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u SPORTS Tuesday, February 14, 2012 
unanimous decision. ka. Ulrich fought using length to 

Bouts 

try to counter Ishizuka’s intensi-Alex “El Gatito Loco” Oloriz ty and quickness. The first round continued from page 16 def. Alex Yurkowski was a close battle, with Ishizuka 
The junior Oloriz used his attempting to shorten the space junior Bunsa and the gradu-shiftiness successfully to coun-between the fighters. ate student Le traded punches ter the sophomore Yurkowski. In the second round Ishizuka consistently with both fighters Despite Yurkowski’s efforts to started off with energy, but Ul­attacking in a similar fashion. get in hits, Oloriz constantly rich dominated the middle of the Neither Le nor Bunsa held the dodged his punches and quickly round by keeping Ishizuka away advantage after an extremely countered, landing combination from him. In the final round, Ul­even first round. after combination. rich earned the victory despite 
Le sprinted out of the break While the second round con-early exchanges by both fighters. with an aggressive array of tinued in the same pattern, By quickly throwing punches, he solid jabs to the head. Le’s pace Yurkowski tried to change strat-forced Ishizuka to fight from a slowed near the end of the sec-egies in the third round by turn-distance. Ulrich won in a unani­ond round and he appeared ing up his aggressiveness. Oloriz mous decision. very tired. Bunsa took the op-still dodged his punches and portunity to connect on a few landed counters, winning in a Bryan Cooley def. Brett “The punches soon before the second unianimous decision. Jet” Geschke round ended. Bunsa defeated In the early round, the law Le after the referee stopped the 171 Pounds student Geschke started off well contest after the second round. with fast sets of hits, but the 
Zach “Dallas” Harris def. David freshman Cooley kept the fight Alex ”Goodness” Grace def. “No Way No” Howe close by countering and picking Sebastian “The Hispanic From the very beginning the his spots. Causing Panic” de las Casas match was an even battle, al-The second round brought capitalized early with streaks on nior Grasberger and the junior 
Immediately after the bell though the junior Harris could a swing in momentum. Cooley Palutsis on the ropes. Petravick feeling each other out, rang, the MBA student Grace connect on a few more good learned from the first round and Peart kept up his intensity with neither gaining a signifi­began at a fierce and furious punches. The sophomore Howe came out with relentless energy. in the second round and Palut-cant advantage. pace. The much shorter de las would regain the advantage by The third round found both fight-sis seemed to be overwhelmed. Grasberger jumped out to an Casas was unable to land many backing Harris into the ropes ers starting with aggressiveness, Then, momentum shifted. Palut-early start to the second round jabs on Grace, who displayed and then landing powerful jabs. but Cooley eventually outlasted sis started to counter faster and by driving Petravick into the his skill throughout the match. Neither Harris nor Howe were Geschke and earned the unani-stopped Peart from keeping close ropes. Grasberger used speed to Grace relied on a powerful afraid to enter the fray, as both mous decision victory. to him. close the gap and keep Petravick right hook and solid left jab to could answer each other’s ad-In the third round, Palutsis from responding. attack the sophomore de las vances. When one boxer seemed 180 pounds used his adjustments and start-The third round started with Casas, who couldn’t make any to build momentum, the other ed to throw quick jabs to keep the fighters exchanging body headway against the MBA stu-would soon counter with a flurry Dan Winnike def. Charles Peart from extending. Palutsis blows. Grasberger then react-dent. While de las Casas never of jabs. After three rounds, Har-“Bronson” Drury finished the match by pushing ed by hitting Petravick with gave in, Grace took the unani-ris claimed victory over Howe in The fight kicked off with a fu-forward and forcing Peart to body blows and throwing a few mous decision with a dominat-a split decision. rious battle between the sopho-stop the combinations. Palutsis’ spurts of head-shots. Grasberg­ing performance. more Winnike and the law stu-adjustments were the key in his er earned the unanimous deci-
Patrick Spittler def. Griffin Nor-dent Drury, but the match soon unanimous win. sion. Murphy Lester def. Andrew man slowed down to a more manage­“The Juggernaut” Ofsonka The fight commenced with able pace. Winnike and Drury Nick “The Lancaster Disaster” Steve “Kraska, Steve” Kraska 
The sophomore Lester earned the senior Spittler attacking the both preferred to engage each Grasberger def. Mike Petravick def. Danny Caton a two-round win in his fight freshman Norman with a series other, throw two punches and In a methodical fight, both In a close fight, the junior with the senior Ofsonka. of quick punches. After the first then back out again. Conse-fighters slowly but strategically Kraska and the junior Caton had 
Ofsonka started the first round, neither boxer held a size-quently, neither fighter appeared progressed through the bout. round strong, but an early able advantage. to have an advantage after two The first round showed the se-see BOXING/page 11 flurry by Lester proved to be In the final two rounds, Nor-rounds. the difference. Lester pressed man attempted jabs to Spittler’s In the third round, the quick closer to his opponent and used body, but the senior would coun-series of punches continued, but quick punches to keep Ofsonka ter with unrelenting blows. Spit-Winnike was able to get the bet-off balance. By using his quick-tler utilized a strong left jab, and ter of Drury with strong jabs. In ness and aggression, Lester he continued to build his advan-the end, Winnike defeated Drury kept Ofsonka against the ropes tage through the final round. In in a split decision. and caused two falls in the a tough bout from both sides, round. After the second fall, Spittler defeated Norman in a Joe “Send in the Troll” Garrity the fight was called giving Les-unanimous decision. def. Peter “Yamez” Ingallinera ter the win. The bout between freshman 
Luke “Cool Hand Luke” Murphy Ingallinera and senior Garrity Chris LaCosta def. Pat “Mus-def. Jake “The Dancing Bear” began with both boxers trading tang” O’Hea Baranek solid punches. But after the first 
The senior LaCosta showed After the bell rang, the sopho-round, Garrity gained the ad-off his boxing ability dur-more Murphy and the senior Ba-vantage by unleashing a fury of ing his victory over the fresh-ranek traded punches in a slow powerful blows. Though Ingalli­man O’Hea. In the first round, first round. Murphy was able to nera continued to throw punch-LaCosta brought out his speed. land a solid first punch, but nei-es, Garrity was able to avoid After moving in closer, he ther boxer made much progress. many of the freshman’s swings. lashed out with quick punches Throughout the match, Baranek Garrity continued his attack that O’Hea struggled with. and Murphy would tie each other after multiple stoppages by 
The second round started up in close quarters, causing a the referee and in the end, he off promising for O’Hea with a stoppage by the referee. claimed victory when the refer-strong opening hook. But in the Baranek displayed a few good ee stopped the bout in the third latter part of the round, LaCos-stretches in the second and round. ta upped his activity and kept third rounds, but they were not O’Hea off balance. enough to overcome Murphy, Hank Duden def. Jack Healy 
But in the third round, whose stamina prevailed in the When the bell rang to begin LaCosta steadily pulled away. final round. Murphy took the win the match, the sophomore Duden Despite trying to counter, in a split decision over Baranek. came out strong, always entering O’Hea became worn out by the battle first. The junior Healy, LaCosta’s speed. The fight end-Pat “the Hit Man” Bishop def. meanwhile, waited for Duden’s ed in a unanimous decision for James “Jimbo Slice” Heisler attack and attempted to coun-LaCosta. The junior Bishop won the ter. Both boxers continued their 
battle between two fighters with efforts, each gaining the advan-Steve “One Man” Wandor def. similar fighting styles, as both tage at some point during the Kevin Phan Bishop and the freshman Heisler match. 
By using his size and fought with aggression. As one Duden and Healy were able to strength, the junior Wandor finished an aggressive attempt, back the other into the ropes and defeated the sophomore Phan. the other went right back at him. deliver potent jabs. Both fighters Wandor opened the fight with In the first round, Bishop out-even lost their mouthguards at the effective strategy of using maneuvered Heisler in tight times in the match. In the end, his length to keep Phan away spaces and set the tone for the Duden’s consistently powerful from his body. Phan kept up fight. Bishop capitalized in the blows to Healy helped him claim with Wandor with a high effort second round with his length. In the split decision. level. the same style of fighting, Bishop 
In the second round, Wan-used his length to reach around Eric “P-Rex” Palutsis def. dor stuck with his strategy and the blocks. In the last round, O’Neil “Oh No!” Peart started to pull away in the fight. Heisler attempted to keep up The freshman Palutsis came After the second round, Wan-with Bishop. Bishop fended off out with a victory against MBA dor changed his strategy and Heisler with his length, leading student Peart. Despite the unan­started to become the aggres-him to the unanimous win. imous decision, the fight was one sor. But his aggression moved of the closer bouts in the latter him closer to Phan, who capi-Jeff “Little Bear” Ulrich def. Tik half of the action. talized and took this chance to “Tick Boom” Ishizuka In the first round, Peart ap­get in solid hits. But this last ef-The entire fight was a techni-peared to have the advantage fort from Phan was not enough, cal battle between the junior Ul-with Palutsis being forced to and Wandor still earned the rich and the MBA student Ishizu-back away into the ropes. Peart 


Tuesday, February 14, 2012 The Observer u SPORTS ndsmcobserver.com | page 13 
MEN’S SWIMMING AND DIVING 
Nemetz excels in his first year 
By JONATHAN WARREN 
Sports Writer 
Now a Big East champion in both the 1-meter and 3-meter dives, freshman Nick Nemetz is accomplishing goals that no freshman diver has ever achieved for the Irish. 
Nemetz has earned the distinction of being the first Notre Dame diver to sweep the diving events at the Big East championships as a freshman. He is the second Irish diver ever to do so. Thanks to this sweep, the freshman has also been named Big East Men’s Most Outstanding Diver of the Year. 
“It felt great winning those events,” Nemetz said. “I wasn’t really expecting it, so it came as a surprise. I didn’t really have any goals coming in. I was just trying to perform my dives and have a good person­al meet.” 
Nemetz said his breakout conference meet was the outcome of the increased time and in-and competed at Junior Na­tionals before his senior year. Growing up 10 minutes from the campus of the University channel that positivity into continued success. 
“I have a few more dives I’m trying to get into my pro­
of Michigan, Nemetz says he came to Notre Dame because he wanted a change. Com­ing from Ann Arbor, Mich. to Notre Dame is something Nemetz takes flack for both at home and at school. 
“I get [heat] from both 

tensity he has “It felt great winning devoted to those events. I wasn’t practice. really expecting it, so it “It’s the came as a surprise.” 
first time I’ve been this se-

Nick Nemetz 
rious about 

freshman diver 
d iving,” Nemetz said. “My high school prac­tices were 
“I have a few more dives I’m trying to get into my program before NCAA Zones. I’m happy with this season, but I hope to keep improving.” 
Nick Nemetz freshman diver 
gram be­fore NCAA Zones,” Nemetz said. “I’m happy with this season, but I hope to keep im­proving.” 
This comes as no surprise from the versatile diver, who said earning new dives 


spots,” Nemetz said. “My teammates make fun of me here for coming from Michi­gan. At home, they make fun of me for coming to Notre Dame.” 
Nemetz says joking around 
with his team mates help him keep loose and re­laxed. 
“With the whole team, we basically joke a lot,” Nemetz said. “We’re not real serious, and we’re pretty laid back. Every­one handles stress dif­is his favorite aspect of the sport for the feeling of ac­complishment he feels when the dive is mastered. 
“It’s a great feeling,” Nemetz said. “ It kind of shows how hard work pays off. When you add a flip or twist, you feel accomplished.” 
With three years of col­lege diving in front of him, Nemetz has high hopes for the future. 
“I hope to go to NCAA Na­tionals,” Nemetz said. “I don’t know if I can make it this year because we have a strong zone, but within a few years, I should be making it.” 
Nemetz, along with his teammates junior Ryan Kot­er and freshmen Michael Kreft and Ted Wagner, will compete at the NCAA Zone Diving championships begin­ning March 9. 
Contact Jonathan Warren at           jwarren3@nd.edu 
NCAA 

Orange outlast Louisville on strength of defense 
Associated Press 
LOUISVILLE, Ky. — Syracuse 
coach Jim Boeheim preferred to 
look on the bright side despite 
all his team’s problems. 
Senior leaders Scoop Jardine 
and Kris Joseph struggled. The 
Orange missed shot after shot. 
Only C.J. Fair had an answer 
against with Louisville, which 
was poised for an upset. 
“Our defense was getting 
crucial stops when we needed 
them,” Fair said. “And, defense 
wins games.” 
Championships, too. 
Fair scored 13 points and No. 
2 Syracuse scored the final six 
points of the game to beat the 
19th-ranked Cardinals 52-51 
on Monday night, snapping a seven-game losing streak against Louisville in a game that remind­ed Boeheim of the NCAA tourna­ment. 
“You’re going to get in games like this in the tournament. I don’t care who you are. You’ve got to be ready to be able to make those plays at the end of games,” Boeheim said. “If they make a play, hit one shot, the end, we lose. In the tournament, you go home and you’re going to play teams like Louisville and teams just as good or better.” 
Syracuse (26-1, 13-1) is on a roll toward a Big East title and hopes to play for a national champion­ship in April. The Orange proved in this one they could grind out a possession-by-possession battle. 
“You can either give the de­fenses credit or say it was a bad offensive game,” Boeheim said. “We’re going to look on the bright side and say it was a real defen­sive struggle tonight.” 
Louisville (20-6, 8-5) rallied with a 15-2 run to take a 51-46 lead, but the Orange held the Car­dinals without a point over the final 3½ minutes and Fair hit the go-ahead layup with 2:11 left. 
“It was a defensive battle and they came up with the plays at the end,” Louisville coach Rick Pitino said. “I’m very, very disappointed that we lost the game.” 
Fab Melo scored 11 points and the best shooting team in the Big East overcame a 34.4 percent effort, including 1 of 15 from 3-point range, to win for the sixth straight time since losing at Notre Dame. 
Jardine missed all eight of his shots and Joseph, Syracuse’s leading scorer, struggled with foul trouble, while Cardinals for­ward Kyle Kuric went 1 for 8 from the field, including 1 for 6 from 3-point range. 
“I don’t put my head down be­cause I know I’m reliable to make a tough basket at any given time,” Jardine said. “And that’s the same as the other two guards and that’s what happened tonight.” 
The Orange came in shooting 
48.1 this season, while the Cardi­nals’ defensive field goal percent­age was fourth-best in the nation at 37.2. Neither team could reach that mark against the other’s zone looks. 
Freshman Chane Behanan had 16 points and nine rebounds for the Cardinals, who had won six straight conference games. 
It was a whiteout at the KFC Yum! Center with 22,738 fans wearing white and Pitino donning his cream-colored suit with a red tie, but it was far from a shootout with both sides struggling from the field. 
Brandon Triche scored eight points, while Dion Waiters and Joseph added seven each for the Orange. 
Triche hit a jumper — Syra­cuse’s first field goal outside the paint in the second half and only second of the game — Melo hit two free throws and Fair added a layup to give Syracuse a 52-51 lead with 2:11 left. 
“A game like this, going down to the last shot, it’s a game that we’re definitely going to use,” Triche said. 
Louisville guard Chris Smith finished with 10 points, while Gorgui Dieng had 10 rebounds and five turnovers, including a costly one late for the Cardinals, who shot 34.7 percent from the field and went 12 of 21 from the free-throw line. 
Dieng committed a turnover instead of trying a 15-foot jump­er, throwing it away and Smith missed a reverse layup with 57 seconds left. 
“Plays like Gorgui not shooting that shot, that bothers me because we work on that every single day for 45 minutes. I don’t care if our guys miss shots,” Pitino said. “When they’re open, they’ve got to shoot the ball. That kind of thing irks the hell out of me.” 
Waiters missed a layup with 30 seconds left, giving Louisville a chance at the last shot, but Dieng couldn’t handle a pass from Pey­ton Siva in the paint and Waiters stole it after it bounced off Triche. 
“I just made the wrong deci­sion,” Siva said. “I didn’t see Kyle open in the corner. I won’t make that mistake again.” 
nothing compared to how hard I train here.” 
Nemetz was a three-time All-American for Ann Arbor Pioneer High School in Mich., 
ferently, but it helps me stay positive.” 
With NCAA Zone Diving championships beginning in March, Nemetz will look to 


page 14 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u SPORTS Tuesday, February 14, 2012 
Friars 
continued from page 16 
to a 79-43 Notre Dame victory on Dec. 8, 2010. The Friars suffered 23 turnovers in last season’s match-up, the Big East opener for both teams. 
Junior guard Skylar Diggins scored a career high 32 points against West Virginia on Sun­day, and McGraw said that she expects a similar offensive performance from Diggins against the Friars. 
“She really attacked well in the West Virginia game, and she was really the only one that was getting anything go­ing offensively, and she took advantage of that,” McGraw said. “I know she’ll do the same thing again tomorrow.” 
McGraw added that in or­der for the Irish to ensure the Providence contest does not start a losing streak, a strong first half is a crucial compo­nent of her team’s strategy. 
“It will be very important for us to come out with a lot of intensity right from the start,” she said. 
Notre Dame’s contest 

Kubinski 
continued from page 16 
Tyler Wingo all recorded the maximum two points on the day to pace the Irish. Junior Max Scodro split, earning a victory against Loyola before falling victim to the match­play format and Villanova junior Michael Kania despite scoring a better stroke-play number than Kania. 
“The guys looked great out there today,” Kubinski said. “For a first tournament of the year, this was a great step.” 
In particular, Kubinski not­ed the improved irons play of Platt and the smoother strokes of Usher and Walker, play­ers who propelled the Irish to the Big East championship in 2011. 
“I think Niall [Platt] hit 25 of 29 greens today,” Kubinski said. “He looked really good. And Tom [Usher] looked better than he has in a long time.” 
Scodro — whose fall sea­son will stand as one of the best in school history — golfed well for the Irish, but it was the consistent play of Notre Dame’s other golfers that was most encouraging for an Irish team that struggled to post con­sistent scores in the fall. 
“We played great as a team today,” Kubinski said. “But now we move on to Central Arkan­sas. We’ve never played with them before, and we didn’t get a chance to see them today, but we know that they’re going to grind. To get through what they had to today, they have to be grinders.” 
The Irish entered The Match Play as the top-seeded team in the tournament — No. 57 ac­cording to the Golfstat poll — and did everything they could to assert themselves as the best in the field. According to Kubin­ski, that kind of play will need to continue if the Irish hope to defend their Big East title. 
“This is a positive start for us,” Kubinski said. “This needs to continue, but anytime you’re playing decent golf in Florida in the month of February, it’s a good day.” 
The Irish resume play today against Central Arkansas in Or­lando at 7:30 a.m. 
Contact Conor Kelly at ckelly17@nd.edu 
Versatile 
continued from page 16 
“I guess I always sort of knew I was going to do it, but not until I got to college did I really focus on it,” she said. “When I was younger, I remember when peo­ple were telling me I was going to be a heptathlete, my original 


thought was, ‘No, I’d rather just do seven events and get seven medals versus doing seven events and get one medal.’” 
For an ath­lete whose versatility is her biggest at­tribute, Butt­inger eventu­ally came to realize the pentathlon al­against Providence marks the fifth community outreach game of the 2011-12 season. Attendees are encouraged to bring small bathroom items for donation to the YWCA of North Central Indiana for its “Splish Splash” collection. 
a jack-of-all trades events,” she said. 
Although she devotes ample time to each of her events, Butt­inger does not shy away from picking favorites. 
“I really love the high jump and the 800[-meter run], which is kind of different because most multi-eventers hate the 800, so I guess it’s sort of an advantage that I have over my 

“I think it’s one of those things wher I wasn’t amazing at one event, but I was pretty good at a lot, so it’s sort of like a jack-of-all trades events.” 
Maddie Buttinger 
senior pentathlete 
competitors,” she said. “Go­ing into the last event [the 800 -met er run], every­body is freak­ing out — and I get nervous for it, obvious­ly — but not as much as other people, so it’s probably to my advan­tage.” 
Buttinger’s second place 
lowed her to make the most of her skills. 
“I think it’s one of those things where I wasn’t amazing at one event, but I was pretty good at a lot, so it’s sort of like finishes in both the high jump 
(1.73meters) and the 800-meter run (2:18.58) helped her take second place in the heptathlon at last year’s outdoor confer­ence championship. 
Having never finished higher than second in the Big East In­door championship and with a career best score of 3,922, Buttinger hopes to capture first place in her final conference in­door championship. 
“I’ve been second place at Big East almost every year,” Buttinger said. “Right now, I am ranked first going into it … [but] there is a really good field this year. I would love to win it as a senior, that’s obviously my goal.” 
But Buttinger has more than one goal in mind. 
“I want to qualify [for the NCAA Indoor championships in March]. Right now I think I am twelfth on the list for NCAA’s — they take between 16 and 18 people, but you never know,” she said. “I also want to try to break the school re­cord, which is 4,069. If I can do all those things, I should win. They should all kind of come together.” 
The Irish will participate in the Big East championships all day Saturday and Sunday in New York. 
Contact Joseph Monardo at jmonardo@nd.edu 
Tamasitis 
continued from page 16 
but there is something about making a play and working with someone to do that that is really special.” 
Tamasitis’ ability to pass the ball and orchestrate the Irish offense earned her spots on the third team All-American, first team all-region, first team all-Big East and Big East all-tourna­ment team. 
“I’ve learned a lot about what I like to do on the field specifi­cally,” Tamasitis said. “I’m more of a passer than I was in high school and I definitely have learned more of my strengths and gaining confidence from that and working on my weak­nesses.” 
Now a senior co-captain, along with classmates Jordy Shoemak­er and Megan Sullivan, Tama­sitis looks to lead the No. 17/20 Irish in their first season under Irish coach Christine Halfpenny. 
“I think what I’ve learned defi­nitely as a player is how to over­come adversity,” Tamasitis said. 
“Now with a new coach and ev­erything, my confidence has got­ten a lot better. 
“I think we’ve all had to make the transition, and everyone is basically on an equal playing field I think. As a whole team it’s made us all come together, and we love our new coaching staff so I think it’s been a really easy transition.” 
Although Tamasitis said she embraces her role as a leader on the team, she does not consider herself to be a teacher figure to younger players. 
“I don’t really see myself in that role, I more see myself as playing with them,” she said. “I have a great relationship with all the attackers on my team … even the freshman and sophomores coming in, I just have a great re­lationship with all of them. So I see myself more as playing with them than teaching them.” 
The Irish enter the 2012 sea­son having gone 10-9 in their last campaign, which ended with a 12-10 loss in the Big East Championship game to Loyola. This season, Tamasitis said, the Irish hope to avenge last year’s defeat. 
Notre Dame takes the court against Providence at 7 p.m. in the Purcell Pavilion before a six-day layoff from action. 
Contact Molly Sammon at            msammon@nd.edu 
“Like always, a Big East Championship and a National Championship, or a Final Four, would be awesome,” she said. “We won’t really settle for any­thing else than that.” 
This season also offers Tama­sitis the opportunity to establish herself among the most accom­plished Irish players of all time. The senior attack needs only 15 assists to overtake the top spot in Notre Dame history, and is only 54 points shy of becoming the fifth Irish player to reach 200 career points. 
“I don’t really like to think about [the records] when I play,” Tamasitis said. “I guess they are always kind of on your radar, you like to set goals for yourself, but if we make it to the Final Four nothing else will matter to me.” 
When the Irish open their reg­ular season on Sunday, Tama­sitis will have one eye peeking toward postseason tournaments in May and the other eye scan­ning the field, looking to make the next pass to help the Irish get there. 
Contact Joseph Monardo at            jmonardo@nd.edu 

Tuesday, February 14, 2012 The Observer u TODAY ndsmcobserver.com | page 15 
CROSSWORD WILL SHORTZ 
HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 


EXPND JON REPINE JUMBLE DAVID L. HOYT JEFF KNUREK 




Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556

 Enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year


 Enclosed
 is $75 for one semester 


Name ____________________________________________________ Address __________________________________________________ City ____________________ State___________ Zip______________ 

Tuesday, February 14, 2012 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 16 
ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 
Back to business 
Irish look to rebound against Providence after tough home loss 

PAT COVENEY/The Observer 

Irish graduate student forward Devereaux Peters goes up for a shot during Sunday’s loss to West 
Virginia. Peters contributed five points and 17 rebounds. 
By MOLLY SAMMON 
Sports Writer 
After snapping a 23-game win-streak in a loss to West Vir­ginia on Sunday, the No. 4 Irish turn to Providence at home to­night looking for a win to put them back on a winning track. 
“[Providence] has very good guard play, and they’re very quick,” Irish coach Muffet Mc­Graw said. “Their post play is also very good, and they have a good inside-outside game.” 
The Friars (13-12, 5-7 Big East) are flirting above the .500 mark after beating Seton Hall 62-47 at home Saturday. The Friars also took down the team that just handed the Irish their second loss of the season, beat­ing West Virginia 51-48 on Jan. 14 in a comeback win. 
After their own bout with the Mountaineers, the Irish had just one practice to squeeze in Monday afternoon before tak­ing on the Friars. 
“I am expecting us to play very well tomorrow,” McGraw said. “Practice went well for us. 
“I am hoping to have the same intensity [against Provi­dence].” 
The Friars shoot 36.1 per­cent from the field and 28.6 percent from behind the three-point line. 
Notre Dame is 19-0 all-time against the Friars. The last time the Irish took on Provi­dence, sophomore forward Natalie Achonwa scored a career-high 13 points in only nine minutes of play en route 
see FRIARS/page 14 
MEN’S GOLF 

Pair of victories push Notre Dame into semis 
By CONOR KELLY 
Sports Writer 
Following a fall season that saw the Irish fall short of Irish coach Jim Kubinski’s lofty expectations, the Irish coach said he was glad for the two-month break for winter — a chance to regroup and im­prove on facets of the game that are difficult to work on during the week in-week out grind of the fall season. 
On Monday, Kubinski watched his rejuvenated squad dispatch Loyala-Chica­go and Villanova in the first two rounds of The Match Play at the Reunion Resort Watson Course in Orlando, Fla. These two vic­tories earned the Irish a spot in the semifinals of the tourna­ment, where they will face Cen­tral Arkansas. 
In the morning, the Irish took down the Ramblers in a domi­nating fashion (5.5-0.5) and took care of the Wildcats (4.0-2.0) in the afternoon. Seniors Chris Walker and Tom Usher, sopho­more Niall Platt and freshman 
see KUBINSKI/page 14 
WOMEN’S LACROSSE 

Tamasitis adds passing to offensive repertoire 
By JOSEPH MONARDO 
Sports Writer 
After three stellar years in an Irish uniform, senior at­tack Maggie Tamasitis is look­ing to improve on her break­out junior season and lead Notre Dame to conference and national prominence. 
The Boyertown, Penn., na­tive collected 80 points in her first two collegiate seasons before racking up a team high 67 points last year. Tamasitis netted a career-high 21 goals as a junior, but her largest im­provement came in the pass­ing game. Last year, Tamasitis racked up 46 assists — doubling her number from the previous two seasons and tying for sec­ond in the nation in the catego­ry. 
“I definitely think an assist is more exciting [than a goal] be­cause more people are a part of it,” Tamasitis said. “I like celebrating with someone. Don’t get me wrong, goals are great, 
see TAMASITIS/page 14 

ND WOMEN’S TRACK AND FIELD 
Buttinger prepares for pentathlon championship 
By JOSEPH MONARDO 
Sports Writer 
Developing the strength to excel in shot put is difficult and displaying the grace to perform well in the high jump is no easi­er. Doing both simultaneously is nearly impossible. 
Add in three other events, and you will have a sense of what se­nior multi-eventer Maddie Butt­inger faces as she prepares for the Big East Indoor champion­ships. 
The Ontario native will com­pete in the pentathlon in New York for this weekend’s confer­ence competition and the hep­tathlon at the Big East Outdoor championships later this season in May. 
“It takes a certain mentality, I guess, because when you are just an individual event compet­itor, you sort of go to a meet and your focus is all on one event,” Buttinger said. “My old coach used to reference it … when you are hurdling, you are a hurdler. As soon as you take off your spikes you are the next event. So it is sort of like the mental­ity where it is different events within the bigger pentathlon.” 
The indoor pentathlon con­sists of the 60-meter hurdles, high jump, long jump, shot put and 800-meter race. The mul­tiple events require a consider­able amount of extra practice time, Buttinger said. 
“It is more training — we probably train the most be­cause we are in here two or three different times a day for different events, but I used to do a bunch of different sports in high school, so I’ve always been used to going from event to event,” she said. “It definitely is hard, but it takes a specific type of person to do it.” 
Buttinger, who also qualified to compete in the long jump and high jump events separate from the pentathlon, said she began thinking of herself as a pentath­lete and heptathlete only late in her career. 
see VERSATILE/page 14 
BENGAL BOUTS 

Bouts begin with preliminaries 
By ERNST CLEOFE and PETER STEINER 
Sports Writers 
165 pounds 
Inoh “Lights Out” Choe def. John Ryan 
The fight began with the se­nior Choe immediately on the attack as he landed many pow­erful punches on the sopho­more Ryan. Though Ryan was able to connect on a few long-armed jabs, the smaller Choe was able to avoid many of the swings and counter with a strong right hook. 
It was clear Choe held the advantage after two rounds, but Ryan continued his ef­forts. Both boxers proved their stamina in a furiously paced third round, but Choe maintained the advantage by backing Ryan into the ropes and cornering him numer­ous times. In a good show­ing, Choe defeated Ryan in a unanimous decision. 
Dan Griess def. Danny “Un­leash the Danimal” Chapman 
To start the match, the sophomore Griess and the senior Chapman traded blows in close quarters. Both boxers moved in and landed a few quick jabs, but then backed out. 


In the second and third rounds, Griess was able to gain ground on Chapman, who had difficul­ties connecting on any jabs to the head. Griess was persistent in his attacks and was able to counter most of Chapman’s advances by dodging and attacking. Even a few strong punches from Chap­man at the end could not prevent Griess from claiming victory in a unanimous decision. 

Dallas Bunsa def. Thinh “Wo­bidy Wobbly Wobble” Le 
After the referee’s signal, the 
see BOUTS/page 12 




