
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


Fightin’ Irish Battalion continues excellence 
ND ROTC program recognized with McArthur award 
By KRISTEN DURBIN 
News Writer 
With a strong tradition dat­ing back to 1858, the Notre Dame Army Reserve Officer Training Corps (ROTC) pro­gram is one of the most dis­tinguished and respected or­ganizations on campus.Now, that acknowledgement has spread nationwide. 
On Feb. 6, the Army’s Ca­det Command announced the winners of its MacArthur Award, which recognizes the top eight ROTC programs of 273 total across the coun­try. Notre Dame was chosen to represent the 7th Brigade, which includes 38 programs 


see AWARD/page 4 




Army cadets compete for German badge in military proficiency 
By CHRISTIAN MYERS 
News Writer 
Notre Dame’s Army ROTC pro­gram prepares cadets for Amer­ican military life, but this week­end members of the Fightin’ Irish Battalion will compete for German recognition. 
Four cadets will compete for the German Armed Forces Badge for Military Proficiency, awarded by the German Army, known as the Bundeswehr. 
Senior Josh Sandler, will com­pete for the award along with Holy Cross sophomore triplets Randy Jozwiak, Matt Jozwiak and Allen Jozwiak. The group will participate this weekend in Indianapolis, with Sandler serv­

see GERMAN/page 4 



Scanlan wins in Sophomore Class Council runoff 
MARISA IATI will begin his term as soph-ceived 541of 1066 votes Scanlan said his ticket eral different events, from a News Writer omore class president April (50.75 percent), not includ-looks forward to working to class cup to a class stimu­
1. His council will include ing 121 abstentions. The achieve the goals and ideals lus package.” 
After Thursday’s Sopho-Nathan Foje, Andrea Palm opposing ticket received it ran on. Scanlan said through more Class Council elec-and Emily Voorde, who will 525 votes (49.25 percent). “We want to unite the the stimulus package, any tion proceeded to a runoff, serve as vice president, sec-Scanlan and his ticket class, get people to connect sophomore can submit an the results were announced retary and treasurer, re-defeated Kevin McMannis, across the quad, across the idea for an event and Soph-Tuesday night. spectively. Cristin Pacifico, Ryan New-hall and between the dif-
Tim Scanlan, current The Judicial Council re-ell and Kai Gayoso to win ferent dorms,” he said. “We freshman class president, ported Scanlan’s ticket re-the election. want to do that through sev-see COUNCIL/page 5 

President Jenkins reorganizes staff 
Observer Staff Report 
University President Fr. John Jenkins announced Tuesday three staff members will assume new positions in his office over the next month, according to a University press release. 
Frances L. Shavers, chief of staff and special assistant to the president, has been appointed to the newly created position of chief diversity officer. According to the press release, Shavers will focus on staff diversity, assist in diversity efforts with students and faculty and provide advice on how the University can continue to improve its efforts in this area. 
Ann M. Firth, associate vice president and counselor to the president, will become chief of staff. Firth was formerly associ­ate vice president for student af­fairs. 
Firth will work in the Office of the President to manage staff, act as a liaison with the Board of Trustees and plan the University Commencement Ceremony. 
Firth and Shavers will assume their new roles March 5. 
Fr. William M. Lies, executive director of the Center for Social Concerns, will assume the new position of vice president for mis­sion engagement and church af­fairs March 19. 
Lies will take on key respon­sibilities previously assigned to the Office of the Counselor to the President. He will also coordinate with Church leaders and look to sustain and enhance the con­tribution of Holy Cross to Notre Dame, according to the press re­lease. Lies will also have ecclesial responsibility for the University’s Tantur Ecumenical Institute in Jerusalem. 


Zuckert earns achievement award 
By DAN BROMBACH 
News Writer 

Political science professor Michael Zuckert recently won the Jack Miller Center Chair­man’s Lifetime Achievement Award for his extensive work in politi­cal theo­ry. 
The award recog­nized Zuck­ert for his out­standing schol ar­ship and his work as a class­room teacher. Zuckert pro­vided generations of students with a profound knowledge of American constitutional heri­tage, according to a statement released by the prize commit­tee.
 Zuckert said he feels privi­leged to join the illustrious ranks of past recipients. 

“My predecessors in this award are very distinguished people, and I’m proud to be in their company,” he said. 
Zuckert said he didn’t know he would receive the award until a colleague surprised him with the news the day it was given. 
“I didn’t actually find out I was getting the award un­til the day it was supposed to be handed out,” Zuckert said. “Somebody slipped the news to me at lunch on accident.” 
In addition to writing and teaching in his main fields of political theory and consti­tutional studies, Zuckert or­ganized a new constitutional studies field that will begin next semester. He also edits the journal ‘American Politi­cal Thought.’ 
Zuckert said the responsi­bility that came with editing the journal played a key role in receiving the award. 
“The award is definitely in some degree for me editing that journal, which makes contributions to the under­standing of the American po­litical tradition,” Zuckert said. 
Zuckert said it was ulti­mately his college experience at Cornell University that mo­tivated him to pursue a career in political science. He said he was influenced by the quality of his teachers and the politi­cal climate of the time. 
“I was in college in the ‘60s when there were a lot of exciting things going on po­litically, and I was also fortu­nate enough to go to a college where we had really good fac­ulty in political science,” Zuck­ert said.  “They reinforced my interest in the subject.” 
Aside from making the new constitutional studies field a success, Zuckert said his other major goal at the mo­ment is to finish a trilogy of books on constitutional theory 


see THEORY/page 4 

INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER College changes senior housing page 3 u Viewpoint page 6 u Mr. Sunday Night page 8 u Men’s Basketball  to play West Virginia page 16 
page 2 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u DAY-TO-DAY Wednesday, February 22, 2012 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: IF YOU COULD THANK ALUMNI FOR SOMETHING ON CAMPUS, WHAT WOULD IT BE? 

www.ndsmcobserver.com P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 Editor-in-Chief Douglas Farmer Managing Editor Business Manager Sarah Mervosh Jeff Liptak Asst. Managing Editor: Adriana Pratt Asst. Managing Editor: Chris Masoud News Editor: Sam Stryker Viewpoint Editor: Meghan Thomassen Sports Editor: Allan Joseph Scene Editor: Maija Gustin Saint Mary’s Editor: Caitlin E. Housley Photo Editor: Pat Coveney Graphics Editor: Brandon Keelean Advertising Manager: Katherine Lukas Ad Design Manager: Amanda Jonovski Controller: Jason Taulman Systems Administrator: William Heineman Office Manager & General Info (574) 631-7471 Fax (574) 631-6927 Advertising (574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu Editor-in-Chief (574) 631-4542 dfarmer1@nd.edu Managing Editor (574) 631-4542 smervosh@nd.edu Assistant Managing Editors (574) 631-4541 apratt@nd.edu, cmasoud@nd.edu Business Office (574) 631-5313 News Desk (574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com Viewpoint Desk (574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com Sports Desk (574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com Scene Desk (574) 631-4540 mgustin@nd.edu Saint Mary’s Desk chousl01@saintmarys.edu Photo Desk (574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com Systems & Web Administrators (574) 631-8839 Policies The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College.  Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Douglas Farmer. Post Office Information The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 and additional mailing offices 024 South Dining hall Notre Dame, IN 46556-077 The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved.  
TODAY’S STAFF News Sports Sam Stryker Sam Gans Anna Boarini Katie Heit Ann Marie Walker Carey Jakubowski Scene Graphics Mary Claire Marina Kozak O’Donnell Photo Viewpoint Sarah O’Connor Ren Brauweiler  
CORRECTIONS In the Feb. 21 edition of The Observer, Fr. Ronald Vierling was misattributed in discussing medical amnesty in the article “Group discusses medical amnesty.” The quote was actually from Fr. Tom Gaughan.  
HIGH 46 LOW 37 


Will Holmes  Kristoff Inocentes  Laura Thomas  Lindsay Nowak  Danny Leicht  Andrea Rosato  
sophomore  junior  freshman  sophomore  junior  sophomore  
Duncan  Alumni  McGlinn  McGlinn  Dillon  Pangborn  
“For all of the  “I’m thankful to  “For keeping  “For giving  “For study  “Awesome  
seemingly small  alumni for many  campus  students the  abroad  research  
donations which  things, and  beautiful.”  opportunity  opportunities.”  facilities.”  
combine to make  financial aid is  to experience  
the greater  one of them.”  extra- 
Notre Dame  curriculars.”  
experience.”  


Have an idea for Question of the Day? Email obsphoto@gmail.com 


ASHLEY DACY/The Observer 

Alumni junior Kristoff Inocentes, McGlinn freshman Laura Thomas and McGlinn junior Lindsay Nowak put letters from grateful students to alumni in envelopes while volunteering at Thanksgiving in February. 
OFFBEAT 

Bus driver stabbed with pen 
KENNESAW, Ga. — Geor­gia authorities say a com­muter bus driver is recov­ering after being stabbed repeatedly with a pen when he tried to break up a fight between passengers that involved a dispute over a cell phone. 
Police say the melee on the Cobb County Tran­sit bus occurred Monday afternoon in Kennesaw, about 25 miles northwest of Atlanta. 
The Atlanta Journal-Constitution reports that the driver went to the back of the bus to keep the quar­rel from escalating, and a woman pulled a knife. 
Authorities say other passengers were able to 

LOCAL WEATHER 
get the knife away from the woman, but police say she grabbed a pen from the bus driver’s pocket and stabbed him several times. 
The bus driver’s condi­tion was not immediately known. 
Piano donated to nursing home contains hidden gun 
PITTSFIELD TOWN­SHIP, Mich. — Police say an unloaded gun has been found inside a piano that was donated to a southeast Michigan nursing home years ago. 
AnnArbor.com reports that staff at Whitehall Healthcare Center in Pittsfield Township, five miles south of Ann Ar­bor, found the gun Fri­day in a case inside the piano. 
Pittsfield Township deputy police chief Gordy Schick says he suspects the Ruger .22 caliber pis­tol was hidden long be­fore the musical instru­ment was donated to the home. 
Schick says police checked a state database but found no registered owner for the gun. They are trying to determine its last owner by check­ing the serial number against Bureau of Alco­hol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives records. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 


IN BRIEF 
Students will have an op­portunity to thank those who donate to the Univer­sity at the “Thanksgiving in February” event held in the Sorin Room of LaFortune from 11 a.m. to 3 p.m. today. Free food and t-shirts will be provided. 
An Ash Wednesday ser­vice will be held at 1 p.m. today in the Lower Level Training Room in Grace Hall. 
A physics colloquium titled “Frontiers in Nuclear Theory: From Light Nuclei to Astrophysics” will be held today at 4 p.m. in 118 Nieu­wland Hall. 
The Bengal Bouts quar­terfinals will be held to­night at 6 p.m. in the Joyce Center Fieldhouse. 
The men’s basketball team will take on West Vir­ginia tonight at 7 p.m. in the Purcell Pavilion at the Joyce Center. Tickets cost $15-40. 
As part of Body Image Week 2012, a lecture on “Theology of the Body” will be given tonight at 8:30 p.m. in Dillon Hall. 
Student Affairs is now ac­cepting nominations for the Denny Moore Award for Excellence in Journalism, named after the University’s late Associate Vice President for Public Affairs. Candi­dates may be nominated by faculty, staff or fellow stu­dents. The deadline is Fri­day, March 2. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, email detailed information about an event to obsnews.nd@gmail.com 

TODAY TONIGHT THURSDAY FRIDAY SATURDAY SUNDAY 









HIGH 49 LOW 35 
HIGH 37 LOW 29 
HIGH 33 LOW 28 
HIGH 42 LOW 33 

Wednesday, February 22, 2012 The Observer u NEWS ndsmcobserver.com | page 3 




Saint Mary’s changes options for on campus living 
By BRIDGET FEENEY 
News Writer 
When campus opens for the fall semester, Saint Mary’s will welcome back return­ing students, members of the Class of 2016 and possibly some four-legged guests. 
Next year, Regina South will be open exclusively to seniors and, if approved, their pets as well. The new­est senior housing option, announced by the Depart­ment of Residence Life and Community Standards last month, is an example of how the College is working to re­tain students on campus for all four years. 
Janielle Tchakerian, assis­tant vice president for Stu­dent Affairs and director of Residence Life and Commu­nity Standards, said 72 per­cent of the graduating senior class signed housing agree­ments to live on campus next year. 
“For some students it is cheaper to live on campus than off because of financial aid reasons,” she said. “Oth­ers choose to live on campus because of the conveniences and the new senior living op­tion in Regina South.” 
Tchakerian said in addi­tion to the growing list of se­nior-only living options, the College is also retaining so many seniors due to changes in the housing selection pro­cess. 
“[Some students chose to live on campus] because we had senior room selection in February which allowed [the seniors] to know sooner if they got into a particu­lar hall, floor, etc. instead of waiting until April,” she said. 
In addition to private ac­cess to kitchens, a new visitation policy, upgraded computer labs and flexibil­ity when selecting a meal plan, Tchakerian said Regi­na South residents have the opportunity to bring a small pet to join them in the room, which has drawn a positive response. 
“I do not know any exact number [of how many pets will live in Regina South],” Tchakerian said. “However, there are 21 students who have indicated a strong in­terest and want the pet reg­istration information,” 
Tchakerian said she is ex­cited for the opportunity to collaborate with students to further improve the senior housing options. 
“I am looking forward to working with a group of women to help further en­hance the senior living expe­rience,” she said. “We have the framework in place but are allowing the students to help further define their ex­perience.” 
Regina South is not the only exclusive housing op­tion available to seniors next year. Annunciata Hall and Opus Hall are also living ac­commodations designated for seniors. 
Annunciata, located on the top floor of Holy Cross Hall, features a private kitchen and common room for resi­dents. 


Junior Alyssa Baz said she is thrilled she secured a room in Annunciata for her final year of college. 
“My stepmom was one of the founding residents of Annunciata when she was a senior, so I knew that I want­ed to live there to keep the tradition alive,” she said. “I wouldn’t want to live in any other building during my last year at Saint Mary’s.” 
Opus is filled to capac­ity for the 2012-2013 aca­demic year. Each apartment features a furnished living room, a full kitchen and pri­vate bedrooms. Junior Hilary Whitsett will live in an Opus quad next year. She said she has been hoping to spend her final year in Opus since she was a freshman. 
“The apartments are re­ally nice and it will be great to have my own room,” she said. “I am looking forward to moving out of the dorms and having a real type of apartment and not living in one big room with a bunch of people. It will feel like a real living space.” 

Contact Bridget Feeney at bfeene01@saintmarys.edu 





Laughter class teaches stress relief techniques 
By CHRISTIN KLOSKI near impossible, Labuzienski News Writer said. However, she said social environments full of laugh-
If you heard a lot of chuck-ter and positivity can release les emanating from Sta-the negative energy anxiety pleton Lounge on Tuesday causes. night, don’t be alarmed. Cer-“On average, a person tified laughter leader Mary should laugh a total of 15 Labuzienski provided an op-minutes, with each being timistic guide to college life three seconds long through-as part of Saint Mary’s “Love out a day,” she said. Your Body Week.” By isolating themselves 
Labuzienski presented from others, college students simple ways to be humor-are unable to obtain the ous in times of stress in the daily positive levels needed talk “Love to keep con-my body? centration 
What’s not to love!” A clin­ical exercise physiologist, L a bu z i en - “Laughter is a positive emotion that helps us to move forward. It allows us to act. We  or creativity. L a bu z i en ­ski said stu­dents need to take the  
ski trains people of all  become paralyzed when we are too stressed.”  time every­day to engage  
ages  to  re­ in  humorous  
lease stress in their daily lives.  Mary Labuzienski laughter leader  interactions, devoting at least five  
To  live  minutes at a  
he a l t hy  time to initi­ 

lives, Labuzienski said stu-ate a comedic conversation or dents need to laugh, smile, a funny joke. celebrate and play. Positive psychology leads 
“Laugh and make others people to thrive, and as such, laugh,” she said. “You have to happiness should be a part of make it happen.” every person’s life, Labuzien-
Labuzienski said laughter ski said. is a critical component in “Laughter is a shortcut performing everyday tasks to happiness,” Labuzienski well. said. “It makes us more at­
“Laughter is a positive emo-tractive people when we are tion that helps us to move for-happy and others like happy ward,” she said. “It allows us people.” to act. We become paralyzed As such, the role laughter when we are too stressed.” plays in everyday life can 
Labuzienski said stress contribute to overall levels of weakens the physical and happiness. emotional aspects of the “Fifty percent of happiness mind and body. She said pos-is genetic, 10 percent is what itive emotions allow people happens in a person’s life to take stress away from the and 40 percent is what dai­body. ly events occur in a person’s 
“Laughter is the shortcut to life,” she said. stress resistance,” she said. 
For college students, a Contact Christin Kloski at stress-free lifestyle seems cklosk01@saintmarys.edu 

page 4 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u NEWS Wednesday, February 22, 2012 
mission. 
Award 
“As a Catholic university, 


German 

Notre Dame attracts a lot of continued from page 1 people who want to fight for 
continued from page 1 

something bigger than them-throughout Michigan, Ohio, selves,” he said. “One of the 
ing as the team leader. Each Indiana, Tennessee and Ken-greatest Army values is Self-
will vie for his own badge in­tucky, Lt. Col. John Polhamus less Service, and it goes with­
dividually. said. out saying that each of us [is] 
Sandler said though the Ger-Although the Army ROTC willing to pay the ultimate 
man army gives the award, it is program may not be among the price for our country if neces­
for American participants. largest programs in the coun-sary.” 
“The German Armed Forces try, Polhamus said the quality That willingness to serve 
Badge is an award for military of theBbattalion’s roughly 70 the nation carries on after 
proficiency from the German current cadets, including stu-cadets graduate from the pro-
army, authorized to be award-dents from Holy Cross College, gram and join the hundreds of 
ed to and worn by Americans,” Saint Mary’s College, Bethel alumni currently serving on 
he said. College, Valparaiso Univer-active dutysaround the world. 
The competition takes place sity and Indiana University – hNotre Dame ROTC alumni 
over two and a half days and South Bend, contributes to its currently serve in such loca­
is comprised of eight separate success in producing excellent tions as Germany, South Ko­
individual events — a 200-me­junior officers. rea and Japan, Polhamus said. 
ter swim, a 100-meter sprint, “We have a good program Second Lt. Ryan Degnan, 
a five-kilometer run, a long because it’s cadet-driven. a 2011 alumnus of the Army 
jump, a shot put competition, We have a smart, intelligent ROTC program, recently 
a first aid test, a 9 mm pistol group of cadets, and we give completed the Basic Officer 
shoot and a march carrying a them a lot of flexibility and Leadership Course (BOLC) 
33-pound pack called a “ruck latitude to train and teach in military intelligenc, ande 
march.” The shooting competition and Jozwiak said he is competing themselves,” he said. “It’s all returned to Notre Dame this 
Competitors have to meet or the “ruck march” determine for the badge because he has about leadership in creating week to assist with the Home-
exceed a standard of perfor-the type of badge a competitor never participated in a similar junior officers, and we try to town Recruiting Assistance 
mance in each event. These is eligible to receive, Jozwiak experience. instill that in cadets as early Program (HRA. . 
standards vary for different said. “I really just wanted to do it as possible. It’s paid off.” Degnan, who begins work in 
age brackets and are based on “There is a shooting compe-because I’ve never done any-Senior battalion command-his first unit in San Antonio 
gender. tition with a 9 mm pistol. You thing like the track-and-field er Brett Leahy said the pro-on Monday, said the success 
Further, some events are have five chances to hit a tar-events before,” he said. “The gram’s success stems from of the Notre Dame ROTC pro-
referred to as “go, no go” con-get 25 meters away,” he said. experience itself is what I’m the hardworking, intelligent gram begins with the drive 
tests, and others determine “Three out of five is the mini-looking forward to. I also want students at Notre Dame. and passion of its cadets. 
whether a competitor receives mum to still be eligible for a to better myself physically.” “We are fortunate to have a “The biggest thing about 
a gold, silver or bronze badge, badge. If you hit the target five Sandler said all of the Notre student body that has already Notre Dame ROTC is that it 
Matt Jozwiak said. times you are eligible for gold, Dame ROTC cadets have a proven a strong work ethic and comes with a lot of talented 
“Go, no go” means a competi-four times you are eligible for chance at a badge this week-high academic standards,” he cadets who are all striving to 
tor will no longer continue in silver, and three times you are end. said. “From that pool, we are be the best they can be, and 
the competition if they fail to eligible for bronze.” “It’s not a participation rib-able to draw some of the most they have a lot of drive to suc­
meet an event’s standards. Joz-The “ruck march” is the fi-bon, but if we continue to put dedicated and selfless leaders ceed,” he said. “It fosters a 
wiak said an example of a “go, nal competition and deter-the work in every one of us is in the nation.” competitive atmosphere, but 
no go” event is the long jump, mines what type of badge an capable of coming home with Leahy also cited Notre there’s still a lot of camarade­
where competitors are disqual-individual earns, Jozwiak said. some hardware,” he said. Dame’s focus on ethics and rie and teamwork in the unit.” 
ified if they do not jump at least Different distances and time Jozwiak said he is confident morality in all its operations Degnan said the program 
4.5 meters. Other events in this standards for the march are at least one of the four team-as another reason for the suc-pushed him to work hard in 
category are the 200-meter required for different types of mates will come home victori­cess of Army ROTC cadets. all aspects of his training and 
swim, the 100-meter sprint, badges. ous. The Universith consistently education, which prepared 
the five-kilometer run and the Sandler said he wanted to “Personally, I don’t know how produces high numbers of him well for his upcoming du­
shot put. compete for the German Armed I will do,” he said. “I think as Distinguished Military Gradu-ties. 
Jozwiak said the first-aid Forces badge for the prestige. a team we’ll come back with ates, defined as those cadets “The program instills a 
test is similar to the “go, no go” “In the Army, you wear your some badges, at least one gold.” who fall into the top 20 per-very strong work ethic in its 
physical event, as competitors resume on your chest,” he said. cent of cadets nationwide. cadets, and I can’t even ex-
must pass in order to receive a “This is a shiny new bullet Contact Christian Myers at “We also benefit from Notre press how much that work 
badge. point.” cmyers8@nd.edu Dame’s commitment to eth-ethic helps in the long run,” ics in its educational mission, he said. “The Army-focused as it gives our cadets a mor-training we had senior year al foundation that is consis-taught ue how to be good tent with the Army’s Warrior leaders and succeed as offi-Ethos,” he said. cers, and I think it gave me 
This ethical focus and the a good base to face any chal­University’s service-oriented lenges I might come in con-mission tie in closely with tact with this year.” the ROTC program’s mission Above all, Waliszewski said in producing quality second the strong sense of commu­lieutenants as well, Polhamus nity among ROTC cadets con-said. tributes to the program’s suc­
“The University is extremely cess and cohesion as a group. supportive of our community, “We are a very tight-knit and it allows us the flexibil-community,” he said. “We ity to create a great program all have friend groups from across the board,” he said. “A dorms, majors or clubs, but big reason for students com-friendships made in ROTC ing into ROTC is their commit-tend to be the strongest and ment to service, which goes seem to last long after gradu­along with the Notre Dame ation, since we are all going mission and contributes to the into the same career and may success of the program.” run into one another in a dif-
Senior cadet Trevor Wal-ferent part of the world in the iszewski said commitment not-so-distant future.” to service goes hand in hand with the Army’s core values Contact Kristen Durbin at and the University’s Catholic kdurbin@nd.edu 
ber one thing.” 


Theory 

Ultimately, Zeckert said he is grateful for the assistance continued from page 1 and the opportunities Notre 
Dame has provided him over spanning ancient Greece to the the course of his career at the modern constitutional theory University. spanning ancient Greece to the “The administration has modern era. been extremely helpful in fa­
“I’ve been working on it for cilitating the work that I’m try-a long time, and at this point I ing to do,” he said.  “This is a just want to get it off my desk,” university that I think is com-he said. mitted to keeping alive the tra-
The opportunity to teach and dition of political theory and interact with students on a dai-making sure it thrives, and I ly basis is the most rewarding think they’ve done a great job part of his job, Zuckert said. of supporting us.” 
“I very much like working with the students here,” he Contact Dan Brombach at said.  “That would be my num-dbrombac@nd.edu 



Wednesday, February 22, 2012 The Observer u NEWS ndsmcobserver.com | page 5 


Council 
continued from page 1 
omore Class Council will fund, advertise and run it. 
“We want to do a class trip to Cedar Point as well as an off-campus winter ball,” Scanlan said. “And we’re really excited about some of the class apparel ideas we have. I think the class cup will be what we’ll work on first.” 

The class cup will be a year-long competition in which residence halls earn points through ath­letic events and activities, Scanlan said. At the end of the year, Sophomore Class Council will crown a cham­pion. 
McMannis said he hopes to be involved in Student Government next year and is considering running for membership on Sophomore Class Council or applying to be the director of a Stu­dent Senate committee. 
Contact Marisa Iati at miati@nd.edu 



Mayor, Yale president face off 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK — The mayor faced off with the president of Yale University on Tuesday over an effort by the city's po­lice department to monitor Muslim student groups for any signs that their members har­bored terrorist sympathies. 
The Associated Press re­vealed over the weekend that in recent years the New York Police Department has kept close watch on Muslim student associations across the North­east. The effort included daily tracking of student websites and blogs, monitoring who was speaking to the groups and sending an undercover officer on a whitewater rafting trip with students from the City College of New York. 

Yale President Richard Levin was among a number of aca­demics who condemned the effort in a statement Monday, while Rutgers University and leaders of student Muslim groups elsewhere called for in­vestigations into the monitor­ing. 
“I am writing to state, in the strongest possible terms, that police surveillance based on religion, nationality, or peacefully expressed political opinions is antithetical to the values of Yale, the academic community, and the United States,” Levin wrote. 

New York Mayor Michael Bloomberg, speaking to re­porters on Tuesday, dismissed those criticisms as baseless. 
“I don’t know why keeping the country safe is antithetical to the values of Yale,” he said. 
He said it was “ridiculous” to argue that there was anything wrong with officers keeping an eye on websites that are avail­able to the general public. 
“Of course we’re going to look at anything that's pub­licly available in the public domain,” he said. “We have an obligation to do so, and it is to 
protect the very things that let Yale survive.” 
Asked by a reporter if he thought it was a “step too far” to send undercover in­vestigators to accompany students on rafting vaca­tions, Bloomberg said: “No. We have to keep this country safe.” 
“It’s very cute to go and blame everybody and say we should stay away from any­thing that smacks of intel­ligence gathering,” he said. “The job of our law enforce­ment is to make sure that they prevent things. And you only do that by being proac­tive.” 
Police talked with local authorities about professors 300 miles away in upstate Buffalo. The undercover agent who attended the City College rafting trip recorded students’ names and noted in police intelligence files how many times they prayed. Detectives trawled Muslim student websites every day and, although professors and students had not been accused of any wrongdoing, their names were recorded in reports prepared for po­lice Commissioner Raymond Kelly. 



Panel discusses body image and addiction 

By MADELINE MILES Davis presented the ties be-News Writer tween spirituality and alco­
hol by introducing the views 
Loving your body can entail of alcohol consumption in many things, as attendees of Islam, Buddhism, Judaism, Tuesday’s panel “Where Do Christianity and Hinduism. You Draw the Line?” learned. Davis said Buddhists have a Panelists at the event dis-positive mindset about the cussed alcohol abuse, cultur-consumption of alcohol. al influences within the com-“There are four rules that munity, body dissatisfaction the Buddhists follow,” Da­and controlling and taming vis said. “One, know why personal thoughts. you’re drinking. Two, taste 
Held in Carroll Auditorium what you’re drinking. Three, as part of “Love Your Body watch what happens to your Week,” the panel included mind when you drink. And psychology professor Cathe-four, find your own middle 
rine Pittman,  way.”  
p r of e s s or  Staples said  
of religious studies Stacy Davis, Eating Disorder Re­covery Ser­vices Coordi­nator Valerie Staples and  “I hated myself. I didn’t care about anything anymore. I finally asked for help from the counseling center here on campus.”  s t u d e n t s ’ perception of body image is influenced by the me­dia, as well as the Notre Dame and  
alumna Mau­reen Barrett. B ar r e tt  Maureen Barrett SMC alumna  Saint Mary’s culture she referred to as  

said she struggl ed with her body image during her time at Saint Mary’s. 
“Loving my body is some­thing I’ve been striving to do since I can remember,” she said. “From the outside, I looked completely normal. But the outside doesn’t al­ways match the inside.” 
Barrett said she turned to consuming alcohol excessive­ly, because when she drank, she felt better. 
“I loved the warmth of the alcohol going down my throat,” Barrett said. “When I drank, I felt taller, smarter, skinnier, prettier, powerful, even blonde.” 
Barrett said her problem reached the point where she recognized the need for pro­fessional help. 
“I hated myself. I didn’t care about anything any­more,” Barrett said. “I finally asked for help from the coun­seling center here on cam­pus.” 
Barrett left Saint Mary’s in April of 2006 and checked into a professional treatment center. She returned to cam­pus this past fall and gradu­ated in December. 
the “bubble.” 
“There are 
a lot of great things about the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s communi­ty,” Staples said. “But there are also a lot of challenges.” 
Staples said the lack of di­versity in race, religion, eth­nicity, sexual orientation and even body type contribute to the intensity of this “bubble.” 
“There is a world outside of the bubble with people of all different sizes,” she said. “We don’t appreciate our body as this amazing machine. We focus on its appearance rath­er than its function.” 
Pittman said internal thoughts are the reason be­hind the distortion of one’s self-perception. 
“It’s not that you need to change your body,” Pittman said. “But you need to change your thoughts.” 
Pittman said it is crucial to recognize the illusion the media, the “bubble” and oth­er outside influences create. 
“If we can change our thoughts, we’ll find it so much easier to love our bod­ies.” 

Contact Madeline Miles at mmiles01@saintmarys.edu 


page 6 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com Wednesday, February 22, 2012 

INSIDE COLUMN 


Basketball magic 
For most of my first 12 years on Earth, I was a fairly casual college basketball fan. I had my two favorite teams — Notre Dame and Kansas — but besides that I did not have too substantial of an interest. 
That all changed in March of 2002 when my father acquired tickets to four first-round NCAA Tourna­ment games at the United Center in Chicago. 
I strongly hoped 



that either Notre Dame or Kansas would be playing in one of these games, yet when the brack­ets were released neither of my favorite teams was scheduled to play a first round game in Chicago. I was significantly bummed by this fact, but I thought these games would serve as a good opportu­nity to acquaint myself with other teams. Little did I know that the first game of the day would forever sell me on the great­ness of college basketball. 
The first game of the day was a No. 5-seed vs. No. 12-seed matchup between Billy Donovan’s Florida Gators and Dana Altman’s Creighton Blue Jays. Going into the game, all I really knew about either team was that Florida had played for the national title two years prior. 
For the first half of the game, it seemed as if Florida was the superior team. Play­ers such as guard Brett Nelson, forward Matt Bonner, forward Udonis Haslem and center David Lee controlled the tempo of the game and it seemed as if the Ga­tors definitely had the guns to pull away in the second half. Creighton, however, had other plans, as junior forward Kyle Korver and junior guard Terrell Taylor led a feverish comeback to make it a hotly contested matchup. 
With the Gators leading 82-80 with just under five seconds on the clock, Creigh­ton put the ball in Taylor’s hands. Taylor launched his eighth three-pointer of the game over Brett Nelson and as it cleanly went through the net, the United Center exploded. I can still visualize the scene as the Blue Jays bench launched into hyster­ics, mobbing Taylor and wildly celebrating the sizable upset. 
Once the players cleared the court, I found myself salivating at the fact that there were still three more games I would get to watch — one of which was a match-up between Robert Montgomery Knight’s first Texas Tech squad and a Bruce Weber-coached Southern Illinois team and another of which included a Georgia team coached by Jim Harrick, who would see his coaching career end just one year later amid an academic fraud scandal. This sensation has stayed with me ever since and I give all the credit to the magic college basketball emitted on that Friday in March of 2002. 
Sometimes I think about how differ­ent my life would be if I had not attended those four games that Friday in March. I can honestly say that I do not believe I would be enjoying my life as much if I never fell in love with college basketball. It is just comforting to know that no matter what I am going through in life, college hoops action will always be there for me almost every night between mid-Novem­ber through the first week in April every year — and that is a wondrous thing. 
Contact Walker Carey at      wcarey@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

The guns of February 
The Russian and Chinese U.N. delegations vetoed a U.N. resolution which called for a “Syrian-led politi­cal transition to a democratic, plural political system” earlier this month. This has kicked off a new chapter in Keenan Duffey the Syrian conflict that might push Guest it into an outright Columnist civil war. Bashar Al-Assad has been assured that there will likely be no international interven­tion against him and his increasingly militant tactics for quelling the rebel­lion in Syria. 
This is not the first time that the Assad regime has faced serious in­ternal rebellion. In the early 1980’s, President Hafez Al-Assad faced a similar rebellion and used ruthless methods to eliminate his enemies. This was when Hafez carried out the now infamous “Hama Massacre” against the rebel stronghold of Hama. The Syrian military is now massing near Homs, the epicenter of current Syrian resistance. The military appears to be on the brink of launching a massive military campaign against Homs, just like Bashar’s father in Hama.
 In 1982, Hafez faced an uprising led by Sunni religious leaders who despised Hafez’s authoritarian re­gime and the way in which the regime favored the president’s Alawite sect over the majority Sunni sect. The city of Hama was the epicenter of this Sunni-led resistance. Hafez Al-Assad, in response, dispatched his brother to lead some 12,000 troops armed with tanks and artillery to initiate a siege of 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
the city. What ensued was the system­atic extermination of the Hama-based Sunni resistance. Hafez and his broth­er Rifaat, to ensure the total elimina­tion of the Sunni resistance, utilized mass executions, artillery shelling and ignited the sewer system to ensure no one escaped. This month, eerily, marks 20 years since the “Hama Massacre,” which resulted in the deaths of be­tween 10,000 and 25,000 Syrians. 
The parallels between Hafez Al­Assad’s massacre and the looming massacre in Homs are chilling. Bashar, like Hafez before him, faces unprec­edented civilian unrest and most of the protests are still aimed at the dispro­portionate amount of power Alawites retain in the government. The Sunni majority is once again calling for representation in the Syrian govern­ment. The majority has tired of minor­ity rule. The phone lines and internet connections in and out of Homs have been severed and the situation in Homs remains unclear. Like the massacre of Hama, we may not know about it until after Homs has been razed and the optimism of the rebels is shelled back into fear. 
The move by Russia and China to veto a U.N. resolution has mitigated growing international pressure on the Assad regime. Bashar has carte blanche to put down the rebellion by any means. The presence of Arab League observers has been meaning­less. The UN was the last international institution that had a chance to effect a change in the Syrian government’s tactics. 
The United States has recently dem­onstrated a willingness to intervene to prevent civilian slaughter, even in an auxiliary role. The success of the Libya mission, however, has not emboldened the United States or its Western Euro­pean allies to intervene in Syria. This is probably because Russia sees Syria as indispensable and no country wants to come directly between Moscow and Damascus when the political benefits would be limited. China is supporting Russia because the Chinese see the Russians as partners against the influ­ence of the Western Europeans and Americans in foreign affairs. 20 years after the fall of the Berlin Wall, Russia is embracing a realpolitik Cold War mentality. It seems that Russia and China are putting regional partner­ships above human rights in Syria. 
America’s options, now that an effec­tive U.N. resolution has been vetoed, are limited. The U.S. could attempt to indirectly arm the resistance groups. Sen. John McCain has recently spoken in favor of this strategy. The effort, while well intentioned, would likely in­duce a stalemate similar to Libya, and would require international interven­tion to succeed. With limited options, we must now wait and hope Bashar proves to be the moderate that he so often projects himself to be. If not, we may be on the verge of witnessing a Hama-like massacre in Homs. Like father, like son. 
Keenan Duffey is a senior. He can be reached at kduffey1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 



QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“The most potent muse of all is our own inner child.” 
Stephen Nachmanovitch American author 


WEEKLY POLL 
What are you giving up for Lent? 
Huddle candy Facebook stalking Super Smash Brothers Naps 
Vote by 5 p.m. on Thursday at 

ndscmobserver.com 


Wednesday, February 22, 2012 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 7 

A moral outrage 
Institutions have the ability to cre­ate rhetoric in order to frame certain issues. They use this to justify certain actions (or inactions) and they repeat the rhetoric enough that it begins to seem reasonable. 
But once there is resistance to such rhetoric, the holes become more ap­parent. 
So, we need to change the framework for the discussion of a gay-straight alli-



ance and an inclu­sive nondiscrimi­nation clause. We need to change the rhetoric. 

It is partially our fault, that of those who advocate strongly for these changes. We have tried to convince the administration that recognizing a gay-straight alliance and adding “sexual orientation” to the non-discrimination clause are the right things to do be­cause we are the only top-20 Univer­sity that has failed to do so; because Public Religion Institute statistics show that Catholics are more supportive of gay rights than members of any other Christian denomination; because our sister school, Saint Mary’s, has both; because there is overwhelming support from students, faculty and staff for these changes; because the possibility of discrimination creates a culture of fear in students, faculty and staff; and because soon enough we will be the alumni/ae who decide whether or not to support the University. 
What we hardly ever publicly argue is that these changes are the right things to do, no qualifications. 
Whether the administration claims that it is for religious reasons, as it did in its 1995 open letter rejection of GLND/SMC; for legal reasons, as it did in its 1997 open letter following the Spirit of Inclusion; or for unstated financial reasons, the administration’s steadfast refusal to recognize a gay-straight alliance and to include “sexual orientation” in its nondiscrimination clause is a moral outrage. Enough is not being done to live up to “the social teachings of the Catholic Church [which] promote a society founded on justice and love, in which all persons possess inherent dignity as children of God.” 
It is an offence to Notre Dame’s high moral standard to refuse official club status to a gay-straight alliance because of the administration’s per­ception that it is doing enough — an offence because there is clear evi­dence of prejudice and homophobia on campus, including hateful slurs such as “faggot,” derogatory football chants and a comic insinuating homophobic violence. The University consistently ranks in the top six on the Princeton Review’s Top 20 LGBT-Unfriendly Col­leges and Universities list. The ad­ministration’s perception of the Notre Dame environment contrasts sharply with the reality that gay students and allies experience. Year after year, gay, lesbian, bisexual, transgender and questioning students, faculty, staff and their straight allies have repeatedly made it known that enough is not being done. 
It is immoral for any university to reserve the right, by exclusion from official policy, to discriminate against a person because of his or her actual or perceived sexual orientation. The administration claims in the Spirit of Inclusion that “we consciously create an environment of mutual respect, hospitality and warmth in which none are strangers and all may flourish.” 
Despite the beautiful language steeped in multiple references to Christ, such as “at Notre Dame, Christ is the law by which all other laws are to be judged,” the administration’s refusal to include “sexual orienta­tion” in the non-discrimination clause diminishes any genuine attempt by the University at inclusion. 
Meaningful legal protection for peo­ple based on sexual orientation is lost in the morass of legal technicalities: “Institutional nondiscriminating claus­es are highly stylized statements which are legally binding. Neither federal nor state law mandates that sexual orien­tation be included in nondiscrimina­tion clauses.” By avoiding legal respon­sibility, our administration is avoiding its moral responsibility to Christ and to Notre Dame. GLBTQ members of the Notre Dame community are not legal technicalities who can be told in one breath that they are cherished as family, and in another that they are not worthy of legal protection. 
The high standard to which the administration holds the entire Notre Dame community (including itself), the Spirit of Inclusion, must actually be practiced. If the administration truly believed its own spirit of inclusion, University policy would reflect it. Once again, the administration has the op­portunity to make the commitment to its gay, lesbian, bisexual, transgender and questioning students, faculty and staff that would show its unconditional love for all children of God. These changes of course would not be the end of efforts for inclusion at Notre Dame. Until they are made, however, we can legitimately be skeptical of the admin­istration’s commitment to discouraging homophobia, prejudice and discrimina­tion. 
It is a moral outrage the way Notre Dame’s current policies stand. But, to those at Notre Dame who identify as gay, lesbian, bisexual, transgender or questioning: Allies are joining their voices with yours in support. The 4 to 5 Movement is doing all it can to create a culture of inclusion at Notre Dame. The administration must at the very least match that level of commitment. The struggle for true inclusion will not go away, and until the administration joins fully in the struggle, we must continue to stress the language that accurately reflects Notre Dame’s cur­rent policies. 
Alex Coccia is a sophomore. He can be contacted at acoccia@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR  
Big East champs  A call for solidarity  
Congratulations to the members of Notre Dame Men’s swimming  Monday marked the beginning of National Body Image and Eating Disorders Awareness  
and diving team on your Big East Championships. You came into  Week, a week that is meant to promote positive messages and healthy outlooks regarding  
Da Burgh and left no question about who the best team is in the Big  one’s self-image. As a member of the Notre Dame community, I, for one, am so proud that  
East. You are the hardest working group of people I have ever met. I  our school takes the initiative to promote such an event. More than 10 million women and 1  
am so happy for all of you.  million men nationwide struggle with either anorexia or bulimia and millions more struggle  
The amount of time and effort this team put into the season is in- with binge eating disorder. As a woman who has battled an eating disorder myself (and  
spiring. I cannot begin to describe the sense of pride and happiness  won!), I want to take this time to send a message of solidarity to all people on this campus.  
I felt for this team two weeks ago and all last week. Each member of  You are beautiful just the way you are.  
the team contributed to this win and gave everything they had to win  While eating disorders are serious illnesses, I believe that the first step to reducing their  
the conference title, and they did this with class and sophistication.  prevalence and promoting a culture of confidence starts with each one of us. Girls, I urge you  
Fans, parents and athletes from other teams told me they were root- to revel in the beauty you have. Own it. Guys, understand how awesome you are. The aura  
ing for you guys. I think this speaks volumes about your character.  you exude when you walk with confidence is magnetic. I know that the tragedy that is poor  
Again, I could not be more proud. Thank you so much for making  self-esteem cannot be solved overnight, but we can stand together as a school, as a family, as  
me feel welcome. I loved working with you guys and wish you all the  Notre Dame and let all who struggle know they are not alone. I pray that all who suffer from  
best of luck in the future.  negative self-images and eating disorders may seek the help they need and begin to live a  
Your Manager,  fruitful life free of their illnesses.  
Jessica Orlando Kelly Jones 
 senior                               senior 
 off campus                               Pasquerilla West  
Feb. 20  Feb. 20  


EDITORIAL CARTOON 


page 8 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com Wednesday, February 22, 2012 

By PATRICK MCMANUS 
Scene Writer 

Billy Crystal will host the 84th Academy Awards live from Hollywood’s Kodak Theatre on Sunday. 
Crystal was tapped to host this year’s Oscar ceremony after a series of events complicated the original show. The original producer, Brett Ratner, resigned after making homophobic comments. The host he recruited, Ed­die Murphy, followed him out the door. 
Between 1990 and 2004, Crystal hosted the event eight times. Only the late Bob Hope has hosted the Oscars more, doing so 18 times over a span of 38 years. 
It’s hard to say what Billy Crystal is best known for. He was a standup comedian and a cast member on “Saturday Night Live,” where he famously said, “You look mahvelous” as Fernando Llamas. Crystal starred in Hol­lywood movies like “When Harry Met Sally…” and “City Slickers.” He was also the voice of Mike Wazowski in Pixar’s “Monsters Inc.”  But maybe it is in fact Crystal’s long and successful career hosting the Academy Awards that first comes to mind at mention of his name. 
For anyone of my generation, however, that is probably not the case. I wasn’t alive the first time Crystal hosted the Oscars. I don’t think I cared very much at all when I was 12, the last time he hosted. However, since then I have taken an interest in the biggest night of the year for Holly­wood. I’m definitely excited now, because everyone seems to make a big deal about how well Crystal hosts the Oscars. 
In the past, he made a video inserting himself into the nominated films. He offered his humorous take on “What the Stars are Thinking” and came out dressed as Hannibal Lecter. It all sounds very funny, but I’m not rolling over laughing. The humor of the Academy Awards comes from the timeli­ness of it. 
These were movies everyone talked about for a year, especially in the last week or so before the Awards telecast, and one of them was about to win the most prestigious prize in the film world. The Academy Awards offers the perfect opportunity to skewer the year’s movies and the people who made them. Looking back years later it can still be funny, but nowhere near as funny as it must have been the first time around. 
I’m glad Crystal is hosting this year. Obviously he has the skillset and experience necessary to host the Oscars well. He is the type of person who ought to host, not whoever it is that some executives think will get more young people to watch. 
Even though Crystal is the safe, noncontroversial, fallback option this year, he still has the attributes that made him good at the job in the first place. He is respected enough by the Hollywood community to be able to make fun of them, funny enough to make everyone laugh along and quick enough on his feet to be able to handle any situation that could arise. 
Hopefully by Sunday night I’ll be able to share with my parents and all the other old people the experience of watching Billy Crystal hilariously host the Oscars. 
By KEVIN NOONAN 
Scene Writer 

For those caught up in the spirit of film award season, the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center will feature the 2012 Oscar-nominated short films throughout the week. The center will show all the nominees in each of the three short film categories: animated, live and documentary. 
Movie theaters across the country will also feature the short films in an effort to reach wider audiences.  
Contact Kevin Noonan at knoonan2@nd.edu 
On campus 

What: Oscar-nominated short films Where: DeBartolo Performing Arts Center When: Documentary — Wednesday, 7 p.m.; Animated — Saturday, 6 p.m., Sunday, 3 p.m.; Live Action — 
Saturday, 9:30 p.m. 
How Much: $3 students, $4 seniors, $6 regular Learn More: http://oscar.go.com/nominees 
Contact Patrick McManus at pmcmanu1@nd.edu 

Photo courtesy of ontheredcarpet.com 
MARINA KOZAK | Observer Graphic 


Wednesday, February 22, 2012 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 9 


By MAIJA GUSTIN 
Scene Editor 

This upcoming Sunday might just be the most important day of the year. On this day, the stars align and de­serving people are showered with gold. 
That’s right, Sunday, Feb. 26 marks the 84th annual Academy Awards, when Mr. Oscar goes home with Hol­lywood’s hottest celebrities. 
Sure, the prestigious ceremony has been consistently criticized for ignor­ing movies beloved by the masses in favor of pretentious critical darlings the public doesn’t care much about. But who would level such a claim in a year when the finale to the most popular film franchise in the histo­ry of the medium got nominated for three whole awards — Art Direction, Makeup and Visual Effects. And these knockers say the Oscars are out of touch with the will of the masses… 
Whether you’ve seen all nine Best Picture nominees or none, Sunday will be a great day for film fans and party enthusiasts alike. 
Even if you couldn’t care less about the outcome of Hollywood’s biggest night, the Oscars are  a great excuse to get together with your friends and throw a party that can be as fancy or fun as you want. 
To start, you need to decide on the ambience of your party. Will guests show up in their finest loungewear, or are ball gowns and tuxes required? 
There are merits to both — there is no better way to spend a day in front of the TV than in your best pajamas, but it is equally fun to join with the likes of Meryl Streep and Brad Pitt by dressing up in your Dome Dance best. 
When the dress code is set, move on to decorations. Sunday is the perfect day to roll out the closest thing you have to a red carpet. If nothing else, there must be a red towel or pillow­case lying around, begging for center stage on such an occasion. 
Continue the red throughout your viewing room, but don’t forget those gold accents. If forced to choose be­tween the two, always go for the gold. It will add an air of class and pres­tige to your event that may be lacking from even the finest dorm rooms and apartments around. 
If you really want to go all out, cre­ate a custom poster to hang by your red carpet as guests arrive for per­sonalized red carpet photos, just like the stars have. Or, for a more au­thentic feel, create fake paparazzi to bother your closest friends with their flashing cameras. With a heavy-duty printer and some cardboard, real paparazzi can stalk your party from behind couches and closet doors. For a more economical choice, create sil­houettes of the crazy photographers to tape to your wall. Add in a few flashing cameras for anextra-spe­cial effect. 
Don’t forget the mood lighting. In order to get the full effect of the movie clips shown throughout the ceremony — or George Clooney’s pearly whites — don’t leave too much light on. If you’re watching off-campus, consider lighting a few candles for full dramatic ef­fect. Just don’t pick a scent that will ruin the elevated mood of your evening. 
When décor and lighting are all set, that leaves only the most im­portant element of all — the food. 
While the Hollywood A-listers may be stick-thin due to restrictive diets and who knows what else, the only way to truly celebrate the Os­cars is to indulge in the finest culi­nary delights you and your friends can muster up. 
For a special event, prepare a se­ries of fancy hors d’oeuvres — cav­iar is the obvious choice, but even pigs-in-a-blanket can be classy. Arrange a potluck to guarantee a wide range of options without overburdening the host. 
If fancy, Pinterest-esque finger food isn’t up your alley, create themed foods for each of the nomi­nated films. 
A simple baguette will do for “Hugo” while pineapple pizza is a great stand-in for the Hawaii-set “The Descendants.” Make a black­and-white version of your favorite food for “The Artist” and a South­ern specialty or, if you’re brave, chocolate pie for “The Help.” Cake balls quickly become “Moneyball” baseballs and “Extremely Loud & Incredibly Close’s” Big Apple set­ting is well-represented with apple pie. 
The options are as endless as the wide array of nominated films, so all your guests will surely find something to enjoy. 
Don’t forget to print out ballots so guests can place their bets on the night’s big winners. Create your own or scour the Internet to find an abundance of pre-made ballots. Prizes can range from per­sonalized Oscar statues (for exam­ple, “Best Friend” or “Queen of the Feve”) to something bought on flex points at the Huddle — free stuff is universally loved, particularly when you get to battle your friends for the big prize. 
Really, Oscar Sunday doesn’t be­long to Hollywood — it belongs to you. Make it your own and use it as the perfect excuse to throw the ultimate bash with your friends. 
Contact Maija Gustin at mgustin@nd.edu 

Telling a fashionista not to watch the Oscars is like asking George Clooney to remarry — it’s never going to happen. Like haute couture runway shows, the Oscar red carpet presents our dreams as reality: countless layers of chif­fon, Lloyds of London-in­sured jewelry, designer handbags raining like manna from heaven and, let’s not forget, all eyes on you. 
The addictive compo­nent of the Oscars, how­ever, lies in the fact that walking the red carpet in a mind-blowing gown is not precluded by height, body type, color or any other physical barrier. This differs from runway shows where petite women like myself will never walk, no matter how many times we insist the height discrepancy is solely due to a faulty feet-to-meters con­verter (come on — haven’t we ALL used that as an excuse?!). 
In the truest sense of the American 
dream, talent — and lots of schmoozing — is the cultural commodity that can make you a star. Of course, in this modern technological century, talent is more than ever an equal oppor­tunity inspirer. Every fashionista can tweet, blog, style spot and be street chic! Moreover, in today’s global fashion mar­ket, Marchesa 

Senior Kjerstin dresses are only Johnson models a click away via modern roaring 20s. Net-a-Porter and 
Rent the Runway, while H&M and Zara give us designer qual­ity at friendly prices. 
Reese Witherspoon, Angelina Jolie and Emma Stone? Darlings, they’re yesterday’s stars 

— you are today’s headliner. And what better way to shout it from the rooftops, than by making the proper fashion entrance at your own Oscar 
Handbag, $59.90, Party? zara.com There are two 
proverbial fashion yellow brick roads to travel at your Oscar fete: taking inspiration from the classic gold statue or contextualizing the style choice within the greater film nomination context. 




The first is obvious. We’ve all seen those glistening gold gowns. In fact, we might all have one in our closet. Peek-a­boo mesh, lace fabrics, feath­ers and even lame have made their metallic appearance on the red carpet this season. Go for the gold in a Johnson models flirty short dress, Oscar gold. or rock an ankle length A-line skirt for a magical touch. 

Even more appealing, however, is the huge roaring 20s Parisian theme which has pervaded this years’ films. “The Artist,” “Midnight in Paris” and “Hugo” all speak to this era and the Spring 2012 Fashion Week picked up on the beads, art deco and flapper silhouettes in the air. Take a look at Salma Hayek’s geometric bust­ier on her black Golden Globes Gucci dress for a point of reference (Francois Pinault, I hope you appre­ciate what a lucky man you are). 
Reinterpret this look by placing it on a modern sil­houette — fringe is also a definite option. Pick a monochrome dress and pair it with a sparkly sweater. The key to this style, like the art deco artistic movement, is linear symmetry. Think of the top of the Chrysler Building — alternating diamond shapes in shimmering silver. Who could resist that? Keep the shimmer coming in your accesso­ries. Sparkly flats give that grounded, urban Parisienne feel. A vintage beaded bag can pull your whole look together. 

While bold colors are in this season, this look works best with soft pastels and nudes. Would Bérénice Bejo have looked as elegant, arresting and ethereal in “The Artist” if she weren’t in black and white? The icons of those early Hollywood years of glamour knew what they were doing. Let’s show Mr. DeMille that we women of the 21st century are also ready for our modern close up. 
Contact Felicia Caponigri at fcaponig@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


MARINA KOZAK | Observer Graphic 

page 10 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u CLASSIFIEDS Wednesday, February 22, 2012 
SPORTS AUTHORITY 

We are all witnesses to a grave injustice 
There are many things about sports that seem to resist expla­nation. Why does Josh Smith pre­fer to brick jumpers all day rather than shove the ball through the hoop directly? Why would any base­ball team not treat “Money­ball” as the bona fide gospel? How is Jack Cooley not related to Luke Ha­rangody? 
But, more than the rest, one question persists in defying even the best attempts to formulate an answer: why is LeBron James public enemy No. 1? 
The one-time Akron Hammer, the Chosen One, the King, LeBron James has for the past two years played the role of the bad guy. Jersey burnings, smearing letters and widespread hate are now the defining characteristics of James’ career. We have all been witness­es to the injustice heaped onto this one man because of one decision. Well, one “The Decision,” but still. 
Meanwhile, many exalt and re­spect Kobe Bryant, discounting LeBron as a loser. 
Certainly, Bryant is one of the greatest players of all time. He has proven himself to be a win­ner again and again and again and again. Killer instinct? Mental toughness? The ability to close games? Check, check and check.
 However, for all of his accom­plishments on the court, Bryant couples with his stellar game an attitude that is anything but en­dearing. Often short and petulant with reporters, Kobe frequently comes off as downright rude. Bry­ant forced the Big Aristotle out of Los Angeles several years ago and is currently on a mission to glut himself with points. Perhaps his selfishness can be excused be­cause of his consistent excellence, but it is there nonetheless. 
LeBron, on the other hand, rep­resents what every kid wishes he could be. He is a professional basketball player, but one who does not apologize for having fun while on the job. When the mem­bers of the audience sees LeBron and Dwayne Wade joking around during timeouts, showing genu­ine affection for one another and the rest of the Miami Heat, how do they feel anything but admira­tion? For the 99.9 percent of bas­ketball players who don’t end up in the NBA, but instead hold memo­ries of playing pick-up games with their friends, LeBron should be an undisputed hero. He is on the laminated hard courts of basket­ball’s highest level, but he plays like some high school kid would on a blacktop with the neighbors. 

The only difference is LeBron plays at a higher level. A much, much higher level. Already in his ninth season, LeBron James is av­eraging 27.7 points, 7.1 rebounds and 6.9 assists per game for his career. James’ stats improve on those of Bryant, who has aver­aged 25.4, 4.5 and 4.6 per game for his career. 
The biggest knock on the would-be King is that he is not a winner. Admittedly, in the 2011 NBA Finals against the Dallas Mavericks, James was lackluster, especially in the fourth quarter. But should those six games su­persede an entire playoff career? 
LeBron has racked up ridicu­lous averages of 28.0 points, 8.4 rebounds and 7.0 assists per game in the playoffs. Again, these stats surpass Kobe’s playoff line of 25.4, 5.1 and 4.8 per game. While everyone can reference James’ playoff collapse of the past two years, have James’ detractors forgotten about the King’s perfor­mance in the 2007 Eastern Con­ference Finals, when he led the Cavs over the Pistons and scored 29 of his team’s final 30 points in Game Five? What about when LeBron dropped 45 in Cleveland’s game seven loss to the Celtics in 2008? 
Obviously, LeBron has failed to deliver a championship so far, which is no small blemish on his record. But to keep things in per­spective, Kobe earned his first three rings while being aided by Shaq, Phil Jackson and the pow­erful prestige of the Lakers. LeB­ron was asked to bring a champi­onship to Cleveland with the help of “Boobie” Gibson, Zydrunas Ilgauskus and the like. And 0-1 with the Heat is nothing to panic about yet. 
The Chosen One figures to be, as the Black Mamba already is, one of the greatest players in the history of the NBA. Although you may take offense with his Deci­sion to raise $2.5 million for the Boys and Girls Club of America and may mock the absence of bling on his finger, do not dis­count LeBron James. Instead, just enjoy watching him perform a chase down block from behind or flush an alley-oop from D-Wade, smiling the whole time. 
Contact Joseph Monardo at jmonardo@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
PGA 

Woods remains top target 
Associated Press 
MARANA, Ariz. — Tiger Woods must be mellowing with age. 
There was a time when a comment from his opponent in the Match Play Championship, even tongue-in-cheek, would be an extra bit of motivation that Woods didn’t need. Most famous at this event was in 2006, when Stephen Ames was asked about playing Woods and said that anything could happen, add­ing with a big smile, “Especially where he’s hitting it.” 
Woods beat him 9 and 8, the most lopsided score in tourna­ment history. 
But that was when Woods was No. 1 in the world. He is the No. 19 seed this week at Dove Moun­tain. 
That was when Woods was winning two majors a year. Now he hasn’t won a tour event in more than two years. 
So when Gonzalo Fernandez-Castano, who faces Woods in the opening round Wednesday, said that his opponent is “beatable,” Woods didn’t seem the least bit bothered. 
“I feel exactly the same way as he does,” Woods said. “I feel he’s beatable, too.” 
Then again, that goes for all 64 players in the field for the first World Golf Championship of the year. The difference in talent at this level of golf is miniscule. Over 18 holes of match play, it’s even smaller. 
The best example might be Luke Donald, the defend­ing champion and No. 1 player in the world. For his opening round, he gets to play Ernie Els, a three-time major champion and seven-time winner of the World Match Play Champion­ship at Wentworth, where each match is contested over 36 holes. 
Not since the inaugural Match Play Championship in 1999 has No. 1 against No. 64 featured such big stars, when Woods beat Nick Faldo. 
Of course, there’s a reason Els comes in as the No. 64 seed. 
The Big Easy hasn’t won since the South African Open at the end of 2010, and he only got into this tournament because Phil Mickelson is taking a family vacation (Paul Casey later with­drew with injury). If his results don’t improve quickly, he might be out of the Masters for the first time in nearly 20 years. 
Donald has had a slow start to the year. He tied for 48th in the Abu Dhabi Championship, and closed with a 78 at Riviera last week to tie for 56th, the first time in more than two years that he didn’t earn ranking points despite making the cut. 
Even so, he’s coming off a year in which he won money titles on the PGA Tour and European Tour, and won a career-high four tour­naments, starting with the Match Play Championship. Donald was so dominant at Dove Mountain last year that he never played the 18th hole all week in competition. 
“He had an unbelievable year last year, and becoming world No. 
1. So he’s got a lot going for him,” Els said. “It’s 18 holes, you know? It’s not like I’m the worst match­play player in the world, either. I think I know what I need to do. You’ve got to keep the ball in play. You’ve got to keep it in play on ev­ery single hole, because he’s going to be in every hole. 
“It’s basically who can make the most putts and make the most birdies,” he said. “So we’ll take it from there.” 
U.S. Open champion Rory Mc-Ilroy makes his PGA Tour debut this year by taking on George Coetzee, who is playing for the first time ever in America as a pro. Coetzee got in when Casey’s shoulder injury from snowboard­ing was not fully healed. 
Lee Westwood is the No. 3 seed and will play Nicolas Colsaerts of Belgium. Martin Kaymer, who lost in the championship match to Donald a year ago, is the No. 4 seed and opens with Greg Chalm­ers of Australia. 
Match Play is loaded with ex­amples of those who play good rounds and lose to someone who made one more birdie, and guys who can’t break par who are lucky enough to play someone even worse. 
Only twice has the No. 1 seed lost in the first round — Woods in 2002 and Steve Stricker in 2010. 
Stricker, the fifth seed who opens against Kevin Na, is coming off a five-week break designed to keep his head fresh and build up strength in his left arm, a product of a neck injury. 

No one knows how long they will stay. The smart players don’t even bother looking ahead in the bracket to see whom they might face in the next round. Ben Crane opens with Bubba Watson, in­teresting in that their caddies are sharing a room this week. One of them will be checking out Wednesday afternoon. 
“If you get on a roll and you play well, you can run the tables here,” said Stricker, who did just that in 2001 as the No. 55 seed. 
“I don’t think it really matters where you come from, to tell you the truth,” he said. “They’re all good players. There are 64 good players here, and they deserve to be here. They’ve shown that they’ve played well over the last year to be within that top 64. So you need to play well, just because everybody is good.” 
Woods is a three-time winner of the Match Play Championship, yet this is the first time he has not been among the top four seeds. He shared the lead at Abu Dhabi going into the final round and tied for third, and he was in the pen­ultimate group at Pebble Beach, four shots out of the lead, when he played with Mickelson and shot 75. 
He is hitting the ball well. There are times when he is putting well. He is not yet winning. 
As for the “beatable” comment? Woods said such things used to motivate him “quite a bit” when he was younger. 
“But as I’ve matured and gone beyond that, it’s just an opin­ion,” the 36-year-old Woods said. “What matters is how I go out and play, and how I’m progressing in my game. At the end of the day when I’m retired, I think I’ll have mastered a pretty good record.” 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The 
Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
FOR RENT 
WALK TO CAMPUS 
Great Specials! 
Studio, 1, 2, 3 Bedroom Townhomes available. (574) 272-8124. 
www.clovervillageapartments.com 

Six student rental for the 2012-13 school year. Extra nice, 3 year old house, one mile south of campus at 330 Sunnyside Avenue. Three two student furnished suites with common living area, 
hardwood floors, granite, stainless appliances, 40 in. flat screen 
TV, cable, wireless internet, ADT security. $3,600/month. Please contact Rob or Bob at 574­271-4060 or email robpryor@ cressyandeverett.com or bobdunbar@cressyandeverett.com 
PERSONAL 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don’t go it alone. Notre Dame has many resources in place to assist you. If you or someone you love needs 
confidential support or assistance, 
please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819. For more information, visit ND’s website at: 
http://pregnancysupport@nd.edu 
Born on this date: 

Charlie O. Finley - 1918 - Former owner of Kansas City/Oakland Athletics 
Ted Kennedy - 1932 - Former Massachusetts US Senator 
Sparky Anderson - 1934 - Former Cincinnati Reds and Detroit Tigers manager Julius Erving - 1950 - Former Virginia Squires, New Jersey Nets, and Philadelphia 76ers shooting guard 
Steve Irwin - 1962 - The Crocodile Hunter 
Vijay Singh - 1963 - Three-time PGA major champion 
Bradley Nowell - 1968 - Lead singer of Sublime Michael Chang - 1972 - Hall of Fame tennis player 
James Blunt - 1974  - English musician 
Drew Barrymore  - 1975 - American actress 
Rajon Rondo - 1986 - Boston Celtics point guard 
Go Irish. Beat Mountaineers. 

Wednesday, February 22, 2012 The Observer u SPORTS ndsmcobserver.com | page 11 
NCAA MEN’S BASKETBALL 
Ninth-ranked Hoyas fall to Seton Hall 73-55 
Associated Press 
NEWARK, N.J. — George­town looked nothing like a team that has spent five weeks ranked in the Top Ten this season. 
The ninth-ranked Hoyas came into Tuesday night’s game as one of the Big East’s 
— and the country’s — best defensive teams. They weren’t too shabby on the offensive end either. 
Not in their 73-55 loss to Se­ton Hall. 
“We thought we play pretty good perimeter defense, but we were atrocious tonight,” Georgetown coach John Thompson III said. “They hit some shots early and we got frustrated early and that frus­tration carried over to our of­fense. That was the crux of everything.” 
Jordan Theodore was nearly perfect in helping Seton Hall get the signature win it need­ed for its NCAA tournament resume. He had a career-high 29 points on 8-of-11 shoot­ing, including making all five 3-point attempts. 
“We just needed this one so bad. I was jacked up for this game,” said Theodore, who also had five assists and four rebounds. “I didn’t want to blow another opportunity like we did my sophomore year when we were on the bubble. I have a little experience in being on the bubble. I want to dance so bad. I can taste it we’re so close. 
The Pirates (19-9, 8-8 Big East), whose best win this season was over Connecticut on Jan. 3, have two games re­maining — Rutgers and De-Paul — to solidify what would be their first NCAA tourna­ment bid since 2006. Their RPI is in the high 30s and it never hurts to be from the Big East, which a record 11 teams in the field last season. 

Still, nothing is official until Selection Sunday. 
“What could be better than having a game like this with your fate in your hands,” said Herb Pope, Seton Hall’s other senior. “We stayed solid. We shot terrific today.” 
Then he started talking about Theodore. 
“That’s my little brother and we’re going out together,” Pope said. “We moved one inch closer to our goal. He came out on fire and we rode the wave.” 
The Hoyas, who could have clinched a first-round bye in the Big East tournament with a win, have three games left in the regular season — Villano­va, No. 20 Notre Dame and at No. 10 Marquette. They can’t afford a losing streak this late in the season. 
“I think our team is good at bouncing back after a loss,” senior guard Jason Clark. “We’re still a hungry team. We want to bounce back and get a win the next game.” 
Seton Hall shot 61.0 percent (25 for 41), the best against the Hoyas this season and only the third time any team shot 50 percent or better. Georgetown (20-6, 10-5) came in allowing 
38.4 percent shooting this sea­son. 
NHL 

Blue Jackets dominate Sharks 
Associated Press 
COLUMBUS, Ohio — Jeff Carter had three goals — two on the power play dur­ing Columbus’ four-goal first period — and the last-place Blue Jackets handed the San Jose Sharks their season-high fourth straight loss, 6-3 on Tuesday night. 
R.J. Umberger and Rick Nash, who is the subject of trade rumors with the dead­line less than a week away, had a goal and an assist. Da­vid Savard also scored for Columbus. Vinny Prospal added three assists while Derick Brassard had two. 
Steve Mason made 38 saves to get the win and surpass Marc Denis as the Blue Jack­ets’ career wins leader. 
Logan Couture scored twice and Joe Thornton also had a goal for San Jose. Starting goalie Antti Niemi was pulled after allowing three goals on 11 shots. 
The Sharks fell to 1-4-1 on their season-long, nine-game road trip. 
Carter scored his 15th goal of the season and the third of the game for his second hat trick of the season at 1:26 of the third to give Columbus a 6-2 lead. 
Couture scored his team-leading 27th goal on a re­direction on a power play to make it 6-3 at 8:35 of the third. 
Then just 13 seconds lat­er, the Sharks thought they pulled closer when Jamie McGinn batted in another high puck that went into the air behind Mason. 
But the play went to video review and it was ruled the puck was hit when it was above the crossbar and the goal was disallowed. 

Columbus started strong, scoring twice in the first sev­en minutes. The Blue Jackets then made it 3-0 that ended Niemi’s night and added one more with 30 seconds left in the period. Niemi was re­placed by Thomas Greiss, who stopped 21 of 24 shots. 
Umberger opened the scor­ing as he stuffed in his own rebound for his 10th of the season at 4:55. 
Carter made it 2-0 at 6:51 on the power play with a shot from the high slot past Niemi after a nice give and go pass­ing play with Prospal. 
Then Nash curled out of the right corner, and scored on a wrister from between the circles for his 20th at 15:18, sending Niemi to the bench. 
On the fourth goal, the puck skidded off two San Jose players to Carter, who with his back to the net, redi­rected it past Greiss at 19:30 on another man advantage. 
The Sharks scored twice in a 26-second span early in the second period to cut the defi­cit in half. 
Thornton scored his 13th of the season at 5:11 to make 4-1. 
Couture then took a pass into the zone from Michal Handzus and ripped a shot from the left dot over Ma­son’s glove at 5:37. 
But the momentum was short-lived because two min­utes later, Ryan Clowe was assessed a double minor — one penalty for a cross check, the other for un­sportsmanlike conduct when he slammed the penalty box door. 
Savard sent a one-timer from the left point that hit another skate in traffic at 
10:59 to make it 5-2. 



page 12 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u SPORTS Wednesday, February 22, 2012 
NASCAR 

Concussion concerns worry NASCAR veterans 
Associated Press “We’ve got the cars and the 
tracks, we’ve got it all fixed. 

DAYTONA BEACH, Fla. — If You can still get hurt. You’re Michael Waltrip were to count running 200 miles an hour. up all the concussions he has But the chances of getting hurt sustained over a NASCAR ca-are slimmer. The chances of reer that stretches back nearly hitting your head and hurting 30 years, he’d certainly hit 10 it are really slim.” 
— and probably keep going. NASCAR officials say they’ve 
Safety measures since Dale identified 29 concussions in Earnhardt’s death in 2001 their top three series since have gone a long way toward 2004 — and only 11 of those preventing head injuries, and happened in the past five sea-NASCAR officials have taken sons. steps to improve the way they “Not huge numbers, identify and treat concussions. when you see it,” said Steve But Waltrip knows that won’t O’Donnell, NASCAR’s senior undo all those hits he took in vice president of racing opera-the 1980s and ‘90s. tions. “But with each of those, 
“I whacked my head — a each one’s different, we’ve had lot,” Waltrip said. “If you think to assess each one differently. about this, I showed up in ‘85, Knock on wood, we haven’t when it was relatively ‘safe.’ had as many to have to deal We thought we had it figured with.” out. I raced all the way through And while there have been 2001 when people were getting some drivers who experienced killed. And all through that long-term effects from trau­time, I was hitting my head matic head injuries over the and knocking myself out and years — including Bobby Alli-getting concussions and go-son, Ernie Irvan, Jerry Nadeau ing to the hospital. And I don’t and Steve Park — O’Donnell actually define a concussion in a significant accident must help you.” know what that means to me says NASCAR doesn’t see any has changed over the years. visit the infield medical center, Burton acknowledged that in 10 years. But I know it’s a evidence of widespread health But there’s no question that where checking for signs of a drivers, along with athletes in concern.” issues related to multiple head with hitting concrete, not hav-concussion is standard proce-other sports, have an incentive 

The 48-year-old Waltrip gets injuries, as the NFL and other ing (today’s safety equipment), dure. If there’s reason to sus-to hide symptoms. uneasy when he hears stories sports are. there’s no question people had pect a concussion, the driver “There’s fear in not being about NFL players and other “There’s always concerns for concussions. No question.” will be sent to a local hospital. able to do what you want to athletes who are having seri-any driver that’s been in the Waltrip said he blacked out From there, the driver will do,” Burton said. “NASCAR’s ous neurological problems af-sport,” O’Donnell said. “But in after an accident in practice at need to be cleared by a neu-always been really good say­ter they retire, issues that a terms of drivers formally ap-Las Vegas in 1998, but kept it rosurgeon with at least five ing, ‘Look, we don’t want to growing amount of research proaching us and saying, ‘Hey, to himself. years’ experience in sports-keep you from racing unless indicates may have been I want to talk about this or “Hit the wall, got in the related head injuries before he it’s in your best interests.’ caused by repetitive brain in-look at it,’ we haven’t seen that backup car, made a couple or she can race again. They’ve been pretty good juries they sustained during occur, in terms of what you’re laps, went to the hotel, woke “They always ask you,” Bur-about that. People are always their playing days. seeing in other sports right up the next morning, didn’t ton said. “The key to that, nervous, I think, in any sport 
Could that happen to him, now. We’d certainly be open even know how I got there,” though, is honesty. Unless it’s to stand up and say I’m hav­too? to working with anyone, if we Waltrip said. “You could just obvious. Sometimes you can ing these issues, because they 
“I would be the perfect case see that, in helping to stop any fake people out back then. tell. But a lot of times, in foot-want to race or they want to study to see what’s going to trend that we saw.” ‘Yeah, I’m fine, I’m fine.’ They ball and in every sport, people play. But if NASCAR doesn’t happen,” Waltrip said. “Be-In response to reports of didn’t care. ‘OK, you’re fine.’” say, ‘I’m fine.’ It’s hard if you want you to race, then you cause I can go back and look at football players, hockey play-Today, any driver involved don’t tell them the truth to probably shouldn’t be racing.” the races and count up times I ers and other athletes having was knocked unconscious that serious neurological issues in I can’t count on both hands.” retirement, researchers at the 
Five-time NASCAR cham-Boston-based Sports Legacy pion Jimmie Johnson says he Institute have studied brain has had two concussions rac-tissue of deceased former ath­ing stock cars, and probably letes. They’ve found evidence many more racing dirt bikes of a degenerative brain dis-when he was younger. ease known as Chronic Trau­
“We’re not immune to con-matic Encephalopathy that has cussions,” Johnson said. “And been linked to repetitive brain certainly after severe con-injuries. cussions or being concussed O’Donnell said NASCAR of-several times, the numbers ficials have noticed. change. We know that. The dy-“Absolutely,” O’Donnell said. namic is there. I think we’ve “It’s something we pay atten­reduced the opportunity for it tion to on any aspect of other to happen, but ultimately, it sports, what they’re doing. can happen. I just think the Can we learn from it? Can odds are a lot better today we implement some of these than they’ve ever been.” things? We’re open to working 
Earnhardt’s death in the with any other sport as well.” 2001 Daytona 500 — which For now, veteran driver Jeff came after drivers Kenny Ir-Burton is trying to gather as win, Adam Petty and Tony much information as he can Roper all were killed from about the long-term effects of similar head injuries — forced concussions. Burton’s father-NASCAR to get serious about in-law is a physician and has safety. attended sports medicine con-
Today, drivers must wear a ferences on his behalf. head and neck restraint, while “I think anybody that has any impact-absorbing SAFER bar-sense at all has to understand riers have been installed on that it doesn’t matter if you’re racetrack walls and NASCAR playing football or hockey or completely redesigned race racing a car, head injuries can cars to reduce the risk of in-have bad ramifications later in jury. Racing seats used to look life,” Burton said. “It appears a lot like passenger car seats; to be the case. I think we are now they look more like some-exposed to less of it. But at the thing out of a spaceship, with same time, when we do have foam-padded supports on each them, they can be big hits.” side of the helmet that barely The 44-year-old Burton allows a driver’s head to move started racing in NASCAR’s during a crash. top division in 1993, well be­
It’s working. Going into fore the post-Earnhardt safety Sunday’s Daytona 500, there advances. hasn’t been a death in NAS-“I can tell you that in retro­CAR’s top three national series spect, there’s been many times since Earnhardt’s. that I’ve had concussions,” 
“If I’m Kasey Kahne or Kyle Burton said. “And the defini-Busch, I don’t have those con-tion of concussion is a very cerns any more,” Waltrip said. widely used term, and how you 


Wednesday, February 22, 2012 The Observer u SPORTS ndsmcobserver.com | page 13 
MEN’S SWIMMING AND DIVING 
Bass awarded Most Outstanding Swimmer at Big East 
[championships], I struggled to finish long sets or do [but­terfly] in practice,” he said. 
“Weights were also a prob­lem for a while since I was so weak. I couldn’t go back into things too fast so that I didn’t worsen the injury, but I also had to be in good enough shape to swim well. It was a day-by-day thing.” 
Bass said he was motivated all season by the confidence his teammates had in him, driving him to work hard to help reach the team’s goal of a title. That hard work ulti­mately paid off in a season-ending performance that no one — not even Bass — ex­pected out of the junior from Chesterton, Ind. 
“It was amazing. I was very surprised,” Bass said. “The guys were very supportive and were a lot more sure than I was that I had won [Most Outstanding Swim­mer].” 
It was encouraging and humbling to see teammates have confidence in both his and each other’s abilities, Bass said. Winning was a team effort. 
The Irish finished first in the Big East championships last week with 887 points, edging out second-place Lou­isville, who finished with 
859.5. Prior to the Irish vic­tory, the Cardinals had con­trol of the conference title for two consecutive years. 
Bass earned gold medals in the 200-yard individual med­ley and the 100-yard butter­fly, and finished third in the 200-yard butterfly. 
Bass was also a member of the 200-yard medley, 400­
By MEGAN GOLDEN 
Sports Writer 
Less than a year after shoulder surgery, Irish ju­nior Bill Bass found himself hoisting up an award for Most Outstanding Swimmer at the Big East championships Sat­urday. While Notre Dame had several unlikely heroes step up all sea­son, few had predic ted this particu­lar standout 

performance. “[Having a young team] 
Celebrat -means we’re coming back ing with his with a team of hard-team after working, talented guys 
the Irish won 

who are stronger, more 
the confer-

experienced and who now 
ence crown, 

know what it takes to win 
Bass said 

at a championship level.” 
he could not help but think of the Bill Bass people who junior swimmer 
got him to this point. He was at a loss for words, and coinci­dentally, did not have a voice to talk much about his ac­complishment. 
Although the Irish won the title, Bass said, the bus ride home was pretty quiet. 
“Almost everyone on the team lost their voice,” he said. “It was just that we were in the pool area for so long, so many days in a row, and that combined with very exciting races and lots of yelling made everybody a lit­tle hoarse.” 
Shoulder surgery last spring forced Bass to give up swimming until July. Ex­tra time spent training late in the summer, he said, had him in fairly good shape for the season. 
Bass said his trainer, Nikki Sperger, played a large role in his return to the pool. 
“This season was very ex­perimental in terms of train­ing, what might work and what I was able to do in the yard medley, 200-yard free­style relay and the 400-yard freestyle relay, all of which finished in second place. 

“[Winning the Big East ti­tle] has been one of the goals of our team since I got to Notre Dame. The meet usu­ally comes down to us and Louisville, and the past two years they’ve gotten the bet­ter of us,” Bass said. “This year was a surprising win. We even doubted whether we could pull it off at times during the season. People really stepped up and per­formed, which is really in­spiring to watch, especially when so much of the team is so young.” 
With 16 freshmen and just seven seniors, Bass said ex­
pectations  were  raised  for  
next year.  
“[Having  a  young  team]  

means we’re coming back with a team of hard-working, talented guys who are stron­ger, more experienced and who now know what it takes to win at a championship level.” 
Contact Megan Golden at mgolde01@saintmarys.edu 
pool. Fin­ishing the season with one of my best meets ever was re­ally satisfy­ing and re­ally speaks to the people who helped me through the injury and train­ing process,” Bass said. “There’s no way I could have done as well as I did without the help of the 
trainers and my coaches who helped me all summer and through the season. Team­mates, especially, helped me through encouragement [and] keeping up a positive attitude.” 
Notre Dame’s annual train­ing trip took place in Janu­ary in San Juan, Puerto Rico. Just over a month ago, Bass said, he did not feel com­pletely healthy. 
“Before training trip, when training really gets tough, I thought that I was back to normal [health], but during that trip and up until Big East 


Bouts 
continued from page 20 
and captains, as the major­ity of these boxers received a bye for the preliminary round. 
“It will definitely be excit­ing to see the No.1 and No. 2 seeds who had to sit out the first round get their turn to box,” Ulrich said. “Only three of the captains boxed in the preliminary round, but eight of them will be in the ring for this round.” 
Some of the boxers who will look to defend their title from last year include junior Jack Lally in the 133-pound weight class, sophomore Will Peterson in the 142-pound weight class, senior Kevin Ortenzio in the 148-pound weight class, law student Brian Salvi in the 180-pound weight class and sophomore Daniel Yi in the heavyweight division. 
Yi’s scheduled bout against boxers present in this year’s freshman Michael Voge will field, though, Ulrich said help mark the beginning of he expected just about ev­
action in the  ery fight to  
heavyweight  be  competi­ 
d i v i s i o n , which did not hold a preliminary round. With eight boxers, the heavy­weight divi­sion has one of its larg­est fields in years.  “It will definitely be exciting to see the No. 1 and No. 2 seeds who had to sit out the first round to get their turn to box ... Only three of the captains boxed in the preliminary round, but eight of them will be in the ring for this round.”  tive, with few clear­cut favorites standing out among the competition. “I think each weight division has at least three or four guys who can fight  
“I think it’s great that we  Jeff Ulrich  for a Ulrich  title,” said.  
have a bigger  junior captain  “That is real- 
heavyweight  ly exciting to  
field  than  me  because  
we  did  in  it  means  

past years,” law student and there’s no definites in this captain Nathan Arnold said. year’s tournament.” “Heavyweight fights are usu-The quarterfinal round be-ally highly anticipated by the gins tonight at 6 p.m. in the fans, since it features the Joyce Center Fieldhouse. biggest guys out there hitting each other really hard.” Contact Brian Hartnett at 
With a number of strong bhartnet@nd.edu 
time came to announce his de-vonte’s decision to attend Notre 
Neal 
cision, Neal was not in atten-Dame,” Kelly said. 

dance. He arrived significantly Kelly said he would be a wel­continued from page 16 later, after the television net-come addition to the incoming 
work planning on broadcasting freshman class. 

Neal’s commitment came af-his announcement had already “Davonte is a great comple­ter a protracted series of events left the school. ment for our 2012 recruiting that started when he decided Despite the day’s drama, Kel-class,” Kelly said. “As I said al­not to announce his commit-ly was pleased Neal eventually most three weeks ago, we want­ment on National Signing Day. chose Notre Dame. ed to add more skill players to After coming to a decision, Neal “Deciding on a college is our team and we did a nice job scheduled an announcement at one of the toughest decisions a of doing that. I look forward to a local elementary school for young player makes in his life, coaching Davonte and the rest Tuesday morning. When the so we are very pleased with Da-of his class this fall.” 
page 14 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u SPORTS Wednesday, February 22, 2012 
WOMEN’S LACROSSE 

Halfpenny has new season philosophy 
By MATTHEW DeFRANKS 
Sports Writer 
Everyone is on the bus — the en­ergy bus, that is. 
New Irish coach Christine Half­penny has not only changed the philosophy of the program already this season, but also has altered the team’s reading list, requiring every player to read The Energy Bus. The book, written by Jon Gordon, was assigned over winter break and preaches positive energy in a team environment. 
“You bring the attitude you’re go­ing to bring and you stay focused on what you can control,” Halfpenny said.  “Positive thoughts bring posi­tive outcomes sometimes. We’re just controlling what we can con­trol right now. We’re showing up, trying to be as consistent as we can be, individually and collectively.” 
After break finished, Halfpenny said the culture around the team really changed as more and more players bought into the new coach’s teachings. 
The Irish displayed the result Sunday when No. 15 Notre Dame opened its season with a convinc­ing 17-14 victory over then-No. 6 Stanford. In the game, senior at­tacker Maggie Tamasitis notched six assists while sophomore attack­er Lindsay Powell scored a career-high five goals. 
The Irish (1-0) started out quick, netting 12 goals in the first half alone. 
“[A 12-goal first half is] like a coach’s dream,” Halfpenny said. “I think that when our girls stay in the system, we get a lot of openings. I think over half of our goals were as­sisted. That’s the style game we’re playing and the looks we’re getting are very much team-oriented.” 
Notre Dame’s team-oriented ap­proach appeared to be in full ef­fect Sunday, as six different players found the back of the net. 
“That just shows that we’re really a dynamic offense that can score in a number of different ways,” Half­penny said. “[You would] see quick ball movement with an upbeat style. [You would see] a good high-paced tempo with a team-oriented offense. The ball goes through a lot of people’s hands.” 
Before leaving William & Mary to come to Notre Dame, Halfpen­ny’s teams set single-season re­cords for points, goals and draw controls while running her offen­sive system. 
“We are working toward the ul­timate goal of flying around a little bit more, overall athleticism, play­ing on instincts, some of that stuff we certainly saw,” Halfpenny said. “I think there was a little lack of discipline within this high-octane type of style, high tempo we want to see.” 
On defense, the Irish have be­come more aggressive, resulting in 42 fouls in the season-opening win. Halfpenny said the fouls will hap­pen when the defense puts on so much pressure. 
“[You would] see a high pres­sure defense and be like ‘Whoa, I thought this was no contact,’” Half­penny said. 
Halfpenny and the Irish look to continue to grow in the new system when they face Duquesne on Satur­day at noon at Arlotta Stadium. 
Contact Matthew DeFranks at mdefrank@nd.edu 


Brey 
continued from page 20 

20.4 and 11.3 per game, re­spectively. Jones scored 14 points and grabbed 12 re­bounds in the teams’ first meeting. 
“Our controlling of the tempo doesn’t give the ball to those scorers as much,” Brey said. “I do think it messes with rhythm of indi­vidual guys, too.” 
The Irish stumbled out of the gates against Villanova (11-16, 4-11), falling behind by 20 points before making a comeback late in the second half. Even when they held a 10-point halftime lead in West Virginia, the Irish had scored just 26 points. 
“I don’t want to harp on [the slow starts] too much,” Brey said. “Maybe we’re not in an attack frame of mind early in the game as we are in the second half. That’s something we can do bet­ter. A lot of the time, we start the game in a control­the-tempo atmosphere so that dampens the speed of things.” 
Since the teams last met in Morgantown, Notre Dame has averaged just under 77 points — nearly nine points above its season average. 
“I’d like to see us get out and run a little bit,” Brey said. “It’s been a subtle slide [toward scoring more points]. We’ve got some guys offensively who are in a lit­tle better rhythm, so let’s put 75 up instead of 52.” 
Notre Dame sophomore guard Jerian Grant has scored in double figures in eight straight games and Cooley has shot 73 percent from the field in the past four contests. 
Brey said the Irish may look to get out more in tran­sition against the bigger Mountaineers. 
“We’ve talked about re­bounding and running, es­pecially in our building, getting out and going,” Brey said. 
Notre Dame tries for a re-cord-setting ninth straight conference win tonight against West Virginia at Purcell Pavilion. Tip-off is set for 7 p.m. 
Contact Matthew DeFranks at mdefrank@nd.edu 
Mallory 
continued from page 16 
Sign Language class. 
“The whole sign language thing just helped out with the whole talking thing,” she said. “My grandparents are deaf, so I’ve known it for a while, just had to brush up on it a little bit in class. 
“There was a lot I learned, but then a lot of people were looking to me in class be­cause I can understand it when they’re signing to me better than I can do it my­self.” 
Mallory, who also goes by “Mom” amongst her team­mates, was chosen as a cap­tain for the second consecu­tive season. With Peters and junior guard Skylar Diggins as the more aggressive moti­vators on the team, Mallory said she stepped into a role as a sounding board and a reassuring motivator. 
“I really look after my teammates like they’re my own kids,” she said. “I just want them to do well and know where everything is on the court, like where they’re supposed to be. I’m not really a mean person. 
“I just like helping peo­ple. It’s just in my nature to make sure people know what they’re doing if they have any questions.” 
Averaging nine rebounds and 1.6 blocks per game, Pe­ters is putting together one of the best seasons for an Irish forward in program history. 
While she plans on continu­ing her basketball career af­ter graduation, her love of sports commentary steered her to the FTT program. 
“I always wanted to do commentary on games, so that just kind of drew me to it,” Peters said. “I took a couple classes early on, and I was in business first. [FTT] seemed to fit me a lot bet­ter than what I was doing in business, so I switched over.” 
While the parallels be­tween color commentary and rebounding are few, Peters said she has drawn from her acting and television expe­riences to help her on the court. 
“The training you learn from watching television and seeing how people act on there, and mannerisms and how to control yourself 
— [It’s about] just bringing that to the court, and how stuff looks on TV, as opposed to how you’re acting on the court,” Peters said. 
“It’s about getting on the same page and organizing and coming together to make something that’s a movie and something that’s perfect.” 
The script for the 2011­2012 season is over halfway written, and victories over then-No. 7 Duke, then-No. 7 Tennessee and then-No. 2 Connecticut have already provided highlight material. A return date to the NCAA national title game could be the movie’s best scene yet. 
Contact Chris Masoud at cmasoud@nd.edu 


Wednesday, February 22, 2012 The Observer u TODAY ndsmcobserver.com | page 15 
CROSSWORD WILL SHORTz 
HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 



JUMBLE DAVID L. HOyT JEFF KNUREK 

LONDON EXPRESS ALEx GRISWOLD and LEE HAGGENJOS 





Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556

 Enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year


 Enclosed
 is $75 for one semester 


Name ____________________________________________________ Address __________________________________________________ City ____________________ State___________ Zip______________ 

Wednesday, February 22, 2012 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 16 

MEN’S BASKETBALL 

Climbing mountains 
By MATTHEW DeFRANKS 
Sports Writer 
Most fans probably knew freshman guard Pat Con­naughton knocked down seven 3-pointers Saturday. Most fans probably knew junior forward Jack Cooley recorded his fourth straight double-double in the 74-70 overtime win over Villanova. 
But Irish coach Mike Brey didn’t. 
“I don’t even look at stats when we’re playing really well,” Brey said. “I don’t want to see the final stats. When there’s something re­ally good like this going on, you just kind of massage it.” 
The No. 20 Irish, who re­turn home riding an eight-game winning streak to face West Virginia tonight, haven’t needed to check the stat sheet to see how well they’ve been playing. 
“I’m staying away from stats because of the over­all tone of playing together, 
JULIE HERDER/The Observer 

chasing it together, frame of mind being good,” Brey Irish junior forward Jack Cooley dribbles past a defender during Notre Dame’s 71-53 win over said. “I try to use my energy Rutgers on Feb. 15. Cooley grabbed his fourth straight double-double against Villanova on Saturday. there.” 
Notre Dame (19-8, 11-3 Big to score more than 70 points. arc and allowed only three Senior Mountaineer for-East) has reeled off eight In their 55-51 win at West free throws attempted. West ward Kevin Jones leads the straight conference victories, Virginia (17-10, 7-7) on Feb. Virginia senior guard Dar-Big East in both scoring tying a program record for 8, the Irish held the Moun-ryl Bryant failed to score, and rebounding, averaging consecutive Big East wins, taineers to just two-for-16 missing all six of his shot at-while only allowing one team shooting from behind the tempts. see BREY/page 14 
FOOTBALL 
Top recruit Neal signs with Irish 
Observer Staff Report 
After California receiver Deontay Greenberry spurned Notre Dame on National Signing Day three weeks ago, Irish coach Brian Kelly picked up a big commitment in his place Tuesday when Arizona receiver Davonte Neal committed to the Irish. 
Neal plays receiver and cornerback and was ranked as the No. 1 athlete in the country by ESPN. He is a two-time Gatorade Arizona Player of the Year and led his team to state championships in both 2010 and 2011. 
“Davonte was an electric playmaker in high school and was capable of making the big play any time he had the ball in his hands,” Kelly said in a statement. “He ex­celled as a receiver, as a run­ning back and as a returner for coach [Charlie] Ragle at Chaparral High School. I imagine we’ll use him in a similar fashion here.” 
see NEAL/page 13 
BENGAL BOUTS 

Boxers enter second day, thousands of tickets sold 
By BRIAN HARTNETT 
Sports Writer 
After recovering from an intense round of preliminary fights, 88 Notre Dame box­ers will return to the ring tonight for the quarterfinal round of the 82nd annual Bengal Bouts tournament. 
Forty-four fights across 11 weight classes, ranging from the 133-pound weight class to the heavyweight division, are on the docket. 
The  quarterfinal  round  
comes  after  an  action- 
packed  preliminary  round,  

held on Feb. 12, that fea­tured 58 bouts spread across two boxing rings. Although the number of fights in the preliminary round was down from last year — there are 20 fewer boxers — this year the quality of fights seemed to be much improved, junior boxer and captain Jeff Ulrich said. 
“I think the smaller field helped to make the prelimi­nary fights really good, since there wasn’t as many No. 1 seeds beating up on No. 16 seeds,” Ulrich said. “There were a lot of intermediate seeds fighting each other, and the quality was defi­nitely improved which is a reflection of how hard every­one prepared.” 
Ulrich said he noticed a surprisingly low number of knockouts in the prelimi­nary rounds and several more fights lasted all three rounds. Ulrich also said the novice fighters in the first round made impres­sive debuts, as several box­ers scored victories in their first official fights in the ring. Novice victors included freshmen Kevin Katalinic, Eric Tommarello, Keegan Somers, Eric Palutsis and Evan Escobedo. 
Since Bengal Bouts func­tions as both a boxing tourna­ment and charity fundraiser, the preliminary round also acted as a revenue generator for the Holy Cross missions in Bangladesh, which receive all proceeds from the bouts. Ulrich said he estimated the Boxing Club has sold about 2,000 tickets so far, a num­ber that will likely rise to 4,000 by the time the final round commences. 
With the preliminary round complete, competition will heat up as the quarter­finals begin and boxers move on to challenge more skilled and experienced opponents. Some of these opponents will include former champions 
see BOUTS/page 13 

ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 
Mallory, Peters explore film 
By CHRIS MASOUD 
Assistant Managing Editor 

Notre Dame’s success on the court this season is well documented on the stat sheet, in sports columns and on film. But for graduate students Brittany Mallory and Devereaux Peters, the camera has followed their highlights off the court, as well. 
Mallory recently starred in “The Talker,” a featured film in the Notre Dame Stu­dent Film Festival, while Peters regularly studies fea­tured films as a Film, Tele­vision and Theatre (FTT) major, with a concentration in television. 
Mallory leads the Irish with 30 3-pointers and 85 attempts and has a quick trigger on the court. Al­though she admits her re­luctance at first to be the star of a student film, “The Talker” follows a very vocal Mallory from the classroom to the court. 
“I’m not very good on camera. I get very embar­rassed easily, but I had a lot of free time,” Mallory said. “The whole talking thing for me didn’t come about until I became a captain re­ally, because I didn’t know if I should say anything be­ing an underclassman. And then when I got voted cap­tain, it just came naturally. 


[Irish coach Muffet McGraw] those without words. A ca-always wanted me to be pable sign language signal-a good communicator be-er, the film details Mallory’s tween her and the team.” success in her American 
Perhaps the film’s most meaningful messages are see MALLORY/page 14 







