tHE INdEPENdENt tO uNCOVER NEWSPAPER SERVINg tHE tRutH NOtRE dAME ANd ANd REPORt SAINt MARy’S It ACCuRAtELy 

VOLuME 46, ISSuE 22 | WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 19, 2012 | NdSMCOBSERVER.COM 
Lecture commemorates Constitution Day 
By CAROLYN HUTYRA 
News Writer 
Students and faculty gath­ered Monday to commemo­rate Constitution day with “the Health Care decision 
and  the  Lost generation  
of  Child  Labor  Reform,”  
a  lecture  given  by  Barry  

Cushman, the John P. Murphy Foundation Professor of Law at Notre dame. 
the talk focused on the de­cision of the Supreme Court made in the case of National Federation of Independent Business v. Sebelius, more commonly known as the case involving the constitutional­ity of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (ACA). 
“the particular provision of the Act that was chal­lenged was the so-called ‘individual mandate,’ which will require persons without health insurance to acquire ‘minimum essential cover­age’ by 2014, or else make a ‘shared responsibility pay­ment’ to the Internal Revenue Service,” Cushman said. 
the main question rested on whether the individual mandate could be consid­ered an exercise of Congress’ Commerce Power. Cushman said the majority of the Supreme Court ruled that the individual mandate was not 
see CONStItutION PAGE 5 

SARAH O’CONNOR | The Observer 
Barry Cushman, the John P. Murphy Foundation Professor of Law, speaks about the constitutionality of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act on Monday in the Oak Room in South Dining Hall. 


Institute for Advanced Study awarded grant 
of research. we want to foster is very specialization we’re see-Hosle said the fellows at 
By MEGHAN THOMASSEN 

News Writer “the templeton similar to the Institute for ing so much academia,” he the institute are pleased Foundation is one of the Advanced Study, so it was said. “At the same time [the with the grant because the Notre dame Institute a natural cooperation be-
it will allow them to in-
for Advanced Study has won 
$1.58 million from the John 
templeton Foundation to 
host scholars interested 
in the “big questions” of 
philosophy, theology and 
science. 

tween what we want to do 
and what they want to do.” 
the foundation chose 
Notre dame’s institute for 
its history of interdisciplin­
ary research, Hosle said. 
“[the institute] is the crease the caliber of schol­

ars brought to research on 
campus. 
“All the questions have 
a big-question normative 
dimension, which would 
belong to philosophy or 
theology,” he said. “[the 
Vittorio Hosle, professor 
right avenue to foster a type 

and the Paul Kimball Chair most impressive founda-of research that is both institute] tries to address foundation] wants these of Arts and Letters, said the tions in this country,” Hosle more interdisciplinary and big questions, the answers questions to be addressed templeton grant aligns with said. “their parameters acts against the tendency to which Sir John templeton the institute’s methodology for the type of research of more and more limited dedicated his life.” see tEMPLEtON PAGE 3 
Renovations ‘go green’ in Madeleva 
By HAYLEY MILLER 
News Writer 
In an age of environmen­tal awareness, Saint Mary’s has been making efforts to create an environmentally friendly campus through this year’s new renova­tions. Madeleva has served as a classroom and of­fice building for students, faculty and staff of Saint Mary’s since the 1960s. With the preparation and hard work of Bill Hambling, director of facilities at the College, his maintenance team and Arkos design of Mishawaka, Madeleva will show off its new look by next summer. 
the project was funded by a bond issued through the city of South Bend and will not affect oper­ating capital, so it will 
see MAdELEVA PAGE 5 
By NICOLE MICHELS 
News Writer 
Notre dame will host the second of three debates between three candidates competing to become the next governor of Indiana on Oct. 17 at 7 p.m. in the deBartolo Performing Arts Center. 
timothy Sexton, associ­ate vice president for Public Affairs, said this guberna­torial debate is one of two formal debates between the candidates in the northern half of the state. 
“All three of the 


dPAC to host Indiana debate 
candidates were actually from the southern part of the state, so two [of the three] debates are going to occur in the northern part — one in Fort Wayne and one here at Notre dame,” Sexton said. “Part of the goal is to get the candidates known here in the northern part.” 
Sexton said although the date selected by the Indiana debate Commission is over Notre dame’s fall break, he believes the event will gener­ate a great turnout. 
the debate will comple­ment political events also being held on campus and build the current interest generated by the Forum and the upcoming presidential election. 
“It fits in perfectly with the Forum,” Sexton said. “the fact that we were chosen this year is just wonderful because it does correlate so closely with the Forum; it’s a great opportunity to see the process in action.” 
Sexton said the debate will build the already-strong re­lationship between Notre dame and the governor’s of­fice of Indiana. 
see dEBAtE PAGE 3 


tWO RECEIVE HONOR PAGE 3 VIEWPOINt PAGE 6 SCENE PAGE 8 MEN’S SOCCER PAGE 16 FOOtBALL  PAGE 16 



Have a question you want answered? 
Email obsphoto@gmail.com 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
ndsmcobserver.com 

P.O. Box 779, Notre dame, IN 46556 024 South dining Hall, Notre dame, IN 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
Allan Joseph 

Managing Editor  Business Manager
                  Megan doyle  Jeff Liptak 
Asst. Managing Editor: Andrew Owens 
Asst. Managing Editor: Sam Stryker News Editor: John Cameron News Editor: Kristen durbin 

Viewpoint Editor: Meghan thomassen Sports Editor: Chris Allen Scene Editor: Kevin Noonan Saint Mary’s Editor: Jillian Barwick Photo Editor: Suzanna Pratt Graphics Editor: Brandon Keelean Multimedia Editor: Sarah O’Connor Advertising Manager: Monica McCormack Ad Design Manager: Sara Hilstrom Controller: Peter Woo Systems Administrator: William Heineman 
Office Manager & General Info 
Ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 
Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 
Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ajoseph2@nd.edu 
Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 mdoyle11@nd.edu 
Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 aowens2@nd.edu sstryke1@nd.edu 
Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 
News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 
Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
Scene Desk 

(574) 631-4540 Observer.Scene.Editor@gmail.com 
Saint Mary’s Desk 
jbarwi01@saintmarys.edu 
Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 
Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 
Policies 

the Observer is the independent, daily newspaper 
published in print and online by the students of the 
university of Notre dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s 
College.  Editorial content, including advertisements, is 
not governed by policies of the administration of either 
institution. the Observer reserves the right to refuse 
advertisements based on content. 

the news is reported as accurately and objectively 
as possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion 
of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, 
Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. 
Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of 
the authors and not necessarily those of the Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. the free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include 
contact information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed 
to Editor-in-Chief Allan Joseph. 

Post Office Information the Observer (uSPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to the Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. the Observer is published at: 024 South dining Hall Notre dame, IN 46556-0779 Periodical postage paid at Notre dame and additional mailing offices POStMAStER Send address corrections to: the Observer P.O. Box 779 024 South dining hall Notre dame, IN 46556-077 the Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
If you could witness one event— past, present or future — what would it be? 


Eric Jesse 
sophomore 
duncan 
“the creation of the universe... that would be pretty sweet.” 
Shannon Sheenan 
freshman 
Pasqerilla West 
“d-day invasion  — that would be cool.” 
Will Harris 
freshman 
Siegfried 
“the man on the moon.” 
Sukesh Shekar 
graduate student 
duncan 
“My parents meeting for the first time.” 
Akosua Oben-Nyarko 
sophomore 
Pasquerilla East 
“Princess diana’s Wedding. I love her!” 
Matt Matasci 
freshman 
Stanford 
“Neil Armstrong on the moon.” 



Want your event included here? 
News Sports 

Jillian Barwick Joe Wirth Email obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 

Bridget Feeney Cory Bernard Sarah Swiderski Matthew deFranks 
Graphics Scene 
Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday 
Steph Wulz troy Mathew 
Photo Viewpoint 
Crisis of the Euro Zen Meditation ND vs. Michigan Vigil Mass Women’s Soccer 

Sarah O’Connor Caroline Lang 
Hesburgh Center for 102 Coleman-Morse Football Pep Rally Basilica of the Sacred Alumni Stadium International Studies Center Hesburgh Library Heart 1 p.m.- 3 p.m. 
4:30p.m.- 9:20 p.m. 5:15 p.m.- 6:15 p.m. 6 p.m.- 7 p.m. 4 p.m.- 5 p.m. ND vs. Oakland 
Corrections 

Panel discussion. All faiths welcome. Open to the public Stepan Center the Observer regards itself as 4:30 p.m.- 5:30 p.m. a professional publication and 
Arts and Letters Concert: Sons of Women’s Soccer Film: Spirited Away 

strives for the highest standards 
Networking Fair Daughters Alumni Stadium Concert on the Steps Debartolo Performing 

of journalism at all times. We do, 
Monogram Room, Courtyard of Snite 7:30 p.m.- 9:30 p.m. Bond Hall Arts Center 

however, recognize that we will make 
Joyce Center Museum of Art ND vs. Pittsburgh 6 p.m.- 6:30 p.m 3 p.m.- 5:05 p.m. 

mistakes. If we have made a mistake, 
6:30p.m.- 8:30 p.m. 6 p.m.- 8 p.m. ND band performance Tickets $7/$5/$4 

please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
Dress in formal attire. Snacks will be 90 minutes before 
we can correct our error. 
provided. kickoff. 



Two receive ‘Spirit’ award 
By TORI ROECK 
News Writer 
Over the weekend, two members of the Notre dame community received the Spirit of Holy Cross award. Larry Cunningham, professor emeritus of theology, and Barb Carlson, retired office man­ager and assistant to the direc­tor of the u.S. Province Office of Vocations, were recognized with the honor, which is spon­sored by the Congregation of Holy Cross and given out on the eve of the Solemnity of Our Lady of Sorrows, the patroness of the Congregation. 
According to a press release from the Congregation of Holy Cross, “the Spirit of Holy Cross Award acknowledges the criti­cal importance lay collabora­tors play in living out the vision and mission of Holy Cross founder Blessed Basil Moreau to make god known, loved and served through education, par­ish and mission settings.” 
Cunningham, who began teaching theology at Notre dame in 1988, said he believes in the mission of the Congregation and the university. 
“I have always felt that being a professor is a kind of vocation to serve the university and to serve the Church and to serve the broader public,” Cunningham said. “Since the Catholic ethos of Notre dame is shaped by the Congregation, that inevitably meant that I wanted to be sup­portive of that mission and try to do so in any way that I could.” 
Some of these ways include 
Debate 
CONtINuEd FROM PAgE 1 
“Not only with governor daniels but also with his predecessors, we’ve had very good relationships, and I think those relation­ships are evident in some of the things that are hap­pening here at Notre dame,” Sexton said. “When you look at the Midwest Institute for Nanoelectronics discovery, Innovation Park, Harper Hall over at the Indiana university School of Medicine, all are examples teaching seminarians, being active in the Basilica and assist­ing Campus Ministry, he said. 

Cunningham said the Congregation’s message of edu­cating the mind and heart espe­cially resonates with him. 
“I think that not only do I have to try to be the best intel­lectual impact that I can be in my classroom but also to help develop the full person, which I understand the word heart to be a shorthand for that notion of helping people mature socially and spiritually and so on,” he said. 
Carlson also devoted her life to teaching, living out the Congregation’s motto of edu­cating the mind and heart as a kindergarten teacher at Christ the King School in South Bend, she said. 
“It’s not the mind you’re educating. It’s a person’s faith and emotional development,” Carlson said. “the charism of Holy Cross is something I truly believe in. It’s reflected in faith, mission [and] service.” 
Carlson said she has been in­volved with the Holy Cross since birth; first as a parishioner at St. Joseph’s Parish in South Bend and also as a graduate of St. Joseph grade School, St. Joseph High School and Saint Mary’s. 
In 1997, Carlson said she took time off from teaching to spend four months in East Africa in­teracting with Holy Cross mis­sionaries and living the lifestyle of a third world country. 
“I learned as much about my­self in that four months as I did those that I met,” she said. “It 
of the university having a strong relationship down with the governor’s office.” 
the capacity of the deBartolo Performing Arts Center staff that coordi­nates large-scale events like the upcoming debate has strengthened the Center’s profile as a potential debate site, Sexton said. 
“It gets to the point of needing someone on staff who will provide makeup for candidates because this will be televised, lighting, ac­cess for the news media that will be here, all those types 
PAId AdVERtISEMENt 

was a great growth experience for me.” 
After retiring from teaching, Carlson said she went on to work for the Holy Cross Office of Vocations. 
“the part that I enjoyed most was meeting and working with the incoming seminarians,” she said. “they pretty much un­equivocally were great young men who had many talents and were very committed to the work of god in their lives.” 
In a Congregation of Holy Cross press release, Fr. Jim gallagher, director of Vocations, who nominated Carlson for the Spirit of Holy Cross award, said she has lived out the Holy Cross mission in all aspects of her life. 
“As a collaborator in educa­tion, parish and mission, Barb has connected with many levels of our life and work,” gallagher said. “In her fidelity to her voca­tion as a wife, mother, teacher and assistant, she has been a powerful witness and encour­agement to us to remain faith­ful to our vocation.” 
Carlson said she believes the Congregation has done more for her than she could ever do for it. 
“All along the way, there have been associations with Holy Cross priests and religious [in my life], and it very positively af­fected my life,” she said. “From my standpoint, I have gained much from my association and apparently they felt that I con­tributed to the Congregation.” 
Contact Tori Roeck at vroeck@nd.edu 
of things have to be coordi­nated and I think it led very strongly to the deBartolo Performing Arts Center be­ing picked,” Sexton said. “the deBartolo Performing Arts Center does a phenom­enal job of hosting events — they’re well-tuned to do this type of event.” 
Sexton said the guberna­torial debate is the second time in recent years when Notre dame had been con­sidered as a site for political debate. 
“the Indiana debate com­
mission had come to us a few years back to see if we wanted to be the host site of a Congressional de­bate … It didn’t work out at that point in time but they actually had come out and walked through the deBartolo Performing Arts Center and said ‘We loved it, we’d love in the future to come back to you,’” Sexton said. 
Cooperation between the South Bend Chamber of Commerce and the Office of Public Affairs made this event possible, Sexton said. 
Contact Nicole Michels at nmichels@nd.edu 
Templeton 
CONtINuEd FROM PAgE 1 
by those who have ‘know­how’ in the sciences.” 
Selected scholars will live at Notre dame and work with the institute for a year. 
“We have twice a week lunches where all of the fellows meet and present their proposals, which are selected according to their interdisciplinary quali­ties and their normative dimension,” Hosle said. “It is a way of living a life in which you do not only meet with the colleagues in your own department. the scholars will benefit from the chance to inter­act with scholars outside of their normal setting with persons from very different disciplines.” 
undergraduate students will have the opportunity to work with the scholars as research assistants. 
“[undergraduates] will learn how great scholars work,” he said. “People brought into the life of the mind will see how inter­esting and ambitious it is, and it may increase intel­lectual curiosity.” 
Hosle said scholars should produce a book while researching with the institute. 
“We hope these books will have an impact in var­ious disciplines, possibly outside of academia,” he said. “Many people have to deal with the problem of creativity, persons in businesses.” 
“Realistically, since people want to make a career and feed a family, it is important that there are institutional structures that recognize work that is interdisciplinary. There are not enough of them. The narrow approach is not the research of the future.” 
Vittorio Hosle 
Paul Kimball Chair 
Arts and Letters 
there should be an in­centive to study these types of big questions, Hosle said. 
“Realistically, since peo­ple want to make a career and feed a family, it is im­portant that there are in­stitutional structures that recognize work that is in­terdisciplinary,” he said. “there are not enough of them. the narrow approach is not the research of the f uture.” 
donald Stelluto, the as­sociate director of the 
“We have the potential to impact a whole generation of scholars as the program grows. As problems and issues become more global in scope, they require more than one discipline to solve them … We offer a new model, based on a return to an older tradition, for scholars to collaborate at a meaningful level.” 
Donald Stelluto 
associate director 
Institute for Advanced Study 
Institute for Advanced Study, said applicants for the scholarship will focus on questions such as “What is human creativity and how does it manifest itself?” and “What is the place of the human mind in nature? ” 
“Who will apply is also partly driven by scholars who work those areas in line with those big ques­tions,” Stelluto said. “Not every scholar may yet be at a point in their career where they can address those types of questions.” 
the questions will con­nect the sciences with other disciples, especially theolo­gy and philosophy, he said. 
“this approach is a de­parture from a more myo­pic approach to research and returns back to big questions that link together the sciences with the other disciplines,” Stelluto said. “the formation of the uni­versities during the Middle Ages and the Catholic intel­lectual tradition, integrat­ed disciplines, and that’s one of the thrusts of this fellowship program, it’s to reintegrate the disciplines on major questions.” 
Working with the scholars will allow undergraduates to develop creative ap­proaches to research. 
“We have the potential to impact a whole generation of scholars as the program grows,” he said. “As prob­lems and issues become more global in scope, they require more than one dis­cipline to solve them … We offer a new model, based on a return to an older tra­dition, for scholars to col­laborate at a meaningful level.” 
Contact Meghan Thomassen at mthomass@nd.edu 
PAId AdVERtISEMENt 




Constitution rather than through enforce-
Madaleva 
ment of a rule.this view ties 
CONtINuEd FROM PAgE 1 CONtINuEd FROM PAgE 1 

into the more current health not be in competition 
in fact a legitimate exercise care decision in which the with any academic fund-
of the Commerce Power but dissenting justices took the ing, Hambling said. 
rather a shared responsibility shared responsibility pay­“It’s a lot of windows, so 
payment under the exercise ment as a penalty, not a tax, it’s a lot of work,” he said, 
of Congress’ taxing power. since it “imposed an exaction “but it’s how we reduce 
“Chief Justice [John] as punishment for an unlaw­our carbon footprint. We 
Roberts and the dissenting ful act,” Cushman said. want the building look-
justices agreed that the cen-In drawing a distinction ing fresh, clean and ex­
tral question was whether between a tax and a penal-cited again; it will look 
the Act imposed a ‘true tax,’ ty, Cushman noted that the youthful, just like our 
or instead imposed a ‘penal-Supreme Court had to deter-students.” 
ty’ for failure to comply with mine if the ACA was claiming this two-phase project 
a congressional directive,” it was illegal for people to fail began this past summer 
Cushman said.Cushman’s to uphold minimum health by replacing the energy 
lecture then turned to the coverage. inefficient windows sur­
necessity to discern be-Cushman said that this rounding the building 
tween true taxes and regula-confusion was due to the with Low-E windows. the 
tory penalties. In order to do way in which the statute was new energy efficient win-
this, he focused on the late-drafted. Had Congress called dows will allow more light “zippered” bricks that run on the on the opposite side 
19th and early-20th centu-the “penalty” a “tax” in the to enter the building, vertically on all sides of of the panel curtain wall 
ries to provide background first place and clarified that making the classrooms the building. and the remaining sides of 
information. failure to purchase insur­and offices seem more “Over the last few de-the building. 
“At that time, Congress ance was not itself illegal, the spacious, Hambling said. cades, the layout of “the area surrounding 
frequently sought to achieve imposition would have been “the windows are made these bricks has allowed the building has also expe­
regulatory objectives it could clearly constitutional. from all green material moisture and insects to rienced some revisions. the 
not attain through its com-“Justice Roberts charac­and will reduce the heat of enter through cracks, ru-maintenance and grounds 
merce power by imposing ex-terized the shared respon­the building, specifically ining the exterior walls,” crew have made great efforts 
cise taxes that were designed sibility payment as one that in the warmer months, by Hambling said. “the to revitalize the growth of 
to discourage disfavored ac-‘makes going without insur­nearly 30 degrees; saving vines covering the build-grass around the building,” 
tivities,” Cushman said. ance just another thing the the school a great deal on ing have also been re-Hambling said. “Lilac bush-
the Supreme Court soon government taxes, like buy-air conditioning costs,” moved. they had started es have also been planted 
became wary of Congress’ ing gasoline or earning in-he said to grow through holes in along the driveway leading 
increased use of taxing pow-come,’” Cushman said. Monday marked the the brick walls and began up to the front of Madeleva, 
er when commerce power this seems simple enough, start of the replacement to enter classrooms, caus-and should be in full bloom 
could not provide the desired but is rather more complex windows on the panel ing further damage to be by spring 2013.” Hambling 
results. the Supreme Court when compared to the past curtain wall that faces done. these renovated added that the College will 
and Congress would finally rulings on child labor, he the courtyard. they will window systems will also continue to experience 
butt heads in a child labor said. “It is only where the be completed over the be constructed of all eco-many other green” renova­
employment case in 1922, exaction was coupled with a next four to five weeks, friendly materials.” tions under his direction in 
Cushman said. this is in re-detailed and specified course Hambling said. Another Hambling said the sec-the year to come. 
sponse to the 1916 Keating-of conduct, as in the Child important aspect of this ond phase of the opera-
Owen Child Labor Act which, Labor tax Case, that the first phase of renova-tion will be the completion Contact Hayley Miller at 
Cushman said, “prohibited Court has held the exaction tions is the removal of the of the window replacements hmille01@saintmarys.edu 
interstate shipment of ar-to be a penalty rather than a ticles produced by firms that true tax,” Cushman said. 
PAId AdVERtISEMENt 
employed children” under One can argue that the certain ages. current shared responsibil­
“the Child Labor tax did ity payment of the ACA does not make the employment not qualify as a tax under the of child labor unlawful; it Child Labor tax Case, and did raise revenue. It did not then should be considered a in fact prevent the employ-penalty, he said. “If that un­ment of child labor, and its derstanding is correct, then proponents did not think the Roberts Court may just that it could be salvaged by have tacitly overruled the lowering the rate, by a more Child Labor tax Case and its narrow tailoring of the tax progeny,” Cushman said. … or by moving enforcement A second possibility, entirely into the department Cushman said, is that Powell of the treasury,” Cushman and his contemporaries said. misread the Child Labor 
the Child Labor tax was, tax decision and “a revised however, still considered measure eliminating one or an unconstitutional pen-more of the distinguishing alty. In order to explain this features identified by Chief Cushman turned to the ar-Justice Roberts” would have guments of thomas Reed stood in the 1920s. Powell, then a Professor at Cushman added that all Columbia Law School. this is to say that the respon­
“Powell credited [Chief sibility payment today can be Justice William Howard] taft questioned as to whether or with fully recognizing that not it actually falls under the the distinction between a Court’s “narrowest interpre­tax and a penalty was a mat-tations of the taxing power.” ter of degree … [and] fully “Either the Court has ef­agreed with taft that a deci-fectively abandoned the sion upholding the tax would principle established in the have led down a slippery Child Labor tax Case, or slope to plenary congres-child protection advocates sional authority,” Cushman of the interwar period were said. Cushman added that badly mistaken in their as-Powell read the Child Labor sessment of the decision, at tax Case as establishing the the cost of a lost generation proposition that the values of federal child labor reform,” of federalism could be pre-Cushman said. served in taxing power ju­risprudence only through Contact Carolyn Hutrya at the application of a standard chutrya@nd.edu 



tHE OBSERVER | WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 19, 2012 | NdSMCOBSERVER.COM 
First world pains


INSIDE COLUMN 

tell me about your summer 

Troy Mathew 
Scene Writer 

We’re finally at the point in the semes­ter when we no longer feel obligated to start every conversation with, “Hey! How was your summer?” We can now move on to more diverse conversation open­ers such as, “Wow, Finny’s was sloppy last night,” or “did I see you at Finny’s last night?” this is also a good time for reflection, considering the ample knowl­edge we’ve gained about our fellow classmates’ summer experiences. 
When you were relaying your summer tales to your classmates, hopefully you had a grasp of who your audience was. Notre dame students are world-class scholars, athletes and intellectuals who devoted their summers to doing every­thing from working at lucrative intern­ships to saving orphans. 
Obviously, any self-deprecating com­ment regarding your summer was out of the question. the thing about relaying your summer is that you should have spared no detail, because everyone real­ly, really cares. Otherwise, they wouldn’t have asked you about it. 
take my own summer for example. I interned at a company in San Francisco, a city in which I didn’t have any friends and had a relatively sad social life, con­sidering I didn’t share my roommate’s interest in dungeons and dragons. I was literally barked at by homeless people every day on my commute into work, where I completed semi-menial tasks, including a not-insignificant amount of time spent with a scanner. My office was chill and fun, and I enjoyed my co-work­ers. I liked my job, and gained a lot of valuable experience and references, but didn’t perform anything I considered too earth-shattering or awe-inspiring. 
In other words, it was a truly transfor­mative and life-affirming experience. I worked with the most brilliant people on earth and, with that internship, have surely secured my dream job following graduation. 
If you spent the summer volunteering, you should have talked about the indel­ible marks left on your heart by every person you helped. your life will never be quite the same again. If you spent the summer working in your hometown, you should have talked about how profound it was to impact people who live in a place you care about. If you worked at an investment firm, you should have talked about your field’s positive impact on humanity. Wait, there wasn’t one? then you should have mentioned how your field benefits society in any way. Still nothing? Well at least you made bank. drinks are on you, bro! 
Contact Troy Mathew at tmathew2@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Blake J. Graham 
Erudite techno-Lust 
In 2009, comedian, and arguably philosopher, Louis CK went on Conan O’Brien’s show to deliver one of his most biting and accurate bits: “Now, we live in an amazing, amazing world, and it’s wasted on the crappiest generation of just spoiled idiots that don’t care because 
—
 this is what people are like now, they got their phone, they’re like, “[pretends to type on smartphone] ugh! It won’t…” 

— 
give it a second! It’s going to space! Can you give it a second to get back from space? It’s the speed of light!” His rous­ing conclusion: Everything is amazing right now, and nobody is happy. 


Economic growth and the quality of life has jumped during the course of three industrial revolutions in the past 200 years. the development of steam power in the 18th century gave society railroads and other forms of developed transportation. From 1870-1910 the world experienced ludicrous advance­ment through electricity, automobiles, radio, sanitation and flight, all points of which were iterated and improved for the next 50 years. Finally in the 1960s the underlying pieces of electrical computa­tion and the internet formed, pushing us into the byte-sized world we live in today. It is this third revolution that is most curious as it represents a shift from development of “stuff” to development of “bits,” which leaves us without physical entities to gauge our progress against. It goes, almost without saying, to witness the turn of one of these revolutions is akin to witnessing magic. 
But the magic at this point is almost entirely gone. We, the people, ignorantly coexist with the byproducts of each revolution without an understanding of what made each valuable and how that value was made, i.e. we saw the magic, now we’re bored, and all we want is more magic. 
the trouble is magical invention is get­ting more difficult to find. 
technologically, we’ve picked off most of the low-hanging fruit. the next tier of scientific and economic advancements is riskier, more financially demanding and most likely to fail. Worst of all, some are caught up in bureaucratic purgatory where they are likely to die out. (Flying cars, super-sonic commercial flight, clean nuclear power and human inter­planetary exploration all come to mind when thinking of technically possible, but politically squashed advancements.) 
So what are we left with? Phones, apps and social networks mostly. 
At least that’s where investors’ money is. And the money is there because there too lies our interests. this view of the modern technologist grumbling about poor reception, slow Wi-Fi speeds, de­layed flights, the hardships of texting, too many emails, not enough follow­ers, etc. (ad infinitum,) is an infectious one. One that had me in its thrall until I learned about a conference held in Portland this past weekend. 
On May 22, Andy Baio, one of the origi­nal builders of Kickstarter, launched a campaign on the popular crowd-funding site for a weekend conference celebrating “disruptive creativity” in Portland, Ore. called XOXO. In 50 hours, they sold out of conference tickets and reached enough funding for the project to go ahead. On September 13, 400 people congregated at an arts center to get the love-fest un­derway. their creed seemingly closer to: “Everything is amazing, and so are you and you and you and you and you…” 
during the four-day conference people like dan Harmon (Community), dan Provost and tom gerhardt (Studio Neat), Adam Savage (Mythbusters), Jamie Wilkinson (VHX.tv), Chad dickerson (Etsy), yancey Strickler (Kickstarter), Christopher Poole (4chan, Canvas), Bre Pettis (MakerBot), and many other names you likely wouldn’t recognize, spoke about how their work is opening new a new economic sector focused on creativity and craftsmanship. 
Harmon urged attendees to seek creativity above all else (something for which his former show Community was known.) Pettis’s company MakerBot makes 3d printers for the consumer market, a technology representing a precursor to a not-too-distant future where we can manufacture completely customized goods from the comfort of our homes. 
Poole has run the notorious 4chan for 10 years, which, despite its exten­sive influence and millions of visitors, hemorrhages cash. Poole doesn’t seem to mind though. the community is self-forming, highly adaptive and more authentic than Facebook. VHX.tv, Etsy and Kickstarter all give a direct connec­tion between creators and community allowing for a quasi-meritocracy of cre­ativity to form. 
One must remain skeptical when ap­proaching this new economy and its significance. Its strongest point lies in its inherent optimism found in the perspec­tives of those behind it — it’s powerful because it’s incredibly naïve. they are hopeful because they value what’s con­nected, not what does the connecting. Behind the Internet and the world of bits there are human beings. And it is hu­man beings who can inspire the magic to bring about new revolutions.
 Blake J. Graham is a sophomore. He can be reached on Twitter @BlakeGraham or at bgraham2@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Don’t corrupt Seuss 
dear Nd Right to Life Club, 
I have kept silent about this for too long (and by “kept silent,” I mean “verbally accosted random individuals I see wearing it”). Are you aware that dr. Seuss’s widow has taken legal action to ask pro-life groups such as yourselves to refrain from using “A person’s a person, no matter how small,” on its anti-abortion paraphernalia? I’m anti-abortion, too, but I’m pro-Seuss and anti-hijacking-words­from-a-children’s-book-to-fit-a-political-agenda. Please keep this in mind while designing apparel for this year. 
Also, while you are at it, please consider changing your name to something like “Fetus Fan Club,” because there are plenty of other 
life issues that deserve attention, too. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“Ability is what you’re capable of doing. Motivation determines what you do. Attitude determines how well you do it.” 
Lou Holtz 
Former Notre Dame football coach 
Joanna Sullivan 
senior Pasquerilla East Hall Sept. 18 
WEEKLY POLL 
What is the most important issue in this presidential election? 
tweet your response with #ViewpointPoll by 5 p.m. thursday. 



tHE OBSERVER | WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 19, 2012 | NdSMCOBSERVER.COM 

Problems with Ryan’s Medicare plan 
Adam Newman 
Elephant in the Room 

Mitt Romney’s choice of Paul Ryan has changed the course of the 2012 presi­dential campaign. the petty campaign issues, like private equity and Solyndra, have been replaced with substantive policy issues, most significantly the fu­ture of Medicare, the government run insurance program that covers 50 mil­lion seniors. 
Medicare was created in 1965 and cov­ers much of, but not all, hospital costs, doctor visits and prescription drug cov­erage for Americans 65 and older. the importance of Medicare for seniors can easily be understood. the elderly have more diseases and become sick more easily, requiring them to see more phy­sicians, take more prescription drugs, undergo more procedures and use more expensive technology. Before Medicare, retirement and poverty were synony­mous, largely due to rising health care costs. today, Medicare provides seniors with both economic and personal secu­rity. I remember my grandparents telling me about leaving the doctor’s office and saying to themselves, “thank god for Medicare.” 
While Medicare represents the best of America, it also represents the worst of America. Rising health care costs and an older population (the population of the program will grow from 50 mil­lion in 2010 to 90 million in 2040) has made Medicare the driver of future deficits. Nothing else even comes close. unfortunately, very little is done to reform the program by Congress, par­tially due to the need to avoid seniors’ distrust of reform (the statement in 2009 by one senior at a town hall to his local Congressman: “Keep your government hands off my Medicare” symbolizes this distrust perfectly) and a fear of the op­posing party unifying and attacking the proposal to score short term political points. this has made Medicare reform political suicide, which makes Ryan very unique for proposing one. 
under Ryan’s plan, called “Premium Support,” the government would give seniors a payment to buy health care insurance instead of acting as a single insurance company. the payments would grow at a rate less than health care cost inflation, leading seniors to become more cautious consumers of health care and lead them to choose more cost-effective plans. they could choose from a number of private plans or choose to stay in the traditional, government-run Medicare program but would most likely have to pay more to stay in it. Sicker and poorer seniors would receive higher pay­ments, and richer and healthier seniors would receive lower payments. Insurance companies would need to provide a 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Admiring character, admiring Manti 
In the two full seasons of Notre dame football I’ve been here for, our struggles off the field have been just as difficult to deal with as our struggles in the game. Manti te’o made nearly heroic contributions in both arenas last Saturday night. With 12 tackles and an interception, te’o seemed to be pressuring the quarterback and bringing down the receiver on the same play, but what really caught my attention was his interview afterwards. te’o stunned those of us watching minutes after the game on tV Saturday night. His recent heartbreaking losses were enough to get our attention, but his genuine humility and gratitude were what really stole our hearts. 
twelve times every fall we put our hearts out on the line and lose our voices sup­porting a group of guys that can do the most athletic things, but even the wildest of fans have to admit it’s frustrating and difficult to yell for someone on the field while you could never support him in real life. 
I’m not asking for a team of saints, but I’m not sure we’ve had a player since Brady Quinn who’s earned our admiration on the field and our love off the field. It’s guys like that you want to see win. It’s guys like that you want to see get the spotlight. And it is certainly guys like that you want to embody the university of Notre dame on national television. 
Manti, you’ve got the university’s respect, admiration and condolences. And on top of that, you’ll forever have our thanks. 
Stephen Zerfas 
junior Keough Hall Sept. 18 


minimum set of health benefits and could not deny any senior from choosing their plans. Any person under 55 would be forced into this plan. Anyone above 55 could stay in the current system. 
However, major issues exist with Paul Ryan’s plan. the most notable being, because Medicare has more bargaining power to negotiate rates down with phy­sicians and hospitals and lower admin­istrative costs than private plans, seniors will be forced to pay more for health care. the Kaiser Family Foundation, using CBO numbers, found in 2022, when the Ryan Medicare plan would go into effect, overall health care costs would be $5470 higher and seniors would be forced to pay $6240 more, an amount that will increase with time. (Note: this analysis was for Ryan’s 2011 Medicare plan, not his 2012 plan which has some slight changes, but for which no reliable projections exist.) 
Also, there is little evidence that private insurers competing amongst one another can drive down health care costs. the best empirical evidence is the Medicare Advantage program, created in 2003, which allows Medicare beneficiaries to have their Medicare benefits adminis­tered by a private insurance company. 
According to CBO, the average Medicare Advantage beneficiary costs the government 12 percent more than the average beneficiary in the traditional, government run plan, with little evidence as to a difference in quality outcomes. 
Perhaps the biggest issue with Ryan’s plan is it may not change how health care is delivered. this is critical, be­cause 30-40 percent of total health care spending is waste that does not make people any better (and often leads to worse outcomes.) Forcing autonomous health care providers to better deliver care in teams, reimbursing based on the quality of care and not the number of services administered and standard­izing best practices can help lead to drastically lower costs and higher qual­ity care for seniors. 
If Paul Ryan’s reforms cannot lead these changes to occur, then seniors will be forced to pay more and more for their health care, which could make “retire­ment” and “poverty” synonymous again. 
Ryan deserves a profile in courage for working to tackle the Medicare issue that threatens America’s fiscal future. But his plan, driven by his inherent distrust of government, promotes a vision for Medicare that probably will not work. 
Regardless, Ryan has started a debate in America of critical importance that is long from over. 
Adam Newman is a senior finance major. He can be reached at anewman3@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Catholics and liberals 
Notre dame is divided by a misconception of the relevance of Catholic teachings as they relate to American politics. With the general election draw­ing close, I invite someone to challenge this argument: It is not possible to be a liberal and Roman Catholic based on these incontestable reasons: 
1.  
Abortion always results in the taking of an innocent life. yet, abortion remains a foundational platform of the liberal agenda. 

2.  
Subsidiarity: “the social doctrine that governments exist for the sake of the individual so that what individuals are able to do, society should not take over, and what small societies can do, larger societies should not take over” is central to Catholic teachings (Catechism of the Catholic Church: 1883, 1885.) the Church states that governments must provide only those things the individual certainly cannot affect for themselves (military protec­tion, infrastructure, etc.) Helping those in need is a personal responsibility and accomplished appropriately and best by individuals, families, churches, communities and private organizations. Forced inter-dependency is blatantly wrong according to the Catechism. 

3. 
Inexcusably, most liberal politicians remain silent and complicit as re­ligious expression, a First Amendment right guaranteed by the Constitution, is attacked and our freedom is dismantled. these assaults aim directly at Christianity, (e.g. the mandate that Catholic institutions provide insurance for “no charge” abortifacients and contraception to employees.) Freedom to express and practice one’s religion, so long as it does not harm or inhibit the rights of others, is god-given and has been protected by the First Amendment for 223 years. 


to my “Catholic” liberal brothers and sisters: these three points are ir­refutable and indefensible. I encourage my Catholic/Christian brothers and sisters to vote, led by our informed conscience  and values as Notre dame students. god, Country, Notre dame. In that order. the current adminis­tration would have us believe that it should be government, Country, god, Notre dame. the democratic National Convention ran an ad on C-SPAN say­ing “government’s the only thing we all belong to.” No, we are all the Body of Christ. Keep fighting the good fight and vote like a champion! god bless. 
Johnny Whichard 
junior Sorin Hall Sept. 18 


STEPH WULZ | The Observer 
tHE OBSERVER | WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 19, 2012 | NdSMCOBSERVER.COM 


“Someday” jumps right back in on a fast-paced, high-take you back/And you never found love in an open 
By LIZZY SCHROFF 

Scene Writer energy note, pulling the listener along with a fast drum-hand/Shut your eyes and you’ll see under/And know 
beat. “Sleep Alone,” the album’s first single, continues you’ll always have this if you stay this man.” 

I’m going to go out on a bit of a controversial limb here the up-tempo beat of the previous track and again in-though two door Cinema Club’s albums blend rather and say that clubs need better dance music these days. cludes an infectiously appealing chorus. the guitar seamlessly, “Beacon” left me wanting a little something Hip-hop and dubstep can get tiring, and I’m always left on “the World is Watching” is reminiscent of Vampire more. I’ve now heard two solid albums showcasing what yearning for a little something different — something Weekend’s sound, and is complemented by a wonder-they can do, but where can they go from here? What with an indie twist. dJs need not look further than a fully harmonized chorus. musical boundaries are they going to push? One thing I band like two door Cinema Club for some assistance. “Settle” begins with a sweetly serenading keyboard can always give two door Cinema Club credit for is that the group hails from Northern Ireland, and sports ele-effect and a contrast of deep, distorted rhythm guitar their songs are always catchy. However, after a while the ments of electropop and indie-rock with a signature and soprano guitar line before diving into the heart of songs start to blend together. I hope that the group will sound, created mostly by lead guitarist Sam Halliday’s the song. Before hitting the punchy chorus, “Pyramid” step outside the box a little more with their next album. ringing riffs. “Beacon,” the band’s sophomore effort, creates a balance between the softer verses, which rely In the meantime, I can only hope that the next time I hit nicely complements their debut album “tourist History,” on a quick guitar riff, bass, interspersed effects and lead the dance scene I can get my groove on to a little indie which featured the hugely popular singles “Something singer Alex trimble’s vocals. disco. good Can Work” and “What you Know” (totally one of the album concludes with the title track “Beacon.” my jams last summer). the resulting album is full of the vocals echo against a steady drumbeat, resonating Contact Lizzy Schroff at eschro01@saintmarys.edu 
dance-inducing tracks and catchy melodies. guitar and synthesizer — all elements that are promi­“Beacon” leads in with “Next year.” the track is upbeat nently featured throughout the track list. the album 
“Beacon” 

and features a catchy chorus that begs you to sing along. ends as trimble sings, “I’m coming home.” 
Two Door Cinema Club 

Next up is “Handshake,” which is chock-full of synth-A distinguishing feature between “Beacon” and their pop elements — plenty of effects, keyboard, drum kit debut album “tourist History” is the subject matter of 
Label: Kitsuné 

and that distinctive, resonating two door Cinema Club the lyrics. Many of the tracks on “tourist History” con-
Tracks: “Handshake,” Sun,” “Sleep Alone” 

guitar. tained lyrics as light-hearted and carefree as the tunes. One of the best tracks from the album, “Sun,” is high-However, two door Cinema Club delves into deeper 
If you like: Vampire Weekend, Phoenix, Temper Trap 

lighted by a solid melodic bass line and brass section topics, focusing on themes such as homesickness and throughout. the lyrics convey a longing for a reunion heartache. For instance, trimble strikes a melancholic with a faraway lover. note on “Handshake” singing, “So when nobody will 



muffins, bagels and exciting coffee flavors such as dark chicken, lettuce and tomato), and was a bit dry. 
By CLAIRE STEPHENS 

Scene Writer Magic and Caramel Vanilla Cream. However, the freshness and surprising variety of 
Lunchtime favorites include the made-to-order deli vegetables in the side salad (as well as the freshness of 

tucked away in a corner of the grandiose and spec-sandwiches, paninis, taco salad and the famously-pop-the vegetables in the sandwich) hint that the made-to­tacular halls of Bond Hall hides Café Poché, a quaint ular grilled cheese with tomato soup on Fridays. order deli sandwiches may be the better overall choice, and colorful café known almost exclusively to architec­
while the specials are more hit-or-miss. ture students and faculty. 
the piping-hot chicken dumpling soup, however, far Café Poché is a nice escape from the intimidating 
exceeded my expectations. the creamy blend of celery, splendor of the building, and offers a quick bite for 
carrots, herbs and spices made for a smooth and com-breakfast or lunch or a quiet place to take a snack break. 
forting soup, perfect for the cold winter ahead. It far While Café Poché doesn’t fully serve the needs of the 
outshined the spicy chicken breast sandwich. perpetually busy architecture student who lives, works 
the café has a very intimate, cozy atmosphere, cre­and sleeps in the building (it is only open from 8 a.m. 
ated by the bar stools along the wall of the café, the to 3 p.m.), Café Poché specializes in sandwiches, soups 
friendly, welcoming service and the small table in the and pastries. 
middle of the room, which resembles a kitchen table. It also offers quick and easy options that represent 
More seating is available just outside the café, where the best of LaFortune and grab ’n go choices, includ­
there is a cute row of two-person tables, complete with ing bottled drinks, to-go sandwiches, vegetable trays, 
a flower vase to give customers a little more privacy. snack bars and candy. For those marathon study ses-Although the space is small, Café Poché offers a place sions in the winter, they even sell Chapstick and 5-hour I tried the tuesday special — the spicy chicken breast to get away from the hustle and bustle of LaFortune and Energy. sandwich and side salad (chips or fruit were other side the dining halls, and get something a little different to 
While other academic building cafés offer bagels or options) with chicken dumpling soup. eat before diving back into classes. croissant breakfast sandwiches, Café Poché’s unique Although the generously sized sandwich had good item is their freshly-made scones, along with their chicken with just enough kick, it was very simple (bun, Contact Claire Stephens at cstephe4@nd.edu 

STEPH WULZ | The Observer 


SPORTS AUTHORITY 
NFL 

Schiano makes right call 

Joseph Monardo 
Sports Writer 
After what was a remarkably entertaining game between the giants and the Buccaneers, New york coach tom Coughlin mounted a high horse at mid­field and gave an enthusiastic wag of his finger (and an explicit telling-off) to tampa Bay coach greg Schiano. 
Schiano’s crime? Playing to win the game. 
With Eli Manning under cen­ter in the victory formation at the end of Sunday’s game, the tampa Bay front line exploded off the ball, trying to create a fumble in one last-ditch effort to salvage the decision. New york’s big uglies were caught off guard and the defensive pres­sure caused Manning to fall backward, although he man­aged to hold onto the ball. It was a legitimate effort, but to no avail — the giants held on for the 41-34 home win. 
But the real action was just beginning: handshake-gate 
2.0. A red-faced Coughlin fe­rociously berated his rookie counterpart for … What was it again? Oh yeah, playing to win the game. 
In the post-game press con­ference, Coughlin exasperated­ly described his frustration by saying what basically amount­ed to, “you just don’t do that in the NFL.” 
you just don’t do that in the NFL? you don’t play hard un­til the final whistle? Maybe Coughlin is right, but if he is, it is a shame. 
Every player on every team in the league should play ev­ery play as if it was the game’s last — unless it actually is the game’s last play, according to Coughlin. 
But the giants coach wasn’t alone. Quarterback Eli Manning described his heroic efforts to take a knee “in a friendly way” before being unceremoniously tossed on his rear. Really, Eli? A friendly way? the Buccaneers never asked the giants for the honor of a genuflected salute. It is doubtful that Ronde Barber would waltz over to Eli after the game, saying “gee, thanks for taking a knee, Eli!” 
Numerous other giants play­ers echoed their coach’s senti­ment, painting the Buccaneers’ effort as a dirty play and a cheap shot. Coughlin and his g-men claim to be defending the integ­rity of the league and champi­oning player safety, but in fact are rationalizing their own fail­ure to play to the whistle. 
A cheap shot is a blow to the head, a spearing with the hel­met or a stomp after the whis­tle. What Schiano instructed his players to do, on the other hand, is something that the NFL should hope to see more of. the offensive line accepts defensive pressure for dozens of plays every game and the final play should not be any different. It becomes a dangerous play if the offensive linemen stand up expecting a high five from their opponent, but not otherwise. 
Further, the kneel-down is the worst play in all of sports. An understandable reward for the winning offense, the vic­tory formation is a source of frustration for fans and defend­ers alike. to say that the de­fense should not do everything it legally and ethically can to avoid conceding the game is ridiculous. 
Even if the kneel-down was the sacred ritual Coughlin tried to make it out to be, he is hardly the one to condemn anything as inappropriate behavior. these are the same giants who just one year ago commanded their players to fake injuries to slow play down. Is that what the NFL does, tom Coughlin? How about verbally undress­ing a professional kicker on the field after a game, in full view of cameras, reporters and fans, as Coughlin did to punter Matt dodge following a loss to the Eagles in dec. 2010? Is that the way to do it? 
Coughlin is widely respected by his players and around the league, and he has repeatedly turned his team into a surprise Super Bowl contender in recent years. But Coughlin deserves no respect for complaining very publicly and demonstratively about a hustle play. 
Schiano, meanwhile, stands by his decision. this is the same coach who signed paralyzed former Rutgers football player Eric Legrand to an NFL con­tract at the season’s start. that probably is not how it is done in the NFL, either, but convention didn’t stop the former Rutgers coach. He is doing things the way he knows how, and as long as that method involves compassion, persistence and preaching clean play until the final whistle, Schiano should continue to ignore the mindless conventions of the NFL. 
during that midfield encoun­ter Sunday, while getting an earful from Coughlin, Schiano extended his arm to shake the furious Coughlin’s hand. With Coughlin unleashing his un­reasonable anger, the losing coach thought to offer the sim­ple courtesy of a handshake. 
And that, tom Coughlin, is how it should be done in the NFL.  
Contact Joseph Monardo at jmonardo@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Falcons face adversity 
Associated Press 
FLOWERy BRANCH, ga. — Atlanta Falcons coach Mike Smith had plenty of concerns following his team’s late-night victory over denver. 
Injuries. Running game. then he had to add Michael turner’s off the field troubles to the list. 
the former Pro Bowl running back was arrested for drunken driving and speeding early tuesday morning. 
Smith said he met with turner after his release from jail and ex­pressed the organization’s dis­appointment. the coach would not say if the Falcons (2-0) will discipline him before they visit San diego (2-0) on Sunday. 
turner, 30, is expected to at­tend the team’s customary film sessions and position meetings and to practice when players re­turn Wednesday from their off day. 
“Oh, he’ll be in here” Wednesday, Smith said. “No doubt.” 
Smith said the Falcons are “disappointed when a player sheds a negative light on our or­ganization. I can’t say any more than that.” 
there were other issues to ad­dress. the 5-foot-10, 244-pound turner is just one of Smith’s concerns. 
defensively, the Falcons don’t know if nickel back Christopher Owens will be cleared to play. Owens sustained a concussion against denver. 
Smith said several other play­ers will be listed on the injury report this week. 
three defensive starters — cornerback Asante Samuel, nose tackle Peria Jerry and right end John Abraham — were treated on the sideline during the game, but each returned to the field. 
Samuel left in the first quarter 

FOR SALE 
Michigan tickets 2 in prime loca­tion. VIP parking pass available. Call 609-471-9511 
FOR RENT 
IRISH CROSSING 4BDR/3.5BTH. Available ‘13/’14 year; ND alum owner. 281-635-2019 
WANTED 
Need (x3) three people to help at our Notre Dame Tailgate vs. Michigan 9/22 *Grilling Burgers, Tent setup, Misc., etc. (Must be 21 years old) *Pay: $15 per hour, 8A-6P this Saturday, September 22nd *If interested: Please call Mark 847-770-7867 

with a jammed neck, but still finished with seven tackles. Abraham and Jerry were hurt in the fourth quarter. 
With the team leaving for San diego on Friday, Smith plans to take it easy on his players after a 3-hour, 27-minute game on Monday that was bogged down by a sideline scrum and an inex­perienced group of replacement officials. 
the Falcons won 27-21. 
“We want to get everybody recovered and as fresh as pos­sible,” Smith said. “that was a very physical football game last night that was way too long and ended way too early in the morning.” 
the Falcons also need to get their rushing attack on the right track. 
turner has struggled on the field and is averaging nearly 2 yards per attempt under his 
4.5 career mark from 2004-10. Smith refused to say whether turner’s issues off the field and anything to do with his strug­gles on it. 
“you can’t speculate on that at all,” Smith said. 
On Atlanta’s first possession, turner was stopped twice on first-and-goal from the 1 for no gain. But on his next carry, he jumped over a pile of linemen on both teams to give the Falcons an early touchdown lead. 
Still, the Falcons’ rushing at­tack, which ranks 26th in the NFL, could face a stiff challenge from a San diego defense’s ranks first against the run. 
turner gained just 27 yards on his first 16 carries against the Broncos. On his final attempt, turner broke off a 15-yard run that allowed Atlanta to run out the clock and secure the victory. 
“We had a couple of oppor­tunities to get some first downs (earlier in the fourth quarter), but until the last drive we didn’t have any success,” quarter­back Matt Ryan said. “that last drive our guys really stepped up, our offensive line did a great job allowing us to run the foot­ball. they opened up holes for Michael turner.” 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
outta legend and folk lore 
PERSONAL 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? There was an old pi­Don’t go it alone. Notre Dame has rate who piloted vial slang many resources in place to assist you. If you or someone you love needs con-had a bird perched on him fidential support or assistance, please and swash buckled the same call Ann Whitall at 1-0084 or Karen Kennedy at 1-5550. For more informa-peg leg navigator starboard to port tion, visit ND’s website at: http://preg­nancysupport@nd.edu by the nautical star of ”mael” 
an the harbor is yours Aesop Rock, The Harbor is Yours and you should tell them Dead men tell no tales. where you situate the gold 
Just up push the daisies till the soil is stale that is unless you’d like a va­cation with davy j-j-j-jones. In a padded blue tux for the farmer’s sale like “walk the plank” for Mr. big sleep with the carp and kelp whom the shark thank 
Once upon a time in the days of yore maroon the mutineers consume the souvenirs. when the people lived fresh WORD 



ND WOMEN’S GOLF 

Oride using summer work as springboard for fall 
“Kelli is a very capable golfer,” 
By ISAAC LORTON 

Irish coach Susan Holt said. “She struggled with thinking Irish sophomore Kelli Oride that playing well is playing per-thought she had to be perfect. fect. I don’t think there is such After she realized she didn’t a thing as a perfect round. Last have to be, she totaled her best year I had recurring conversa­score to date at Notre dame tions with Kelli, where I told her with a six-over par 222 at the to quit trying to be perfect and Mary Fossum Invitational last be more patient; let things hap-weekend. pen instead of trying to make 
Sports Writer 

PAId AdVERtISEMENt 
things happen. It was great to see her not play perfect golf and still shoot good scores. I think she saw that she can go a out and have a great round without it be­ing perfect.” 
Oride along with teammate freshman Lindsey Weaver, had the lowest round for the Irish, with a 70. Oride’s performance earned her a tie for ninth overall out of 87 competitors. 
“She was a prime example of balance and consistency this weekend and that’s what we need,” Holt said. “We need week-in and week-out, day-to-day consistency within our tourna­ment rounds.” 
Oride said she was happy to start strongly and put last season behind her. 
“I was really excited about it,” Oride said. “I struggled a lot last year and having a good start to 
NCAA FOOTBALL 
this season was great.” 
Oride acknowledged her ob­session with perfection but has worked on it and said she has a better mentality now. 
“I knew last year I was capable of putting up good scores, but when I wasn’t producing I felt like I was letting the whole team down.” Oride said. “I took a step away from competitive golf this summer, only competing in a few tournaments. this got my mind off of golf and my confi­dence up. I came back and hoped I could make a difference.” 
A native Hawaiian, Oride is a long way from home, and both she and Holt said this gap had an effect on her game last year. 
“It was a lot of change for [Kelli] last year,” Holt said. “I think she knew what to expect when she got back here. She was more comfortable with her surroundings and her un­certainty was gone. It was just an evolution of her experience here. She worked hard over the summer and it carried over. Her maturation both as a player and a person have contributed to her early success.” 
With a new philosophy and a top-10 finish in hand, Oride has left her struggles in the past. 
“I think not only being from home but the transition to col­lege was hard for me,” Oride said. “I have realized my mis­takes and put my focus in the right place. I have a better mind­set in all aspects this year.” 
Oride will next compete with the Irish at the Windy City Collegiate Classic in glenview, Ill., on Oct. 1. 
Contact Isaac Lorton at              ilorton@nd.edu 
Wildcats prepare for Sooners 


Associated Press 
MANHAttAN, Kan. — Arguably the biggest victory in Bill Snyder’s long, successful ten­ure at Kansas State came against the program that has otherwise caused him the most problems. 
It was back in 2003, when the Wildcats were annually among the nation’s elite. they were heavy underdogs heading into the Big 12 championships game against top-ranked Oklahoma, and managed to upend the Sooners on a cold, clear night at Arrowhead Stadium in Kansas City, Mo. 
that remains the only time Kansas State has beaten Oklahoma in nearly 15 years. 
they haven’t played every year, of course. Only occasionally back in the days of a 12-member Big 
12. But a program that has won 11 games on numerous occa­sions, and played in marquee bowl games after so many splen­did seasons, has had its hands full with its neighbor to the south. 
“the games I’ve been a part of, there were points or a turn­ing point where we weren’t able to get it done,” Kansas State’s se­nior quarterback Collin Klein said. “We weren’t beat because of the helmet they were wearing. they’ve just made plays and we haven’t.” 

Still, the No. 15 Wildcats (3-0) are in a familiar spot heading into Saturday’s showdown with sixth-ranked Oklahoma (2-0). they’re undefeated, staring at an­other solid season, but first have to get through what has histori­cally been their biggest stumbling block. 
take, for instance, the 2000 season. 
Kansas State had lost just once the previous year, and had rattled off six straight wins to begin the season, climbing to No. 2 in the na­tion. the Sooners, ranked eighth, scratched out a 41-31 victory in Norman, and went on to win their seventh national championship. 
the Wildcats won their first two games the following season be­fore losing to Oklahoma, and the 38-37 defeat began a string of four consecutive losses. In 2005, the fi­nal year under Snyder before his brief retirement, a 3-0 start came to an end with a 43-41 defeat by the Sooners. 


tHE OBSERVER | WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 19, 2012 | NdSMCOBSERVER.COM 

O’Malley 
CONtINuEd FROM PAgE 16 
sophomore Max Lachowecki did not see any playing time. 
the success of the defense up to this point in the season may thus be a surprise to outsiders. It’s not to Van de Casteele. 
“People say the backline is inex­perienced, but when I look at the guys I’m playing alongside with, I don’t really find them to be inex­perienced,” he said. “I know Luke Mishu got a bunch of starts last year when Michael Knapp was hurt, and Andrew O’Malley could have been starting any game last year — he had the skill to play last year — it just so happened that [current toronto F.C. defender] Aaron Maund was playing in front of him, so that’s unfortunate. But I know he would have been ready at any point last year to play.” 
though Van de Casteele thought heading into the season that other defenders would be ready, none of them could match his experience. He entered the year with 38 ca­reer starts, and as the lone senior defender, he has found his role on the squad has been altered. 
“Andrew O’Malley’s a vocal player, so he’s constantly direct­ing traffic and a lot of my commu­nication is mainly with the center midfielders — [sophomore] Nick Besler and [senior captain] dillon Powers — and especially with Luke Mishu,” Van de Casteele said. “And I think while my posi­tion probably hasn’t changed that much, in reality people are prob­ably looking to me to be more of a stable and calming influence, I’d say. And I think that’s a role I’m willing to embrace, and some­thing I think I have the ability to tackle.” 
Van de Casteele grew up playing basketball and base­ball before focusing primarily on soccer in high school. He was a club soccer teammate of Powers and it was actually Powers who initially informed Van de Casteele the Irish were interested in him as a prospect. 
“I heard first from dillon Powers, because he had come to Notre dame and visited and he said the coaches were really interested in recruiting me,” he said. “So that kind of put Notre dame more on my radar than it probably was before.” 
the combination of soccer and academics ultimately led Van de Casteele, a Big East Academic All-Star, to Notre dame. Now, the Plano, texas, native is focused on mak­ing sure the Irish open their Big East slate with a victory on Saturday and not looking ahead to anything else. 
“this is the type of team that’s going to take it one game at a time,” Van de Casteele said. “I think that come Saturday in Louisville, the team will be prepared and it will be another big game, and it’s on to the next one. Every game’s a big game.” 
Van de Casteele and the Irish travel to face the Cardinals on Saturday at 7 p.m. 
Contact Sam Gans at              sgans@nd.edu 
WOMEN’S INTERHALL FOOTBALL 
Ryan beats Farley, Mcglinn tops Lewis 
Ryan 27, Farley 7 
By Ryan Hidy 
Sports Writer 
In an under-the-lights opener in which the lights actually went out for a few moments in the sec­ond half, Ryan dominated Farley 27-7 on Monday. 
Ryan (1-0) started off with an interception on the first play. While running the option of­fense, Ryan carried this mo­mentum with them and scored a touchdown on a pass from senior captain and quarterback Maya Pillai to junior receiver Maddie Swan. 
Pillai and Swan also connect­ed again later in the game as the talented receiver separated from a Farley cornerback. Pillai rec­ognized this opening and hit the striding Swan for a touchdown on the fly route. 
“We had a great offensive scheme tonight,” Swan said. “We ran a crossing route when I scored the first touchdown and I was fortunate enough to beat the corner on the second score.” 
Pillai added two more touch­downs through the air to make it four total scores in the contest. 
“I can always do better and improve each week,” Pillai said. “the receivers made some great catches tonight and the offensive line did a fantastic job with the blocking.” 
the Wildcats also stifled Farley (0-2) on defense, only allowing a score as the field became pitch black during the power outage in the second half to make the score 20-7 at the time. the game was suspended briefly due to the lack of the power. 
An offensive bright spot for Farley seemed to be the rushing offense, which broke free for sev­eral quality open field runs, in­cluding the touchdown scamper. 
the Wildcats are looking forward to the next game and are viewing the first victory as one step in the long journey to the team’s goal of a championship. 
“the game went really well for a season opener,” Swan said. “We are coming off of a strong season, so we are looking to continue that in 2012.”. 
Pillai added that the Wildcats were pleased with their overall performance, but a tough sched­ule awaits. 
“the defense looked great and we executed the offensive game plan,” Pillai said. “We do have to get a lot better though with some tough opponents upcoming. All in all, except for the lights turning off, I was very happy today with the game.” 
Ryan will look to add another win when it plays Welsh Family Hall on Sunday. Farley will next take on Lewis on Sept. 30. 
Contact Rich Hidy at rhidy@nd.edu 
McGlinn 7, Lewis 6 
By LESLEY STEVENSON 
Sports Writer 
In a physical defensive battle, Mcglinn edged out a 7-6 victory over Lewis late Monday night with what became a decisive extra point conversion. 
the Shamrocks (2-0) overcame several false starts to score in the second half and then triumphed with a successful extra point. 
“I’m psyched the extra point worked,” Mcglinn senior captain Emily golden said. “that won it for us. Extra points are huge in this league.” 
Mcglinn’s defense sealed the deal for the team in the fourth quarter when senior co-captain Ally Scalo intercepted a pass from senior Chicks quarterback and captain Connaught Blood. 
For the second time in two days, Mcglinn managed to beat its op­ponent behind tough defensive line. On Sunday the Shamrocks shut out Pasquerilla East. 
“defense again won us the game [against Lewis],” golden said. 
Although Lewis (0-2) started strong with a touchdown from junior receiver Colleen Haller, the Chicks were unable to convert the extra point and fell short in the end. 
Haller said she was pleased with the strong defensive effort that kept the Shamrocks on their toes. 
“Our defense did a great job, especially on holding them on yards,” Haller said. “they weren’t able to really get that many passes up so it was a really good on their part.” 
Blood played like the seasoned veteran she is, delivering sharp passes and making quick deci­sions to carry the ball. 
But when asked what the team would work on for this weekend, Blood and Lewis’s coaches were in agreement: offense. 
Mcglinn hopes to continue its strong defense against Pangborn on Sunday while Lewis seeks to clean up its offense against Pasquerilla East on Sunday. 
Contact Lesley Stevenson at lsteven1@nd.edu 
Cavanaugh 21, Lyons 0 
By DONG-HYUN KIM 
Sports Writer 
In tuesday night’s matchup, Cavanaugh emerged victorious with a 21-0 shutout against a hard-charging Lyons squad. 
Cavanaugh’s defense set the tone early in the game when junior Jenny Walsh made a crucial inter­ception for the Chaos (2-0). three plays later, on fourth-and-two, Cavanaugh senior quarterback Rosemary Kelly threw a touch­down pass to sophomore wide receiver Olivia dietzel. 
From then on, Kelly took over for the offense, as she completed an­other touchdown pass to dietzel and later ran for a touchdown. 
Lyons (0-2) could not drive on Cavanaugh’s formidable defense as the Chaos defensive line pres­sured Lyons senior quarterback Erica Miller to scramble and throw the ball away. Freshman receiver Maddie Hahn had four receptions to move Lyons to Cavanaugh’s 25­yard line, but her efforts weren’t enough to break Cavanaugh’s defense. 
“We are young team in the learning process,” Lyons senior coach Joe Peluso said. “We were running all over the place, could not pull the flags, and offensively we were disorganized.” 
Lyons junior captain Christina Bramanti said she agreed with her coach’s statements. 
“We need to know the plays better and know our routes,” Bramanti said. 
Led by dietzel and her two touchdown catches, Cavanaugh’s offense stood out even more than its usual trademark defense. 
“Historically, Cavanaugh has been a defense oriented team, but offense was excellent today,” Cavanaugh senior coach tyler Smith said. 
Cavanaugh hopes to remain undefeated when it plays Howard on Sunday while Lyons will look to recover from the loss and make the right adjustments for its game against Badin on Sunday. 
Contact Dong-Hyun Kim at dkim16@nd.edu  
Breen-Phillips Pasquerilla West  vs.  
tuesday night’s matchup  be­ 

tween the Babes and the Purple Weasels was rescheduled for Oct. 9. 
PAId AdVERtISEMENt 




Kelly 
CONtINuEd FROM PAgE 16 
getting patted on the back all day, wasn’t that nice, a nice change to go to class and not hear how bad you are or what you should have done or what you didn’t do; they told you a lot of good things,” Kelly said. 
He said there is a fine line be­tween being encouraged and fueling the hype. He also said those well wishes could disap­pear if the Irish don’t perform well Saturday. 
“that’s a good place to be, but here is what you want to do if you want to be there next week. Because let me tell you what, if you don’t do that next week, you’ll be back where you were a few weeks ago,” he said. 
Slaughter out, others in 
graduate student safety Jamoris Slaughter suffered an Achilles injury that will side­line him for the rest of the season during Saturday’s win. Slaughter’s injury comes af­ter ones to junior safety Austin Collinsworth and junior cor­nerback Lo Wood. All three were expected to be major con­tributors in the Irish secondary this season. 
Slaughter was playing his fifth season with the Irish. Kelly said Notre dame is unsure if Slaughter will be eligible for a sixth year. 
Junior linebacker danny Spond returned to the Irish lineup Saturday against the Spartans after a head injury held him out of the first two contests. He recorded four tackles in the win. 
Kelly said sophomore receiv­er daVaris daniels, freshman 
PAId AdVERtISEMENt 
defensive end Sheldon day and grduate student defensive end Kapron Lewis-Moore are all probable to play Saturday. 
Fenway a no-go 
After reports surfaced about a possible game at Fenway Park featuring the Irish and Connecticut, director of Athletics Jack Swarbrick said the rumors were false. 
“We have work to do on our future football schedules, given the announcement last week relative to our upcom­ing Atlantic Coast Conference relationship,” Swarbrick said in a statement. “However, media reports today that we will play Connecticut in Fenway Park in 2014 are inaccurate.” 
Kelly is a Boston native and said he favored the idea. 
“you know me, I love Fenway Park.  I just don’t know if it’s big enough, you know,” he said. “Being a Boston guy, baseball has not been very good there, so maybe we’ll bring some football.” 
Contact Matthew DeFranks at              mdefrank@nd.edu 



tHE OBSERVER | WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 19, 2012 | NdSMCOBSERVER.COM 

Soccer 
CONtINuEd FROM PAgE 16 
through this season’s first sev­en outings the Irish have allowed only four goals and posted four shutouts. More importantly, this year’s No. 3 Irish are 7-0-0, a sig­nificant improvement from last year’s 4-1-2. 
Junior Luke Mishu, who made six starts last year due to inju­ries, joins senior Van de Casteele as the only defensive starters to have made a start before this sea­son. Mishu and sophomore Max Lachowecki man the outside posts this season with junior Andrew O’Malley occupying the other central defensive spot alongside Van de Casteele. Each member of the four-man unit has logged the maximum 644 minutes of field time thus far. 
As great as Notre dame’s defen­sive unit was last year, perhaps the forced infusion of youth is just what the Irish needed. Heading into the season, Irish coach Bobby Clark pegged the defense as his biggest concern. While the inexperience that haunted Clark before the sea­son’s start has made itself evident at times, it comes mostly as mo­mentary lapses in the impressive displays of athleticism and tal­ent from the backline. O’Malley has been solid in the middle, but Mishu and Lachowecki have been stars on the outside. 
With the liberty to control the ball through the midfield and into the attacking zone granted by Clark, the outside backs have repeatedly utilized their speed to propel the Irish offense. A con­verted midfielder and forward, Lachowecki is most adept at turn­ing defense into offense. And his former position shines through in the sophomore’s play. Lachowecki has made a habit of charging down the sideline and into the opposi­tion’s box, both with and without the ball at his feet. 
In Notre dame’s 1-0 win over Oregon State on Sept. 7, Lachowecki made such a run, ac­cepted a pass from Irish junior forward Leon Brown and scored the game-winning goal from 14 yards out in the 81st minute. While Lachowecki has no other points to show for his efforts, he has at times looked to be as dangerous as any of Notre dame’s very skilled at­tacking players. He has unleashed 10 shots, the fourth most on the team. 
Still, the defense’s primary ob­jective is, obviously, to play de­fense. And the Irish defenders have not neglected their role as the last line of protection in front of se­nior goalkeeper Will Walsh. If they can continue to turn teams away, the Irish will be able to compete against any team in the country. 
the Irish are, after all, out to the program’s best start in 25 years. this after knee injuries sidelined fifth-year senior midfielders Adam Mena and captain Michael Rose, likely for the remainder of the season. 
Having suffered such key losses early on, the Irish are lucky they have gained three new productive starters on defense. 
Contact Joseph Monardo at            jmonardo@nd.edu 
SMC VOLLEYBALL 
Belles victorious in hotly contested match 
By AARON SANT-MILLER 
Sports Writer 
In a heated back-and-forth five-set match against confer­ence opponent Kalamazoo, Saint Mary’s hung tough, win­ning the fifth set to claim its third MIAA win. 
“It was a really close match, es­pecially at the end,” Belles coach toni Kuschel said. “We’re very happy and proud of the win.” 
After winning the first two sets 25-20 and 27-25, the Belles (7-5, 3-1 MIAA) dropped the second two to a resilient Kalamazoo (3­11, 0-5 MIAA). Still, Saint Mary’s hung tough and claimed the fifth set 15-13. 
the Belles were led by a strong offensive outing from sophomore outside hitter Kati Schneider. Schneider led the team with a career-high 22 kills, while also providing a strong de­fensive effort with 12 digs. the 22 kills were the most by any player during Kuschel’s four-year tenure. 
“I can’t ask for anything bet­ter,” Kuschel said. “that’s the best she’s ever hit for us. She really led the team well tonight with that double-double. 
“Schneider really had an excel­lent game. Her and [senior set­ter] danie [Brink] got in a great rhythm tonight which was huge for us.” 
For the Belles, Brink also had a notable outing, leading the Belles with 48 assists. 
“She is just an amazing addition to our team and we’re so happy to have her back this year,” Kuschel said. “She was great behind the line tonight with four service aces and was also effective at the net when we needed her. She really stepped up tonight.” 
Brink, the only senior on the team, has been a great leader for the Belles this season Kuschel said. Against Kalamazoo, she continued to be a model for the younger players. 
Still, the Belles had a strong overall team performance out­side of those two players Kuschel said. defensively, the Belles were led by freshman outside hitter and defensive specialist Katie Hecklinski. Hecklinski had an­other impressive outing with a team-high 21 digs. yet, close be­hind her was sophomore defen­sive specialist and libero Meredith Mersits with 18 digs. 
despite the impressive perfor­mance, the Belles still have room to improve, Kuschel said. 
“We weren’t quite firing on all cylinders [against Kalamazoo],” Kuschel said. “We played excel­lent volleyball and were very good with our transition game this past weekend. We’ll need that to con­tinue if we want to keep winning matches.” 
For the Belles, a big weekend lies ahead, when the Belles face off in two more conference match-ups, against Olivet and Alma. 
“We need to be stronger at the net blocking-wise,” Kuschel said. “We know we can do better block­ing, so we’ll be looking for that to improve this weekend against Olivet and Alma.” 
the Belles will do just that on Friday in the first of the two MIAA matches when they host Olivet at 7 p.m. 
Contact Aaron Sant-Miller at            asantmil@nd.edu 
PAId AdVERtISEMENt 




CROSSWORD | WILL SHORtZ 


HIGHLY PUNLIKELY | CHRIStOPHER BRuCKER 

LOWER YOUR EXPECTATIONS | RAgO & PAtRICK CROSS 


Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
SUDOKU | tHE MEPHAM gROuP 

HOROSCOPE | EugENIA LASt 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Jason Sudeikis, 37; James Marsden, 39; Jada Pinkett Smith, 41; James gandolfini, 51. 
Happy Birthday: you have the ideas, the fortitude and the wherewithal to make things happen. Be relentless; demand what you want or need to get ahead, but don’t overload your plate or embellish your ideas. Knowing exactly what you want will make it easier for you to avoid veering off track. don’t let anger mislead you. your numbers are 4, 13, 15, 26, 28, 33, 42. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): take your time and don’t force issues. ulterior motives are apparent. Ask questions and consider all your options before making a decision that will have a long-lasting influence. Focus on self-motivation. Love is highlighted. 

TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Listen to your peers and you will gain knowledge and a different perspective regarding the way you do things. you will gain strength and get respect if you tidy up clutter at home, work and within relationships. 

GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Add a little creativity to whatever you do and you will excel. An imaginative approach to work or any challenge you face will give you an edge. Romantic opportunities are apparent, but not necessarily wise choices.  

CANCER (June 21-July 22): Negativity will lead to loss. don’t allow anyone to bring you down or add to your stress. Focus on impending responsibilities, not on what others want you to do. If you want to accomplish your goals, avoid being taken for granted. 

LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): don’t sit at home all alone. Invite friends over or engage in activities that will get you out and about. you need a change of scenery or a little excitement to brighten your day. Frustrating situations will lead to anger and poor judgment. 

VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Impulse will lead to loss. Cut your cost before making changes or reversing a decision that you mistakenly made in the past. give a de­tailed introduction to your plans for the future. Listen to advice being offered. 

LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): take advantage of an opportunity that will change or add excitement to your life. Interacting with people you find inspiring will help you come up with a suitable way to make your lifestyle more conducive to doing the things you enjoy most. 

SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Put more effort in at home. the more adaptable your place is for you to introduce a new project or lifestyle, the easier it will be for you to reach your goal. don’t let an argument or frustration lead to poor health or injury. 

SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): do something that will make a difference to your community. Love is in the stars, and a change of attitude can brighten a relationship you value. Being honest about your likes and dislikes will improve your situation and your future. 

CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Confusion is likely to set in if you are too quick to make a decision or move that will be difficult to reverse. Focus on work and diversi­fying what you have to offer to suit the current economic climate. 

AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): you can make things happen if you take the initiative. don’t let an emotional setback cause you to lose sight of your goals. Open up op­portunities at home by making changes that will allow you to expand your interests. Love is in the stars. 

PISCES (Feb. 19- March 20): Concentrate on what you know you can achieve legally, financially or medically. Finish what you start and leave no room for criticism when working in unison with others. take action and show your leadership abilities. 

Birthday Baby: you are a leader. you are compassionate, concerned and willing to help others. 
JUMBLE | dAVId HOyt ANd JEFF KNuREK 

Make checks payable to and mail to:  Enclosed is $130 for one academic year Enclosed is $75 for one semester  the Observer P.O. Box 779 Notre dame, IN 46556 
Name Address City  State  Zip  



tHE OBSERVER | WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 19, 2012 | NdSMCOBSERVER.COM 
FOOTBALL 
Staying on task 

Irish coach Brian Kelly hopes to avoid the hype and keep his team focused as it prepares for Michigan 
By MATTHEW DeFRANKS 
Associate Sports Editor 
Irish coach Brian Kelly has the perfect cure for the hype that comes with No. 11 Notre dame’s highest ranking in six years. 
the Irish (3-0) have a sign hanging that says four things: don’t believe or fuel the hype, manage expectations, avoid the noise and speak for yourself. 
“And they see that every sin­gle day. I put that up last year expecting that that was going to be something that we were going to have to deal with. And we’re dealing with it right now, and they have seen that now for over a year and a half,” Kelly said. “they know what that sign means. And they know if they want to continue to be success­ful, they need to continue to do the things they are doing.” 
Notre dame will have to cor­ral its confidence when they face No. 18 Michigan on Saturday under the lights at 7:30 p.m. 
the Wolverines (2-1) have defeated Notre dame each of the past three years in the final 30 seconds of the game. Senior quarterback denard Robinson has been the main neme­sis of the Irish, scoring eight 
MEN’S SOCCER 
Van De Casteele leads young back four 
By SAM GANS 
Sports Writer
 A season ago, Irish senior de­fender grant Van de Casteele was the youngest member of Notre dame’s veteran back four. Now, the script has flipped. 
Van de Casteele entered this year as the only returning de­fensive starter for the No. 3 Irish (7-0-0). yet the Notre dame de­fense that he anchors has al­lowed just four goals through its first seven games, with four shutouts. 
the only current defensive starter besides Van de Casteele that saw significant game ac­tion a year ago was junior Luke Mishu, who started six games when former Irish defender Michael Knapp was injured. Junior Andrew O’Malley played seven total minutes and 
see O’MALLEy PAGE 12 
total touchdowns the past two seasons. 
“As is the case with each game that we play, it’s a red letter game on everybody’s schedule and certainly a game that we are looking forward to as well,” Kelly said. “It’s Notre dame, it’s Michigan, it’s great college football. But for me, we have not beaten them. that’s what I re­member about this series.” 
In last year’s game, the Wolverines drove 80 yards in 28 seconds, capped by Robinson’s 16-yard touchdown pass to se­nior receiver Roy Roundtree. Kelly said the Irish do not dwell on last year’s game. 
“they don’t talk about it. they don’t talk about it at all. they just want to win. they just want to win games,” Kelly said. “there’s not much that we re­flect on 2011. you know, there’s nothing really to reflect back on other than experiences gained for the positive.” 
After its 20-3 win over then-No. 10 Michigan State, Notre dame is off to its best start in 10 years — and the buzz around campus reflects it. 
“My first comments [to our players] were, how did it feel 
see KELLy PAGE 14 


MACKENZIE SAIN | The Observer 
Irish senior linebacker Manti Te’o directs his teammates during Notre Dame’s 20-3 victory over Michigan State on Saturday. The Irish will take on Michigan this weekend at Notre Dame Stadium. 
defense leading the way 

Defense key to Notre Dame’s hot start 

Joseph Monardo 
Sports Writer 
After graduating three-quar­ters of last year’s starting back-line, the Irish entered this season with grant Van de Casteele and three question marks protecting the Irish goal. But through seven games, the Irish defense has been a major highlight in Notre dame’s undefeated start. 
After the departures of Michael Knapp (12 games started), greg Klazura (39) and four-year starter Aaron Maund (77) from 2011’s starting defense — with the latter two reaching the MLS — Notre dame has plugged in three new starters and is playing even better than before. 
through seven games last sea­son the Irish had allowed seven goals and posted two shutouts. 
see SOCCER PAGE 14 





