Notre Dame 50, Navy 10 | MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 3, 2012 | NDsmcobserver.com 
Business trip 
Notre Dame outrushes Navy’s triple option en route to a 50-10 victory at Aviva Stadium in Dublin 
By ANDREW OWENS                
assistant managing editor 
DUbLIN — In a series of events nearly as rare as Notre Dame playing a football game abroad, it was the Irish who controlled the ground game to run away with a 50-10 season-opening victory against Navy at aviva stadium in Dublin on saturday. 
Fueled by a dominating two-pronged rushing effort, Notre Dame (1-0) rolled to its second consecutive blowout win against Navy (0-1), after struggling might­ily against the midshipmen dur­ing the previous five seasons. 
“I think the story for me was be­ing able to control both lines offen­sively and defensively,” said Irish coach brian Kelly, whose squad nearly doubled Navy’s rushing yardage output by the count of 293-149. 
Notre Dame’s defensive play wasn’t pristine, but it refused to break for most of the day, forcing four turnovers and recording a critical fourth-down stop early in the contest. 
With the Irish leading 6-0 in the first quarter, sophomore Ishaq Williams tackled Navy quarter­back trey miller a yard short of the first down marker at the Irish 30-yard-line. a play later, seniors manti te’o and Dan Fox pushed miller back for no gain, giving the ball back to the offense. 
“I think we’re just carrying on where we were last year as a de­fense that’s very stingy against the run,” Kelly said. “that’s a huge rea­son why. We’re very blessed with a physical group, a great scheme, they’re well-coached and it’s not often you can hold Navy down to 10 points.” 
Four plays after the turnover of possession, sophomore George atkinson broke away for a 56-yard romp to the end zone, providing the Irish a 13-0 lead they would never come close to relinquishing. 
“We felt the strength of our football team laid up front,” Kelly said. “We believe we’ve got physi­cal backs, with home run ability with George, [senior running back theo riddick] ran physical and has great instincts. cam mcDaniel came in and of course you can’t forget robby toma’s run, because he’s going to talk about it for the next six months.” 
atkinson rushed for 99 yards and scored two touchdowns on nine carries, while riddick com­piled 107 yards on 19 carries with two scores in the absence of start­ing running back cierre Wood, who was suspended for two games last week. 
In his debut as the starting sig­nal caller for the Irish, sophomore everett Golson completed 12-of­18 pass attempts for 144 yards, a touchdown and an interception. 
“I thought he managed the game and made one bad decision when he threw the interception, but the great thing about everett is he picks it up,” Kelly said. “He’s not going to make the same mistake twice. other than that, I was really pleased with the leadership, the ability to get in the right plays and keep our offense running. 
“We knew what we were getting with everett. It’s not like we didn’t know what we were getting.” 
Golson’s five-yard touchdown pass to senior tight end tyler eifert came early in the second quarter to widen Notre Dame’s advantage to 20-0. It was the second consecu­tive fade throw to eifert, as he fell just out of bounds on the first at­tempt. eifert also made contribu­tions out wide in the passing game and in run blocking. 
“It’s versatility,” Kelly said. “there’s matchup problems with [sophomore tight end] troy Niklas on the field too. they just make it really difficult by having them and [sophomore tight end] ben Koyack on the field. 
“When you utilize [eifert] as a wide receiver and someone who can block for the backfield, you have a very special player and we want to utilize his talents. that’s why he does [so] many things and does them so well.” 
sophomore stephon tuitt picked up a miller fumble and rumbled 77 yards to the end zone to put the Irish ahead 27-0. In his first collegiate score, the 303-pound defensive end was able to outrun the Navy offense and record the longest Irish fumble return since steve Lawrence’s 79-yarder in 1985. It was the third longest in school history. 
“stephon is a tremendous ath­lete with some speed,” te’o said. “When you see No. 7, he can out­run pretty much any skill player on offense.” 
te’o highlighted the Irish de­fense with the fourth-down stop, as well as a fumble recovery and interception — both career firsts. He totaled six tackles to begin his senior season. 
the win puts the Irish on strong footing to start the 2012 campaign, which contrasts sharply with last year’s season-opening loss at home against south Florida. 
“they looked at last season as we did as coaches. each player took it upon themselves to pay attention to all of those little things that are russell, the first cornerback to necessary to be successful,” Kelly start as a freshman in school his-said. “I think it’s a cumulative ef-tory — Kelly said he was pleased fect of everybody coming together with the unit’s play. and doing the little things.” “I thought they did some good 

twenty-one Irish players saw things,” he said. “I was really excit­their first collegiate game action ed about their ability to go out and in the 40-point blowout as a way to compete. regarding experience build depth moving forward this season, Kelly said. 
they got today was great for us as we move on to our next challenge, playing Purdue. We’ll enjoy this for 24 hours and get ready for a great rivalry game against Purdue.” 
Contact Andrew Owens at aowens2@nd.edu 
“We got a lot of young players valuable experience today to go along with our veterans on our 



PLAYER OF THE GAME 
football team,” he said. 

Navy mustered its only touch­down on the first series of the third quarter on a three-play, 75-yard THEO RIDDICK drive that culminated in a 25­
NOTRE DAME RUNNING BACK 
yard strike from miller to receiver shawn Lynch. all three plays on In his first game at the position since 2009, riddick rushed for 107 the drive were passes. yards and two touchdowns on 19 carries. the senior was the go-to 
Despite the big plays allowed by player on third downs as well and averaged 5.6 yards per carry while the inexperienced Irish second-filling the void left by starting running back cierre Wood’s two-game ary — which includes Keivarae suspenstion. 


tHe observer | MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 3, 2012| NDsmcobserver.com 



REPORT CARD 









QUARTERBACKS 
making his first start, everett Golson impressed with 144 yards and his first career touchdown pass in the second quarter. more importantly, the sophomore didn’t make any major mistakes besides a red-zone interception. 

RUNNING BACKS 
the Irish have not rushed for more yards in a game since 2003 and were without their starter in cierre Wood. theo riddick and George atkinson led the dominant rushing attack which accumulated 293 yards on 46 carries. 

RECEIVERS 
three receivers made their first career receptions as the young receivng corps made some key blocks on the pe­rimeter to help out the rushing attack. although, a few dropped passes marred  a near-stellar effort. 

OFFENSIVE LINE 
the front five dominated the trenches throughout the game, taking pressure off Golson and helping the Irish outrush the midshipmen. that makes 12 rushing tDs for the Irish in team’s last two meetings. 

DEFENSIVE LINE 
Louis Nix and stephon tuitt each recorded three tackles, including 2.5 tackles for a loss. the line set up camp in the Navy backfield, constantly disrupted the triple-option. and tuitt even returned a fumble 77 yards for a score. 

LINEBACKERS 
What most considered the strongest part of this Irish de­fense certainly lived up to the hype. Led by preseason all-american manti te’o — who recorded both his first fumble recovery and interception — the Irish limited Navy to its lowest rushing output in almost two years. 

DEFENSIVE BACKS 
the supposed weakness coming into the season on de­fense certainly looked like it. the secondary was caught out of position often and gave up 192 yards to a triple-option attack. 

SPECIAL TEAMS 
the kicking game couldn’t do much, muffing two extra points, which could prove to be crucial in close games. on a good note, Davonte Neal nearly quadrupled Notre Dame’s 2011 regular season punt return yards with an 11­yard return. 

COACHING 
the Irish coaching staff did enough to stifle the triple-option attack and ease into the Golson era smoothly. 

OVERALL GPA: 3.1 
Putting up 50 points was definitely a plus for the Irish and the strong running game took a lot of pressure off everett Golson. but there are some glaring weaknesses for the Irish, with the biggest being the performance of the secondary against a pass-reluctant team. things won’t be this easy against the likes of Landry Jones and matt barkley. 


PLAY OF THE GAME 
STEPHON TUITT’S 77-YARD FUMBLE RETURN FOR A TOUCHDOWN 
Following a red-zone interception, Navy put together its first threat­ening drive, consisting of 12 plays for 68 yards. but with 2:12 left in the second quarter, tuitt picked up trey miller’s fumble — caused by interior pressure from the Irish defensive line  — and took it to the endzone to give the Irish an insurmountable 27-0 lead before the half. 


Allan Joseph 
editor-in-chief 
DUbLIN — there are plen­ty of reasons to see Notre Dame’s season-opening vic­tory over Navy as some sort of fluke. the midshipmen are young and not at their best. the Irish secondary showed some glaring holes. the Irish benefited from turnovers on lucky bounces. to look at the game that way, however, is to miss the forest for the trees. 
saturday’s contest was a promising step for the rest of the season and beyond. two years ago, in the midst of brian Kelly’s first season at the helm, the Irish played sloppily in every facet of the game. simple run blocking was nearly impossible, the defense missed an astound­ing number of assignments and you could forget about the quarterback consistently throwing catchable passes. the Irish had their occa­sional moments of brilliance 
—
 such as a gutty win at Usc 

—
 but overall, they were in a pretty sorry state. 


If the 50-10 victory over Navy was any indication, this season promises to be a different experience. It started in the trenches. the Notre Dame offensive front used to be not much more than a speed bump for 



Notre Dame displays newfound confidence 
opposing defenders, and a small one at that. Now, led by captain Zack martin, the line seems to relish pushing defensive linemen around; running backs theo riddick and George atkinson can at­test to the width of the holes they got to run through this weekend. the Irish defen­sive line a few years ago was supposed to be impressively strong and quick; it turned out to be neither. Now, ath­letes like stephon tuitt and Kapron Lewis-moore can go both through and around blockers — and as tuitt dem­onstrated, they’re pretty fast too. 
the success of the offen­sive and defensive fronts meant the Irish could estab­lish a rhythm in the rush­ing attack, and the ability of Notre Dame receivers to block on the perimeter meant riddick and atkinson had room to break big plays open like atkinson’s 56-yard touchdown scamper. With a talented line leading the way, the Irish defense could pressure the quarterback, stop short-yardage runs and even force turnovers. None of these were regular occur­rences just two years ago. 
obviously, Notre Dame has a bevy of aspects to improve upon as well. the second­ary has to do a better job of adjusting to new wrin­kles. there were too many dropped passes. the special teams were positively atro­cious, with two missed extra points and some scary mo­ments on both ends of punts. but this time, Irish fans can start believing those things will actually get better, be­cause for the first time since 2005, Notre Dame is playing with true confidence. 
Last year’s squad thought it had the potential to win every game, but it didn’t ex­pect to. there’s a different vibe coming from this group. Whether it’s Navy or Usc, Wake Forest or oklahoma, this team will go into the game expecting to win; they’ll work on everything and anything to do so. It’s been too long since that type of atmosphere pervaded the Irish locker room. 
It’ll still be a year filled with ups and downs. the schedule is too tough to ex­pect the nascent confidence to translate into a bcs berth. mistakes will be made, weaknesses will be exposed and the Irish will lose a few games. If you replay the emerald Isle classic in your head, though, you’ll see a swagger about the Irish you might not recognize. they’re not back yet, but they’re on their way. Don’t miss the for­est for the trees. 
Contact Allan Joseph at ajoseph2@nd.edu 


NDsmcobserver.com | MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 3, 2012 | tHe observer 


Irish running backs step up 

By ANDREW OWENS 
assistant managing editor 
DUbLIN — In the absence of 1,000-yard rusher cierre Wood to suspension, Notre Dame relied on a running back who started at re­ceiver the past two seasons and a sophomore whose only extensive experience is on kickoff returns. 
the result was a 50-10 Irish win, achieved by Notre Dame dominat­ing Navy at what the midshipmen do best: running the football. 
starting running back theo riddick — who dabbled at running back as a freshman before moving to the slot position in 2010 and 2011 
— has returned to the position at which he feels most comfortable and, in Week one, the results were dazzling. 
His 108 yards and two touch­downs on 19 carries, coupled with sophomore George atkinson’s 99 yards and two touchdowns on nine carries, powered the Irish offense and relieved the load on first-time starter everett Golson’s shoulders. 
riddick and atkinson have cre­ated a muddled situation atop the depth chart — a good problem for Irish coach brian Kelly to have. While riddick won’t be confused as a power back a la Jonas Gray or robert Hughes, his contributions in the short-yardage game were paramount in the Irish win. 
“It keeps me motivated and brings that ‘want to’ in terms of wanting to get another touch­down,” riddick said. “We were very confident today. We knew what we had to do. We came in with a great, great gameplan.” 
atkinson’s 56-yard first-quarter touchdown jaunt displayed some of the electricity that allowed him to make an impact on special teams during his freshman season in 2011. 
so much for first-game jitters. 

“I was excited,” atkinson said. “you don’t want to come in think­ing about negative things, you want to think about how you can be successful.” 
With he and riddick serving as the team’s thunder and lightning in Wood’s absence, what role does that provide for Wood and injured running back amir carlisle in the Irish attack? 
“I don’t know, we’re going to see though,” atkinson said. “I can’t wait when all of us are on the field together.” 
With Wood watching the game on television from south bend and riddick confounding the midshipmen defense, Kelly said future starting decisions will be made based on future production. 
“everybody has an opportu­nity to contribute. those are team­mates that we respect and we’ll count on them as we move for­ward,” said Kelly regarding the four players suspended for the season opener, including Wood. “What their roles are will be defined as we move through the season. they’re valuable members of our football team and we respect that every­body’s got to earn their spot on the field.” 
riddick said the jumbled running back situation motivates him to reach another level, as he said the rushing attack has room for improvement. 

“We didn’t have the best game in terms of running, but we just have to improve week in and week out,” he said. 
When atkinson reached the end zone for the first time as a running back, he didn’t perform a special stunt or celebration in the end zone. He simply placed the ball on the ground and ran to the sidelines. 
“I watch a lot of guys in the NFL,” he said. “I like to see big runners get broken in. I saw chris Johnson do it. I watch a lot of highlight tapes … and I just try to imitate [some of] the pros.” 
atkinson fell just a yard short of giving the Irish a pair of 100-yard rushers in the victory, but he wasn’t aware of that fact until postgame interviews. 
“I didn’t know. Numbers don’t matter to me as long as we get the victory,” he said. 
riddick said he expects the Irish to run a balanced offense onto the field each week, with each lifting the other 
“We can stretch it out and we can run,” riddick said. “I think [saturday was] a real coming out for our team. Usually we struggled in the first game in previous years. today we did very well.” but with Wood and carlisle’s return on the horizon, it might just be the tip of the iceberg. 

Contact Andrew Owens at aowens2@nd.edu 


Golson, Kelly extend streak 
By ALLAN JOSEPH 
editor-in-chief 
DUbLIN — sophomore quar­terback everett Golson made his first start sunday, completing 12 of 18 passes for 144 yards, one touch­down and one interception. In the win, Golson extended an impres­sive streak for Irish coach brian Kelly: In each of his last six games with a new starter under center, Kelly has emerged a winner. the last quarterback to win his first start under Kelly was junior quar­terback tommy rees, who started in Notre Dame’s 28-3 senior Day victory over No. 15 Utah in 2010. before rees, Dayne crist won his first start in that same season, leading the Irish to victory over Purdue in the 2010 season opener. 

Opener holds many firsts 
senior linebacker manti te’o recorded two “firsts” in saturday’s contest. te’o recovered a fumble for the first time in the second quarter, and after halftime record­ed his first interception. 
twenty-one players made their first appearance in a Notre Dame uniform saturday, including 14 in the first quarter. Golson was among those making their first career appearance. 
senior receiver robby toma scored the first rushing touch­down of his career on a nine-yard scamper with just 39 seconds left in the contest. 


Offensive reversals 
In 2010, Notre Dame gave up 367 rushing yards to the midshipmen, who normally outrush the Irish due to a rush-heavy triple-option attack. Navy recorded just 149 yards on the ground in saturday’s contest, its lowest total since the 2010 season. the midshipmen did throw for 192 yards at 9.7 yards per attempt. 
the Irish rolled up 293 yards on the ground, their biggest total since a 320-yard rushing output against stanford in 2003. they added 192 yards through the air, normally their primary method of moving the ball. 

Contact Allan Joseph at ajoseph2@nd.edu 




SCORING SUMMARY 

13 14 13 1050 03 7010 




NOTRE DAME 6, NAVY 0 
theo rIddick 11-yard run (tausch kick failed) 

9:12 remaining Drive: 11 plays, 75 yards, 5:48 elapsed 

NOTRE DAME 13, NAVY 0 
George atkinson 56-yard run (tausch kick good) 

3:02remaining Drive: Four plays, 70 yards, 1:59 elapsed 

NOTRE DAME 20, NAVY 0 
tyler eifert 5-yard pass from everett Golson (tausch kick good) 

11:20remaining Drive: 10 plays, 80 yards, 3:32 elapsed 

NOTRE DAME 27, NAVY 0 
stephon tuitt 77-yard fumble return (tausch kick good) 

2:12remaining 

NOTRE DAME 27, NAVY 3 
Nick sloan 26-yard field goal 

0:00remaining Drive: 10 plays, 74 yards, 2:12 elapsed 

NOTRE DAME 27, NAVY 10 
shawn Lynch 25-yard pass from trey miller (sloan kick good) 

14:03 remainingDrive: Three plays, 75 yards, 0:57 elapsed 

NOTRE DAME 33, NAVY 10 
George atkinson 3-yard run (turk rush failed) 

8:45remainingDrive: 12 plays, 87 yards, 5:18 elapsed 

NOTRE DAME 40, NAVY 10 
theo rIddick 3-yard run (tausch kick good) 

4:06 remaining Drive: 7 plays, 49 yards, 3:07 elapsed 

NOTRE DAME 43, NAVY 10 
Nick tausch 34-yard field goal 

5:54remaining Drive: Seven plays, 42 yards, 3:53 elapsed 

NOTRE DAME 50, NAVY 10 
robby toma 9-yard run (tausch kick good) 

0:39 remaining Drive: 8 plays, 68 yards, 3:48 elapsed 


STATISTICS 

RUSHING YARDS 
293 149 

PASSING YARDS 
197 192 

Time of Possession 
Time of Possession 

33:37 26:23 
PASSING 
Golson 12-18-144 Miller 14-19-192 Hendrix            4-5-53 Reynolds 0-1-0 


RUSHING 
Riddick 19-107 Christian 2-39 Atkinson 9-99 Greene 3-33 McDaniel 9-59 Copeland 6-29 


RECEIVING 
Eifert 4-22 Lynch 4-87 Daniels 2-49 Bolena 3-61 


TACKLES 
Jackson 7 Gaines 12 Fox 7Bush 8 Te’o 6 Ferguson 7 

tHe observer | MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 3, 2012| NDsmcobserver.com 


SARAH O’CONNOR | The Observer 
Senior linebacker Manti Te’o waits to congratulate his teammates following a Notre Dame touchdown. The preseason All-American recorded six tackles along with an interception and a fumble recovery, both were the first of his storied collegiate career. 
Notre Dame kicked off the 2012 campaign in unfamiliar terri- 
IRISH  tory, but the trans-Atlantic trip had no effect on the Irish. Notre Dame scored touchdowns on its first three drives to start the  
HOSPITALITY  game, taking a 27-3 lead into the half. Theo Riddick and George Atkinson combined for 206 yards and four rushing TDs as the  
Irish cruised to a 50-10 victory before returning stateside.  





SARAH O’CONNOR | The Observer 
Notre Dame gathers during a timeout at a nearly sold-out Aviva Stadium in Dublin. The stadium holds 51,700 people and was constructed in 2010 on the famous site of Lansd­owne Road for rugby and national team soccer. 



