
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


NDSP offers online crime tracker 
CrimeReports mapping service helps maintain safety within Notre Dame community 
By SAM STRYKER 
News Editor 
Notre Dame students now will be able to track campus crime patterns faster and more efficiently than ever before, us­ing a digital mapping service that updates automatically. 
Notre Dame Security Police (NDSP) recently launched a subscription with CrimeRe­ports, a mapping service that tracks crimes in a user-desig­nated area. 
NDSP Crime Prevention Of­ficer Keri Kei Shibata said this new mapping service will be a valuable tool for members of the Notre Dame community. 
“The more information peo­ple have, the more they are able to make good decisions about how to live safely and what kind of safeguards to take,” Shibata said. “I think it’s good for the public.” 
NDSP Director Phil Johnson said the previous method of providing crime-tracking in­formation students was done manually, and the information was released less often. 

“We would send you a safety beat each month,” he said. “We plotted the crime data onto a map. Now this will happen on an automatic interface that is routinely available quickly.” 


Reporter discusses Penn State scandal 
By SARA FELSENSTEIN 
Associate News Editor 
Just a few months ago, 24-year-old reporter Sara Ganim had only a handful of followers on Twitter. 
Now, she has more than 13,000. 
Ganim is a crime reporter for The Patriot-News in Har­risburg, Penn., where she first broke the news in March that a grand jury was investi ­gating former Penn State football coach Jerry Sandusky for allegedly molesting a high school foot­ball player. 
Eight months later — when Sandusky was indicted, then arrested and charged — the story exploded onto the na­tional media scene. 
But Ganim said she never expected its magnitude. 
“Until the night Paterno was fired, it never even crossed my mind that this could be something that would lead to what it led to, I never thought it would lead to the firing of Joe Paterno, ever,” she said. “I just followed the facts, piece by piece, as they came to us.” 


Ganim spoke to journalism students at Notre Dame Mon­day afternoon, discussing her experience covering the Penn State scandal and emphasiz­ing how crucial social media tools are to breaking news. 
She said she could not be­lieve how quickly the story evolved after Sandusky’s in­dictment. 
“It was crazy, I didn’t even realize [the story] was lead­ing The Nightly News for four days straight, I didn’t have time to watch television,” she said. “You’re running liter­ally from place to place…and trying to squeeze interviews that will keep you one step ahead of everyone else the next day.” 
Ganim, who is a 2008 grad­uate of Penn State, said she did receive negative respons­es to her reporting but had expected the backlash to be much worse. 
“In November, when it be-


see GANIM/page 4 

Shibata said one benefit of the program is students can register for free with the web­site and customize “neighbor­hoods” with geographic areas on campus they want to receive crime updates about. 
“What a ‘neighborhood’ does is it lets me see alerts about the crimes that I am interested in,” she said. “So if I want to only want to know about thefts 

see NDSP/page 4 
By KEELIN McGEE 
News Writer 
In a joint effort to help feed the hungry this winter, Notre Dame, Saint Mary’s and Holy Cross launched the second an­nual Holy Cross Harvest Food Drive Jan. 23, which runs until mid-February. 
The Holy Cross Harvest collects nonperishable food items and monetary donations to benefit the Food Bank of Northern Indiana. Notre Dame is the most active institution of the drive, with donations be­ing taken in 25 food collection barrels and multiple change jars at retail locations around campus. 
Anne Kolaczyk, Notre Dame chairman of the Holy Cross Harvest and a senior technical training professional with the Office of Information Technol­ogy (OIT), said about 50 build­ing and departmental repre­sentatives are running the drive on campus. 
“The representatives are the ones that are planning events, challenging people to donate and collecting the money and watching the barrels,” she said. 
Kolaczyk said the events planned by the different de­partments have been the best way to raise awareness and do­nations for the drive. 
“The OIT held a chili cook-off 


New minor looks at Constitution 
By TORI ROECK 
News Writer 
Undergraduates will have the chance to delve deeper into the nuances of government when the new David Potenziani Program in Constitutional Studies, a part of the political science department, launches as a minor program this fall. 
“For our undergraduates, we hope to offer a course of study that invites them to think deeply and broadly from a variety of perspec­tives and disciplines about the most fundamental questions of life and law,” Vincent Muoz, a profes­sor in the program, said. 
Muñoz said some of these ques­tions include, “What is the proper relationship between government and civil society, between law and moral principles?” and “What are the philosophical foundations of 


see MINOR/page 4 




Collection benefits food bank 
where volunteers made chili and the rest of the staff do­nated money to eat,” she said. “Many offices are also having ‘Jeans Days’ where people pay for the privilege to wear jeans to work.” 
Students are also making a strong effort to take part in the drive this year. 
Junior Ellen Carroll, chair of student government’s Social Concerns Committee, said last year’s drive did not see much student involvement, but she hopes participation this year will increase. 

“We do not have a specific set of goals we want to reach,” she said. “Our goal is more to show that the students are involved and do care about providing food for those who can’t pro­vide for themselves rather than reaching a specific number.” 
Carroll said efforts are being 
see FOOD/page 3 

INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER CLC discusses GSA page 3 u Viewpoint page 6 u Inside Rocco’s Restaurant page 8 u Preview of women’s basketball at Rutgers page 16 
page 2 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u DAY-TO-DAY Tuesday, January 31, 2012 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT IS YOUR FAVORITE VIRAL YOUTUBE VIDEO? 

www.ndsmcobserver.com P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 Editor-in-Chief Douglas Farmer Managing Editor Business Manager Sarah Mervosh Jeff Liptak Asst. Managing Editor: Adriana Pratt Asst. Managing Editor: Chris Masoud News Editor: Sam Stryker Viewpoint Editor: Meghan Thomassen Sports Editor: Allan Joseph Scene Editor: Maija Gustin Saint Mary’s Editor: Caitlin E. Housley Photo Editor: Pat Coveney Graphics Editor: Brandon Keelean Advertising Manager: Katherine Lukas Ad Design Manager: Amanda Jonovski Controller: Jason Taulman Systems Administrator: William Heineman Office Manager & General Info (574) 631-7471 Fax (574) 631-6927 Advertising (574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu Editor-in-Chief (574) 631-4542 dfarmer1@nd.edu Managing Editor (574) 631-4542 smervosh@nd.edu Assistant Managing Editors (574) 631-4541 apratt@nd.edu, cmasoud@nd.edu Business Office (574) 631-5313 News Desk (574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com Viewpoint Desk (574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com Sports Desk (574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com Scene Desk (574) 631-4540 mgustin@nd.edu Saint Mary’s Desk chousl01@saintmarys.edu Photo Desk (574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com Systems & Web Administrators (574) 631-8839 Policies The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Douglas Farmer. Post Office Information The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 and additional mailing offices 024 South Dining hall Notre Dame, IN 46556-077 The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved.  
TODAY’S STAFF News Sports Amanda Gray Molly Sammon Sara Felsenstein Katie Heit Adam Llorens Walker Carey Graphics Scene Lauren Kalinoski Maija Gustin Photo Viewpoint Tom La Ren Brauweiler  
CORRECTIONS The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so we can correct our error.  
HIGH 50 LOW 37 


Andrea Rosado  Hannah Lin  Kevin Nguyen  Maddie Swan  Rachel Kalinoski  Sean Fitzgerald  
sophomore  sophomore  sophomore  sophomore  sophomore  sophomore  
Pangborn  Lewis  Carroll  Ryan  Pangborn  Dillon  
“Drinking Out of  “Baby dancing  “Baby dancing  “Immortal Dog”  “Honey Badger”  “Baby Monkey  
Cups”  to Beyoncé”  to Beyoncé”  Riding  
Backwards on a  
Pig”  

Have an idea for Question of the Day? Email obsphoto@gmail.com 


OFFBEAT 

Inmate guilty of seeking $890M in bogus tax refunds 
SYRACUSE, N.Y. — A jury has convicted a New York prison inmate of falsely filing tax returns seeking $890 million in refunds. 
Prosecutors say the man filed the bogus returns from 2006 to 2010 while at various state prisons. They say he even was is­sued a refund for $327,000 
— but prison officials in­tercepted the check and returned it to the Internal Revenue Service, which led the investigation. 
The man was convicted Thursday of 11 counts of filing false claims and one count of helping another inmate file bogus returns. 
He was serving two to four years for possession of stolen property when he was charged last Feb­ruary. He faces up to five years in prison and a fine of up to $250,000 on each count when he’s sentenced in May. 
Artist plans to build tour­ist jetliner, tunnel 
BAKERSFIELD, Calif. 
— A Swiss artist plans to bury an intact Boeing 727 jetliner in California’s Mo­jave Desert and build a tourist tunnel to give visi­tors a chance to view the underground project. 
Christoph Buchel has applied for a Kern County conditional-use permit that will allow him to bury the 153-foot-long decom­missioned airliner west of Boron. It’s not far from the desert’s aircraft boneyard. 
The Bakersfield Cali­fornian reports the proj­ect, dubbed “Terminal,” already has planning de­partment staff approval. 
The jetliner would be buried 38 feet below the surface. 
Visitors will be able to experience the subterra­nean art project via an un­derground tunnel connect­ing the plane to a parking area. They’ll be able to use the plane’s restrooms, which will be connected to a septic system. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 


IN BRIEF 
The Student Union Board February Festival Week poetry contest submission deadline is today. All poetry types are eligible and there is a two poem per person limit. Send submissions to parnassus.nd@gmail.com. 
The lecture, “An Em­powerment Model for Sus­tainable Residential Re­construction in Léogâne, Haiti, after the January 2010 Earthquake,” will be given in Room C103 of the Hesburgh Center for In­ternational Studies today from 12:30 to 2 p.m. The Kellogg Institute for Inter­national Studies is spon­soring the lecture, which is free and open to the pub­lic. 
The lector workshop for the Basilica of the Sacred Heart, which was originally scheduled for Jan. 24, will now be held today from 7 to 8 p.m. in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart and the Eucharistic minister work­shop, which was originally scheduled for Jan. 24, will now be held today from 8 to 9 p.m. in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart. 
The Career Center will hold a Career Technol­ogy Night for graduate students in the Monogram Room of the Joyce Center from 7 to 9 p.m. today. 
Campus Ministry will host Four:7 Catholic Fel­lowship in the Cavanaugh Hall chapel tonight from 
8:30 to 9:45 p.m. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, email detailed information about an event to obsnews.nd@gmail.com 



LOCAL WEATHER 
TODAY TONIGHT WEDNESDAY THURSDAY FRIDAY SATURDAY 









HIGH 40 LOW 32 
HIGH 45 LOW 30 
HIGH 44 LOW 33 
HIGH 40 LOW 29 

Tuesday, January 31, 2012 The Observer u NEWS ndsmcobserver.com | page 3 




Lambda Pi Eta collects clothing 
By JILLIAN BARWICK 
News Writer 
To help the South Bend homeless population combat the cold this winter, Saint Mary’s students are collect­ing clothing to be given to the Center for the Homeless to distribute. 
Lambda Pi Eta, the National Communication Studies Hon­or Society, hosted the cloth­ing drive, which concludes at the end of this week. 
Senior Alex Davin, presi­dent of Lambda Pi Eta at Saint Mary’s, said it felt right to give back to South Bend. 
“The main reason we want­ed to work with the Center for the Homeless is that we can give back to the local com­munity of South Bend,” Davin said. “Our local community is in need, and it feels right giv­ing South Bend the attention it needs.” 
Davin contacted the Center for the Homeless over win­ter break to see if the Center 


Food 
continued from page 1 
taken by student government to target student involvement. 
“Student volunteers will be working a table at the home hockey games on Feb. 3, 4 and 10, as a part of Lefty Fest, to accept goods and talk with people to spread awareness,” she said. “We are hoping to also set up a table in La-Fortune where students can make donations and we are also encouraging students to use their extra flex points to wanted to collaborate on the clothing drive. 

“The Center for the Home­less is always looking for ex­tra clothing, especially dur­ing the winter, to give to their guests,” Davin said. “We all know how cold South Bend winters are.” 
Peter Lombardo, director of the Center for the Home­less, spoke at a meeting held by Lambda Pi Eta last semes­ter and made some sugges­tions for the group of women to help out the local South Bend community. He said Lambda Pi Eta and the Cen­ter have been in contact since last semester. 
“Alex and I spoke a few times about several different opportunities,” Lombardo said. “The clothing drive is the first thing lined up for this semester between Lamb­da Pi Eta and the Center for the Homeless. The girls of Lambda Pi Eta have done a terrific job so far.” 
Davin and other members 

buy food.” 
The increased awareness on campus of the Holy Cross Har­vest appears to have already had an immense impact. Last year, the food drive success­fully collected 6,600 pounds of food and almost $2,700. Kolaczyk said the drive has already surpassed last year’s cash numbers within the first week. 
“We will not measure the food donations until the very end,” she said. “But, so far, in monetary donations, we have raised just over $3,900.” 
Two more weeks remain to make donations and Carroll said even a small donation of Lambda Pi Eta decided a clothing drive on campus would be a great way to give back to the surrounding com­munity. 
The clothing collection box­es are located in all residence halls as well as Opus, and the Student Center on Saint Mary’s campus. The drive is open to all men, women and children’s clothing — partic­ularly winter wear — as well as towels. 
The Center for the Home­less is also open for weather amnesty, meaning extended hours and capacity, during the winter — another reason why the clothing drive is so important. 
“People come to the Center usually with just the clothes on their backs,” Lombardo said. “This clothing drive is a great way for the Center and Saint Mary’s College to help out people in South Bend.” 
Contact Jillian Barwick at jbarwi01@saintmarys.edu 
can make a big difference. 
“A dollar can be used to pro­vide eight meals,” she said. “We have to remember how fortunate we are and that there are people, streets away from us, who don’t have a din­ing hall to go to and anything we do will be greatly appreci­ated by them.” 
A full list of food collec­tion barrel locations, events and building/department representatives can be found at Holy Cross Harvest’s web­site: http://holycrossharvest. nd.edu 

Contact Keelin McGee at kmcgee01@saintmarys.edu 
CAMPUS LIFE COUNCIL 




CLC discusses GSA proposal, Morris visits 


By NICOLE TOCZAUER 
News Writer 
Members of Campus Life Council (CLC) discussed vari­ous viewpoints and implications surrounding the proposed Gay Straight Alliance (GSA) during their meeting Monday afternoon. 
Student body chief of staff and senior Claire Sokas said Student Senate decided to reassess how students feel about forming a GSA. In response, CLC met with a representative from the 4 to 5 Movement, a student initiative in support of creating a GSA, to gain further insight on student opinion. 
Alex Coccia, sophomore and co-president of the Progressive Student Alliance (PSA), spoke for the movement. 
“I would like to clarify that PSA is not a substitute for GSA,” he said. “We are inherently an activist group and LGBT is only one of the things we work on. With that said, the 4 to 5 Move­ment is our initiative to get allies involved and voicing their opin­ion.” 
Coccia said the movement is based on the statistic that four out of five people are part of a supportive majority that remains silent. The movement works to encourage allies to voice their opinion and remain in contact with the unrecognized student LGBTQ group on campus, he said. 
“The unofficial group is Al­lianceND. Because it’s not rec­ognized, it’s not allowed to publicize or promote itself on campus,” he said. “It meets reg­ularly, but you have to be in tune and know who to talk to in order to know when meetings are.” 
He said members of the PSA meet often with AllianceND and remain informed on student opinion. He said students advo­cate the creation of a GSA for several reasons. 
“First, people who want to take leadership roles without publicizing their sexuality, like being on the Core Council bro­chure, would benefit from a GSA. Second, because it’s mem­bership oriented, it has growth potential,” Coccia said. “Having more students involved is ex­tremely important in promot­ing the campus atmosphere we want.” 
Coccia said beyond these points, a student-run organiza­tion would encourage the in­volvement of straight allies. A club devoted to the elimination of homophobia on campus with help from classmates and dorm-mates is essential, he said. 
Sr. Sue Dunn, assistant vice president of Student Affairs, said the Core Council holds meetings in the Gold Room each month as an opportunity for people to come together. 
“We have an educational topic to discuss and it’s confidential,” she said. 
Coccia said while meetings in the Gold Room are helpful and welcome allies, they do not meet all of the needs of the commu­nity. A GSA would increase par­ticipation on a weekly basis, he said. 
“My impression and what I’ve been told by people interested in GSA — the truly commit­ted attend the Gold Room each month,” he said. “Whereas in a GSA with weekly meetings, you can come and go as you like.” 
Coccia said the involvement of LGBTQ community members and allies is essential to ending homophobia on campus. The lack of a GSA makes this diffi­cult, he said. 
“In the Notre Dame family, this means including everyone,” he said. 
Dunn said the strength behind this student push came from the increased organization among the LGBTQ community in the past three semesters. 
“It was not clear before what direction to go in or what in­volvement they wanted to have with other groups,” she said. “There’s more of a presence and student energy is being put into what they want to do now.” 
Student body president Pat McCormick said the discussion would continue in Senate on Wednesday in hope of deciding on a resolution. 
“I think it’s a sign of hope in being creative for developing support for a community that has expressed a need. Thank you to Sr. Sue and Core Council for a transformative set of years,” he said. “Now, we need to figure out how we could get something off the ground either in Core Coun­cil or on its own.” 
After closing the discussion on a GSA, McCormick added that the Morris Performing Arts Cen­ter in South Bend is interested in increasing student attendance at its shows. McCormick said he addressed the concern about transportation when meeting with representatives from the Center in downtown South Bend. 
“The city, Morris Center and student government hope to work together on this project to get some exciting performances and spur economic growth in the city,” he said. 

Contact Nicole Toczauer at ntoczaue@nd.edu 


page 4 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u NEWS Tuesday, January 31, 2012 


NDSP 
continued from page 1 
in my residence hall, I can set it for the area around my resi­dence hall and it will send me an email whenever a theft in my residence hall gets posted.” 
In addition to recognizing possible particular areas on campus where certain crimes such as theft may occur often, Johnson said he hopes NDSP may receive more tips as stu­dents become more aware of criminal activity on campus. 
“You may see something on here that you have information about and you contact us be­cause you now know you have information about a reported crime,” he said. 
Shibata said the program’s launch has been in the works for a year. She said information from NDSP’s reporting system is pulled directly by CrimeReports daily at midnight. This informa­tion is then plotted using Google Maps. 
“I think it is more user-friendly,” she said. “Rather than going to a line of text, it is more visual.” 
Shibata said an additional benefit of the program is it re­leases information in a timely, accurate manner. 
“We may sometimes receive more information that changes the classification of a crime, and that will update on a map,” she said. 
Johnson said CrimeReports, which provides crime-plotting information for the United States and internationally, is also in the process of being launched by the South Bend Po­lice Department. He said this would be a valuable informa­tion source for those who live off campus. 
“We think an informed cam­pus constituency is safer,” John­son said. “In particular for our South Bend faculty, staff, and students, if you hear a rumor about something happening in your neighborhood, you can look at the map and see nothing happened.” 
Rather than replacing any notification methods, Johnson said he views CrimeReports as a supplementary source of safety information. He said NDSP will continue to send out serious crime alerts as mandated by federal law through emergency messaging and ND Alert, the student notification system. 
“This is just one more tool in our communications resources to help us keep the community informed of what is happen­ing and to help the community be aware of crimes so they can take steps to protect them­selves,” Johnson said. 

Contact Sam Stryker at sstryke1@nd.edu 



Minor 
continued from page 1 

human rights and constitutional democracy?” 
The minor has been in develop­ment for several years, but was proposed and accepted to the College of Arts and Letters this semester, Muñoz said. The minor will be open to all undergradu­ates, regardless of their college or career aspirations. 
“We hope that the minor will be particularly useful to those students who might have a voca­tion to careers in politics, law and public policy, but we hope that we serve all students interested in fundamental questions of jus­tice, citizenship and the common good,” he said. 
Muñoz said the minor will be interdisciplinary in nature. Courses will come from the po­litical science, philosophy, theol­ogy and history departments and even the law school, he said. 
Students are required to take five courses from four differ­ent components to complete the minor, Muñoz said. These com­ponents are, .Constitutionalism: History and Philosophy,. .The American Founding and Ameri­can Constitutional History,. .Constitutional Government and Public Policy. and .Comparative Constitutionalism and Interna­tional Law.. 
.These general categories will focus on the great political and constitutional debates in Ameri­can and world history and on the underlying principles of constitu­tional government . for example, natural and civil rights, social con­tract theory, the market economy, voluntary associations, separation of powers, popular sovereignty and the rule of law,. Muñoz said. 
Muñoz said the gateway course for the minor will be Constitution­alism, Law and Politics, which he taught for the first time last se­mester. 
Sophomore Lizzie Helpling, who is considering the constitutional studies minor, took the course last semester and said it shaped her interest in the field. 
“I think the class itself really helped me develop a deeper un­derstanding of constitutional thought and interpretation, espe­cially in the American tradition,” Helpling said. 
In addition to the minor, Muñoz said the David Potenziani Pro­gram in Constitutional Studies will sponsor constitutional studies lectures. 
For starters, the program is sponsoring a lecture from Profes­sor Jeffrey Tulis of the University of Texas titled “The Possibility of Constitutional Statesmanship.” The lecture will take place Feb. 6 in DeBartolo Hall 131 at 4:30 p.m., he said. 
“Once the minor begins, con­stitutional studies minors will be invited to meet with such visit­ing faculty members over lunch or dinner or perhaps at a faculty member’s house,. Muñoz said. 
Contact Tori Roeck at vroeck@nd.edu 



Ganim 
continued from page 1 
came clear that Joe Paterno was not going to come out of this looking as nice as he would have liked, and all of his [fans] were going to start to get very upset, yeah you get hate mail,” she said. “But you often get hate mail as a re­porter … You’ve just got to re­mind yourself that somewhere between the praise and the disgust is probably where you should be.” 
Ganim’s research into the scandal dates back to 2009, when she first received a tip while working at State College, Penn.’s Centre Daily Times. A source told her that a child had ac-said. “He just said he didn’t do it.” 
Ganim said a combination of compassion and persistence are key to a modern-day re­porter’s success. 
“I got a little lucky, I was in the right place at the right time,” she said. “But I really think it all goes back to local reporting.” 
She advised aspiring report­ers to take positions that of­fer hands-on experience with writing and multimedia, not just those that pay well or come with a big name. 
“Your first job is never your dream job, you don’t want it to be your dream job,” Ganim said. “I had a police scan­ner next to my bed, because I was obsessed with not miss­
ing anything. 
[Mine] was a 
24/7, all-con­
suming job.” 
Now, in ad­


cused San-“I got a little lucky, I dition to re-
dusky of mo-porting for
was in the right place 
lesting him. the Patriot-
at the right time.” 
She said she News, Ganim approached is also a con-
Sara Ganim
the story just tributor for as she would reporter CNN. 
“any other crime story.” 
“I looked into [San­dusky,] and I found out who he was, and I thought, ‘wow if this guy re­ally molested a child, that’s a big deal,’” she said. 
But without hard facts to go on, Ganim said the story could not move forward. She said vic­tims had spoken up and made allegations, but those allega­tions did not lead to charges. 
Eventually, Ganim moved to the Patriot-News, where she was given time to do “nothing but knock on doors.” 
When she had information from five independent sources who had testified before the Grand Jury, the Patriot-News ran the story. 
“We learned after the story ran that it led to more victims coming forward, and Jerry Sandusky admitted that all of the facts that we had alleged 
— yes, they were alleged,” she Ga n i m’s 
list of Twit­
ter followers 
keeps ex­
panding, but she uses the audience largely as a sounding board for story ideas. 
While her groundbreaking coverage of the Penn State scandal may open doors for her career, Ganim said she has no plans to leave Harrisburg. 
“I really, honestly, am not thinking about [moving] right now,” she said. “I’m pretty fo­cused at the moment on the next part of the story. I mean I could map out a schedule for the next three months of a story a day I want to do on this — this story has so many avenues.” 
Sara Ganim can be found on Twitter at @sganim. Her personal website is www.saraganim.com. 

Contact Sara Felsenstein at sfelsens@nd.edu 

Tuesday, January 31, 2012 The Observer u NEWS ndsmcobserver.com | page 5 




Santorum denounces ‘gutter politics’ of opponents 
Associated Press 
COTTLEVILLE, Mo.  — Re­publican presidential candi­date Rick Santorum denounced the “gutter politics” of his op­ponents Monday as he turned his campaign away from a po­tentially futile effort in Florida in hopes of regaining momen­tum in the Midwest. 
After spending what he de­scribed as a stressful week­end with his sick 3-year-old daughter, Santorum resumed his campaign at a suburban St. Louis community college and later at a theater in Luverne, Minn., while forecasting a po­litical revival in states such as Missouri and Minnesota. 
In St. Louis, the former sena­tor from Pennsylvania careful­ly avoided naming Republican rivals Mitt Romney and Newt Gingrich — he trails them in polls heading into Tuesday’s primary in Florida — but none­theless directed a scolding to­ward them for what he said is devolving into a negative cam­paign. 
“I’m sick and tired of candi­dates who think they have to do anything that’s necessary — anything — to win an election,” Santorum told more than 300 people packed into an audito­rium at St. Charles Community College. “We deserve better than the gutter politics that we’ve been seeing in this race.” 
Santorum is the first Re­publican candidate to appear in Missouri in advance of its Feb. 7 primary, which will es­sentially be a statewide public opinion poll. The Republican Party plans to award its presi­dential delegates in Missouri through a series of caucuses that begin in mid-March. Gin­grich didn’t get on Missouri’s primary ballot while others who have since dropped out of the race will be listed along­side Romney, Santorum and Ron Paul. 
Santorum said he still con­siders Missouri’s primary to be important. Because of Gin­grich’s absence, it could allow Santorum to test his political strength more directly against that of Romney, who has been building a network of promi­nent Republican endorsements in Missouri. 




European leaders promise to stimulate growth, create jobs 
Associated Press 
BRUSSELS — European lead­ers promised Monday to stimu­late growth and create jobs, in a tacit acknowledgment that their exclusive focus on austerity has had painful side effects. 
Heads of European state and government meeting in Brussels on Monday pledged to offer more training for young people to ease their transition to the work force, deploy unused develop­ment funds to create jobs, reduce barriers to doing business across the EU’s 27 countries, and en­sure that small businesses have access to credit. However there was no offer of any new financial stimulus. 
“We must do more to get Eu­rope out of the crisis,” the state­ment approved by leaders said. 
The European Commission says that there are still .82 billion in development funds that have not yet been allocated, and the statement from Monday’s sum­mit said they should be “rapidly” committed to projects focused on growth and job-creation. 
Europe’s debt crisis has put the continent and its leaders in an almost impossible situation. 
While they have to slash their deficits to reassure investors reluctant to lend to them, the debt crisis has also hammered the so-called “real economy,” sending unemployment soaring. Many analysts, politicians and trade unions think that only gov­ernment spending can restart growth. 
Countries across Europe are struggling with high unemploy­ment and sluggish economies: Overall, 23 million people are jobless across the EU, 10 percent of the active population. 
In Spain, unemployment has soared to nearly 23 percent and closed in on 50 percent for those under age 25, leaving more than 5 million people — or almost one out of every four — out of work as the country slides toward re­cession. 
Even countries in the so-called European “core” — which are generally better off — are suf­fering. The French government was forced Monday to revise down its growth forecast for the year from 1 percent to just 0.5 percent. 
In fact, many now fear that Europe is on the verge of another recession, and leaders gathering in Brussels said that while aus­terity is important, more needs to be done for growth. Econo­mists often note that cutting spending is just one way to slash deficits; another equally impor­tant method is to boost growth, which increases the amount of money pouring into government coffers. 
“We have to have balanced budgets and at the same time focus on growth and jobs,” said Prime Minister Helle Thorning-Schmidt of Denmark, which holds the rotating presidency of European Council, ahead of the meeting. “It is possible to do both at the same time and it is impor­tant to understand that these are two sides of the same coin.” 
While the leaders meeting in Brussels focused on walk­ing the fine line between rein­ing in spending and stimulating growth, the elephant in the room was Greece. 
Greece and its bondholders have come closer to a deal to sig­nificantly reduce the country’s debt and pave the way for it to receive a much-needed .130 bil­lion ($170 billion) bailout. 
Negotiators for Greece’s pri­vate creditors said Saturday that a debt-reduction deal could become final within the next week. If the agreement works as planned, it could help Greece avoid a catastrophic default, which would be a blow to Eu­rope’s already weak financial system. 
But European officials are afraid that even that deal may not be enough to fix Greece’s fi­nances, with some blaming Ath­ens for dithering on its promise to cut spending and introduce austerity measures. 
German officials over the weekend proposed that Athens temporarily cede control over tax and spending decisions to a powerful eurozone budget com­missioner before it can secure further bailouts. 
The idea proved immediately controversial — both the Euro­pean Commission and the Greek government refuted it — to the point that German Chancel­lor Angela Merkel pulled back on the idea when she arrived in Brussels. 
She said Europe had to sup­port Greece in implementing promised austerity and reform measures, “but all that will only work if Greece and all other states discuss this together.” 
Luxembourg Prime Minister, and head of the group of euro-zone finance ministers, Jean-Claude Juncker told reporters as he entered the summit that Greece couldn’t be singled out. 
“I’m strongly against the idea of imposing the debt commis­sioner only to Greece, that’s just not acceptable” neither for Greece nor the rest of Europe, Juncker said. 
The negotiations in Greece are crucial because it is clear that Athens will never be able to pay off all of its debts, espe­cially as austerity measures take their toll on its anemic economy. Martin Schulz, president of the European Parliament, cautioned against punishing Greece too se­verely. 



page 6 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com Tuesday, January 31, 2012 

INSIDE COLUMN 


Confession: I don’t hate 3-D... 
I never saw “Avatar.” I know, cue gasps of shock and looks of disbe­lief. I’ve been dealing with it since 2009 when the subject of those weird blue people, James Cameron and his pos­sible Oscar win were on every­one’s mind. But I thought the movie looked like “Poca­hontas,” which I really only en­joyed because of the soundtrack, so I wasn’t going to Mary Claire spend upwards of O’Donnell $15 to see another version of the same Scene Writer movie. 

Everyone kept telling me that I had to see it because of the 3-D an­imation, but the only thing I could think of when I thought of 3-D were those shows at theme parks where giant bees would coming flying at your face in the name of entertain­ment. That’s not really my cup of tea, so I was more than content to let others ooh and aah over the movie. 
And so 2010’s “Alice in Wonder­land” was my first exposure to the new 3-D animation. I was under­whelmed, both by the movie and the animation. And that’s really how I felt about every movie I saw in 3-D — the animation was just never really impressive. And I had to shell out about $5 extra to see the movie. Not worth it. 
But then I went to see the 3-D re-release of “Beauty and the Beast” in theaters. And my opin­ion changed. Every moment I had memorized since my days as a tow­headed, squeaky-voiced toddler were made even more magical by the subtle 3-D enhancements and big screen projection. When Belle and the Beast danced in the ball­room, I was there with them, spin­ning around with my own prince charming. 
The effects were noticeable, but not obnoxious. Part of the improve­ment may have come from the digi­tal remastering of the film — and the fact that I was seeing the movie on the big screen for the first time in 20 years. But either way, I was totally won over to the idea of 3-D and re-releasing old movies in the new animation. 
With this new, positive outlook, I can’t wait to see what other movies will hit the theaters. I’ve already got the re-release of “Titanic,” April 6, and “Finding Nemo,” Sept. 14, down on my calendar. I will, however, be skipping the Feb. 10 re-release of “Star Wars Episode 
I: The Phantom Menace.” Jar-Jar Binx was tough to stomach in 2-D, so I can only imagine how annoy­ing he would be in 3-D. But hope­fully George Lucas will follow with the rest of the series soon. 
So, sorry — I’ll still probably never see “Avatar.” But I’m ready to experience the movies that defined my childhood and adolescence re­turn to the big screen in 3-D. 
Contact Mary Claire O’Donnell at      modonne5@nd.edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

How Elmo and weed can make you wealthy 
Since the birth of the Internet, many a person has sought to capitalize upon the web’s infinite potential. Many have suc­ceeded, but countless more have failed, succumbing to the economic difficulties that arise from an Internet that Marc Anthony changes ‘business Rosa as usual’ in every single respect. Bro Meets 
Even up to this World day, the Internet is still an extremely difficult place to make money. Sure, there are quite successful businesses, the likes of Googles, Face-books and, as I just discovered from a short list of dot-com bubble survivors, Stamps.com. But the fact is that banner advertisement revenues only sustain companies so far, freemium models have a notoriously low revenue conversion rate and despite Average Joe’s wallet stacked next to his computer, it’s dental surgery to generate a sale from him. On any given day, we’ll take a trip to our friendly Wal-mart and smack down $18 on a NERF dart gun (a gloriously true story for me) impulsively, but we’ll be concrete resistant to spending more than a dollar on a smartphone app that we’ll use forever. We treat spending money on the Internet in the same man­ner that we treat talking to telemarket­ers. 
Despite the difficulties that businesses have experienced from making money on the Internet, there is one smidgen of hope that I’d love to share. And, most impressively, the face of this beautiful fi­nancial machine that I’m about to share was represented by a picture of Elmo smoking weed. 
Backstory. Remember last summer when our favorite online DVD company, Netflix, made a very real decision about how it will handle its movie streaming and DVD shipment businesses? CEO Reed Hastings took a step to separate the streaming and DVD services from each other, navigating the company 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
toward what he perceives as the future (online streaming) and prevent DVD shipments from slowing him down. For a while, Netflix carried forward with the streaming arm and the newly-created company Qwikster would provide DVDs via mail to users. 
Less than a month later, the company completely reversed its decisions. That’s not the important part. What is impor­tant is that Netflix made another terrible decision, unrelated to the business model. 
One of the most important things for companies to consider is how social media will affect their brand. And one of the most important things for compa­nies to do before announcing branding decisions is to snag social media assets ahead of time, before some clever person comes along, picks up the Twitter user name (for example) and demands a boat­load of cash for it. Or even worse, if some random kid had it all along. 
But that’s exactly what happened. Jason Castillo, the owner of the Twit­ter handle “@Qwikster,” went to bed one night with a handful of friends, and woke up in the morning with thousands of followers and messages in his Twitter inbox. Here’s an ordinary guy who live-tweets his mundane soccer practices and thought a picture of Elmo smoking weed would be the funniest picture to put as his Twitter avatar. But, little did he know mega-corp Netflix decided to spin off a brand new company and give it the name of his beloved Twitter ac­count. I saw this when it happened and followed Jason on Twitter, because his posts are hilarious and against every­thing Netflix would want to stand for. 
Before Netflix reversed its decision, this dude stood to make a ton of money from owning his Twitter account, even if valuable translates to just $10,000. Qwikster wanted to own the Twitter handle @Qwikster instead of something untaken like @Qwiks592838zz, for the same exact reasons someone would want to buy www.toast.com instead ofwww.ILikeBreadHeatedByRedHotIron­Rods.com. Brand is everything, espe­cially to goliath companies like Netflix or Qwikster. With tens of millions of customers, having that domain name or, yes, the exact name of your brand on Twitter translates to professional­ism and competency to consumers; not having these assets, or worse, confus­ing customers with a soccer-playing kid named Jason represented by a picture of Elmo smoking a blunt translates to some serious negative effects. 
The signs showed that the planets were aligning for this to happen, too: Twitter has a clear policy against selling Twitter handles and will shut down any­one who shows signs of doing so. Quite coincidentally, Jason Castillo quietly re­moved every single Tweet about selling his account, replaced his profile picture, and had resorted to less-outrageous posts about making tacos. 
Innovative and promising companies have lost billions of dollars from the Internet. But, there are people like Jason all over the world who stand to make tens of thousands — if not hundreds of thousands of dollars — from the very same Internet. In this case, Netflix made a premature press release decision, and Jason at one point stood to benefit tre­mendously because the company’s new name was then aired publically. While the venturing Internet entrepreneur you are may one day completely fail at generating a dime for a reasonably use­ful service, rest assured that a man with a picture of Elmo smoking weed may have gotten paid hundreds of thousands of dollars from Netflix for a Twitter ac­count that took him 3 minutes to set up. 
Marc Anthony Rosa is a senior man­agement entrepreneurship major. He can be reached at mrosa@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 



QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“There’s an old saying about those who forget history. I don’t remember it, but it’s good.” 
Stephen Colbert American political satirist 


WEEKLY POLL 
What’s the best part of the Super Bowl? 
The advertisements The food The uniforms The rivalry 
Vote by 5 p.m. Thursday at 

ndsmcobserver.com 


Tuesday, January 31, 2012 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 7 


LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Ron Paul, the only good man 
Mr. Newman and Professor Kramer, 
Do you two work for Fox News? 
When I opened The Observer on Jan. 26, I was excited to find a couple articles discussing the Republican primaries. I was just as quickly disappointed to find that both were more of the same old thing: discussing the shortcomings of the media-propped potential Republican presidential nominees. But just as the aforementioned Fox News — and many news sources — they neglected to discuss one of the strongest candidates the Republicans have: Ron Paul. Though he is treated like the 13th floor of a hotel (thanks, Jon Stewart, for that analogy) Ron Paul is probably the only legitimate candidate in these primaries. 
Newman disingenuously includes Ron Paul among the Re­publican hopefuls, but when he discusses their weaknesses, he forgets Ron Paul. Perhaps because Ron Paul doesn’t have the fraud and adultery in his past that the others have? More than likely, Mr. Newman’s true reason for omitting Paul from the article is his fear that Ron Paul would be a strong enough can­didate to beat Obama (his favorite in the upcoming election). Ron Paul has repeated success in polls when pitted against Obama over the other Republicans. 
I was more disheartened by Professor Kramer’s complete omission of Paul in his reflection of the Republican primaries. He mentions voters’ interest in hearing more about fixing the economy and less about social interests, and he’s got that right. But Kramer’s statement that “[voters are] not really find­ing someone who totally fits that bill” is very disappointing. Ron Paul has been talking about the economy — and acting on that talk — for the last 30 years, from preventive measures to present-day repairs. He champions the Constitution and the government’s place (or lack there of) in deciding how people can live lives. 
Ron Paul is the candidate the voters are looking for. The reason so many cannot find him is because of media omissions such as these! 
Elizabeth Maki 
junior Pangborn Hall Jan. 26 




Share stories: Show Some Skin 
When it comes to discussions about racial and ethnic diversity at Notre Dame, we often focus on numerical data that show progress, or lack thereof: the percentages of stu­dents and faculty of color on campus, the under-representa­tion of minorities in fields like science and engineering, the increase in minority student clubs, etc. As a 1984 gradu­ate, I have seen much-needed progress in diversity at Notre Dame, especially in the last 20 years. 
Numbers provide only a glimpse, however. To truly under­stand race and ethnicity, and make meaningful progress in race relations, it’s crucial to get at the nuances of people’s experiences. Telling one’s story is an especially powerful means of unraveling stereotypes and misconceptions that we often impute upon others. At the very least, the story­teller defines the experience; he or she becomes the author/ authority of his or her own day-to-day living. 
As one education researcher has found, storytelling can also “create collective transformational spaces, co-constructing knowledge about self, further deepening our understandings about the role of race ... through sharing our stories ... we can show empathy, allowing for partici­pants to express themselves as racialized beings. Sharing these experiences not only help students cope with racism, but also provides a space to affirm the lived experiences and knowledge of others.” 
Show Some Skin: The Race Monologues, a new student-organized performance planned for March, is an exciting opportunity for Notre Dame students, faculty, staff and alumni — minority and majority — to share experiences of race and ethnicity. By telling our stories — the humorous, embarrassing, sad, exciting, frustrating, preposterous and beautiful — we can come to a better understanding of the complexity of race and hopefully affirm the experiences and knowledge of each other. 
Cecilia Lucero 
alumna Class of 1984 Jan. 29 


Irish hockey fans: Will you bring it? 

Many thanks to the numerous members of the Notre Dame, Saint Mary’s and Holy Cross community that have attended Fighting Irish Hockey games this season and otherwise enjoyed the Compton Family Ice Arena since it opened in October. Looking up to see 5,000 people in the stands at most games has just been tremendous. Your vocal support on so many occasions has served as a real boost to our team’s performance in the new arena and we need that enthusiasm to continue to create a true home ice advantage this year and in the future. 
Five challenging home games remain in the 2011-12 regular season for your Irish and each will be critical to our overall success. This weekend when we play Bowling Green, we will also celebrate the legacy of Lefty Smith, for whom our new rink is named. Lefty’s immedi­ate family and extended family (many mem­bers of his teams) will be on campus for both games. What better way to honor them and Lefty than with a jam-packed, raucous student section at Compton both nights? Ferris State comes in the following Friday night (they are currently in first place in the CCHA) and earn­ing those conference points will be critical. Will you help us do so? Lastly, Michigan State will come here at the end of February looking to spoil the class of 2012’s last two home games of the regular season. Will you have a say in that? 
Your Irish icers are preparing to “bring it” the rest of the way. How about you? 
Go Irish! 
Jeff Jackson 
head coach Notre Dame Hockey Team Jan. 30 
UWIRE 



Click with caution 
In our fast-paced society, it’s important to stop for a moment and take a look at what our multi-tasking habits may be doing to us. While the Internet has numerous benefits, it has also changed the way we as humans think and process information. Our changed brains are Minnesota Daily not necessarily worse, but Editorial Board they are different. 
Constant access to the The Minnesota Internet and to others has Daily our society continuously connected. Today, we have to worry about checking Facebook, Twitter, email, Tumblr and text messages. People are hooked to the web, which allows easy access to other people but at the same time creates stress and anxi­ety — our attention is constantly strained. 
Students commonly multitask while study­ing. If the homework requires a laptop, the access to everyone else through social net­working is too tempting to resist. With Face­book, YouTube, cell phones and TVs distract­ing students, it creates an extremely difficult atmosphere to concentrate in. 
People want information fast and to the 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
point. We want our news quickly. This has changed our calm, focused minds. Nicholas Carr notes in his book “The Shallows” that it’s difficult for people to sit down and read a large chunk of a book for class now because of technology. Even Carr himself said he isn’t able to concentrate on reading books anymore, and it’s because of the fast-paced Internet world. 
We now think differently and have different habits because of technological advancements, and we should be wary of its consequences. It’s important to live in the real world and experience life outside of the laptop. It’s im­portant to have real interactions with other people, without computer mediation. 
This week is National Green Week — the perfect chance to take a day to unplug from your technology. 
This article first ran in the Jan. 30 edition of The Minnesota Daily, the daily publication serv­ing the University of Minnesota. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


page 8 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com Tuesday, January 31, 2012 

All of you have probably heard of Rocco’s. Nearly all of you have seen it’s beauti­ful visage driving down South Bend Ave. Several of you have likely sat down for a meal in the cozy family-owned local establish­ment. 
Rocco’s is a restau­rant, but it is so much more. 
A South Bend tradi­tion, this local Italian restaurant ap­pears an unassuming hole in the wall, but packs a culinary punch at the table. 
February is cold in South Bend. Really cold. On occasion, it may even be so cold that the extent of your “going out” can only be a quick trip somewhere before the sun drops and the city reaches its seemingly sub­zero temperatures. 
On nights like these, there is simply nothing better than some comfort food before set­tling in for a night of watch­ing movies, playing cards and other forms of winter activities. 
There are a myriad of culi­nary options for these occa­sions in South Bend, several featuring that oh-so-special Italian delicacy, pizza. While Papa John’s might be the taste of the evening one night and Gino’s East the only option another, there is one old faith­ful that should always be in the list, because the pizza will never disappoint. 

Rocco’s is that place. Rocco’s pizza is, quite simply, a perfect combination of delicious crust, faultless sauce and all the top­pings you could need. 
Put all arguments of Chicago vs. New York, crust type and toppings aside. Even the simple cheese pizza at Rocco’s takes one back to the carefree days of middle school when happiness could be spelled with pizza, ice cream and a movie. 


Ravenously hungry or not, it is nearly impossible to imagine not wanting to devour the pizza in front of you. 
Rocco’s is known for Italian fare in general, and the plates floating about the room on the arms of limber servers looked and smelled as good as the pizza. 
The best part of Rocco’s, after the food, is the atmo­sphere. The restaurant is cozy with warm lighting, comfort­able booths and Notre Dame and South Bend memorabilia lining the walls. Look over one shoulder to see a painting of the Golden Dome; over the other, find an Italian-style mu­ral to set the culinary mood. 
Behind the counter, photos of old community baseball teams sponsored by Rocco’s and Notre Dame paraphernalia make an impressive tribute to the South Bend community.  
A night out at Rocco’s is sim­ple — the friendly restaurant staff will lead you to a table (though don’t be surprised by a wait during peak hours), the better than 

service will  
be prompt  
and attentive  
but never  
in-your­ 
face and the food will, simply,  to its decidedly familial and  
please all the senses.  homey atmosphere.  
In the midst of a hectic  Be a part of South Bend  
schedule of classes, papers,  tradition, and in doing so, be a  
tests and extracurriculars,  part of South Bend as a whole.  
sometimes it’s nice to just get  
away from it all for an hour  The views in this column are  
and eat something that feels  those of the author and not nec­ 
somehow like it popped out of  essarily those of The Observer.  
kitchen oven.  Contact Maija Gustin at  
Rocco’s does just that, creat­ mgustin@nd.edu  
ing a homey  
and relax­ 
ing  
atmosphere, but serv­ Rocco’s  
ing food far  


Restaurant 
anything that ever came out of Address: 537 N. St. Louis Blvd. my kitchen. 
That is South Bend, Ind. 46617 
why Rocco’s 

is a South Phone: 574-233-2464 
Bend land­

mark — it Hours: Tuesday -Thursday, 5 - 11 p.m. 
is a family-

owned busi-Friday - Saturday, 5 p.m. - 1 a.m. 
ness that 


has stood Sunday - Monday, closed 
the test of 
time due



Tuesday, January 31, 2012 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 9 

Wading through the excessive amount of horrible 
.lms on Instant Net.ix can be daunting for any sub­
scriber. To ease the process, Scene has graciously 
provided a list of the best Net.ix has to offer. 

1. “Of.ce Space” “Of.ce Space” is now on Net.ix Instant! This cult com­edy classic from writer/director Mike Judge is at once a hilarious satire of the day-to-day grind of of.ce work and the story of bumbling, inept criminal enterprise. Featur­
ing great performances and an endlessly quotable script, “Of.ce Space” is one you don't want to miss. 

2. “Dirty Harry” 
Though not everyone has seen this 1971 classic, every 
.lm-watcher is familiar with it, whether they know it or not. Clint Eastwood, in one of his most iconic roles, es­tablished the character of the grizzled cop who plays by his own rules. Tracking a serial killer through San Fran­cisco, “Dirty” Harry Callahan found a place in cinema history. You've got to ask yourself one question: Do I 

3. “Moulin Rouge!” It's a classic tale of love against the odds. Christian 
(Ewan McGregor), a poor poet, falls in love with Satine (Nicole Kidman), a beautiful courtesan. Satine dreams 
of becoming an actress, a dream she can achieve if 
she sleeps with The Duke (Richard Roxburgh). But alas, she, too, falls in love with Christian, for who can resist a charming man with an incredible voice, even if he is poor? But unfortunately, more troubles await the couple. The music is one of the best parts of this .lm, so check it out if you are a fan of musicals. Or Ewan McGregor. 

4. “Friday Night Lights” Everyone's favorite football show is on Net.ix. In the wake of the series .nale last year, what better way to relive all your favorite moments or watch it with fresh eyes than spending Super Bowl season hanging out with the folks of Dillon, Texas. Coach, Mrs. Coach and all your favorite team members are waiting in the Net.ix 
archive. Clear eyes, full hearts, Net.ix Watch Instantly, can't lose. 

5. “Louie” 

Possibly the most creative show on TV right now, FX's Louis follows a comedian, played by comedian Louis C.K., as he explores a very normal life as a single father. Written, directed and edited by star C.K., never before has so much creative control been given to one single person on television. And the results have been excellent. Equal parts hilarious and touching, “Louie's” very real stories of life in the 21st century are some of the truest moments on contemporary television. Not enough people are watching the always-excellent “Lou­ie,” so get on Net.ix and change that ASAP. 

By NEIL MATHIESON 
Scene Writer 

Ever since Luc Besson released “La Femme Nikita” in 1990, a film about a woman assassin trained by the French government, the female-driven action film has become a quandary of a genre. It offers a wonderfully fresh avenue to explore the usually masculine dominat­ed world of action cinema. 
However, there are challenges, most prominent is believability. For instance, there are those who will watch “SALT” and scoff as Angelina Jolie swiftly pun­ishes opponents while standing at a men­acing 100 pounds and looking as if she just stepped off a plane from Milan. But often the producer’s hands are tied be­cause if a major female actor isn’t cast, revenue and talent will be compromised. 
In “Haywire,” director Steven Soder­bergh (“Traffic”) appears to revel in these obstacles. He constructs a sleek film while taking a minimalist approach to the action. Haywire trades in high wire acts and grand spectacles for hard­boiled fight sequences and gritty rough­and-tumble realism. The biggest chance was taken on “Haywire’s” star Gina Carano, who at 28 has never starred in a feature film. Where has she been? Gina has been spending time as a mixed mar­tial arts fighter with a record of 7-1 to date. 
Gina Carano plays Mallory, a cold­blooded assassin working for a private company that often does contracted jobs for the government. “Haywire’s” narra­tive follows the usual formula: Mallory is betrayed and framed by her employers and now must exact ruthless revenge on those that double-crossed her. Like many of Soderbergh’s films (“Oceans Eleven,” “Contagion”), stars are abundant. Mi­chael Douglas, Michael Fassbender, An­tonio Banderas, Ewan McGregor and Channing Tatum are all in the mix. But “Haywire” doesn’t waste time with char­acters as Soderbergh keeps our blood pumping and Mallory moving, anxious to get to get to her next victim. 
If there were ever concerns when it came to Gina Carano’s believability, as a spine-breaking ex-marine, such hesi­tations are quickly squashed. The open­ing scene culminates in a fight in a small Northern town diner. Soderbergh allows the brutal blows and snapping bones to organically score the scenes as they play out in an eerie silence. No cinematic tricks are needed, either. The nauseating shaking camera and quick cuts used in order to cover up the actor’s shortcom­ings or speed up the action are absent. The camera is pulled back allowing us to watch Gina perform her martial craft without interruption. The sight is as­tounding and sets an unrelenting tone for the rest of the movie. 
The fight scenes are the real highlight of “Haywire” and the film seems unapol­ogetic for allowing its other elements to suffer. The dialogue is sparse and for the most part opaque. Little is revealed about the characters and even less con­sideration is given to the plot’s structure. However, “Haywire” is not uninvolving in the least because, although it may not be particularly lucid, it does a good job of allowing us to glean just enough to understand the motivations behind the action. 
Physically, Gina Carano does a tre­mendous job in “Haywire.”  This is not meant as a slight because not much more was asked of her performance emotion­ally. Much like Schwarzenegger in “The Terminator,” Gina is meant to be a pres­ence more than anything, and her pres­ence is astounding. An intoxicating mix­ture of beauty and brutality, one cannot help feel Carano’s alluring quality while simultaneously being in awe of her ath­letic power and grace as she breaks someone’s neck with her knee. 
It is rare to have character develop­ment during a fight scene, but “Haywire” is a stupendous exception. 
Cinematically, the film is often too slick for its own good. Soderbergh gets a little too artistic playing with black and white photography, an array of camera angles and his infamous parallel editing to cool jazz. But, this is his style. “Hay­wire” is most fundamentally a film about a woman who behaves as we would ex­pect a man to. But I believe that Soder­bergh has a more thoughtful meditation on humankind at play. 
In one scene, Mallory is referred to as a woman. Ewan McGregor’s character quickly responds, “You shouldn’t think of her as being a woman.” The answer is not that you should consider her a man, either, because this, too, would be a mis­take. Yes, Mallory may be void of the ex­pected feminine sensibilities, but she is no less a woman than a man could be a man in her position. 
She is a killer. She is trained to take life away, not to participate in it. Her hu­manity has been drained and replaced with murderous efficiency and vengeful focus. 
Everyone considers “The Girl with The Dragon Tattoo” to be this season’s explo­ration into gender expectations. But one shouldn’t discount “Haywire.” It may not be the same psychological rumination, but its physicality allows it to stand tri­umphantly apart. 
Contact Neil Mathieson at nmathies@nd.edu 



“Haywire” 
Studio: Relativity Media Director: Steven Soderbergh Starring: Gina Carano, Michael Fassbender, Ewan McGregor, Bill Pxton, Channing Tatum, Antonio Banderas and Michael Douglas 
LAUREN KALINOSKI | Observer Graphic 

page 10 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u CLASSIFIEDS Tuesday, January 31, 2012 




SPORTS AUTHORITY 


Eliminate those silly, useless all-star games 
Imagine if we took the stu­dents on the Dean’s list, packed their stuff up, sent them to an­other city with a college and had them take classes. Sounds reasonable enough, right? Ex­cept these classes do not count and their professors do not care. 
Welcome to all-star games. 
All -star games, where the best play­ers go to escape the harsh re­ality that they play a sport. Welcome to meaningless ex­hibitions, where talking heads angrily debate snubs. Welcome to pointless workouts, where nothing is to gain (except base­ball, but we’ll get to that later). 
If I were the ruler of sports for a week, prepare to say goodbye to all-star games. 
The gameplay in all-star games is watered down to say the least. In Sunday’s Pro Bowl, Packers linebacker Clay Mat­thews intercepted a pass, be­gan his return and lateraled the ball to a teammate, who lateraled it to another team­mate, who, you guessed it, tried to pitch the ball again and turned the ball back over to the offense. Please reread that last sentence. I hope the ridiculous­ness of it successfully conveys the stupidity of all-star games. 
Not convinced? That play took place in the first quarter and followed an onside kick. 
Dolphins receiver Brandon Marshall caught four touch­downs. Saints quarterback Drew Brees attempted a drop kick. The losing team racked up 546 yards. The final score had a combined 100 points in the game. What was the score? Who cares? 
I have actually been to a Pro Bowl, and it’s a good thing the tickets were free. The sheer silliness of the game is ampli­fied even more when you are in attendance. In fact, there are exactly four things I remem­ber about that game: someone was wearing a J.P. Losman UFL jersey, I took a picture at the exact moment of kickoff, mas­cots were on the sideline sit­ting next to players and there was an incredible wave going around the stadium. 
Don’t ask me about the score, the plays, the rosters because 

Matt DeFranks 
Sports Writer 
I don’t remember any of it. If the players do not care — and clearly, they do not — why should anyone else? 
On Sunday, however, the NFL outdid themselves by put­ting computers on the side­lines so players could tweet between series. I’m so glad Chargers safety Eric Weddle tweeted to let us know he would be tweeting during the Pro Bowl. I sure was pumped when I saw Broncos lineback­er Von Miller use seven excla­mation points in expressing his excitement to be playing in Hawaii. 
Not even creative ploys en­acted by the NHL can save the all-star game. The NHL has tried to break up the teams by conference, home conti­nent and, currently, by an old-school backyard draft. In the current format, all-stars are selected and then chosen by a pair of captains until everyone is on one of the two teams. Not even the sus­pense of seeing the last player picked makes the game excit­ing. In Sunday’s newest rendi­tion of the contest, the teams combined for 21 goals — in 60 minutes of hockey. 
Major League Baseball’s all-star game is the only one that carries meaning, award­ing home-field advantage in the World Series to the win­ning league. But should it? 
Since the MLB requires that a player from every team be selected to the all-star team, you are nearly guaranteed the fate of a championship contender will be decided by a member of a last-place team. While baseball’s all-star game is usually competi­tive, this is too trivial a way to decide something so impor­tant. 
I understand people like to watch the best players pitted against each other and col­lect autographs at the events, but to try and pass off all-star games as competitive and important is ludicrous. They are superfluous and just plain silly. 
If you want to watch the best players compete against each other, there’s some­thing called the playoffs that sounds right up your alley. 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Matt DeFranks at mdefrank@nd.edu 
NASCAR 



Allmendinger wins at Daytona 
Associated Press 
DAYTONA BEACH, Fla. — AJ Allmendinger won five races during the 2006 season in Champ Car, then walked away hoping to launch a new career in NASCAR. 
He was at the top of his game when he left open-wheel, and figured he’d make a smooth and successful transition to stock cars. 
Instead, he suffered through a miserable five years. 
Now, in what seems like a blink of an eye, it has all turned around for Allmendinger. 
No driver has had a better offseason than “The ‘Dinger,” who landed the ride of a life­time right before Christmas when Penske Racing picked him to fill the seat left suddenly open when the team split with former NASCAR champion Kurt Busch. 
Then he opened the 2012 racing season with an impres­sive victory in the Rolex 24 at Daytona. Allmendinger was the anchor for Michael Shank Racing, and used a gritty fi­nal stint — he was behind the wheel almost three hours at the end — to give longtime friend Shank his first victory in nine tries in the prestigious endurance event. 
It was Allmendinger’s first major racing victory since he walked away from Champ Car at the end of the 2006 season. 
“It’s always cool to be me,” Allmendinger quipped when asked about the last five weeks. 
Then he quickly turned seri­ous. 
“No, I’m just kidding. The last five years, it’s actually (stunk) to be me.” 
It was indeed a struggle as Allmendinger went from the top of one series to the bottom of another. 
On paper, a deal with up­start Red Bull Racing seemed too good to pass up. The deep-pocketed team was making its entrance into NASCAR and it wanted Allmendinger to drive one of its two cars. 
It was a disaster from the very beginning. 
Red Bull wasn’t ready to race in the elite Sprint Cup Series, and even worse, it had no development plan for All­mendinger, who was brand new to stock cars. Most open-wheel drivers have been eased into NASCAR with races in either the second-tier Nation­wide Series, the Truck Series, or the non-NASCAR affiliated ARCA Series. 
But Allmendinger was thrown right to the wolves, and it became obvious immediately that the team and the driver were in very much above their heads. 

Both Allmendinger and team­mate Brian Vickers struggled to even qualify for races that season, and missing out on the events further slowed All­mendinger’s development. It didn’t take long for him to won­der if he’d made a huge mistake in moving to NASCAR. But the open-wheel leagues were in turmoil, and not even after the merger of Champ Car with the IndyCar Series did Allmending­er know for sure where he be­longed. 
He called that 2007 season, “Hell. Honestly, it was the worst year of my life when it came to my career. 
“There were plenty of times in my bus on Friday, (after) miss­ing a race, it was either, ‘Should I go back to IndyCar or slit my wrists?’” he said. “It sounds kind of over the top, but I knew I wanted to be in the Sprint Cup Series. That’s where the best of the best was. With the two series still split, I had done what I did in Champ Car, and at the point, the IRL wasn’t appealing to me. I had a great opportunity to go to the Sprint Cup Series. 
“It was just a tough couple of years. The last few years have been tough.” 
He was eventually tossed aside at Red Bull, and landed with Richard Petty Motorsports, where he won a pole and led 232 laps over the last two years. He also became consistent, and notched 10 top-10 finishes, wind­ing up 13th in points when the 12-driver Chase for the Sprint Cup championship field was set. 
Even so, his future was un­clear. 
Best Buy decided to pull its sponsorship from RPM, and the team didn’t have the funding to field a car for Allmendinger. Then Busch split with Penske, and team owner Richard Petty suggested Allmendinger to Rog­er Penske for his suddenly open seat. 
“When you part with a driver with the skills that Kurt has, you don’t just pick up the phone book and find someone who fits into his shoes,” said Penske, who was familiar with Allmendinger’s work in Champ Car. 
“He was a great open-wheel driver,” Penske added. “He beat Will Power a couple of times, and you don’t beat Will Power if you’re not a pretty good shoe. We had a couple other people we were looking at, (but) knowing what we could give him and how our sponsors were very happy to have AJ, it was a whole pack­age.” 
Now Allmendinger is with a team that won five races last year and put both Busch and Brad Keselowski into the Chase. He knows it’s the opportunity of a lifetime, and hopes Sunday’s win at Daytona is the first of many trips to Victory Lane. 
“The last few years have been tough,” he said. “I feel like the last two years I’ve at least got­ten a good rhythm, and it makes me feel good to know that a guy like Roger Penske can look at my talent and say, ‘You know what? He might not have a Cup win and you have (sponsor) Shell/ Pennzoil that’s used to winners and champions in their cars, but if we give him the right stuff he might be able to do that.’” 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The 
Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 

CLASSIFIEDS 

Time demands, scheduling Seinfeld Quotes: “Well, it’s a story of love, 
FOR RENT WANTED PERSONAL 
flexible. deception, greed, lust, and 
“I love a good nap. Sometimes unbridled enthusiasm. - Cosmo 

Stipend paid. it’s the only thing getting me out Kramer 
of bed in the morning.” - George 

WALK TO CAMPUS Business Research and UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don’t Respond w/brief resume or Costanza “Now if you’ll excuse me, I have 
Development South Bend Toy go it alone. Notre Dame has many description of background as well to go fill my freezer with my own 
Great Specials! Studio, 1, 2, 3 Company LLC, a new startup, resources in place to assist you. as availability. “As of today I am a proud parent blood.” - Cosmo Kramer 
Bedroom; Townhomes available. seeks students from a wide If you or someone you love needs of a one-mile stretch of the Arthur 
range of disciplines including confidential support or assistance, Interviews late the week of January Berkhardt Expressway.” - Cosmo 
(574) 272-8124. A&L, Mendoza, Science and please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819 22nd and January 29th. Kramer “I don’t get these birds. They’re 
Engineering. or Ann Firth at 1-2685. For more breaking the deal. It’s like the 
information, visit ND’s website at: “I may be old, but I’m spry.” - pigeons decided to ignore me.” - 
Visit www.southbendtoy.com, for Email woody@southbendtoy.com Cosmo Kramer George Costanza 
www.clovervillageapartments.com more detail. http://pregnancysupport@nd.edu 

page 12 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u SPORTS Tuesday, January 31, 2012 

Welsh 
continued from page 16 
it moves all of us, it motivates all of us, and for me, Notre Dame wants you to be a bet­ter person,” he said. “The way you become a better person is to work very hard at what you’re doing — as hard as you can. I think what you learn almost by osmosis is it’s not about 
coach. 
“When you go to church and you lis­ten to peo­ple, you’re advised to care about people, to help people, to forgive people, to share, to do things together, and to trust,” he said. “Ain’t no foot­ball game like that. When you come to practice, I don’t care what the sport is, the players want direction —that’s why they came. They don’t want a hug; they want direction.” 
With a passion for educat­ing youth, Welsh said there is a major difference between teaching in the classroom and coaching a sport. 


McCoy 
continued from page 16 
get to. Using his tremendous speed, he was able to break opponents down, as they would get frustrated that balls were always coming back. He drove people crazy.” 
While the freshman’s speed was still a major ad­vantage when he arrived on campus, he needed to make some other adjustments to get ready for college play. 
“When [McCoy] got here, he came in with his juniors game,” Bayliss said. “All of a sudden, the court shrinks and everyone is bigger, stronger and faster. Some of the shots that worked 
lot of prog­ress has al­ready been made. His serve is much better now than it was when he arrived. 
“It is going to be exciting to watch him continue to im­prove.” 
The switch yielded to a dif­ferent game for McCoy, as collegiate tennis is more of a team sport than he was used to. 
“My high school career was a lot more about me improv­ing as an individual,” McCoy said. “I have found that the 
“I taught English for eight years, and I know if a person comes to class, does their as­signments, hands in papers, does good work, [and] that’s about all I’m entitled to know. Whether they eat, whether they sleep, whether they’re on drugs or they like their par­ents, or they just got in a fight 
— [it’s] none of my business,” he said. “Here, it’s part of the 


you, it’s never “At the end of it, how fast about you.” you go or don’t go doesn’t Welsh has matter, but how well you a copy of the prepare to do what you Prayer of say you’re going to do at 
Saint Francis 

a given time on a given 
on his desk at 

day, that does matter. 
all times. The 

The discipline with which 
goal of liv­

you pursue your goals, 
ing a life like 

that does matter.” 
Saint Fran­cis, he said, is difficult to Tim Welsh achieve as a 
Irish coach 
at a slightly “People can say that lower level they want to be an All-
are suddenly 

American, but I just wan 
not work-

to become the best player 
ing. He is 

and the best player I 
currently 

can possibly be and see 
working on 

where that takes me.” 
improv ing the offensive side of his Wyatt McCoy 
game and a Irish freshman 
game. Our sport is so pure, and it’s all about be­ing your best. You have to be your best at a given moment on a given day. Ev­erything mat­ters.” 
At the end of the day, Welsh said, there is a di­rect correla­tion between athletics and life. 
“To some extent, what makes athlet­ics important 
is because life is like that,” he said. “At the end of it, how fast you go or don’t go doesn’t mat­ter, but how well you prepare to do what you say you’re going to do at a given time on a given day, that does matter. The dis­cipline with which you pursue your goals, that does matter.” 
Welsh and his Irish squad will compete next in the Big East Championship meet Feb. 10 in Pittsburgh. 

Contact Megan Golden at mgolde01@saintmarys.edu 


college game is more about the team and improving your game to help the team. You come out of high school where you were one of the best players and now, your teammates are all very good players, so improving as a team is more important than improving as an individual.” 
McCoy said his game has made some significant strides from when he arrived on campus. 
“My serve has gotten a lot better and my understanding of the game has improved,” he said. “I have also been able to expand my game a bit. I was used to only using one style of play to get points, so I had to make some adjust­
ments in that area.” 
McCoy said he has two main goals for his ten­nis career at Notre Dame. 
“People can say that they want to be an All-Amer ica n, but I just want to be­come the best player and best teammate 
that I can possibly be and see where that takes me,” he said. 
McCoy and the rest of the Irish return to action this weekend as they head to Winston-Salem, N.C. to bat­tle Wake Forest on Friday, followed by a trip to Durham, 
N.C. to play No. 10 Duke on Sunday. 


 Contact Walker Carey at wcarey@nd.edu 


McGraw 
continued from page 16 
the last game.” 

After the Irish beat Tennes­see on Jan. 23, McGraw high­lighted rebounding as an area where the Irish could improve to continue their streak.  
“I thought in the last game [against St. John’s] we did a great job on boards, and we did a very good job working those things out,” McGraw said. “That is especially im­portant going into this game. Rutgers is a very athletic team and rebounds extremely well.” 
Rutgers (17-4) has lost to Georgetown, Tennessee and St. John’s this season, three teams Notre Dame beat earlier in the year, each by at least 15 points. 
The Scarlet Knights lead the series 16-11 overall, though the Irish do hold an active two-win streak. In the 2010-11 is a big part of their defense,” season, the Irish beat Rutgers McGraw said. “They have a tal­
71-49 and both gradu­ate student forward “Rutgers is a really good Devereaux defensive team, they Peters and work extremely hard 
junior guard 

rebounding. They press, 
Skylar Dig-

and their press is a big 
gins scored 

part of their defense.” 
at least 20 points for the Irish. Muffet McGraw 
“Rutgers is Irish coach 
a really good 
defensive 
team, they 

work extremely hard rebound-announced 
ented group and [senior] April Sykes is a big guard who can re­ally play in­side. They’ve got the inside and outside game and a good bench. They’re an exception ­ally athletic team.” Notre Dame 
this week Irish 

ing. They press, and their press freshman guard Madison Ca­
ble will sit out the rest of the season and tack on another year of eligibility due to an in­jury. 
“She has a stress fracture in her foot, and it hasn’t healed the way we expected,” McGraw said. “She’s taken quite a bit of time off. We have decided to redshirt her until she’s 100 percent healthy. We look for­ward to having her back next year.” 
Tip-off against the Scar­let Knights is scheduled for 7 
p.m. Tuesday at Rutgers’ Lewis Brown Athletic Center. 

Contact Molly Sammon at     msammon@nd.edu 

Tuesday, January 31, 2012 The Observer u SPORTS ndsmcobserver.com | page 13 
NFL 





Titans’ fans want Manning in Tenn. 

Associaed Press 
NASHVILLE, Tenn. — Pey­ton Manning remains on the Colts’ roster, and the Titans have three quarterbacks al­ready. 
Still, Titans’ fans of the NFL’s only four-time MVP ex­pecting the injured QB to be released and healthy enough to play are starting an ad campaign in Indianapolis hoping to convince Manning to return to Tennessee. 
“It’s kind of evident to the sports world they’re going to let Peyton go, they’re not go­ing to pay him the money that he’s due and he’s going to be a free agent,” Todd Mayo said Monday. “All the sports talk guys are saying he could go to Arizona and Washington and every place but Tennes­see. We’ve got a young quar­terback here at the Titans. 
“If you could upgrade your team with the caliber of Pey­ton, why would you not?” 
Mayo said he and his brother, Griffin, spent the weekend designing the web­site www.comehomepeyton. com and recorded a couple parody songs, including one to the Eminem hit “Lose Yourself.” 
The site went live Mon­day and had generated $700 in donations by midday. A 30-second commercial is planned for an Indianapolis radio station during the Su­per Bowl. 
“Call it fan-vertising if you will, but kind of a concept to put the power in the fans’ hands and let Peyton know how much he’s wanted in the state of Tennessee for the Ti­tans,” Mayo said. “Of course, he played at Tennessee. I’m from Memphis, went to school at Tennessee in Knox­ville and live in Nashville ... I love Tennessee, and it’s kind of one of those things you would like to affect posi­tive change from the power of fans coming together.” 
Mayo works at a Nashville advertising agency and al­ready has priced billboards and ads. He hopes to solicit enough donations to place eight digital billboards in Indianapolis along with ads on TV and radio and in the local newspaper. If enough money comes in, Mayo said billboards and ads in Hous­ton where Titans owner Bud Adams lives are a possibil­ity to help persuade him to make a move for Manning. 
Manning remains very popular in Tennessee where many children are named Peyton after the quarter­back by parents who still wear his Volunteers’ jersey or his Colts’ No. 18. Manning is due $28 million from the Colts on March 8 after miss­ing the 2011 season follow­ing his third neck surgery. 
The Titans signed veteran Matt Hasselbeck to a three-year contract last July, and he led Tennessee to a 9-7 re­cord. The Titans also used the eighth pick overall last April on Jake Locker. 
Mayo said life and football are about risks and rewards. He sees this as a rare chance that the Titans shouldn’t pass on to team Manning with running back Chris Johnson, receiver Kenny Britt and a strong offensive line. 
“He’s probably the most famous Tennessean since Davy Crockett,” Mayo said. “All of this seems to be a perfect storm, one of those Disney-type movies. I would certainly hope it would have a Disney-type ending. You never know with injuries, but why wouldn’t you do ev­erything you can to further along as a fan ... to at least send a message.” 

CLUB SPORTS 



Synchronized skaters grab gold, accolades 
Women’s Ice Hockey crushes Maroons, new Outing Club travels to the Dunes 
Special to The Observer 
The Synchronized Skat­ing Team won the gold med­al Saturday at the Midwest­ern Synchronized Skating Championships in Plym­outh, Michigan. The first place finish is the second year in a row that Notre Dame has won its most im­portant competition of the year, placing at the top of eight other collegiate teams from the Midwest. Miami of Ohio, previously undefeated this season, and Ohio University earned the 2nd and 3rd place med­als for the division. 
The Irish skaters, per­forming to a medley of popular Billy Joel songs, entertained the audience with their presentation and program elements. 
The squad received a standing ovation from fans at the end of the pro­gram after the skaters successfully completed a difficult intersection. The skating team has two weeks until the final com­petition of the season, the Tri-State Synchronized Skating Championships. 
Women’s Ice Hockey 
The Women’s Ice Hockey Club defeated the Universi­ty of Chicago Maroons Sat­urday afternoon 13-2 at the Compton Family Ice Arena. 
Irish freshman Kelsey Osinski scored an early goal to give the Irish some momentum. Sophomore Maddie Schneeman had an excellent period at center, contributing a goal and two assists in the first pe­riod alone. Suzanne Fitz­patrick played inspired with two goals in the first period. It was evident that she thrived off the support of the home crowd. 
At the end of the first pe­riod, with the Irish leading 7-1, coaches junior Derek Wolf, sophomore EJ Borg and senior Tim Gannatti decided to mix up the lines and stressed fundamentals going into the latter two periods. 
Sophomore Kayla Maple notched the first hat trick of her career and fresh­man Tori White showed her great defensive ability. Freshman Mary Salvi saw limited action in goal, but played a solid game in her first start for Notre Dame. Defensemen junior Mara Catlaw, sophomore Caro­line Thomas and sopho­more Meaghan Ayers each proved themselves on of­fense with a goal and sev­eral assists. 
The Maroons scored two goals, but it was not enough to hold off the Irish. Notre Dame defeated the Maroons 13-2 while receiving goals from 10 different players. 
Squash 
The Irish traveled to Palo Alto, Calif. this weekend for the Pac 12 Championships at Stanford, where the Irish finished 1-3. 
Notre Dame dropped an 8-1 contest, and a pair of 9-0 matches to the three strongest west coast teams 
—  Washington, Califor­nia and Stanford, which is coached by Mark Talbott, former No. 1 ranked player in the world. 
The shining moment for the Irish was an 8-1 victory over USC. 
The Notre Dame squash B team traveled to Madi­son, Wis. to play several new club programs. The Irish went 1-3 against the A teams, dropping matches to Wisconsin, Minnesota and Northwestern and defeating Illinois-Springfield. 
Ski and Snowboard 
The Notre Dame Ski and Snowboard team traveled to northern Michigan over the Jan. 21-22 weekend to com­pete in a two-day race.  Offi­cial results are released late in the week by the MCSA. 
Junior Thomas Knoedler led the men’s alpine team with a first place individual finish in Jan. 21’s slalom event, and freshman Meg Bryck put up the top time for the women. 
The team had to deal with challenging snow conditions in the area. 
“It got a little bit wet over­night, which made it tricky to ski the next day,” senior John Delacio said. 
However, the team still posted several strong fin­ishes in the Sunday events. The men’s snowboard team finished just outside the podium with junior Kevin Condit recording the top ND finish. 
The women’s ski team fin­ished fourth, led by senior Natalie Bartzen’s strong showing in the DFL spot. 
“We look forward to being out cold next weekend and improving on our results,” senior Olivia Killian said. 
Outing 
One of the newest club’s at Notre Dame, the outing club traveled to the Dunes for a weekend of hiking and outdoor activities. Anyone interested in joining the club is asked to get in touch with the club at Recsports. nd.edu 



page 14 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u SPORTS Tuesday, January 31, 2012 
Relay 
continued from page 16 
said. 
Confidence is not the only factor that distinguishes this year’s relay team from its pre­decessors . The addition of Giesting, a star fresh-in the 400-meter event. 
“We may practice a few handoffs the day before the meet just to make sure we have it down, but we mostly just train for the open 400 event and that translates to the 4x400,” Feeney said. “But Brendan, Chris and I all do the same workouts to­gether, which helps trans-

man who has already gar­nered recog­nition across the Big East, to run the team’s an­chor leg has been criti­cal, particu­ “One thing we’ve done this year is bought these bright green headbands ... We all go to our corner right before the relay and put the headbands on, which shows that it’s time to run.”  late over to the relay.” L o r e n z , who special­izes in the h a l f -m i l e event, said the transi­tion to the 4 0 0 -m et e r  
larly down the stretch in several races.  Mitch Lorenz Irish senior  event was difficult, but the benefits  
“Chris  has  to  compet­ 
been a huge  ing on a team  
help,” Lorenz  outweigh  the  
said. “We all  negatives.  
trust  Chris  “It’s  defi­ 

and know that, if each guy nitely been tough since the does his job, Chris won’t let us sprinters always seem to blow down in the end.” by me at the start of my leg 
The quartet does not prac-and I have to spend the rest of tice the relay together very of-the time catching up, but it’s ten, as each member focuses a lot of fun too,” Lorenz said. on his own individual events. “I can’t say enough about the But for Dougherty, Feeney and three guys I run with, and I Geisting, the focus is never set appreciate them taking me far from 400 meters, as the into their group, even though three sprinters all specialize I’m not a sprinter.” 
Feeney agreed, citing in­creased camaraderie with the relay team this year. Feeney said this camaraderie comes as a bit of a surprise, as he and Geisting regularly com­peted against each other be­fore in high school. 
“I raced Geisting in high school a few times, and we were battling back and forth every race,” Feeney said. “Knowing that I have him on my team now is a much better feeling.” 
In recent meets, the relay team’s bond manifested in the form of team spirit, as team members have taken to wear­ing neon green headbands specifically for the 4x400-me­ter relay. 
“One thing we’ve done this year is bought these bright green headbands,” Lorenz said. “We all go to our cor­ner right before the relay and put the headbands on, which shows that it’s time to run.” 
Onlookers might be blinded by such a display of team spir­it, but for the four members of the Irish men’s 4x400-meter relay team, it simply signifies a getting down to business 
— a business they have un­failingly taken care of, as re­flected by their an untainted record. 

Contact Brian Hartnett at bhartnet@nd.edu 

Senior Jonathon Shawel, left, and sophomore Jarrod Buchanon compete at the ND Invitational on Jan. 21. 


ND WOMEN’S SWIMMING AND DIVING 
Ryan’s victories guide team 
By ISAAC LORTON 
Sports Writer 
Sophomore Kelly Ryan’s four victories at Michigan State on Jan. 21 helped propel times,” Kovenock said. 
Ryan holds the fastest times in the Big East Conference for four individual events; the 50-yard freestyle race 
(23.17) the 100-yard freestyle 
her team to a 218-82 vic­tory to break Notre Dame’s four-match losing streak and earned her the honor of being last week’s Big East Swim­mer of the Week. 
“Kelly re­ally deserved this award,” Irish Assis­tant Coach Kate Ko­

“[Kelly] is coming off an outstanding training trip in Hawaii. She really stepped it up. Her focus was incredible and she was making herself stronger and her team stronger.” 
Kate Kovenock Irish assistant coach 
event (49.62) the 100-yard backstroke competi­tion (53.60) and the 200­yard back­stroke race 
(1:55 .66) . She set all of these con­ference top times on Dec. 2 at the Ohio State Invita­tional. 
“  Kel  - 
ly  comes  
t h  r o u g h  

venock said. “She is coming off an outstanding training trip in Hawaii. She really stepped it up. Her focus was incredible and she was mak­ing herself stronger and her team stronger.” 
Ryan’s performance at Mich­igan State consisted of three individual victories in the 50­yard freestyle race (23.65) the 100-yard backstroke  event (56.08), the 200-yard back­stroke (2:02.60), and she notched a fourth first-place as a member of the 400-freestyle relay team (3:28.64). 
“As far as her performance at Michigan State, it wasn’t a big surprise to the people on the inside — the coaching staff and swimmers — that she posted some impressive 
when we need her, especial­ly in relays,” Kovenock said. 
“She swims her heart out; not just for herself, but for her teammates as well. 
Ryan is part of two relay teams holding the Big East Conference’s fastest times. She swam the 400-freestyle relay team alongside se­with Prestinario, Reaney and sophomore Sarah Dotzel, is also part of the 400-yard medley relay team that holds the fastest time of 3:59.59. The relay teams posted both these record times at the Ohio State Invitational. 
“She is versatile and can swim anything,” Kovenock said. “Kelly was recruited as a backstroker, but we saw something in her freestyle too.” 
Kovenock said he is not sure what events they need Ryan to race for the conference event, but said she will no doubt be an important part of Notre Dame’s Big East meet roster. 
“We are two and a half weeks out of the Big East meet and the coaches are having a hard time deciding where Kel­ly will swim,” Kovenock said. “But one thing is for sure, Kelly is going to race and post 

“She swims her heart out; not just for herself, but for her teammates as well.” 
Kate Kovenock Irish assistant coach 
fast swims. The big­gest thing though, is she will provide mo­mentum for the team.” 
Ryan and the Irish will return to action for a dual meet at Ball State on Saturday before they 

nior Amy Prestinario, fresh-head into the Big East meet man Emma Reaney and fresh-Feb. 10-12. man Hannah Bowen, which produced the fastest time to Contct Isaac Lorton at date of 3:20.93. Ryan, along ilorton@nd.edu 

Tuesday, January 31, 2012 The Observer u TODAY ndsmcobserver.com | page 15 
CROSSWORD WILL SHORTz 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 



DAVID L. HOyT 

JON REPINE 
JUMBLE 
EXPND 
JEFF KNUREK 






Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556

 Enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year


 Enclosed
 is $75 for one semester 


Name ____________________________________________________ Address __________________________________________________ City ____________________ State___________ Zip______________ 

Tuesday, January 31, 2012 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 16 
ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 
Standing their ground 
Irish put their 18-game winning streak at risk tonight against No. 12 Rutgers 


By MOLLY SAMMON 
Sports Writer 
The Irish are one win away from keeping January clean of losses for the first time in 10 years. A win also moves their win streak up to 19 games as they play their eighth ranked opponent this season, No. 12 Rutgers in Piscataway, N.J., on Tuesday. 

The second-ranked Irish (20­

1) stand undefeated in the Big East, 7-1 against ranked teams and are on their way to break­ing the program-record 23 straight wins. 
In practice this week, Mc­Graw said the Irish worked on offensive clarity and avoid­ing turnovers as they had 19 in their 71-56 win against St. John’s on Saturday. 
“We’ve been working on a lot of things, we’ve been getting better defensively, so we’re concentrating a little more on our offense now,” McGraw said. “We had lots of turnovers in 
see McGRAW/page 12 
MEN’S TENNIS 
Freshman adjusts well to team play 
By WALKER CAREY 
Sports Writer 
Freshman Wyatt McCoy’s recent transition from high school athletics to college competition has been more seamless than expected from the average first-year expe­rience. 
“[McCoy] brings an extra element of competitiveness into the building every sin­gle day,” Irish coach Bobby Bayliss said. “He really tries his hardest on every shot and as a result, he takes set­backs really hard. He learns from his mistakes and uses his setbacks to improve his game.” 
Prior to coming to Notre Dame, McCoy was a highly successful high school and juniors player. Hailing from Shoreview, Minn., McCoy is the only player in Minnesota history to win a state title as an eighth grader. As a ju­niors player, he was ranked in the top 10 in the nation for the 12s, 16s and 18s division. 
“If you watch [McCoy] play, he is faster than blazes,” Bayliss said. “There are not many balls that he cannot 
see McCOY/page 12 

MEN’S SWIMMING AND DIVING 
Coach strives to train swimmers’ bodies, spirits 
By MEGAN GOLDEN 
Sports Writer 
During his 27 years as head coach of the men’s swimming and diving team, Tim Welsh has worked to educate the mind, body and spirit of all the men he coaches at Notre Dame. 
“Our philosophy is this: ‘The purpose of Notre Dame swim­ming and diving is to pursue and achieve athletic excel­lence with self-discipline and love for one another,’” Welsh said. 
A graduate of Providence College’s class of 1966, Welsh went on to receive his master’s degree in English at the Uni­versity of Virginia. Welsh was an English professor at then-Winthrop College and later assistant swimming coach at Syracuse. 
He said University President Fr. John Jenkins’ presidential address in 2005, which said the University’s role was to seek God, studythe world and serve humanity, convinced him he was finally at the right school. 
“I came away from that, say­ing, ‘Sign me up, Father, that’s the vision I want,’” Welsh said. 
Former president of the American Swimming Coaches Association, Welsh has had the chance to direct the program and teach coaches about social issues involved in athletics. He remains an active member of the Association, which is fo­cusing specifically this year on how to coach boys. 
“Boys and girls are not the same, and boys are a mess,” Welsh said. “Every education­al area you want to look at, people will tell you that. Boys need to be boys. They like to compete, they like to race, they learn at a different speed than women. They don’t like to talk a lot about it, [but] they care about how they’re doing, and they even care about what kinds of suits they wear.” 
Welsh said that his spiritual life definitely plays a role in educating young men on his Irish squad. 
“[One thing] I’d like guys to see on our team is the spirit of Notre Dame. It’s bigger than all of us, it’s better than all of us, 
see WELSH/page 12 

MEN’S TRACK AND FIELD 
Irish relay dominates Big East 
By BRIAN HARTNETT 
Sports Writer 

The 4x400-meter relay is traditionally featured as the final event on the docket of a Track meet, showcasing the finest qualities of team­work and often providing fans with a thrilling ending to the day. With four wins in four events this season, the Irish have consistently end­ed meets on a positive note. 
The quartet — junior Bren­dan Dougherty, senior Mitch Lorenz, sophomore Patrick Feeney and freshman Chris Geisting — has closed out every meet of the indoor sea­son with a win, most recent­ly taking first place at the Indiana Relays on Saturday. 
Their top performance of the season, a stellar mark of 
3:12:61 in the Meyo Invita­tional, is the second fastest time in the Big East, trailing only a Pittsburgh 4x400-me­ter relay team that currently holds the fastest time in the nation. 
Feeney, a contributor to last year’s 4x400-meter re­lay team that finished fourth in the Big East champion­ships, said increased confi­dence helped the team’s per­formance. 

“I think the difference be­tween last year’s team and this year’s team is that we just get more into the race and know that we can defi­nitely put up some good times, which just makes us run even harder,” Feeney 
see RELAY/page 14 





