The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 46, issue 11 | TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 4, 2012| ndsmcobserver.com 
International students adjust to life at Notre Dame 
American college life offers new experiences, challenges 
By NICOLE MICHELS 
news writer 
For most notre dame stu­dents, leaving home for college means adjusting to in­dependent living, a midwestern twang and colder weather. For about 900 international stu­dents, however, the transition is far more abrupt. 
Freshman rena multaputri said the close-knit community at notre dame made leaving indonesia more manageable. 
“i went to a mass in the basilica on my first day here at notre dame and i saw people hugging each other during mass and singing the alma mater proudly at the end of it,” multaputri said. “it opened my eyes to the tight community that the university has to offer, and i am grateful to be a part of it.” 

multaputri said she had al­ways had a desire to study away from home. 
“i had always known i was going to pursue my educa­tion somewhere else outside indonesia because my family had always put importance on education for both me and my sister,” multaputri said.  “after i got my acceptance letter, i tried to find more information about notre dame and the other schools that i got accepted into ... the more that i knew about notre dame, the stronger my desire to come here.” 
Though she plans on working in the u.s. immediately after graduation, multaputri said she plans on eventually ending up back in indonesia.  
“i have never put much thought on what i am go­ing to do after i graduate, but most probably i will stay for a few years to find some work­ing experience and then go back to indonesia after that,” multaputri said. 
sophomore pedro suarez, originally from brazil, said his greatest challenge was adjust­ing to american food. 
“it’s a cultural thing. we’d sit down for long dinners and long lunches,” he said. “i eat really slowly because at home convenient.” i’m used to meals being events suarez said though he loves that bring people together, the community at notre dame, but here it’s so different: peo­ple just eat fast, whenever it’s see sTudenTs PAGE 4 



new major launches 
By CHARITHA ISANAKA 
news writer 
students hoping to com­bine language skills, cultural knowledge and eco­nomic know-how can now pur­sue a major in international economics, a joint offer­ing from the departments of economics and romance languages and literatures. 
in a university press release, department of economics chair richard Jensen said the new major is suited for students hoping to make themselves more marketable to employers at home and abroad. 
“This program will be an at­tractive option for ambitious, sophisticated and savvy notre dame undergraduates seeking to prepare themselves for suc­cessful international careers,” he said. 
professor Theodore cachey, chair of the department of 
see maJor PAGE 4 



Farley revives calendar fundraiser 
By ANNA BOARINI 
news writer 
although notre dame has no shortage of long-held traditions, Farley hall intends on renew­ing one long forgotten. Farley’s Finest are bring­ing back the men of nd calendar, a former hall fundraiser, to benefit the sex offense services rape crisis center of st. Joseph count y. 
Kelsie corriston, Farley hall secretary, said the idea to reinstitute the calendar came from former rector sr. carrine etheridge in 2011, although organizers were given few details. 
“we didn’t have any old copies or information to go on initially, so we re­vamped it ourselves,” she said. “it’s been an awe­some learning process.” 
The search for student-models was an extensive process, corriston said. 
“we tried to get the word out as much as possible,” she said.  “we created a Facebook event, emailed clubs, talked to hall coun­cils and wrote a letter to The observer.” 
students either applied themselves or were nomi­nated by friends, corriston said. after reviewing the submissions, 20 men were brought in for interviews. 
“we chose students based on their involve­ment on campus and the uniqueness of their sto­ries,” she said.  “we tried our best to represent the diversity of notre dame given our applicant pool.” 
corriston and her co-or­ganizers used the 
see calendar PAGE 3 


volunteer group cultivates literacy 
By CHRISTIAN MYERS 
news writer 
Teamwork for Tomorrow, a student-led volunteer group, hopes to make an impact on south bend chil­dren with its new youth mentorship and reading assistance program. 
club president emily schrank said the group offers tutoring to local children struggling with reading comprehension. 
“we’re different from other tutoring programs in that we don’t help kids with their homework,” she said. “we’re focused on helping kids improve their reading proficiency and get to where they should be.” 
schrank, a member of the club since her fresh­man year, said Teamwork for Tomorrow has become an important piece of her time at notre dame. 
“it’s been a really great way to break out of the notre dame bubble and see what is going on in south bend,” she said. “getting to know these 
see menTors PAGE 3 

SUZANNA PRATT | The Observer 


viewpoinT PAGE 6 scene PAGE 8 scene PAGE 8 women’s soccer PAGE 16 




ndsmcobserver.com 

p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
allan Joseph 

Managing Editor  Business Manager 
megan doyle  Jeff liptak 
Asst. Managing Editor: andrew owens 
Asst. Managing Editor: sam stryker News Editor: John cameron News Editor: Kristen durbin 

Viewpoint Editor: meghan Thomassen Sports Editor: chris allen Scene Editor: Kevin noonan Saint Mary’s Editor: Jillian barwick Photo Editor: suzanna pratt Graphics Editor: brandon Keelean Multimedia Editor: sarah o’connor Advertising Manager: monica mccormack Ad Design Manager: sara hilstrom Controller: peter woo Systems Administrator: william heineman 

Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ajoseph2@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 mdoyle11@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 aowens2@nd.edu sstryke1@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 

Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 

Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 


Scene Desk 

(574) 631-4540 observer.scene.editor@gmail.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
jbarwi01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 


Policies 

The observer is the independent, daily newspaper 
published in print and online by the students of the 
university of notre dame du lac and saint mary’s 
college.  editorial content, including advertisements, is 
not governed by policies of the administration of either 
institution. The observer reserves the right to refuse 
advertisements based on content. 

The news is reported as accurately and objectively 
as possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion 
of the majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, 
assistant managing editors and department editors. 
commentaries, letters and columns present the views of 
the authors and not necessarily those of The observer. 
viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include 
contact information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed 
to Editor-in-Chief Allan Joseph. 

post office information The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The observer is published at: 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-0779 periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices posTmasTer send address corrections to: The observer p.o. box 779 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-077 The observer is a member of the associated press. all reproduction rights are reserved. 




QUESTION OF THE DAY: 

What is your favorite accent? 

Nick Nemetz 
sophomore 
sorin college 
“australian” 

Ted Wagner 
sophomore 
sorin college 
“new Zealandish” 

Tracey Cheun 
freshman 
badin hall 
“indian” 


Have a question you want answered? Email obsphoto@gmail.com 



Kelsey Amarosa 
freshman 
badin hall 
“british” 

Olivia Mitchell 
freshman 
badin hall 
“australian” 

Andrew McGloin 
sophomore alumni hall 
“irish” 



Want your event included here? 
News Sports 

John cameron chris allen Email obsnews@gmail.com 
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: dan brombach megan Finneran adam llorens brian hartnett 

Graphics Scene 

Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday 
laura laws ankur chawla 
Photo Viewpoint 

Blood Drive Fall Career Expo Fall Career Expo Trumpets Under the Midnight Drummer’s 
suzanna pratt caroline schurz 
Pasquerilla Center Joyce Center Joyce Center Dome Circle 11 a.m. - 5 p.m. 4 p.m. - 8 p.m. 4 p.m. - 8 p.m. Main Building Main Building Donate blood to the The Career Center’s The Career Center’s 4 p.m. - 4:10 p.m. 12:00 a.m. - 12:45 a.m. 
Corrections 
American Red Cross. Full-Time Fair. Internship Fair. 
The observer regards itself as a professional publication and 

Forum Discussion Opera Notre Dame Nieuwland Lecture Men’s Soccer Saturday Vigil Mass 
strives for the highest standards 
DeBartolo Performing Auditions Series Alumni Stadium Basilica of the Sacred 
of journalism at all times. we do, 
Arts Center Washington Hall Jordan Hall of Science 7:30 p.m. - 9:30 p.m. Heart 
however, recognize that we will make 
7 p.m. - 8:30 p.m. 5 p.m. - 7 p.m. 7 p.m. - 8:30 p.m. ND vs. Oregon State 7:30 p.m. - 8:30 p.m. 
mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 
“Being a Person of Auditions for the “The Higgs Boson: 

please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
Faith in a Liberal Spring production. Beyond the Headlines” 
we can correct our error. 
Democracy.” 


ndsmcobserver.com | TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 4, 2012 | The observer 

dance marathon drive kicks off 
By JILLIAN BARWICK 
saint mary’s editor 
The saint mary’s dance marathon may not take place un­til march, but fundraising efforts will kick off Thursday with the help of local favorite let’s spoon Frozen yogurt. 
The dance marathon raises funds and awareness for the 
“We are doing this for kids all over the state of Indiana. That is why Dance Marathon is such a special organization, because it reaches the lives of many and fills many more with hope.” 
Amy Tiberi 
Dance Marathon president 
young patients of riley hospital for children throughout the school year. The marathon engag­es the college and surrounding community in support of riley’s mission, said amy Tiberi, dance marathon president. 
Tiberi said she is excited to host give back night at the local yogurt shop, which will contribute 20 percent of sales from customers presenting a voucher. 
“let’s spoon has been a great lo­cal business to work with and we greatly appreciate their support,” she said. “Just printing off our flier at smcdancemarathon.com and bringing it to the store will ben­efit our cause of helping the riley hospital for children.” 
senior Taylor romens, a re­turning participant of the dance marathon, felt the choice of ven­ue was ideal for the hot summer months. 
“i think that let’s spoon’s in­volvement with dance marathon is a great way to give back to the community while also promoting their product,” romens said. “it is still pretty hot outside, so cooling off with a nice cup of frozen yogurt while giving back is a great way to end the summer nights.” 
Tiberi said she hopes to build off the marathon’s past successes. 
“entering our eighth year is a really great accomplishment in itself,” she said. “we have now raised over $460,000 to date.” 
Tiberi said she hoped the charitable cause would draw interest from notre dame as well as the college’s campus. 
“one of our goals for this year is to have more involve­ment from notre dame and to continue to spread aware­ness across the campuses,” Tiberi said. “i personally hope that everyone on campus can identify with our cause to sup­port riley hospital for children and recognize that nights like give back night and marathon night are for more than just dancing on campus.” 
Tiberi said the marathon of­fers the indiana community more than financial support. 
“we are doing this for kids all over the state of indiana,” she said. “That is why dance 
“I personally hope that everyone on campus can identify with our cause to support Riley Hospital for Children, and recognize that nights like Give Back Night and Marathon Night are for more than just dancing on campus.” 
Amy Tiberi 
Dance Marathon president 
marathon is such a special or­ganization, because it reaches the lives of many and fills many more with hope.” 
Contact Jillian Barwick at jbarwi01@saintmarys.edu 


calendar were mixed, but corriston said the charitable cause swayed many critics. 
“a lot of people initially think we’re doing something similar to a firemen’s cal­endar that objectifies men,” she said. “however, once they hear our intentions they think it’s an awesome idea,” she said. 

Contact Anna Boarini at aboari01@saintmarys.edu 
paid adverTisemenT 

Mentors 
conTinued From page 1 
kids has been a large part of my notre dame experi­ence. obviously i’ve loved it enough to take a leader­ship role.” 
The program is intended for public school students between first and sixth grade, many of whom are recruited from the govern­ment housing community, schrank said. each student is paired with a tutor, and many returning students stay with the same tutor for several semesters. 
The club operates from two locations on alter­nating days: st. casimir parish on mondays and wednesdays and st. patrick parish on Tuesdays and Thursdays. each ses­sion lasts two hours, with one devoted to reading, writing and other skill development and the oth­er comprised of a snack break and physical activ­ity period. 
“during the gym hour they play games that are centered on teamwork and team building,” schrank said. 
groups from the two sites collaborate but op­erate independently on a daily basis, she said. 
“it’s one club, but over time site coordinators have developed different systems,” schrank said. 
The st. patrick group works with students di­vided into two age groups, whereas the st. casimir group keeps the entire group together through­out, she said. 
in order to recognize the students’ efforts, the group selects a “Kid of the week” and an “athlete of the week” at each site, schrank said. 
“we believe in positive reinforcement and build­ing self-esteem,” she said. “The kids really love [the awards] and it becomes a big thing for them.” 
schrank said the club has special events that depart from the weekly routine. The most popular of these events is the talent show at the end of each school year, she said. 
“we bring the kids to campus, usually in the li­brary auditorium. The kids all show off their talents, we provide pizza and par­ents often come to watch,” she said. “it’s a fun end of the year wrap-up. The kids are always really, really excited about it.” 
The club also hosts an “athlete day” each spring, when notre dame varsity athletes join the on-site activities, schrank said. 

“They choose a book to read to the kids and they run the gym hour,” schrank said. 
many of the club’s books are sourced from its Thanksgiving break book drive, she said. 
“we get books from 
“Getting to know these kids has been a large part of my Notre Dame experience.” 
Emily Schrank 
Teamwork for Tomorrow 
president 
alumni of the club, parents of current tutors and com­munity organizations, but we can always use more,” schrank said. 
schrank said 35 students signed up for the club dur­ing activities night last week. while the quantity is lower than in the past, she said the new students’ en­thusiasm was encouraging. 
“it’s not as many as we’ve had in the past, but when we reached out to them to gauge interest everyone who signed up seemed to actually be interested,” she said. “hopefully, we can get most of them to commit.” 
Contact Christian Myers at cmyers08@nd.edu 
Calendar 
conTinued From page 1 
interviews to seek out students from dynamic backgrounds. 
“From the engineer who spends time modifying toys for disabled children to an eagle scout whose dream is to fight hunger … we were really impressed by each man’s engagement in service, dedication to academics and love for the university,” she said. “it was cool to discover so many different experiences that were still quintessentially notre dame.” 
12 models were selected from the group interviewed, but the decisions did not end there. corriston said the committee gave thorough consideration to determin­ing which student best rep­resented each month.
 “we tried to match months to their activities,” she said. “mr. october is one of the band majors, so we wanted to make sure he was [pic­tured for] a month during football season.” 
initial reactions to the 



The observer | TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 4, 2012 | ndsmcobserver.com 

Major 
conTinued From page 1 
romance languages and literatures, said the major appeals to students already acquainted with foreign languages. 
“most students at notre dame have some significant second or third language in their academic history,” cachey said. “many stu­dents are also interested in studying economics, one of the largest majors in the college of arts and letters. we put the two together to offer this major.” 
cachey said the study of language and econom­ics are more cohesive than some would think. 
“This is a major for stu­dents who are coming from economics and are drawn to languages, and vice ver­sa. For example, students who have studied advanced spanish will also study the economics of latin america and europe,” he said. “This is a natural combination in this era of globalization.” 
professor shauna williams, director of un­dergraduate studies for the department of romance languages and literatures, said the new major could pave the way to any number of professional opportunities. 
“This is a great opportu­nity for freshmen and soph­omores. it is a full major that offers limitless oppor­tunities,” williams said. “it opens the paths for working for international non-profit organizations, ngos, and it a great pre-grad major.” 
The program consists of eight courses through eco­nomics and a minimum of seven language courses, williams said. 
The departments are also hoping to establish a one-credit lecture course featur­ing distinguished alumni involved in international economics. 
williams said she is hop­ing to build off of strong ini­tial interest. 
“students are learning about this new major. [First year of studies] has been helping us disseminate the information and we will be visiting classes to talk about the major,” she said. “The interest has been exception­ally strong, but this is what we anticipated. around 12 to 15 students have already signed up for the major.” 
Contact Charitha Isanaka at cisanaka@nd.edu 
Students 
conTinued From page 1 
he misses his close-knit family in brazil. 
“people in brazil are very attached to their families … my friends are all liv­ing with their families as they’re going to college and to them it’s a very alien notion to think of living on their own, doing their own laundry and getting their own food,” suarez said.  “i think it’s hard for a lot of brazilians to study abroad because of their attach­ments to their families, regardless of what oppor­tunities may have present­ed themselves.” 
although american life is vastly different from what he was accustomed to, suarez said the move was not too difficult. 
“i’ve always grown up in a fairly american envi­ronment, i even went to an american school,” suarez said.  “it was still weird to transition from primar­ily talking in portuguese to talking in only english, but i got used to it pretty quickly.” 
Junior Jonathan Faubert said the language change was a formidable adjustment, but one he was well prepared for. 

“i’ve been to so many different countries that i don’t really get culture shock anymore,” Faubert said.  “i’m used to living in different places, and meet­ing different people in dif­ferent environments … so for me the differences be­tween mexico and notre dame were not a huge shock.” 
Faubert said the notre dame fascination with football seemed alien to him at first. 
“[on the hesburgh scholars weekend] they gave us private tours of all the facilities on cam­pus … we actually saw brian Kelly’s first prac­tice,” Faubert said.  “we all thought, ‘This is fun,’ but we didn’t understand why it was such a big deal … now i get it.” 
Junior nathalia conte silvestre said she immedi­ately adopted the football obsession. 
“The football culture is so awesome … to a degree it’s the same as soccer back home,” conte silvestre said. 
other elements of the notre dame experience also made her feel at home, conte silvestre said. 
“The religious appeal and how very accepting of faith in the students are is very appealing to me,” conte silvestre said. 
conte silvestre said she chose notre dame because it afforded her the great­est degree of academic flexibility. 
“i chose notre dame — and going to college in the states in general — because there is no liberal arts high­er education in brazil, and because i had a good idea of what i wanted to do with my life but wasn’t totally sure,” conte silvestre said. “The possibility of coming here as one major but still being able to explore other fields attracted me to notre dame … i was an [architec­ture student] first semester and then fell in love with design here.” 
The sense of communi­ty on campus was equally important, conte silvestre said. 
“i’m so attached to my family, and if i had gone to a school that didn’t have such a community feel like notre dame i wouldn’t have been able to survive,” conte silvestre said. 
Contact Nicole Michels at nmichels@nd.edu 
paid adverTisemenT paid adverTisemenT 



That’s it. I’m switching parties. 

INSIDE COLUMN 

Keeping up with all 
Courtney Cox 
assistant scene editor 

nothing captures my attention like a good old-fashioned family drama, and as petty as it may be, “Keeping up with The Kardashians” has managed to pull me in once again. There seems to be some­thing so relatable in this seemingly out of this world family. while no one near me would describe their family as being similar to the calabasas-based moguls, almost any normal family understands the Kardashian family dynamic. 
Kris Jenner, the mother of all moth­ers, runs the show. she keeps everyone on schedule and pushes everyone to work hard and do their best. most people know someone like this. Kris is that mo­tivator who lights a fire under us all and transforms even the most normal family into an untouchable empire. 
Kim Kardashian is the star. she may not be the funniest, cute or interesting. when Kris has a chance to thrust Kim into the spotlight she never wastes a sec­ond. it’s because of this that the world was forced to watch Kim Kardashian’s two-hour wedding special on e! every family has a Kim. 
Khloe is the underdog. she made a life for herself outside of the confines of the Kardashian palace when she married lamar odom, but she didn’t get the priv­ilege of a two-hour special. poor Khloe. There’s something so likeable about her though. you respect her for distancing herself from her family. Khloe’s the per­son in the family who moved away. 
Kourtney is the rational one. no line captures this more than her deadpan “Kim, people are dying,” after Kim be­gan weeping about her lost diamond earring. her off-the-wall boyfriend scott serves as comic relief for the rest of the high-strung family. Kourtney and scott are the rock to this otherwise emotional rollercoaster of a family. 
rob Kardashian is the black sheep. he shacks up at Khloe and lamar’s place despite being a grown man and he nev­er seems to hear the end of the endless string of teasing his older sisters unleash on him. wildly insecure and tragically underworked, rob has so much potential but he can’t seem to do anything with his time but shop for hair loss products and get tattoos of Kris on his arm. 
Father bruce Jenner seems so out of place in this estrogen-filled environ­ment. watching him with his youngest daughters Kendall and Kylie just solidi­fies bruce as the typical dad. 
your family may not be covered in eye­liner and pleather like the Kardashians, but everyone has a matriarch, a star, an underdog, a rock, a black sheep and a dopey dad. maybe we’re not that differ­ent from the Kardashians after all. 
Contact Courtney Cox at ccox3@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Leila Green 
off the wall 
it worked. i am no longer a mem­ber of the handout-asking, illegal alien smuggling, abortion-getting gang of socialists otherwise known as democrats. i’m a republican now. i can attribute this sudden change of heart to my own stupidity. i guess i was too busy rigging elections and hanging up obama posters in my dorm. what caused this sudden change in belief? your compelling argument. you really outdid yourself this time. i’m thoroughly persuaded. everything i once believed with ut­most conviction has been proved invalid. you’re right: tax breaks to the rich always trickle down, gay mar­riage is wrong and the government shouldn’t be helping those poor people so much. what was i thinking? all i needed was a little convincing to come over from the dark side. 
… 
you know those polarizing political debates we sometimes have in class or in the dining hall? Those debates in which you are sincerely convinced that you can persuade the other person that you are right? The ones that are supposed to end with: “you know what mike, you are right. we republicans are stupid, greedy and don’t know anything about the real world. it is a woman’s choice. now where do i sign up for college democrats?” at which point your now former republican crony is supposed to remove himself from the college republican’s listserv and quit his job as editor-in-chief of the irish rover. how realistic is the expectation of a sudden, complacent change of opinion? 
at least once a month while eating in the dining hall, the people down the table treat me to a heated abortion debate that goes absolutely nowhere. with the first audible utterance of “abor-” i promptly cover my ears, hum loudly and enter a catatonic state that may or may not also be prompted by the gay marriage debate happening at the table behind me. 
be honest. when we enter political debates with people of different par­ties, it isn’t some carefully coordinated catharsis. in such case they would be passive-aggressive mentions of our beliefs shared over tea, prozac and suggestively placed right to life flyers. 
we want to hear what they have to say, judge it (and them) and then change their mind using valid, sound arguments. we scheme for that “aha!” moment when so and so changes his or her mind and emerges from igno­rance to enlightenment. i fantasize about this moment. i can already pic­ture the balloons fall from the sky as the republican party disbands, and the glorious trumpets sound from the heavens. will it ever happen? no. am i okay with that? yes. or else, whom could i argue with, and what would motivate me into political action? we need opposition. we need something to ignite our fire. There is no sense in preaching to the choir. 
of course, frustration or difficulty should not prompt us to avoid politi­cal discourse. if we did, we would be treading some awkward political purgatory where republicans and democrats are giving each other the silent treatment, which, in a sense, is currently happening. i think we can all agree that stimulating, intellec­tual conversations across party lines centered on political issues are gener­ally good. mussolini and Kim Jong-il did not principally agree with this. need i say more? 

people tend to hold steadfast to their beliefs. This is both admirable and frustrating. it is admirable because it keeps us from entering political purga­tory. it is frustrating because with the fervor that i believe a birther is igno­rant, they may think the same of me. That is a disconcerting, rather horrify­ing thought, but what keeps me sane is knowing that we have free will and are entitled to our own opinions as long as they do not endanger others. 
The spectrum of political and moral belief is truly fascinating. it is amazing how one person can believe that the death penalty is wrong while another may believe that it is totally accept­able. The lives we have led define our beliefs. The complexity of our history, experiences and influences factor into what we think is wrong, what we think is right and whom we will vote for. 
our democracy allows for freedom of belief. believe what you want as long as it does not cause harm. argue all you want as long as you listen as much as you speak. it is very hard to change someone’s opinion; they have to do that on their own. ultimately, be thankful that you have the freedom to express your opinions and take advan­tage of your ability to cultivate them. The absence of discourse indicates apathy. Keep your ears attentive and your mind open. 
Leila Green can be reached at lgreen2@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“life is difficult and complicated and beyond anyone’s total control, and the humility to know that will enable you to survive its vicissitudes.” 
J.K. Rowling British Fantasy Author 
WEEKLY POLL 

How do you keep up with news on campus? 
Tweet your response with #viewpointpoll by 5 p.m. Thursday. 


Another semester begins for the SIBC 
Flavio Gregorio 
guest columnist 

as the new school year begins, so too does another semester for the student international business council (sibc). The sibc is the largest student-run organization on campus with over 400 active members. it is open to students of all classes and majors. For those in­terested, the all-council kickoff night will be held at 8 p.m. on monday in the Jordan auditorium in the mendoza school of business. 
The council operates in two func­tional areas: summer internships and semester-long projects. This past sum­mer, students who participated in the internships worked in south Korea, china, Thailand, ecuador and the united states in functional areas rang­ing from u.s. start-ups to microfinance in latin america and financial trading in asia. 
The project side of the council part­ners students with world leading cor­porations across the four divisions of finance, accounting, marketing and consulting, providing real-world ex­perience in each of these fields. This semester, we will be offering over 30 projects with industry leaders such as goldman sachs, nbc sports, bain & co., mcKinsey & co., deloitte & Touche and many more. at the conclusion of each project, students will travel throughout the country and present their findings to each corporation with their teams. 
while we look forward to this upcom­ing school year and what the future brings, we would like to highlight some of the most exciting initiatives that were launched last semester. 
in January 2012, the sibc wel­comed delegates from from global view initiative (gvi), a student-led organization at the prestigious peking university in china. students from notre dame and peking university worked together to research, examine and make recommendations in for­mal presentations to faculty regarding future business trends that will affect both the united states and china. 
over fall break in october, 12 sibc delegates will be traveling to peking university in beijing for a similar col­laboration, strengthening relationships between students from both countries. 
in addition to the international gvi initiative, the sibc began exploring new domestic opportunities in 2012. 
This summer, the sibc partnered with Klutchclub, a chicago-based start-up, to provide an sibc member the op­portunity to intern at the start-up. This opportunity marks a renewed focus by the sibc to find ways to further “peace through commerce” both internation­ally and domestically. with additional domestic internship opportunities on the horizon, the sibc anticipates the 2012-2013 school year will be a very exciting one for new domestic opportunities. 
while these are just a few recent initiatives, the sibc is constantly re­searching and evaluating new ways to provide new opportunities to members, both domestically and internationally as has been the case throughout the council’s twenty three year history. 
The sibc was founded 23 years ago through a collaboration of dedi­cated notre dame students, mr. Frank potenziani (our benefactor) and Fr. Theodore hesburgh. it began as a fo­rum exploring the impacts of globaliza­tion on our society under the name, The notre dame council on international business development. students rec­ognized the changing nature of the global economy, however, they felt that textbooks were insufficient to learn about how this was changing the world we live in. as companies could no lon­ger concentrate solely on the domestic market, students viewed these changes as offering a meaningful opportunity to gain valuable business experience. 

Through their vision and hard work, they formed what has become the largest student organization on notre dame’s campus. now known since 2000 as the student international business council (sibc), the sibc seeks to fulfill its vision of “peace Through commerce” by interacting with global companies and organizations, while educating its members and the notre dame community about the different aspects of international business. 
Throughout the course of the semes­ter, the sibc will provide bi-weekly up­dates on various council initiatives and activities. again, the upcoming year promises to be a very exciting one and we hope to see any interested students at the Jordan auditorium on september 10th at 8 p.m. 
Flavio Gregorio is a senior. He can be reached at fgregori@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
i just can’t get enough 
Anna Gorman who don’t even have access to safe office of sustainability drinking water, it’s just sad. From an environmental standpoint, the waste of 
i don’t know about you all, but every plastic is obvious. however, even if this time i stick my water bottle in front of argument is tired and unconvincing to the sensor on a hydration station, i get you, there are multiples other ways that this little rush, this feeling of excite-bottled water greatly harms the envi­ment and anticipation. it’s like a Jack in ronment. bottled water production uses the box type thing, but less terrifying. about 2,000 times the energy of produc­i know it’s coming, but part of me still ing tap water.   wonders if it will. Then, when the coun-The fact that people pay such bloated ter turns, the show’s over, and i drink prices for bottled water is fairly silly.  the water. geez oh man. about half the time this water comes 
if you haven’t tried it yet, it’s deli-from the tap anyway. There’s also the cious. you feel clean and refreshed after fact that these companies devastate drinking it. it’s everything you ever town residents by using up the available wanted from your water and more. as tap water for their bottling practices. one of my friends put it: “it’s so good, i so, if you see a friend with a “dispos­want to shower in it.” Truth. able” water bottle, chide them. carry 
now how could this situation get any your reusable water bottle around, si­better? well, many of the dorms part-lently encouraging others to get on your nered with the office of sustainability level and embrace the reusable as well. to provide all residents a swanky, hall-if you do end up purchasing a bottle of specific reusable water bottle. Two water, redeem yourself by refilling it a major wins in just a few weeks time.  few times and then recycling it. you’re what else makes this situation fantas-the best! tic? you’re simultaneously helping save ‘Til next time, drink a few bottles for the environment and promoting social me and enjoy! justice. 
some of you may not buy into this Anna Gorman can be reached at fact, but it’s true. To produce one liter agorman@nd.edu of bottled water, it takes almost three The views expressed in this column liters of tap water. when you think are those of the author and not about all the people around the world necessarily those of The Observer. 
UWIRE 

Former usc athletes allegedly received improper benefits 
Jefferson was at usc for one season, 
Joey Kaufman 

2007-08, before similarly declaring 
daily Trojan 

for the nba draft but was not taken in 
a former los angeles county ap-either round. praiser allegedly provided thousands Though coming on the heels of a of dollars worth of impermissible two-year postseason ban, usc still benefits to two former usc student-remains on probation following sanc­athletes, according to a report released tions handed down by the ncaa in saturday by the los angeles Times. June 2010. so, it could be classified 
The Times, under the california as a repeat violator should the ncaa public records act, obtained emails determine mcKnight and Jefferson did from the los angeles county’s as-receive improper benefits. sessor’s office, suggesting that scott “i can personally assure you that schenter provided former running usc takes its compliance obligations back Joe mcKnight a car and an airline with ncaa and pac-12 rules extremely ticket and former basketball forward seriously and we are dedicated to davon Jefferson roughly $3,700 in playing and competing the right way,” cash. school officials told the Times haden added. they immediately reported the allega-schenter was first tied to mcKnight tions to the ncaa and announced in 2009 when the Times first reported saturday they will investigate the re-mcKnight had been seen driving port as well. a $27,000 land rover around the 
“we have just learned of new alle-university park campus. The land gations presented by a reporter from rover had been listed under schenter’s the los angeles Times,” usc athletic name. mcKnight was then held out of director pat haden wrote in a state-the Trojans’ next game, the emerald ment on the school’s website. “we have bowl on dec. 26, 2009 – a 24-13 win for 

discussed those allegations with the usc over boston college. ncaa and pac-12, and we will thor­oughly investigate them and take any This column originally ran in the Sept. and all necessary actions.” 3 issue of the Daily Trojan, serving the 
mcKnight played for the Trojans University of Southern California. from 2007-2009 before declaring for The views expressed in this column are the nFl draft where he was selected in those of the author and not necessarily the fourth round by the new york Jets. those of The Observer. 

used any intertitles, placards inscribed with dialogue or lotte eisner, a turn-of-the-century French-german 
By MEGHAN THOMASSEN 

scene writer narration, which placed even more importance on the film critic, said “[The last laugh] is preeminently a 
actors’ talent to convey the story. german tragedy, and can only be understood in a coun­
“The classic 100” at the debartolo performing arts The film stars one of hollywood’s patriarchs, try where uniform is king, not to say god.” it is not hard center will begin Tuesday with “The last laugh (der german-austrian actor emil Jannings. he was the first to imagine, however, how americans can relate to the ietzte mann),” a 1924 silent film directed by german actor to win the academy award for best actor and the doorman’s preoccupation with status. Jannings en-director F.w. murnau. a live score will accompany the first to be presented an oscar. Jannings plays the door-dears the audience to the doorman’s sterling work ethic film screening with a piano performance by a student man with perfect bumbling determination. he takes and optimistic nature. “The last laugh” touches the in the music department. evident pride in his position as he preens in his ornate heart and arouses an outcry for justice for the doorman. 
in this film, a proud but aging doorman endures a uniform and evokes a sort of german Jeeves. The door-humiliating demotion and has no choice but to sleep in man’s entire identity depends on his appearance, espe­his workplace. only the night watchman gives him any cially among his neighbors, so he is naturally crushed Contact Meghan Thomassen at mthomass@nd.edu pity, as the rest of the doorman’s friends and family re-when he descends to a washroom attendant. buke him. even though the doorman’s fate seems cruel, silent films may seem simple in the way the charac­
the finale gratifies with a delicious twist. The film also ters move about the set accompanied by instrumental provides a charming look into german life, the domes-music. The black and white faces mime fear, joy, sorrow tic joys and social norms that defined germany in the and evil with almost laughable elasticity. but they are 1920s. also mysterious and open to the audience’s interpreta-
On Campus 

“The last laugh” lives on for its significant position tion. contemporary movies apply heavy doses of sen-
What:  “The Last Laugh” 
in filmmaking history. it was one of the first films to sory overload (ahem, “Transformers”) and leave little to 
Where: DPAC 

use dynamic camera angles. The camera bobbed in the imagination. and out of rooms, popped close to character’s face as silent films, however, project shadows on a screen 
When: 8p.m. Tuesday 
they emoted and darted out again for a full action shot. and characters grow larger than life through subtle ges-
How Much: Free with student ID 
French filmmaker marcel carnelater said, “The camera tures and looks. drama arises naturally as the audience 
Learn More: www.performingarts.nd.edu 
... glides, rises, zooms or weaves where the story takes tries to guess the true thoughts and intentions of the it. it is no longer fixed, but takes part in the action and characters. The result in “The last laugh” is engaged becomes a character in the drama.” murnau also barely enchantment. 


nearby close well before 6. luckily, the ihop used food coloring and processed co-spot around town let me know and i will be 
ANKUR CHAWLA 
international house of pancakes, ihop, was coa powder, they were still sure to maintain sure to add it to my list. or if you think you 
scene writer 

open and had the perfect dish for my break-the deep chocolate flavor that is supposed to make the best pancakes in town, i would be fast craving. while my expertise and love of be at the dish’s core. Furthermore the pan-happy to taste test them and make you a stack 
with my time at The observer, i have re-red velvet typically revolves around its cup-cakes were, as one would expect from an in-as well. viewed everything from cupcakes to the best cake form, i made an exception for ihop’s ternational house of them, perfectly cooked, Contact Ankur Chawla at foreign food restaurants south bend has to limited edition red velvet pancakes and they light and fluffy. achawla@nd.edu offer. despite these ventures, i have unfairly did not disappoint. smothering the stack of pancakes was a The views in this column are those of the au­ignored my favorite meal of the day: break-all too often, red velvet cake is a sad ex-generous helping of delectable cream cheese thor and  not necessarily those of The Observer. fast. Thus, over the next few months i will be cuse for what the classic dish embodies. icing that had a perfect balance of sweetness 
on a quest to find the best breakfast places in Traditionally, red velvet’s deep red color was and flavor on top of the syrupy consistency the area (yes, north and south dining halls achieved by the reaction of acidic vinegar and appropriate for pancakes. Topping that off 
International House of 
are on the list). now, i tend to enjoy the sweet buttermilk revealing the red anthocyanin in are the almost half a dozen flavors of syrup at 
Pancakes - Red Velvet 
breakfast foods opposed to savory, so please pure cocoa. The decadent and smooth cake the table including boysenberry, strawberry, 
Pancakes 
forgive me if i focus too much on pancakes, was even aptly nicknamed “devil’s food” blueberry, classic old fashioned, and my per-crepes, and waffles and you yourself are an apart from red velvet and was known for its sonal favorite butter pecan. omelet person. overpowering chocolate flavor and luscious one might say this dish is more dessert 
Location: 4115 North Main Street  
The first of my ventures was just this texture. however, since processed cocoa than breakfast or dinner, and to that i say 
Mishawaka, IN 46545 
past weekend, when around 6pm saturday powder has become the norm in baking and touché. still, i regret nothing and would order evening, in the awkwardly early hours af-cooking, red food coloring has dominated these pancakes again (and again), especially 
Hours: Mon-Thu, 7a.m. - 10p.m., Fri-Sat 
7-12a.m. 
ter watching the irish win, i was jones-ing the recipe with people more interested in the since they are quite a steal at just over one-dol­
for “brinner”: the meal made famous by artificial ruby red color rather than the rich, lar-a-pancake. while i am looking forward to “scrubs.” unfortunately for me, and you if you chocolaty flavor (most people i talked to had trying every pancake spot in the area, it will be like waffles, bacon, and eggs for dinner, most no idea red velvet even had chocolate). hard to top these. 

of the traditional breakfast establishments while i have no doubt the pancakes at if you have a favorite breakfast or pancake 
LAURA LAWS | Observer Graphic 


By CAROLYN TUREK 
scene writer 

in my two years living in an all-girls dorm at notre dame, i believe i have found an ad­ditional entry to the long list of “Things notre dame students like,” — the gilmore girls. based on the studious, ambitious, and kind qualities embodied at this school, it is not surprising that many nd girls identify with the epitome of those qualities, rory gilmore. consequently, it is not hard to see why so many dorm rooms possess the show’s seven-season dvd collection. however, since the 2007 finale of “gilmore girls,” fans have been forced to enjoy the show’s witty sarcasm and pop culture references in reruns. That is, un­til abc Family’s newest addition “bunheads” premiered this past June. 
“bunheads,” the most recent prod­uct of “gilmore girls” creator amy sherman-palladino, is the story of las vegas showgirl michelle simms (broadway star sutton Foster) and her spontaneous inser­tion into the small-town universe of paradise, california. Finding herself both married and widowed in the span of a single one-hour episode, michelle quickly finds a leading role at paradise dance academy, opposite her new mother-in-law and highly esteemed dance teacher (Kelly bishop). so begins the transportation back to stars hollow, home of the beloved gilmore girls, led by matri­arch emily gilmore — oops, i mean Fanny Flowers. 
Though set at Fanny’s dance studio rather than miss patty’s and at an “oyster bar” rath­er than luke’s diner, sherman-palladino’s signature mile-a-minute dialogue still re­mains.  it is clear that sherman-palladino’s writing is the key to Tv success, attracting viewers that appreciate smart humor and slightly off-kilter characters. her addition of six “gilmore girls” veteran actors throughout the 10-episode summer run of “bunheads” is simply the icing on the cake. The relocation of sean gunn, rose abdoo, gregg henry, chris eigeman, Todd lowe and Kelly bishop to paradise makes the reappearance of “the classic gilmore girls” humor and charm all the more sweet. 
“bunheads” has been a great success this summer, due in part to its similarities to “gilmore girls.” its echoes of stars hollow are a dream-come-true for fans like me who have been pining for the gilmore girls since their sad 2007 departure from prime time Tv. our favorite characters’ reappearances are long overdue and a welcome change to the flat characters that have become Tv’s stan­dard. when “bunheads” makes its return to abc Family, perhaps we can look forward to more gilmore girls appearances from say, michael winters or yanic Truesdale. maybe paradise could use its own Taylor doose or michel, or even a cameo from the gilmore girls, themselves. 

The following is an introduction to our stars hollow favorites’ new roles in paradise. 
other “gilmore girls” doubles include chris eiseman, as Jason on “gilmore girls” and theater director conor on “bunheads; and rose abdoo, as gypsy on “gilmore girls” and tap-dance student sam on “bunheads.” amy sherman-palladino also recruits sam phillips again in the “bunheads” music department, con­tributing to the small-town sounds of paradise. 


Kelly bishop’s two maternal charac­ters are nearly indistinguishable, save for Fanny’s more bohemian clothing style and penchant for kitschy knick-knacks. both Fanny and emily occupy central roles with­in their respective community bubbles and they both possess clever rapports with their respective daughters. and though michelle simms is not played by “gilmore girls” vet­eran lauren graham, if one pays attention to only the dialogue in “bunheads,” it is far too easy to picture lorelai gilmore residing in paradise. 
all true “gilmore girls” fans remember mitchum huntzberger well as the power-wielding father of rory’s college boyfriend and the cause of rory’s academic downfall. it seems that karma has followed-up with mr. huntzberger as he moves to paradise. now the lethargic and openly alcoholic owner of the town surf bar, gregg henry has traded in his tailored suits and superior de­meanor for comfy t-shirts and a lackadaisi­cal surfer-dude ‘tude. 
sean gunn, the wildly quirky, perenni­ally job-changing and self-searching Kirk of “gilmore girls” has made a much-anticipat­ed return to amy sherman-palladino’s cre­ative universe. sean gunn entered paradise as the world-renowned barista, sebastian “bash.” Kirk’s antics were predictably dorky and their details laughably unpredictable; bash’s antics are much the same. michelle (apparently possessing a coffee addiction of gilmore proportions) is shocked and ap­palled to see bash’s customers reading nov­els and doing homework while patiently waiting in line for their morning cups. she soon learns that bash hand-selects his cof­fee beans used in each brew and he uses his mystically insightful powers to suggest the appropriate blend for each customer, thus turning a morning coffee run into an hour-long event. Kirk would surely be proud of this endeavor in entrepreneurship. 

Todd lowe makes his appearance on “bunheads” loud and notable, this time with an eye patch rather than a guitar. previously, Todd lowe played the lovable, if oblivious member of hep alien. now, he returns as the one-eyed town plumber and love interest of Truly, the owner of a dress shop, sparkles, and Fanny Flower’s wan­nabe daughter-in-law. 
Contact Carolyn Turek at cturek@nd.edu 
LAURA LAWS | Observer Graphic 

SPORTS AUTHORITY 

replacement refs threaten game 

Peter Steiner 
sports writer 
The time is finally upon us. 
The rosters have been trimmed, fantasy drafts completed and even though Terrell owens failed to make the seahawks roster, the pop­corn is ready for the opening week of the nFl. 
but amidst all the excite­ment of the new season, let’s take a step back to remember where we stood roughly one year ago — fans, manage­ment and players alike let out a collective sigh of relief as the new collective bargaining agreement was signed. The lockout had ended and ev­eryone involved was excited that football was back and unaffected by the four-month trench fight between the nFl and nFlpa. 
Fast forward one year, where we can all be glad the players last year? 
we probably wouldn’t be having this conversation if the replacement refs had offi­ciated this preseason without many problems. but the fact is, they have been nothing short of awful. you could fill an entire sportscenter not Top 10 with the gaffes by replacement refs in just this preseason. 
while the fans can voice their disapproval, the real critics should be the players. and judging by their out­cries, they are frustrated with the subpar officiating this preseason and undoubtedly worried about how this issue will affect the regular sea­son. They shouldn’t have to deal with inadequate referees when other, more qualified and previously successful of­ficials exist. 
as the lockout becomes more and more public, the nFlra will continue to 

“Unfortunately, this year has dealt us yet another lockout. And although it is less public than the last, it still poses a significant threat to the quality of the game we know and love.” 
that america’s most popular sport isn’t affected by con­tract disputes and pension negotiations, right? wrong. unfortunately, this year has dealt us yet another lockout. and although it is less public than the last, it still poses a significant threat to the qual­ity of the game we know and love. 
last week, the nFl an­nounced its plans to use replacement referees in the first week of the nFl season as the lockout of the nFl referees association (nFlra) continues. 
The battle began in early June, but unlike last year’s lockout, the two sides have still failed to come to an agreement despite the ap­proaching regular season. 
as a quick summary of the dispute, the issues at hand deal with the pay increase percentage, pension agree­ment and number of full-time referees the nFlra is re­quired to have. in most recent talks, the referees and the nFl were about $16 million apart for the seven-year deal. 
if you have a hard time un­derstanding why $16 million matters so much to the nFl, i’m with you. over the seven-year span of the deal, that equates to under $75,000 per team per year. besides, is this not the same nFl that was arguing how to split the an­nual $9 billion profit-pie with gain leverage. The players’ complaints and mistakes by the replacement referees only serve to strengthen the negotiating position of the nFlra. 
can you imagine the tur­moil that would occur if a referee blows a late call that changes the outcome of the game? i call to mind the an­ger in 2008 against one of the league’s best referees, ed hochuli, when he ruled Jay cutler’s late fumble an in­complete pass, which allowed the chargers to win the game. i can only imagine the criti­cism the nFl would receive if such an event took place with a replacement referee. 
in the end, the lockout is about power and the nFl doesn’t look willing to relin­quish any of its own by giv­ing in to the nFlra. it will be interesting to see how the situation plays out in the next month, especially if the re­placements continue without errors. 
with or without the lock­out, america is ready for some football. let’s just hope the quality of the game isn’t drastically affected by the situation. 
Contact Peter Steiner at psteiner@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
NFL 

NFL season likely to start with replacement referees 
Associated Press 
new yorK — officially — at least in their comments — nFl players and coaches aren’t concerning themselves with refereering. 
The nFl and its locked-out officials weren’t talking two days before the season begins, a clear indication replace­ments will be on the field for wednesday night’s opener. 
doesn’t matter, according to many of the guys who call the plays or carry them out. 
“we’re going to play the games regardless,” chargers all-pro safety eric weddle said monday. 
“everyone makes mistakes. i make mistakes. it’s just the way human nature is. you can’t get hard on guys that are trying to do the best they can. you’ve just got to deal with it. 
“each week, each game, each practice, they’ll get bet­ter, so it’s not a concern of ours. regardless, we’ve got to go out there and execute and take it out of their hands. let’s go out and play good football, execute at a high level and then they won’t be in position to throw 
flags  and  make  judgment  
calls.”  
broncos  coach  John  Fox  

echoed those thoughts. 
“in this game you’ve got to overcome a lot of things,” Fox said. “you’ve got to overcome the other team. sometimes you’ve got to overcome your own mistakes. so, officials have always been a part of it and they’ve never been an ex­cuse. so, i don’t care who’s out there, we’ve got to worry about how we’re playing and we’ll 

PERSONAL 
. 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don’t go it alone. Notre Dame has many resources in place to assist you. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Ann Whitall at 1-0084 or Karen Kennedy at 1-5550. For more information, visit ND’s website at: http://pregnancysupport@nd.edu 

all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
“Glory Days” by Bruce Springsteen 
I had a friend was a big base­ball player back in high school, He could throw that speedball by you, Make you look like a fool boy, Saw him the other night at this roadside bar I was walking in, he was walking out, We went back in­side, sat down, had a few drinks, but all he kept talking about was 
Chorus: Glory days well they’ll pass you by, Glory days in the wink of a young girl’s eye, Glory days, glory days 
Well there’s a girl that lives up the block, back in school she could turn all the boy’s heads, Sometimes on a Friday I’ll stop by and have a few drinks after she put her kids to bed, Her and her husband Bobby well they split up, I guess it’s two years gone by now, We just sit around talking about the old times,, she 

deal with whatever they call, whether it’s old guys, new guys, middle guys. Their stuff some­times influences the game, but you’ve got to overcome that.” 
both sides met for three days last week, but did not reach an agreement to end the three-month lockout. The replace­ment officials who worked the preseason games amid much criticism will handle the cowboys at giants opener and the other 15 games on the weekend. 
“you just have to play your game. you can’t even pay any attention to it now at this point,” giants receiver victor cruz said monday. “you just have to go out there and trust that they are spending time in the meeting rooms and those referee rooms, reading the plays and getting the calls down.” 
The league and the nFl referees association, which covers more than 120 on-field officials, are at odds over sal­ary, retirement benefits and operational issues. The nFl has said its offer includes an­nual pay increases that could earn an experienced official more than $200,000 annually by 2018. The nFlra has dis­puted the value of the propos­al, insisting it would ultimately reduce their compensation. 
with the stalemate, the nFl will use replacements in the regular season for the first time since the opening week of 2001, days after the terrorist attacks. 
many of those replacements came from the highest levels of college football, something that has changed drastically this year. The current replace­ment crews are comprised of mainly of officials from the arena league, and the ncaa division ii and iii levels. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit 
says when she feels like crying, she starts laughing thinking about. 
Now I think I’m going down to the well tonight, and I’m going to drink till I get my fill, And I hope when I get old I don’t sit around thinking about it, but I probably will, Yeah, just sit­ting back trying to recapture, a little of the glory of, well time slips away, and leaves you with nothing mister but, boring stories of glory days. 
Chorus (repeat twice) 
Quotes of the Day: 
“The greatest pleasure in life is doing what people say you cannot do,” -Walter Bagehot 
If I have lost confidence in my­self, I have the universe against me,” -Ralph Waldo Emerson 
paid adverTisemenT The observer | TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 4, 2012 | ndsmcobserver.com 




PARALYMPICS 

Debate over blades cuts into Pistorius’ legacy 

Associated Press 
london — after years as the poster boy of the paralympics, a chastened oscar pistorius moved monday to defuse the row that threatens to blemish the clean-cut image he forged during a protracted struggle for acceptance within his sport. 
Throughout numerous legal fights to be allowed to compete alongside able-bodied rivals, pistorius could at least always count on returning as the icon of the paralympics and collect­ing gold medals. 
but the era of paralympic invincibility for the so-called “blade runner” appeared to end when his bid for a third straight gold in the 200 meters was thwarted sunday night by another double amputee on carbon fiber prosthesis. 
victory seemed certain for pistorius when he reached the bend on the london track, but alan oliveira of brazil came storming down the home straight on his blades to over­take the defending champion. 
rather than hailing his rival, pistorius accused the 20-year­old brazilian of gaining an un­fair edge by using lengthened blades. That’s despite spend­ing years himself convinc­ing authorities that he should be allowed to compete in the olympics — a feat he achieved last month — because his pros­thesis did not influence his ath­letic capabilities. 
having called on the world to focus on the abilities of ath­letes rather than their disabili­ties before the london games, pistorius has shifted the spot­light back onto the advantage technology might provide. 
To many, the south african sounded like a sore los­er by launching his tirade within minutes of his first ever paralympic loss in the 200, fail­ing to defend the first of three titles from beijing. 
“i would never want to detract from another athlete’s moment of triumph,” he said in a state­ment on monday. “and i want to apologize for the timing of my comments.” 
however, pistorius was un­wavering in his determination to ensure the international paralympic committee tight­ens the formula used to calcu­late the acceptable length of blades. 
“i do believe that there is an issue here and i welcome the opportunity to discuss it with the ipc, but i accept that rais­ing these concerns immediately as i stepped off the track was wrong,” pistorius said. “That was alan’s moment and i would like to put on record the respect i have for him. 
“i am a proud paralympian and believe in the fairness of sport. i am happy to work with the ipc, who obviously share these aims”. 
The ipc insists the length of oliveira’s blades were pro­portional to his body, with all the finalists measured before sunday’s race. but the ipc knows it cannot ignore perhaps the only globally recognizable star of the paralympics. 
“clearly we don’t want ath­letes running on stilts,” ipc communications director craig spence said. “what we need to do is have a formal meeting with all the experts in the room. he might propose some changes, but out of credit to the athlete, who has done so much for the paralympic movement, those comments he has shouldn’t fall on deaf ears.” 
The formula that determines the length of blades allowed height for the first time last year and it was difficult to get used to them. i decided to try them again earlier this year and it went a little bit better. Three weeks ago, we decided to really go for it. 

“The prosthesis don’t run alone. of course they are good for an improvement, but there is not a significant time difference.” 
while pistorius claimed it was an unfair race because he couldn’t compete with oliveira’s stride length, south african sports scientist ross Tucker found that the loser in fact took six fewer steps than the winner. 
“The leg-length issue is an ‘advantage’ that pistorius has always had, and we’ve been watching him compete for years not knowing if he’s done the exact same thing as he is now accusing oliveira of,” Tucker wrote in an analysis of the race on his sportsscientists. com website. 
The row threatens to rumble on for the remainder of the paralympics, with oliveira po­tentially standing in the way of pistorius repeating his trio of golds in beijing. 
next up is the 4x100 relay on wednesday, before pistorius bids to defend his titles in the 100 on Thursday and 400 on saturday if he reaches the finals. 
calculates the predicted height of an athlete, plus 3.5 percent to account for the on-toes running position. 
pistorius’ maximum allow­able height is 1.93 meters, yet he opts to stand at 1.84m in blades that were subjected to stringent testing in 2008 to show they provide no advantage when competing alongside able-bod­ied rivals. 
oliveira, whose limit is 1.85 meters, claimed monday that his blades gave him a race height of 1.81 the previous night. 
“The coaches and i decided to try a higher blade,” oliveira was quoted as saying by The guardian. “i tried the new 
paid adverTisemenT ndsmcobserver.com | TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 4, 2012 | The observer 




SMC SOCCER 

belles to compete with neighbor 

By MATT STEWART 
sports writer 
saint mary’s does not have to travel far for its final test in non-conference play, as it will challenge neighbor holy cross Tuesday. The belles will try to earn their second win of the season following a win against bethel and tie against illinois Tech this past weekend. 
belles coach michael Joyce stressed that these first few games of the season present an excellent opportunity to find who belongs at each position. 
“what we’re mostly concen­trating on these first few games is getting the right people in the right positions on the field,” Joyce said. “so that is the biggest thing we take away from the games, who can perform at a high level when there is pressure.” 
Joyce noted the strength of 
the  team’s  defense  and  said  
he  is  hopeful  for  offensive  
improvements.  

“i think our defending will be a strength for us all season,” Joyce said. “i don’t think we’ll allow many goals this year, but we’ll have to do a better job of finishing and creating chances offensively.” 
sophomore goalkeeper chanler rosenbaum was at the core of the defensive front in the first two games. rosenbaum, last week’s miaa defensive player of the week, has not let a goal past her so far this season. 
chanler’s superb goalkeep­ing will be essential against holy cross, who tallied 50 shots against st. mary of the woods last week. 
“she gives our team a lot of con­fidence to defend aggressively,” Joyce said. 
The belles will hope to add onto the first defensive effort of the first two games against holy cross. The team will try to solidify each position prior to conference play, which starts sept. 13. 
“The holy cross game is one more chance, and our last chance to get prepared for our conference games,” Joyce said. “so we’ll con­centrate on a few players in posi­tions to make sure we’re set up for conference play. 
“The team will be excited to compete again quickly. we were a little unsatisfied to come away with a tie at illinois Tech, so it will be nice to get back on the field quickly to try and get a result.” 
The belles will take the field at holy cross on Tuesday at 5 p.m. 
Contact Matt Stewart at mstewar5@nd.edu 
paid adverTisemenT 
MLB 

Giants top Diamondbacks 
Associated Press 
san Francisco — marco scutaro hit an rbi single in the 10th inning after buster posey’s tying double in the ninth, and the san Francisco giants rallied to beat the arizona diamondbacks 9-8 on monday. 
brandon crawford beat out a single to short lead­ing off the final inning and moved to second when brett pill dropped his first career sacrifice bunt. angel pagan grounded out to first to ad­vance crawford to third. 

scutaro sent the final fastball from bryan shaw (1-5) past diving third base­man chris Johnson for san Francisco’s seventh walk-off win. scutaro also doubled and scored the tying run in the ninth to help hand J.J. putz his second straight blown save. 
putz had converted 19 con­secutive saves until blowing a chance against the dodgers on sunday. 
sergio romo (4-2) pitched a perfect 10th for the giants. 
scutaro hit a double to left leading off the ninth against putz and moved to third on pablo sandoval’s groundout. posey doubled down the left-field line to score scutaro. 
putz intentionally walked hunter pence and struck out Xavier nady swinging. with a full count and an announced sellout crowd of 42,045 roar­ing to its feet, he struck out hector sanchez and quieted aT&T park. 
at least for a little. 

The giants, coming off a 5-1 road trip against chicago and houston, returned home with a 4½-game lead over the dodgers in the nl west. The loss gave arizona, now 10½ back of san Francisco, an­other blow to its fading playoff hopes. 
The giants handed starter barry Zito plenty of support in the first inning. 
on a relatively warm, wind­less day by san Francisco standards, posey’s fly carried over the head of right fielder Justin upton and off the score­board for a double that scored scutaro. pence followed with a two-run triple and sanchez’s infield single gave the giants a 4-0 lead. 
Zito struck out five of the first seven he faced and had arizona’s hitters chasing pitches all over the zone and in the dirt — until he didn’t. 
in the fifth, chris Johnson sent an 80 mph cutter over the wall in left for his 14th home run, a two-run shot that sliced san Francisco’s lead to 4-2. Zito was replaced by guillermo moto after al­lowing consecutive singles to upton and Jason Kubel to open the sixth. 
arizona sent ten batters to the plate in the inning while getting an rbi from five dif­ferent players — Johnson, paul goldschmidt, willie bloomquist, chris young and aaron hill — to take a 7-4 lead. goldschmidt’s double was the only extra-base hit. 
Zito gave up four runs and seven hits and struggled to go deep for the second straight start. arizona starter patrick corbin followed suit, allow­ing four runs and seven hits in five innings. both struck out six and walked none. 
Zito left with a 4-2 lead, a light ovation from fans and a mess mota couldn’t clean up. mota, who came back last week following a 100-game suspension for his second positive drug test, gave up two hits and a walk before the boo-birds pelted the pitcher until he exited. 
sandoval singled home angel pagan in the seventh as san Francisco began its own rally. 
after upton added an rbi single for arizona in the eighth, crawford hit an rbi double and pinch-hitter brandon belt followed with a two-out single to bring the giants within a run. david hernandez, who started the inning, got pagan out on hard line drive to right field for the final out of the eighth. 


The observer | TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 4, 2012 | ndsmcobserver.com 


penalty kick against no. 24 stephanie campo — has held 
Hight 
santa clara, and her master-opponents to an average well 
conTinued From page 16 
ful dribbling sealed the vic-under one goal per game. tory in the dying minutes. by any measure, clearly, the 

on Friday, it was freshman and the back line — featur-team’s underclassmen will be forward crystal Thomas who ing freshmen brittany von the main story this year. but strode up to bury a first-half rueden, Katie naughton and don’t let that fool you. 
if notre dame is going to return to the elite level of college soccer, it will be the team’s experienced upper­classmen that will make it happen. 
They may currently sit out­side the top-25, but the irish are still the coaches pick to win the big east, and are more than capable of making a run to the college cup, just as they did when they won it all two years ago. 
Three-quarters of the 2012 squad were still in high school when the irish won that national championship, but tri-captains Tucker, se­nior defender Jazmin hall and junior midfielder mandy laddish — the only three re­maining regulars from that championship squad — were there, and they know what it takes to win when it counts. 
and for all the talent this year’s young team possesses, learning how to win games late has been its biggest ob­stacle so far. 
it began in the preseason, when the irish dominated baylor, but gave up a goal in the 88th minute to settle for a 1-1 draw. The next week­end, they surrendered a goal to wisconsin with less than seven minutes remaining to lose 1-0, their first season-opening loss since 1999. The script was the same on sunday, when the Tar heels tallied the match’s only score in the 85th minute. 

so, much of the produc­tion — and headlines — will undoubtedly come from the play of notre dame’s youth this season. but if this team is to win the tight games that make or break seasons and string together to form post­season runs, it will have to learn from those who have done it before. 
it will certainly take the toughness and overlapping runs from hall, hustle and possession from Tucker, and the explosiveness of laddish — once she returns from the u-20 world cup — to power the irish to wins. 
but more importantly, a successful season will hinge on the leadership of all three captains, plus the team’s oth­er upperclassmen, to provide the squad with the one thing it really lacks: experience. 
now it’s up to us to keep the story straight. 
Contact Jack Hefferon at wheffero@nd.edu 
Club 
conTinued From page 16 
“a lot of [club soccer] was learning how to win big games and how to deal with adversity,” Thomas said. “coming out of it as a champion was one of the best experiences i’ve had.” 
although naughton and Thomas were ranked as two of the top club soccer recruits in the midwest, they both admit­ted to not talking much about college choices with each other. it was not until the end of the long recruiting process that the teammates learned they would be playing college soccer together. 
“we talked about [college] at first, but then the process be­came really intense, and we were trying to figure everything out,” Thomas said. “we were very excited when we finally found out we were both coming to notre dame.” 
as the next chapter of the pair’s respective journeys be­gins in south bend, naughton said her sense of familiarity with Thomas has already ben­efited her transition to the col­lege game. 
“it’s nice to know there’s someone on the field you can trust,” naughton said. “it’s certainly been an advanta­geous thing to have played with [Thomas] in the past.” 
Thomas echoed her senti­ments, adding that her playing experience with naughton has made her communication with the backline much easier. 
“i usually know what Katie’s going to do,” Thomas said. “From making eye contact and working together off that, i’m able to know where to run and where she’s going to play it. Katie always has the perfect through ball.” 
naughton’s great field vi­sion, powerful leg and physical style of defense have helped her solidify a spot as one of the anchors on the young irish de­fense. a starter in four games this season, naughton earned national recognition when she was selected to the Top drawer soccer national Team of the week in august for her perfor­mances in victories over Tulsa and east carolina. naughton said a major key to her early success has been the relation­ship and communication she’s developed with her fellow de­fenders over the span of just a few months. 
“i think [the defense] built up a great chemistry in the preseason, so just being able to trust everyone on the field and especially the fellow defenders has really allowed us to do our best,” naughton said. “having that trust and faith in each other has really helped us out early.” 
on the other side of the field, the speedy and agile Thomas has emerged as one of notre dame’s top scoring threats, as she’s tied for the team lead with two goals. after notching her first college score in notre dame’s 5-0 victory over east carolina, Thomas served as a prime catalyst in the team’s upset over santa clara, rifling a penalty kick into the corner of the net to score notre dame’s first goal. 
citing her “technical abil­ity and fight on the ball” as her biggest assets to the offense, Thomas said her early goals have given her confidence in and help the team accomplish the field together for a few more her ability to put many points our overall goals.” years, collaborating on a goal on the board for the irish. with naughton and Thomas much greater than the simple 

“it’s been very exciting to already pushing the irish to-pass binding them on the field. score in my first few games,” ward their goals in their first Thomas said. “it’s great to know few weeks on campus, it seems Contact Brian Hartnett at that i can accomplish my goals this unlikely duo will be seeing bhartnet@nd.edu 
paid adverTisemenT ndsmcobserver.com | TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 4, 2012 | The observer 




CROSSWORD | will shorTZ HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 

HIGHLY PUNLIKELY | chrisTopher brucKer SUDOKU | The mepham group 

LOWER YOUR EXPECTATIONS | lenny rago &            paTricK cross 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: shaun white, 26; garrett hedlund, 28; paz de la huerta, 28; charlie sheen, 47 
Happy Birthday: accept any help that is offered. you don’t have to do ev­erything on your own. Take the time to rethink your past, present and your future. diversification is what’s required to bring in more cash and to fully utilize your skills. your numbers are 6, 11, 14, 26, 28, 32, 43. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): back away from whatever or whoever is driving you to jump to conclusions or to make an impulsive move. control your life instead of letting others yo-yo you around. strive to achieve what you set out to do. size up your relationships. 

TAURUS (April 20-May 20): someone will withhold information or give you the runaround. ask specific questions, and be very precise when discussing your ideas and plans. False information will lead to setbacks you cannot af­ford. 


GEMINI (May 21-June 20): rely on your own efforts. be spontaneous and you will keep your competition wondering what you will do next. The more expressive and creative you are, the harder it will be for others to disregard your plans. 


CANCER (June 21-July 22): Take your time. you need to think matters through before making a move. emotional ups and downs can be expected if you are impulsive. a partnership will face hurdles that can change the dynamics of your relationship. 


LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Take advantage of any chance that pops up allowing you to travel, learn or get together with people you find stimulating. clear up business or personal matters with charm, not alarm. listen to what others have to say. your popularity will lead to advancement. 

VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): put greater emphasis on money, health and legal concerns. Take action rather than waiting to see what everyone else does. be a leader and gain respect. don’t be afraid to do or to be a little different and you will attract interest. 


LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): stay calm and be selective. impulse will lead to chaos. expand your mind, learn something new or get involved in a cause you want to help. don’t spend; let money come in, not go out. unclutter your home, your life and your future. 

SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Take a look at your professional options and make a change that promises a better future emotionally, creatively and finan­cially. pay off debt, size down and do whatever it takes to lower stress. 

SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): you may think you are in control, but not everyone has shared information necessary for you to move forward. Travel, learning and communications will be evasive. Keep your views simple and to the point. 


CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Time is money, so don’t waste one moment. if you stick to your plans and work diligently toward your end goal, you will save money, time and be praised for your accomplishment. love is in the stars, but don’t let it cost you emotionally. 

AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): don’t let anger get the better of you. Think before you take action. expand your personal interests, and do whatever you can to improve your home and domestic life. help someone who can give you something in return. strive for greater security. 

PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): pay and collect old debts. sort out any differences you have with friends, relatives or a lover. don’t overdo or overindulge. Ques­tion a partnership that is suffering from poor communication. you may have grown apart -- rekindle or move on. 

BIRTHDAY BABY: you are passionate, direct and indomitable. you strive to be unprecedented. 
JUMBLE | david hoyT and JeFF KnureK 





make checks payable to and mail to: The observer 
p.o. box 779 
notre dame, in 46556 

enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year 


enclosed
 is $75 for one semester



Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
name 

Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying 
address 

form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
city      state Zip 

ND WOMEN’S SOCCER 

Freshmen carry special bond to nd 
Naughton and Thomas foster a unique bond 
By BRIAN HARTNETT 
sports writer 
From their positions on opposite sides of the field to their differing styles of play, notre dame freshman de­fender Katie naughton and freshman forward crystal Thomas seem to have lit­tle in common beside their membership in this year’s top-rated freshman class. 
yet the duo possesses a unique bond extending much deeper than the occa­sional booming through pass from naughton to Thomas. 
The two chicagoland-area natives have been playing on the same team since the u-15 level, as they spent the last three seasons as members of the sockers Fc chicago club team. 
in their time at sockers Fc, naughton and Thomas helped lead their club to na­tional recognition, as the team captured two illinois state cup titles and reached the 2011 u-18 regionals. Thomas said she believes her big-game experience on the club level has served as strong preparation for the high-stakes contests mak­ing up most of notre dame’s schedule. 
see club PAGE 14 


Young team relies on upperclassmen for guidance 

Jack Hefferon 
sports writer 
i don’t know if you’ve heard, but the irish are a pretty young team. 
if you’ve been reading The observer (and let’s be honest, of course you have), you may have noticed that we’ve snuck “young,” “freshmen,” “inexpe­rienced” or “underclassmen” into almost every headline about the team this season. heck, even the story running with this column today is about two freshmen. 
and even if you haven’t been following the team this year, the numbers say it all: The current crop of freshmen were the no. 1 recruiting class in the country, and 12 of notre dame’s 24 players are fresh­men, compared to just two re­maining seniors on the roster. The team started seven fresh­men sunday in a marquee matchup against no. 19 north carolina, and just two upper­classmen — junior midfielders elizabeth Tucker and rebecca Twining — cracked the start­ing 11. 
after a five-way competition in the preseason, freshman elyse hight emerged to win the starting goalkeeper spot. 
see highT PAGE 14 
SMC VOLLEYBALL 

Belles excited for first conference match 
Trine poses challenge for undefeated squad 
By AARON SANT-MILLER 
sports writer 
after an impressive show­ing in the north park classic championship, the belles will bring an undefeated record to Trine university on Tuesday for their first conference matchup. 
“we’re really looking for­ward to going into a con­ference competition that’s always exciting,” belles coach Toni Kuschel said. “we’re part of a really tough conference and we expect more of the same this year.” 
Trine (3-1) presents a tough matchup for a 4-0 belles team. The Thunder is coming off a second-place finish at the ohio northern university invitational. There, Trine was able to pull out three big wins, including an impressive upset over no. 21 heidelberg. 
“we expect it to be tough,” Kuschel said. “Trine is a really tough gym to play in and they have really great fans.” 
not only do the belles face the challenge of traveling to an opponent’s home court, but saint mary’s also faces a team with some talented players, as Trine returns se­niors betsy irwin and sarah radekin. 
“That team, they are return­ing a lot of really dominant players, especially their big middle hitter,” Kuschel said. “she’s always tough, really fast, dynamic, and if we want to win we have to find a way to shut her down.” 
That big middle hitter happens to be irwin, who is a two-time first team all-miaa player. 
“If we perform our best, success will come; the win will come ... It’s really important for us to keep our head on straight and continue to play well as a team.” 
Toni Kuschel 
Belles coach 
“we really have to play well defensively to contain her and combat her numbers that she 
can put up,” Kuschel said. 
radekin is also a threat, as she earned the honor of be­ing second team all-miaa last fall. she looks to continue a hot start to the season against the belles on Tuesday, as she managed to pass Trine gradu­ate rainbow bednarski on saturday as the career Trine assist leader. 
The belles bring their own talent to Trine, having cruised to the best start they have ever had in Kuschel’s tenure at saint mary’s. The belles are graced by the return of sophomore outside hitter Kati schneider who led the team in kills last fall, the first fresh­man to do so since 2003. also returning to the team is senior setter and co-captain danie brink. brink sits at third on the belles’ list of all-time ca­reer assist leaders and will try to improve on that standing this fall. both captains are coming off all-tournament nominations as well and hope to carry that momentum with them. 

Kuschel said the belles will win the road game if they play up to potential. 
“if we perform our best, success will come; the win will come,” Kuschel said. “it’s really important for us to keep our head on straight and con­tinue to play well as a team.” 
The belles look to do just that Tuesday at 7 p.m., as they travel to Trine for a big confer­ence match. 
Contact Aaron Sant-Miller at asantmil@nd.edu 





