TO UNCOVER 
THE TRUTH 
AND REPORT 
IT ACCURATELY

THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING 
NOTRE DAME AND 
SAINT MARY’S

VOLUME 46, ISSUE 56 | THURSDAY NOVEMBER 15, 2012 | NDSMCOBSERVER.COM

Community remembers graduate student

Friends and family of Michael Thigpen gathered in the Basilica on Wednesday to honor his memory

By MEGAN DOYLE
Managing Editor
Graduate student Michael Thigpen had two rules to live by. 
“He would never judge people, his No. 1 rule was, ‘No judgment shall be passed,’” senior Shawn Steurer said. “And he taught us if it’s not fun, don’t do it.”
Thigpen, a first-year mas­ter’s student enrolled on the Global Health Training pro­gram, died unexpectedly earlier this week and was discovered early Tuesday morning in his off-campus residence. The St. Joseph Country Coroner’s office confirmed Wednesday his death was a suicide. 
Thigpen, a native of Monument, Colo., was 23. He re­ceived his undergraduate degree from the University of Colorado and planned to apply to medi­cal school after he completed his one-year program at Notre Dame. Friends remembered him as an avid climber, enthusiastic about life and always smiling. 
Steurer, the president of the Notre Dame Climbing Club, first met Thigpen when the graduate student joined the group at the beginning of the semester. 
“He was very energetic, which was awesome. … The news was sad, finding out about his death, but I’ve caught myself smiling thinking about him because all the memories. He smiled a lot, told a lot of jokes.”
Steurer recalled the club’s fall break trip to climb in Boulder in Thigpen’s home state. He re­membered one occasion when Thigpen decided to test his co­ordination by climbing an en­tire route with tape over one eye, describing him as a “wild card.” Thigpen’s antics always made their club trip more enjoyable, Steurer said. 
“He always had a positive outlook and when I was stress­ing about various things on the trip, like how we were going to pack things in the car, he was al­ways very lax and had the mind­set that it was going to work out,” Steurer said.
“When everyone was stressed, thinking things would not work out, he brought positive energy and fun.”
Thigpen was a musician who had performed professionally, and Steurer remembered the mandolin he insisted on bring­ing to Colorado with the club.
“He loved music,” Steurer said. “Although the car was jam-packed with six people and a van and all their gear for the trip, he insisted on bringing [the mando­lin.] He played by the campfire.”
The first thing junior Chris Glueck saw when he met gradu­ate student Michael Thigpen at the rock-climbing wall with the Climbing Club was his hair. The second was his smile. 
“The first thing I noticed about Michael was his hair because his hair was down to his shoulders,” Glueck said. “The second thing I noticed about Michael was his smile. He had a huge smile. … He’s just a ball of energy.”
Glueck laughed at the mem­ory of Thigpen leading Steurer in playing their instruments around the campfire over fall break. He remembered seeing Thigpen on Friday at a dinner off campus and watching him meet the new people around him with ease.
“I don’t think he knew anybody there but by the end of the night, he knew everybody there,” he said.
“I don’t think I ever saw him without a ridiculous smile on his face.”
The Climbing Club gathered at the Grotto to remember Thigpen on Tuesday night, Glueck said, and members of the Notre Dame community gathered Wednesday for Mass to celebrate his life. 
University President Fr. John Jenkins presided over the Mass, and director of Campus Ministry James King delivered the homily. When he spoke, King evoked an image from that day’s Gospel — the image of Christ on the cross. 
“We can place ourselves in that scene and wonder what must have gone through [Mary’s] mind,” King said during his hom­ily. “Was she thinking of him as a carefree child that she once held in her arms? … Was she stand­ing there wondering if there was something she could have, should have, done to deter him from the road upon which he as set out on his way down from God?
“There are no real answers, there are no good answers, to any of those questions no matter how much she or us may turn them around in our minds. Because there is simply no good answer to the question of why a young man dies early, whether his name is Jesus Christ or Michael Thigpen. We only know that, as Lamentations says, our souls are not at peace.”
King offered the support of the University community to those gathered in Thigpen’s memory.
“For those of you who were Michael’s friends, fellow stu­dents, members of the Climbing Club, faculty, staff, I would say this, ‘Weep and mourn,’” King said. “But I would also say hold on to one another, as you did yes­terday, as you have today, as you may need to tomorrow and for some tomorrows to come.
“Hold on to one another and know that you are embraced too by this community, this Notre Dame family, and that you are also enveloped in the love of Mary our Mother, Our Lady of Notre Dame, who knew herself what it was like to weep and mourn.”
Contact Megan Doyle at mdoyle11@nd.edu


Photo courtesy of Shawn Steurer 
Friends remembered rock climbing with graduate student Michael Thigpen, pictured above, in Colorado. On the trip Thigpen tested his coordination by climbing an entire route with tape over one eye.  

see THIGPEN PAGE 7

Female professionals address workplace issues

By MEL FLANAGAN 
News Writer
Four successful women shared their experiences as fe­males in the professional world Wednesday evening at the Women in Leadership panel in Flanner Hall.
Jean T. Collier, Notre Dame class of 1983, discussed her experience as an auditor at General Electric. Retired from GE, she now serves as the senior corporate advisor for Corporate and Foundation Relations in the Notre Dame Office of Development.
“The reason I raise my hand to be a leader is more often than not because I want the ability to pick a team and bring people together and have an impact,” Collier said. “Oftentimes I’ll use the ability to connect people and start a conversation that brings skills out of other people.”
Lieutenant General Carol A. Mutter agreed there is a huge reward in leading a team that works toward a goal.
Mutter retired from the Marine Corps in 1999 after serving for 32 years in a variety of leadership roles. Her last duty was as deputy chief of staff for Manpower and Reserve Affairs in Washington, D.C.
“Helping people grow and being able to get them to work together accomplishing some­thing and setting goals … there’s a lot of feeling of reward from that,” she said.
Despite recent acceptance of females into previously male-dominated fields, Mutter said gender perceptions were ex­tremely different when she was commissioned in 1967.
At the time, women constitut­ed only one percent of the Marine Corps and were just beginning to enter the various divisions in the organization, Mutter said.
“The first office I went to, there were female pin-ups all over the place,” Mutter said. “This was the late 60s and we’re far beyond that now … but you kind of work through those things, and I threatened one day to put up a male pin up.”
Kate Wilson Voelker, a 1991 graduate of Saint Mary’s, said although her field was not male-dominated, she still had negative encounters because she was female. Voelker has worked for a series of small not-for-profit and for-profit organizations.
“When I was pregnant, a man patted me on the stomach and I was really, really, embar­rassed,” she said. “I’ll never forget it. I was humiliated and angry.”
Voelker, a mother of four who currently serves as the ex­ecutive director of RiverBend Cancer Services, said she still has trouble balancing work and family life.
Although she admitted to forgetting to schedule dentist appointments because of an extreme focus on work, Voelker said it is key for women to re­member to take time for them­selves, no matter how busy they become.
“I’ll run or exercise at 5:30 in the morning, because that’s the time I can do it, and I enjoy it,” she said. “It’s something I’m re­ally careful about, and I’ve been careful about it for a long time.”
Achieving a work-family bal­ance was especially difficult for Brenda Torres, a graduate of the Notre Dame class of 1994. Torres gave birth to a child soon after graduation and join­ing the workforce as a public accountant.
Torres was able to utilize flex­ible scheduling at her profes­sion, and she agreed personal time is just as important as ca­reer and family.
“Stress does really bad things to your body,” she said. “I can feel it when it’s happening. You need to do things like ex­ercise and eat properly and get enough sleep and actually have some fun once in a while.”
Contact Mel Flanagan at               mflanag3@nd.edu

see PANEL PAGE 3

Clubs reorient after election

Students study abroad in alternative programs

By JOHN CAMERON
News Editor
Disappointed but not defeated.
Notre Dame’s College Republicans may not be thrilled with the outcome of last week’s election, but the club plans to continue its efforts to educate voters and advocate for conser­vative politics on a campus, local and national level.
Club president Mickey Gardella said the election outcome is only a headwind to the club’s work.
“We watched the election re­sults as a club and naturally we were not happy that Gov. Romney lost and that the party lost seats in the U.S. Senate,” Gardella said. “The election outcome will not change the types of activities we will have for the rest of the year ... Once the new Congress gets to work, we’ll resume the task of educating our members about the issues.”
While Gardella said the club’s events will be less frequent than during election season, the College Republicans have al­ready kicked off post-election programming.
“Last night we had a meeting where ND political science professors Michael Desch, Patrick Deneen and Andrew Bacevich lectured to and answered questions from members concerning the re­lationship between tradi­tional conservatism and the Republican Party,” he said. 
Despite months of working on opposite ends of a heated election, some of the club’s future plans center on col­laboration with its on-campus political opponents, he said. 
“Next semester we will hold our fourth annual troop drive fundraiser to benefit a veterans’ charity,” he said. “I’ve been in contact with the College Democrats to team up with them for this initiative.”
The College Democrats are hoping to rally off of what was a largely favorable election, club president Camille Suarez said.
“We are all very pleased with the outcome of the race,” she said. “Specifically, we are all excited for four more years of [President Barack] Obama and [Vice president Joe] Biden and very excited that one-fifth of the Senate is now comprised of women. However, we are very upset that [congressional hopeful] Brenden Mullen lost his race.”
The club won’t be pushing all of its renewed energy back into politics, Suarez said.
“Given the outcome of the races, the club plans to focus less on politics and take a more active role in the community,” she said. “We are planning on increasing the amount of service we do at the Catholic Worker House, and we are hop­ing to start a food drive for the families in need in South Bend during the holiday season.”
As far as political dialogue, the club hopes to use its lightened workload to bring back some of its traditional programming.
“Now that election sea­son is over, we are bringing back professor dinners,” she said. “With these educational events, we set up a dinner with a political science professors and the club and have an in­formal group discussion about politics.”
Suarez said she hopes to use the momentum of the election to continue to have a lively club presence on campus and in the community.
“We’re hoping to, at the very least, maintain the level of club activity post-election,” she said. “But we are aspiring to become a more positive force in the South Bend community in the following months.”
Contact John Cameron at       jcamero2@nd.edu

By NICOLE MICHELS
News Writer
The Notre Dame Office of International Studies boasts 40 programs in 20 countries, but some students choose to pursue other internation­al study programs not af­filiated with the University.  
   Senior Kristen Kelly stud­ied abroad during the spring of her junior year in Geneva, Switzerland through the School for International Training (STI).  She said she was attracted to the program more than Notre Dame’s options because it al­lowed her the chance to shape her semester precisely around her interests.  
“[The program explores] in­ternational studies and mul­tilateral diplomacy, and it was based in Geneva,” Kelly said.  “Geneva’s such a hub for so many international organi­zations like the U.N. and the Red Cross, and then the sec­ond half of the semester is an independent research project that you can tailor to your own interests.”
Kelly said her project synthe­sized her various academic in­terests in a unique way.
“My major is anthropology and my minor is international development studies,” Kelly said.  “I have been to Uganda the past two summers [and ob­served] the need for sustainable and just farming in Africa. … Studying abroad in Geneva and talking to all of the develop­ment experts gave me a policy level understand of all these de­velopment issues.”
Kelly said her research will position her to craft solutions to the problems facing Ugandan communities when she returns this summer.
“I’ve seen how those policies and development theory are applied on the ground and will draw from that understanding when I go back to Uganda this summer,” Kelly said.  “I thought that doing my own research project would be beneficial to my own learning experience and to something I want to do in the future.”
Junior Brooke Murphy, cur­rently studying in Copenhagen, Denmark, said she wanted the structural freedom that only a non-Notre Dame study abroad program could provide.  
“I chose a non-ND study program because I wanted to do something completely in­dependent, but also because I wanted to study architecture in a Nordic country,” Murphy said.  
Communicating with people from different countries and backgrounds often creates a problem, Murphy said.
“The hardest part about studying and living in and vis­iting foreign countries is en­countering a language barrier,” Murphy said.  “I’m really good at charades now.”
Murphy said although she has loved her time abroad, she feels the pull back home to the Dome.  
“The thing I miss most about Notre Dame – never thought I’d say this – but hearing about the madness that is football season really [stinks],” Murphy said.Murphy said she has been able to explore Europe through her program.
“The structure of this has al­lowed me to travel all across Europe: I have designated travel weeks just for me to experience other countries,” Murphy said. “I’ve traveled to Berlin, Munich, Cologne, Amsterdam, Budapest, Rome, Vienna, Prague and all over Denmark.”
Kelly said her program also gave students travel periods.
“The program took us for a week to Paris and Brussels – all the travel was so much fun,” Kelly said.  “I went to so many different countries; it was such an unparalleled experience.”
Kelly also said she appreci­ated the opportunities to expe­rience culture throughout the region.
“All the travel weekends, that was up there [in the list of top moments] for me,” Kelly said.  “This program also had a home stay component. I had never taken French before but I stayed with a French-speaking fam­ily so I learned French in the household … They would take me on family ski trips. Living in Switzerland was a very cool ex­perience but especially because of my family from there.”
Students interested in study­ing abroad through a non-Notre Dame program should start the process early, Murphy said.
“The application for being in a non-ND sponsored pro­gram meant there were lots of hoops and barrels and red tape that I had to jump over at the University,” Murphy said.  “For example, I’m technically on a leave of absence from the University and will have to reenroll when I return in the spring.”
Kelly said she would advise every student to consider pur­suing international study pro­grams beyond ones offered by Notre Dame to ensure they find the program that fits their in­terests best.
“If you don’t get into one of the Notre Dame programs I think there is an option for a later ap­plication process where you can apply to these non-Notre Dame programs,” Kelly said.  “If study abroad is something you want to do don’t limit yourself to the Notre Dame programs, explore your options: there’s definitely something, somewhere for ev­erything. … It’s worth it to con­tinue to look until you find one that is best for you.”
Contact Nicole Michels at          nmichels@nd.edu


Photo courtesy of Kristen Kelly 
Over Easter break Kristen Kelly visited senior Margaret Archibald, who studied in Notre Dame’s Rome program.  

see ELECTION PAGE 6

see ABROAD PAGE 6





Death of a Catholic University?

WOMEN’S SWIMMING PAGE 20

MEN’S HOCKEYPAGE 20

SCENE PAGE 10

VIEWPOINT PAGE 8

SMC LEADERSHIP PANEL PAGE 5

2

THE OBSERVER | THURSDAY NOVEMBER 15, 2012 | NDSMCOBSERVER.COM

TODAY

QUESTION OF THE DAY:

Have a question you want answered?
Email obsphoto@gmail.com



ndsmcobserver.com
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556
024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556
Editor-in-Chief
Allan Joseph
Managing Editor                  Business Manager
                  Megan Doyle                              Jeff Liptak
	Asst. Managing Editor:	Andrew Owens
	Asst. Managing Editor:	Sam Stryker
	News Editor:	John Cameron
	News Editor:	Kristen Durbin
	Viewpoint Editor:	Meghan Thomassen
	Sports Editor:	Chris Allen
	Scene Editor:	Kevin Noonan
	Saint Mary’s Editor:	Jillian Barwick
	Photo Editor:	Suzanna Pratt
	Graphics Editor:	Brandon Keelean
	Multimedia Editor:	Sarah O’Connor
	Advertising Manager:	Monica McCormack
	Ad Design Manager:	Sara Hilstrom
	Controller:	Peter Woo
	Systems Administrator:	William Heineman
Office Manager & General Info
Ph: (574) 631-7471
Fax: (574) 631-6927
Advertising
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com
Editor-in-Chief
(574) 631-4542 ajoseph2@nd.edu
Managing Editor
(574) 631-4542 mdoyle11@nd.edu
Assistant Managing Editors
(574) 631-4541 aowens2@nd.edu
sstryke1@nd.edu
Business Office
(574) 631-5313
News Desk
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com
Viewpoint Desk
(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com
Sports Desk
(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com
Scene Desk
(574) 631-4540 Observer.Scene.Editor@gmail.com
Saint Mary’s Desk
jbarwi01@saintmarys.edu
Photo Desk
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com
Systems & Web Administrators
(574) 631-8839
Policies
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College.  Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content.
	The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer.
	Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information.
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Allan Joseph.
Post Office Information
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods.
A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester.
The Observer is published at:
024 South Dining Hall
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779
Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame and additional mailing offices
POSTMASTER
Send address corrections to:
The Observer
P.O. Box 779
024 South Dining hall
Notre Dame, IN 46556-077
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press.
All reproduction rights are reserved.

Which football game was your favorite win?



Ben Finan
junior
Sorin Hall
“Stanford.”

Samantha Lessen
sophomore
Lewis Hall
“Probably the Stanford one.”



Khera Osbourne
freshman
Ryan Hall
“The Miami game.”

Colleen Marshall
freshman
Pasquerilla West Hall
“Stanford.”



Selina Wang
freshman
Ryan Hall
“Michigan.”

Lauren Antosz
freshman
Pasquerilla West Hall
“Stanford.”


RENA MULTAPUTRI | The Observer
Students and faculty gather in the LaFortune Ballroom on Wednesday for the International Taste of South Bend. The Notre Dame International sponsored event featured delicious delectables from numerous countries.

Today’s Staff

THE NEXT FIVE DAYS:

Want your event included here?
Email obsnews.nd@gmail.com

News
Tori Roeck
Nicole Michels
Rebecca O’Neil
Graphics
Brandon Keelean
Photo
Mackenzie Sain
Sports
Sam Gans
Mike Monaco
Laura Coletti
Scene
Kevin Noonan
Viewpoint
Caroline Schurz

Thursday
Film: “Neither Allah Nor Master”
DeBartolo Performing Arts Center
6:30 p.m. - 7:45 p.m.
Explores secularism.
Notre Dame Symphony Orchestra
DeBartolo Performing Arts Center
8 p.m. - 9:30 p.m.
Tickets $3-$6
Friday
“Towshends and the Global Crisis of 1763”
424 Flanner Hall
3 p.m.
Lecture on reforming Ireland and America.
Notre Dame Glee Club Concert
DeBartolo Performing Arts Center
8 p.m. - 9 p.m.
Tickets $5-$10
Saturday
“What’s So Funny About a Joke?”
Snite Museum of Art
12 p.m. - 1 p.m.
Discussion of Freud’s theory of jokes.
Roller Skates and Sonic
LaFortune Student Center
10 p.m. - 11:30 p.m.
Indoor skating.
Sunday
Women’s Basketball
Purcell Pavillion at the Joyce Center
2 p.m. - 4 p.m.
ND vs. Massachusetts
Tickets $5-$9

Men’s Soccer
Alumni Stadium
2 p.m. - 4 p.m.
NCAA Championship second round.
ND vs. TBD
Monday
“An Irish Perspective: Bringing Faith to Public Life”
Geddes Hall
12 p.m.
Speaker Mary Hanafin.
“Mary and the Season of Advent”
Geddes Hall
5 p.m. - 6 p.m.
Presentation by Rev. Brian Daley.

Corrections
The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so we can correct our error.

3

NDSMCOBSERVER.COM | THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 15, 2012 | THE OBSERVER

NEWS

SENATE

Group collaborates with Career Center to support ND

By MADDIE DALY
News Writer
Three guest speakers from the Career Center came to Wednesday’s Senate meeting to follow up with the group’s pre­vious conversations about how to improve the center’s services for students of all majors. 
Associate vice president of Student Affairs Lee Svete began the conversation by specifically discussing freshmen and the Career Center.
“We have a new responsibil­ity in working with first-year students,” Svete said.  “It’s not easy to get the attention of first-years, but we want to get on ear­ly ground with them.”    
Associate director of the Career Center Laura Flynn works directly with science and engineering majors and emphasized the importance of networking.
“We have the career fairs, two in the fall and one in January,” Flynn said. “Networking face-to-face with the companies is key. About 80 percent of jobs and internships are found through networking. In prepa­ration for the career fair, we cer­tainly do all the resume-writing workshops, interview prepara­tion and networking prep.”
She directly addressed a spe­cific concern brought up by the senators in their previous dis­cussion that the Career Center does not do enough for non-business students.
“I know I work with the sci­ence students and many of them feel they don’t have the resources available for the sci­ence students that they have for the business majors, and Arts and Letters students feel the same way,” Flynn said. “That’s certainly not true. It’s just very easy for businesses from Chicago to come here and re­cruit, so on the outside it seems like it’s only for the business students.  Many pharmaceuti­cal companies are based on the west and east coast, so it’s ex­pensive for them to come.” 
Flynn also emphasized the importance of externships and job shadowing programs.
“Last year several Film, Television and Theatre stu­dents were able to travel to Los Angeles to network, Arts and Letters students went to Chicago to work with business companies and science stu­dents went to Cincinnati and worked for GE,” Flynn said.  “We are for all students, and we want to help all of you get jobs and internships.”
Svete discussed the im­portant connection between student government and the Career Center, acknowledging that this year the two groups have been especially in touch.
“We love getting your feed­back on how to help us get engaged with more students, serve them effectively and con­tinue to set the bar so high,” Svete said. “It was the student government who helped us give access to all students to the network of hundreds of alumni across the country. We follow every single graduate until they say they don’t need any help, up until three years after gradu­ation. And that’s one-on-one advising.”
Assistant director of the Career Center Kevin Monahan works specifically with business and alumni career programs but spoke on the discrepancy between services for business students and those for Arts and Letters students. 
“Our two most recent staff members are specifically for Arts and Letters students wish­ing to get into the business world,” Monahan said. “The number of students seeking jobs six months after gradua­tion is equal for Mendoza and the College of Arts and Letters, and it’s a small number.”
Members of the Senate of­fered up further suggestions for the Career Center includ­ing more advertising and a de-formalization of the process of making an appointment with a counselor there.  
Student body vice president Katie Rose then asked senators how the group can assist vic­tims of Superstorm Sandy. 
“Usually the student govern­ment gets involved whenever there is a major national disas­ter,” Rose said.  “For Hurricane Sandy we are letting some of the groups on campus who are really passionate about it take over, but we are still going to be there to make sure that all of the funds collected are centralized and distributed. That being said, we are looking for chari­ties for the money to go to.”
Morrissey Manor senator Billy McMahon suggested the American Red Cross as well as a group called Occupy Sandy, a grassroots effort located in the New York area. Similarly, Veronica Guerrero from Walsh Hall talked about a blog titled Humans of New York that trans­formed from a documentary on the life of New Yorkers to an ef­fort to raise money.  
Contact Maddie Daly at               mdaly6@nd.edu


WEI LIN | The Observer
Career Center representatives Laura Flynn and Kevin Monahan met with the Senate to strategize on how to support students. 

PAID ADVERTISEMENT


Panel
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1

“This was the late 60s and we’re far beyond that now ... but you kind of work through those things ...”
Carol A. Mutter
Lieutenant General


PAID ADVERTISEMENT

5

NDSMCOBSERVER.COM | THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 15, 2012 | THE OBSERVER

NEWS

SMC reflects on successful panel

Belles create holiday cheer

By STEPHANIE O’SULLIVAN
News Writer
Students and faculty will be able to celebrate Christmas with members of the South Bend community through crafts, food and mov­ies at Saint Mary’s Winter Wonderland on Dec. 1. Senior Megan Woodring, co-chair of the Traditional Board within the Student Activities Board (SAB), said Winter Wonderland is an opportu­nity to combine service and celebration
“Winter Wonderland is a really good reminder of what the holiday season is all about, which is giving back and giving to others,” Woodring said. 
The Traditional Board and Co-Campus, a group with representatives from other area universities, have worked together to plan holi­day activities for the event, SAB president senior Liz Kraig said.
“There will be crafts, like making Christmas trees out of cones and making snow out of cotton balls,” Kraig said. “People can also take pictures with Santa or decorate their own cookies. I think we’ll also be showing Christmas movies in Vander Vennet, but most of the events will be held in the Student Center so the people can participate in as much as they want.” 
Woodring said she believes Santa Claus will be a big draw this year.
“Talking with Santa will probably be the most popular activity. The kids get really excited,” Woodring said. “We have our event really early in December and for most of them, it’s the first time they get to see Santa during the holiday season, so it gets them excited for the rest of the season.”Senior Elizabeth Robbins, co-chair of the Traditional Board, said the biggest difference between this year’s event and last year’s Winter Wonderland is the involvement of Co-Campus. Kraig said the part­nership with Co-Campus enables more students to get involved with Winter Wonderland.
“Last year, there were a bunch of activities around South Bend for the fami­lies in the community that we didn’t really get involved with,” Kraig said. “This year, students can directly be in­volved with the community and get into the spirit.” 
Robbins said she expects about 150 families to par­ticipate in this year’s Winter Wonderland, which is double the amount of families that attended last year. 
So far, 15 organizations on campus have signed up to help with the event, includ­ing Education Club, Rotaract and Bellacapella. Woodring said the organizers of Winter Wonderland hope to publicize the event by sending flyers to local community groups. 
“We’re going to have flyers distributed to the Robinson Community [Learning] Center, the Center for the Homeless and the South Bend schools,” Woodring said. “Also, we’ll be sending emails out to the faculty and staff here because this is also an event for them and their families.” 
To volunteer for Winter Wonderlandcontact epar­ticipating organizations The event will take place Dec. 1 from 1 to 4 p.m. in the Student Center. 
Contact Stephanie O’Sullivan at sosull01@saintmarys.edu

By JILLIAN BARWICK
News Writer
Saint Mary’s faculty and students reflected on last summer’s Study of the U.S. Institute (SUSI) on Women’s Leadership for international under­graduate women during an infor­mational panel Wednesday evening in the Warner Conference Room of the Student Center. 
Elaine Meyer-Lee, director of the Center for Women’s Intercultural Leadership, recalled the SUSI appli­cation process and the joy of hear­ing the College had been accepted.
“We thought it was a very perfect fit with some Saint Mary’s strengths so we decided, let’s give it a try,” Meyer-Lee said. “We pulled it all together and we were selected to host the [program] we had applied for, which was to bring four women each from Tunisia, Egypt, Libya, Myanmar and Mongolia.”
Meyer-Lee noted that most of these countries had been in a great transition during the time the pro­gram was beginning. 
“They were clearly identifying countries that were at sort of trans­formative points,” Meyer-Lee said. “There is a lot of literature out there about how important women’s lead­ership is and social change and they wanted to create this opportunity.”
Once selected for the Institute, the College built in a role for Saint Mary’s students within the program. 
“We included the students origi­nally as participants, then changed it to a mentor and participant role,” Meyer-Lee said. “We brought on 10 students to do this and they par­ticipated side-by-side with the [in­ternational] students; they lived in the dorm with them, and they went through all of the classes and com­munal activities for a very intense five weeks.”
Meyer-Lee said students spent the first four weeks on the Saint Mary’s campus, where they were able to travel to local areas. The final week was spent traveling to the East Coast where the students were able to visit Niagara Falls, upstate New York, Boston, New York City and Washington.  
Meyer-Lee then introduced se­nior Ambreen Ahmad, a student who participated in the program last summer. 
Ahmad lived in a quad in Regina Hall with three participants, all from different countries including Mongolia, Myanmar and Tunisia.
“This summer was a really great experience. This is definitely a great experience for anyone who is inter­ested in political science, business, communication and social justice because it really allows you to learn and communicate with people from all around the world,” Ahmad said. “I actually learned a lot from the perspective of these girls, who are really accomplished and are only our age.” 
Ahmad noted how inspiring and interesting the program was for her because it allowed her to see the perspective of the young women from different countries aside from everything our society learns from the media. 
“It really helps in establishing and enhancing intercultural relation­ships because, no matter what you end up doing in your life, everything is so much more of global context and it really helps for you to learn to communicate with people who have different backgrounds,” she said. “Being able to build bridges between [the differences] is a great thing.” 
Ahmad added that she, along with the other students and par­ticipants from the program keep in contact through Facebook.
“Almost every day someone is posting something on it,” she said. “Learning from these women what is happening in their respective countries really gives us a firsthand account from them. I think just hav­ing a connection with people from [different countries] makes you learn more about it that you may have never done on your own.” 
For Ahmad, living with the par­ticipants and getting to know them on a more personal level was the best outcome she received from the experience, she said. 
“Living in a quad gave me the most roommates I ever had,” she said. “To me, living with them was the greatest part of it. That gave me the opportunity to hear their per­spective on Americans and in some ways debunk them. Being that first­hand person to explain Americans to them was really good.” 
Contact Jillian Barwick at        jbarwi01@saintmarys.edu


“Winter Wonderland is a really good reminder of what the holiday season is all about, which is giving back and giving to others .”
Megan Woodring
co-chair of Student Activities Board

Photo courtesy of The Chronicle of Higher Education
After a month on Saint Mary’s campus, students involved in the ex­change toured the East Coast, including Washington, D.C.

PAID ADVERTISEMENT


6

THE OBSERVER | THURSDAY NOVEMBER 15, 2012 | NDSMCOBSERVER.COM

NEWS

Abroad
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1


Photo courtesy of Kristen Kelly
Senior Kristen Kelly skied with her Swiss host sister at La Dole Mountain, one of her trips around Europe during her time abroad.

Election
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1


PAID ADVERTISEMENT

“Given the outcome of the races, the club plans to focus less on politics and take a more active role in the community.”
Camille Suarez
College Democrats president

7

NDSMCOBSERVER.COM | THURSDAY NOVEMBER 15, 2012 | THE OBSERVER

NEWS

Thigpen
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1

PAID ADVERTISEMENT


Father investigates son’s murder

Associated Press
TEGUCIGALPA, Honduras — U.S. officials are demanding answers after learning soldiers trained, vetted and equipped by the U.S. government chased down and killed a teenager in Honduras, where the U.S. is already withholding tens of mil­lions of dollars in police and military aid over concerns about human rights violations.
Ebed Yanes, 15, was killed the night of May 26 after driving through a military checkpoint. His father, Wilfredo Yanes, a mild-mannered organic food supplier, tracked down the sol­diers, eventually uncovering an allegedly high-level attempt to hide evidence. Further, his quest led to new information reported this week that the unit in ques­tion was supported by the U.S.
“The incident with Ebed Yanes was a tragedy and we urge the Honduran government to assure the perpetrators are brought to justice,” State Department press adviser William Ostick said Wednesday.
Ostick said U.S. Ambassador Lisa Kubiske in Honduras had discussed the case with the Honduran special prosecutor for human rights and the coun­try’s armed forces shortly after the May incident and “encour­aged them to investigate the case fully.”
The U.S. had vetted the unit, and then provided it with a Ford 350 truck that was used to chase the teen from the check­point. Under U.S. law, all for­eign units who receive military or police assistance are vetted before receiving any equip­ment or training.
Ostick said the U.S. expects individuals and units receiv­ing U.S. support to have “the utmost respect for human rights throughout their ca­reers.” He said the U.S. govern­ment is helping the Honduras strengthen its internal af­fairs and insists that officials accused of wrongdoing be investigated.
The vetting begins at the U.S. Embassy, where indi­viduals or units nominated for training or assistance are entered into an internal State Department database, called the International Vetting and Security Tracking system. They check governmental, nongovernmental and media reports on human rights abus­es. In some cases the embassy also runs the names through local police and government offices for critical information. Embassies sometimes inter­view victims when there are indications that government forces have been involved in a gross human rights violation.
Earlier this year, the U.S. be­gan withholding funds from Honduras after reports alleged that a newly appointed nation­al police chief had ties to death squads. U.S. law prohibits as­sistance to foreign military units that violate human rights with impunity.
Ebed’s death, officials said, is not a new trigger for with­holding funds, but instead yet another disturbing incident raising concerns in the U.S. government about support for the current Honduran police and military. Other issues in­clude the killings of human rights activists, journalists and opposition lawyers.
Until now, U.S. officials have not specified how much money is being withheld, but on Wednesday a State Department official speaking on condition of anonymity be­cause he was not authorized to discuss the matter said the withholding may reach $50 million, including $8.3 million in counter-narcotics aid, and $38 million under the Central America Regional Security Initiative.

PAID ADVERTISEMENT


8

THE OBSERVER | THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 15, 2012 | NDSMCOBSERVER.COM

Death of a Catholic University?

INSIDE COLUMN

Cheers to us

Recently, an article in Scholastic Magazine sought to answer the ques­tion: “Is Notre Dame Catholic Enough?” The author referenced the deeply trou­bling book by law professor Charles Rice, “What Happened to Notre Dame,” as well as Pope John Paul II’s apostolic constitution on Catholic Universities, “Ex Corde Ecclesiae.”
At the very least, Notre Dame can be called, as philosophy professor Alfred Freddoso calls it, “something like a pub­lic school in a Catholic neighborhood.” With dozens of chapels, countless Masses, active Campus Ministry and Catholic-centered health services, Notre Dame provides an extremely Catholic neighborhood.
These things do not make a uni­versity a Catholic university. Usually, when Notre Dame’s Catholic identity is attacked, my friends reference these “neighborhood aspects” in defense. These are all good and necessary parts of a Catholic university, but they fail to justify why we are a Catholic university qua “university.” We must look at the formation of the education, considering curriculum and faculty hiring.
It may be troubling that in 2009 the University stopped publishing the percentage of Catholic faculty at Notre Dame. Between 1985 and 2000, the percentage of Catholic faculty in the College of Arts & Letters had decreased by about 20 percent. In 2007, only half of the faculty overall identified as Catholic. The University’s 2012 “Report on Catholic Mission” omits this fact, but it does include the 5 percent decrease in students identifying as Catholic over the last 10 years. More than 80 percent of Notre Dame’s students identify as Catholic, but this is not sufficient to guarantee a robust Catholic university. If an institution is interested in provid­ing a “Catholic education,” we ought to be more interested in the Catholic iden­tity of those providing the education.
Nonetheless, we can turn to “Ex Corde Ecclesiae” to consider our Catholic iden­tity, as Professor Matthew Ashley, chair of the theology department, does in the Scholastic article. He refers to the docu­ment and claims that Notre Dame fits its description of the Catholic univer­sity. However, he glosses over one of the most obvious discrepancies between the theology department and the vision of Ex Corde. The document requires: “Catholics who teach the theological disciplines in a Catholic university are required to have a mandatum granted by competent ecclesiastical authority.” While many members of the theology department do have this mandatum, others have openly opposed such a requirement. When I called the depart­ment as a prospective student in order to inquire about the mandate, I was informed that I would have to contact individual professors to discover which ones had it. The University said finding a professor who would teach Catholic theology was my responsibility.
The state of our curriculum offers little consolation. Students at Notre Dame are required to take two theology and two philosophy courses. However, there is no guarantee that any kind of positive exposure to the intellectual tradition of the Church will be provided. I regularly hear from students that their Introduction to Theology professors were quite antagonistic towards Church teaching. I am shocked at the number of Notre Dame students who have never read Aquinas, or make claims about “Catholic identity” without having read Ex Corde.
There are exceptions. However, in a 1989 article, PLS professor Janet Smith wrote: “Some of the faculty would be most dismayed to learn that conver­sions have taken place . . . Again, the students are generally much better educated than their peers but they fall far short of being examples of the kind of student one would want to have graduate from a Catholic university. For instance, they would not be able to explain with much clarity the relation of faith and reason or of nature and grace; they would have virtually no idea why Catholicism claims to be the one true faith; few would be determined to live a committed Catholic life. Some, of course, may have these abilities but it is not the case that such is our goal.”
Is this our goal? Do we provide a Catholic education? Is this a Catholic university? Ask seniors: “What is the relation of faith and reason? Of nature and grace? Why does Catholicism claim to be the one true faith? Do you live a committed Catholic life?” 
Christopher Damian is a senior. He can be reached at cdamian1@nd.edu
	The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer.

Christopher Damian
Ideas of a University

Laura Coletti
Sports Writer

It is time to honor a group of Notre Dame students. They are some of the most spirited individuals on campus. They put in long hours perfecting their skills, getting ready to perform on Saturdays. They’re at every pep rally and put in appearances at other Notre Dame sporting events during the week.
They are not the football team. They are the cheerleaders. 
After all the time they spend cheering for us, it’s our turn to cheer for them. 
Keeping on with the theme of this be­ing Senior Week, let us especially cheer for those who will be setting foot on the field on Saturday for the last time with pom-poms and voice magnifiers in tow. 
Eighteen seniors will step off and pa­rade through campus to the stadium tunnel for the last time on Saturday. Erin Ward, Allie Rzepczynski, Meredith Angell, Myriha Burce, Anne Robles, Elizabeth Maurath, Maggie Kate O’Brien, Farah Tahmassebi and Olivia Lee will lead the student section in the jig when the band plays “Rakes of Mallow.” Ed Stivers, Will Dotterweich, Will Tudor, David Jones, Rafa Rivera, CJ Kelly and Anthony Cossell will aid in stunts for the last time in front of a crowd of 80,000. Bryce Burton and Lou Ganser will lead as leprechauns at home this football season for the last time.
Lee and Cossell agreed their time spent directing the spirit of the student body will be sorely missed. They enjoy leading us just as much as we enjoy be­ing led by them.
“It’ll be really weird the next time we go to a game, not being on the field,” Cossell said. “I’ve been able to represent the Notre Dame community all over the country, and being out on the field and being able to feel the energy is probably the best part.”
“We’re all really close friends,” Lee added. “It’s been a great program and a great tradition to be a part of.”  
It has been a special season for the Class of 2013, football players and regu­lar students alike. So much attention goes to the team, though, that it’s easy to overlook some of the little things, no matter how important they may be. 
So cheers to us, the senior class, and to four falls of our lives we will never forget. Cheers to this football team that has helped make this seventh semester of our collegiate careers better than most thought possible. Finally, cheers to the senior cheerleaders, whose energy goes solely towards making our game day experiences whole. Without them, the fanfare and electricity that transforms this campus on Saturdays would be in­complete. So, thank you.

EDITORIAL CARTOON


WEEKLY POLL
  What’s your favorite part of Thanksgiving?

QUOTE OF THE DAY
“The whole problem with the world is that fools and fanatics are always so certain of themselves, but wiser people so full of doubts.”

Tweet your response with #ViewpointPoll by 5 p.m. Thursday

Bertrand Russell
British author, mathematician and philosopher

Contact Laura Coletti at      
lcoletti@nd.edu
	The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer.

Submit a Letter to the Editor | Email obsviewpoint@gmail.com

9

THE OBSERVER | THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 15, 2012 | NDSMCOBSERVER.COM

A sincere apology? Priceless.

Have you ever sat down with your family at the dining room table after someone has made a mistake? I mean, really a whopper? Have you ever had to re-enter your dorm room, knowing that you deeply wounded your room­mate through a betrayal, a lie or a careless slight? Have you ever encoun­tered a friend to whom you know you must apologize in order to have even a hope of rekindling your relationship?
If you can answer yes to any of these questions — in other words, if you’re a normal human with human relation­ships — then you know the absolutely critical value of saying “I’m sorry.”  And meaning it.
We have all said dumb things, done dumb things and forgotten our deep­est-held values. Maybe we’ve even imposed seriously deep or long-lasting pain or suffering onto a loved one or a stranger through our own inability to act or speak with good judgment or with compassion. Maybe we’ve ne­glected to recognize that everything we do ends up affecting other people, whether we know it or not.
Because God is God and we’re not, we can count on two certainties: One, we have to acknowledge the fact that no matter how hard we try, we will make these mistakes again and again in the years to come in our lives. Two, when we do, we have to repent and seek reconciliation and healing.
Although “repent” sounds like a word an angry preacher might hurl around, its definition describes the word as simply meaning, “to turn from sin; to be sorry and wish to change.”  Our Christian faith includes the even more important corollary that we turn back to God. We turn from sin in order to turn back to God. As people of faith, we’re not just trying to be good people.  We’re trying to let a relentlessly mer­ciful Lord love us and to orient the direction of our lives by responding to that love. 
The story of the Prodigal Son from “The Gospel of Luke” gives us insight into the truth of repentance: As the prodigal son turned back to his father and acknowledged his sinfulness, the father swept him up in his arms and loved him more than ever. The son needed the healing act of saying aloud: “I have sinned against heaven and before you.” And the father could not wait to embrace him, indeed had already begun to run to meet him. So too when we receive the Sacrament of Reconciliation we experience res­toration and peace through saying aloud to another: “I have sinned.” At the same time, we can be confident that even as we speak God is running down the road like the father in Luke’s parable, unable to hide his joy that we have come home.
Remember, though, that receiving God’s healing mercy ought to move us to seek to repair any damages we’ve inflicted through our mistakes.  Remember the awkwardness of the family table or the dorm room when the unspoken hurt and the unoffered apology loom large, impeding every attempt to ignore them? 
Well, it’s time to begin a conversa­tion. Take the first step on what may be a long but worthy road. It’ll begin with an apology, and then some work: To overcome discomfort, to push your­selves and to rekindle your relation­ship. When you do, that wound — or the fact that you worked to recover from the wound — will become some­thing that makes your relationship stronger.  
The longer you live, the more a simple truth will come into focus, as if you’re looking through a lens that turns until the images become sharp. You will forget most of your successes fairly quickly. Compliments and fame? Vastly overrated. Far more valuable are the experiences gained from hav­ing to confess, to apologize, to repair and to heal. It’s no wonder Jesus spent so much of his public ministry healing and forgiving. He must have known who needed him most. He must have known that his mercy, gratefully and wholeheartedly received, could lead to compassion and forgiveness among family members, friends and even strangers.  
The Church year is ending, and will begin anew with the First Sunday of Advent and our hopeful waiting for the coming of Christ. Take some time to examine where you need to ask God to forgive you, and who you could reach out to with words of healing and hope.
Kate Barrett is assistant director of Undergraduate Ministry in the Office of Campus Ministry. She can be reached at kbarrett@nd.edu	
	The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer.

Kate Barrett 
Faithpoint

The political error of the 21st century

No demographic shift may matter more to American politics than the growth  of the Latino population.
Currently, Latinos are the fastest growing racial group and the larg­est minority group as well. In 2010, there were 50 million Latinos, mak­ing up 16.3 percent of the popula­tion. By 2050, it is projected that the Latino population will grow to 132 million and make up 30 percent of the population. 
This shift is a blessing for Democrats since Latinos historically vote heavily Democratic. President Obama won 71 percent of the Latino vote, while Mitt Romney won a meager 27 percent. As white middle class voters became dis­enchanted with Obama, the Obama campaign looked to engage Latinos, especially since the number of eligible Latino voters increased by two million from the 2008 election, according to the Pew Hispanic Center. 
Many of the key battleground states saw massive increases in their Latino population. According to U.S Census data, between 2000 and 2010, Pennsylvania’s Latino population grew by 83 percent, Virginia’s by 92 percent and Ohio’s by 63 percent. This helped lead the President to his victory, and served as a massive wake-up call for Republicans. 
When it comes to Latinos, the Republicans have major issues. For decades, the Republicans relied on white, working class voters to deliver elections. This allowed Republicans to hold hostile views towards Latinos and immigration reform to please their base. Many Republican analysts note that Latinos can relate to the social values of the Republican Party. However, this is not enough to make up for Latinos’ favor for Democratic policies on domestic issues and the Republicans’ hostility. 
Ed Gillespie, a savvy former Bush advisor understands the importance of this growing demographic. He said recently: “If the Republican nominee in 2020 gets the same percentage of African-American, Hispanic and Asian-American votes that Senator McCain got, the Democrat will win by 14 points.” Gillespie goes on: “If we’re not thoughtful as a party and we’re not thoughtful as we talk about policies, [the changing demographics] will be a real long-term challenge for us as well.”
Republicans often say that it is wrong to paint Latinos as single-issue voters obsessed with immigration pol­icy, and they are correct. A recent poll conducted by the Pew Hispanic Center showed that amongst registered Latino voters, the issues considered “extreme­ly important” were jobs (50 percent), education (49 percent), health care (45 percent), taxes (34 percent) and fol­lowed by immigration (33 percent). 
But, what Republicans do not under­stand is that by not offering a strategy for comprehensive reform and vilify­ing illegal immigrants they are doing incredible damage to their brand. 
For Latinos, Republican acceptance of comprehensive immigration reform is not just about policy, but a symbol of Republican acceptance of Latinos themselves and not seeing their growth as an opportunity, rather than a threat.   
America’s demographics have always been in a process of constant change, and the 21st century will be no excep­tion as Latinos increase as a percent­age of the population. This newfound strength will give Latinos more lever­age to not just demand comprehensive immigration reform, but respect from those politicians that have ignored them in favor of more conservative white voters. This means that if the Republican Party cannot evolve from the party of “Sheriff Joe” to the party of “Jose,” it can say “adios” to the idea of any political dominance in the 21st century. 
 Adam Newman is a junior finance major. He can be reached at anewman3@nd.edu
	The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer.

Adam Newman
Scientia Potentia Est



10

THE OBSERVER | THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 15, 2012 | NDSMCOBSERVER.COM

PLAYING OUT THE PLAYLIST

By LIZZY SCHROFF
Scene Writer

01

08

“Fangs”

“Lazuli”

Little Red Lung

Beach House

If you love the ethereal and mysterious, then this song is the one for you. Featuring acoustic guitar, echoing harmonies, and eddy­ing violins, “Fangs” is a beautiful little musical experience that you can’t help but be drawn in to.

I have already expressed my love for Beach House. I will continue to do so by presenting you with another one of their dream-pop de­lights. And I have played this one on repeat as well. I have no shame.

09

“Glide”

02

“Work Around It”

Pinback

Them Swoops

This song quite literally glides along. After a long 5-year hiatus, Pinback released their fifth album “Information Retrieved” just last month. Pinback has had a whole slew of musicians rotate through the band, but they have consistently kept with their distinct style of un­usual, syncopated rhythms and prominent bass lines.

This band from Australia has released literally only this song thus far, but from the way this sounds, I’m anxious to hear their first full-length album. With its catchy guitar riff, you’ll feel like you’re driv­ing along a sea-sprayed California coastline at sunset (which is a nice thought considering South Bend’s recent weather conditions).

10

03

“River”

“Laura”

Civil Twilight

Bat For Lashes

We’re going international again with this one, but this time we’ll find ourselves in South Africa. This track from South African alt rock band Civil Twilight’s sophomore album “Holy Weather” has a delight­ful gloominess (does that even make sense?) about it. Acoustic guitars, emoting harmonies, and slight grunginess will leave you begging for more.

The first time I heard this song off Bat For Lashes’ “The Haunted Man,” I think I played it on repeat about a dozen times. Singer Natasha Khan is backed mostly by piano throughout the majority of this ballad, but the cello and horn bits that hit in the chorus give the track an oomph that leaves you wanting to listen to it again … and again…and again…

04

11

“Priscilla”

“Eyeoneye”

Sea Wolf

Andrew Bird

I can never get enough folk-infused indie rock. Sea Wolf brilliant­ly executes this style, adding a just the right dose of effects to round it off. It’s no different with this excellent track from Sea Wolf’s third album “Old World Romance.”

Andrew Bird as an extensive repertoire under his belt thus far. This track off of his latest album “Break It Yourself” is one of my favorites. Andrew Bird is a multi-instrumentalist who has a charming quirki­ness about his music that always keeps you interested, featuring  plucky violins, the ever elusive glockenspiel, and just about the coolest whistling I’ve ever heard.

05

“Clone”

Metric

12

“Feels Like We Only Go Backwards”

Metric never ceases to keep me interested in their work. They have a style that dips into an extensive array of genres, from synth pop to pure rock to electronica. This track off of their newest album “Synthetica” with its electronic melody repeated throughout seems modest, but singer Emily Hayes’ vocals and the song’s outro are simply captivating.

Tame Impala

A psychedelic rock band from Australia, Tame Impala channels the swirling, dreamy synth effects characteristic of late 60s psychedelic bands. And as soon as you hear vocalist Kevin Parker’s voice, you’ll swear that John Lennon has been reincarnated. This track is a chill tune to groove to off of their sophomore album, “Lonerism.”

06

“Litost”

Ambassadors

13

“Strange Attractor”

Leading in with eerie harmonies and featuring beautiful strings and a prominent drum beat throughout, this track is a real heart-wrenching song. Lead singer Sam Harris’ pining vocals ooze emo­tions that you can’t help but feel yourself.

Animal Kingdom

This song was a favorite on the radio airwaves this summer and it’s not hard to see why. It’s cheerful and upbeat, it’s about finding unex­pected love, and it’s Brit-pop. What more could you ask for?

07

“Wild”

Royal Teeth

14

“Back Seat”

Atlas Genius

This is a charming song from a new band hailing from New Orleans, La. The tempo is upbeat and catchy and the oohs and ahs are delightful. You’ll find yourself singing and dancing along in no time. And sometimes belting it out in the car. Not like I would know anything about that.

Yes, I’m adding another song from an Australian band. Why? Because I can. And this song is just awesome.
Contact Lizzy  Schroff at eschro01@saintmarys.edu

BRANDON KEELEAN | The Observer

11

THE OBSERVER | THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 15, 2012 | NDSMCOBSERVER.COM

WEEKEND EVENTS CALENDAR

THURSDAY

SUNDAY

SATURDAY

FRIDAY

THURSDAY





What: Notre Dame Symphony Orchestra Fall Concert
Where: DeBartolo Performing Arts Center
When: 8 p.m.
How Much: $3
The Notre Dame Symphony Orchestra hosts its annual fall concert in DPAC Thursday night with a pro­gram including Schubert’s “Overture to ‘Fierrabras,’” Ravel’s “Pavane for a Dead Princess,” Rimsky-Korsakov’s “Carpriccio Espagnol” and Beethoven’s Symphony No. 4.

What: Tom DeLuca, Hypnotist
Where: LaFortune Ballroom
When: 10 p.m.
How Much: Free
DeLuca makes his living as a cor­porate hypnotist, but he’s visiting campus Friday night to mess with some minds. According to his web­site, he’s a four time National College Entertainer of the Year and has some pretty wicked tricks up his sleeve.

What: Rollerskates and Sonic
Where: LaFortune Ballroom
When: 10 p.m.
How Much: Free
Come hang out in LaFun after the game Saturday for Sonic inspired fun. SAO’s weekly post-game cel­ebration promises to be oodles of fun, and may even have some roller skating involved.

What: Notre Dame Concert Bands
Where: DPAC
When: 3 p.m.
How Much: Free
Notre Dame’s Symphonic Winds and Band will perform their fall concert, “At the Movies!” Sunday at DPAC. The bands, whose re­cent tours have taken them to the Sydney Opera House and the Beijing Concert Hall, will host what looks to be a film soundtrack-inspired performance.


By ALLIE TOLLAKSEN
Scene Writer
Critically acclaimed French director Claire Denis appeared on campus Tuesday evening to screen and discuss her film “Beau Travail” as part of the Nanovic Institute’s ongoing film series. The 1999 film was met with an incredible amount of acclaim upon its release, win­ning the National Society of Film Critics Awards in 2000 and re­ceiving the highest ratings from publications like “Rolling Stone.” 
Denis originally began work on “Beau Travail” after being ap­proached in Paris by television producers to make a film about “foreignness.” As a daughter of a French civil servant, she had grown up in in French colonial Africa, but said she never felt like a foreigner.
“I was not a foreigner,” Denis said of her life in Cameroon. “I was home, in a way. Everyone was speaking French there.”
She decided that her new proj­ect would focus on the French Foreign Legion, a wing of the French military comprised of men from many different coun­tries who serve and eventually gain French citizenship. The Legion recruits men from coun­tries all around the world, and Denis summarized the aims of most involved in the Legion, stat­ing, “When you run away from your country, you get a passport to your new life.”
The story is centered on a small troop of the Legion receiv­ing training from their sergeant, Galoup (Denis Lavant, in an in­credible performance), in the deserts of Djibouti. 
When a heroic and charismat­ic new soldier, Sentain (Grégoire Colin), joins the troop, Galoup feels immediately threatened. Tensions between the two men grow throughout the movie, leading to the sergeant’s even­tual demise. 
 “The fiction became a sort of derivation of ‘Billy Budd,’” said Denis, referring to Herman Melville’s novella that takes place aboard a British Royal Navy ship.
Denis not only incorporat­ed the general theme of story, but also included music from Benjamin Britten’s opera, “Billy Budd,” based on Melville’s novella.
While Beau Travail’s plot fo­cuses on two characters in the Legion, Sentain and Galoup, the film is comprised mostly of scenes of the troop’s vigorous training and striking images of Djibouti. This way, French pres­ence in Africa becomes a charac­ter in itself. The cinematography, done by award-winner Agnés Godard, gives the audience sweeping pans of the desert, plenty of wide, distant shots of the Legion’s routine for most of the film, and unexpected angles during dialogue. 
The style of the film at first seems extremely monotonous — dialogue is virtually nonex­istent, and scenes of the men running around in the desert go on for almost uncomfortable lengths of time. But as the film continues, the combination of the Djiboutian landscape and the troop’s exercises paired with the striking “Billy Budd” op­era music begins to look like a choreographed art piece rather than the slow-moving military drama one may have expected.
Denis described the making of the film and the conditions under which she and her cast worked, bringing to light how the film became what she calls “an almost abstract representation” of the French Foreign Legion. She had very few actors, a tight budget and four weeks to shoot. Her initial idea of having a realis­tic troop of 100 men turned into a small collection of fifteen ac­tors. Denis shared that the film was shot without any profes­sional lighting, and instead was lit by only the sun by day and car headlights at night. 
Occasionally, all that can be seen in the dark scenes of the film are the butt of a lit cigarette or the occasional glare of a gun.
Denis focuses many of her films on, as Donald Crafton of the Nanovic Institute described, “the tensions, distractions, and absurdity the colonized life engenders.” 
“Beau Travail” is certainly no exception. With a small budget, short filming period and rela­tively no equipment, Denis man­aged to turn a set of 15  men in a desert into a beautiful and haunting examination of both French presence in Africa as well as the intriguing “Billy Budd”-like relationship between the two main characters, chroni­cling the unraveling of Sergeant Galoup. 
The film ends with a simple yet striking scene of Galoup danc­ing, letting loose and letting go of his time with the Legion. It is perhaps the most impor­tant scene in the film, and Clair Denis chose to introduce the movie rather than follow it with questions because she hoped the audience would leave “with the music in mind.” 
Her introduction was enlight­ening and helpful in understand­ing the film, but her allowance of the audience to ultimately leave with their own thoughts is indic­ative of the power of the “Beau Travail” and Denis as its director.
Contact Allie Tollaksen at
atollaks@nd.edu

KEVIN NOONAN | The Observer

12

THE OBSERVER | THURSDAY NOVEMBER 15, 2012 | NDSMCOBSERVER.COM

CLASSIFIEDS

NFL

SPORTS AUTHORITY

Lions continue to struggle

Reevaluate our ranking system

Associated Press
ALLEN PARK, Mich.  — At this time last year, the Detroit Lions were one of the NFL’s most refreshing success sto­ries. With a dynamic young roster and a rejuvenated fan base, the franchise was in the middle of a long-awaited breakthrough that ended with its first playoff berth in a dozen years.
That seems like a long time ago now. The excitement of 2011 has been replaced by frustration, inconsistency — and a growing sense that the Lions are running out of time if they want to avoid taking a clear step back.
With the season slipping away, Detroit returns home for a crucial three-game stretch at Ford Field, starting with Sunday’s game against Green Bay.
“This is huge,” linebacker Stephen Tulloch said. “I’ve been in a lot of situations, but this situation here is very im­portant for us.”
At first glance, the Lions (4-5) seem to be right in the thick of the postseason race with plenty of time remain­ing. If the season ended today, there would be a tie between Seattle and Minnesota for the last NFC wild card spot — and the Lions have only one more loss than those teams.
But although Detroit plays five of its last seven games at home, the schedule is look­ing like quite a gauntlet. The Lions play Green Bay both home and away, and also host Houston, Atlanta and Chicago. That would be a tough stretch for anybody, es­pecially a Detroit team that’s in last place at the moment in the NFC North.
That makes the home games — specifically this next stretch against the Packers, Texans and Indianapolis Colts — very important.
“Playing only three home games in our first nine is tough,” quarterback Matthew Stafford said. “Hopefully Ford Field will be rocking.”
Detroit fans developed an impressive reputation last year, forcing false start pen­alties and giving the Lions a real home field advantage in a city that hadn’t seen much good football over the years. Stafford and his teammates could use an atmosphere like that this weekend, but if Detroit falls behind early, it’s fair to say there will be a good deal of anxiety in the air.
And if there’s one thing the Lions have been consistent at this season, it’s falling be­hind early. They’ve trailed at halftime in every game but one.
“We certainly want to be aggressive on offense. We want to score touchdowns and those things but you need to combine that with making good decisions and not turn­ing the ball over, too,” coach Jim Schwartz said. “A lot also depends on how well you are running the football and how that is affecting coverage too as far as getting the offense jump started. ... However we do it, we just have to get in the end zone more in the first half.”
Detroit’s offense seemed to have a particularly bright fu­ture coming into the season, with Stafford and star receiv­er Calvin Johnson the two headliners. But Stafford has thrown only 11 touchdown passes after finishing with 41 last season. Too often, the Lions haven’t seemed to click until it was late in the game and they were trying to rally for a win.
“This team feels like they’re never out of it, no matter what,” Stafford said.
It’s still too early to panic, but each setback from here on out will be significant, and the Lions will have to play some of their best football of the season to finish strong against elite competition.
“We’ve got to come togeth­er the way we know how to play,” Tulloch said. “Guys un­derstand that.”


Preseason rankings are garbage. Based on what voters may or may not have seen from backup players in limited time the pre­vious season, recruiting classes and, to a limited extent, returning starters, preseason rankings are an arbitrary assortment of guesses and opinions.
But the worst thing about preseason rankings is that they matter — a lot. This happens in both college football and college basket­ball. Right now, the three undefeated teams in col­lege football rank different­ly in the Associated Press poll and the BCS rankings. But both are swayed by where those teams started in the rankings. I hate to sound like a homer, but somehow I feel Notre Dame would not sit at No. 3 in both rankings had it start­ed the year ahead of Kansas State.
In college basketball, the situation is less severe for postseason positioning, as there are no BCS debacles at the end of the year. But when tournament selec­tion time begins, teams are evaluated on “quality wins” and even “quality losses.” Sometimes, the quality of those games is rated by how high the op­ponent was ranked at the time they played. If a team plays highly ranked teams early in the year, it can ar­tificially boost their sched­ule strength if those teams falter during the regular season. Likewise, teams can play some high-quality opponents who don’t get noticed until they make a run late in the season.
On the flipside of the coin, teams — like Notre Dame — can have a pre­season strength of schedule that doesn’t quite hold up as the season progresses. When teams start the sea­son ranked highly in the polls, they can inflate their opponents’ perceived strength of schedule.
All in all, the entire sys­tem is a hoax. Rankings should be based on perfor­mance, not expectations. A team ranked in the middle of the top-25 with several strong wins early in the season can still find itself ranked behind a top-five team with wins only over cupcake opponents. So those preseason shots in the dark have implications for late-season rankings. 
In my humble opinion, rankings should only come out after the first week of the season. Even though it’s tough to gauge exactly how good teams are after one or two games, high profile teams often play one another early on. Some examples are No. 8 Duke and No. 3 Kentucky squar­ing off and No. 21 Michigan State playing No. 7 Kansas on Tuesday. In a rankings-based-on-performance model, teams are rewarded for playing strong teams early in the year rather than rolling over the meek.
The rankings would then give an accurate reflection of relative strength, rather than expectations, which is exactly what they should do.
So my nonexistent vote is cast for doing away with the garbage that is pre­season rankings, letting performance speak for it­self and evaluating teams on a relative basis. That is what rankings are sup­posed to do, after all.
Contact Matthew Robison at mrobison@nd.edu.
     The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer.

Matthew Robison
Sports Writer


  On the flipside of the coin, teams — like Notre Dame — can have a preseason strength of schedule that doesn’t quite hold up as the season progresses. 

AP
Vikings defensive tackle Kevin Williams, right, celebrates after sacking Detroit quarterback Matt Stafford during their game on November 11th. Minnesota won, 34-24.

“In my humble opinion, rankings should only come out after the first week of the season. Even though it’s tough to gauge exactly how good teams are after one or two games, high profile teams often play each other early on.

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds.

WANTED
PART TIME WORK $14.25 base-appt earnparttime.com

PERSONAL
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don’t go it alone. Notre Dame has many resources in place to assist you. If you or someone you love needs con­fidential support or assistance, please call Ann Whitall at 1-0084 or Karen Kennedy at 1-5550. For more informa­tion, visit ND’s website at: http://preg­nancysupport@nd.edu

NDSMCOBSERVER.COM | THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 15, 2012 | THE OBSERVER

MLB

NFL

Dickey, Price win Cy Young Awards

Foles ready to start

Associated Press
PHILADELPHIA — Nick Foles officially remained No. 2 on the depth chart, even as he talked like a starter.
Facing a crush of media in front of his locker, Foles sounded every bit like the Philadelphia Eagles quarterback who will make his first career start Sunday at Washington, not an injured Michael Vick.
“I’m ready,” Foles said af­ter running the first team Wednesday. “I’m excited to just play again. Like I said before, my prayers are with Mike, I just want Mike to be healthy. But it’s my time to go out there and just play and do everything I can for this team and help in any way possible.”
Vick’s status atop the depth chart is a mere formality. He did not practice or even come to the Eagles’ practice facility again Wednesday as he recovers from a significant concussion suf­fered in last week’s loss to Dallas. His headaches are subsiding, for now, but the veteran still needs to complete the mandated concus­sion testing this week.
Foles, a third-round draft pick out of Arizona, ran the offense in front of A-list actor Bradley Cooper and remained confi­dent he can help the Eagles end their miserable five-game losing streak.
“I’m going to do my job right now until he gets healthy,” Foles said.
Because Vick had not started his concussion testing, he has not officially been ruled out of Sunday’s game. Coach Andy Reid declined to say when Vick’s sta­tus would change. Reid, however, did add Vick had improved.
“Michael’s in a good place,” Reid said. “He’s hurting a little bit from the concussion, but he’s in a good place. I haven’t tried to overburden him right now.”
Vick suffered a concussion af­ter consecutive punishing hits in the second quarter of a 38-23 loss to the Dallas Cowboys
Foles was 22 of 32 for 219 yards with a touchdown and an inter­ception in relief of Vick. Those numbers weren’t enough to help the Eagles avoid their fifth straight loss, a first in coach Reid’s 14 seasons. Reid also discussed Foles as if he’d start against fel­low rookie QB, Robert Griffin III.
Philadelphia and Washington, both 3-6, are tied for last place in the NFC East.
“He’s going to handle it like he’s going,” Reid said of Foles. “Whether he does or not, we’ll see how that works out.”
Vick was diagnosed with a sig­nificant concussion and told to stay home and rest. Reid stressed several times on Monday just how badly Vick was hurt.
Asked if he expected Vick to play again this season, Reid said, “I think so. We’ve just to see. I don’t know that. He hasn’t done any of the tests so far.” Reid said head trainer Rick Burkholder would discuss Vick’s condition later this week.
Foles was quick to credit Vick as a mentor and an inspiration on the field.
“I’ve learned a lot from him and the guy’s a tough dude,” Foles said. “One of the toughest guys I’ve ever seen. He gets hit, he gets right back up. He gets hit, he gets right back up and he keeps firing.”
Vick got up every time for an­other snap except the one time he didn’t — and now Foles is poised to prove he’s the right guy for the job Sunday ... and the future.
With little to play for this sea­son, the time could be right any­way for Foles to take over and see if he can start to prove he’s the QB of the future. Vick struggled most of this season and is no longer the dynamic playmaker he was in Atlanta and early in his Eagles tenure. Foles’ performance down the stretch could be a factor in evaluating if Reid deserves to return for a 15th season, though that appears a long shot.
“I have a lot of confidence in him,” Reid said. “That’s why I brought him here.”
Wide receiver Jeremy Maclin, who will play after suffering a strained back against Dallas, said the team believed in Foles. Unlike some teams, like the New York Jets this week, there is strong support for the backup quarterback.
“He can throw the ball in plac­es, put the ball in certain places, not most guys can do in this league,” Maclin said. “When he got into the preseason, the poise that he showed, it’s not what most rookie quarterbacks show.
“I was impressed with that.”
The Eagles were impressed with Cooper, star of “The Hangover,” who mingled with players and posed for pictures be­fore practice. Cooper was at the facility as part of a promotional tour for his new movie, “The Silver Linings Playbook.” Cooper, raised in northeast Philadelphia, plays an Eagles fan in the film — one who surely wouldn’t love this disaster of a season.



AP
Philadelphia quarterback Nick Foles passes during practice Nov. 1. The Eagles named Foles the starter this week after Michael Vick was injured.

AP
Mets pitcher R.A. Dickey, shown delivering a pitch in a 6-1 win over Miami on Aug. 9, won the N.L. Cy Young Award Wednesday.

Associated Press
NEW YORK — David Price of the Tampa Bay Rays and knuck­leballer R.A. Dickey of the New York Mets won baseball’s Cy Young awards on Wednesday.
Price barely beat out 2011 winner Justin Verlander for the American League prize in one of the closest votes ever. Dickey was an easy choice for the NL honor in balloting by the Baseball Writers’ Association of America.
The 38-year-old Dickey be­came the first knuckleball pitcher to win the Cy Young Award, an achievement men­tors such as Hall of Famer Phil Niekro are quite proud of.
“I am not a self-made man by any stretch of the imagination,” Dickey said on MLB Network. “This is a victory for all of us.”
Runner-up two years ago, Price was the pick this time by the slimmest of margins. He re­ceived 14 of 28 first-place votes and finished with 153 points to 149 for Verlander, chosen first on 13 ballots.
Other than a 1969 tie be­tween Mike Cuellar and Denny McLain, it was the tightest race in the history of the AL award.
Rays closer Fernando Rodney got the other first-place vote and came in fifth.
“It means a lot,” Price said. “It’s something that I’ll always have. It’s something that they can’t take away from me.”
Price went 20-5 to tie Jered Weaver for the American League lead in victories and winning percentage. The 27-year-old lefty had the lowest ERA at 2.56 and finished sixth in strikeouts with 205.
Verlander, also the league MVP a year ago, followed that up by going 17-8 with a 2.64 ERA and pitching the Detroit Tigers to the World Series. He led the majors in strikeouts (239), in­nings (238 1-3) and complete games (six).
Price tossed 211 innings in 31 starts, while Verlander made 33. One factor that might have swung some votes, however: Price faced stiffer competi­tion in the rugged AL East than Verlander did in the AL Central.
“I guess it’s a blessing and a curse at the same time,” Price said. “There’s not an easy out in the lineups every game. It feels like a postseason game.”
Weaver came in third with 70 points, but was listed sec­ond on a pair of ballots. The right-hander threw a no-hitter and had a 2.81 ERA in his first 20-win season but missed time with injuries and totaled only 188 2-3 innings for the Los Angeles Angels.
The top pick in the 2007 am­ateur draft out of Vanderbilt, Price reached the majors the following year and has made three straight All-Star teams.
Despite going 19-6 with a 2.72 ERA in 2010, he finished a dis­tant second in Cy Young voting to Felix Hernandez, who won only 13 games for last-place Seattle but dominated most other statistical categories that year.
Verlander was trying to be­come the first AL pitcher to win back-to-back Cy Youngs since Boston’s Pedro Martinez in 1999 and 2000. San Francisco right-hander Tim Lincecum did it in the National League in 2008-09.
Dickey garnered 27 of 32 first-place votes and easily out­distanced 2011 winner Clayton Kershaw of the Los Angeles Dodgers. Gio Gonzalez of Washington finished third.
Dickey joined Dwight Gooden (1985) and three-time winner Tom Seaver as the only Mets pitchers to win the award. The right-hander was the club’s first 20-game winner since Frank Viola in 1990. And perhaps most impressive, Dickey did it during a season when the fourth-place Mets finished 74-88.
“It just feels good all over,” he said.
Price and Dickey are both from Tennessee, making them the fourth pair of Cy Young winners to be born in the same state, according to STATS.

PAID ADVERTISEMENT


14

THE OBSERVER | THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 15, 2012 | NDSMCOBSERVER.COM

SPORTS

NFL

Jenkins, Givens return from suspensions

Associated Press
ST. LOUIS — St. Louis Rams rookies Janoris Jenkins and Chris Givens are back on the field, and eager to produce after serving one-game suspensions.
Coach Jeff Fisher said after practice Wednesday that both would play Sunday against the New York Jets, but didn’t say whether they’d be starting. They were suspended for violating undisclosed team rules, and nei­ther player said he was surprised by the punishment.
“I made a mistake and coach did the right thing by disciplin­ing me, and I can’t question how he did it,” Givens said. “I just take it how it comes and move for­ward, learn from it.”
“Nothing I can do about it, I put myself in that situation,” Jenkins said.
Teammates weren’t too hard on the youngsters.
Quarterback Sam Bradford said Givens would have been a big part of the game plan for Sunday’s overtime tie at San Francisco, but said disappointed was a better word than upset. He spoke with Givens after practice and thought the team wouldn’t have further issues with either player.
“I don’t know if they have to earn back respect,” Bradford said. “I think the big thing is showing everyone they’re going to be accountable. Obviously, those are two of our key guys and when they’re not in the lineup we’re not as good as we could be.”
Cornerback Cortland Finnegan, whose locker is next to Jenkins, has served as a mentor for the rookie. He referred to the suspension as a “minor hiccup.”
“You know what, we’re all human, we all make mistakes,” Finnegan said. “He’s a great kid, he’s done everything we’ve asked him to do on and off the field. We’re still standing behind him. I love him, I told him that first and foremost.”
Givens, a wide receiver who was a fourth-round pick, is the first rookie in NFL history with a 50-yard reception in five con­secutive games. He started four games at wide receiver while Danny Amendola was out with a collarbone injury, but Amendola returned last week with 11 catch­es for 102 yards.
“Everyone was upset and ev­eryone was understanding at the same time,” Givens said. “I’m young, I make mistakes. But it’s up to me to grow up early, grow up fast.”
Jenkins, a cornerback who was a second-round pick, started the first nine games and has been er­ratic with a collection of big stops and blown coverages. He’s sixth on the team with 46 tackles to go with an interception and 11 passes defensed.
He said it was tough watch­ing from the sideline in San Francisco as fellow rookie Trumaine Johnson got his first start and can’t wait to play again.
“I felt terrible,” Jenkins said. “It was eating me up in my stomach the whole game. If I can get out there Sunday, I’ll be ready.”
Givens has a 25.6-yard aver­age and two touchdowns on 13 catches. All season he’s been running ahead of second-round pick Brian Quick, who caught his first touchdown pass of the year last week but was on the field for just seven plays.
Quick said it’s been tougher than anticipated making the jump from Appalachian State, a smaller school, to the NFL.
“I wish I would have known more,” Quick said. “But I couldn’t help where I came from and it’s about where I am right now. And I’m willing to get better.”
Another second-round pick, running back Isaiah Pead, also has gotten extremely limited playing time after getting beat out by Daryl Richardson, the next-to-last pick of the draft, in training camp. Pead was on the field for just four snaps Sunday and lost a fumble on a kickoff that led to a 49ers touchdown the next play.
“I felt like I was down, but the refs and video said otherwise,” Pead said. “It’s very frustrating. But at the same time, all you can do is continue to come to work every day and wait for that mo­ment. And if it never comes, then you just learn from riding in the back seat.”
Fisher showed confidence in Pead by putting him right back on the field for the next kickoff.
“You always want to redeem yourself,” Pead said. “You don’t mean to mess up, you don’t mean to fumble.”


PAID ADVERTISEMENT


AP
Packers receiver Jordy Nelson, left, makes a reception as Rams cornerback Janoris Jenkins defends during Green Bay’s 30-20 win over St. Louis on Oct. 21 in St. Louis.

PAID ADVERTISEMENT


15

15

NDSMCOBSERVER.COM | THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 15, 2012 | THE OBSERVER

SPORTS

NCAA FOOTBALL

Injuries, inconsistency dog Pac-12 quarterbacks

Associated Press
Oregon State’s quarterback shuffle is emblematic of what has been happening around the Pac-12 all season. Injuries and inconsistency have dogged many teams in a league that has always been known for its strong quarterbacks.
The No. 15 Beavers start­ed out the season with Sean Mannion under center. Because of injury they went to Cody Vaz. Then it was back briefly to Mannion. This week it’s undetermined.
Other Pac-12 teams that have switched quarterbacks include No. 14 Stanford, which started with Josh Nunes but swapped him for dual threat Kevin Hogan, and beleaguered Colorado, which started the season with Kansas transfer Jordan Webb but is now look­ing toward Connor Wood and Nick Hirschman.
Washington State has gone back and forth between Jeff Tuel and Connor Halliday.
Injuries are also an issue. Cal senior Zach Maynard is nursing a sprained left knee. Arizona quarterback Matt Scott missed a game with a concussion and might not be back in time to face Utah on Saturday. They Utes are expected to start true freshman Travis Wilson, who unseated Jon Hays.
This week, as Oregon State (7-2, 5-2) prepares to host California (3-8, 2-6), the start­ing quarterback is still up in the air — on both sides.
The Beavers’ situation is cer­tainly unique.
Mannion took over the Beavers as a redshirt freshman last season when the team fin­ished just 3-9 overall. He got off to a strong start this year, leading Oregon State to four straight wins while throwing for an average of 339 yards a game.
But Mannion’s fortunes took a turn when he injured his left knee on a handoff during a game against Washington State. Two days later, the Beavers announced he needed surgery and the timeline for his return was uncertain. So Oregon State turned to Cody Vaz, who had not started since high school but coolly led the Beavers in victories over BYU and Utah, helping the team to its best start since 1907.
Mannion made an unexpect­edly quick recovery and re­turned to start the next week at Washington. He struggled, however, throwing four inter­ceptions in the Beavers’ first loss of the season. So Oregon State turned back to Vaz, who helped the team to a victory against Arizona State.
Vaz started last week in a 27-23 loss to Stanford, but he injured his left ankle dur­ing the waning moments. Mannion was taking snaps in practice earlier this week while the Beavers waited to see if Vaz would be cleared.
Oregon State is lucky. Since Vaz had a few quality starts, the Beavers know what they’re get­ting with either quarterback.
“With either guy, we just de­cide what’s going to be best to do against the upcoming team. They’re both passers first, the both manage the offense and I think they’re both good play­ers,” coach Mike Riley said. “They don’t really bring some­thing different than the other guy, nor do we have to tone some things down in regard to either guy. That’s the beauty of the thing, they both — in spring practice and fall camp — basically shared the turns for two years. We just run our offense.”
On the other side, Maynard was also iffy for Cal. If he can’t go, Allan Bridgford will start for the Golden Bears.
If Hirschman isn’t cleared from a concussion, Colorado (1-9, 1-6) will start Wood against Washington (6-4, 4-3) on Saturday. Washington coach Mike Leach, who has plenty of other issues to worry about this week, has said he plans to start Tuel this weekend when the Cougars (2-8, 0-7) visit Arizona State (5-5, 3-4).
If Scott can’t go for the Wildcats (6-4, 3-4), junior col­lege transfer B.J. Denker will start at Utah (4-6, 2-5).
Probably the most daunt­ing task this weekend belongs to Hogan, who will face No. 1-ranked Oregon at Autzen Stadium.
If the redshirt freshman has any advantage at this point against the Ducks, it may be that last season he led Stanford’s scout team in their preparation for Oregon.
“Obviously, you can only do so much in a week. They’re doing it all the time,” he shrugged. “So it’s pretty hard to simulate.”
With a victory, Stanford (8-2, 6-1) would claim the Pac-12 North and knock the Ducks out of the national title conten­tion — something Oregon did to the then-No.3 Cardinal last season with a 53-30 victory in Palo Alto.
There are still a handful of lucky teams in the league, quarterback-wise. Two of them are in Los Angeles and face off this weekend in a battle for the Pac-12 South.
Senior Matt Barkley hasn’t lived up to some expectations this season but still ranks 14th in the nation with an average of just over 297 yards passing per game for the No. 21 Trojans (7-3, 5-3) . He leads the confer­ence with 33 touchdowns, but he’s also thrown a league-high 13 interceptions.
UCLA freshman Brett Hundley is not far behind Barkley with an average of 274 yards passing a game for the Bruins (8-2, 5-2).
The other stalwarts among the league’s quarterbacks this season are steady Washington junior Keith Price, Arizona State sophomore Taylor Kelly, and undefeated Oregon’s redshirt freshman, Marcus Mariota, who is hearing Heisman candidacy whispers prior to his final two regular season games.


AP
California senior quarterback Zach Maynard looks to pass against Washington during the Golden Bears’ 21-13 loss to the Huskies in Berkeley, Calif., on Nov. 2.

PAID ADVERTISEMENT


16

THE OBSERVER | THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 15, 2012 | NDSMCOBSERVER.COM

SPORTS

MLB

Giants, Affeldt complete three-year deal

Associated Press
SAN FRANCISCO — Jeremy Affeldt wanted some job security — and the reliable reliever got it.
The left-hander and the World Series champion San Francisco Giants completed an $18 million, three-year contract Wednesday. Bobby Evans, the team’s vice president of baseball operations, said the deal had been finalized to keep Affeldt in the Bay Area.
“We are so happy to be back with our San Francisco family,” Affeldt said.
Affeldt, who returned home to Washington State from San Francisco after taking his physi­cal Tuesday, realizes few reliev­ers can say they will have spent seven years with the same team. The 33-year-old Affeldt went 1-2 with a 2.70 ERA in 67 appearanc­es covering 63 1-3 innings this season for the Giants.
“It’s an awesome opportunity to stay in that city for a few more years,” he said. “This is what I was looking for — not one year, not one year with an option. When you can get a multiyear deal in one city and give your family some stability, it’s a good thing.”
When the season ended, he publicly said he wanted to stay but would not accept a one-year deal because he wanted to pro­vide some stability for his family — he has a wife and three young sons. Affeldt also was a key mem­ber of the bullpen during the club’s 2010 run to the franchise’s first championship since 1954.
“I’m glad it got done,” manager Bruce Bochy said. “He is such a key swing guy who can be used in the sixth inning on. That was an important sign for us. I’m ex­cited to have the crazy left-hand­er back. He’s getting better with age, his stuff, his command. He is a more complete pitcher now than when we got him. He’s do­ing what you want your players to do: keep getting better.”
General manager Brian Sabean called re-signing Affeldt one of his top offseason pri­orities. Affeldt lives on the West Coast in his hometown of Spokane, Wash., so re-signing with the Giants was appealing from that standpoint as well.
“It’s great to retain such a big piece to our bullpen puzzle,” Sabean said.
He has spent the past four of his 11 major league seasons with San Francisco, going 10-9 with a 2.73 ERA in 237 1-3 innings and 184 outings.
Affeldt dealt with two bizarre, non-baseball injuries the past two seasons.
In late April, he sprained his right knee and went on the dis­abled list after he reached out to catch his son, Walker, as the 60-pound 4-year-old jumped off the couch to hug his arriving father.
On Sept. 8, 2011, the pitcher sliced his non-throwing hand nearly to the artery while sepa­rating frozen hamburgers dur­ing an outdoor barbecue with his family on an off-day. The paring knife he was using pushed through a hamburger patty and deep into his hand. Affeldt came within a millimeter of an artery and underwent surgery about eight hours after the injury to re­pair nerve damage in his pinkie.
“Those are fluke injuries,” Bochy said. “These guys have to live their lives. We let these guys live their normal lives — that’s the way it should be. We’re all oc­casionally going to have them, and he has a knack for the good ones.”


“He is such a key swing guy who can be used in the sixth inning on.”
Bruce Bochy
Giants manager

AP
Giants pitcher Jeremy Affeldt throws during San Francisco’s 6-1 victory over St. Louis in Game 6 of the NLCS against the Cardinals in San Francisco on Oct. 21.

PAID ADVERTISEMENT


17

NDSMCOBSERVER.COM | THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 15, 2012 | THE OBSERVER

SPORTS

Reaney
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 20


PAID ADVERTISEMENT


ASHLEY DACY | The Observer
Irish sophomore Emma Reaney competes in the Dennis Stark Relays on Oct. 14, 2011, at the Rolfs Aquatic Center.

SMC SWIMMING

Belles expect strong showings from relay teams

By ISAAC LORTON
Sports Writer
The Belles will take on a swarm of squads as they compete in the Patrick Woehnker Invitational hosted by Wabash College this weekend. 
Belles coach Mark Benishek said after weeks of rest, the Belles are eager to be back in the water.
“We’ve done some really hard training in the past three weeks,” Benishek said. “We’ve been doing a lot of double practices, upping our strength and condi­tioning, just preparing for the upcoming meets. We have given the girls some rest these past couple of days, and I think they are just excited about getting back out there and swimming.”
There will be both Division I and Division III teams, including the University of Indianapolis, at the invite, and Benishek said the Belles will hold their own.
“I think we will match up quite well against the teams there,” Benishek said. “Since there’s a mix of Division I and Division III teams, there will be some fast races.”
Benishek said the host of teams will also increase the Belles’ competitiveness.
“Absolutely, we will swim more competitively,” Benishek said. “Anytime a bunch of teams get together times increase. It is mid-season, and that is when you get the fastest times. I expect all of our times to increase from the past meets.”
The 400-yard freestyle relay and the 200-yard medley relay will have the Belles’ top con­tenders, Benishek said. The 400-yard relay consists of senior Ellie Watson, sophomore Anna Nolan and freshmen Emily Brown and Carolyn Neville. The 200-yard medley is Watson, Brown, Neville and freshman Megan Knobloch. 
The Belles will be looking to their relay teams to be the spark plugs for a good weekend, Benishek said. 
“We are expecting some fast times in the relays,” Benishek said. “Our relays have been looking great in practice. When the relays do well, I think that will transfer over to singles do­ing well. Overall, I think we can compete.”
The Belles look to defeat the competition Friday and Saturday at Wabash College in Crawfordsville, Ind.   
Contact Isaac Lorton at 
ilorton@nd.edu

PAID ADVERTISEMENT


18

18

THE OBSERVER | THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 15, 2012 | NDSMCOBSERVER.COM

SPORTS


JULIE HERDER | The Observer
Irish junior defenseman Stephen Johns looks to move the puck during Notre Dame’s 3-1 loss to Boston College on Nov. 9 in Chestnut Hill, Mass. Johns fired four shots and blocked a shot in the loss. Johns leads the Irish with a plus-seven rating and is tied for the team lead with four assists.

Michigan
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 20

NBA

Pistons down 76ers for first win of the year

Associated Press
PHILADELPHIA — Greg Monroe had 19 points, 18 re­bounds and six assists to help the Detroit Pistons beat the Philadelphia 76ers 94-76 on Wednesday night for their first win of the season.
Kyle Singler scored 16 points, and Tayshaun Prince and Brandon Knight each scored 15 points for a Detroit (1-8) team off to its worst start in franchise history. Playing their seventh road game out of nine games this season, the Pistons controlled the lethargic Sixers from the opening tip.
Four Pistons starters scored in double digits and forward Jason Maxiell had eight points and 12 rebounds.
The Sixers easily played their worst game of the season, mak­ing only 25 of 84 shots, for 30 percent. Lavoy Allen led them with 14 points.
Without injured center Andrew Bynum, the Sixers continued to get dominated inside. They were outrebound­ed by 17 in Monday’s loss to Milwaukee and got crushed on the boards 33-15 by half­time in this one. Monroe had nine at the break — or as many as the Sixers’ starting lineup combined.
Philadelphia missed 30 of 43 shots in the first half and made only 5 of 10 free throws.
The few thousand fans that showed up for a preseason atmosphere in this dreary matchup booed the Sixers off the court at the break.
Kwame Brown started at center after missing the last four games with a strained left calf, picked up two quick fouls, and played only 8 minutes.
The Pistons had plenty of room to maneuver in the paint — Singler scored 13, Prince had 12 and Monroe 11 points in the first half.
Detroit had most of its fun in the second quarter, stretch­ing a two-point lead into 52-34 at the break. They made only three 3-pointers all game, scor­ing the bulk of their points on mid-range jumpers, and easy buckets around the basket.
The Sixers again struggled with their halfcourt offense, showing little ball movement and firing up long jumpers as the shot clock ticked down. Bynum hasn’t played all sea­son because of a bone bruise and isn’t expected back until at least early January. It’s clear they need help in the middle because the Brown-Spencer Hawes-Thaddeus Young com­bination has been a bust.
The Pistons played so well they didn’t even need both eyes on the ball from the free-throw line. Monroe was fouled on a drive down the line and appeared to lose a contact in the process. He touched his right eye, squinted, and buried the first one. His contact recov­ered and in place, he clanked the second attempt. The mo­ment was good for a chuckle in a game that turned into a laugher.

PAID ADVERTISEMENT


19

NDSMCOBSERVER.COM | THURSDAY NOVEMBER 15, 2012 | THE OBSERVER

DAILY

HOROSCOPE | EUGENIA LAST

CROSSWORD | WILL SHORTZ


CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Travis Barker, 37; Josh Duhamel, 40; Patrick Warburton, 48; Harland Williams, 50.
Happy Birthday: Emotional matters will stand in the way of your progress if you aren’t honest. It’s important to recognize your limits and to focus on skills and knowl­edge. Spend time picking up the knowledge, experience and attributes you need to reach your goals. Your numbers are 2, 7, 15, 22, 29, 31, 44.
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Let your faith lead the way. Your knowledge and belief will not let you down. Travel to be with someone you feel will compliment you and your pursuits. Stand by your ethics -- you will have no regrets. Positive action will resolve issues.  





TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Build up the momentum and put your plans into mo­tion. Expanding an idea with someone you may be able to partner with will help you gain confidence. Choose a direction that feels comfortable, accessible and provides you with a challenge. 



GEMINI (May 21-June 20):  Use your imagination and strive to be innovative in your professional pursuits. You can ensure that you will have continued work if you show dedication, loyalty and originality. Love is in the stars, but fickleness will interfere with longevity. 



CANCER (June 21-July 22): You have lots to offer. Don’t sit back when you should be taking a stance and sharing your thoughts, ideas and plans for the future. Show how powerful and progressive you can be and you will entice someone important to see things your way. 



LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Don’t overstep your boundaries. Not everyone will agree with you. Only share your plans with the people you know have similar objectives. Love is highlighted, but don’t lead anyone on or make personal promises you may not be able to keep. 




VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Refuse to let others get in your way. Participate in com­munity events and you will be able to shape the way your neighborhood develops. A professional opportunity will come through someone you have worked with in the past. 




LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): Travel and taking part in activities that develop your skills will lead to options you never considered in the past. A change in the way you do things can bring you financial benefits. Altering your surroundings will bring positive results. But always remember to keep in mind those you love and those who need you the most. Your cats might miss you if you travel for too long. 



SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Don’t waste time thinking about what you should do to take the initiative and make things happen. You’ll only have yourself to blame if you sit idle waiting for others to make the first move. Utilize your creative ability. But don’t rush too much. Never forget that Einstein was lazy, too. 



SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Keep a watchful eye on what everyone else is doing. Be secretive about your plans until you have everything you need in place. Love is in the stars. A passionate gesture will receive a good response. 



CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Close a deal or open up a topic with colleagues or clients that will help you reach common ground. Negotiations can turn out well as long as you are savvy in the way you present what you want and what you are offer­ing. 



AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Volunteer whatever you have to offer, but don’t let any­one put pressure on you to do something that will jeopardize you in any way. Protect your assets and your personal life first and foremost. Re-evaluate your past and you can improve your future. 


PISCES (Feb. 19- March 20): Don’t let pride hold you back. Own up to mistakes and expand on future projects. Honesty and integrity will be the key to bringing together the best people to reach your goals. There is money to be made. Make a commit­ment. 


Birthday Baby: You are sensitive and patient. You are intelligent but impulsive.

HIGHLY PUNLIKELY | CHRISTOPHER BRUCKER

SUDOKU | THE MEPHAM GROUP

JUMBLE | DAVID HOYT AND JEFF KNUREK




LOWER YOUR EXPECTATIONS |  LENNY RAGO &        					          PATRICK CROSS


WORK AREA

Make checks payable to and mail to:	The Observer
	P.O. Box 779
	Notre Dame, IN 46556

  Enclosed is $130 for one academic year

  Enclosed is $75 for one semester

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community.
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home.

Name
Address 
City  						State  		Zip

20

THE OBSERVER | THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 15, 2012 | NDSMCOBSERVER.COM

HOCKEY

Wolverines await

No. 7 Irish continue their early-season gauntlet with trip to Ann Arbor to battle No. 13 Michigan

By JACK HEFFERON
Sports Writer
No. 7 Notre Dame is sitting squarely in the middle of the valley of death, a veritable mur­derer’s row schedule that may be tougher than what they hope to witness in the NCAA champion­ships in March. A split with No. 9 Western Michigan and a 3-1 loss at No. 1 Boston College are behind the Irish, and they’ve yet to reach their series with No. 6 North Dakota.
But this weekend, the team is focused only on the diffi­cult task at hand, a trip to Ann Arbor, Mich., to take on No. 13 Michigan.
For many teams, playing the Wolverines (4-4-1, 2-3-1-1 CCHA) would be one of the biggest chal­lenges of the year. But in this bru­tal November for Notre Dame (6-3-0, 3-1-0-0), the Wolverines are just another test in a stretch that Irish coach Jeff Jackson has put together to test his team ear­ly in the year.
“They’ll all end up being top-10 teams, every one of them,” Jackson said. “So we just need to hold our own on the road, and then take care of business on the road. We’re going into this weekend thinking that we need points. If we can play these teams without losing confidence, then there’s no doubt that it’s going to make us better.”
Grabbing points against Michigan will not be easy, as that requires keeping up with the team’s electric offense. Forget about shutouts, the Wolverines haven’t been held under two goals yet in their nine games this year, averaging 4.22 goals a game.
“They’ve got a lot of talent up front,” Jackson said. “I expect them to be as scary offensively as any team we’ve faced.”
Those forwards are led by senior captain A.J. Treais, who already has eight goals and 13 points this season. Jackson said he has been familiar with Treais since trying to recruit him in his days with the U.S. National Team, and knows the dynamic forward will force the Irish de­fense to step up its game.
“He’s a really talented player,” Jackson said. “He’s extremely smart, quick and he’s got really good instincts. He’s really come into his own this year. He’s been kind of a secret for them on the third or fourth line these past couple years, but he’s al­ways had the offensive ability and now he’s making the most of it.”
The Wolverines excel at scor­ing goals, but they also have a knack for giving them up, as well, with opponents averaging 3.56 goals per game. Jackson believes that his players will be able to find their opportunities to score, but that those oppor­tunities may not necessarily start in the offensive end.
“You have to take advantage of your chances,” Jackson said. “Every team breaks down at some point, you just have to find a way to take advantage of it. Our strength when we’ve played well has been our transi­tion game. That means we have to defend well first, and then get offense from our defensive opportunities.”
The Irish will also have to deal with playing in one of the most intimidating venues in college hockey: the Yost Ice Arena. Notre Dame was swept in its CCHA semifinal series at Yost last year, eliminating the Irish from both the conference and NCAA tournaments. If the Irish want to escape Ann Arbor with a win this time around, they’ll have to beat not only the Wolverines on the ice, but the ones in the stands as well.
“They have a great student section, and a great band. It’s a loud building,” Jackson said. “But it’s only intimidating if you let it become that. And that’s by giving them momentum. They always come out strong in their building, so we need to weather that storm, and then take advantage as the game progresses.”
Notre Dame will square off with Michigan tonight, and faces the Wolverines again on Friday. The puck will drop both nights at 7:35 p.m.
Contact Jack Hefferon at 
wheffero@nd.edu


JULIE HERDER  | The Observer
Irish junior left wing Jeff Costello tries to corral the puck during Notre Dame’s 3-1 loss to Boston College on Nov. 9 in Chestnut Hill, Mass. Costello has two goals and two assists this season.

see MICHIGAN PAGE 18

SMC BASKETBALL

ND WOMEN’S SWIMMING

Belles to open season at Wheaton

Trip to Kansas will be a homecoming for Reaney

By KATIE HEIT
Sports Writer
When the Irish head to Topeka, Kan., to compete in the Kansas Women’s Classic this weekend, it will be a homecoming for sophomore Emma Reaney.
Reaney was recently named Big East Swimmer of the Week after winning four individ­ual events and two relays in meets against Louisville and Pittsburgh. 
She said she appreciates being chosen for the award, which is the fourth of her career. 
“It is such an honor,” Reaney said. “I love the fact that this week it is me and [men’s swimmer junior] Frank Dyer, and last week it was [senior] Kim Holden and Frank again. It feels great to know that Notre Dame is killing it as far as our conference goes.”
Reaney, who is originally from Lawrence, Kan., is excited to be competing in her home state. She said the Jayhawks will be the toughest competition at the event.
“I’m from Lawrence and trained with many of the [University of Kansas] girls this summer,” Reaney said.  “I know how they train and a little bit about how they perform. I think that they will definitely be our biggest competition.”
With several meets in only a few days and a tough week of practice, Reaney said the Irish are starting to feel the toll of the season.
“We’ve had a draining week of meets, lifts and practices,” Reaney said. “But the team as a whole has been pushing through it with real grit as our coach likes to say, and I think that determi­nation will show this weekend.”
Reaney said the Irish will do fine against the competition as long as they keep their focus. 
“I think we just have to re­member that wherever we go, we represent the University of Notre Dame,” Reaney said. “That is al­ways something to be proud of, whether we are racing the No. 1 team in the country, or a small Division III school. We’re in this together and if we can remem­ber that we’ve worked hard for and with each other, we will be fine.”
Reaney said her goal for the weekend is to have as much fun as possible, especially with her family making the short drive to watch her swim.  
“It’s going to be a long week­end and if I can enjoy myself while swimming that many events, I know it will have been a good weekend,” Reaney said. “My family and friends will all be there, too, so that will help out with the whole having fun part.”
Notre Dame performs at the Kansas Women’s Classic starting Friday in Topeka, Kan. 
Contact Katie Heit at 
kheit@nd.edu

Observer Staff Report

Saint Mary’s opens its season this weekend when it travels to Wheaton, Ill., for the Wheaton Tip-Off Tournament.
After a 13-13 season a year ago, the Belles are look­ing to improve this season, starting with a game against Illinois College on Friday. Saint Mary’s will play ei­ther Blackburn or Wheaton on Saturday, depending on Friday’s results.
The Belles lost three top se­niors from a year ago: Kelley Murphy, Patsy Mahoney and Jessica Centa. Murphy was a first team all-MIAA selec­tion, while Mahoney and Centa were both selected for the conference’s second team. Mahoney was only the third Belle to score 1,000 points and notch 300 assists in a career.
The Belles return three players who played in all 26 games a season ago in senior guard Annie Doyle, junior guard Shanlynn Bias and sophomore forward Ariana Paul. Other signifi­cant returning contributors include senior guard Kayla Wolter and junior forward Katherine Wabler. The Belles also add a significant fresh­man class, featuring seven players.
Illinois College finished 9-14 in the 2011-2012 sea­son. The Lady Blues re­turn junior power forward Brittney Burgess, who led the team in points in 12 of its 23 games. Illinois College also returns notable play­ers in junior power forward Holly Wohltman and sopho­more small forward Hannah McGinnis. The Lady Blues have a freshman class con­sisting of nine members.
The Belles and Lady Blues are set to tip-off Friday from Wheaton, Ill., at 3 p.m. Saint Mary’s will play either Blackburn or Wheaton at 3 p.m. or 5 p.m. on Saturday.


Observer File Photo
Irish sophomore Emma Reaney competes in the 200 breastroke at the Shamrock Invitational on Jan. 28 at the Rolfs Aquatic Center.

see REANEY PAGE 17



