The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 46, issue 5 | MONDAY, AUGUST 27, 2012 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Students celebrate with Hesburgh 
Residents of Zahm House spend afternoon with University President Emeritus 
By TORI ROECK 
news writer 
Zahm house celebrated its 75th anniversary sunday by honoring one of the few people on campus older than the dorm itself: 95-year-old university president emeritus Fr. Theodore hesburgh. 
The event began in the hesburgh library auditorium with a reading of the “hesburgh challenge,” an agreement for all residents of Zahm house to live out hesburgh’s legacy in their lives, and continued with an ad­dress from hesburgh himself and a sharing of cigars near the reflecting pool. 
Zahm rector scott opperman said honoring hesburgh was a great way to start off a historic year for the dorm. 
“The guys love him, and he means so much to Zahm and to the whole university,” opperman said. “Zahm has stood up and said, ‘we want to carry on his legacy,’ and that’s a great way to celebrate our 75th anniversary … you could tell that he was touched. he even had a tear up there.” 
opperman said he designed the contents of the “hesburgh challenge” to reflect hesburgh’s priorities. 
“it’s things that Fr. Ted stands for, like service, sustainability, being inclusive,” he said. “The number-one thing was be­ing inclusive and welcoming, and obviously that’s top on Fr. hesburgh’s list.” 
To prioritize being inclusive, the men of Zahm agreed to re­spect themselves and others. 
The “challenge” states, “we will never tolerate discrimina­tion or hate-speech based on ability, age, class, color, ethnici­ty, gender, nationality, race, reli­gion, sex, or sexual orientation.” 
Zahm’s residents pledged to end their “ole, ole, ole” chant and will challenge others to do the same. 
The “challenge” also empha­sizes service and charity. 
“we shall dedicate ourselves to service,” the document states. “we will all participate in at least one house or university-sponsored service opportunity. we shall make larger donations to charity, especially through the profits of Za, our pizza parlor.” 
after the recitation of the challenge, hesburgh thanked the men of Zahm for honor­ing him and imparted words of advice. 
“Zahm has always been out­standing among the many halls at notre dame,” hesburgh said. “Zahm always had, like the germans call it, zeitgeist. They 



alum leads climb 
By MEL FLANAGAN 
news writer 
in november 2009, a group of about 20 students, led by Tom lillig, class of 1995, climbed to the 17,160-foot summit of mount iztaccihuatl in mexico. 
The climb was an incredible feat by itself, but the trip’s ac­complishment was amplified by the fact that half of the students were blind. 
The trip was one of many sponsored by no barriers u.s.a., a non-profit organization lillig is the board president of. no barriers aims to provide trans-formative experiences for stu­dents and veteran soldiers who would not otherwise have had an opportunity to see the world, he said. 
“our goal is to encourage peo­ple to live what we call a no-bar­riers lifestyle, in which whatever barrier they’re facing in life … they really believe that whatever 
see climb PAGE 6 
had a spirit, a kind of feeling and character, a kind of daring … i’m very lucky to be adopted as a part of the family by Zahm.” 
hesburgh said students should have the courage to be themselves and disagree with each other, even if that means questioning the status quo. 
see hesburgh PAGE 3 


Students enjoy music, 
students spend 
atmosphere of Block Party 
summer with navy 
By ADAM LLORENS 
news writer 
The unifying quality of mu­sic was evident saturday night at the annual b1 block party, as hundreds of notre dame and saint mary’s students came together to kick off the new school year. 
student bands assisted breathe carolina, a denver­based electronic rock duo, in opening the show for headliner boys like girls. 
sophomore michael Fernandes attended the b1 block party for the second time and thought it went as smooth­ly as it did last year. 
see block PAGE 5 



By NICOLE MICHELS 
news writer 

while most students left notre dame thinking of lazy summer days last may, the students in the navy roTc battalion were pre­paring to learn more about what life will be like as an officer in the 
u.s. navy after graduation. 

depending on class year and 
option, the midshipmen had dif­
ferent summer plans. 

rising sophomores embarked on a month-long excursion called cortramid to a naval base where they spent a week working in each community within the navy: aviation, submarine, surface and marine. These midshipmen are 
KIRBY MCKENNA | The Observer 

split between an east cortramid 
Students cheer on Martin Johnson, lead singer of the band Boys 
on the base in norfolk, va., and a 

Like Girls at the B1 Block Party on Saturday. 
west cortramid at the san diego base. 
sophomore kelsey hutchinson said she spent her month in san diego, participating in exercises meant to provide a clearer picture of the responsibilities of a naval officer. 
“while you’re at notre dame you don’t get that much of a taste of the particulars of life in the navy … this gives everyone a taste of what future careers might be after graduation,” hutchinson said. 
hutchinson said she most en­joyed her marine week rotation because the activities were in­credibly realistic, beginning with exercises in a skeleton town using 
see roTc PAGE 5 


hacking club PAGE 3 viewpoinT PAGE 8 b1 block parTy PAGE 10 wood suspended PAGE 20 





Have a question you want answered? 
Email obsphoto@gmail.com 



QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
ndsmcobserver.com 
p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
allan Joseph 
Managing Editor  Business Manager 
megan doyle  Jeff liptak 
Asst. Managing Editor: andrew owens 
Asst. Managing Editor: sam stryker News Editor: John cameron News Editor: kristen durbin 
Viewpoint Editor: meghan Thomassen Sports Editor: chris allen Scene Editor: kevin noonan Saint Mary’s Editor: Jillian barwick Photo Editor: suzanna pratt Graphics Editor: brandon keelean Multimedia Editor: sarah o’connor Advertising Manager: monica mccormack Ad Design Manager: sara hilstrom Controller: peter woo Systems Administrator: william heineman 

Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ajoseph2@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 mdoyle11@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 aowens2@nd.edu sstryke1@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 

Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 

Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 

Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 observer.scene.editor@gmail.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
jbarwi01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 

Policies 
The observer is the independent, daily newspaper 
published in print and online by the students of the 
university of notre dame du lac and saint mary’s 
college.  editorial content, including advertisements, is 
not governed by policies of the administration of either 
institution. The observer reserves the right to refuse 
advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively 
as possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion 
of the majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, 
assistant managing editors and department editors. 
commentaries, letters and columns present the views of 
the authors and not necessarily those of The observer. 
viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include 
contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed 
to Editor-in-Chief Allan Joseph. 
post office information The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The observer is published at: 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-0779 periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices posTmasTer send address corrections to: The observer p.o. box 779 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-077 The observer is a member of the associated press. all reproduction rights are reserved. 


What is your favorite new addition to campus? 


Michael Bradley 
Cavan Finigan 
Junior 
Freshman 
dillon 
duncan 
“pizza hut.” 
“probably Taco bell.” 

Katie Irving 

Ryan Smyth 
Freshman 
Freshman 
pangborn 
dillon 
“pizza hut.” 
“Taco bell.” 

Mike Zaleski 
Freshman 
dillon 
“everything, because i am a freshman.” 


Sarah Senseman 
Freshman 
pangborn 
“pizza hut.” 



Want your event included here? 
News Sports 
mel Flanagan sam gans Email obsnews@gmail.com 




THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 

christian myers vicky Jacobsen carolyn hutyra peter steiner 
Graphics Scene 

Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday 
steph wulz courtney cox 
Photo Viewpoint 

Fitness Classes Activities Night Reading by William Cassatt Exhibit Women’s Volleyball 
suzanna pratt amber galik 

Rolfs Joyce Center O’Rourke Snite Museum Joyce Center 6 a.m.-6 p.m. 7 p.m.-9 p.m. Hammes Bookstore 10 a.m.-5 p.m. 7 p.m.-9 p.m. Last day to try an Displays by more 7:30 p.m.-9 p.m. Showing of  ND vs. UAB 
Corrections 

activity for free before than 250 clubs and Personal reflections impressionist 
The observer regards itself as classes begin. organizations. on American life. paintings. a professional publication and strives for the highest standards 
Swim Registration AME Seminar Prayer Service Architecture Exhibit Women’s Soccer 
of journalism at all times. we do, 
Rockne Memorial Geddes Hall Grotto Bond Hall Alumni Stadium 
however, recognize that we will make 
9 a.m.-5 p.m. 3:30 p.m.-4:30 p.m. 4 p.m.-5 p.m. 11 a.m. 7:30 p.m.-9:30 p.m. 
mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 
Lesson sign up for all Talk on bone modeling Community prays for Sketches by Brian ND vs. Santa Clara 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
skill levels. and characterization. college students. Kelly, ND ‘81. 
we can correct our error. 



Club studies hacking 
By JOHN CAMERON 
news editor 
students who have fallen victim to a computer virus or identity theft before are all too aware of the importance of computer security. but a group of notre dame students is ex­ploring the process of hacking to promote computer skills. 
in the academic world, com­puter scientists and engineers study computer hacking to gain a better understanding of how to protect against it. 
a new initiative by notre dame’s linux users club, a group focused on edu­cating students about the open-source linux operating system, is intended to encour­
“[Hacking] is about self-guided learning and learning a different way to look at things.” 
Jared Schneider 
senior 
age members to explore com­puter hacking. 
senior Jared schneider, a computer science major in the club, is working on the initia­tive. he ultimately hopes for the club to compete in nation­al hacking challenges, such as deF con, the preeminent hacking convention held in las vegas every summer. 

“The idea is to get every­body, no matter what [his or her] major or skill level, to the same point,” he said. “Then from there, we get the ball roll­ing. we’re years of dedication away from that.” 
schneider found inspira­tion for the initiative from other schools’ hacking clubs, especially carnegie mellon university’s. 
“carnegie has this team, [plaid parliament of pwning], that consecutively ranks [in the] top-ten at the hacking challenges,” he said. “They got second at deF con with a team of 11 people. The first-place team had 80.” 
while schneider doesn’t have any hopes of the club sending a team to deF con in the near future, he would like to see them compete at some level. 
“usually there are quali­fiers to the events,” he said. “They’re usually remote, so we could probably participate in one of those.” 
schneider hopes the club will work toward a competitive skill level through the study of reverse engineering. 
“when you code something, you put it into a form that only the computer can un­derstand for the most part,” he said. “reverse engineering is like taking the cow out of a hamburger. you’re bringing out code that is unusable to anyone but the computer, and bringing that back into usable form.” 
he said many universities do not provide education in this area of computer science. 
“a lot of people don’t like to teach it because it’s also a way to steal things,” he said. “if microsoft comes out with a great new program, reverse engineering is a way to go into its code and find out how it works, and that’s where intel­lectual property issues come up.” 
The reverse-engineering initiative is putting a unique twist on the club’s stated pur­pose, schneider said. 
“The idea of the club is ba­sically to introduce people to linux,” he said. “it’s about cre­ating an environment for pro­fessors and students to work together … There’s a lot of un­tapped potential there.” 
whether or not the club ever makes it to deFcon, schneider said the skills gained by competitive hack­ing training would benefit the club’s members. 
“[hacking] is about self-guided learning and learn­ing a different way to look at things,” he said. “it’s not about placing in competitions.” 
Contact John Cameron at jcamero2@nd.edu 
smc academic workshops begin 
By JILLIAN BARWICK 
saint mary’s editor 
The academic skills & strategies workshop series at saint mary’s will open the year with two lec­tures, one for students interested stepping up their academic game and one for first-generation col­lege students. 
The academic skills programs will take place Tuesday at 12:30 
p.m. and wednesday at 7 p.m. The workshop intended for first-generation college students will be held wednesday at 8 p.m. all of the functions will be held in the academic resource center in madaleva hall. 
diane Fox, director of the office for student success, said both workshops are meant to make students’ lives easier. 
“if i can give students strategies to be more effective and efficient in their studies, they will defi­nitely be able to enjoy themselves when studying or playing,” she said. 
during the academic skills workshops, Fox will discuss topics ranging from empowerment to study strategies for different types of classes.
 “i hope that students will be­come more confident, more aware, and more savvy,” she said. “Two of the most important things to college students [are] doing well academically and having fun. i believe one should never have to come at the expense of the other.” 
The program for first genera­tion college students is the first of four to be held on wednesdays at 8 p.m. 
“The first-generation work­shops are for any student who wants to come and is interested in the topic,” Fox said. “but the new series is [truly] targeted for first-generation students.” 
by giving the first-generation students an outlet for success, Fox said she hopes they will be more willing to open up to other students. 
“what a blessing to be the first in your family to attend and, hopefully, finish college,” she said. “This is my way of trying to make their lives easier as well.” 
Fox said the office plans to hold academic strategies workshops throughout the semester. The programs are about 30 minutes long, and will be held in the same time and place as the first skills events.
 “i consider it a privilege and a blessing to have my job,” Fox said. “i love what i do, and i hope the students all know that they are al­ways more than welcome to come and get help whenever they may need it.” 
Contact Jillian Barwick at jbarwi01@saintmarys.edu 
Hesburgh 
conTinued From page 1 
“don’t be afraid to disagree,” he said. “i think one of the great­est values of an intelligent life is to disagree. at this point in your life, you’re deciding how to come down on things, tough things like sex or tough things like honesty or tough things like intelligence or tough things like being able to stand up in front of the crowd and say, ‘i don’t believe that and here are my reasons why.’ … That’s one reason i’m very proud of you guys, that you can stand up and say what you think.” 
in addition to giving advice, hesburgh recounted a story of one of his most interesting expe­riences, which involved saying mass at the south pole. a notre dame graduate who had been assigned to take command of a group of researchers there asked hesburgh to bless his mission re­motely, but hesburgh said he de­cided to do it in person instead. 
“That day was the first mass at sea on an icebreaker and the second mass at the south pole,” he said. 
even after traveling the world, hesburgh said notre dame is still the closest place to his heart. 
“notre dame is the best catholic university, not just in the world today, but ever,” he said. 
hesburgh said he prays for all notre dame students daily and is confident the residents of Zahm in particular will lead extraordi­nary lives. 
after his speech, the men of Zahm dubbed hesburgh an “honorary Zahmbie,” gifting him with a dorm t-shirt, water bottle, bumper sticker and key to the residence hall. 
Freshman christian metzler said meeting hesburgh was a special moment for him. 
“Fr. hesburgh is a legend here at notre dame, and you hear great things about him all the time, and the fact that we were able to get to meet him and [make him] an honorary Zahmbie re­ally means a lot, even as a fresh­man,” metzler said. “i’m blessed that we had this opportunity to meet him and hear what he had to say. we could’ve listened to him for hours.” 
Junior John brahier said hesburgh’s speech was incred­ibly powerful. 
“The words of wisdom he was able to share with us will defi­nitely be in our hearts for a long time,” brahier said. “They will definitely inspire us to do bigger and better things in the coming years, and we’re really excited about that future.” 
senior peter Flores said the ex­perience of smoking cigars with hesburgh is unforgettable. 
“Fr. Ted is known for smoking a cigar or two, and there’s no great­er bonding experience among men than smoking a cigar with a guy you look up to,” Flores said. 


metzler said he looks for­ward to the positive results that will come of the “hesburgh challenge.” 
“we’re really looking to be­come more inclusive,” metzler said. “it’s a huge thing, especially at a catholic university, to accept everyone, and in a residence sys­tem where it’s all random. even if you don’t have the same views as someone, respect what their views are and teach them about your views and learn from other people.” 
senior Zahm resident assistant luke peters said he would take the “hesburgh challenge” very seriously. 
“i hope to live out the ‘hesburgh challenge’ by tak­ing it upon myself to take the extra effort to stand for what Fr. hesburgh did in his life, with that same spirit of inclusion, strong morals and character which he was able to carry out through his time at the university and what he still stands for today,” peters said. 
Flores, also a resident assistant, said he hopes the “hesburgh challenge” will foster a familial atmosphere in Zahm. 
“Families don’t always get along,” Flores said. “Families aren’t always on the same page. but families love each other and stick with each other. That’s the real challenge, to make the notre dame family … alive.” 
Contact Tori Roeck at vroeck@nd.edu 




ROTC warfare. option midshipman, said she Junior michael Falvey studied spent her enlisted cruise on board 
conTinued From page 1 

mountain warfare in bridgeport, the u.s.s. roosevelt, a destroyer paintball bullets. calif.,with the other marine op-based in mayport, Fla. 
“They took us out to this place tions, where he said he learned the “i was on my summer cruise where they had built a skel-general principles of mountain for a month: i was in port for two eton town, gave us m-16s that warfare and military survival. weeks of that time, and then we had paintballs instead of bul-“There’s a good amount of went underway for ten days … lets, and taught us how to clear a hiking because you’re up in the after that we came into port in building, work as a fire team in mountains … your daily sched-key west, where i stayed for three a squad and other exercises like ule normally consists of a couple days before coming straight back that,” hutchinson said. “Then, on of evolutions [significant events to school,” Johnson said. Friday we hiked out to this build-of the day], with one big evolu-after she arrived on the ship, ing and inside the building they tion each day,” Falvey said. “The Johnson said she was assigned to understand what they do unless the helicopter hangar and got had literally built afghanistan… evolutions range from rappelling a running mate, an enlisted sailor you actually get in there, get your involved with the teams that they even had afghan people [in-and climbing rock faces to taking that she shadowed. hands dirty and do it with them.” board the pirate ships for drills,” side the town] working as actors.” classes on survival like building a “most of the times the running after junior year, navy options kilpatrick said. 
hutchinson said the exercise hut or purifying water.” mates were pretty relaxed with us spend time on an officer cruise, kilpatrick said one of the most gave soldiers and midshipmen Falvey said he most enjoyed and allowed us to explore the rest where midshipmen shadow an interesting parts of his time on the chance to participate in a learning how to tie knots and of the ship so that we could spend officer and learn his or her daily the uss chafee was being in pearl firefight against afghani forces snare game. time in each department, not just duties. marine options attend harbor for rimpac, an event before they face actual fighting in “i personally liked the skin-the department of our running officer candidate school, where planned by the us navy that afghanistan. ning and cleaning small game mates,” she said. candidates are screened to see if brings together forty foreign al­
“They sent our squad in with a after catching them with snares,” she said this freedom to explore they possess the ability to be an lies of the u.s. navy to participate mission and showed us the out-Falvey said. “i also enjoyed tying the ship was one of her favorite officer in the marine corps. in “naval war games” every two line of the building before we went knots… it’s not something you’re parts of the trip. senior Quinn kilpatrick, a years. into the building,” hutchinson taught, previously it was only “i was in the weapons depart-navy option, said he was based in “it’s about making sure we are said. “we had to talk to the towns-glossed over, but once you know ment, and my guy was a cwis pearl harbor for his officer cruise, still able to work together if the sit-people, get information and then how to make a good knot it is an technician, which means he took which he spent shadowing the of-uation arose where that would be someone started shooting.” incredibly useful skill.” care of the huge guns on the front ficer in charge of the combat sys-necessary,” kilpatrick said. “it was 
hutchinson said she would like mountain warfare aims to ac-and back of the destroyer that look tems and electronics on the u.s.s. surprising, i didn’t know we’d get to switch into the marine option, complish entirely different objec-like r2-d2,” Johnson said. “we did chafee. a chance to participate … meet-but overall she was grateful for tives for the marine options than a lot of maintenance, but when we “The guy that i shadowed was ing foreign navies, touring other the chance to learn more about the summer cruises for the rest of actually got to shoot them it was a really good guy, he was just ships and participating in exer­the different communities in the the midshipmen, Falvey said. fun.” about to leave the ship so he was cises was pretty cool.” navy. “mountain warfare wasn’t that Johnson said the most valuable turning over duties to his replace-kilpatrick said even though he 
“we hadn’t even signed our difficult, but its goal was to ac-learning experience was realizing ment and got to spend a little extra would like to go into explosive or-contracts yet, but they went complish something totally dif-just how hard the enlisted sailors time taking me around the ship,” dinance disposal or aviation, he through so much to give us this ferent than what the navy cruises work. kilpatrick said. “being with him enjoyed experiencing a different training and it really was a lot of seek to accomplish,” Falvey said. “spending time with the en-was definitely the highlight, he part of the navy. fun,” hutchinson said. “i’m re-“navy cruises are orientations to listed people was so eye-open-was very good at getting me en-“it was good training for learn-ally, really grateful for all these what active duty life is like in the ing; it was incredible to see the gaged in various activities around ing how to work with enlisted opportunities.” naval fleet, while mountain war-amount of work that they put the ship.” people and experiencing the life 
after sophomore year, navy op-fare is more about teaching skills in and the sacrifices that they These activities spanned a wide of an officer,” kilpatrick said. tion midshipmen attend an en-that can be utilized once in the make,” Johnson said. “They make range, kilpatrick said. listed cruise, while marine option marine corps.” it through it all without hav-“i got to drive the ship when Contact Nicole Michels at midshipmen study mountain Junior kendall Johnson, a navy ing a bad attitude … you can’t they were refueling it, toured nmichels@nd.edu 
paid adverTisemenT 
well as others who expressed 
Block 
their disapproval, thought boys 
conTinued From page 1 
like girls was calling the school 
“The crowd was lively and indiana university instead of the atmosphere was intense,” notre dame. Fernandes said. “when boys like “people didn’t like that so girls went on the stage, the crowd much,” vista said. “They could erupted.” have called us out as ‘notre 
Fernandes said the atmosphere dame.’” at the event was amazing, even vista said he enjoyed the atmo­though he did not particularly sphere of the event more than the enjoy the music. actual music. 
“i’m glad i went for the rock wall and the bungee jump, but 
“When Boys Like 
not so much for the concert,” he 
Girls went on the 
said. stage, the crowd Junior kurt beatty said the erupted.” block party has gotten better ev­
ery year since 2010. 
Michael Fernandes 
“i wasn’t particularly fond of 
sophomore 
the first concert when guster played, so the quality of it this “everything from the food to year was surprising,” beatty the rock climbing wall and bun-said. “while breathe carolina gee jumps was awesome to have wouldn’t be my first choice for at the concert,” Fernandes said. an opening act, they did a good 
he said the concert was a “per-enough job of getting the crowd fect way” to kick off the new aca-psyched for boys like girls, who demic year. played a great concert.” 
“The b1 block party is always as the concert progressed, a highlight of the fall semes-beatty said the anticipation for ter and is something i’ve been a surprise appearance by Taylor looking forward to all summer,” swift grew quickly. The band re-Fernandes said. corded the song “Two is better 
Freshman drew vista was Than one” with swift for its 2009 eager to experience his first b1 album “love drunk.” block party, and he said the event “a lot of people showed up just was exciting. vista said boys like hoping for the off chance that girls worked the crowd well, but she’d be there,” beatty said. the excitement turned sour when the band referred to the audi-Contact  Adam Llorens at ence as ‘indiana’. he said he, as allorens@nd.edu 




The observer | MONDAY, AUGUST 27, 2012 | ndsmcobserver.com 

Climb 
conTinued From page 1 
is within them is stronger than what’s in their way,” lillig said. 
The organization specializes in taking trips with wounded soldiers and physically and economically disadvantaged students. 
lillig said no barriers, which was founded in 2003, typically run around 20 trips per year and has taken roughly 5,000 people on the expeditions. 
examples of past trips include mountain climbing experiences, cultural immersion trips and white-water rafting adventures. 
“we just recently did a trip this summer with a mixed group of deaf students and hearing stu­dents,” lillig said. “we try and tailor the trip so there is really a breaking down of barriers that takes place between the deaf stu­dents and hearing students.” 
although the students typi­cally bond easily, lillig said the challenge comes from learning a system of helping each other. 
“climbing a mountain is a dangerous thing,” he said. “when you have a blind student, what you need to do is make sure those blind students are able to communicate and be commu­nicated with by the sighted stu­dents that are helping them up the mountain.” 
For the 2009 climb in mexico, lillig said bells were placed on the poles of the sighted students who were in front of the blind students. The blind students were able to follow the sound of the bells and hear exactly where they should walk. 
lillig said that particular trip was the most inspirational ex­perience he has had with no barriers. 
“all the blind students made it to the top,” he said. “i’m most proud of that fact.” 
lillig, who has served as board president since the inception of no barriers, said he became in­volved with the non-profit to help others realize the extent of what they can do in life, regardless of the abilities they were given. 
“regardless of who we’re talk­ing about, we’re trying to get them to dig deeper, reach high­er,” he said. 
at the end of the trips, lillig said even the advantaged stu­dents typically tell him they learned more about themselves during the expedition than from any other experience. 
“For them, it really takes that sort of ultimate gift of sharing and understanding what the challenge of being blind, and also the courage the blind stu­dents have as they approach this climb,” he said. 
Contact Mel Flanagan at mflanag3@nd.edu 

LIBYA 

interim interior minister resigns 
Associated Press 
Tripoli, libya — libya’s interim interior minister re­signed on sunday after mem­bers of the newly-elected parliament accused his forc­es of neglect when attackers bulldozed a sufi shrine and mosque while police stood by a day earlier. 
saturday’s attack on the shrine was the latest in a string of assaults on sufi places of worship, sparking fears of stewing sectarian troubles in a country that is still without a strong central government and largely without a functioning police or military. 
The official libyan news agency lana reported that Fawzi abdel-al submitted his resignation to prime minister abdurrahim el-keib. 
The spokesman for libya’s security services, abdel­moneim al-hurr, said sunday that the interior minister’s res­ignation had been accepted by both the prime minister and parliament. 
adding to the tension, a secu­rity official told The associated press that after lawmakers spoke out against the security forces’ inaction, Tripoli’s police and militias who work together as part of a security committee were ordered by their superiors to withdraw from the streets. The official spoke on condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to release the information. 
lana also reported that the elected national assembly, or parliament, called upon the security committee to ignore orders to stop work and to in­stead continue “serving the homeland.” 
witnesses and an associated press reporter said security forces were visibly absent from the streets of Tripoli on sunday. 
late sunday, security spokesman al-hurr said that 17 people had been arrested in connection with the desecra­tion of the sufi shrine. he also denied that security forces were ordered off the streets. 
The turmoil comes after at­tacks by ultraconservative muslim hardliners against religious shrines across the country. saturday’s bulldoz­ing of a Tripoli sufi shrine and a mosque with tombs inside came a day after hardliners in the city of Zliten bulldozed a more than 500-year-old shrine and library. similar attacks have taken place over the past months in other cities and at least twice before in Tripoli. 
JAPAN 

anti-nuclear protesters pressure government 
Associated Press 

Tokyo — This is Japan's summer of discontent. Tens of thousands of protesters — the largest demonstrations the country has seen in de­cades — descend on Tokyo every Friday evening to shout anti-nuclear slogans at the prime minister's office. many have never protested publicly before. 
"i used to complain about this to my family but i realized that doesn't do any good," said Takeshi Tamura, a 67-year­old retired office worker. "so i came here to say this to his office. i don't know if we can make a difference but i had to do something, and at least it's a start." 
The government's much-criticized handling of the Fukushima nuclear crisis has spawned a new breed of pro­testers in Japan. drawn from the ranks of ordinary citizens rather than activists, they are a manifestation of a broader dissatisfaction with govern­ment and could create pres­sure for change in a political system that has long resisted it. 
what started as relatively small protests in april has swollen rapidly since the gov­ernment decided to restart two of Japan's nuclear reactors in June, despite lingering safe­ty fears after the meltdowns at the Fukushima dai-ichi plant triggered by the march 2011 earthquake and tsunami. 
as many as 20,000 people have gathered at the Friday rallies by unofficial police estimates, and organizers say the turnout has topped 
paid adverTisemenT 
100,000. officials at the prime minister's office say their crowd estimate is "several tens of thousands." either way, the two-hour demonstrations are the largest and most persistent since the 1960s, when violent student-led protests against a security alliance with the united states rocked Japan. 
The protesters include of­fice workers, families with children, young couples and retirees. 




Protesters stay peaceful prior to GOP convention 
Associated Press 
Tampa, Fla. — you can’t see them. you can barely hear them over the din of the wind and rain swirling in the skies above from Tropical storm isaac. protesters are here but it’s highly unlikely they’ll come close to crossing paths with republicans for the presidential nominating convention. 
protesters are being kept blocks away and, so far, they’ve gathered in groups several dozen to a few hun­dred. but the worries of mas­sive protests that might bring violence and a cacophony of chanting have been elusive. 
with isaac making its way northward toward the gulf coast, brushing Tampa bay, the republican national convention has been pushed off to a later start. protesters might also be staying away because of the storm, whose path and intensity has been difficult to predict. isaac’s outer bands were already bringing intermittent rain and gusts of wind but no down­pours, and the usual august heat and humidity was being kept relatively at bay. 
sunday’s protests ran the gamut from unionized labor and occupy wall street to a hearty band of 30 who criti­cized presumptive gop presi­dential nominee mitt romney for putting his dog seamus in a crate atop his station wagon on a long-ago family vacation. 
“if somebody is going to 
“A lot of people were afraid to come out because of the approaching rain and thunder.” 
Sarah Kilker 
protester 
treat their animal inhu­manely, how are they going to treat our country?” said kim swygert, 37, a law student from Tampa, who came with her great dane. 
several carried anti-rom­ney signs including one that read, “don’t roof rack me, bro.” 
Those who turned out said they were hoping for more demonstrators, but the lousy weather kept people away. 
“a lot of people were afraid to come out because of the ap­proaching rain and thunder,” said sarah kilker, who was ac­companied by a long-haired chihuahua and a mixed chow and terrier. 
The streets of Tampa didn’t resemble st. paul, minn., in 2008, when thousands of pro­testers packed the city for the last republican convention. some smashed cars, punc­tured tires and threw bottles in a confrontation with pep-per-spray wielding police. hundreds were arrested over a few days, including dozens of journalists. authorities in Tampa say they learned from that convention and congress allocated $50 million for security. 

a few hundred protesters braved the intermittent rain and wind at a park about a half-mile from the convention site of the Tampa bay Times Forum. They were watching large blocks of ice that spelled out the words “middle class” melt, saying it represented the erosion of the middle class in america. The art installa­tion was planned for monday but moved up because of the weather. 
Fifty-two-year-old donald butner says he’s been sleep­ing at the occupy-Tampa camp for a few months and that “we’re here, baby, rain or shine. The weather is going to do what it is going to do.” 
marchers chanted “we are the 99 percent” and carried homemade signs. The 99 per­cent refers to the group’s mes­sage that most don’t share in the wealth of america. 
That message rang true for 52-year-old Tom gaurapp and 54-year-old cheryl landecker from Freeport, 
ill. both worked for sensata Technologies, owned by bain capital, in the city of some 25,000 people. They say 170 jobs there, including their own, were outsourced to china. 
gaurapp and landecker said that just a few years ago, they never would have consid­ered joining such a protest. 
“but then again, we wouldn’t have dreamed our jobs would have gone to china,” gaurapp said. 
For months, protesters were gearing up for scores of people to converge on Tampa the day before the convention began to showcase their laundry list of beefs and key messages. 


neither protesters nor the gop, however, could foresee Tropical storm isaac, which is expected to become a dan­gerous category 2 hurricane by the time it makes land over the northern gulf coast sometime late Tuesday or ear­ly wednesday. Tampa won’t bear the brunt, but winds, heavy rain and perhaps flood­ing are expected monday. 
Though jobs and uneven distribution of wealth were strong messages, those who did show up didn’t seem to have a universal theme. 
some came to oppose just mitt romney as a candidate. others didn’t seem to care for romney or president barack obama. 
a more spirited but still tame protest of 500 to 1,000 people was held for about an hour in st. petersburg, about 15 miles away, at the republican kickoff party at Tropicana Field. The relations between protesters and police 
— who were on foot, bikes and horses — was amicable. one protester was spotted chatting with an officer under a palm tree about the track of isaac. 
Though protesters vow to stay put, if the weather threat­ens their safety or that of visitors on the streets, police officers will use public ad­dress systems and go person-to-person to warn them to leave, said Tampa police chief Jane castor. 
castor said if “it becomes an issue of public safety, we will order people into shelters.” 
at least one arrest was made. a man that police said had a machete strapped to his leg was subdued after he resisted officers, according to the hillsborough county sheriff’s office. 
gop adjusts to tropical storm 
Associated Press 
Tampa, Fla. — with Tropical storm isaac bearing down on the gulf coast, republicans left open the possibility of big­ger changes to mitt romney’s already-shortened convention, mindful of political awkward­ness in celebrating while severe weather threatens new orleans on the anniversary of hurricane katrina. 
“There’s a weather event. we all know there’s a weather event there,” russ schriefer, romney’s chief planner, said sunday when asked about a po­tential image problem. “we’re obviously monitoring what is going on with the weather. our concern is with those people in the path of the storm.” 
The decision about what to do next is fraught with political peril. 
romney is trying to balance celebrating his presidential nomination with being mind­ful of the ghost of hurricane katrina and the stain george w. bush’s handling of it left on the gop. The tropical storm, which seemed likely to be upgraded to a hurricane, could strike the gulf coast nearly to the day of the seventh anniversary of katrina. 
after scrapping the conven­tion’s first day, planners late sunday announced a three-day program and leaner agenda. but they wouldn’t speculate whether the storm would force a second postponement or any additional changes. 
“we’re moving forward, but we are going to be nim­ble,” republican national committee chairman reince priebus said. 
The next few days will test romney’s ability to both pres­ent himself to the american people as a plausible alterna­tive to president barack obama and to lead a party still smart­ing from the image hit it took in the aftermath of the 2005 gulf coast devastation. 
since then, republicans have been so sensitive to the politi­cal danger around hurricanes 
— and the appearance of party­ing at a time of trouble — that they delayed the start of their national convention by a day in 2008 when hurricane gustav bore down on the gulf, a full 1,200 miles away from where delegates were gathering in st. paul, minn. 
Four years later, a storm again has delayed the start of the convention — and again is barreling toward new orleans, the city that katrina so badly damaged. 
“you don’t want to be hav­ing hoopla and dancing when you have the nation focused on tragedy and suffering,” said al hoffman, a republican from west palm beach and former finance chairman of the rnc. 
memories of katrina hung heavy over Tampa as republican delegates traveled here to anoint the party’s new standard-bear­er. all over Florida — a critical battleground state — people were preparing for the worst. homes and shops were boarded up in key west. about 800 miles northwest in the Florida pan­handle, the wal-mart in destin, Fla., had sold out of bottled water. 
in a conference call with re­porters late sunday, schriefer sidestepped a question about the potentially problematic ap­pearance of republicans par­
“You don’t want to be having hoopla and dancing when you have the nation focused on tragedy and suffering.” 
Al Hoffman 
former RNC finance chairman 
tying while a hurricane bore down on the very city that cast a pall over the last gop administration. 
romney’s team was sensitive to the comparison to the 2005 storm, which was a category 5 hurricane. isaac, still a tropi­cal storm, was forecast to reach hurricane strength. 
when asked about the optics, charlie black, a veteran gop strategist and informal adviser to romney, sharply noted that romney played no role in the bush administration’s handling of the catastrophe. 
“i don’t recall mitt romney having anything to do with katrina,” said black, also a se­nior adviser to mccain’s cam­paign in 2008. 
by sunday afternoon, Tampa was cloud-covered and windy outside the hall where romney is to accept the nomination Thursday night. inside, tense romney advisers huddled to figure out how to proceed. 
“it’s a mess all around and it’s fraught with risk,” said sally bradshaw, a Florida republican and longtime senior aide to for­mer Florida gov. Jeb bush. “it’s not good for anybody — partic­ularly the people impacted by the storm.” 
weather was recognized as potential trouble when republicans chose to hold their convention in Florida dur­ing hurricane season, a deci­sion made well before romney locked up the nomination. 
beyond the safety and image concerns, isaac presents anoth­er wrinkle for romney: it allows obama to show leadership and flex the levers of his administra­tion to help people bracing for a storm. 

The observer | MONDAY, AUGUST 27, 2012 | ndsmcobserver.com 
What is a person? 

INSIDE COLUMN 

coming home 

Kristen Durbin 
news editor 

i’m pretty sure i’ve been dreaming for the past 14 months of my life. i’ve lived in three states that start with the letter i and two spanish-speaking countries on opposite sides of the atlantic. i traveled to nine countries during my three-and­a-half months in spain last fall. i’ve seen such famed locales as the eiffel Tower, big ben, the colosseum, notre dame in paris, the sagrada Familia, Trafalgar square, the david and the sistine chapel. i enjoyed a breakfast of beer and pretzels at the real oktoberfest and visited the guinness factory in dublin. i swam in two oceans and two seas. i climbed a vol­cano and went waterfall-jumping in el salvador this summer. i formed lasting relationships with the people i met in all of my temporary homes. 
after globetrotting so extensively and living in a given place for no more than four months at a time, i’m constantly torn between “homes,” always wanting to be wherever i’m not. when i’m at my childhood home in the sleepy chicago suburbs, i ache for the sloped cobble­stone streets of Toledo, spain, and the majestic mountains of idaho. i spent a good chunk of my summer in el salvador wishing i could be back in my sweet home chicago and longing to walk along the rio Tajo in Toledo at sunset. 
as i moved between idaho and illinois, sevilla and san salvador, i felt a constant void in my heart that varied in strength and depth depending on my feelings about the place i called “home” at the time.  it wasn’t until i got off the toll road and caught the first glimpse of mary perched atop the golden dome above the tree line that i realized what i’d been missing all along. 
notre dame, the place i’ve called home for most of the last three years, welcomed me back with open arms on a gorgeous summer day. since i moved back to cam­pus in frigid January after returning from abroad, i’d forgotten what it feels like to come back to notre dame ready to begin a new school year. but as familiar as that feeling of anxiety and excitement was, it felt strange to move into my townhouse instead of the pangborn basement. 
now, with the first week of senior year under my belt, i finally feel at home again. even though i’ll probably spend most of the year trying to deny the fact that i graduate in may, i also have more trav­els to look forward to: fall break in san diego, the miami game at soldier Field, a trip to los angeles with my fellow editors and spring break with my roommates. 
but no matter where my life takes me in the next 14 months, i’ll always remem­ber there’s no place like my home under the dome. 
Contact Kristen Durbin at kdurbin@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Elliott Pearce 
The human interest 
last year, notre dame right to life sold T-shirts that said, “a person’s a person, no matter how small.” whatever we believe about abortion, i hope that this cute but profound dr. seuss quote made us ask an important question whenever we saw one of those shirts: what is a person? 
Throughout history, many different groups have decided, for various rea­sons, that other groups of human be­ings were not persons. The Framers of the u.s. constitution famously agreed to count slaves as three-fifths of a per­son at the constitutional convention in 1787. men treated women as property, not persons, throughout most of hu­man history; some societies continue this practice today. countless religious and political organizations have de­nied personhood to the Jews. even now, on notre dame’s campus, lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender and ques­tioning (lgbTQ) students and faculty and their allies are arguing that the university, by refusing to include sexu­al orientation in its non-discrimination clause, is treating lgbTQ individuals as second-class citizens. 
That phrase, “second-class citizens,” helps us understand what it means to be a person in the united states, by calling to mind the struggles that so many have endured to emerge from second-class citizenship to full par­ticipation in american society. To quote Thomas Jefferson, americans believe that “all men are created equal,” and are therefore “endowed by their creator with certain inalienable rights,” among which are  life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness. over time, we have granted these rights to african-americans, women and even people of different sexual orientations. i think it is fair to say that today, we as americans agree that every unique member of the human species is a per­son with the same unalienable rights that Thomas Jefferson first claimed for our nation’s founders in 1776. 

what happens when one group de­cides to infringe upon the personhood of others by denying them these rights? The Taliban violently repressed women and people of different religions and ethnicities within their own country. They feared and hated the united states as a place that elevated to full personhood the same groups they de­moted. Therefore, they had no problem helping al-Qaeda carry out deadly at­tacks on america and its allies around the world. 
why does injustice in one part of the globe, especially one as re­mote and seemingly insignificant as afghanistan, threaten the rights and dignity of all persons? it has to do with the way humans think. we believe that our minds all work the same way, so that when we have correctly reasoned through a problem and come to a conclusion, our conclusion should be “right” for all other people as well. This is true only when we are actually right. as we all know, it is a common human error to come to an incorrect conclu­sion and believe it to be a self-evident truth. Therefore, when a powerful group latches onto an incorrect idea about who is and is not a person, hu­man nature prompts the group to prop­agate this idea throughout its sphere of influence. The reach and sophistica­tion of both modern media and weap­onry has made even small and remote groups dangerous to everyone. 
confusion within our own society about the status of the human person is even more dangerous than violence imposed from without. Though our for­eign enemies can threaten us more at home than they could have in the past, their reach and power is still limited. ideas about the human person that we come up with ourselves, however, can be quickly implemented through the democratic process. 
Furious debates are now raging both in the pages of The observer and in media forums across the country about possibly grievous offenses against the rights of human persons. pro-life activists argue that the legalization of abortion has allowed americans to un­wittingly kill over 40 million innocent children, while their pro-choice op­ponents retort that banning abortion would deny women an essential liberty. supporters of gay rights argue the stat­utes that 29 states have passed to ban gay marriage deny gays the inalienable right of the pursuit of happiness;  oppo­nents of gay marriage see these statutes as safeguards for their own way of life and for the children that they believe do best in traditional families. 
i still maintain that we all agree that a person is a unique member of the human species with inalienable rights to life, liberty and the pursuit of happi­ness. what counts as a unique member of the human species, though? what is liberty, and what is happiness? These are issues upon which we do not agree. Through careful and correct reasoning, we may be able to come to conclusions that are true for everyone. let us start this discussion immediately — “justice everywhere” is at stake. 
Elliott Pearce  can be reached at Elliott.A.Pearce.12@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“i find television very educating. every time somebody turns on the set, i go into the other room and read a book.” 
Groucho Marx 
U.S. comedian 
WEEKLY POLL 
What do you think of the new design? 
Tweet your response with #viewpointpoll by 5 p.m. Thursday. 



The observer | MONDAY, AUGUST 27, 2012 | ndsmcobserver.com 
LETTER 
UWIRE 

Feedback for the 4 to 5 Movement 

welcome back from the 4 to 5 movement! 

we, the co-presidents of the progressive student alliance (psa), would like to welcome everyone to campus for the beginning of the se­mester. last fall, psa initiated the 4 to 5 movement in an effort to address the need for greater inclusion on campus for members of the community who identify as lesbian, gay, bisexual, trans­gender and questioning (lgTbQ) and their allies. in the spring of 2012, mem­bers of the 4 to 5 movement sparked a legitimate conversation, bringing the topics of sexual orientation and gender identity into the mainstream discourse on campus. we were able to foster an environment that welcomed this discussion, as well as one in which allies were not afraid to express their support. 
The 4 to 5 movement and those in­volved remain wholeheartedly commit­ted to the goals with which we set out to achieve in october of 2011 — read more on our website, 4to5movement.org. we are committed to creating a truly inclusive environment on campus for 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

student newspapers must remain in hands of students 
the press, whether professional or stu­dent, must be free from the interests and control of those who would keep that information from the public. 
bringing that information to you is, after all, one of the most important reasons a free press exists. 
yes, we keep you informed about how the football team is doing this season and how new campus policies will affect your daily life. That is an incredibly important part of what we do and certainly our most practical function. 
but our other role — to be watch­dogs, the ones who keep track of those in power and ensure they are following the rules and telling the truth — that role enables a free society to function. 
on a smaller scale, it allows you to keep track of the people you trust with your education, tuition and reputation. 
so the staff of The red & black did not walk away from their publication because they didn’t get their way or because they couldn’t handle change. They did it for the same reason free­dom of the press is protected in the First amendment: because where there is oversight, interference and editorial control, the press is unable to freely and without bias hold those in power accountable to the people they serve. 
Though the board of directors of The red & black has met with the former editors and staffers, the statement the board released Thursday showed no signs of remorse or backing down. 
For now, the students who left The red & black have affirmed through their Twitter, “we are committed to providing a student newspaper that is student-written, student-sourced, stu­dent-designed and student-approved.” 
we stand behind that commitment and join them in reminding universi­ties across the nation, including our own, that as a source of student power, student press should be created for students and controlled by students. 
so that scandals will not go undis­covered, truths will not be hidden be­hind spin and student voices will not be silenced. 
This editorial originally ran in the Aug. 17 issue of the Oklahoma Daily, serving the University of Oklahoma. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
members of the community who iden­tify as lgbTQ. we understand that the common good of our university and her students commands a respect for the fundamental dignity of the human person. we encourage open, honest and respectful dialogue, especially now as we await a decision from student affairs on the recognition of our gay-straight alliance, alliancend. 
as we approach our one-year an­niversary, we are entering an exciting time for the future of inclusion at notre dame. Feedback from all members of the community is essential. we are shaping this future together, and your voice matters. 
Alex Coccia 
co-president, psa junior siegfried hall aug. 26 
Lauren Morisseau 
co-president, psa sophomore breen-phillips hall aug. 26 

Oklahoma Daily Editorial Board 
oklahoma daily 

when defining The daily for readers, we often describe ourselves as inde­pendent, student-run and student-led. in fact, our very masthead reads, “The university of oklahoma’s independent student voice since 1916.” 
but rarely do we have the opportu­nity to examine what that means and why it is so important that control of The daily remain in student hands. 
wednesday brought such an op­portunity, when word spread that the editors and senior staff of The red & black, u. georgia’s independent stu­dent newspaper, had walked out of the newsroom following the resignation of the editor-in-chief. 
The reason for the mass exodus? changes to the paper’s structure planned by a professional board of directors that would have given final say over the paper’s content to non-students, stripping students of edito­rial control. 
a draft of a memo outlining some of the changes was released by the former staff of The red & black. it showed that the new position of “editorial director” now would have prior review and veto power over all content published in print and online. 
Further, the director would be ex­pected to ensure the content of the paper fit expectations laid out by the board of directors — more “good” stories about student achievements or university programming and fewer “bad” stories about people or organiza­tions behaving illegally or unethically. 
This kind of control and content-shaping from non-students certainly would make The red & black no longer a student publication. worse, it would strip the paper of its ability to fulfill its central purpose: to keep its audience informed about the truth of what is happening at the university. 
That is why student control and independence from university med­dling is so important to student media. sometimes the truth includes stories about people or groups doing bad things. sometimes the truth includes information the university would rather keep quiet. sometimes the truth leads to serious repercussions. 
and it is during those times when 


STEPH WULZ | The Observer 

The observer | MONDAY, AUGUST 27, 2012 | ndsmcobserver.com 

By CLAIRE STEPHENS 
scene writer 

after a quiet start with live music from student bands and artists, b1 block party headliner boys like girls and opening act breathe carolina took the stage to give a musically entertaining and fun show. Though this year’s block party was not as visually stunning compared to acts in years past, neither band needed anything more than their good music and engaging personalities to put on a great show. 
This year’s festivities included a euro bungee, rock wall climbing, caricatures, henna tattoos, corn hole, food vendors and a beer garden. even before the bands took the stage, a steady stream of infectious dance remixes gave the event an ener gizing atmosphere. 
breathe carolina blasted into their first set with little warning, jerking the audience into their rock ing, electronic style. The band served as a great opener for boys like girls with their catchy melo dies and similar rock sound infused with harder, edgier electronic music. The dubstep esque sound gave the block party a dance friendly vibe much like last year’s girl Talk show. at quieter or a capella moments in the music, the band even surpassed expectations with strong vocals and harmonies behind their loud dance rock. 
The contrast between the performance of lead members kyle even and david schmitt and the band’s live members matched their blend of rock and electronic music. even’s energetic presence and animated use of the stage stole the show. even engaged the audience with his motion, the effort he put into his performance and his time spent down amongst the audience dancing and jumping around in the crowd. 
breathe carolina proved to be enthu siastic and exciting live musicians for pop, rock, and dubstep fans and excelled at putting their personality into their mu sic. The band ended with their current Top 40 
hit “blackout,” finishing with 
spectacular, seizure inducing black 
lights and incredible motion and energy 
that spread to the audience. 
The impatient crowd was instantly recharged from the long break between bands when boys like girls took the stage with the popular breakout hit, “The great escape.” Though lead singer martin Johnson did not run across the stage like even did, he kept the performance personal and exciting by frequently interacting with the audience. Johnson flattered the enthusiastic female fans in the audi ence, asked the crowd where the band should go out after the show, helped lead the “we are nd” chant that broke out between songs, threw water bottles into the crowd and had a student come on stage to sing the Taylor swift harmony for the duet “Two is better Than one.” 
The power pop band played favorites from their first album, as well as singles from their second al bum and a few from their new unreleased album as well. Though they focused more on their louder, rocking pop punk songs, some of their more inti mate, quieter songs kept the audience entertained. The band proved to be just as good live as in their recorded performances. vocally they were even better, adding harmonies and complexity to the pop melodies found in their albums. The embel lishment created an experience worth standing in the sweaty crowd. 
boys like girls closed with finished with “love drunk,” a hit from their album of the same name. Johnson teased the audience by stopping the song before the anticipated refrain and insisting every one put their cameras away and truly experience their music. They finished with high enthusiasm that was reciprocated by the students, especially when Johnson jumped down between the barri ers to run between the crowd and take photos with fans until forced to leave. 
Though the notre dame block party may not be the biggest venue breathe carolina or boys like girls have played at, they made their performances fun and memorable by engaging with the crowd, playing great music, refusing to limit themselves to the stage and giving all their energy to their loyal fans. 
Contact Claire Stephens at cstephe4@nd.edu 


SPORTS AUTHORITY 

Boston and L.A. shake up baseball 

Mike Monaco 
sports writer 
For years, the boston red sox were a free-spending or­ganization, routinely totaling the second-highest payroll in all of baseball. There were high expectations from the new england fan base to be a world series contender year in and year out. 
recently, the los angeles dodgers were a middle-of-the­pack  team in terms of payroll, especially given the financial problems of since-deposed owner Frank mccourt. The squad was similarly medio­cre, hovering around the .500 mark for much of the past six seasons. 
but with this weekend’s blockbuster deal — which sent adrian gonzalez, Josh beckett, carl crawford, nick punto and about $11 million to los angeles in exchange for James loney and four pros­pects — each team is headed in a markedly different direc­tion. in fact, the dodgers are going about things the way the red sox did as recently as two off-seasons ago, when boston eschewed the tenets of prospect development in favor of big-name trades and expen­sive free-agent signings. The dodgers, led by a new owner­ship group with deep pockets, are willing to assume the bad contracts of former stars in the hope of making a world series run. 
meanwhile, the red sox are admitting defeat; rookie gen­eral manager ben cherington is acknowledging the sup­posed dream team construct­ed by former gm Theo epstein was a failure. now, with sig­nificant dollars coming off the books, cherington can go about building his team in a more fiscally conservative manner. 
here’s a closer look at the trade: 
The Dodgers pay a steep price 
when the new owner­ship group led by former los angeles lakers star magic Johnson took over the dodgers, increased spending was expected. you don’t buy a professional sports franchise for a record $2 billion to be cheapskates. and magic and company got started right away, making a slew of trade deadline deals for high-priced veterans including shane victorino, hanley ramirez and Joe blanton. 
at first this spending was exciting and expected. The dodgers knew they could spend with a massive new television deal on the way. but this most recent trade begs the question of a spend­ing limit. do the dodgers have one? can they really afford to assume the $262.5 million that gonzalez, beckett, crawford and punto are owed past this season? 
even if they can, they paid a steep price. usually, when one team sells off an under-performing star in a salary dump, the other trading team is not expected to get a strong return of prospects. yet the dodgers inexplica­bly gave up two high-upside pitching prospects in allen webster and rubby de la rosa, as well as three other players that are capable of contributing at the major league level, in addition to the quarter-billion dollars in payroll they’re assuming beyond this year. 
The Red Sox clear house and the books 
on the surface, giving up gonzalez, beckett and crawford may seem like a lot. after all, they have made a combined 11 all-star teams. but upon closer review, the deal seems like a huge win for the sox. beckett was widely viewed as a clubhouse problem in boston, while crawford and gonzalez failed to live up to the massive expecta­tions levied upon them two off-seasons ago when they signed with the red sox. 
boston now has greater fi­nancial flexibility, as well as two pitching prospects with high ceilings. it seems that cherington has learned from the failed moves of epstein, and is ready to build his team in a proper fashion. 
as is the case with most trades, it will take a few years until we can truly analyze this transaction and anoint a winner and a loser. maybe carl crawford finds his Tampa bay rays form and maybe Josh beckett pitches like he is in the 2003 world series again. Then again, maybe at ages 31 and 32, respectively, they are what they are: overpriced veterans. 
The truth is, we don’t know. For now, the dodgers will try to make a world series run with boston’s mis­takes, and the red sox will happily oblige. 
Contact Mike Monaco at jmonaco@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
MLB 

Marlins defeat Dodgers 6-2 
Associated Press 
los angeles — rob brantly gave miami the lead for good with his first major league home run, and the marlins also got long balls from giancarlo stanton, Jose reyes and carlos lee to beat the revamped los angeles dodgers 6-2 on sunday in the finale of an 11-game road trip. 
mark buehrle (12-11) won his third straight start, al­lowing a run and six hits in 5 2-3 innings with four strike­outs and three walks. he es­caped a bases-loaded jam in the fifth by retiring hanley ramirez on a popup and andre ethier on a grounder with the marlins holding a 3-1 lead. 
ethier singled home a run in the seventh, but was called out for interference moments later after making inciden­tal contact with lee at first base on a popup by luis cruz that was dropped by catcher brantly just inside the first base line. cruz, sent back to the plate on the dead ball fol­lowing a lengthy discussion among the umpires, flied out to end the inning. 
The marlins made it 4-2 in the eighth when ramirez misplayed bryan petersen’s two-out grounder to short­stop with the bases loaded for an error. steve cishek retired new dodgers slug­ger adrian gonzalez with the bases loaded to end the eighth, then pitched a hit­less ninth to nail down his 11th save in 14 chances af­ter reyes and lee homered back-to-back against rookie shawn Tolleson in the top of the inning. 
dodgers right-hander aaron harang (9-8) allowed three runs and six hits in 5 1-3 innings. he struck out four. 
stanton, who made dodger stadium his personal launch­ing pad this weekend during his third trip to chavez ravine in three seasons with the marlins, homered for the third time in as many games when he drove a first-pitch fastball to center with two outs in the fourth to tie the score 1-all. 
stanton had eight home runs during the marlins’ 5-6 trip, raising his season total to 
29. The previous club record during a road trip was six, by miguel cabrera (10 games), mike lowell (12 games) and preston wilson (13 games). 
brantly, playing in his sev­enth big league game fol­lowing his promotion from Triple-a new orleans on aug. 13, put the marlins ahead to stay in the fifth with another first-pitch homer, this one into the pavilion seats following a leadoff single by donovan solano. it was the 14th allowed by harang, who gave up an av­erage of 24.9 home runs over the previous eight seasons 

— including 35 in 2008 with cincinnati. 
less than 24 hours af­ter watching teammate Josh Johnson throw 45 pitches in the first inning of an 8-2 loss, buehrle used up 31 of his 111 pitches to get out of the open­ing frame. The fast-working left-hander struck out three batters in the inning, but also gave up an rbi single by gonzalez, who hit a three-run homer in his first plate appear­ance with the dodgers fol­lowing saturday’s nine-player trade with boston. 
ethier was called out on strikes by Tony randazzo in the first, after hitting safely in each of his previous 10 plate appear­ances, and ended up tied with ed konetchy for the franchise record for consecutive at-bats with a hit. konetchy did it with the 1919 brooklyn robins, who didn’t change their name to “dodgers” until 1932. 


The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit 
FOR RENT 

Purdue or Stanford game rental. Great location - half block from Eddy Street Commons. Sleeps 10+. email nd-house@sbcglobal.net for photos/ additional info. 
PERSONAL 

UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don’t go it alone. Notre Dame has many resources in place to assist you. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Ann Whitall at 1-0084 or Karen Kennedy at 1-5550. For more information, visit ND’s website at: http://pregnancysupport@nd.edu. 
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
“45” by The Gaslight Anthem 
Have you seen my hands? Just look at ‘em shake. And the song just keeps on repeating, Drop the needle again. And I dance with your ghost, 
Oh, but that ain’t the way...  I can’t move on and I can’t stay the same. 
And all my friends say...  ”Hey hey, turn the record over. Hey hey, and I’ll see you on the flip side. There you go, turn the key and engine over. 
Let her go, let somebody else lay at her feet.” Have you seen my heart, Have you seen how it bleeds? 
And the nights are so long, baby, Out here in the deep. The tick, ticking of hours, lonely. I hear the alarm I used to hear when she would sleep in my arms. But “better sense” says... 
”Hey hey, turn the record over. Hey hey, and I’ll see you on the flip side. There you go, turn the key and engine over. Let her go, let somebody else lay at her feet.” 
And all my friends say,  ”Hey hey, turn the record over. Hey hey, and I’ll see you on the flip side. There you go, 
turn  the  key  and  engine  over.  
Let  her  go,  let  some­ 
body  else  lay  at her  feet.”  

Where you used to be... here with me. 
There are some really great things in this world. But noth­ing — absolutely nothing — com­pares to college football. Five days. 
Greetings to 



PGA 

Watney rallies to win The Barclays at Bethpage 
week. my mind,” snedeker said. “but 
Associated Press 
watney won by three shots i’m not letting it affect the way 

Farmingdale, n.y. — even over brandt snedeker, who i play. Try to win every golf after a year that didn’t come already was part of the dis-tournament. it gives me more close to his expectations, nick cussion as a potential pick. motivation to do it, and if i do watney wasn’t about to give up snedeker, a winner in san that, i know i will make the de­on his season. diego and a contender in the cision easy for them. 
amazing how one week british open, battled to the “davis has an extremely changed his outlook in so end and made big putts on the difficult choice with a bunch many ways. last two holes for a 1-under 70 of guys who did not play well 
he beat one of the stron-to finish alone in second. enough over the last two years gest fields of the year at The dustin Johnson, also under to be on the team. you can’t barclays, on the tough track of consideration as a pick, shot 68 go wrong with any of them. i bethpage black. winning the and tied for third with garcia, think that it’s certainly helped opening playoff event for the whose bogey on the final hole everybody who played well Fedex cup guarantees him a gave him a 75. this week.” good shot at the $10 million not even watney thought he watney, who won for the fifth prize. and suddenly, playing was worthy of being picked for time in his career, finished on in the ryder cup becomes a lot the ryder cup going into the 10-under 278. more realistic. week. in what amounted to a duel 
That all came into play “i’m thinking much more with garcia for so much of the sunday when watney didn’t now than i was coming in,” he day, watney fell two shots be-miss a green until the 16th said. “coming in here, i didn’t hind after he three-putted for hole, turned a two-shot defi-deserve to be in the conversa-bogey on the fifth hole and cit against sergio garcia into tion because i had not played garcia made a 40-footer for a three-shot lead, overcame a my way in. someone told me birdie on the next hole. garcia, trio of three-putt bogeys with that davis said he wanted a hot going for his second straight clutch birdies, and closed with player, and we still have a week pga Tour win, never had much a 2-under 69 for a three-shot to go. but like i said, i’d love to of a chance after that. victory. be on the team. but i’m not re-“i hit a couple bad shots at 
“it’s been not quite the year ally concerned with it just be-the wrong moments,” garcia i wanted,” watney said. “but cause it’s out of my control.” said. “and unfortunately, i just this really makes it all forgot-love will announce his wasn’t feeling comfortable.” 10th, when garcia three-putt-and while it was effectively a ten. winning a tournament is picks after the second play-watney two-putted for birdie ed and watney hit a beautiful two-man race for much of the hard, but winning out here and off event, the deutsche bank on the seventh. on the par-3 approach to 4 feet for birdie. day, there was plenty at stake against this field was very, very championship, which ends on eighth, garcia scrambled for both were sloppy on the back in the Fedex cup. difficult. i’m kind of still on a labor day. steve stricker and bogey from the bunker, while nine, but watney hit all the only the top 100 players ad-high right now.” Jim Furyk are likely to be two watney holed a bending, 30-right shots and seized control vance to the deutsche bank 
u.s. captain davis love iii of those picks, and the other foot birdie putt to take his first for good with a 10-foot birdie for the second of four playoff has a lot more choices for his two suddenly are wide open. lead of the day. another two-putt on the 14th. events. The biggest move be-four wild-card selections next “ryder cup is definitely on shot swing followed on the “i made more putts than i longed to graham delaet of 
made all year,” watney said. canada, who started the week 
paid adverTisemenT 
he credits that to some tips at no. 106 and was right on from darrell kestner, the re-the bubble going into the final spected club pro at nearby round. deepdale, a lesson set up by a it turned out way better than friend. kestner worked on his delaet could have imagined. setup, mainly keeping watney despite back-to-back bogeys from leaning to far back on his on the front nine, he answered heels. with four birdies on his next 
“it paid off,” watney said. seven holes, and then holed 
Tiger woods, six shots be-out with on the 15th for eagle hind at the start of the day, with a 9-iron from 161 yards. never made a move. he alter-he closed with two birdies for nated between bogeys and a sunday-best 65. birdies until the sixth hole, not only did he advance, and his round imploded on delaet moved up 62 spots to the back nine with a three-no. 44 and should be safe for putt double bogey on the 12th, the next two tournaments. a poor wedge that led to bo-“i guess a lot of people think gey on the par-5 13th, and a there’s too much volatility in it, tee shot on the par-3 14th that but it was in my favor,” delaet sailed over the green and one-said. “if you can have one re-hopped against the gallery. he ally good event, you can cata­closed with a 76 and tied for pult yourself up. and now i feel 38th. i have a chance to get into the 
woods left without speak-Tour championship, where ing to cbs sports or any other this morning i was just hoping media. it was this third 72-hole to play next week.” tournament over par this it was a good day for anoth­year, the other two coming at er canadian — david hearn. majors. playing with woods, he closed 
bethpage black didn’t feel with a 71 and moved from no. like one on sunday. 108 to no. 67. The other four 
after a third round in which from outside the top 100 who several players felt the greens moved in were Jonas blixt, were close to dead and nearly Tommy gainey and Jason day, impossible to putt, there was who closed with a 66. plenty of water on them over-The odd man out was John night. high scores were more a mallinger, who started the product of bad play, and it was week at no. 88 and missed the difficult for anyone to make cut. he became the highest-up too much ground because seeded player to fail to advance conditions were comparable since this Fedex cup playoff throughout the day. system began in 2007. 



paid adverTisemenT 




NFL 

knee injury sidelines decastro 
Associated Press 
piTTsburgh — The pittsburgh steelers spent much of the offseason trying to build an offensive line that could keep franchise quarterback ben roethlisberger upright — and healthy — for an entire year. 
in one squeamish sequence on saturday night, the steelers were forced to move on to plan b. 
pittsburgh lost rookie guard david decastro to a gruesome right knee injury in the first quarter of an otherwise domi­nant 38-7 preseason win over the buffalo bills. The 24th over­all pick in april’s nFl draft was carted off the field with what coach mike Tomlin termed a “potentially severe” injury. 
decastro underwent an mri on sunday and while the team declined comment, it was obvi­ous to his teammates he will be gone for an extended period of time. 
“he was going to start for us,” linebacker lawrence Timmons said. “i don’t know the out­come. it doesn’t sound like it’s good.” 
espn reported decastro dislocated his kneecap and tore his medial collateral liga­ment but did not tear his ante­rior cruciate ligament, which would have ended his season. 
The steelers could place decastro on injured reserve — shelving him for the year — or see how his knee responds to treatment. either way, he’ll be out for the foreseeable future. 
it’s a major blow to a unit that pittsburgh viewed as an issue after roethlisberger hobbled his way through the final month of the 2011 season behind a line that struggled protecting him. The steelers gave up 42 sacks 
— tied for ninth-most in the league — and roethlisberger dealt with a series of health is­sues to his left leg after sprain­ing his foot in a loss to houston in early october. 
decastro and fellow rookie mike adams — taken in the second round — were sup­posed to join all-pro center maurkice pouncey and second-year tackle marcus gilbert as the core of one of the youngest and most highly touted offen­sive lines in the league. instead, adams is going through some very public growing pains and decastro — an all-american at stanford while blocking for quarterback andrew luck — will spend an indefinite period in street clothes. 
pittsburgh will likely turn to veteran ramon Foster to fill in at guard. it’s a return to the patchwork effort the steelers have used in the past with mixed results. 
a year ago, max starks was signed off the street a month into the season to try and hold things together. he’s at it again this season, signing just before training camp as insurance in case adams had trouble. starks, who underwent offseason knee surgery, played well while pro­tecting roethlisberger’s blind side against the bills and is optimistic even with decastro out the line will be effective. 
“we’ve been through this be­fore. it’s not like this is some­thing brand new and you’ve had the same five starters for three years and nobody’s had any reps,” starks said. “our group is used to turnover and position flexibility.” 
The line will need it with the season opener against denver two weeks away in a rematch of the broncos’ overtime upset in the wild-card round of last sea­son’s playoffs. 
The steelers have insisted they’ve moved on, though there appeared to be a bit of a hangover by the starters dur­ing the first two preseason games. The offense, in the midst of a sea change under new offensive coordinator Todd haley, finally got on track against buffalo even with decastro sidelined. 
roethlisberger completed 17 of 24 passes for 169 yards and a touchdown, the major­ity of the yards coming on a brilliant 98-yard drive in the final 2 minutes of the half. The quarterback missed on just one of eight pass attempts during that drive, which culminated in a 6-yard scoring strike to antonio brown. 
“i just started calling my own plays,” roethlisberger. “we went no huddle and up-tempo and we were throwing the ball.” 
and throwing it downfield. pittsburgh spent the first two preseason games working ex­clusively on the short pass­ing game. Though the steelers completed 57-yard touchdown passes in both games, they were nothing more than long handoffs that turned into big gains. 
a 33-yard pass to running back Jonathan dwyer kick-started the long drive after a penalty backed the steelers up to their own 1-yard line. brown, a third-year wideout, was arguably roethlisberger’s favorite target at the end of last season and he has thrived in mike wallace’s absence. 
wallace, a pro bowler last year, is a restricted free agent who has yet to sign his one-year tender. he’s expected to return sometime this week, though he’ll find himself playing catch­up on an offense that showed against the bills it could move the ball without him. 
NFL 


Wilson wins starting QB job for Seahawks 
Associated Press 

seaTTle — pete carroll and John schneider were overjoyed during the april nFl draft when the seattle seahawks were able to grab russell wilson in the third round. 
even they couldn’t an­ticipate that wilson would be the seahawks’ week 1 starter. 
carroll announced sunday night that the undersized, but highly successful rookie quarterback from wisconsin will be the starter when the seahawks open the regular season on sept. 9 at arizona. wilson beat out matt Flynn and Tarvaris Jackson — in the process of being traded to buffalo — for the starting gig. 
“it’s been a very exciting competition that has gone on and russell has taken full advantage of his opportuni­ties and has done everything that we have asked for on the field and more than what you guys could know off the field in meeting rooms and with our players and how he’s represented. he’s earned this job,” carroll said on a conference call sunday night. “it was a legitimate competition as we said from the beginning and with the opportunity he’s taken ad­vantage of he deserves to start.” 
wilson has been a dynam­ic star during the preseason. For the first two weeks, his performance came against backups during the sec­ond halves of victories over Tennessee and denver. 
but what wilson displayed during those two halves were enough for carroll to give him the start Friday night against kansas city. wilson’s response: 13-of-19 passing for 185 yards, two touchdowns and a passer rating of 134.8. and if he didn’t show enough with his arm, wilson added another 58 yards rushing. 
his total preseasons num­bers thus far are eye-pop­ping: 35 of 52 (67.3 percent) for 464 yards, five touch­downs and a league-leading 
119.4 Qb rating. wilson’s only preseason mistake was throwing a careless end zone interception against Tennessee. 
otherwise, wilson’s been almost perfect. 
“This isn’t just based on the quarters we’ve seen him play. This is based on the practice and the challenges that he’s undertaken here on the practice field,” carroll said. “we’ve combined ev­erything and with the cir­cumstances that have been presented he won this open­ing challenge here.” 
wilson’s most recent per­formance had seattle fans buzzing, with Twitter over­run with “russellmania” comments Friday night as he picked apart the chiefs. as the game progressed, most began accepting the idea that wilson would be the starter. 
carroll said wilson took the news in stride. 
“he expects to be good and he expects to be success­ful and he expects to make plays,” carroll said. 
wilson has been able to pick up the seahawks offense quicker because of his experience playing in a west coast offensive sys­tem in college. he spent his first three seasons at north carolina state before trans­ferring for his final year to wisconsin. in madison, wilson led the badgers to the rose bowl and was named the first-team, all-big Ten quarterback. 
“he is so prepared. he doesn’t seem like a first-year player,” carroll said. “he seems like he’s been around. he gets it, he understands and he is a tremendous lead­er in that way. he doesn’t do anything but the right thing in all of his work and his preparation and his com­petitiveness has been dem­onstrated again.” 
wilson being named the starter leaves Flynn on the sidelines and accord­ing to carroll understand­ably disappointed. Flynn was seattle’s big free-agent splash in the offseason and the most highly sought af­ter quarterback not named manning after spending the last few seasons as aaron rodgers backup in green bay. but Flynn failed to show the same flashes as wilsonduring his two pre­season opportunities and sat out the game in kansas city with a sore elbow. 
Flynn’s injury isn’t consid­ered to be severe, but sitting out against the chiefs didn’t help his case for the job. 
“matt’s done a great job for us in every way, just the op­portunities didn’t seem to come in as big a way as it did for russell,” carroll said. “he made the most of his.” 


The observer | MONDAY, AUGUST 27, 2012 | ndsmcobserver.com 

ND WOMEN’S SOCCER | nd 2, Tulsa 0; nd 5, easT carolina 0 
six different players score in dominating weekend 

MACKENZIE SAIN | The Observer 

Sophomore defender Sammy Scofield, left, junior midfielder Elizabeth Tucker, center, and freshman defender Stephanie Campo guard an East Carolina forward during Sunday’s  5-0 Irish win. 
of linking up between those two that we’ve just been addressing ev-really good with our possession.” away something that we need to 
By MATTHEW ROBISON 

sports writer lines for us, and our mobility was ery day in training, so it was good notre dame had never played get better at. it’s going to continue 
much better. i think when we have to see them get five today and ac-east carolina in its history, but that way until these girls get some 
after capturing a road match that, we’re a difficult team to track tually see some freshmen score waldrum said the performance time and some games under their Friday 2-0 over Tulsa to start the and to defend.” some goals.” from the pirates was about what belt.” weekend, notre dame continued after several scoring chances Two goalkeepers combined to he had expected to see. up next for the irish are two its win streak with a dominating early in the game, notre dame fi-keep a clean sheet. hight played 74 “we didn’t know that much home games against tough op­5-0 win over east carolina in its nally broke the ice on an unassist-minutes before sophomore sarah about them,” waldrum said. “we ponents, no. 25 santa clara and home opener sunday. ed goal by junior forward rebecca voigt took her place in net. The got a little bit of information in no. 14 north carolina. each of 
The irish (2-1-0) controlled Twining in the 35th minute. irish offense controlled the ball for some scouting reports but we those teams will present a signifi­nearly every aspect of the game in The irish dominated the second the vast majority of the game, and didn’t get a chance to see any vid-cantly greater challenge than east sunday’s victory over the pirates. half as well. notre dame scored as a result the pirates only forced eo. but from what i’ve kind of kept carolina. in the first half, notre dame out-four times in the half on goals hight to make three saves. voigt up with over the years, they were “we’ve got to be a little bit bet-shot east carolina 16-1. The lone by freshman forward crystal made one save on the only shot on what we expected.” ter, even shored up defensively, pirate shot came from redshirt Thomas, sophomore forward goal she faced. on Friday, the irish beat Tulsa because they’re going to take ad-sophomore midfielder lexi miller lauren bohaboy, freshman for-if there was one flaw in the way (2-1-0) by a 2-0 margin on two vantage of the chances they get,” and it was one of the few times the ward anna gilbertson and sopho-the irish played sunday, it was the goals from junior captain and waldrum said. “we’ve got to be pirates (1-2-0) tested notre dame more midfielder karin simonian. rate at which they started each midfielder elizabeth Tucker. with ready for that intensity. it steps up freshman goalkeeper elyse hight. The high offensive output half. 12 freshmen on the team and only another notch. defensively, we’ll 
irish coach randy waldrum at-matches the total number of goals “i thought we started a little three seniors, the irish have a dis-work a little bit with things like tributed his team’s success to of-the irish scored in its first four slow in the first half,” waldrum proportionate amount of youth that.” fensive movement and transition games this year: two exhibitions said. “and i thought we started on the field. but game time expe-notre dame next squares off play. and two regular season matchups. slow in the second half, which is rience is the best way to learn, ac-Friday night at 7:30 against santa 
“i thought we were better be-“we’ve been slow in these ex-when east carolina got most of cording to waldrum. clara in alumni stadium. tween our midfield play and our hibitions with getting the kind of their chances. we can’t afford to “every game’s been a learn-forward play,” waldrum said. “i shot creations that we wanted,” do that. but i thought once we got ing process,” waldrum said. “so Contact Matthew Robison at thought we were better this game waldrum said. “it’s something past those spells, i thought we got we always, win or lose, try to take mrobison@nd.edu 
ND VOLLEYBALL | ucla 3, nd 1; nd 3,  sT. louis 0; nebraska 3, nd 0 
Irish fall to two top-five teams, beat St. Louis 
By CONOR KELLY 
sports writer 
while the irish showed they could compete on the court this weekend, they also demonstrated they have a long way to go until they can beat the nation’s best. notre dame fell to top-ranked ucla and no. 4 nebraska on Friday and sunday respectively, while defeating saint louis on saturday. 
Though notre dame (1-2) turned in a pair of gritty perfor­mances against the bruins (1-1) and the cornhuskers (3-0), irish coach debbie brown said the team was not satisfied with the final results. 
“i think it was a good learning experience for us,” brown said. “we always want to learn and get better, but we won’t be satisfied with the result. we would have liked to win at least one of those matches, for sure.” 
The irish fell to the no. 1-ranked bruins on Friday by a score of 3-1 (25-17, 18-25, 25-23, 25-19), having no answer for ucla all-american outside rachael kidder’s 18 kills. The senior outside hitter was dominant but was nearly matched by the play of irish soph­omore outside hitter Jeni houser, whose 17 kills paced the irish. 
“Jeni was phenomenal against ucla,” brown said. “To record 17 kills, going against two re­turning all-americans, is very impressive.” 
on saturday, notre dame de­feated saint louis (0-2) in straight sets (25-19, 25-20, 25-17) behind the offensive play of houser and fellow sophomore outside hitter Toni alugbue, whose 11 kills led the irish. Freshman libero Taylor morey, playing in just her second collegiate match, recorded 12 digs. 
on sunday, the irish fell in straight sets (25-19, 25-21, 25-13) to a determined nebraska squad. alugbue again led the irish on of­fense, notching 12 kills and hitting .310 against the cornhuskers’ vaunted front line. 
Though the irish sported pe­riods of inspired team and in­dividual play throughout the weekend, the team was ham­pered by mistakes and sloppy play at times, which brown attributed to the team “not having put it all together.” 
“at this point in the season, there were too many errors for us to put together a championship performance like was needed to beat ucla or nebraska,” brown said. “we had a number of really strong individual performances, but what i love about this team is that nobody really cares about that at all. we just want to win as a team, and i’m confident that it will be put together soon.” 
The irish return to the court this weekend at home for the shamrock invitational. 
Contact Conor Kelly at ckelly17@nd.edu 

paid adverTisemenT 



The observer | MONDAY, AUGUST 27, 2012 | ndsmcobserver.com 

Goals 
conTinued From page 29 
limited offensive production caused problems throughout the irish schedule. The irish accepted two ties last season — scoreless draws against indiana and connecticut — in which the irish ended up on the right side of virtually every statisti­cal matchup except the only one that really mattered. notre dame also suffered two double-overtime losses, against saint louis and st. John’s. in each of those games, the irish netted only one goal. 
This year must be different. 
last year, irish coach bobby clark expressed a recurring sentiment after each loss or tie in which he felt the irish played better than the final result sug­gested. clark would say, “That’s just soccer.” he is right, of course. sometimes balls don’t find their way into the net and sometimes one mistake can erase all the successes in a game. 
but this year must be different. 
if the irish are to turn some of last year’s losses into ties and ties into wins to improve 2011’s 9-5-4 record, they must be able to put goals on the board more consistently than they did in their last campaign. 
The first 75 minutes of saturday’s season-opener against duke looked like an­other chapter of last year’s disappointing season in which the irish failed to qualify for the ncaa tournament for the first time since 2000. The no. 18 irish drew 11 corner kicks 
Finley 
conTinued From page 20 
was one-sided in favor of notre dame (1-0-0). The irish took 18 shots — eight of those on goal — while the blue devils (0-1-0) took four, only one on goal. notre dame had 11 cor­ner kicks, while duke had one. duke senior goalkeeper James belshaw finished with seven saves. 
“it was a pretty clear white­wash as far as a game goes,” irish coach bobby clark said. “i think we dominated. it’s just goals are hard to get, and 

“It was a pretty 
clear white-wash 
as far as a game 
goes.” 
Bobby Clark 
Irish coach 
their goalkeeper was excel­lent. belshaw in their goal was superb.” 
clark said he was happy how the team closed out saturday’s contest, unlike many games last season. 
 “we played several games like the opener last year,” clark said . “we should have beaten indiana, where we dominated and outshot them. we did the same to uconn and it ended [in to duke’s one, fired 18 shots to the blue devils’ four and drew 22 fouls from the visiting team, but had no goal to show for it. near misses, superb opposi­tion goaltending and failed execution prevented the irish from cashing in on a bevy of opportunities. 
Finally, in the 76th minute, irish senior forward ryan Finley, a duke transfer, gave notre dame the go-ahead goal with a decisive strike from the top of the box. 
irish senior captain dillon powers has spoken of offseason efforts undertaken by the team to develop a “killer instinct” in practice. perhaps the most tell­ing sign that those efforts were fruitful was that after Finley’s go-ahead goal saturday, the irish were even more threaten­ing and frenzied than before. The irish sensed weakness in their opponent and, energized by their teammate’s score, put the pressure squarely on the blue devils for the final 14 minutes of the game. if the irish can turn into a team of finishers, their killer instinct will turn them into a force in the big east. 
with the opening goal of the 2012 season, Finley gave the irish a win in their first game of the year. but more than that, he gave notre dame hope that this year will be different. 
Contact Joseph Monardo at jmonardo@nd.edu
    The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessasrily those of The Observer. 
a 0-0 tie.] so we will take the 1-0 [win] and go home. i was happy for ryan Finley to get revenge. i think he was really excited about that.” 
The irish midfield saw a lot of help from seniors bob novak and kyle richard, especially after senior adam mena went down in the 38th minute and did not return to the game. 
“it was a team win,” clark said. “a lot of people had to come on and play. bobby novak had to come in at midfield and hold the middle for us there at the end. kyle richard also did, really. a lot of kids came and played big parts tonight.” 
The defense was the big ques­tion mark for notre dame com­ing into this season, as the irish graduated three starters, but the four defenders under the senior leadership of grant van de casteele were solid. senior goalkeeper will walsh only had to make one save against the blue devils.  
“considering we graduated three [defenders] last year, i was very, very happy with the back four,” clark said. 
The irish look to use the mo­mentum from this win when they take on san diego state and clemson this weekend in the adidas/iu credit union classic in bloomington, ind. 
Contact Isaac Lorton at ilorton@nd.edu 



paid adverTisemenT 



CROSSWORD | will shorTZ 


YOUR COMIC HERE | 


YOUR COMIC HERE | 



Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
SUDOKU | The mepham group 


HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: keke palmer, 19; macaulay culkin, 32; chris pine, 32; melissa mccarthy, 42. 
Happy Birthday: keep life simple. peel away additional stress by expressing mod­eration and thoughtfulness. use your imagination and intuitive guidance to help pave the way to the destination of choice. back away from overly zealous people. own your life instead of letting someone else dictate what you can and cannot do. your numbers are 5, 7, 13, 25, 36, 38, 41. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): you’ll have trouble making a decision if you let your emotions take over. back away if someone puts pressure on you. expand your awareness by engaging in cultural events. put in overtime and you will catch up and make a good impression.  

TAURUS (April 20-May 20): put your heart on the line. being open and honest will get you the answers you need to move forward. love is highlighted and a change will take place if you get involved in social activities that interest you. 

GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Take your time, an impulsive move may be tempting, but it can turn into a costly affair. Focus on home, family and making your place comfortable. serious situations require a thoughtful response. don’t give in to emotional manipulation. 

CANCER (June 21-July 22): Take care of your health. a little rest, relaxation and spending time with the ones you love will help you revitalize. children and elders may need assistance. offer suggestions but don’t cater to those who can do for themselves. 

LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): get in the game. be a participant. surprise everyone with your knowledge, versatility and desire to expand your interests. stabilize your home life by making the changes you’ve been contemplating. Take action, social­ize and improve your life. 

VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): don’t worry about what’s happening at home when what you should be doing is taking action and pursuing what makes you happy. redesign what you feel is your ideal situation and start building from the ground up. Follow your heart.  

LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): Find out all you can before you leap into something that will change your life personally or professionally. you may feel impatient and in need of a change, but unless you have ironed out any pending problems, you cannot move forward. 

SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): pursue your desires and interests passionately. your participation and actions will speak for you. originality and understanding coupled with love and knowledge will allow you to take care of any situation you face with finesse and accuracy as well as bring stellar results.  

SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21):reconnect with people from your past who have something to offer that you can use or vice versa. give-and-take will make your world much better. changing your lifestyle or where you reside will lift your spirits and make you feel more at ease.  

CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): emotional matters will escalate. avoid conversa­tions with demanding individuals wanting to add to your responsibilities. concen­trate on hanging on to your assets, not sharing them with someone undeserving. choose your battles and fight to win. agreements can be made. 

AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Focus on getting ahead financially. look over con­tracts or make a commitment to someone who has the potential to improve your life. aggressive behavior may be required to secure what you want. someone from your past will offer a workable solution. 

PISCES (Feb. 19- March 20): simplicity and moderation should rule your day. less will be more in the end and help ease your stress. love is in the stars, and spend­ing quality time with someone you adore will change your attitude. 

Birthday Baby: you are quick, responsive and perceptive. you are caring and helpful. 
JUMBLE | david hoyT and JeFF knurek 


make checks payable to and mail to: enclosed is $130 for one academic year enclosed is $75 for one semester  The observer p.o. box 779 notre dame, in 46556  
name address city       state  Zip  


The observer | MONDAY, AUGUST 27, 2012 | ndsmcobserver.com 
FOOTBALL 

Wood suspended for two games 
Utupo will also miss games against Navy and Purdue for violating team rules 
Observer Staff Report 
irish coach brian kelly an­nounced sunday that senior running back cierre wood has been suspended for notre dame’s first two games due to a violation of team rules. he will miss saturday’s season opener against navy in dublin and notre dame’s home opener against purdue on sept. 8. 
Junior defensive end Justin utupo has also been suspended for two games due to a violation of team rules, kelly said. 
The news of the suspensions emerged less than a week be­fore the irish are set to open the 2012 season against navy. The team’s flight departs wednesday evening. 
“our players are aware of the standards i set for our program and that failure to meet my ex­pectations will result in con­sequences,” irish coach brian kelly said. “Justin and cierre violated our team rules, so i’ve suspended them for the first two games of the season.” 
wood, an oxnard, calif., na­tive, rushed for 1,102 yards on 217 carries and scored nine touchdowns in 2011 after com­piling 603 yards on the ground as a sophomore in 2010. he was named to the watch list for the maxwell award, which is an­nually given to the top college football player. 
after the graduation of Jonas gray and with a first-time starter in everett golson at quarterback, wood was expected to assume an even larger role for the notre dame offense in 2012. senior Theo riddick, sophomore george atkinson and sophomore amir carlisle, who transferred from usc following last season, will be called upon to carry the load in wood’s absence. carlisle is cur­rently sidelined while recovering from a broken ankle and is un­likely to play against navy. 
wood was held out of the opening practice of fall camp due to medical paperwork is­sues, kelly said. wood has not been available to the media during fall practice. 
The irish will already be with­out junior quarterback Tommy rees and senior linebacker carlo calabrese after one-game suspensions stemming from an arrest in may. 
after not appearing in any games during the 2010 season, utupo reached the field in 12 games in 2011. 


MEN’S SOCCER | noTre dame 1, duke 0 
irish bedevil duke in opener 
Former Blue Devil 
Finley sinks late 
goal for the win 
By ISAAC LORTON 
sports writer 
after the no. 18 irish failed to capitalize on several prime scoring opportunities, senior forward ryan Finley put the game-winning goal away in the 76th minute, and notre dame held on to clinch a 1-0 win over no. 21 duke. The goal came off a pass across the box from junior forward harry shipp, who elected to pass the ball rather than take a shot. Finley, who transferred from duke in 2011, scored his first goal of the season against his former team. 
“words can’t describe what that goal meant to me,” Finley said. “i couldn’t do it without my teammates. it was just a real emotional goal.” 
although a low-scoring game, statistically the game 
see Finley PAGE 18 


Forget stats and style: It’s the goals that count 

Joseph Monardo 
sports writer 
soccer is a game that relies on skillful touches, prolonged pos­sessions and fluid team play. but like most sports, soccer is also a game that relies, ultimately, on production. 
There is no rating system for skill displayed or difficulty mastered. The only things that matter are goals. This was an unfortunate fact for last year’s irish, who very often would have earned scores of near-perfect 10 for their performances, but were unable to make the effort count on the scoreboard. 
This year must be different. 
last year’s notre dame squad scored 1.50 goals per game, placing it outside of the top-50 in division i. although notre dame held its opponents to only .89 goals per game, the team’s 
see goals PAGE 18 




