
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


Professor recognized for service 
By KRISTEN DURBIN 
News Writer 
The Notre Dame faculty recent­ly acquired another academic accolade when Vania Smith-Oka, assistant professor of Anthropol­ogy, was hon­ored with the Center for Public An­thropology’s Ruth Bene­dict Global Citizenship Award last week. 
The na­tional award, which hon­ors 1 per­cent of introductory Anthropol­ogy faculty across the country, recognized Smith-Oka for her continued involvement with the Center’s Community Action Proj­ect (CAP). Smith Oka said CAP actively engaged students in ethi­cal issues within the field of An­thropology. 
Smith-Oka said she first be­came involved with CAP when she began teaching at Notre Dame in 2006. The project in­cludes students from Notre Dame 

see AWARD/page 5 


Making the cut 
Families, colleges debate overuse of rankings and SAT scores 

By SARA FELSENSTEIN 
Associate News Editor 
As colleges compete for top national rankings and stu­dents compete for top SAT scores, some people argue the college admissions process places too much focus on num­bers. 
Don Bishop, associate vice president for Undergraduate Enrollment, said test scores do not fully reflect the attributes of a school or an applicant, es­pecially at Notre Dame. 
“Colleges are accused by families as using the SAT too much to value students in the admissions selection process,” Bishop said. “Well, the col­leges are concerned that stu­dents and their families use the rankings too much to value the colleges. There’s kind of a bal­anced equation, there, of dis­comfort in the process.” 
Bishop said an applicant’s exam performance is extremely important, but more weight is placed on class performance than on standardized test 

scores during the decision pro­
cess. 
“People are concerned we 

use [test scores] too much, we 
would disagree with that,” he 
said. “The admissions office 
would be as poorly served if 
all we used were SAT scores. If 
we started being guilty of what 
the public thinks we do and 
we overused the numbers, we 
would have an inferior student 
body.” 
Bishop said along with aca­


see SAT/page 5 

‘Mother of the Huddle’ perseveres 
By MARISA IATI 
News Writer 
“Mother of the Huddle” Helen Hiatt has watched over the La-Fortune grocery store’s grounds since 1967, working her way from the old cigarette counter to the cash register over the past 44 years. 
“I came in on Monday morn­ing and that afternoon I was working,” she said. “I sold ciga­rettes for 11-and-a-half years. And then when they quit selling cigarettes on campus I lost my job there, so I went back to that register [in the Huddle Mart] and I worked there for 25 years.” 
Hiatt said she became ac­quainted with many varsity foot­ball players as they frequented the Huddle after practice. 
“They’d come in and talk to me about their problems and different things, and they started calling me their second mother,” Hiatt said. “It con­tinued on and I got to be ‘The Mother of the Huddle’ after so many years. And [former quar­terbacks] Joe Theismann and Joe Montana and … the football players would come in.” 
University President Emeri­
see HUDDLE/page 4 



Project to tackle vulnerability 
By AMANDA GRAY 
News Writer 
The seventh annual Edith Stein Project will focus on vul­nerability in relationships of every type, conference co-chair junior Margaret Kennedy said. 
“The theme is ‘Encountering Vulnerability: Courage, Hope and Trust in the 21st Century,’” she said. “We chose to focus on vulnerability this year because we often see it in a negative connotation and run away from it. But we also have a positive necessity of vulnerability in re­lationships.” 
Co-chair senior Rebecca Roden said 29 speakers will lecture on the many aspects of vulnerability in daily life. 
“We thought vulnerability would be a good theme because there is a lot of variation in in­terpretation and a lot of differ­ent ways to go,” Roden said. 
see STEIN/page 4 


Conference to address human development 
By ANNA BOARINI 
News Writer 

Students and faculty from around the world will gather at Notre Dame this weekend for the fourth annual Human Development Conference. 
The conference, sponsored by the Ford Family Program and Kellogg Institute, will cover everything from the environmental impact of de­velopment to information technology. 
Publicist Abbie Naus said the conference engages stu­dents and faculty in an inter­disciplinary session of pan­els and contests. 
“The cool thing about the conference is that it encom­passes pretty much every discipline and that is why we encourage students to come,” she said. “It makes you see how whatever you are doing can have a contribution to development.” 
Naus said this year’s theme, “Faces Behind the Figures: Visions of Prosper­ity, Progress and Human Po­tential” was inspired by the poem “Those Little Numbers and People” by Eduardo Ga­leano. The poem explores how statistical indicators of poverty and development re­veal deeper meaning in indi­vidual lives, she said. 
“With this idea, we as a conference are focusing on human-centric development and … everyday experiences of the individuals being rep­resented by [statistical] fig­ures,” she said. “We want to 
see HUMAN/page 5 

INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER Workshop explores strengths page 3 u Viewpoint page 6 u Valentine’s Day Fashion page 8 u Women’s basketball prepares for WVU page 16 
page 2 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u DAY-TO-DAY Friday, February 10, 2012 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT WOULD YOU NAME YOUR EVIL TWIN? 

www.ndsmcobserver.com 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
Douglas Farmer 

Managing Editor Business Manager 
Sarah Mervosh Jeff Liptak 
Asst. Managing Editor: Adriana Pratt Asst. Managing Editor: Chris Masoud News Editor: Sam Stryker Viewpoint Editor: Meghan Thomassen Sports Editor: Allan Joseph Scene Editor: Maija Gustin Saint Mary’s Editor: Caitlin E. Housley Photo Editor: Pat Coveney Graphics Editor: Brandon Keelean Advertising Manager: Katherine Lukas Ad Design Manager: Amanda Jonovski Controller: Jason Taulman Systems Administrator: William Heineman 
Office Manager & General Info 
(574) 631-7471 
Fax 
(574) 631-6927 
Advertising 

(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
Editor-in-Chief 

(574) 631-4542 dfarmer1@nd.edu 
Managing Editor 

(574) 631-4542 smervosh@nd.edu 
Assistant Managing Editors 

(574)631-4541 apratt@nd.edu, cmasoud@nd.edu 
Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 
News Desk 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
Viewpoint Desk 

(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 
Sports Desk 

(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
Scene Desk 

(574) 631-4540 mgustin@nd.edu 
Saint Mary’s Desk 
chousl01@saintmarys.edu 
Photo Desk 

(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 
Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 
Policies 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College.  Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Douglas Farmer. 
Post Office Information 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 and additional mailing offices 024 South Dining hall 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-077 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

Vinny Veschi  Keith Marrero  Sam Hocking  Adebayo Omoyeni  Mary Kate  Sarah Dalton  
Nelson  
sophomore  junior  freshman  Senior  sophomore  sophomore  
Alumni  Carroll  Carroll  O’Neill  Ryan  Ryan  
“Marco.”  “Inigo Montoya.”  “Greg Florio.”  “Fabio.”  “Ashley.”  “Peter  
Diamond.”  

Have an idea for Question of the Day? Email obsphoto@gmail.com 


OFFBEAT 

Mom sues for $900 trillion 
STATEN ISLAND, N.Y. — A Staten Island mom is making national headlines today after suing the city of West Brigh­ton for $900 trillion, alleging the city improperly placed her two children in foster care. 
The $900 trillion figure, first reported by the New York Post, certainly is staggering and the standard response so far has been to treat the law­suit as something of a joke, focusing on the mother’s al­leged mental illness. 
Of course there’s no way she’ll get a settlement remote­ly approaching that number, if she is awarded anything at all. After all, the entire U.S. has an annual gross national income of just over $14 tril­lion. Or, put another way, if Ogunbayo was awarded $900 trillion she’d have enough disposable income to pay off the U.S. national debt several dozen times over. 
Ogunbayo is representing herself in the case. 
Police use Facebook to locate criminals, missing persons 
BERLIN - Police in the Ger­man state of Lower-Saxony will soon use their networks of Facebook “friends” to find missing persons and hunt out suspected criminals, ac­cording to the state’s inte­rior minister. 
The decision to use social media in manhunts follows the completion of a pilot scheme in the northern city of Hanover last year which drew sharp criticism from data protection groups. 
The scheme helped police clear up six criminal inves­tigations and two missing persons cases after iden­tikits of suspects and stills from Closed Circuit Televi­sion (CCTV) footage were circulated on the social net­working site Facebook. 
Two cases were resolved just hours after the infor­mation was uploaded to the site. 
“Our successes so far clearly show that the police must not shut themselves off from this medium,” state interior minister of Lower-Saxony, Uwe Schuenemann, said in a statement. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
IN BRIEF 
Rolfs Sports Rec Center will hold a blood drive to­day from 9 a.m. to 3:30 p.m. in the lobby area. Appoint­ments are encouraged. 
The Ten Years Hence Lec­ture Series will host “Seven Revolutions” today from 
10:40 a.m. to 12:40 p.m. in Jordan Auditorium of the Mendoza College of Busi­ness. The speaker is Erik Peterson, director of A.T. Kearney’s Global Business Council. 
Today from 11 a.m. to 1 
p.m. in the Dooley Room in the LaFortune Student Cen­ter, Howard and St. Edward’s Halls will sponsor “Valen­tines for Riley.” Come enjoy a free sweet treat while you make a valentine for a Riley Children’s Hospital patient. 
The College of Science is hosting “Annual Interna­tional Dessert Day” today from 12 to 3 p.m. in the Jor­dan Hall Galleria. The des­serts cost $1 each and pro­ceeds go to breast cancer research. 
The Philopsophy Col­loquim “Presence in Pic­tures” will be given by Alva Noe of UC Berkley. The event is today from 3 to 5 p.m. in 220 Malloy Hall. 
The Department of Ap­plied and Computational Mathematics and Statistics will host a colloquium called “Variable Selection in Meta-Analysis for High-Dimen­sional Data” today from 4 to 5 p.m. in room 127 of the Hayes-Healy Center. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
TODAY’S STAFF 
News 
Nicole Toczauer Jillian Barwick Bridget Feeney 
Graphics 
Marina Kozak 
Photo 
Kirby McKenna 
Sports 

Andrew Gastelum Vicky Jacobson Brendan Bell Jonathon Warren 
Scene 

Kevin Noonan 
Viewpoint 
LOCAL WEATHER 
HIGH 24 LOW 17 
HIGH 27 LOW 21 
HIGH 32 LOW 18 

HIGH 33 LOW 30 
HIGH 37 LOW 29 

TODAY TONIGHT SATURDAY SUNDAY MONDAY TUESDAY 
Caroline Lang 









CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
Friday, February 10, 2012 The Observer u NEWS ndsmcobserver.com | page 3 

SMC workshop to explore strengths 

By KEELIN MCGEE 
News Writer 
Saint Mary’s students and parents will get to learn about each other’s strengths at the third annual Strength­sQuest workshop tomorrow as part of Sophomore Par­ent’s Weekend. 
The workshop, hosted by Saint Mary’s Cross Currents program, is based on positive psychology techniques devel­oped by the Gallup Organiza­tion. 
Stacie Jeffirs, director of the Career Crossings Office (CCO), said the workshop is an enjoyable way for par­ents and their daughters to discover more about one an­other. 
“We have different ac­tivities that they go through such as assessing their own strengths and then sharing their results with their fam­ily,” Jeffirs said. “We then have a scavenger hunt where participants look for others 

with the same strengths as theirs and then learn how 
others  use  those  similar  
strengths.”  
Jeffirs  said  34  possible  

strengths exist and range from “achiever” to “strate­gic.” The strengths are com­binations of a participant’s talent, knowledge and skills. 
“You go through a series of questions and pick words or phrases that best de­scribe you,” Jeffirs said. “At the end, you are then given your top five strengths with descriptions and activities to help validate and better un­derstand your results.” 
Participants also learn how to apply their strengths after the event ends, Jeffirs said. 
“StrengthsQuest is great for sophomore students to help them in looking for in­ternships, career planning and networking,” Jeffirs said. 
Though this weekend’s workshop is only offered to sophomores and their par­ents, Jeffirs encouraged other students to contact the CCO to take the Strengths-Quest assessment. 
“Ideally, we would love to get first years and sopho­mores to take the assessment because learning about your­self early on in your college career is really beneficial,” Jeffirs said. “However, I even see seniors who take the as­sessment more as a valida­tion of the direction they are heading in or when they are beginning to have doubts.” 
The StrengthsQuest work­shop will be held in confer­ence rooms D, E and F in the lower level of the Student Center tomorrow from 1:30 to 2:30 p.m. 
Sophomores interested in the StrengthsQuest work­shop who did not register can e-mail Sandy Zielinski at zielinski@saintmarys.edu by 4 p.m. today. 
Contact Keelin McGee at kmcgee01@saintmarys.edu 

Club connects students to alumni on Wall Street 
By NICOLE MICHELS 
News Writer 
The Notre Dame Wall Street Club held an information session Thurs­day evening to introduce freshmen and sophomores to the club and make the path to Wall Street a little bit easier. 
Four senior leaders, Greg Ben­nett, Anne Lenzi, Tom McMackin and Chris Masoud, who is also one of The Observer’s Assistant Manag­ing Editors, led the event. 
The event gave students a broad introduction to the activities of the Wall Street Club and demonstrated how the club can facilitate accep­tance into a position on the Street. 
Caitlin Lynch, a 2011 graduate, employee at J.P. Morgan and Wall Street Club founder, said the club helps Notre Dame students succeed by giving them skills beyond those taught in class. 
“What we were trying to do was to create a platform of support to help students get jobs in sales and trading and investment banking,” Lynch said.  “We wanted to provide a network of guidance and support as they traveled through the re­cruitment process.” 
The club was started by seniors last year and just recently gained official recognition from the Stu­dent Activities Office.  Lenzi said this year’s leaders plan to focus on reaching all students, not just up­perclassmen searching for intern­ships. 
“We want to reach out to fresh­men and sophomores more,” Lenzi said. “We want to let them know what is available to them earlier.” 
Notre Dame Vice President and Chief Investment Officer Scott Mal-pass helped forge an important connection between club members and alumni. 
Malpass said he decided to con­nect the Notre Dame Wall Street Club with the Wall Street Leader­ship Committee alumni group after James Ingallinera, a 2011 graduate who drafted the club’s charter, ap­proached him about networking opportunities. 

“The main charge [of the Com­mittee] is to promote Notre Dame on the Street,” Malpass said. “I con­nected the two, and the combina­tion has been just really fabulous for Notre Dame.” 
Freshman Pedro Suarez said he attended Thursday’s event to ob­tain more information. 
“I’m possibly interested in invest­ment banking and wanted to find out more about it,” Suarez said. “I also wanted to learn more about how to prepare myself for that ca­reer.” 
For students like Suarez, leaders of the Wall Street Club wanted to emphasize the increasing attention Wall Street firms are giving Notre Dame students. 
“Recruiters are coming more and more to Notre Dame every year … because our students have been going to all of these big banks and crushing it,” Bennett said. “They realize that Notre Dame kids are intelligent, hardworking and hum­ble.” 
Malpass said this increased at­tention is due in large part to the Mendoza College of Business’s number one ranking and the hard work of Notre Dame alumni on Wall Street. 
“Our alumni who have been out there for years have developed a great reputation,” he said. 
Malpass added the key to con­tinuing this momentum is to in­crease the amount of information provided to students earlier in their college careers. 
“We’ve had a presence on Wall Street for a long time, but because [Notre Dame] is not located on the East Coast, it’s not as natural of a pull,” Malpass said. “But that’s changed; our students are now much more aware of the oppor­tunities available and how to seek them.” 
Contact Nicole Michels at                   nmichels@nd.edu 

page 4 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u NEWS Friday, February 10, 2012 
Huddle 
continued from page 1 
tus Father Theodore Hesburgh and Executive Vice President Emeritus Father Edmund Joyce used to joke with Hiatt about how long she had worked at the Huddle, she said. 
“So I worked 35 hours a week then and … in my 80s, I went down to 15 hours a week,” she said. “When I had my 85th birthday, the manager … got me a cake as big as three of those tables out there.” 
Hiatt said Notre Dame’s cur­rent students seem different than those in years past, but it is difficult to identify how. 
“But they’re still nice, they’re still wonderful to me,” she said. “The kids get by with more than they did when I was a kid. The parents are more lenient with them, I think.” 

Working at the Huddle has had its challenges, Hiatt said. She said that while most people people and I like my work. If I she encounters have been kind, don’t want to work, I can sit some manag-down and rest a ers, students and little bit.” parents have giv-Retail associ­
en her a rough time. “My motto was, ‘Just keep  “I like to be around people and I like my work.”  ate Beverly Fill­more said she has worked with Hiatt on the Hud­ 
your mouth shut.  dle staff for 27  
You’ll  be  here  Helen Hiatt  years.  
longer than they  “Mother of the Huddle”  “She  will  do  
are,’”  she  said.  just  about  ev­ 
“And that’s what  erything she can  
it’s been like.”  possibly  do  for  
Despite  some  you,”  Fillmore  
difficult  mo- said.  “She’s  a  

ments, Hiatt said most people wonderful woman and we call treated her well. her ‘The Mother of the Huddle’ “The people are nice to me,” because she takes care of all of she said. “I like to be around us here.” 

Hiatt, who is legally blind, said she hoped to continue working at the Huddle for as possible. She works most weekdays from 11 a.m. to 2 p.m. stocking condi­ments and keeping the facilities clean. Hiatt said she will be 90 years old in June, but still loves to work. 
“This October, I’ll be here 45 years, if I make it that long, and I started on my 45th birthday,” Hiatt said. “I like the people and I enjoy my work and the bosses have been really nice to me. I don’t think I could have found anything any nicer and I enjoy coming in even now.” 
Contact Marisa Iati at miati@nd.edu 
Stein 
continued from page 1 
Professors from several universities, including Notre Dame and Holy Cross, will speak to the audience, as 
well  as  individuals in fields  
related  to  the  conference  
theme.  

Kennedy said Project Ra­chel founder Vicki Thorn will speak on the body’s physical response to love and rela­tionships. Project Rachel is a ministry and resource for women experiencing grief after abortions, according to the project’s website. 
“We always talk about that we can reduce love down to a series of chemical reactions,” Kennedy said. “But what happens after that? Vicki will look at this.” 
Popular Notre Dame Phi­losophy professor David O’Connor will lecture on masculinity and vulnerabil­ity, Kennedy said. O’Connor teaches the course “Ancient Wisdom, Modern Love,” which reflects part of the theme of the conference, she said. 
“He will be juxtaposing Christ and Socrates as ex­amples of masculinity,” Ken­nedy said. 
Roden said the planning committee aimed to place students on positive life tra­jectories and encourage ac­ceptance of vulnerability.
 “I hope students will have a better sense to answer the question, ‘What does it mean to be vulnerable in relation­ships with others?’” she said. 
“I want them to know that’s a positive thing.”
 Kennedy said the confer­ence always intends to echo the teachings of Edith Stein herself. Stein lived in Ger­many during the Nazi regime and was killed because of her Jewish heritage. 
“She’s the patron of our conference because she wrote a lot about dignity of women,” Kennedy said. 
Though the conference focuses on women from a Catholic perspective, Roden said she wants attendees to know the planning commit­tee hopes to reach a broader audience. 
“Male students, professors, staff — we want everyone to come,” she said. “Come and bring your questions. Even if you end up disagreeing with a talk or presentation, you could add to the question and answer session or still gain something from it.” 
Kennedy said 250 students are expected to register. 
“It’s really cool to bring to­gether so many undergradu­ates,” Kennedy said. “To bring in that many is to spark a lot of fruitful dialogue.” 
Kennedy said anyone can register for the conference up until it begins either on-line or at McKenna Hall, where the conference will be held. 
The conference begins to­day at 12:45 p.m. and runs through Saturday. 
A full schedule of events is available online at nd.edu/~idnd 
Contact Amanda Gray at agray@nd.edu 


Friday, February 10, 2012 The Observer u NEWS ndsmcobserver.com | page 5 
Award 
continued from page 1 
and 60 other universities and colleges, she said. 
“I heard about [CAP] through another person who really en­joyed working with the program,” she said. “My students have been involved with it in some shape or form almost every semester I’ve been here.” 
Smith-Oka said students dis­cussed a different anthropologi­cal question related to research and ethics each semester. Last semester’s topic covered the role of the Institutional Review Board in the research process, she said. 
Smith-Oka said CAP provides her undergraduate students with an outlet for critical thinking and a pathway into the world of an­thropology by requiring them to write pieces about the issues pre­sented in the project. 
“I like the fact that [CAP] is ap­plied. It gets students involved in real-world issues outside the classroom,” she said. “The proj­ect changes every semester to make students feel that they’re involved in something larger than themselves.” 
Past students have examined a wide range of debates, including the controversy involving anthro­pological rights to the material remains of an indigenous group in the Amazon, Smith-Oka said. 
CAP now focuses more on large-scale ethical issues within research procedures, she said, and this broader scope of discus­sion enhances the anthropologi­cal learning process for her stu­dents. 
Smith-Oka said her Notre Dame students share their work with students from around the country, so the peer review pro­cess functions on both a local and national level. 
“[CAP] is essentially a self-sus­taining project because students grade each other’s work and par­ticipate in blind peer reviews,” she said. “I find it’s a good learn­ing process to learn through peer review and evaluation.” 
Though Smith-Oka is actively involved in CAP, her day-to-day work on campus relates to re­search on the way large-scale health policies and institutions shape reproduction and mother­hood for low-income women, es­pecially those in Mexico. 
Since she became a faculty member at Notre Dame, Smith-Oka said the University has sup­ported her goals as both a teach­er and an anthropologist. 
“[Notre Dame] has helped sup­port me at all levels, from grants to teaching and mentorship to infrastructure, and they’ve al­ways been supportive of the more engaged or applied side of my teaching,” she said. “This award validates the teaching approach I have in general.” 
Contact Kristen Durbin at kdurbin@nd.edu 
Human 
continued from page 1 

show that development can be focused more on people.” 
Conference events include traditional panels as well as a photo contest, Naus said. 
Students submitted photos focused on the different as­pects of development, Naus said. 
“The categories for the photo contest are ‘faces of development’ and ‘family away from home,’” Naus said. 
Photojournalist Johann Rousselot will serve as judge for the photo contest. Naus said Rousselot’s work con­veys the inequities that exist in human rights. 
“Some of his latest work includes his contribution to the Dignité Project published by Amnesty International and Oiel Public in 2010,” she said. 
Max Wexler, a co-founder of Not For Sale, will deliver the keynote address of the conference, Naus said. Not For Sale is a movement to end modern day slavery. 
“Before starting Not For Sale, he worked with street children in South Africa and we are really excited to have him speak,” she said. 
Naus said the participation of these people, along with the diverse group of students and faculty, supports the conference’s goal of raising as much awareness about human development as pos­sible. 
“All on the committee share a passion for develop­ment and we want to share that passion with the campus in general and the confer­ence presenters,” she said. 
Contact Anna Boarini at aboarini@nd.edu 
SAT 
continued from page 1 
demic excellence, Notre Dame emphasizes personal qualities in an applicant, including intellec­tual curiosity, creativity, critical thinking and leadership. 
“We are not going to become more generic in our selection process to get higher ranked,” he said.  “What’s interesting is the more we stay Notre Dame at the core, the more successful we’ll be at raising the profile of the class.” 
Bishop said he wishes students and their parents viewed college rankings the same way Notre Dame Admissions views stan­dardized test scores . in the con­text of other qualities. 
“Do you assume that the val­ues that the U.S. News & World Report or other ranking organi­zations … are the same as yours, as a consumer?” Bishop said. “I would suggest … your ranking might put more emphasis on cer­tain things.” 
He said students’ overuse of rankings to determine whether a college is a match shows a lack of sophistication. 
“There’s a certain sort of dis­ease in this of, ‘No matter what I have, it’s not as good as what I want to have,’” Bishop said. “Peo­ple have just lost their sense of perspective.” 
Those numbers should instead be used to help students identify a neighborhood of colleges to look into, Bishop added.
 “Whether somebody is ranked sixth or third or tenth or fifteenth, you need to put that away and go visit the campus, go to their web­site, talk to their alumni,” he said. “Do your due diligence of other fact-finding.” 
Bishop said Notre Dame’s rank­ing as number 19 in the 2012 U.S. News & World Report’s list of best national universities does keep the quality of applicants consis­tently high. The ranking reas­sures the public that Notre Dame is a top choice, he said. 
He said the University has es­pecially benefited from the Men­doza College of Business’s num­ber one ranking by Bloomberg Businessweek. 
“We have seen a dispropor­tionate raise in applications over the last couple years because of that number one ranking,” Bish­op said. “Notre Dame’s business school was always ranked in the top five and usually in the top three, but being number one has a cache that captures the imagi­nation and the confidence of the public in a unique way.” 
Bishop said national rankings are subjective and did not ac­curately represent the quality of a university since ratings are calculated according to an algo­rithm. 
“Notre Dame has been consis­tently ranked in the top 20, but if you look at the academic profile of the freshman class, it’s actu­ally higher than that,” he said. “If you look at the graduation rate we’re in the top three, if you look at the percentage of alumni giv­ing we’re in the top three, if you look at our endowment for na­tional private research universi­ties we’re tenth … So actually top 20 is a lower rank than what our reality is, depending on what you value.” 
Over the next few admissions cycles, Bishop said, Notre Dame will reach out more aggressively to top students across the coun­try. He said this initiative is not a criticism of what Notre Dame has done so far, but there exists an opportunity to do more. 

“Obviously, we’re doing a pretty good job,” he said. “We’re going to ambitiously think of how to [in­crease] that … I don’t think we’ve done enough yet as a University as successful as we have been.” 
For many applicants, Notre Dame is set apart by its Catholic social teaching, sense of commu­nity and strength of its alumni network, he said. 
“If students value our religious affiliation and our commitment to Catholic social teaching, what other school would rank with us? Notre Dame is considered by many as a unique choice,” Bishop said. “We are not generically a top-20 or top-10 highly selective school . we are more than that due to our focus as a Catholic Uni­versity.” 
Contact Sara Felsenstein at sfelsens@nd.edu 


page 6 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com Friday, February 10, 2012 
INSIDE COLUMN 


The Affection Survey 
Here’s a survey question for you. No, it’s not a 10-minute long process on SurveyMonkey your friends guilt you into taking to help them with some class project. Just one question. Ready? 
Do you kiss your Lisa Hoyenck family members on the lips when Graphics saying hello or goodbye? 
Last semester, after watching an episode of “Keeping Up With the Kardashians” (yes, please judge me right there) my roommates and I were struck by just how affectionate this reality television family was — cud­dling, hugging and, yes, even kissing each other on the lips. Right then and there, gathered around the television together, we decided to conduct “The Affection Survey.” 
We asked every person who walked through our door (and a few unlucky people we caught off-guard while out and about) this one simple question: “Do you kiss your family members on the lips?” Of course, I’m not talk­ing about a passionate romantic kiss, just simply an outward sign of affec­tion toward a loved one. Although our respondents’ initial reactions were quite mixed and puzzled, they eventu­ally started to open up about their own family dynamics. 
We began looking for patterns. Was this a regional thing? A friend from Nevada said she doesn’t kiss family members. Instead, she described her parents as fans of the “forced hug.” Other respondents who hailed from Pennsylvania and Georgia openly ad­mitted their tendency to smooch their mothers and grandmothers right on the kisser. 
Over Christmas break, I started to pay close attention to showings of affection when I hung out with my boy­friend and his family. One day as we were leaving IHOP, I observed the very act that my roommates and I had been talking about all semester. Lo and be­hold, he kissed his mom goodbye! 
If you answered yes to the Affec­tion Survey question, you’re not the only one. And if you didn’t, you’re not alone either. That’s what my friends and I found so fascinating. Throughout the course of conducting our survey, we realized that there was no single answer. For some families, affection isn’t a big deal. It really doesn’t mean much. For others, snuggling up by the fire to watch a movie is all they know. Whether it’s a physical act or an ab­stract thought, every family has their unique way of showing each other they care. Or at least we hope they do … care, that is. 
As Valentine’s Day quickly ap­proaches, I ask you to think about the people you love in your life and how they express themselves. Perhaps you can conduct your own survey. At the end of the day, just as Starbuck’s Val­entine’s Day cups say, “Celebrate Every Love” — new love, friendly love and, of course, family love. 
P.S. If you feel like sharing, don’t you worry. Our roommate survey has not ceased. Feel free to drop us a com­ment! 
Contact Lisa Hoyenck at lhoeynck@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

Gay-Straight Alliance 
As Notre Dame’s election season gradually makes its way of 18 and 30 in the United States currently support a general through every pore of student government, students will head package of gay civil rights. The organization wants to bring to the polls to determine next year’s leadership. Like Wednes-that ratio to five out of five. day’s election of future student body president and vice presi-But the movement lacks the recognition to fully advertise its dent Brett Rocheleau and Katie Rose, the ballot will be simple mission, the resources to program much-needed events and 
— no special referendums, no initiatives and 
the clout to advance its widely-accepted goals. no propositions. A GSA could change all that. 
Why should it be any different? As a student As an officially recognized club by the Student body led by a representative government, we Activities Office, a GSA could immediately mobi­trust our elected leaders to make decisions lize support for its cause, beginning with open that speak for the entire student community. membership for the entire student body, less We may not agree with all of them, but sena-restrictions on number and sexual orientation. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

Calling all to the HDC 
Dear Editor, 

Why should engineering majors attend the 4th Annual Human Development Conference? Why should Biology majors, English majors or Graphic Design majors show up? Because all of you — scientists, writers, artists — are the reason for this event. You are presenting your research on the relationship between the spread of Emerging Infectious Diseases and freedom of the press. You are explaining your project to develop sustainable housing designs in an earthquake-ravaged Haiti. You are showing us how photography has the power to loosen the brutal grip of xenophobia in South Africa. 
No matter what’s printed on our official transcripts, we are all students of international development. Experts in every discipline use their gifts to study life in developing nations and provide solutions for its many difficulties, from poverty to cor­ruption to pollution. Whether “homework” means slaying a problem set or devouring the last 300 pages of Don Quixote, we share the same lifelong assignment: ensuring that every individual may enjoy a fulfilling, dignified existence. 
This weekend, the HDC Committee invites you to attend the presentations of fellow undergraduates hailing from universi­ties around the nation and world. This year’s conference theme, “Faces Behind the Figures,” reveals the individual stories that define life in developing nations. Through documentaries, photographs and lectures, presenters will delve into the truth that hides behind generalities and first impressions. 
The 4th Annual Human Development Conference, sponsored by the Ford Family Program in Human Development Studies and Solidarity and the Kellogg Institute and cosponsored by SIT Study Abroad and the Center for Social Concerns, will take place on Feb. 10 to 11 at the Hesburgh Center for International Studies. Registration begins at 1:30 p.m. on Feb. 10, with panel sessions through the following evening. Please see http://nd.edu/~hdc for a complete schedule of speakers and events. 
We hope that you will join the conversation as we seek to understand and aid the developing world. Together, we possess the ability to see the human faces printed on the pages of our textbooks, to hear the hope echoing in quiet places where we least expect to find it. 
Sincerely, 

The 2012 HDC Committee 
Katie Buetow 
senior off campus Feb. 8 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“All you need in this life is ignorance and confidence; then success is sure.” 
Mark Twain 
U.S. humorist, author & wit 



tors, class presidents and council representa­tives have been mandated to act with our best interests in mind. 
On Wednesday, Student Senate discussed the formation of a gay-straight alliance (GSA) on campus, a conversation advo­cates of GLBTQ rights have repeatedly asked for. The conver­sation came a day after a federal appeals court overturned California’s voter-approved ban on same-sex marriage, argu­ing the ban discriminates against gays and lesbians. 
Senators and administrators have considered extending Notre Dame’s current non-discrimination clause to include sexual orientation in the past, but the sides remain far apart. 
Through the Core Council for GLBTQ students, Notre Dame recognizes the need for a forum to address the concerns of gay and lesbian students, but it doesn’t go far enough. 
A GSA on Notre Dame’s campus would give both gay and straight students an avenue to show solidarity without having to explicitly declare their sexuality. The Alliance would also participate in service opportunities with local high schools and fellow universities to prevent bullying. 
The Student Activities Office has previously said GSA was unnecessary because of the existence of Core Council. Howev­er, the Council only seats eight student members, the majority of which must be openly gay, lesbian or bisexual. That leaves three seats or less for straight students to lend their support, furthering the stereotype that straight students don’t share the same conviction as the GLBTQ community for change. 
Clearly that isn’t the case. The 4-to-5 Movement, organized on campus in October 2011, was established on the premise that four out of five college-educated people between the ages 
Surely the voices and commitment of an entire organization of students will resonate louder than those of eight. 
You’ve never seen an advertisement for a GLBTQ group in The Observer. No one has. As a publication distributed across campus, The Observer cannot accept advertisements from stu­dent-run organizations not recognized by the University. But a GSA could easily place an ad, extending its reach to the entire campus and exposing the community to its mission. 
A GSA could fundraise, program campus-advertised events and, perhaps most importantly, receive a mailbox on the third floor of LaFortune, right next to every other University-recog­nized club. The movement for extended GLBTQ rights would fi­nally have the same access to resources awarded to any other student organization. 
This campus has leaders, from student-athletes, to excep­tional intellectuals, to student government policy makers. They can inspire classmates to demand quarter-priced hotdogs and advocate for men against violence. But they lack organization. The physics professor, the lab partner and the All-American share more than you might think. The formation of a GSA would centralize the efforts of the entire campus for GLBTQ rights, raising the whispers to voices that couldn’t be ignored. 
Rocheleau and Rose have been given a great gift: the oppor­tunity to lead. In their platform, they have included a push for the extension of the non-discrimination clause and the estab­lishment of a GSA. 
We believe they can and trust they will; if students truly consider themselves one of the four out of the five, they should show their support for this initiative. 

Friday, February 10, 2012 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 7 

Catholic “mandate” already exists 
Brilliant constitutional lawyer Da­vid Boies has a stellar reputation for presenting savvy arguments before the Supreme Court. Boies contends the Obama administration’s recent so-called “mandate” contains no constitu­tional conflict that exempts churches Gary Caruso but requires religious-affiliated Capitol employers to pro-Comments vide contraception at no cost to their female employees. He notes that in fact, nearly two-thirds of the states already require such a mandate or do not provide any specific exemptions even for employers such as churches and other places of worship whose primary purpose is imparting religious beliefs. 
According to Boies, the issue is merely another component of labor law that applies universally to all employ­ers, like adhering to the minimum wage or safety standards. 
Obama’s not the only one concerned this election year — GOP presidential front-runner Mitt Romney reversed himself while Governor of Massachu­setts to create just such a mandate. On Dec. 16, 2005, the official newspaper of the Boston Archdiocese, the Boston Pi­lot, reported online that then Governor Romney instructed the state Depart­ment of Public Health that Catholic and other private hospitals were not exempt from Emergency Contraception Access Act law, requiring them to dispense emergency contraception to all rape victims. 
“In doing so, Romney overruled the department’s finding that privately run hospitals do not have to provide contra­ception or abortions” after he had “pre­viously taken the position that the new law requirements were superseded by a 1975 law that provided privately owned hospitals with conscience exemptions for abortion and contraception ser­vices,” Daniel Avila, associate director of Public Policy for the Massachusetts Catholic Conference (MCC), said. 
“They’ve taken the position now that the preexisting statute somehow does not shield Catholic and other private hospitals from this new mandate.” 
Maria Parker, then interim executive director of MCC, said unequivocally that the provision encouraged Catholic hos­pitals to do something other than what they already were practicing, which would cause them to go against their religious beliefs. 
“This is a serious interference with conscience and religion,” she said in a 2005 testimony before the state legisla­ture’s Joint Committee on Public Health. 
While Romney muddles the waters and skates around his “mandate” past, the legislature never rescinded the 1975 law. NARAL Massachusetts, a pro-abortion group, found in 2008 that “St. Elizabeth’s Medical Center in Brighton and Holy Family Hospital in Methuen told NARAL Pro-Choice researchers posing as rape counselors that they in fact refuse to offer emergency contra­ception, according to a NARAL report.” 
The NARAL report found that five out of nine Catholic hospitals in Boston “make emergency contraception readily available, compared to 95 percent of the 61 secular hospitals.” 
According to William D’Antonio, a sociologist at the Catholic University of America, only about one-third of 50 million U.S. Roman Catholics — more than 15 million — attend Mass once a week. Similar to Europeans, D’Antonio cites recent polls showing 95 percent of American Catholics have said they use contraceptives, while 89 percent said the decision to use contracep­tives should be their own, not from the Church. 
A nonpartisan February tracking poll shows that a majority (55 percent) of Americans agree “employers should be required to provide their employees with health care plans that cover con­traception and birth control at no cost.” Nearly 60 percent of Catholic respon­dents support the birth control rule. 
One come-to-Mass-every-week Eucha­ristic Minister last Sunday at St. Mat­thew’s Cathedral snidely commented, “How out of touch do the old men in our Church hierarchy need to be before they move from the Middle Ages into the 21st Century? This is about no co-pays for women’s health access, not paying for or sponsoring abortion.” 
He continued his tirade, “They cling to ridiculously outdated dogma but nib­ble at the edges of trivia. Somehow say­ing ‘with your spirit’ rather than ‘and also with you’ is a prioritized change to better praise God. Forget that Directive 36 allows for day-after contraception as well. Give me a break!” 
Directive 36 refers to the U.S. Confer­ence of Catholic Bishops’ Ethical and Religious Directives for Catholic Health Care Services. It states “Church teach­ing supports providing emergency contraceptives to rape victims who are not pregnant since it can be considered a form of defense against an unjust ag­gression.” It further references the spe­cific provision, “A female who has been raped should be able to defend herself against a potential conception from the sexual assault.” 
The wording continues quite spe­cifically, “If, after appropriate testing, there is no evidence that conception has occurred already, she may be treated with medications that would prevent ovulation, sperm capacitation or fertil­ization.” 
Susan Wood, a health professor at George Washington University’s Jacobs Institute of Women’s Health sums it up, “This is an employee benefit issue. This is not the Catholic Church having to provide a service directly. No Catho­lic hospital is going to be required to write a prescription or provide a pack of pills.” 
Gary Caruso, Notre Dame ‘73, serves in the Department of Homeland Secu­rity and was a legislative and public affairs director in President Clinton’s administration. His column appears ev­ery other Friday. He can be contacted at GaryJCaruso@alumni.nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 


Some positive news for once 

 Just finished my daily reading of TMZ. Looks like Gary Busey’s still crazy. Demi Moore might have fled rehab. Kim Kardashian wants to televise her divorce trial. And guess what? I’m sick of all this depressing celebrity news. (Except for the part about Kim’s divorce trial on live television. That just sounds awesome. P.S. Kim — call me at 508-320-0847. I’m single and ready to mingle.) 
You know what I really want to read about? People helping people. More stories about Girl Scouts rescuing puppies. Israeli women taking Palestinian women to the ocean in Tel Aviv and showing them how to swim. Americans giving nearly $347 billion to charity in 2011. Speaking of charity, know how you can help bump up that num­ber for 2012? By making sure you bring all your loose change next Wednesday, Feb. 15, to donate to the South Bend Center for the Homeless. Siegfried guys will once again be out in highlighter-yellow t-shirts and shorts collecting money to benefit the homeless for the annual Day of Man. There might not be two feet of snow on the ground this year, but there’s no better way to get sick than standing outside in the freezing rain. Maybe you can even bribe them to start up a slip-n-slide. 
“So hide yo’ kids, hide yo’ wife,” and just bring your change while we try to make the nightly news a little more positive on Wednesday. Besides, what could be better than seeing the hottest bods on Mod Quad parading around in minimal clothing for a day? And while we’re changing the world, can someone please get on that Greek default problem? 
Kevin Strickland 
sophomore Siegfried Feb. 9 


Women’s health 
We are reminded this week there is ongoing debate in Washington over the Obama administration’s mandate to require most employers to provide coverage of prescription contraceptives. As a member of the Notre Dame community and as a woman, I cannot help but feel personally drawn to this debate. 
First, as a graduate student at Notre Dame, I have a deep respect for the Catholic Church and do not view it in a negative light. However, as a woman who believes in gender equality, I feel strongly women have the right to affordable health care, including contraceptives. The event of an unplanned pregnancy, even in marriage, has lasting consequences on the health and time of the mother, especially since women are traditionally the primary caregivers of their children. It is naive to argue there is no link between gender equality and access to affordable and safe contraceptive methods. 
Of course, I understand contraceptives violate the teachings of the Catholic Church. I was also aware of this when I decided to begin my graduate studies here fours years ago. Many people would point out I could have attended another educa­tional institution, one which provides this coverage to their employees. Of course, at the time I was not thinking about this at all. I choose to be a student at Notre Dame because of its high academic standards and strong sense of community. 
If we use the line of reasoning above, women who are exercising their right to take contraceptives would not have access to an education at this University with­out having to seek out alternative health care — simply because they are female. Isn’t this blatant sexism? 
Martha Precup 
graduate student off campus Feb. 9 


page 8 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com Friday, February 10, 2012 

Oh, Valentine’s Day. The holiday taking the risk to prove beauty isn’t ter what perception red is associated when everything is coming up roses, in the eye of the beholder. It resides with in any culture, it always gives its lovers are passionately embracing and within yourself. You are the true token wearer power. It proclaims a fearless romance is in the air. of affection. You are the real Valentine. commitment to stand out in the face 
Or, the day The card variety is lovely, but noth-of any vulnerability. when you wear ing compares to you. You’ve taken the To work red, make the occasion all black, cel­
risks, you’ve fought the passionate bat-your starting point. For a formal ebrate your single 
tles and you know the hidden secrets of event, go floor length with a red gown fabulosity with 
your heart that can’t be boiled down to and add black accessories. multiple cosmo­
a nice turn of a phrase. A concert requires a more other­politans and find 
Now, the only task left is to find an worldly feel, so invest in a full skirt yourself crashing 
outfit that visually communicates this with peek-a-boo lace. Dancing on the a celebrity party 
strength in vulnerability to your audi-town? Nothing says flirty and fabu­to outrageously 
ence, so that they too never underesti-lous like a red and black mesh dress. flirt with an actor mate the power of you. Ladies, let’s do The color wheel of red can be quite who’s clearly the it — in red. specific. right vintage for Red has for centuries been the color The best color for you resides within you (a fashionista of passion, seduction and love. Howev-conventional wisdoms for red lipstick. never tells). er, did you know that it originally came For pale skin tones, try blue-based 
What does this into fashion in the 17th century thanks reds. day even mean? Why are we so intent to King Louis the XIV and his pride in Orange-based reds make the more on validating our inner emotional life his gorgeous legs? tan among us radiant, while deep with outward tokens of affection from Apparently the man thought he was skin tones are absolutely delectable in others? Why not instead personally quite a dish, so he dyed his high heels berry reds. celebrate the precious vulnerability scarlet (and they say only women are In the words of Cary Grant to Kath-inherent in the courage to take those fashion obsessed). arine Hepburn in “The Philadelphia emotional risks in the first place? The color was even more prized Story,” “You’re fascinated, Red. You’re 
Because that’s really what love is all due to the rarity of the Mexican bug far and away your favorite person in about — embracing the vulnerability that produced it, the cochineal. As the the world.” inherent to gambling with your heart. centuries progressed, red became as-Yes, Cary, in red, we are. Embracing fashion is a stop on the road sociated with the provocative and the to the acceptance of vulnerability. dangerous (no surprise Mary Magda-Contact Felicia Caponigri at 
Every time you pick out an ensemble lene is always depicted in scarlet). fcapognig@nd.edu. or a new accessory, whether you try an However, anyone who has watched The views expressed in this column adventurous trend or not, you are em-Bette Davis defy the power of debutante are those of the author and not neces­bracing your own vulnerabilities and white in “Jezebel” knows that no mat-sarily those of The Observer. 
Clutch at Kohls, $40.60 





edressme.com, $92.00 
Senior Justine Ward models different styles of red to show off her Valentine’s day versatility and fashion sense. Red skirt at Mango, $39.99 

MARINA KOZAK | Observer Graphic 


Friday, February 10, 2012 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 9 

Valentine’s Day is rapidly approaching, and whether you enjoy it or love complain ing about “Hallmark making it up,” it’s hard to avoid. If you’re going to have a girls’ (or boys’) night, you want to impress a new fling or you need something new to do for your fourth year of Notre Dating, we’ve got a few ideas to make those you care about feel loved: 
Friends 
Who says Valentine’s Day needs to be about romance and sappiness? It’s a perfect excuse to spend quality time with friends. It’s not what you do on Valentine’s Day that matters; it’s the company you keep. 
Classic: Ice Cream and Movie. Go to the Huddle, get your favorite Ben & Jerry’s ice cream and head straight to the dorm with the biggest TV and comfiest couch. Hook 
your computer up to Netflix or bring your favorite DVD, and enjoy. Since your friends are likely the funniest 
people you know, this occasion calls for an awful hor ror film or an equally horrible romantic comedy. For instance, “Valentine’s Day” is a laugh a second (and 
not in the way they intended). 
Something New: Baked Goods. Get inventive for this. If someone has a car, take a trip to the grocery store and get supplies to make baked 
goods from scratch or borrow some from dorm mates. It’s easy to get break and bake 
from the Huddle, but the point of this activ ity is to get creative. Decorate homemade cupcakes or make a cookie dough base 
and add different candies and mix 
ins to change up the batches. It’s a fun group activity, plus you can bring some of the leftovers to 
that friend who inevitably gets stuck working on a project all night. Creative: Scrapbook ing. 
Brenna Williams 
Scene Writer 

Remember the time before Facebook when we printed out pictures? Bring it back! Making a collage or a mini scrapbook is a fun way to remember great times while making new memo ries together. You don’t need to be very crafty, just have fun with it! Want to take your creation with you everywhere? Go to Starbucks and pick up a customizable tumbler. For about 12 Flex Points you can get one that you can keep for yourself or give to a friend. 

New Fling 

Maybe you’re in a new relationship, so it’s a little early to go with the full on fancy dinner/flowers/candy thing. Maybe you’re just a laid back couple. These ideas will show you care without the formality of the traditional Valentine’s Day date. 
Classic: Flowers. Who doesn’t like flowers? Except for those who are allergic, basically everyone. Here’s the trick for a new relationship: make sure to get your significant other their favorite flowers. How do you find out without blowing the surprise? Ask their roommate. If the room mate doesn’t know, they can find out in casual conversation. Believe me, the espionage will be well worth the work. Can’t make it off campus? Don’t forget that Irish Gardens is in the basement of LaFortune, so there’s no excuse not to show some initiative. 
Something New: Tickets. In a new relationship, it’s important to build memories together. There’s no better way to do that than by going to a sporting event or concert together. Surprise your significant other with tickets to a basketball game (home or close by) or a concert in Chicago. They’ll be happy that you know what they like and it might just expand your own horizons. 
Creative: Go Local. South Bend isn’t exactly a thriv ing metropolis, but it does have some hidden gems. Dinner on Valentine’s Day can not only be a nightmarish experi ence, but it can also seem really formal. Instead, explore one of the Bend’s other local businesses. Get coffee at 
Quincy’s or Main Street Café. Let your sweetie 
know they’re sweet by getting fondue at 
South Bend Chocolate Factory, something tasty at Indulgence or fro yo at Let’s Spoon. 
Long-Term Significant Other 
Do you struggle to think of creative, roman tic date ideas? Let’s face it; South Bend is not the Paris of the Midwest. If you’re looking to do some thing with your sweetheart, here are some ways to avoid a Valentine’s Day rut. 
Classic: Dinner. If there’s any night to go big, it’s Valentine’s Day. Ditch the chain restaurants though 
— you want to show your sweetheart they’re special by taking them somewhere as one of a kind as they are. You can try to get a reservation at one of the better restaurants in town like LaSalle’s downtown, Uptown Kitchen or The Mark. For the campus bound, try out Sorin’s in the Morris Inn, which is always surprisingly delicious. 
Something New: Cooking Together. Don’t feel like going out and fighting the crowd? Stay in! Get sup plies for your favorite meal together and get creative in your apartment or dorm. For the campus bound, I would suggest making dessert since it might be difficult to get dinner supplies at the Huddle. 
Creative Gift: Show off your skills! There’s nothing better than a handmade gift, some thing that utilizes your talents to make your significant other happy. Hate the corpo rate nature of Valentine’s Day? Make a card yourself! Draw a picture. Write a poem. If you have a playful rela tionship, make a “Stuff You Say” video or make it more serious with a “Things That I Love About You” letter. Decorate a cake. Try something new. It’s the effort that counts! 
Contact Brenna Williams at bwillia9@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

By MARIA FERNANDEZ 
Scene Writer 
The Oscars of the music industry are just around the corner, and after last year’s surprising results (Arcade Fire winning Album of the Year and Esperanza Spalding winning Best New Artist), everyone is asking the same question: Who will win this year’s Grammys? 
This year’s ceremony will be a bit shorter and different than those of previous years. The National Academy of Recording Arts and Sciences (NARAS) has reduced the number of catego­ries from 109 to 78, eliminating the distinction between male and female categories. However, it still promises to be an exciting night. 
Anxiously waiting for Sun­day’s awards, I prepared a list of predictions. There are some artists and music groups that are definitely taking at least one Grammy home this weekend — or at least I hope so. 
Rihanna 

Turn on the radio and you’re bound to hear a Rihanna song or collaboration with another artist. From clubs to iPods, ev­eryone is listening to her music. 
This year, her new album, “Loud” is nominated for Al­bum of the Year and Pop Vocal Album. However, these are probably not the only categories Rihanna will win Sunday.
 The “We Found Love” singer also has two nominations in the category of Best Rap/Sung Collaboration for “What’s My Name” with Drake and “All of the Lights” with Kanye West, Kid Cudi and Fergie. 
Her biggest competition: mul­tiple time Grammy-winner and “Love the Way You Lie” partner, Eminem, with “I Need a Doctor.” Nevertheless, Rihanna’s two collaborations still have a great chance of winning the Grammy in this category, proving she continues to influence the music scene around the world. 
Bon Iver 

Although he has been part of the music world since 2007, Bon Iver has taken a different musical direction with his new self-titled album released last summer. 
With songs such as “Calagary” and “Holocene,” he has made an incredible comeback and become one of the most popular musicians of the year. 
As a Grammy rookie, Bon Iver is surprisingly nominated for Grammys in four different cat­egories this year. And, although he will not win all of them, he is, without a doubt, my pick for Best New Artist. 
He faces tough competition from Nicki Minaj, Skrillex, The Band Perry and J. Cole, who are also contenders in the same cat­egory. However, his alternative music brings a new, innovative feel — a quality the NARAS will be looking at when choosing a winner. 
Kanye West 

After interrupting Taylor Swift while she accepted an award for Best Female Video in 2009’s VMA’s, there was only one question we could ask our­selves: WWKDN? (What Would Kanye Do Next?) 
Although criticized by many after the incident, Kanye’s recent albums and collabora­tions show he still rules the rap world. 
This year, he leads the Gram­my-nominee pack with seven nominations. He’s nominated for Song of the Year category and four other rap awards, and will probably go home with at least two or three Grammys. 
This artist is currently at a great place in his musical ca­reer. His Grammy nominations and probable wins are proof of his worldwide popularity and success. 

Adele 

Last but not least, Adele has been all over 2011. If there is someone that will take this year’s music awards over by storm, it is she. 
Her amazing voice and pow­erful lyrics have earned her a total of six Grammy nomina­tions, three of them in the most important categories (Song of the Year, Album of the Year and Record of the Year). I am sure Adele and her album, “21,” will dominate this year’s Grammys, proving she can have it all. 
Watch the 54th Grammy Awards Sunday, Feb. 12 at 8 
p.m. on CBS. 
contact Maria Fernandez at mfernan5@nd.edu 
MARINA KOZAK | Observer Graphic 

page 10 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u CLASSIFIEDS Friday, February 10, 2012 
SPORTS AUTHORITY 

NHL, NCAA need rules overhaul 
Well, we’ve finally reached the finish line. For the past two weeks, each of us here at the Sports Authority has provided the scoop on what we would change if we were the King of Sports. 
Some of the sugges­tions have been seri­ous, others light-heart­ed. Some have been in-line with the opinions of most fans, others against what’s popular. And some are practical in real life 
—
 perhaps even imminent 

—
 while others have about as much a chance of happen­ing as me dating a Victoria’s Secret supermodel. 


Yes, my fellow comrades have proposed some interest­ing suggestions up to this point. And now, for the final installment, it’s my turn. 
I’ll begin with changes I considered making, but de­cided not to, due to the mass uprisings they would cause: making the NCAA tourna­ment 16 teams with a best-of­three series throughout and abolishing the three-point line. While I think both of these would be much better and fairer for a few differ­ent reasons, I understand the entertainment value and popularity March Madness and baskets from downtown provide.
   Though I am King, I am not a tyrant. I am a man of the people and will give my peas­ants what they wish (I also intend to avoid a fate similar to that of Louis XVI). 
The first actual change I will make is one floating around in real life at the mo­ment, and that is a four-team playoff in college football with the top two seeds get­ting home, not neutral-site, semifinal games. It is not too small. It is not too large. It continues to keep college football’s regular season by far the greatest in all of sports. It avoids the contro­versy. It keeps the bowl sys­tem intact. It is perfect. 
Moving to an issue that isn’t as debated as a college football playoff, I’d enforce icing on the penalty kill in hockey. This is one thing I’ve never understood. A rule that hurts you when you’re even strength or on the power play is now taken away when you are penalized? How does that make sense? If you want to keep the puck out of your zone or want a line change on the penalty kill, get the puck across center ice and then dump it in, as you would any other point in the game. 

Staying with hockey — more specifically the NHL now — I like most of the post-lockout rules. No clutch-and-grab, smaller goalie pads, eliminating the two-line pass rule, delayed offside and no line change allowed after a team commits icing are all great. 
But I’m getting rid of the trapezoid. And the shoot­out. Especially the shoot­out. It is not hockey. Play four-on-four overtime for 10 minutes, then three­on-three until there’s a winner. That’s not exactly “real” hockey either, but it’s closer than a shootout. MLB doesn’t decide extra innings with a home run derby. The NBA doesn’t use a free-throw contest for overtime. As King, the shootout is no more (same with soccer penalty kicks to decide games). 
I will go back to two divisions in MLB in each league and have the divi­sion winners advance straight to the LCS. I will also cut the number of NBA playoff teams from 16 to eight. 
I will punish any de­fender who dances like he won the Super Bowl after a tackle made two yards past the first-down marker while his team’s down 17 points. Sorry, entire NFL. 
And now it’s time for my final two resolutions. Both of these are extremely selfish, but hey, I’m the King.  
I will award the Colum­bus Blue Jackets the No. 1 draft pick for each of the next 10 years no matter where they finish in the standings. Not that it re­ally matters, because all of the picks will probably just bust and the Jackets will always finish last in the standings anyway.
     Contact Sam Gans at sgans@nd.edu.
     The views expressed in this Sports Authority col­umn are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
NHL 


Winter Classic site announced 
Associated Press 
ANN ARBOR, Mich. — The Detroit Red Wings and Toronto Maple Leafs will began 2013 by renewing their rivalry at one of North America’s most iconic stadiums. 
The two Original Six foes will play in the Winter Classic on Jan. 1 at Michigan Stadium, part of an outdoor showcase that will also include minor league and college hockey games at De­troit’s Comerica Park. 
Toronto will become the first Canadian team to play in the Winter Classic when the Maple Leafs and Red Wings face off in Ann Arbor, about 45 miles west of Detroit. 
“It’s Hockeytown versus the center of the hockey universe,” Toronto general manager Brian Burke said. 
The NHL announced its plan at a news conference Thursday at Comerica, the home of the Detroit Tigers. Later, there was an additional event for media on the field at Michigan Stadi­um, the football venue that also hosted a college hockey game in 2010 between Michigan and Michigan State. That game set a Guinness World Record for most fans at a hockey game with 104,173. 
The league is already talking about setting a new mark when the pros take the ice. 
“Even with 115,000 or more tickets available, we still won’t have enough to satisfy the de­mand,” NHL Commissioner Gary Bettman said. 
The Detroit-Toronto rivalry dates to 1927. Although they’re in different conferences right now, the franchises have played 117 playoff games against each other, second only to the 170 meetings between Boston and Montreal. 
Buffalo, Chicago, Boston, Pittsburgh and Philadelphia have all hosted the Winter Clas­sic. With the Detroit area host­ing next year, Bettman felt the time was right to include a team from Canada. 
“We thought that we had built this event to a level where it made sense to do it, and that even from a U.S. network tele­vision standpoint, we were comfortable that it would work well,” Bettman said. 
There have been two outdoor Heritage Classics north of the border: Montreal at Edmonton in 2003, and Montreal at Cal­gary last year. The game at Ed­monton was the league’s first outdoor regular-season game. 
Although Detroit hasn’t host­ed the Winter Classic, the Red Wings played in it in 2009, beat­ing the Chicago Blackhawks 6-4 at Wrigley Field, home of base-ball’s Chicago Cubs. 


While the centerpiece game next January will take place in a college town, the league is making sure to include Detroit, scheduling what it calls the Hockeytown Winter Festival at Comerica. The rink at the ball­park will host college hockey’s Great Lakes Invitational, as well as AHL and OHL games. Youth and high school games are also expected, along with the Red Wings-Maple Leafs alumni game. 
The Comerica rink will also be open for public skating. 
Michigan Stadium has un­dergone changes recently, such as the addition of permanent lights. Michigan hosted its first primetime football game last season, beating Notre Dame in dramatic fashion. 
“This is just an incredible facility,” Michigan athletic di­rector Dave Brandon said. “We spent $226 million expanding and renovating it, and we use it eight days a year. To the ex­tent we can come up occasion­ally with an opportunity — and that’s why we’re doing weddings and we’re doing corporate par­ties. We’re doing a lot of things to try to say, ‘You know what, let’s use this, let people enjoy it, take advantage of it.’” 

The possibility of the NHL breaking attendance records brought out Brandon’s com­petitive side. Michigan’s night football game at the Big House drew an NCAA-record crowd of 114,804. 
“If they can figure out a way to do better than that, then they will set the record not only for the largest crowd to ever watch a hockey game, but the largest crowd to ever watch anything in this stadium,” Brandon said. “And then my job will be to fig­ure out a way to beat it.” 
Veteran Detroit defenseman Nicklas Lidstrom was at the Big House to promote the Winter Classic. That raised an obvious question: Does it mean he’s defi­nitely planning on coming back for a 21st season in 2012-13? 
“We’ll have to wait and see,” Lidstrom said. “It’s only one game, but it’s an intriguing one.” 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The 
Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

On This Day in History 1955-Australian golfer Greg 1968-Peter Popovic, Sweidsh 1974-NFL cornerback Ty Law born 
FOR RENT PERSONAL 
Norman born NHL defenseman of Montreal Canadiens born 1978 - Van Halen’s debut album 1763-Treaty of Paris signed =1961-Journalist George was released WALK TO CAMPUS  UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don’t Stephanopoulos born 1969-Rockies catcher Jayhawk go it alone. Notre Dame has many 1840-Queen Victoria marries Owens born 1985-Foregner’s hit “I Want to Great Specials!  resources in place to assist you. Prince Albert Know What Love is” topped the 
If you or someone you love needs 1966-Daryl Johnston, NFL running 1969 -Tim Clark, U.S. baseball charts Studio, 1, 2, 3 Bedroom  confidential support or assistance, 1863-The fire extinguisher was back for the Dallas Cowboys born outfielder for the Florida Marlins Townhomes available. please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819 patented born 2004-Kanye West’s Album 
or Ann Firth at 1-2685. For more 1967The 25th Amendment to the “College Dropout 
(574) 272-8124.  information, visit ND’s website at:  1950-9-time Olympian Mark Spitz Constitution was ratified 1970-Olympic speed skater 
born Brendan Eppert born 2005-Author and Pulitzer Prize www.clovervillageapartments.com http://pregnancysupport@nd.edu winner Arthur Miller dies 
Friday, February 10, 2012 The Observer u SPORTS ndsmcobserver.com | page 11 
NBA 

Nowitzki headlines All-Star reserves 


Assosciated Press 
NEW YORK — Dirk Nowitzki’s streak survives, despite one of the worst seasons of his career. 
Two other old stars are no lon­ger All-Stars. 
Nowitzki was chosen Thurs­day to his 11th straight All-Star game, with coaches overlooking the lowest scoring average since his second NBA season in favor of his long-term excellence. 
“It was a tough road back to full health for me, but I am hon­ored that the coaches thought enough of me to make me an All-Star,” Nowitzki said in a state­ment. “It has been a privilege to represent the Mavericks organi­zation over the last decade and I look forward to doing it again in Orlando.” 
Paul Pierce will join him de­spite his own slow start caused by a foot injury and was picked for the 10th time. 
But Kevin Garnett wasn’t cho­sen after 14 consecutive selec­tions, and Tim Duncan was left out after 13 in a row. Other All-Star regulars such as Ray Allen andAmare Stoudemire will be home, giving way to five first-timers among the reserves: Port­land’s LaMarcus Aldridge, Marc Gasol of Memphis, Andre Iguo­dala of Philadelphia, Indiana’s Roy Hibbert, and Chicago’s Luol Deng. 
Also headed to the Feb. 26 game are NBA assists leader Steve Nash of Phoenix, Tony Parker of San Antonio, Russell Westbrook of Oklahoma City, Kevin Love of Minnesota, Chris Bosh of Miami, Atlanta’s Joe Johnson and Deron Williams of New Jersey. 
Already voted to start by fans in the Eastern Conference were Orlando’s Dwight Howard, LeB­ron James and Dwyane Wade of Miami, Chicago’s Derrick Rose and New York’s Carmelo Anthony. The West starters are the Lakers’ Kobe Bryant and Andrew Bynum, Chris Paul and Blake Griffin of the Clippers, and Oklahoma City’sKevin Durant. 
Coaches voted for the reserves, and they had a tough task in this lockout-shortened season, when they were given only about 25 games to evaluate players. 
That threatened to make it tough for Nowitzki and Pierce, whose bodies weren’t ready to go after the lengthy offseason and brief training camps, and have played below their usual stan­dards. 
“I think it’s too early. I’m sit­ting on my couch when they announced the rosters and I’m floored. I didn’t even know they had started the voting,” Celtics coach Doc Rivers said. 
But the coaches picked Now­itzki, the NBA finals MVP, even though his average of 17.6 points is his worst since he scored 17.5 per game in the 1999-00 sea­son. The Mavericks shut him down for a few games to work on his conditioning, and even he wondered recently whether his streak would continue, given the depth of players in his position in the West. 
Pierce has been a little better, winning last week’s East player of the week award and hiking his average to 18.4 per game, but acknowledged during an inter­view on TNT before the Celtics played the Lakers that he was a little surprised to be picked. 
But he’ll go alone from Bos­ton, a year after Garnett, Allen and Rajon Rondo went with him. Duncan was there last year, too, having never missed an All-Star game since entering the league in the 1997-98 season. 
“They’re getting older,” Riv­ers said. “It’s just, you know, change. It happens.” 
Age didn’t stop Nash, averag­ing 10 assists and shooting 56 percent from the field. He be­came just the fourth player to earn an All-Star spot at 38 or older, joining Kareem Abdul-Jabbar, Michael Jordan and Karl Malone. 
Coaches had to pick two for­wards, two guards, a center, and two players regardless of posi­tion. They couldn’t vote for one of their own players. 
They favored team success, with only Nash, Williams and Gasol getting picked from teams with losing records. 
That left out All-Star hope­fuls such as Milwaukee’s Bran­don Jennings, the Knicks’ Stou­demire — who misses a chance to play near his Florida home 
— the Grizzlies’ Rudy Gay, and Golden State’s Monta Ellis. Hous­ton’s Kyle Lowry also fell short in the West, where coaches picked three other point guards. 
Minnesota’s awful record last season nearly cost Love, though he eventually made it as an in­jury replacement. Putting up big numbers again and this time with the Timberwolves on the right side of .500, he was an easy pick. 
“It’s a lot of joy,” Love said. “It’s really a respect thing. I’ve had a great season thus far and we’ve had some success as a team. For me, it’s definitely a big deal. I put in a lot of work these last three and a half seasons and I don’t in­tend on stopping.” 
The snubbed players still have a chance if there is an in­jury. Commissioner David Stern chooses the injury replace­ments. 
MLB 

Cruz signs two-year deal with Texas 

Associated Press 
ARLINGTON, Texas — The Texas Rangers agreed to a $16 million, two-year con­tract with Nelson Cruz on Thursday, keeping the Ameri­can League Championship Series MVP around as the team chases a third-straight AL pennant. 
“Nelson is a cornerstone of our team for what really marks the whole turnaround of the franchise. He been part of the winning core, he’s a huge part of that,” assistant general manager Thad Levine said. “He’s been big-time per­former in the postseason. He’s part of the personality of this team, he plays the game with a ton of energy, a very dynamic player, true five-tool athlete.” 
The deal came eight days before a scheduled arbitra­tion hearing. It includes an­other potential $500,000 in performance bonuses and takes the 31-year-old slug­ging outfielder through his final two seasons of salary-arbitration eligibility. 
Cruz and Levine both said there were talks of a longer deal going into his first seasons of potential free agency. They said there could be further conver­sations, but that the two-year agreement was the best way to settle things at this point. 
“This was the priority right now,” Cruz said. “Like I’ve said before, I would like to stay with the Rangers.” 
The deal for Cruz came a day after slick-fielding shortstop El­vis Andrus completed a $14.4 million, three-year contract on the eve of his scheduled arbitra­tion hearing. 
In last year’s six-game AL championship series against Detroit, Cruz had six home runs and 13 RBIs, both major league records for a postseason series. That included the first game-ending grand slam in postsea­son history. Cruz became the first player with extra-inning homers in two games of one se­ries. 
In 33 career playoff games, all over the last two years when the Rangers made their first two World Series appearances, Cruz has hit .270 with 14 homers and 27 RBIs. 
Cruz is also a .270 career hit­ter over seven major league sea­sons and has hit 84 of his 106 ca­reer homers over the past three years despite six stays on the disabled list during that span. Most of the DL stints have been because of leg issues, but he said he is feeling good after changes in his offseason routine, includ­ing his workouts and diet. 
“I’ve been working a lot in the offseason to ensure I stay healthy the whole season,” said Cruz, who missed 29 games last season because of a left ham­string strain and a strained right quadriceps muscle. 
That was after he missed 51 games in 2010 because of prob­lems with both hamstrings. Even though he played only 108 games in 2010, he matched a major league record with five extra-innings homers, three be­ing game-ending shots. In the playoffs that year, he had 13 extra-base hits (six homers), a record for a single postseason. 
Texas, which hasn’t had an ar­bitration hearing since winning its case against Lee Stevens in 2000, still is in talks with Napoli. 

INTERNATIONAL SOCCER 
Zambia to face Ivory Coast in finals 

Associated Press 
LIBREVILLE, Gabon — Zam­bia prepared for the African Cup of Nations final by travel­ing to a rubbish-strewn beach Thursday to sing songs and lay flowers in honor of players who died in a plane crash nearly two decades ago. 
The current players, some without shoes, walked down the nondescript stretch of sand in Libreville not far from where a Zambian military plane crashed into the ocean soon after takeoff in 1993, killing 25 players and officials on board as well as five crew. 
It robbed the country of one of its best teams and a group favored to win the following year’s African Cup. 
This squad walked silently at first as players held their flowers, some too young to re­member the disaster. Then players started singing as they approached the water and laid their flowers on the edge of the surf. Some waded in knee-deep. They huddled to pray for Zam­bia’s previous soccer stars. 
On Sunday, they will try to honor them again by beating pre-tournament favorite Ivo­ry Coast, Africa’s top-ranked team, for Zambia’s first conti­nental title. 
The site for the small, infor­mal ceremony was chosen as the part of the beach the plane flew over 19 years ago before plunging into the water 500 yards out to suddenly and tragi­cally snatch away nearly an en­tire squad. 
At the head of the 22 players Thursday was Kalusha Bwalya, probably Zambia’s greatest player and a member of the ’93 team who escaped the accident because he played for a club in Europe and was to meet the rest of the squad for a World Cup qualifier at their final destina­tion: Dakar, Senegal. 
Bwalya’s teammates never made it. 
Zambia and Bwalya returned to the Gabonese capital for the first time since the tragedy. The Zambians will be in the African Cup final for the third time. And they’ve returned to try and finally win it in the city where Zambia suffered its lowest, saddest soccer moment. 
Zambia made the ’94 final with a makeshift squad that was in­spired by Bwalya and the tragedy, only to lose to Nigeria. 
The team has surprised many again by making the final, and a victory in Libreville this weekend would undoubtedly be dedicated to the 18 players and seven fed­eration officials who died a few miles from the stadium. 
“It’s been a long journey,” Bwalya said, remembering his late teammates as the current players stood behind him, some ankle-deep in the ocean. “I’m just pleased that God has given me enough days to see this day.” 
Some of the players, dressed in their team tracksuits, took photos of the beach. Others just looked out to sea. 
Captain Christopher Katongo, the joint-leading goalscorer in this year’s African Cup, led them in prayer as they formed a tight huddle. 


“It’s no coincidence that we are here today,” Bwalya, now the Zambia Football Association president, said as he read from a short speech he prepared. “We’ve worked hard as a team. In 1993 the Chipolopolo (Copper Bullets) came here to fulfill a promise. They did not succeed and instead gave up their lives in a bid to bring glory to our country. 
“It’s the same cause that brings us here today, the only difference is that we are alive and our former teammates are no longer here. Their dreams are our dreams.” 
Earlier at Leon Mba Airport, where the ill-fated plane took off years ago, the players smiled and posed for photos for fans. 
Hours later on the beach they were somber but relaxed. Bwalya also invited a retired Gabonese soldier who was on the beach and saw the plane go down on that April day in 1993 and tried to help. 
Zambia arrived just hours ear­lier from Bata, Equatorial Guinea, where it beat 26th-ranked Ghana in Wednesday’s semifinal to set up the poignant return to Libreville. The Copper Bullets, tied for 71st in the FIFA rankings, face No. 18 Ivory Coast, with well-known stars Didier Drogba, Salomon Kalou and brothers Yaya and Kolo Toure. 

page 12 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u SportS Friday, February 10, 2012 
MEN’S SWIMMING AND DIVING 
Divers to kick off championship action 

By MEGAN FINNERAN 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame will kick off an im­portant week of competition this weekend. The swimmers have a few more days of preparation be­fore the Big East championships, but for the divers, today marks the beginning of the postseason. 
“In preparing for this meet, the team has gradually shifted our practices toward specific meet performance, including a focus on consistency, emphasizing the importance of mental prepara­tion, and a greater concentration on details,” senior Sean Rade­maker said. 
Pittsburgh’s Trees Pool will host the championships, where all six Irish divers will compete against some of their closest ri­vals. Rademaker and junior Ryan Koter carry the team in terms of experience, but Rademaker said the freshmen foursome of Ted Wagner, Nick Nemetz, Michael Kreft and John Andrade have certainly proven themselves. 
“This is a great meet for the team because our four freshmen have had the opportunity to de­velop throughout the year,” Rade­maker said. “It will be exciting to watch their performance under pressure in their first Big East championships.” 
In order to qualify for this weekend’s meet, each athlete had a standard to reach. For the 1-meter dive, a 240-point mini­mum requirement stood as the entry mark, while the 3-meter dive required 250 points. Unlike the swimming competition where lower “B” standards also exist for entry, only one level exists for div­ing. 
The men participated in the Shamrock Invitational on Sat­urday, hosted by Notre Dame. The Irish took six of the top eight spots in the 1-meter dive, led by Nemetz in second with 290.40 points. Koter and Kreft followed close behind in third and fourth with 280.73 and 279.15 points, re­spectively. 
Similar results held true for the 3-meter dives, where Nemetz also took the top mark for the team with 332.63 points. This time Kreft took third and Koter took fourth, with 320.03 and 312.83 points, respectively. 
Last year the Irish claimed a first-place finish in both events under then-seniors Eric Lex in the 1-meter dive and Nathan Geary in the 3-meter. This year’s team looks to maintain that same success, as Rademaker especially looks forward to the meet, know­ing it marks his last with the Irish. 
“It’s amazing to think about how much I’ve been able to im­prove with the help of my team­mates and coaches. This has been an incredible opportunity,” he said. 
The Big East championships begin this afternoon in Pitts­burgh. 

Contact Megan Finneran at mfinnera@nd.edu 
MEN’S TENNIS 

Irish to host top competition 
By SAM GANS 
Sports Writer 
Coming off a strong 5-2 win at No. 64 Northwestern on Tuesday, the No. 30 Irish will continue a busy stretch this weekend. Notre Dame will play three matches at the Eck Tennis Pavilion, as they face Wisconsin today and No. 6 Kentucky and IUPUI in separate matches Sunday. 
The match against Notre Dame (6-3) is only the third match of the season for the Bad­gers (2-0), who haven’t played since Jan. 28. 
“I’m not sure why [the Bad­gers] chose to schedule things that way, but you’d think that we’d be certainly more match ready, but I don’t know if that translates into anything,” Irish coach Bobby Bayliss said. “They’ve won the two matches they’ve played very easily, so they should be very confident. We’ve had a pretty spirited ri­valry with Wisconsin over the years and generally pretty hard-fought amongst some matches, and I would anticipate more of the same this year.” 
After today’s match against Wisconsin, the Irish will not have much time to rest with the Wildcats (8-0) and Jaguars (1-4) coming to town Sunday. Ken­tucky in particular will pose a strong test for the Irish. 
“I think [Kentucky is] one of the top three or four teams in the country and we’ll have to play well, but we’ve had good match­es with them in the past and we’ve had our share of success here when they’ve been highly-ranked,” Bayliss said. “There’s no reason to think it won’t be a pretty competitive match. 
“They’re pretty deep. Their No. 6 [singles player] is ranked No. 45 in the country, so that kind of gives you an idea of their depth, but we’ve beaten some of their guys in the past and I ex­pect it to be a highly-contested match.” 
After the elite Wildcats, how­ever, comes a struggling IUPUI. Despite the lack of success the Jaguars have shown this sea­son, IUPUI assistant coach Pat Nickell’s past interaction with the Irish could help the Jaguars strategically. 
“[IUPUI hasn’t] done as well this year and it might provide an opportunity for some of our guys to get some match experi­ence that haven’t received it,” Bayliss said. “They’re very well-coached. Pat Nickell is one of their coaches and he works in our camp and I know he’ll do a great job. He knows our guys backwards and forwards so they’ll come ready to play.” 
Despite the potential fatigue that could come from playing two matches in one day, Bayliss thinks the doubleheader will be beneficial to the Irish. 
“We think we have pretty good depth, and any time you play a doubleheader it means you’re going to need to rely on it, so I think that’s a plus for us,” he said. “It doesn’t have to hurt us that we’re playing two matches in one day. I think we’ve got a couple of guys who haven’t got­ten in many matches that are capable of playing as well as the starters. And so I’m not afraid of the two [matches] in one day.” 
The Irish square off with the Badgers today at 4 p.m. before facing the Wildcats and Jaguars on Sunday at 12 p.m. and 6 p.m., respectively. All three matches will be played at the Eck Tennis Pavilion. 
Contact Sam Gans at sgans@nd.edu 


JAMES DOAN/The Observer 

Freshman Michael Fredericka prepares to return a volley during a match in the Tom Fallon Invitational at the Courtney Tennis Center on Sep. 24, 2011. 
ND WOMEN’S SWIMMING AND DIVING 
Program sets sights on 15th conference title 
Observer Staff Report 
The Irish will travel to Pitts­burgh this weekend for the Big East championships in the hopes of securing their 15th championship in their 17-year history in the Big East. 
The one-week meet will kickoff on Friday with the div­ing portion of the champion­ships. Junior diver Jenny Chi­ang is seeking her third Big East title in the 3-meter dive. 
The swimming portion of the meet will begin on Wednesday and will run through Saturday evening. The Irish (6-6) have had great success in the last fifteen years at the Big East meet. They finished second last year behind only Louisville. The second place finish snapped a Big East record of 14 consecu­tive titles. 
The Irish have a number of key members returning from last year’s team, including three individual champions and four members of win­ning relay teams. Junior Kim Holden and sophomore Kelly Ryan lead the Irish with a combined eleven Big East in­dividual titles. 

Holden is a seven-time Big East champion who won the 100-meter and 200-meter back­stroke and was a member of the 400-medley relay that won the conference title last season. Ryan, meanwhile, is a four-time Big East champion who won the 100-meter and 200-meter free­style as a freshman. Ryan also goes into the meet with the top times in the 50-freestyle (23.17), 100-freestyle (49.62), 100-back­stroke (53.60) and 200-back­stroke (1:55.66). 
Led by Emma Reaney, the freshmen have been a key spark for the Irish all season. Reaney has earned three Big East Wom­en’s Swimming and Diving Ath­lete of the Week awards — a new conference record for most hon­ors in a season. She looks to finish among the top of the conference in the 200-individual medley af­ter notching a new school record and the best time in the confer­ence this season at 1:57.67. 
With anticipation and pressure mounting prior to the champi­onships, the Irish look to bring home a conference title when they take to the pool in Pitts­burgh on Friday. 

Friday, February 10, 2012 The Observer u SPORTS ndsmcobserver.com | page 13 
DePaul 
continued from page 6 
came from, we will never be overconfident,” Brey said. “We were so poor in November and December, I have a hard time feeling us being overconfident.” 
DePaul (11-12, 2-9), who cur­rently sits in 15th place in the 16-team Big East, comes into Saturday’s game having lost eight of their previous nine con­tests. 
“[The DePaul game is] very important,” Atkins said. “To get another win in the league is huge for us. It’s a huge game for us and we’re going to approach it like that.” 
The Blue Demons employ an up-tempo style of play, drasti­cally contrasting the burn-of­fense Irish. 
“Their style of play worries me,” Brey said. “They are going to press and make it chaotic. There’s no style of play in the league like this.” 
DePaul ranks third in the 
Ewigleben 
continued from page 16 
games, Saturday’s match-up will be the ultimate test of whether the Irish can close out a series. 
“[Saturday’s game] is not go­ing to be easy, that’s for sure,” Lee said. “Ferris State has got a great crowd at home, and they’ve got that small little rink, so they play well at home, but we want to go in there and try to take three points.” 
This weekend’s games take on even more importance with the current state of the CCHA standings. Notre Dame sits in a tie for fourth in the conference, but just six points separate the top eight teams. With the sea­son drawing to a close, each conference with 74.6 points per game, led by sophomore forward Cleveland Melvin. However, the Blue Demons are last in the league in scor­ing defense. 
“They’re going to be a team that tries to speed us up as much as possible,” Atkins said. “We’re going to have some fast break opportuni­ties because of their pres­sure. We still want to play our pace and make sure they play our pace.” 
The Irish have won six straight meetings against the Blue Demons, including last year’s 83-58 drubbing in Chi­cago. 
“[The rivalry] runs deep,” Brey said. “I know we’ve had a pretty good run on DePaul but we don’t take anything for granted.” 
Tip-off between Notre Dame and DePaul is slated for noon Saturday at the Pur­cell Pavilion. 


Contact Matthew DeFranks at mdfrank@nd.edu 
game will be crucial as the Irish aim to lock in a high seed and first-round bye at the conference tournament. 
“This is the time of the year when you’ve got to be playing your best hockey, and hopefully we’ll be near­ing our peak in the next few weeks,” Lee said. “These are big huge games that are ba­sically playoffs at this point, and are going to decide a lot later on. We’re approaching every one like a must-win.” 
Notre Dame and Ferris St. will face off Friday night at the Compton Family Ice Are­na, and Saturday at Ewig­leben Arena in Big Rapids, Mich. The puck will drop both nights at 7:05 p.m. 


Contact Jack Hefferon at wheffero@nd.edu 
TRACK AND FIELD 

Five to compete at ‘Big Meet’ 
By BRIAN HARTNETT 
Sports Writer 
While most of the Irish squad will spend the weekend rest­ing on campus, five Notre Dame runners will travel to Allendale, Mich. on Friday to compete in the Grand Valley State Univer­sity Big Meet. 
The majority of the Irish team will take this weekend off in or­der to rest before the Big East Championships, which will be held Feb. 18 and Feb. 19 in New York.  Irish coach Joe Pi­ane made the decision to send a handful of runners who need 
further  preparation  for  next  
week’s meet.  
“Historically,  we  take  this  

weekend off, but we’re going to Grand Valley this year because there are a couple of kids who need to race,” Piane said. 
On the men’s side, Notre Dame will look for contributions from three athletes who are currently in transition from the gridiron to the track. Sophomore corner­back Bennett Jackson, freshman running back George Atkinson III and freshman cornerback Josh Atkinson will all compete in the invitational, with Jackson running in the 60-meter hurdles and both Atkinsons running in the 60- and 200-meter events. 
Sophomore hurdler Bryce Wood will also travel with the team and compete in the 60-me­ter hurdles. 
The four men’s runners trav­eling to the meet have shown considerable progress, but have a rather limited body of work. Jackson and the Atkinsons all ran Big East qualifying times last week, with Wood having qualified for the Big East Cham­pionships earlier this season. 
Piane said his primary moti­vation behind sending the run-ners was to give them additional experience, as Jackson and the Atkinsons recently joined the team in late January. 


“Jackson has only been over a couple of flights of hurdles in the last few years, so we need him to get over a few more flights this week,” Piane said. “The same goes for Bryce Wood, who has only gone over one flight of hur­dles this year.” 
Freshman hurdler Jade Bar­ber will be the sole representa­tive for the Irish women’s team, competing in the 60-meter hur­dles this weekend. Barber has already met the Big East quali­fying times in the event, but has not competed in the 60-meter hurdles since the Notre Dame Invitational in December. 
With the Big East Champion­ships on the horizon, Piane said he is pleased with the team’s progress throughout the season. 
“The women’s team was av­erage at the Big East meet last year, but I think they can come home with a trophy this year,” Piane said. “We have some very good freshmen that are going to contribute, and some of the older kids have made wonder­ful improvements. On the men’s side, we have a lot of really tal­ented kids and have had some great performances.” 

With the Irish putting together strong performances in the last few meets, Piane is confident the team will be a legitimate con­tender for the championships. 
“We’re going to be a team that people will have to worry about in the Big East meet because we will be in the hunt,” Piane said. 
The Grand Valley State Uni­versity Big Meet begins at 10 
a.m. Friday and continues all day Saturday. 

Contact Brian Hartnett at bhartnet@nd.edu 

Bouts 
continued from page 16 
Such strength and courage is needed to make it through the grueling season, which begins in October, when the novices head out to Stepan Field for the first practice, and goes through the beginning of March. At first, the emphasis is on conditioning, but as the season progresses, the fo­cus shifts toward technique and skill. 
“We still work [conditioning] in, but basically as tourney time gets closer and closer we want to make sure that people are get­ting quality ring-time experi­ence,” junior captain Jack Lally said. “So we have two sparring rings going [during practice] and guys need to start thinking about the actual fights themselves.” 
Whether it’s conditioning or sparring, Bengal Bouts is far from the easiest extracurricular activity you’ll find around cam­pus. Boxers are required to at­tend four practices a week, but many students make it to five or six. The practices are predict­ably exhausting and making it through the whole season is a testament to a boxer’s commit­ment, according to senior captain and co-president Kevin Ortenzio. 
“The athletic side, as you can tell, is no easy pushover,” Orten­zio said. “Through the workouts, you’ve put in your own commit­ments and therefore your own sufferings and whether it’s blood, sweat or tears, all of that goes into these practices in prepara­tion for what could be only four minutes of actual boxing action.” 
When tournament time rolls around, boxers are grouped by weight into 13 or 14 brackets of 16 with each bracket making up one weight class. All boxers will fight in the preliminary round Sunday, with the winners ad­vancing to the quarterfinals on Feb. 22. The quarterfinal win­ners then move onto the semifi­nals, where the best of the best square off with the hope of mak­ing it to the final round. 
Lally said the increased com­petitiveness leads to better fights. 
“The better guys usually win [each round] so the competi­tion gets stiffer and stiffer and the fights get better and better,” Lally said. “[It culminates] with the final round in Purcell Pavil­ion, which is really great. [Those bouts] are always a lot of fun be­cause that’s where we get huge crowds and really pack that fa­cility.” 
The large crowds lead to rev­enue, all of which gets sent to the Holy Cross Missions in Bangla­desh. The Boxing Club donated around $140,000 last year and hopes to top that mark with this year’s bouts. Each of the roughly 200 boxers is required to raise a minimum of $500 by selling tick­ets and ad space for the program. 
After getting sent to Bangla­desh, the money is distributed between 13 different parishes that decide how to use the dona­tions. Ortenzio had the opportu­nity to see firsthand where the proceeds go when he traveled to Bangladesh over the summer on a trip organized through the International Summer Service Learning Program. One visit to northern Bangladesh, during which he met the Garo people, particularly struck a chord with Ortenzio. 

“When they accepted us into their home, they had these ritu­al dances and all these cultural events and activities to welcome us,” Ortenzio said. “But the funny thing was those cultural events and the ceremonies they had were held in this multipur­pose building that they use for these ceremonies, as well as for classes. Essentially, it was one of the buildings that was used on a regular, day-to-day basis by the community and it was pret­ty much funded by the Bengal Bouts. 
“It was sort of the thing what goes around comes around. The exact building that the celebra­tion is in on our behalf is the ac­tual building that we helped con­tribute to.” 
Seeing the effect Bengal Bouts has had on those less fortunate has certainly been a life-chang­ing experience, Ortenzio said. 
“I’ll certainly look back on this as an honor and a blessing to be a part of this program,” Ortenzio said. “Without it, I think I would be a whole different person and I have the whole Notre Dame com­munity to thank for this oppor­tunity. It’s only a university like Notre Dame that can put this to­gether and make it run so that it’s a benefit for all of society.” 
The bell to kick off the pre­liminary round rings Sunday at 1 
p.m. in the Joyce Center. 

Contact Mike Monaco at jmonaco@nd.edu 
page 14 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u SportS Friday, February 10, 2012 
12 Louisville on Feb. 4. of ESPN and what they are doing. After raising roughly $120,000 ginia on Sunday, with the tip-off “They are on a roll,” Mc-“We will be wearing pink, we to support cancer research scheduled for 3:30 p.m. at the 
McGraw Graw said of the Mountaineers. are having an auction and we are through the event last year, the Purcell Pavilion. 
“They’ve won three in a row, doing a lot of things to raise mon-Irish aim to raise $130,000 this continued from page 16 [and] they are in good position in ey … so we are definitely doing a time around. Contact Joseph Monardo at the conference. They are coming lot to help the cause.” Notre Dame will host West Vir-jmonardo@nd.edu Devereaux Peters and sophomore down the stretch here looking at 
forward Natalie Achonwa, to match up with their conference opponent in the post. 
“Devereaux Peters has been playing extremely well, Natalie Achonwa has been really com­ing on lately and is rebounding well, [sophomore guard] Kayla McBride is rebounding well, so I think we’ll being looking to our post to really step up in this game,” McGraw said. 
Despite its undefeated record in conference play, Notre Dame expects the Mountaineers to en­ter the game hungry as they look to improve on their fifth-place ranking in the Big East. West Vir­ginia has won five of their last six games, including an upset of No. 
a pretty high seed in the tourna­ment and an NCAA bid, so they have a lot to play for right now.” 
Both teams will have plenty to play for on Sunday, with the Play 4 Kay and Pink Zone events both taking place in South Bend this weekend. 
“We are trying to raise money for Saint Joseph’s County and keep the money here for … all the women in this area,” McGraw said. “So what can we do to help them, and to help fund mammo­grams and cancer research and trying to make it touch the lives of people right here. It is a national occasion. Kay Yow was sort of the Jim Valvano for women’s basket­ball, and Play 4 Kay is a big part 


Lacrosse 
continued from page 16 
Halfpenny said the Irish will switch up styles on both offense and defense, a result of the new coaching staff on campus. 
“We’ll play a very, very differ­ent style of defense,” Halfpenny said. “Offensively, we’re running some different looks too. It’ll be fun because the change has been welcomed by the girls.” 
The Irish lost six starters to graduation, including two All-Americans in defender Jackie Doherty and midfielder Shaylyn Blaney. Halfpenny said replac­ing the former stars was tough in the fall, but has gotten easier this spring. 
“In the fall, it was daunting for the team [to replace the past starters],” Halfpenny said. “Now that we’ve got through the fall, the kids grew up. The seniors became seniors.” 
The Irish, however, do return preseason All-Big East selections senior attack Maggie Tamasitis and sophomore midfielder Kaitlyn Brosco. Tamasitis — who joins se­nior midfielders Jordy Shoemaker and Megan Sullivan as team cap­tains — carries a 37-game point streak into this season. 
“We’re going to be a little bit youthful on the field,” Halfpenny said. “We will be continuing to develop players during the season and during the course of a game. We’re excited about that because our leadership has really stepped up.” 
The Irish open their season with an exhibition game against Johns Hopkins on Saturday in Baltimore. 
“We’re very excited to finally play someone other than our­selves,” Halfpenny said. “We’re excited to see what we look like against someone that doesn’t know us. [Johns Hopkins] plays a very physical and aggressive game. They’re athletic. They fin­ished off strong last year and they return quite a few players.” 
While the game against the Blue Jays is marked as an exhi­bition, Halfpenny said they will play the match as though it is a real game. 
“We’re going to play it as much as we can like a game and see where we’re at so we know what we need to fix before we host Stanford,” Halfpenny said. 
The Irish play Johns Hopkins at 11 a.m. Saturday in Baltimore be­fore opening their season Feb. 19 against Stanford at home. 


Contact Matthew DeFranks at mdfrank@nd.edu 


Friday, February 10, 2012 The Observer u toDay ndsmcobserver.com | page 15 
HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 
CROSSWORD WILL SHORTZ 


JUMBLE HENRY ARNOLD 
THE CLAMMY HANDSHAKE JOE MILLER and KELLY  LYNCH 
MIKE ARGIRION 





Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556

 Enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year


 Enclosed
 is $75 for one semester 


Name ____________________________________________________ Address __________________________________________________ City ____________________ State___________ Zip______________ 

Friday, February 10, 2012 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 16 
HOCKY 
Ferris State to present challenge 
By JACK HEFFERON 
Sports Writer 
The journey has not been easy for No. 9/9 Notre Dame this season, as they’ve fought through the grind of playing a brutal CCHA schedule. The road doesn’t get any easier this weekend, as the Irish will take on conference leader No. 5/6 Ferris State in a crucial home-and-home series with serious playoff implications. 
Notre Dame (16-11-3, 11­8-3-0 CCHA) will hope to rebound against the Bull­dogs (18-8-4, 12-6-4-1) after a disappointing end to last weekend’s series against the CCHA cellar dwellers, Bowl­ing Green. After beating the Falcons on Friday night, the Irish surrendered a third-period lead on Saturday and lost 3-2. 
With only six games left in conference play, Irish coach Jeff Jackson said his players are focused on finishing each game strong, and ensuring the team doesn’t let any more points slip away. 
“Finishing out games has been [a point of emphasis with Jackson], absolutely,” sopho­more winger Anders Lee said. “Bowling Green came in in the third period and they beat us. I don’t know if it was a mental lapse, or maybe [we] just stopped bearing down a little bit, but right now the most important thing is Fer­ris State, and we’ll learn from that mistake.” 
The Bulldogs will challenge the Irish in every facet of the game, particularly with their defense. Notorious for its physical play, Ferris St. drops their wingers down low on defense, which clogs the zone and forces teams to shoot from the point. The scheme has puzzled offenses all year, and the Bulldogs 2.30 goals against average puts their de­fense in the top 10 nationally. 
“They’re a high energy team, and they play really well defensively,” Lee said. “It’s hard to move the puck on them, so we just have to get the puck to the net and out­work them. You have to do a combination of both playing and taking what they give you, and get in there and hammer and cycle the puck and work it out to our defen­semen.” 
The job will be even tough­er for the Irish on Saturday night, when they travel to the hostile environment of Ewig­leben Arena, one of the tough­est venues in the country. The bandbox building packs the fans close to the ice, and its small ice surface makes scor­ing on the Bulldogs nearly impossible. Combined with the challenges of travel and playing two straight physical 
see EWIGLEBEN/page 13 

ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 
Scaling the mountain 
Squad looks to remain undefeated in Big East while raising money for cancer awareness 
By JOSEPH MONARDO 
Sports Writer 

Their next time out, the Irish can take another step toward se­curing the longest winning streak in school history, while also con­tributing to the fight against can­cer. No. 2 Notre Dame will put its 21-game winning streak on the line against surging Big East foe West Virginia for the annual Pink Zone game Sunday. 
The Irish (24-1, 11-0 Big East) defeated Syracuse 74-55 on Wednesday despite shooting just 
12.5 percent from the three-point range in a subpar performance. As her team prepares to return to action on its home court, Irish coach Muffet McGraw said she hopes her team can improve on its most recent outing. 
“We will shoot the ball better because we are playing at home and I think we will play at a fast­er pace,” McGraw said. “That was one of the things that we didn’t do against Syracuse, we played a little bit slower to match their tempo. So we will work on those things.” 
One bright spot for Notre Dame in the victory over Syracuse (15­10, 4-7) was the ability to out-rebound the Orange, who entered the game averaging 47.7 re­bounds per game, by 10. In their last 19 games, the Irish have a rebounding margin of plus 14.6 per game. 
“I was really pleased with our rebounding … so that was a really big positive that we are going to need to carry into this game, because West Virginia is another great rebounding team,” McGraw said. 
Sophomore guard Taylor Palmer leads West Virginia (17-6, 7-3) with 12.6 points per game, but the Mountaineers’ strong post presence is most threatening to the Irish, Mc­Graw said. West Virginia ju­nior center Aysa Bussie enters the game averaging 11.7 points and 6.7 rebounds per game. Redshirt junior center Ayana Dunning adds 7.3 points and 
8.1 rebounds per game. Bussie and Dunning stand at 6’3” and 6’4”, respectively, and combine to form an intimidating front-court. 
“They’ve got great post play and a lethal combination,” Mc­Graw said. “They will be very difficult for us to match up with, so that is definitely going to be a big concern of ours.” 
The Irish will rely on an in­side duo of their own, composed of graduate student forward 
see McGRAW/page 14 
MEN’S BASKETBALL 

Streaking Irish look to continue winning ways 
By MATTHEW DeFRANKS 
Sports Writer 
After defeating West Virginia on Wednesday, the Irish return to Purcell Pavilion with hopes of extending their season-long five-game winning streak against a struggling DePaul squad. 
During the streak, Notre Dame (16-8, 8-3 Big East) has held each opponent under 60 points while knocking off three ranked conference foes. 
“I feel like everybody’s click­ing, everybody’s playing really good basketball at this point,” sophomore guard Eric Atkins said. “We’re doing a great job on the defensive side of the ball. It’s making it easy.” 
In Wednesday’s 55-51 win, the Irish held the Mountaineers (16­9, 6-6) to just two-for-16 shoot­ing from behind the three-point line, while holding senior guard Darryl Bryant to zero points. 
“Even with us winning now, I still feel like people think it’s just a little hot streak that’s go­ing to fall off sometime,” Atkins said. “In our minds, we’re still trying to prove people wrong and keep climbing the Big East.” 
Irish coach Mike Brey said he does not think the Irish will have to deal with an overconfi­dence issue. 
“I think because of where we 
see DePAUL/page 13 



DILLON WEISNER/The Observer 

Graduate student forward Devereaux Peters grabs a rebound during Notre Dame’s 90-70 win over DePaul on Feb. 5. 
ND WOMEN’S LACROSSE 
Halfpenny shakes up style as new coach 
By MATTHEW DeFRANKS one so far. Sports Writer “It’s really been a wonder­ful preseason where I feel like 
A year after the Irish missed our development has taken on a the NCAA tournament for the quicker uptake than I had antici­first time since 2007, No. 20 pated coming off the fall,” Half-Notre Dame aims to bounce penny said. “We had a really nice back under new Irish coach break. I think winter break was Christine Halfpenny. good for everybody to take a step 
Halfpenny, who comes to away from all the work we had Notre Dame after leading Wil-done.” liam & Mary’s program, said the transition has been a smooth see LACROSSE/page 14 
BENGAL BOUTS 

Boxers take the ring in preliminary round 
By MIKE MONACO 
Sports Writer 
Shakti. Shahosh. 
At the conclusion of every practice, the captains shout out the Bengali word for strength and the rest of the boxers echo with the word for courage. And therein lies the essence of Ben­gals Bouts, which begins Sun­day at 1 p.m. in the JACC with the preliminaries. 

This post-practice ritual is symbolic of the Boxing Club as a whole. There is a group of box­ers, sweaty and tired after a hard day’s work, shouting motivational words in a foreign language. Yet the people who speak that for­eign language, some 7,900 miles away, will receive the benefits of the strength and courage of these boxers. 
see BOUTS/page 13 






