The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 46, issue 36 | TUESDAY, OCTOBER 9, 2012 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Professor receives psychology award 
McNeil recognized by national association for career of distinguished research 
Nicole McNeil
psychology professor 

development. The group’s past teachers and peers. recognized for her research, 
By CHARITHA ISANAKA 
news writer award “recognizes an ear-“it’s an award based on she is deeply involved in 
ly career scientist … who my entire body of research other aspects of academia 
psychology professor has made a distinguished to date, so everyone i’ve at notre dame, teaching nicole mcneil has been theoretical contribution learned from and worked cognitive development, nationally recognized in to developmental psychol-with has helped me win developmental psychology her field after earning the ogy, has conducted pro-the award — all of my men-and learning and instruc­american psychological 

tors, collaborator and stu-tion for the alliance for association’s (apa) 2013 
dents,” she said. catholic education. mcneil said her former mcneil said her work as 
boyd mccandless award 
for distinguished contri­advisor at the university 
bution to psychology. 
of wisconsin–madison was 
mcneil said she was sur­most influential to her ac-

prised to be selected by ademic and professional has allowed her to bring 
the apa’s division 7 for the development. together her interests in 
prestigious award. 
“my most important psychology, education and 

director of the university’s 
notre dame has appointed 

cognition learning and 
david bailey as the new head of 
development laboratory 
the office of strategic planning 


“i was shocked,” she said. “The previous winners of the award are all well known, highly influential psychologists. it is a great honor to receive the award and be listed among them.” 
grammatic research of distinction, or has made a distinguished contribu­tion to the dissemination of developmental science,” teacher, mentor and col­laborator is [psychology professor] martha alibali. she is the first person who got me interested in cognitive developmental research when i was an un­research. 

“one of our goals is to identify the best ways for parents and teachers to structure children’s en­vironments to help them learn important math con-


bailey to head strategic planning 

Observer Staff Report 
The apa division 7 is the according to the apa dergraduate and she was cepts,” she said. association’s subgroup fo-website. my advisor in graduate cused on psychologists mcneil attributed her school.” Contact Charitha Isanaka at specialized in human success in the field to her while mcneil is being cisanaka@nd.edu 
and institutional research, ac­cording to a university press 
see bailey PAGE 5 


group offers weekend activities 

Student runs marathon to raise disease awareness 
By JILLIAN BARWICK  By CAILIN CROWE  
saint mary’s editor so famaking  r, sab has hosted a bow-event, a showing of  news writer  
saint mary’s student activities “snow  white and the hunstman”  while much of the notre  
board (sab) has begun offer-and “s undaes on sunday.” Kraig  dame and saint mary’s com­ 
ing weekend programming this said sh e was pleased with the  munities spent sunday re- 
semester in an effort to expand turnou t at the events.  covering from this weekend’s  
students’ social and entertain­“we  have had an extremely  gameday festivities in chicago  
ment options on campus, sab success ful outcome thus far,”  and preparing for midterms,  
president liz Kraig said. Kraig s aid. “sab has some great  saint mary’s senior emily  
“sab has always discussed dif­weekend  programming events  pearl revved up for the chicago  
ferent weekend options through-for the  rest of the semester,  marathon.  
out the year,” she said. “This fall so stu dents should be on the  pearl ran the marathon to  
we decided to finally make those lookout.”  raise money for steps for doug,  
ideas a reality. sab wants saint sab  weekend and weekday  an organization advocating re­ 
mary’s students to have alterna­progra mming will resume short- search and awareness about  
tive options for weekend activi­ly after  fall break, Kraig said.  amyotrophic lateral sclero­ 
ties on campus.” “oct.  28 is ‘belle-a-boo!’ This  sis (als), also known as lou  
sab traditional co-chair liz day of  halloween fun will in­ gehrig’s disease. she said the  
robbins said the group did not clude p umpkin painting, a 1920s  cause was personal for her, as  
want the college’s students to murder  mystery dinner and a  the organization was estab­ 
have to rely on notre dame for showin g of the ‘halloweentown’  lished in honor of a friend’s  
weekend activities. Trilogy ,” she said. “all of the  father diagnosed with the  
“we want to provide the stu­events  will take place in the  disease.  
dents with an option [for pro-student center.”  pearl, who does not consider  
gramming] here instead of sab will also host a ‘Twilight’  herself an avid runner, encour­ 
always having to travel to notre baby s hower on nov. 15 from  ages everyone to take part in a  
dame’s campus,” she said. 4 to 6  p.m. in the spes unica  marathon.  
“we want the students to feel  “i think anyone who has  
like smc is alive and active on  see sab PAGE 3  ever thought about doing a  

weekends.” 


marathon should. it was one of the best experiences of my life,” she said. “i’m not even a run­ner, but it was still something i would consider doing again and again. as long as you put your mind to it, anyone can do it.” 
after struggling in last year’s marathon, pearl came better prepared to this year’s race. 
“last year was my first time running [a marathon], so didn’t know what to expect. i started the race too fast 
see maraThon PAGE 5 





ndsmcobserver.com 
p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
allan Joseph 
Managing Editor  Business Manager 
megan doyle  Jeff liptak 
Asst. Managing Editor: andrew owens 
Asst. Managing Editor: sam stryker News Editor: John cameron News Editor: Kristen durbin 
Viewpoint Editor: meghan Thomassen Sports Editor: chris allen Scene Editor: Kevin noonan Saint Mary’s Editor: Jillian barwick Photo Editor: suzanna pratt Graphics Editor: brandon Keelean Multimedia Editor: sarah o’connor Advertising Manager: monica mccormack Ad Design Manager: sara hilstrom Controller: peter woo Systems Administrator: william heineman 

Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ajoseph2@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 mdoyle11@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 aowens2@nd.edu sstryke1@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 

Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 

Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 

Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 observer.scene.editor@gmail.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
jbarwi01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 

Policies 
The observer is the independent, daily newspaper 
published in print and online by the students of the 
university of notre dame du lac and saint mary’s 
college.  editorial content, including advertisements, is 
not governed by policies of the administration of either 
institution. The observer reserves the right to refuse 
advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively 
as possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion 
of the majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, 
assistant managing editors and department editors. 
commentaries, letters and columns present the views of 
the authors and not necessarily those of The observer. 
viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include 
contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed 
to Editor-in-Chief Allan Joseph. 
post office information The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The observer is published at: 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-0779 periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices posTmasTer send address corrections to: The observer p.o. box 779 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-077 The observer is a member of the associated press. all reproduction rights are reserved. 



Have a question you want answered? 
Email obsphoto@gmail.com 



QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
What is your favorite drink at Starbucks? 

Akosua Oben-Nyarko 
sophomore 
pasquerilla east 
“mocha cookie crumble” 

Francis Vu 
sophomore 
Keough 
“hot chocolate” 

Jack Goza 
freshman 
Knott 
“pumpkin spice (fall), peppermint mocha (winter), passionfruit lemonade (summer) and black coffee (spring)” 



Kate Zanker 
junior 
lewis 

“small dark roast of the day with room” 

Kathleen Webster 
freshman 
ryan 

“grande peppermint mocha” 

Lucas Garcia 
sophomore 
Keenan 

“Tall earl grey hot tea” 



Want your event included here? 

News Sports 
John cameron Jack hefferon Email obsnews.nd@gmail.com 




THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 

dan brombach isaac lorton adam llorens megan Finneran 
Graphics Scene 

Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday 
laura laws ankur chawla 
Photo Viewpoint 

“The Fourth Stage Elevator Pitch “There is No Such Right to Life Saturday Scholar 
sarah o’connor meghan Thomassen 
of the Arab-Israel Workshop Thing as a Secular Information Table Series Conflict” 202 DeBartolo Hall Society” LaFortune Snite Museum Hesburgh Center 2 p.m.-3:30 p.m. Hesburgh Library 3 p.m.-6 p.m. 12 p.m. - 1 p.m. 
Corrections 

4 p.m.-5:30 p.m. Craft a well-prepared 5 p.m.-6:30 p.m. Part of Respect Life The history of campgain 
The observer regards itself as Political science lecture research description. Lecture. Week. commercials. a professional publication and strives for the highest standards 
SSLP Session Crush for the Cure Concert: Men’s and Women’s Football Game 
of journalism at all times. we do, 
135 Geddes Hall Angela Athletic Facility ensembleND Swimming: Dennis Notre Dame Stadium 
however, recognize that we will make 
4 p.m.-5 p.m. 7 p.m. - 8:30 p.m. DeBartolo Performing Stark Relays 3:30 p.m. - 7 p.m. 
mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 
Summer Service Donate to help a SMC Arts Center Rolfs Aquatic Center Stanford vs. Notre 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
Learning Program alumna diagnosed with 7 p.m.-8:45 p.m. 5 p.m.-8 p.m. Dame 
we can correct our error. 

question forum. lymphoma. Tickets $15-30. Free admission. 


apparel company comes to campus 

By SARAH MCCARTHY 
news writer 
university Tees, an apparel company offering custom t-shirts, sweatshirts and promo­tional products for college clubs and events, has established its presence at notre dame with its first campus representative, ju­nior mike shepardson. 
The company, established at miami university (ohio) in 2003, typically sells its products to fra­ternities and sororities at other colleges. however, shepardson said notre dame students’ in­volvement in service work and nonprofits offers a different cus­tomer base. 
“at other schools, the big­gest clientele is the greek life,” shepardson said. “at notre dame, our biggest custom­ers will probably be the charity groups because there’s so many different [charitable events] go­ing on.” 
despite the lack of greek or­ganizations at the university, shepardson said the company sees notre dame as an excellent opportunity to expand given its many clubs and service groups. 
he said university Tees offers discounts to charitable organi­zations and fundraising events. 
“They were excited to [work with] notre dame, regardless of the fact that there’s no greek life, because there’s a lot of opportu­nity here,” he said. 
with university Tees having a number of online competitors, shepardson said the company differentiates itself by offering a more collaborative and custom­ized approach. 
“i can help work with people’s budget and control the pricing,” he said. “i’m able to get to know the customer and, by doing that, i can get them better service and help get what they need.” 
shepardson said the compa­ny’s business model offers notre dame students a more user-friendly experience. 
“[university Tees] makes the ordering process more efficient by having someone on campus who’s available 24/7, rather than dealing with a big company with a ton of different customers,” he said. 
Contact Sarah McCarthy at smccart6@nd.edu 
SAB 
conTinued From page 1 

hall in celebration of the release of the final install­ment of the series, she said. as the film centers around the arrival of the main characters’ baby, the group will use the oppor­tunity to benefit a chari­table cause. 
“we will be celebrating renesmee’s arrival with fun snacks, games and ‘Twilight’ give-a-ways. we will also be having a chil­dren’s toy and women’s needs drive leading up to the baby shower,” she said. “all items will be donated to local women’s shelters.” 
The group’s annual winter wonderland event will be dec. 1. sab is part­nering with other clubs and organizations at the college, the south bend school corp., notre dame, holy cross, iusb and ivy Tech for the event, Kraig said. 
“The winter wonderland event is a fun-filled day of christmas activities,” she said. “all events will be held in the student center on the saint mary’s college campus and are free for south bend students and their families.” 
Contact Jillian Barwick at jbarwi01@saintmarys.edu 

Alumni, students manage housing rental business 
By LILY MCGILL 
news writer 
Founded in 2006 by three notre dame graduates, rent like a champion (rlac) of­fers football weekend rent­als and off-campus student housing with the help of stu­dent managers. 
student manager Jack Keller said the rapidly grow­ing business was inspired by the founders’ experience liv­ing off campus in a dilapidat­ed part of town. 
“[rlac founders] lived off campus and saw how run­down the neighborhoods were and how bad the city was hurting,” Keller said. 
Keller said the founders originally bought houses in disrepair, renovating them and renting them to south bend families. The business later transitioned to provid­ing student rentals and even­tually incorporated weekend rentals to football fans, alum­ni and students’ families. 
“at the start of rlac, the focus was to benefit the com­munity,” Keller said. “after doing that for so many years, a business naturally devel­oped from it.” 
The company originally of­fered its website as a venue for south bend homeowners to list their residences for rent on home game weekends as an alternative to pricey and scarce hotel rooms, Keller said. 

“it’s such a genius idea be­cause it perfectly filled the void,” he said. “my family used to try to come back for football games when i was younger, and renting ho­tel rooms was always such a pain. we’d spend so much money … the hotels jacked up their prices.” 
The need for alternative accommodations near cam­puses with major football programs has fueled the company’s growth to other college towns, he said. 
“we expanded to penn state last year … and this summer we went to 28 new schools,” he said. “if you go down a list of the top 30 foot­ball programs in the country by attendance and popular­ity, we’re at all of them right now.” 
rentals marketed by rlac’s partner university Football rentals at schools such as the university of michigan, the university of iowa and the university of Texas have been met with substantial demand, student manager pat adams said. 
“last year we had over 300 rentals and made a profit of over $500,000,” adams said. 
“That’s huge.” 
Keller said the student housing side of the business has contributed to the com­pany’s growth as well. 
“my first year we had about 40 people rent from us,” he said. “This year’s i’d say we’re going to have 60, maybe 70.” 
Keller attributed much of the company’s success at notre dame to its staff be­ing made up entirely by notre dame graduates and students. 
“every person involved with the company is part of the notre dame fam­ily,” Keller said. “They under­stand what a lot of our renters are expecting when they rent and thus they’re able to bet­ter serve all their customers.” 
incorporating students into the company’s opera­tions has helped get the word out about the relatively young business, student manager James schappler said. 
“it’s very unique in the sense that the people who are marketing and selling the properties are students,” schappler said. “The name’s easier to get out because the students are actually on campus with you: They go to school with you.” 
Contact Lily McGill at lmcgill@nd.edu 

obama hopes for campaign rebound 

Associated Press 
washingTon — as the white house race shows signs of tighten­ing nationally, president barack obama’s campaign is banking on a massive get-out-the-vote operation and state-by-state shades of eco­nomic improvement to maintain its apparent polling edge in battle­grounds from ohio to virginia. 
republican mitt romney, re-energized by last week’s debate, is flashing new confidence on the campaign trail and pressing toward the political center on both foreign and domestic issues. but aides have outlined no clear path to winning the 270 electoral college votes re­quired to gain the white house. 
“Things are going pretty good,” the usually cautious romney said monday with a smile. 
among democrats, the swagger of the previous few weeks has all but vanished since the debate. 
“ultimately this is a tight race, and it’s going to remain a tight race until the end,” said bill burton, who runs priorities usa action, a pro­obama “super” political action committee. 




venezuelan leader faces poor economy 

Associated Press 
caracas, venezuela — during his re-election campaign, president hugo chavez promised to deepen the “21st century socialism” that has meant an ever-greater state role in the economy. That message won him a surprising 11-percent­age point win in what many had thought would be a tight race. 
still, he’s set to start a fourth presidential term under challeng­ing economic circumstances. The government’s free-spending ways, bankrolling the generous social programs that aided his re-elec­tion, may be seriously crimped. 
chavez faces immediate eco­nomic time bombs beginning with a rapidly expanding public debt, one of latin america’s high­est inflation rates and a weakening currency. 
many economists believe chavez will have no choice but to devalue the currency, the bolivar, by about half early next year at the latest. That will make the money in people’s pockets suddenly worth a lot less and likely drive inflation while putting imported consum­er goods out of reach for poorer venezuelans. 
“he’s going to have to deal with some very basic, mundane capi­talist things, like reducing infla­tion,” which stands at 18 percent, said eduardo gamarra, a latin american studies professor at Florida international university in miami. 
price controls and government subsidies for basic foodstuffs have eased inflationary pressures but a major devaluation would drive prices higher and could worsen scarcities, economists say. 
“investment in social issues is great, but he needs to do other things as well that are going to make that economy more produc­tive,” said gamarra. 
venezuela’s economy grew by 5 percent this year but only because of government spending, primarily on raising salaries for many of the country’s at least 2.4 million public employees and paying for thou­sands of new homes that chavez is giving away, said Joao pedro ribeiro, an economist at roubini global economics in new york. 
“we think the outlook for the short term is very bleak,” he said, with economic growth at about 2 percent next year and “inflation spiking to 30 percent.” 
at the heart of chavez’s eco­nomic challenges is declining productivity in the oil industry, which accounts for 95 percent of exports and funds chavez’s social programs. governing the country with the world’s larg­est proven oil reserves has so far insulated chavez from the fall­out of his confrontational po­lices, including a drop in foreign investment. 
paid adverTisemenT 

Minister urges Greek action 
eurogroup chief, speaking to re­porters in luxembourg after a meeting of the finance ministers of the euro countries, praised greek officials and their willingness to do what is necessary for the coun­try and its economy. and he said a report from representatives of the troika was largely positive. 
“we were happy to learn that substantial progress has been made over the last weeks — and, mainly, days,” Juncker said. “we called on the troika to finalize their negotiations and agree on a com­plete set of measures to close the fiscal gap for ‘13 and ‘14 as soon as possible.” 
Associated Press 

luXembourg — greece and its international lenders need to agree quickly on a program of re­forms so the next tranche of bail­out loans can be released, the head of the group finance ministers from the 17 countries that use the euro said monday. 
inspectors for the so-called troi­ka — the international monetary Fund, the european central bank, and the european commission — are currently in greece, looking for ways to reduce the country’s debt. greece needs more money soon to avoid defaulting on its obligations. 
greece has depended on bail­outs from europe and the imF since may 2010. To get the loans, it has implemented a series of deep budget cuts and tax hikes, while increasing retirement ages and fa­cilitating private sector layoffs. 
however, athens must pass further austerity measures worth €13.5 billion ($17.5 billion) over the next two years to qualify for its next rescue loan payment — without which the government will run out of cash next month. it is these cuts and tax enforcement measures that greece and the troika are cur­rently negotiating. 
Jean-claude Juncker, the 

Bailey 
conTinued From page 1 
release. 
as associate vice president for strategic planning, bailey will assist the office of the president in developing the university’s strategic plan, assessing prog­ress, overseeing departmental strategic planning and issuing reviews for the provost and ex­ecutive vice president, the re­lease stated. 
university president Fr. John Jenkins said bailey’s past expe­rience outside the university as well as his time as the interim head of the office have prepared 
Marathon 
conTinued From page 1 
and was not thinking about the four hours i had left to run,” she said. “This year, i knew what was ahead of me and i did a better job pacing myself.” 
she said the milder weath­er made this year’s race more manageable. 
“The weather was awe­some. it was chilly out, which was perfect for run­ning,” she said. “it was real­ly hot last year, which made the run difficult. i feel most tired when i’m hot so it was him well for the position. 
“david’s experience as a notre dame alumnus, his time in the office he will now head, and his long and distinguished career in business amply equip him for this critical position,” Jenkins said in the release. “his appointment further strength­ens the university’s advance­ment toward institutional excellence.” 
bailey graduated from notre dame in 1983 before receiv­ing an mba from the stern school of business at new york university in 1997.  he previ­ously worked at ibm, wall street firm gerard Klauer mattison & co. and goldman sachs. 
great having a little chill in the air this year.” 
pearl said she is now con­sidering participating in a triathlon, but will definitely be competing in more mara­thons in the meantime. 
“i am definitely going to continue running mara­thons,” she said. “during the actual race i always tell myself that i’m never going to sign up again because of how long it is, but the feel­ing i get when i’ve finished the race is like nothing else.” 
Contact Cailin Crowe at ccrowe01@saintmarys.edu 


INSIDE COLUMN 

Taste the victory 

Vicky Jacobsen 
sports writer 

in more than two years as a resident of breen-phillipshall, i’ve found there are a few of things that we babes can always count on. Firstly, we know that we will never feel neglected by @nddormjokes. secondly, we never need to search too far to find a source of snacks. and thirdly, our flag-football team has been and always will be bad. how bad? cal Tech basketball level bad. but while i never thought i would see such a thing, the impossible happened on oct. 2, 2012: bp won a football game. 
we only had 10 girls playing. we had no time to warm-up and no practice since we’d been mercy-ruled the previous sunday. half of our coaches were stuck in class or exams, and half of us were playing defense for the first time. but none of that mattered, and as we closed out a 20-18 win over lyons, we all ran half-mad to embrace on the sideline as if such an event had never before occurred. 
of course, as far as we were concerned, this was a first. i do know that we were completely shutout in my freshman cam­paign — in four games, we didn’t manage so much as a safety — and last season we played in pinnies that had “no mercy (rule)” written across the back. 
lest anyone think i’m blaming my teammates for our failures over the years, i assure you that i hold more than my fair share of the blame. i’m no good at pulling flags, i’m too slow to make a good running back and as an offensive lineman i proba­bly spent more time impeding the progress of my teammates than i did protecting the quarterback. if i wasn’t the most penalized player in the league last year, then i must have been awfully close. 
let’s put it this way: There was a reason why no one questioned the appropriate­ness of my coaches bestowing me with the “dr. Jekyll and you better hyde award for most aggressive pass blocking.” 
and that’s why it felt so good to finally, finally come out on top in a recsports con­test. as competitive as i am, i’m not sure i’ve ever entertained the thought of playing in the title game in the stadium. For those of you who have the luxury of setting your sights that high, a close Tuesday night win behind stepan center probably won’t be one of the most memorable moments of your college years (ditto for those of you who actually have their priorities straight and devote more energy to chemistry class than interhall sports.) 
but for people like me — people who care way too much but don’t see the payoff that often — this was special. bp is 1-14 since i arrived on campus, and i wasn’t happy to lose any of those games. but it’s those 14 de­feats that made the one victory feel so good. well, that and the celebratory froyo. 
Contact Vicky Jacobsen at vjacobse@nd.edu@ 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Christina Mondi 
raising voices 
everyone loves st. Francis. when i mentioned his feast day on Facebook, catholic and non-religious friends alike gave the thumbs-up. The dining halls baked cakes. There was a special mass in the basilica. 
besides being struck by the irony of the vanilla lambs, i sometimes worry that we romanticize Francis too much. 
when a million movements claim him as their poster-boy, when we an­chor statues of him in our gardens and imagine him dancing barefoot in the sun with the birds, we risk missing the point of what was really radical about him. 
when st. Francis was about our age, he was coasting through life. he had it made. and then one day, while he was selling velvet in a crowded marketplace 
—
 as he’d done dozens of times before 

—
 he noticed a beggar sitting in the corner, ignored by every single person passing by. 



we all know the rest of the story: how Francis chased after the beggar, how he exchanged clothes with him and lat­er denounced his father’s inheritance. That is awesome. but let’s rewind a bit. 
The very first radical thing that Francis did, before he founded an or­der, cared for lepers, negotiated with a sultan or whatever, was to see that man in the marketplace, to really see him, for the first time. 
how many times had he sat there be­fore, unnoticed amidst all the hustle­and-bustle? Francis may have been the very first person to see him for who he really was: not a beggar, but a man and a brother. 
The next radical thing that Francis did was to run after him. 
Francis was a lot like many of us: 20-something, well-off and well-edu­cated. For him, there was no lightning from the sky or intellectual “aha!” moment. he just opened his eyes to what was smack-dab in front of him all along. 
not all of us can go to appalachia for fall break, or make it to a soup kitchen every week. some of us may always live and work in environments like that marketplace — notre dame is cer­tainly one. 
but the example of st. Francis chal­lenges us to not use our circumstances as an excuse for not reaching out to others. 
he challenges us to look more closely for those who are poor and tired around us — a friend going through a rough time, a worn-out housekeeper, a dorm-mate sitting alone in the din­ing hall — and to go out of our way not only to acknowledge them, but to love them. 
in those little moments, we might become saints. 
Take a look around! 
Christina Mondi is a junior with a major in psychology and a minor in Catholic Social Tradition and Science, Technology, and Values. She can be reached at cmondi@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 


QUOTE OF THE DAY WEEKLY POLL 
“i would rather sit on a pumpkin, and have it all to 

What’s your favorite stress-
myself, than be crowded on a velvet cushion.” reliever for midterms week? 
Henry David Thoreau Tweet your response with #viewpointpoll American author and naturalist by 5 p.m. Thursday. 


Harmony and discord 
Alex Coccia 
shard of glass 

“silent night, holy night … dr. martin luther King says he does not intend to cancel plans for an open housing march sunday into the chicago suburb of cicero … police in cicero said they would ask the national guard be called out if it is held … round yon virgin mother and child … in washington, the atmosphere was tense today as a special sub-committee of the house committee on un-american activities continued its probe into anti-vietnam war protest … sleep in heavenly peace.” 
such is the chilling and poignant jux­taposition of the aug. 3, 1966, 7:00 news and the simple carol, “silent night,” pro­duced by simon and garfunkel. such is the dichotomous view of the world they present. it is a view of the world with a surface theme of harmony, but the undertone of conflict. saul alinsky says that if all of human history could be incorporated into a singular musical score, it would be one of discord. This song, while unifying disparate themes, is wrought with division and strife. 
as part of a story of an era in american history, the subtext is preju­dice. it is a view of the world in which humans come together to praise what is sacred while underneath the ineffable is the mental, physical and emotional clash of these human beings. it con­trasts the celebration of a single human life with the consecration of the view of human beings as objects and as means. 
The irony surrounding this juxta­position is that it is the reality of our existence. James carroll writes, “i claim an identity that limits me. yet equally it gives me a place to stand.” here, carroll identifies the present balance: standing tall in our self-identity while not letting our height block that invaluable vision of others, not letting our vision of the sacred block our engagement with those around us. recognizing this reality can lead to either a defeatist and apocalyp­tic attitude or a call to action. 
unfortunately, there is certainly no definitive answer to change this real­ity. indeed, the process throughout human history has been one of success and failure, where conflict has been the perceived means to peace, where the resolution of one conflict plants the seeds of another and where human be­ings are both the ends, and the means to a perceived greater end. There are few road maps and limited signs. There is only direction. 
yet, in the midst of all of this mixture of harmony and discord, our mission is to fully engage with the world and its problems, meaning that we engage further with each other in the complete understanding that this engagement will inevitably create more conflict. yet, we do not shy away; we simply approach our interactions with a more pure vision of the world as it is. 

we must start with this reality of the world — our limitations and our foundations and the sinuous curve of harmony and discord. however, as alinsky notes, “that we accept the world as it is does not in any sense weaken our desire to change it into what we believe it should be — it is necessary to begin where the world is if we are going to change it to what we think it should be.” we must have a vision of where we would like to be as a human race grounded in the reality of where we cur­rently find ourselves. That vision must include others. 
it is ultimately an “other-oriented” lens through which we must address our actions in life, a lens to be enhanced by the sacred and profound, not blinded by their radiance. it is a vision of reli­gion as a path to god and in service to god through service to other human beings, not in spite of other human be­ings. similarly, other lofty sentiments like democracy cannot merely be the ends for which human beings are the means. 
The simon and garfunkel rendition illustrates this fault in instances when order becomes the ends by which civil rights are refused, or national security becomes the ends by which dignity is violated. The necessary vision must be that “the least of these” refers to each of us at one time or another. it is a vision that both oppressor and oppressed have to bear. 
alinsky writes, “in the world as it is there are no permanent happy or sad endings,” just a continuing appreciation for the beauty and struggle of human relationships and interactions.  “no man is an island,” proclaimed John donne. at least, none should be — not in our successes, our failures, our ecsta­sies or our agonies. as human beings, we do have our moments of solitary experience. but the island paradise we seek is found in other human beings. even when our personal melodies are ones of discord, they are symphonic with others in the world. 
Alex Coccia is a junior Africana and Peace Studies major, and a Gender Studies minor. He appreciates late night conversations in the Siegfried Chapel.  He can be reached at acoccia@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
UWIRE 

mischaracterizing feminism 
Becca Rothfeld 
The dartmouth 

since the advent of second-wave feminism in the 1960s, the main­stream feminist movement has suffered a disquieting decline in popularity. according to a 2009 poll conducted by cbs news, only 24 percent of american women identify themselves as feminists. among men, numbers are even more dishearten­ing: only 14 percent of the american male population identifies as femi­nist, while 24 percent of american men regard the term as an insult. 
it is difficult to see what could be so off-putting about a movement whose primary aims are so innocu­ous. i doubt that feminism’s detrac­tors would oppose the elimination of institutionalized gender inequalities or endorse the objectifying practices that underlie a culture of rampant sexual assault. it is equally unlikely that these self-proclaimed anti-feminists would champion the glass ceiling, defend employment dis­crimination or speak out on behalf of domestic abuse. what, then, could possibly account for the recent wave of hostility toward the feminist posi­tion — a position whose goals are so uncontroversial by most modern standards? 
Junior J.p. harrington explained he is not a feminist because he perceives the movement as having “largely strayed from self-determination and independence to arguing for special benefits.” 
These anecdotal reports lend cre­dence to what i have long suspected 
— that most opposition to feminism derives from a complete misunder­standing of what the movement ac­tually entails. backlash against the feminist position is not a response to the arguments and ideas presented in feminist literature or women’s and gender studies classrooms, but rather a response to the caricatures of femi­nism that riddle popular culture. 
according to common logic, the feminist is an unshaven, combative creature intent on the utter destruc­tion of the male sex. she is willfully ignorant of the difficulties that males face in our society, and she is self-righteously indignant at every op­portunity. although she is quick to blame individual men for the long history of chauvinism plaguing the western world, she remains incred­ibly resistant to engaging in even a cursory examination of her own role in the process of female marginaliza­tion. even the most favorable popular portrayals of feminists still tend to represent them as aggressive, abrasive and unappealingly sanctimonious. 

such a characterization could not be more misleading. although the term “feminism” refers to a diverse array of stances and intellectual advo­cacies, there is widespread consensus among feminists that the goal of the movement is to promote critical dia­logue and self-reflection. Feminism is not so much a commitment to a certain set of beliefs as it is a commit­ment to general inquiry and dialectic. prominent feminist theorists like luce irigaray and Judith butler are less wedded to any particular account of the world than they are to present­ing challenges to unquestioned cul­tural conventions. 
much of the criticism levied against feminism relies on the unfounded assumption that feminists ignore men’s issues or hope to fight misogy­nistic hierarchies by reversing them. in point of fact, most contemporary feminists are quite sympathetic to the male plight. From a feminist per­spective, female oppression and male oppression arise from the same cen­tral source: from the series of social expectations that conspire to create gender roles. The chauvinism respon­sible for the suppression of women is bound up with the very same cul­tural structures that demand certain behaviors from men. The notion that women should be demure, sentimen­tal and delicate is closely related to the corresponding notion that men should be strong, stalwart and re­served. consequently, any discussion of gender norms that fails to address men’s issues is miserably incomplete. 
Feminism is nothing if not cautious when it comes to assigning respon­sibility and blame — indeed, many tomes have been dedicated to an ex­amination of women’s hand in their own subjugation, a consequence of the internalization of sexist ideolo­gies. The position is not anti-men — it is merely anti-patriarchy, and reason­ably so. 
The myth of the dogmatic, hysteri­cal feminist is one more attempt to silence the feminine voice and dis­credit the female point of view. The assumption implicit in such accounts is that women could only oppose their own oppression by assuming an un­reasonable posture, an assumption that smacks of familiar stereotypes and prejudices. 
This column originally ran in the Oct. 8 issue of The Dartmouth, serving Dartmouth College. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 



@cocorocha 
One of the most sought after top models is privileged enough to travel to some of the most exotic locations and enter the most elite parties, but she’s sure to document every minute of it so you feel you too are living glamorously. 
@vanityfair 
Vanity Fair’s Instagram account is fantastic at showcasing everything from hot shoes to interesting timepieces in a way that looks almost magazine quality. It also throws back to the good old days with classic covers from years past. 
@hungryeditor 
Ben Setiawan, a men’s editor at Saks, has a passion for food that comes through in his Instagram photos. It’s like Pinterest with the names of restaurants instead of recipes. His food photos are mixed in with other photos of trendy things going on wherever he is. 
@evachen212 
Eva Chen, beauty editor for “Teen Vogue,” is constantly Instagramming inspiring pictures of everything from home décor to fashion, but she’s best at showing what hot new products are on the market and the best ways to use them. 
@dogsofinstagram 
There are almost too many cute dogs on Instagram. This account compiles the cutest of the cute so look no further when trying to find the perfect pick me up on a rough midterm day. 
@badgirlriri 
Nobody is better than Rihanna at giving her fans an all access pass to her life. She frequently Instagrams candid shots of her with her family and friends, but be warned she’s also notorious for uploading random quote photos. 


ANKUR CHAWLA 
scene writer 
This past spring i spent my semes ter abroad in Fremantle, australia. during our first week there, we had the brilliant idea of watching “Taken” to serve as a warning of stranger danger. naturally, i was scared for the next month that i was going to be taken into the underground world of suburban australia. 
The prevalence and defining nature of the first of the two “Taken” films was just how realistic it seemed. The vil lains were highly intelligent, organized and enigmatic. meanwhile, liam neeson delivered powerful and mem orable lines attributed to a well written script and strong acting skills. The dialogue and storyline portrayed the intricate world of human trafficking and international security in a compel ling and exciting way to make “Taken” a modern classic. 
“Taken 2” was not. 
riddled with horrible dialogue, overly dramatic camerawork and an antagonist group that makes our political system seem organized and efficient, “Taken 2” was a sad box office stunt that you should not waste your time or money on. 
liam neeson’s character is a former spy with a specific set of skills con ducive to tracking down bad people and killing them. in the first movie, he tracks down a network of eastern european human traffickers who had kidnapped his daughter and her friend. in the process, he snapped many necks and left a few dead bodies in his path. The sequel follows one of the de ceased’s fathers in his quest for revenge against the man who killed his son. 
while there is a similar, parallel story of neeson’s character and his family members being taken while visiting a foreign country, there doesn’t exist the same level of intrigue and mystery sur rounding their motives. Furthermore, a group of five of them is taken out while watching a soccer match and eating kebabs (i understand they’re crazy about that stuff in europe, but it’s a silly way to go). They seemed incred ibly unorganized and at times under qualified to go after anyone played by liam neeson. 
adding to the absurdity and unreal istic nature of the movie, one particular scene shows neeson’s character with a concealed cell phone while hand cuffed in a prison communicating to his daughter, Kim, who was still at their hotel. he directs her to throw grenades in a few particular directions trying to triangulate his particular location. Though admittedly a cool and clever tactic, i’m not sure how the detonation of live grenades in the densely popu lated city of istanbul would go over with the locals and authorities (nor would i trust a teenage girl to throw a grenade any sort of safe distance with no practice). 
“Taken 2” tries to take you in to the aters with promises of a similar thrill ride as the original, and unfortunately it does no such thing. with a lazy mess of a script and overly zealous “cin ematography” it is no more exciting than Tom cruise and cameron diaz’s “Knight and day” and with as much depth as any movie starring The rock. 
Contact Ankur Chawla at achawla@nd.edu 
The views in this column are those of the author and  not necessarily those of The Observer. 
“Taken 2” 
Starring: Liam Neeson, Maggie Grace, Famke Janssen Director: Oliver Megaton If you like: Bad action movies 

LAURA LAWS | The Observer 


CONSCIOUS RAPPERS 

LAURA LAWS | The Observer 


SPORTS AUTHORITY 

Fans need some perspective 

Sam Gans 
sports writer 
as Two-Face so eloquently stated in “The dark Knight,” “it’s not about what i want, it’s about what’s fair!” 
The whole notion of ac­countability — who it is fair to blame when a problem occurs and who it is fair to expect to fix it — has been in the news often recently as we move closer to the presiden­tial election. both candidates have tried to portray the necessity of different groups sacrificing some things they want for what the candidates believe is fair to help the nation. 
sports also have a nature of accountability, but in a different sense. all you have to do to see the fair result of a game is look at the score­board after it. The team that scores the most points — by virtue of making the most big plays and making the fewest amount of mistakes — is the better one, at least on that day, no matter what you may want as a fan. The team that does not perform the best is held accountable in a simple way: it lost. 
but that’s in a perfect world that doesn’t factor in a key outside influence known as game officials. 
Fans, including myself, don’t want to believe it’s pos­sible that their team could simply just not be as good as the opponent. This is what makes referees such easy scapegoats. it’s a way to say the final score is not actu­ally fair. it’s a way to hold someone besides your heroes accountable for the fact they could not get the job done on the field that day. and the me­dia only helps spur this view. 
The officials have been in the news a lot lately. The most recent example was Friday’s national league wildcard game between atlanta and st. louis. The braves, batting in the bottom of the eighth down 6-3, should have had the bases loaded with one out, but a horrendous infield fly call gave atlanta two outs and runners on only second and third base. 
The ruling was referred to as “game-changing” by fans and the media alike. well, it technically did change the game. outcome-changing, on the other hand? probably not. The score would not have changed. The braves still would have been down three runs. if the next three at bats went the way they did, atlanta would still have entered the ninth down multiple runs, though 6-4 instead of 6-3. 
regardless of the call’s im­pact, it makes an easy excuse to allow braves fans to for­get that atlanta committed three more errors and left 10 more men stranded than the cardinals, and, frankly, didn’t deserve to win. 
another gaffe occurred in the now infamous ending to the packers vs. seahawks game two weeks ago. in this case, packers fans have a much more legitimate gripe, because it was outcome-changing, and green bay did deserve to win. 
but it was also the packers’ poor offensive performance that put them in the position to lose in the first place, as they gained fewer than 270 total yards all night. i main­tain there were three winners that emerged from that game. The seahawks and the nFl referees, who were back on the field three days later after settling their lockout, were the obvious ones. 
but also, ironically, the packers’ offensive line won. america’s entire focus shifted from green bay allowing a whopping eight sacks to the call at the end of the game. plus, guard T.J. lang gained an additional 70,000 Twitter followers in a span of 24 hours due to his expletive-laden tweets directed toward the nFl. and everyone knows Twitter followers are much more important than wins and losses. 
if you still doubt the lengths fans and the media will go to blame anyone but the ath­letes on the field, i give you two names: steve bartman and alex gonzalez. bartman — who did nothing wrong — was the scapegoat, not the major league shortstop that botched the routine inning-ending double play. why? 
This column is not trying to take away blame from of­ficials and give them a free pass. on the contrary, good officiating protects the in­tegrity of the game, and they should be held accountable by the leagues. and fans have the right to be upset when a bad call plays a role in a loss. 
all this is asking is for fans to, first and foremost, ac­knowledge their team’s faults and admit their performance was the ultimate reason they lost, even if they don’t want to. after all, it’s about what’s fair. 
Contact Sam Gans at sgans@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
NFL 

Chiefs replace Cassel with Brady Quinn 
Associated Press 

Kansas ciTy, mo. — The chiefs are down to their back­up quarterback for the second year in a row. 
matt cassel sustained a con­cussion in the fourth quar­ter of sunday’s game against baltimore and is unlikely to play in next weekend’s game at Tampa bay, which means brady Quinn is preparing to start an nFl game for the first time in nearly three years. 
cassel was hit by the ravens’ haloti ngata while completing a pass to Jamaal charles in the chiefs’ 9-6 loss. he remained on the ground for several min­utes before walking off the field and straight to the lock­er room. Quinn finished out Kansas city’s final offensive series. 
“some individuals recover faster than others,” chiefs coach romeo crennel said, “but with the emphasis on concussions in the league, they’re making sure we do due diligence with the player’s health, making sure he’s not rushed back, so we’ll see.” 
crennel didn’t officially rule cassel out against the buccaneers, but he said that Quinn and third-string quar­terback ricky stanzi would be preparing to play. 
“That’s one of the good things about having three quarterbacks on the roster,” crennel said. “if you lose one, at least you still have two guys, and you don’t have to go try­ing to pick someone up off the street. you have guys who have been in the system.” 

FOR RENT 

Football Rental. Available BYU and Stanford. 1BR Varsity Club. Call 847­602-8170 
Céad Mile Fáilte B+B for ND/SMC parents by ND parents 10min. from campus 2nts. min. 1-574-272-5640 
WANTED 

Math-Tutors Mathnasium seek­ing qualified math tutors. Experience working with children. 10-20hrs/week. Resumes:granger@mathnasium.com 888-850-6284 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit 
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
PERSONAL 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don’t go it alone. Notre Dame has many resources in place to assist you. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Ann Whitall at 1-0084 or Karen Kennedy at 1-5550. For more information, visit ND’s website at: http://pregnancysupport@nd.edu 
Lyrics: Moondance By VAN MORRISON 
Well, it’s a marvelous night for a moondance With the stars up above in your eyesA fantabulous night to make romance-Neath the cover of October skies And all the leaves on the trees are falling To the sound of the breezes that blow-And I’m trying to please to the calling Of your heart-strings that play soft and low And all the nights magic seems to whisper and hush And all the soft moonlight seems to shine in your blush Chorus: Can I just have one a more moon-dance with you, my love Can I just make some more romance with a-you, my love I can’t wait ‘til the morning has come And I know that the time is just right And straight into my arms you will run And when you come my heart will be waiting 
To make sure that you’re never alone There and then all my dreams will come true, dear There and then I will make you my own And every time I touch you, you just tremble inside And I know how much you want me that you can’t hide 


That was the predicament the chiefs found themselves in last season. 
cassel hurt his throw­ing hand against the denver broncos last november, un­dergoing surgery and landing on injured reserve. Tyler palko was an abject failure starting in his place, and the chiefs wound up claiming Kyle orton off waivers to finish out the season. 
The move to Quinn may have happened eventually even if cassel hadn’t been hurt. 
The former pro bowl quar­terback has struggled mightily the past two seasons, and his troubles this year have been especially glaring. cassel was only completing 58.5 percent of his passes and had thrown five touchdowns and a league-leading nine interceptions. 
his quarterback rating of 66.2 is the lowest since he be­came a starter in new england. 
That’s part of the reason some intrepid fans raised enough money to hire a plane to tow a banner before sunday’s game pleading for cassel to be benched, and why a small segment of the crowd at arrowhead stadium cheered when he got hurt — draw­ing the ire of right tackle eric winston and his teammates, and touching off a national de­bate about uncouth behavior of some fans. 
winston called the cheer­ing “100-percent sickening” after the game, and stood by his opinion during a meeting with a few reporters monday. but he also made sure to clari­fy that he wasn’t talking about all Kansas city fans, just those who were cheering cassel’s injury. 



MEN’S GOLF 

Notre Dame struggles on home course 
By CORY BERNARD 
sports writer 
despite improved play during the second round of the Fighting irish gridiron golf classic, notre dame left warren golf course on monday tied for last place. 
The irish shot a 16-over-par 300 in the first round sunday, and fired an 11-over-par 295 monday. Freshman cory sciupider, inserted into the starting lineup for the first time in his brief college career, led the irish with an even-par 71 monday. michigan state leads the 12-team field after two rounds with a total team score of one-over-par 569. unc wilmington turned in monday’s low round with a combined score of 280. san Francisco, houston and Xavier round out the top five. 
irish coach Jim Kubinski said every member of the starting five improved their play in the second 
Offense 
conTinued From page 13 
momentum into our final game.”
 The Finest will look to end the season with a win when they face mcglinn on oct. 28. looking to win two in a row, the pyros square off against ryan on oct. 28. 
Ryan 20, Lewis 6 
sunday’s matchup between ryan and lewis was a game that had round, with the exception of junior niall platt. 
“i think we had, other than niall struggling, which is pretty rare, the other four guys doing a solid job,” Kubinski said. “it was tough out there. we actually had a really good round going, but we gave away probably four or five at the end. we still have a chance tomorrow if we can keep it closer to even par for the round to really move up into the top five which would be a solid finish.” 
platt registered his first indi­vidual win at the macdonald cup in new haven, conn., on sept. 30, but struggled to stay close to par monday. after firing a four-over­par 75 sunday, he carded a 9-over­par 80 monday. Kubinski said the poor weather and conditions of the greens did not allow much margin for error. 
“we don’t typically play our golf course in these conditions just because you can’t maintain it,” he said. “it’s a little different than how we play and i think niall was just a little off. The way the course is set up with faster greens and firmer greens, if you are a little bit off you can make a whole bunch of bogeys. he got off to a really tough start with the two four puts. he settled in there and i think he’ll go play a good round tomorrow.” 
Kubinski also expects sciupider to play well Tuesday. he said the fresh­man displayed unusual poise after carding a triple bogey on his second-to-last hole of the day. 
“cory had a tough break in the bunker on eight,” Kubinski said. “he didn’t hit a real good shot and made a triple bogey there but then made a nice three on the last hole. a lot of times a freshman will have a bad hole and carry it with him for the next hole or two but he didn’t. he made a shot (on the last hole) that 


almost went in for a hole-in-one. it classic at 9:30 a.m. Tuesday at bounced over the back and he made warren golf course. a nice three.” 
The irish begin the final round Contact Cory Bernard at of the Fighting irish gridiron golf cbernard@nd.edu 
for the touchdown. 
down 13-0, the chicks stormed back in the second half. senior quarterback connaught blood led a run-oriented offense, as she was able to scramble to evade most of the wildcats’ pass rush. a 30-yard scramble by blood set up a short touchdown pass to freshman abbey dankoff that pulled the chicks to within seven. 
however, a 20-yard touchdown rush by Fisher on another sweep, complete with a flawless juke, ex­tended ryan’s lead to 20-6. 
pillai said she thinks the time off because of fall break will be benefi­cial to ryan’s overall health. 
“hopefully with the week off for fall break, we can get some of our injured players back on the field,” pillai said. 
despite suffering a loss that might have knocked the chicks out of the playoff race, blood said she thought the game plan was solid. however, she said lewis still needs to focus on the details. 
“our offense played much better today than we have in past games but we were really hampered by some penalties on key plays and drives,” blood said. “For the next game we’ll be working on getting the little things right and having fun as the season starts to wind down.” 
ryan hopes to continue its suc­cess oct. 28 against pasquerilla east in a game that could put them into the playoffs while lewis battles pangborn to close out the regular season oct. 28. 
Contact Kyle Foley at kfoley2@nd.edu 
McGlinn 14, Welsh Family 6 
By D.H. KIM 
sports writer 
despite windy, rainy condi­tions, both mcglinn and welsh Family battled until the end, when the shamrocks (4-1)eventually tri­umphed 14-6 over the whirlwinds (4-2)on sunday. 
mcglinn (4-1) started out strong with senior captain and quarter­back emily golden proving to be ef­fective as a dual threat quarterback. golden scrambled and rushed to convert fourth downs on multiple occasions. 
welsh Family (4-2) had a staunch red zone defense that contained the shamrocks in the first quarter. on the other side of the ball, whirlwinds senior captain and quarterback victoria moreno was stymied in the first half as the shamrock defense, led by senior cornerback ally scalo, pressured moreno into incomple­tions. scalo had two sacks in the game that forced the whirlwinds to punt in the first half. 
“They rattled us on the blitz and played an excellent game today,” moreno said. “we missed pulling some flags and we were outplayed.” 
golden put the shamrocks on the board first when she connected with senior receiver caitlin day for a touchdown. 
but moreno responded quickly with an incredible 45-yard rushing touchdown that tied the game. 
welsh Family’s defense, led by senior linebacker lynn Tasker and senior defensive lineman elizabeth pallante, kept the score even until late in the fourth quarter. 
golden converted another fourth down with two minutes left on the clock. The senior quarterback then threw a touchdown pass to senior receiver Katie ritter that proved to be the game-winner. 
with the win, mcglinn clinched a spot in the playoffs. 
“most importantly we made the playoffs and played an excellent game today,” golden said. “The defense was awesome and we just have to keep this streak and play mcglinn football.” 
The whirlwinds are also most likely playoff-bound despite the loss. 
welsh Family is finished for the regular season, while mcglinn plays its final game oct. 28 against Farley. 
Contact D.H. Kim at dkim16@nd.edu 
major playoff implications on the line, with the losing team most like­ly missing out on the opportunity to advance to the postseason this year. in the end, it was ryan (3-2) that won 20-6 over the chicks (1-3-1). 
“This win puts us in good position to make the playoffs if we can beat [pasquerilla east],” senior quarter­back maya pillai said. 
The wildcats offense used an unstoppable sweep run by junior receiver and running back leah 
paid adverTisemenT 
Fisher. on ryan’s first possession, a 30-yard sweep by Fisher set up a seven-yard strike to junior receiver maddie swan from pillai. 
pillai commanded the offense for the wildcats, going 8-for-15 throw­ing the ball and racking up many yards on the ground. 
The wildcats scored once more before the half when pillai sold a fake handoff to Fisher so well that it left sophomore receiver ashley veselik wide open in the end zone 



The observer | TUESDAY, OCTOBER 9, 2012 | ndsmcobserver.com 

MEN’S INTERHALL 

Keenan overcomes poor conditions to top rival 
Knott, Keough and St. Edward’s collect wins in low-scoring games; Fisher, Duncan forfeit 
BY CASEY KARNES 
sports writer 
“The battle of the chapel” lived up to its name sunday, as Keenan earned a physical 13-0 win over stanford. 
despite the cold and wet weather, tempers on both sides were hot, as both teams drew multiple personal fouls, and one player was ejected. 
but Keenan (3-0) didn’t allow the emotion of a rivalry game to distract it from its game plan, and followed dual-threat senior quar­terback andrew mcdonough to victory. mcdonough, who amassed 90 passing yards and 80 on the ground, said he couldn’t downplay the significance of the Knights’ win. 
“This is a dorm win,” mcdonough said. “it was for bragging rights, and it was for the chapel.” 
The Knights’ joy comes at the griffins’ expense, as stanford (1­
3) displayed a valiant effort on defense and put constant pres­sure on mcdonough. The lead­ership of senior linebacker and captain paul babiak, along with physical play from senior defen­sive back will Tudor, allowed the hard-hitting defensive unit to hold Keenan at bay for most of the first half. 
The griffins’ offense, howev­er, was not able to produce, and turned the ball over five times. stanford junior quarterback conor healy struggled to control the ball in the sloppy weather and threw three interceptions. Keenan sophomore cornerback chris dearolf picked off a healy pass late in the second quarter to set up a touchdown pass from mcdonough to senior receiver Trevor yerrick. 
mcdonough scored on a 10­yard run in the final minutes to seal the victory for the Knights. 
despite losing his final game, babiak said he was not bitter about the season. 
“i’m just glad notre dame gave us an opportunity to play some football,” babiak said. 
Keenan looks to remain unde­feated when it faces Keough on oct. 28. 
Contact Casey Karnes at wkarnes@nd.edu. 
Knott 10, Morrissey 0 
By ALEX WILCOX 
sports writer 
in a sloppy game controlled by the weather, Knott defeated morrissey 10-0 on sunday. 
sluggish offenses, strong de­fenses and gnawingly cold wind and rain set the tone for the contest. 
morrissey (1-2) managed just two first downs all game, and Knott (2-1) only mustered three points in the first half, despite good field position. Knott missed a scoring opportunity on its first possession, as senior running back Joe beglane fumbled on morrissey’s two-yard-line. 
morrissey could not generate much on the offensive end ei­ther and fell behind when Knott scored at the end of the first half on a 29-yard field goal to go up 3-0. 
Knott carried the momen­tum into the second half, when it opened with a four play, 65­yard drive that ended in a 3-yard touchdown run by beglane. 
From there, Knott’s defense took over, as it forced consecu­tive turnover-on-downs for morrissey before recovering a fumble with two minutes left in the game. 
beglane spurred the Juggerknotts offense, as he ac­counted for Knott’s 10 points. despite his success, beglane said freshman running back casey mccaffery, who finished the game with 10 rushes for 104 yards, was essential to the victory. 
“[mccaffery] gets the game ball today,” beglane said. “he had a huge game, a couple of big runs, and he’s only a freshman, so we’re excited to have him around for a few more years.” 
“This is a dorm win ... It was for bragging rights, and it was for the chapel.” 
Andrew McDonough 
senior quarterback 
Keenan 
meanwhile, morrissey senior captain Taylor stein blamed his team’s performance on a variety of factors. 
“we only had 15 guys out there today,” stein said. “a lot of guys were in new positions, and the weather made it tough to block and throw. in the end, we just couldn’t get ourselves together enough to get the ball moving.” 
morrissey attempts to bounce back when it plays alumni on oct. 28, while Knott looks to keep rolling when it faces duncan the same day. 
Contact Alex Wilcox at awilcox1@nd.edu 
Keough 15 , O’Neill 8 
By SAMANTHA ZUBA 
sports writer 
sunday’s matchup of west Quad rivals came down to the wire, as a final-minute inter­ception lifted Keough to a 15-8 victory. 
Keough (3-0) forced a safe­ty and then scored on its first offensive drive to take com­mand early. Junior quarter­back michael Fischer drove the Kangaroos down the field before junior running back seamus donegan ran in for their first touchdown. but after the drive, Keough struggled to consistently make plays. 
“The weather was definitely against us,” Kangaroos sopho­more captain charlie magiera said. “we couldn’t open up with the pass, and we needed to be more effective on the run.” 
o’neill (0-3) also struggled to find consistency on offense. The mob struggled to establish field position until the fourth quarter, when an interception put them in position to score. 
o’neill then tied the game on a 30-yard pass from freshman quarterback John doran, and a successful two-point conver­sion. Junior captain eric reed said o’neill’s offense seemed to find its groove toward the end of the game. 
“[offensive efficiency is] some­thing we’ve been missing, and it looked better today,” he said. 
Keough freshman defensive back mitch patin killed o’neill’s momentum with a pick-six, put­ting the Kangaroos up 15-8 with twenty seconds to play. 
“you can’t really blame their quarterback,” magiera said. “he was getting a lot of pressure. we had the offensive line’s number and were able to force him into quick throws.” 
o’neill will look for its first win oct. 28 when it plays dillon, while  Keough will try to remain undefeated when it faces Keenan the same day. 
Contact Samantha Zuba at szuba@nd.edu 
St. Edward’s 7, Zahm 0 
By KIT LOUGHRAN 
sports writer 
st. edward’s enjoyed a bright spot in its difficult season when it pulled out a 7-0 win over Zahm to earn its first victory. 
“This was a huge game for us,” st. edward’s junior safety andrew blonigan said. “it was the first time we scored, and it was the first time we won.” 
on the game’s first play, st. edward’s junior quarterback paul rodriguez handed the ball off to junior running back Kevin Katalinic for a 12-yard gain. The run marked the first time that the gentlemen (1-2) recorded a first down in the first half of a game this season. 
Throughout the first half, Zahm senior quarterback alex bowman looked for his receiv­ers, but st. edward’s defense kept the Zahmbies (0-4) from moving the chains. 
with 10 seconds left in the half, rodriguez threw a 30-yard pass for an interception, but Zahm freshman linebacker paul mascarenhas dropped the ball immediately after, turning it back over to the gentlemen.. 


The gentlemen came out of halftime with a spark, as they found the end zone on the first play of the half.  rodriguez con­nected on a 10-yard pass to ju­nior receiver bryce persichetti, who then ran the ball 50 yards into the end zone for st. edward’s first touchdown of the season. 
Zahm made one last attempt for the end zone when it received the ball with two minutes left in the game. incomplete passes plagued the Zahmbies passing game, however, and the team’s comeback attempt fell short.. 
despite the loss, Zahm saw great improvement in its game and looks forward to next sea­son, bowman said. 
“our defense stood tall and gave up the least amount of points all season,” bowman said. 
Zahm will return to action next season, while st. edward’s will look to extend its winning streak when it faces sorin on oct. 28. 
Contact Kit Loughran at kloughr1@nd.edu 
Sorin defeats Fisher 
sunday’s scheduled match-up between the otters and the green wave was not played due to a Fisher forfeit for not having enough players. sorin (3-0) looks to remain undefeated when it plays st. edward’s on oct. 28, while Fisher (2-1) looks to re­bound when it battles carroll the same day. 
Siegfried defeats Duncan 
sunday’s scheduled matchup between the ramblers and the highlanders was not played due to a duncan forfeit for not hav­ing enough players. siegfried (3­
1) will next take the field in the first round of the playoffs, while duncan (0-3) will look for its first win when it plays Knott on oct. 28. 

paid adverTisemenT 



WOMEN’S INTERHALL 

Purple Weasels continue undefeated streak 
Walsh, Pasquerilla East, Ryan, McGlinn and Cavanaugh battle poor weather to take victories 
making it to [notre dame stadium].” appearances of a scoreless stalemate. 
By GREG HADLEY 

sports writer on offense, the purple weasels but on the lyonites’ next posses-hope to continue their balanced sion, walsh senior cornerback and as pasquerilla west continues its attack and keep on introducing captain lindy navarre intercepted drive toward notre dame stadium, new running plays, vidal said. a pass and returned it 40 yards for the purple weasels (5-0) exacted howard, on the other hand, is out the score. Then, on the very next revenge on howard, which has de-of the playoff picture and, instead, drive, lyons freshman receiver nied their championship hopes in is looking to the future, junior alexa lodenquai appeared to break the past, with a 21-0 victory sunday. quarterback clare robinson said. free for a 50-yard touchdown run. howard (1-4) entered the game “we’re trying something new ev-The run was negated, however, by scrambling to make the playoffs ery game,” robinson said. “we an illegal equipment penalty. The because of a rash of injuries and just want to have fun.” robinson officials ruled that lodenquai’s poor attendance at games. still, the said she wants the freshmen flags were too hard to pull and ducks hoped to upset the purple such as stephanie peterson, erin lyons, instead of tying the game, weasels, whom they have beat-rice, maria ianni and bridget turned the ball over on downs. en for the championship before. doyle to keep developing. “when we had that call go against early on, the ducks defense kept howard will finish its season us, it really brought our spirits 
them in the game, with sopho-against breen-phillips on oct. 28 at down,” junior captain and safety break with the chance to beat un-Contact Alex Stembaugh at 
more cornerback marie cole get-labar Fields, while pasquerilla west christina bramanti said. “we defeated pasquerilla west on oct. astembau@nd.edu 
ting a key interception. however, will try and stay undefeated against need to be tougher mentally.” 28, while walsh has completed its 
the purple weasels finally broke lyons the same day before begin-The wild women, on the other schedule and awaits the playoffs. Pasquerilla East 22, Farley 7 
through toward the end of the first ning the playoffs. hand, used the second lease on life to 
By KYLE FOLEY 

quarter, when sophomore quar-expand their lead on a rushing score Contact Greg Hadley at sports writer 
terback lauren vidal rushed for a Walsh 13, Lyons 0 by senior quarterback Kat leach. ghadley@nd.edu 
score. after that, the purple weasels in a showdown between lyons “sometimes those calls go against pasquerilla east recorded its first 
used a balanced attack of rushes and walsh, both defenses dominat-us,” leach said. “Today we were Cavanaugh 13, Breen win of the season when it defeated 
and long passes to score twice ed, but a costly penalty proved to be the ones that got the call.” leach Phillips 6 Farley 22-7 on sunday in a battle of 
more before the half to lead 21-0. the defining moment of the game, said the call was less important two high-powered offenses. 
By ALEX STEMBAUGH 

after the half, the howard defense as the wild women (4-2) emerged than the strong play of the walsh sports writer The inability of the Finest (0-4) 
stiffened and did not surrender any victorious, 13-0, on sunday. defense, including junior cor-to score in the red zone kept them 
more points. however, the ducks at first, the lyons offense moved nerback connor sullivan and se-in a hard-fought battle, winless. 
offense could not generate any mo-the ball easily, aided by walsh nior safety lauren dunn, which cavanaugh emerged with a 13-6 “The game was fantastic,” 
mentum against pasquerilla west’s penalties, and eventually reached will be important in the playoffs. victory over north Quad rival breen pasquerilla east senior captain 
stout defense. The stalemate lasted the four-yard line. however, the lyons too looked past the penalty phillips on sunday. anna perino said. “we were both 
the entire second half, giving the lyonites (1-4) were unable to score and instead focused on the positives. cavanaugh (4-1) started strong so evenly matched but in the end i 
purple weasels the 21-0 victory and and they turned the ball over on “we fought really hard,” senior offensively, but breen-phillips’ de-guess we pulled away with the win.” 
preserving their undefeated season. downs. walsh’s offense proved to coach Joe peluso said. “i was fense was quick to counter, and Following a scoreless first quar­
“most of our wins are due to our de-be equally unsuccessful at moving happy with the game we played.” posted two of its three intercep-ter, a failed fourth-and-goal attempt 
fense,” vidal said. “They’re key to us the ball, and the game had all the The lyonites will next play after fall tions on cavanaugh’s first two pos-for Farley gave the ball back to the sessions. cavanaugh rebounded pyros (1-3-1) with four minutes re­paid adverTisemenT 
quickly, however, as senior quar-maining in the first half. after gain­terback rosemary Kelly rushed for ing 25 yards, pasquerilla east took a 60-yard touchdown on the third the lead as sophomore quarterback drive, part of her 140 yards rushing macy mulhall connected with on the game. sophomore receiver nicole ameli Kelly and sophomore running on fourth-and-12 for the touch-
back olivia dietzel ran the option down. The pyros failed the one-
with ease throughout the night, and point conversion and led by six with 
dietzel scored a second touchdown 90 seconds left in the half. 
to put the chaos up 13-0. Kelly said with time running out, Farley ju­
shethat the offensive line was cru-nior quarterback lauren ladowski 
cial to the success of the chaos’ run-spearheaded a long drive, capped 
ning game. off by a 25-yard touchdown pass 
“i’m really proud of our offense to sophomore receiver sarah today,” Kelly said.  “we knew we burbank. burbank reached over her wanted to run the ball, and we had defender’s head to secure the catch, been working on blocking all week, putting the Finest up 7-6 going into so our line was really strong today.” halftime. 
“we are really lucky to have four The pyros shut the Finest down girls that specifically play line, and on a fourth down in the red zone only one is brand new,” senior cen-to start the half, killing any mo­ter and captain Kelly brakora said. mentum the Finest had garnered “we take our job really seriously.” from their late first half score. 
The babes (1-3), however, dis-pasquerilla east then took the lead 
played resilience behind a strong when junior running back Kiah 
ground and air assault headed by schaefbauer caught a touchdown 
junior captain and quarterback pass after setting up the pyros with 
molly Toner. Toner led an offensive a 35-yard rush. 
team effort for the babes, as she The Finest had one final chance 
connected with five different re-to even the score in the fourth quar­
ceivers and passed for over 75 yards ter. however perino returned an in-
and one touchdown. terception for a touchdown, ending 
“i’m really proud of how well we Farley’s chance at a comeback. 
played against cavanaugh because ladowski was 20-for-30 through 
they only beat us by seven points,” the air to lead the Farley offense. 
Toner said. “They are a really great The junior said she was pleased 
team, and we are happy to finish with the offensive performance de­
within scoring distance.” spite the loss. 
breen phillips will look to bounce “This was our offense’s best 
back against howard on oct. 28 game,” ladowski said.  “we finally 
while cavanaugh will take on badin figured it out and hope to carry this 
the same day. 
see oFFense PAGE 11 The observer | TUESDAY, OCTOBER 9, 2012 | ndsmcobserver.com 






alumni stadium. notre dame’s tournament appearances, in-hard. They were always looking department of athletics and cluding trips to the quarterfi-to go a step further than the guy the monogram club presented nals during his freshman and next to you so you could stay on morrow with a collage high-sophomore campaigns. the field.” lighting his illustrious career morrow played in 21 matches That competitive nature has with the irish. for the irish as a freshman, but spilled over into the profes­
“That was a really special he never cracked the starting sional ranks, where former weekend for me to be able to lineup. during his next three irish teammate and current come back,” morrow said. “That seasons, though, he started all sporting Kansas city defender was the first time i had been but four games. morrow said matt besler has been duking it back on campus since i left. it’s irish coach bobby clark was key out with morrow’s earthquakes been a while. Just to see familiar to his development as a player. for the mls supporter’s shield, faces, see some new faces, see “[clark] just wouldn’t take won by the team with the best how the campus has changed any nonsense, any distrac-record. but still get back and see every-tions,” morrow said. “he to-“it’s funny, it’s almost like i thing was incredible.” tally cut that out of our lives. ... am going up against besler and 
morrow said it was always his he would always have his little competing for this thing like goal to play professional soccer. things about being on time, be-we are in college competing,” he set up his course load so he ing disciplined and whatnot, morrow said. “it’s fun.” could graduate in three-and-and when he is giving you re-san Jose currently has a five-a-half years and then enter the minders of those little things point on edge on Kansas city for mls draft. despite his foresight, every day, things like going to the shield, thanks in large part morrow said the dream didn’t bed at the right time, staying to morrow’s defensive presence. come into clear focus until after away from parties. it just really The team rewarded its left back 
who leads the earthquakes in the 2009 season, his senior year. teaches you how to be a good Thursday with a new contract. 
Earthquakes 

minutes played while splitting “you never know how your professional and a good person “i just had a really good feel­
conTinued From page 16 

time between left back and career is going to work out,” as well. That’s what i remember ing about staying in san Jose,” center back, said it was a tre-morrow said. “There are a lot of most.” morrow said. “i think the club is 
“it was a great feeling,” mendous honor to be named an young athletes who were amaz-in addition to the “extreme headed in a great direction with morrow said. “i mean, being a all-star. ing in high school but just don’t discipline” clark instilled in his the way the team has performed first-time all-star, you don’t re-“it was an honor; it was defi-turn out the way they would players, morrow said he ben-this year, and the coaching staff ally know what to expect. a lot nitely humbling,” morrow said. hope. so i don’t think [the mls] efited from a notre dame soc-that we have as well as our pres-of those guys know each other “i keep on saying i was repre-clearly came [into view] until cer program that requires hard ident and general manager. … already. i was happy to do well senting my team … because after my senior season, or right work. a self-described hard we are going to have a beautiful on the field and i thought all the there are so many guys that at the end of my senior season, worker and leader-by-exam-new stadium, and seeing how all-stars played really well and deserve it. and then being on a when i started getting accolades ple, morrow said he grew into that has transformed cities and we had a good time. i think what team with all the mls guys, that and mls teams started being those roles thanks to the people teams, like Kansas city, who helped me enjoy it so much was was great. meeting everybody interested in me.” around him. didn’t have a nice stadium in how good we were and the fact in the league that i had been morrow was an irish team “i think i grew into that,” the past, now they have one. it’s that we won. and just to be all around for a long time, that was captain during his senior year morrow said. “i mean, i was al-just an incredible atmosphere smiles after the game and not really special.” and garnered second-team all-ways a hard worker, but the way there, so i think san Jose can be be disappointed, i think that morrow was honored by big east honors. he appeared in the system is set up at notre like that and i am looking for-made it extra special.” the monogram club for his 89 career matches, including 64 dame soccer it just presses you ward to being a part of it.” 
The 25-year-old was named all-star accolade during half-starts, and helped notre dame to be a harder worker. everyone an all-star in just his first season time of notre dame’s 1-0 win to two big east regular-season on our team was so dedicated Contact Mike Monaco at as a full-time starter. morrow, over oregon state on sept. 7 at titles and four straight ncaa and everyone wanted to play so jmonaco@nd.edu. 
paid adverTisemenT hall will graduate from the 
Injury 
mendoza college of business 
conTinued From page 16 

in may with a degree in a constant for the young management-consulting, defense, and helped fresh-and is looking to pursue a man stephanie campo learn career in sports marketing. to fill in for her at left back and while hall is excited to while she was out. take yet another step for-
since her return last ward in life, she isn’t too month, hall haskslipped eager to leave notre dame – back into the lineup, and is and knows it will never leave much of the reason for notre her. dame’s current eight-game “This experience has unbeaten streak, which has meant so much,” she said. featured four shutouts. “Just to be a part of some­
“since she’s come back, thing that’s bigger than she’s stepped up and won her myself, and being part of a spot back, and she’s been one winning tradition, has been of our best backs,” waldrum so much fun. it will defi­said. “she’s so good at getting nitely be something that i up and down the flank and remember for the rest of my getting her service across, life.” and with her pace she’s a handful to defend. she’s Contact Jack Hefferon at been big for us this year.” wheffero@nd.edu 
and this could also be critical 
Ranked 
when it comes to seeding in the 
conTinued From page 16 

ncaas.  it is every bit as impor­tant as any conference game, wildcats have faced all year. possibly.” 
although the showdown with looking to extend their win-northwestern is a break from ning streak to three games, the the big east schedule, clark irish travel to evanston, ill., to said the game carries plenty of match up with northwestern importance nonetheless. on Tuesday night. Kickoff is 
“it’s a huge, top-20, region-scheduled for 7 p.m. at lakeside al game,” he said. “you talk Field. about building up [résumés] to get into the ncaas, this is Contact Joseph Monardo at a critical, critical game for us. jmonardo@nd.edu 



CROSSWORD | will shorTZ 


HIGHLY PUNLIKELY | chrisTopher brucKer 

LOWER YOUR EXPECTATIONS | lennyrago & paTricKcross 


Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
SUDOKU | The mepham group 


HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: angus T. Jones, 19; matt damon, 42; sigourney weaver, 63; chevy chase, 69. 
Happy Birthday: good things are heading your way. you can learn a lot from the people around you. Travel and educational pursuits will pay off. a change in direc­tion, vocation and the way you take care of your health and financial matters will lead to greater benefits, personal skills and abilities. revisit and revise old goals. your numbers are 4, 11, 15, 21, 26, 35, 40. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): rethink your plans and question your motives. honesty must take precedence. emotions will surface due to situations that are tempting but not necessarily good for you. deal with conflict first, and then proceed with your plans. 


TAURUS (April 20-May 20): make self-improvements that will boost your confidence and give you the edge you need to get ahead personally and professionally. encourag­ing others will bring favors you can use in a time of need. search for common ground with those you love. 


GEMINI (May 21-June 20): stop worrying about what’s going on around you. Focus on your achievements. overdoing it will stand between you and your success. disci­pline and hard work will be required if you want to bring about positive change. 


CANCER (June 21-July 22): getting out with peers will lead to greater opportunities. mingle and indulge in talks that concern business and investment prospects. you will connect with someone who has something to contribute to your plans. accept change readily. 


LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): motivational seminars, traveling or just changing your sur­roundings will help you resolve pending problems causing undue stress. don’t get angry or emotional when what you should be doing is moving along. 


VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): extravagance will work against you. you cannot buy love or position -- you have to do the work to get the praise. look for a proposal that can help you advance enough to warrant making the personal changes you desire. love is highlighted. 


LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): indulge in events that help you discover your true potential or encourage greater interaction with people who motivate you to follow your pas­sion. if you implement what you enjoy doing into how you earn a living, you will achieve satisfaction. 


SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): a creative outlet will encourage you to grow mentally, emotionally and financially. combining your talent with what you have to do in order to survive will enhance what you have to offer. don’t limit what you can do to a small location. 


SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): you will end up in a tough position if you have not been completely honest about your next move, or about the way you feel. spell out what it is you want to do, and make your move accordingly. a change is required. 



CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): share ideas with family, friends or your partner and you will reach your goals. Taking what you know and do best and finding a way to introduce what’s being offered to you by others will lead to victory. love and romance are highlighted. 


AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): learn from experience. stick close to home, and avoid interacting with people who can get you into trouble. now is not the time to take a chance or to put yourself in an awkward situation that restricts you. Focus on home and your reputation. 


PISCES (Feb. 19- March 20): do what comes naturally. show your appreciation toward others, and let your true feelings be heard. invest in your own talent and what you want to do mentally, physically and financially to advance personally and profes­sionally. 


Birthday Baby: you are unique, an inspiration to others, and a dedicated and loyal individual. 
JUMBLE | david hoyT and JeFF KnureK 

make checks payable to and mail to: enclosed is $130 for one academic year enclosed is $75 for one semester  The observer p.o. box 779 notre dame, in 46556  
name address city       state  Zip  


MEN’S SOCCER 

Home wins drive motivation 

By JOSEPH MONARDO 
sports writer 
one week ago, the irish were coming off a disappointing road swing in which they endured their first two losses of the year. This week the mood inside the irish locker room is undoubt­edly different, as notre dame is coming off a pair of convinc­ing home victories and heading to evanston, ill., to face no. 22 northwestern tonight. 
no. 10 notre dame (10-2­0, 2-2-0 big east) unleashed 36 shots, the most ever by the irish in a conference game, in a 7-1 victory over pittsburgh on wednesday before shutting out no. 3 georgetown, 3-0. 
“i thought that it was a good week last week for us,” irish coach bobby clark said. “obviously, we were very good against pittsburgh and then it was a terrific game against georgetown. georgetown is a very, very good team, so that was a good game and it was a very good win for us.” 
in their final non-conference game of the regular season the irish will take on northwestern (7-2-2, 2-0-0 big Ten) tonight. The wildcats had tallied five consecutive victories earlier in the season before dropping two of their last three contests. last year the two teams played to a 1-1 draw at notre dame. 
“They are a good team,” clark said. “in my time here, we have played them four times over the past four years and we have yet to beat them. so we have lost twice in the ncaa tournament and we tied them [the last two years in the regular season] … so this is definitely one we want to get ahold of.” 

although the irish are coming off consecutive dominating per­formances, clark said he wants his team to work on handling the pressure applied by skilled opponents. The wildcats will provide another test, he said. 
“i think georgetown, they pressed us very hard,” clark said. “i think there are only three teams this year where i felt, not that we didn’t play well, but three teams [against which] i thought we didn’t always handle the pressure [chivas guadalajara in the preseason, akron and connecticut]. 
“There were periods in that game against georgetown where we struggled to handle the pressure … i think we just have to keep working at getting better playing against very good teams. and, you know, when you play very good teams you are not going to dominate the game for 90 minutes, they are going to have their part of the game.” 

notre dame will look to limit any damage done by northwestern during such stretches and secure another victory over a ranked opponent. The irish have already beaten four teams ranked in the top-25, including three teams ranked in the top-10. notre dame is the highest-ranked opponent the 
see ranKed PAGE 14 
Morrow reflects on UEFA 
By MIKE MONACO 
sports writer 
Editor’s note: This is the sixth of a new Observer feature. The “Waking the Echoes” series in­tends to inform fans about some former players and will feature weekly stories profiling them and their lives since Notre Dame. 
it was a late summer night in philadelphia. The mls all-star team trotted out its best 11 play­ers to take on european power­house chelsea in a high-profile exhibition match. 
one of those mls starters was former irish defender and cur­rent san Jose earthquakes de­fender Justin morrow. The 2010 notre dame graduate and his fellow mls superstars defeated the defending ueFa champions league winners 3-2 in dramatic fashion when forward eddie Johnson scored in the 91st min­ute to break the stalemate. 
For morrow, a first-time all-star who earned four mono­grams for the irish between 2006 and 2009 before he was drafted in the second round of the 2010 mls superdraft by the earthquakes, it was a surreal experience to top some of the world’s best players. 
see earThQuaKes PAGE 14 
ND WOMEN’S SOCCER 

Four years later, Hall stands out as only senior 
By JACK HEFFERON 
sports writer 
Three years ago, notre dame’s class of 2013 showed up on campus as freshmen: young, inexperienced and unsure of what to expect. That class has proven it­self as winners and national champions during their first three seasons, and has con­tinued to make an impact in their senior year. but only one player has made that en­tire journey from start to fin­ish: Jazmin hall. 
hall committed to notre dame from marcus high school in highland village, Texas, and four years later she is the team’s lone senior captain, and one of only two seniors on the roster (mid­fielder and transfer student nicole borner is the other). The pair was honored be­fore notre dame’s 5-1 win over seton hall on Friday, and sunday’s 2-2 draw was their last scheduled game at alumni stadium. 
For hall, those four years have passed by in the blink of an eye. 
“i can’t believe i’m already a senior,” she said. “it’s sad, especially because this was my last guaranteed home game, but i think we’ll be able to go out and play some more here.” 
hall has been a mainstay on the irish back line for her entire career, and took the step from substitute to starter last season as a ju­nior. irish coach randy waldrum asked her to take another step to the forefront of this team this season, and hall has embraced her role as captain this year. 
“i’ve just been trying to play hard, and talk a lot more, and get people communicat­ing on the field,” she said. “i’m really just trying to help out wherever i can. i think if i just play hard then hopefully everyone can feed of that.” 
The beginning of the sea­son challenged hall though, as she was injured and forced to the sidelines with injury. instead of fading into the backgrounh, hall remained 
see inJury PAGE 14 





