
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 

SENATE 


Group passes resolution to amend clause 
Members ask University to add sexual orientation to Notre Dame’s nondiscrimination clause 
By MARISA IATI 
News Writer 
Student Senate passed a reso­lution Wednesday requesting the University add “sexual ori­entation” to the nondiscrimina­tion clause and publicly address why the phrase is not currently included. 
The group also discussed res­taurant contacts in the LaFor­tune Student Center. 
The resolution to amend the nondiscrimination clause passed with 18 votes in favor and one opposed. Six members of Senate abstained from vot­ing. 
Third-year law student Ste­ven Baugh told Senate that Notre Dame’s exclusion of “sex­ual orientation” from its non­discrimination clause makes it an anomaly among universities and businesses. 
“Now we’re behind the times, basically, among peer institu­tions, regardless of whether they’re universities or what­ever,” Baugh said. “Remember that this applies not just to stu­dents, but to faculty and staff.” 
Student body vice president and president-elect Brett Ro­cheleau said the Board of Trust­ees ultimately decides what is included in the nondiscrimi­nation clause. He said he will share Senate’s opinion when the Board meets in May. 
Rocheleau also said if Campus Life Council passes a similar resolution, the Vice President for Student Affairs is required to respond to it. 
Baugh said there is currently no legal action a student could 


see CLAUSE/page 3 




Notre Dame to create new research facility in local park 

By MARY KATE NELSON 
News Writer 
Notre Dame and St. Joseph County Parks launched a new partnership last week to cre­ate an environmental re­search and education facility at St. Patrick’s County Park. 
Plans to build the Notre Dame Linked Experimental Ecosystem Facility (ND LEEF) at St. Patrick’s County Park were finalized Feb. 14. 
According to a University press release, ND LEEF is part of a larger initiative at Notre Dame called the Envi­ronmental Change Initiative (ND-ECI). One of the goals of ND-ECI, the release stated, is to monitor the effects of cli­mate change, land use and invasive species in different ecosystems — specifically wa­ter resources. 
ND LEEF Director Jennifer Tank said the new facility will allow researchers and stu­dents to study these effects in stream, pond and wetland ecosystems, as well as on dry land. The facility will also feature advanced technology available to researchers. 
“We can test the research we do in the field in a con­trolled environment,” Tank said. 
The facility will use cut-ting-edge sensor technology so students and researchers can monitor experiments in 

see ND LEEF/page 5 



Professor talks about beauty, globalization 
By KEELIN McGEE 
News Writer 
Globalization influences beau­ty consciousness throughout the world, Sonalini Sapra, assistant professor of political science and women’s studies at Saint Mary’s College, said. 
Sapra conducted an educa­tional workshop titled “Global­ization and Beauty: Prevalence of Whiteness Creams and Cos­metic Surgery” as part of Love Your Body Week on Wednesday. 
She said she became interest­ed in the globalization of beauty after returning home to her na­tive country, India, and seeing the frequent use of beauty prod­ucts — particularly whiteness creams. 
“After traveling back to In­dia on my summer and winter breaks, I started noticing the daily media bombardment of whiteness creams,” Sapra said. “In India, fairness or whiteness equates with beauty and every­thing good in society.” 
The obsession with lightening skin tone has been prevalent in India for a long time, Sapra said, but has blown up in recent years. Many women and some men use these whiteness creams to ap­pear a few shades lighter in the advertised four to six weeks. 

see BEAUTY/page 5 



Students create flash mob 
By ANNA BOARINI 
News Writer 

On Wednesday night, diners at North Dining Hall were treated to a special surprise when they swiped in around 6:30 p.m. — a piece of live performance poetry. 
As a way to promote the Si­lent Disco event at Legends this Saturday, senior Britt Burgeson, who is on the marketing team for the nightclub, decided to coordi­nate her own version of the Mp3 Experiment. 
“The Mp3 [Experiment] is a flash mob of sorts,” she said. “It’s a 21st century happening.” 
The Mp3 Experiment is the brainchild of Improv Every­where, a New York City-based prank group. Staged yearly in 

see MP3/page 5 


INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER SGA approves new constitutions page 3 u Viewpoint page 8 u Matt Costa preview page 10 u Men’s basketball beats West Virginia page 20 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT IS YOUR LENTEN RESOLUTION? 

www.ndsmcobserver.com P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 Editor-in-Chief Douglas Farmer Managing Editor Business Manager Sarah Mervosh Jeff Liptak Asst. Managing Editor: Adriana Pratt Asst. Managing Editor: Chris Masoud News Editor: Sam Stryker Viewpoint Editor: Meghan Thomassen Sports Editor: Allan Joseph Scene Editor: Maija Gustin Saint Mary’s Editor: Caitlin E. Housley Photo Editor: Pat Coveney Graphics Editor: Brandon Keelean Advertising Manager: Katherine Lukas Ad Design Manager: Amanda Jonovski Controller: Jason Taulman Systems Administrator: William Heineman Office Manager & General Info (574) 631-7471 Fax (574) 631-6927 Advertising (574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu Editor-in-Chief (574) 631-4542 dfarmer1@nd.edu Managing Editor (574) 631-4542 smervosh@nd.edu Assistant Managing Editors (574) 631-4541 apratt@nd.edu, cmasoud@nd.edu Business Office (574) 631-5313 News Desk (574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com Viewpoint Desk (574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com Sports Desk (574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com Scene Desk (574) 631-4540 mgustin@nd.edu Saint Mary’s Desk chousl01@saintmarys.edu Photo Desk (574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com Systems & Web Administrators (574) 631-8839 Policies The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College.  Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Douglas Farmer. Post Office Information The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 and additional mailing offices 024 South Dining hall Notre Dame, IN 46556-077 The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved.  
TODAY’S STAFF News Sports Sara Felsenstein Kelsey Manning Tori Roeck Joseph Monardo Dan Brombach Brendan Bell Graphics Scene Elisa DeCastro Alexandra Photo Kilpatrick Mackenzie Sain Viewpoint Amber Galik  
CORRECTIONS The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so we can correct our error.  
HIGH 46 LOW 31 



Carla Celio  Nikki Charter  Jessica Puricelli  Jordie Wasserman  Nancy Joyce  
freshman  freshman  sophomore  freshman  sophomore  
Holy Cross  McCandless  Walsh  McCandless  Welsh Family  
“Meats and  “Snacking  “Chocolate.”  “Candy and  “Diet coke.”  
sweets.”  between meals.”  pop.”  


Have an idea for Question of the Day? Email obsphoto@gmail.com 


OFFBEAT 
Commuter bus driver stabbed with pen 

KENNESAW, Ga. — Geor­gia authorities say a com­muter bus driver is recov­ering after being stabbed repeatedly with a pen when he tried to break up a fight between passengers that involved a dispute over a cell phone. 
Police say the melee on the Cobb County Tran­sit bus occurred Monday afternoon in Kennesaw, about 25 miles northwest of Atlanta. 
The Atlanta Journal-Constitution reports that the driver went to the back of the bus to keep the quar­rel from escalating, and a woman pulled a knife. 
Authorities say other passengers were able to get the knife away from the woman, but police say she grabbed a pen from the bus driver’s pocket and stabbed him several times. 
The bus driver’s condi­tion was not immediately known. 
Meth case spans three generations of one family 
CROSS CITY, Fla. — It’s a generational thing: Deputies in Florida say a man, his daughter and his grandson, along with a fourth person said to be a family relative, are ac­cused of working together to manufacture metham­phetamine. 
Dixie County Sheriff’s of­ficials say 54-year-old Al­len J. Brannin, his 34-year­old daughter, Amy M. Brannin and her 18-year­old son, Austin J. Brannin, were arrested Thursday. Another relative, 18-year­old Tyler W. Cannon, was also arrested. 
The Gainesville Sun re­ports the suspects were arrested after deputies served a search warrant at their Cross City home. 
Sheriff’s Maj. Scott Hard­en says it’s hard to imag­ine someone “cooking up meth” with their daughter or grandson, let alone both. 
The four of them were booked into the Dixie County Jail. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 


IN BRIEF 
Student Government will be giving out free fitness bars at Rolfs Recreation­al Center and the Rockne Memorial Gym from 4 to 6 
p.m. today as part of  Body Image Week 2012. 
There will be an opening reception for the exhibit titled, “Second Wind: New Work by Second-Year MFA Students,” at 5:30 p.m. to­night at the Isis Gallery in O’Shaughnessy Hall.  The exhibit will stand until March 25. 
There will be a reading by Japanese poet Hiromi Ito titled, “The Maltreat­ment of Meaning: Poetry and the Poetics of Identi­ty,” at 6:30 p.m. tonight in Rooms 210 to 214 of McK­enna Hall. Ito’s work deals with issues of the feminine body, sexuality and moth­erhood, making her the most prominent voice of the women’s poetry boom. 
There will be a screen­ing of the film titled, “How to Die in Oregon,” at 7 p.m. tonight in the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. The film’s director, Peter Richardson, is scheduled to appear in person as well. 
There will be a perfor­mance of “Antigona Fu­riosa” at 7:30 p.m. tonight at the Philbin Studio The­ater in the DeBartolo Per­forming Arts Center. A re­shaping and re-telling of the classic Greek tragedy Antigone, the performance will continue through March 4. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, email detailed information about an event to obsnews.nd@gmail.com 



LOCAL WEATHER 
TODAY TONIGHT FRIDAY SATURDAY SUNDAY MONDAY 









HIGH 37 LOW 28 
HIGH 33 LOW 24 
HIGH 42 LOW 37 
HIGH 44 LOW 24 

SGA 





Association approves new council constitutions 
By CAILIN CROWE 
News Writer 
Saint Mary’s College Student Government Association (SGA) has moved one step closer to­ward finalizing its new struc­ture by passing four new coun­cil constitutions, Emma Brink, executive secretary, said. 
“As part of SGA’s new struc­ture, each individual council has created a constitution,” Brink said. 
This week SGA passed con­stitutions for the Student Aca­demic Council (SAC), Council of Committee Chairs (CCC), Council of Activities (COA) and Council of Class Boards (CCB). 
“We are really excited that the four constitutions passed,” Brink said. “The groundwork for SGA’s structure has been established and is almost com­plete.” 
Silvia Cuevas, mission com­missioner, said passing the constitutions is significant for underclassmen, especially ju­niors. 

“Passing the constitutions is significant for the SGA juniors because we have the opportu­nity to implement these chang­es as seniors,” Cuevas said. “We look forward to working with the new structure and new council and committee members.” 
According to the SAC con­stitution, the purpose of the Council is “to foster the aca­demics at Saint Mary’s College through collaboration of aca­demic departments.” 
Brink said SAC will fulfill its purpose by raising awareness of each major of study among Saint Mary’s students. SAC will also be a liaison between 


Clause 
continued from page 1 
take against the University to address perceived discrimina­tion on the basis of sexual ori­entation. 
“The second [the addition of ‘sexual orientation’ to the non­
discrimina­tion clause] gets approved, if someone were to be subjected to some kind of action that would qualify for legal re­course under the nondis­crimination clause … that person could use that against the 
school,” Baugh said. “Whoever it is would have to prove that they were fired or whatever because of their sexual orienta­tion.” 
The addition of “sexual ori­entation” would apply mainly to situations involving employ­ment, expulsion or removal from a residence hall, Baugh said. 
Katie Rose, gender issues di­faculty and students, she said. 
According to the CCC con­stitution, the purpose of the Council is “to identify concerns and issues of all Saint Mary’s students through the imple­mentation of various commit­tees.” 
The CCC will also address important areas of student life and act in the interest of the student body, Brink said. 
The purpose of the COA is “to coordinate the programming for the campus community to meet the needs of the entire student body,” according to the Council’s constitution. 
The COA will ensure that ev­ery board properly fulfills its role and duty to the College, Brink said. 
The CCB’s constitution’s pur­
rector for Student Government and vice president-elect, said although there is concern about alumni support, an unofficial GLBTQ alumni association has been disappointed with some of the University’s positions on same-sex issues. 
“This is a civil rights issue and not so much something we should be concerned about what 

“This is a civil rights issue and not so much something we should be concerned about what the alumni have to say, because we would hope that they have some of the same values.” 
Katie Rose gender issues director Senate 
the alumni have to say, because we would hope that they have some of the same values,” Rose said. 
Baugh said the legaliza­tion of same-sex marriage in Indiana would com­plicate the effects of the addition of 
“sexual orientation” to the non­discrimination clause in ways not completely foreseeable at this time. 
Senate also discussed adding a new food establishment to La-Fortune when Sbarro’s contract expires at the end of the aca­demic year. 
Rocheleau said the business must be franchised or leased and must not interfere with ex­
pose is “to promote class ac­tivities and create any class 
conscious legislation or  pro­ 
posals.”  
Brink  said  the  CCB  will  

maintain communication be­tween the four class boards and encourage those members and executives to fulfill its goals. 
SGA concluded the weekly meeting by announcing that the “Proud Past, Promising Future” leadership series will occur Feb. 27 in Carroll Au­ditorium. The series will fea­ture a motivational speaker, Chad Gaines, who will discuss how to develop and transform young leaders. 
Contact Cailin Crowe at ccrowe01@saintmarys.edu 
isting non-compete clauses. The options currently in discussion include Panda Express, Papa John’s, Pizza Hut Express, Moe’s Southwest Grill and Taco Bell. 
Rocheleau said Pizza Hut Ex­press and Taco Bell could both be added to the basement of La-Fortune. 
Administrators are also con­sidering adding a food estab­lishment to the Hesburgh Li­brary, Rocheleau said. 
“The room in the library where there are all those vend­ing machines, they’re looking at making a new café or new healthier option that would take that place there,” he said. 
Senate approved junior Han­nah Burke, current president of the Club Coordination Council, for the same position for the 2012-2013 term. The group ap­proved junior Ashley Markows­ki as the next Board Manager for the Student Union Board. 
Senate also passed two reso­lutions regulating the technical aspects of Student Government’s operations. One resolution, ef­fective April 1, made constituent services a permanent depart­ment and changed the multicul­tural affairs department chair into a multicultural affairs liai­son from Diversity Council. 


Contact Marisa Iati at miati@nd.edu 



structions from a track down-weekend’s Silent Disco to be 
MP3 
loaded on your phone — they a unique experience because 

continued from page 1 
brainchild of Improv Every­where, a New York City-based prank group. Staged yearly in New York City, the group also tours college campuses and international festivals. 
According to Improv Every­where’s website, improvevery­where.com, the group puts an original Mp3 file online that people download and trans­fer to their mobile devices. Participants will head out to the same public location and at the same time, every­one presses play. Participants carry out coordinated instruc­tions that are delivered to their headphones, confusing outsiders. 
Burgeson decided to bring the Mp3 Experiment to cam­pus after experiencing one of the events this summer in New York City. 
“I was involved in one event this summer at Battery Park,” she said. “You follow the in-



ND LEEF 
continued from page 1 
said. 
“It’s a beautiful area with quite a bit of land,” she said. 
Conversations between the St. Joseph County Parks System and Notre Dame regarding the project began two years ago, Tank said. 
ND LEEF will benefit various members of the community. The St. Joseph County Parks System plans to provide envi­ronmental education through ND LEEF to local K-12 students, are varied and ridiculous,” she said. 
She said the MP3@ND event came into being during a Leg­ends marketing meeting. 
“I was in charge of promot­ing the Feb. 23 to 25 events, one of which is a silent disco,” she said. “I was unfamiliar with the term — this is Leg­ends’ first time hosting this nightclub. I wanted to make sure people knew what the ‘Si­lent Disco’ would look like.” 
Burgeson said participants downloaded an almost sev­en minute Mp3 file to their phones, iPods and other mobile devices. Students then showed up at North on Wednesday night and followed the instruc­tions on the track. 
Sophomore Nicole Brooks said she enjoyed participating in the event. 
“This was a really fun idea to go and bring attention to what’s going on with Silent Disco,” she said. “Plus, it is fun to do something insane.” 
Brooks said she expects this 
adults continuing their educa­tion and nontraditional learn­ers, she said. 
Notre Dame will collabo­rate with the St. Joseph County Parks System to create appro­priate curricula for these pro­grams. The facility will also cater to visiting scientists and researchers from other aca­demic institutions. 
ND LEEF is still in the design and development stage, Tank said. She estimates the design will be finalized in April or May, with construction beginning in June. ND-EIC staff is working closely with faculty members of the Notre Dame College of Ar-when people enter Legends, no music will actually be playing. Instead, people will pick one of two tracks to listen to with their headphones. 
Burgeson said it was fun to watch students’ reactions to MP3@ND. 
“It was interesting, and I en­joyed watching people who had no idea what was going on,” she said. 
She said members of NDTV filmed the event and will cre­ate a YouTube video to be post­ed on the Legends YouTube channel. 
While Burgeson enjoyed her­self and said the event went smoothly, she said she is not sure if she would coordinate a similar event again. 
“This is the beauty of perfor­mance art — it happens once, and if you miss it, you miss it,” she said. “I just hope people can enjoy watching it again on the video.” 
Contact Anna Boarini at aboari01@saintmarys.edu 
chitecture to design the facility. 
Tank estimates that construc­tion may take four months to complete. 
She said this new facility will be one of a kind. 
“There are experimental fa­cilities all over the country,” Tank said, “but no one has ever done one where you have all of the systems linked together. This makes it very different.” 
Tank said she is excited for the project to begin. 
“It’s totally new, totally inno­vative,” she said. 


Contact Mary Kate Nelson at mnelson8@nd.edu 
Beauty 
continued from page 1 
said. “Although the app was removed because people called it ‘blatantly racist,’ the app generated almost 80,000 likes, which goes to show that it was popular.” 
Advertisements are persua­sive in generating the use of these whiteness creams, Sapra get the girl, have hero status, get jobs and go to all the parties.” 
One thing that is not includ­ed in these advertisements, however, is the level of toxic­ity found in whiteness creams, Sapra warned. She said beauty comes at a cost when using these creams. 
“Mercury, hydroquinone and corticosteroids are typical sub­stances in these creams,” she said. “A Harvard researcher found mercury poisoning in groups of women and their chil­dren in Saudi Arabia, Pakistan and Tanzania and directly at­tributed the poisoning to skin bleaching creams.” 
Efforts to transform the color of skin are not the only methods used around the world to achieve “beauty,” Sapra said. She said people are known to undergo cosmetic surgery in order to at­tain more of a “Western” face. 
“There are surgeries hap­pening around the world where women are trying to achieve the ‘ideal female face,’” she said. “Women want the small, narrow and sharp-pointed nose that is a dominant trait among Western women.” 
Sapra concluded that the leg­acy of colonialism is one of the main contributors to this global­ization of beauty. 
“Certainly these surgeries and creams are complicated issues, but they seem to go back to co­lonial times in Africa and Asia,” she said. “Colonials would say that white people are smarter, more beautiful and more capa­ble of governing, and I believe these ideas are still permeating in postcolonial areas.” 

Contact Keelin McGee at kmcgee01@saintmarys.edu 
said. She said these advertise­ments send a message to their audience that lighter skin leads to social and economic mobility. 
“In ads for women, they tar­get modern, upwardly mobile women with themes that light­er skin will help them not only transform their complexion, but also their personality, marital prospects, jobs prospects, social status and earning potential,” she said. “Men with light skin are also portrayed as those that 






Obama beats opponents in early election poll 
SYRIA 



Two journalists killed in Syria 

WASHINGTON — A surging Rick Santorum is running even with Mitt Romney atop the Re­publican presidential field, but neither candidate is faring well against President Barack Obama eight months before Americans vote, a new survey shows. 
Obama tops 50 percent sup­port when matched against each of the four GOP candidates and holds a significant lead over each of them, according to the Asso­ciated Press-GfK poll. Republi­cans, meanwhile, are divided on whether they’d rather see Rom­ney or Santorum capture the nomination, with Newt Gingrich and Ron Paul lagging behind. It’s a troubling sign for the better-funded Romney as the GOP race heads toward crucial votes in his home state of Michigan, in Ari­zona and in an array of states on Super Tuesday, March 6. 
“I’d pick Santorum, because it seems Romney may be waffling on a few issues and I’m not sure I trust him,” said Thomas Steh­lin, 66, of St. Clair Shores, Mich. He thinks the Detroit-born son of a Michigan governor is facing a strong challenge from Santorum in his home state because of his tangled answers on the auto in­dustry bailout. 
Also, he says, there’s this: Romney, the self-described can-do turnaround artist of the cor­porate world and the troubled Salt Lake City Olympics, with his millions of dollars, has been un­able to vanquish his political op­ponents. 
“That may be the reason right there,” said Stehlin, a retired government worker and a Re­publican. “He spends lots of mon­ey and he doesn’t get anywhere.” 
Nationally, Republicans are evenly split between Romney and Santorum. The poll found 33 percent would most like to see Santorum get the nomination, while 32 percent prefer Romney. Gingrich and Paul each had 15 percent support. 
Romney’s fall from presumed front-runner to struggling es­tablishment favorite has given his opponents an opening as he tries to expand his support. His Republican rivals have stepped in claiming to be a more consis­tent conservative and viable op­ponent against Obama, and each of the last three AP-GfK polls has found a different contender bat­tling Romney for the top spot. But Santorum, the former Pennsyl­vania senator and abortion foe, has hit his stride at a key moment in the nomination contest. 
Santorum’s spike comes as satisfaction with the field of can­didates remains tepid and inter­est in the contest is cools. About 6 in 10 Republicans in the poll say they are satisfied with the people running for the nomina­tion, stagnant since December and below the 66 percent that felt that way in October. Only 23 per­cent are strongly satisfied with the field and 4 in 10 said they are dissatisfied with the candidates running, the poll found. And deep interest in the race is slip­ping: Just 40 percent of Republi­cans say they have a great deal of interest in following the contest, compared with 48 percent in De­cember. 
“It seems like in the last month or so everything’s just chilled out,” said James Jackson of Fort Worth, Texas, a 40-year-old in­dependent who leans Republi­can. “I just haven’t been follow­ing it lately.” 
Santorum remains Romney’s biggest threat. He won GOP con­tests in Iowa, Minnesota, Mis­souri and Colorado, stunning the GOP establishment that Romney has methodically courted since his first bid for the GOP nomina­tion in 2008. The poll suggested more people are getting to know and like Santorum, with 44 per­cent of all adults saying they have a favorable impression of him, compared with 25 percent in De­cember. The share with negative views has grown as well, with 42 percent having an unfavorable opinion of Santorum. 
Among Republicans in that time period, Santorum has shot from 37 percent to 70 percent fa­vorable. 
There’s evidence that Santo­rum’s comments about social issues may not have hurt him so far among women. 
The former Pennsylvania sen­ator has been unapologetic in his opposition to abortion and his concerns about working moms, women in combat and contra­ception — some of the many ex­amples he cites while making the case that he would draw a clear­er contrast than Romney against Obama. 
For all that, there’s little evi­dent gender gap between Romney and Santorum, the AP-GfK poll showed. Santorum, who made some of the comments while the poll was being conducted Feb. 16-20, runs even with Romney among both Republican men and women. And Republican women may be rallying to his defense: Seventy-five percent of GOP women have a favorable impres­sion of Santorum, compared with 66 percent of Republican men, the poll found. 

Associated Press 

BEIRUT — Syrian gunners pounded an opposition strong­hold where the last dispatches from a veteran American-born war correspondent chronicled the suffering of civilians caught in the relentless shelling. An in­tense morning barrage killed her and a French photojournal­ist — two of 74 deaths reported Wednesday in Syria. 
“I watched a little baby die today,” Marie Colvin told the BBC from the embattled city of Homs on Tuesday in one of her final reports. 
“Absolutely horrific, a 2-year old child had been hit,” added Colvin, who worked for Britain’s Sunday Times. “They stripped it and found the shrapnel had gone into the left chest and the doctor said, ‘I can’t do any­thing.’ His little tummy just kept heaving until he died.” 
Colvin and photographer Remi Ochlik were among a group of journalists who had crossed into Syria and were sharing accommodations with activists, raising speculation that government forces target­ed the makeshift media center, although opposition groups had previously described the shell­ing as indiscriminate. At least two other Western journalists were wounded. 
Hundreds of people have died in weeks of siege-style at­tacks on Homs that have come to symbolize the desperation and defiance of the nearly year-old uprising against President Bashar Assad. 
The Syrian military appears to be stepping up assaults to block the opposition from gain­ing further ground and political credibility with the West and Arab allies. On Wednesday, helicopter gunships reportedly strafed mountain villages that shelter the rebel Free Syrian Army, and soldiers staged door-to-door raids in Damascus, among other attacks. 
The bloodshed and crack­downs brought some of the most galvanizing calls for the end of Assad’s rule. 
“That’s enough now. The re­gime must go,” said French President Nicolas Sarkozy after his government confirmed the deaths of Colvin, 56, and Och­lik, 28. 
The U.S. and other countries have begun to cautiously exam­ine possible military aid to the rebels. U.S. Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton heads to Tunisia for a meeting Friday of more than 70 nations to look at ways to assist Assad’s oppo­nents, which now include hun­dreds of defected military offi­cers and soldiers. 
“This tragic incident is an­other example of the shameless brutality of the Assad regime,” 
U.S. State Department spokes­woman Victoria Nuland said of the killing of the journalists. 
In Saudi Arabia, the state news agency described King Abdullah scolding Russian President Dmitry Medvedev — one of Assad’s few remaining allies — for joining China in vetoing a U.N. Security Council resolution this month condemn­ing the violence. 
But even Moscow said the on­going bloodshed adds urgency for a cease-fire to allow talks between his regime and oppo­nents. 
Washington had strongly op­posed arming anti-Assad forc­es, fearing it could bring Syria into a full-scale civil war. Yet the mounting civilian death tolls 
— activists reported at least 74 across Syria on Wednesday — has brought small but poten­tially significant shifts in U.S. strategies. It remains unclear, however, what kind of direct as­sistance the U.S. would be will­ing to provide. 
The toppling of Assad also could mark a major blow to Iran, which depends on Damas­cus as its main Arab ally and a pathway to aid Iran’s proxy He­zbollah in Lebanon. 
“We don’t want to take ac­tions that would contribute to the further militarization of Syria because that could take the country down a dangerous path,” White House press sec­retary Jay Carney said. “But we don’t rule out additional mea­sures if the international com­munity should wait too long and not take the kind of action that needs to be taken.” 
The U.N. estimates that 5,400 people have been killed in re­pression by the Assad regime against a popular uprising that began 11 months ago. That fig­ure was given in January and has not been updated. Syrian activists put the death toll at more than 7,300. Overall fig­ures cannot be independently confirmed because Syria keeps tight control on the media. 
On Wednesday, the U.N. said that Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon would dispatch Valerie Amos, the undersecretary-gen­eral for humanitarian affairs, to Syria to assess the situation. No date was set. 



ISRAEL 


Israel approves plan to build houses in West Bank 


Associated Press 
JERUSALEM — Israel gave preliminary approval on Wednesday to a plan to build 600 new homes in a settlement deep inside the West Bank, a move that drew rebukes from the United Nations and Palestin­ians and threatened to raise ten­sions with the U.S. as the prime minister prepares to head to the White House. 
Israeli officials tried to play down Wednesday’s decision, saying construction was years away at best. 
But the timing of the move may further hinder already troubled Mideast peace efforts. It casts a shadow over a trip by Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu to Washington in March, in which he is expected to discuss Iran’s nuclear program and oth­er regional issues. 
The U.N.’s Mideast envoy, Rob­ert Serry, called the Israeli an­nouncement “deplorable” and said it “moves us further away from the goal of a two-state so­lution.” 
Speaking to reporters, State Department spokesman Mark Toner declined to comment about the announcement, but said the U.S. policy on settle­ment activity is clear. 
“We don’t believe it’s in any way constructive to getting both sides back to the negotiating ta­ble. And we want to see clearly a comprehensive settlement that delineates borders and resolves many of these issues.” 
Israeli-Palestinian peace talks have been stalled for the past three years over the issue of Jewish settlements. 
The Palestinians, who claim the West Bank and east Jerusa­lem for a future state, say there is no point negotiating while Is­rael continues to expand its set­tlements. Israel, which captured the areas in the 1967 Mideast war, says negotiations should begin without preconditions. The international community opposes all settlements. 
A low-level dialogue launched last month in Jordan failed to make any breakthroughs. On Tuesday, Jordan blamed Israel for the impasse, citing Israel’s “unilateral policies.” 
Israeli defense officials played down Wednesday’s decision, saying it was made by a low-lev­el planning committee under the control of the Defense Ministry. 
One official said the project was in the “embryonic” phase and would require “multiple stages of authorizations,” in­cluding approval by top leaders, that would take years to com­plete. 
The officials spoke on condi­tion of anonymity under minis­try guidelines. 
But Yariv Oppenheimer, direc­tor of Peace Now, a dovish group that opposes settlement con­struction, called it the biggest settlement construction plan in the West Bank since Netanyahu took office three years ago. 
Construction is to take place in Shiloh, a hardline settlement nestled in the heart of the West Bank. Peace Now claimed that Wednesday’s approval also in­cluded retroactive legalization of about 100 homes built without permits. Defense officials could not confirm the claim. 
“The government is giving a prize to building offenders and continuing the system by which every time the settlers build without permits, the govern­ment approves the construction and allows them even more con­struction,” Peace Now said. 
Palestinian spokesman Ghas­san Khatib said Wednesday’s approval “shows how Israel has no respect for the international community or international laws, while at the same time sheds a light on the ... lack of ef­fective actions by international community toward Israeli set­tlement policy.” 
Netanyahu’s office did not re­turn requests for comment. 



Romney, Santorum spar in debate 
Associated Press 
MESA, Ariz. — Primed for a fight, Mitt Romney and Rick Santorum traded fiery ac­cusations about health care, spending earmarks and fed­eral bailouts Wednesday night in the 20th and possibly final debate of the roller-coaster race for the Republican presi­dential nomination. 
With pivotal primaries in Arizona and Michigan just six days distant, Romney and Santorum sparred more ag­gressively than in past de­bates, sometimes talking over each other’s answers. 

Texas Rep. Ron Paul chimed in from the side, saying with a smile that Santorum was a fake conservative who had voted for programs that he supported then-Sen. Arlen There was another differ-now says he wants to repeal. Specter, who later switched ence, as well, in the form of Former House Speaker Newt parties and voted for the law polls that underscored the Gingrich acted almost as a Obama wanted. gains that Obama has made in referee at times. “He voted for Obamacare. If his bid for re-election. 
The most animated clash of you had not supported him, if An Associated Press-Gfk the evening focused on health we had said no to Arlen Spec-poll released Wednesday care. ter, we would not have Obam-found that Obama would de-
Santorum, surging in the acare,” Romney contended. feat any of the four remaining presidential race, said that Santorum was the aggres-Republican contenders in a Romney had used govern-sor on bailouts. hypothetical matchup. It also ment funds to “fund a feder-While all four of the Repub-found that the nation is show­al takeover of health care in licans on the debate stage op-ing more optimism about the Massachusetts,” a reference posed the federal bailout of state of the economy, the dom­to the state law that was en-the auto industry in 2008 and inant issue in the race. acted during Romney’s term 2009, Santorum said he had But for two hours, Romney, as governor. The law includes voted against other govern-Santorum, Paul and Gingrich a requirement for individuals ment-funded rescue efforts. had a different campaign in to purchase coverage that is “With respect to Gover-mind, their own race for the similar to the one in President nor Romney that was not the Republican nomination and Barack Obama’s landmark case, he supported the folks the right to oppose Obama in federal law that Romney and on Wall Street and bailed out the fall. other Republicans have vowed Wall Street — was all for it — After a brief lull, the cam-to repeal. and when it came to the auto paign calendar calls for 13 
In rebuttal, Romney said workers and the folks in De-primaries and caucuses be-Santorum, a former Pennsyl-troit, he said no. That to me tween next Tuesday, when vania senator, bore responsi-is not a principled consistent Arizona and Michigan have bility for passage of the health position.” primaries, and March 6, a care law that Obama won The debate had a different 10-state Super Tuesday. from a Democratic-controlled look from the 19 that preceded Romney is campaigning Congress in 2010, even though it. Instead of standing behind confidently in Arizona, so he wasn’t in office at the time. lecterns, the four presidential much so that his campaign He said that in a primary rivals sat in chairs lined up has not aired any television battle in 2004, Santorum had side by side. ads. 



page 8 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com Thursday, February 23, 2012 

INSIDE COLUMN 


Education in the arts 
Some of the most brilliant minds in the human race have mastered visual arts, but most modern students stop learning visual expression techniques after the clay snowmen they make in middle school. Leonardo Da Vinci Brandon Keelean used drawing to explore the human Graphics Editor form, and the late Steve Jobs often explained how a typog­raphy class he took in college helped him in his work at Apple. 
I am from Michigan. Our government passed legislation increasing the speci­ficity of requirements for high school graduation in 2006. The new law did not go into effect until the graduating class of 2011, so I was spared the strin­gent new requirements of four years of math and English and three years of history and science. My brother, how­ever, was not. These new requirements, and others like them around the nation, represent a movement away from arts education. 
I received an education in art start­ing at a young age. My parents sent me to art camp at the age of eight; I had the opportunity to take a number of arts classes before I came to Notre Dame and I have continued my arts education here. An education in basic visual communication methods is one that would benefit any student, regard­less of their intended career path. Let’s explore why. 
First, an understanding of drawing or modeling is an invaluable skill to communication. To explain a complex problem or method, the ability to sketch it out on a piece of paper or build a model that represents the solution can communicate faster than words. Like they say, a picture is worth a thousand words — and I challenge you to find a career path that does not require you to communicate. 
Second, even if you are not an artist yourself, you will likely work with an artist of one form or another at some point in your career. Design, illustra­tion and 3D modeling, among others, affect so many of the things we see in the world. Every ad, program, logo, picture and app you see was created by an artist. (Maybe it wasn’t exactly a good artist who created them, but they were created nonetheless.) When you are trying to articulate a concept to these creative professionals, it will help to have walked in their shoes. You will know what they have to do in order to accomplish what you’ve asked of them. 
Third, and perhaps most importantly, it gives you a way to express yourself. The catharsis that artistic expression can provide should not be taken lightly. Child psychologists sometimes ask children to draw in order to explain their feelings because visual expression is an instinctive way we communicate. Just like writing in a journal can help clear your thoughts, painting, drawing, pottery or any number of other artistic methods allow you to express what you feel. 
I cannot promise that by taking an art class you will become the next Da Vinci or Jobs, but you will probably enjoy it and it will definitely benefit you in your life and career. 
So, when you are considering what to take for your fine arts requirement, think seriously about the visual arts classes offered in Riley Hall. 
Contact Brandon Keelean at      bkeelean@nd.edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


A case for fair taxation 
We should tax the rich people more.  It makes sense, doesn’t it? You have just fallen into the trap. You have accepted the premise put on by liberals to separate a group of people, your fel­low Americans, Mark Easley and to treat them differently. Nega-Elephant in tively. It literally the Room is the same as saying we should tax African-Amer­icans more, or we should tax Jewish people more. It discriminates against them, creates class envy at the mini­mum and class hatred and bigotry at the worst. These are the same type of tactics used by socialists to spark failed and bloody communist revolu­tions across the world only decades ago. These are the same type of tactics used by racists and extrem­ists to eventually justify violence or genocide. It’s dangerous thinking.  
The problem we are facing is the large and unsustainable deficit the federal government has accumulated after a decade of intense spend­ing by both parties. For a short term solution, it’s easy to make a scapegoat out of the “wealthy.” Who are the wealthy, anyway? Are we talking about the top one percent like Warren Buffet and Bill Gates? Are we talking about the CEOs and senior executives of Fortune 500 companies? The fat cat Wall Street bankers? Or is it the successful small business owners who own a chain of successful restaurants or service pro­viders? 
The great thing about America is there are a lot of wealthy people among us. Most of them are self-made, reward­ed for the positive contributions they have made to society by our free market system. Yeah, you get the occasional sil­ver spooners and trust fund babies, the old money aristocracy, but they are far from the norm. In America’s meritoc­racy, most of us earn what we get. The rich don’t always stay rich. Wealth can be lost with poor decision making. In our country, success is something to be celebrated and emulated, not punished. Even if a rich person just sits on his/her money, it is likely in a bank or invest­ment that gets loaned out to others in order to potentially create more wealth and progress for society. Let me share with you the big, bad secret: Without rich people, we couldn’t get anything done. No new businesses, no great charities, and no new research came into existence without wealthy backers who risked their money to see financial returns and social progress.  
Demonizing the rich only makes them want to leave. They aren’t stupid people. If it is bad enough, they are going to pick up and move. And nobody wants to live in an economy where there isn’t enough wealth to drive wealth creation. That is what we call societal regression. 
People of means are not the problem; the politicians are the problem. Politi­cians manipulate the ignorant to pass blame to the innocent for their own personal gain, when it is actually they who cause the problem in the first place. Washington bureaucrats are on a money high with the taxpayers’ dime, racking up debts like there is no tomor­row. All our deficit troubles will go away if we can make real lasting cuts in our outrageous spending, without having to raise taxes on anybody. If you cut deep enough, you can even lower taxes. We haven’t had conservative fiscal policy for many years, and that is hurting us now. We need real tax reform, such as a flat tax, instead of gimmicks like the Bush tax cuts. This would even the play­ing field and let the upper, middle and lower classes of America coexist instead of being driven apart.  
All Americans should pay a fair share in taxes. However, if the system is inherently unfair, what is a fair share? Our tax code needs monumental reform in favor of simplicity and closed loop­holes. Then we might get a better grasp of who really is paying what into this country. 
Mark Easley is a senior computer science major. He can be contacted at measley@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 

LETTER TO THE EDITOR 


On Lenten sacrifice 
This morning, I read “Lenten Promises: A How-To Guide,” (Feb. 
21) by Ms. O’Donnell, and although I appreciate the reminder for Lenten sacrifice, I must respectfully dis­agree with a few points. 
The article’s first “how-to” is to “one-up your friends”. I deeply discourage doing so, as the Lenten season is not a contest. By viewing it as a competition (even for the inten­tion of giving up more), we shelter ourselves from the deep meaning and spirituality of Lent, and in­stead focus only on the physical and materialistic side. Lent should be used to become closer to Christ, and all actions should have Him as our motivation. 
The article continues, suggesting that we “make sure everyone knows” what we’re giving up. I had a conver­sation with a close friend last year who asked me why so many people went around telling what they were giving up. She pointed me towards Matthew 6:17-18, “But thou, when thou fastest, anoint thine head, and wash thy face; That thou appear not unto men to fast, but unto thy Father which is in secret: and thy Father, which seeth in secret, shall reward thee openly.” Our Lenten sacrifices 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“Energy and persistence conquer all things.” 
Benjamin Franklin 
U.S. author, inventor & politician 
should not be announced to all our friends, and definitely not Facebook or Twitter, as suggested, for everyone to see. Bishop Gilberto Fernandez (previ­ous auxiliary bishop of the Archdiocese of Miami, who passed away last Sep­tember) stated, “Our sacrifice is not intended to feed our pride, but to follow Christ more closely and serve those in great need.” On the other hand, I completely support having an account­ability partner for the Lenten season: someone who can be there for you and pray for you when struggling in your fast. 
The next suggestion: “Don’t give up something you need” is definitely a true statement, but the examples listed completely obscure the meaning of “need.” If you “cannot function without a morning cup of coffee/tea/Diet Coke,” Lent is the perfect time to rid yourself of this addiction. These things are absolutely not necessary; at least use this time to cut back on them. Ending the explanation with “your wallet will also thank you” brings about another point. The purpose of this is not to save money! Everything that we are commit­ting to accomplish during Lent should be solely for God. 
As for Sundays, we should defi­nitely not fast, as the Church explicitly declares Sunday as a day of feasting. However, this “Sunday free pass” is not permissible in all situations. If you are giving up a sin (such as pride, arro­gance, lust, etc.), you should not give yourself Sunday as a day off. Originally, Sundays were a time of feasting in con­trast with the major fasting that used to occur, but nowadays, very few truly fast during the whole season of Lent. It does not really apply if we are giving up a small specific food, such as chocolate. 
We need to truly view Lent for what is was meant to be, and when Eas­ter comes and our fasting is over, we should rejoice in our Lord’s resurrec­tion! We should not rejoice in the sweet taste of chocolate that we have missed for so long! 
So yes, give up something that will be difficult for you or strive to help out and give back to the community as Ms. O’Donnell states in her final point. Just make sure that your sacrifice is between you and God, and that you are doing it for God, not for other people. And when you struggle, do not underes­timate the power of prayer. 

Jake Bebar
 freshman Knott Hall Feb. 22 




WEEKLY POLL 
What are you giving up for Lent? 
Huddle candy Facebook stalking Super Smash Brothers Naps 
Vote by 5 p.m. on Thursday at 

ndscmobserver.com 


Thursday, February 23, 2012 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 9 

A case for increasing taxes on the rich 
Unprecedented inequality, a weak economy and rising deficits have pro­pelled the question over whether or not to increase taxes on the richest Ameri­cans to the forefront of the American political discourse. Based on America’s Adam Newman current and future fiscal situation, Scientia along with the Potentia Est growth in income inequality over the past 30 years, I will make the case for increasing taxes on the richest Americans. 
Even as the economy improves over the next decade, America faces massive deficits. While America can sustain high deficits temporarily dur­ing a weak economy, it eventually has to embrace deficit reduction through a combination of higher taxes and lower spending (economic growth can also help decrease the deficit, but it is very hard to predict the amount of growth certain policies will create). 
Most economists agree that America needs at least four trillion in deficit reduction to stabilize the national debt over the next decade. It is mathemati­cally possible to create an “all cuts” deficit reduction package. But many who promote deficit reduction with just cuts and no tax increases do not un­derstand, or simply ignore, the human cost of their decisions. By 2015, rough­ly half of all spending will come from the main drivers of the debt: Social Security, Medicare and Medicaid, the programs that provide for elderly, sick and poor Americans. Any major deficit reduction must come from reforms in these three programs. Changing how health care is delivered in America could reform Medicare and Medicaid without having seniors pay more, but these reforms are complex and politi­cally difficult. As a result, almost all current deficit plans will force elderly, poor and sick Americans to pay more for these programs and receive less in benefits. It is not a question of “if?” but “how much?” 

As political leaders contemplate the structure of deficit reduction, one trend cannot be ignored: the rising growth of income inequality in America. A recent report issued by the non-parti­san Congressional Budget Office (CBO) highlighted the disturbing increase in inequality for after-tax income growth between 1979 and 2007 (adjusted for inflation). The CBO found that the incomes of the wealthiest one percent of the population grew by 275 per­cent. The income of Americans in the wealthiest two to 20 percent grew by 65 percent. The income of Americans in the middle 21 to 80 percent bracket grew by 40 percent, and the income of Americans in the bottom 20 percent of income earners only grew by 18 percent. During this time, the aver­age tax rate for the highest 20 percent of wage earners declined from 27.5 to 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 


A Lenten proposal 
A great number of people in past years have been concerned about Notre Dame’s policy of not serving meat in the dining halls on Fridays during Lent. However, neither side of the argument ever addresses the fact that the dining halls are not doing enough to support the Lenten season. 
Everyone knows the meaning of Lent centers around giving up the most unhealthy food one currently consumes in order to become closer to Jesus’ experience leading up to his crucifixion and eventual resurrection. Yet each year as Lent rolls around, the dining halls only take away meat, and only on Fridays. How are Notre Dame students supposed to succeed in their Lenten promises if they are constantly faced with temptation? What are they to think of a Catholic institution that would ignore such a cornerstone of Lenten experience and expression? The only solution is for Notre Dame Food Services to stop serving anything unhealthy during Lent. The major food groups of sweets, desserts, frozen yogurt and bread should not be avail­able anywhere on campus. The dining halls and cafes should only offer fruit, vegetables and a few other options. Subway should eliminate meat, bread and cheese and Sbarro should be shut down permanently. 

This is a chance for Notre Dame to make up for all its past mistakes. This is a chance to right a wrong that has been crippling Notre Dame’s poten­tial. By eliminating every food-related temptation during Lent, the students of Notre Dame will finally be able to ful­fill their promises. Plus, spring break is coming soon. 
Cate Ryan

 senior Pasquerilla West Feb. 22 




Day of Man 
Dear Notre Dame community, 

Thank you for making this year’s Day of Man such a success. With your ef­forts, we were able to raise about 5,000 dollars for the South Bend Center for the Homeless this year. 
Your donations really showed solidarity with the homeless and we all thank you for your generous contributions. The point of this fund-raiser was to raise awareness about how the homeless struggle through the harsh winters with not much shelter and protection. Your donations are going directly to fighting this problem. 
Although the Day itself is over, donations will still be accepted throughout the month of February. Checks can be sent to Fr. John Conley C.S.C. at 100 Sieg­fried Hall, or directly to the South Bend Center for the Homeless at: Develop­ment Center for the Homeless, 813 S. Michigan St., South Bend, IN 46601. Once again Notre Dame, thank you for making this year’s Day of Man so successful. 
Johnny Dang

 sophomore Siegfried Hall Feb. 22 
25.1percent. 

At a time when the richest Ameri­cans have seen unmatched income growth, it is common sense that they should help soften the financial hit that the elderly, sick and poor Americans will take over coming decades. This is not a punishment of successful people or a call to end free enterprise, but simply part of a balanced plan to get America’s fiscal house in order. 
The best approach to increasing taxes on the rich would be to limit their tax expewnditures. Expenditures could be limited for the rich by taxing capital gains at ordinary income levels, limiting the tax exclusion for employer-sponsored health care benefits and limiting the deduction for mortgage in­terest. This method could raise revenue while allowing tax rates to stay the same (this is important because raising rates would discourage work). 
However, the power of special in­terests in protecting favorable provi­sions in the tax code makes this type of tax reform unlikely. As a result, the simplest way to raise taxes on the rich would be to let the Bush Tax Cuts expire for the wealthiest two percent of Americans (individuals with in­come over $200,000 and families with income over $250,000). This would increase the two highest marginal tax brackets, currently at 33 and 35 per­cent, to 36 and 39.6 percent, respec­tively, increasing revenue by roughly 700 billion over a decade. 
Many Republicans argue that letting taxes rise on these Americans would hurt small business owners (people who own businesses that file their business earnings as income taxes). While this claim has been used very ef­fectively politically, it is wildly exagger­ated. A report from the non-partisan Tax Policy Center projected that in 2011, 774,000 out of 36 million taxpay­ers who report business income would see a tax increase if the Bush tax cuts expired for the two highest marginal income tax brackets. This means that ending the Bush tax cuts for the wealthiest Americans would only affect two percent of small business owners. 
I am always very hesitant to embrace the language of “us versus them,” “American versus anti-Americans” or “one percent versus the 99 percent” because divisive language will never be able to unite Americans together to face the major fiscal challenges that lie ahead. So yes, let’s raise taxes on the rich, but only as a part of a “shared sacrifice” where everyone does their part. In the end, America rises and falls as one. 
Adam Newman is a junior                     finance major. He can be reached at anewman3@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 



Leprechaun Legion 
I want to applaud the article, “Legion Expands to Unify Irish Fans at Sport­ing Events,” (Feb. 20) written by Drew Pangraze in Monday’s issue. As a dedi­cated fan of all Irish athletic teams, I have seen a number of positive changes surrounding our teams directly sup­ported by the Leprechaun Legion. From basketball and hockey to soccer and volleyball, the Legion has taken the lead in unifying our student body in support of our entire athletic family and produced amazing results. No one can deny the wonderful job the Legion does with men’s basketball as our team consistently ranks among the national leaders in home winning percentage. 
Arguably one of the most memorable events of my years at Notre Dame took place during our upset victory over then-No. 1 Syracuse, and I thank our now nationally ranked men’s basketball team and the Legion for making that special day possible. The Legion’s cre­ativity and unyielding passion for sup­porting Irish athletics has helped take our athletic program to new heights, and it will only continue to grow with their new social media outreach initia­tive and expansion into other sports. 
The Legion’s record demonstrates its willingness to serve the students of Notre Dame, and I believe that we, in turn, should help expedite the process for their inclusion in all Irish athlet­ics. As we all know, no student athletic organization at Notre Dame is complete without a presence at football games, and dialogue with The Shirt Committee is exactly what the Legion needs. 
In a viewpoint published on Jan. 24, President Andrew Alea of The Shirt Committee claimed, “The Shirt Project today remains true to its initial mis­sion of being created by students, for students and supported by thousands of Notre Dame fans around the world.” With the Legion quickly emerging as the leading authority of the Notre Dame student section, including it in the design and mission of The Shirt ap­pears to be an ideal solution for allow­ing this accomplished group to bring its talents to Notre Dame Stadium, as well as spreading its name and influence across Irish Nation. 
The Leprechaun Legion and The Shirt expound the similar goal of unifying the Notre Dame student section, so why not unite these groups for the common good of all Our Lady’s students? Why not give the Legion an opportunity to do what it does best — help us win? I’m not saying The Shirt is flawed, but win­ning talks at this University, and no one can deny that the Legion wins, consis­tently. I have no doubt that if the Legion is allowed a greater presence at Notre Dame Stadium, with support from The Shirt, we will usher in an exciting new era of Irish athletics centered around the unity and dedication of our student athletes and unwavering support of our student body. 
Including the Legion in football would allow us to focus on more press­ing issues than how many times we play “Crazy Train” on third down. Personally, I’m thinking about mak­ing room for a crystal football in Coach Kelly’s office. 

Joe Peluso
 junior Morrissey Manor Feb. 22 


Thursday, February 23, 2012 




By COURTNEY ECKERLE 
Scene Writer 
“It’s no problem — I’m just sit­ting here, learning some songs on the guitar,” Indie-folk crooner Matt Costa said when I called him Tues­day afternoon. 
“I can’t give away my secrets,” he quipped before admitting he’s mess­ing around with “just some bossa nova stuff,” referencing a Brazilian style of music. “Stuff you always hear and you’re like, ‘Someday, I’m going to learn that,’ and today was that day.” 
Gearing up to record a new al­bum, Costa will be gracing the Leg­ends stage this Saturday night at 10 p.m. When I asked him why he would leave sunny Southern Califor­nia in the middle of winter to come to Indiana, he responded in true rocker fashion. 
“The thing is, when I first heard about it I thought I was going to Par­is and agreed to it. And they’re like, ‘No, you’re going to Notre Dame, the school,’ and I was like, ‘Aw, man’ — No, I’m just kidding. Notre Dame is a nice excuse to go play some songs, you know?” 
Costa is an inadvertent fan but a fan nonetheless of Notre Dame (the school) because of some childhood confusion on his part between a school in his hometown of Hunting­ton Beach, Calif., called “Mater Dei” and Notre Dame. In his defense, the two school’s logos are very similar 
— an ‘M’ instead of the Notre Dame ‘N’ ensnares the ‘D.’ 
“When I was a kid it was the first place when I wanted to go to school,” Costa said. “I don’t know why I be­came a fan of Notre Dame ... There’s a school right by called Mater Dei. I confused the two I think, but I end­ed up getting the Fighting Irish hat, and ever since then I’ve been a fan, and that’s true.” 
Currently gearing up to record a new album, Costa claims it will be different from the last one. 
“The last record [Mobile Chateau] was more of an experiment, trying out a lot of sounds that I heard for a long time. I just wanted to immerse myself in my songs and in that world for a little while, doing more of sort of a 60’s sound ... some psychedelic, not crazy psychedelic, but like Beach Boys and Zombies.” 
Costa has lots of ideas for the new album, but isn’t sure what type of inspiration will strike when he actu­ally sits down in the studio. 
“Some of the songs will be more complete stories and probably folk­ier, with more elaborate arrange­ments and ... prettier, maybe,” he said. “But I don’t even know — I’m about to go and do it pretty soon, so who knows once you get in there.” 
Recently Costa has been drawing from an unlikely muse in classical music: “I’ve been listening to a lot of different symphonies and com­posers and things like that. If I can convince my label to try to arrange an orchestra, then I would try to do that. They’re like, ‘Can’t you do that on GarageBand?’” 
Legends will be an intimate ven­ue for Costa, who has toured with acts like Jack Johnson (he is on Johnson’s label, Brushfire Records), Oasis and Modest Mouse. Costa said the craziest venue he’s played at was Hyde Park in front of 50,000 people with Johnson. 
“If 50,000 people wanted to come see me everywhere, I wouldn’t con­test to that, but I just like playing music, so any opportunity to play songs and see other musicians,” he said. “You know, that’s kind of the best thing about those big shows, I’ve gotten to play with people that I look up to a lot ... That’s kind of the coolest thing of doing those tours is seeing those guys play every night and seeing them work in the back­ground. You learn a lot from that sort of thing.” 
Costa has been touring for “eight or nine years,” and that has to get tiring, right? 
“I feel like a veteran in some ways,” he said, “because you feel like you have to roll with the punches in the sense that sometimes you have to eat beef jerky and peanuts when you’re at a road house. But I still feel like every tour is fresh because there [are] always new thoughts coming in the brain as far as inspiration. I always feel like I have something new to share with whoever. It’s ex­citing. It’s more like a conversation 
— ‘Oh, check this out,’ [and] bounc­ing that off of each other.” 
Music stemmed from his first love, skateboarding, which he start­ed around the same time he discov­ered guitar. His friends played an instrumental role in the develop­ment of both passions. 
“I started skateboarding and playing guitar when I was twelve,” he said. “I’d see my friends after school skating in the parking lot. Eventually somehow or another I came up to them and ended up chasing their skateboards around when they messed up on a trick and tried to ride it. Eventually, I saved up a bunch of lunch money and I bought a skateboard. 
“Then when I went to those kid’s houses, I realized they all had gui­tars too. Then it was the kind of thing where they’d put down the guitar and I’d play it and learn some Nirvana songs or whatever, and then I kind of continued down that path and started doing both those things.” 
But a decade ago, the choice be­tween hobby and profession was made for him. Costa was on track to become a pro skateboarder when he injured himself. While laid up for a year recovering, he started writing songs. 
“When I was 18 — I had sold my guitar actually. I traded it for a pair of shoes and a skateboard — I was skating heavily and I broke my leg. Then I think [about] two months before I broke my leg, I got a new acoustic guitar ... So I finally got an acoustic guitar just in time for a whole year laid up in bed, in pretty much a full leg cast. I started writ­ing songs. A friend had lent me a 4-track recorder.” 
It was the first time Costa felt con­fident in his skills, he said. 
“I could hear myself back and start laying things back on top of it, and all of a sudden it made sense ... It sounded good instead of just bouncing my voice off a guitar and a wall,” he said. “For me, that’s how it all started. Then I met a bunch of people who helped me out along the way. 
“It’s in the simple,” Costa said of good music. “The good thing about music is ... you could spend a lot of time writing a great story and put the simplest chords behind it. Or you can do the opposite. You can say one line and put a bunch of music behind it, and all of a sudden you’re taken someplace equally as good.” 
Now instead of trading guitars for skateboards, Costa surrounds him­self with them. 
“I’ve got so many guitars around my house, closets and outside and on the ceiling — for real, I’ve got one hanging off of the ceiling.” 
As for what he does when he doesn’t have a guitar in his hand, Costa said he has been culturing himself. 
“I’ve been working on my Span­ish recently, traveling around. I like to read, I like to go into nature and taking walks.” 
Costa added that another source of inspiration is his other, less dan­gerous hobby: eavesdropping. 
“I like to drive around and go to diners and hang out for a little while. See what I see; listen to other people’s conversations.” 
You’ve been warned. Look out for Costa at Nick’s Patio after the show on Saturday night and watch what you say. It might end up on his new album. 
As for what to expect from Sat­urday’s show, Costa said he likes to keep it simple. 
“I’m just going to be coming there and playing songs, a mix up of ev­erything that I’ve done so far,” he said. “[I will] probably play some new songs that I’ve been working on for the record.” 
Contact Courtney Eckerle at cecker01@saintmarys.edu 


On campus 
What: Matt Costa Where: Legends When: Saturday at 10 p.m. 
Thursday, February 23, 2012 



By MEGHAN THOMASSEN 
Viewpoint Editor 
“Antigona Furiosa” renews the ancient grief and pious fury of the Greek tragedy “Antigone” in light of Argentina’s “Dirty War” disappear­ances. The play is abstract and dia­logue-driven, but has a visual pres­ence so strong it’s almost visceral. As Antigona calls out for the burial of her brother, the cries of the mothers of those executed by the Argentinian government merge voices into a mov­ing furious dirge. 
For those of you unfamiliar with the plot of “Antigone,” the source of conflict is the decree from King Creon of Greece forbidding Antigone, daughter of Oedipus, from perform­ing the funeral rites for her brother Polyneices, who fell in battle against the state. 
After proclaiming her innocence based on a higher divine law than Creon’s word, Antigone is walled up and given a noose to hang herself if she so chooses. In essence, the trage­dy lies in her fate: She is unable to ful­fill her role as a living woman, with a husband or children, but is also un­able to join the ranks of the dead, just like her unburied brother. 
Herein lies the connection with the Argentinian kidnappings. Citizens considered too extreme by the Ar­gentinian government from 1976 un­til 1983 were abducted, questioned and disposed of without a trace. The alarming rate of disappearances spurred the mourning mothers to join together and publicly demand their children, dead or alive, be re­turned to them. The ambiguity of death or life and the aspect of with­holding grief creates a terrifying void in which pain and doubt fester all the worse. 
Anton Juan, a professor in the Department of Film, Theater and Television, directs the show. An in­ternationally recognized playwright and director, Juan has been knighted twice by the French government, the Chevalier de l’Ordre des Arts et Lettres and the Chevalier de l’Ordre National de Merit. 
“My goal is to transport audiences into other realities — painful realities — out of their comfort zones to have them see the world with fresh eyes,” Juan said. 
Despite their dependencies on a budget and other resources, the pro­duction team has developed creative­ly ever since the show was selected last year. 
“It allows you to have an aesthetic based on minimal demands … The concept becomes more essential to what the text wants to say rather than spectacle,” Juan said. 
But Juan still took every oppor­tunity to make “Antigona Furiosa” as visually compelling as possible. Inspired by Richard Serra’s “Tilted Arc,” the set is minimalistic and black, mimicking at the same time a swooping wave, a city wall and a pit of death. 

Props are distinctly missing from scenes which would appear depen­dent upon them, such as two gentle­men sitting down to tea, or women tending to their relatives’ corpses. The costumes consist of avant-garde unitards and veils, even further em­phasizing the idea of the unknown. 
“If you begin from an image and vi­sual expression and you get a sound sense of the body, it moves from the gut to history,” Juan said. “That’s the whole journey.” 
The play also masters a musicality in a vocal and physical sense. The di­alogue gains a pulse though the rise and fall of monologues and chants. Statements are often punctuated by foot stamps, crow calls and wailing. This play is disorienting in every as­pect, but the student actors perform with such earnestness, sincerity and classical awareness, the audience cannot help but be curious about what they have to say. 
The play features senior Stephanie Ruas as Antigona, whose brilliant unbridled exposition on pain carries the play through to the end. 
“The most challenging part for me was dealing with a script so far from realism,” she said. “Anton was coach­ing me to bring it to a classical level.” 
This is where “Antigona Furiosa” shines. Kevin Sarlo plays both Cre­on and the leader of the chorus and serves as the comedic relief to Anti­gona’s outrage. The chorus sporadi­cally mocks Antigona and her piety, but its mockery both amuses and dis­gusts. Their banter is witty and full of modern references even the least Greek-literate can appreciate, but its cacophonous laughter is sometimes so harshly timed, the audience might not know whether to laugh or cry. 
“I repeat ‘nothing’ over and over again. It’s one of my favorite lines in the show,” Sarlo said. 
Ruas said her favorite line was one featured later in the play. 
“’The living are the great sepul­chers of the dead,’ or something like that,” she said. 
The rehearsal process was both a challenge and a pleasure for Ruas and Sarlo. 
“I really enjoyed it; I got to work with new people,” Ruas said. 
The costumes were a source of mo­tivation for the entire team to hit the gym. 
“We’re literally throwing ourselves against the walls,” Sarlo said. “But we’re never offstage, so when you come to the theater, you make new friends.” 
As a second semester senior, Sar­lo’s experience performing in “Blithe Spirit” in 2010 spurred him to take advantage of his free time. 
“I’m having a lot of fun doing this show,” Sarlo said. “And I heard so many stories about Anton, I felt I knew him. He was knighted twice — impressive.” 
As for Ruas, her major in Film, Theater and Television is a reflection of her long-term interest in acting. 
“I had a class with Anton, and I was really interested in working with him,” she said. “We’ve been working with the representation of the ex­tremes, ways we can push people and ways we can ask questions of people.” 
Both Ruas and Sarlo said Juan wanted to make the Greek tragedy pointed and relevant. 
“He wanted to take it from the mi­crocosmic to the macrocosmic,” Sarlo said. 
“Antigona Furiosa” will be playing at Debartolo Performing Arts Center Feb. 23 to Mar. 4. General admission tickets cost $15. Tickets cost $7 for students. 
Contact Meghan Thomassen at mthomass@nd.edu 



On campus 
What: “Antigona Furiosa” Where: Debartolo Performing Arts Center When: Thurs. through Sat. at 7:30 p.m., Sun. at 2:30 p.m., Feb. 28 through March 3 at 
7:30 p.m., March 4 at 

2:30p.m. How Much: $15 for general admission, $7 for students 
Learn More: 
performingarts.nd.edu 
ELISA DE CASTRO | Observer Graphic 

SPORTS AUTHORITY 




Messi should move to EPL to be the best 
In every sport there are plenty — those who go beyond athlete and venture into the status of worldwide celebrity. 
Their aura escapes through the gates of the arenas and floods into the city that sur­rounds it. 
We see the Tom Bradys, the LeBrons, the Derek Jeters and know they represent much more than just the sport they play with their celebrity super-stardom. 
One defies the odds in sports today. 
He stands at 5’6” and weighs in at 150 pounds, perfect for a gymnast or maybe even a jockey. 
But Lionel Messi plays the world’s game for the world’s people, defying the odds every step of the way. 
Rather than being an athletic specimen since birth, Messi struggled with a growth hor­mone disorder which almost shelved his extraordinary career before it even started. 
Rather than signing a multi-million dollar signing bonus, Messi signed his contract with FC Barcelona on an extra nap­kin in a grungy bar. 
Rather than appearing like the others on the covers of GQ and Sports Illustrated, Messi conquers the cover of Time Magazine because he is that kind of a story. 
He transcends the celebrity athlete simply by being the underdog, the little guy who made it big. He is more than the usual unblemished, celeb­rity face of the sport. He is the sport. 
The striker averages an as­tonishing 0.71 goals per game in his career, in a game where one goal by both teams means a lot. 
The same guy who wasn’t supposed to even play profes­sional soccer has made 18 ad­ditions to the Barcelona trophy case, including five La Liga titles and three Champions League championships. 
Last season, Messi scored more goals than any La Liga player with 53 and looks to break the record again this year, as he already scored 42 with over 20 games remaining. 

And the world’s best player has done all this by 24, an age at which most players are barely hitting their prime. 
But Messi is not the greatest of all time yet. He must do two things to become the best: one radical, one plausible. 
First, the striker must improve on the international stage and win a World Cup. In the 2010 World Cup, Messi didn’t score a goal. 
And now for the shocker. 
For Messi to truly sur­pass Pelé, he needs to make the transfer to the English Premier League (EPL). By season’s end, he will add a few more trophies to his legacy and be Barca’s all-time leading scorer. What more can he do in La Liga? There are only a few games per year that matter in that league and they all consist of Barcelona vs. Real Madrid; the rest of La Liga would have trouble even making it in the EPL. 
Right now, Messi is what makes Barcelona the power­house it is. If Messi were truly the best, he would continue scoring at this record pace in any league, including the more physical Premier League where the world’s best compe­tition resides. 
With Manchester City, United, Tottenham, Arsenal, Chelsea and Liverpool all reg­istering as five-star squads, Messi would play the best de­fenses in the world (outside of Real Madrid, Barcelona and AC Milan) every week instead of Bilbao and Levante. 
And with the fanaticism that puts all American sports to shame, England is the best place for the world’s best. The Barcelona star has at least four years left in his prime, and with rumors of Ronaldo returning to the UK, Messi needs to make the move be­fore he is all that is left in La Liga. 
It seems sacrilegious to even think about pulling him from the Barca stripes, but imagine the competition. 
Don’t worry, all the Barce­lona fans will follow, because all the Barca jerseys you see are because of him. 
Go to a five-star EPL team and become the best Leo, just stay away from City, Totten­ham, Liverpool, Arsenal and Chelsea. 
Contact Andrew Gastelum at agastel1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority column are the views of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
PGA 


Woods, Els move on in WGC 
Associated Press 
MARANA, Ariz. — Luke Donald won’t be playing the 18th hole at Dove Mountain this year, either. 
Donald, so dominant in winning the Match Play Championship last year that he closed out every match before the 18th hole, became only the third No. 1 seed to lose in the opening round Wednesday in another pre­dictably crazy day on Dove Mountain. 
Ernie Els, who only got into the 64-man field when Phil Mickelson took his family on a ski vacation, delivered the biggest shocker in the first round with a 5-and-4 victory. 
“I don’t think it would have mattered who I played today. I just didn’t play well,” Donald said. “I struggled. I gave away too many holes and made too many mistakes. You can’t do that in match play against anyone, let alone Ernie.” 
Tiger Woods nearly found that out against Gonzalo Fer­nandez-Castano. 
Woods had to play left-handed in one of his three journeys into the desert. He trailed the Spaniard with four holes to play, and both of them looked beatable. That changed when Woods drove the par-5 15th green to win with a two-putt birdie, won the 16th with a par and then closed out the Spaniard with an 8-foot par putt for a 1-up win. 
“We both made our share of mistakes, there’s no doubt about that,” said Woods. “But somehow, I was able to move on.” 
That was the only objective in this World Golf Champion­ship, a single-elimination for­mat in which the only proper use of the word “upset” is the mood of the 32 guys who are headed home. 
Among them: 
U.S. Open champion Rory McIlroy won four straight holes on the back nine to seize control against George Coetzee. He was 2 up with two holes to play. Lee West­wood never trailed in his 3-and-1 win over Nicolas Col­saerts of Belgium. The test for Westwood comes on Thurs­day against Robert Karlsson, when he tries to advance to the third round for the first time. Martin Kaymer easily dispatched Greg Chalmers, while Steve Stricker outlasted Kevin Na. 
McIlroy and Westwood now have a chance to replace Don­ald at No. 1 in the world with a win this week. 
Donald will head home to Florida to shake off a poor start to his season. 


A year after becoming the first player to win money titles on the PGA and European tours, he was not a factor at Abu Dhabi or Riv­iera, and this the first time he’s had three straight events out of the top 30 since August 2009. 
“I’m not sure where to start,” Donald said. “I just didn’t play very well. It’s disappointing. I’ve been working really hard. To lose control of the golf ball like I did today is really frustrating, but I believe the hard work will start paying off soon.” 
Fernandez-Castano got some attention this week for saying Woods was “beatable” and not at his best. “He’s beatable, too,” Woods replied, and the way they played, both were right. 
Woods lost the opening two holes and looked as though he might fall 3 down until making a 10-foot par save. Woods won three of the next five holes, one of them with a 50-foot birdie putt, and that’s when the match became a case of give-and-take. 
Woods was on the verge of go­ing 2 up until he three-putted the ninth and Fernandez-Casta­no got up-and-down for bogey. Three holes later, Woods had to make a par to avoid falling 2 down. 
He wasn’t wild all the time, but it cost him when he was — a left-handed shot out of the desert on No. 2, too much club that sent him over the 11th green and into the desert. But he settled down right about the time the Span­iard began to struggle with the putter, missing putts inside 10 feet on the 15th and 16th holes that enabled Woods to take the lead. 
“I think if there was one day to beat Tiger Woods, this was it,” Fernandez-Castano said. “I didn’t take the opportunity. I missed a few shots. And of course, you can’t miss spots if you want to beat one of the greatest in history.” 
Next up for Woods is Nick Wat­ney, who had little trouble dis­posing of British Open champion Darren Clarke. Woods has not made it out of the second round the last two times he has played. 
Els moves on to play Anders Hansen, who beat K.T. Kim, 5 and 3. The Big Easy is in dire need of ranking points as he tries to get into the next World Golf Championship at Doral in two weeks, and tries to get into the top 50 by the end of March to avoid missing the Masters for the first time in nearly 20 years. 
He managed to escape Dove Mountain without talking about his big win. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The 
Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 

CLASSIFIEDS 
Six student rental for the 2012-13 school year. Extra nice, 3 year old 

FOR RENT house, one mile south of campus PERSONAL WANTED On This Day in History In 1992, the sixteenth at 330 Sunnyside Avenue. Three Olympic games were held in two student furnished suites with In 1821, the English poet John Keats Albertsville,France. common living area,hardwood was born. 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don’t 
WALK TO CAMPUS Great floors, granite, stainless Artist needed for children’s book/ On This Day in Music History go it alone. Notre Dame has many 
Specials! Studio, 1, 2, 3 appliances, 40¿ flat screen TV, program In 1896, the Tootsie Roll was cable, wireless internet, ADT resources in place to assist you. introduced to society. In 1952, guitarist Brad Whitford of If you or someone you love needs 
Bedroom ; Townhomes available. security. $3,600/month. Aerosmith was born. 
confidential support or assistance, 
(574) 272-8124 In 1945, the United States Marines 
please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819. For more information, visit ND’s 
Please contact Rob or Bob at raised the flag in Iwojima, Japan. In 1978, 
574-271-4060 or email robpryor@ website at: 

www.clovervillageapartments.com cressyandeverett.com In 1963, outfielder or Contact mkarle@alumni.nd.edu for Fleetwood Mac was awarded the bobdunbar@cressyandeverett.com pregnancysupport@nd.edu more information. Bobby Bonilla was born. Grammy for album of the year. 
Paape 
continued from page 14 
Carnevale’s shoulder, the fight­ing continued, with Paape con­trolling the match until the end of the round. 
The third round was consis­tent with the other two rounds. Paape was in charge the whole time and Carnevale had a lim­ited use of his right arm. The round finished with the unani­mous victory going to Paape 
Chris “Stubbs” Sarkis def. Evan “Heavy Duty” Escobedo 
The fight started with both boxers coming out aggressively, exchanging blows. Junior Chris Sarkis seemed to be gaining the upper hand, but with a strong punch, freshman Evan Escobebo brought him to a knee briefly. 
The second round began with Sarkis gaining the advantage, forcing Escobedo on the move for the first part of the round. Sarkis then got Escobedo against the ropes but Escobedo fought out of it with some strong jabs, ending the round well. 
Sarkis started the third round by forcing Escobedo up against the ropes twice with a storm of swings, but Escobedo fought them off with a few good combos. Toward the end of the round, Sarkis gave Escobedo a bloody nose with a right jab. From there until the end of the fight, Sarkis was in control, earning him the unanimous decision. 
Bart “The Guv’nor” Dear def. Ricky “Scooter” Neville 
Senior Bart Dear outlasted ju­nior Ricky Neville in one of the closest fights of the night. Neville controlled the early round of the fight with quickness despite being pushed to the ropes. 
In the second round, Dear con­tinued to push Neville against the ropes, but Neville continued to slip away and counter. 
In the final round, however, Dear started to land better punch­es as Neville started to tire out. 
The solid third round was enough to earn the split decision for Dear. 
Brian “Caesar” Salat def. David Fosselman 
Junior Brian Salat capitalized on his versatility, making adjust­ments throughout the match to beat senior David Fosselman. In the first round, both fighters trad­ed punches. Fosselman started off well with high activity and precise shots. 
Salat responded by coming out in the second round with more ag­gression. Salat broke down Fossel­man’s guard by working the body. 
Fosselman tried to swing mo­mentum back in his direction by increasing his aggression in the third round, but Salat finished off the fight by using his reach to win the exchanges. 
Salat earned the unanimous victory. 
Heavyweight 
John Rompf def. Sean “Too Tall” Lischke 
The first round demonstrated a contrast of styles as senior Sean Lischke had a lot of energy, while law student John Rompf preferred taking calculated shots when Lischke let his defenses down. Rompf landed a string of strikes and ended the round well with a strong right jab. 
Rompf continued the second round with the same strategy as he had in the first. He did not have much movement but made his hits count. Partway through the round Lischke landed a series of punch­es, but seemed to tire as the round came to an end. 
In the third round, Lischke backed Rompf up twice against the ropes, but Rompf jabbed his way out of it quickly. Then with a powerful right jab Rompf, contin­ued to be in control. Rompf won in a split decision vote. 
Daniel Yi def. Mike Voge 
Coming out aggressively, soph­omore Daniel Yi gained the ad­vantage and did not let it go. He was on the offensive much of the time, landing numerous blows. At the end of the round, Yi almost knocked freshman Mike Voge over with a right hook. 
The second round looked much the same as the first round, with Voge on defense much of the time. 
Early in the third round, Yi threw a strong string of punches, dazing Voge. The ref had to count Voge back in, and shortly after, Yi brought blood to Voge’s nose with a right jab. Yi ended the fight with a right hook, causing Voge to stumble. At this point the ref stopped the contest, giving the victory to Yi. 
Nate “Catdome” Arnold def. Rob “The Professor” McKenna 
Law student Nate Arnold showed off his strength in a con­vincing victory against sophomore Rob McKenna. Arnold used an un­usual combination of overwhelm­ing power and quick hits to end the match early. 
In the first round, despite a good guard from McKenna, Arnold’s strength pushed McKenna back. Arnold also landed a devastating right hook that showed good ac­curacy. 



Then in the second round, Ar­nold finished off the match with a high energy level. Arnold’s con­stant activity left McKenna with little opportunity to respond. Arnold’s dominance forced the referee to stop the contest in the second round despite McKenna’s will to continue. 
Brrian Ellixson def. Tony “Happy Puppy, Bulging Biceps” Jones 
In the last fight of the night, law student Brian Ellixson out matched freshman Tony Jones with strength and technique. Ellixson kept up a high-energy rate that did not allow Jones any time to respond. 
Ellixson started the fight with aggressiveness that forced Jones to back away, but good footwork allowed Ellixson to still land a few punches. 
Ellixson began the second round with quick combinations that forced the referee to pause the fight. After the pause, Jones used precision to counter Ellix­son’s aggressiveness. 
In the third round, Ellixson overwhelmed Jones by pres­suring him into the corners. El­lixson’s quick punches made it difficult for Jones to escape the corner. The referee stopped the contest in the third round to advance Ellixson into the final round. 
Contact Mike Monaco at jmonaco@nd.edu, Peter Steiner at psteiner@nd.edu, Ernst Cleofe at ecleofe@nd.edu, Brian Hartnet at bhartnet@nd.edu and Isaac Lorton at ilorton@nd.edu 
NBA 




Lakers beat Mavs 96-91 as season hits midpoint 

Associated Press 
DALLAS — Andrew Bynum had 19 points and 14 rebounds as the Los Angeles Lakers hit the halfway point of their sea­son with a 96-91 victory over the defending NBA champion Dallas Mavericks on Wednesday night. 
Bynum had a huge smile on his face when he grabbed a re­bound of his own miss and was fouled trying to go back up with 
5:29 left. He made both free throws to break an 82-all tie and finally put the Lakers (20­
13) ahead to stay after 13 ties and 10 lead changes. 
Pau Gasol had 24 points for the Lakers, while Kobe Bryant and Derek Fisher each had 15. 
Dirk Nowitzki had 25 points and 12 rebounds to lead the Mavericks (21-13), who played their final game before the All-Star break. Vince Carter had 20. 
After the Mavericks failed to take advantage of a turnover by Bryant when Jason Terry gave it right back, Bynum was underneath the basket with the ball. But he instead passed it to Fisher in the left corner for a 3-pointer. Bynum was smil­ing broadly when he ran and hugged Fisher when Dallas called timeout. 
Fisher’s driving short jumper with 3:41 left ended a 9-0 run that made it 89-82. The Lakers held on despite missing six con­secutive free throws after that. 
Bryant missed two free throws with 37 seconds left. After Nowitzki’s tip-in got the Mavericks within 93-91, Gasol was fouled and missed both of his free throws with 20 seconds left. 
But Matt Barnes grabbed the rebound and was quickly fouled. He ended the Lakers’ charity-line slump with two free throws. 
Bynum had one more big play in that closing streak, with an alley-oop dunk from Bryant with 1:05 left for a 93-86 lead. 
The Lakers have one more game before the All-Star break, on Thursday night at Oklahoma City. 
Lamar Odom missed the game for the Mavericks against his former team. Odom was the NBA’s Sixth Man of the Year for the Lakers last season and won three NBA championship rings in seven years in Los Angeles. 

Skelly took definitive control 
Joe 
of the match in the final round, 
unleashing an aggressive attack continued from page 15 that Kraska could not counter. 
Skelly continued to attack high punches. and landed a few headshots, de-
Neither fighter showed any spite Kraska’s efforts to evade signs of fatigue in the third Skelly’s punches. round, as they attacked each oth-As a result of his continuous er with a series of wild punches. aggression, Skelly took the fight Joe landed a demonstrative right by unanimous decision. hook to Cooley’s head, knocking him into the ropes with mere Brian “Not Chris” Salvi def. seconds left in the fight. Joe won Dan “Beardo” Winnike the fight by unanimous decision. Law student Brian Salvi 
earned the early victory against Ryan “Dirty” Alberdi def. Zach sophomore Dan Winnike with “Dallas” Harris strong technique. 
In a bout of juniors, Ryan Al-Salvi opened the fight by land­berdi defeated Zach Harris in ing strong punches that over-one of the few fights stopped whelmed Winnike’s defense, before the third round. Alberdi but his long windup also left started the fight with great pre-him open to Winnike’s counters cision as he broke down Harris’ when Salvi missed his mark. guard, using his reach to get Salvi’s aggressiveness in the around the block and opening second round helped push Win-Harris up for straight punches. nike into the corners and let 

In the second round, Alberdi Salvi unleash powerful hooks. kept up his momentum, work-Late in the round, Salvi landed ing on Harris’ body and opening a combination that caused Win-him up once again. After Alberdi nike to fall. landed multiple combinations, In the third round, Winnike the referee stopped the contest tried to come back but Salvi was handing Alberdi the victory in opportunistic, choosing key mo-the second round. ments to counter strongly. After right hook, Salvi knocked Ianiro unanimous decision. 204 lbs. 
one such precise counter, the to the mat. At this point, the ref-Jeff “Little Bear” Ulrich def. referee stopped the fight to give eree called the match, awarding Brian Tower def. Matt Enzwei-Reid “The Captain” Paape def. Luke “Cool Hand Luke” Murphy Salvi the victory. the victory to Salvi. ler Tom “Son of Ted” Carnevale 
Junior captain Jeff Ulrich used In a tight fight between two The first round started off methodical quickness to trump Nick “The Lancaster Disaster” Frank “The Tank” Conway def. aggressive fighters, senior Bri-with junior Reid Paape on the sophomore Luke Murphy. Grasberger def. Hank “The John Mapelli an Tower earned the victory offensive. Partially through the 
Throughout the match Ulrich Tank” Duden Sophomore Frank Conway de-against junior Matt Enzweiler. round, senior Tom Carnevale used his quickness to dodge In a slow, strategic match, se-feated sophomore John Mapelli In the early round, Tower was dislocated his right shoulder and Murphy’s punches and move into nior Nick Grasberger outmatched with quickness and intensity. successful by pushing forward the medical staff on hand had to counter. sophomore Hank Duden in close Conway started the fight with and keeping Enzweiler on the pop it back into place. Despite 
In the first round, Ulrich’s spaces to earn the victory. a high work rate and moved Ma-ropes. the injury, Carnevale continued strategy was successful as he The first round featured both pelli into the corners. As the fighters became more and finished off the first round. could easily set up for the coun-fighters trading blows, with In the second round, Conway comfortable, the match was Carnevale’s shoulder injury ters. The second round contin-Grasberger getting the better of kept up the same energy, trying decided as both fighters en-put him on the defensive. He ued to see Ulrich dance around the exchanges late in the round. to break down Mapelli’s defense croached on each other’s space. used his right arm sparingly the ring and start to land bigger Grasberger showed off his quick with accurate punches. In the second round, Enzwei-and tried to avoid the flurry punches. punches in the second round Mapelli responded better in ler seemed to be the better of of Paape’s punches. Carnevale 
The third round almost saw while the two fought in tight the third round, starting to use the two in close spaces. But in tried to throw a punch with his a momentum shift as Ulrich quarters. his length and jab to keep Con-the last round, Tower improved right arm when a gap opened up, slipped in the ring and seemed In the third, Duden started way away. Mapelli finished the in the short ranges and landed but his shoulder again separat­to limp after the fall. But Ulrich to become more aggressive and match strong after the change in cleaner hits. ed. After another break to reset made up for limited mobility attack Grasberger’s body. But strategy, but it was not enough Tower narrowly snatched the with more precise hits, earning Grasberger keyed in on his lack as Conway still earned the victory in a split decision. see PAAPE/page 13 him the victory by unanimous of defense and landed more head decision. blows. Grasberger earned a trip 
to the semifinals after a unani­180 lbs. mous decision. 
Joe “Send in the Troll” Garrity 188 lbs. def. Eric “P-Rex” Palutsis 
Senior Joe Garrity controlled Adrian “Yo Adrian” Moreno def. the pace of the fight in the first Tim Crowley round, getting in the first punch-In this battle of seniors, both es and moving freshman Eric boxers came out swinging, at-Palutsis around the ring. Palut-tacking each other with a wild sis responded with a series of series of punches to open the quick jabs, but Garrity mixed first round. Tim Crowley used a in several punches and forced strong left hook to drive Adrian Palutsis toward the ropes. Moreno toward the ropes, but 
Garrity continued to impose Moreno managed to land a few his will in the second round, us-upper body shots on Crowley. ing a flurry of low body shots and The second round saw both an intense right hook to Palut-fighters display moments of sis’ head to force the freshman dominance. Crowley came out against the ropes twice during with aggression and landed sev­the round. eral high jabs that drove Moreno 
Palutsis displayed a strong into the ropes. Moreno, however, performance in the final round, responded with a strong recov­as the lanky lefty threw in a se-ery, driving Crowley back to the ries of low body shots and hooks center of the ring and landing a to stop Garrity in his tracks. hard punch to Crowley’s mouth. His efforts were not enough to Moreno took control in the fi­overcome Garrity’s early perfor-nal round, using his height ad­mance though, as Garrity won vantage to move Crowley against the fight by unanimous decision. the ropes. Crowley landed a 
few shots to Moreno’s head, but Connor “The Skellator” Skelly Moreno countered with a strong def. Steve “Kraska, Steve” series of low body shots. Kraska This strong final round helped 
Senior captain Connor Skelly Moreno win the match by unani­started off the fight on the at-mous decision. tack, landing several upper body shots on junior Steve Kraska. Chris “Not Brian” Salvi def. When Skelly attempted to land a Carl Ianiro high jab, however, Kraska coun-In the first round, senior Chris tered with a right hook to Skel-Salvi came out swinging, gaining ly’s head, knocking Skelly to the the upper hand quickly and put-ground. ting sophomore Carl Ianiro on 
Both fighters put in impres-defense much of the time. Ianiro sive showings during an evenly was only able to land a few solid contested second round. Skelly punches in the opening round. started the round by landing nu-The second round was not merous headshots, but Kraska much different than the first, ex-recovered to pin Skelly against cept for Salvi’s intensity. Halfway the ropes at one point. through the round with a strong a flurry of headshots early in 




Somers 
the second round, forcing him onto the ropes at one point. Fes­continued from page 16 sler nearly knocked Hlavaty to the ground with a quick jab, but ropes. Hlavaty returned to mix with a In a very evenly-fought fight, few more upper body shots as Somers won in a split decision. well as a right hook to Fessler’s 
head. Garrity “Biscuit” McOsker def. The final round saw both Josh Whelan fighters land punches at differ-
The freshman Somers came ent points. Fessler went on the out firing on all cylinders in a attack to begin the round and wild first round, using his lon-connected on some lower body ger reach to force the senior shots, but Hlavaty displayed Dupont into the ropes. Dupont success in attacking with mul­countered with a strong display tiple headshots. of his own, using numerous With power and determina­high jabs to force Somers into tion, Hlavaty won the fight by the corner. unanimous decision. 
Dupont looked to take control early in the second round, pum-158 lbs. meling Somers with an array of high body shots. Somers kept up Greg Cunningham def. Mark his aggressiveness to recover, Felder swinging wildly at Dupont and In a tight contest, senior Greg landing a few headshots. Cunningham did enough in the 

The final round saw both box-big moments to defeat graduate ers go at each other in a high-student Mark Felder. The first Sophomore Nick Yulan came one point. His performance was down. Late in the round, Choe energy battle. Dupont landed a round started off slow with nei-close to stealing the match, not enough to overcome Leicht’s responded by landing a big powerful shot to Somers’s head ther boxer landing a solid hit. but a big third round was not strong two rounds though, and right hook that caused Lester to and engaged him in an intense Late in the round though, Cun-enough to defeat junior Joey Leicht won by unanimous deci-topple once again. sequence of jabs along the ningham finally landed a series Kim. sion. In the final round, Choe ropes. of punches that pushed Felder In the first, Kim used his sealed the win by coming out 
In a very evenly-fought fight, to the ropes. length to keep Yulan away from 165 lbs. with aggression and keeping Somers won in a split decision. The second round was a con-his body. Kim continued to use Lester off balance. Lester was 
tinuation of the early first round his jab in the second to push Dan Griess def. Chris LaCosta knocked down a final time, the Joel “Hashtag” Hlavaty def. with both exchanging punches. Yulan back, jumping on Yulan Both boxers displayed re-referee called the fight in the Andrew “Fess the Mess” Fes-Felder finally broke through as he backed away. markably high energy levels in third round giving Choe the vic­sler with a strong punch that opened In the final round, Yulan re-the first round, as they went af-tory. 
The sophomore Hlavaty be-Cunningham’s guard. sponded in a big way. Kim left ter each other with several wild gan the fight with a strong ef-The third was another even down his guard and Yulan series of punches. Though both Dallas Bunsa def. Steve “One fort, driving the senior Fessler match until Cunningham land-capitalized with a series of fighters landed several punch-Man” Wandor toward the ropes in a matter ed a couple of combinations quick jabs. Yulan started to es, senior Chris LaCosta dished Junior Dallas Bunsa earned of seconds. Fessler responded to seal the win. Cunningham duck under the jab and close out a few more successful shots the unanimous victory by with a quick recovery, striking earned the close victory in a the distance, which left Kim in the first round. matching his junior Steve Wan-Hlavaty with an intense upper split decision. unprepared. Yulan dominated The fighters continued their dor’s strategy.  body shot and moving him into the third and Kim left almost aggressiveness in the second Despite Wandor backing the corner late in the round. Joey Kim def. Nick “El Toro” dazed. round, with neither taking a away from Bunsa’s aggressive 
Hlavaty attacked Fessler with Yulan But the third round did not clear-cut advantage. LaCosta attack, Bunsa landed a few solid offset Kim’s success in the first began the round on the at-punches in the corners. two as Kim won in a split deci-tack, landing a few headshots When Wandor came out ag­sion. on sophomore Dan Griess, but gressively, Bunsa responded 
Griess recovered by hitting with quick punches in the close Sean “Dark Side of the Moon” LaCosta with a strong left hook spaces. Wandor tried to finish Mullen def. Peter “Ye Ye” and moving him against the the fight with more intensity Teneriello ropes on one occasion. but Bunsa still was able to push 
In a bout between two se-With an intense two rounds Wandor into the ropes, earning niors, neither boxer was able concluded, the pace of the fight himself the unanimous victory to establish control early on, as slowed considerably in the final and a trip to the semifinals. the first round saw few punches round, as both boxers displayed hit their targets. Mullen went on signs of fatigue. Griess estab-171 lbs. the attack for much of the first lished his presence in an early round but was unable to capi-attack, landing upper body Patrick Spittler def. Pat “The talize with any major blows. shots on LaCosta. Hit Man” Bishop 
The second round saw an In a close fight, Griess won by The first round largely set the impressive display of sparring split decision. tone for the remainder of the in which both fighters landed fight, as it was an exhibition some powerful punches. Mullen Alex “El Gatito Loco” Oloriz of strong defenses. Junior Pat began the round by throwing a def. Alex “Goodness” Grace Bishop went on the attack for few headshots, but Teneriello Despite being a few inches the majority of the round, but countered with a headshot that shorter than MBA student Alex senior Patrick Spittler largely briefly knocked Mullen to the Grace, junior Alex Oloriz estab-fended off his jabs. ground. lished his presence in the first After playing the role of de-
Both fighters showed little round, swinging wildly at Grace fender for the first round, Spit-sign of slowing down in the fi-with a series of rapid shots. tler came out swinging for the nal round, but Mullen came out Oloriz targeted Grace’s lower second round, mixing in a flurry to take the advantage. After body with a flurry of punches, a of upper body shots. One head-taking a few initial shots from strategy that would continue for shot left Bishop with a bloody Teneriello, Mullen went on the much of the fight. nose, which would persist for attack, landing a variety of Grace came at Oloriz with a the remainder of the match. headshots to keep Teneriello on series of upper body shots to Bishop made a strong last-his heels. commence the second round, gasp attempt in the final 
For his final round efforts, but was mostly unable to take round, throwing the majority of Mullen won the fight by unani-control of the match. Oloriz punches in the round. Spittler mous decision. moved Grace into the corner continued his defensive prow-
and added a few headshots ess though, utilizing his speed Danny Leicht def. Tim “Tim-to his numerous lower body to get away from Bishop’s at-bow Slice” Kissling punches. tempts. Spittler won the fight by 
In a matchup of Dillon Hall Grace landed a right hook to unanimous decision. residents, the junior Leicht went Oloriz’s head to begin the third on the attack for the majority round, but Oloriz countered by Jake Joe def. Bryan Cooley of the first round, successfully assailing Grace’s lower body Neither boxer had much of an landing powerful uppercuts on with a quick series of punches advantage in the first round, the senior Kissling to take con-that Grace was unable to de-as they both were largely un­trol early. fend. able to land punches. Junior 
Leicht picked up right where Oloriz won the bout by unani-Jake Joe attempted to use his he left off in the second, throw-mous decision. longer reach to land headshots, ing a hard upper body shot that while freshman Bryan Cooley left Kissling wobbling toward Inoh “Lights Out” Choe def. displayed quickness in evading the corner. Leicht added a few Murphy Lester several big punches. more uppercuts to his attack In a fight that saw both fight-Joe controlled both the offen­and successfully forced Kissling ers and the referee fall, senior sive and defensive fronts in the into the corner, continuing to Inoh Choe persevered against second round though, throwing control the tempo of the match sophomore Murphy Lester. Both in high jabs and knocking Cool-despite a height disadvantage. sides started the fight with solid ey onto the ropes. Cooley went 
Kissling made his response hits as each fighter was knocked on the attack at different points, in an even final round, land-down twice in the first round. but Joe fended off most of his ing upper body shots and mov-In the second round, Lester ing Leicht against the ropes at caught Choe as he let his guard see JOE/page 14 



Will “The Thrill” Peterson def. ters. 

Seim 

Willie O’Laughlin The second was more of the Sophomore Will Peterson, a same, with Power connecting continued from page 17 defending champion, was in with some left jabs and Brogan 
complete control in his first fight countering. Each fighter had no real outbursts, the final of the year after getting a first-spurts of furious punching, but stanza was a different story. round bye. He began by landing neither could gain a definitive Seim came out on the attack big shots to the head but senior edge. and connected with punches Willie O’Laughlin hung in there Both boxers again came out to the head. Frego hung in and landed some punches of his aggressively to commence the there and managed to land own. final stanza. Brogan ducked some shots of his own, but The two O’Neill residents and countered many of Pow­Seim’s aggression was enough came out in round two look-er’s best efforts. Brogan then to land him the win by unani-ing to gain the advantage. snapped off some left jabs be­mous decision. O’Laughlin increased his ag-fore connecting with a power­
gressiveness, but Peterson was ful right hook. Power, however, 142 lbs. content to wait for opportuni-turned it around and managed 
ties to counter. Peterson landed to land some strong punches, Nick “Bronco” Bortolotti three straight combinations which were enough to earn him def. Charles “Charlie” Lee to the head, which seemed to the win by split decision. 
The bout got underway with swing the fight in his favor. quick punches from junior The final frame saw Peterson Ben “Danger Zone” Eichler Charles Lee and senior Nick work O’Laughlin all around the def. Tighe “One Tough Son of Bortolotti. With his quick ring. The senior emptied the a” Beach and potent punches, Borto-tank and connected on some Sophomore Ben Eichler took lotti knocked down Lee twice punches of his own. In the end, control of the fight right from in quick succession. The first though, Peterson won by unani-the beginning, landing multiple round ended with Bortolotti mous decision, advancing one punches to the head just sec-holding a clear advantage more round in defense of his onds into the bout. thanks to his strong combina-title. Senior Tighe Beach tried to tion of jabs and hooks. gain some momentum by going 
Lee made an effort to start 148 lbs. on the attack, but Eichler made the second round strong, but him pay, as he landed a strong Bortolotti continued his cam-Kevin “The Commissioner” series of punches. paign and landed yet another Ortenzio def. Alex Calderon Eichler capped the fight with Hemington had moved Choe The freshman Somers came knock down. The third knock-At the referee’s whistle, the a hard left uppercut, which left into a corner, but Choe coun-out firing on all cylinders in a out caused the referee to end bout commenced with both ju-Beach dazed and unable to con-tered with a continuous on-wild first round, using his lon­the bout 45 seconds into the nior Alex Calderon and senior tinue. The referee ended the slaught of right and left hooks to ger reach to force the senior second round. captain Kevin Ortenzio entering fight in the first round, giving Hemington’s head. Hemington Dupont into the ropes. Dupont 
Bortolotti, who received a the fray quickly. While Calder-Eichler the victory. was not afraid to go on the at-countered with a strong display first round bye, will move on on held a slight advantage to be-tack, though, and stayed in the of his own, using numerous to the semifinals after the gin the match, Ortenzio quick-154 lbs. match with his fearlessness.  high jabs to force Somers into quick fight. ly gained it back by trapping The fast pace continued in the corner. 
Calderon against the ropes and Sunoh “What is This? I don’t a more even third round un-Dupont looked to take control John “The Forgetful House-landing mighty jabs. Ortenzio Even” Choe vs. Calvin Heming-til a pause by the referee to fix early in the second round, pum­cat” Garvin def. Kevin “Kat asserted himself quickly with ton Hemington’s bloody nose. Af-meling Somers with an array of Daddy” Katalinic his one-two jabs, but Calderon The bout between the sopho-ter the pause Hemington came high body shots. Somers kept up 
Sophomore John Garvin stayed in the frays, landing a mores from O’Neill Hall com-running after Choe, who stayed his aggressiveness to recover, displayed his power and skill few punches to Ortenzio.  menced with Sunoh Choe land-calm and countered, eventu-swinging wildly at Dupont and right at the bell by landing a Ortenzio displayed his stam-ing quick hooks on Hemington. ally knocking Hemington to the landing a few headshots. flurry of punches on freshman ina in the second round, not While Hemington stayed in the ground. In a unanimous deci-The final round saw both box-Kevin Katalinic. After a series letting up on Calderon with a fray, Choe continued to connect sion, Sunoh was proclaimed the ers go at each other in a high-of strong punches, Garvin flurry of punches. Both box-on blows. Near the end of the winner and earned a trip to the energy battle. Dupont landed a forced Katalinic into a corner, ers looked strong, but Orten-round, Hemington countered semifinals. powerful shot to Somers’s head and the referee paused the zio used his footwork to move with a strong left hook, gaining and engaged him in an intense contest. The round ended the Calderon around the ring.  back some ground.  Keegan “Unicorns and But-sequence of jabs along the way it started — with a strong The third started out evenly, Choe initiated the second terflies” Somers def. Andrew performance from Garvin. but Ortenzio, who often dodged round with potent jabs. Soon “The King of Sting” Dupont see SOMERS/page 15 
Katalinic began the second and then fired in return, con-round better than the first nected on a few strong punches by avoiding some of Garvin’s in a row, causing the referee punches and landing a few to pause the round.  After the of his own. But the patient pause both boxers traded blows Garvin would wait for an op-at a furious pace, but in the portunity and then land a end, with his quick, strong jabs, jab on Katalinic. The round Ortenzio defeated Calderon in a ended with Garvin connecting unanimous decision. on both right and left hooks, taking advantage of Katalinic Casey “Man Beast” Allare def. dropping his gloves below his Eric “Squirrel” Tommarello head.  Junior Casey Allare initiated 
The tussles in the third the fight with his left and right round were similar to those in jabs, but freshman Eric Tom-the first — combinations from marello returned fire. The first both boxers in the middle of round ended with Allare con-the ring. Katalinic gave a val-necting on four strong jabs to iant effort through all three Tommarello’s head, giving Al-rounds, but Garvin’s accura-lare the slight edge after the cy and power of his punches first. gave him the clear advantage. The second round began again 
Garvin prevailed in a unan-with strong punches from the imous decision. junior. Tommarello continued 
his efforts, but Allare’s blows to Nick Rowek def. Chris the head of Tommarello put him “Heavy Hands” Hinman on top after two rounds. Allare 
The opening round was fair-was patient in his attacks and ly even as both boxers landed was able to move Tommarello punches early on. Law student around the ring at will.  Hinman and junior Rowek The final round was reminis­then both showed the ability cent of the first two, but while to block shots to the head be-Tommarello showed his stam­fore Rowek managed to land a ina, Allare stayed on top with few to close out the frame. potent punches. After a pause 
In the second round, the to take care of Tommarello’s two fighters came out drilling bloody nose, Tommarello came each other in the head to start running out of the gate and con-the stanza. Hinman then tried nected on two strong punches. to gain the upper hand by go-There was not enough time for ing on the attack, but Rowek a comeback though, and Allare stood strong and landed some prevailed in a unanimous deci­counters. sion. 
The final frame began in the same fashion as the previ-Ryan “Ho-Cro Heart” Power ous one with the two boxers def. Joe Brogan landing punch after punch. The Fisher residents were Rowek seemed to gain control evenly matched throughout the of the fight using a combina-bout, with senior Ryan Power tion of jabs and hooks and ul-landing some punches to begin timately won by unanimous the round, but freshman Joe decision. Brogan deployed strong coun-



SMC BASKETBALL 



Belles prepare to face Calvin in tournament 
By PETER STEINER 
Sports Writer 
After losing to No. 5 Calvin twice in the regular season, the Belles hope the third time will be the charm when they square off against the Knights tonight in the first round of the MIAA conference tournament. 
Despite two double-digit loss­es at the hands of the Knights (15-1, 23-1 MIAA) earlier this year, Belles’ coach Jenn Henley has faith in her team’s ability to get the victory this time around. 
“I believe in our team very much,” Henley said. “I think it’s hard to play anybody in this league three times. We are going to be very familiar with Calvin. They do have home court advan­tage, but at the end of the day it’s tournament time, so anything can happen.” 
To defeat the Knights, the Belles (9-7, 13-12) will rely upon the play of seniors Kelley Mur­phy, Patsy Mahoney, Jessica Centa and Maggie Ronan. Mur­phy and Mahoney both average about 14 points per game, plac­ing them in the top five in scor­ing in the MIAA. According to Henley, the seniors’ experience of playing in the MIAA confer­ence tournament three times before will be an advantage. 
“It helps a lot [to have seniors with experience in the post­season],” Henley said. “They’ve been there before. They know what to expect and they’ll lead us through this.” 
With only one loss on the sea­son, Calvin enters the game as a formidable opponent. In ad­dition to finishing this year’s regular season at the top of the MIAA, the Knights also took home the MIAA tournament crown last season. 
Much of Calvin’s strength comes from junior forward Carissa Verkaik, who leads the MIAA in both scoring and blocked shots. Controlling the impact Verkaik has on the game will be a deciding factor in the Belles’ success tonight, Henley said. 
“We have got to find a way to shut down Verkaik,” Henley said. “She is the heart of their team. She averages almost 20 points and 10 boards a game and can block anything. We’ve got to find ways to limit her touches offensively, and we’ve got to find ways to score while she’s not in the paint.” 
Just  this  year,  the  MIAA  
switched  to  a  new  conference  
tournament  format  in  which  

only the top four teams make the postseason instead of the top eight. While it was more dif­ficult to make the cut, the Belles are now only one game away from the championship game. 
“This is what we’ve worked for all season long . to get into the tournament and get a chance to compete this week,” Henley said. “We have done that, so we are ready. We had a good game on Saturday and now we are just focused on Thursday night.” 
The Belles will tip off on the road against the Knights tonight at 7:30 p.m. 
Contact Peter Steiner at psteiner@nd.edu 


Bouts 
continued from page 20 
Tony “Lucky” Lucisano def. Andy Fausone 
The fight between junior Tony Lucisano, who had a first round bye, and fresh­man Andy Fausone began with Fausone moving Luci­sano into the corner, where Fausone landed a few strong punches. The round contin­ued as a drawn out tussle, as both fighters avoided each other’s punches. Strong punches from Fausone closed out the first as he trapped Lucisano in the corner again. 
The second round got un­derway when Lucisano at­tacked and connected on a few blows to Fausone’s head. But soon the fight was back on even ground with both fighters landing right and left hook combinations. 
The final round started again at a furious pace. Though Fausone would trap Lucisano against the ropes and in the corner, Lucisa­no was still able to return fire with strong jabs while against the ropes. 
Even though Fausone made strong attacks, Lucisano pre­vailed in a split decision with his more powerful punches. 
Joe “Sweet Cheeks” Decker def. Dan Collins 
Both boxers came out of the gates throwing and dodging punches. Law stu­dent and captain Dan Collins started to connect on some counters after slipping some of Decker’s jabs, but Decker soon recovered and managed to block some of Collins’ head and body shots. Decker then got Collins on the ropes and connected with a few punch­es to close out the first round. 
Round two opened up with both boxers landing headshots. The southpaw Decker soon gained the upper hand in the fight by connecting on some strong right hooks. 

Collins began the final frame by throwing some good punches near the ropes, but Decker de­flected some of Collins’ best at­tempts. 
Decker maintained the status quo in the end to close out the fight, winning by unanimous decision. 
“Tough As” Niels Seim def. Mark Frego 
The fight opened up unevent­fully as both fighters kept their distance and looked for chanc­es to attack. Junior Niels Seim then got Frego on the ropes briefly, but both fighters re­turned to their game of dodg­ing and ducking. Toward the end of the opening frame, the freshman connected with some headshots. 
Seim opened the second round by trying to get his opponent on the ropes, but Frego escaped and the two avoided engaging one another. Seim then con­nected on some punches to the head and ducked Frego’s coun­ters. After two rounds, neither boxer seemed to have separated himself from the other. 
While the first two rounds saw few flurries of punches and 


see SEIM/page 16 



Grant 
continued from page 20 
can keep this going throughout the tournament — the Big East and NCAA tournament. We’re just playing well. It’s how we of November and December, of getting better for New York City … in the Big East tournament. We still can get better.” 
The Mountaineers jumped out to a 17-11 lead in the first half before Brey was assessed a 
technical foul during the second media timeout. 
“I don’t re-
want to play every day.” Brey said the Irish, who clinched their sixth straight 20-win sea­son Wednes­ “We talked about, even during the tough times of November and December, of getting better for New York City … in the Big East tournament. We still can get better.”  ally ever get many [techni­cals] … Did it get our guys going a little bit? Maybe,” Brey said. “It got the build- 
day, have de­ ing going a lit­ 
veloped into a special team that can still  Mike Brey Irish coach  tle bit I think, so maybe it was help- 
improve as it  ful from that  
prepares  for  standpoint.”  
the final three  The  Irish  
games of the  return  to  ac- 
regular  sea­ tion at Madi­ 

son heading into postseason son Square Garden when they play. take on St. John’s on Saturday 
“I’m really proud of our at noon. group,” he said. “We really went after it … We talked about, Contact Andrew Owens at even during the tough times owens2@nd.edu 





Maday 
continued from page 20 
as they still have a lot of work to do if they want to have home court advantage in the CCHA playoffs and make the 16-team NCAA tournament field. The approaching end of the regu­lar season has cranked up the pressure on Notre Dame as it searches for crucial points, which has forced Maday to adapt his leadership style in order to keep the team steady. 
“I’ve definitely tried to lead by example through a time like this, but you’ve got to be a little more vocal because guys are trying to listen a little more,” Maday said. “I’ve kind of added that to my leadership reper­toire. I’m not known for being a vocal leader, but I’ve been try­ing to do that a little more. The guys are listening, and I really, truly believe we’ll work our way out of this.” 
After four years in a Notre Dame uniform, Maday and his classmates will play their last regular season series this 


Doubles 
continued from page 20 
ship this year.” 
The pair has gone 5-2 on the season, dropping matches only to Maryland and Tennessee. That record puts them just be­hind sophomore Brynn Boren and freshman Sarah Toti of Tennessee and junior Mallory Burdette and sophomore Ni­cole Gibbs of Stanford. 
The top ranking comes as no surprise to the seniors them­selves, who have had their sights set on success all sea­son. After losing in the second round of the National Indi­vidual Indoor competition Nov. 3, Frilling said that she and Mathews have both been look­ing to prove their worth. 
“A little revenge after the fall season would definitely be sweet,” Frilling said. 
Despite the loss, the tandem still excelled in the fall season, and Mathews said she hopes to build upon that success in the spring half of the season. 
“We want to pick up where we left off,” she said. “We want to keep improving on all of our dual matches through the spring season.” 
Frilling, reigning Big East Player of the Week, said her standards are high for what she and Mathews wish to ac­complish. 
“We’re looking to be All-weekend against Michigan State. It wouldn’t seem that the team would need any extra mo­tivation for such a huge series, but the Irish plan on bringing a little more to send Maday and the rest of their seniors out in style. 
“As an underclassmen, [se­nior day] is just as important for us,” Gerths said. “It’s a great way to honor the seniors, to get a win and to work as hard as you can to give that to them, just as a small payment for how much they’ve done for us.” 
And if the Irish find them­selves needing to fight back again on senior night, the rock of the team will be there once again. 
“I think it’s up to me as a leader,” Maday said. “If I don’t stay poised and confident and keep hope for the rest of the year, I don’t know how the rest of our team can. So I’ll do the best I can. I’m really excited about this weekend, and I think the rest of the team is, too.” 
Contact Jack Hefferon at wheffero@nd.edu 
Americans at the end of the season,” Frilling said. “We want to hopefully have a great regular season in doubles ac­tion.” 
To improve their doubles play, Frilling said she and Mathews have been focusing on the smaller parts of their game in order to put more wins under their belts. 
“We’ll take it match by match, focusing on the little things,” Frilling said. “The lit­tle details will give us success later in the season.” 
Mathews said that she is also impressed with the other Irish doubles teams who, de­spite having been rearranged several times this season, have found success. 
“We have great doubles teams,” she said. “We have some people really stepping up in practice and in their perfor­mances.” 
Mathews added she and Frilling will continue to work on teamwork as they enter the heart of the spring season. 
“We need to be more ag­gressive at net in our doubles play,” Mathews said. “We need to make sure we make solid returns and set one another up.” 
The seniors will keep those things in mind as they re­turn to action Friday at home against Indiana. 


Contact Katie Heit at kheit@nd.edu 
out there every day, but it’s nice the North Carolina Invite on Sat-

Wright to see how much they love soft-urday and Sunday against Penn ball and how that was us when State, North Carolina and Min-
continued from page 20 we were little.” nesota. 
The Irish return to the dia-

But there are other less en-mond this weekend as they look Contact Laura Coletti at viable responsibilities of the to right the ship, competing in lcoletti@nd.edu position, especially calling an even balance of balls and strikes during practice. 
“It’s my least favorite thing about catching,” Wright said. “Trying to help the pitch­ers when they are throwing makes the batters kind of mad, so you have to have the right balance.” 
Though Notre Dame (1-4) is off to a rocky start, Wright is trying to reestablish her­self as Notre Dame’s go-to player behind the plate. She started 56 games in 2010 as a sophomore, calling the pitches for then-junior Jody Valdivia, who finished as Big East Pitcher of the Year. In two starts so far this season, she has recorded nine putouts and a perfect fielding percent­age. 
“She is playing like she’s got nothing to lose, and it’s always nice to see a senior playing like that,” Irish coach Deanna Gumpf said. “She’s not playing with a chip on her shoulder, but with a new sense of drive and determina­tion.” 
Along with their athletic endeavors, Wright and her teammates are active philan­thropically during their free time. They routinely perform community service by visiting schools and putting on soft­ball clinics. 
“These clinics are awesome because it reminds you of why we play softball,” Wright said. “[The girls] love the game so much and they are all so ex­cited to be there and to get better, and we all use that as a kind of inspiration. Some­times we can take the game for granted because we are 



WILL SHORTz 
EUGENIA LAST 


HOROSCOPE 
CROSSWORD 





EXPND JONATHAN REPINE 
DAVID L. HOyT 


JUMBLE 
JEFF KRUNEK 

THE LONDON EXPRESS ALEx GRISWOLD and LEE HAGGENJOS 




Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 

Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 

Make checks payable to The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556

 Enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year


 Enclosed
 is $75 for one semester 


Name ____________________________________________________ Address __________________________________________________ City ____________________ State___________ Zip______________ 

Thursday, February 23, 2012 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 20 
MEN’S BASKETBALL 






Striking gold 
Irish ride dominant second half to 71-44 victory over West Virginia 
By ANDREW OWENS 
Associate Sports Editor 
It had never been done before in school history. It was un­imaginable when they had an 11-8 record in mid-January. But a nine-game Big East winning streak has become a reality for the Irish after a 71-44 win over West Virginia on Wednesday. 
Notre Dame (20-8, 12-3 Big East) buried West Virginia (17­7, 7-7) with a 20-4 run to start the second half, a stretch that gave the Irish a 50-32 lead. 
“When you have a chance to put somebody away, this group has shown a cruelty to go for the jugular,” Irish coach Mike Brey said. “That’s what I really love about us, and I think that can really help us in March.” 
Notre Dame shot over 61 per­cent on the evening on 27-of-44 shooting, including a 9-of-16 mark from behind the arc. 
“When we’re home we always knock down threes,” junior for­ward Jack Cooley said. “Some of us weren’t shooting well in practice, so by the law of aver­ages we’re going to shoot well in the game. Once we tightened up [on] getting offensive rebounds, we knew we could run away with this game, and that’s what happened.” 
Irish sophomore guard Jer­ian Grant fueled the offensive attack with 20 points on 8-of­11 shooting and a 4-of-5 mark from beyond the arc. 

“Jerian … was almost figur­ing out tonight how good he is,” Brey said. “He’s an excep­tional talent who’s growing up still, and I’m thrilled with his improvement and his develop­ment and really his overall con­fidence. He was going for the jugular tonight, and he has that in him.” 

Grant said he and the team realized how good they could be after their defeat of then-No. 1 Syracuse on Jan. 21, the vic­tory that started the current nine-game winning streak. 
“We’re playing well right now,” he said. “We hope we 

see GRANT/page 17 
ND SOFTBALL 



Catcher provides leadership 
By LAURA COLETTI 
Sports Writer 
Between planning her wed­ding and working for a public relations firm in San Diego, Irish senior catcher Kristina Wright will be busy after grad­uation. But there are still a few more things left to accomplish on the senior’s athletic to-do list before that time comes, includ­ing bringing a national champi­onship to Notre Dame — a per­fect graduation gift to herself. 
“[A national championship] is our ultimate goal this year, and we work hard every day to get there,” Wright said. “I want to spend time and have fun with the girls on the team. I want to have a good year and play well.” 
Wright, who was reluctant to play catcher when her high school coach first tried her out at the position, now relishes any chance she has at throwing out a player trying to steal a base. 
“It’s such a rush and it’s the best feeling when you know you were faster than the runner,” she said. 

see WRIGHT/page 18 
HOCKEY 



Maday anchors Irish during rough stretch 
By JACK HEFFERON 
Sports Writer 
February has not gone accord­ing to plan for Notre Dame, as it has scored just six goals over six games and lost its last five con­tests in the month. In the face of adversity, though, the team has been able to turn to senior cap­tain Billy Maday as the team’s rock, keeping the young Irish squad on track to achieve its goals. 
Maday has been one of Notre Dame’s elite players through­out his entire career, but he has preferred to let his play doing the talking. Over the course of the season, the right winger has gradually evolved into his role as captain. 
“It’s been a big learning ex­perience for me,” Maday said. “Being able to wear a letter has been a tremendous honor for me. I’ve been learning throughout the year, what works and what doesn’t, and I put a lot of respon­sibility on myself to lead guys in the right direction. It’s had a lot of impact on me, and I want to see this team do well.” 
On the ice, Maday has been a bright spot in an Irish offense that has had a tough time find­ing the net. He ranks among the team’s top five in goals, assists, points and power play goals, and his five-on-three tally was the only goal Notre Dame man­aged all weekend. According to his teammates, Maday is one of the squad’s elite players in all facets of the game. 
“He does all of the little things,” sophomore center Da­vid Gerths said. “He’s always the one that’s prepared to play, prepared for any situa­tion. He always works as hard as he can. He takes the body, he makes smart plays with the puck and stuff like that. But he also plays a bigger role. He’s the guy we want to put out on the ice.” 
But for all he does on the ice, Maday may not make his most important contribution to the team until he gets back into the locker room. While he may not be the most vo­cal leader, Maday is always a willing sounding board and source of advice for the team’s 17 underclassmen. 
“Billy’s great on the ice, but as good as he is on the ice, he’s an even better guy off the ice,” Gerths said. “He’s a great captain and a great leader. He’s one of those guys that you don’t have any problems going to talk to him about problems that you’re having on the ice, 

see MADAY/page 18 
BENGAL BOUTS 



Quarterfinal bouts take place 
By MIKE MONACO, PETER STEINER, ERNST CLEOFE, BRIAN HARTNETT and ISAAC LORTON 
Sports Writers 
133 lbs. 
Jack “Rico Suave” Lally def. James “Golden” Doan 

At the referee’s whistle, the bout between junior captain Jack Lally and senior James Doan got underway with quick punches from both sides. 
Lally was clearly on the at­tack, landing a flurry of punch­es to Doan’s body and head. While Doan connected on a few swings, Lally’s right hook and strong uppercuts gave him the advantage after the first round. 
As the second round started up, Lally landed powerful left jabs to the face of Doan.  Doan continued his efforts, but Lally’s quick footwork and combina­tions gained him an even bigger advantage after two rounds. 
Doan started the third round with renewed energy, but soon Lally reasserted his dominance. In the end, Lally defeated Doan in a unanimous decision, pro­pelling the junior one more round toward defending his title. 


see BOUTS/page 17 
ND WOMEN’S TENNIS 


Senior pairing experiences success 
By KATIE HEIT 

Sports Writer  
The doubles team of senior  
captains Shannon Mathews and  
Kristy Frilling has seen its fair  
share of success this season, ris­ 
ing to No. 3 in the International  
Tennis Association rankings.  
Mathews and Frilling, who have  
been doubles partners for two  
consecutive seasons, have both  
been ranked individually over the  
course of their collegiate careers.  
Mathews, who is currently No. 39  
in the country, said that she and  
her partner are looking to make  
their final year at Notre Dame  GRACE KENESEY/The Observer  
see DOUBLES/page 18  Irish senior Shannon Mathews hits a shotsweep of Missouri and IPFW on Jan. 22.   during Notre Dame’s  



