
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


NDAA partners with schools 
By NICOLE MICHELS 
News Writer 
Notre Dame added two Catholic elementary schools in Florida to the Notre Dame ACE Academies (NDAA) program. The two schools — Sacred Heart of Pinellas Park and St. Joseph of Tampa — will be the program’s newest partners. 
Christian Dallavis, direc­tor of NDAA, said the program conducted a feasibility study to determine which schools in the Diocese of St Petersburg would have the greatest potential for growth. 
“We want to do two things: increase the number of kids that enjoy the benefits of the education offered at these two schools, and ensure that the schools are providing educa­tion of the highest possible quality,” Dallavis said. 
Dallavis said the program chose these two schools after focusing on areas with mecha­nisms like parental choice pro­grams, vouchers and tax cred­its for low-income families to send their children to private schools. 

see ACE/page 4 


Nuns fight social issue 
Group raises awareness on human trafficking in hotels 

By CAITLIN HOUSLEY 
Saint Mary’s Editor 
When it was announced that the Super Bowl would take place in Indianapolis this year, a group of nuns at Saint Mary’s got excited — not because of the football game, but because of the op­portunity it presented. 
Sr. Ann Oestreich and nuns from 11 congregations across Indiana and Michigan saw the close location of the Su­per Bowl as an opportunity to raise awareness about hu­man trafficking. 
“Usually when there’s a major sporting event in a city, trafficking incidents go up,” Oesteich said. “So, at sport­ing events like the Olympics or the World Cup, there’s al­ways a lot of organizing to keep the incidents of traffick­ing down.” 
Oestreich, co-chair of the Coalition for Corporate Re­sponsibility for Indiana and Michigan (CCRIM), said the group works to improve the 


Students travel to Super Bowl 
By ANN MARIE JAKUBOWSKI 
News Writer 
The sports world’s eyes will turn to Indianapolis this Sun­day for the Super Bowl XLVI, which will feature a rematch between prominent East Coast teams the New England Patriots and the New York Giants. 
Several students plan to make the short trip to Indianapolis and participate in Super Bowl festivities before the game be­gins Sunday evening. 
Freshman Kayla Polcari said she and her sister, senior Annie Polcari, decided to spend the weekend in Indianapolis after they received tickets to the Su­per Bowl as a surprise gift. 
“The best dad in the world surprised me with them,” she said. 
Seniors Christina Carson and Michael Oliver said they are also driving to Indianapolis with a group of friends to ex-


see SUPER BOWL/page 4 
Super Bowl ads utilize social media outlets 
By CHRISTIN KLOSKI 
News Writer 
This year, advertise­ments for the Super Bowl XLVI will captivate audi­ences around the country in a new way. 
Professor Robert Wil­liams, assistant profes­sor of marketing at Saint Mary’s College, said this year’s advertisements will be interactive with the use of social media. 
“Social media has been the game changer for Su­per Bowl ads,” Williams said. “The companies will receive quick feedback to the ads this way.” 
Williams said compa­nies are trying increase their accessibility to con­sumers. Some will use the “AdMeter,” an application on Facebook, to track the receptiveness of viewers to company ads, he said. 
Williams said compa­nies use this information in preparations and de­signs for future ads and products. 
Due to these changes, the cost of running ad­vertisements during the Super Bowl has increased by 16.7 percent since last year, he said. 
“It will cost $3.5 million dollars for one 30-second spot to run during the Su­per Bowl this year,” Wil­liams said. 
The rising cost in run­ning time, however, dem­onstrates strength in the United States’ economy, he said. 
see ADS/page 4


social and sustainability is­sues in companies within which they invest. Their cur­rent focus is on hotels. 
“A lot of the times, traffick­ers can come into hotels and operate out of there without being noticed,” Oestreich said. 
Oestreich said the coalition teamed up with enforcement officials, the attorney general, people who own safe houses and people doing work with 
see TRAFFICKING/page 3 
Hall hosts annual DanceFest 
By AUBREY BUTTS 
News Writer 
Welsh Family Hall will bring together dance groups ranging in style from swing to hip-hop this weekend in its annual signature event, DanceFest 2012. 
Junior Anna Gorman said the goal of DanceFest is to highlight the performing arts culture at Notre Dame. 
“The DanceFest started as a way to showcase dance groups on campus because not too many are aware they exist or find them in­teresting,” Gorman said. “We have dancers on cam­pus who are absolutely phe­
nomenal and deserve  more  
attention  than  they  cur­ 
rently receive.”  

DanceFest will take place Friday and Saturday at 7:30 
p.m. in Washington Hall. The show will feature num­bers from Dance Company, TransPose, Project Fresh, the Pom Squad, Troop ND, the Irish Dance Team and Swing Club, along with a few group performances 
see DANCE/page 4 

INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER Play opens at SMC page 3 u Viewpoint page 6 u Snoop Dogg performs at Fever page 8 u Men’s basketball hosts Marquette page 16 
page 2 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u DAY-TO-DAY Friday, February 3, 2012 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT IS YOUR FAVORITE TYPE OF FACIAL HAIR? 

www.ndsmcobserver.com P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 Editor-in-Chief Douglas Farmer Managing Editor Business Manager Sarah Mervosh Jeff Liptak Asst. Managing Editor: Adriana Pratt Asst. Managing Editor: Chris Masoud News Editor: Sam Stryker Viewpoint Editor: Meghan Thomassen Sports Editor: Allan Joseph Scene Editor: Maija Gustin Saint Mary’s Editor: Caitlin E. Housley Photo Editor: Pat Coveney Graphics Editor: Brandon Keelean Advertising Manager: Katherine Lukas Ad Design Manager: Amanda Jonovski Controller: Jason Taulman Systems Administrator: William Heineman Office Manager & General Info (574) 631-7471 Fax (574) 631-6927 Advertising (574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu Editor-in-Chief (574) 631-4542 dfarmer1@nd.edu Managing Editor (574) 631-4542 smervosh@nd.edu Assistant Managing Editors (574) 631-4541 apratt@nd.edu, cmasoud@nd.edu Business Office (574) 631-5313 News Desk (574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com Viewpoint Desk (574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com Sports Desk (574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com Scene Desk (574) 631-4540 mgustin@nd.edu Saint Mary’s Desk chousl01@saintmarys.edu Photo Desk (574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com Systems & Web Administrators (574) 631-8839 Policies The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College.  Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Douglas Farmer. Post Office Information The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 and additional mailing offices 024 South Dining hall Notre Dame, IN 46556-077 The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved.  
TODAY’S STAFF News Sports Nicole Toczauer Chris Allen Jillian Barwick Megan Finneran Bridget Feeney Vicky Jacobson Graphics Scene Elisa De Castro Carrie Turek Photo Viewpoint Kirby McKenna Amber Galik  
CORRECTIONS The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so we can correct our error.  
HIGH 45 LOW 34 



Ryan Quillard  Jiatai Zhang  Cam Roberson  Alyson Grillot  Sam Ganser  Alex Stembaugh  
senior  freshman  sophomore  sophomore  freshman  freshman  
Dillon  Dillion  Fisher  Badin  Farley  Welsh Family  
“Chinstrap  “Nose hair.”  “Chinstrap.”  “The Luke  “Chinstrap.”  “Walrus.”  
with mustache,  Dixon.”  
because I can’t  
connect.”  

Have an idea for Question of the Day? Email obsphoto@gmail.com 


OFFBEAT 
Entire town, except for one resident, wins lottery 
SODETO, Spain — Back in December, the tiny Spanish village of Sodeto collective­ly won a major stake in the annual $950 million Span­ish national lottery. Today, the village of farmers and construction workers is en­joying a minimum payout of $130,000 per resident. 
And yet for all of the new wealth making its way around Sodeto, one villager came away empty-handed. Costis Mitsotakis, a Greek filmmaker who moved to the village for a woman, is the only resident of Sodeto who did not purchase a ticket. Mitsotakis says he is no longer with the woman and now lives in a barn he is restoring just outside the village. 

Mr. Mitsotakis said it would have been nice to win. But he has benefited nonetheless. He had been trying to sell some land without much success. The day after the lottery a neighbor called to say he would buy it. The next day another neighbor called. But Mr. Mitsotakis refused to get into a bidding war. “This is a small village,” he said. “You don’t want bad feelings.” 
China bans palm reading of toddlers to determine IQ 
BEIJING — China has banned kindergartens in a northern province from of­fering palm-reading tests that the schools had claimed could predict toddlers’ intel­ligence level and potential. 
Although many parents in Taiyuan, capital of Shanxi province, eagerly brought their children to be test­ed, some later complained about the high cost and raised questions about the testing method, which test-givers said could reveal the children’s aptitude in music, mathematics and languages. 
“We have issued a circular to criticize the three kinder­gartens that offered palm-reading tests for 1,200 yuan ($190) per person,” said Ma Zhaoxing, the local educa­tion bureau chief. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
IN BRIEF 
The Ten Years Hence Lecture Series is hosting an event called “Innovation in Global Health” today from 10:40 a.m. to 12:10 
p.m. in Jordan Auditorium of the Mendoza College of Business. The speaker is Andrew Serazin, senior program officer in global health discovery division at the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation. 
The Nanovic Institute for European Studies is host­ing a lunch and lecture called “The State of the Drug Problem in Europe” today from 12 to 1:30 p.m. in the Dooley Room of the LaFortune Student Cen­ter. The speaker is Ignacio Vázquez Moliní of the Euro­pean Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug Addiciton. 
FlipSide will host an ice skating night tonight from 
9:15 to 11:15 p.m. in the Olympic Rink of the Comp­ton Family Ice Arena. Event is open only to students. The event costs $5. 
The Lewis Hall of Pan­cakes (LHOP) is taking place tonight from 9:30 
p.m. to 1:30 a.m. in Lewis Hall. Come enjoy all you can eat pancakes for $3. Proceeds benefit the Food Bank of Northern Indiana. 
Let’s Spoon will be donat­ing a portion of Monday’s profits to SMC/ND Dance Marathon benfitting Riley Children’s Hospital. Visit any Let’s Spoon location at any time Monday and give back to the community. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, email detailed information about an event to obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
LOCAL WEATHER 

TODAY TONIGHT SATURDAY SUNDAY MONDAY TUESDAY 









HIGH 44 LOW 31 
HIGH 42 LOW 32 
HIGH 38 LOW 32 
HIGH 35 LOW 26 

Friday, February 3, 2012 The Observer u NEWS ndsmcobserver.com | page 3 


SMC premieres “Freedom Bound” 



By BRIDGET FEENEY 
News Writer 
Mad River Theatre Works, a traveling company of ac­tors, will debut “Freedom Bound,” an original play that explores the history of the Underground Railroad, tonight at Saint Mary’s. 
Richard Baxter, director of Special Events for the College, said he first heard of “Freedom Bound” from a friend who recommended the theatre company to him. 
“I had heard about Mad River Theatre productions from one of my colleagues and we had an opportunity to book the group on a re­turn trip from a perfor­mance in Chicago,” he said. 
Baxter said the play tells the story of Addison White, a fugitive slave in the mid­19th century. Though White successfully escapes to the North, he is not free due to a Fugitive Slave law that stated a U.S. Marshal could recapture slaves and send them back South. When White’s owner took the case to court, it received nation­al attention, Baxter said. 
Baxter said the the chance to bring “Freedom Bound” to Saint Mary’s was too en­ticing to resist. 
“The opportunity was too good to pass up,” he said. 
Though he had difficul­ties scheduling the perfor­mance time, Baxter said he is excited to introduce the Saint Mary’s community to this historical era. 
“I hope the audience will leave with a deeper appre­ciation for the role of the Underground Railroad in our region’s history,” he said. 
Baxter said he hopes “Freedom Bound” will be an enlightening experience for all involved. 
“Audience members may expect an outstanding per­formance from an award winning theatre company,” he said. 
“Freedom Bound” pre­mieres tonight at 7:30 p.m. in O’Laughlin Auditorium at the Moreau Center for the Arts at Saint Mary’s. Tick­ets costs $8 with a student ID and $18 for the general public. Tickets may be pur­chased before the event, by visiting www.moreaucen­ter.com or by calling 574­284-4626. 
Contact Bridget Feeney at bfeene01@saintmarys.edu 
Trafficking 
continued from page 1 
immigrants and refugees in or­der to keep incidents of human trafficking during the Super Bowl to a minimum. 
“We want­ed to work with hotels to educate cas Oil Stadium, she said. 
Of the 200 hotels contacted by the group, 45 said they had pre­viously held training with their staff, seven asked the coalition for help to set up training for the Super Bowl and 99 asked for the local contact list and information about an industry-
wide code of 
conduct against 
trafficking. 
“We’re re-
their staffs ally very grate­
“We wanted to work 
so they could ful to the hotel 
with hotels to educate 
recognize managers who 
their staffs so they could 
the signs talked with us, 
recognize the signs of 
of traffick-worked with 
trafficking and take safe 
ing and take us, took our safe and re-and responsible action materials and spon sible when they thought that are on the look-action when it might be occurring out for traffick­they thought within their hotel.” ers, especially that it might this weekend in be occurring Indianapolis,” 
Sr. Ann Oestreich 
within their she said. 
Co-chair of CCRIM 
hotel,” she said. 
The group contacted 200 hotels within a 50-mile radius of Lu-However, the 
initiative runs 
deeper than 
making phone 
calls and deliv­ering packets, Oestreich said. 
“The other part of this initia­tive … that is just as important as contacting the hotels, is the prayer part of it,” she said. 
On Jan. 11 — National Hu­man Trafficking Awareness Day — the sisters held a prayer service at Saint Mary’s. The Sisters of the Holy Cross also sent information about this initiative to their fellow sisters around the world, so they could pray in solidarity. 
Oestreich said the coalition also published a prayer card with an image of Saint Jose­phine Bakhita on its front. Bakhita was a victim of human trafficking herself. 
“The sisters from these 11 congregations and a lot of oth­ers who joined with us from other places in the states and actually from around the world have been saying the prayer to end human trafficking every day from Jan. 12, and we’ll say it right up to Super Bowl Sun­day,” she said. 
Despite highlighting a more serious side of the Super Bowl, Oestreich said she wants all Super Bowl fans to have a fun time on Sunday. 
“We’d really like for [the Su­per Bowl] to be a great event for Indianapolis and for the people who go, and we’d like them to have a real celebration without the exploitation that’s part of trafficking,” she said. 
Contact Caitlin Housley at chouse01@saintmarys.edu 



page 4 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u NEWS Friday, February 3, 2012 
Ace 
continued from page 1 
The relationship between Bishop Robert Lynch of the Dio­cese of St. Petersburg and Notre Dame also played a factor. 
“Lynch has always been a great friend to the University and a big supporter of ACE,” Dal­lavis said. “He’s a great champion standards for accreditation.” 
Dallavis said the program would focus on bolstering en­rollment, while increasing the quality of education. 
“We want to prepare kids for the economic and social mobili­ty [that will] get them to a place where they can break the cycle of poverty,” Dallavis said. 
Dallavis said these schools 
of Catholic “We want to prepare schools.” kids for the economic 
Andy and social mobility [that Shannon, will] get them to a place principal where they can break 
of Sacred 
the cycle of poverty.” 
Heart, said despite re-
Christian Dallavis 
cent efforts to combat Director of NDAA low enroll­ment, the number of student s at Sacred Heart re-will give stu­dents the skills they need to succeed by es­sentially being “college prep” elementary schools. 
“We want to make sure that … they get the message that we expect them to be prepared to go to col­lege,” Dalla­vis said.  “High school gradua­tion and college attendance are critical to jobs in the current partner win Notre Dame is like winning the lottery. 
“We realize how blessed we are by God to get this oppor­tunity,” Shannon said. “It’s a game changer.  It’s going to po­sition us for future growth and development.” 
Both schools will be under the jurisdiction of a board dedicated to facilitating their advancement, Shannon said. The schools will also benefit from the advice of a learning specialist and an advancement director. 
“The learning specialist will work with both principals and teachers in both buildings … to make our education the best it can be,” Shannon said.  “The advancement director will help to raise significant funds, espe­cially to get more students and more families into our schools.” 
Though the will not be imme­diate, Shannon said the impact on the St. Joseph and Sacred Heart communities will un­doubtedly be enormous. 
“I think what it’s going to do for our families is give them a lot of hope,” he said. “I just think that hope is what a fol­lower of Christ has to give out.” 
Contact Nicole Michels at nmichels@nd.edu 
Ads 
continued from page 1 
“For 46 years, the pric­es of Super Bowl ads have increased and decreased, it is based on how well the economy is doing during that year,” Williams said. 
Williams said social media may also help the Super Bowl and its adver­tisements become inter­national. As more coun­tries become interested in the sport, they will also be entertained by its advertisements. 
“For example, if the Su­per Bowl goes interna­tional, beer companies will show beer in compa­ny names which American viewers will recognize, such as Miller Light,” Williams said. 
Williams said compa­nies are already getting feedback by viewers on their websites.  Due to companies’ use of social media, however, viewers may ignore advertise­ments during the actu­al game after watching them weeks in advance, he said. 
Contact Christin Kloski at cklosk01@saintmarys.edu 

mains far below its capacity. 
“In K-8, we have 140 stu­dents,” Shannon said.  “I could easily put another 100 students into my school… and be under 
Super Bowl 
continued from page 1 
perience the events in Super Bowl Village, though they do not have tickets to the game. 
“We’re going downtown for the concerts in Super Bowl village, like Darius Ruck-er, LMFAO and O.A.R., and they’re all free,” Carson said. 
The concerts begin Thurs­day evening and continue through Sunday. Carson and Oliver said they expect Sat­urday night’s CMT Cross­roads Pepsi Super Bowl Fan Jam concert to be the high­light of their weekend. 
“We also somehow won tickets to the Crossroads concert at the Pepsi Coliseum with Steven Tyler and Carrie Underwood, so I’m really ex­cited for that,” Oliver said. 
Though they plan to visit Super Bowl village, Carson and Oliver said they will come back to South Bend in time to watch the game with other students. 
Oliver, a Patriots fan, will be set against students like Polcari who will cheer for the Giants. 
“I’m so excited for the Gi­ants win,” she said. 
Freshman Rachel Miceli, of Queens, New York, said her decision to cheer for the Gi­ants was painful since her true loyalties lie with the New York Jets during the regular season. 
“I usually hate the Gi­ants, but not as much as I hate the Patriots,” Miceli said. “I guess it comes down to the Giants being a New York team, so I’m supporting them.” 
Contact Ann Marie Jakubowski at ajakubo1@nd.edu 
Dance 
continued from page 1 
choreographed specifically for the show. 
Gorman said she hopes the DanceFest’s collabora­tive nature will entice stu­dents to attend one of this weekend’s performances. 
“People don’t necessar­ily want to go to all the different dance shows, but this gives them a taste of the different companies in one sitting,” Gorman said. “Hopefully, attending one show will spark their in­terest, and they will recog­nize the impressiveness of dance.” 
Gorman said though all the performers share an enthusiasm for dance, each group participating in DanceFest brings its own unique style to the show. 
“When you see the danc­ers on stage, you can see their passion, and you can tell their having a great time dancing under the lights and having an audi­ence to enjoy their perfor­mance,” Gorman said. 
Sophomore Katie Fusco, a member of the TransPose modern dance company, said DanceFest builds a stronger campus arts cul­ture for students. 
“The chance to collabo­rate with all of the dance groups on campus is an economy, and [this trend] is only going to become more pro­nounced.” 
Shannon said for his school, being offered the chance to 
opportunity invaluable to fostering a supportive per­forming arts community at Notre Dame,” Fusco said. 
Gorman said proceeds from the DanceFest will benefit the Robinson Com­munity Center’s Summer Shakespeare Program in support of the performing arts. 
“We hope our efforts will give more kids the oppor­tunity to express them­selves artistically through the Shakespeare program,” Gorman said. 
Contact Aubrey Butts at abutts@nd.edu 




page 6 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com Friday, February 3, 2012 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Allegory of the cave 
As many of you know, Plato’s “Al­legory of the Cave” is a part of Plato’s larger dialogue, “The Republic.” Many of you also know it is boring and unconnected to real life. I will now at­tempt to reinterpret the “Allegory” into terms any student can understand. 
Plato’s allegory begins with people who can’t stand or turn their heads, essentially students who are in class or working vigorously Christian Myers at their desks. They are in a cave News Writer lit by artificial light — so if you’ve done homework in Fisher Hall you can definitely relate. Finally, they are watching shadows of statues of real things go by. This part is a little harder to relate, but there’s a way to make sense of it: Plato considers these as representations of real things. Words and pictures, such as one might find in a textbook, are used to represent things in the real world. So, for our purposes, let’s say they are looking at words and pictures in a textbook. Later in the Allegory (it applies here though, trust me), Plato mentions that the people in the cave have contests for naming the shadows and are given prizes for their skill in doing so. Students can think of the contests as exams and the prizes as grades. What do we have so far? We have students indoors, at their desks, reading their textbooks so they get good grades. 

Plato then wants us to imagine one such individual is brought up out of the cave and into the outside world, which is equivalent to … well this one is pretty obvious. This individual then can’t bear to look up because of the brightness of the sun — so think early fall or late spring semester and you can no doubt sympathize. The individ­ual can only bear to look at the reflec­tions of real things in water and other mirrored surfaces. This can clearly be related to a trip to Notre Dame’s won­derful lakes. Once the individual’s eyes have adjusted they can ultimately look at the real things themselves. From the student perspective, this means you can play Ultimate Frisbee. 
However, Plato is not finished. He says that the individual reaches “the good” when they look at the sun itself. First, a student may interpret “the good” as “the good life.” The meaning of “good life” is clear to anyone famil­iar with the popular OneRepublic song of that title. Second, Plato’s call to look at the sun cannot be taken literally (it would damage your retinas), so we students must interpret this as lying down (so as to face the sun) with our eyes closed. The second part of the Al­legory has urged us to go outside, take a walk around the lakes, play on the quad and finally lie down with our iP­ods set on One Republic’s “Good Life.” 
I can only conclude that since this University required me to read Plato’s “Republic,” it tacitly approve the mes­sage I have distilled: To pursue the best life, you must go outside to play and lay on the quad instead of study­ing at your desk to get good grades. 
See you on the quad (in a month or two). 
Contact Christian Myers at      cmyers8@nd.edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 



Where are our leaders? 
You may remember freshman orientation, when adminis-does it say about our student body when among thousands of trators from Notre Dame tossed around figures about how us, only two are able to identify themselves as worthy of such many members of your class were sports captains, editors a role? Last year five tickets ran. What happened in a year of publications or presidents of student government in high that all of a sudden, no one wanted to fight to represent the school. Suffice to say, the University likes to pride itself on re-student body? cruiting leaders and churning them out even 
It is hard, therefore, to take much issue with stronger than before. what student government does (or is perceived 
To be sure, with 8,000 undergraduates at not to do) when no one wants to upset the sta­a top-flight research university, there cer-tus quo. Students can complain all they want tainly are a lot of leaders. But what happened about how they view student government, but it Wednesday evening in the LaFortune Student is a two-way street. Student government was not Center, something that has been weeks com-created to do amazing things for students with 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR Sports leagues of America: find balance, don’t contract 
Chris Masoud brings up two topics of deep debate in the sports world in his Feb. 2 Sports Authority piece. Contracts and competition are important issues to the fan who is both entertained by the competitiveness of the team and whose dollar pays the salaries of the players in front of him.  Having determined this, contraction will never be the right answer because it hin­ders the potential for cities that deserve teams. 
Beginning in the 80s and continuing through the early 2000s, sports leagues in America became obsessed with the term “footprint.” They all moved to the South because the Atlanta Braves were the only non-football show in town, and the leagues wanted to cover more cities. So through expansion and moving of historic teams, these leagues decided to make one sport town into five sports towns. No offense to you Floridians, but every league overloaded the state with teams that are perennial cellar dwellers in the attendance category. There were signs that expanding just to get a footprint was and remains a bad idea. In 2001, the Miami Fusion and Tampa Bay Mutiny of Major League Soccer fame closed the doors due to a combination of poor fan support and mismanagement. Other leagues should have seen this as a sign that when you take your talents to South Beach, you better be able to be able to become a member of the community. This means that the team is seen more as an en­tertainment piece. The team has to be embraced as an institution. 
MLS and NHL have come to realize this in recent years. Over 37,000 fans file into CenturyLink Field to watch the “three year old” Seattle Sounders FC, Timbers Army and the Sons of Ben fill an entire end of their stadiums to watch the Timbers and Union play, and Winnipeg has welcomed back the Jets as if they never left. These teams were brought into the fray of top level leagues, not because the city provided ample viewers, but because the sport and the fans help create a culture where it’s not just another entertainment event. 
I say move the teams that do little for the sport. Move them to cities like Hartford, Quebec City, etc. — cities that want the team to be their face. You don’t solve a broken arm by cutting it off, rather you align it to where it should be and help the heal­ing. That is the way the sports leagues of America should approach these unsupported teams. 
Tim Staub 
junior Dillon Hall Feb. 2 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“One’s dignity may be assaulted, vandalized and cruelly mocked, but cannot be taken away unless it is surrendered.” 
Michael J. Fox 
U.S. actor 




ing, tells a different story — Notre Dame stu­dents may not quite be the leaders we imagine ourselves to be. 
Student Senate rejected a recommendation by the Judicial Council to suspend next Wednesday’s student body presi­dential election. The measure was proposed because juniors Brett Rocheleau and Katie Rose were the only official ticket approved by the Judicial Council. 
The fact that student government ultimately decided we should have a student body president election is a good thing. It is disturbing to even imagine the suspension of elections was a viable option in the first place. Even if there is only one official choice, the student body should always have a venue to express its support or disapproval in an election. Thank­fully, the privilege of choice was upheld. 
However, the issue remains that this measure even came to a vote in the first place. The fact only one official ticket stepped forward is alarming. Complete and utter indiffer­ence from the undergraduate student body is unacceptable. This is Notre Dame — a school comprised of students who are leaders on this campus, and will go on to be leaders in whatever field they choose. 
In this case, however, we came up short. 

Students often complain about student government’s per­ceived lack of action, but we are equally as guilty of such a charge. Here was the perfect opportunity to stand up, make our voice heard and do something — and we failed. What 
no strings attached — it was created as a voice for our campus community to identify issues, solve problems and therefore advance our undergraduate lives. But when students don’t want to use this voice, their ideas cannot be realized. The student body as a whole is at fault for not rising to the challenge. 
Apathy is no excuse for dissatisfaction. 
That isn’t to say student government and the Judicial Coun­cil should get out of this with a free pass. It is hard to call the student body to action with only one or two bland emails ad­vertising informational meetings during the hustle and bustle of the Christmas season, which most students probably rel­egated to their trash bin right away. Additionally, this process has been a long time coming. Even if both parties had the ut­most faith in Rocheleau and Rose as leaders, it ultimately falls on their shoulders to make sure due process is followed — and it will not be. While they may have saved face by having the election, student government needs to realize that essentially promoting from within, without challenging other student leaders to step forward and identify themselves, cannot fly. 
Wednesday will be like any other day at the University. Stu­dents will go to classes, practices and meetings as usual. The one difference is we will be voting to identify two of our peers to represent our student body. And as much as we are choos­ing them, these past few days and weeks we have made an even bigger statement — we don’t identify ourselves as worthy of tackling the challenge. 


Friday, February 3, 2012 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 7 

Perspective 
Men would not be free, Denis Diderot quipped, until the last king was stran­gled with the entrails of the last priest.
 In hindsight, this was an exaggera­tion.
 In 1401, the Dan Sportiello Florentine Guild of Cloth Import-Bound Variables ers held a compe­tition to deter­mine who would design the new east doors to the Baptistery. The two finalists were Filippo Brunelleschi and Lorenzo Ghiberti, each of whom had submitted a single panel, cast in bronze, depicting the Sacrifice of Isaac. Though the Guild pronounced the contest a tie and asked the two winners to collaborate on the new doors, Brunelleschi was furious at the suggestion that he was merely equal to Ghiberti; giving up sculpture entirely, he left for Rome to study architecture.
 Brunelleschi eventually returned to Florence and, in 1418, defeated Ghiberti in the competition to design the dome — which would dwarf any before attempt­ed — of the Basilica of Saint Mary of the Flower, the cathedral across the street from the Baptistery. In the meantime, however, the Renaissance had begun.
 The reason is as much philosophi­cal as it is artistic. Despite its depth, Brunelleschi’s bronze panel is designed as though it were flat: it shows Abra­ham, Isaac and the angel as though we were looking at them from the side — almost as though in the abstract. Ghib­erti’s bronze panel, on the other hand, shows the characters from the angles at which we would actually see them if we looked at them in the concrete: it shows the angel flying toward us while Isaac, his body twisted in space, looks back at it.
 Regardless of the indecision of the Guild of Cloth Importers, Ghiberti saw something that Brunelleschi did not. For the panel of Ghiberti, unlike that of Brunelleschi, employs perspective — the recognition that the point from which we look at things determines how they appear to us: we see things, he realized, not as they are in themselves but rather only as they are conditioned by how we look at them. The Renaissance discov­ered we are even more limited than we realized: we have, it seems, eaten of the Tree of Knowledge no more than of the Tree of Life.
 But this insight is not limited to art. Far from seeing the orbits of the planets as they are in reality, Nicolaus Coperni­cus realized, we see them only as they appear from our perspective here on Earth: the planets seem to circle Earth only because we are ourselves on Earth. But Earth is not the center of things: we see things, as it were, from a funny 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Dignity in contraception 
I am writing in response to “Contra-STDs and ensuring that they can feed ception and Dignity,” published on Jan. the children that they already have. 
31. Although I understand and sympa-These people are not undignified. In thize with the Catholic Church’s stance fact, they are actively taking steps to on contraception, I found this article of-improve their situation with bravery fensive. The argument put forth by Notre and dignity. Dame Right to Life, that women who The Catholic Church and Notre Dame use contraception lack “dignity,” is both Right to Life may oppose the use of narrow-minded and dangerous. family planning techniques, but such 
Notre Dame Right to Life should not a general condemnation of the charac­have to resort to name-calling to make ters of the men and women who choose its stance clear on the subject of con-to use contraception is inappropri­traception, and should not expect to ately judgmental. Notre Dame students be able to publish such a Letter to the should not tolerate this kind of broad Editor without backlash. Notre Dame is rhetoric in further discussions about an artificial safe haven for such rheto-contraception. ric; this language would not be toler­ated outside of Notre Dame’s campus. Emily Bieniek People throughout the United States junior and across the globe use condoms and off-campus contraception to protect themselves and Feb. 2 their loved ones in a variety of difficult circumstances that include, but are not Joel Moore limited to: protecting against conse-junior quences of domestic violence and rape, St. Edward’s Hall preventing the spread of HIV and other Feb. 2 angle — just as Ghiberti shows Isaac and the angel from a funny angle.

 In physics, of course, perspective is called relativity. Indeed, the Scientific Revolution came into its own when Gali­leo Galilei asserted that what we see is not absolute motion but rather only rela­tive motion — motion, that is, toward or away from us, toward or away from our perspective. Galileo realized that there is neither absolute position nor absolute direction — just as, three centuries lat­er, Einstein realized that there is neither absolute distance nor absolute duration: position and direction, distance and duration, are the products of our inter­action with the world, not aspects of the world itself.
 This insight is not limited to theory. For once one realizes that how one expe­riences the world is the product of what one brings to that experience, much that once seemed beyond question suddenly seems to be no more than prejudice. No medieval could have faced the sort of ex­istential crisis that every modern risks: that men and women were meant for salvation was, in that age, overwhelm­ingly obvious — was indeed so far below the threshold of doubt as to make it dif­ficult to even articulate the alternative. With perspective, however, came the worry — one that drove the world mad 
— that the purposes that one sees in the world are not in the world at all — that they are the product not of perception but rather of confusion.
 Or, perhaps, of indoctrination. That men and women were meant for salva­tion — were meant, that is, to play the roles in kingdom and congregation as­signed to them — began to look suspi­ciously like an invention of the kings and priests who assigned those roles. The Age of Revolution and the Reformation were sparked, ultimately, by the convic­tion that neither kings nor priests have a privileged perspective upon what is best for us — just as capitalism presupposes that there is no value to things beyond how much we happen to want them. 
That kings still breathe and priests still digest is a red herring: we have freed ourselves — paradoxically, by renouncing our hope to transcend the limitations of our perspective. It takes no special brilliance to see that this re­nunciation has left a yawning emptiness within us — one that has, periodically, threatened to destroy us. But that is a story for another time. 
Daniel John Sportiello is in his fourth year in the philosophy Ph.D. program. He can be reached at dsportie@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 


A woman’s dignity 
Dear Christopher Damian, Andrew have I “[destroyed my] body’s power to Lynch, and Samantha Stempky: bring forth life.” I have simply deferred 
I’m sure that I speak for many of my the process until a time at which it fellow Catholic women in saying that would be responsible and healthy for all I found your letter in The Observer involved. This is an idea endorsed, I be-to be both insulting and upsetting. I lieve, in the Church’s teaching of Natural take very serious offense in being told Family Planning. that, by choosing to take birth control, The most disturbing part of your I have somehow made myself less of a letter, however, was in the statement woman and have sacrificed my dignity. that, as a woman on birth control, I am 
It is very discouraging that there are “sexually available to any man.” This is still people who believe that a woman’s insulting and more disturbing than I can dignity is somehow tied to her ability even begin to express. I am “sexually and desire to produce children. Why available” to the man (or men) I choose. shouldn’t my dignity be evaluated on Period. The thought that “any man” now my intelligence? On my determina-has access to my body simply because tion and drive? On my kindness and I am on birth control is dangerous, de­loyalty? Who I am as a person is not meaning and incredibly infuriating. in any way related to the reproductive My decision to take birth control has state of my uterus. not made me “less,” it has not sterilized 
I also take issue with how you me and it certainly has not given control described what I believe to be a of my body to anyone but me. responsible and healthy choice. As a On behalf of all Catholic women, I law student, I am in no position to be would urge you to remember that. raising a child and have chosen to save that responsibility until I will be able Anne Reser to provide (both emotionally and finan-Class of 2011 cially) for a family. Charlottesville, VA 
I have not “sterilized” myself, nor Feb. 2 

A (brief) case for contraception 
There has recently been a lot of discussion about contraception and the Catholic Church’s teachings. I wish to continue the discussion about the use of contracep­tion started in “Contraception and dignity” by Mr. Damian, Mr. Lynch, and Ms. Stempky. 
Firstly, the claim that sex with contraception somehow makes the intimacy less genuine, less fulfilling and less meaningful, is debatable. Sex with contraception can allow the partners to have a more intimate and meaningful experience.  What if a married couple is not currently in a position to take up the responsibilities of raising a child? They would be free to take their intimacy to its deepest levels without worrying about an unintended pregnancy. If you are using Natural Fam­ily Planning to avoid an unintended pregnancy, how is that any different than using a contraceptive, so long as the couple is not going to terminate an unintended pregnancy? Using contraceptives allows people to focus on the intimacy of a moment. 
Secondly, I strongly disagree with the claim that contraception destroys a woman’s dignity. Contraceptives empower women and give them the ability to make a choice in her creative gifts. Without female contraceptives, a man has all the control (even if God plays a part in the creation of a child, the sperm still has to fertil­ize an egg) in the creation of a child. Contraceptives give women the ability to pursue careers and develop other natural talents that would be hindered by having to raise a large family. 
Finally, all people make poor decisions, or put themselves in positions of making poor decisions. On a college campus, students who drink heavily are more likely to make poor decisions that they might not have made had they been sober. Contraception is one tool that helps prevent a poor decision, such as hooking up, from becoming a life-altering event.  Does this mean that contraception encourages promiscuity? Maybe. But isn’t it better to prevent an unintended pregnancy than to put two students in the difficult position of raising a child that they aren’t ready to have? 
John Galeziewski 
junior Siegfried Hall Feb. 2 


page 8 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com Friday, February 3, 2012 

ELISA DE CASTRO|Observer Graphic 


Friday, February 3, 2012 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 9 

Fashion, as we true enthusiasts know, is universal. It crosses seem­ingly impenetrable boundaries. 
Likewise, here at Notre Dame, we are lucky enough to belong to a student body with representatives from every part of the international scene. 
With this spirit in mind, how can we not combine the forces of fash­ion and student perspective for a greater good? 
I interviewed our first fashion am­bassador Yitong Zheng, a senior and a proud young Chinese woman. 
Commenting on the differences be­tween American and Chinese fashion, and sharing style notes, Yitong opens our eyes to the cool Chinese fashion aesthetic and the global fashion forc­es at work on our very own campus. 
FbyF: So, Yitong, what were your 
style in­ 
fluences  
growing up  
in China?  
YZ: Well,  
high school  
is gener­ 
ally when  
you start  
developing  
your own  
style. At  
boarding  
school for  
five days a Photo courtesy of pn.cn  
week you  
hang out  
with your  P1  Street  Fashion  in  
friends,  Urban China  
read a lot  

of fashion magazines and start to cul­tivate that “daredevil” sense of young fashion. 
You move away from the more con­servative generation of your parents’ style, and in China there’s a lot of Western style influence, so we defi­nitely adapt that as well. 
FbyF: What do you think is unique to Chinese Fashion? 
YZ: There’s a huge sense of “dress­ing neutral,” and androgyny in Chinese fashion. Men have a more feminine aesthetic, girls dress very boyish. This is definitely not some­thing, especially for men, that you would see here on campus and in the States. 
Likewise, there is a “cuteness,” meaning absorbing different influ­ences from all over Asia into a young anime, naive and happy aesthetic. 

Felicia Caponigri 
Scene Writer 
You can see this in the many color­ful and character-driven accesso­ries that a range of Chinese women embrace, from teenagers to early 30-year-olds. 
Also, the use of parasols is indica­tive of a different sense of beauty. Here in the States, tan means beau­tiful, in China, a lighter, paler skin tone is the most desirable. 
FbyF: What was the most surprising fashion impression you had when you arrived at Notre Dame for your fresh­man year? 
YZ: I was so sur­prised by how casu­ally people dress to go to class, and then how dressed up they would get to go out to evening events, al­most as if they were changing into a differ-Senior Yitong Zheng ent person. 
In China, you never wear sweatpants out of the house. After a 16 hour flight back to China the summer after my freshman year, I got off the plane in sweatpants and my mother asked me how I could wear those in public. 
The private and public spheres are much more delineated. In China, stu­dents get more dressed up for class, but they dress down for evening 
events. 
FbyF: So have you changed your overall Fashion since being at Notre Dame? 
YZ: Yes, I’m more concerned about my formal wear when I’m in China. And I’m more casual to go to class at Notre Dame and overall. Also, before, I would wear much more anime items like in China, but now I wear them less. 
FbyF: Have you noticed a general change in the dress of other students from China? 
YZ: Yes, I think overall the fashion is more Americanized, but we still bring the animated, fun quality of China style into our everyday aes­thetic. 
Contact Felicia Caponigri at fcaponig@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


Disclaimer: For the sake of full disclosure, the author of this column wants the reader to know that she is someone who read Kevin Noonan’s article in Wednesday’s Observer, “Guide to watching that big football thing with all the funny commer­cials,” and thought, “Wow, those are great ways to fake my interest/ knowledge/expertise on the Super Bowl!” 
What follows is my naïve assess­ment of the challenging, heart­breaking, dire situation Peyton Manning must face as Indianapolis is swarmed by fans of his enemy, de­termined to claim a Patriots victory on Peyton’s home turf. 
For the first time in the history of the great city known as Indianapo­lis, a teeny, tiny, barely noticeable event will take place on its freshly primped grounds. 
For all intents and purposes, we’ll call this weekend’s Super Bowl game “This Could’ve Been Yours, Peyton Manning.” 
On Sunday evening, Peyton’s baby bro Eli and unfortunately good-look­ing nemesis Tom Brady will face off in the year’s biggest sporting event. 
Peyton will once again watch from the seats at Lucas Oil Stadium, as he has the entire season. A neck injury sidelined him for the year and any chance the Colts had of playing the Super Bowl in their very own sta­dium rapidly melted away. 
The Colts’ year has been, to put it nicely, less than laudatory. 
The only exciting part of their 2-14 record is that the numbers, coinci­dentally, are my birthday. As much as I appreciate the gesture, I’m self­less enough to sacrifice it if it means Pats fans would stay off Indy’s hal­lowed ground. 
As the New York Giants and the New England Patriots swarm the city, the monumental pain the Colts must feel is obvious. After two Super Bowl show­ings in the past six years, the possibility of playing in this year’s champion­ship wasn’t too outlandish … until Peyton got injured. 

On the bright side, at least Peyton’s family will be around to keep him compa­ny this weekend. Though their at­tention will likely focus on their other progeny Eli, at least they can share a burger and beverage with their eldest son. 
I hear Paula Deen will be at the pregame party — she’ll surely raise both Peyton’s spirits and cholesterol. 
Though attention this weekend should really focus on the two teams duking it out for the trophy, Peyton can’t seem to find his way out of the spotlight. 
As both he and Indianapolis Colts owner Jim Irsay have tried to turn attention to the actual sporting event about to take place, the media won’t leave the question of Peyton’s future alone. 
Controversy has surrounded the Colts quarterback since fans real­ized his neck injury might compli­cate his contract with the Indianap­olis team. ESPN reported Thursday that Peyton was medically cleared to resume his NFL career, but his fate in Indianapolis remains unclear. 
Irsay has also been in the spotlight recently as onlookers have watched tense moments between him and the franchise quarterback play out. 
With the recent firing of head coach Jim Caldwell and general manager Bill Polian, people wonder whose head will land on the chop­ping block next. 
The Colts are expected to add for­mer Stanford quarterback Andrew Luck to the team in April, which casts suspicion on the future role Peyton might have with the team. 
Poor Peyton not only has to deal with recovering from an injury and wondering about his future; this weekend, he will also be forced to watch the conniving and contriving Patriots attempt to destroy another Manning. 
Peyton, Indianapolis Colts fans feel for you. For the challenges you face this week, you win the award for Worst Week Ever. 
Contact Adriana Pratt at apratt@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

ELISA DE CASTRO|Observer Graphic 

page 10 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u CLASSIFIEDS Friday, February 3, 2012 
SPORTS AUTHORITY 
Amping up the drama: series and relegation 
One of the best things about sports is the drama it occa­sionally produces. Few things cause as much joy and pain at the same moment as the result of an ex­ceptionally close sport­ing event. So as grand master of all that is sport, why wouldn’t I want to increase the drama? 
Football is already one of the most dramatic sports, so little needs to be changed there. In fact, football will be the basis on which I increase the drama in the other sports. 
The NFL’s 16-game schedule nearly always produces close races that come down to the last week of the season. Even more dramatic is the college football season, where one loss can cost a team the chance at a championship. So how to best duplicate this drama in sports where the regular season seems more like teams are go­ing through the motions? 
The NBA is a prime example 
— an 82-game schedule when more than half the teams make the playoffs 

Eric Prister 
Senior Sports Writer 
keeps things Few things cause as ing schedules about as much joy and pain at and creating exciting as a the same moment as the relegation football game result of an exceptionally systems 
that ends 9-6. serve only to 
close sporting event. 
Teams take increase this 
So as grand master of 
games off drama. 
all that is sport, why 
and the best But one 
wouldn’t I want to 
teams in the type of drama 
increase the drama? 
league know needs to be would have a shot at more rest because they could finish a series in three rather than five games. 
The MLB could institute a similar process. Teams would play 25 seven-game series, more against teams in their division and none against teams from the opposite league (dissolving interleague play). Each game becomes more important because it is, for all intents and purposes, part of a seven-game sea­son. And the series are each important because they are a part of a 25-game season. 
In addition to the new schedule-type, I would set up a relegation system similar to the one the English Premier League uses. It would split each of the “big-four” profes­sional sports leagues in half, and the bottom teams from the upper division would be in danger of losing their spots to the top teams in the lower division. This makes sure that almost every team is playing the entire season, either for a playoff spot or to keep them­selves from being relegated. 
Drama is what makes sports great. A last second 3-pointer, a two-minute drill touchdown drive and a bottom of the ninth walk-off home run are some of the most dramatic 
and exciting 
moments in 
life to wit­
ness. Chang-
almost before the season starts that they’ll make the playoffs. 
But what if that season was shrunk to 20 games? The excitement would certainly increase. But 20 games is a terrible sample size for basketball games. So instead of 20 games, I would make the NBA season a set of 20 five-game series. That means teams can play any­where from 60 to 100 games per season, and must beat a team three times in five tries to earn a win. 
Because the playoffs would be decided by a team’s record in its series rather than its games, each would be impor­tant. Teams that are successful avoided at all 
costs — the 
type of drama 
created by 
talking heads 
on television stations that provide 24-hour sports coverage. We need to avoid drama manufactured by people screaming and mak­ing predictions for the sake of drama. And for this reason, as my last act as grand mas­ter of all that is sport, I would make a decree that Skip Bay-less is no longer allowed to speak in public. Ever again. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer.
   Contact Eric Prister at eprister@nd.edu 


ND WOMEN’S TENNIS 

Irish face ranked foes in Tennessee 
By VICKY JACOBSEN 
Sports Writer 
The Irish face a stiff test this weekend as they travel to Ten­nessee to take on two top-20 teams. 
No. 21 Notre Dame (4-1, 1-0 Big East) will play No. 19 Tennessee (2-2) in Knoxville, Tenn. on Fri­day before heading to Nashville for a 12 p.m. match-up with No. 17 Vanderbilt (6-2) on Sunday. 
“We’re playing two top-20 teams on the road, so it’s go­ing to be a big weekend for us,” Irish coach Jay Louderback said. “They’re both ranked ahead of us, so it’s a crucial weekend for us after losing to Yale last weekend.” 
Louderback said neither team has any obvious weaknesses to take advantage of. 
“They’re both well-coached; they’re very good,” Louderback said. “Their singles are good, their doubles are good, they re­ally don’t have any holes in their line-up, so they’re going to be tough matches for us.” 
The Volunteers qualified for the ITA National Indoor champi­onship last weekend by knocking out UC Davis (1-3) and No. 22 Tul­sa (3-1) at home. This is the third consecutive season Tennessee has qualified for the tournament. 
The Volunteers clinched their ticket to the ITA National Indoors with a point from freshman Sarah Toti, who was named the SEC Freshman of the Week on Wednesday. Toti is 8-5 in singles and 15-3 in doubles play on the season. She and her doubles part­ner, sophomore Brynn Boren, are ranked No. 18 in the country and have won their last seven matches. Irish seniors Kristy Frilling and Shannon Mathews lost to Toti and Boren at the Riviera/ITA All-Amer­ican Championships last October. 
The Irish lost to No. 35 Yale (1-1) before winning their consolation match against No. 40 Maryland (1­
2) in an ITA qualifying tournament last weekend. Mathews shined in the matches, winning both of her singles matches and splitting her doubles matches against the Bulldogs and the Terrapins. She played in the No. 1 position for the first time this season in her singles match against No. 26 Cristina Stancu, a Maryland sophomore, winning 6-2, 6-4. Mathews’s hard work did not go unnoticed, as she was named the Big East Women’s Tennis Player of the Week this week. 

The Irish begin play against Ten­nessee at 4 p.m. Friday and go on to play against Vanderbilt at 12 
p.m. Sunday. 
Contact Vicky Jacobsen at vjacobse@nd.edu 


MEN’S TENNIS 

ND to visit Wake Forest and Duke 
By WALKER CAREY 
Sports Writer 
The Irish will be back in action this weekend as they travel to North Carolina to take on a pair of ACC squads. 
Notre Dame (4-2) faces Wake For­est (4-1) Friday before making the short trip to Durham, N.C., to face Duke (3-0) Sunday. Irish coach Bob­by Bayliss said Notre Dame’s unfa­miliarity with Wake Forest might present a challenge in Friday eve­ning’s match. “The interesting thing about [Wake Forest] is that we have not played them in awhile,” Bayliss said. “All its personnel is new, so we have no experience against any of its players. We have some solid scouting reports that have helped us prepare, but it should be interesting when we actually get out and play.” 
Bayliss said the Wake Forest ten­nis facility and night-match sur­roundings should lead to a great atmosphere at the contest. 
“[Wake Forest] has a really great facility,” Bayliss said. “The bounce is a little more pronounced than at our facility. They have a bit more rubber on the court, so points are probably going to be slightly faster. It will be interesting to see what the environment will be like for the night match. I would imagine there will be a good crowd and I would expect the crowd to be slightly animated.” 
Bayliss said the Wake Forest match would be key for momentum before heading to play No. 10 Duke on Sun­day. 
“It would be really nice to head into Duke coming off a win,” Bayliss said. “Getting the victory before going to Duke would provide us with a little spark and that would be good to have when facing a very talented team.” 
In contrast to their unfamiliarity with Wake Forest, the Irish are famil­iar with Duke and its personnel. 
“We have seen [Duke] and its guys a few times,” Bayliss said. “[Duke] is a very strong team and are led by a very good player in junior Henrique Cunha at No. 1 singles. We have nev­er beaten [Cunha] before, but we are looking forward to the challenge that he and the rest of the team presents.” 
Though the North Carolina teams offer different challenges, Bayliss said the strategy is quite simple for the Irish to win both matches this week­end. 
“We just need to play really well,” he said. “We are facing two qual­ity opponents who we know will be ready to play, so we have to be on top of our guys. I know we are capable of it, so it should be interesting to watch.” 
Besides coming away with two vic­tories, Bayliss said he would like to see the Irish doubles play to improve this weekend. 
“Getting better doubles play is defi­nitely very important,” he said. 
“We have been working on it this week because getting that point is such significant momentum going into singles play. I want to see our doubles play improve because it will help our team as a whole improve.” The Irish travel to Winston-Salem, 
N.C. to square off with Wake Forest Friday night before heading to Dur­ham, N.C. to take on Duke on Sunday afternoon. 
Contact Walker Carey at wcarey@nd.edu 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The 
Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

WALK TO CAMPUS YOUR SONG best I can do Well a few of the verses well by Elton John My gift is my song and this one’s they’ve got me quite cross 

FOR RENT PERSONAL 

Great Specials! It’s a little bit funny this feeling for you But the sun’s been quite kind while inside I wrote this song I’m not one of those who can And you can tell everybody this is It’s for people like you that keep it 
House for rent. Studio, 1, 2, 3 Bedroom UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don’t easily hide your song turned on go it alone. Notre Dame has many I don’t have much money but boy It may be quite simple but now that 2BR 1BA, full basement, fenced in resources in place to assist you. if I did it’s done So excuse me forgetting but these backyard. Townhomes available. If you or someone you love needs I’d buy a big house where we both I hope you don’t mind things I do confidential support or assistance, could live I hope you don’t mind that I put You see I’ve forgotten if they’re 20 minutes from campus - please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819 down in words green or they’re blue Mishawaka. $600 + utilities. or Ann Firth at 1-2685. If I was a sculptor, but then again, How wonderful life is while you’re Anyway the thing is what I really 
(574) 272-8124. For more information, visit no in the world mean Call 574-248-0185 or 574-633-ND’s website at: http:// Or a man who makes potions in a 
4084 www.clovervillageapartments.com pregnancysupport@nd.edu travelling show I sat on the roof and kicked off the Yours are the sweetest eyes I’ve I know it’s not much but it’s the moss ever seen 
Friday, February 3, 2012 The Observer u SPORTS ndsmcobserver.com | page 11 

SMC SWIMMING AND DIVING 
Belles close regular season against Albion 


By JOE WIRTH 
Sports Writer 
With only one meet remaining before the all-important MIAA championships, the Belles have only a short time to hit their stride as they host conference rival Albion. 
Belles coach Mark Benishek said he has high hopes for the contest. 
“My expectation are the same for all our meets,” Benishek said. “I want to see my swim­mers swim their fastest and never give up on themselves or their teammates.” 
The Belles (1-6, 0-5 MIAA) were defeated by Alma and Cal­vin in their last competition two weeks ago and have not raced competitively since. Despite the defeats, there were some in­dividual bright spots for Saint Mary’s. Performances from up­perclassmen have been a strong point all season for the Belles, and senior Megan Price and junior Kristyn Gerbeth contin­ued that trend in the Calvin and Alma meet. Price had two sec-ond-place finishes in 1000- and 500-meter freestyle, while Ger­beth stood out with a second-place finish in the 100-meter butterfly with a time of 1:03.71. 
The Belles need another strong performance from the upperclassmen against Albion to garner some momentum going into the season-ending meet. Benishek said he counts on his senior leaders to set the course for the rest of the team going into big meets. 
 “Our senior leadership has been a strong point all year. [Senior swimmers] Katie Dono­van, Megan Price and Audrey Dalrymple have all had strong performances,” Benishek said. “Their senior leadership has been great and they have backed it up with strong swims. We know we can always count on them for motivation.” 
The Britons (1-3, 1-3 MIAA) are coming off a loss against Calvin in a conference meet, but pose a definite challenge for Saint Mary’s. Although Albion’s record is not formidable, the Belles have only defeated them once since 2005. 
The meet will take place at 1 p.m. Saturday at the Rolfs Aquatic Center on Notre Dame’s campus. 
Contact Joe Wirth at                jwirth@nd.edu 
Olivet 
continued from page 16 
play to this point,” Belles senior guard Patsy Mahoney said. 
The Belles have already faced off against Olivet (6-14, 4-7) once this season, taking a 67-54 decision on Jan. 7. 
Senior forward Kelley Mur­phy led the Belles in the Janu­ary contest, scoring 15 points and securing 10 rebounds as Saint Mary’s led from start to finish in a dominant conference win. Mahoney and fellow senior guard Maggie Ronan also fin­ished that game in double digits in scoring. 
“To be successful on Saturday we need to do the little things right consistently,” Mahoney said. “We need to play team de­fense, talk, box out, and have efficient offensive possessions.” 
Saint Mary’s hopes it can rely on its seniors to mimic their previous success against the Comets come Saturday.  
The Belles will need to cool off a Comets team that has been hot as of late, having won three of their past four contests. Olivet has averaged 66.3 points per game in the wins, almost 14 points-per-game better than their season average. 
“Going into this final stretch, we are motivated to leave ev­erything on the court,” Ma-honey said. “With five seniors realizing their collegiate career is quickly coming to an end, we are willing to do everything we possibly can to play as long as possible.” 
Saint Mary’s will take the court against Olivet on Satur­day at 3 p.m. 
Contact Nick Boyle at         nboyle1@nd.edu 

page 12 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u SPORTS Friday, February 3, 2012 

ND WOMEN’S SWIMMING AND DIVING 
Irish to close season against Ball State 

By BRIAN HARTNETT 
Sports Writer 
The Irish will look to close out the regular season with a strong showing when they travel to Muncie, Ind., to face in-state opponent Ball State on Saturday. 
Notre Dame (5-6) comes off a solid second-place performance at last weekend’s Shamrock In­vitational. On their way to four victories, the Irish defeated Iowa 201-169, but could not get past Ohio State, falling to the Buck­eyes by a score of 214-147. 
The Irish will face tough com­petition in Ball State (9-3), a team that began its season with victories in its first nine events, including victories in the IUPUI House of Champions Invitational and the Doug Coers Invitational. The Cardinals have struggled recently though, dropping their last three dual-meets and falter­ing against in-conference com­petition. 
A core of strong young swim­mers leads Ball State, including sophomore Haley Richter, sopho­more Bridgette Ruehl, sopho­more Emily Wisolek and fresh­man Carlena Magley. Richter and Ruehl have already made impacts this season, as Richter holds the fourth fastest time in the 100-meter fly in the Mid-American Conference (MAC) this year and Ruehl currently has the third-fastest time in the conference for the 100-meter breaststroke. The Cardinals also feature senior divers Whitney Adams and Christina Riordan, who should challenge the Irish diving squad. 
Notre Dame will continue to look for the productivity shown by the team in its last two meets, which included last week’s sec-ond-place finish and the team’s Jan. 21 thrashing of Michigan State 
Instrumental to Notre Dame’s success in the last few meets has been sophomore Kelly Ryan, who won four events against Michi­gan State and picked up second-place finishes in the 100-me­ter and 200-meter freestyle events last weekend. The Irish have also picked up top-notch performances from freshman Emma Reaney, who won both the 200-meter breaststroke and 200 IM last weekend and swam NCAA B-Cut times in two races. 
In addition, the Irish diving team will look for another vic­torious effort from junior diver Jenny Chiang, who won the 3-meter dive and was the run­ner-up in the 1-meter dive last weekend. 
This meet marks the final competition of the regular sea­son for Notre Dame.  The Irish will follow up the meet with the Big East Diving championships, held from Feb. 10 to Feb. 12, and the Big East Swimming cham­pionships, held from Feb. 15 to Feb. 18. 
Contact Brian Hartnett at bhartnet@nd.edu 
DePaul 
continued from page 16 
vereaux Peters’ recent tear on the glass. Peters has had at least 15 rebounds in her last three games, including a ca-reer-high 17 against Rutgers on Tuesday. Peters is only the second player in Notre Dame’s history to accomplish such a feat. 
The Blue Demons could challenge Notre Dame’s stingy defense as well. DePaul ranks behind only the Irish and No. 3 Con­
necticut in “This is a team that is fresh during conference focused on every game... the gruel-scoring av-I think we know anything ing Big East erage. Notre can happen in the Big season, Mc-Dame has East. Every game is a Graw said. been able to The Irish 
tough one. They’ve been 
keep its op-did not prac­
really good at just looking 
ponents well tice Thurs-
at the next game.” 
below their day to give season av-the team a erages this Muffet McGraw break. season. The Irish coach “We try to goal percentage. Ignited by a fast pace offense due to ju­nior guard Skylar Diggins, the Irish can get out, run and put teams away early. 
McGraw is hesitant, how­ever, to say that her team has peaked. She said there is a lot of work to be done. 
“We continue to put new things in so that there’s al­ways something new for them to look forward to at practice,” McGraw said. 
There is a balance that must be struck between challeng­ing the players in the gym every day and keep­ing them 
Irish held Rutgers, which aver­ages 57.6 points per game, to 41 points Monday. 
McGraw said the Irish do not scout each team specifi­cally to pick out exploitable weaknesses. Rather, they have a daily commitment to being the best defensive team they can be. 
“We take a lot of pride in our defense,” McGraw said. “We hold teams under their average, and we are in the top five in the nation in steals. We really like to play good pres­sure defense so we can get some easy transition baskets.” 
Notre Dame’s offense has been in a groove this sea­son as well. The Irish lead the conference in points per game, margin of victory, free throw percentage and field give them a 
lot of time 
off so we can keep them fresh physically and mentally,” she said. 
Even with a huge rematch with the Huskies in Storrs, Conn., looming on the horizon, McGraw said that it has not been a challenge to keep the Irish focused on each game. 
“This is a team that is fo­cused on every game,” Mc­Graw said. “I think we know anything can happen in the Big East. Every game is a tough one. They’ve been really good at just looking at the next game.” 
Notre Dame takes on DePaul at 1 p.m. in the Purcell Pavil­ion Sunday. The game will be televised nationally on ESPNU. 
Contact Matthew Robison at mrobison@nd.edu 


Friday, February 3, 2012 The Observer u SPORTS ndsmcobserver.com | page 13 

TRACK AND FIELD 

Meyo Invitational celebrates 25th year 

By LAURA COLETTI 
Sports Writer 
The Irish will face one of the most competitive fields of teams they will face this season when they host the Meyo Invitational this week­end. 
The meet, named in honor of the man who funded build­ing the Loftus Sports Center track, will celebrate its 25th anniversary this weekend. The donor, a 1963 alumnus Ray Meyo, attends the meet each year to shoot the start­ing gun. 
The meet’s one-mile run 
— dubbed the “Meyo Mile” — highlights the competition as 


athletes  typi­ “We have a lot of athletes  are plen­ 
cally strive to break the elu­sive four-min­ute mark. Last year, junior Jeremy Rae won the race  who can be really competitive at the events ... It’ll be really exciting to see how everyone does with such big fields and really good competition.”  ty of good t e a m s c om i ng from all a r o u n d the coun­try,” Rae  
with a time of  s  a  i d  .  
3:59:62.  Maddie Buttinger  “ T e a m s  
“Last year was an amaz- Irish senior captain  from the S o u t h  
ing  experi­ are typi­ 
ence,”  Rae  c  a  l  l y  
said.  “I  had  s t r o n g  

put pressure on myself to sprinters. The goal for the win the race and run under meet this weekend is for four [minutes], and doing so everyone to improve their was an incredible feeling.” marks heading into [the Big 
Rae said he is not as fo-East meet],” he said. cused on running under the Senior captain Maddie four-minute benchmark this year. 
“The situation is a little different this year as I’m not putting all that much pres­sure on myself to run a fast time,” he said. “The empha­sis is purely on winning. The Meyo Mile is known for an­nually being one of the fast­est mile races of the indoor season.” 
The men’s 400-meter relay team will be looking to keep its winning streak alive this weekend, and will face some strong competition. The meet draws dozens of top teams and competitors from 
arou nd 
the coun­
try. 
“There Buttinger of the women’s squad said her team will face tough competition as well. 
“In all of the events, we have a bunch of all-Amer­icans and National cham­pions coming,” she said. “There are a huge amount of entries and it’s the highlight of a lot of people’s indoor season.” 
The women have already had a number of athletes qualify for the Big East meet, and Buttinger said there is a great atmosphere surround­ing the team right now. 
“We’ve been getting bet­ter times and there has been a better spirit on the team since we’ve been doing well this year,” she said. “It’s re­ally exciting because we’re looking to rebuild after last year’s disappointing Big East performance and rebuild.” 
The team will hope to con­tinue receiving strong con­tributions, including from underclassmen. 
“We have a lot of athletes who can be really competi­tive at the events,” Buttinger said. “It’ll be really exciting to see how everyone does with such big fields and re­ally good competition.” 
The meet will get under­way at 4 p.m. Friday inside Loftus Sports Center. 
Contact Laura Coletti at lcoletti@nd.edu 


page 14 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u SPORTS Friday, February 3, 2012 

Goals 
continued from page 16 
shots in a 6-3 Alaska win. Ju­nior netminder Mike Johnson started Saturday and made 15 saves in a 4-2 victory. Jackson did not indicate which goalten­der would start tonight against the Falcons. 
The Irish will also hold “Lefty Fest” this weekend to celebrate the life of long-time Irish hockey coach Charles “Lefty” Smith, with many of Lefty’s family, friends and former players in at­tendance to honor his memory. Smith passed away Jan. 3 from natural causes at the age of 81. 
“It’s going to be a nice op­portunity for our team to pay tribute to his legacy and Lefty’s family that will be here since we didn’t have the opportunity when he passed to attend the fu­neral, because we were on our way to Minnesota at that exact time,” Jackson said. “So it will be a nice opportunity for our team to be able to pass their re­spects on to the family, which I think is important because our guys, they know who Lefty was and they had a relationship with him.” 
While the Irish will pay trib­ute to Smith this weekend, there is also business to be taken care of on the ice. 
In addition to the tight CCHA race, Notre Dame, who swept the Falcons at Bowling Green in a two-game series in Octo­ber, is currently No. 12 in the PairWise Rankings, the formula used to determine the 16-team NCAA tournament field. The five conference tournament win­ners receive automatic bids to the NCAA tournament, with at-large berths going to the best 11 teams in the PairWise who did not win their conference tour­nament. 
“[The players] know what’s going on. I don’t have to get into it in too much detail with them, they know,” Jackson said. “They know it’s crunch time. It’s get­ting crunchier by the game and we have to play every game the same way. We have to have that underdog mindset and play with that passion every game because it’s not about the op­ponent. I don’t care who it is or where we’re playing, it’s about us. 
“If we’re playing our opti­mal level, if we’re playing our A-game, we’ve seen what this team is capable of. The thing is finding a way to get them to play the A-game every night. We still have time, but time’s running out.” 
The Irish will skate in a criti­cal series tonight and Saturday against Bowling Green. The puck will drop at 7:05 p.m. for both games in the Compton Family Ice Arena. 
Contact Sam Gans at sgans@nd.edu 

Princeton 
continued from page 16 
to young Irish fencers Channing Foster and Nicole Ameli, a pair of freshmen who led the Irish epee unit with a combined re­cord of 35-4 at home last week­end. The standout performance by the two will have to be re­peated this weekend. 
“They will be put to a very strong test because Princeton’s epee fencers are their best,” Bednarski said. “I believe they will learn how to fence against the best in the nation.” 
Further competition on the women’s side is expected from Temple, and on both sides from Duke and North Carolina. Fea­turing former Olympic medalist Rebecca Ward, the Blue Devils figure to test the Irish’s strength. 


Big East 
continued from page 16 
behind Syracuse. 
“I couldn’t be prouder of a group of what we’re becoming,” Brey said after his team’s win at Connecticut last weekend. “The run we’re on right now to beat a really good team here — the key is, with us, we really controlled the tempo and that takes its toll on a team over 40 minutes when the rhythm’s not there. “ 
The Irish have controlled the game’s tempo for much of their Big East action. In Notre Dame’s six conference wins, only once has an opponent scored 60 or more points, and it took double-overtime for Louisville to do so in Notre Dame’s 67-65 victory at the KFC Yum! Center on Jan. 7. 
“I think the tempo, first of all, is a big effect,” Brey said. “[Opponents] don’t get as many shots. There’s not as many pos­sessions, so I think it can really affect talented offensive guys, but our defense was excellent. “ 
On the offensive end, the 
“It will be very interesting to see how all of these teams fence against us and how we will fence against them,” Bednarski said. “I expect a very serious clash between these teams.” 
The Irish sabreurs paced the men’s team (23-5) in last week­end’s Notre Dame Duals. The group combined to post a 100-8 mark over the two days of com­petition, including a number of strong performances from un­derclassmen. 
Though both squads got off to mediocre starts that were un­characteristic of Notre Dame in recent years, the path toward defending the 2011 National championship was smoothed with an impressive showing at home last weekend. It remains to be seen whether the perfor­mance can be duplicated in a series that will reveal a lot about the potential of the Irish 
Irish have benefitted from the breakthrough of sophomore guard Jerian Grant, who Brey said continues to grow in con­fidence. 
“He’s been fabulous,” Brey said. “He’s done a really good job on [Connecticut guard Jer­emy] Lamb in both games. The key with Jerian now is he really wants the ball at the end and we want him to get fouled. He has no idea how good he can be. I’m thrilled to have three more seasons after this with him.” 
For the Golden Eagles, se­nior guard Darius Johnson-Odom and senior forward Jae Crowder combine for just under 35 points per contest — the only Marquette players to average double-digits in points. Despite the offensive firepower from those two, the Golden Eagles are a deep squad, with eight players averaging five or more points per game. 
Notre Dame and Marquette will tip-off Saturday at 1 p.m. at Purcell Pavilion. 
Contact Andrew Owens at aowens2@nd.edu 
squads. 
“I hope that after this compe­tition we are seen as a strong team — if not the favorites,” Bednarski said. 
The Irish take to the strip Sat­urday at Northwestern Univer­sity in Evanston, Ill. 
Contact Conor Kelly at ckelly17@nd.edu 

Friday, February 3, 2012 The Observer u TODAY ndsmcobserver.com | page 15 
WILL SHORTz 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 
CROSSWORD 



HENRy ARNOLD 

JOE MILLER and KELLy LyNCH 
THE CLAMMY HANDSHAKE 
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 





Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 

Make checks payable to The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556

 Enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year


 Enclosed
 is $75 for one semester 


Name ____________________________________________________ Address __________________________________________________ City ____________________ State___________ Zip______________ 

February 3, 2012 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 16 

MEN’S BASKETBALL 

Home court advantage 
By ANDREW OWENS 
Associate Sports Editor 
After a week off following their 50-48 road defeat of No. 24 Connecticut, the Irish return to Purcell Pavilion to face con­ference rival No. 15 Marquette. 
Notre Dame (14-8, 6-3 Big East) has won its last three games, two of which came against ranked opponents, to climb into the top quarter of the Big East conference standings. 
“To be 6-3 halfway through the league [play], if you would’ve told me that after the Indiana game or after Missouri beat us by 29 … I’m really proud of this group and it’s a lot of fun working with them and you can see them getting more confident every week,” Irish coach Mike Brey said. 

Marquette (19-14, 8-2) is one of only two teams in the Big East with fewer confer­ence losses than the Irish, as it comes into the weekend a game DILLON WEISNER/The Observer 
Irish sophomore guard Alex Dragicevich shields the ball from James Southerland, left, and Dion Waiters, see BIG EAST/page 14 right, in Notre Dame’s 67-58 upset over Syracuse on Jan. 21. Dragicevich scored 9 points in the victory. 


SMC BASKETBALL 
Belles look to qualify 
By NICK BOYLE 
Sports Writer 
Coming off a conference win against Albion, Saint Mary’s hopes to continue its winning ways when it takes on Olivet on Saturday after­noon in Michigan. 
The Belles (10-11, 6-6 MIAA) now boast a .500 re­cord in conference play and sit in fourth place in the MIAA. They are currently in line to be one of four quali­fying teams in the newly re­structured MIAA playoffs. 
With only four games left in the season, a win on Sat­urday would greatly boost Saint Mary’s chances for playoff qualification. 
“This is a huge game for us, as we are only one game ahead of Olivet in conference 
see OLIVET/page 11 


HOCKEY 

Every game counts as championships come closer 
By SAM GANS Bowling Green will play a big possibility this weekend with eyes in both contests. ing a split at Alaska last week-Sports Writer part in whether those two goals the last-place Falcons (8-15-5, “[Falcons coach] Chris end. 
are met. 3-14-4-3) coming to town, Irish [Bergeron] has done a nice job Sophomore goaltender Ste-
As No. 6 Notre Dame enters The Irish (15-10-3, 10-7-3-coach Jeff Jackson is not look-and I think they’re starting ven Summerhays was given last the final month of its regular 0 CCHA) currently sit in sixth ing past Bowling Green, who to come on a little bit,” Jack-Friday’s start after two strong season, the quest for a CCHA place in the CCHA standings, has lost only two of its last six son said. “They play hard and outings the previous weekend championship and a berth in the but are just four points be-games. During that stretch, the they execute their system well. against Michigan. The Nanooks NCAA tournament field make hind conference-leader Fer-Falcons won at Alaska, beat No. They’re hard to play against and shelled Summerhays early, scor­each series crucial. A two-game ris State with eight games re-16 Western Michigan and tied that’s a sign of a team that’s go-ing four goals on their first 11 series in the Compton Family maining. Although six points Ohio State twice, picking up the ing in the right direction.” Ice Arena this weekend against in the standings seems a strong shootout win against the Buck-The Irish return home follow-see GOALS/page 14 

FENCING 
Irish look to repeat undefeated weekend 
By CONOR KELLY 
Sports Writer 
Last weekend, Northwestern’s women’s team came into the Joyce Center and posted an 8-1 record in action on Notre Dame’s home strip. Unfortunately for the Wildcats, the Irish women posted an undefeated 12-0 mark and were matched by the men’s squad in a perfect weekend for Notre Dame. 
This weekend, Northwestern will get its own chance to play host as the Wildcats will host the Northwestern Duals Satur­day and Sunday. 
In a season that has been tu­multuous in the early going, the duals will be a chance for the Irish to show they can compete with the top teams in the coun­try, and an opportunity to build off a strong performance at home last weekend. 
“This competition which is coming will certainly have an­other portion of the best teams in the nation,” Irish coach Ja­nusz Bednarski said. “There are many teams who we haven’t fenced yet, who are still able to beat us.” 
Not least among these oppo­nents is Princeton, a team Bed­narski said will be among the tops in the field. 
“Princeton has made a big push in recruiting many of the top fencers in the country re­cently, and it has a growing program,” Bednarski said. “On both the sides, men’s and wom­en’s, the danger is coming from several teams, including Princ­eton.” 
For the Irish women (18-5), the Tigers will present a challenge 
see PRINCETON/page 14 


ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 
ND seeks revenge on Blue Demons 
By MATTHEW ROBISON 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame will take on DePaul at home Sunday at Purcell Pavilion in what will be a grudge match for Irish coach Muffet McGraw’s squad. 
The Blue Demons (17-6, 4-2 Big East) beat Notre Dame (22-1, 9-0 Big East) last year in the regular season. The Irish went on to beat DePaul in the Big East tournament, but the Blue Demons are never an easy team to defeat, McGraw said. 
“They’re a very good team,” she said. “They shoot a lot of three’s, shoot the ball extremely well, and they have a good center.” 
DePaul junior center Kath­erine Harry leads the Big East in rebounding and will challenge Irish senior De-
see DePAUL/page 12 

PAT COVENEY/The Observer 
Irish sophomore Kayla McBride goes up for a shot in Notre Dame’s 72-44 victory over Tennessee on Jan. 23. 




