
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


Professor joins risk assessment committee 
Kareem to help experts evaluate structural integrity of new project for Department of Homeland Security 
By ABI HOVERMAN neering to assess how the build-on the committee considering importance that the building in probable risks. The committee News Writer ing would withstand natural di-plans for the Planned National withstands natural disasters. also contains veterinarians, mi­sasters. Bio- and Agro-Defense Facility Kareem serves on the second crobiologists, meteorologists and 
Earlier this month, the Nation-“One looks at scenarios to be (NBAF), to be built in Manhattan, committee to review the NBAF. risk-assessment specialists. al Academy of Sciences selected sure the ba-
Kansas. The building will house The first committee’s recommen-“It’s a politically hard item a Notre Dame professor to join sic safety 
those conducting research, cre-dation lead to the revised plan because it is mandated by Con-a risk assessment committee steps are 
ating vaccines and medications currently under consideration, gress, and they want to make evaluating plans for a new De-built in,” Ka­
for livestock and training pro-he said. sure everything goes well,” he partment of Homeland Security reem said. 
fessionals to respond to diseases “In this case, if the building said. “Whenever Congress wants (DHS) animal disease research According 
spread from animal-to-animal collapses, it is a serious prob-an unbiased opinion they go to facility. to the DHS 
and from animals-to-human. lem,” Kareem said. an academy.” Ahsan Kareem, the Robert Mo-website, Ka-
Because the NBAF will con-Kareem said final funding Kareem said the appointment ran Professor of Civil Engineer-reem will 
tain strains of viruses like Foot from Congress rests on the rec-process selected completely un­ing and Geological Sciences, will work with and Mouth Disease and Classical ommendation of the committee use his expertise in wind engi-16 experts Swine Fever, it is of the upmost on how the building would fare see SECURITY/page 5 



Holy Land Lenten Pilgrimage canceled 
By ANNA BOARINI 
News Writer 
A popular and distinctive spring break option offered to students last year has been withdrawn due to logistical difficulties. The Theology and Campus Ministry Departments cancelled this semester’s Holy Land Lenten Pilgrimage, which was to have travelled through Jerusalem, Galilee and Bethle­hem. 
Students going on the The­ology department and Cam­pus Ministry sponsored trip received an email earlier this week informing them of the trip’s cancellation. The email was signed by Theology de­partment chair J. Matthew Ashley and interim director of Campus Ministry Fr. Joe Carey. 
According to the email, “in­surmountable logistical prob­lems” contributed to the can­cellation of the trip. 
Ashley said living arrange­ments were a concern with the trip as planned. 
“First, there were space constraints at Tantur [an ecu­menical institute for theologi­cal studies based in Jerusa­lem], but we were able to work around those,” he said. 
Budget constraints were also an issue, Ashley said. 
“The second and more seri­ous problem had to do with air­fares,” he said. “The prices are extremely volatile, making it impossible to fix a price for the participants and be sure we could stay within our budget.” 
Along with the price of air­fare, Ashley said safety con­cerns came into question when planning the flight over to Is­rael. 
“There was a serious ques­

see PILGRIMAGE/page 7 


Students search for careers 
By JILL BARWICK 
News Writer 
Once again, the time of year when Saint Mary’s College se­niors begin to apply for the job of their dreams has come around on the calendar. The employ­ment search is well underway, and seniors and faculty know full well the process is a job in itself. 
Senior Hilary Ferguson said she knows experience in her preferred field of communica­tions will enhance her chances of employment, adding that her 

see JOBS/page 5 



Faculty members use physics to expose art forgery 
“I love applying AMS to those areas.” 
Collon said the accelerators used at Notre Dame are similar to the ones in European art mu­seums, save for the fact that the ones overseas work specifically on art works, forgeries and ar­cheology. He said the majority of research conducted at Notre Dame is related to nuclear as­trophysics. 
Collon added that although the work in the nuclear labs at Notre Dame remains focused on research and experimentation, the professors are now using applied physics in connection to other studies such as art, ar­cheology and anthropology. 
“It really is a sort of meld­ing of these different areas,” he 
see FORGERY/page 7 



By CAROLYN HUTYRA 
News Writer 
The worlds of science and art are headed on a collision course, and master forgers are forewarned: Science will catch them red-handed. 
Notre Dame’s nuclear astro­physicist professors Michael 
C.F. Wiescher and Philippe Col­lon are using proton-induced x-ray emission (PIXE) and Ac­celerator Mass Spectroscopy (AMS) to analyze various ar­tifacts without destroying any parts of the samples. 
The application of such meth­ods involves dating artwork, determining prior locations of artifacts and identifying pig­ments through particulate analysis. In so doing, art forg­eries are more easily identified and more information about the artifacts is gained, accord­ing to Wiescher and Collon’s January article “Accelerated ion beams in art forensics” in the academic magazine Physics Today. 
This new approach is unique in that it comes from the area of physics. Collon said using AMS is akin to pouring a bot­tle of wine into Lake Michigan and trying to examine the wine particles, saying the process al­lows researchers to specifically examine from the backgrounds that interfere in the separa­tions. He said the main focus is to look at a few trace atoms in a large matrix. 
Collon said he enjoys his fo­cus using the AMS program. 
“I have a love for astrophysics and nuclear physics,” he said. 

INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER Students observe College traditions page 3 u Viewpoint page 8 u London Stage actors page 10 u Men’s Basketball vs. Seton Hall preview page 20 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT IS THE BEST THING YOU HAVE EVER WON? 



www.ndsmcobserver.com 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
Douglas Farmer 
Managing Editor Business Manager 
Sarah Mervosh Jeff Liptak 
Asst. Managing Editor: Adriana Pratt Asst. Managing Editor: Chris Masoud News Editor: Sam Stryker Viewpoint Editor: Meghan Thomassen Sports Editor: Allan Joseph Scene Editor: Maija Gustin Saint Mary’s Editor: Caitlin E. Housley Photo Editor: Pat Coveney Graphics Editor: Brandon Keelean Advertising Manager: Katherine Lukas Ad Design Manager: Amanda Jonovski Controller: Jason Taulman Systems Administrator: William Heineman 

Office Manager & General Info 
(574) 631-7471 
Fax 
(574) 631-6927 
Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 dfarmer1@nd.edu 
Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 smervosh@nd.edu 
Assistant Managing Editors 
(574)631-4541 apratt@nd.edu, cmasoud@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 
Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 

Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 mgustin@nd.edu 
Saint Mary’s Desk 
chousl01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 

Policies 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College.  Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Douglas Farmer. 


Post Office Information 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 and additional mailing offices 024 South Dining hall 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-077 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

Brian Connor  Katy Riley  Pat Condon  Caroline  Rob Callus  Will Murray  
Munegast  
freshman  senior  junior  sophomore  freshman  freshman  
O’Neill  Farley  Stanford  Badin  Zahm  Carroll  
“Nothing.”  “Legend’s trivia  “First prize.”  “A tie-dyed  “A 10 lb.  “My dad’s  
night.”  Sammy Sosa Beanie Baby in the 2nd grade.”  chocolate bar.”  respect for four minutes.”  



Have an idea for Question of the Day? Email obsphoto@gmail.com 


OFFBEAT 
Hearse used for JFK sells 
DALLAS, Texas — The man who paid $176,000 for the white hearse used to transport President John 
F. Kennedy’s body follow­ing his assassination in Dallas plans to include it in his collection of about 400 cars in Colorado. 
Stephen Tebo, a real es­tate developer from Boul­der, bought the hearse Saturday that was being offered by Barrett-Jackson Auction Co. of Scottsdale, Ariz. He got the car with a bid of $160,000, plus a $16,000 buyer’s premium. 
The auction company said that the 1964 Cadillac hearse carried Kennedy’s body as well as first lady Jacqueline Kennedy from Parkland Memorial Hos­pital to Air Force One at Dallas’ Love Field for the flight back to Washington following his assassination on Nov. 22, 1963. 
Tebo said that he plans to eventually turn his car collection into a museum. 
Woman stole soda just for can deposit 
LYNN,  Mass. — Authori­ties say a Massachusetts woman bought $64 worth of soda using a stolen wel­fare benefits card, then immediately fed the full cans into the supermar­ket’s automated redemp­tion machine to exchange the cans for the nickel de­posit. 
Tina Cafarelli, of Lynn, pleaded not guilty Monday to charges including lar­ceny, property destruction and receiving stolen prop­erty. She was ordered by authorities to be held on $250 bail. 

Police tell The Daily Item that the electronic ben­efits card Cafarelli used to buy the 18 12-packs of soda had another person’s name on it. The super­market manager says the full cans caused extensive damage to the redemption machine, which usually receives  empty cans. 
The 36-year-old Cafarel­li couldn’t be reached for comment. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

IN BRIEF 
Spring Lessons for the Spring 2012 Session 1 Reg­istration begins at 9:00 a.m. today in the Rockne Memo­rial. The cost is $30 per ses­sion. Contact Sarah Ryck­man with any questions at sryckman@nd.edu 
The Center for Social Con­cerns will host the Social Concerns Fair today from 6 to 8 p.m. in Geddes Hall, classrooms B034 to B036. The Social Concerns Fair provides an opportunity for 40 local community organi­zations and student service and action clubs to meet with students and engage them in the  community. 
For international gradu­ate students, finding a job or internship can be a chal­lenge. Cosponsored by Eng­lish for Academic Purposes (EAP) and the Career Cen­ter, the Interviewing and Networking Strategies for International Students workshop will be held today from 6:30 to 7:30 p.m in 303 DeBartolo Hall for free. 
Tonight from 7 to 9 p.m., the John Madden film “The Debt” will premiere in the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. The event is open to the public and costs $6 for adults, $4 for seniors and $3 for children and stu­dents. 
The Social Venturing and Microfinance Internships Information Session will be held tonight in the coffee house of Geddes Hall from 7 to 8 p.m. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews.nd@gmail.com 

TODAY’S STAFF 
News 
Sam Stryker Marisa Iati Brooke Kovanda 

Graphics 
Lisa Hoeynck 

Photo 
Alex Partak 

Sports 
Andrew Gastelum Joe Wirth Vicky Jacobsen 

Scene 
Mary Claire O’Donnell 

Viewpoint 



LOCAL WEATHER 
HIGH 27 LOW 21 
HIGH 40 LOW 23 
HIGH 41 LOW 23 

HIGH 36 LOW 18 
HIGH 25 LOW 17 

TODAY TONIGHT THURSDAY FRIDAY SATURDAY SUNDAY 
Ren Brauweiler 












CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 



Saint Mary’s students celebrate College’s tradition with tea 



By MEAGHAN DALY 
News Writer 
Tuesday afternoon’s teatime at the Riedinger House offered Saint Mary’s College students an opportunity to see some of the school’s traditions brought to life. 
Director of Alumnae Relations Kara O’Leary said graduates of the school are crucial in keeping the College’s traditions alive. 
“The Alumnae Association works to keep alumnae connect­ed to each other as well as the College,” she said. “It represents decades [of alumnae] and geo­graphical locations of the alum­nae population at large. 
Tea in Riedinger House dur­ing Heritage Week began three years ago and has grown in pop­ularity each year, O’Leary said. Along with the Student Govern­ment Association (SGA), she has had to schedule additional times for students to attend. There will be two more sessions held on Wednesday at 4 p.m. and 5:15 p.m. 
O’Leary said the strength of the school’s alumnae is consid­erable, noting Saint Mary’s Col­lege possesses the top women’s Catholic alumnae association in the nation. 

“Students realize their time because it is the first mother-here [at Saint Mary’s] is short, daughter legacy connection at but they will be alumnae the rest Saint Mary’s,” O’Leary said. of their lives,” O’Leary said. “One of best parts of the tea is 
SGA chief of staff Emily educating our students on what Skirtich said being post-the events of Saint Mary’s the week serve means.” 
to evoke the history of the school. “The goal of Heritage Week is to remind  “Students realize their time here [at Saint Mary’s] is short, but they will be alumnae the rest of their lives.”  Junior Mad­eline Meckes said she was initially un­aware of the historical sig­ 
veteran  stu­ nificance  of  
dents and tell  Kara O’Leary  the  building,  
current  stu­ director of alumnae relations  but appreciat­ 
dents  about  ed the oppor­ 
the  College  tunity to learn  
and  the  rich  more  about  

traditions we celebrate here,” the traditions of the College. she said. “I learned a lot about the his-
Skitich said SGA chose tory of the house and the alum-Riedinger House because of the nae association. I thought it was building’s rich historical tradi-really cool that it used to be used tion on campus. as a practice house for home eco­
“It reminds students of what life nomics majors,” Meckes said. here used to be like versus what Skirtich said students’ thirst to it is now,” she understand said. “We are more about 
celebrating their school 
“I learned a lot about the 
one of the sto-means Heri­
history of the house and 
ried places on tage Week 
the alumnae assocation. I 
campus.” gets stronger 
thought it was really cool 
Ad ali ne each year. 
that it used to be used as 
Crowley “Each Riedinger, a practice house for home year SGA Class of 1864, economics majors.” (St udent was respon-Govern­sible for do-ment As-
Madeline Meckes 
nating the sociation) 
junior 
majority of strives to the funds to highlight construct the all the re­house. Riedinger was also the ally important parts of the first alumna to send her daugh-College and its history,” she ter, Mary Adalaide Riedinger, said. “Each year keeps getting Class of 1889, to Saint Mary’s better and better. The students College. appreciate where we came 
O’Leary said the rich tradition from and all the College has to of the house serves as a reminder offer.” of what it means to be an alumna of the College. Contact Meaghan Daly at 
“We open Riedinger House mdaly01@saintmarys.edu 





CollegeFashionista highlights campus trends 
By KRISTEN DURBIN 
News Writer 
The chill of winter may have overtaken South Bend, but Notre Dame’s fashion scene is heating up with the launch of its College-Fashionista webpage earlier this month. 
Indiana University graduate Amy Levin founded CollegeFash­ionista in 2009 as a fashion blog site for style-conscious col­lege students around the world. Since another university. 
“My friend worked for [Col­legeFashionista] last year as a Style Guru, and I’ve always had an interest in writing and espe­cially fashion after doing fashion internships in the past,” Willis said. “I decided to apply to be a Style Guru this semester, so I wrote to [Levin] and recom­mended Notre Dame for the site.” 
Willis applied for CollegeFash­ionista in November and found 
out in Decem­
ber that she 
was selected 
its the  inception, site has  “We hope students at Notre Dame  to be one of Notre Dame’s  
expanded to include more than 180 col­lege campuses in the United States and Canada. S t u de nt “Style Gurus”  will be inspired by their peers and use CollegeFashionista as a place to learn about trends happening not only at their campus but at college campuses around the world.”  two new Style Gurus, along with senior K a t her i ne Lukas [Note: Lukas is the A d ve r t i s i n g Manager of The Observer].  
represent each  Levin  said  
campus, tributing entries  con-blog and  Amy Levin founder of CollegeFashionista  she felt the time was right to get Notre  
photos  of  the  Dame involved  
“Fashionistas”  in her site, es- 
and  popular  pecially based  

trends they find on campus, ac-on Willis and Lukas’ enthusiasm cording to CollegeFashionista’s for the idea. website. These blog entries take “We felt a need to showcase on a different focus each day of the fashion at this Midwest col-the week, from “Style Advice” on lege and found two perfect can-Mondays to “Accessories Report” didates to help us launch Col-and “Fashion from Abroad” on legeFashionista at Notre Dame,” Fridays. Levin said. “Katherine and 
Sophomore Elizabeth Wil-Elizabeth both reached out to us lis became interested in bring-about their interest in launch­ing the site to Notre Dame after ing a Notre Dame page. Their hearing about it from a friend at photography, writing and social 


media skills were totally in line why.” with what we were looking for Willis said she has already in Style Gurus and we quickly received positive feedback from brought them on the team.” her Notre Dame peers. 
Willis said her focus as a Style “A couple of my friends here Guru is on accessories, while had read CollegeFashionista in 
Lukas  gives  the past, but  
general  style  more attention  
advice  in  her  is drawn to it  
posts.  Both  “Notre Dame often  when  I  post  
girls submit a blog entry di­rectly to the site once per week, includ­ing their cam­pus fashion  gets the reputation of having a ‘uniform,’ so I want to bring attention to various styles and interesting things people are wearing on campus.”  my blogs on Facebook and Twitter,” she said. “As Style Gurus we’re required to do that, so that  
findings  for  promoted  it  
that week.  Elizabeth Willis  and got people  
“Wewalk  both  around  sophomore  asking about the site.”  
campus  and  As the site  
look for people  gains  popu­ 

whose style catches our eyes,” larity at Notre Dame, Levin said Willis said. “We stop them, take she hopes to expand College-a picture and interview them Fashionista’s presence on cam-about what they’re wearing and pus by developing a full team of five Style Gurus. In the mean­time, she said she is optimistic about the site’s potential impact on fashion at Notre Dame. 
“We hope students at Notre Dame will be inspired by their peers and use CollegeFashioni­sta as a place to learn about trends happening not only at their campus but at college cam­puses around the world,” she said. 
Willis said she hopes her con­tributions to the site will help dispel stereotypes about Notre Dame student style and encour­age them to display their indi­viduality as well. 
“Notre Dame often gets the reputation of having a ‘uniform,’ so I want to bring attention to various styles and interesting things people are wearing on campus,” she said. 

Contact Kristen Durbin at kdurbin@nd.edu 







Researchers develop solar paint 
By CHRIS BARNES 
News Writer 
The sharper reflection on Notre Dame’s football hel­mets in the sunlight is not the only cutting-edge devel­opment featuring light tech­nology on campus. 
Sponsored by the Depart­ment of Ener­gy, a team of Notre Dame researchers 
Kamat said the fundamen­tal principle of developing the paint was to utilize the special conducive properties of various metals. 
“This project includes a whole array of semiconduc­tors, such as silicon, cad­mium and telluride, which are currently employed in solar cells,” said Kamat. “The paint’s semicon­
led by Profes­ “The number of surfaces  ductors ab­ 
sor  Prashant  available that are  sorb  light  
Kamat is currently en­gineering a type of paint that can gen- impinged upon by sunlight on a daily basis makes a technology such as paint very attractive.”  and gener­ate charge c a r r i e r s that are tapped in  
erate tricity  elec­upon  Prashant Kamat  ph o t ovo l -taic cells  
exposure  to  professor of science  to  generate  

light.  
Kamat, who is work­ing with graduate students James Radich and Ian Lightcap, said his work to harness the electric potential of the sun’s rays has been a long time coming. 
“We’ve been conducting so­lar photochemistry research for more than two decades,” Kamat said. 
Radich said the idea for the use of sunlight as a primary source of energy compelled the researchers to pursue this elusive possibility. 
“The number of surfaces available that are impinged upon by sunlight on a daily basis makes a technology such as paint very attrac­tive,” he said. 
electricity.” 
Th ough he and his team have 
made great strides in cul­tivating the paint, Kamat said his work than five percent, but the ex­ternal funding support and the research progress will determine the duration of product development.” 
Lightcap said his team needs more time to fully de­velop its discovery. 
“We optimistically esti­mate that development of the paint into a product with competitive efficiency and stability will take a few years to a decade to reach fruition,” he said.  “We are confident that a few of our Notre Dame undergrads working on this and related projects will make the next breakthrough.” 
Kamat said their research has yielded a product with incredible properties, nam­ing the paint “Sun-Believ­able.” 
“A large number of people still do not believe that solar energy is a viable energy al­ternative that could become 
in maximiz-“This project includes ing the prod-a whole array of uct’s qual­
semiconductors such 
ity is far from 
as silicon, cadmium 
over. 
and telluride, which 
“So far what 
are currently employed 
we’ve shown 
in solar cells.” 
is a proof of concept, which is only Prashant Kamat 
the first of a professor of science fou r-pha se step in scien­tific discov­ery,” Kamat part of our energy portfolio,” he said.  “However, the facts contra­dict this 
opi nion. 
The  food  
that  we  
eat  comes  

from the conversion of sunlight into carbo­hydrates, and the 
said.  “We need to boost the fossil fuels that we use to­
paint’s efficiency to more day are stored energy from the Sun.  The simplicity of the approach in this work highlights the cause.” Kamat added the devel­opment of the paint repre­sents a leap into the largely untapped well of renew­able energy. “Many efforts are needed to attain sustainable en­ergy,” he said. “There is no single silver bullet to meet our clean energy demand, so we also need to consid­er various alternatives to oil and coal, such as wind power, hydropower, bio­mass and geothermal en­ergy.” Lightcap said this work has given him hope for a future of cleaner forms of energy. “Our work is the first step in right direction toward setting our sights on re­newable energy forms that are accessible to every­one,” he said.  “Transform­ing the costly and time-intensive construction of solar cells into a simple, paint-like approach is one direction we can take to achieve that goal.” 
Contact Chris Barnes at cbarnes4@nd.edu 


Security 
continued from page 1 
biased members, as the Acad­emy of Science posted nominees’ biographies online for public objection and circulated the list of members to relevant interest groups. The Academy does not compensate the experts in order to ensure the accuracy of the rec­ommendation, he said. 
“Everything is in the open; it’s very transparent,” he said. 
The facility’s location in Man­hattan, Kansas, the heart of tor­nado alley, makes the building extremely susceptible to torna­does, he said. 
“Manhattan is an area where there have been strong torna­does. Anytime, anything can happen … One must look at the risk … of tornado strength,” Ka­reem said. “Then we look at the structure to find the weak links.” 
The DHS website explained that despite the risk of tornados, the NBAF will benefit from this location on the campus of Kan­sas State University, the location of existing facilities for similar bio-security research. It will also 


Jobs 
continued from page 1 
minor in Advertising and Pub­lic Relations will broaden her choices. 
“I have had two internships over the past year, including one this semester as a marketing intern at Quality Dining, Inc.,” Ferguson said. “I am not plan­ning on going to graduate school. However, I am still deciding where I am planning on settling down after graduation.” 
Senior Lauren Carroll said she recognizes the value of having internships throughout her col­legiate career. Carroll worked for the United States Food and Drug Administration this past summer. 
“My internship allowed me to see the duties of a public rela­tions specialist on a day-to-day basis and further understand the field I plan to go into,” Carroll said. “I was able to gain experi­ence in the public relations field and had the opportunity to learn from an outstanding public rela­tions specialist.” 
In addition to internships, Saint Mary’s students can turn to on-campus resources in their search for employment. 
Stacie Jeffirs, the director of the Career Crossings Office (CCO), said she works with stu­dents, mainly seniors, who have questions or worries or would just like to talk about the job market. She said personal com­munication is crucial in search­ing for employment. 
“Networking is very important when searching for jobs. The CCO uses the Alumnae Resource Network to help students con­nect with Saint Mary’s grads for the next steps after graduation,” Jeffirs said. “We also highly en­courage using LinkedIn and Go be near a major hub of the veteri­nary pharmaceutical industry. 
Kareem was selected for his expertise on the impact of high winds and other natural phe­nomenon, he said. Kareem inves­tigated the collapse of a scissor-lift on campus that killed junior Declan Sullivan in 2010, and has explored buildings that have failed in hurricanes. He has also served for six years on a commit­tee on natural disasters for the Academy of Sciences, he said. 
“In our profession, you have to do these kinds of things if asked,” he said. 
The committee will meet next week to make its final recom­mendation on the project, which is projected to be operational in 2020. Although this project for the DHS is more sensitive and classified than other projects, Kareem said he uses the same methodology when considering the NBAF plans. 
“What is the possibility of something happening, what are the consequences, and how do those consequences affect soci­ety,” Kareem said. 
Contact Abi Hoverman at ahoverma@nd.edu 
BELLES to give an advantage to our students currently seeking jobs.” 
Jeffirs said CCO provides inter­view preparation as well as mock interviews for students who have gotten the call from a potential employer. Career assessments are provided at the office to help students make sure they know what field they want to enter into. 
Additionally, Jeffirs said the CCO has Senior Disorientation every semester to incorporate two topics it feels will enhance students’ post-graduation view. This semester the topics are ti­tled, “Finding your spiritual path after graduation,” and “Living a healthy lifestyle.” 
The office also helps students prepare for the Career Fair com­ing up next week. Jeffirs said she recommends seniors take a pro­active approach in their search for employment. 
“If seniors need assistance, coming into the office sooner rather than later will greatly benefit them in the long run,” she said. “Seniors should un­derstand that job searching is a process which includes different elements and pieces.” 
Ferguson said the CCO has been very helpful in her intern­ship searches in the past. 
“They provided me with a lot of resources that I would not have had access to otherwise and as­sisted me with my resume [and] applications,” she said. 
Jeffirs said although search­ing for a job can be daunting, students should not be afraid of the process. 
“Being able to adapt and al­ways having a backup plan, or two, is a solid way to approach the job hunt,” she said. “It is not as scary as people think.” 


Contact Jill Barwick at jbarwi01@saintmarys.edu 






Forgery 
continued from page 1 
said. 
Collon said he and Wiescher are continuously developing these applied physics pro­grams. He said the specific focus on art and archaeology took place more recently in the past four to five years. 
“This is a program that we’re developing. It’s something that is growing, that is taking on more and more importance,” Collon said. “It’s a sort of paral­lel to our main activity, which is basic nuclear physics.” 
Additionally, current under­graduate research focuses on AMS in connection with car­bon-14 dating, Collon said. 


Pilgrimage 
continued from page 1 
tion as to whether we could secure a block of seats for all the participants on the same flight,” he said. “Because of se­curity issues all of the partici­pants have to travel together.” 
Last March, a group of stu­dents, including junior Co­lin King, was able to travel to the Holy Land. King said the group’s accommodations were unlike anything he has experi­enced. 
“We stayed at Tantur, a Notre Dame residence right on the border of Israeli controlled Jerusalem and Palestinian controlled Bethlehem,” he said. “It’s about a five-minute walk from the massive walls sur­rounding Bethlehem.” 
During the day, the students on the trip would travel to holy sites and at night they would learn about the Israeli-Pales­tinian conflict. Junior Jackie These students are given the opportunity to work with these techniques, most often using the 11 million volt tandem ac­celerator. 
Collon said no commercial plans exist for AMS technol­ogy. Although the campus sci­ence buildings belong to Notre Dame, the National Science Foundation (NSF) pays for the labs. At this time, the NSF would like the lab activity at Notre Dame to continue with its basic research. 
He said the NSF recognizes the goal of these particular re­search labs to serve the science community in the widespread study of physics, not just one area alone. 
Contact Carolyn Hutyra at chutyra@nd.edu 
Bacon said this academic as­pect was especially interest­ing. 
“It was really cool for me as an Arabic major, learning more about the conflict and being in the moment, seeing how the conflict plays out for these peo­ple,” she said. “We were learn­ing what is happening in this part of the world and then see­ing the conflict happen when we were walking around.” 
While King also enjoyed the academic side of the trip and the insight into the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, he said the trip truly deepened his faith. 
“This trip was first and fore­most a spiritual experience, we went to these unbelievable holy places,” he said. “This gave me some tangible sights and images to places that I have always heard about. You read the Bible and now you can picture what you read.” 


Contact Anna Boarini at                       aboari01@saintmarys.edu 





President addresses nation 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON — Declar­ing the American dream un­der siege, President Barack Obama delivered a populist challenge Tuesday night to shrink the gap between rich and poor, promising to tax the wealthy more and help jobless Americans get work and hang onto their homes. Seeking re­election and needing results, the president invited Republi­cans to join him but warned, “I intend to fight.” 
In an emphatic State of the Union address, Obama said ensuring a fair shot for all Americans is “the defining is­sue of our time.” He said the economy is finally recovering from a deep and painful re­cession and he will fight any effort to return to policies that brought it low. 

“We’ve come too far to turn back now,” he declared. 
Obama outlined a vastly different vision for fixing the country than the one pressed by the Republicans confront­ing him in Congress and fight­ing to take his job in the No­vember election. He pleaded for an active government that ensures economic fairness for everyone, just as his op­ponents demand that the gov­ernment back off and let the free market rule. 
Obama offered steps to help students afford college, a plan for more struggling home­owners to refinance their homes and tax cuts for man­ufacturers. He threw in po­litically appealing references to accountability, including warning universities they will lose federal aid if they don’t stop tuition from soaring. 
Standing in front of a divid­ed Congress, with bleak hope this election year for much of his legislative agenda, Obama spoke with voters in mind. 
“We can either settle for a country where a shrinking number of people do really well, while a growing num­ber of Americans barely get by,” Obama said. “Or we can restore an economy where ev­eryone gets a fair shot, every­one does their fair share, and everyone plays by the same set of rules.” 
A rare wave of unity splashed over the House chamber at the start. Rep. Gabrielle Giffords, survivor of an assassination attempt one year ago, received sustained applause from her peers and cheers of “Gabby, Gabby, Gab­by.” She blew a kiss to the po­dium. Obama embraced her. 
Lawmakers leapt to their feet when Obama said near the start of his speech that terrorist leader Osama bin Laden, killed by a raid autho­rized by the president, will no longer threaten America. 
At the core of Obama’s ad­dress was the improving but deeply wounded economy — the matter still driving Amer­icans’ anxiety and the one likely to determine the next presidency. 
“The state of our union is getting stronger,” Obama said, calibrating his words as millions remain unemployed. Implicit in his declaration that the American dream is “within our reach” was the recognition that, after three years of an Obama presiden­cy, the country is not there yet. 
He spoke of restoring basic goals: owning a home, earn­ing enough to raise a family, putting a little money away for retirement. 
“We can do this,” Obama said. “I know we can.” He said Americans are convinced that “Washington is broken,” but he also said it wasn’t too late to cooperate on important matters. 
Republicans were not im­pressed. They applauded in­frequently, though they did cheer when the president quoted “Republican Abraham Lincoln” as saying: “That gov­ernment should do for people only what they cannot do bet­ter by themselves — and no more.” 
Indiana Gov. Mitch Dan­iels, offering the formal GOP response, called Obama’s policies “pro-poverty” and his tactics divisive. 
“No feature of the Obama presidency has been sadder than its constant efforts to divide us, to curry favor with some Americans by castigat­ing others,” Daniels said after the president’s address. 
In a signature swipe at the nation’s growing income gap, Obama called for a new mini­mum tax rate of at least 30 percent on anyone making over $1 million. Many mil­lionaires — including one of his chief rivals, Republican Mitt Romney — pay a rate less than that because they get most of their income from in­vestments, which are taxed at a lower rate. 
“Now you can call this class warfare all you want,” Obama said, responding to a frequent criticism from the GOP presi­dential field. “But asking a billionaire to pay at least as much as his secretary in tax­es? Most Americans would call that common sense.” 
Obama calls this the “Buf­fett rule,” named for billion­aire Warren Buffett, who has said it’s unfair that his sec­retary pays a higher tax rate than he does. Emphasizing the point, Buffett’s secretary, Debbie Bosanek, attended the address in first lady Michelle Obama’s box. 
Obama underlined every proposal with the idea that hard work and responsibil­ity still count. He was tar­geting independent voters who helped seal his election in 2008 and the frustrated masses in a nation pessimis­tic about its course. 



page 8 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com Wednesday, January 25, 2012 

INSIDE COLUMN 
Fandom found 
For a good portion of the first 18 years of my life, I did not consider myself a hockey fan. Sure, I paid at­tention to the sport during the Winter Olympics and Stanley Cup Finals, and I knew about star players like Wayne Gretzky, Mario Lemieux and Pat­rick Roy, but I never really paid too much attention to any particular team or regular season outcome. Walker Carey 

This all changed for me Sports Writer in 2009. I have always been a loyal listener of Chicago sports radio, and during the early months of that year, I began noticing that an unusual amount of time was being devoted to talk about the Chica­go Blackhawks. This caused me to look at the standings to see that the team was doing quite well. I remember I decided to tune into a game against the Minnesota Wild and was mesmer­ized. Not only did I enjoy watching the Blackhawks win, but also thoroughly enjoyed watching hockey. For the rest of the season, I paid close attention to the team and was captivated by its run to the Western Conference Finals. 
The next season, my level of interest in the team and the sport increased even more. I found myself regularly watching games on television, I deter­mined Blackhawks center Jonathan Toews was my favorite player and I skipped class to watch Team USA do battle in the Winter Olympics. When the playoffs began in the spring of 2010, there was hardly anything that could have stopped me from watch­ing the Blackhawks play. I watched as the team advanced all they way to the Stanley Cup Finals, where they met the Philadelphia Flyers. My father, brother and I made the sojourn to the United Center in Chicago to watch the Blackhawks beat the Flyers 6-5 in the first game of the series. 11 days later, I watched from a couch in Treasure Island, Fla., as Patrick Kane got a shot past Flyers goalie Michael Leighton to not only give the Blackhawks the Game Six victory, but also the series victory. I had only been a fan for a little over a year and had already seen my team win the Stanley Cup. 
My hockey fandom is currently at its greatest peak. I get every Blackhawks’ scoring update sent to my cell phone. I try to watch as many games as pos­sible. I will listen to games on the radio if the team is playing while I am driving. The past two winters I have been enthralled with HBO’s fantastic 24-7 series as it documents the events leading up to the Winter Classic for both participants. The increase in my fandom has been so dramatic that I now even watch games that do not fea­ture the Blackhawks. If I had been told in 2008 that four years later I would be interested in the outcome of a New York Rangers-Pittsburgh Penguins game, I would have probably passed out from laughing so hard. 
Becoming a hockey fan has taught me to always try giving things a chance because there is a possibility that the thing may become very im­portant to me. I believe that is a motto everyone should adopt. 
Contact Walker Carey at      wcarey@nd.edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 



Holding Christ hostage 
This article is not endorsing Ron Paul, nor condemning Rick Santorum, nor is this article taking a stance on the legality of abortion. What must be under critical dialogue, especially at Notre Dame, is pre­cisely how to enter a discussion on the topic of abortion respectfully and in the context of the love that religious people believe Jesus exemplified. 
Black comedian and social com­mentator Richard Pryor told a story in a 1983 interview regarding a picture that he had in his mind: “Once I was in a Church and Jesus was on the cross and he said, ‘Psst, come here. Get me down. I’ve been up here two-thousand years trying to get to the graveyard.’ So I took him off the cross and we were leaving the church together and alarms went off and great searchlights went off all over the cathedral. And monks came out and jumped on us and they started beating us up. And they took him and they put him back on the cross. And they threw me out. And I said, ‘I’m gonna tell!’ And as they were throwing me out the door, the monk said, ‘Who’s gonna believe you?’” 
The first interpretation I could think of for Pryor’s segment was the act of holding Christ hostage, in the sense of asking, “Who/what controls the modern day Church in America?” Is it a Church hierarchy, or the condition given by Jesus to love, uncondition­ally? When one of the most prominent images of American Catholicism is a yard full of crosses, it is hard not to think that the politicization of one issue has blinded the need for constructive efforts to alleviate suffering in other arenas of public life. 
It was extremely reassuring, al-


EDITORIAL CARTOON 
though horrifyingly ineffective towards voters in South Carolina, that over forty Catholic leaders and prominent theolo­gians across the country issued a public statement to candidates Rick Santorum and Newt Gingrich, stating: “As Catholic leaders who recognize that the moral scandals of racism and poverty remain a blemish on the American soul, we chal­lenge our fellow Catholics Newt Gingrich and Rick Santorum to stop perpetuating ugly racial stereotypes on the campaign trail. … Labeling our nation’s first Afri­can-American president with a title that evokes the past myth of ‘welfare queens’ and inflaming other racist caricatures is irresponsible, immoral and unworthy of political leaders.” The most important line, however, reads, “Some presidential candidates now courting ‘values voters’ seem to have forgotten that defending human life and dignity does not stop with protecting the unborn.” 
Within the Republican debates, the is­sue of a Consistent Ethic of Life has been lost, exemplified when Rick Santorum lambasted Ron Paul for having a “Na­tional Right to Life voting record of 50 percent.” Both Santorum and Paul iden­tify as “pro-life;” that is, anti-abortion. However, because Paul votes according to his political conscience (which be­lieves abortion should be made illegal on a state, not a federal level), since the is­sue is not prescribed in the Constitution, Ron Paul cannot claim to be “pro-life,” according to Santorum. 
The message of the prominent Catho­lic leaders is an extremely important balance to the statement issued by Santorum on the anniversary of Roe v. Wade: “The right to life is the first right. Without its protection, no other rights matter.” This idea, that until abortion is made illegal — the prerogative of Nation­al Right to Life and the U.S. Conference of Catholic Bishops (probably the two largest lobbying organizations on the issue) — no other rights matter, is pre­cisely the danger of the bipolarity of the abortion debate and tying it completely to matters of religiosity, and even worse, tying matters of religiosity to a par­ticular political party. Santorum thinks the issue should be made illegal at the federal level because of his religious beliefs. Paul thinks the issue should be addressed at the state level because of his constitutional beliefs. 

Constructive dialogue regarding abortion can only come within a concep­tual framework of Cardinal Bernadin’s Consistent Ethic of Life. But constructive dialogue also comes from abiding by Jesus’ call to love. University president Fr. John Jenkins put it eloquently while introducing the President of the United States in 2009: “As the Fathers of the Second Vatican Council wrote in their pastoral constitution Gaudium et Spes: ‘Respect and love ought to be extended also to those who think or act differently than we do in social, political and even religious matters. In fact, the more deep­ly we come to understand their ways of thinking through such courtesy and love, the more easily will we be able to enter into dialogue with them.’ If we want to extend courtesy, respect and love — and enter into dialogue — then surely we can start by acknowledging what is honor­able in others.” 
The moment that acknowledging what is honorable in others becomes a task too onerous because of a person’s stance on abortion is the moment that Christ is taken hostage. His body no longer repre­sents the conquering of death to ensure the right for all to live with God. Instead, the love that he proclaimed for all people is silenced. 
Alex Coccia is a sophomore. He ap­preciates the conversations he has in the Student Welfare and Development Lounge. He can be contacted at acoccia@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“Waste not fresh tears over old griefs.” 
Euripides Greek dramatist 



WEEKLY POLL 
Where will you watch Super Bowl 2012? 
With my roommates O’Rourke’s Brothers Indianapolis 

Vote by 5 p.m. on Thursday at 
ndscmobserver.com 


Wednesday, January 25, 2012 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 9 


LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Disregard the mandate 
In May of 2009, President Obama delivered the commencement address to the graduating seniors at the University of Notre Dame. Despite the significant disagreement on matters related to the sanctity of life between the University and the President, Obama promised to work together on issues where we find common ground. Among those issues, the President said, was a “sensible conscience clause.” 
As part of the President’s Affordable Care Act, Congress gave the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) the power to interpret a mandate that required insurers to cover “pre­ventive health services” at no cost. HHS quickly exercised that authority and announced that all employers who provide health care to employees must provide services that include contraception, sterilization and abortifacients. 
The Obama administration provided an exemp­tion only for those religious employers whose primary purpose is the inculcation of faith, who primarily employ only individuals who confess that faith and who primarily serve only those who are members of that faith. Such a limited exemp­tion — which is narrower than the definition of “religious employers” employed by 47 states and every previous federal definition of the term — excludes almost every Catholic college, including Notre Dame, as well as Catholic hospitals and Catholic Relief Services. 
From August through January, President Obama considered broadening the exemption so that it applies to Catholic universities, medi­cal centers and social service organizations. However, on Friday, the Obama administration announced that the proposed definition will be final and that Catholic colleges have until August of 2013 to comply with the HHS regulation. Ac­cording to The New York Times, President Obama himself made the final decision on the rule. As a result, President Obama is attempting to force institutions like Notre Dame to violate their faith either by not providing health care to employees or by providing services in direct conflict with the moral teachings of the Church. 
It is perhaps instructive that President Obama made his final decision on Jan. 20, 2012 — the 26th anniversary of the first Martin Luther King, Jr. Day in the United States. Earlier in the week, the University proudly distributed a photograph of Father Hesburgh arm in arm with Rev. King, singing “We Shall Overcome” at a 1964 civil rights rally at Chicago’s Soldier Field. Rev. King preached peace and civil disobedience as the way to protest the undermining of one’s rights. 
Today, the Obama administration has attempted to undermine the University’s ability to exercise its religion freely. But there is an answer: Disobey this regulation. Defend the freedom of religion by refusing to comply with an edict that is neither an ordinance of reason nor directed for the common good. Continue to offer health care for employ­ees, and continue to offer only those services that comport with the Church’s moral teachings. 
There may come a point when the govern­ment attempts to force the University to change, either through a revocation of federal funding or through the courts. If that day comes, we will be standing beside you. 
Father Jenkins, we encourage you to clearly announce Notre Dame’s intention to disregard the HHS regulation as an infringement of the freedom of religious exercise and to state in succinct terms that there can be no compromise on this particu­lar issue. 
Jessica Carney 
alumna Class of 2007 
Matthew Carney 
alumnus Class of 2006 
Rich Coglianese 
alumnus Class of 1989 
Ken Fowler 
alumnus Class of 2008 
Lauren Fowler 
alumna Class of 2008 
Joseph Fremeau 
alumnus Class of 2002 
Mark Hotovy 
alumnus Class of 2007 
Brendan Hanehan 
alumnus Class of 2007, 2010 
Stephanie A. Joyce 
alumna Class of 1994 
Larry Luppi 
alumnus Class of 2010 
James Mullaney 
alumnus Class of 2007 
Karl Schudt 
alumnus Class of 1991 
Donald E. Wittgen 
alumnus Class of 1979 Jan. 24 



2012’s Shirt 
It’s great to see the annual debate about the The Shirt has already begun. With that in mind, as Presi­dent of The Shirt Project, it is my responsibility to shed some insight concerning The Shirt Project and how it operates. 
The Shirt began as a student-led initiative to unify the stadium, and a subsequent Shirt was created to support a student with dire medical needs. That year 30,000 shirts were sold and it set the precedent for future Shirts. 
22 Shirts later, The Shirt 2011 sold 162,000 shirts and set a record for quantity of shirts sold in one year.  The Shirt Project today remains true to its initial mission of being created by students, for stu­dents and supported by thousands of Notre Dame fans around the world. 
As the largest student-run fundraiser at Notre Dame, The Shirt Project must always account for its financial obligations to our fellow students.  In sum, The Shirt Project profits help defray medical bills for students who suffer from extraordinary medical conditions and fund student clubs, organizations and residence halls to support their activities. In addi­tion, money generated from The Shirt Project also supports the Rector Fund (which helps students in fi­nancial need purchase football tickets, participate in JPW and service learning trips, buy textbooks, etc.). Finally, The Shirt Project contributes financial re­sources to establish memorial awards in the names of students who have passed away while at Notre Dame. 
In the past, The Shirt Project has tried consistency in colors, but there was a significant shortfall in sales. From 2002-2004, The Shirt Project made shirts that were variations of green. In 2002, 130,000 shirts were sold. In 2003, 122,000 shirts were sold. Finally, in 2004, 52,000 shirts were sold. The Shirt Project each year strives to find a balance with a Notre Dame color and a unique design that makes Notre Dame fans proud to wear it. One of the ways we accomplish our goals is by changing the color each year. 
More than anyone, I would love to see Notre Dame Stadium all in one color. As a former junior manager for the football team and current student manager for the women’s rowing team, I can attest that the lack of color in Notre Dame Stadium is a challenge. I also recognize that the same color provides an intimida­tion factor to opposing teams. It is my goal as Presi­dent of The Shirt 2012 to hopefully see Notre Dame Stadium unified under the same color as The Shirt. My committee is committed to creating innovative methods to spread the word about The Shirt for the 2012 football season. 
For more information, please visit our website, theshirt.nd.edu, or follow us on Twitter @theshirtND. 
Go Irish, 
Andrew Alea 
junior Stanford Hall Jan. 24 

UWIRE 

Colbert, Cain highlight flaws of primary system in bids 
Stephen Colbert, of “The Colbert Report” announced on Jan. 12 that he would explore the chance of run­ning for “President of the United States of South Carolina.” The only problem was, he was more than Caitlyn two months late Wasmundt to put his name in the running, The Lantern and there was no option for write-in votes. 
The solution for Colbert’s late entry seemed quite simple: Herman Cain, a former Republican hopeful that dropped out of the race about a month prior to the South Carolina primary. Even though Cain suspend­ed his campaign, his name remained on the ballot. 
So Colbert urged voters to vote for Cain if they wanted him to further explore the candidacy. 
Colbert’s attempt at running for presidency was to point out the flaws of the political system and the ridiculousness of campaign financial law. I thoroughly enjoyed the actions Colbert was taking at pointing out the issues in place today. 
As a journalism student, I feel like I should be in the know of all things political and election-based news, but the sad truth is I’m not. 
I can’t get past the digs that each candidate makes toward their op­ponents. I understand it is a contest of sorts, and the grand prize of the presidential election is to be the leader of the free world. But do they really need to do what they’re doing? 
How am I supposed to make an in­formed decision on which candidate to choose when they are just throw­ing mud at each other and making what seem to be slanderous claims? 
Finally though, I thought I saw the light at the end of the tunnel when Stephen Colbert, of Comedy Central’s “The Colbert Report” announced he would form an “exploratory commit­tee to become President of the United States of South Carolina.” 
His “exploratory campaign” may come off as a joke to most, but Col­bert has done more through his faux candidacy to highlight important issues facing America than any of the honest campaigns have managed. 
With each stage of his exploratory committee, Colbert revealed more about the candidacies’ work behind the scenes. 
Honestly, I didn’t know what a su­per PAC, or political action commit­tee, was before Colbert formed his, which fellow Comedy Central funny man Jon Stewart, of “The Daily Show with Jon Stewart” has since taken charge of. 
The comedians have used Col­bert’s candidacy and the super PAC to demonstrate the flaws of a system that has been in place for years. For example, candidates cannot directly coordinate with their super PACs, but it’s OK to communicate through the media, as Newt Gingrich did with his PAC. 
Sadly, Colbert, via Cain, only re­ceived a little more than 6,000 votes, according to WYFF 4, a local news station in South Carolina. 

But in a way, that is impressive for someone who pulled out of the race a month ago. Cain’s one percent vote beat out other candidates who dropped out of the race prior to the South Carolina preliminaries also, such as Michele Bachmann and Rick Perry. 
I hope Colbert’s humorous attempt to become President of the United States of South Carolina could open the eyes of the candidates who are actually running, not only during this preliminary round, but also dur­ing the actual election period. Obvi­ously there is some kind of follow­ing for this honest and entertaining approach. 
This article first ran in the Jan. 24 edition of The Lantern, the daily publi­cation serving Ohio State University. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 




ANKUR CHAWLA also pretty good options. Scene Writer To go with these main course options, many of you might jump to the traditional naan as your accom-
While it really is unfortunate that the South Bend panying bread item. While that’s not a bad choice, area only has one Indian restaurant ofnote, that may I’d say take a chance with the garlic naan or onion be a byproduct of India Garden having some of the kulcha. Admittedly, those don’t sound like they’d be best Indian food made in the state of Indiana outside the best for your breath, but the added flavor is well of my mom’s kitchen. Only a short drive east of cam-worth it and you’ll thank me later. pus on Edison St., I highly recommend this place for No Indian meal is complete without dessert, and seasoned Indian-food enthusiasts and those new to the gulab jamun (the equivalent of Indian donut the cuisine alike. holes in a sweet syrup) at India Garden is a must. If 
The menu at India Garden is extensive, featur-dessert isn’t your thing, I’d still recommend the man­ing traditional dishes and chef creations that cater go lassi (essentially a yogurt-based mango smoothie) to any palate. The meal starts with complimentary to wash down your meal. papad and chutney, the Indian equivalent of chips Now, I am very partial to Indian food and under-and salsa. Some of my preferred appetizers include stand if this review is taken with a grain of salt, its fish pakoras (marinated and deep fried cubes of pun intended. Still, with complete impartiality, I catfish) and vegetable samosas. still highly recommend India Garden, as it is one of 
One of the best things about Indian cuisine is its my favorite restaurants in the area. It does have a appeal to both vegetarians and meat eaters with lunch buffet every afternoon, but I would order off unique, delicious dishes. Starting on the vegetarian the menu for fresh dishes. Enjoy and let me know the side, the saag paneer (curried spinach with cheese next time you’re going, because I will probably want cubes) is one of my personal favorites, and it’s hard to join. to overlook the dal makhni (traditional lentil soup) as well. A few of my friends new to Indian food enjoyed Contact Ankur Chawla at achawla@nd.edu the Aloo Gobi (a dry dish of seasoned potatoes and cauliflower) and chana masala (spiced chick peas cooked with ginger and garlic). 
For the meat-eaters, don’t be discouraged by the onslaught of vegetarian options. For every vegetarian 
615 West Edison Road dish, there is an equally delicious dish on the meat 
Mishawaka, IN 46545
side of the menu. The tandoori chicken is a classic choice that comes out on a hot skillet, served along-(574) 255-5600 side sautéed onions with a deep red spice rub on the tender meat. I also recommend the chicken makhni (chicken in a butter cream sauce) and the chicken mango (kind of self explanatory, but chicken in a mango sauce). The seekh kabab and lamb curry are 
LISA HOEYNCK | Observer Graphic 


Wednesday, January 25, 2012 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 11 

MEGHAN THOMASSEN 
Viewpoint Editor 
Master of the icy stare, the inclined head and the pensively pursed lips, Meryl Streep astounds viewers even beneath the heavy history and makeup needed to por­tray former U.K. Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher. 
“The Iron Lady” begins with Lady Thatcher after her glory days. Sequestered away from the world, the failing woman passes seamlessly from reality to conver­sation with her dead husband, still jovial despite his death 15 years ago. Streep’s genius really shines through, however, when flashbacks to Lady Thatcher’s prime provide a painful contrast to her current powerlessness. 
Headstrong and full of ideals, Mar­garet Thatcher strode onto the stage of Parliament in 1959 as the only woman in the house. As if being female wasn’t odd enough, Thatcher comes from humble origins as the daughter of a grocer. And a degree from Oxford doesn’t seem to make much of a difference to the men who hold Parliament. But what really separates Thatcher from the sea of suits is her strict adherence to principle. In the film, Streep maintains Thatcher’s keep-no-prisoners attitude as she climbs to the position of Leader of the Conservative Party. 
Jim Broadbent plays the home-tied hus­band, Denis, with a twinkle in his eye, and Olivia Colman embodies the role of Carol Thatcher, the neglected, criticized daugh­ter, perfectly. Carol and her mother’s re­lationship, however, seems more suited to that of a father and son. Thatcher is visibly disappointed in her daughter’s dissimili­tude to her younger, more ambitious self, which makes Carol’s unconditional love for her mother all the more tragic. 
Without indulging in the melodramat­ic, the film emphasizes how Thatcher’s single-mindedness may have won her the seat, but at a great cost. The job reveals a less flattering aspect of Thatcher’s char­acter — her apparent coldness towards her family. Despite his encouragement at the beginning of her career, Denis eventu­ally accuses her of being heartless, shout­ing, “The children and I can go to hell!” Thatcher’s worst nightmare has come true: Her role as a woman and mother has become an obstacle. Streep artfully ex­poses Thatcher’s weakness as a wife and mother in small doses, unleashing it finally in a powerful revelation at the conclusion of the film. 
The filmmakers rightly took cues from Streep’s strategy of contrast. She raises wizened eyebrows at the rising price of milk, while a young secretary’s hip-hop ringtone violates Lady Thatcher’s sophis­tication. Her presence in the modern world just feels wrong. In one scene, Thatcher fumbles painfully with the remote con­trol, determined to watch DVDs of happier times with Denis and her twins. The audi­ence enjoys fragments of her past, which are clear and colorful, until viewers are literally jolted back to reality when the 
LISA HOEYNCK | Observer Graphic 




SPORTS AUTHORITY 
Dear fans, it’s time to stop the death threats 
He messed up. Twice. 
It is undeniable that receiver Kyle Williams failed to help his team as a punt returner dur­ing San Francisco’s 20-17 over­time loss to the Giants on Sunday. Early in the fourth quarter, with the 49ers lead­ing 14-10 and set to regain control of the ball, Williams watched a punt brush his knee on its way past. Williams continued to spectate as an alert Devin Thomas, the first man on the scene for the Giants, scooped up the punt to tear the momentum away from the home team. 
Although potentially devastat­ing, Williams’ fumble didn’t doom the 49ers, who forced overtime with a late field goal. But when Williams’ second fumble of the day — also on a punt return —al­lowed New York the opportunity to kick the game-winning field goal, the young receiver capped off a day he would soon wish to forget. Unfortunately, it was undoubtedly a day that will haunt Williams for years to come. 
And not just for what happened on the field. 
Following the game’s conclu­sion, Williams received death threats from enraged fans, one of which aired on Twitter and threatened the second-year pro’s wife and child. Although Williams is single and without kids, the threats are no less disturbing. 
As professional sports have continued to grow in popularity, games are followed more closely than ever and team supporters have developed a sense of pride in their crazed fanaticism. An ugly dimension of fandom has become unfortunately prevalent: anger. 
In many cases, anger from a fan base is understandable and acceptable. When attempting to root for perennially unsuccessful rosters, underachieving athletes and combative teammates, a fan’s natural reaction is anger. Further­more, the millions of dollars that athletes, coaches and executives rake in every year gives fans the right, some would say, to not only feel anger but also to voice it. 
However, the case of Kyle Wil­liams serves as a reminder to fans that the competitive and frenzied anger must be tempered by a sense of human decency. When a player receives death threats following a bad game, the fan base is out of line. Of course few, if any, would argue against such logic, and the fan who sends or posts online death threats represents an extreme case, one unrepresentative of the fan base as a whole. 

But how extreme is it? Wil­liams is hardly the only target of death threats in the sporting world from recent years, and the trend even extends to college athletics. West Virginia kicker Pat McAfee reportedly received death threats after missing two short field goals in the Moun­taineers’ loss to rival Pittsburgh in 2007, Tennessee quarterback Jonathan Crompton did as well following the Volunteers’ disap­pointing 5-7 season in 2008, and Boise State kicker Kyle Brotzman endured harassment and taunts after his two missed field goals came in Boise State’s loss to Nevada in 2010, which buried its hopes of a national championship. 
Most dedicated fans have felt, at one time or another, anger directed at a player who let the team and its fans down. In the digital age, upset fans are able to take to social networking sites to express their displeasure, and it is here that a select few fans allow their anger to carry them too far. Except in the case of someone truly deranged, it is certainly difficult to imagine any fan who would actually wish for serious harm to befall an athlete or his family. Rather, death threats are more likely the result of anger in the immediate after­math of a loss fueled by the ac­cess to vent via the internet. No proofreading necessary, no need to reconsider one’s statement. And this is what is dangerous. 
So yeah, Kyle Williams messed up, he made a mistake, he had a rough day on the job. As a fan, when Williams, or any other player in the future, dashes your hopes of a Super Bowl, World Series, BCS National Champi­onship, etc., feel free to shake your head, pull your hair out or scream into your pillow. But please, for the sake of the hu­man under the helmet, refrain from issuing a death threat. If that is not motivation enough, at least consider whether you want the NFL to investigate you as a credible threat to murder one of its employees.
     Contact Joseph Monardo at jmonardo@nd.edu
     The views expressed in this Sports Authority column are those of the author and not nec­essarily those of The Observer. 
NFL 



Patriots thrive under Belichick 
Associated Press 
FOXBOROUGH, Mass. — Season opener or Super Bowl, every game is a big game to Bill Belichick. 
His consistent approach to preparation for the next op­ponent, whether a powerhouse or a pushover, is the corner­stone of the coaching that has brought the New England Pa­triots to their fifth Super Bowl in 11 years. 
The more intense the prac­tices, the more prepared his players are for the game. 
“You know what to expect week-in and week-out with him,” wide receiver Matthew Slater said. “The attention to detail is always there. It doesn’t matter if it’s a bye week or if it’s a divisional playoff round. He’s committed to winning and that commitment never falters, no matter what the circumstance, no matter how much success we’ve had or how many games we may have lost in a row. 
“That commitment to win­ning is always there.” 
During practices, Belichick strolls the field, sometimes twirling his whistle on a lan­yard, other times stopping to talk with players. His daily message is simple — get the fundamentals right and just do your own job while preparing for the uniqueness of the next opponent. 
That’s resulted in 10 straight victories, eight in the regular season and two in the playoffs. Another win on Feb. 5 against the New York Giants would give the Patriots their fourth Super Bowl championship. 
“I think every game is a big game,” Belichick said Tuesday. “Every time we get an oppor­tunity to compete then we try to take advantage of the time leading up to that opportunity 
— the practice week, the prep­aration, the film study, under­standing our game plan and our adjustments, all of those kinds of things. 
“What else is there to work on but the game, the next one on your schedule, the one that you’re playing? You try to cov­er all your bases for that game, you play it, and then you start the process all over again with the next one.” 
Right guard Brian Waters played his first 11 seasons with the Kansas City Chiefs. But when he signed with the Patriots on Sept. 4, eight days before the season opener, he quickly sensed the difference in Belichick’s style. 
“I wasn’t here in training camp but, from day one, I can tell that he’s all about the de­tails,” Waters said. “He’s all about everybody doing their own job and staying in their lane. Everybody has their own responsibilities. That’s some­thing that you learn early on and that’s something that he still makes sure that we under­stand today.” 
Another part of the Belich­ick playbook: Don’t focus on the past or far into the future, just on the next practice and the next game. 
That’s a big enough workload, considering how hard he pushes his players. 
James Ihedigbo didn’t start a game the past three seasons with the New York Jets, but did go to AFC championship games the past two seasons. The Jets lost both. This season he started 12 of 16 games at safety for the Patriots and reached the Super Bowl. 
The Patriots are special, he said, “because we prepare. We prepare harder than any oth­er place that I’ve played and it definitely gets you focused in on your opponent and knowing them and understanding their strengths and how they want to attack you. 
“So that’s what we’re keyed in on this week.” 
And this season’s playoff wins over Denver, 45-10, and Balti­more, 23-20, are fading rapidly from players’ minds. 
“It has been going on all year and you just have to put every-thing in the past,” tight end Rob Gronkowski said. “If you have a good game, that is all over with and you just have to keep mov­ing on forward to the future and make sure you have a good practice week.” 


Running back Stevan Ridley, drafted in the third round last April, was the team’s second-leading rusher during the regu­lar season. When the playoffs began, he didn’t notice much difference in Belichick’s inten­sity. 
“You know coach Bill, man, every game is serious,” Ridley said, “playoffs, regular season, preseason.” 
One of the Patriots’ most vet­eran players, left tackle Matt Light, also has played for just one head coach. Drafted in 2001, only Tom Brady and Kevin Faulk have been with the team longer. 
What stands out most about Belichick is his “consistency, just his ability to stay focused to the nth degree and do that repeti­tively, week-in and week-out,” Light said. “It’s not an easy thing, obviously, running a team and putting up with a lot of guys like myself and the rest of the knuck­leheads in that locker room. 
“But you know what? I think that coming in and setting that example with our entire coach­ing staff and how he approaches everything, it makes it easy for all of us to fall in line.” 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The 
Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 


CLASSIFIEDS 

Today’s joke by John, the dining I’ve got this friend I don’t think you know her FOR SALE FOR RENT PERSONAL hall greeter: I don’t think you know him She sings a simple song 
He’s not much for words It sounds a lot like his What’s the No. 1 cause of divorce? He’s hid in his hardened way Marriage. Oh I’ve got this friend 
1999 VW Beatle VW Beatle WALK TO CAMPUS UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don’t Oh I’ve got this friend Holding onto her heart in excellent condition, 113K go it alone. Notre Dame has many A loveless romantic Like it’s a little secret miles, clean interior, no rust, Great Specials! resources in place to assist you. Today’s poem by John: All that he really wants Like it’s all she’s got to give locally owned by former ND, If you or someone you love needs Is someone to want him back graduate, locally maintained with Studio, 1, 2, 3 Bedroom confidential support or assistance, I crept upstairs, my shoes in hand It’d be such a shame maintenance records available, &amp;amp; Townhomes available. please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819 Just as the night took wing Ohh, if the right one came [If they never meet] removable radio/CD player. (574) 272-8124. or Ann Firth at 1-2685. For more If the right one came along She sounds lovely Call at 574-277-6976 and leave information, visit ND’s website at: And there, four steps above Ohh, If the right one came, along [He sounds right out of a dream] message. www.clovervillageapartments.com http://pregnancysupport@nd.edu I saw my wife doing the same darn If only 
thing I’ve got this friend [If only] 
MLB 



All-Star catcher Posada retires after 17 seasons in New York 
Posada was drafted by the Yankees in 1992 and won five World Series championships in the pinstripes 
Associated Press look good.” after 17 major league seasons. He He began a Yankee and ended finished with a .273 career bat-NEW YORK — Jorge Posada as a Yankee, spending his entire ting average, 275 home runs and 
was watching television when he career in pinstripes. 1,065 RBIs. 
saw speculation on which teams Flanked by his wife and chil-At a crowded Yankee Stadium 
were interested in signing him as dren, with five World Series tro-news conference, Derek Jeter, 
a free agent. phies sitting on a table to his Mariano Rivera and CC Sabathia “They put my face on different right, the five-time All-Star catch-were among those who watched 

uniforms,” he said. “And it didn’t er retired at age 40 on Tuesday Posada fight off tears as he sat on a dais with wife, Laura, 12-year­old son Jorge Jr. and 9-year-old daughter Paulina. It was clear the rest of the family also wanted to be Yankees lifers. “This is so cool,” Paulina said to her dad as she picked up the cardboard in front of her seat with her name and the famous interlocking “NY” logo. “I’m going to keep this.” Posada joins Bernie Williams and Andy Pettitte in retirement, leaving only the 37-year-old Jeter and 42-year-old Rivera from the core group that led the Yankees to four World Series titles in five ing over failure, Posada often factor. I can’t describe it. I don’t years from 1996-2000. was nuclear fission at the center know what it is. But I knew im­“Mariano said this is it. He says of the Yankees and what became mediately upon meeting him that one more year. But Derek says known as the Core Four. While he had it, and I think the Yankee he’s got like three more to go. So Jeter and Rivera rarely reveals fans also have realized that, and we’ll see,” Posada said, adding he their feelings, and Pettitte does I imagine they’re as sad today as didn’t expect the great closer to only on occasion, Posada has we all are.” quit after next season. been a passionate open window She was followed by a video of “I don’t think about it right into the Yankees, praising, strut-fan tributes and by Lisa and Brett now. But the time will come,” ting, venting and battling. Niederer from Bristol, Wis. She Rivera said. “Definitely the time “We feel the same way; I’m just talked about the Jorge Posada will come when I’ll have to just better at hiding it. But we feel Foundation and its emotional admit it and hang (up) the glove the same way inside, and I think support and financial assistance and the uniform and move on. We that’s why we’ve gotten along so to families affected by cranio­all go through that.” well throughout the years,” said synostosis, a disease that causes Jeter, the Yankees’ captain and Jeter, who first played alongside bones in the skull to fuse prema­leader, expects to outlast Rivera. Posada in the minors in 1992. turely. “Mo’s still got to go first. He’s a He has called him “Posado” for Jorge Jr. has had nine op-lot older than me,” he said before years, even since late Yankee Sta-erations, and Lisa Niederer was adding with a laugh: “Mo’s going dium announcer Bob Sheppard watching on television when the to be here longer than all of us.” mispronounced his name when father and son went onto the field Shrieking at success and fum-he pinch ran for Wade Boggs in together during the introductions Game 2 of the 1995 AL playoffs. for the 1992 All-Star game. Brett, In the same room where Pet-then 2½, was diagnosed the dis­titte announced his retirement ease around the start of that year, 11½ months ago, select season and they talked about the Posada ticket holders were invited to sit family’s assistance. in the audience. “I knew we were not alone any-Posada talked with great fervor more,” said Lisa, who has become about the team that drafted him a mentor for the foundation. on the 24th round in 1991. When the focus returned to “Every time I step through the baseball, Posada recalled how he Yankee Stadium doors,” he be-started his professional career as gan, “I quoted Joe DiMaggio and a shortstop, was moved to second said, I want to thank the good base and was asked by the Yan-Lord for making me a Yankee.” kees to move to catcher after the “I could never wear another 1991 season. uniform,” he said. “I will forever “I felt like it was the worst deci­be a Yankee.” sion ever,” he said, remembering Posada’s voice broke up, espe-all the passed balls he allowed cially when he spoke in Spanish. while catching top draft pick He thanked his teammates, rub-Brien Taylor. “It was not a pretty bing his chin three times and sight.” wiping his eyes. He called Rivera He went on to have one of “my brother” and praised Jeter the better offensive careers by “who helped me stay focused and a catcher. The switch-hitting positive.” Posada made the decision to re­“Hopefully you won’t miss me tire during a season that turned that much,” he said. tumultuous May 14 when he was Diana Munson, wife of the late batting .165 and was dropped to Yankees catcher Thurman Mun-No. 9 in the batting order against son, spoke admiringly of Posa-Boston. He asked to be taken out da, who kept a quote from her of the lineup, saying he wasn’t husband in his locker: “Batting ready to play. fourth and being in the lineup is Posada rallied to hit .268 for important, but I think the stuff I the rest of the season, leaving him do behind the plate is more im-with a .235 average, 14 homers portant.” One day at Yankee Sta-and 44 RBIs. And then on Sept. dium, Posada sat next to her and 21, his two-run pinch-hit single told her about his admiration for beat Tampa Bay to clinch the AL the former captain, who died in a East and earn another huge ova-plane crash when Posada was 7. tion. He hit .429 (6 for 14) in the She wound up following Posada five-game loss to Detroit in the in the box scores. division series. “He in fact is the one who Yankees manager Joe Girar­brought me back to baseball di and general manager Brian again. After losing Thurman, Cashman said that was just a blip I kind of lost my heart for base-in his career — part of Posada’s ball,” she said. “He plays the fiery disposition, the one that game I think the way Thurman drew fans to him, one that he played it: a lot of grittiness, lot may take with him into coaching of toughness. ... I think he and or managing — after the Yankees Thurman would have been best likely honor him with a tribute buds. He definitely has the it this year. 




NCAA FOOTBALL 

Navy football to join Big East conference 

Associated Press 
NEW YORK — Navy is headed to the Big East, giving up more than 130 years of football inde­pendence to join a conference that is in the middle of a massive over­haul. 
The Big East announced Tues­day that the U.S. Naval Academy has accepted an invitation to join the league for football only, start­ing in 2015. The conference has now added six new members in the last seven weeks after losing three members and having an­other school renege on a future commitment in the fall. 
“Stability in the Big East was a very important aspect in our dis­cussions with the commissioner,” Vice Admiral Michael Miller, su­perintendent of the U.S. Naval Academy, said during a telecon­ference. “What we see is a very bright future for the conference.” 
Navy has been playing football since 1879 without conference affiliation, but academy officials said they believe independence will be too difficult to maintain as other powerful leagues grow. Ath­letic Director Chet Gladchuk said scheduling games late in the sea­son, landing desirable television deals and securing bowl bids will become a problem for Navy. 
“Opportunities to exist as in­dependents into the future are clearly in jeopardy,” he said. 
Gladchuk said Navy and the Big East have been talking about the Midshipmen joining the league for a decade, but those talks got seri­ous about a year ago— before the Big East was beset by defections. 
“It’s a marriage our member­ship has longed for for many, many years,” Big East Commis­sioner John Marinatto said. 
Navy football has been thriving over the last decade. The Midship­men played in eight straight bowl games before slipping to 5-7 this season and have won a record 10 straight games against rival Army. But Navy’s schedule will get tougher playing in the Big East, while keeping its rivalry games against Army, Air Force and Notre Dame. 
“We have a definite challenge ahead of us,” coach Ken Niumat­alolo said. “I feel like there’s drift happening between the haves and havenots (in major college foot­ball), and I want to be with the haves.” 
Gladchuk said the Big East will allow Navy to maintain its annual rivalries with Army, Air Force and Notre Dame, and that the Army-Navy game will still be the season finale for both teams, re­gardless of when a future Big East championship game is played. 
“The Army-Navy game remains on that second Saturday in De­cember,” he said. 
Gladchuk also said that Navy’s television deals with CBS and CBS Sports Network had to be accom­modated by the Big East. 
“Partnership with CBS was one of the reasons this agreement took a little time to finalize,” he said. 
CBS owns the TV rights to the Army-Navy game and Navy’s home games against Notre Dame through 2018. Navy has a sepa­rate deal with CBS Sports Net­work for the TV rights to its other home games that runs through 2017. 
“We have a great relationship with the academies, and our deals will be grandfathered for the length of our contracts” said Mike Aresco, executive vice president for programming at CBS Sports. 
The Big East’s current TV deals run through the 2013 football sea­son. The league is hoping to land a new deal similar to the long-term, billion dollars contracts signed last year by the Atlantic Coast Conference and the Pac-12. The Big East needs to know its lineup beyond 2013 before it can negoti­ate with a television network. 
In December, the Big East add­ed Boise State and San Diego State as football-only members and SMU, Houston and Central Flori­da in all sports. Those schools will join in 2013. 
“That Navy would give up 100 years of football independence speaks to the long-term viability of the Big East,” Marinatto said. 
The Big East is trying to build a 12-team football conference with an eastern and western division and a league championship game. The conference is losing Pitts­burgh and Syracuse to the Atlan­tic Coast Conference andWest Vir­ginia to the Big 12, but it’s unclear when. 
West Virginia filed a lawsuit against the Big East so it can join the Big 12 in 2012. The Big East sued West Virginia to make the school abide by the league’s 27-month notification period, which would keep the Mountain­eers in the conference through the 2013-14 school year. 

NBA 

T’wolves, Love stall on extension 

Associated Press 
Timberwolves president David Kahn has remained confident that a deal will be completed and Love has done nothing to discount that stance. Coach Rick Adelman said Tuesday that he doesn’t think it’s been a distraction to the team, but did say he can tell it is on his best player’s mind. 
“I’m sure it is for him,” Adelman said. “It’s a big deal. Something’s obviously going to have to happen by (Wednesday), so we’ll see.” 
Love — who ranks fifth in the league with 24.9 points per game, second with 13.9 rebounds and first with 39.4 minutes — de­clined to comment after practice, clearly tired of answering ques­tions about a situation that he has been discussing for most of the season. 
“I’m not worried about it,” Love said Monday before the loss to the Rockets. “I’m in a good situation regardless of what happens and I just want to continue to keep play­ing good basketball.” 
The new collective bargaining agreement allows the Timber-wolves to offer Love more money than any other team. They can offer him a maximum salary con­tract of four years and roughly $60 million, or they can choose to use their one-time “designated player” contract for five years and around $80 million. Each team can only use one five-year contract during the term of the CBA, so the Wolves would like to save that chip to use give them as much salary cap flexibility in fu­ture years as possible. 
But after seeing UCLA class­mate Russell Westbrook get the five-year deal in Oklahoma City, which also has superstar Kevin Durant on the roster, there is no doubt that Love would prefer a similar level of security and sta­tus. 
If no deal is reached and Love becomes a restricted free agent, the Timberwolves would be able to match any offer he signs with another team. Love could also de­cide to play next year for $6.1 mil­lion and become an unrestricted free agent in 2013, but that car­ries considerable risk if he suffers a serious injury before then. 

“Of course he’s thinking about it because it’s in every newspaper across the world,” teammate and friend Michael Beasley said. “As far as his play, Kevin’s tough men­tally. He’s going to go out there and give it what he’s got every night.” 
Love certainly has shown no signs of the situation affecting his play. He hit the game-winning 3-pointer at the buzzer on Friday to beat the Los Angeles Clippers, then fought through illness to score 39 points and grab 12 re­bounds in the loss to Houston on Monday night. 

“Kevin’s been consistent in his games and that’s all you can ask for,” Adelman said. 
The feeling around Target Center has been that a deal will eventually get done, with the only question being the length of the contract. 
In previous years, this situation would have been settled long be­fore this point. 
But the lockout has thrust it into the heart of the team’s sea­son, and that’s been an adjust­ment for everyone. 


MLB 

Fielder signs with Tigers to fill void left by injury 

Associated Press 
DETROIT — The Detroit Tigers responded to a jarring injury with an audacious move. 
Free-agent first baseman Prince Fielder and the Tigers agreed Tues­day to a nine-year, $214 million contract that fills the AL Central champions’ need for a power hit­ter, a person familiar with the deal said. 
Detroit boldly stepped up in the Fielder sweepstakes after the re­cent knee injury to star Victor Mar­tinez. A week ago, the Tigers an­nounced the productive designated hitter could miss the entire season after tearing his left ACL during offseason conditioning. 
The person told The Associated Press the deal was subject to a physical. The person spoke on con­dition of anonymity because the contract was not yet complete. 
The Tigers won their division by 15 games before losing in the AL championship series to Texas. Add­ing the 27-year-old Fielder gives the Tigers two of the game’s premier sluggers, pairing him with Miguel Cabrera. 
With Fielder now in the fold, gen­eral manager Dave Dombrowski and owner Mike Ilitch have a team that figures to enter the 2012 sea­son as a favorite to repeat in the division — with an eye on winning the franchise’s first World Series title since 1984. 
“Everyone knew Mr. Ilitch and Mr. Dombrowski were going to make a move when Victor went down,” outfielder Brennan Boesch said in a phone interview with the AP. “But I don’t think anybody thought it would be this big.” 
The move also keeps Fielder’s name in the Tigers’ family. His fa­ther, Cecil, became a big league star when he returned to the ma­jors from Japan and hit 51 home runs with Detroit in 1990. 
Cecil played with the Tigers into the 1996 season, and young Prince made a name for himself by hitting prodigious home runs in batting practice at Tiger Stadium. 
A few years ago, when Prince returned to Detroit as a member of the Milwaukee Brewers, Tigers “You can’t ever say that you look Hall of Famer Al Kaline recalled at a kid that age and say that you that power show. know he’s going to hit 40 or 50 home runs someday, but Prince was unbelievable,” Kaline said then. “Here’s a 12-year-old kid commonly hitting homers at a big league ballpark.” 



In an interview with MLB Net­work Radio on SiriusXM, Cecil Fielder said he was “shocked” by the news that Prince was heading to Detroit. 
“He’s been there in Detroit most of his young life so I think he’ll be comfortable in that place,” Cecil Fielder said. “I know Mr. Ilitch is probably excited because he’s been wanting that kid since he was a little kid, so he finally got his wish.” 
With Cabrera and Fielder, De­troit will begin this season with two players under age 30 with at least 200 career homers. According to STATS LLC, that’s happened only once before. 
At the start of the 1961 season, the Milwaukee Braves featured 29-year-old Eddie Mathews (338 homers) and 27-year-old Hank Aaron (219). 
Several teams had shown inter­est this winter in Fielder, who had spent his entire career with the Brewers. 
He visited Texas, and the Wash­ington Nationals also got involved in the discussions. 
The beefy slugger hit .299 with 38 home runs and 120 RBIs last season. He is a three-time All-Star and was the MVP of last year’s event in Phoenix. 
Fielder has averaged 40 hom­ers and 113 RBIs over the past five years. He’s also been among the most durable players in the majors, appearing in at least 157 games in each of the last six seasons. 
Fielder hits left-handed, while Cabrera is a righty. Manager Jim Leyland will get to decide where to put them in the batting order. 
“I don’t think there’s a better right-left combo in any lineup in baseball,” Boesch said. “I’m sure Skip’s wheels are already turning on how to set them up.” 
The deal is only the fourth $200 million contract in baseball history, following Alex Rodriguez’s  $275 million, 10-year contract with the New York Yankees, 
A-Rod’s $252 million, 10-year deal with Texas and Albert Pujols’ $240 million, 10-year contract last month with the Los Angeles Angels. 
Among current players, Field­er’s $23.78 million average sal­ary is behind only A-Rod ($27.5 million),Ryan Howard ($25 mil­lion), and Cliff Lee and Pujols ($24 million each). 
Dombrowski indicated last week he’d probably seek a short-term solution to Martinez’s injury, but he left himself some wriggle room, saying it depended who the re­placement was. 

NBA 
Wizards fire Saunders after torrid 2-15 start 



Associated Press 
WASHINGTON — Flip Saunders was fired Tuesday as coach of the NBA-worst Washington Wizards and replaced by assistant Randy Wittman, who has the job for the rest of the season. 
The Wizards fell to 2-15 this season, including 0-7 on the road, with a 20-point loss to the Phila­delphia 76ers on Monday. Wash­ington’s next game is at home Wednesday against the Charlotte Bobcats. 
“We felt the team had become unresponsive, and we will look to Randy to provide a different voice and a change in philosophy mov­ing forward,” Wizards president Ernie Grunfeld said in a state­ment released by the team. “We have been transparent in how we would evaluate our team this season and we were disappointed in the lack of development of our players at this point in our re­building plan.” 
Saunders was in his third sea­son with the Wizards, going 51­
130. When he was hired, the roster featured All-Stars Gilbert Arenas, Antawn Jamison and Caron Butler, but the franchise is now rebuilding around point guard John Wall, the No. 1 overall pick in the 2010 draft. 
But there is not a lot of help for Wall, and the Wizards have been prone to inconsistent play, often failing to even be competitive this season. On Monday, they walked down the court for offensive pos­sessions, never hustled after loose balls and couldn’t convert the easiest of buckets, missing eight of nine shots in the paint in the first quarter. 
After one string of sloppy plays, Saunders took a knee in front of the scorer’s table, bowed his head and rubbed his temples. 
After the game, Wall said: “Whoever got the ball just took a shot. Guys are holding their heads down, and we’re not fighting or competing.” 
Back in December, before the lockout-shortened season began, Saunders tried to look on the bright said, saying he could envi­sion how the young Wizards could improve on their 23-59 record from 2010-11. 
“I want to compete for the playoffs,” the coach said then. 
But Washington got off to a franchise-worst 0-8 start — half of the losses were by at least 18 points — before beat­ing the Toronto Raptors. Curi­ously, the Wizards’ only other victory came against Kevin Durant and the Oklahoma City Thunder. 
Saunders tried finding dif­ferent ways to motivate players such as Andray Blatche, who was made a captain for the season-opening game, and tin­kered a bit with the lineup. But nothing seemed to get things going in the right direction. 
Asked after what turned out to be his last game with Wash­ington how he can change the way the Wizards are perform­ing, Saunders said Monday night: “You try to put different lineups in, play a lot of differ­ent people, try to do some dif­ferent things.” 
Before joining the Wizards, Saunders coached 13 NBA sea­sons with the Minnesota Tim­berwolves and Detroit Pistons, reaching the conference finals a total of four times. 
AUSTRALIAN OPEN 

Seagulls descend upon Open 

Associated Press 
MELBOURNE, Australia — Evening sessions at this year’s Australian Open are starting to resemble a remake of the Alfred Hitchcock horror mov­ie, “The Birds.” 
In search of locusts, swarms of seagulls have been circling Melbourne Park, occasionally swooping down to capture the tasty treats below. 
On Monday, it was Novak Djokovic who seemed un­nerved. The defending cham­pion was in cruise control against Lleyton Hewitt, lead­ing by two sets and 3-0 on Rod Laver Arena. 
Then the birds came in. 
Djokovic smiled at the unusual holdup but he lost six of the next seven games in dropping his first set of the tournament, before winning through in four sets. 
The birds swooped again a day later. Second-ranked Ra­fael Nadal was leading 5-4 in the first-set tiebreak Tuesday against Tomas Berdych when the birds appeared. Nadal paused briefly and looked up at them — and didn’t win another point in the set. 
Wimbledon’s pigeon prob­lem became so serious that the tournament employed a hawk to scare off the pests. Named Ru­fus, the bird of prey even has its own accreditation pass. 

Handlers are often seen walk­ing the grounds of Melbourne Park with birds of prey on their arms — but they are only really for show and don’t seem to be acting as much of a deterrent. 
Australian Open organizers say the swarms of seagulls are a “highly unusual occurrence and we are looking at ways of pre­venting it in the future.” 
The birds are taking a risk by flying by a tennis court. Ten years ago, a small bird chased a moth across Rod Laver Arena and was struck down and killed by a forehand hit by French play­er Michael Llodra during a men’s doubles semifinal. 


Pirates 
continued from page 20 
four consecutive Big East games. 
“I look at Seton Hall be­ing very due, coming back home after losing two in a row on the road, something that we just went through,” Brey said. “In this league you come home and get back on track, and they will be ready to roll.” 
Notre Dame is 6-6 all-time at Seton Hall and are 16-7 overall against the Pi­rates since joining the Big East in 1995. 
The Irish and Pirates will tip-off at 8 p.m. on Wednes­day at the Prudential Cen­ter in Newark, N.J. 
Contact Andrew Owens at aowens2@nd.edu 


Flyers defeat Panthers in shootout 

Associated Press 
SUNRISE, Fla. — Claude Gi­roux’s minor adjustment gave the Philadelphia Flyers their first shootout victory of the sea­son. 
Giroux scored the only goal in the shootout and the Flyers beat the Florida Panthers 3-2 on Tuesday night. 
The All-Star forward beat Scott Clemmensen on the stick side to give the Flyers their first shootout victory in four tries this season. He paused before he got to the crease and found an opening. 
“I just wanted to switch up a little bit, go fast and slow down and try different things,” Gir­oux said. “It was good to help the team.” 
Brayden Schenn and Jakub Voracek scored in regulation for the Flyers, and Sergei Bo­brovsky made 23 saves. Bo­brovsky also stopped three attempts in the shootout, after going 0 for 5 previously this season. 
Mikael Samuelsson and To­mas Fleischmann had goals for Florida, and Clemmensen made 35 saves. 
The injury-depleted Flyers played eight rookies. 
“We’ve got a lot of injuries and missing a lot of key guys but these young guys go out there and do their job and play hard. They want to stay in the lineup,” Flyers coach Pe­ter Laviolette said.”It was nice to get a shootout win. There haven’t been a lot of them. It was good to get one, on the road, before the break.” 
The Panthers are 3-6 in the shootout this season. 
“We’ve got to figure out a better formula in the shoot­out,” Panthers coach Kevin Dineen said. “We’re just losing too many points up for grabs and not ending up in our back pocket.” 
The Panthers tied it 2-all on Fleischmann’s goal in the sec­ond. Kris Versteeg grabbed the puck as it rebounded off the side boards. He skated in on Bo­brovsky, then passed from the side of the crease back to Fleis­chmann in front, who wristed it in at 15:40. 
“It was just a pass off the wall and taking it to the net,” Ver­steeg said. “Flash made a great play to put it in the net.” 


The Flyers took a 2-1 lead on Voracek’s goal at 17:59 of the first. Tom Sestito grabbed the puck in the right circle and his pass to Voracek was tipped in between Clemmensen’s pad and the post. 
The Panthers took a 1-0 lead during a power play 2:49 in. A shot by Stephen Weiss was blocked. The puck came out to Brian Campbell in the left cir­cle, who passed across to Sam­uelsson above the right circle. His slap shot beat Bobrovsky on the stick side. 
The Flyers tied it on Schenn’s odd goal at 10:34, also during a power play. Schenn’s shot hit Clemmensen’s right skate and bounced up in the air, landing on his right shoulder. The puck trickled down his back and crossed the goal line just before a Flyers player dislodged the net. The goal was reviewed and the call on the ice was upheld. 
“It just went straight up and straight down. I was just hop­ing I’d get a break there and it would go in,” Schenn said. “We got a lucky break there and it’s nice when it works like that.” 

Sharapova advances to semifinals 

Associated Press 
MELBOURNE, Australia — Former and reigning Wimbledon winners Maria Sharapova and Petra Kvitova will meet in the Australian Open semifinals af­ter both won in straight sets on Wednesday. 
Sharapova won 6-2, 6-3 against fellow Russian Ekaterina Makarova, who knocked out five-time champion Serena Williams in the previous round. 
Kvitova earlier reached the semifinals at Melbourne Park for the first time with a 6-4, 6-4 win over unseeded Italian Sara Er­rani. 
Kvitova beat Sharapova in last year’s Wimbledon final to claim her first Grand Slam title. 
“Obviously it was a tough one at Wimbledon,” Sharapova said. “She’s full of confidence and playing the best tennis right now. I look forward to it.” 
Sharapova and Kvitova also kept alive their chances of claim­ing the top ranking, which Caro­line Wozniacki will vacate on Monday after her quarterfinal loss to Kim Clijsters. 
The fourth-seeded Sharapova must repeat her 2008 Austra­lian title win. Kvitova only has to match or better the run of Vic­toria Azarenka, the only other player still in the running this week for the No. 1 spot. 
Sharapova has dropped one set and lost 21 games en route to her first Australian Open semi­final since she won the 2008 fi­nal — the last of her three major titles. 
“It’s been a long road back to this stage,” said Sharapova, who spent 10 months off court with a shoulder injury that required surgery later in 2008. 
Kvitova was far from her best against an opponent making her debut in a Grand Slam quarter­final, and with a 0-24 record against top-10 players. The sec­ond-seeded Czech made 44 er­rors and had to come back from a break down in the second set. 
“I was a little nervous because I knew that everybody expect it will be easy match,” Kvitova said. “Probably I had in my head that it’s a good draw.” 
The men’s semifinal lineup also will be completed Wednes­day. 
Defending champion Novak Djokovic is up against fifth-seeded David Ferrer in the first match of the night session. Two-time finalist Andy Murray faces Kei Nishikori of Japan. 
Two of the so-called “Big Four,” Roger Federer and Rafael Nadal, are already through to a marquee semifinal after win­ning Wednesday. 
Federer beat 2009 U.S. Open champion Juan Martin del Potro 6-4, 6-3, 6-2 in his 1,000th tour-level match. Nadal rallied for a 6-7 (5), 7-6 (6), 6-4, 6-3 win over Tomas Berdych. 
Their match on Thursday will be their 27th in all and 10th at a major, but their first in a Grand Slam semifinal since 2005. 
Yelling “Vamos,” disputing line calls, pumping his arms after winning big points and bounding around like a hyper­active kid, Nadal ripped winner after winner against Berdych in a 4-hour, 16-minute display of pure intimidation. 
He said he was nervous in the first set — he’d lost in the quar­terfinals two straight years — but by the third and fourth sets things had changed. 
“The character on court, the way to win the points ... the level is very positive, much, much bet­ter than the end of the season,” he said. “Semifinals is fantastic result for me.” 
Federer finished his match with one of his classic, one-hand­ed backhands against Del Potro, one of only two men who have beaten him in a major final. The other is Nadal, who has done it six times. 
That lopsided record aside, there’s a touch of extra tension this time in this usually cordial rivalry. Nadal had told Spanish reporters during a discussion about player discontent that Fe­derer liked to protect his repu­tation as a gentleman by saying nothing negative in public and letting others “burn.” 
Both have since played down the comments. On Tuesday, Fe­derer said it didn’t damage their relationship. 
“No. No. Honestly, no,” he said. “It was here for one day and then gone again. I’m happy about that because it didn’t deserve more attention than it did. So for me, it’s another great match with Rafa. ... Obviously I’d like to play Rafa because of our great epic match earlier in the finals here a few years ago.” 
Thursday’s match will be the first time they have met at Mel­bourne Park since Nadal won the 2009 title in five seesawing sets. Nadal collected the trophy from the great Rod Laver after consol­ing Federer as he sobbed in the background. 
“We are talking about a player who has won 16 Grand Slams, and I’ve won 10,” Nadal said. “We have played a lot of matches together, many in very important moments for our careers. So the matches against him are always special, even if we are (ranked) 20 against 25.” 
The other women’s semifinal will feature defending champion Clijsters against third-seeded Azarenka. Clijsters advanced with a 6-3, 7-6 (4) win over Woz­niacki, who remains without a major title. Azarenka rallied for a 6-7 (0), 6-0, 6-2 win over eighth-seeded Agnieszka Rad­wanska. 

she knows what to do.” 
really happy that I’ve had the op-
When Peters is set up 
portunity to help out and score 
Track 
Peters 
to score, she said she has 
Casey 
points for the team.” 
faith in the Notre Dame 
She also cited the close-knit 
continued from page 20 
continued from page 20 guards to find her. 

continued from page 20 culture of the team, especially 
“I just run the floor, and 
among the freshman swimmers, 
soreness and continuing to 
all of her season-high 20 Skylar is going to find me 

Casey said. “I was really sur-as being instrumental in helping 
run.” 
points in the first half. because she knows where 

prised since I didn’t even know her make the adjustment to col­
Barber’s efforts helped 
The scoring run was un-I’m going to go,” Peters 

if I was eligible to make it. lege swimming. 
her garner the Big East 
characteristic for the for-said. “The guards do a 

With her spot on the national “Everyone on the team gets 
Track and Field Athlete 
ward, who said her pri-great job of finding me. I 

team secured, Casey will have the along really well, and we all push 
of the Week award for the 
mary role on the team is really just run down the 

opportunity to compete for her each other to do really well in 
week of Dec. 6th. 
usually not the leading floor, and they get me the 

country on an international stage, practice,” she said. “We all really 
“I was shocked when I 
scorer. ball.” 

as the top four swimmers in each want to work hard and reach our 
found out I was named Big 
“I’m not really big into Her 16 points against 

event are selected for interna-goal of winning the Big East this 
East Athlete of the Week,” 
getting a bunch of points,” Tennessee matched her 

tional competitions. Additionally, year.” 
she said. 
Peters said “There are career-high 16 rebounds, 

she will travel to the United States Casey, however, doesn’t need 
Her success and hard 
plenty of people on the good enough for her fourth 

Olympic Training Center in Colo-to talk to just her teammates to 
work has not gone unno­
team who are scorers. double-double of the sea­

rado Springs, Colo., in April to hear some perspective on college 
ticed by teammates, either. 
When I have big nights, son and the 15th of her ca-

meet other team members as well swimming. In fact, she doesn’t 
“Kaila’s doing awesome 
that’s great, but I don’t reer. 

as swimming coaches from the even need to leave her house to 
focus on it.” Irish coach Muffet Mc­

national team. hear such perspective. That’s be-
this year,” senior captain 
Maddie Buttinger said. “We 
Before halftime against Graw told the team be-

For now though, Casey said she cause she happens to be related 
have a lot of freshmen and 
Villanova, Peters scored fore the Tennessee game 

is enjoying the honor of being a to four former Notre Dame swim-
more than the entire that she was looking for a 

National Junior Team member mers. Casey’s father (Don Casey), 
it’s nice to see her get right 
in and do really well. She’s 
Wildcats team combined. drastic improvement in re-

and applying the lessons learned uncle and two sisters all competed 
a really hard worker and 
“After [the first half] bounds, Peters said. 

from national competitions to her for the Irish during their time as 
it’s nice to have someone 
they paid attention to “We got yelled at by coach, 

collegiate meets. students, ingraining Notre Dame 
like that as a teammate. 
me a little more and that and that’s a lot of motiva­

“Swimming in the national into Casey’s life from a young age. 
She’s got a great work ethic; 
opened everyone else tion to do what you’re sup-

championships was definitely “I’ve been coming to Notre 
to have her working hard is 
up,” Peters said. “[Senior posed to do,” Peters said. 

a lot of pressure and made me Dame since I was two years old,” 
good for both practice and 
guard] Natalie [Novosel] “We knew rebounding was 

very nervous,” she said. “I think Casey said. “Seeing [my sister] 
meets.” 
and [junior guard] Skylar going to be really impor­

that being exposed to that kind of Katie on the team and hearing 
Barber, whose favor­
[Diggins] started hitting tant coming in.” 

pressure beforehand has helped how much she loved it was a huge 
ite event is the 400-meter 
[shots]. They seemed to fo-She also became the first 

prepare me for big races like the influence on my decision to come 
hurdles, acknowledged that 
cus on me a little more.” Irish player to reach at 

Big East championships that are here. It was always my dream to 
a lot of her early success 
Peters averages 11.8 least fifteen rebounds and 

at the end of this month.” come here.” 
is a function of the sup-
points per game over the points since guard Lind-

With this exposure to pressure Following in the footsteps of her 
port from her coaches and 
season, but pushed her av-say Schrader (’09) did so 

and tough competition, Casey has family members is not an easy 
teammates. 
erage up during No. 2 Notre against Cincinnati on Jan. 

stepped in as a freshman to de-task, but Casey said she feels as 
“The older teammates re­
Dame’s win over No. 7 Ten-31. 

liver several strong performances though she has started to make a 
ally helped with the adjust­
nessee on Monday with 16 According to Peters, get-

for the Irish. She has continued name for herself. 
ments needed for college 
points. ting rebounds requires the 

to excel in the 200-meter butter-“I was a little nervous coming 
and always supported my-
Though Peters is on a tenacity she brings in each 

fly, winning the event at last Sat-in since I was curious to find out 
self and the rest of the new 
scoring run over the last game. 

urday’s meet against Michigan if I would just be known as Katie’s 
runners here,” she said. 
three games, she knows “It’s about what you’ve 

State and turning in her personal little sister or Don Casey’s daugh­
“Coach Turner has been a 
when to get rid of the ball got to do to win the game,” 

best time in the event at the Ohio ter,” she said. “But I started with 
big help with explaining 
and she does it well, sopho-she said. “If you’re going 

State Invitational in October. She a clean slate and everyone knows 
why we do certain drills 
more guard Kayla McBride to be soft, you’re going to 

has also enjoyed success in the me as Bridget Casey, the incom­
and exercises.” 
said. lose.” 

1000-meter freestyle, an event ing freshman who swims the 200­
Barber and the rest of the 
“[Peters] sees the court Peters and the Irish will 

that was foreign to her when she fly.” 
Irish look to continue their 
really well,” McBride said. travel to New York to take 

arrived at Notre Dame, earn-Casey and the rest of the Irish 
success this weekend at the 
“She sees the double team on St. John’s on Saturday. 

ing two top-three finishes in the will compete in the Shamrock In-
Indiana Relays in Bloom-
and decides if she should Tip-off is scheduled for 

event. vitational on Friday all day at the 
ington, Ind. 
lob or skip it. It’s some-noon. 

“I definitely think that I’ve ad-Rolfs Aquatic Center. 
thing we work on in prac­
justed very well and adapted to 
Contact Laura Coletti at 
tice everyday, and she has Contact Molly Sammon at 

my new coaches, surroundings Contact Brian Hartnett at 
lcoletti@nd.edu 
been here for a while, so msammon@nd.edu 

and teammates,” Casey said. “I’m bhartnet@nd.edu 

per game allowed. Entering a crucial fi-
Trine 
nal month of the season, 
Henley picked out specif-continued from page 20 ic areas her team must 
improve in order to be Belles. Together with successful as the season senior guard Katie Sul-winds down, including livan, they form a core the defensive end of the group of senior lead-floor and the frontcourt. ers that Henley said she “As a team, we need to expects to take charge get back to a more dis-against Trine on Nov. 30. ciplined style of basket­
“As we face Trine on ball,” Henley said. “We Wednesday, I am expect-need to focus more on ing all five of our seniors stopping the drives in to step up for us ... more transition and control-so at the defensive end,” ling the boards at both Henley said. ends.” 
Although they are aver-Saint Mary’s will face aging an MIAA third-best off against Trine at home 
63.1 points per game this tonight at 7:30 p.m. season, the Belles rank second-to -last in scoring Contact Nick Boyle at defense at 64.2 points nboyle1@nd.edu 


WILL SHORTz 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 
CROSSWORD 



JOE MILLER and KELLy LyNCH 
HENRy ARNOLD 
JUMBLE
THE CLAMMY HANDSHAKE 
MIKE ARGIRION 





Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 

Make checks payable to The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556

 Enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year


 Enclosed
 is $75 for one semester 



Name ____________________________________________________ Address __________________________________________________ City ____________________ State___________ Zip______________ 


Wednesday, January 25, 2012 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 20 
ND WOMEN’S TRACK AND FIELD 
Freshman having big impact for the Irish 


By LAURA COLETTI 
Sports Writer 
It didn’t take long for Kaila Barber to make an impact for the Irish. 
The freshman from Middle-burg Heights, Ohio, who com­petes in sprinting and hurdling events, burst onto the scene during Notre Dame’s Blue-Gold Meet, the very first competi­tion of the winter track season. Her impressive first outing in­cluded Big East championships qualifying marks in the 40-me­ter hurdles, the 400-meter race and the long jump. Barber took first in all three events, as well as placing first in the women’s 4x400 meter relay. 
Yet for the freshman, the transition from high school to collegiate track and field has almost been seamless. 
“I think that the main differ­ence between high school and college track is the amount of running you actually do,” she said. “High school track didn’t have nearly as many repeat practices or lifting days. The biggest adjustment I’ve had to make since coming here is pushing through the 

see TRACK/page 18 
SMC BASKETBALL 
Belles hope to continue momentum against Trine 

By NICK BOYLE 
Sports Writer 
Coming off a victory over Alma College, Saint Mary’s looks to start a winning streak when it hosts con­ference foe Trine tonight. 
Saint Mary’s (8-10, 4-5 MIAA) used a late scoring run and clutch free throw shooting on Saturday to defeat Alma by 69-61. 
“Anytime you can win on the road in this league, it is very important,” Belles head coach Jenn Henley said. “While I don’t believe we were satisfied with how we played against Alma, we were certainly glad to get the win. I think we hit some key free throws down the stretch to put the game out of reach in the closing minutes.” 
Saint Mary’s will look to keep its momentum from the win flowing into its second meeting with Trine (9-9, 3-6) this season. The Belles lost to the Thunder 67-59 in the teams’ first contest. 
Saint Mary’s has been led this season by a balanced scoring attack, featuring four players averaging 
double  figures.  Seniors  
forward  Jessica  Centa,  
forward  Kelley  Murphy,  
guard  Patsy  Mahoney  

and guard Maggie Ronan all average at least 10 points per game for the 


see TRINE/page 18 
MEN’S BASKETBALL 

Anti-Piracy 

By ANDREW OWENS 
Associate Sports Editor 
Fresh off of a 67-58 victory over top-ranked Syracuse in a raucous atmosphere at the Purcell Pavilion, conclud­ing with students and play­ers celebrating at midcourt, the Irish look to win their second consecutive game Wednesday at Seton Hall. 
Notre Dame (12-8, 4-3 Big East) hits the road for the first half of a two-game road trip that will conclude Sun­day at Connecticut. Senior guard Jordan Theodore and senior forward Herb Pope lead Seton Hall (15-4, 4-3), one of the league’s most im­proved teams, but the Pi­rates are riding a two-game losing streak heading into tonight’s game. 
“They’re off to a great start,” Irish coach Mike Brey said. “I have a lot of respect for them. There’s nobody in the league play­ing better than Theodore and Pope, and they’re men. They’re going to want to beat us up, they’re going to want to play some zone, so can we control the tempo?” 
Brey said the Irish not only have to confront a tal­ented Big East team on the road, but also the mental roadblock of putting Satur­day’s win over Syracuse be­hind them. 
“When I woke up today, we were 4-3 in the league, we’re not 6-3, and that’s the cold hard reality of the celebration. [The victory] was a great win and it was awesome, but we’re 4-3 in the league,” he said. “We’re playing a team Wednesday that’s lost two in a row on the road and they’ve been really good at home. 
“I think the challenge is going to be: How will you come out after what you did Saturday, for this team still finding itself? I think most teams, it doesn’t make them bad teams, would have a problem going out there Wednesday after Saturday. Can we [avoid doing that] and maybe show some spe­cial signs?” 
Prior to the Pirates’ two-game skid, they won 
see PIRATES/page 17 
ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 
Peters comfortable in her role 
By MOLLY SAMMON 
Sports Writer 
Irish graduate student forward Devereaux Peters had the week of her career over the last seven days. 
Against Villanova on Saturday and Pittsburgh on Jan. 17, Peters aver­aged 64 percent shooting from the field and 19.5 points, earning Big East Conference as the Player of the Week honors Mon­day. 
Simply put, Peters shined in the first-half of each game. Against the Panthers, Peters scored 
see PETERS/page 18 


ND WOMEN’S SWIMMING 
Casey uses national team experience at ND 
By BRIAN HARTNETT 
Sports Writer 

For most incoming college stu­dents, the summer before college represents one final joyous peri­od of leisure, a time to reflect and recharge before advancing to the rigors of college. For freshman Bridget Casey, however, the final summer before college signified an opportunity to prove herself among the best of her sport and add a signature achievement to her stellar resume. 
Mere weeks before arriving at Notre Dame, Casey competed in the ConocoPhillips National Championships at Stanford Uni­versity. Facing top swimmers from across the nation, Casey finished 25th out of a field of 148 in her favorite event, the 200-me­ter butterfly. Casey later learned her performance had placed her fifth in the nation among 18-and­under swimmers in the event, earning her a spot on the pres­tigious USA Swimming National Junior Team. 
“I actually didn’t even know I made the team until a few months later, when I was at school here and my old coach called to congratulate me,” 
see CASEY/page 18 





