
COMMENTARY 
Final Four competition poses challenge for Irish 

Here come the Irish to the Final Four, and here come the nail-biting, down-to-the-buzz­er games Irish fans have been waiting for since the tourna­ment began. 
It’s about time they get a real soul-shaking 40 minutes of play in the most important part of their season. 
These — potential — two games won’t disappoint, whether the Irish reach their goal of tourna­ment champions or if they fall short. Notre Dame has old conference tension to break open against Connecticut. This team is incredibly hungry for a cham­pionship, which will fuel them into the finals. 
No matter the outcome, Notre Dame’s season will end here with a pressure-filled contest, in the truest sense of the word. In entirely predict­able fashion, all No. 1 seeds and the top four teams in the polls made it this far, and they promise to not make it 


easy for the These — potential — two tant game Irish any-games won’t disappoint, of their last more. whether the Irish reach season with 
Notre an Irish jer­
their goal of tournament 
Dame won by sey on their 
champions or if they fall 
30 points or backs. 
short. Notre Dame has 
more in three In the Big 
old conference tension 
of the four East tourna­
to break open against 
contests it ment final, took to get to Connecticut. This team Connecticut Denver and is incredibly hungry for gave the was comfort-a championship, which Irish one ably leading will fuel it into the finals. of the rare more games where a combina­tion of their usual rebounding techniques and good offensive management by each of their four guards on the court can run away with a lead as soon as the ball is tipped. 
Against Maryland, they executed this perfectly with hardly a flaw in their play and structure, and a triple-double for Diggins. They made a vic­tory over No. 2 seed Maryland, the ACC conference tourna­ment champions who held an obvious height advantage, look far easier than expected. They ran away with the game like it was the first of the tourna­ment, not a regional final where teams have to not only work hard and show poise, but fight off a team that shares the court as their relative equal. 
Conference foe Connecticut will want to shake Notre Dame first, in their fourth and final time the Irish will play their Big East rival this season with the veteran team they have now. Senior guards Natalie Novosel and Fraderica Miller and graduate students guard Brittany Mallory and forward Devereaux Peters have one last chance to play the once-invincible team before they graduate. It follows that it will be either the most important 
or the second 
more impor­
at halftime in two of those. Sure, Cal was even with the Irish mid-game in the second round back at home to light a little fire under Notre Dame’s feet. But after a good talking-to at halftime, the Irish escaped the pressure and unleashed the true character of their relentless defense, recorded multiple steals and rebounded better. 
Now they are surrounded by the elite company that their play resembled all season, with teams they know, teams they have seen and teams that de­serve to be there just as much as the Notre Dame deserves to be there. 
Two of Notre Dame’s three losses this season came at the hands of teams represented in the trifecta of tournament top-seeds, once faltering against all-too-familiar Connecticut in the postseason and letting Baylor taint the loss column on their record early last Novem­ber. 
These are teams that not only can beat the Irish, but have proven it as well. In the Final Four, there should not be any more blowout wins, no chances to 
feel the real and raw panic associated with losing. Not just a shot-for-shot final few minutes where the Irish had a chance to win, but the feeling of being down by 10 points or more and knowing that losing was inevitable. 
They will see that same encompassing panic one more time, but now it will be magni­fied as the importance grows. If the Irish want to reach their goal of returning to South Bend and graduate this senior class with a national champi­onship, they will need to show the utmost composure, even if they are down by 10. 
One of the benefits of playing on a Final Four team is not having to play through many discouraging situations. But in this year’s finals, stacked with the teams who have been on top all year, Notre Dame will need to learn how and learn it quickly. 
Contact Molly Sammon at msammon@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 



Irish enter semifinal rematch 
By JOSEPH MONARDO 
Sports Writer 
For the second consecutive year, the Irish and the Huskies will face off in the Final Four with a berth in the national championship game on the line. In last year’s semifinal, the two-seed Irish entered the game as the heavy underdogs, trying to prove they belonged among the game’s elite. 
What a difference a year makes. 
No. 4 Notre Dame (34-3, 15-1 Big East) and No. 3 Connecti­cut (33-4, 13-3) both enter this year’s Final Four matchup in Denver as top seeds. No. 1 Baylor and No. 2 Stanford also reached the Final Four as top seeds, making this the first Fi­nal Four since 1989 populated entirely by number-one seeds. 
For the Irish, the arrival at Denver is a long-awaited achievement that brings re­lief. 
“I feel like we have accom­plished what we needed to,” Irish coach Muffet McGraw said. “I think we would have been extremely disappointed had we not gotten this far. I think the expectation from probably November was that these are the four teams that were going to advance, and that is a heavy burden to car­ry throughout the year.” 
Despite the burden, the Irish managed to sustain suc­cess throughout the season, losing only to Baylor (38-0, 18-0 Big-12), Big East foe West Virginia and Connecticut. 
In the tournament’s open­ing rounds, the Irish made the most of their home-court ad­vantage, and blew out 16-seed Liberty 74-43 before ham­mering out a 73-62 victory over eight-seed California. 

The Irish used a dominant defen­sive effort to get past five-seed St. Bonaventure, 79-35 in the Sweet 16, and crushed two-seed Mary­land in the Elite Eight, 80-49. 
“Our last game against Mary­land seemed one of the best we have played this whole tourna­ment, maybe all year, and we just have to really use that as momen­tum going into this game,” Irish graduate student guard Brittany Mallory said. 
The Irish must face a familiar foe in their Final Four matchup with the Huskies, who fell to the Irish twice in the regular season before denying Notre Dame its first-ever Big East tournament championship. 
“We know them pretty well, they know us pretty well, so I don’t think there is going to be a lot of mystery in the game,” Mc­Graw said. “I think it’s a matter of who is going to play well, who is going to make shots, who is go­ing to be able to defend a little bit better. The adrenaline will be flowing, I think anything can happen.” 
The Irish have plenty of prior experience and game tape to help guide them as they attempt to replicate the successes from their two wins. 
“[In our wins over Connecti­cut,] we were just clicking, espe­cially on defense we were getting a lot of stops,” Irish graduate-student forward Devereaux Pe­ters said. “In the [Big East title] game, we were letting them do what they wanted to do … and we let them decide what we were running [on offense] and we weren’t as aggressive as we nor­mally are, so that definitely has to change.” 
As they attempt to move past Connecticut and into the cham­pionship game, the Irish gain confidence from last year’s tour­nament, Mallory said. 
“Since we have been there before, we aren’t as star-struck from the whole Final Four atmo­sphere,” she said. “We are a little more relaxed going in, and just knowing what to expect.” 
The Irish will tip off with Con­necticut at 6:30 p.m. Sunday at the Pepsi Center, as they try to advance to their second-straight national championship game. 
Contact Joseph Monardo at jmonardo@nd.edu 




The fantastic four 
Unique offensive system relies on guards’ speed and versatility, produces strong results for Irish 
By CHRIS MASOUD 2001, but the vehicle responsible added the coaching staff selects Senior Sports Writer couldn’t be more different. Take specific plays in particular to away the loss to Connecticut in signal Diggins it’s her time to 
Notre Dame isn’t running up the Big East tournament finals, take over a game. Diggins said the score for promotional Mc-the rematch in the Final Four, the degree of flexibility granted Donald’s vouchers anymore, but the consensus First Team All-to her by McGraw has been a de­its 29-point average margin of American and the Hall-of-Fame velopmental process. victory in the 2012 NCAA tour-coach, and you’re left with two “I have the green light. I think nament is reminiscent of its very different offensive systems it’s lime-green now in my junior dominant performance during driving the Irish. year,” she said. the regular season. The Irish “I think the players are more start only one player over six complete players [now],” Mc-The offensive threat feet tall, and yet outscore oppo-Graw said. “You used to have Named the Big East’s Most nents inside the paint on a regu-the defensive specialists [like] Improved Player in 2011, No­lar basis, including a Maryland the 3-point shooter who couldn’t vosel has elevated her game to team that started three in the guard. I think players now are so another level in her final sea-regional finals. much better and so much more son in uniform. The talented 
There are no secret plays, no capable of playing the game at guard led the Irish in scoring “Hoosiers” halftime speeches — both ends, and it’s great for the in victories over California in just Irish coach Muffet McGraw’s women’s game.” the regional quarterfinals and patented four-guard offense that St. Bonaventure in the regional has foiled height-advantaged op-The point guard semifinals, including a 28-point ponents all season long. Every team needs one, but the performance against the Golden 
“The four-guard lineup, it’s Irish happen to have the nation’s Bears. just so versatile,” senior guard best. Averaging 16.7 points and A native of Kentucky, Novosel Natalie Novosel said. “Every-5.8 assists per game, Diggins said the four-guard system body can score — it’s so bal-lifted Notre Dame over the Ter-rattles opponents by creating anced. You can just do whatever rapins with her first career tri-mismatches that are difficult to you want, but at the same time ple-double to send the Irish to guard and even harder to pre­it’s a system, so there’s different the tournament semifinals. pare for. options. One person goes back-The point guard leads the “Guards are quicker, faster, door, one person cuts back out. Irish attack with her exceptional sometimes craftier with the There’s just so many different vision, quickness and versatility. ball, so I think it definitely cre­options and it’s so balanced.” “Sky’s the general of the court,” ates a lot of problems for dif-
Averaging 15.3 points per Novosel said. “She just knows ferent people, especially those game as Notre Dame’s second-where everybody is — that’s her who are used to playing against leading scorer, Novosel has de-job and she does it flawlessly. two posts inside,” she said. “Es­veloped into one of the nation’s She’s just really aware and does pecially in transition, guards most efficient players and junior things really well.” can coast down the court, and guard Skylar Diggins’ number-Unlike a traditional Princeton that’s really tough to match up one option under McGraw’s sig-offense that features four guards against.” nature offense. While winning simultaneously directing the of-McGraw said the luxury of basketball games has been the fense, Diggins’ ability to dictate having two prolific scorers in most obvious effect of McGraw’s the Notre Dame offense on the Diggins and Novosel prevents implementation of the four-court makes McGraw’s system opponents from successfully guard offense, her underlying unique. The head coach said she double-teaming on defense. motivation is much simpler. has complete faith in Diggins to “They’re both just really tough In her first NCAA tournament Mallory said the offense can’t 
“Because I love a high-scor-make the right pass, take the matchups,” she said. “They can game, she paced the Irish with function properly if Notre Dame ing game as probably the other right shot and manage the game score in a lot of different ways. a team-high 15 points in Notre relies too heavily on the three-three coaches in this [Final Four by herself. They can score off the dribble, Dame’s victory over Liberty in point shot. Rather, McGraw’s would agree],” she said. “It’s so “I give her complete control. they get to the foul line and they the first round. system flourishes when the much more fun to watch. I think I try to help her if I feel like make great passes.” Afterwards, Liberty coach guards spread the floor and al­it makes the game so much more she needs it, but she generally Carey Green called her the “wild low Diggins to find the open exciting for the fans when you makes great decisions,” McGraw The wild card card” of Notre Dame’s offense. shooter or cutting player. see up-tempo scoring also with said. “I really let her have a lot Sophomore guard Kayla Mc-“I think the four-guard look “When we spread the floor, great defense.” of flexibility to do what she can Bride sat out the second half of really makes it tough for that that creates opportunities for 
Notre Dame’s path to the 2012 do because she’s so talented and the 2010-2011 season to attend fourth defender for the other driving, and when Sky drives NCAA tournament national title hard to guard.” to an off-the-court issue, watch-team. Kayla McBride’s a tough everyone’s going to look at her,” may be remarkably similar to its In addition to letting Diggins ing Notre Dame’s run to the na-matchup because she can go on she said. “We just have to look to successful championship run in facilitate her offense, McGraw tional title game from the bench. the perimeter and hit threes, get open and allow her to get us 
she can drive the ball and she the ball.” can do so many things,” McGraw said. “So if you try to put a post The forward on her, she can take advantage Graduate student forward of that.” Devereaux Peters serves an im-
Two seasons ago, 2010 gradu-portant role as Notre Dame’s ate Lindsay Schrader served lone conventional post player, a similar role as a guard who attracting defenders to free up could score in the frontcourt perimeter shooters while find-while remaining a shooting ing the backdoor cutters. An threat on the perimeter. Howev-athletic forward like Peters who er, McBride’s defensive skill and can run the floor and rebound 3-point shooting ability makes makes McGraw’s offense that her even more versatile. much more effective. 
“K-Mac shoots a lot of threes “The guards really play well and Lindsay really didn’t, but through me,” Peters said. “We she can still bang inside like have found our niche, where Lindsay did,” Diggins said. “It’s we know each other and we different components.” play well together. I move a bit 
quicker than a lot of the posts, The specialist so it works to our advantage in 
Ranked sixth all-time in pro-our case.” gram history with 150 career Regardless of position, Mc­3-point field goals, graduate stu-Graw said her players’ laser-like dent Brittany Mallory serves as focus and motivation to return Notre Dame’s most potent threat to the national championship behind the arc. Despite her re-game, coupled with their ability cruitment by McGraw for her to coach themselves on the floor, exceptional 3-point shooting, set this year’s team apart. Mallory’s experience in the four-“This is a team that has taken guard system and off-ball move-ownership. They’re accountable ment has made her invaluable for each other, they help each on the court. other,” she said. “They feel like 
“Brittany’s the stabilizing they’re coaches on the floor. force. She’s the smart one,” Mc-When they see things they’ll talk Graw said. “She’s going to go about, ‘Hey, why don’t we try back-door, she’s going to make this? This looks great. I see this. a great cut. She’s going to tell This is going to work.’ I think it’s everybody to be in the right spot a real team effort.” and make sure everybody’s do-
Irish sophomore guard Kayla McBride drives to the basket during Notre Dame’s 80-49 victory over ing what they’re supposed to be Contact Chris Masoud at Maryland in the Elite Eight in Raleigh, N.C. McBride had 16 points in the game. doing.” cmasoud@nd.edu 



BAYLOR 38-0, 18-0 BRITTNEY GRINER 23.4 ppg, 9.4 rpg,
199 blocks ODYSSEY SIMS 14.8 ppg, 4.4 apg, 114
                                             steals, 1.62 assist/TO DESTINY WILLIAMS 10.2 ppg, 9.2 rpg KIMETRIA HAYDEN 7.5 ppg, 4.1 rpg BROOKLYN POPE 7.5 ppg, 5.5 rpg 
TEAM – 78.9 ppg, 18.4 apg, 45.3 rpg, 8.55 steals, +26.9 margin 
THREE-POINT .337 
OPPONENTS 52.0 ppg 

STANFORD 35-1, 16-0 NNEMKADI OGWUMIKE   22.5 ppg, 10.3 rpg, 49          
steals, 1.8 apg CHINEY OGWUMIKE         15.3 ppg, 10.3 rpg, 44blocks, 47 assists TONI KOKENIS                   9.5 ppg, 3.2 rpg, 3.6 apg,           53 steals JOSLYN TINKLE 8.9 ppg, 5.5 rpg, 45 blocks, 48 assists AMBER ORRANGE            4.9 ppg, 2.6 rpg, 3.1 apg, 40 steals 
TEAM – 76.8 ppg, 16.8 apg, 43.4 rpg, 6.72 steals, +22.2 margin 
THREE-POINT .316 
OPPONENTS 52.22 ppg 
Joseph Monardo 
Sports Writer 


One of the best teams in the coun­try this year, the Irish have played some of their best basketball the last two times out. Also promis­ing, the Irish seem to have the up­per hand in the matchup with Con­necticut, having won two of three meetings this season and currently on a mission to avenge their Big 
East championship game loss to the Huskies. Diggins and Peters will lead the Irish on both ends as they overcome UConn and move on to the finals against Baylor. The Irish will have their hands full with the Bears, but their penetrating style will put Griner on the bench with foul trouble early while McBride jumps out to a hot start. Ultimately, Griner and the rest of Bay­lor will be too much for Notre Dame to contain as the Irish finish as runner-ups for the second straight year. 
BOTTOM LINE: Baylor 76, Notre Dame 68 
Molly Sammon 
Sports Writer 


Notre Dame might know Connecti­cut better than Connecticut knows Connecticut. They’ve got it down by now, they knew what it took to beat them twice in the regular season, and they got a chance to see what they needed to change in their loss at the Big East Tournament final — keep Connecticut from going on huge runs and they will make it to the fi­nals with no trouble. Baylor will beat Stanford with no obvious problems. The Cardinal regular season schedule was too weak for them to be able to break a team like Bay­lor’s 38-game win streak. Baylor’s junior center Brittney Griner and the Bears will see the Irish in the final game on Tuesday. Irish coach McGraw walked away from that game knowing her team didn’t defend the entirety of the Baylor offense well enough, so they will improve this time. 
BOTTOM LINE: Notre Dame 75, Baylor 72 
Matthew Robison 
Sports Writer 

The Irish have had Connecticut’s number this season, beating the Huskies in two of three matchups. The only Connecticut victory came in a virtual second home game in the Big East championship. Dig-gins, Peters and the Irish will send Auriemma,  Hayes and the Huskies packing after the national semifi­nal. But, as much as I would like to 
see Muffet McGraw and Notre Dame win another na­tional title, I really don’t see anyone getting past Baylor this year. Brittney Griner and the Bears dominated the Irish in the first matchup this year. While I don’t see it being another dominant performance, I think Baylor is just too big and strong for Notre Dame’s post players. I hope the Irish prove me wrong, but Baylor will edge Notre Dame in a close one. 
BOTTOM LINE: Baylor 81, Notre Dame 76 


NOTRE DAME  
34-3, 15-1  
SKYLAR DIGGINS              16.7 ppg, 5.8 apg, 3.3 rpg,2.6 spg  
NATALIE NOVOSEL  15.3 ppg, 4.1 rpg, 47 steals,     1.9 apg  
BRITTANY MALLORY  5.8 ppg, 2.6 rpg, 2.0 spg,2.2 apg  
KAYLA MCBRIDE               11.7 ppg, 4.6 rpg, 1.6 spg,1.8 apg  
DEVEREAUX PETERS        11.8 ppg, 9.4 rpg, 1.9 blocks per game, 2.1 apg  

TEAM – 79.2 ppg, 18.1 apg, 41.1 rpg, 13.0 spg, +27.7 margin 
THREE-POINT .346 
OPPONENTS 51.5 ppg 

UCONN 33-4, 13-3 MOSQUEDA-LEWIS         15.0 ppg, 5.4 rpg, 1.7 apg,
46 steals 
TIFFANY HAYES                14.8 ppg, 5.8 rpg, 3.4 apg,82 steals 
BRIA HARTLEY 13.9 ppg, 3.9 rpg, 3.7 apg,69 steals 
STEPHANIE DOLSON       10.2 ppg, 5.9 rpg, 1.8 apg,      53 blocks 
KELLY FARIS                      6.6 ppg, 5.3 rpg, 4.3 apg,               77 steals 
TEAM – 76.4 ppg, 18.8 apg, 41.6 rpg, 11.38 steals, +30.4 margin 
THREE-POINT .352 
OPPONENTS 46.1 ppg 
Kelsey Manning 
Sports Writer 


The Irish have come up against the Huskies eight times in the post­season, six in the Big East tourna­ment, and twice in the Final Four. And the Irish have  lost every one of those contests — aside from the two Final Four matchups. Notre Dame will make that count 3-0 on Sunday led by continued strong postseason play from Diggins. But in the championship, the Irish will not be able to derail Baylor from the first 40-0 season in NCAA basketball history. The last time Notre Dame matched up with the Bears, Griner dropped 32 points, 14 rebounds and six blocked shots. While the Irish have certainly improved defensively since then and will not allow Griner that kind of statline again, Baylor will simply prove too tough and too big for ND and its four-guard system. 
BOTTOM LINE: Baylor 84, Notre Dame 78 
Chris Masoud 
Senior Sports Writer 


Conventional wisdom suggests the team that has not lost a game all sea­son, Baylor, led by a national champion coach, Kim Mulkey, and powered by the sport’s best player, 6-foot-8 Brittany Gri­ner, will not lose in Denver. But Stanford’s senior forward Nnemkadi Ogwumike is quietly putting together the best perfor­mance in the NCAA tournament thus 
far, averaging 28 points per game after leading the Cardinal to 28 regular season wins against just one loss. But Notre Dame and Connecticut are peaking at the right time. Despite a first half scare against Kentucky, the Huskies rallied against the Wildcats to reach the Final Four, while the Irish thoroughly pounded Maryland in the Elite Eight. Losing to UConn in the Big East tournament finals was the best thing that happened to Notre Dame, who will start a new winning streak against the Huskies instead of trying to extend an old one to five. 
BOTTOM LINE: Stanford 76, Notre Dame 68 


Notre Dame-Connecticut rivalry gains added significance 
By MATTHEW ROBISON 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame and Connecti­cut renew their Big East rival­ry Sunday night in what will determine the premier team in the conference. 
For the last two decades, Connecticut has dominated the Big East. However, recent­ly — and especially this sea­son — Notre Dame has made its claim as the new face of the conference. 
In the regular season, the Irish knocked off the Huskies twice, once at Purcell Pavilion and once at the XL Center in Storrs, Conn. 
“We’ve played them before,” graduate student guard Brit­tany Mallory said. “We know what to expect. They know what to expect. So it’s just go­ing to be a good challenge.” 
Connecticut got revenge for its two defeats this sea­son when it beat Notre Dame, the Big East regular-season champion, in the conference championship game in Hart­ford, Conn. 
“We beat them twice this year and they have beaten us once so it is an equal match-up,” senior guard Natalie No­vosel said. “Going in, it is just going to be all about heart.” 
When asked how the loss to the Hus­kies in the Big East title game will carry over into Sunday, 

the Irish said “We beat them twice have stepped 
they will use this year and they have up in differ-it as a means ent games The Notre Dame-Connect-al renown. When the ball is pursuit of a national champi­
beaten us once so it is 
of motivation. and played icut rivalry has reached new tipped Sunday night, it will no onship. 
an equal matchup  ... 
“In a way it really well. heights. The two teams are longer be about a conference, 
Going in, it is just going 
is a blessing When you’re not only competing for Big a rivalry or a history. It will Contact Matthew Robison at 
to be all about heart.” 
in disguise,” playing a East dominance but nation-be about two teams’ relentless mrobison@nd.edu Novosel said. team like “We look at Natalie Novosel Connecti ­it as a re-senior guard cut, they’ve 
venge game, and we usu­ally do well in revenge games.” 
Sunday night’s matchup figures to be the most heated contest of the rivalry to date. Last season, the Huskies swept the Irish in two regular season meetings and beat them in the Big East championship game. In the Final Four, the Irish finally got a win against Connecti­cut, beating the Huskies to advance to the national cham­pionship game against Texas A&M. 
The Huskies were the No. 1 overall seed, had four-time All-American and AP Player of the Year Maya Moore and were thirsty for a rematch with Stanford, who ended their 90-game winning streak earlier in the season. But Notre Dame came out strong and held on to a 72-63 win, ending a 12-game skid by the Irish in the series. 
After the game, it seemed as though Notre Dame had al­ready won its championship 
— it had beaten Connecticut. The Irish then went on to lose to the Aggies in the title game. 
“Last year with Maya Moore, they were the team to beat, we were the underdog,” McGraw said. “We were com­ing in off the Tennessee win off a high. Nobody expected us to be there.” 
This year, Notre Dame might be even hungrier. But Connecticut has been here before. It may not have a sin­gle go-to scorer like Moore or Tina Charles, but Huskies coach Geno Auriemma knows how to prepare his players for big games. 
“I think when we played UConn, we’ve had a lot of different games with them,” McGraw said. “Stefanie Dol­
son has re­ally beat us. Bria Hart­ley’s beat us. I think dif­ferent people 


had such an equal oppor­tunity team that any one person can step up on a 
given night and play extreme­ly well.” 
Facing such a versatile line­up, the Irish cannot be com­placent with their two vic­tories over the Huskies this year. A national champion­ship is the goal. 
“Now, people expect us not just to be there, but to win,” McGraw said. 






Diggins leads Irish in title hunt 




By KELSEY MANNING 
Sports Writer 
In the midst of racking up nominations for every major na­tional player-of-the-year award, earning spots on three different All-America teams, recording her first career triple-double and claiming the title of Most Outstanding Player of the Ra­leigh Regional, Irish junior point guard Skylar Diggins re­mains focused on one thing — winning it all. 
“We are not just here to par­ticipate,” she said. “We are not just happy to be here. We want to win it.” 
This attitude has been evident in Diggins’ postseason perfor­mance, as she posted her first career triple-double in No. 4 Notre Dame’s 80-49 rout of No. 5 Maryland in the Raleigh re­gional final March 27. 
Diggins finished the game with 22 points, 11 assists and 10 rebounds along with five steals — she was the game’s top performer in all four categories. The feat marked the 13th triple-double in NCAA tournament history, and only the second in a regional final. Diggins also achieved the third triple-double in Notre Dame history, and the first ever in postseason play. 
In the wake of the win over Maryland to advance the Irish to the Final Four for the second straight year, Irish coach Muf­fet McGraw recognized the pro­found mark Diggins has had on the Notre Dame program. 
“This puts us in more elite company,” she said. “This is something that [Diggins] has brought to our program. I think we now have a place with all the elite programs in the coun­try, and I couldn’t be prouder of that.” 
Diggins has been showered with national honors, most re­cently earning a spot on the John Wooden All-American Team and the 10-player United States Basketball Writers As­sociation All-American Team. These selections indicate the finalists for player-of-the-year awards from both organiza­tions. 
But despite all the individual attention, Diggins said her focus is on winning a championship, where it has remained since last year’s loss in the final.    
“The loss against Texas A&M has been in our mind for a year now. [We were thinking] ‘When is a championship going to [come]? When is the tour­nament getting started?’” she said. “I think we tried to win a in one year] matters. I think it is hard beating them once, es­pecially a team like that,” she said. “It’s the game to get to the championship, so I don’t think it matters who we are playing. The fact that it is UConn, I think we both have some familiarity [with each other]. 

In a Wednesday telecon­ference, Huskies coach Geno Auriemma was asked what concerns him the most about playing Notre Dame. 
“The most, everything,” he responded. “This is the eighth time we’re playing them in 12 months, and it’s crazy, isn’t it? I mean, it’s just ridiculous. Ev-
champion ­ship against Arka nsas Pine -Bluff right on the tip [in the first game of the season.] It’s good for us to final­ly be back here, and get into the last hurrah with the team. And with this team, it is kind of bittersweet, 

“The loss against Texas A&M has been in our mind for a year now. [We were thinking] ‘When is a championship going to [come]? When is the tournament getting started.” 
Skylar Diggins junior guard 
erything. Every­thing. I think if you stripped them apart as a team and all the components, you would find they don’t have any weakness­es, and you can’t say that about a lot of teams.” 
Some of that praise can defi­nitely be attrib­uted to Diggins, he said. 
“Cer tainly Skylar Diggins 
because we are at the end of the season with this team. But that gives us more reason to play for.” 
With that in mind, Diggins currently has her gaze set firm­ly on No. 3 Connecticut, who the Irish will face in the tour­nament semifinals in what will be the teams’ fourth matchup of the year.  Brushing off any no­tion of the difficulty of beating a team three times in one year, Diggins said she and the team are using the same approach they have all year — one game at a time. 
“I don’t think [the difficulty of beating a team three times is playing unbelievable basket­ball right now,” Auriemma said. 

Diggins will try to contin­ue this trend, as Notre Dame looks to advance to the nation­al championship game for its second-straight year. And as the Irish take on Connecticut to earn that right, they will look to their junior point guard, who will — as always — have her eye on the prize. 
“We know what it is like to get there, but we don’t know what it is like to win it,” Diggins said. “So it’ll be great for us.” 
Contact Kelsey Manning at kmannin3@nd.edu 


MATT SAAD/The Observer 
Clockwise from left: Sophomore forward Natalie Achonwa handles the ball for the Irish during an 80-49 victory over Maryland in the Elite Eight; Notre Dame huddles before its Elite Eight matchup; the Raleigh regional-champion Irish celebrate their victory over Maryland on Tuesday. 



WAY TO GO IRISH WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 
Remember: Breakfast is the most important meal of the day... YOU can eat it anytime at LePeep! Monday–Friday 6:30–2:00 pm 
Saturday–Sunday 7:00–2:00 pm 



GOOD LUCK IN DENVER! 
127 S. Michigan Street Downtown South Bend 574-288-PEEP 
Big Groups Welcome...call ahead available 

