The Observer u IRISH INSIDER

The Observer u IRISH INSIDER

page 2 | ndsmcobserver.com

ndsmcobserver.com | page 3


Friday, March 2, 2012

McBride improves in year two 

Commentary

Connecticut-Notre Dame rivalry one of  sport’s best


By MATTHEW ROBISON
Sports Writer
As the lone non-veteran on the starting five this season, sophomore guard Kayla Mc­Bride has surprised everyone but her teammates and coach­es with her breakthrough per­formance.
Irish coach Muffet McGraw certainly knew McBride’s po­tential upside and is certainly glad to see it show through in her play this season.
“I’m absolutely thrilled with the way she’s playing and what she’s been contributing to our team,” McGraw said. “She makes a huge impact for us.”
Playing with four veterans in the starting lineup, includ­ing three other guards, Mc­Bride has quickly learned the system and her role within it. But more importantly, she has drawn one key lesson from it: mental toughness. Seniors Devereaux Peters, Natalie No­vosel and Brittany Mallory and junior Skylar Diggins have in­spired McBride to display the fortitude to embrace and over­come adversity.
“They’ve been through so much during their three, four, five years here,” McBride said. “Just taking that and going with it, just playing with them and seeing their determina­tion. It just kind of gives me the strength that I can go out there and do these things, and I can go far, and I can get better each and every day like they have.”
McBride has averaged just over 11 points per game this season and has pulled in just under five rebounds. Last sea­son, she played 19 games for the Irish before sitting out the remainder of the season to deal with an off-the-court issue.
Her return has sparked Notre Dame both offensively and defensively and gives a great glimpse of the future for the Irish. She is motivated by both an inter­nal fire and the push she receives from those around her.
“I think a lot of it is self-motiva­tion just because of everything I went through last year,” she said. “But I think a lot of it comes from my coaches and the confidence they have in me. They wanted me to step in and play my game and that gave me a lot of confidence.”
McGraw expressed supreme confidence in McBride’s ability right now, as well as her ability to continually improve during the remainder of her career.
“She plays well in the high post against the zone. She can score one-on-one, she can use the ball screen. She can score in a lot of different ways,” McGraw said. “She’s just beginning to tap that potential. She can continue to get better. She really has made great strides and continued to make them while she was out last year.”
Certainly a contender for Most Improved Player in the conference when the postseason awards are announced, McBride has strived to get better each and every day. That is her primary goal.
“One of my goals is just to get better on and off the court,” Mc­Bride said.
“I think she’s the most improved player in the league,” McGraw said.
As a heavily recruited player coming out of high school, she saw Notre Dame’s diversity of offer­ings appealing, the ultimate de­ciding factor to play for the Irish, she said.
“There was really nothing I could see wrong, academically, athletically,” McBride said. “I was just drawn to it immediately.”
She attributes part of her suc­cess to the culture of Notre Dame, a culture of hard work and the de­termination to succeed.
“I think the work ethic we have to put in as a student-athletes here at Notre Dame makes you succeed on so many different lev­els,” McBride said. “I think that’s just one of the best things about being here and being part of this program.”
Contact Matt Robison at 		mrobison@nd.edu

North Carolina-Duke has its moments every season, Kentucky-Louisville is back on track and even Kansas-Missouri generates additional hype on gameday. Each ri­valry has its own special his­tory, its own place in college basketball, thanks to a series of unforgettable matchups, exciting (devastating) upsets and healthy (painful) win streaks.
So, add Notre Dame-UConn to the list.
What makes a rivalry great? Legendary coaches — check. Along with Tennessee’s Pat Sum­mit, Huskies coach Geno Auriemma is the face of women’s basketball and the driving force behind seven national champion­ships. While Irish coach Muf­fet McGraw only has one title so far, she joined Auriemma as a member of the Women’s Basketball Hall of Fame in 2011 and has more than 650 wins to her name.
Legendary players — check. The advantage certainly favors Con­necticut here, as WNBA stars Diana Taur­asi, Tina Charles and Maya Moore each made her mark in UConn jerseys. But Ruth Riley led Notre Dame to its only national title, and South Bend native junior Skylar Diggins would be well on her way to Player of the Year hon­ors in 2012 if not for Baylor’s Brittney Griner.
Signature moments — check. Notre Dame’s upset of the Huskies in the 2011 NCAA tournament semifinals stands out above the rest. Diggins and her 28 points stole the show, propelling the Irish into the title game, ending Moore’s collegiate career and snap­ping a 12-game Connecticut win streak over Notre Dame.
But well before that, the two programs made history when ESPN College Game­Day covered its first women’s basketball game in January 2010, a matchup between Notre Dame and Connecticut. While the Huskies blew out the Irish, the two programs advanced the sport further into the national spotlight.
Balanced record — no check … yet.
Since January 1996 the two programs have met 35 times, and Connecticut holds a com­manding 28-7 series lead. In fact, the Huskies won the first 11 matchups until the 2000-01 Notre Dame team broke that streak en route to winning a national champi­onship.
From 2001 to 2005 the rivalry played out much more evenly, as Notre Dame won four of its next 10 matchups against Connecticut before quickly reverting back in the Huskies’ favor. From 2006 to 2011, UConn rattled off 12 straight wins in the Big East regular season and confer­ence tournament.
Finally, momentum has shifted towards Notre Dame. Dating back to the 2011 Final Four victory, McGraw’s squad has beaten Connecticut in three consecutive contests, the first team to accomplish the feat since North Carolina did from 2004-07. More im­portantly, Notre Dame’s poise has carried it to two confer­ence victories this season, an overtime victory at home and a road win in a notoriously hostile arena. For a team with only marginally bet­ter talent than the Huskies, these wins bode well for an almost certain rematch in the Big East championships title game and a potential rematch in the Final Four.
And what if Notre Dame extends its win streak to five, which would include two victories in the NCAA tourna­ment, a victory that secured a Big East regular season title outright and a victory with the conference tournament title on the line? While Notre Dame would still trail Con­necticut by a significant margin in the all-time series, qual­ity victories with titles and champi­onships on the line certainly mean more than regular season wins.
Earning a Big East regu­lar season and conference tournament title over Con­necticut in the same season would send a clear message: Notre Dame is committed to winning at the highest level. Consistently.
The Irish certainly lost their grip as contenders fol­lowing the program’s first national title in 2001, failing to return to the title game for a full decade. Some programs would be content with a return to the Final Four last season. But this year’s squad has its sights set on a national title, the talent to beat op­ponents it should beat handily and the character to grind out the tough wins.
Like all good rivalries, win streaks alternate from team to team, and Connecticut will surely rebound sooner than later. But for the first time, the Huskies are looking up from the wrong end of a rival­ry approaching parity.
Contact Chris Masoud at 
cmasoud@nd.edu
The views expressed in this column are those of the author  and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

SARAH O’CONNOR/The Observer
Irish sophomore guard Kayla McBride dribbles the ball during Notre Dame’s 66-47 home victory over Providence on Feb. 14.


Chris Masoud
Assitant Managing Editor

Since January 1996 the two programs have met 35 times, and Connecticut holds a commanding 28-7 series lead. In fact, the Huskies won the first 11 matchups until the 2000-01 Notre Dame team broke that streak en route to winning a national championship.


Friday, March 2, 2012

Fifth element

Graduate students Devereaux Peters and Brittany Mallory bring experience, leadership to Irish in final campaign


By MOLLY SAMMON
Sports Writer
During the 2008-09 season, Irish graduate students Brittany Mallory and Devereaux Peters sat on the bench with matching torn ACLs in their left legs.
But without that time off the court, their careers could very well have ended with losses to Connecticut in the Big East title match and Texas Tech in the na­tional championship game.
Now enjoying their fifth years in Irish uniforms, Mallory and Peters, two parts of the trium­virate of team captains, have another chance to grab both the conference tournament and national championship titles as integral members of No. 3 Notre Dame.
“I think everything happens for a reason. I’m a strong believ­er in that,” Peters said. “I really believe that I hurt myself so I could play this year and take this team as far as we can. I get an extra year to play with these girls. Since we lost it last year, it’s just another opportunity to get that back.”
After their injuries Peters, a forward, and Mallory, a guard, spent months off the court and un­derwent mul­tiple surgeries and rehabilitation sessions to build their health back up. Then, each had to recondition herself to the rigors of maintaining a spot on the starting roster in one of the nation’s top programs.
“I have absolutely no regrets about taking a fifth year,” Peters said. “ I would do it again ev­eryday. If I didn’t hurt myself, I wouldn’t be able to play with this team and I really think we have a shot at winning. That wouldn’t be an opportunity that I would have if I had left. I would do it again.”
At the time of her injury, Pe­ters was unsure if she would ever be able to play again, let alone become an integral part of Notre Dame’s success.
“It was tough at first when I in­jured myself,” she said. “I wasn’t sure if I could even play at all. It’s hard going through an ACL once, let alone a second time, right back to back, but I knew it was a decision I had to make right away because of the work that goes into rehab and everything. I took about a week and talked to my family and coaches.”
Mallory’s decision to take a fifth year came after serious contemplation as well.
“I was a little on the fence about continuing on,” she said. “I had been through two ACL [injuries]. I wasn’t sure if com­ing back for another year was exactly what I wanted. I talked with my fam­ily and coach­es, and every­one seemed to want me back. I sat down mostly with my brother, who said to stick it out.
“It took a lot of hard work when I came back. Having the team be­hind me was a lot of help. and once the season start­ed and I started to get my wind back, everything started to fall into place. It seemed like I made the right decision, and I really felt like I made the right one.”
After contributing an extra year to the program, both Peters and Mallory have an advantage in understanding team makeup, team strategy and a general ap­proach to winning.
“When you have players that have been around for five years that have gone through the in­jury, they really mature,” Irish coach Muffet McGraw said. “They learn a lot from that year out. They look at the game from a different perspective. They watch the coaches a little bit more; they’re students of the game a little bit more; they ap­preciate what they have a little bit more. For that reason, I think they have that maturity and that wisdom that comes with age.”
Mallory said the extra year was especially helpful to not only familiarize herself with what McGraw looks for in vari­ous game situations, but why she employs certain strategies.
“When I sat out for that year, you get the see the whole coach­ing aspect and side of things, and you see where coach is com­ing from which gives you a whole new look at things. Being a cap­tain and having everyone come to you and trust you with an is­sue you have, you know Coach [McGraw] trusted me with the ball and being the glue that puts everything together.”
Being thrust into a team lead­ership role can sometimes result in added pressure, Peters said, especially during high-intensity parts of the season like the Big East championships.
“I think at first [being more experienced] did [add pressure] a little bit,” she said. “It’s hard. If you’re not performing [the coaches are] going to get on you because they know you better and you’ve been here the lon­gest. I’ve been here forever. They might be on your back about it; [Mallory and I] accepted that and have been able to handle that for this year.”
Now well-situated into their roles on the court, Mallory and Peters fill different needs for the Irish, but both will be vital to Notre Dame’s postseason suc­cess.
Leading the Irish in rebounds, Peters recognizes her job on the court of bringing defensive te­nacity to the frontcourt. McGraw said she has raised the team’s intensity “up to a different level” this year. 
The tallest player on the team at 6’2”, Peters has averaged 9.5 rebounds per game in her fi­nal season with the Irish and recently broke her career-high mark with 18 boards against South Florida on Feb. 25, perfect timing for Senior Night at Pur­cell Pavilion.
“It’s about rebounding for me,” Peters said. “My job is to get in there, be crashing the board, making a lot of things happen, make extra oppor­tunities on of­fense and keep their offense from getting any second chances. I don’t consid­er myself a scorer, and I think we have plenty of those, but if necessary, if they’re taking the girls away, I know I have to be an option. I think most of them handle that pretty well.”
Peters said she leads most ef­fectively by bringing an experi­ence calm to her captainship rather than being verbally abu­sive of her younger teammates.
“I think I’m more of a leader by example; I’m not very talk­ative on the court unless I’m mad, in which [case] they take it pretty well because they know how I am,” Peters said. “I think I’m more about being out there as showing them what to do in­stead of saying that. Since I don’t talk too much, I think I’ve estab­lished that role. When I do say something they listen, they know I’ve been here forever. So I do [talk] a little bit, and I think it’s easier for them to take criticism or advice from me knowing that I’ve been her and been through a lot.”
Mallory boasts the nickname “Mom,” granted to her by the underclassmen on the team and perfectly suggestive of here in­terpretation of her role on the team.
“I just like making sure that everybody is okay; I hate leaving people without [that],” Mallory said. “It’s just my tendency. I just have to make sure that every­thing is okay.”
“You get your emotions running wild before these games, espe­cially the big ones,” Mallory said. “Last year before the national championship, I couldn’t sleep I was so excited. But I just need to remember what I’m here to do, what my purposes are, why my goals are [what they are].”
Peters, Mallory and the rest of the Irish have earned two byes before they take the court in the quarterfinals of the Big East championships. After roll­ing past Connecticut 72-59 on Feb. 27, both remain confident in accomplishing a program first during the final season in Irish uniforms: winning a tourna­ment title.
“I’m very excited right now by this year and by this team. [Our win over Connecticut] showed us a lot about the team, about how we play and what we’re capable of,” Peters said. “I’m very excited for what’s to come.”
Contact Molly Sammon at
msammon@nd.edu

“I would do it again everyday. If I didn’t hurt myself, I wouldn’t be able to play with this team and I really think we have a shot at winning. That wouldn’t be an opportunity that I would have if I had left.”
Devereaux Peters
graduate student forward

GRANT TOBIN/The Observer
Irish graduate student Devereaux Peters plays defense during Notre Dame’s 76-43 win over Villanova on Jan. 21 in Purcell Pavilion.

“I just like making sure that everybody is okay; I hate leaving people without [that] ... It’s just my tendency. I just have to make sure that everything is okay.”
Brittany Mallory
graduate student guard


SARAH O’CONNOR/The Observer

Irish graduate student Brittany Mallory passes around a Providence defender on Feb. 14. The Irish captured a 66-47 victory over the Friars in Purcell Pavilion.

Friday, March 2, 2012


ELISA DE CASTRO | Observer Graphic

Predictions 

Matthew Robison
Sports Writer
The Irish will have no problems with DePaul in the quarterfinals. Georgetown gives Notre Dame a run for its money, but the Irish advance into the championship game against Connecticut. Diggins and Novosel will lead the charge as the Irish will get out in transition early and often, applying defensive pressure throughout. De­vereaux Peters will keep Connecticut’s 6’5” center Stefanie Golson off the offensive glass and will limit the Huskies to one shot on offense. The constant pres­sure will finally break the Huskies and the Irish will pull away at the end of a close game. Kayla McBride and Brittany Mallory each also score in double figures for the Irish from behind the three-point line and finishing in transition. Tif­fany Hayes will score her fair share of points, but Mallory will keep her from dominating the game.
BOTTOM LINE: Notre Dame 82, Connecticut 71

Joseph Monardo
Sports Writer
In the quarterfinals, the top-seed­ed Irish will handle a South Florida team that challenged the Irish less a week ago.  The Bulls will not put up as strong of a fight this time, and the Irish will roll into the semifinals where they will capture a double-digit win over Georgetown. Notre Dame and Connecticut will face off in the championship game in a rematch of Monday’s game, but the Irish will keep the Huskies out of the paint early, denying Connecticut center Stefanie Golson another hot start. Mosqueda-Lewis and Tiffany Hayes will lead the Huskies, but Novosel and McBride will provide the scoring for the Irish. Diggins will lead Notre Dame down the stretch of a close game and the Irish will capture their third win over Connecticut this season and capture the first Big East championship in school history.
BOTTOM LINE: Notre Dame 84, Connecticut 76

Molly Sammon
Sports Writer
Even though the Irish are the proud owners of the coveted No. 1 seed in the tournament, it will not be a particularly easy road for them to get to the cham­pionship game. They will meet up with South Florida in the quarterfinals. A win over South Florida puts them on the court with West Virginia for the semifi­nal game, the same Mountaineer team that robbed the zero in loss column in Notre Dame’s conference record on Feb. 12. This time, the Irish will play like they usually do, get revenge against West Virginia, and bump into a St. John’s team feeling bulletproof after a close win over Connecticut. The final game will take a large effort from Devereaux Peters, as her 15 rebounds were imperative in Notre Dame’s regular season win over the Red Storm. If the Irish force turnovers and play defense like they did in the regular season, the title will go to Notre Dame.
BOTTOM LINE: Notre Dame 76, St. John’s 68




Friday, March 2, 2012


ELISA DE CASTRO | Observer Graphic

 


Kelsey Manning
Sports Writer
This Irish squad simply will not lose in this Big East tournament. Despite beating opponents by an average of 29.1 points this season, this team has never gotten compla­cent. After they beat DePaul, the No. 8 seed in the Big East tourna­ment and their probable quarterfi­nal opponent, both coach and play­ers said they were disappointed in their defensive performance. After beating Georgetown, their likely semifinal opponent, McGraw said they were “lucky.” This team has not taken anything for granted this season, and has found areas for improvement even when there appeared to be none. Notre Dame will handle DePaul and record a double-digit victory over George­town in the semifinals, only to face St. John’s, who will stick around to the end, but ultimately fall to the Irish.
BOTTOM LINE: Notre Dame 78, St. John’s 70

Chris Masoud
Assistant Managing Editor
Simply put, the Big East is stacked this season. With the exception of bottom-feeders Pittsburgh and Seton Hall, no team making it to the semifi­nals would surprise me. Notre Dame, Connecticut and St. John’s all appear to be locks for the semifinals. The Red Storm handed UConn its only confer­ence loss besides two to the Irish, but I like betting on coaches in the postsea­son. Geno Auriemma and the Huskies have a long memory and play well in the XL Center. Coupled with Auriemma’s curious benching of his starters down 13 points with over 3 minutes remaining against Notre Dame on Monday, I expect an unforgiving Huskies squad to surge to a finals appear­ance against the Irish. This season has marked a number of firsts for Muffet McGraw and Notre Dame, and that con­tinues with the program’s first Big East championships title.
BOTTOM LINE: Notre Dame 74, Connecticut 70



Friday, March 2, 2012

Achonwa and Wright contribute off the bench for the Irish

By JOSEPH MONARDO
Sports Writer
As one nears the end of her freshman season and the oth­er continues to make strides in her game as a sophomore, “Keesh” and “Ace” provide much needed depth to the Irish post game. 
Freshman forward Marki­sha Wright and sophomore forward Natalie Achonwa have combined to provide meaningful minutes off the bench and have taken on the important role of backing up graduate student forward Devereaux Peters. 
Averaging 10.4 minutes per game, Wright nears the end of what has been an educa­tional freshman season un­der the tutelage of Peters and Achonwa.
“The season has been real­ly exciting,” the Des Moines, Iowa, product said. “I have learned a lot from all the players, I would say especial­ly from somebody I look up to — Ace, Natalie Achonwa. It has just been a great learn­ing experience for me.”
Wright has racked up aver­ages of 3.7 points and 2.4 re­bounds per game during her rookie campaign, the high­light of which came in a 128-42 away win over Mercer on Dec. 30. In the game, Wright shot 10-12 from the field, scored 24 points and collect­ed four rebounds in only 20 minutes of action.
While Wright has ben­efited from Achonwa’s guid­ance, the sophomore said she struggled at times last year to adapt to the college game before impressing in the postseason. During last season’s 73-64 loss to Con­necticut in the Big East championships title game, Achonwa recorded her first career double-double, scor­ing 12 points and grabbing 10 rebounds.
“I think I found my role by the end of the year,” Achon­wa said. “I think it might have taken me a little [time], but I had great players to challenge me in practice and great opponents to challenge me in games. I think just the experience of getting to know the college game really con­tributed to the postseason.”
This season, Achonwa has continued her upward trend in securing averages of 7.7 points and 4.4 rebounds in 16.6 minutes of action per game as the first player off the bench.
“I think she’s the best sixth man in the Big East,” Irish coach Muffet McGraw said. “She has had a really solid season. I think I trust her. I’m comfortable with her in any situation of the game.” 
On Dec. 4, 2011, Achon­wa scored a career-high 20 points in only 18 minutes in No. 3 Notre Dame’s 76-48 win at Creighton. The sec­ond year player has been ef­ficient all season with her team-leading field goal per­centage of .566.
“I think something I have learned is to value the time I get,” Achonwa said. “The efficiency just comes with having the mentality [that] when I come in, it is to give the starters a breather, so we don’t want to have a lapse from the bench.”
Although both Achonwa and Wright have shown the ability to score in bunches, the players understand their primary task is to help Notre Dame’s rebounding effort.
“[The team] had a little trouble at the beginning of the season … Coming in with four guards and one post, we had a different look [from last year] and we had to get used to it,” Achonwa said. “At practice coach said, ‘Get back to the basics, remember how to box out, push them back and get the rebound.’”
Despite their early sea­son struggles on the boards, Notre Dame’s 10.4 rebound­ing margin per game is good enough for second-best in the Big East, only slightly behind league-leading Connecticut’s average margin of 10.4. 
“It is a big deal for us be­cause we play a lot of teams that are really good at re­bounding, so we emphasize boxing out first and then crashing the boards,” Wright said.
As Wright prepares to see her first postseason action, the Irish expect her to put into effect everything she has learned thus far.
“She is a really good lis­tener, knows what we’re try­ing to do, works hard and is continuing to get better,” McGraw said. “I expect big things from her in the fu­ture. She’s played in big games, won a state tourna­ment, was the MVP of a state tournament in Iowa; so she’s had the opportunity to play big-time games.”
For now, though, Wright prefers to keep it simple.
“I just go my hardest and I do my role,” she said. “I go out there and I do what I am supposed to do, what I am expected to do.”
Contact Joseph Monardo at 
jmonardo@nd.edu



Friday, March 2, 2012

Regular season champion Irish head into tournament


By KELSEY MANNING
Sports Writer
After topping Connecticut 72-59 and crowning themselves sole regular-season conference champions on Monday, the No. 3 Irish now prepare to return to the XL Center to begin Big East tournament play in the quarter­finals Sunday. 
The victory marks the first time the Irish (27-2, 14-1 Big East) have won the regular sea­son conference championship outright. Notre Dame shared the title with Connecticut in 2001, before going on to win the national championship that year. According to Irish coach Muffet McGraw, achieving that goal has only made her team more anxious for the next one. 
“I think winning the regular season was a great accomplish­ment for us. Never having done it before, I think made it more special,” McGraw said. “If we could follow it up with a win in the Big East championship, to get the automatic bid, that would be another first for our program.”
According to senior guard Natalie Novosel, who had 21 points Monday, it was easy to look ahead to a potential match­up in the tournament final when playing Connecticut at the XL Center Monday. She said that prospect does not at all frighten this Irish squad. 
“It’s easy to look ahead — a lot of people talk about it,” Novosel said. “It can possibly be a déjà vu moment. It’s a week later, in the championship. But I think absolutely [we were thinking about it. 
“Like we’ve said again and again, we’re not afraid of them anymore, and it’s nice to kind of be out of their shadow, and to find our own identity — I think that’s one thing we were able to accomplish the other night.”
At the same time, the Irish are approaching the tourna­ment in the same way they ap­proached their regular season — one game at a time. McGraw said the competition in the Big East is so tight that it is tough to predict which squad might leave Hartford with the cham­pionship.
“I think all of the top eight teams, actually the top nine seeds [are capable of win­ning],” she said. “If you look at the game that South Florida just gave us, they’re the nine seed, and we struggled to beat them here. They’ve had a lot of close games with a lot of teams. So I think really anybody is the top nine is capable of winning.”
Novosel said even with the team’s success, nothing will change with the team’s mind­set. 
“Coach McGraw does a re­ally good job of (making) us [have] the mentality of taking it one game at a time,” the se­nior said. “In practice, it’s re­ally competitive, and we’re just working on the next teams in drills and stuff, so I think she does a really good job of keeping us humble. And also we’ve got a lot of veterans on the team, a lot of experience, and that helps just keep the team grounded and not looking ahead to things.”
With No. 16 Pittsburgh fac­ing No. 9 South Florida in the first round, the winner of that game facing No. 8 DePaul in the second round and the winner of that matchup advancing to play Notre Dame in the quarterfi­nals, the Irish could face a cou­ple foes that gave them trouble in the regular season. 
Though the Irish defeated De­Paul 90-70 in their regular-sea­son contest Feb. 5, McGraw and her players expressed disap­pointment in allowing 70 points on defense. DePaul (21-9, 9-7) was paced by forwards sopho­more Jasmine Penny’s 24 points and junior Katherine Harry’s 20. Novosel said the Irish would relish the opportunity to take on the Blue Demons once more this season.
“We looked at the people we could possibly play and I think DePaul we definitely want to play again,” she said. “They challenged us on our home court and our defense took a hit. I think that’s something we’d definitely enjoy — to have another rematch with them and get that game back.”
South Florida (16-14, 8-8) notched 68 points Saturday against the Irish. Though No­vosel recorded a career-high 32 points in the victory, she said the team’s defense would have to step up in another matchup with the Bulls. 
“[South Florida] definite­ly challenged us at home — they’ve got some really quick guards and some great shoot­ers, so we’re just going to have to hone in on defense on them,” she said. “Again, it comes down to defense. We’ve just got to lock down and just know our defen­sive assignments.”
Regardless of whom the Irish play in the tournament, Novosel said the team knows not to take anything for granted in the Big East tournament.
“I think whomever we play in the Big East tournament right now, everyone’s level of play raises because this is for NCAA tournament seeds,” she said. “Everyone’s going to be raising the level of play.”
The Irish will take on the winner of DePaul and South Florida/Pittsburgh in the Big East tournament quarterfinals Sunday.
Contact Kelsey Manning at
kmannin3@nd.edu

PAT COVENEY/The Observer
Junior guard Skylar Diggins locks in on defense during Notre Dame’s home tilt with West Virginia on Feb. 12. The Mountaineers handed the Irish a 65-63 defeat, their only home loss of the season.


ELISA DE CASTRO | Observer Graphic




