The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 46, issue 31 | TUESDAY, OCTOBER 2, 2012 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Pope honors professor with Ratzinger Prize 
Vatican recognizes Daley for his theological scholarship on the early history of the Catholic Church 
scholarship in scripture, patris-the pope’s personal theological French catholic philosopher holy Father, who is one of the 
By TORI ROECK 

news writer tics and fundamental theology,” interests. who will visit campus next week. greatest theologians of the 20th “when the pope was just daley said he is excited for his century, and i look forward to 

Theology professor Fr. 
brian daley received the 2012 
ratzinger prize in Theology, also 
known as the “nobel prize of 
Theology,” for his work in study­
ing the early church. 
pope 

benedict Xvi will of-Joseph ratzinger and a profes-friends in rome to attend the meeting him,” daley said. 
sor of theology, he worked on award ceremony and to shake daley said the award came to contemporary theology, but was hands with the pope, whom he him as a complete surprise, but 
very strongly interested in the had the opportunity to meet he feels honored for the pope to 
bible, the early church and the briefly at a theology conference personally recognize his work. 
medieval church,” daley said. in the 1970s. “it’s simply a kind of vote 
“so i think they try to honor “i see theology as a service to of confidence from the holy 
ficially present daley with the 
those interests of his when they the church, really, so it’s very Father, who is a theologian, and honor oct. 20 in rome. according to a university press give out the prizes.” moving for me to have some sort who especially is interested in The annual ratzinger prize release. The other recipient of this of recognition from the church recognizes “distinguished daley said the award reflects year’s award is rémi brague, a that commemorates our present see Theology PAGE 5 


Notre Dame to open arts center on West Side 

By NICOLE MICHELS 
news writer 
south bend residents and stu­dents alike will have a new venue in which to appreciate the arts when the notre dame center for arts and culture opens in January in a renovated historic building on the west side of south bend. 
located in the former hansel center in the west washington national historic register district, the new center will house the notre dame’s community relations department and its crossroads bend heritage Foundation part­nered to fund  the $2.5 million renovation through local busi­nesses and charitable organiza­tions, the release stated. 
art  gallery,  according  to  a  
university press release.  
notre  dame and the  south  

sociology professor gilberto cardenas, who will serve as the center’s executive director, said he hopes it will add variety to south bend’s cultural life. 
“There’s a cultural corridor already on that street that has a number of cultural institutes, so 
see cenTer PAGE 4 


student receives research fellowship 
By MEGHAN THOMASSEN 
news writer 
like most college freshmen, senior matt sarna entered notre dame three years ago looking for direction in terms of his future career. he found it in laboratory work. 
“when i started freshman year, i didn’t know what career trajectory i wanted to take. i was thinking about graduate school, so i thought it would be a really good experience to get involved in research,” sarna said. “it’s been a really cool way to do sci­ence in a hands-on way.” 
Taking the initiative freshman year, sarna, a biological sci­ences and anthropology major, began researching in profes­sor Joshua shrout’s applied microbiology research lab. his work culminated when he recently won the american society for microbiology (asm) undergraduate research Fellowship for his research on bacteria motility. 

The oldest and largest biologi­cal membership organization with 40,000 members world­wide, asm chose sarna and shrout’s joint application from a pool of 122 applicants. The 
see biology PAGE 5 


British newspaper features doctoral candidate’s poem 
By ANN MARIE JAKUBOWSKI 
news writer 

english doctoral candidate ailbhe darcy joined some es­teemed company when The guardian, a prominent u.k. news­paper, featured one of her poems as poem of the week the week of sept. 24. darcy’s selection is no small honor. The previous week, the paper showcased william shakespeare’s “The phoenix and the Turtle.” 
darcy, a dublin native who earned her master of Fine arts in poetry from notre dame’s cre­ative writing program, wrote her featured poem, “silt whisper,” nearly a decade ago. The piece was published in 2011 as part of her first full collection of works, “imaginary menagerie.” 
darcy said she thought “silt whisper” was an unexpected se­lection for discussion by guardian columnist carol rumens. rumens’ column showcases one poem each week in both the print newspaper and the online publication. 
“i had thought of ‘silt whisper’ as a quieter poem, like punctua­tion within the collection to add a bit of a pause among the noisier poems,” darcy said. “i wouldn’t have thought of it as a poem that stuck out in terms of its content, so i was surprised she picked that one.” 
darcy said “imaginary menagerie” contains many re­flections on traveling and leaving home, including her transatlantic move from dublin to south bend. 
“i never planned to come to america, and it was a bit of an adventure because i’d never been here before we moved,” darcy said. “but i’m studying irish poetry at [notre dame’s] keough-naughton institute [for irish studies], and my husband is studying geometry here, so we think of it as a home away from 
see poem PAGE 5 






Have a question you want answered? 
Email obsphoto@gmail.com 



QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
ndsmcobserver.com 
p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
allan Joseph 
Managing Editor  Business Manager 
megan doyle  Jeff liptak 
Asst. Managing Editor: andrew owens 
Asst. Managing Editor: sam stryker News Editor: John cameron News Editor: kristen durbin 
Viewpoint Editor: meghan Thomassen Sports Editor: chris allen Scene Editor: kevin noonan Saint Mary’s Editor: Jillian barwick Photo Editor: suzanna pratt Graphics Editor: brandon keelean Multimedia Editor: sarah o’connor Advertising Manager: monica mccormack Ad Design Manager: sara hilstrom Controller: peter woo Systems Administrator: william heineman 

Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ajoseph2@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 mdoyle11@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 aowens2@nd.edu sstryke1@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 

Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 

Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 

Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 observer.scene.editor@gmail.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
jbarwi01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 

Policies 
The observer is the independent, daily newspaper 
published in print and online by the students of the 
university of notre dame du lac and saint mary’s 
college.  editorial content, including advertisements, is 
not governed by policies of the administration of either 
institution. The observer reserves the right to refuse 
advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively 
as possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion 
of the majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, 
assistant managing editors and department editors. 
commentaries, letters and columns present the views of 
the authors and not necessarily those of The observer. 
viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include 
contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed 
to Editor-in-Chief Allan Joseph. 
post office information The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The observer is published at: 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-0779 periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices posTmasTer send address corrections to: The observer p.o. box 779 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-077 The observer is a member of the associated press. all reproduction rights are reserved. 


If you could add a new interhall sport, what would it be? 

Annie Flynn 
freshman 
walsh hall 
“Table tennis” 

Colin Hubler 
freshman 
alumni hall 
“ultimate frisbee” 

Paul Menke 
junior dillon hall 
“curling” 


Ryan Murphy 
junior 
dillon hall 
“base jumping” 


Patrick Whalen 
junior 
dillon hall 
“rock climbing” 


Ryan Huhn 
sophomore 
duncan hall 

“innertube water polo” 



Want your event included here? 

News Sports 
kristen durbin isaac lorton Email obsnews.nd@gmail.com 




THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 
dan brombach megan Finneran adam llorens matthew deFranks 
Graphics Scene 

Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday 
laura laws ankur chawla 

Photo Viewpoint 

Writing Workshop Lecture: Nature Talk Science Seminar Nano Research Men’s Soccer vs. 
suzanna pratt meghan Thomassen 
303 DeBartolo Hall and Naturalism in Jordan Hall Contest Finalists Georgetown 
6:30 p.m. - 7:45 p.m. Byzantine Art 7 p.m.-8 p.m. Stinson-Remick Hall Alumni Stadium Editing and revising Snite Museum Current research by 3:30 p.m.-5:30 p.m. 2 p.m. - 4 p.m. 


Corrections 

workshop. 5 p.m.- 6:30 p.m. students and faculty. Poster session. 
in an oct. 1 article, “walkers support suicide victims,” two quotes were 
Voting Q&A Wind Down 2012 Red Smith Nanovic Film: “Much Ado About 
misattributed to senior amanda 

LaFortune Student Legends Lecture: “Journalism Habemus Papam Nothing” 
bruening. They were said by junior 
Center 8 p.m.- 10 p.m. in the Age of DeBartolo Performing Washington Hall 
alexandra del pilar. The observer 
7 p.m. - 9 p.m. Study break with Twitteracy” Arts Center 7:30 p.m. - 9 p.m. 
regrets this error. 

Questions on student karaoke, board games, Eck Visitors Center 6:30 p.m.-8:15 p.m. Student-run theater voting answered. food and fun. 7:30 p.m.- 8:45 p.m. $4-7 production. 




Foundation supports particle physics program 
By ADAM LLORENS 
news writer 
Fifteen years ago, physics pro­fessor randy ruchti started the Quarknet center at notre dame to develop an interest in particle physics among students and provide research opportunities for high school teachers across the country. 
now, professor mitchell wayne and the university run the national Quarknet program, currently comprised of 50 cen­ters nationwide involving more than 500 high school teachers. 
as a result of its growth and progress, the national science Foundation awarded the department of physics a $6.1 million gift to support the edu­cational program. 
“it’s important to receive funding from the government to continue research and do broader education outreach to bring the excitement of phys­ics to high school students and teachers,” wayne, the program’s principal investigator, said. 
local high school teach­ers meet every week at notre dame’s Quarknet center on eddy street to discuss curricu­lum development, methods for bringing research into the class­room and ways to get their stu­dents excited about science. 
These teachers and students collaborate each year to conduct research at the center. wayne said one of the two detectors that discovered the ground­breaking higgs boson particle has components built by local high school teachers and stu­dents working with notre dame professors and students in the lab. 
“i’ve seen some of our local students really get excited about scientific research and go on to do well in science fairs and de­cide to study physics in college,” wayne said. “a couple years ago, we saw the first of our Quarknet students receive a ph.d. in phys­ics who began as a high school junior in our lab. it’s great to see the local teachers get involved, conduct research and get excit­ed about physics.” 
last december, the university submitted a proposal to receive an additional five years of fund­ing, wayne said. 
“we then had a joint review with the national science Foundation and the department of energy in washington, d.c., during the springtime,” he said. “we were officially notified a few weeks ago of this award.” 
wayne said the department will use the $6.1 million award to support other Quarknet cen­ters through stipends. 
“it all goes to helping our staff to provide help and support to 
paid adverTisemenT 

high school teachers across the country,” he said. 
education and outreach are important pillars of the depart­ment’s mission, wayne said. 
“it’s really important for notre dame to be giving back 

“It’s important to receive funding from the government to continue research and do broader education outreach to bring the excitement of physics to high school students and teachers.” 
Mitchell Wayne 
physics professor 
to the community, especially in 
s.T.e.m. [science, technology, engineering and mathemat­ics] areas,” wayne said. “our center provides professional development for local high school physics teachers and helps get students interested in the subject.” 
Contact Adam Llorens at allorens@nd.edu 


students share ugandan stories 
By SARAH SWIDERSKI 
news writer 
while many saint mary’s and notre dame students spend a semester abroad in europe and australia, six belles chose a less tradition­al location for their interna­tional studies: uganda. 
These rising senior nurs­ing and education students shared stories, photos and videos of their six-week summer experience in a cap­stone presentation monday. 
The students stayed with the sisters of the holy cross in kyarusozi, uganda, and worked with the sisters in rural community’s school and health clinic. 
using the phrasing of a popular ugandan coca-cola advertisement that proclaims there are “a bil­lion reasons to believe in africa,” the students shared 
their  personal  reasons  for  
believing in uganda.  
after  working  in  the  

kymbogo health center in kyarusozi, senior nursing student Joy Johnston said she believes in the country’s unique way of life. 
“working with the staff [at the clinic], there was no stress,” Johnston said. “They don’t rush, but they do what they need to do.” 
she also described the dif­ferences in technology. 
“There is no technology. so if someone has an iv, they rely on gravity,” she said. 
senior cassie Fill, a nurs­ing student, said she be­lieves her time in uganda changed her initial percep­tion of african lifestyles. 
“contrary to stereotypes … [ugandans] are healthi­er than people think,” she said. “as i finished my first day, i realized i had stereo­typed them.” 
senior nursing student genevieve spittler said “the sheer beauty of the country” and its people was reason enough to believe in africa, especially when she and the other students had the op­portunity to assist in deliv­eries while working at the clinic. 
“To hear a child’s first breath is the most beautiful thing,” spittler said. 
The three education stu­dents shared their experi­ences of working in moreau nursery and primary school, which teaches chil­dren from the equivalent of preschool to fourth grade. 
senior Jen prather, an el­ementary education major, said the connection she made with people in uganda and the other saint mary’s students defined her abroad experience. 
“my reason for believing in africa is because of our faithful and spiritual bond [with one another],” she said. “we all had formed a new family together and it wasn’t just the six of us.” 
senior sarah copi said she shared a similar feeling of community with the chil­
dren she met.  
“They  taught  me  more  
than  i  could  ever  teach  
them,” she said.  

copi said the hospital­ity of the ugandan people meant a great deal to her. 
“They taught us generos­ity. They were always will­
“My reason for believing in Africa is because of our faithful and spiritual bond [with one another]. We all had formed a new family together and it wasn’t just the six of us.” 
Jen Prather 
senior 
ing to give and share even if they didn’t have a lot,” she said. 
senior elementary educa­tion major nora Quirk said her students displayed a willingness to learn and val­ued education highly. 
“every day there would be at least ten students who did not want to leave,” she said.
 “every child takes an ac­tive role in their education.” 
Quirk said she wants to bring that same enthusiasm into her future classroom. 
“i really want to make sure i instill that value in my stu­dents here in the united states,” she said. 
in addition to speaking about their experiences, the students sold jewelry and other crafts purchased at maria’s shop in Fort portal, uganda. The proceeds from these items will support the kymbogo health center and moreau nursery and primary school in kyarusozi. 
The uganda summer program is available to rising seniors majoring in nursing and education. Three stu­dents from each major are selected and receive seven academic credits for the pro­gram. interested students can apply online through the center of women’s intercultural leadership on the saint mary’s website. 
Contact Sarah Swiderski at sswide01@saintmarys.edu 



The observer | TUESDAY, OCTOBER 2, 2012 | ndsmcobserver.com 

Center 
conTinued From page 1 
notre dame coming into that area will add to its vitality,” cardenas said. 
he said the center will host cultural and artistic programs for community residents. 
“we will have open recep­tions for art exhibits, we will 
“We’re looking forward to having a variety of students work with us to create a space where they can participate as interns working in the gallery, developing marketing plans and developing community education programs.” 
Gilberto Cardenas 
sociology professor 
have tours from schools. … we will have events on the pa­tio outside, lectures from art­ists, programming from the student communities from different universities,” he said. “we will reach out to non­profit organizations to work with them and get other cor­porations or entities to south bend.” 
The center will also house a fine art printmaking studio formerly based in arizona, cardenas said. 
“segura publishing, a fine art print studio, is go­ing to close down [its] opera­tion and chance the name to segura Fine art print studio,” cardenas said. “we’ll purchase [its] equipment and intellectu­al property, and the new studio won’t be commercial, it will be notre dame’s organization.” 
cardenas said students will be incorporated into the center’s programs on several levels. 
“we’re looking forward to having a variety of students work with us to create a space where they can participate as interns working in the gallery, developing marketing plans and developing community education programs,” he said. 
cardenas said established and local artists will be en­couraged to frequent the stu­dio as well. 
“we hope to advance visual art and give opportunities for artists to participate in the notre dame community, and for notre dame and other students to work together to create the wonderful print stu­dio and exhibitions,” cardenas said.  “we’re advancing fine art making and giving it a place in the notre dame community.” 

in addition to printmak­ing, the center will encourage the development of other art forms, cardenas said. 
“we will also have an art gallery housed there, a visit­ing artists’ program, a visit­ing writer’s program and a frame shop that will support the exhibitions that we do,” cardenas said.  “The art gal­lery specifically will not just focus on printmaking. it will be a place to exhibit other art as well.” 
notre dame’s engagement in the arts in the larger south bend community will have an impact even beyond the city’s borders, cardenas said. 
“we hope we will serve the region and reach out interna­tionally as well, whether be­cause of our catholic faith or other areas of study, to artists who want to work in these ar­eas of focus,” he said. “we want to show that the arts have im­portance to the economy, any state, any municipality . that they also enhance economic viability as a nation.” 
Contact Nicole Michels at nmichels@nd.edu 
JP Morgan faces financial fraud suit 
Associated Press 
new york — The new york attorney general’s office has hit Jpmorgan chase & co. with a civil lawsuit, alleging that invest­ment bank bear stearns — prior to its collapse and subsequent sale to Jpmorgan in 2008 — per­petrated massive fraud in deals involving billions in residential mortgage-backed securities. 
The lawsuit is the first to be filed under the auspices of the rmbs working group, which was set up by president barack obama to investigate and pros­ecute alleged misconduct that contributed to the financial crisis. 
new york-based Jpmorgan said it intends to contest the al­legations. spokesman Joseph evangelisti noted that the lawsuit relates solely to alleged actions by bear stearns prior to its take­over by Jpmorgan in may 2008. 
in the lead-up to the financial crisis, subprime mortgages were sold to people with less-than-ide­al credit. many of them defaulted on their loans when the housing bubble burst and their intro­ductory “teaser” interest rates skyrocketed. 
because many of those mort­gages had been sliced and re­packaged as securities that could be bought and sold — known as rmbs — the mass defaults led to huge losses at large u.s. banks and other financial firms, help­ing fuel the global economic meltdown. 
new york attorney general eric T. schneiderman is alleg­ing that bear stearns led its in­vestors to believe that the loans in its rmbs portfolio had been carefully evaluated and would be continuously monitored. bear stearns failed to do either, result­ing in investors buying securi­ties backed by mortgages that borrowers couldn’t repay and defaulted on in huge numbers, schneiderman alleges. 
The complaint further alleges that even when bear stearns executives were made aware of the problems, the firm failed to correct its practices or disclose material information to inves­tors. The executives routinely overlooked negative findings and continued to package the loans into securities for sale to inves­tors, it says. 

paid adverTisemenT 



Theology 
conTinued From page 1 
theology of the early church and the middle ages,” daley said. 
daley said he considers his work part of a greater whole. 
“i see what i do as a theolo­gian as very much part of the church’s pastoral mission. ... i don’t see a strong line between theology and preaching,” he said. “when i’m preaching at a liturgy, what i try to do is make the word of god accessible to people and let it come alive. 
“my teaching, too, i see as trying to move from faith to un­derstanding, to help people get a deeper grasp on what the faith of the church is.” 
The department of Theology at notre dame shares a simi­lar perspective on its academic discipline, and daley said the award reflects the quality of the department as a whole. 
“my sense of what theol­ogy is widely shared in the de­partment. it’s a department that really does see its role as 
paid adverTisemenT 

providing the understanding for faith,” daley said. “most people see their role as being part of the believing communi­ty, and everyone in the depart­ment is a person of faith.” 
daley said he tries to be a minister of the church through teaching, preaching and schol­arship to the best of his abilities. 
“i love the church and i try to represent the wisdom of the church in what i do,” he said. 
Contact Tori Roeck at vroeck@nd.edu 

Poem 
conTinued From page 1 
home.” 

Though she considers her­self more of a poet than an aca­demic, darcy said her studies in notre dame’s doctoral program in english influence her creative endeavors. 
“my academic work definitely feeds into my writing, because i write in response to the things i’ve read,” darcy said. “but poetry is kind of a mysterious process even to the writer. [poems] happen so slowly, percolating away in your mind for a long time, so that it feels like working on a problem. how that happens is a bit of a mystery to the writer, i think.” 
seeing her poem in print in The guardian was a surreal experience, darcy said, especially since she composed the poem a decade ago. 
“it’s a little bizarre to me that it’s gotten so much attention already,” she said. “actually, it’s quite strange to watch people commenting about the meaning on the online page. it’s 
Biology 
conTinued From page 1 

pair will receive up to $4,000, as well as funds to travel to denver in may to present their research. Their project sought to discover the genetic factors behind the regulation of bacte­rial swarm motility. 
“i was actually able to publish a model of bacterial growth i worked on with a graduate student last sum­mer,” sarna said. “now my cur­rent project is to figure out the underlying genetic molecular mechanisms that describe our growth model.” 
shrout said the bacterium he and sarna researched is found everywhere in the environ­ment and sometimes causes infections in human tissues such as lung, intestine and skin cells. 
“among the things that we almost like sitting in the classroom, and of course i didn’t want to join in with a comment, but it was quite difficult to refrain sometimes.” 
darcy said the experience, while unexpected, is “really exciting” for her and her work. Though poetry 

is her passion, other dimensions of her life have taken center stage late­ly, with the birth of her eight-week old son complicating the life of a doctoral student. 
“i’m definitely still getting used to the motherhood part, and i haven’t done a lot of writing in the past eight weeks,” darcy said. “hopefully the ideas are all percolating in there though.” 
Contact Ann Marie Jakubowski at ajakubo1@nd.edu 
don’t understand is how it sticks to surfaces and how it knows what kind of surface its on,” shrout said. “we use mo­tility, how it moves around, as a way to study its behavior. [in] matt’s project, we look at bac­teria that move more [and] how bacteria know about things about surfaces.” 
spending eight to 10 hours in the lab each week helped sarna decide which career route he wanted to take. 
“i wanted to have a more in­terpersonal career, more hands on work with other people,” he said. “i still enjoy the research process, so i’ll probably pursue that in medical school as well.” 
shrout has been a valuable mentor throughout sarna’s research. 
“he’s a cool guy, really down to earth. he really cares about our project and that i really un­derstand the work i’m doing,” sarna said. “he’s all about the hands-on.” 
shrout, a joint civil engineer­ing and biology professor, said sarna excels beyond the typical student standard in his enthusi­asm and dedication. 
“i am so pleased and proud of matt,” he said. “he asks a lot of questions that have allowed him to make progress really quickly from helping people in my lab to doing his own project.” 
rather than attending office hours to ask questions, shrout said sarna stops by his office frequently to chat about the project. 
“he’s so competent, he really operates much more like one of my graduate student research­ers,” he said. “he has challenged himself to become familiar with the literature and other work that relates to the research that he’s doing and that allows him to move forward rather than repeat work that people have al­ready done.” 
Contact Meghan Thomassen at mthomass@nd.edu 


The observer | TUESDAY, OCTOBER 2, 2012 | ndsmcobserver.com 

Parachutist prepares to attempt fastest freefall 
Associated Press 
cape canaveral, Fla. (ap) 
— his blood could boil. his lungs could overinflate. The vessels in his brain could burst. his eyes could hemorrhage. 
and, yes, he could break his neck while jumping from a mind-boggling altitude of 23 miles. 
but the risk of a gruesome death has never stopped “Fearless Felix” baumgartner in all his years of skydiving and skyscraper leaping, and it’s not about to now. 
next monday over new mexico, he will attempt the high­est, fastest free fall in history and try to become the first skydiver to break the sound barrier. 
“so many unknowns,” baumgartner says, “but we have solutions to survive.” 
The 43-year-old former mili­tary parachutist from austria is hoping to reach 690 mph, or mach 1, after leaping from his balloon-hoisted capsule over the desert near roswell. 
he will have only a pressurized suit and helmet for protection as he tries to go supersonic 65 years after chuck yeager, flying an ex­perimental rocket plane, became the first human to go faster than the speed of sound. 
doctors, engineers and oth­ers on baumgartner’s red bull-sponsored team have spent as much as five years studying the risks and believe they have done everything possible to bring him back alive. he has tested out his suit and capsule in two dress re­hearsals, jumping from 15 miles in march and 18 miles in July. 
baumgartner will be more than three times higher than the cruising altitude of jetliners when he hops, bunny-style, out of the capsule and into a near-vacuum where there is barely any oxygen and less than 1 percent of the air pressure on earth. 
if all goes well, he will reach the speed of sound in about half a minute at an altitude of around 100,000 feet. Then he will start to slow as the atmosphere gets denser, and after five minutes of free fall, he will pull his main parachute. The entire descent should last 15 to 20 minutes. 
he will be rigged with cameras that will provide a live broad­cast of the jump via the internet, meaning countless viewers could end up witnessing a hor­rific accident. 
baumgartner is insistent on going live with his flight. 
“we want to share that with the world,” he says. “it’s like land­ing on the moon. why was that live?” 
his team of experts — includ­ing the current record-holder from a half-century ago, Joe kittinger, now 84 — will con­vene inside a nasa-style mission control in the wee hours monday for the liftoff of the helium bal­loon at sunrise. 
“all the things that can happen are varying degrees of bad,” of­fers baumgartner’s top medical man, dr. Jonathan clark, a for­mer nasa flight surgeon. 
clark was married to space shuttle astronaut laurel clark, who was killed aboard columbia while it was returning to earth in 2003, and he has dedicated himself to improving astronauts’ chances of survival in a high-alti­tude disaster. 
nasa is paying close attention, eager to improve its spacecraft and spacesuits for emergency es­cape, but is merely an observer; the energy drink maker is foot­ing the bill and will not say how much it is costing. 
The no. 1 fear is a breach of baumgartner’s suit. 
if it breaks open — if, say, he bangs into the capsule while jumping or supersonic shock waves batter him — potentially lethal bubbles could form in his bodily fluids. That’s what’s known as boiling blood. a soviet military officer died in 1962 after jumping from a balloon at 86,000 feet; the visor of his helmet hit the gondola and cracked. 
during the descent, the temperature could be as low as minus 70. baumgartner’s suit will be all he has between his body and the extreme cold. 

Then there’s the risk of a flat spin, in which baumgartner los­es control of his body during the free fall and starts spinning. a long, fast spin, if left unchecked, could turn his eyeballs into blood-soaked, reddish-purple orbs, and he could be left tempo­rarily blind. also, a massive blood clot could form in his brain. 
a small stabilizing chute will automatically deploy if he goes into a flat spin and blacks out or otherwise becomes incapaci­tated. he also has an emergency chute that will automatically deploy if he is unable to pull the cord on his main chute. 
baumgartner’s team has a plan for every contingency but one: if the balloon ruptures shortly after liftoff because of a gust of wind or something else, the capsule will come crashing down with him inside. he won’t have time to blow the hatch and bail out. 
“i have every expectation that he’ll come through this success­fully based on our analysis,” clark says, “but you know, it still is an unknown.” 
kittinger leapt from an open gondola on aug. 16, 1960, from an altitude of 19.5 miles and reached 614 mph, or mach 0.9 — records that stand to this day. he was a captain in the air Force, and the military’s excelsior project was a test bed for the nation’s young space program. 
kittinger has been baumgartner’s mentor, sign­ing on with this new project af­ter decades of refusing others’ requests. 
Fearless Felix insists he would not attempt the jump if the odds were against him. 
“i think they underestimate the skills of a skydiver,” says baumgartner, who has made more than 2,500 jumps from planes, helicopters, landmarks and skyscrapers, with no serious injuries. 
minister criticizes united states 

Associated Press 
uniTed naTions — syria’s foreign minister brought his regime’s case before the world monday, accusing the u.s. and its allies of promoting “terror­ism” and blaming everyone from neighbors and extrem­ists to the media for escalating the war — except the syrian government. 
addressing ministers and dip­lomats from the united nation’s 193 member states as fighting spread in the historic old city of aleppo, Foreign minister walid al-moallem lashed out at calls in washington and in arab and european capitals for syrian president bashar assad to step down as interference in syria’s domestic affairs. 
al-moallem accused extrem­ists of prolonging the crisis and denounced countries such as the u.s., saudi arabia, Qatar and Turkey for supporting the oppo­sition’s “terrorism.” 
“This terrorism which is ex­ternally supported is accompa­nied by unprecedented media provocation based on igniting religious extremism sponsored by well-known states in the re­gion,” he told the u.n. general assembly. 
members of the opposition said it was common knowledge that these neighboring arab countries were supporting and financing the rebels, but said the assad government had brought it upon itself after cracking down on protests that began peacefully 18 months ago. 
“it is the regime’s mindless, brutal and criminal, military crackdown that pushed the syrian people to ask for help from the international com­munity, from naTo and from the devil himself if necessary to protect them,” haitham manna, a paris-based veteran syrian dissident who heads the external branch of the national coordination body opposi­tion group, told The associated press. 
al-moallem’s speech followed his meeting with secretary-general ban ki-moon in which the u.n. chief “raised in the strongest terms the continued killings, massive destruction, human rights abuses, and aerial and artillery attacks committed by the government,” according to a statement by his press of­fice. “he stressed that it was the syrian people who were being killed every day, and appealed to the government of syria to show compassion to its own people.” 
The syrian foreign minister in his address invited the opposi­tion to “work together to stop the shedding of syrian blood” and said that a syrian-led dialogue could produce a “more pluralis­tic and democratic” country. 
The opposition called the speech a classic case of regime “propaganda,” and dismissed his calls for dialogue as not genuine. 
“while the brutal and delu­sional syrian regime continues to pay lip service to diploma­cy, its actions over the past 18 months have demonstrated beyond any doubt that they have no interest in meaning­ful reform or dialogue” radwan Ziadeh, a u.s.-based spokesman for the chief opposition group, the syrian national council, said in a statement. 
underscoring how deeply the syrian foreign minister felt that conspiratal hands were play­ing in the war-ridden country, he said that armed groups were inciting civilians in border areas to flee to neighboring countries “to fabricate a refugee crisis.” 
up to 3,000 syrians are leav­ing the country every day, said vincent cochetel of the u.n. refugee agency. some 300,000 syrians are registered, or wait­ing to register with the u.n. in Turkey, Jordan, iraq and lebanon and the agency expects the number to grow to 700,000 by the year’s end. some regional and international parties, al­moallem said, are seeking to exploit the conflict and create “a state of instability to ensure the need for foreign interference.” 
AP 


Syrian foreign minister Walid al-Moallem prepares to speak to the United Nations General Assembly at U.N. headquarters on Monday. 


Chairman defends lowering borrowing rates 
Associated Press 
washingTon — chairman ben bernanke offered a wide-ranging defense monday of the Federal reserve’s aggressive poli­cies to stimulate the still-weak economy. 
The Fed needs to drive down long-term borrowing rates be­cause the economy isn’t growing fast enough to reduce high un­employment, bernanke said in a speech to the economic club of indiana. The unemployment rate is 8.1 percent. 
low rates could also help shrink the federal budget deficit by easing the government’s bor­rowing costs and generating tax revenue from stronger growth, bernanke argued. 
The chairman cautioned congress against adopting a law that would allow it to monitor the Fed’s interest-rate discussions. The house has passed legisla­tion to broaden congress’ inves­tigative authority over the Fed 
— authority that would include a review of interest-rate policy­making. The senate hasn’t ad­opted the bill. 
bernanke warned that such a step would improperly inject po­litical pressure into the Fed’s pri­vate deliberations and affect the officials’ decisions. 
his speech follows the Fed’s decision at its sept. 12-13 meeting to launch a new mortgage-bond buying program. The goal is to try to drive low mortgage rates even lower to encourage home buying. increased home sales could help spur hiring and accel­erate economic growth. 

The average rate on a 30-year fixed-rate mortgage is already 
3.4 percent, a record low. but some economists think home loan rates could fall further, in part because long-term Treasury yields are much lower: The rate on the 10-year Treasury is just 
1.62percent. 

after its september meeting, the Fed said it would keep buy­ing mortgage bonds until the job market showed substantial improvement. it also decided to keep its benchmark short-term rate near zero through at least mid-2015. 
in his speech monday, bernanke sought to reassure in­vestors that the Fed’s timetable for keeping its short-term rate ul­tra-low “doesn’t mean we expect the economy to be weak through 2015.” rather, he said the Fed ex­pects to keep rates low well after the economy strengthens. 
bernanke spoke two days be­fore president barack obama and gop challenger mitt romney will hold a debate in which the econ­omy is the central theme. and on Friday, the government will release its september jobs report. economists expect only modest hiring and continued unemploy­ment above 8 percent. 
The u.s. economy is still strug­gling more than three years af­ter the great recession ended. persistently high unemploy­ment and weak pay growth have kept spending by consumers weak. That, in turn, has hurt manufacturing and slowed broader economic growth. 
The Fed’s latest round of bond buying and its plan to keep rates super-low into 2015 will likely provide only modest help, said david Jones, chief economist at dmJ advisors. 
“The Fed is at the tail end of a long series of actions,” Jones said. “They have reached a point of diminishing returns.” 

bernanke himself made clear monday, as he has in the past, that the Fed’s low-rate policies are no panacea for the economy. 
“many other steps could be taken to strengthen our economy over time, such as putting the federal budget on a sustainable path, reforming the tax code, im­proving our educational system, supporting technological inno­vation and expanding interna­tional trade,” he said. 
still, the Fed chairman reit­erated his argument that lower rates boost growth by helping increase prices of stocks, homes and other assets. greater house­hold wealth tends to make con­sumers and businesses more willing to spend. 

Romney calls for response to Libyan violence 
Associated Press 
burlingTon, mass.  — amid violent flare ups in the middle east, republican presidential candidate mitt romney is try­ing to prove his own readiness to be commander in chief and force president barack obama to answer for turmoil in places like libya, where terrorists killed the 
u.s. ambassador on the anniver­sary of 9/11. 
romney advisers argue that the stepped-up foreign policy criticism dovetails with a key piece of his central argument: obama is in over his head, and the country will be worse off if he gets a second term. 
yet, there’s a disconnect be­tween what romney and his team are talking about nationally and what he is running on in the states, where his Tv advertising is largely focused on the econo­my and jobs — voters’ no. 1 issue 
— ahead of wednesday’s presi­dential debate. all that’s leaving romney open to criticism that his campaign is searching for a winning pitch just one month before the election and with vot­ing under way in many states. 
“our country seems to be at the mercy of events rather than shaping them. we’re not moving them in a direction that protects our people or our allies. and that’s dangerous,” romney wrote in a column published monday in the wall street Journal. 

The obama campaign react­ed forcefully, calling romney’s foreign policy stances “incoher­ent” and “reckless, erratic and irresponsible.” 
romney running mate paul ryan piled on, telling radio host laura ingraham that obama’s administration hasn’t given the public the full story on the circumstances that led to the death of u.s. ambassador chris stevens in benghazi. 
“it’s really indicative of a broader failure of this adminis­tration’s foreign policy and the crisis that is taking place across the middle east,” ryan said. “it is clear the administration’s policy unraveled.” 
romney’s intense focus on for­eign policy is intended to under­cut what the obama campaign has seen as the president’s iron­clad international affairs cre­dentials — and send a message to voters that they can trust the republican on foreign policy de­spite limited experience. To that end, romney’s advisers said he’s planning a major foreign policy speech, to be delivered some­time after wednesday’s debate. 
obama campaign spokes­woman Jen psaki was dismissive. 
“There is no op-ed or no speech which we’ve heard he may or may not give at some point that is going to change the view of the american people that he has been reckless, er­ratic and irresponsible on for­eign policy issues every time he has had an opportunity to speak to them,” psaki told reporters in henderson, nev., where obama is preparing for wednesday’s debate. 
Foreign policy is the latest in a series of political openings that romney has tried to exploit in recent weeks, as he has fallen behind the president in polls both in key battleground state. national surveys show the presi­dent ahead in a tight contest. in recent weeks, romney also has castigated obama on the coal in­dustry, defense cuts, wealth re­distribution and the president’s comment that it’s not possible to change washington from the inside. 
but unlike some of those is­sues, romney’s campaign hasn’t put serious money behind the foreign policy line of criticism. 
paid Tv ads in key states don’t largely mention international affairs. The third-party group american crossroads has a pro­duced a web video assailing obama’s foreign policy, but it’s not on the air. polls show foreign policy far down on the list of vot­ers’ concerns and obama leads romney on the issue. 
romney’s campaign had spent much of the year focusing its ar­gument against obama’s han­dling of the economy. 
Then came sept. 11, and as unrest flared in the middle east, romney issued a late-night state­ment assailing obama before it was clear that stevens and three other americans had been killed in the terrorist attack on the consulate in benghazi, libya. The timing of romney’s initial response prompted heartburn within the gop. yet, romney pressed ahead with his criticism that obama was a weak leader whose posture abroad was hurt­ing u.s. interests, and congres­sional republicans have piled on about the administration’s changing statements on the libya attack. 
romney campaign aides said internal polls showed the criticism of obama’s foreign policy resonating with voters in the days after stevens’ death. but any traction romney was getting on that front was stunted when a video surfaced of romney tell­ing donors that 47 percent of americans believe they are vic­tims entitled to government as­sistance. obama has highlighted that comment repeatedly in Tv ads and at campaign rallies, building on his post-convention momentum. 
since then, the administra­tion’s statements on libya have evolved, with officials struggling to explain just what happened in benghazi. 
white house adviser david plouffe seemed to struggle sunday on nbc’s “meet the press” when pressed on the matter. 
“This was an event obviously, a complex event. we’re only talk­ing about a matter of weeks here,” plouffe said. “so as information was arrived at, as determina­tions were made, that was shared with the american people. and i think again the focus needs to be how do we make sure that our facilities and our ambassadors and our personnel are secure go­ing forward.” 

The observer | TUESDAY, OCTOBER 2, 2012 | ndsmcobserver.com 

INSIDE COLUMN 
it’s not ‘harry potter’ 

Carolyn Turek 
scene writer 

despite michiko kakutani’s scathing new york Times review of “The casual vacany” (which called the book “dull”), i was hooked from the first page. The introduction was so good, in fact, that i couldn’t help myself from reading passages out loud to my much-obliging roommate. 
as a disclaimer to my review, i must admit i have only had the chance to read the beginning pages. 
kakutani, in her review, addresses many aspects of the novel she sees as problematic, including the lack of a magical tone, the instances of adult topics specifically not for children and the absence of character development and back stories. in each of these at­tacks on rowling’s work, however, kakutani refers to the differences between “The casual vacancy” and “harry potter.” in fact, kakutani refer­ences “harry potter” in seven of her nine paragraphs. 
it is true “The casual vacancy” does not possess the magical aura of harry’s world. it is also true that this book im­mediately adopts a tone more serious than any espoused in openings of the “harry potter” books. and it is inevi­table readers will not connect with the new characters as readily as they did with those fleshed out in more than 4,000 pages of “harry potter” text. however, what critics and casual read­ers alike need to remember is that “The casual vacancy” is not “harry potter.” 
it seems irresponsible and unfair for kakutani to compare every element of this separate and singular work to rowling’s “harry potter” series. it’s akin to comparing siblings and their own personal proficiencies. how is it possible to make comparisons be­tween books of different purpose and audience? it should be the mark of a proficient reviewer to disconnect from previous works and judge the book solely on its own merit. 
rowling, as the most prolific writer of this century, deserves the freedom to write whatever pleases her, without the threat of comparison to past works. 
despite the unfortunate power of The new york Times to influence opinions on today’s books, i am still as entranced by the opening lines of “The casual vacancy” as i was when i read the beau­tifully crafted opening lines of “harry potter and the philosopher’s stone” and upon finishing, hope to find some sort of magic lying within the pages of the proud work of a favorite author. 
Contact Carolyn Turek at cturek@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Leila Green 
off the wall 

what is happiness? is it a job at a Fortune-500 company? a stable family? an expensive car? a double rainbow? happiness comes in many forms. where one person might find happiness from watching a marathon of “honey boo boo,” another may be able to derive happiness from cutting hair, skipping rocks or do­ing derivatives. considering the diverse sources of happiness, it can be difficult to establish and maintain our own. 
Take a moment to ask yourself this ques­tion: “what makes me happy?” Too often we live our lives based off of what makes other people happy. This is no way to function. sometimes you have to stop and think: “am i doing this for my own satisfac­tion or someone else’s?” 
The external pressure to succeed often surmounts our need for internal peace, consequentially stifling our own self-fulfillment. 
it is often hard to forget that other’s opin­ions of us are irrelevant to our lives and personal decisions. if someone doesn’t like your shirt, the heavens won’t burst with flames and the time-space continuum won’t shift. 
if you want to dye your hair purple and move to antarctica, by all means do so — you may lose all credibility and display a general lack of self-control, but if that is what is going to make you feel more whole, go for it. in a perfect world, i wouldn’t wear pants, but there are all these social con­ventions and rules and things like that, so luckily i’ve managed to keep my urge under wraps. 
we’re constantly bombarded with things that are supposed to make us happy 
— most of which have a price tag. material things don’t always equal happiness. 
happiness usually comes from small things. we’ve all felt the sweet pleasure of flipping open a textbook to the correct page on the first try. a friend of mine is happiest when he does graffiti. another absolutely loves the smell of korean coffee shops. 
i would venture to say there are many more ways to be happy than there are ways to be unhappy. Think about it: the fizzy bubbles in a can of soda can make you happy. it is pretty hard to be genuinely enraged by bubbles, nonetheless tiny, harmless bubbles found in a cold can of sweet, sugary nectar. That very thought just made me happy. The word “nectar” makes me happy. The only conceivable circumstance in which the word “nectar” would ruffle my feathers is if it was used in this sentence, “sorry, leila, but we are all out of nectar.” 
i went around and asked people what made them happy. The responses were simple and enlightening:
 “house music.” 
“cuddling.” 
“reading.” 
“buffalo wings.” 
“laughing.” 
“Family.” 
“spending quality time with people.” 
“helping others.” 
“The lord.” 
“The sun.” 
“The beach.” 
“when everything goes my way.” 
“Freedom.” 
“sweets.” 
“when i’m drawing or painting, i liter­ally feel euphoric. it’s the most amazing feeling.” 
we may not all find happiness in these things, and we cannot judge someone else because what makes them happy is not readily apparent or understandable to us. 
at some point in time, we have all pitied another person because of a perceived deficiency. whether it is a homeless man sprawled on a sidewalk in manhattan or a mom in the store with three kids in a stroll­er, one on her back and one in each hand. 
do you ever stop to think: “maybe my judgment is false. what if they are happy?” in my own life, i’ve made false judgment and gotten subsequent enlightenment. 
as i sat people-watching at a Fourth of July Festival in philadelphia, i noticed a middle aged man skipping up and down the street cheering and laughing, com­pletely alone. 
i immediately assumed that he was in some decrepit, lonely state. Then i really looked at him — the shine in his eyes, his genuine joy — and realized that this man was happy, nearly euphoric, and he wasn’t harming anyone, so why should i care that his actions were unorthodox? 
Then there was the older man i met in union station in chicago. he approached me to show off his new smartphone and found pure joy in showing me each and every one of the phone’s features for two straight hours. after this we started talking for a while and he shared that his com­pany was failing and that he’d been hop­ping trains for a week trying to find work. nevertheless, he was still content. he had managed to find happiness. 
we all want to be happy. do not let fear stand in the way of your happiness. as long as it is not at the expense of someone else’s wellbeing — do what makes you happy. it is the only way to stay sane. 
Leila Green is a sophomore English major and Portuguese minor. She is also the coordi­nator of YES, a youth group for at-risk kids in South Bend. If you would like to get involved, she can be reached at lgreen2@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

QUOTE OF THE DAY “history is a guide to navigation in perilous times. history is who we are and why we are the way we are. ”  WEEKLY POLL Where in the world is Carmen Sandiego?  
David McCullough American author and historian  Tweet your response with #viewpointpoll by 5 p.m. Thursday.  



The observer | TUESDAY, OCTOBER 2, 2012 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Finish your veggies 
organic agriculture, for instance, The GreenMan is good because no pesticides or syn-
ask the greenman 

thetic chemical fertilizers are used, 
which can pollute waterways. it is not, loyal readers, however, foolproof. buying something people always ask me how i man-that is grown organically in, say, chile 
age to keep so trim and maintain my is good because it supports more sus­healthy green glow. of course i never tainable farming practices, but bad tell them, but now i intend to share because of the fossil fuels it takes to part of my secret with all of you. transport that product to your local 
you ready? grocery store. i eat plenty of fruits and vegetables. ah-ha! how about locally grown or-yes, dear readers, i am a vegetar-ganic fruits and vegetables? yes, those 
ian. i avoid eating meat not only for are both very good things, but there is my health (studies show that veg-still more to consider. is that fruit or etarians tend to be at a lower risk of vegetable well-adapted to your local coronary heart disease) but also for region? if not, it could mean that more environmental reasons. what we resources went into producing that choose to eat has huge impacts on the food than if better adapted crops were environment. used for food production. 
Take a single quarter-pound ham-There are certainly a lot of factors burger, for instance. seems pretty to consider when it comes to what harmless, right? oh boy. nope. There’s food you put on your plate. knowing a lot more than “meats” the eye here. what sorts of factors to consider, how-puns. anyway. That hamburger has ever, gives you a lot of power. and like a dark past. let’s investigate, shall uncle ben said, “with great power we? 6.7 pounds of grain were needed comes great responsibility.” i’m a huge to feed the cow. 52.8 gallons of water comic book fan. were used as drinking water and to ir-we, as citizens of this great planet, rigate the feed crop. 72.5 square feet of have a responsibility to sustain earth’s land were needed to grow the grains natural resources so that future gen-and for grazing. erations can thrive. you can help us 
Finally, 1,026 british Thermal units achieve sustainability. The first step is (bTu) of fossil fuel energy went into as easy as finishing your veggies. transportation and feed production. until next time, all those resources needed to produce The greenman just a quarter-pound hamburger! 
pretty shocking, right? massive Email your predicaments to The amounts of resources go into produc-GreenMan at ing meat products and americans eat askthegreenman@gmail.com and let more meat than just about anyone him answer you with a sustainable in the world. The average american twist. The GreenMan will be here every consumes 270 pounds of meat a year, other week to provide you with insights which is well over the global average you never knew you were missing out of 102 pounds. on until now. 
it’s not just what we eat that’s im-The views expressed in this column portant. it’s also about where that are those of the author and not food comes from and how it’s grown. necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

invite the libertarian candidate, too 
dear president Jenkins, 

i recently read about notre dame’s tradition of inviting presidential candidates to speak on campus. i think this is an excellent tradition, as it is important for students to be engaged in political discourse. it is my understanding that this year, invitations have been extended to both president obama and mitt romney. in the spirit of foster­ing healthy and robust political discussion, i would like to respectfully request that an invitation also be extended to the libertarian party presidential candidate, gary Johnson. 
recent polls place Johnson’s support nationally at six percent, and at 10 percent in our neighboring state of ohio; these numbers are likely to only increase in the coming weeks as his campaign gains recognition. more importantly, Johnson offers policy so­lutions that differ from those proposed by both president obama and romney. given the troubling times our country faces, i believe it is important that such views be heard and debated.  as a former two-term governor of new mexico, Johnson deserves the respect that has been displayed to the other two major presidential candidates. i strongly urge you and the university of notre dame to invite Johnson to speak on campus. Thank you for your consideration. 
sincerely,

                                                                                                    Eric Cervone 
law student off campus oct. 1 
UWIRE 
affirmative action still necessary 
Kristina Bui 
arizona daily wildcat 
The supreme court will soon hear a case that could shake up the college admissions process. 
Theoretically, affirmative action is no longer necessary. perhaps it was 30 or 40 years ago, but society has evolved beyond discrimination, and now affirmative action only serves to discriminate against applicants who have enough merit but not the right pigment — or so critics of affirmative action policies say. 
still, research shows that most minorities, primarily black and hispanic students, lag behind their white peers in college enrollment, retention and graduation. evidence also suggests that race-conscious admissions policies positively influence college graduation rates, enrollment in graduate and professional programs and job prospects. 
The case, Fisher v. university of Texas, was filed in 2008 by abigail Fisher, a white woman who wanted to go to the university of Texas at austin. after she was rejected, Fisher filed suit, saying that the university’s inclusion of race in its admissions process is unconstitutional. 
lower courts sided with the university of Texas, citing the earlier deci­sion of grutter v. bollinger. The court’s opinion in the grutter case es­tablished that a “narrowly tailored use” of race as a factor in admissions supports a “compelling interest” in diversity. 
last week, the obama administration filed an amicus brief in support of the university of Texas, saying that the use of race in the admissions pro­cess furthers a “vital interest” of the government. The brief argues that hav­ing a “well-qualified and diverse pool of university and service-academy graduates of all backgrounds” is critical to the future labor force. 
but Fisher’s lawsuit against the university of Texas and debate in other states makes it clear that grutter, and earlier cases like regents of the university of california v. bakke, did little to clear up confusion. 
states have used ballot initiatives to remove race-based affirmative ac­tion in college admissions, such as california and arizona. 
arizona’s proposition 107, which passed in 2010, banned the consider­ation of race, ethnicity or gender by units of state government, including public universities. 
prior to prop 107’s approval, robert shelton, the university of arizona’s president at the time, vowed to find new ways to recruit diverse students if the measure passed. 
in response, the “yes on 107” campaign issued a press release, challeng­ing shelton to “walk his own talk” and give his job to someone else. The campaign argued that, if shelton was so interested in increasing diversity, he would seek it in all positions, unless he believed “discriminating quotas should only apply to other people, but not to him.” 
but critics fail to realize two things. First, people who suspect they are victims of reverse discrimination probably outnumber people who are ac­tually victims. colleges, especially schools with higher standards, often reject applicants of all races for reasons that don’t have anything to do with race. 
second, affirmative action isn’t about reversing discrimination or its his­tory. minority students don’t get a free pass as reparations for discrimina­tion leveled against their ancestors. 
rather, a university must reflect the multicultural society that it will send its students into. affirmative action is about making sure that a diversity of voices — shaped by experience and identity — contributes to the learning environment. 
There’s no denying that affirmative action can be risky, as demonstrated by princeton university, which is under federal investigation for allegedly requiring asian-americans to have stronger test scores and grades than other applicants. it must be exercised with caution. but diversity remains a compelling interest, no matter what year it is. 
This article originally ran in the Oct. 1 edition of the Arizona Daily Wildcat, serving the University of Arizona. The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 



The observer | TUESDAY, OCTOBER 2, 2012 | ndsmcobserver.com 


no. 1 song on the billboard charts: “a moment like 
KEVIN NOONAN 
This” — kelly clarkson 
scene editor 
This was back when kelly clarkson was relevant the first time around, after the whole “american idol” it’s been 10 years since the notre dame football thing. she’s back again, and luckily she’s making songs team was 4-0. 10 years. catchier and less ear-bleeding inducing than this one. 
are we making too big of a deal out of the first four what if ten years from now, rebecca black came games? especially considering there’s still oklahoma back and sounded like adele? how crazy would that and usc on the schedule? be? i actually wouldn’t know. i’ve listened to one more 
does the pope wear a big ol’ hat? could maroon 5 be rebecca black song than adele song so far in my life. used as torture in interrogations? is rick reilly follow-speaking of crazy comebacks, what about when ing a similar career trajectory to nicholas cage? notre dame was down 17-14 with just one minute and 
The answer to all of those is of course emphatically 45 seconds left against michigan state in 2002? The and unquestionably yes. but hey, who cares. 4-0 is whole world was like, nope, this one’s over —carlyle better than 0-4, and that’s straight up math right there, holliday can’t pass the ball. and carlyle was like, you can’t argue with math. “nah, i got this,” and threw a 60-yard game-winning 
congratulations, notre dame football team, you’ve touchdown to arnaz battle with 1:15 in the game, put-officially made it; the scene is writing about you. pat ting the irish at 4-0. granted, it was about a five-yard yourselves on the back about that one. pass and 55-yard run, but hey, a win’s a win. 
10 years ago how the season turned out for them 10 years 
Top grossing movie at the box office (sept. 27-29, ago—backup quarterback pat dillingham and some the bye weekend after nd reached 4-0): “sweet home ill-fated green jerseys led the irish to their first loss of alabama” the season, against boston college, after going 8-0 to 
reese witherspoon starred in this rom-com that begin the year. Then carson palmer for usc put up i saw with my older sister a long time ago. it was just some freakishly high numbers (steroids? witchcraft? some lame chick flick (lies—i loved it.) it’s about a bush push?) against the irish in the last game of the country girl trying to live in a big city or something regular season, knocking notre dame out of bcs like that. she’s divorced, but she isn’t divorced. i don’t contention. really remember, it was confusing. but that won’t happen this year. national champi­
you know what i do remember? it wasn’t until the onship or bust. lou holtz said so. third game of the season that the 2002 notre dame football team scored an offensive touchdown, but Contact Kevin Noonan at knoonan2@nd.edu they still scored 46 points through their first two The views in this column are those of the author and games. That was pretty cool. not necessarily those of The Observer. 


giving-his-actual-opinion-about-the-differ-with them was how hot and fresh they were detract from the full effect of the wing. ANKUR CHAWLA ent-sauces way. he also didn’t charge extra when they came to the table. i am con-with 45-cent boneless wings on monday, scene writer for ranch or bleu cheese with our order. vinced they must have actually butchered a 39-cent bone-in or boneless wings on 
i cannot rave enough about the quality of chicken in the kitchen. Thursdays and daily drink specials, wild style wings should be added to your rota­tion of restaurants and i will absolutely head back there in the very near future. 

Contact Ankur Chawla at achawla@nd.edu 
The views in this column are those of the author and  not necessarily those of The Observer. 
near campus. Few people can one say they’ve had truly phe­nomenal wings, 

Wild Style Wings 
but after going to wild style wings, i can say 

Location: 123 W. Washington Street, 
that i have. thing to come to mind when eating at a with papa John’s pizzas, and as with those 
South Bend, IN 
again, as a former buffalo wild wings, buffalo wild wings or wings etc., after cups i wanted to dip everything ever in that 
Hours: 11 a.m. - 11 p.m. 
wild style has a large bar area, plenty having wild style’s, it’s clear that i had never sauce. The surprise favorite, however, was of big-screen Tvs and a general feeling really had a good boneless wing. The meat their “spicy plum” which as the name sug­of being a good place to watch a game. was tender and light with just the right gests was both spicy and fruity in addition The waiter was incredibly friendly, not amount of breading, unlike competitors to unexpectedly delicious. all of the sauces, in a “31 pieces of flair” like the guy from whose boneless wings have the texture of despite their strong flavor, remained light “office space” way, but a sincere and a tire wrapped in cement. my only qualm in texture and not overpowering enough to 

LAURA LAWS | The Observer 


The observer | TUESDAY, OCTOBER 2, 2012 | ndsmcobserver.com 

By MAC HENDRICKSON 
scene writer 

let’s face it. For our generation, music is a big deal. Forty years ago, music was a tool for both social change and dancing, but it remained in a glass box. For the youth of 2012, music is a living essential. popular music has invaded our ears, our alarm clocks, our cell phone ringtones, our movies, our sports and our parties. we listen while we walk, run, read and sleep. while it is an indication of identity, it also recreates it. we learn from our mu­sic as much as we relate to it. 
Thus, what we listen to matters more than it ever has before. The lyrical and ideological content of music is a great in­fluence on our mental diet. millionaires without high school degrees preaching on stage about foreign policy are easy targets for the high-minded. why should we listen to them? These musicians want us to believe they know what they are talking about and their opinions matter. we can laugh all we want, but they are half-correct. many claim music icons’ opinionsdo not matter. These peopleare also half-correct. 
geniuses or not, what our musi­cians write songs about matters. a lot. unfortunately, megaphones are not merit-based. The loudest man in the room is rarely the smartest. once mu­sicians win our hearts, our minds are an easy follow-up victory. whether we know it or not, these artists are in our ears everyday teaching us how to ap­proach life. 
so let me suggest two albums for your diet. The dismemberment plan’s “emergency and i” and animal collective’s “merriweather post pavilion” were released 10 years apart, in 1999 and 2009, respectively. They both were something of an indie “Thriller,” a groundbreaking effort that summed up an era. both have either aged wonder­fully or have been completely forgotten, depending on whom you talk to. anyone who finds this article convincing in the least will be forced to listen via iTunes or spotify as “emergency andi” is currently out of print. but who buys cds today? 
This essay is not concerned with how great or horrible these albums may or may not be. it is concerned rather with a subtle characteristic these albums share. They are heavily concerned with how to inventively engage the working week. more specifically, they detail the pains, pleasures and questions of youth first encountering the material world and their potential for happiness. it’s hippie music for the white-collar employee. a how-to manual for living with creativity in a system without. 
“my girls,” the second track of “pavilion” istheone song youhaveheard if you have heard any animal collective. musically, it’s repetitive and heart-wrenchingly melodious. synth waterfall builds to a boom-snap drum pattern and some of animal collective’s best beach boys mimicking. The guy on the mpc definitely knows what he is doing. 
lyrically, the song could not be sim­pler. noah lennox, also known as panda bear, calls out his humble hopes for a happy existence. “i don’t mean to seem like i care about material things or my social status / i just want four walls and adobe slabs for my girls…” what are adobe slabs? who knows? but lennox makes them seem as essential as plumb­ing. The song, released just four months after one of the most disenchanting economic downturns in united states history, is an homage to the humble exis­tence within reach, an homage to simple happiness. 
animal collective released “pavilion” to underground hype and expectation that would make the strokes jealous. within weeks of its January release, it was already being hailed as one of the year’s best. in may, they appeared on david letterman’s show to perform “summertime clothes.” letterman jok­ingly referenced the album artwork’s resemblance to wallpaper, which fur­ther evidences the normality of the con­cept. Though to many it seemed as if the group had come out of left field, animal collective had been recording its strange tribal melodies since 1999, and “pavilion” was something of a summa­tion of the band’s potential. produced by hip-hop guru ben allen, the album was by far animal collective’s sharpest and most approachable record to date. 
The album’s subject matter accounts significantly for its massive palpabil­ity. The songs deal with the everyday in a creative manner. “in the Flowers” is a meditation on transcendence and longing but ends in a bedroom. “summertime clothes” is an upbeat vignette with springsteen-esque sum­mer restlessness. “also Frightened” is a reflection on death and dreaming, while “lionin a coma”burstswith sexual frus­trations. “This wilderness up in my head … This wilderness needs to get right out of my clothes and get into my bedroom.” The boys of the collective are drawing a bridge between the elite expectations of living a creative and inspired life and the demands of modern america. 
“emergency and i” deals with a slight­ly younger modern man, perhaps one just emerging from an unproductive college career. The album is jam-packed with alienation and frustration, the sort of “what-do-i-do-now” dilemma that drove dustin hoffman into mrs. robinson’s bed. 
“a life of possibilities” is a second-per­son portrait of a confused young man whose life lies before him. “it’s endless / it’s map-less / no compass / no north star.” “memory machine” dreams of a world where all labor and pain has been eliminated, but from the sound of it, something wouldn’t quite work there. The almost-danceable grunge track “what do you want me to say?” might sound like a “pains of being famous” track if anyone actually did know who The dismemberment plan is. instead, it’s a consideration of the frustrating limitations of language. it also contains the album’s defining lyric. “i lost my membership card to the human race / so don’t forget the face / ‘cause i know that i do belong here.” and in “The city,” lead singer Travis morrison laments his friend’s departure from the city and from his life. The album ends with “back and Forth,” a poetic and complex love song that sounds more like allen ginsberg than anything else from 1999. 
The album was released to general critical appraisal and little commercial success. it was recorded with interscope funds, but released under desoto. interscope dropped them and several other acts during a merger. sonically, the album is difficult to approach, with oc­casional screeching guitars, non-stan­dard song formats and experimental time signatures. some tracks are easier than others, but on the whole, getting through the album can seem as chal­lenging as making your way through “The metamorphosis.” but it’s also as rewarding. 
The masterpiece of “emergency and i” is “you are invited,” a mid-album track that begins and ends with an 808 drum pattern that has the complexity of a game of tic-tac-toe. The half-spoken verses tell the strange story of a mysteri­ous invitation and the narrator’s reac­tion to it. “but it said / you are invited / by anyone to do anything…” as the song progresses, the narrator slowly discovers his freedom. The song is an invitation to live, to engage. at the end, the narrator shares the invitation with a forlorn friend, but doesn’t convince the lvvistener that he has learned anything. perhaps his freedom has crippled him. perhaps he simply needs more time to explore. if you decide to listen to it more than once, it will probably change your outlook on life. but as for much of The dismemberment plan’s catalogue, a sec­ond listen is a tough sell. 
both bands had the same goal with their respective albums. They wanted to bring creative style to normal sub­jects, the way Joyce brought modernity to leopold bloom. as 2012 draws to a close and many of us prepare to enter the real world, we will undoubtedly turn to our music for inspiration and refuge. and both of these albums make terrific havens. 
Contact Mac Hendrickson at mhendri1@nd.edu 
LAURA LAWS | The Observer 


SPORTS AUTHORITY 

Braun proves himself 

Peter Steiner 
sports writer 
it takes years to build a good reputation but only moments to lose it. last year, ryan braun learned this the hard way. 
on top of the baseball world af­ter winning the national league mvp and leading his team to its first division title in 29 years, braun was hit with the worst pos­sible pitch in baseball: accusa­tions of performance-enhancing drugs. 
For two months following the announcement, braun’s name and reputation was dragged through the mud by the media, fans and other players. due to the confidentiality agreement of the arbitration process, braun couldn’t respond to the rumors — rumors that were quickly turning into facts in the minds of baseball fans. 
as a diehard brewers fan with a signed braun jersey hanging in my room, i was devastated by the news. in the days and months fol­lowing the report of braun’s syn­thetic substance use, disbelief and anger took over. how could the hero of milwaukee, the franchise player for the next decade and a genuinely nice guy stoop so low as to use performance-enhancing drugs? 
with the ongoing arbitration, my fellow brewers fans and i desperately searched for explana­tions. perhaps the “insanely high level of testosterone” in his test sample must have meant some­thing went wrong. i held out hope that someone had made an egre­gious mistake and braun would be ruled innocent. 
unfortunately, the rest of the baseball wasn’t as kind. in a country where the accused are innocent until proven guilty, braun was immediately guilty with no chance to prove himself innocent. even if his case were overturned, his reputation would be destroyed. 
in February, the announce­ment came that braun had won his arbitration case. not only would braun be free of a 50-game suspension, but the brewers left fielder was also the first player to overturn a ruling by the mlb. despite the success, skepticism still prevailed because the case was overturned based on a tech­nicality — the test sample’s chain of custody had been broken en route to the testing lab. 
at a press conference following the successful, but controversial decision, braun fought for his rep­utation with a persuasive account of all details, vehemently denying performance-enhancing drug use and explaining that the testing system was “fatally flawed.” 
but while braun may have gained the brewers fans back, he certainly didn’t convince many others outside of wisconsin. The mlb loudly and publicly dis­agreed with the decision, even going so far as to fire longtime arbitrator shyam das. 
so there was only one option left for braun. he had to go to work and prove that his 2011 mvp season was not a fluke. 
and braun has done exactly that. 
with a .341 batting average, .600 slugging percentage, 41 home runs, 30 stolen bases and 112 rbis, the california native will soon finish the 2012 season with better numbers than in his 2011 mvp campaign. and although the brewers are now officially out of the playoff race, braun helped them win 24 of 30 games in september to come within one­and-a-half games of the wild card. 
not only has braun accom­plished all this without prince Fielder batting behind him, but the slugger has also been under intense scrutiny all year. in every road game, braun has faced jeers and boos from unapologetic fans. Through it all, braun has looked straight ahead, focusing on one goal: proving he is and will continue to be the star player who rightly won the 2011 mvp. 
now with baseball’s regular season winding down, braun stands again as a leading can­didate for the nl mvp. but it is already a given; braun will not win the award. 
many baseball fans explain that the giant’s catcher buster posey will win the nl mvp be­cause his team made the play­offs, while the brewers did not 
— the same argument against matt kemp last year. 

but i predict that braun won’t even finish in the top three of the mvp race. most voters and fans have already made up their mind about braun. Their men­tality boils down to one slightly-reformed saying. once an alleged cheater, always a cheater. 
based on his convincing press conference and an impressive 2012 season, there is no doubt in my mind that braun is innocent. it is implausible to think braun cheated last season when he performed better this year with all eyes upon him. 
in a baseball era filled with fall­en stars, it’s refreshing to cheer for a player overcoming performance enhancing drug accusations. maybe one day all the braun hat­ers will recognize the legitimate case braun has presented and have a change of heart. 
if that occurs, then the nearly impossible may just happen — a reputation will be restored. 
Contact Peter Steiner at psteiner@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

GOLF 
Europe rallies to take Cup 
Associated Press 
medinah, ill. — The ryder cup didn’t end with the closing ceremony at medinah. 
in a tradition that began about the time europe started winning with regularity, no ryder cup can be put to bed without second-guessing. it figures to last for at least a week, maybe until 2014 when the next one is played in scotland. 
was it wise for u.s. captain davis love iii to bench every player, particularly keegan bradley and phil mickelson, for at least one match to keep them fresh for sunday? why did he put Tiger woods in the 12th slot for singles? does he regret his captain picks? did it cost the americans? 
and was it really necessary for Justin Timberlake to read a poem during the opening ceremony? 
here’s what will be — should be — remembered about one of the greatest ryder cup com­petitions in its 85-year history. 
Justin rose made a 35-foot putt from the back of the 17th green. 
it’s really that simple. 
“That was one of the best feelings of my life to make that putt,” rose said. 
martin kaymer looked calm as ever when he holed a 6-foot par putt on the 18th that as­sured europe of keeping that shiny gold trophy. Francesco molinari won a half-point on a short par putt that Tiger woods conceded for europe to claim an outright win, 14½-13½. 
This was not a ryder cup to contemplate failures. This was a ryder cup to celebrate success. 
and no match — no birdie putt — was more significant 

FOR RENT 
Football Rental. Available BYU and Stanford. 1BR Varsity Club. Call 847-602-8170 
WANTED 
WANTED: BOOKSTORE PARKING PASS for Stanford, BYU or Wake. ND alum. Call 847-842-9971. 
Math-Tutors Mathnasium seeking qualified math tutors. Experience working with children. 10-20hrs/week. Resumes:granger@mathnasium.com 888-850-6284 
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
PERSONAL 

UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don’t go it alone. Notre Dame has many resources in place to assist you. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Ann Whitall at 1-0084 or Karen Kennedy at 1-5550. For more information, visit ND’s website at: http://pregnancysupport@nd.edu 
Led Zeppelin: “Good Times Bad Times” 
In the days of my youth, I was told what it means to be a man, Now I’ve reached that age, I’ve tried to do all those things the best I can. No matter how I try, I find my way into the same old jam. 


than what rose did on the 17th green. he was down one hole when his putt with plen­ty of pace disappeared into the cup to square the match. rose made a 12-foot birdie on the 18th for a 1-up win over mickelson, but odds are that lefty wins that match if rose doesn’t make the putt. 
but he did, just like Justin leonard on the 17th hole at brookline when the americans rallied from a four-point deficit. 
in happier times sunday, love had said he thought Jason dufner in the no. 9 slot was going to be the clincher for the americans. if not for rose winning his match, it could very well have come down to dufner’s win over peter hanson. 
so maybe love had it right, and he lost out to a great putt. 
“we had a lot of guys today that played well and just got beat,” love said. “They got beat by some holed putt, chip-ins, some incredible shots, and some matches got flipped at the end on long putts and great saves by the other team. i have to congratulate them on the way they played. They played great.” 
ultimately, this ryder cup turned out the way everyone expected. 
it featured the two stron­gest teams ever, all 24 players among the top 35 in the world ranking. graeme mcdowell was looking over the team ros­ters a few weeks out and said, “There’s a good buzz. i think it’s set up to be an awesome ryder cup. i really do.” 
and it was. 
The best ryder cup matches 
— really, the best golf tour­naments — are those that are won and not lost. kiawah island, where bernhard langer missed a 6-foot par putt on the last hole, left too many people with a sick feeling. mcdowell making a 15-foot birdie putt at wales was great stuff. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit 
Good Times, Bad Times, you know I had my share; When my woman left home for a brown eyed man, Well, I still don’t seem to care. 
Sixteen, I fell in love with a girl as sweet as could be, Only took a couple of days ‘til she was rid of me. She swore that she would be all mine and love me till the end, But when I whispered in her ear, I lost another friend, oooh. 
[Chorus] 
I know what it means to be alone, I sure do wish I was at home. I don’t care what the neighbors say, I’m gonna love you each and every day. You can feel the beat within my heart. Realize, sweet babe, we ain’t ever gonna part. 



NFL 

Lions continue to struggle on the field 
Associated Press 
allen park, mich. — after two straight weeks of awful special teams, the detroit lions have a lot to correct. 
as coach Jim schwartz pointed out monday, there’s no one specific problem that’s plaguing his team. in fact, it seems like each horrendous play can be blamed on a dif­ferent type of breakdown. 
detroit allowed touch­downs on a kickoff and a punt return sunday in a 20-13 loss to minnesota. it was the sec­ond straight week detroit was victimized — the first time that’s happened in the nFl since at least 1940. 
minnesota’s percy harvin ran the opening kickoff back 105 yards for a touchdown, fielding the ball toward the back left of the end zone, cutting across the field and then sprinting up the sideline without being touched. 
“we had poor reaction blocks, guys didn’t get off blocks,” schwartz said. “a couple poor fits. i mean, we didn’t even lay a hand on the guy as he went down the field.” 
in the third quarter, vikings punt returner marcus sherels was nearly hit immediately, but he made kassim osgood miss and then ran through traffic for a 77-yard Td. 

“The next one was all missed tackles,” schwartz said. “in opposite of the kickoff where there were a couple of guys that were out of position, on the punt there were a lot of guys that were in very good position, including our gun­ner. but all of them missed. i think we missed four tackles on that play.” 
The lions have an open date this weekend, so they’ll have plenty of time to try to fix their poor kick coverage. sunday wasn’t a fluke. The previous weekend, in a 44-41 overtime loss to Tennessee, detroit allowed a 105-yard kickoff return and a 65-yard punt return. 
poor kick location was blamed for the long kick­off return by the Titans, but schwartz said that wasn’t an issue on harvin’s runback. 
“we’ve got two weeks to get it right. i’ll do whatever it takes and the guys will, too,” kicker Jason hanson said. “we can’t do what we’re supposed to. i’m saying everyone. last week i hit it on the wrong side and maybe we should cover, but i killed us.” 
The lions allowed the only two kickoff returns for touch­downs in the nFl this year, entering monday night’s game. minnesota coach leslie 
paid adverTisemenT 


Frazier said he was confident harvin could break a big play against the lions if everyone held their blocks. 
he was right, and the vikings were able to win without scoring an offen­sive touchdown. on a day the lions (1-3) didn’t click offen­sively, detroit couldn’t afford to allow those two big plays. 
“you only have 46 guys ac­tive during the game, so there are going to be some starters that are going to play on spe­cial teams and that’s been this year, that’ll be next year, it was last year,” schwartz said. “That being said, every­body on the team has a job 
NFL 
to do and whatever your job is you need to be able to ac­complish it. we haven’t done that the last couple weeks on special teams for a lot of dif­ferent reasons. it hasn’t been one thing that’s continually come up. it’s been four differ­ent breakdowns have led to four different scores.” 

Injuries create issues for Steelers 
Associated Press 
piTTsburgh — The start­ing defense the steelers thought they were getting when the season opened fi­nally practiced together on monday. 
There’s still no telling if the same 11 guys will suit up on sunday against philadelphia. 
injured stars James harrison and Troy polamalu were on the field as the steelers (1-2) returned from their bye week. while harrison remained vague about the chances his surgically repaired left knee will be ready to play for the first time this season, polamalu is optimistic his strained right calf is no longer an issue. 
The perennial pro bowl safe­ty says he felt “pretty good” and was grateful to see a slew of familiar faces on the prac­tice field, harrison’s included. 
“we’ll see what happens, but it’s been a while since we’ve all been on the field to­gether,” polamalu said. “There are some other new faces out there who have been perma­nent starters, so it’s all about how well 11 guys mesh on our defense.” 
The steelers have struggled to generate much of a pass rush and the secondary had trou­ble in a 34-31 loss in oakland on sept. 23. having a pair of healthy former defensive player of the years would cer­tainly help. 
“we just have to get our­selves on the winning side of things, because nobody cares about losing teams,” polamalu said. “we just haven’t been ex­ecuting that well, (so) whatev­er the call is that coach (dick) lebeau has made, we just haven’t been executing it that well at all. it really has noth­ing to do with the scheme of things. it’s just that we’re not executing and not performing well.” 
harrison hasn’t played since a wild card loss to denver in January. he struggled staying healthy during the offseason and underwent a minor proce­dure on aug. 15. he returned to full practice last Tuesday but was not there on wednesday, though he declined to label it a setback. 



The observer | TUESDAY, OCTOBER 2, 2012 | ndsmcobserver.com 

MEN’S INTERHALL 

Senior Champlin leads Sorin to victory 
Siegfried forces shut out; Alumni takes narrow win; Stanford offense, Keough defense save games 

relied on the run, the dawgs (2-1) played really well, and we have struck first, as junior quarterback good momentum to come play will cronin dove into the end keough next week,” junior cap-zone after a long march down the tain eric reed said. field. both teams look to keep their 
knott (1-1) countered with its playoff hopes alive next sunday own rushing attack in the sec-when o’neill faces keough and ond half. The Juggerknotts took stanford meets keenan for the advantage of a pass interference battle of the chapel. call on a long throw from sopho­more quarterback david Taiclet Contact Lesley Stevenson at to push the ball into alumni ter-lsteven1@nd.edu ritory. senior running back Joey beglane then punched the ball in Keough 14, Dillon 6 for a touchdown. 
By SARAH CONNORS 

beglane’s performance helped sports writer knott control the game for much of the second half, but an inter-in a defensive battle sunday ception by the dawgs brought afternoon, keough outlasted them back into the game. a se-dillon, as the kangaroos earned a ries of penalties, including horse-14-6 victory. collar and roughing the passer keough (2-0) struck early with penalties, helped alumni move a special-teams touchdown. on downfield. the fourth play of the game, fresh-
The penalties set up buckley’s man will Fields blocked a dillon go-ahead field goal. punt and ran it in for a score. 
both teams will face morrissey “i felt that the play was rather in their next matchup. knott ironic because we did the exact will meet The manor on sunday, same thing in the practice before while alumni will clash with the game,” Fields said. morrissey on oct. 28. The kangaroos followed up 
Fields’ touchdown with a score Contact Samantha Zuba at on their following possession. szuba@nd.edu The keough defense stifled dillon 
two minutes remaining awarded the end of the first half. (1-2) for most of the first half, and 
By MARY GREEN 

sports writer carroll one final opportunity to entering the second half down Stanford 14, O’Neill 7 the kangaroos went into halftime score, but the vermin’s subse-by 14, morrissey worked to cut with a 14-0 lead. 
By LESLEY STEVENSON 

in a game marred by turnovers, quent turnover-on-downs sealed the lead but were shut down by a sports writer “we played hard and we played the stellar play of one athlete the otters’ victory. stingy rambler defense. physical,” keough junior quar­stood out. senior running back The triumph over the previ-“we gave them a big lead too despite early setbacks, terback seamus donegan said. and linebacker chris champlin ously undefeated vermin boosted early and couldn’t close the gap,” stanford’s offense surged late to “our defense really brought it this carried sorin to a 20-7 victory sorin’s confidence, shea said. morrisey sophomore quarter-get past o’neill’s defense and se-game.” over carroll on sunday. “we know we’re the best team back ryan lindquist said. “our cure a 14-7 win sunday afternoon. Throughout the game, dillon 
champlin amassed 88 rushing in our division, and we think we strength is in our run game, and o’neill (0-2) got off to a strong effectively moved the ball down yards and caught a 43-yard touch-can beat anyone in our division,” we got away from that early on by start, as it scored on a touchdown the field by running it up the gut down pass from senior quar-shea said. passing too often.” by senior receiver alex brolick and converting many screen terback Ted spinelli to lead the The otters look to back up The ramblers added another midway through the first half. passes. The big red offense had otters’ offense. he even stepped shea’s prediction against Fisher rushing touchdown in the second “it was tough because we had a difficult time converting those in to take the snaps under center next sunday, while the vermin half to take a 20-0 lead. the lead early,” o’neill junior line-plays into touchdowns, however, after spinelli left the game with a will try to rebound when they The ramblers have won two backer calvin hemington said. and dillon did not put points on concussion in the second half. face the green wave on oct. 28. straight, and burggraf said he be-“our players were playing hard the board until late in the second 
“even with our quarterback lieves they are on the right track … we’ve just got to get tougher half. down, we kept fighting and had a Contact Mary Green at to the playoffs. inside.” dillon senior dan balcarcel real good team win today,” sorin mgreen8@nd.edu “The last couple weeks we were in the second half, stanford said he was proud of his team’s freshman receiver Jack shea said. not mentally sharp,” burggraf senior receiver patrick kramer performance, especially with the 
The otters (2-0) dominated Siegfried 20, Morrissey 0 said. “we knew we were there took over, as he hauled in two absence of junior quarterback the first half, as they headed physically but couldn’t trans-touchdown passes from junior kevin Fink. 
By KYLE FOLEY 

into halftime with a 20-0 lead. sports writer late this to the mental part of the quarterback conor healy. The “we had to have a couple guys sorin reached the end zone on game. The focus was there this two touchdown receptions gave step up and play new positions a 50-yard rushing touchdown sunday’s matchup between game, and that really helped us the griffins (1-2) a 14-7 edge over for the first time,” balcarcel said. from champlin, a 12-yard pass-siegfried and morrissey proved to out.” o’neill. “[senior] ben Ferry, our start­ing score from spinelli to shea, be a one-sided affair, as siegfried The ramblers will chase “The offensive line was on their ing middle linebacker, filled in at and champlin’s touchdown took home a 20-0 victory. their playoff dreams when they game, and so that just really set up quarterback and had a huge game reception. Two interceptions From the first snap, siegfried’s face duncan on sunday, while the passes,” kramer said. “we’ve for us on both sides of the ball.” from carroll junior quarterback defense was lights-out, as it morrissey will try to avoid anoth-only scored one touchdown all keough will try to continue Tommy spoonmore aided sorin’s forced a quick three-and-out. on er loss when it squares off against year, so to get two like that in a its winning ways when it meets cause in the first half. siegfried’s first possession, senior knott the same day. game we had to win was big.” o’neill next sunday, while dillon 
after a spirited halftime pep running back david whitmore senior captain paul babiak said will try to rebound with a win talk from their quarterback, how-ran for a touchdown. Contact Kyle Foley at he was thrilled with the efforts of when it faces o’neill on oct. 28. ever, the vermin (2-1) showed siegfried’s trio of linebackers kfoley2@nd.edu kramer and the rest of his team. new life and looked to make a led the defensive unit in its shut-“we’re a pass-first team,” Contact Sarah Connors at run. out of the manor (1-1). Alumni 10, Knott 7 babiak said. “honestly, it was just sconnor1@nd.edu 
“we could have just come out “our linebackers played great,” a tremendous effort on both sides 
By SAMANTHA ZUBA 
and folded, but we came out and sophomore quarterback nate sports writer of the ball. i couldn’t be happier Zahm forfeits to Fisher won the second half,” spoonmore burggraf said. “They swarmed with how everyone played.” sunday’s matchup between the said. “i was impressed with ev-the ball at the line and also in a gritty game between o’neill’s offense struggled green wave and the Zahmbies eryone coming out with more dropped back and provided us alumni and knott on sunday, throughout the game, as the was not played due to a Zahm for-intensity.” with great coverage.” one kick made all the differ-angry mob lost two fumbles. feit for not having enough players. 
spoonmore’s rushing touch-burggraf directed the offense ence, as the dawgs edged the additionally, the mob lost a key Fisher (2-0) will look to remain down on fourth down put the for the ramblers (2-1), as he com-Juggerknotts in a 10-7 victory be-contributor on defense, as sopho-undefeated when it faces sorin vermin on the board in the second pleted six-of-10 passes and con-hind sophomore ryan buckley’s more linebacker david lee left on sunday, while Zahm (0-3) will half, although they still trailed by nected with freshman receiver game-winning field goal. early with an ankle injury. look to secure its first win when it 13 points. a sorin fumble with spencer Judd for a touchdown at in a contest where both teams “even with those, i think we plays st. edward’s the same day. 


victoria moreno and her receiv-
Weasels 

ers, senior kirsten groody, ju­
conTinued From page 18 

nior stephanie lobaccaro and 
pasquerilla west looks to sophomore natalie branch, was continue its undefeated sea-noticeable. The slew of pass son against howard on sunday, connections empowered the while cavanaugh hopes to re-whirlwind to move down the bound against breen-phillips field and move the ball past the the same day. pasquerilla east defense. 
early in the second quarter, Contact Alex Stembaugh at moreno connected on a 15-yard astembau@nd.edu touchdown pass to branch, put­ting the whirlwinds (3-1) on Badin 26, Breen-Phillips 2 the board. late in the second half, moreno found lobaccaro 
By ALEX STEMBAUGH 

sports writer deep in the end zone, securing a 
13-point lead. 

badin came prepared sunday cole ran back an interception and garnered a 26-2 victory over 70 yards, scoring welsh Family’s breen-phillips. second touchdown of the sec-
The bullfrogs (2-2) relied ond quarter and game. heavily on their defense, which The pyros (0-1-2) fought back compiled four interceptions but couldn’t stop the welsh and six sacks. senior receiver Family passing attack. Tommasina domel also said the “They ran a lot of receiv­offense also stepped up. ers, and the other teams we’ve 
“our quarterback was sick played have had pretty heavy today, but our backup quarter-running games,” pasquerilla back did excellent,” domel said. east senior captain and line­“This was just a nice confidence backer anna perino said. “it was boost before we play walsh. our a different look for us.” defense obviously played very looking to take their offense well.” to new heights, the pyros saw 
The babes (0-2) were the first improvement on the offensive on the board, however, with a side of the ball, perino said. with safety that followed a badin in-sophomore quarterback macy terception in the end zone to be-mulhall and sophomore receiv­gin the second quarter. er nik-nik ameli, pasquerilla 
but badin answered back, east executed its strategy. charging 40 yards up the field on mulhall connected with ameli the next drive. Junior quarter-for a 15-yard touchdown pass back sarah Fleming capped the early in the fourth quarter. our plays to read their defense “They just did a better job of ad-yards for what would have been drive with a four-yard pass to “we scored and had some big faster.” justing at the half.” a touchdown, but an illegal domel for the touchdown, and catches,” perino said. “macy Farley (0-3) hopes to get its The phoxes stormed out of the block negated the score. the bullfrogs never looked back. was great and rolled out a cou-first win Tuesday against welsh half with a touchdown drive or-walsh (2-2) got the ball back 
Fleming and domel proved ple of big runs.” Family, while lewis will fight for chestrated by sophomore quar-later and stayed in control as to be an unstoppable force, as welsh Family looks to follow another victory against ryan on terback liz Quinn. Quinn, a first senior quarterback kat leach domel caught passes total-up with another victory against sunday. time starter, connected on sev-threw a touchdown pass to se­ing over 65 yards on her way to Farley on monday night, while eral long passes throughout the nior receiver maggie davis. her three touchdowns and one pasquerilla east prepares to Contact Meg Handelman at second half, but it was mitchell walsh maintained control conversion for the bulldogs. face pangborn on monday. mhandelm@nd.edu who ultimately sealed the game and most of the possession defensively, sophomore safety with her safety. through the second quarter and Jane hermann led badin with Contact Kit Loughran at Pangborn 8, Ryan 7 
sophomore receiver kathleen two interceptions, one of which kloughr1@nd.edu 
hough caught a critical touch­
“I thought we were 

By CASEY KARNES 
she returned for a touchdown. 
down pass to seal the game. 

sports writer 
the better team 

breen-phillips was led junior Lewis 7, Farley 0 
howard’s offense was dynamic quarterback molly Toner, who in a closely contested battle 
in a lot of ways and aggressive in response to 
By MEG HANDELMAN 

amassed over 60 yards rushing, sports writer that went until the final whistle, 
... They just did walsh’s offense. The ducks (1­but ultimately the babes weren’t pangborn pulled out an 8-7 vic­
3) went for many fourth downs 
a better job of 

able to convert the yardage into in a battle of two undefeated tory against ryan on sunday. 
in the second quarter, and 
adjusting at half.” 

any offensive points. teams, lewis defeated Farley it was a tale of two halves, as 
freshman receiver maria ianni “it’s a tough loss,” Toner said. 7-0 on sunday, behind a strong ryan (2-2) dominated the ball 
Maya Pillai stepped up and was critical in “but our team is young, so hope-defense and a last-minute score. in the first half. pangborn (3-1) 
senior quarterback getting the ducks yardage and fully we can use this as a learn-with starting chicks quarter-was only able to run one play 
Ryan first downs. sophomore quar­ing experience to improve and back senior connaught blood in the first quarter due to the 
terback lauren gabel made her come out stronger next week.” out due to a concussion, junior wildcats’ efficiency. it was a “our goal was simply to keep first start, filling in for senior 
breen-phillips takes on lyons colleen haller stepped up and defensive play that ultimately them from scoring [in the sec-quarterback clare robinson, tonight, while badin looks to took over under center. made the difference, however, ond half] and to score our-who was out for the week with a continue its winning streak haller completed a touch-as the phoxes took the lead on a selves,” mitchell said. “and finger and rib injury. against walsh tonight as well. down pass to senior receiver safety by sophomore defensive that’s exactly what we did.” “There were only 11 people 
mara catlaw late in the fourth lineman erica mitchell in the The phoxes played monday in attendance,” howard senior Contact Alex Stembaugh at quarter for the game’s lone fourth quarter. against pasquerilla east while coach ryan robinson said. astembau@nd.edu score. “i didn’t even know she was the wildcats will face lewis on “participation and attendance 
“it was a team effort,” catlaw still in the end zone,” mitchell sunday. will be key for our next game.” Welsh Family 19, said. said. “i was just going for her The wild women took advan-Pasquerilla East 6 haller secured the extra point flag.” Contact Casey Karnes at tage of the ducks’ shaky offense 
to bring the final score to 7-0. The wildcats led for the ma-wkarnes@nd.edu with three interceptions. later 
By KIT LOUGHRAN 

sports writer Farley’s defense helped it hold jority of the game after scoring on, davis caught her second back the chicks (1-2-1) until the on a pass from senior quarter-Walsh 25, Howard 0 touchdown pass for the wild in a battle between two teams end of the fourth quarter with back maya pillai to sophomore women, and just three minutes 
By DH KIM 

working to improve their of-multiple sacks in the second receiver ashley veselik in the sports writer later leach threw a 25-yard pass fenses, welsh Family hit the and third quarters. second quarter. ryan’s offense to a wide-open davis that sealed ground running and pulled out on the other side of the ball, was dynamic, mixing both the howard and walsh squared the game. a 19-6 victory over pasquerilla Farley sophomore quarterback run and the pass as the wildcats off sunday, each looking to get walsh looks to get over .500 east on sunday. kathleen schiavenza led the drove up and down the field at back to the .500 mark. in the tonight against badin, while 
“They did a great job and re-Finest (0-3) for the whole game. will. The phoxes were able to end, walsh dominated for a 25-0 howard attempts to rebound ally held strong,” welsh Family “we need to work on connect-get several key stops in the red victory. sunday against pasquerilla senior corner back kaitlyn cole ing on passing,” schiavenza zone, however, to keep the game The game began with walsh west. said. said. “our defense has been close. senior captain and cornerback 
The chemistry between welsh great. we need to get our strat-“i thought we were the better lindy navarre intercepting a Contact DH Kim at Family senior quarterback egy down and work on changing team in a lot of ways,” pillai said. howard pass. navarre ran 30 dkim16@nd.edu 


The observer | TUESDAY, OCTOBER 2, 2012 | ndsmcobserver.com 

SMC VOLLEYBALL 

Belles use free weekend to gear up for Hope 

By AARON SANT-MILLER 
sports writer 
after a tough home loss to no. 2 calvin on wednesday, saint mary’s took a much-needed weekend off to pre­pare for their match against no. 4 hope. 
going into the match against calvin last wednesday, the belles were coming off playing eight games in less than two weeks. 
“This was our first weekend off the whole season,” belles coach Toni kuschel said. “we were definitely in need of a break. we’re hoping that rest and recuperation time will give us some fresh legs and some fresh perspective going into the match.” 
The belles (8-7, 4-3 miaa) are looking to compete in a close conference race Tuesday against hope (14­2, 6-1 miaa). To make the miaa tournament, the belles would have to finish as one of the top four teams in the conference. as of now, the belles are in fifth place — a half game back of Trine and 
paid adverTisemenT 
one game back from alma. 
“we’re excited to go on the road and play another na­tionally-ranked team that’s also in our conference,” kuschel said. “we’re excited to get back into conference play after a long weekend.” 
despite a tough loss to calvin, hope managed to get back on track last wednesday with a sweep over Trine. 
“We want to go in and play our best volleyball. ... That’s always our goal.” 
Toni Kuschel 
Belles volleyball coach 
currently, the Flying dutch hold a firm grasp on a sec-ond-place seat in the miaa. 
hope’s impressive re­cord has been partially due to the strong play of sophomore outside hitter Jenna grasmeyer. currently, grasmeyer leads the Flying dutch with 247 kills, while hitting at an impressive 
34.7 percent. To counter her strong play, the belles will have to play strong as a team and work together, kuschel said. 
“she’s a great player, that’s for sure,” kuschel said. “we have to play extremely tough, disciplined defense. we have to win the serve and pass game tomorrow night to be able to play our best.” 
For the belles, team play and depth have been a strong point so far, kuschel said. saint mary’s has three differ­ent players with more than 115 kills. sophomore outside hitter kati schneider leads the team with 183 kills. 
“we want to go in and play our best volleyball,” kuschel said. “That’s always our goal.” 
saint mary’s is next in ac­tion 7 p.m. Tuesday at hope. 
Contact Aaron Sant-Miller at asantmil@nd.edu 




ND WOMEN’S GOLF 

Irish stand in fourth place in Classic 

By NICK BOYLE 
sports writer 
notre dame came out strong in the first day of play at the windy city collegiate classic in golf, ill. 
The irish posted an opening-round score of 12-over, good enough for fourth place after the first day of play. 
“we played well today,” irish coach susah holt said. “To be honest, while we played well, i thought we could even play bet­ter. we’re fourth right now, and i am pleased with that. we had a few people shoot under-par this afernoon, while others ended up over or even for the day.” 
The irish are playing handi­capped in chicago, with reign­ing big east Freshman of the year ashley armstrong out with an injury. This means all four irish scores will be counted each round, instead of a usual four out of five. 
“ashley got hurt about ten days ago, so we knew we would only be playing with four players,” holt said. “To be honest, they all stepped up today as a team. There is a little bit of pressure 
paid adverTisemenT 
with each score counting, as we didn’t have the luxury of drop­ping a score.” 
Though playing without one of their leaders, holt believes her team has faired well in the face of adversity. 
“i think we have handled [armstrong’s absence] well,” holt said. “we have fought thought it 
“We have a great group of players. They fight hard and are happy with how they are playing.” 
Susan Holt 
Irish women’s golf coach 
well and right now, we are sitting pretty good. The tournament is far from over, but there are alot of good teams and players here. it’s great that we are fourth now, but we have to show up tomor­row and finish the job.” 
Freshmen lindsey weaver and Talia campbell have carried the irish. weaver has performed especially well, carding a three-under-par 141 through two rounds, tying herfor first place. Though sitting high on the lead­erboard, weaver believes she can play even better, holt said. 
“weaver played really well to­day,” holt said. “she was not too happy overall though. she made three birdies early, but ended up giving them all back and bogied her last hole. she shot a 70 her second round, i think she’s play­ing well, but just not able to keep her score as low as she would like.” 
holt hopes her team can close out the tournament strongly with a low-scoring round today. 
“we came here to win this thing,” holt said. “we have a great group of players. They fight hard and are happy with how they are playing. They just have to go out there and take it one shot at a time. if we do that, we can be victorious.” 
The irish tee off their fi­nal round of the windy city collegiate classic today in the morning. 
Contact Nick Boyle at nboyle1@nd.edu 



The observer | DAY, MONTH XX, 2012 | ndsmcobserver.com 

WOMEN’S INTERHALL 

Interception for Pasquerilla West earns win 
Strong defense grants narrow victories to Lewis, Pangborn; Badin, Walsh and Welsh Fam take easy wins 
By ALEX STEMBAUGH 
sports writer 
in a marquee matchup be­tween two strong defensive squads, pasquerilla west emerged with a 12-0 victory over cavanaugh. 
both teams were slow to start and relied on tenacious defense, allowing a combined four first downs in the first quarter. 
Leader 
conTinued From page 20 
what i was used to. i didn’t expect to start or play much, so whenever i did get the opportunity, it was ex­citing and a lot of fun and i tried to do my best. my goal was to take it all in and absorb all the information, and try not to overthink things.” 
This year, eppink has as­sumed a leadership role both on and off the court. she’s started 11 of 14 match­es played and is fourth on the team in kills. 
“i’m being more 
Points 
conTinued From page 20 
center T.J. Tynan, Jackson moved lee to the middle and split the pair up in order to gain much-needed depth at the position. 
“it’s going to give him an op­portunity to skate the full dis­tance of the ice and make plays offensively and defensively,” Jackson said. “it was about not wanting to have our second- and third-line centers being fresh­men. with anders and T.J. both being juniors, it gives us a lot of experience up the middle.” 
Though he hasn’t played the position at the collegiate level, lee spent most of his hockey career at center prior to coming to notre dame. lee said that he is comfortable with his new po­sition and with seeing former line-mate Tynan centering on another line. 
“it’s something that comes naturally to me, something that i’ve been doing my whole life,” lee said. “it’s a matter of find­ing a position where i can help this team out. i’m willing to do whatever it takes. … T.J. is a great player and we fed off each other a lot, and i know he’s going to be great, and i know i will too.” 
Jackson also tabbed junior goaltender steven summerhays as the starter going into the sea­son. summerhays played the majority of games for the irish down the stretch last year after working in a platoon with senior goaltender mike Johnson for most of the season. Jackson said that though summerhays has 

pasquerilla west (3-0) got on the board with less than two minutes to go in the half when senior defensive back maria harmon intercepted a pass and ran it back for a 21-yard touchdown. 
“our defense looked really good, aside from a few of the key penalties called,” senior defen­sive lineman meghan schmitt said. “we just need to work on 
vocal on the court,” she said. “Freshman year, i was 
“Freshman year, I was very quiet. We had a lot of upperclassmen, there was a lot of leadership established, and I wasn’t very vocal.” 
Hilary Eppink 
Irish senior middle blocker 
very quiet. we had a lot of upperclassmen, there was 

the early edge, he will need to show consistency if he is to hold off Johnson. 
“steven won some big games for us in the last six weeks of the season and had a .930 save percentage, so he goes in as the number one,” Jackson said. “he won’t play all the games, but he will get the bulk of the games early on. he needs to show that he can play with the consisten­cy that he did at the end of last year.” 
putting more pressure on the quarterback.” 
penalties plagued both teams, who lost a combined 95 yards to penalties. cavanaugh (3-1) was able to get going on of­fense with a series of comple­tions from senior quarterback rosemary kelly to sophomore receiver olivia dietzel, but ul­timately, this did not translate into points. 
a lot of leadership estab­lished, and i wasn’t very vocal. it’s important to be vocal on the court. That’s something i’ve really im­proved on, just always talk­ing to my teammates and being encouraging and be­ing louder on the court.” 
eppink’s leadership is helping the irish (10-6, 3-1 big east) toward their goals of winning the big east. notre dame continues their conference schedule this saturday when they welcome connecticut to purcell pavilion. 
Contact Laura Coletti at lcoletti@nd.edu 
summerhays, who came to school lighter and in bet­ter shape than last year, said he hopes to build off the success at the end of last year. 
“i had some success last year which i want to carry over into this year, but i’m still approach­ing this season like i have the last two,” summerhays said. “i want to earn every game i get.” 
Contact Conor Kelly at ckelly17@nd.edu 
with less than two minutes to go in the game, pasquerilla west sophomore quarterback lauren vidal connected with senior receiver alice yerokun for a 27­yard touchdown pass, putting the purple weasels up 12-0. on the chaos’ ensuing possession, cavanaugh intercepted purple weasels senior defensive back aoibheann Thinnes intercept­ed a cavanaugh pass to seal a 
Climax 
conTinued From page 20 
For notre dame, a team that came out on fire, but by February was nothing but rundown smoke and ash. 
This year, though, the irish are settling in for a marathon. For Jackson, it’s not about bouncing back from last year’s lows or rec­reating the highs of two years ago. peaks and valleys burn too much gas. Jackson’s buzzword during monday’s media day was “consis­tency”, and it’s with that constant grade that notre dame hopes to climb back up towards a national championship. 
The new arena and the new league are old news this year, and while the team never used them as excuses, they will definitely not miss the distractions they caused. gone too are the expectations that accompany a top ranking, as the irish enter this season as a more modest no. 10. 
with a brutal non-conference schedule that features no. 1 bc, no. 2 minnesota, and no. 4 north dakota, the irish may not jump out of the blocks to a hot start, but they’ll learn their weaknesses and improve along the way. 
having the experience of 


paid adverTisemenT 
pasquerilla west victory. 
“This game obviously stinks,” cavanaugh senior center kelly brakora said. “but we definite­ly think we’re still in it for the long haul, and we’re going to take what we learned today and move forward with it … our de­fense is still definitely the core of our team.” 
see weasels PAGE 15 
junior steven summerhays and senior mike Johnson in the crease should shore up the back of the irish lineup, and help ensure the team turns its one-goal leads into one-goal wins. 
The team’s 12 juniors aren’t underclassmen anymore, and they’ll have new perspective after last year’s disappointment. Junior captain anders lee will move to center to help spur the offense, while physical presences like junior forward Jeff costello and junior defenseman stephen Johns will give notre dame some need­ed swagger and a well-rounded punch. 
The season and the trying schedule will certainly be one full of ups and downs. The key for Jackson and his players will be to grind through, stay strong, and play their best hockey come spring. 
it’s only a few hours’ drive from south bend to the Frozen Four in pittsburgh. but this year, the irish know that it takes six months to get there. 
Contact Jack Hefferon at wheffero@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 



CROSSWORD | will shorTZ 


HIGHLY PUNLIKELY | chrisTopher brucker 

LOWER YOUR EXPECTATIONS |  lennyrago & paTrick cross 


SUDOKU | The mepham group 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
make checks payable to and mail to: 

enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year 


enclosed
 is $75 for one semester 


name 
HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Zach galifianakis, 43; esai morales, 50; randy Quaid, 62; Julie andrews, 77. 
Happy Birthday: you will be instrumental in making a difference to an outcome if you speak up and take action. your heart is in the right place. don’t let rigidity stand in the way of your accomplishments. reassess your situation and focus on the end result. your ego will lead you down the wrong path. your numbers are 6, 8, 23, 26, 32, 40, 42. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): conflict will surface if you feel you are working harder than your colleagues. impulsive decisions will cost you a friendship with one of your peers. don’t let anger be your chariot when silence and perfection will win the race. 


TAURUS (April 20-May 20): you may have difficulties with a partner if you cannot find common ground. a face-to-face conversation will bring better results. consider a suggestion that is a little obscure but has potential. 



GEMINI (May 21-June 20): a last-minute change of plans will be to your benefit. getting together with people who have something to offer you will contribute to your goal. physical changes or activities will raise your self-esteem. 


CANCER (June 21-July 22): consider the consequences if you take on responsibilities that don’t belong to you. limitations are likely to lead to depression should you miss out on something you really wanted to attend. 


LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): learn from experience. injury or arguments will prevail if you cannot put grudges or failures behind you. Focus on what you can experience through educational pursuits or on spending time with people from different backgrounds. 


VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): don’t make serious decisions regarding money, contracts or medical matters based on emotions. do more research and consider your options before you jump to conclusions. 


LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): partnership problems are apparent if you let your emotions interfere with what needs to be done and the decisions you must make. separate business from personal, and move forward with discipline and common sense. 

SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): be careful. minor mishaps will leave you in an awkward position. concentrate on your creative projects. stick close to home, but don’t let personal relationships interfere with your productivity. 


SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): showing off will grab attention resulting in added support and acknowledgment for your attributes. a partnership will help you get more done in half the time. love is in the stars. 


CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): don’t let your emotions interfere with your accomplishments. you cannot please everyone, so do what you feel is best for you and the ones you love and keep moving forward. 


AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): keep an open mind. a good deal is apparent. with a little work on your part, you can end up in a better position person­ally or financially. larger quarters or a better workspace will add to your skills and your productivity. 

PISCES (Feb. 19- March 20): stay on top of what you must accomplish. someone will take advantage of you if you aren’t careful. Frustration and depression due to an emotional money situation can stifle your plans if you aren’t creative. 


Birthday Baby: you are a dedicatred, loyal friend. you are insightful and inventive. 
JUMBLE | david hoyT and JeFF knurek 

The observer p.o. box 779 notre dame, in 46556 

address 
city      state Zip 

The observer | TUESDAY, OCTOBER 2, 2012 | ndsmcobserver.com 
HOCKEY 

media day kicks off new season 
Junior Lee named as captain for upcoming year 
By CONOR KELLY 
sports writer 
The irish hockey season opened with media day on monday in anticipation of notre dame’s exhibition Thursday against the united states national Team development program’s under-18 team. 
after leading the irish in goals and serving as alternate cap­tain last season, junior forward anders lee was named as the team’s lone captain for the 2011­2012 season by irish coach Jeff Jackson. with just four seniors on the team, lee and the 12­man junior class will be counted on for leadership after a season in which a slump to end the year kept the irish out of the ncaa tournament. 
“anytime your captain is one of your best players, it certainly helps to have a guy who’s your leader doing the job off the ice, in the classroom and pretty much in every aspect,” Jackson said. “i’m expecting anders to have a great year for us.” 
Though he served as an al­ternate captain for graduated seniors billy maday and sean lorenz, lee said that he is excit­ed and humbled to serve as the team’s lone captain this season. 
“it’s an honor. it’s really cool to have the support of my team­mates and coaches in the lock­er room,” lee said. “i’m one of many leaders on this team. we’ve got great upperclassmen that will help me in that regard, and we’re ready to get this sea­son going.” 
in addition to lee, Jackson has designated a seven-man leadership group made up of the four seniors and three mem­bers of the junior class who will work with lee and Jackson 


Jackson, team look to extend success past early season 

Jack Hefferon 
sports writer 
it’s a long way to the top. 
whether you want to rock ’n roll or, in notre dame’s case, make it back to the Frozen Four, being elite is determined over the long haul. 
The irish looked to have all the tools to complete the journey last year. The team was coming off a successful 2010-2011 sea­son, and its giant freshman class looked poised to take another step forward as sophomores. on top of that, the program was surrounded by excitement about the team’s new digs (the gorgeous compton Family ice arena) and conference (hockey east). wrap that all in a pre­season no.1 ranking, and you got the high-octane energy, confidence and expectation that the irish brought with them into the season. 
notre dame rode that rush to a 9-2-2 start, which reached a climax in an electric overtime win against boston college in the new arena. 
but it didn’t last. 
after that start, which irish coach Jeff Jackson called “a sugar high”, the team sputtered to a 10-16-1 finish down the stretch – bowing out early in the ccha tournament and missing the ncaas entirely. 
see climaX PAGE 18 

throughout the year. 
“[nick] larson, [stephen] Johns, [Jeff] costello [and kevin] nugent and the others are all guys that have been here before and know how it works around here,” lee said. “That’s why they’re leaders on this team.” 
in addition to his move to sole ownership of the team’s captaincy, lee will adjust to a move to center after spending his first two years on the wing. after lee notched 34 points last season playing alongside junior 
see poinTs PAGE 18 
ND VOLLEYBALL 

Senior Eppink leads Irish on court 
Irish rely on guidance, vocal presence from upperclassman to reach postseason play in her final year 

By LAURA COLETTI 
sports writer 
senior middle blocker hilary eppink has always been tall, but she has been growing athletically since she first picked up volley­ball when she was young. initially a swimmer, eppink became interested in vol­leyball because her height would be advantageous. 
“i started playing vol­leyball in about the fourth grade in a city league, noth­ing real competitive,” she said. “honestly, my parents wanted me to be involved in sports where height could be used to my advantage. after that first year, i was hooked. i thought it was so much fun, and i enjoyed going to prac­tice every day. i got more se­rious as i’ve gotten older, but i’ve still enjoyed the game. it’s always been fun for me.” 
although she had always enjoyed volleyball, eppink didn’t start to consider play­ing at the collegiate level un­til she reached high school. 
“volleyball started to get competitive once i hit mid­dle school, because that’s when all the girls started playing club volleyball,” she said. “i started getting recruited when i got into high school, and i started trying to get more exposure through club play.” 
eppink fell in love with notre dame’s campus when she was recruited out of high school. during her freshman year, she tried to constantly absorb her surroundings and learn from her coaches and upperclassmen. she has been constantly improving, and has been a mainstay in the irish rotation since her sophomore year. 
“i think coming in [as a freshman] i didn’t know what to expect,” eppink said. “i knew the game was going to be a lot faster and at a much higher level than 
see leader PAGE 18 





