THE INDEPENDENT TO UNCOVER  NEWSPAPER SERVING  THE TRUTH  NOTRE DAME AND  AND REPORT  SAINT MARY’S IT ACCURATELY 
VOLUME 46, ISSUE 46 | THURSDAY NOVEMBER 1, 2012 | NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
Choosing more than a candidate 
Student voters place same-sex marriage among priorities before casting ballots Nov. 6 
By SAM STRYKER 
Assistant Managing Editor 
Like the other 46 states in the 
country, Tuesday is Election Day 
for Maine, Maryland, Minnesota 
and Washington. But for voters in 
those four states, casting a ballot 
does not just mean choosing a new 
president — it also determines 
whether or not gay marriage will 
be legalized. 
In Maine, Washington and 
Maryland, ballots feature referen­
dums that would legalize same-
sex marriages in the states. In 
Minnesota, a proposed constitu­
tional amendment that would ban 
same-sex marriage will be put up 
for a vote. 
For senior Maura Newell, a na-
SARAH O’CONNOR | The Observer 

tive of Seattle, the fight is person-

Senior Maura Newell said she will vote in favor of Referendum 74, which will legalize same-sex marriage 
al. With a gay brother, uncle and 

in her home state of Washington, on Election Day.  
aunt, she says gay rights issues are “very much so” a consideration next Tuesday. 
“It is probably one of the decid­ing factors for me,” she said. 
Just as voters in these four states will cast their ballots differently, the two presidential candidates stand in opposition on many gay rights issues. 
Democratic candidate President Barack Obama voiced support for same-sex marriages earlier in the year, the first sitting president to do so. During his term in office, Obama also signed a repeal of “Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell” and announced the Department of Justice would no longer up­hold Section 3 of the Defense of Marriage Act (DOMA) against 
see VOTING PAGE 6 



Professors weigh in on weak economy 
cuts are also scheduled to expire, Defense. “I think the broader issue is how failed to explain what cuts they 
By MEGAN DOYLE 

Managing Editor resulting in at least a two percent No wonder polls by Rasmussen to deal with the enormous federal would make or how they would tax increase for workers, when the Reports, Gallup, Bloomberg budget deficits, on the order of $1 change entitlement spending, 
The unemployment rate in the Budget Control Act of 2011 takes ef-National Poll and numerous news trillion a year,” Fuerst said. “This is Fuerst said. United States is 7.8 percent. The fect. When the nation reaches this organizations rank the economy simply not sustainable. Even after “President Obama claims that country is more than $16 trillion in so-called “fiscal cliff,” the United as the top issue for many voters on the economy recovers, there will his health care law will lower debt. States would also see the end of Nov. 6. be substantial deficits because of spending on health care and thus 
The banks received a bailout certain tax cuts for businesses, Notre Dame economics profes-the rapid growth in spending, pri-reduce Medicare costs,” Fuerst from the federal government. So the beginning of health care taxes sor Timothy Fuerst said all agree marily entitlement spending such said. “Gov. Romney disagrees, did the auto industry. related to the Affordable Care Act the country’s budgetary policy as Medicare and Social Security.” but instead suggests other re-
At the end of the year, Bush-era and spending cuts to a number of cannot last as it is, but the presiden- Democrat President Barack forms such as higher retirement tax cuts are scheduled to expire. government programs, including tial candidates differ on their strat-Obama and Republican former Last year’s temporary payroll tax Medicare and the Department of egies to bring about change. Mass. Gov. Mitt Romney have both see ECONOMY PAGE 5 
Visitation honors 

Film highlights families Zhang’s life 
By TORI ROECK 
News Writer 

last week in order to make fi-
The documentary “Project 
By JILLIAN BARWICK and 

nal arrangements to bring their 
Hopeful” first premiered at 
BRIDGET FEENEY 
the 23rd Annual Notre Dame 
Saint Mary’s Editor and Saint Mary’s 
Student Film Festival in January 
Associate Editor 
Students, faculty and staff 
wore green ribbons pinned to 
their jackets, dresses and suits 
as they celebrated the life of 
sophomore Ziqi Zhang during a 
Ziqi Zhang 
1993 - 2012 
2012. In just 10 months, the film 
has been accepted to more than 
15 national and international 
festivals, earning “Best Picture” 
at the RE:IMAGE Film Festival 
2012 and second place at the 
visitation service at Kaniewski 
LA New Wave International 
Funeral Home in South Bend on 
Film Festival 2012, among other 

Wednesday afternoon. daughter back home. 
honors. 
Photo courtesy of Kelsie Kiley 

After procuring the necessary Zhang, who passed away from 
2012 graduates Kelsie Kiley 

The film ‘Project Hopeful’ depicts the everyday lives of three fami­
visas, Zhang’s parents, sister 


lies who adpoted orphans with HIV/AIDS.  
and uncle flew in from China see ZHANG PAGE 7 
see HOPE PAGE 7 


You too can be a saint 

DIA DE LOS MUERTOS PAGE 5 VIEWPOINT PAGE 8 TV FACEOFF  PAGE 10 MEN’S SOCCER PAGE 20 WOMEN’S BASKETBALL PAGE 20 




ndsmcobserver.com 

P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
Allan Joseph 
Managing Editor  Business Manager
                  Megan Doyle  Jeff Liptak 
Asst. Managing Editor: Andrew Owens 
Asst. Managing Editor: Sam Stryker News Editor: John Cameron News Editor: Kristen Durbin 
Viewpoint Editor: Meghan Thomassen Sports Editor: Chris Allen Scene Editor: Kevin Noonan Saint Mary’s Editor: Jillian Barwick Photo Editor: Suzanna Pratt Graphics Editor: Brandon Keelean Multimedia Editor: Sarah O’Connor Advertising Manager: Monica McCormack Ad Design Manager: Sara Hilstrom Controller: Peter Woo Systems Administrator: William Heineman 

Office Manager & General Info 
Ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ajoseph2@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 mdoyle11@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 aowens2@nd.edu sstryke1@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 

Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 

Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 


Scene Desk 

(574) 631-4540 Observer.Scene.Editor@gmail.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
jbarwi01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 


Policies 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper 

published in print and online by the students of the 
University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s 

College.  Editorial content, including advertisements, is 
not governed by policies of the administration of either 
institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse 
advertisements based on content. 

The news is reported as accurately and objectively 
as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion 
of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, 
Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. 
Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of 
the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include 
contact information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed 
to Editor-in-Chief Allan Joseph. 

Post Office Information The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The Observer is published at: 024 South Dining Hall Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame and additional mailing offices POSTMASTER Send address corrections to: The Observer P.O. Box 779 024 South Dining hall Notre Dame, IN 46556-077 The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
What is your favorite pick-up line? 


Annie O’Brien 
junior 
Lyons Hall 
“How much does a polar bear weigh? It’s enough to break the ice.” 
Michael Masi 
junior 
Seigfried Hall 
“Are you a parking ticket? Because you’ve got fine, fine, fine written all over you.” 
Meredith Houska 
junior 
Lyons Hall 
“Are you tired? Because you’ve been running through my mind all day.” 
Have a question you want answered? Email obsphoto@gmail.com 


Gina Rogari 
junior 

Lyons Hall 
“Did you just fart? Cause you’re blowing me away.” 
Scott Rousseau 
sophomore 
Fisher Hall 
“I lost my number. Can I have yours?” 
Grace Spaulding 
senior 

Pangborn Hall 
“Give someone a sugar packet and say: ‘Excuse me, I think you dropped your name tag.’” 


Want your event included here? 
News Sports 

Tori Roeck Cory Bernard Email obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 
Nicole Michels Laura Coletti Rebecca O’Neil Katie Heit 
Graphics Scene 

Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday Monday 
Brandon Keelean Kevin Noonan 
Photo Viewpoint 

A Time to Heal Dinner Readings from Nuclear Accelerator U.S. Army Field Band “Seed of the Church: 
Kirby McKenna Caroline Schurz 

ND Stadium Dante’s “Divine Tours and Soldier’s Chorus Today’s Christian 5 p.m.-6:30 p.m. Comedy” 124 Nieuwland Hall DeBartolo Performing Martyrs” Foster community Campus-wide 10 a.m.-1 p.m. Arts Center McKenna Hall 
Corrections 

healing against sexual 2 p.m.-5 p.m. Tours leave every 15 2 p.m.-3:30 p..m. All day 
The Observer regards itself as violence. Public performance. minutes. Free concert. Keynote speakers. a professional publication and strives for the highest standards 
El Dia de los Muertos ND Chorale Concert BINGO Hockey Game 10th Annual Baraka 
of journalism at all times. We do, 

Hesburgh Center DeBartolo Performing LaFortune Student Compton Family Ice Bouts Tournament-
however, recognize that we will make 
6 p.m.-8 p.m. Arts Center Center Arena Semis 
mistakes. If we have made a mistake, 
Day of the Dead 8 p.m.-9 p.m. 10 p.m.-1 a.m. 5:05 p.m.-7:05 p.m. Joyce Center 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
festivities. Free and Renaissance to Free and open to all ND vs. Western 6 p.m.-11 p.m. 
we can correct our error. 

open to the public. present-day works. students. Michigan Proceeds go to charity. 


SENATE 

Group works to foster inclusive environment 
By MADDIE DALY 
News Writer 
After holding a diversity discussion two weeks ago, three experts on cam­pus diversity, Emerald Woodberry, Dr. David Moss and Iris Outlaw, addressed Student Senate during Wednesday’s meeting. 
Woodberry, academic and univer­sity affairs commissioner for the Black Student Association, began the con­versation by updating the group on what her organization has been work­ing on. 

“We have spent our time trying to gather information from constituents of Call to Action, especially things that happened over the summer that we weren’t aware of,” Woodberry said. “We have focused on putting com­mittees together since a lot of Call to Action students from last year gradu­ated. We’re actually still recruiting by contacting the multicultural commis­sioners from each dorm.” 
She also spoke about her work with Notre Dame Security Police (NDSP) to enact initiatives conceived of dur­ing last spring’s Call to Action Town Hall.“NDSP went through an increase in cultural competency training,” Woodberry said.  “We made a pam­phlet with information on reporting and tried to write it in a fair tone rather than one of authorities looking down on the students. Also, for increased ac­countability of officers they will start carrying business cards so students will know and be able to contact who they interacted with.” 
Moss, from the Office of Student Affairs, described his office’s current project – a one-stop website for report­ing any type of issue. 
“Call to Action had a great deal of confusion on how to report, to whom, where to go … this way we’ll have one website called reportit.nd.edu to re­port different instances of issues that don’t fit into the Notre Dame environ­ment,” Moss said. 

PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
Go IRISH! Beat PITT!

•	 
2 – 10 bedroom homes	 

•	 
Large, fenced in backyards 

•	 
Bar spaces and large rooms 

•	 
ADT security 

•	 
24 hour maintenance 


Notre Dame apartments offers the lowest monthly rent close to campus. “best bang for your buck!” 
So Call Me, Maybe? 
Call, e-mail or stop by to speak with a student leasing agent.Their experience living in our homes can help you find a 
home tailored to your very 
own off-campus living needs. 
November Special: 
Reservations for any homes available for the 14-15 school year
only require half of the required security deposit at signing!
We also do not require first and last month’s rent payment to
reserve a home. 
Dream on Dudes and Dudettes 
Check out our website for specials! 
He is also currently inspecting cam­pus websites, working on amending course syllabi and continuing to en­courage student involvement. 
“We commissioned an internal and external audit of Notre Dame websites, basically to see whether or not they are welcoming and inclusive,” Moss said.  “We are also working very hard to include on every course syllabus a phrase about valuing an inclusive environment.”nLater in the meeting, 
Student body vice president Katie Rose transitioned to a discussion about students’ opinions of the Career Center. 
“Our major concern is that for a lot of students the Career Center seems only for business jobs, so if you’re not inter­ested in strictly business or graduate school you’re kind of lost on where to go,”eRose said. “We want to centralize all opportunities on campus because a lot of the students that fall into the gap I just mentioned are going to other institutions on campus. We would like better communication and referrals between all these places.” 
Chief of staff Katie Baker said the amount of resources available for stu­dents applying to graduate school is also very limited. 
Keenan Hall senator John Vernon works for the academic affairs com­mittee andevoiced other student concerns. 
“The days surrounding the career fair, students were really upset about Go Irish and the Career Center. They felt that it wasn’t helpful or that they didn’t know how to use it,” Vernon said. “There was also feedback from students in the College of Science that the Career Center is not really for them, that, like Katie said, it’s more geared to­wards business students.” 
McGlinn Hall senator Ali Wellmanmsaid girls in her dorm have an overall positive view of the Career Center. 
“The McGlinn girls really love the Career Center because of the mock interviews, especially the College of Science girls,” Wellman said. “However they said it was irksome to call in and make an appointment. Maybe they could make it online like the Writing Center and just have us fill out a timeslot. That would be really convenient.” 
Monica Daegele, Farley Hall sena­tor, provided perspective from the College of Engineering. 
“There is a whole engineering career fair of its owe,” Daegele said. “However, it comes right at the beginning of the year, so a lot of students hastily put to­gether resumes and didn’t really know what they were getting into.” 
Class of 2014 president Lizzie Helpling concluded the conversation on a positive note. 
“Speaking as someone who very re­cently decided on a major, the Career Center was an invaluable resource,” Helpling said. “I think they are a com­pletely untapped resource for many people. They have job shadows for every single job available. I think what people don’t realize is what they could find out if they just went and talked to somebody there, you just have to go find them.” 
Contact Maddie Daly mdaly6@nd.edu 

THE OBSERVER | THURSDAY NOVEMBER 1, 2012 | NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 


Belles to hold concert raising money for charity 
in the spring,” Kellogg said. “It’s a way to bring students 
By MADELINE MILES 

News Writer “The concert allows the cam-together to enjoy good mu-
pus to come together and for sic for an even better cause,” 
Saint Mary’s College Dance students to get a break from Munsey said. “It encourages Marathon club will host a classes and school work while the campus to come togeth­benefit concert titled “Rock also creating more awareness er and have fun in support Out for Riley” Thursday on campus for the marathon.” of charity … Having events night at 7 p.m. in Haggar Tickets are $5 at the door throughout the year helps Parlor to raise money for with all proceeds benefit-students understand that Riley Children’s Hospital in ing Riley Children’s Hospital. Dance Marathon is a year-Indianapolis. Notre Dame alumnus Pat long fundraiser.”In addi-
Vice president of Dance McKillen, who recently re-tion to entertainment from Marathon Kate Kellogg said leased an album on iTunes, Romens and McKillen, there she has been looking forward and Trent Romens, brother will also be door prizes as to “Rock Out for Riley” since of Saint Mary’s senior Taylor well as Dance Marathon triv­the beginning of the school Romens, will perform at the ia questions in between sets. year. event. Popcorn, candy, hot choco­
“It’s an event we wanted to Fundraising executive Alex late and apple cider will be have first semester to really Munsey, who planned and sold for $1 with all proceeds kick-off Dance Marathon and organized the event, said benefiting Riley Children’s get the student body involved the concert supports a good Hospital. and excited for the marathon cause. Students will also be able 
SMC sponsors career tutorial 
and a part of the Collegiate Speakers Series, is aimed at recruiting people to be-
“It is helping people come speech pathologists and to communicate audiologists. 
which is vital and 
Megan Daly, president of 
making their lives 

NSSLHA and a communicative disorders major, said the day will more enjoyable.” be about “telling [students] that 
Megan Daly 
[a career in the field of commu-
NSSLHA president 

nicative disorders] is a health [profession] option since we need more people in the field ... gram. One notable aspect of the There is a rising number of peo-major is that students get op­ple [being diagnosed] with com-portunities to work with patients municative disorders.” regularly, she said. 
Daly said not only has the club “Everyone is assigned a cli­been working to recruit fresh-ent during their senior year for men and sophomore students 10 sessions [10 weeks] ... This is but area high school students something unique about our as well. “I think [this day is] im-program. Not all people [at other portant because a lot of people colleges] get a client at the un­don’t know about the possibili-dergraduate level,” she said. ties with this major, especially Daly also emphasized the 


to  text  donations  all  day  not just one big event in the  
Thursday b.Ttexting “Riley”  spring,”  Kellogg  said.  “We  
to  90999,  which  automati­ raise money year long and we  
callo donates $5 directly to  are doing it for the kids — any  
Dance Marathon.  child receiving treatment at  
Kellogg said any small do- Riley Children’s Hospital in  
nation  will make a  big dif- Indianapolis. Any little bit  
ference for patients in Riley  helps.”  
Children’s Hospital.  
“We want students to under- Contact Madeline Miles at  
stand that Dance Marathon is  mmiles01@saintmarys.edu  


By SARAH SWIDERSKI 
News Writer 
Saint Mary’s students and high school students will have the chance to learn more about careers in the field of commu­nicative disorders at the second annual Communication Science and Disorders Career Awareness Day on Sunday from 2:30 to 4:30 
p.m. in 145 Spes Unica Hall. 
The event, sponsored by the Saint Mary’s chapter of National Student Speech Language and Hearing Association (NSSLHA) in high school, she said. “This way people know if they want to be part of the major coming into college.” 

The day will feature a tour of the clinic of the communicative disorders suite, a professional panel of audiologists and speech pathologists from the South Bend area and a presentation by current SMC communicative disorders majors. 
Daly said the presenters will explain what the major entails and the uniqueness of the SMC communicative disorders pro-versatility of a major in com­municative disorders. “These people can work in schools, hos­pitals, nursing homes and pri­vate practice,” she said.The best part of the degree is being able to help people, Daly said.. 
“It’s one of those helping pro­fessions,” she said. “It is helping people to communicate which is vital and making their lives more enjoyable.” 
Contact Sarah Swiderski at sswiderski01@saintmarys.edu 



Students engage in traditional Mexican celebration 
By ANN MARIE JAKUBOWSKI 
News Writer 
Halloween is not the only celebra­tion on campus this week. Festivities to commemorate the Mexican holi­day Día de los Muertos, or Day of the Dead, will be held from 6 to 8 p.m. Thursday in the Great Hall of the Hesburgh Center for International Studies. 
The event, sponsored by the Kellogg Institute, the Snite Museum and the Institute for Latino Studies, provides a way for students of all backgrounds to honor the dead and experience an important celebra­tion of Mexican culture. 
Kellogg faculty fellow and history professor Jaime Pensado said while celebrating Día de los Muertos is a very different experience here from in Mexico, it is still important to pre­serve the cultural elements of the holiday. 
“There is definitely a nostalgia factor associated with looking back at your culture from the outside like this,” Pensado said. “Many Latinos here are embracing the Day of the Dead as a time to revisit their past and a way to reconnect.” 
Pensado is one of the event’s fac­ulty organizers who collaborated with student groups to plan and orchestrate the celebration. Senior Alejandro Sigala also helped with the planning and will deliver a talk at the celebration tomorrow about the “ofrenda,” or altar, that students constructed as a traditional part of the celebration. Sigala said such ofrendas are put together in honor of the dead and can be personal or political in nature. 

The ofrenda at this year’s celebra­tion honors the people who have died in the Mexican drug wars over the past 10 years, Pensado said. 
“Ofrendas can be very specific, but this year we’re going beyond a specific person and taking advan­tage of the opportunity to reconnect and think about the thousands who have died in Mexico over the last two years as a result of the drug wars,” Pensado said. “It’s an opportunity to politicize an ofrenda, and this year students put it together to articulate their own interests and concerns in Mexico.” 
Sigala said the ofrenda is the fo­cal point of the celebration, and it has personal meaning to many of the stu­dents who helped construct it. 
“For some of us, we have fam­ily members who have been affected by the violence of the drug wars in Mexico,” Sigala said. “[The ofrenda] duals as a political statement to raise awareness of this violence and the US-Mexico relations that help fuel it.” 
Sigala said the ofrenda includes commemorative objects that repre­sent the person or people to which it is dedicated. 
“We included American and Mexican flags, as well as bullet shell casings, imagery associated with drugs and money and several differ­ent objects that are iconic of the drug war,” he said. 
Pensado said he hopes the state­ment the ofrenda makes at the event will help bring the drug war issues closer to home for students. 
“For us, we see the violence that’s taking place in Mexico as a Mexican problem and rarely see the interna­tional connection behind such vio­lence,” Pensado said. “This gives us an opportunity to talk about the issues and talk about our own involvement.” 
The Mexican Working Group, sponsored by the Kellogg Institute to create awareness of Mexican-American issues today, sought to use the Día de los Muertos celebration as an academic opportunity for students as well, Pensado said. 
“The group helps make sure stu­dents get the opportunity to par­ticipate in the celebration, and in this case, they also will present papers on what the Day of the Dead means, and one of our graduate students will lecture on the drug war,” he said. “We wanted to give our students a chance 

shop the private marketplace for taxing those with incomes about 
Economy 

insurance.” $1 million, while Romney wants 
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1 

The candidates are opposed on to expand the tax base by elimi­ages and insurance vouch-tax policy as well, he said. Obama nating deductions and loopholes ers that would allow retirees to has proposed gaining revenue by that he has not identified in full. 
PAID ADVERTISEMENT 

to improve their skills academi­cally, and this celebration is a good opportunity.” 
Pensado said the academic discus­sion that will take place at the celebra­tion will continue in the spring with an undergraduate student conference sponsored by the Kellogg Institute where students can present their pa­pers on Mexican-American issues, including the drug war. 
“This is all part of our attempt to give students an opportunity to engage 
Notre Dame economics pro­fessor Robert Flood said the candidates, no matter their different philosophies, would both have to take the same basic steps toward a stronger economy. 
“Both need to move the bud­get toward balance,” he said. “Both will have to raise more revenue and spend less.” 
Economist Austan Goolsbee is a professor at The University of Chicago’s Booth School of Business and the former Chairman of the Council of Economic Advisors under Obama. 
Obama has focused on cut­ting taxes for the middle class and letting high income rates rise, Goolsbee said, whereas Romney has called for “across­the-board” tax cuts that tend to benefit those with higher incomes, abolishing the estate tax and cutting capital income taxes. 
“I think it’s a pretty funda­mental issue of the election,” Goolsbee said. “Do you think economic growth comes from a small group of people at the top or from broad-based relief with investments in training, infrastructure and innovation?” 
Goolsbee called Romney “factually incorrect” in his statement that the unemploy­ment rate has been dropping because people have stopped looking for work and left the job force. 
“Suggesting that nothing has improved since January 2009 is absurd,” he said. “”We were in the middle of an epic down­turn that almost careered into with their own heritage and also with political and social issues,” he said. 
Sigala said he hopes students of all backgrounds will come to the event and explore the culture presented. 
“It’s important to approach it all with an open mind,” Sigala said. “You’ll get a bit of history, a bit of aca­demic learning and a bit of food and entertainment.” 
Contact Ann Marie Jakubowski at ajakubo1@nd.edu 
a depression. … The route problem is that growth has been modest — around 2 per­cent — and that’s not enough to really juice the hiring side.” 
Fuerst agreed with Romney’s claim, saying the economic re­bound after the recession has been tough on job hunters. 
“The labor market recov­ery has been very, very, very weak,” Fuerst said. “In my view, the best measure of [the job situation] is the percent of the population employed. This was just about 63 percent be­fore the recession. During the recession, it fell to about 58.5 percent and has remained re­markably flat since then.” 
Shortly after Election Day, the nation could hit the ap­proaching fiscal cliff, which Fuerst said will take consider­ation from more than just the president. 
“My guess is that no matter who wins the election, that the Congress will push most of these issues down the road about six months so that the administration will have time to come up with a complete policy proposal,” he said. 
A mid-October poll from Rasmussen Reports found 50 percent of voters trusted Romney over Obama on the economy, while 43 percent fa­vored the incumbent president. The race has only tightened as Election Day approaches, but one fact remains clear for the winner — after Nov. 6, one of these two men will have to put the money where his mouth is. 
Contact Megan Doyle at mdoyle11@nd.edu 
THE OBSERVER | THURSDAY NOVEMBER 1, 2012 | NDSMCOBSERVER.COM NEWS 
Voting 
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1 
equal protection constitutional challenges brought by same-sex couples married under state law. 
In comparison, his Republican opponent Gov. Mitt Romney, sup­ports a constitutional ban on gay marriage, in addition to a ban on same-sex civil unions if they dif­fer from marriage in name only. Romney has said he would not seek to overturn the repeal of “Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell.” 
Newell said she is pleased with the increased discourse on gay rights, saying the issue is a “hot topic” right now. 
“I just think it is going to be one of those things that we’re going to look back and be [like], ‘What were people even thinking?’” 
A ‘big deal’ when casting the ballot? 
Senior Pat Adams, who already has cast his ballot for Romney, said he does not support same-sex marriage because it conflicts with his faith. 
“As a practicing Catholic — I am a theology major — I look to the Catholic Church to help me form my conscience on issues like this,” he said. “The Catechism is pretty clear there is a distinction between orientation and action.” 
Gay rights issues were “rela­tively important” but not the most prominent issue in casting his ballot for the Republican can­didate, Adams said. He said the issue of same-sex marriage and other gay rights have not been prominent in either candidate’s campaign. 
“To be totally honest, neither campaign talked about it a whole lot,” he said. “I think it is a pretty good strategy on both sides be­cause the focus of the election has overwhelmingly [been] on the economy.” 
Senior Carson Kirkpatrick, who is gay, said gay rights issues are a “big deal” for him in the upcomi 
“And I think for my friends, it is too, even some of my straight friends have expressed concern whether or not they should vote for Obama or Mitt Romney,” he said. “The ones that are more moderate or on the fence. … I think where their split is their eco­nomic views and social views.” 
Kirkpatrick said he thinks there is a struggle for voters in choosing between candidates that may ap­peal to different issues at stake. 
“There is no middle ground between the two candidates,” he said. “You can pick Mitt Romney … but he’s going to do something you don’t believe in the social area, and with Obama, some peo­ple have argued he’s had a chance to fix the economy, and the econ­omy is not fixed, but then he is on the right track socially.” 
Newell said she recognizes much of popular support for Romney stems from his success­ful business career and his eco­nomic policies. However, she said this is just one issue in determin­ing a candidate. 
“As much as that of course is im­portant, people are people. We’re not just members of this country where we work every day,” Newell said. “So that is what concerns me, that he may make progress in some arenas — but I can defi­nitely see him putting that on the back-burner.” 

Senior Lauren Peartree, whose older brother is gay, said there is a momentum of support for same-sex marriage among younger generations, something she does not see totally stopping even if Romney is elected. 
“I hope it will [continue],” she said. “I think it has a lot to do with our generation growing up, and how we view things.” 
But if Romney is elected, Peartree said she hopes the Republican candidate becomes more moderate in his views on gay rights. 
“I think [a lot of what he says] is to get the conservative vote,” she said. “I don’t think he is necessar­ily close-minded. I don’t know if it is me being idealistic, but it’s what I would like to think.” 
However, she said the fact gay rights issues are an integral com­ponent of political discourse is to not be taken lightly. 
“I personally don’t think it is an issue to be ignored,” Peartree said. 
Hitting home 
With several gay relatives, Newell said she sometimes forgets others may not be as personally invested in supporting same-sex marriage. 
“For me, I can’t imagine tell­ing my brother or my uncle or my aunt they can’t marry the person they love,” she said. “I think a lot of people don’t have that because they are removed from it, and they never even talked to someone that is gay. For me it is just something that is just so in-my-face, I guess I am just emotionally charged.” 
Most of Newell’s friends are “to­tally on board” with Referendum 74, which would allow for same-sex marriage in Washington while also preserving the right to refuse to perform, recognize or accom­modate any marriage ceremony. 
“I think most people I know from Seattle, maybe because it is more liberal, it kind of is just like, ‘Why are we even talking about this any more?’” she said. 
Senior Molly Millet, a native of Maryland who has a gay relative, said one of the main reasons she registered to vote is to vote on Question 6, a state referendum that would legalize same-sex marriage in the state. She said while she would still be voting for same-sex marriage regardless, having a gay relative makes the fight important to her. 
“I would still hold the same beliefs,” Millet said. “I just think seeing it on a more personal level and having the exposure to the fact that there are people close to me I think should be able to get married. 
“I think they are some of the most healthy, normal couples I have ever seen. The fact that I have had the personal exposure to it makes it that much more im­portant to me.” 
Like Newell, Millet said she sees similar sentiments of support among her friends back home. 
“Because it is something that a lot of young people care about and I think are a little more unan­imous on than older generations, I see a lot of my friends getting a lit­tle more involved because of this issue that might not otherwise be as politically involved,” she said. 
Opposing viewpoints 
At Notre Dame, Adams said he feels his views are shared by many 
— but not the majority —because it is a Catholic university. 
“Other people are coming from the same spot,” he said. “I would say definitely in terms of being a 21-year-old male in the context of other universities, I don’t think it is a normal position at all. But for Notre Dame, I think it is fair to say there is a pretty conservative base on campus.” 
Going to Notre Dame, Millet said she has come into contact with other students who do not share her beliefs on same-sex marriage. 
“I’ve been in conversation with people who are vehemently against it,” she said. “I am not a confrontational person and I don’t want to start an issue that doesn’t need to be brought up, but the arguments I have heard that are against gay marriage don’t make sense to me.” 
For Newell, those who make a decision to not support same-sex marriage based on religious beliefs without exposing them­selves to the gay community is “really scary.” 
“It’s just like they don’t know it, they make no effort to know it, so that’s it, their mind is made up,” she said. “I don’t get how other people can choose how other people’s lives are determined … It’s so archaic to me.” 
Political ‘give and take’ 
Senior Tom Temmerman is gay — but he also has already cast his vote for Romney. While he said gay rights issues are “re­ally important” to him, he has to engage in a “give and take” with respect to whom he votes for. 
“I’m voting on all of the is­sues,” he said. “I’m not su­per pleased with either of the candidates.” 
Temmerman said he feels he can vote for a candidate without agreeing with every facet of his platform. 
“It’s hard,” Temmerman said. “It’s one of those things where people are like, ‘How can you even support that?  They say ter­rible things about [gay rights], but at the same time … if they 
PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
BRANDON KEELEAN | The Observer 

did say positive things, they would lose a lot of people who support them. As far as I’m con­cerned, I don’t support that, I’m not pleased when [Romney] says stuff like that.” 
Temmerman said he does not take Romney’s opposition on same-sex marriage person­ally, but he is worried if elected, Romney may slow the momen­tum of the gay rights movement. 
“That’s my only concern … but I don’t think he has the pow­er to stop it from happening,” he said. “I don’t think the amount of power he has to slow it down is that great, just because it has become such a predominant is­sue. I think there are a lot of peo­ple who will rally in support of it and keep it moving forward.” 
Contact Sam Stryker at                    sstryke1@nd.edu 


Ziqi 
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1 
accident Oct. 18 on Route 933 just outside the entrance of Saint Mary’s, was an international student from the Jiangsu Province in China. She was studying philosophy and math­ematics at Saint Mary’s and taking engineering classes at Notre Dame. 
At the visitation, Zhang’s mother received a special gift from an anon­ymous member of the Class of 1963. The woman gave Zhang’s mother a sterling silver Saint Mary’s ring with the College seal on it. The woman said she felt compelled to give the ring to her family when she heard of Zhang’s passing. 
“I just felt it would be a small ges­ture from someone in the Saint Mary’s family,” she said. “The Saint Mary’s family extends beyond class year. Once a Belle, always a Belle.” 
The visitation was another chance for friends of Zhang to remem­ber her spirit and intelligence after her sudden death. Patricia Sayre, philosophy professor and Zhang’s advisor, said she was impressed with Zhang’s determination to study the subjects she wanted to, regardless of difficulty. 

“On that day when I first met her, she came into my office and told me she wanted to major in philoso­phy because, in effect, she wanted to be able to think more freely than was possible within the constraints posed by real-world engineering problems,” she said. “Ziqi was a per­son that knew her own mind.” 
Sayre said she was impressed with Zhang’s courage and bravery in her studies. Philosophy, Sayre said, is a special subject that not just anyone can study. 
“I would like [Ziqi’s family] to know that the choice to study philosophy is not one to be taken lightly, and thatit takes a special kind of courage to go down the path she was taking,” she said. “I want to try to convey some­thing about how it was a courage that extended far beyond simply be­ing willing to go away to study thou­sands of miles from home. It was the courage to confront and explore 
PAID ADVERTISEMENT 

serious human issues and go off in search of the truth no matter where that search might take you.” 
While Zhang was known throughout Saint Mary’s for her bravery in academics, she was also regarded as someone who wasn’t afraid to take risks. Business and economics professor Richard Measell and his wife Nancy spend a lot of time with international stu­dents to provide comfort, entertain­ment and friendship to them while they are studying at Saint Mary’s. 
One of the favorite destinations they liked to take students to was the beach in New Buffalo, Mich. On the way home, they would stop at Oinks, a popular ice cream place in the town. 
“We always stopped at Oinks to get whatever flavored ice cream the students wanted,” Richard Measell said. “She got different flavors [each time].” 
Nancy Measell said Zhang was someone who was always surpris­ing people with her choices. 
“She was very adventurous and always wanted to try new things,” she said. “You would always go, ‘Well, why would you want to do that?’ She was just adventuresome like that.” 
The Measells also introduced Zhang and other international students to horseback riding. For Zhang, who lived in a big city, Richard Measell said this activity al­lowed her to get out to the country­side and see more of nature. 
“She was always interested in animals, and for me, the greatest memory of her was her riding hors­es,” Richard Measell said. “Here was somebody who maybe never even touched a horse before she came here and … she was riding on a horse and she just loved that.” 
Richard and Nancy Measell said the students were supposed to just walk with their horse, but Zhang had other plans. 
“Ziqi and her adventurous spirit decided, ‘Let’s just gallop,’” Nancy Measell said. 
Contact Bridget Feeney at bfeene01@saintmarys.edu and Jill Barwick at jbarwi01@saintmarys.edu 
Hope 
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1 
and Grace Johnson created the film, which follows three families from Joliet, Il.: the Twietmeyers, Heims and Allens, who have doubled the size of their families by adopt­ing orphans with HIV/AIDS. The families then created Project Hopeful, a non-profit organization trying to pro­vide homes and support for children with HIV/AIDS. 
“The premise of our story is just to give you a glimpse into their everyday lives and how manageable these diseases are,” Kiley said. 
The documentary was a project for professor Ted Mandell’s documentary pro­duction class, Kiley said. 
“Grace and I both knew that we wanted to create a social change documentary, so we began searching for positive human interest stories that might fit what we were look­ing to create,” she said. 
When the two found out about Project Hopeful, Kiley said they knew this was a mes­sage they wanted to spread. 
“We have helped to get so much press and recognition for this non-profit, and that has become the greatest ac­complishment,” she said. “This reflects our greatest goal, which is to find more homes and families for more children and to spread aware­ness about how manageable it is to live with HIV/AIDS. Spreading this message has been such a blessing for us, and hearing how many people it has affected is more than we could have ever imagined.” 
Johnson said the idea of the documentary was to let these families’ stories shine through without manipulat­ing them in any way. 
“We aimed to let the sto­ries of the families speak for themselves,” Johnson said. “That is why we are so proud of this project because it feels 

PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
real and a truly unobstructed account of their lives.” 
Kiley said she and Johnson didn’t have to do much to show how special these fami­lies truly are. 
“We didn’t want anyone to feel like we were trying to make these people seem in­spirational,” she said. “They do all of that on their own.” 
Kiley and Johnson received the Broad Avenue Filmmakers Award, a grant through the Film, Television and Theatre Department, to fund “Project 

“We aimed to let the stories of the 
familes speak for 
themselves.” 
Grace Johnson 
Notre Dame class of 2012 

Hopeful,” Kiley said. 
“We truly couldn’t have made this film or had it seen on such a grandiose level, if it wasn’t for the FTT Department,” Kiley said. 
Because the grant enabled them to use professional equipment, Kiley said she and Johnson realized the poten­tial the film had for reaching wide audiences. 
“After the first day of shoot­ing, I think we realized how much good this film could do,” she said. “We had the power to use professional equipment to make a film that could be seen across the country, spreading news about these inspirational families and their incredible work. Our hope was that we could create something that would be meaningful, but not manipulating.” 
Even though Kiley has a job at Lionsgate Films and Jax Media and Johnson works at Bravo, Kiley said they plan to make a sequel to “Project Hopeful.” 
“We are currently in pre­production for a follow-up documentary. Our working title right now is ‘Adopted: The Project Hopeful Story,’ where we will be follow­ing the Twietmeyers and the Heims as they both travel to Ukraine this fall and winter to adopt more children for their already amazing fami­lies,” she said. 
Johnson said she would like to see more Notre Dame film students help out with the sequel. 
“Whether a joint venture between current documen­tary students at Notre Dame or another solo project, we’re hoping to receive assistance or funding in capturing more moments with these families as they continue to build their families and assist children in need,” Johnson said. 
To learn more about “Project Hopeful,” visit www. projecthopefulmovie.com 
Contact Tori Roeck at vroeck@nd.edu 


THE OBSERVER | THURSDAY NOVEMBER 1, 2012 | NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
INSIDE COLUMN 

You could be a saint 
‘Office’ downfall 

Peter Steiner 
Sports Writer 
Bears. Beets. Battlestar Galactica. 

It is perhaps the most recognizable quote from the show that reigned su­preme on Thursday nights for nearly the last decade. But now after years of laugh­ter, “The Office” is dying a painful death. 
Most fans predicted the show’s down­fall when Steve Carrell announced he would be leaving “The Office” roughly two and a half years ago. Unfortunately, producers failed to contradict this pre­diction with last season’s abysmal effort to replace Michael Scott. 
But if the demise of “The Office” has been a series of unfortunate events that began with the departure of Michael Scott, then last year showed “The Office” was in penultimate peril. Someone hit the panic button, because this year the show has hit rock bottom. 
Sure, the season premiere and second episode provided a glimmer of hope that the show might just go out in style. But after three lifeless episodes in a row, these small successes have only served to remind us how terrible the current show is in comparison to seasons before. 
The problems with “The Office” this season are plentiful. First is the confus­ing character of Nellie Bertram. Who is she and what purpose does she serve in “The Office?” Worst of all, Nellie has essentially replaced Jim as the character interacting with one of the funniest fig­ures — Dwight Schrute. 
Which brings us to the next problem: the changing personality of Dwight Schrute. “The Office” has tried to hu­manize Dwight. But conveying this beet farmer’s soft side doesn’t fit with the core of “The Office.”  Did Dwight not once ask: “How would I describe myself? Three words: hard working, alpha male, jack­hammer, merciless, insatiable.” 
This ability to quote “The Office” has been a large contributor to the show’s success. In the first five episodes of the season, the memorable jokes that Michael Scott used to deliver on a consis­tent basis have been missing. 
The biggest problem with today’s of­fice? The boss. Of course no one was going to replace Michael Scott, but who would have expected his predecessor to be so awful? Even though Ed Helms is a great actor, Andy Bernard has been a cruel and unbearable regional manager. While Michael insulted everyone in the office, they still loved him. It isn’t just that Andy has not been funny, but his new persona has ruined the entertaining chemistry of “The Office.” 
A wise man once said, “Do I want to be feared or loved? Easy, both. I want people to be afraid of how much they love me.” 
Unfortunately, I’m afraid of how little I love “The Office.” 
Contact Peter Steiner at psteiner@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Kate Barrett 
Faithpoint 

Certainly you can remember times when you’ve heard people say of someone heroic or who has endured great suffering with patience and grace, “She’s a saint!” or, “He’s a saint!” Perhaps you’ve even heard it said about one of your own parents (though surely not because rais­ing you caused them suffering . . .). Though we most often think of the big names like Francis, Therésè or Augustine when we hear “saint,” the Church from its beginnings used the term to mean any baptized Christian. On this Feast of All Saints, we ought to give thanks for the people we know and those we’ll never know whose lives have allowed others to see God at work in the world a little more clearly. 
Contrary to criticisms that we worship the saints lavishly with our statues, feast days and prayers, the Church teaches us to honor the saints. Just as we would honor people who excel in the sciences, literature, peacemaking or the arts with Nobel or Pulitzer Prizes or Laetare Medals, why wouldn’t we hold in especially high esteem those who lived (and often died) to bring the world closer to the Kingdom of God through their courageous faith? Whether a well-known or anonymous holy man or woman, we can best honor a saint by imitating Christ in our lives, by being the kind of disciples who can speak out about God’s love. 
Our culture holds up an almost constant stream of men and women who have achieved fame for their accomplishments in sports, film, music or simply for being widely-pho­tographed celebrities. Most of them, if we’re honest with ourselves, are not people whose lives we truly wish to emulate. What a great idea, then, for our faith to celebrate saints’ feast days in order to remind ourselves of the people we really would like to imitate, and the many and various ways a person can serve God. 
Have an urge for world travel? St. Frances Xavier Cabrini spent her whole life on the move, from Italy to the U.S. to Nicaragua, Panama and Peru and back. Long to serve the poor?  St. Martin de Porres begged on the street for money he used for poor families in Lima. Want to get the rich to help the poor? St. Vincent de Paul was a master at it. Today we honor not one particular saint, but all who are saints, and especially the ones most of us have never heard of. 
Christianity proclaims God’s un­conditional love, and some people just have a special capacity to dis­close this love of God to the world. Think about it. If your faith in Jesus Christ, your belief in God, is alive and well today, it’s because God called you through the example or witness of another person or many people. And those people grew in their faith because of the example and love of others before them.  Our faith has been handed on to us from genera­tion to generation, and the people who have done the handing on are saints, whether publicly recognized by the Church or quietly known in a family or small community of believers. 
If future generations will experi­ence the joy of the Christian life, it will be because we allow God to work through us to proclaim it. Who will show, by word and example, the sav­ing love of Jesus Christ to your chil­dren and grandchildren, nieces and great-nephews? Who will bring the truths of Scripture and the sacramen­tal life to corners of the world who have never known God? Who will seek out those most in need and tend to their hunger and thirst? If you’re looking around for other folks to raise their hands, quit looking and raise your own. Today of all days should remind us to answer “I” to the above questions. God can work through each of us if we let him.  We honor the saints by the way we live our lives, standing on the foundation of an in­numerable communion of saints who have offered us the saving love and example of Jesus Christ. 
Kate Barrett is assistant director of Undergraduate Ministry in the Office of Campus Ministry. She can be reached at kbarrett@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

QUOTE OF THE DAY WEEKLY POLL 
Who is your favorite football player? 
“Opportunity is missed by most people because it is dressed in overalls and looks like work.” 
Tweet your response with #ViewpointPoll 
Thomas Edison
 by 5 p.m. on Thursday. 
American inventor 



THE OBSERVER | THURSDAY NOVEMBER 1, 2012 | NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 


The case against voter ID laws 
Matthew Mleczko 
Guest Columnist 

Given the upcoming election, at­tention has been directed towards the recent efforts by state legislatures to protect against voter fraud by requir­ing a photo ID to cast a ballot. I applaud The Observer for featuring this topic in Monday’s paper, as I believe it to be an important conversation to have. I would, however, like to respectfully present the case against voter ID laws and shed light on what they mean for our democracy. 
First, turnout in United States elections is abysmal. Just 55.45 percent of the vot­ing age population casted a ballot in 2008 compared to Denmark’s 83.2 percent in 2007 or Sweden’s 82.63 percent in 2010. Considering the growing number of citi­zens — including students of this uni­versity — that throw away their votes, it’s not only hard to make the case for more voting requirements that will decrease turnout even further, but also justify them on the grounds that our elections are something sacred to be upheld. 
Perhaps since turnout is so low and any one vote now has more influence, the need to ensure the validity of each ballot becomes all the more important. Yet, when the top 20 percent of earn­ers are about twice as likely to vote as the bottom 20 percent of earners in the country, it’s important to keep in mind whose votes are being protected and increasingly whose voices are being heard. The utter lack of any dialogue on issues relating to poverty or homeless­ness in the presidential campaign is striking.  Additionally, we have the right to not vote at all and that’s fine, but we are increasingly protecting the rights of people to throw away their votes while challenging the rights of people, who, in many cases, want to vote. 
Moreover, when News 21 conducts a study and finds 10 incidents of voter im­personation in all elections since 2000, the idea that voter ID laws are justified is ridiculous. Our government can’t bring itself to pass a budget, yet we don’t seem to have any trouble passing bills that Pennsylvania’s house majority leader claimed would “allow Gov. Romney to win the state of Pennsylvania.” How ironic it is that one student interviewed in The Observer would think my concern is “inserting a political agenda on an apolitical issue.” 
On the surface, a voter ID bill seems completely reasonable, but it undeniably disenfranchises minorities, the poor, the elderly and college students. Even if these were unintended consequences, we cer­tainly understand them now, which begs the question: If voter impersonation is such a non-issue, why are we still so ada­mant about these voter ID laws? 
Talk to Brian Metz, a Notre Dame se­nior, who can’t vote in this year’s election because his home state of Tennessee won’t allow him to cast his first ballot by mail, even though he is registered and can confirm his identity. Talk to some­one in Kenosha, Wisc., without a car or license. In the case of a voter ID law, he or she would have to miss work, some­how find a ride to the DMV out in the county where the buses don’t run and wait in line to obtain an ID to vote. Talk to a resident of the South Bend Center for the Homeless, someone who wants to vote but doesn’t have a birth certificate, social security card or passport to obtain a “free” ID to vote. That resident must cast a provisional ballot on Election Day, somehow go to the county-city building within 10 days after election day and, in the presence of the circuit court clerk, sign an affidavit of indigence. Then and only then, after going through the de­meaning process of making it known that they are so poor they can’t even prove their citizenship, will their vote be counted, even though the election will be decided well-before then. 
Even if someone were to adhere to the law, nobody seems to understand it. It took numerous phone calls to the Election Division under the Indiana Secretary of State to find anyone who un­derstood the voting process for homeless citizens. The fact that our government officials don’t understand election laws that have passed, especially how they af­fect the poor, is highly suspect. And voter ID laws don’t even skim the surface of the problem. Voter intimidation and phony voting instructions by poll workers are an issue. Moreover, most states ban con­victed felons from ever voting again. 
But who cares about these people? These voter ID laws, reminiscent of Jim Crow poll taxes and literacy tests, are the nail in the coffin for people that have already such little incentive to vote. Why would these citizens vote in a system that not only ignores their interests, but has open contempt for them as people? 
The persistence with which people ad­vocate for these voter ID laws highlights the anti-democratic, intolerant notion alive and well in America: the notion that someone’s right to marry somehow infringes on my right to marry, that someone’s right to healthcare somehow infringes on my right to healthcare and that someone’s right to vote somehow infringes on my right to vote. We need to stop framing our differences in terms of what they take away from us, but what we can give to each other. It is a privilege to live in a country that subscribes to that ideal, to live in that social contract and those that still enjoy their right to vote should set a new precedent that encour­ages us to live up to that ideal. 
Matthew Mleczko is a sophomore eco­nomics and political science major, as well as a Hesburgh Program in Public Service minor. He can be reached at mmleczko@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTERS 

Oklahoma hospitality 
As a 2008 graduate, I have seen my fair share of college football games, including Notre Dame or not. The experience I had the last weekend of October was incred­ible. I have not come across a friendlier and classier group of fans than the ones I encountered in Norman, Oklahoma. The overwhelming majority of Oklahoma fans were kind, welcoming and some even asked if my friend and former Zahm room­mate Michael Loulan (Class of 2007) and I needed any help getting around campus. I was invited to one tailgate after simply greeting a few Sooners fans and striking up a short conversation. After the game, two separate encounters involved Sooner fans coming up to the two of us, congratulating us on our victory and shaking our hands. I had never experienced anything like this from opposing fans as a Notre Dame alumnus and fan. 
Several factors are involved in why I believe Notre Dame fans were treated so well in Norman. The president of the University of Oklahoma allegedly sent fans a reminder of how well they were treated at Notre Dame in 1999. Some believe that Sooner fans’ overconfidence heading into the game may have played a role in their friendliness. Also, the people of Oklahoma in general, including ones I encountered off-campus in a non-football-related manner, were friendly and hospitable. No matter the intentions behind their behavior, Oklahoma Sooners fans deserve the usual classy Notre Dame hospitality next September when Oklahoma plays in South Bend. I wish more fan bases comported themselves like Oklahoma fans in general. If this if what we potentially have to look forward to by playing teams like Michigan, Michigan State and Purdue less, I fully support it. It seemed as if Oklahoma didn’t have to validate itself as a football program with derogatory comments towards their opponents. I would love to encounter more fan bases such as that of Oklahoma, and I hope Notre Dame takes this into account when creating future football schedules. 
Andrew Digan 
alumnus         Class of 2008 Nov. 1 
Challenging ‘mediocrity’ 
Dear Mr.Pearce, 
I’ve read your Oct. 29 column a few times. First I rolled my eyes, not shocked by this opinion. Then, I became angry at the assumptions you made about categoriz­ing diversity as “artificial” and personally agreeing that “struggling,” underrep­resented minority students switch to “easier” majors because they feel they don’t belong with their peers. Your use of the “URM” acronym as a catch all for every “artificially diverse” student was also insulting. Maybe I should start referring to “majority” students as “PWMs,” an equally misguided acronym. I’m not going to try and debunk all the wonderfully well-thought-out arguments in your column. But I will say this: 
Last May, I graduated from Notre Dame with a degree in chemical engineering. Earning that degree was the hardest challenge I’ve ever taken on. It wasn’t hard because I’m African American, or because I was at a university that, statistically, probably admitted me to promote “artificial” diversity or because I felt like I “didn’t belong” with my peers. After reading your column a few more times, I’ve come to this conclusion: Thank you, Mr. Pearce. When my chemical engineering classes became exceedingly difficult junior year, it was off-hand comments and Viewpoint columns like yours that compelled me to finish my degree in this particular major. Your categorizing of people like me as “mediocre” compared to your own “excel­lence” drove me every night to push through differential equations, fluid mechan­ics, thermodynamics and 70-page lab reports. Thank you for reminding me why I stuck it out. Whenever someone remarked that people of my “mediocre” status on campus were destined to have “stunted” academic achievements to promote “artificial” diversity, I became even more convinced that I was good enough to get a degree in a “harder” major, just like anyone else. 
So thanks, truly. I’m going to print off your column, stick it onto the bulletin board in my office next to my degree and picture of my chemical engineering Class of 2012 on the Dome steps and read it every time I think my top-5 ranked Ph.D. program is getting tough. 
Best wishes, 


Kate Turner
           alumnae Class of 2012 Nov. 1 

THE OBSERVER | THURSDAY NOVEMBER 1, 2012 | NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 

‘THE OFFICE’ 
By WILL NEAL 
Scene Writer 

How many of you are still watching “The Office” on NBC? 
From what I’m usually told, most of you stopped following the show a couple of seasons back when Steve Carell left the cast, or maybe long before that. 
Fans of the show would argue the series has become monoto­nous (What documentary crew needs nine years of footage on a paper company?), or say the quality of the show has drastically de­clined in quality since it’s earlier years. There were even plans for a Dwight spin-off called “The Farm” (which NBC recently passed on). The real issue isn’t that the series hasn’t been delivering some 
quality episodes the past couple of years, but that “The Office” hasn’t felt like the same show fans have come to love. 
For any of you who have lost faith in the show over these past few years, I’m here to tell you that your worries can be put to rest for their final season. “The Office” is good again. 
There are several reasons for this turnaround. First, the origi­nal series show-runner Greg Daniels is back to take control of the final season. Not only was he behind the wheel when “The Office” was at its comical peak, but he left the show to help turn NBC’s “Parks and Recreation” into the hilarious sitcom it’s 
become. 

While Daniels deserves most of the credit, it’s possible that giving producer credits to John Krasinski (Jim), Jenna Fisher (Pam), Rainn Wilson (Dwight), and Ed Helms (Andy), has brought some positive changes behind the scenes as it allows the key actors to become more invested. 
The story lines have not just been funny; they seem far more genuine than they have in recent years. I wasn’t happy with how the show handled the Andy/Erin relationship because they broke one of the most important rules of visual storytell­ing: show and don’t tell. 
We loved those moments with Pam and Jim because we just knew from their awkward in­teractions that they had feelings for each other. 
Andy and Erin just kept saying in inter­views that they liked one another, then story 
‘HOW I MET YOUR MOTHER’ 
Before I begin with the criticisms, let me just say that I love “How I Met Your Mother.” 
It’s a show that’s always thrived on well-developed characters, heart and of course strong humor. There are days where I’ll find myself humming the tune of “Let’s Go to the Mall” or altering my behavior to abide by the Bro Code. 
That being said, from what I’ve seen thus far in their (poten­tially) final season, HIMYM is having a major case of the yips (references!). 
The episodes of this eighth season have been short on laughs and even shorter on storytelling. We are expected to make it through an entire episode by relying on cheap and repetitious gags only to 
finish with a predictable or unsatisfying ending (the conclusion of season premiere “Farhampton” being an exception). While there have only been four episodes this season, this is becoming an all-
VS. 

too-familiar flaw. 
Whether a ninth season happens or not, show-runners Craig Thomas and Carter Bays have stated they’re moving forward as if this is the show’s final run. 
The central problem behind HIMYM this year is the storytelling. Fans have always recognized that the show is building up answer the “Who’s the Mother?” question, and they’ve stuck with it for 
eight years because the road to answering that question has been both hilarious and heart-warming. They’ve even managed to throw in a few twists and turns along the way. 
The issue this season is the foundation for the ending has been established, and until those final few episodes, the upcoming storylines leave little to be desired. We know Barney and Robin will ultimately have a wedding and Ted will meet the girl of his 
dreams at the end of the season. 
Until then, we have to sit through the “fall of break-ups” and follow story lines to events we know will already happen in un­satisfying ways (just look at Barney and Quinn’s break-up). 
This would be perfectly fine if these filler episodes would actu­ally reveal more to the story or at least deliver on the humor, but they don’t. 
Take the episode “Who Wants to Be a Godparent?” as an example. Here we have Marshall and Lilly deciding on their son’s back-
lines were created to pair the two together. up caretakers and in order to make the Thankfully, this season we’re seeing a new choice between Ted, Barney and Robin, they romance between Erin and a newcomer named are seeing a romance blossom that has yet to be create an over-elaborate (and mostly un-Pete (Jake Lacy), which works because as we funny) game show. In the end they decide on (wait for it…) all acknowledged. three of them to be the godparents. If that 
On the note of relationships, the writers have was an option in the first place, why is there finally made Jim and Pam’s marriage interest-an entire episode surrounding this sole plot? ing again. With Jim planning to move the fam-Even with these lackluster episodes, we can ily out of Scranton and invest their savings into stay faithful the cast will continue giving a start-up business, there’s plenty of tension strong performances (even with weak building between the two. material) and the show will bounce back. 
Even better is how other long time It is certainly not a strong start to their characters, like Andy and Dwight, are last season, but when the time comes to continuing to reveal more about their move the story forward, I can only hope character through interesting story lines. the cast and those behind the scenes will 
While I’m not trying to suggest that this give it their all. season is perfect, it is the final install-I point out these recent flaws because ment of a comedy series that is greatly I love this show and I hope that the final adored. “The Office” will never be as season of HIMYM will eventually deliver clever and fresh as it was in the early years in a way all of the fans can be happy with. 
(especially without Michael Scott) but it’s refreshing to see the show returning to Contact Will Neal at wneal@nd.edu familiar roots of humor and storytelling. The views in this column are those of 
“The Office” has improved, so why not the author and not necessarily those of The see how it all ends? Observer. 
BRANDON KEELEAN | The Observer 


THE OBSERVER | THURSDAY NOVEMBER 1, 2012 | NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
WEEKEND EVENTS CALENDAR 
THURSDAY 


What: Red Night 
When: 10 p.m. 
Where: Legends 
How Much: Free 

Graduate student and acoustic spe­cialist Steve Asiala shares the stage with Zahm House’s own Red Night at Legends this Thursday evening. Red Night, for the uniformed, is a group of juniors who rock real hard all the time. They started mainly as a Green Day cover, but the man couldn’t hold them down there, and they’ve since branched out to cover other bands. 
FRIDAY 


What: “This Is Not a Film” When: 7 p.m. Where: DPAC How Much: $4 
Iranian director Jafar Panahi shot this 2011 documentary in secret, and partially from an iPhone. Panahi was on house arrest in Tehran for anti-Iranian themes and, as he was not al­lowed to make any films, was forced to smuggle this film out of the coun­try in a cake to France in order to en­ter it into the Cannes Film Festival. 
SATURDAY 

What: Bingo When: 10 p.m. Where: LaFun Ballroom How Much: Free 
Student Activities Office hosts bingo Saturday in LaFun. It’s at 10 p.m., which has got to be the latest start time for any bingo game ever, not to mention what will most cer­tainly be the youngest average age of participant (Guinness Book of World Records, where you at?). No word yet on what flavor of Jell-O they’ll be serv­ing, but prizes include $250 gift cards to Chipotle and Papa Johns and a golf cart for a week. 
SUNDAY 

What: Broomball Classic When: 4 p.m. Where: Compton Ice Arena How Much: $30 
St. Ed’s Hall puts on its second an­nual Broomball Classic tournament this Sunday at the Compton Family Ice Arena. Each team is guaranteed at least two games, free pizza and the opportunity to go to Mass at midnight in Compton. Each team must consist of three men and three women. 

By MEGHAN THOMASSEN 
Scene Writer 
Tucked into the leftmost prac­tice room on the second floor of Crowley Hall on Wednesday, pia­nist Will Sievern, a junior music and pre-med double major, prac­ticed his piece for the upcoming Concerto Competition. Two mu­sic books, both Chopin, lay on top of the small Steinway & Sons piano. 
“He’s the best,” Sievern said. “I go on binges for composers and for the past year I’ve been reading books and playing a lot of music, just trying to soak in Chopin’s life, because he’s really interesting to me. He only wrote for piano, so a lot of pianists feel a connection with Chopin.” 
Chopin wrote his first con­certo to establish himself as a pianist in Europe. Sievern will play the same piece for his first competition since high school this Friday at the Notre Dame Symphony Orchestra’s Concerto Competition. Every November, student musicians compete to play with the orchestra the fol­lowing spring. Sievern will play against violinists, vocal per­formers and other pianists for the same prize. 

“A concerto is written to be played with an orchestra, but most people don’t get to play a concerto with an orchestra in their whole life,” Sievern said. 
Sievern gave a sneak preview of the concerto he will perform in Friday’s competition. He played the first resounding lines tri­umphantly and then eased into a lovely, complex melody. His hands were nimble and strong on the keys and his expression was firmly concentrated, even though he played the entire piece from memory. 
Sievern’s love affair with Chopin began when he picked up Chopin’s first piano concerto, which he started practicing the piece last January. 
“It’s really emotional,” he said. “It really tells a story to me.” 
Extending his long fingers, he played a bittersweet piece that rose grace­fully to passionate heights and fell slowly to melancholic lows. “It feels so real to me, what Chopin was writing,” he said as he played. “What’s awesome about it too, it changes character again at the very end. It goes up to some kind of a happy ending. Maybe this is the grieving pro­cess for someone.” 
Sievern began his career when he was 6 years old. His father, who gave up his career as a trum­peter early on in life, encouraged him to play the piano. 
“I didn’t really know what I was getting myself into,” Sievern said. 
With natural talent talented, Sievern practiced and competed, but his plans for college track crowded out any time for piano. 
“I threw [piano] aside, and then injuries and other things kept me from fulfilling my poten­tial in track, so I quit and I wanted to play the piano,” he said. “I had been taking lessons, and I was al­ready a music theory and history major along with Arts and Letters Pre-Professional.” 
Sievern said he started preparations for the Concerto Competition with the help of as­sociate professor John Blacklow in the Department of Music. 
“I put a lot of time into it, more than I usually do for a piece,” he said. “There’s different kinds of practicing. You can practice and not really concentrate and just play the notes and get along with it. Or you can practice and take every ounce of concentra­tion that you have and pour into it, and it’s exhausting. But once I wanted to do it, it became a lot easier to do it. I’m really happy with how I’m playing now.” 

When it comes to performanc­es, the pressure can be over­whelming for competitors. To cope, Sievern said he practiced two hours a day for the past nine months. 
“And it all comes down to a 15-minute time window in a competition,” he said. “If I screw up massively, it seems like all the work has gone completely to waste. There’s always the chance that you’ll mess up. There’s al­ways a margin of error. You’re going to play a little bit differ­ently every time, and some of those difference manifest in mistakes.” 
“Once you have a large sample size of performing and compet­ing you always know there’s go­ing to be another time if you screw up. But it’s a huge monster to tackle.” 
Contact Meghan Thomassen at mthomass@nd.edu 
BRANDON KEELEAN | The Observer 


SPORTS AUTHORITY 

Length of season hinders NBA 

Matthew Robison 
Sports Writer 
Like it or not, the NBA is back. For the next eight months, the world of sports will be filled with stories of what Kobe Bryant’s hand feels like at the moment, how many wins the Heat will hypotheti­cally win in the regular season and where Deron Williams might be dealt before the trade deadline. 
The NBA definitely has its merits. Basketball fans get to watch the world’s greatest ath­letes go toe to toe night in and night out. Watching LeBron James and Derrick Rose play basketball is a privilege. They do it better than anyone else on the planet. For that reason, I understand why plenty of people love the NBA. 
But professional basketball certainly has its drawbacks. 

behind. Unlike college basket­ball, professional football and college football, regular season games simply don’t carry the clout they would carry if the regular season were shorter. 
Important players rest against weak opponents. Coaches pull their starters if a game is out of reach. Players give up in games. It’s some­thing that’s rarely seen in any other league. But I’ve seen it happen all too often in the NBA. I do not doubt the work ethic of the players, the strat­egy of coaches or the desire to win. I just think it’s hard to put so much effort into one game when the season is made up of 82. 
Even further, more than half the teams make the playoffs. If a team is in good position in the conference, they need not worry about their position­ing as it relates to one game. Sometimes, teams even take 
The season, and especially the postseason, is simply way too long. Playing 82 games over six months is exorbitant. 
Other than being turned into an everlasting drama by the media, I have one major beef with the NBA. And I think it accounts for the many of the problems we see with the league. 
The season, and especially the postseason, is simply way too long. Playing 82 games over six months is exorbitant. Inevitably, certain players go down with injuries, from fatigue or otherwise, and the season is immediately im­pacted. While it was somewhat of a freak injury, Derrick Rose’s ACL injury during the opening round of the postseason would have been avoided with a shorter season. Dirk Nowitzki, one of the league’s most popu­lar players, is out for the first 10 games of the season because of a knee injury resulting from overuse. 
Because of the season’s length, older players don’t play every game. Frequently, veter­ans take extended breaks dur­ing the season so they can gear up for the postseason. On top of that, it’s easy to see teams concede games if they fall way a look at the standings and decide they would actually prefer to lose. For example, if the Heat see a dangerous-looking Hawks team sitting at No. 4 in the standings. They might rather play the third-seeded Pacers in the second round, whatever the case may be. Because of the length of the season, they could actu­ally manipulate their wins and losses to create this scenario. This may happen in other sports, but I don’t think it’s nearly as feasible as it is in the NBA. 

The solution is simple. Shorten the season. I know owners might gripe about lost revenue. But in the end I think the NBA brand would be strengthened. 
But just like you might have mixed feelings about this col­umn, love it or hate it, the NBA is back —  and for a while. 
Contact Matthew Robison at mrobison@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

NCAA WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 

Baylor favored in Big 12 
Associated Press 
There is no way Brittney Griner and Baylor can win 40 games again this season. As for winning another national championship, why not? 
Every starter returns, including preseason All-Americans Griner and junior point guard Odyssey Sims, from last season’s undefeated title team that was the NCAA’s first 40-game winner. 
The simple math of fewer games this season won’t let them get to the 40-win mark again. 
Top-ranked Baylor is so talented, so deep and so tall behind the 6-foot-8 Griner, they’ve seemingly relegated the Big 12, considered the toughest conference in wom­en’s basketball, to a race for second place. 
“It’s not in our books to go undefeated, but it’s hard not to think about it after going 40-0,” said Griner, one of five Baylor seniors. “It’d be nice to do it again, but our main goal at the end, win those six games and get a national championship.” 
Griner has career averages of 
21.6 points and 8.6 rebounds a game with a Big 12-record 599 blocked shots, 64 shy of break­ing the NCAA mark. And don’t forget the seven dunks. 
Sims had 174 assists last season while averaging 
14.9 points a game. Destiny Williams, a 6-1 senior, av­eraged 10.1 points and 9.1 rebounds. 
“Last season, we didn’t care about 40-0. Our deal was to get back to where we lost,” said Williams, referring to the Lady Bears’ loss to eventual NCAA champ Texas A&M in 

FOR RENT 
Rent Knute Rockne’s home for football weekends. Perfect location 
- 1 block from Eddy St. Commons. Sleeps 8-10. Contact 574-876-4324 
WANTED 
PART TIME WORK $14.25 base-appt earnparttime.com
  Help needed at Curves-South, A Women’s Fitness Center. No expe­rience needed. Afternoon/Evening Hours. Call Deb at 574-299-9822| 
PERSONAL 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don’t go it alone. Notre Dame has 

all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
many resources in place to assist you. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Ann Whitall at 1-0084 or Karen Kennedy at 1-5550. For more information, visit ND’s website at: http://pregnancysupport@nd.edu 
Lyrics: 22 By Taylor Swift 
It feels like a perfect night to dress up like hipsters And make fun of our exes, uh uh uh uh 
It feels like a perfect night for break­fast at midnight To fall in love with strangers uh uh uh uh 
Yeaaaah We’re happy free confused and lonely at the same time It’s miserable and magical oh yeah 

a regional final in 2011. “Our goal was to get back there and take it a step further. ... We have to do the same thing this year.” 
Coach Kim Mulkey has giv­en the Lady Bears a challeng­ing non-conference schedule. 
They play sixth-ranked Kentucky in the second game, and also have games before Christmas against Tennessee and Notre Dame, that one a national title game rematch. Baylor plays out of conference only once after New Year’s Day, at Connecticut on Feb. 18. 
“If I can’t get their attention, that schedule will get their at­tention,” Mulkey said. “Then you make sure you keep them focused to the extent that they’re still hungry, they’re not complacent, they still have goals, they still have individ­ual goals that will make our team better, and you just chal­lenge them.” 
The rest of the Big 12: 

OKLAHOMA: Coach Sherri Coale, who has more Big 12 wins than any other coach, returns all five starters after the Lady Sooners finished second in the Big 12 last sea­son. The only senior is All-Big 12 guard Whitney Hand 
(13.3 ppg, 7.1 rpg), but there are two other double-figure scorers returning in junior guards Aaryn Ellenberg (14.6 ppg) and Morgan Hook (10.9 ppg). Oklahoma also added junior college transfer Portia Durrett, a 6-1 forward. 
WEST VIRGINIA: Big 12 newcomer West Virginia, which went from the same conference with Connecticut and Notre Dame to the same league with Baylor, was set to return its entire starting line­up. But the Mountaineers, a regular in the NCAA tourna­ment, lost 6-4 senior center Aysa Bussie (12.1 ppg, 6.6 rpg) to a season-ending knee inju­ry the second day of practice. Coach Mike Carey said the injury at least gave his expe­rienced team time to respond and learn new roles. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit 
Tonight’s the night when we forget about the deadlines, it’s time uh uh 
I don’t know about you but im feeling 22 Everything will be alright if you keep me next to you 
You don’t know about me but I bet you want to Everything will be alright if we just keep dancing like we’re 22, 22 
It seems like one of those nights This place is too crowded too many cool kids 
It seems like one of those nights We ditch the whole scene and end up dreaming instead of sleeping 
Yeaaaah We’re happy free confused and lonely in the best way It’s miserable and magical oh yeah 


NCAA FOOTBALL 

Campo attempts to develop Kansas defense 
Associated Press 
LAWRENCE, Kan.  — Dave Campo has a national cham­pionship, three Super Bowl rings and 23 years of NFL experience. 
So what’s he doing at Kansas? 
Taking on the challenge of his life. 
A year ago, the Jayhawks were ranked 120th nationally in total defense. Eight games into this season, Campo’s de­fense has climbed to 81st and is ranked 58th against the pass. 
“As bad as it is being the head coach, I think the worst job in the Big 12 is to be a de­fensive coordinator,” said Kansas coach Charlie Weis, 
“As bad as it is being the head coach, I think the worst job in the Big 12 is to be a defensive coordinator.” 
Charlie Weis 
Kansas coach 
who made hiring the former Cowboys coach one of his pri­orities when he took over a program that won just twice last year. 

“I mean, you should just sign up for gray hair, you know, be­cause it’s a tough job.” 
Perhaps the biggest im­provement under Campo has 
“I mean, you should just sign up for gray hair, you know, because it’s a tough job.” 
Charlie Weis 
Kansas coach 

been in the red zone. While the Jayhawks are still just 1-7, and 0-5 in the Big 12, they’ve been in a handful of games into the fourth quarter due in large part to a defense that is only allowing teams to score 69 percent of the time. 
That statistic is a confer-ence-best and 13th ranking nation-wide. 
Kansas held Oklahoma State, the No. 1 offense at the time, to 20 points. Last Saturday, the plucky Jayhawks held Texas to 21 points — less than half of its season average. 
“We’ve improved in a lot of areas on this defense and I think we have a lot more we can improve on,” said line­backer Toben Opurum, argu­ably the team’s top defender. 
This is the third coaching staff for Opurum and the rest of the Jayhawks’ senior class 
— those who were recruited five or six years ago. And judg­ing by the fact the defense has already come up with nine in­terceptions and forced eight fumbles, it appears to be the most effective. 
“His knowledge of the game has earned respect from the players,” Weis said of Campo, whom he shares a long his­tory dating to their days in the NFL. “He is a good teacher.” 
Campo said he realizes how much Kansas has struggled in the past, and he also knows that he’s basically starting from scratch after working with polished professional players. But he’s also keen on tackling the challenge of mak­ing the Jayhawks relevant again. 
“I only know how to do it one way: Make sure we’re grind­ing on our guys and making sure that they know we have to be disciplined and do the things we are doing,” he said, “and not throwing in the tow­el and saying, ‘We’re not good enough.’” 
The next step is for those improved defensive numbers to add up to victories. 
“I don’t know that our guys really understand what it takes to win right now, and that’s 
PAID ADVERTISEMENT 


what we’re pushing and that’s what’s got to happen,” Campo said. “It is still a process.” 
It sounds easy enough to change the atmosphere, but competing in the Big 12 brings a new set of challenges, even for someone with Campo’s resume. 
“This league is a unique league from the standpoint of the fire power offensively,” he said, “and I think that’s an 
“He really loves the game of football and I can’t say that he has enjoyed going against these defenses every week,” Weis said, “but it really chal­lenges you to try to take your players and what they can do and try to figure out the best way to minimize what they do.” 
Since Campo arrived in January, players appear to have bought into his style. 
“I don’t know that our guys really understand what it takes to win right now, and that’s what we’re pushing and that’s what’s got to happen ... It is still a 
process.” 
Dave Campo Kansas defensive coordinator 

area where we have to get good athletes and better athletes as we go and put the best athletes on the field.” 
With wide-open offens­es, four ranked teams and Heisman Trophy candidates in Kansas State’s Collin Klein and West Virginia’s Geno Smith, there are no breaks for a defensive coordinator. 
Weis lets him completely con­trol the defense, and so far the system has been working — or at least, has Kansas moving in the right direction. 
“You’ve got to do whatever it takes to win whether it’s drawing up some new things on the board or calling differ­ent plays, you’ve got to be will­ing to do whatever,” he said. 



THE OBSERVER | THURSDAY NOVEMBER 1, 2012 | NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 

NEW YORK CITY MARATHON 

NYC Marathon set to run Sunday in Sandy’s wake 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK — The New York City Marathon is a go for Sunday, and while logistical questions persist one thing is certain: The 26-mile route will have a disas­ter for a backdrop. 
And a debate. 
“I think some people said you shouldn’t run the marathon,” Mayor Michael Bloomberg said at a news briefing Wednesday. “There’s an awful lot of small businesses that depend on these people. We have to have an economy. There’s lots of people that have come here. It’s a great event for New York, and I think for those who were lost, you’ve got to believe they would want us to have an economy and have a city go on for those that they left behind.” 
Race organizers were still try­ing to assess how widespread damage from Superstorm Sandy might affect plans, including getting runners into the city and transporting them to the start line on Staten Island. Easing their worries a bit was news that 14 of the city’s 23 subway lines were expected to be operating by Thursday morning - though none below 34th Street, an area that includes the terminal for the ferries that go to the island. 
And there were runners like Josh Maio who felt torn about whether the race should go on. 
“It pulls resources and focus away from people in need,” said Maio, who dropped out due to an injury but is coaching about 75 runners. 
He agrees the race is a boost to local businesses hurt by the storm — it brings an estimated $340 million to the city. But he is uncomfortable with devoting so much to an “extracurricular” event. 
Top American Meb Keflezighi, the 2009 men’s champion, re­

“There’s an awful lot of small businesses that depend on these people. We have to have an economy. There’s lots of people that have to come here. It’s a great event for New York, and I think for those who were lost, you’ve got to believe they would want us to have an economy and have a city go on for those that they left behind.” 
Michael Bloomberg 
New York City mayor 

gards the marathon as “some-Brooklyn-Battery Tunnel — thing positive ... because it will are still closed. Organizers are be motivation to say, ‘Look what working on contingency plans. happened, and we’ll put on the Runners always had to rise in race, and we’ll give them a good the wee hours of the morning to show.’” make it to the start in time, and 
New York Road Runners now they may need to get going President Mary Wittenberg said even earlier. organizers planned to use more Once under way, runners will private contractors than past cross the Verrazano-Narrows years to reduce the strain on city Bridge into Brooklyn. The route services. Many people have of-then winds through the borough fered to work as volunteers and and over the Pulaski Bridge into could fill in gaps, and many run-Queens. The Queensboro Bridge ners and fans plan to raise mon-will bring the runners into ey to help victims of the storm. Manhattan’s East Side. After a 
She compared this year’s race to the 2001 marathon, held sev­en weeks after the Sept. 11 ter­rorist attacks, as a way to inspire residents and show the world the city’s resilience. 
Jonathan Cane ran in that race, working for the police de­partment at the time as a fitness instructor, and it was “an amaz­ing experience.” But like Maio, he had mixed feelings about holding this year’s marathon. 
“I think if they do pull it off, the city will get behind it,” said Cane, who is coaching more than 200 runners signed up for the race. “It’s already a unique event, and this will make it more so.” 
Wittenberg expects the field will be smaller than the 47,500 who ran last year because some entrants can’t make it to New York, but said so far organizers had received no more cancella­tions than normal. New York’s three major airports were ex­pected to be open Thursday morning with limited flights, leaving the nearly 30,000 out­of-town runners with hope 
that  they  can  fly  in  but  no  
guarantees.  
Race  organizers  were  re­ 

scheduling the elite runners’ flights to get them into New York on schedule, with many rerout­ed to Boston. Number pickup for entrants is scheduled to open Thursday morning at the Javits Center. 
Meanwhile, traffic choked city streets as residents tried to return to work and limited commuter rail service resumed. Utilities say it could be days be­fore power is fully restored in the city and on Long Island. 
The course mostly avoids areas hit hardest by flooding. Getting everyone to the start on Staten Island could be the biggest challenge if two usu­al methods — the ferry and marathon, and what that mara­thon did was it unified this city and brought people back to the streets for the first time in weeks,” Wittenberg said. “What was most striking about that marathon to me was it was not about running and it wasn’t about the runners. It was about the city. And on that day, instead of the fans being there for the runners, the runners were there for the city. And this marathon already has that same feeling.” 

brief swing through the Bronx, they finish in Central Park, which was closed Wednesday. Some 250 mature trees inside the park were felled by the storm. 
The 43rd edition of the marathon is set to include three Olympic medalists and the reigning women’s world champion. 
Kenya’s Wilson Kipsang won bronze in the Olympic men’s marathon. His challengers include 2011 Chicago Marathon champ Moses Mosop of Kenya and 2010 New York winner Gebre Gebremariam of Ethiopia. 
Ethiopia’s Tiki Gelana won gold and Russia’s Tatyana Arkhipova was third in the women’s race in London. Edna Kiplagat of Kenya won a world title a year earlier. 
“Already what we’re hear­ing from people is we went through the 9/11 marathon, and there was never a more moving 
PAID ADVERTISEMENT 




MLB 

Giants fans celebrate championship with parade 
Associated Press 
SAN FRANCISCO — Ecstatic baseball fans packed the streets of San Francisco on Wednesday for a con­fetti-drenched parade and rally honoring the World Series champion Giants — a Halloween treat made even sweeter as a repeat perfor­mance from 2010. 
Tens of thousands of peo­ple decked out in the team’s holiday-appropriate orange and black stood 30 deep behind barriers, climbed trees, camped out overnight and mounted rooftops for a chance to see their favorite players wave from convert­ibles and get serenaded by Tony Bennett singing “I Left My Heart in San Francisco.” 
Giants Manager Bruce Bochy, who hoisted the World Series trophy from the back of a gold Rolls Royce during most of the 1 1/2-mile pro­cession, credited fans and his players’ “unselfish play” for helping to lift San Francisco to its second World Series victory in three years, an im­probable double play for a franchise that had not won the title since 1954. 
“In 2010, we character­ized the club as misfits that came together and got it done,” Bochy told the roaring hordes gathered for the rally in Civic Center Plaza. He said the tagline of the 2012 Giants was “never say die,” a ref­erence to the team’s come-from-behind, post-season dominance. 

“I thank you for always be­ing there, for never giving up,” he said. “Thank you for showing up wherever we’ve been and making this one of the greatest moments of my life.” 
As with the 2010 parade, this year’s two-hour edition drew a cross-section of the region’s diversity, from chil­dren who were allowed to skip school to older couples who had been Giants fans since the team arrived in San Francisco from New York in 1958. 
Series MVP Pablo Sandoval, who swatted three home runs in his first three at bats in Game 1, and second base­man Marco Scutaro, who bat­ted in the winning run of the game that clinched the title, addressed the throngs at the rally in Spanish. 
“This is the second, but there are going to be a lot more,” Sandoval said, ex­pressing special thanks to the Bay Area’s Latino communi­ty. “You should enjoy this and feel this in your hearts.” 
Casandra Buenrostro, 25, who arrived at the plaza at 5 
a.m. so she could get pictures 
PAID ADVERTISEMENT 


of Sandoval, did. 
“He made me cry,” Buenrostro said. “He’s an inspiration.” 
Earlier in the day, clouds of black, orange and white con­fetti were shot from cannons positioned on roofs and along the canyon-like, skyscrap­er-lined street. It showered spectators and parade par­ticipants, who included leg­endary Giants alumni Willie Mays, Willie McCovey and Juan Marichal and politi­cians such as House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi. 
The unifying energy of the Giants’ latest victory was evident as San Francisco 49ers quarterback Alex Smith drove the car carrying Giants pitcher Matt Cain and his family, while 49ers coach Jim Harbaugh did the honors for the Giants’ Brandon Belt. 
The convertibles gave fans clean views along the parade route that began at the foot of Market Street near San Francisco Bay and ended on the steps of City Hall, across from the overflowing plaza. 
Star reliever Sergio Romo, wearing a T-shirt that read, “I just look illegal,” whipped the roaring crowd into a frenzy when he got out of his con­vertible and mingled. 
“It’s  unbelievable!  
Unbelievable!  Just  great!”  
said  fired-up  right  fielder  

Hunter Pence, who was ac­quired in a midseason deal and led pregame pep talks. At the rally, Pence persuaded his teammates to jump around the stage to demonstrate the ritual. 
“I loved it when they start­ed acting goofy,” said Janet Clark, 55. “That’s exactly who the Giants are.” 
With the victory parade coinciding with Halloween, costumed masses brought an even more festive feel to what city officials hoped would be a family friendly, alcohol-free event. 
Richmond resident Kevin Yarbrough wore a giant white panda costume in tribute to Sandoval, whose nickname is the “Panda.” 
“You’ve got to come out and celebrate like this. You meet a whole new family, make new friends, and it really lets the community celebrate in a positive way,” he said. 
San Francisco po­lice spokesman Michael Andraychak said a handful of people were arrested for public intoxication and offi­cers issued a few citations for fighting, but the crowds gen­erally were cooperative. 
Some fans carried brooms as a reminder of the Giants’ four-game sweep of the Detroit Tigers. Later, San Francisco Mayor Ed Lee handed Giants President Larry Baer a ceremonial met­al “broom to the city” along with the customary key. 
Alex Warlen and Kelly Simms, both 17, were among the hundreds of people who camped out overnight in the plaza to ensure they had prime viewing spots. Warlen is a pitcher and Simms a catcher for the softball team at San Francisco’s Mercy High School. The team is co-champion of its division. 
“Buster is the reason I’m a catcher,” read a sign Simms carried, referring to the Giants’ Buster Posey. The high school seniors said Mercy administrators gave students the day off, so they weren’t cutting school. 
“We would have skipped anyway,” Simms said. 


THE OBSERVER | THURSDAY NOVEMBER 1, 2012 | NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 

MEN’S SWIMMING 

Dyer continues to set Irish records 
By NICK BOYLE 
Sports Writer 
Irish junior Frank Dyer made history for Notre Dame’s men’s swimming and diving team last season, becoming the pro­gram’s first swimmer to earn All-American honors. 
Dyer’s fourth-place fin­ish in the 200-yard freestyle at the NCAA Championships on March 23 earned him the honor. 
In addition to his All-American status, Dyer solidi­fied his status as one of the most decorated swimmers in school history by setting a mul­titude of records in his sopho­more year. 
“I’ve always said that there has to be someone who has to be first, but in the end I think it is more important how many people come after you,” Dyer said in an interview with UND. com. “I think last year was the turning point. I think we will always have someone at the NCAA Championships from now on, and our team is only getting better and faster.” 
Dyer is currently the holder of seven school records, includ­ing individual records in the 50-, 100-, 200- and 500-yard freestyle events. 
Although his name is writ­ten in the record books, Dyer is quick to place emphasis on his hard work rather than his success. 
“I really don’t try to think about how much success that I have had, but more about all of the work that I have done in the water to get me to where I’ve been,” Dyer said. “By no means do I think that I am the hard­est worker on the team, but I do believe that my work ethic is strong, and I think that other people see that.” 
Dyer said one of the biggest moments of his career came while helping the Irish take home the Big East champion­ship last season. 
“We went into that meet, and we really had to be positive at every moment,” Dyer said. “I get chills about it now because that whole last hour and a half of the meet was just such an awesome wexperience to know that everything we had done all year was about to pay off. That’s probably the best moment that I have had at Notre Dame.” 

The Irish are going to lean heavily on Dyer’s experience this year to succeed. The team is setting their sights high this year, Dyer said. 
“We have set the bar even higher this year,” Dyer said. “There are people who think that we are on the rise but that it is going to take more time. I just want to get out there and prove them wrong and do the best that we can this year.” 
Dyer and the Irish host Purdue on Friday. 
Contact Nick Boyle at nboyle1@nd.edu 
SMC SOCCER | SAINT MARY’S 1, KALAMAZOO 0 
Belles victory ends season 
Observer Staff Report 
The Belles defeated Kalamazoo 1-0 on Wednesday in their regular season finale and clinched their most suc­cessful season in Saint Mary’s history. 
In need of a win and some assistance from other teams to earn their rank, Saint Mary’s (13-5-2, 10-5-1, MIAA) earned three points against the Hornets (11-6-2, 9-5-2) to fin­ish tied for fourth in the con­ference. The tie prevents the Belles from advancing to the four-team post-season playoffs. 
In the fourth minute of 


Shipp 
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 20 
has found plenty of players to receive his passes, aiding a Notre Dame lineup that has the Irish ranked No. 1 in the RPI. The Irish (13-3-1, 5-2­1 Big East) have netted 2.35 goals per game, good for sixth in the country, in part due to Shipp’s ability to control the ball through the middle of the field with Irish senior midfielder and captain Dillon Powers. 
“I think we work together re­ally well,” Shipp said. “Playing in our third year together here now, we kind of have a good feeling where each other is go­ing to be. So I don’t even have to think about where he’s run­ning, I just kind of know. And that will get us to the point where we are interchang­ing more, where we are just switching positions freely. That’s really nice because I al­ways have a security blanket.” 
Shipp also makes regular use of Irish senior forward Wednesday’s game, junior midfielder and captain Mollie Valencia blasted a free kick from 22 yards out into the back of the net. The score ended up being all the Belles needed against Kalamazoo. The goal marked Valencia’s fourth game-winning goal this season. 

For the rest of the contest, the Belles weathered the Hornets’ storm. Kalamazoo outshot Saint Mary’s 14-4 in the game, including a 5-0 advantage in the second half. 
Sophomore goalkeeper Chanler Rosenbaum made three saves for the Belles and 
Ryan Finley, who is tied for second in the country with 17 goals on the year. 
“I think Ryan is one of the best, if not the best, in the country at making runs be­hind the defense and just knowing when to time his runs and when to check to the ball,” he said. “He’s just a really smart forward, so I think that’s like a dream for me because I like giving the ball to people who make runs behind.” 
Although Finley and Shipp combine to make Notre Dame’s most experienced front line, the duo begins ev­ery game on the bench and only enters after several min­utes of play. 
“It’s definitely something that is obviously different,” Shipp said of the strategy. “But it’s nice because we get to look for the first 20 minutes at what the other defense is doing and find ahead of time what ways we can take advan­tage of — the way the defense is playing, the little spaces picked up her eighth shutout of the season. 
In addition to knocking off the Hornets, the Belles received help from around the league. Calvin bested Adrian (12-3-4, 9-3-4) 2-1 in an overtime thrill­er. An Adrian victory, coupled with wins by Alma and Hope, would have eliminated even a victorious Saint Mary’s. 
The win was another mile­stone in an historic season for The Belles. The 13 wins are the most in Saint Mary’s history. The Belles also only allowed 12 goals all season, the lowest to­tal since the program began in 1986. 
and opportunities for us when we get in the game. So I really don’t mind it at all.” 
Last year, the Irish ranked 64th in the country with a 1.5 goals-per-game average and failed to qualify for the NCAA tournament for the first time since 2000 after losing in the first round of the Big East Championship. Shipp said some key differences be­tween last year’s team and this year’s, which will begin conference tournament play Saturday at Syracuse, have made the difference. 
“The biggest difference is I think we are not panicking, especially when we get in the final third,” he said. “Last year, [if] a couple of things didn’t go our way … we would start to press and kind of panic, espe­cially if we hadn’t scored late in the game, whereas now we always have a confidence that we are going to score.” 
It’s like magic. 
Contact Joseph Monardo at jmonardo@nd.edu 
PAID ADVERTISEMENT 



Besler 
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 20 
Kansas City. 
“It was my dream always growing up to play overseas, and so it was a tough decision because I was happy where I was in the states but I never knew if this opportunity would come again – to have a chance overseas,” Thomas said. 
“Without going over there and getting the playing time right away I don’t know if I would be where I’m at right now. So I am really happy with the decision I made, it’s led me to be able to come back and be able to play for my hometown team. I love it.” 
Thomas signed with Sporting Kansas City in January 2012 after a stint with Ljungskile SK in another Swedish top divi­sion. Thomas said the reunion between friends was a happy coincidence. 

“Once [Besler] got drafted, that was the start of it all,” he said. “He got drafted by the Wizards at the time and now that I had the chance to come back and play for my hometown team, at the time it was some­thing I couldn’t pass up.” 
In 2012, both players played a part in Sporting Kansas City’s successful regular season. Kansas City (18-7-9) finished atop the Eastern Conference and second in points for the sea­son with 63, only three behind the San Jose Earthquakes for the Supporters’ Shield, which is awarded to the team with the most points in MLS soccer. 
Besler, a consensus favor­ite for the MLS defender of the year, played in 31 of Kansas City’s 34 games in 2012, mak­ing 30 starts. After receiving recognition as a 2011 MLS All-Star he joined the U.S. Men’s in Azteca Stadium in Mexico “With the players that I National team in August for a City. While the MLS All-Star was surrounded with and the friendly game against Mexico team’s 4-0 loss to Manchester coaches and the facilities and 
United was memorable, Besler everything, it really just showed 
PAID ADVERTISEMENT said the call-up to the national me how lucky I was at the time 
“[Besler] got drafted by the Wizards at the time and now that I had the chance to come back and play for my hometown team, at the time it was something I 
and how much I wanted it that much more —you know, to be a professional,” he said. “I think they prepared me the right way on and off the field.” 
Thomas said he is especially grateful for the role Clark played in his development. 
“I mean, words can’t describe how much he means to me and everybody,” he said. “He is a very good coach on and off the field. He knows how to get the best from everyone. He was al­ways someone who taught me how to be a disciplined player. 



couldn’t pass up.” 
Michael Thomas KC Sporting player 

team represented an important achievement and an experience he hopes to replicate. 
“It was awesome,” he said in a phone interview on Oct. 4. “Awesome experience. I was so excited when I heard the news. It’s something I’ve been work­ing toward pretty much my whole life. I’ve always wanted to represent the country I love. I was shocked first but once I was down in Mexico I wanted to take it all in and learn as much as possible but also show what I can do on the field. Looking back we were the first U.S. team ever to win in Azteca Stadium in Mexico so that’s something I’ll remember for the rest of my life. 
“I’ve been in contact with [United States coach] Jurgen Klinsmann and his staff. They said, ‘Continue to work hard. You’re on our radar.’ I’m hoping to get another chance here in the future.” 
Besler said he attributes some of his professional success to lessons learned during his time as a member of the Irish squad. 
“The culture that the team has at [Notre Dame] that [Irish] coach [Bobby] Clark brings to everybody, it sets you up for suc­cess in the professional game,” he said. “For me, other than the speed of play in the professional game, there weren’t a whole lot of adjustments I had to make with how things were done. [Notre Dame] runs its program like a professional team.” 
Thomas, who started in 81 of his 83 appearances in an Irish uniform and served as a two-time team captain, also said the environment at Notre Dame helped prepare him for a pro­fessional career. 
this year,” he said. “They’re off to a great start. I follow very closely and try to watch as many games as possible. I’m very hap­py and proud of how they re­sponded to last season, [the first season in which Notre Dame failed to qualify for the NCAA tournament since 2000]. It was disappointing for them and for us as alums but they’ve done a terrific job of turning this thing around. I’m impressed.” 
Thomas said he also enjoys following the No. 7 Irish (13-3-1, 5-2-1 Big East), who have had to overcome season-ending knee injuries to senior midfielders Adam Mena and co-captain Michael Rose. Still, Thomas said, Notre Dame has a chance to do this year something the Irish were unable to do during his time — or any other time in school history: Reach the na­tional semifinals. 
“[Mena and Rose] are both strong leaders and both really good players as well,” Thomas said. “But I think the play­ers that have come in for them 
“With the players that I was surrounded with and the coaches and the facilities and everything it just really showed me how lucky I was at the time and how much I want it that much more — you know, to be a professional.” 
Michael Thomas KC Sporting player 

… He really taught me just to be patient with everything and just to keep working hard and everything will fall into place.” 
Now reunited on Sporting Kansas City, both players have benefited from their familiarity with each other both on and off the field, Besler said. 
“I love playing with Michael,” he said. “I think it’s a great story and I think Michael is a great player as well. … I’m very close with Michael and he’s one of my best friends. It’s been nice to have that comfort level and we get along very well.” 
Besler, the brother of current Irish sophomore midfielder Nick Besler, said he enjoys fol­lowing Notre Dame soccer, es­pecially this year’s team. 
“I’m so excited for the team have stepped up big time. And you can just tell by watching, there is a swagger about them. They have a confidence and they seem to be playing the right way. … It’s not cockiness, it’s just confidence. If they can keep going, keep playing as well as they [have been], hopefully they will be the team to get the first final four for men’s soccer. And I am confident with the way I’ve seen them play. I just hope they keep it up.” 
As the top seed in the Eastern conference, Kansas City will play the winner of the Chicago Fire and Houston Dynamo in a two-game series beginning Sunday. 
Contact Joseph Monardo at jmonardo@nd.edu 

THE OBSERVER | THURSDAY NOVEMBER 1, 2012 | NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 


Hannah Huffman, Jewell Loyd Markisha Wright against the 
McGraw 

and Michaela Mabrey and also Fighting Scots. She said ju-
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 20 

welcome sophomore guard nior forward Natalie Achonwa “There are certainly tough Madison Cable, who sat out is slotted to be a starter but is shoes to fill, and we’re not go-last season with an injury. out for the exhibition against ing to be the same defensively. “Jewell is really talented and Edinboro with an injury. We’ll be working to play team can score and rebound, so we Achonwa is one of several defense, relying on a little will be counting on her to fill Irish players who faced in-more help and rotation, and needs from last year,” McGraw ternational competition over just try to be a smart team said. “Cable is really funda-the summer, as she helped overall.” mentally sound. Mabrey will the Canadian national team 
Notre Dame returns two key be our first or second person reach the quarterfinals at the starters in senior guard Skylar Summer Olympics in London. Diggins and junior guard 
McGraw said she was im­
“Skylar is more 
Kayla McBride. Diggins, who 

pressed with Achonwa’s devel­was named a unanimous pre­
of a coach on the opment during the off-season. 
season All-American for the 

floor than she’s “I think Natalie came back 
second consecutive season 

a different person,” McGraw 
ever been before 
and tabbed Preseason Big East 

said. “She is confident and self-
because she has 
Player of the Year, comes off a 

assured and knows what she campaign during which she 
to be.” wants to do. I think her mental averaged 16.8 points and 5.7 
game is at a different level.” 
Muffet McGraw 
assists per game. McBride av-

In addition, Diggins helped 
Irish coach 
eraged 11.6 points and 4.6 re-

lead the United States to bounds per game last season. the gold medal at the in-
McGraw said Diggins took off the bench, and Huffman augural FIBA 3x3 World on a greater leadership role in has really been improving so Championships in Athens, the off-season and will be es-far.” Greece in April. Mabrey also sential to the development of McGraw said the exhibi-represented her country, 
the young team. tion against Edinboro, a team playing a role on the United CONTINUED FROM PAGE 20 The depth of the back is Returnees perimeter. 
“Skylar is more of a coach on ranked sixth in the preseason States team that won the FIBA paired with a frontcourt that 
the floor than she’s ever been USA Today Division II Top 25 Americas U18 Championship Jewell Lloyd and Michaela is shallower and smaller than 
before because she has to be,” Coach’s poll, will give younger in Gurabo, Puerto Rico, in Mabrey compose what has Irish coach Muffet McGraw 
McGraw said. “She’s encour-players a good introduction August. been ranked as high as the might like. The Irish faced a 
aged and helped the younger to the atmosphere of Purcell “I think our players gained third-best incoming class in similar situation last year, and 
players to step up their games Pavilion. some great experience from the nation. Lloyd is fourth in that was with Peters, who av-
and get them to a level where “The first thing we’re going international competition,” the ESPN HoopGurlz rankings eraged 9.3 rebounds and 2.0 
we can compete for a national to do is to work the freshmen McGraw said. “This experi­while Mabrey and Huffman blocks per game to lead the 
championship. She will be and give them a chance to be ence will give them some great are 33rd and 52nd, respectively. team by far in both categories. 
counted on to do a little more out in front of the crowd and confidence heading into the Mabrey captured a gold medal However, all three of this year’s 
to put us in the hunt.” get the game day experience,” season.” with the FIBA Americas U18 bigs return with experience. 
Diggins will work closely she said. “I want to give them The Irish will battle the Championships in August. The Leading the unit will be junior 
with Notre Dame’s freshmen, some playing time to get them Fighting Scots on Thursday at freshman guard led the team forward Natalie Achonwa, who 
which were part of a recruiting comfortable.” 7 p.m. at Purcell Pavilion. in assists while averaging 12.8 showed her offensive abilities 
class ranked as high as third in McGraw said she plans to points and 4.0 rebounds per from the block last season. The 
the country. The Irish added start Diggins, McBride, Cable, Contact Brian Hartnett at game. Ontario native also played a 
a trio of freshmen guards in Loyd and sophomore forward bhartnet@nd.edu As promising as the new pivotal role in helping Canada 
PAID ADVERTISEMENT 

names in the Irish lineup look to make its first ever quarterfi­be, success for this year’s team nals appearance in the 2012 relies most prominently on the Summer Olympics. returnees. The team’s aspira-Junior forward Ariel Braker tions begin and end, of course, and sophomore forward with Diggins, the Preseason Big Markisha Wright return to pro-East Player of the Year. vide Achonwa with assistance 
The unquestioned leader of down low. last year’s very experienced Even with a lineup punctu-Irish squad, Diggins will be ated with inexperience and called upon to take her leader-hindered by lack of size, Notre ship to another level this year. Dame’s aspirations for this sea-She has already earned herself son should be high. Already in a spot on the Wade Trophy pre-the top 10, the Irish could rea­season watch list, but the Irish sonably challenge for the Big will need their point guard to East tournament title and the play well enough this season to NCAA national championship earn serious consideration as title. Picked to finish second in the Wade Trophy winner at the the Big East by the conference’s end of the season. coaches, Notre Dame will have 
Joining Diggins as the only to battle No. 2 Connecticut other senior on the team is re-twice for the right to repeat as liable guard Kaila Turner. But Big East regular-season cham­the Irish backcourt goes much pions (and if recent history is deeper than the two seniors. any indication, the two pow-
McBride is a returning start-ers will square off at least once er who can do it all from the more in postseason play). wing. The shooting guard can And of course, No. 1 Baylor be a deadly scorer, but equally presents the biggest obstacle — important for the Irish is her literally. Senior center Brittney ability to use her size to con-Griner, the reigning Wade tribute on the boards. McBride Trophy winner, leads a Lady led last year’s team in rebound-Bears squad that returns the ing among returning players entire starting lineup from last with 4.6 per game. Sophomore year’s title team. guard Whitney Holloway is the So a third straight trip to the final Irish guard with game NCAA finals might be a tall or-experience. Sophomore guard der, but does anyone think that Madison Cable, who missed will stop Diggins and the Irish last season due to injury, and from trying? the three freshmen will be added to the mix to give the Contact Joseph Monardo at Irish plenty of options on the jmonardo@nd.edu 




CROSSWORD | WILL SHORTZ 


HIGHLY PUNLIKELY | CHRISTOPHER BRUCKER 

LOWER YOUR EXPECTATIONS | LENNY RAGO &                  PATRICK CROSS 


Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
SUDOKU | THE MEPHAM GROUP 

HOROSCOPE | EUGENIA LAST 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Piper Perabo, 36; Mike O’Malley, 46; Dermot Mulroney, 49; Peter Jackson, 51. 
Happy Birthday: You will reap what you sow. Equality in partnerships will be the determining factor regarding how far and how much you will receive. It’s what you are willing to give and how generous you are with your knowledge, expertise and willingness to pay homage to those who do well that will lead to your success. Your numbers are 3, 8, 17, 21, 26, 35, 43. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Aggressively seek information or travel to places that inspire you or will help you use what you have learned to move forward in the future. A change in your relationship with someone special will bring you closer together.  



TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Getting along with others will determine your future. You must share and compromise when necessary if you want to be taken seriously. Someone from your past will give you a chance to reclaim lost territory. 


GEMINI (May 21-June 20):  Emotions will be close to the surface, causing you to make choices that may not be the best for you professionally. Wager the pros and cons and try to satisfy both your personal and business needs without making a fuss. 


CANCER (June 21-July 22): Look for answers in unusual places. If you revisit old ideas and incorporate what you’ve got with trends, you will show others your diversity when it comes to finding solutions. Don’t let love stand in the way of your professional progress. 


LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Take time out to do things you enjoy. The experience you gain from interacting with people from different backgrounds or by trying something you’ve never done before will inspire you to make changes that will improve your life. 


VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Study what’s going on around you and base your deci­sions on factual information. Don’t let anger get the better of you when dealing with incompetence or family matters that could result in unwanted change. Focus on positive, productive and compromising changes. 


LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): Stop procrastinating and start doing. Approach authority figures with sophistication, facts and experience to get whatever documentation you need to further your interests. Now is the time to travel, share your ideas and launch something new. Romance is highlighted. 

SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Share your thoughts and form a partnership with people you find motivating and creative. Offer your services to people you want to further your business relationships with by finding a way to incorporate your specialty. 


SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Someone from your past will challenge you. Em­brace whatever you face with confidence and you will surpass whatever competition awaits you. Opportunity knocks — don’t hesitate to go after what you want. 


CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Discipline is required if you want to get ahead. Don’t be distracted by what others do or say. You must stay focused and maintain consis­tency if you want to come out on top. An emotional situation must not be allowed to curb your progress. 


AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Let go of the past and any grudges you harbor. Living in the present and looking toward the future will bring positive results. A romantic relationship can get you back on track. Passion will lead to a long-term commitment. 


PISCES (Feb. 19- March 20): Be careful how you portray who you are. Someone will be watching every move you make to ensure you are good for your word. Now is not the time to slack or make unrealistic promises. Work hard, play hard and be honest. 


Birthday Baby: You command attention. You are original, intriguing and a masterful spin doctor. 
JUMBLE | DAVID HOYT AND JEFF KNUREK 

Make checks payable to and mail to:  Enclosed is $130 for one academic year Enclosed is $75 for one semester  The Observer P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Name Address City  State  Zip  


THE OBSERVER | THURSDAY NOVEMBER 1, 2012 | NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 

New look to achieve same goal 

Diggins must lead enters season with 
Notre Dame a team without 

different lineup proven starters 

By BRIAN HARTNETT 


Joseph Monardo 
Sports Writer Sports Writer 
The last time No. 7 Notre Dame took the court, the Irish fell by 19 

After playing in the past two na­points to No. 1 Baylor in the na­
tional title games, the Irish have tional championship game. The 
firmly placed themselves among Irish will look to embark on a 
the country’s most talented and return to the national champi­
successful teams two years run­onship hunt when they kick off 
ning. Despite graduating perhaps their new season Thursday with 
the best class in program history, an exhibition against Edinboro 
the No. 7 Irish have the pieces to at Purcell Pavilion. 
make another postseason run this The Irish will return to the 
season. court with a different look than 
The loss of former Irish forward the team that finished as the 
Devereaux Peters and former national runner-up in April. 
Irish guards Natalie Novosel and Notre Dame lost starting guards 
Brittney Mallory leaves three big Natalie Novosel and Brittany 
holes in the starting lineup. The Mallory and starting forward 
three players combined to make Devereaux Peters when the three 
242 career starts. Although the leaders graduated in the spring. 
Irish return only two starters — Irish coach Muffet McGraw said 
senior guard Skylar Diggins and the loss of the three starters 
junior guard Kayla McBride — leaves the Irish with major holes 
Notre Dame returns eight players, to fill in the areas of defense and 
most of which have considerable rebounding. 
experience. “The biggest thing we’re miss-
The Irish also welcome in a high­ing right now is defense and 
ly touted three-person freshman rebounding,” McGraw said. 
class. Guards Hannah Huffman, 
Observer File Photo 

Irish senior Skylar Diggins drives into the lane during Notre Dame’s 73-62 victory over California on 
see MCGRAW PAGE 18 see RETURNEES PAGE 18 
March 20 in Purcell Pavilion. The Irish begin their season tonight against Edinboro. 
WAKING THE ECHOES 

ND graduates reunite in MLS 
By JOSEPH MONARDO 
Sports Writer 
“Teammates” only begins to describe the relationship be­tween former Irish players Matt Besler and Michael Thomas. Childhood acquaintances, for­mer roommates and friends, Besler and Thomas have con­tinued their careers together on their hometown MLS team after spending three seasons together at Notre Dame. 
“It is something that we get asked a lot,” Thomas said in a phone interview Oct. 5. “Obviously me and ‘Bes’ were really good friends at Notre Dame. We grew up together around here [in Kansas], but we got to know each other a lot better there [at Notre Dame]. We would always kind of joke around about possibly playing with each other in the future and always going back and playing for your hometown team, how cool that would be.” 

What began as a joke has turned into reality. 
Besler, who made 73 starts and 90 appearances as a de­fender in his Notre Dame ca­reer, was a two-time team captain, three-time member of the All-Big East team and an All-American his senior season. The Overland Park, Kan., native went eighth overall in the 2009 MLS SuperDraft to the Kansas City Wizards (now Sporting Kansas City). Besler became the highest-drafted Notre Dame player to enter the MLS. 
In 2010, Thomas went 19th in the second round to the San Jose Earthquakes but opted to play in the top Swedish league Allsvenskan for Halmstads BK. What was at the time a difficult decision to play in Sweden has paid dividends professionally and personally, the midfielder said, and has ultimately led the Olathe, Kan., native back to 
see BESLER PAGE 17 
MEN’S SOCCER 

Shipp leads Irish offense 
By JOSEPH MONARDO 
Sports Writer 
The team’s roster lists him as a forward, but Harrison Shipp sees himself filling a role more often associated with a midfielder. Irish coach Bobby Clark has a whole different designation alto­gether for the talented junior: magician. 
A native of Lake Forest, Ill., Shipp is one of the central components to an Irish of­fense that has No. 7 Notre Dame atop the nation’s lead­ers in scoring offense. His ball skills and seemingly charmed passes in the middle have earned Shipp the nickname from his coach and have al­lowed him to gather 14 points on the season, tied for second-most on the team. 
Shipp has four assists and five goals this season, with three of the goals coming came in a hat-trick during Notre Dame’s 6-1 victory over Seton Hall on Oct. 13. The three-goal performance was somewhat of an anomaly for 


SARAH O’CONNOR | The Observer 

Irish junior Harrison Shipp dribbles the ball during Notre Dame’s 3-1 victory over Akron on Sept. 9 in Alumni Stadium. 
Shipp, who said he feels more comfortable on the beginning end of plays rather than the fin­ishing end. 
“I think even though I play for­ward I definitely consider myself more of a distributor, like a point guard in basketball,” Shipp said. “I get just as much enjoyment setting people up as I do scoring goals. I think it’s my role to set people up in positions to succeed instead of always thinking about ways to succeed [personally]. That’s what I enjoy doing. I think also just not touching the ball too much [is important], just getting it from person to person Shipp 
see SHIPP PAGE 16 







