TO UNCOVER 
THE TRUTH 
AND REPORT 
IT ACCURATELY

THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING 
NOTRE DAME AND 
SAINT MARY’S

VOLUME 46, ISSUE 20 | MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 17, 2012 | NDSMCOBSERVER.COM

Student group participates in diabetes walk 

Friends of Notre Dame Diabetes support Walk to End Diabetes in Mishawaka

By ANNA BOARINI
News Writer
Friends of Notre Dame Diabetes, a campus support group for diabetics, participated in the Juvenile Diabetes Research Fund (JDRF) Walk to End Diabetes on Sunday afternoon.
Junior Nancy Joyce, who orga­nized Notre Dame’s participa­tion for the walk, said the annual event attracts diabetics and those who support them from the South Bend area.
“Each year, Type 1 diabetics and their families and friends create teams, and they raise money for Type 1 diabetes (T1) research through JDRF,” she said. “After being in touch with the lo­cal South Bend [and] Mishawaka JDRF when our group first started out last year, we decided to par­ticipate in the Walk as ‘Team Notre Dame.’” 
The walk is a very popular event in the area, Joyce said. 
“The walk is a pretty well-established event in the South Bend community and based on our experience last year, it was very well-attended,” she said.  “There were lots of local sponsors who came out in support of the event.” 
To raise money for the event, Friends of Notre Dame Diabetes sold baked goods in LaFortune Student Center and encouraged walkers to fundraise on their own. The team hopes to attract community sponsors to partner with for next year’s walk, Joyce said.
Overall, Joyce said the response on campus has been positive. 
“We’ve had a really positive re­sponse to the event on campus,” she said. “Our group is a small group, so publicizing the event was our biggest challenge, but when people did find out about it, they were very supportive.”
JDRF helps raise awareness of T1 diabetes and fundraise for re­search, Joyce said. 
“JDRF also supports advo­cacy for T1 diabetics through programs such as the Children’s Congress, a leadership pro­gram that brings T1 diabetics to Washington, D.C., to speak with congressional officials about key federal funding opportunities for T1 [diabetes],” she said. 
Friends of Notre Dame Diabetes was founded last year by seniors Joe Williams and Gina O’Riordon, who both have TI dia­betes, Joyce said. 
Initially, the club was started to help diabetics transition from high school to college. 
“As the group has grown, we’ve added more of a service element,” she said. “Several of our group members have been trained at Memorial Hospital [of South Bend], and anytime a child is diagnosed with diabetes at Memorial, the hospital calls us and we send several [Notre Dame] diabetics to talk with the child and help ease their fears about their disease.”
Joyce said the students working with the program at Memorial are called “diabetes sidekicks”. 
“Our hope with this program is to show both newly diagnosed diabetics and their parents that though diabetes can be challeng­ing, frustrating and scary some­times, it is possible to live a very normal life as a T1 diabetic,” she said. 
Contact Anna Boarini at
aboari01@saintmarys.edu


Photo courtesy of Nancy Joyce
Participants pose for a photo after the Walk to End Diabetes at Buetter Park in Mishawaka. The event raised money for the Juvenile Diabetes Research Fund.

see WALK PAGE 4

Literary society honors professor 

Belles intern with charity

CAMPUS LIFE COUNCIL

Group reviews inconsistent dorm policies


By CAROLYN HUTYRA
News Writer
Members of Campus Life Council (CLC) discussed incon­sistencies in dorm policy, partic­ularly between male and female residence halls, at their meeting Friday.
The conversation focused on differences between the men and women’s residence halls regarding weekend activities. Some students expressed they felt there is a lack of consistency in the rules enforced by rectors. 
Both students and faculty supported an effort to push to­ward a consistent alcohol policy and in-house punishments.
“The baseline is Indiana state law. As far as policy, it’s in DuLac. We are not exempt from the civil law, no one is exempt,” Morrissey Manor rector Fr. Ron Vierling said. 
Vierling said responses from rectors sometimes appear in­consistent because other stu­dents are not aware of the full details of a specific situation.
“When we talk about a pas­toral approach (to these situa­tions), we talk about the primacy of the individual,” Vierling said. “My response to an individual situation may seem inconsis­tent because not everyone in the dorm knows the entire story.” 
Members of the council also voiced complaints that men frequently receive lighter punishments than women for underage drinking. Alcohol pol­icy in DuLac is written with the same guidelines regardless of gender, Vierling said.
Vierling said the first alcohol offense can be treated in-house, but others are required to be sent to the Office of Residence Life. Annie Selak, rector of Walsh Hall, said this is the case “provid­ed it is not severe intoxication.”
Other members of the council expressed discontent with dorm rules for using side doors after parietals.
In women’s dorms, usually only the front door is open after parietals, but in some men’s res­idence halls such as Morrissey, residents can enter through either of two doors after parietals. 
“Keenan [Hall] has all three doors available to access at all hours,” Keenan senator John Vernon said. “But after midnight in some girls dorms, you can only go through the main door.”
Consistency in policy was also addressed regarding instituting modular furniture in dorms.
“All of the contraptions you see in the different dorms are not up to code,” student body president Brett Rocheleau said. “It’s mainly dealing with fire safety and the safety of our students.” 
Rocheleau said all dorms will likely switch over to modular fur­niture within the next five years.
The council lastly discussed hall taxes and how they vary from dorm to dorm.
“The hall receives no money from the University, so the only operating budget of residence halls are hall tax and concession stand,” Selak said. 
Students often wonder where this money goes, Vierling said.
“Our hall tax is set by the Manor, by the council,” he said. “We publish a financial statement to the dorm every month. It’s your money. You should know how it’s spent.” 
Contact Carolyn Hutyra at
chutyra@nd.edu

By JILLIAN BARWICK
Saint Mary’s Editor
Over the summer, some stu­dents from Saint Mary’s fur­thered their interest in helping the community and interned at Hannah and Friends, a non-profit organization for children and adults with special needs. 
Senior Maureen Parsons served as an AmeriCorps mem­ber at the organization. 
“I helped out with summer camp and the community ser­vice summer club,” Parsons said. “We had summer camp Monday through Thursday, where our participants were able to do crafts, sing, dance and play outside.”
The community service club planned projects throughout the summer for organizations in the community, Parsons said.
“Hannah and Friends is an opportunity for people with special needs to come and hang out with friends without being judged,” she said. 
Parsons has now spent the last two summers working at the non-profit and will continue her work during the academic year. 
“I really enjoy volunteer­ing there throughout the year. During the school year, I help out at the dances and karaoke nights once a month,” she said. “This year, I am also helping plan their girls’ night program. The girls’ night program is a chance for our female partici­pants to come and just have fun together.”
Throughout the semester, participants in the girls’ night program will discuss health and fitness, attend an etiquette dinner and a fashion show and create a scrapbook, Parsons said. 
Senior Kari McClowry also interned with Hannah and Friends this summer.
“I had such a wonderful ex­perience with the organiza­tion,” McClowry said. “I helped plan the activities for summer camp and made sure it ran smoothly. A big priority was to make sure the kids were having fun. I also co-organized a fundraiser called Family Fest.”
  While interning at Hannah and Friends, Parsons and McClowry learned the organization was nominated for a grant from the Chase Community Giving program. 
“Charities are nominated by Chase employees, and Hannah and Friends was lucky enough to be nominated this year,” Parsons said. “The money from the grant would allow Hannah and Friends to further their mission of raising compassion and awareness for people with special needs.” 
The program donates $5 million to charities nation­wide each year, Parsons said. Charities compete for the $10,000 to $250,000 grants through a Facebook vote, which ends this Wednesday. Voters can find the link on the Chase Community Giving or Hannah and Friends’ Facebook pages.
Parsons said the organi­zation would greatly ben­efit from the grant and is deserving of such an award.
“The programs at Hannah and Friends allow participants an opportunity to feel accepted and loved,” she said. “It is a chance for them to come hang out with their friends and have fun.”
Contact Jillian Barwick at
jbarwi01@saintmarys.edu

By ADAM LLORENS
News Writer
English professor Laura Walls’s fascination with the life and teachings of Ralph Waldo Emerson began at age 12, when she stumbled across an antique volume of the transcendental­ist leader’s “Essays: First and Second Series.”
“[Reading the book] gave me a kind of permission to really think for myself and listen closely to what other people were saying,” Walls said. “I was getting a lot of messages at the time about con­forming and doing what every­body else does. I began taking seriously the fact that here was a voice that said, ‘Dig below and you can think for yourself.’”
Today, the decorated schol­ar is widely considered an Emerson expert, as evidenced by her recent acceptance of the Ralph Waldo Emerson Society’s 2012 Distinguished Achievement Award. She said she continues her mission of “helping Emerson teach stu­dents today” through her work at Notre Dame.
But Walls said she still learns from Emerson’s writings be­cause he is “somebody you just can’t leave alone.” 
When faced with a complex problem, she looks to the think­er for guidance.
“He’s a brilliant writer who’s never satisfied with the sec­ond or third answer,” she said. “Every time you’ve got it all down pat and you’ve got all the answers, you come back to Emerson and it makes you think of something you’ve nev­er thought of before, and you’re unsettled again.”
Although Emerson and his writings always fascinated Walls, she said she began her freshman year of undergradu­ate studies at the University of Washington as an intended bi­ology major.
“However, I had this real­ization towards the end of my freshman year that what I was doing in the lab wasn’t what I wanted to do with my life,” Walls said. “This upsetting, Emerson-type moment made me ask about science itself, about what it was and what it did.”
Just as she did in her youth, Walls said she returned to Emerson’s work once again, this time consulting his most fa­mous essay, “Nature.”
“After rereading this work, I switched my major to English and decided to pursue the Emersonian project of thinking through the nature of things,” Walls said. 
In 1987, Walls began teaching and working toward her Ph.D. in English at Indiana University, where she was able to recon­cile her differing academic interests.
“I got interested in history and philosophy of science at Indiana,” Walls said. “I discov­ered there how I could put my two lifelong interests of science and literature together.”
A former faculty member at the University of South Carolina, Walls said she came to Notre Dame last year because of the high prevalence of “moral and intellectual seriousness” at the University.
“Emerson was originally a minister, and religion was al­ways important to him even though he left the ministry when he was younger,” Walls said. “He wanted to redefine religion for the modern world, so I was re­ally intrigued at the thought of teaching Emerson and the American transcendentalism movement at Notre Dame.”
The idealism present among Notre Dame students reminds Walls of her own beliefs, she said.
“I get a sense that students really do want to change the world and make it a better place,” Walls said. “Idealism has always been a part of me, and Notre Dame is one place where my own intellectual and teach­ing ambitions are a good fit.”
Since her Emerson Society recognition, Walls has contin­ued working on a biography of Emerson’s contemporary, Henry David Thoreau.
“We know a lot more about his life in the last 15 to 20 years through research, and surpris­ingly, there hasn’t been an ex­tensive biography of him for decades,” Walls said. “I thought it would be a really good time, given I have spent a great deal of time on him, to write down what we now understand of his life story.”
But the voice that sparked Walls’s 12-year-old imagination continues to inspire her, and she said she hopes her students experience the same powerful inspiration in their own aca­demic pursuits. 
“I think young people today need to make this world their own, and once you really think a meaningful thought through and own it yourself, then it re­ally is yours,” Walls said. “That’s the foundation for action and intellectual work.”
Contact Adam Llorens at
allorens@nd.edu

SUZANNA PRATT | The Observer
Student body president emeritus Pat McCormick and current stu­dent body president Brett Rocheleau run a CLC meeting in Dec. 2011.

Laura Walls
English professor


see AWARD PAGE 4

see HANNAH PAGE 4

see CLC PAGE 3



Bain and the Election

SCENE PAGE 11

NOTRE DAME 20, MICHIGAN STATE 3  WITHIN

VIEWPOINT PAGE 9

2

THE OBSERVER | MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 17, 2012 | NDSMCOBSERVER.COM

TODAY

QUESTION OF THE DAY:

Have a question you want answered?
Email obsphoto@gmail.com



ndsmcobserver.com
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556
024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556
Editor-in-Chief
Allan Joseph
Managing Editor                  Business Manager
                  Megan Doyle                              Jeff Liptak
	Asst. Managing Editor:	Andrew Owens
	Asst. Managing Editor:	Sam Stryker
	News Editor:	John Cameron
	News Editor:	Kristen Durbin
	Viewpoint Editor:	Meghan Thomassen
	Sports Editor:	Chris Allen
	Scene Editor:	Kevin Noonan
	Saint Mary’s Editor:	Jillian Barwick
	Photo Editor:	Suzanna Pratt
	Graphics Editor:	Brandon Keelean
	Multimedia Editor:	Sarah O’Connor
	Advertising Manager:	Monica McCormack
	Ad Design Manager:	Sara Hilstrom
	Controller:	Peter Woo
	Systems Administrator:	William Heineman
Office Manager & General Info
Ph: (574) 631-7471
Fax: (574) 631-6927
Advertising
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com
Editor-in-Chief
(574) 631-4542 ajoseph2@nd.edu
Managing Editor
(574) 631-4542 mdoyle11@nd.edu
Assistant Managing Editors
(574) 631-4541 aowens2@nd.edu
sstryke1@nd.edu
Business Office
(574) 631-5313
News Desk
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com
Viewpoint Desk
(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com
Sports Desk
(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com
Scene Desk
(574) 631-4540 Observer.Scene.Editor@gmail.com
Saint Mary’s Desk
jbarwi01@saintmarys.edu
Photo Desk
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com
Systems & Web Administrators
(574) 631-8839
Policies
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College.  Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content.
	The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer.
	Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information.
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Allan Joseph.
Post Office Information
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods.
A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester.
The Observer is published at:
024 South Dining Hall
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779
Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame and additional mailing offices
POSTMASTER
Send address corrections to:
The Observer
P.O. Box 779
024 South Dining hall
Notre Dame, IN 46556-077
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press.
All reproduction rights are reserved.

What is one food that you would eliminate from the dining hall?



Rachel Chisausky
senior
McGlinn Hall
“Dead animals.”

Adam Soisson 
freshman
O’Neill Hall
“The no-sugar-added cheesecake.”



Meghan Cassidy
freshman
Farley Hall
“That weird chicken from North.”

Pedro Perrez
junior
Morrissey Manor
“Nothing, I like the dining hall.”



Nina Jones
freshman
McGlinn Hall
“Veal parmesan.”

Vanessa Silva
junior
Breen-Phillips Hall
“Ginger chicken.”


MACKENZIE SAIN | The Observer
Notre Dame fans celebrated the team’s 20-3 win Saturday night against the No. 10-ranked Michigan State Spartans. The game marked the third-consecutive win of the season for the undefeated Irish football team. 

Today’s Staff

THE NEXT FIVE DAYS:

Want your event included here?
Email obsnews.nd@gmail.com

News
Mel Flanagan
Christian Myers
Carolyn Hutyra
Graphics
Brandon Keelean
Photo
Suzanna Pratt
Sports
Sam Gans
Cory Bernard
Laura Coletti
Scene
Courtney Cox
Viewpoint
Amber Galik

Monday
Kickoff to Arts and Letters Career Week
Geddes Hall
6:30 p.m.-8 p.m.
Discover grad school.
Lecture on Catholic Social Tradition
Hesburgh Library
7 p.m.
An Uncommon Search for the Common good. 
Tuesday
Free Flu Shots
Stepan Center
1 p.m.- 8 p.m.
Bring ID cards and wear short sleeves. 
Film: The Passion of Joan of Arc
DeBartolo Performing Arts Center
8 p.m.- 9:22 p.m.
Tickets $7/$5/$4
Wednesday
Workshop: Science and Values in Policymaking
Geddes Coffeehouse
4 p.m.- 5:30 p.m.
Panel Discussion: “Crisis of the Euro”
Hesburgh Center
4:30 p.m.- 6 p.m.
Discussion with University professors. 
Thursday
Zen Meditation
Coleman-Morse
5:15 p.m.- 6:15 p.m.
Weekly practice session.
Concert: Mountain Heart
DeBartolo Performing Arts Center
7 p.m.- 8:30 p.m.
Blues-rock band. 
Friday
“The Chapels of Notre Dame”
Eck Visitors Center
3:30 p.m.- 5 p.m.
Book launch/signing. 
ND vs. Michigan football pep rally
Hesburgh Library
6 p.m.- 7p.m.
Cheer on the Irish football team. 

Corrections
The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so we can correct our error.

3

NDSMCOBSERVER.COM | MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 17, 2012 | THE OBSERVER

NEWS

Bag lunch event promotes depression awareness, resources 

CLC
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1

By MEAGHAN DALY
News Writer
Saint Mary’s Student Government Associate (SGA) closed the week of Support a Belle, Love a Belle with an infor­mational panel on Friday after­noon in the SGA office.
“We wanted to do a profes­sional panel, especially for [first years] and other students to fig­ure out resources and where you can go for help,” student body president Maureen Parsons said.
The panel featured four staff members who are available to students as free, confidential resources.
The goal for Support a Belle, Love a Belle was to raise aware­ness about depression and anxiety and to show support for students afflicted with these is­sues. This is the second year SGA has hosted the week-long event.
“Overall, the week went well and was well received by the stu­dent body,” SGA vice president of external affairs and junior Kathleen Sullivan said. “Support a Belle, Love a Belle touches on sensitive topics, but it was an im­portant and necessary week. We encouraged students to be open about their struggles and to be advocates for past, present and future Belles.”
The panel emphasized the resources and staff available to the Saint Mary’s community and discussed ways students can help their friends who are suffer­ing from depression or anxiety.
“A very basic way [to help] is to give someone eye contact,” Gina Christiana, a counselor in the Women’s Health Office, said. “It is a common courtesy. It is a mat­ter of caring and treating people as individuals that matter.”
The panel advised students to notice common signs of de­pression in their friends, such as avoiding eye contact, irritability and difficulty sleeping.
If a student sees some of these symptoms in a friend, Christiana said she should encourage her to seek help and offer to accompany her to a campus resource.
“You cannot force something on somebody, but you can en­courage them,” she said.
Catherine Pittman, associ­ate professor of psychology, said persuading friends to seek help could keep the problem from affecting others around them as well. 
“We all go through hard times,” she said. “Show them you think it is normal to feel anxious because all college students do.”
Depression can affect one’s ability to learn, concentrate and memory, Pittman said. If coun­seling is too overwhelming, she said to suggest taking a walk.
“Exercise and brisk walking makes part of your brain think you got away,” she said. “It calms you down.” 
Regina Wilson, assistant direc­tor of Campus Ministry, said it often helps to formulate a spiri­tual practice. Weekly mass at­tendance can make a difference, as it allows one to entrust their prayers in God, she said.
On-campus resources for stu­dents suffering from depression include the Women’s Health Office, Campus Ministry and the Belles Against Violence Office.
Contact Meaghan Daly at
mdaly01@saintmarys.edu


BRANDON KEELEAN | The Observer

PAID ADVERTISEMENT


4

THE OBSERVER | MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 17, 2012 | NDSMCOBSERVER.COM

NEWS

Award
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1

Walk
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1


Photo courtesy of Nancy Joyce
From left, senior Gina O’Riordan, junior Carrie Turek, junior Nancy Joyce and junior Amanda Frick walked as part of  Team Notre Dame.

PAID ADVERTISEMENT


Hannah
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1

PAID ADVERTISEMENT


6

6

THE OBSERVER | MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 17, 2012 | NDSMCOBSERVER.COM

THE OBSERVER | MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 17, 2012 | NDSMCOBSERVER.COM

NEWS

NEWS

President charges China with illegal  trade  practices

Israeli leader calls for a strong U.S. stance on Iran

President charges China with illegal  trade  practices

Israeli leader calls for a strong U.S. stance on Iran

Associated Press
WASHINGTON — Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu took his case on Iran directly to U.S. voters Sunday, telling the American public in televised interviews that the White House must be willing to draw a “red line” on Tehran’s nuclear program, comparing Tehran’s nuclear program to Oklahoma City bomber Timothy McVeigh and reminding Americans of the devastating repercussions of failed intelligence.
His remarks were an impas­sioned election-season plea from a world leader who in­sists he doesn’t want to insert himself into U.S. politics and hasn’t endorsed either candi­date. But visibly frustrated by U.S. policy under President Barack Obama, the hawkish Israeli leader took advantage of the week’s focus on unrest across the Muslim world and America’s time-honored tra­dition of the Sunday televi­sion talk shows to appeal to Americans headed to the polls in less than two months.
Tehran claims its nucle­ar program is peaceful. Netanyahu said the U.S. would be foolish to believe that, using football meta­phors and citing example of past terrorist attacks on U.S. soil to appeal to his American audience.
“It’s like Timothy McVeigh walking into a shop in Oklahoma City and saying, ‘I’d like to tend my garden. I’d like to buy some fertilizer.’ ... Come on. We know that they’re working on a weapon,” Netanyahu said.
The past week, Netanyahu has called on Obama and other world leaders to state clearly at what point Iran would face a military attack. But Obama and his top aides, who repeatedly say all options remain on the table, have pointed to shared U.S.-Israeli intelligence that suggests Iran hasn’t decided yet whether to build a bomb despite pursing the technology and that there would be time for action be­yond toughened sanctions al­ready in place.
Netanyahu disagrees, esti­mating that Iran is about six months away from having most of the enriched urani­um it needs and warning that letting them reach the “goal line” would have disastrous consequences.
Obama’s Republican oppo­nent, Mitt Romney, has said he is willing to take a tougher stance than Obama against Iran, although his campaign has declined to provide spe­cifics. He has also aligned himself personally with Netanyahu, casting the Israeli leader as a longtime friend.
Meanwhile, Obama is re­ported to have a strained re­lationship with Netanyahu, chastising Israel for continu­ing to build housing settle­ments in areas disputed with the Palestinians.
America’s ambassador to the United Nations, Susan Rice, responded Sunday by saying there is “no daylight” between the U.S. and Israel and saying Obama “will do what it takes” to prevent Iran from acquiring a nuclear weapon. But, she said, “we are not at that stage yet.”
“Our bottom line — if you want to call it a red line — the president’s bottom line has been that Iran will not acquire a nuclear weapon, and we will take no option off the table to ensure that it does not acquire a nuclear weapon, including military,” Rice later said.
But Netanyahu has said that’s not enough and em­ployed historical examples known to most Americans to make his case: President John F. Kennedy’s demand that the Soviets remove its missiles sites in Cuba “maybe purchased decades of peace,” Netanyahu said. And absent a similar “red line,” then-Iraqi President Saddam Hussein faced a U.S. attack in 1991 af­ter invading Kuwait.
“Maybe that war could have been avoided,” Netanyahu said.
Netanyahu also pointed to America’s inability to prevent the 9/11 hijackings as proof that intelligence can fail.
He insisted that his moti­vations were not political but reflected a key sense of ur­gency. Israeli officials point to Iranian enrichment of urani­um, a key ingredient in build­ing a bomb, the movement of Iranian nuclear research facilities to fortified under­ground bunkers impervious to attack and Iran’s refusal to open its facilities to U.N. inspectors.
“I think that there’s a com­mon interest of all Americans, of all political persuasions, to stop Iran,” he said. “This is a regime that is giving vent to the worst impulses that you see right now in the Middle East.”
Rice said the window to act “is not infinite” but that the sanctions “reached their high point in July.” Rice says that for the first time the Iranian economy is shrinking at a rate of negative 1 percent, Iranian oil production has dropped 40 percent over the last several months and their currency has plummeted 40 percent in that time as well.
“This pressure, even to use the Iranians own words, is crippling,” Rice said, adding, “What is clear is that Iran does not have a nuclear weapon.”
Netanyahu and Rice spoke on CNN’s “State of the Union” and NBC’s “Meet the Press.” Rice also spoke on “Fox News Sunday” and appeared on CBS’ “Face the Nation.”

Associated Press
WASHINGTON — Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu took his case on Iran directly to U.S. voters Sunday, telling the American public in televised interviews that the White House must be willing to draw a “red line” on Tehran’s nuclear program, comparing Tehran’s nuclear program to Oklahoma City bomber Timothy McVeigh and reminding Americans of the devastating repercussions of failed intelligence.
His remarks were an impas­sioned election-season plea from a world leader who in­sists he doesn’t want to insert himself into U.S. politics and hasn’t endorsed either candi­date. But visibly frustrated by U.S. policy under President Barack Obama, the hawkish Israeli leader took advantage of the week’s focus on unrest across the Muslim world and America’s time-honored tra­dition of the Sunday televi­sion talk shows to appeal to Americans headed to the polls in less than two months.
Tehran claims its nucle­ar program is peaceful. Netanyahu said the U.S. would be foolish to believe that, using football meta­phors and citing example of past terrorist attacks on U.S. soil to appeal to his American audience.
“It’s like Timothy McVeigh walking into a shop in Oklahoma City and saying, ‘I’d like to tend my garden. I’d like to buy some fertilizer.’ ... Come on. We know that they’re working on a weapon,” Netanyahu said.
The past week, Netanyahu has called on Obama and other world leaders to state clearly at what point Iran would face a military attack. But Obama and his top aides, who repeatedly say all options remain on the table, have pointed to shared U.S.-Israeli intelligence that suggests Iran hasn’t decided yet whether to build a bomb despite pursing the technology and that there would be time for action be­yond toughened sanctions al­ready in place.
Netanyahu disagrees, esti­mating that Iran is about six months away from having most of the enriched urani­um it needs and warning that letting them reach the “goal line” would have disastrous consequences.
Obama’s Republican oppo­nent, Mitt Romney, has said he is willing to take a tougher stance than Obama against Iran, although his campaign has declined to provide spe­cifics. He has also aligned himself personally with Netanyahu, casting the Israeli leader as a longtime friend.
Meanwhile, Obama is re­ported to have a strained re­lationship with Netanyahu, chastising Israel for continu­ing to build housing settle­ments in areas disputed with the Palestinians.
America’s ambassador to the United Nations, Susan Rice, responded Sunday by saying there is “no daylight” between the U.S. and Israel and saying Obama “will do what it takes” to prevent Iran from acquiring a nuclear weapon. But, she said, “we are not at that stage yet.”
“Our bottom line — if you want to call it a red line — the president’s bottom line has been that Iran will not acquire a nuclear weapon, and we will take no option off the table to ensure that it does not acquire a nuclear weapon, including military,” Rice later said.
But Netanyahu has said that’s not enough and em­ployed historical examples known to most Americans to make his case: President John F. Kennedy’s demand that the Soviets remove its missiles sites in Cuba “maybe purchased decades of peace,” Netanyahu said. And absent a similar “red line,” then-Iraqi President Saddam Hussein faced a U.S. attack in 1991 af­ter invading Kuwait.
“Maybe that war could have been avoided,” Netanyahu said.
Netanyahu also pointed to America’s inability to prevent the 9/11 hijackings as proof that intelligence can fail.
He insisted that his moti­vations were not political but reflected a key sense of ur­gency. Israeli officials point to Iranian enrichment of urani­um, a key ingredient in build­ing a bomb, the movement of Iranian nuclear research facilities to fortified under­ground bunkers impervious to attack and Iran’s refusal to open its facilities to U.N. inspectors.
“I think that there’s a com­mon interest of all Americans, of all political persuasions, to stop Iran,” he said. “This is a regime that is giving vent to the worst impulses that you see right now in the Middle East.”
Rice said the window to act “is not infinite” but that the sanctions “reached their high point in July.” Rice says that for the first time the Iranian economy is shrinking at a rate of negative 1 percent, Iranian oil production has dropped 40 percent over the last several months and their currency has plummeted 40 percent in that time as well.
“This pressure, even to use the Iranians own words, is crippling,” Rice said, adding, “What is clear is that Iran does not have a nuclear weapon.”
Netanyahu and Rice spoke on CNN’s “State of the Union” and NBC’s “Meet the Press.” Rice also spoke on “Fox News Sunday” and appeared on CBS’ “Face the Nation.”





AP
Benjamin Netanyahu, prime minister of Israel, speaks at a press conference in Israel on Sept. 11.  He opposes Iran’s nuclear program. 

AP
President Obama speaks in Norfolk, Va., on Sept. 4. The President has filed charges against China with the World Trade Organization.

Associated Press
WASHINGTON — President Barack Obama will launch a new trade enforcement case against China Monday, using the pow­er of incumbency to counter Republican Mitt Romney’s criti­cism that he is ceding American jobs to the Asian power.
Senior administration officials said the president will announce the new case, targeting Chinese subsidies for exports of auto­mobiles and automobile parts, Monday during a campaign trip to Ohio. The swing state has a large manufacturing base where many blame China for depressing its industry.
Obama and Romney have both pushed China — and through it, the economy — to the forefront of the White House race as they seek to refocus after a week domi­nated by foreign policy and the turbulent events at U.S. embassies throughout the Middle East.
Romney has accused Obama of being weak on China to the detriment of U.S. workers. The president countered with claims that Romney has investments in Chinese companies and out­sourced jobs to China while run­ning the private equity firm Bain Capital.
On Monday, with both candi­dates returning to the campaign trail after a weekend out of the spotlight, Obama will try to gain the upper hand in the debate.
Officials said the adminis­tration will launch enforce­ment action at the World Trade Organization because it says China is illegally subsidizing ex­ports in their autos and auto parts sectors. The U.S. says the practice puts American parts manufactur­ers at a competitive disadvantage and encourages the outsourcing of production to China.
The officials requested ano­nymity because they were not authorized to discuss the trade action publicly ahead of the president.
The administration is taking the issue to the WTO because its attempts to get China to address the subsidies on its own have been unsuccessful, the officials said.
Jobs in the U.S. auto parts sector dropped by roughly half between 2001 and 2010, while U.S. imports of auto parts from China have in­creased seven-fold, according to the Obama administration.
The administration is also es­calating another case it brought against China at the WTO in July that accuses China of imposing unfair duties on more than $3 billion in exports of U.S. autos. The duties cover more than 80 percent of American auto exports to China, said the officials, who requested anonymity in order to discuss the trade action ahead of the president.
The cases stem from the Interagency Trade Enforcement Center Obama set up earlier this year to target unfair practices around the world, particularly in China.
Obama and Romney started trading barbs on China late last week.
Romney released a television advertisement Thursday accus­ing Obama of “failing American workers” and ignoring unfair trade practices by China. And in his weekly podcast Saturday, Romney said: “In 2008, candidate Obama promised to take China ‘to the mat.’ But since then, he’s let China run all over us.”
Obama countered with a TV spot focused on its claims that Romney outsourced jobs to China while working in the pri­vate sector. Obama’s campaign also released a new web video Saturday in which deputy cam­paign manager Stephanie Cutter said Romney holds investments in Chinese companies.
The maneuvering came as a new national survey by The New York Times and CBS News found that Romney has lost his long­standing edge on the question of who voters view as most likely to restore the economy and create jobs. Despite that, the poll found the race narrowly divided.

Associated Press
WASHINGTON — President Barack Obama will launch a new trade enforcement case against China Monday, using the pow­er of incumbency to counter Republican Mitt Romney’s criti­cism that he is ceding American jobs to the Asian power.
Senior administration officials said the president will announce the new case, targeting Chinese subsidies for exports of auto­mobiles and automobile parts, Monday during a campaign trip to Ohio. The swing state has a large manufacturing base where many blame China for depressing its industry.
Obama and Romney have both pushed China — and through it, the economy — to the forefront of the White House race as they seek to refocus after a week domi­nated by foreign policy and the turbulent events at U.S. embassies throughout the Middle East.
Romney has accused Obama of being weak on China to the detriment of U.S. workers. The president countered with claims that Romney has investments in Chinese companies and out­sourced jobs to China while run­ning the private equity firm Bain Capital.
On Monday, with both candi­dates returning to the campaign trail after a weekend out of the spotlight, Obama will try to gain the upper hand in the debate.
Officials said the adminis­tration will launch enforce­ment action at the World Trade Organization because it says China is illegally subsidizing ex­ports in their autos and auto parts sectors. The U.S. says the practice puts American parts manufactur­ers at a competitive disadvantage and encourages the outsourcing of production to China.
The officials requested ano­nymity because they were not authorized to discuss the trade action publicly ahead of the president.
The administration is taking the issue to the WTO because its attempts to get China to address the subsidies on its own have been unsuccessful, the officials said.
Jobs in the U.S. auto parts sector dropped by roughly half between 2001 and 2010, while U.S. imports of auto parts from China have in­creased seven-fold, according to the Obama administration.
The administration is also es­calating another case it brought against China at the WTO in July that accuses China of imposing unfair duties on more than $3 billion in exports of U.S. autos. The duties cover more than 80 percent of American auto exports to China, said the officials, who requested anonymity in order to discuss the trade action ahead of the president.
The cases stem from the Interagency Trade Enforcement Center Obama set up earlier this year to target unfair practices around the world, particularly in China.
Obama and Romney started trading barbs on China late last week.
Romney released a television advertisement Thursday accus­ing Obama of “failing American workers” and ignoring unfair trade practices by China. And in his weekly podcast Saturday, Romney said: “In 2008, candidate Obama promised to take China ‘to the mat.’ But since then, he’s let China run all over us.”
Obama countered with a TV spot focused on its claims that Romney outsourced jobs to China while working in the pri­vate sector. Obama’s campaign also released a new web video Saturday in which deputy cam­paign manager Stephanie Cutter said Romney holds investments in Chinese companies.
The maneuvering came as a new national survey by The New York Times and CBS News found that Romney has lost his long­standing edge on the question of who voters view as most likely to restore the economy and create jobs. Despite that, the poll found the race narrowly divided.

Please recycle
The Observer.



7

NDSMCOBSERVER.COM | MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 17, 2012 | THE OBSERVER

NEWS

FBI thwarts domestic terrorist

Fox announces new ‘American Idol’ judges

Associated Press
HILLSIDE, Ill. — The inves­tigation started months ago, when the FBI noticed an email message: A man in the Chicago suburbs was using an account to distribute chatter about vio­lent jihad and the killing of Americans.
Two undercover agents reached out and began to talk to him online. In May, they intro­duced him to another agent who claimed to be a terrorist living in New York.
The operation ended Friday night, an affidavit describing it says, when the man was ar­rested and accused of trying to detonate what he believed was a car bomb outside of a Chicago bar. Prosecutors said an under­cover agent gave Adel Daoud, a U.S. citizen from the Chicago suburb of Hillside, a phony car bomb and watched him press the trigger.
The U.S. Attorney’s Office in Chicago, which announced the arrest Saturday, said the device was harmless and the public was never at risk. Daoud, 18, is due to make an appearance in federal court Monday afternoon on charges of attempting to use a weapon of mass destruc­tion and attempting to damage and destroy a building with an explosive.
“We don’t even know any­thing. We don’t know that much. We know as little as you do,” a woman who answered the phone at his home and identi­fied herself as his sister, Hiba, said Saturday. “They’re just ac­cusations. ... We’d like to be left alone.”
Daoud’s father, Ahmed Daoud, declined to comment on Sunday.
“We don’t know anything about it,” he said when reached by phone.
The FBI often uses similar tac­tics in counterterrorism investi­gations, deploying undercover agents to engage suspects in talk of terror plots and then provide fake explosive devices.
In 2010, a Lebanese immi­grant took what he thought was a bomb and dropped it into a trash bin near Chicago’s Wrigley Field. In a 2009 case, agents pro­vided a Jordanian man with a fake truck bomb that he used to try to blow up a 60-story office tower in Dallas.
This operation unfolded much like the others. After Daoud be­gan talking to the undercover agents, an affidavit says, the third agent and Daoud met six times in the suburb of Villa Park over the summer and exchanged messages. Daoud then set about identifying 29 potential targets, including military recruiting centers, bars, malls and tourist attractions in Chicago, the doc­ument said.
After he settled on a downtown bar, he conducted surveillance on it by using Google Street View and visiting the area in person to take photographs, the affida­vit said. The document does not identify the bar, but says he told the agent it was also a concert venue by a liquor store.
“It’s a bar, it’s a liquor store, it’s a concert. All in one bundle,” the document quotes him as saying. It said he noted the bar would be filled with the “evilest people ... kuffars.” Kuffar is the Arabic term for non-believer.
Shortly after 7 p.m. Friday, the affidavit said, Daoud met with the undercover agent in Villa Park and they drove to down­town Chicago, where the res­taurants and bars were packed. They entered a parking lot where a Jeep Cherokee containing the phony bomb was parked, the document says.
Daoud drove the vehicle and parked it in front of the bar, then walked a block away and at­tempted to detonate the device by pressing a triggering mecha­nism, the affidavit says. He was then arrested.
A neighbor, Harry Pappas, said that a dozen unmarked cars drove up to the family’s house on Friday night and several agents went inside. On Saturday, no one answered the door of the family’s two-story home, which had a well-kept garden in the yard and a basketball hoop in the driveway. The house faces a Lutheran church; a Greek Orthodox church also is nearby.
Pappas said he was shocked by the arrest, calling Daoud’s parents “wonderful” people.
Prosecutors said Daoud was offered several chances to change his mind and walk away from the plot.
The affidavit said Daoud was active in jihadist Internet forums and was accessing articles writ­ten by Anwar al-Awlaki, the U.S.-born radical cleric who became a key figure in the Yemen-based al-Qaida offshoot known as al-Qaida in the Arabian Peninsula.
Al-Awlaki was killed in a U.S. drone strike in Yemen last year.
The FBI says he also was searching online for informa­tion on making bombs and reading “Inspire,” the English-language online magazine published by Al-Qaida in the Arabian Peninsula.
In his conversations with the undercover agent, Daoud ex­plained his reasons for wanting to launch an attack, saying the United States was at war “with Islam and Muslims,” the affida­vit said.
According to the document, he said he was trying to recruit others and that he was confront­ed by leaders of his mosque who warned he should stop talking about jihad. The affidavit said Daoud’s father also had been informed that Daoud was debat­ing jihad and told Daoud to stop talking about it.


AP
The upcoming season of the reality show “American Idol” will feature judges, from left, Mariah Carey, Keith Urban, Nicki Minaj and Randy Jackson. Ryan Seacrest, center, will return as the host.

Associated Press
NEW YORK — The “American Idol” judges’ panel is now complete with the naming of singer-rapper Nicki Minaj and country crooner Keith Urban.
The Fox network officially tapped the pair with an an­nouncement Sunday, confirm­ing rumors surrounding them both just hours before the first round of auditions for next sea­son was due to begin in New York.
Minaj is getting $12 million for a one-year deal on the hit Fox singing series, a person in the music industry with knowledge of the deal told The Associated Press on Sunday. The person spoke on condition of anonymity because they were not authorized to publicly discuss the deal.
A representative for Urban wouldn’t disclose the singer’s compensation for “Idol.”
The announcement also settled the status of Randy Jackson. He will stay put as the sole remaining original “Idol” judge, scotching rumors he might assume a differ­ent role on the popular talent competition.
This trio will join pop star Mariah Carey at a judges’ pan­el now expanded to four mem­bers from its previous three. The AP reported in July that Carey is receiving just shy of $18 million for a one-year con­tract with a renewal option.
Arriving at Jazz at Lincoln Center, where the auditions would take place, Urban hailed “Idol” for its “great history of producing real stars.”
As an “Idol” judge, he said he plans to be “authentic” but not cruel.
“I did similar shows when I was very young in Australia,” he recalled, “and I was sort of crucified by one judge. So I don’t know that I’ll ever be THAT guy.”
Minaj said during the au­ditions she’ll be looking for “a superstar,” which, she ex­plained, is “something that can’t be defined in words.”
Jackson called this pair of hires a “fresh, fresh, fresh ‘Idol’ one-two!”
Minaj, he said, “brings a whole other cool vibe we’ve never had on the show, and Keith Urban? My God, he’s un­believably talented!”
When Carey was asked whether she had eagerly await­ed news of who would join her as judges, she cracked that, no, she hadn’t, “because all I really care about is me,” but quickly added, “Only kidding.”
Turning serious, she said she didn’t know what kind of judge she would be.
“Am I the mean one? Am I the nice one? ... It’s not about me, me, me, it’s about them (the contestants) and what I can bring to them to help guide them in the right direction,” said Carey.
Ryan Seacrest will remain as host when the show returns for its 12th season in January.
“Last night,” he said, “we had a chance to really get together for the first time as a group. Everybody made a toast and talked about how special it was that they were here, and why they were here. So we’re off to a good start.”
Seacrest took note of “the se­rious and obvious diversity on this panel,” adding, “You can see just by the panel the kind of power the show has.”
The makeup of the panel has been in flux since Steven Tyler and Jennifer Lopez announced their exits in July. Carey signed on later that month.
“I am thrilled about this year’s judges panel,” said Mike Darnell, Fox president of Alternative Entertainment. “With an unparalleled star like Mariah, fan-favorite Randy, chart-toppers like Nicki and Keith and our incomparable host Ryan, we’ve put together one of the most exciting judg­ing panels around.”
“Idol” is looking for its fa­mous new faces to supercharge a show that remains a ratings leader but has seen its view­ership and pop-culture clout erode in recent seasons in an increasingly crowded talent show field. Besides Fox sibling “The X Factor,” which recent­ly added Britney Spears and Demi Lovato as judges, there’s NBC’s “The Voice,” which boasts Christina Aguilera among its big names.
Minaj, 29, is known for her colorful hairstyles, ward­robe and antics. A native of Trinidad who grew up in New York, she has scored with hits like “Starships,” ‘’Turn Me On,” and “Super Bass,” her seventh single, which has sold more than 4 million copies.
She is the first female solo artist to have seven singles si­multaneously on the Billboard Hot 100 chart. She released her second studio album, “Pink Friday: Roman Reloaded,” in April, and since then it has sold 1 million copies worldwide.
The 44-year-old Urban has four Grammy Awards and 14 No. 1 hits, and was named Male Vocal Artist of the Year three times, as well as Entertainer of the Year, by the Country Music Association. His latest CD, “Get Closer,” has produced three consecutive No. 1 singles.
The New Zealand native is married to Australia-born film star Nicole Kidman.
“American Idol” ended the 2011-12 season as the leading entertainment show and No. 2 overall, just behind NBC’s top-rated “Sunday Night Football.”
But the show aired its least-watched finale ever and the advertiser-favored young adult audience has been steadily shrinking. The show’s cachet hasn’t been helped by a run of champions who have failed to achieve the career sizzle of past competitors Jennifer Hudson, Carrie Underwood or Kelly Clarkson.

8

THE OBSERVER | MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 17, 2012 | NDSMCOBSERVER.COM

Exciting new projects for SIBC

INSIDE COLUMN

Finally at Fenway 

This past week, the SIBC kicked off the year with its all-council meeting. We had a record turnout for the fall semester with more than 350 people in attendance. We are all extremely excited about this upcoming semester and would like to highlight a few of our newest and most exciting projects.
Accounting: In recent years, the Accounting Division has featured mul­tiple case projects with professional services firms, including the “Big Four” public accounting firms, as well as some middle-market companies. This semester, the division is plan­ning to enroll in an international case competition in addition to the existing case studies. The 35-year-old global program, known as the Inter-Collegiate Business Competition (ICBC), is put on by Queen’s University in Kingston, Ontario. In short, a team of SIBC stu­dents will have one month to prepare a memo for a case provided by a notable company sponsor or the business fac­ulty at Queen’s University. If the SIBC team’s memo advances past the pre­liminary round of evaluation, they will be invited to the final round in Ontario to compete against other top business students from around the world. The SIBC wishes the participants the best of luck in hopes that Notre Dame will be a new presence at the ICBC this win­ter break.
Consulting: The newest addition to the Consulting Division this semes­ter is the Bain & Company project. Bain has extensive consulting experi­ence across all industries and helps companies achieve excellence with fresh, cross-industry perspectives. Bain’s consulting services focus on the clients’ most critical issues and op­portunities, ranging from operations to mergers and acquisitions across all industries all over the world. This se­mester, the project will focus on a deep dive analysis of a specific company and how they can become more profitable, whether that be through an acquisi­tion, entering new markets, developing new products or targeting new seg­ments. With the addition of the Bain & Company project, the Consulting Division now has projects with each of the big three consulting firms, in­cluding McKinsey and the Boston Consulting Group.
Finance: This year we are launching a new Portfolio Management Project (PMP). This project gives our members the opportunity to emulate a multi-strategy hedge fund. The team invests in small, mid-cap names, trades in spe­cial situations such as M&A and makes opportunistic bets on the macro-econ­omy. Project members will analyze historical global economic trends and dive into individual stock names by ar­ticulating theses and defending them. They will then track their investments by benchmarking their performance against the S&P 500 index. The team and its leader, Derek Kim, will travel to San Diego to present its findings and analysis to SIBC benefactor Frank Potenziani in early 2013.
Global Development: This semester, the Global Development division is excited to launch a partnership with Milaap, a microfinance organization based out of Bangalore, India. Milaap organizes loans for India’s working poor through many “microloans” from lenders in multiple countries and has recently expanded into the United States. Milaap’s philanthropy focuses on skill development, employability programs and market-linked liveli­hood activities. The project examines the American charitable marketplace, identifies target markets for micro­finance in America and designs a marketing plan for Milaap — all while educating students in microfinance. 
Marketing: The Marketing Division is excited to add a new project with Adidas. Though Notre Dame has had a long-standing partnership with the Adidas, this is the first semester the SIBC has partnered with them. The division is looking forward to add­ing a new project in the sports and apparel marketing category, though the specifics of the project are still be­ing determined.  In addition to our new partnership with Adidas, we are continuing to work with NBC Sports, Target, Li-Ning and Coca-Cola. 
Overall, the SIBC is extremely excited about the diverse suite of project offer­ings that will be available to students this year. If you have any interest in the opportunities listed above, please visit our website (sibc.nd.edu) for meeting times. It’s never too late to join, and we hope to see everyone at our weekly meetings!
The SIBC is the largest student-run organization on campus with more than 400 active members. We seek to promote “Peace through Commerce” by partnering with leading companies across all areas of business and providing international internships for our members. We can be reached at sibc@nd.edu or at sibc.nd.edu
	The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer.

Flavio Gregorio
Students International Business Council


Anna Boarini
News Writer

On Wednesday night, my friend Fran and I left school and drove to Boston for the Red Sox-Yankees game at Fenway Park. That’s right, we drove approxi­mately 16 hours for a baseball game.
Reading that sentence, you probably think we’re crazy. I’m not going to lie, there were moments when I thought we were crazy too. During our trip, we barely slept more than three hours at a stretch. We stopped at basically every Dunkin Donuts we passed to get yet another coffee to stay awake. After driv­ing through Ohio, Pennsylvania, New Jersey, New York and Connecticut, we finally reached Massachusetts. 
The closer we got to Boston, the more excited I got. I was finally going to get to watch a game in one of baseball’s cathe­drals. Even better, I was going to (hope­fully) watch my Sox beat the Yankees. What made this trip even crazier is Fran is a Yankees fan and I’m a Red Sox fan. This rivalry isn’t always so nice, but we generally stick to a rule where we don’t talk about baseball. Ever. 
For Fran, this was a game she was pretty sure her team would win (and they did). But this was a game where she tried to not be an obnoxious Yankees fan. She actually wore a Saint Mary’s shirt (that was blue and white) so if the Sox won, she wouldn’t get heckled too much. But even though she hates the Red Sox, it’s not every day you get to watch sport’s greatest rivalry in one of the sport’s greatest stadiums. 
For me, the game was even more spe­cial. I’m a huge Red Sox fan and this was my first trip to Fenway Park to actually watch a game. This was the first time I got to watch my team in their natural environment. The first time I got to hear “Sweet Caroline” over the loudspeak­ers. The first time I got to watch the sun drop behind the Green Monster. 
I’m not going to lie, walking into Fenway and seeing the field, the bull­pens and the dugouts was almost too much. I could barely speak and when I first saw the park, tears came to my eyes. 
We lost the game, but I wasn’t as sad as I thought I would be. Even though we didn’t rack up the “W,” it was still one of the best nights of my life. I got to watch a game at Fenway. I got to talk base­ball and basketball with a guy with an awesome Boston accent. I cheered for Saltalamacchia when he went up to bat and I booed A-Rod like everyone else in the stadium. It was the first time in my life I truly felt like I was part of the com­munity of Red Sox fans. In the words of The Standells, “Love that Dirty Water, Boston you’re my home.”

EDITORIAL CARTOON


WEEKLY POLL
What is the most important issue in this presidential election?

QUOTE OF THE DAY
“Courage is not simply one of the virtues, but the form of every virtue at the testing point.”

Tweet your response with #ViewpointPoll by 5 p.m. Thursday.

C. S. Lewis
English essayist & juvenile novelist

Contact Anna Boarini at      
aboarini@nd.edu
	The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer.

Submit a Letter to the Editor | Email obsviewpoint@gmail.com

9

THE OBSERVER | MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 17, 2012 | NDSMCOBSERVER.COM

Mitt Romney, private equity, 
Bain Capital and the 2012 election

Adam Newman
Scientia Potentia Est

One of the attacks that the Obama campaign has used against Mitt Romney are the dealings of the private-equity firm Bain Capital, of which Romney was CEO. This is perhaps the first time that such an intense examina­tion of private equity has occurred at a national level. Amidst the plentiful talking points and sound bites in any presidential campaign, both private equity’s supporters and its critics have misled the public. 
In 1983, Romney was chosen to start a new private-equity firm named Bain Capital. To put it simply, a private-equity firm manages funds provided by investors to purchase underperforming or undervalued companies, improve them and eventually sell the compa­nies for a profit. Many of the changes that firms like Bain took were selling unproductive segments of businesses while expanding productive ones and slashing jobs and wages for workers, while creating performance incentives for managers. This led to major turn­over at companies that exemplified the complacent business environment and paternalistic bond that management shared with employees after World War II. Many question how private-equity firms could justify such seemingly im­moral actions, but ultimately private-equity firms are loyal to their investor’s interests, even if that means slash­ing jobs and wages for middle class workers.  
Mitt Romney, however, understands that he cannot say this on the cam­paign trail, and has made the claim that he created 100,000 jobs while CEO of Bain. There is evidence that this is roughly the amount of jobs created, but since Bain will not publish statistics for all their ventures, it is impossible to know how many jobs were simulta­neously destroyed. The authoritative study conducted by Steven Davis of the University of Chicago suggests that on average, private-equity firms are mar­ginal net job destroyers (roughly one percent of employment). 
Supporters of private equity often equate the vilification of private equity as an attack on free-market capitalism. What these supporters fail to realize (or admit) is that private equity immensely benefits from government subsidies through the U.S tax code. The tax code makes debt tax deductible with no cap, giving private-equity firms an incentive to load up acquisitions with unusu­ally high amounts of debt. Many times these firms use the debt to take cash out of the business in the form of dividends for the private-equity firm, creating an indirect transfer of cash from the gov­ernment to the private-equity firms. As James Surowiecki recently wrote in the New Yorker, “If private-equity firms are as good at remaking companies as they claim, they don’t need tax loopholes to make money.” 
Many believe these leveraged buyouts cause companies to go bankrupt. A Wall Street Journal analysis of Bain invest­ments from 1984 to 1999 found that 22 percent of Bain’s investments filed for bankruptcy or went bust within eight years of Bain’s acquisition. However, it is hard to tell how many of these bank­ruptcies would not have happened if Bain did not invest in them. Bain was more likely to invest in risky, underper­forming firms, so many of these firms would have failed anyway.  
Even with private equity’s flaws, Romney’s career was successful. During Romney’s tenure, the fund increased from $37 million in 1984 to $500 million by 1994 and posted the highest returns of any other competi­tor. Romney also gained a reputation as a very hard worker and an extremely talented CEO. While it is impossible to examine every deal over his 15-year career at Bain Capital, overall, Romney was an extremely ethical businessman. 
With this being said, the Obama cam­paign’s attacks against private equity serve little value in the 2012 presidential campaign. Romney’s career ended 13 years ago, and the decisions that he made as an executive to create value for investors are not at all similar to the de­cisions he would make as the president to help the American people. Instead, Obama should focus on what Romney would do as president. He should spend time explaining the Paul Ryan budget endorsed by Romney, while labeling him as another President Bush — a man with few political convictions, who is out of touch with everyday Americans and whose policies would largely ben­efit the rich and hurt the middle class.
Obama won in 2008 because he promised to stay above the petty politics we have come to expect as the norm. But now he is engaging in petty politics as his campaign focuses on Bain Capital’s dealings and ignores the major issues. When people place their hope in a candidate for high of­fice, they expect that the candidate can change our country’s political culture, but too often it is the other way around. Perhaps Barack Obama is another causality. 
Adam Newman is a senior political science major. He can be reached at anewman3@nd.edu
	The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer.

LETTERS

UWIRE

Censorship on Facebook

Love my Belles

Dear Belles,
I am so happy with how well Support a Belle, Love a Belle went. This has been a learning process for all involved. I have been so unbelievably inspired and hum­bled by the amount of girls who are not only affected by depression and anxiety, but care deeply enough about the issue to reach out to our fellow sisters who also struggle.
Each event has inspired me in a different way and I am so grateful for every per­son who has worked to make this week that much better. As a community deeply rooted in sisterhood, this week was a wonderful way for us to come together. Thanks again and remember that your Saint Mary’s sisters are always here for you.
Kat Sullivan
junior
Le Mans Hall
Sept. 16

Photo moderators for Facebook and other popular websites are contracted out, some of those negotiations even crossing international boundaries, ac­cording to article in The Daily Beast.
The Daily Beast launched an in­vestigation on Facebook censorship after the popular social media web­site banned The New Yorker’s page for containing a cartoon of a naked man and woman where the woman’s breasts were represented as two black dots.
Eventually, Facebook lifted the ban, calling it “a mistake.”
On first thought, the words “Facebook moderators” sound appeal­ing. The site is so popular, some form of regulation needs to be in place. That being said, things are going to get tricky when Facebook employs a staff of moderators who hail from several different countries.
Those moderators are going to have varying codes of ethics, which will only lead to a confusing array of guidelines about what’s permis­sible to post and what’s not. In fact, moderators from the same country could even have different definitions of what’s appropriate.
Finally, it’s understandable that The New Yorker faux pas occurred. The moderators have to sit there, sift­ing through photo after photo after photo, most of them probably tasteful. Then something slightly questionable such as The New Yorker cartoon pops up, and the moderators see reason to label it inappropriate. Also, the mod­erators probably didn’t even realize the image was from The New Yorker. After clicking through so many pho­tos, they’re probably not paying much attention to where those photos are coming from.
Looking forward, it will be interest­ing to see if Facebook comes up with any new tools to identify what content is and isn’t appropriate. However, it seems unlikely that the company will ever be able to eradicate every inap­propriate post on its site.
This article originally ran in the Sept. 13 version of the Daily Free Press, serving Boston University.
	The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer.

Editorial Board
Daily Free Press

Follow us on Twitter.
@ObserverViewpnt



10

THE OBSERVER | MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 17, 2012 | NDSMCOBSERVER.COM


By CLAIRE STEPHENS
Scene Writer
If you haven’t heard any buzz about “The Cabin in the Woods,” it very much looks like every other horror movie you’ve ever seen. A handful of college-age friends go on a trip out in the middle of nowhere, and bad things happen. There’s the witty stoner, the lusty couple you know will die first and the smart friend who is the love interest of the in­nocent and kind-hearted girl, who will likely make it to the end.
Even the logline convinces you this is another run-of-the-mill scary movie: “Five friends go for a break at a remote cabin in the woods, where they get more than they bargained for. Together, they must discover the truth behind the cab­in in the woods.”
If that’s all you’re expecting, you’re in for a big surprise, and a good one. You as the audience are watching the truth unfold about the cabin in the woods too, and it’s not what you think. If you still want to be surprised, stop reading now. For those of you wondering why people have claimed the movie redefines the horror genre, read on.
Why is “The Cabin in the Woods” bet­ter than a typical horror movie? Because it’s only half of the horror movie you’re expecting — the other half makes twisted fun of what happens in horror movies, and ends up being the truly hor­rifying half. 
The classic-horror setup half is the five friends going to a secluded cabin and horrible supernatural things com­ing after them. The black comedy half of the film is discovering the cabin is filled with cameras, and the friends are being surveyed and manipulated by a corpo­ration who unleashed the supernatural. 
Don’t be mistaken — this is not a par­ody movie. While parodies like “Scary Movie” make fun of the horror movie genre, this film’s real plot makes a black comedy out of horrors unfolding, but is not a commentary on horror films. 
Even the typical horror-film half of this movie, while predictable, is still bet­ter than the average horror flick, which is notorious for being filled with gra­tuitous sex and violence. The audience follows how and why this corporation is orchestrating their deaths, rather than following the suspense of the doomed friends. There is something truly dis­turbing about watching employees in white jackets drink cocktails and min­gling while someone is being tortured on a surveillance screen in the background. 
Another unexpected element is the dark sense of humor. You don’t laugh be­cause it’s so bad, it’s good, but at the in­tentionally black sense of humor. You’ll laugh when the protagonists fall into the regular, stupid traps that people in hor­ror moves fall for. You’ll laugh because the corporation’s employees monitor­ing it are making bets and jokes on what kind of horror will befall the young peo­ple this time around. You’ll feel uncom­fortable when you realize you’re just as awful as the employees for laughing at someone’s gruesome demise. 
The horror elements are still there too — what is happening to those unfor­tunate five friends is real. Even though you fully know it’s coming and know it’s being all planned out by the corpora­tion, you’ll still jump when the monsters pop up, cover your ears in anticipation when it’s been too quiet for too long and wince when someone loses a limb. Even though you know they are pawns for the corporation, the supernatural monsters will give you the absolute creeps, and if blood painting the walls will make you queasy, brace yourself.
“The Cabin in the Woods” is a refresh­ing twist on the horror movie that will leave you wondering what it means to watch something horrible and who or what is truly horrifying. 
Contact Claire Stephens at 
cstephe4@nd.edu

“The Cabin in the Woods”
Directed By: Drew Goddard
Studio: Mutant Enemy Productions
Starring: Kristen Connolly, Chris Hemsworth and Anna Hutchinson




By KEVIN NOONAN
Scene Editor
The DeBartolo Performing Arts Center (DPAC) features the works of famed Japanese filmmaker and anima­tor Hayao Miyazaki in their latest film series, “In Spirit: The Films of Hayao Miyazaki.”
The series, which began Sunday with the 1997 fantasy film “Princess Mononoke,” highlights the distinctive visual style and storytelling fashion of the 71-year-old Academy Award win­ning Miyazaki, who also co-founded the successful Japanese film produc­tion company, Studio Ghibli.
Often compared to Walt Disney (Disney Studios), Nick Park (Claymation style, “Wallace & Gromit”) and Robert Zemeckis (perfor­mance capture animation, “The Polar Express”) in terms of influence, inno­vation and prowess in the world of ani­mation, Miyazaki knew in high school that he wanted to be a “manga artist,” the Japanese term for animators and comic book illustrators.
Miyazaki took his first job in anima­tion at 22 years old, and began gaining praise for his film work shortly there­after, successfully pitching a rewrite to the conclusion of 1965’s “Gulliver’s Travels Beyond the Moon,” a film re­leased when he was only 24.
He directed his first feature anime film, “The Castle of Cagliostro,” in 1979, but it was his second film, “Nausicaä of the Valley of the Wind,” that estab­lished many of the lasting themes of his work. In many of his films, Miyazaki focuses on the human impact on the environment, pacifism, feminism, morally ambiguous antagonists and a fixation with flight and aircraft.
The series, which will screen one or two of Miyazaki’s films, dubbed in English by often-famous American au­thors, each weekend through October 14, continues this weekend with ar­guably his most acclaimed film in American culture, 2001’s “Spirited Away,” Sunday at 3:00 p.m. at DPAC.
“Spirited Away” follows Chihiro Ogino, a moody ten-year-old girl, who enters a fantasy world while moving with her family into a new neighbor­hood. Her parents transform into pigs, and Chihiro falls under the spells of the witch who runs the bathhouse where she has taken a job. Chihiro soon forgets her own name and becomes trapped in the spirit world.
The film was the most successful film in Japanese history (before being topped by “Titanic”), earning more than $274 million worldwide at the box office. The American release was su­pervised by John Lasseter, CEO of Pixar and Walt Disney Animation Studios, and grossed more than $10 million in the United States.
Critics almost universally praised the movie, and it is considered one of the greatest animated films of all time. It won Best Film and Best Song at the 2002 Japan Academy Awards, and be­came the first anime film to win an Oscar when it won the Academy Award for Best Animated Feature in 2003.
“Spirited Away” plays at DPAC this Sunday at 3 p.m. Student tickets are $3. Show times and dates for the rest of the series can be found on DPAC’s website, performingarts.nd.edu.
Contact Kevin Noonan at 
knoonan2@nd.edu

BRANDON KEELEAN | The Observer

11

THE OBSERVER | MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 17, 2012 | NDSMCOBSERVER.COM


Like a phoenix from the flame, Britney Spears has risen again. This time, it isn’t with a dynamic new album but with a seat on the revamped second sea­son of “The X Factor,” Simon Cowell’s latest attempt at dominating US television. 
In many ways, Britney’s life path has mirrored our generation’s maturation. She launched onto the scene in the late ‘90s when we were still in elemen­tary school (I vividly remember having an argu­ment in my third grade class whether she or Bruce Springsteen was the best musical artist ever. Suffice to say, I was the only boy on Brit-Brit’s side.) 
In our awkward middle school years, she was shaving her head, marrying twice (once for a whirl­wind 55-hours, another time to her backup dancer) and generally going all-out bonkers. 
Just as we entered high school, Britney was getting her act back together thanks to a conservatorship. 
And now, as many of us are about to enter into the real world with our first jobs, Britney is earning a steady, $15-million paycheck. In honor of her new job, here’s a retrospective look at Brit-Brit’s top-10 songs ever. And in the words of Britney herself, don’t hold it against me if I left off one of your personal favorites.
“Toxic”
Michelangelo had the Sistine Chapel, F. Scott Fitzgerald had “The Great Gatsby” and Britney has “Toxic.” This track is the magnum opus of Spears’ career, and cemented her status as the reigning Queen of Pop. This song is so crazy creative — it features breathy vocals over Bollywood strings and surf guitar synths — that I get the sense Britney and producers Bloodshy & Avant got in the studio, threw the rulebook out the window and just went insane. Guess what? It worked. The maraschino cherry on top of the metaphoric sun­dae is the accompanying music video, arguably one of the most iconic of all time. Featuring three wig changes — blonde, crimson-red and dark brunette — Britney plays a secret agent traveling the world to complete her mission. It was so racy it was banned from normal TV hours by MTV, so you know Britney is at the top of her game.
“…Baby One More Time”
Some things never go out of style — a good pair of jeans, Ray-Bans and cheddar cheese, for instance — and Britney’s debut single remains a clas­sic to this day. The epitome of ‘90s bubblegum pop, the four-note piano intro serves as a warning to everyone on the dance floor that I am about to bust some serious moves. The song set the tone for the beginning of Britney’s career, where she tries and fails to des­perately maintain her girl-next-door image. In the music video, Britney dances throughout her high school in a Catholic schoolgirl outfit that would send any nun into a hissy fit. The fact this song has stood the test of time is testament to Britney’s status as a super­nova pop icon. 
“Oops…I Did It Again”
Further proof that sometimes the classics are the best. The debut single off Britney’s sophomore album, Britney’s signature breathy vocals are on full display on this track. Aside from her sultry voice, there is a weird “Titanic” interlude in the song, despite the mu­sic video being set on Mars. Speaking about the music video, Spears’ perfor­mance is iconic, wearing a skin-tight red bodysuit. And if you needed any warning that Britney was a sex-symbol in the making, this video confirmed it. As Spears herself confessed on the song, “I’m not that innocent.” Britney, I couldn’t have said it better myself.
“Womanizer”
You know that moment in an all-nighter when it all comes to­gether and you know every­thing is going to be okay? That is what “Womanizer” is to Britney’s career. After a period when she seemed to be going off the deep end (more on that later), this smash hit was a reminder of how important Britney is not only in the music industry, but pop culture as a whole. The song and accompanying music video follow the tried-and-true recipe for a successful Britney track — breathy vocals, heavy synths and a plot featuring multiple costume changes and a femme fatale role for Spears. Let’s just say many a Britney fan breathed a sigh of relief upon the release of this song. 
“Me Against the Music”
Perhaps Britney’s edgi­est track (and that is saying something), “Me Against the Music” features Britney’s musical mother, Madonna. Sometimes, collaborations between superstars don’t work out — too many cooks in the pro­verbial kitchen, if you will. Luckily, this song achieves the proper balance be­tween two of the most iconic women in pop. The song is more than just music though, as it represents a passing of the torch between two musical titans. Best of all, the music video set up one of the defining moments in recent pop cul­ture, Britney and Madonna’s infamous kiss at the VMAs.
“Till the World Ends”
The top song off her most re­cent album, “Till the World Ends” is a perfectly-timed release, as everyone and their mother knows the Mayans planned for the world to end this December. Naturally, Britney devoted a track to the impending apocalypse and it’s a smash. The accompanying music video features an underground dance party as fire and brimstone rain on the earth. This December, as Armageddon descends upon the planet, I hope I get invited to burrow beneath the earth and busting some serious moves with Brit-Brit and company. It’s almost enough to make up for the fact I won’t be graduating from the University because of the scheduled apocalypse. Take that, Mayans.
“(You Drive Me) Crazy”
This is a sleep­er entry on this list. Along with “Oops…I Did It Again” and “…Baby One More Time,” this track is the third and final entry in what I like to call the “Holy Trinity” of classic Britney. What is interesting is this song is of­ten left out of the conversation when it comes to Brit-Brit’s classics. “(You Drive Me) Crazy” is the red-headed stepchild of Britney songs. But there was no way this smash hit could be left off this list. Featuring Melissa Joan Hart in the music video (throwback!), this song absolutely screams “I love the ‘90s,” and any discussion of Britney’s best has to include this track. Produced by frequent Britney-collaborator Max Martin, “Crazy” is definitive Britney at its finest — simple, beat-driven and super cheesy. It brings back the absolute best elementary school memories pos­sible and harkens back to a simpler time in our lives when our diets consisted of Lunchables and Dunkaroos.
“3”
Spears’ ode to the ménage-a-trois, this song is catchy, carefree and signature Britney. The subject of the song is pretty tongue-in-cheek. By this point in her career, Britney has let go of any hope of maintaining her innocent image and embraced her status as a blonde bomb­shell. This song fits right in with that persona. It’s flirty, light and fun, just like Britney herself. This musical confec­tion doesn’t stand out in any particular way, it’s just a steady hit. I’d say it is the Britney equivalent to cheese pizza — a safe, but solid choice.
“Break the Ice”
Footnote: Britney went through a pretty rough patch circa 2004 to 2008. She married her high school friend Jason Alexander (no, not the guy from “Seinfeld”) in a shotgun Vegas wedding, then married backup dancer Kevin Federline and popped out two kids, shaved her head, checked into rehab, started out hanging with Paris Hilton (never a good thing) and lost custody of said kids. In other words, she hit rock bottom. In the meantime, she re­leased “Blackout”, which has been ac­claimed as one of her best albums ever. Unfortunately, her whirlwind lifestyle prevented her from properly promot­ing the album (aside from a disastrous performance at the 2007 VMAs) and it never really set the pop world on fire. Interestingly enough, the strongest track from “Blackout” featured an animated music video — weak sauce, Britney — but was a standout. You re­ally get a sense of the struggles Britney was going through on “Break the Ice,” as her voice comes across as urgent and desperate. Luckily, Brit-Brit was able to emerge from this dark period in her life. 
“Stronger”
A little bit dif­ferent than most Britney tracks on this list, “Stronger” is the standout in the vein of a series of empowering songs Spears has released throughout her career. We get it Brit, you’ve had it rough — Justin Timberlake broke your heart, the paparazzi won’t leave you alone and “Crossroads” will forever serve as a blight on your resume — and this song sums up those sentiments perfectly. Like most Britney classics, it features a slam-dunk final third act where Britney and the beat absolutely consume the listener. Even when she breaks out of her normal synth-pop mold, Britney can do no wrong.
Contact Sam Stryker at sstryke1@nd.edu
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


Sam Stryker
Assistant Managing Editor












BRANDON KEELEAN | The Observer

All photos courtesy of BritneySpearsVEVO

12

THE OBSERVER | MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 17, 2012 | NDSMCOBSERVER.COM

CLASSIFIEDS

SPORTS AUTHORITY

MLB

Rizzo lifts Chicago over Pittsburgh

Valentine’s talk not good for Sox

Associated Press

CHICAGO — Anthony Rizzo had another series of firsts. The toughest for him to conquer was the curtain call.
Rizzo hit two home runs and drove in six to lift the Chicago Cubs to a 13-9 victory over the Pittsburgh Pirates in the third game of a four-game set.
Rizzo hit a two-run shot in a four-run fifth inning, then capped a five-run sixth with his first career grand slam to seize the lead for Chicago. The six RBIs are a career high. It was also the 23-year-old’s first mul­tihomer game.
He reappeared from the dug­out briefly after his grand slam to acknowledge the crowd of 33,559.
“I didn’t know what (my teammates) were saying and then I realized that’s what you do,” Rizzo said. “It was pretty cool.”
Rizzo became the first Cubs player since Aramis Ramirez in July of 2010 to drive in six runs.
“Everything he’s done up here is obviously what we’ve expect­ed,” Cubs manager Dale Sveum said. “We don’t expect any more or any less. ... He’s been spectac­ular since he’s been here.”
Pedro Alvarez hit two homers and drove in five for the Pirates, who lost for the 12th time in 15 games. Pittsburgh came into play Sunday two games behind the Los Angeles Dodgers and St. Louis Cardinals for the second wild card.
Rod Barajas went deep for Pittsburgh, and Joe Mather hit a solo shot for the Cubs.
Staked to a 6-1 lead, the Pirates were unable to hold off the feisty Cubs, who have taken five of the last six against Pittsburgh.
Rizzo’s two-run, opposite field blast highlighted a four-run fifth, then he launched a 3-1 pitch into the left-center field bleachers off Jared Hughes (2-2) an inning later to put the Cubs up 10-9 and send the home crowd into a frenzy.
Rizzo recalled a game-win­ning homer he hit in July against St. Louis — the grand slam didn’t quite compare.
“I don’t think it tops the walk-off, but it was a great game,” Rizzo said. “We kept fighting the last couple of days and showing some resilience.”
David DeJesus had a pinch-hit, two-run single in a three-run ninth for Chicago.
Alvarez carried the Pirates early, but they could not tack on late. The big lefty followed Gaby Sanchez’s leadoff single in the fifth with an opposite-field shot onto Waveland Avenue to extend the lead to four.
After the Cubs rallied to get within one, Alvarez hit another opposite field shot in the sixth with two men on to pad the lead again. It was Alvarez’s sixth multihomer game of the season. He passed Andrew McCutchen for the team lead with 29.
The Pirates had a chance to tie it with a Starling Marte leadoff triple in the seventh, but Marte was caught in a rundown on a fake to third, throw to first by Cubs reliever Jaye Chapman af­ter Neil Walker and McCutchen failed to get the run in.
“Actually that’s a forced balk, break late try to get the run to second and try to steal a run at home is what it was,” Pirates manager Clint Hurdle ex­plained. “I do believe if Starling could’ve shown a little more patience that play would have worked for us, but in the heat of the moment he left a little bit early.”


Bobby Valentine, the man who is somehow still manager of the Boston Red Sox, has made a career out of saying ridiculous things — and I’m not just talk­ing about his stint as an ESPN analyst. 
I’m half-convinced that base­ball writers across the country promoted him as “the smartest man in baseball” (a notion that may or may not have originated with Bobby V himself) in the hopes that some foolhardy franchise would hire him and unleash torrents of bizarre com­ments and needless drama for the knights of the press box to feed upon. And the Red Sox owners fell for the ruse. 
I say this not because I doubt Valentine’s mastery of the in­tricacies of infield defense, but because I find it hard to believe that knowledge outweighs the problems that arise when your manager appears to have learned his people skills from a middle-school mean girl.
If you enjoy uncalled-for comments eventually followed by lukewarm apologies, than I really hope you’ve been follow­ing the Red Sox this summer. Valentine began the season by telling the press that World Series winner and fan-favorite Kevin Youkilis wasn’t “as physi­cally or emotionally into the game” as he used to be. Perhaps he simply had his players con­fused — then-Red Sox pitcher Josh Beckett was the one who went for a round of golf when he was supposedly too hurt to play, while Youkilis (who was traded to the White Sox in June) is the one who throws around his hel­met after he makes an out as if he’s just lost the World Series. 
Either way, this criticism is pretty rich given that a man­ager’s main job is deciding who is going to play what position when, and still Bobby V has turned in multiple lineup cards with blatant mistakes. Even if we overlook the time he named his batting order under the impres­sion that Twins pitcher Liam Hendriks is left-handed (he’s not), on Sept. 2 the press had to alert him to the fact he had out­fielder Scott Podsednik hitting third, and he was both surprised and unconcerned by this infor­mation. Does this sound like a manager who is “physical and emotionally into the game”? (But don’t bring up this point to Bobby V himself. The last time a journalist questioned his com­mitment, Valentine said he’d like to punch him in the face.)
But make no mistake: Valentine’s failure in his other role — keeping the clubhouse in some state of harmony — has been even more spectacular. Players are bound to get an­noyed with their manager, and feuding between the skipper and general manager is practi­cally unavoidable. But Valentine set a new standard for dysfunc­tion by avoiding communication with his pitching coach, Bob McClure, who has since been fired. For those of you who are wondering if perhaps McClure was the problem, I’d just like to point out that Valentine also clashed with others while man­aging the Rangers and Mets. And for all the talk of his legendary status in Japan, he’s been fired by the Chiba Lotte Marines on two separate occasions for dis­agreements with management.
There are some people (in­cluding Red Sox ownership, apparently), who seem to think that firing Bobby Valentine would be a reward to the play­ers who didn’t give him enough respect in this past year. Those people forget that respect is a two-way street: Why should you respect a man who has never won a World Series as a player or a manager, who can’t get along with anyone and who can’t resist insulting players when there’s a microphone in front of his face? This man’s greatest claim to fame is that he owns the restau­rant claiming to have invented “the wrap.”
This Friday, he called his team the “weakest roster” in September of all time –– clearly a joke, seeing as “the smartest man in baseball” has to know the Houston Astros are still playing. But is that a joke you make about players you respect? Is that what you say about a group you want to respect you? Nope, that’s what you say when you want to make sure you’re not managing that roster next season.
Maybe Valentine is the smart­est man in baseball. But for the Red Sox sake, I hope a dumber man is managing them next year.
Contact Vicky Jacobsen at vjacobse@nd.edu
	The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer.

Vicky Jacobsen
Sports Writer


AP
Cubs closer Carlos Marmol, left, celebrates with first baseman An­thony Rizzo after defeating Pittsburgh 13-9  on Sunday.

  If you enjoy uncalled-for comments eventually followed by lukewarm apologies, than I really hope you’ve been following the Red Sox this summer.

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds.

PERSONAL
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don’t go it alone. Notre Dame has many resources in place to assist you. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Ann Whitall at 1-0084 or Karen Kennedy at 1-5550. For more information, visit ND’s website at: http://pregnancysupport@nd.edu

Lyrics: Bat Out Of Hell
By: Meat Loaf

The sirens are screaming and the fires are howling
Way down in the valley tonight

There’s a man in the shadows with a gun in his eye
And a blade shining oh so bright

There’s evil in the air and there’s thunder in the sky
And a killer’s on the bloodshot streets
Oh and down in the tunnel where the deadly are rising

Oh I swear I saw a young boy
Down in the gutter
He was starting to foam in the heat

Oh Baby, you’re the only thing in this whole world
That’s pure and good and right

And wherever you are and wherever you go
There’s always gonna be some light

But I gotta get out
I gotta break it out now

Before the final crack of dawn
So we gotta make the most of our one night together

When it’s over you know
We’ll both be so alone
Like a bat out of hell
I’ll be gone when the morning comes

When the night is over
Like a bat out of hell I’ll be gone gone gone

Like a bat out of hell I’ll be gone when the morning comes

But when the day is done
And the sun goes down
And moonlight’s shining through

Then like a sinner before the gates of heaven
I’ll come crawling on back to you

I’m gonna hit the highway like a bat­tering ram
On a silver black phantom bike

When the metal is hot and the engine is hungry
And we’re all about to see the light

13

NDSMCOBSERVER.COM | MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 17, 2012 | THE OBSERVER

SPORTS

NFL

MLB

Eagles overcome turnovers

Cards retain wildcard spot


Associated Press
LOS ANGELES — Jon Jay hit a go-ahead RBI double during a three-run 12th inning and the St. Louis Cardinals split of a four-game series against the Los Angeles Dodgers, beating them 5-2 on Sunday and re­gaining undisputed possession of the second NL wild card spot.
John Ely (0-2) issued a leadoff walk to Matt Carpenter and Jay drove him on from second base with a line drive into the right field corner on an 0-2 pitch. Jay scored on an infield hit up the middle by Allen Craig and Yadier Molina walked with the bases loaded.
Rookie Shelby Miller (1-0) pitched one inning for his first major league victory.
Jason Motte got three outs for his 35th save in 42 chances after giving up the tying and winning runs in Saturday night’s 4-3 loss.
Both teams have 15 games remaining to settle the wild card situation. The Dodgers embark on a nine-game road trip against East-leading Washington, Central-leading Cincinnati and San Diego be­fore ending the regular season with a six-game homestand against Colorado and West-leading San Francisco. The Cardinals’ next nine games are against the Houston Astros and Chicago Cubs, who are a com­bined 81 games under .500 and 69 1-2 games out of first place.
The Dodgers won six of the 11 meetings with St. Louis, and have beaten the Cardinals in back-to-back season series for the first time since 1995-96. In case of a tie for the wild card, the Dodgers would get home-field advantage in a one-game playoff.
Los Angeles wasted a lead­off double in the sixth by Matt Kemp, and last season’s MVP runner-up flied out to center field against Fernando Salas with the bases loaded to end the 10th after the right-hander intentionally walked Andre Ethier.
Ethier tied the score 2-all in the third with his 19th homer, getting the barrel of the bat on a 2-0 pitch that was low and in­side and driving it into the pa­vilion seats in right-center with two out after a leadoff walk to Matt Treanor.
Right-hander Stephen Fife, making his fourth big league start and first since Aug. 1 in place of injured Dodgers ace Clayton Kershaw, recorded his first six outs on strikeouts. But in-between the first and second ones, the Cardinals took a 2-0 lead as Craig hit an RBI double and Matt Holliday scored on a wild pitch to Molina.

AP
Philadelphia quarterback Michael Vick, left, throws an interception as Baltimore linebacker Courtney Upshaw pursues during the first half of the Eagles’ 24-23 victory over the Ravens on Sunday.

Associated Press
PHILADELPHIA — With the game on the line, Michael Vick made all the right decisions — again.
Vick scored on a 1-yard TD run with 1:55 left, helping the Philadelphia Eagles overcome a slew of turnovers to beat the Baltimore Ravens 24-23 on Sunday for their second straight comeback win.
The Eagles are 2-0 for the first time since Donovan McNabb and Terrell Owens led them to the Super Bowl in 2004.
“In the moment, you have to be at your best,” Vick said. “It’s got to be an any-means-neces­sary mentality.”
Rookie kicker Justin Tucker made field goals of 56, 51 and 48 yards for the Ravens, but Joe Flacco couldn’t get Baltimore (1-1) in his range in the final minute.
Flacco overthrew Ray Rice on fourth-and-1 from the Ravens 46, and the Eagles ran out the clock.
Vick threw four interceptions at Cleveland last week, but ral­lied the Eagles to a 17-16 win.
He did it again, though the replacement officials almost made a costly mistake.
Down 23-17, the Eagles start­ed at their 20 with 4:43 left. Vick threw passes of 24 and 13 yards to Brent Celek. A 19-yard pass to Clay Harbor coupled with a roughing-the-passer penalty put the ball at the 3.
Vick then threw incomplete as he was being hit by Haloti Ngata, but the play was ruled a fumble and it was recovered by the Ravens. A replay overturned the call and Vick scored on the next play.
“There’s some serious calls the refs missed,” Baltimore’s Ray Lewis said. “It’s just the way it is, man, all around the league. We have to correct that. These games are critical. Guys are giving everything they’ve got all across the league. But these are calls, with the regular refs, if they were here, we know the way the calls would be made.”
The Eagles committed three turnovers in the red zone in the first half and lost two starting offensive linemen in the sec­ond. They have nine turnovers in two games, a major reason why they only have 41 points despite totaling 942 yards of offense.
“We have to get better at it,” coach Andy Reid said. “You have to take care of the football. You have to throw the football to the right person. This isn’t some­thing we planned on having.”
Vick finished 23 of 32 for 371 yards with one touchdown and two interceptions. Celek had eight catches for 157 yards and DeSean Jackson had seven re­ceptions for 114 yards.
This was a homecoming of sorts for Flacco and Ravens coach John Harbaugh. Flacco grew up in nearby Haddon Township, N.J. Harbaugh spent 10 seasons as an assistant under Reid before going to Baltimore in 2008.
Tucker almost made them winners.
An undrafted rookie out of Texas, Tucker beat out veteran kicker Billy Cundiff in the pre­season and has made all six of his field goals in the first two games.
Tucker’s 56-yarder at the end of the first half sent the Ravens into the locker room up 17-7. His 51-yarder early in the fourth made it 20-17.
Cundiff was 1-for-6 from be­yond 50 yards last year, and missed a potential game-tying, 32-yarder against New England in the waning seconds of the AFC championship game.
“I think we’ll be just fine com­ing out of this going forward,” Harbaugh said.
Two plays after center Jason Kelce sprained his right knee and was carted back to the lock­er room, the Eagles got within 17-14 on Vick’s 23-yard TD pass to Jeremy Maclin. Vick scram­bled to his left and threw on the run to Maclin, who slipped be­hind coverage and went to his knees to make a nifty catch.
Philadelphia lost two more starters on its next drive. First, King Dunlap left with a ham­string injury. Maclin was then carted off with a hip pointer after making a block on Celek’s 24-yard catch. Celek hurdled Ed Reed to gain a few extra yards on the play. Still, the Eagles reached the 5 before settling for Alex Henery’s tying 23-yard field goal.
The starting quarterbacks were coming off opposite per­formances in Week 1. While Vick struggled against the Browns, Flacco was near-flawless in a dominant 44-13 win against Cincinnati last Monday night.
Flacco was 22 of 42 for 232 yards, one TD and one intercep­tion against Philadelphia.
Despite the makeshift line blocking for him, Vick didn’t take as many hard hits and was sacked only twice. He scram­bled eight times for 36 yards be­fore kneeling twice at the end.
Using the no-huddle from the start, the Eagles moved the ball effectively to the Ravens 12. But Vick made another errant throw and was intercepted in the end zone by Bernard Pollard. Vick scrambled out of the pocket and had space, but he fired opposite his momentum.
“You can’t always hit a home run,” Vick said. “Sometimes you have to settle for singles and doubles. That’s what I have to learn. I can’t force the ball.”
Trent Cole stripped Flacco on Baltimore’s second play and Cullen Jenkins recovered at the Ravens 15.
McCoy ran in from the 1 for a 7-0 lead.
Vonta Leach scored on a 5-yard TD run to tie it at 7.
After the Ravens failed to convert on a fake punt — Sean Considine ran 3 yards on fourth-and-4 — the Eagles took over at Baltimore’s 45. The drive ended in another turnover. Rookie Bryce Brown fumbled a handoff on third-and-1 at the 20, and Albert McClellan recov­ered at the 30.

PAID ADVERTISEMENT


PAID ADVERTISEMENT


14

THE OBSERVER | MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 17, 2012 | NDSMCOBSERVER.COM

SPORTS

SMC GOLF | O’BRIEN NATIONAL INVITATIONAL

SMC SOCCER | SMC 2, ADRIAN 1

Belles remain undefeated

Young squad hangs with best


By KATIE HEIT
Sports Writer
Saint Mary’s continued to prove its strength with a 2-1 victory over previously-un­defeated Adrian on Saturday. 
With an early goal in the first half, the Belles (4-0-1, 2-0-0 MIAA) had the offen­sive pressure they needed to keep the regionally-ranked Bulldogs (3-1-1, 0-1-1) at bay. In the sixth minute of the game, Belles freshman mid­fielder Maggie McLaughlin headed a pass from junior captain and midfielder Mollie Valencia past the Bulldog goalkeeper to take the lead. 
“The early goal was very encouraging,” Belles coach Michael Joyce said. “Adrian is defending conference champion and was picked to win the conference again this year.” 
Saint Mary’s held the lead well into the second half be­fore the Bulldogs responded with a long shot and tied the game 1-1 in the 74th minute. The Belles were not down for long, as senior midfielder Ashley Morfin responded with another goal less than four minutes after Adrian tied the game. 
“It is certainly a letdown holding a lead for so long, then giving it up late in the game,” Joyce said. “While the game is still tied, you’ve lost the momentum.”
Despite the late goal by the Bulldogs, Joyce said he thought his team responded well. 
“I think we kept our head [and] appreciated that the game was still out there to be won,” Joyce said. “We just had to keep working hard.”
Joyce said he thought all of his players have performed well above expectations, but he thinks the team still has a long way to go.  
“We’ve had 10 different people score our 13 goals this year,” Joyce said. “Everyone is finding a way to contrib­ute. We can’t just be satis­fied with a nice start. We’ll have to keep working hard, playing well and improving. There’s lots of tough compe­tition in the conference.”
The Belles next travel to Alma to play the Scots on Saturday at 12 p.m. 
Contact Katie Heit at 		kheit@nd.edu

By PETER STEINER
Sports Writer
With the first day of the O’Brien National Invitational at the Warren Golf Course in the books, the No. 15 Belles stand in the middle of the pack that in­cludes the 10 of the best Division III programs in the country.
The young Saint Mary’s squad turned in a team score of 332, good for sixth place after the first day of the two-day tournament. 
“We struggled a little bit in some spots with our pretty con­sistent players,” Belles coach Mark Hamilton said. “We had some putting issues today. I felt like we played with the No. 1 team in the country [Methodist University], and we held our own for quite a few holes. We leaked a little oil on the last four or five holes, but overall, we had a pretty good day.”
Despite being under-the-weather, Belles junior Justine Bresnahan carded the top score for Saint Mary’s with an 80. Junior Paige Pollak and fresh­man Amanda Graham shot 82 and 83, respectively, to round out the Belles’ top-three.
“[Bresnahan] wasn’t feel­ing too well and had been suf­fering from a pretty bad cold,” Hamilton said. “She really gut­ted it out and played a good round today. I was proud of her.”
The 15 -time defending national champions No. 1 Methodist University leads the tournament with a score of 318, closely followed by No. 5 Washington University at 321. The O’Brien National Invitational consists annually of the best teams in the nation. The strong field can only help the inexperienced Belles squad improve, Hamilton said.
“Because we are a young squad, I think it’s a great learn­ing experience to see the best team in the country,” Hamilton said. “It gives you a real measur­ing stick on what you do well and what you need to do better. It’s been a great experience for them.”
Heading into the final day of the tournament, the Belles trail the leaders by only 14 strokes. According to Hamilton, the Belles need to improve their short game and capitalize on scoring chances.
“We have to putt a little bit better and stay away from the larger scores of double bogey and more,” he said. “We are looking for a score under 320 tomorrow.”
The Belles will tee off at 8:30 a.m. tomorrow for the final round of the O’Brien National Invitational.
Contact Peter Steiner at 
psteiner @nd.edu 

“We have to putt a little bit better and stay away from the larger scores of double bogey and more.”
Mark Hamilton
Belles coach

Observer File Photo
Former Belles midfielder Taylor Paton, left, controls the ball during Saint Mary’s 3-0 defeat of Olivet on Sept. 14, 2011. The Belles earned a 2-1 win this weekend against conference opponent Adrian. 

SMC CROSS COUNTRY | NATIONAL CATHOLIC CHAMPIONSHIP

Saint Mary’s races in Catholic Championship

By BRIAN HARTNETT
Sports Writer
Competing in a stacked field of 34 teams, Saint Mary’s earned a 28th place finish in its short trip to Notre Dame for Friday’s National Catholic Championship at the Notre Dame Golf Course.
The Belles finished in 15th place in the race’s Division II (DII) standings, which con­sisted of 21 teams ranging from Division II to the NAIA level.  Saint Mary’s finished above Division II programs Newman and Notre Dame College, as well as two of its Division III counter­parts and two NAIA programs.
Saint Mary’s senior Elizabeth Majewski said she was impressed with her team’s performance.
“It was our last [five-kilometer] of the season, and I think we all ran a very competitive race,” Majewski said. “Being close to home, we had a great support group to cheer us on as well.”
Junior Jessica Biek continued her strong season, finishing 29th in the DII division and recording the top time for the Belles with a mark of 19:22.8. Majewski fol­lowed her, breaking her person­al record in the five-kilometer for the second time in as many weeks with a mark of 20:25.6. 
Majewski said her success this season can be attributed to her team’s workout routine.
“The workouts and team runs at practice in addition to my summer training has greatly benefited my races,” Majewski said. “I am excited to finish my senior year as strongly as possible.”
Seniors Emma Baker, Julia Kenney and Sarah Copi rounded out Saint Mary’s top five times, as the trio all finished in the top-100 of the DII division. Baker finished in 79th with a time of 20:39.3, Kenney recorded a 93rd place finish in a time of 21:01.0 and Copi wrapped up the team’s score with a time of 21:09.1.
In addition, six team members competed in the meet’s “junior varsity” race. Junior Colette Curtis turned in the team’s best time with a mark of 21:21.0 to finish 38th in the field. Senior Dani Haydell finished in the team’s second spot with a time of 22:44.2, finishing 63rd overall. 
Majewski said she was im­pressed with the team’s per­formance in both races but was eagerly looking forward for the team to reunite and run together.
“Both groups had great races,” Majewski said. “For most of the season, however, we have the privilege of running as a team in our races and thus pushing each other.”
Saint Mary’s will have the opportunity to run together again Friday, when the Belles host the MIAA Jamboree. The Jamboree, which the Belles last hosted in 2008, will feature all nine MIAA conference mem­bers. Majewski said she believes the team will be a major com­petitor at its home course.
“Jamboree promises to be one of the highlights of our season, and we are all very excited for Friday,” Majewski said. “We have a strong team this season and close packs during races, and I hope the race will show the hard work we have put in this season so far.”
Saint Mary’s will take to its home course this Friday at the MIAA Jamboree at 6 p.m.
Contact Brian Hartnett at 	bhartnet@nd.edu

“Both groups had great races, ... For most of the season, however, we have the privilege of running as a team in our races and thust pushing each other.”
Elizabeth Majewski
senior

15

NDSMCOBSERVER.COM | MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 17, 2012 | THE OBSERVER

SPORTS

ND WOMEN’S GOLF | MARY FOSSUM INVITATIONAL

Notre Dame takes third at Mary Fossum

By ISAAC LORTON
Sports Writer
The Irish took on tough competition this weekend in East Lansing, Mich., at the Mary Fossum Invitational and clinched third place with a 23-over-par 887. 
The tournament boasted three squads ranked in the top 50 according to Golfweek: No. 22 Michigan State, No. 27 Purdue and the No. 49 Irish. 
Purdue bested the field and finished with a score of 875 with Michigan State finishing second at 882. 
Although the competition was challenging, Irish coach Susan Holt said her squad did not see third place as a good thing.
“We were disappointed over­all with our performance,” Holt said. “I feel like we can compete with Michigan State and Purdue but we weren’t able to get there. We did not do what we are ca­pable of doing.” 
Notre Dame’s newcomers made a solid first impression. Freshmen Lindsey Weaver and Talia Campbell each debuted with three-over 75s in the first round. Weaver continued this success, posting a 70 in the sec­ond round and led the Irish with a total score of four-over-par 220. Campbell anchored the team in the third and final round with a 71. Weaver finished tied for sixth, while Campbell finished tied for 12th with a 224. 
“The freshmen did great for their first tournament,” Holt said. “They definitely contributed.”
The Irish posted three scores under par and one score at even par this weekend. For the second round, sophomore Kelli Oride also posted a two-under-par 70 and sophomore Ashley Armstrong broke even. Oride finished tied for ninth and Armstrong ended tied with Campbell for 12th.  
“We had great individual ef­forts,” Holt said. “There were three rounds under par by three different people. That’s a good sign. But that doesn’t help when more than one 78 is shot at the same time. We only have to take the top four scores, so we want to balance the four scores. We are capable of all shooting rounds like that, but this time around we didn’t.”
Notre Dame started and fin­ished sluggishly as it scored 298 and 299 in the first and third rounds, respectively. The Irish posted a score of 290 in the second round. Coach Holt said rounds like the second posted Saturday should happen more consistently, but the Irish still have work to do to get there.
“We need to work on our short game as a team,” Holt said. “Purdue’s short game is pret­ty impressive and that’s what great teams do. If we are going to keep up with great teams, we need to get the ball in the hole faster. And the best way to do that is through our short game. Individually, they all have cer­tain things they need to work on, so we will just keep working at it and strive to get better. We will look at stat sheets and keep on working on what we need to do.”
The Irish next compete at the Windy City Collegiate Classic Oct. 1-2 in Glenview, Ill. 
Contact Isaac Lorton at 		ilorton@nd.edu


“We were disappointed overall with our performance ... I feel like we can compete with Michigan State and Purdue but we weren’t able to get there. We did not do what we are capable of doing.”
Susan Holt
Irish coach

MACKENZIE SAIN | The Observer
Irish sophomore Ashley Armstong watches a shot during the Mary Fossum Invitational on Sept. 15. The Irish captured third place in the season-opening event, which took place in East Lansing, Mich.

SMC VOLLEYBALL | CARTHAGE TOURNAMENT

Belles endure four losses in tough weekend

By NICK BOYLE
Sports Writer
Saint Mary’s lost all four matches it played this weekend at the Carthage Tournament in Kenosha, Wisc.  
Despite the results on the scoreboard, Belles coach Toni Kuschel said she was pleased with her team’s performance.
“I thought the team did a fantastic job this weekend. We were able to play really well ver­sus nationally ranked teams,” Kuschel said. “Taking a set from Chicago was a big accomplish­ment. It showed a lot of heart winning that close set.”
The Belles (6-5) dropped 3-0 decisions Friday against Dominican and No. 16 Carthage. The Belles were on the wrong side of a 3-0 contest against Dominican (12-2) and dropped a 3-0 match to Carthage (6-3).
“We needed to be stronger at the net, in transition and re­main consistent in our level of focus and intensity,” Kuschel said. “When it’s there we play great volleyball.”
On Saturday, Saint Mary’s lost 3-0 to Illinois Wesleyan (7-7) by a 3-0 score and won its first set of the weekend before falling 3-1 to No. 13 Chicago (10-2).
“Our team went in knowing it was going to be a tough weekend,” Kuschel said. “We wanted this weekend to get us mentally and physically prepared for the next two weeks of conference play and I believe we were able to do that.”
Although the team did not fare well on the scoreboard, sophomore defensive special­ist Samantha Grady believes her team can take many positves from the experience.
“The tournament exposed us to some very talented teams. We were forced to rise to the occasion and compete,” Grady said. “We stayed positive and left the tour­nament a better team than when we arrived.”
With its next conference game Tuesday, Kuschel hopes her team can step up and learn from the weekend.
“Our hitters know that we did not hit as well as we should have this weekend,” Kuschel said. “We will need all of them to step up and make big plays when they are needed if we are going to win on Tuesday. If we’re going to win, we need to play our game, focus on the controllables and play together.”
Saint Mary’s hosts conference foe Kalamazoo on Tuesday at 7 p.m.
Contact Nick Boyle at 	nboyle1@nd.edu


“We needed to be stronger at the net, in transition and remain consistent in our level of focus and intensity ... When it’s there we play great volleyball.”
Toni Kuschel
Belles coach

JULIE HERDER | The Observer
Saint Mary’s sophomore Emily Getz sets a ball during the Belles 3-0 win over Albion on Sept. 28, 2011. The Belles dropped all four of their weekend matches but return home for a slate of conference matches this week.

16

THE OBSERVER | MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 17, 2012 | NDSMCOBSERVER.COM

SPORTS

MEN’S GOLF | TAR HEEL INTERCOLLEGIATE

Irish struggle in opener at North Carolina

By CORY BERNARD
Sports Writer
Beginning the season with three new starters, the Irish showed their inexperience over the weekend at the Tar Heel Intercollegiate at the UNC Finley Golf Course. Notre Dame fired a 23-over-par 887 to finish ninth.
Future ACC rivals Duke and North Carolina took first and sec­ond place, respectively. The Blue Devils shot an eight-under-par 856 and the Tar Heels shot a two-under-par 862. 
Junior Andrew Lane and sopho­more Tyler Wingo had only four starts between them heading into the weekend. Sophomore David Lowe, a transfer from Arizona State, appeared in nine tournaments as a freshman for the Sun Devils but had never started for Notre Dame. Irish coach Jim Kubinski said his team did not play as well as they would have liked, but did gain experience.
“We have three new starters,” Kubinski said. “I think they did a good job. Obviously we are a little disappointed with our overall re­sults. But we’ve said that the first few tournaments we will have to gain some experience and I think we did that.”
Wingo and Lowe both began the tournament poorly, firing a seven-over-par 79 and four-over-par 76, respectively. However, the sopho­mores each shot an even par 72 during the second round Saturday afternoon. Lane finished second on the team overall with a three-round, six-over-par score of 222. 
Kubinksi said his new starters will continue to develop as the sea­son progresses.
“I was … talking to Tyler and Andrew Lane on the way to the bus and they pointed out several things they learned from this weekend,” he said. “The season is a long road through to the spring. Those guys played really good stretches of golf. Tyler and David bounced back [Saturday] afternoon after strug­gling in the morning, and I thought Andrew played pretty consistent throughout.”
The effort of junior veteran Niall Platt would appear to be of more concern to Irish fans. The junior with 23 tournaments under his belt and a career stroke average of 73.61 averaged an 18-hole score of 75.33 at the Tar Heel Intercollegiate. However, Kubinski said Platt was battling illness and will bounce back.
“Niall was really, really sick,” Kubinski said. “He was battling a flu [and] cold. I didn’t know if he was going to play [Saturday]. Actually, on Sunday morning when I really thought he would struggle he played alright. He did the best he could, given the circumstances. Basically he was just sick. I’m not worried about him at all.”
Though he led the Irish with a five-over-par 221, including an opening round two-under-par 70, senior Paul McNamara also strug­gled at times.
“Paul started off really strong but in the last two rounds he couldn’t get a putt to drop,” Kubinski said. “Hopefully he can make a few more putts for us moving forward.”
The Irish will look to improve upon their ninth-place finish when they head to New Haven, Conn., for the Macdonald Cup held at Yale on Sept. 29 and 30.
Contact Cory Bernard at 		cbernard@nd.edu


“We have three new starters ... I think they did a good job. Obviously we are disappointed with our overall results. But we’ve said that the first few tournaments we have to gain some experience and I think we did that.”
Jim Kubinski
Irish coach

ASHLEY DACY | The Observer
Irish senior captain Paul McNamara follows through on a swing during The Battle of the Warren on April 22, 2012. McNamara and the Irish travelled to the Tar Heel Invitational this weekend in the season opener.

PAID ADVERTISEMENT


17

NDSMCOBSERVER.COM | MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 17, 2012 | THE OBSERVER

SPORTS

ND CROSS COUNTRY | NATIONAL CATHOLIC CHAMPIONSHIP

MEN’S TENNIS | OFCC AND VREDEVELT INVITATIONALS

Men and women take first

Co-captains lead Irish victories

By AARON SANT-MILLER
Sports Writer
For the first time this fall, the Irish put some of their best runners on the line at the 33rd edition of the an­nual National Catholic Championship, hosted at the Notre Dame Golf Course. As a result, the men’s and the women’s teams raced to both individual and team titles. For the men, Irish se­nior Jeremy Rae claimed the win with a time of 24:16.0 in the five-mile race. For the women, senior Rebecca Tracy crossed the line first at a blis­tering 17:11.8 in the five-kilo­meter race.
“It was a great start, it re­ally was,” Irish men’s cross country coach Joe Piane said. “We had a lot of guys run solid, so I’m pleased with the outcome.”
Irish women’s cross coun­try coach Tim Connelly echoed this sentiment.
“I thought we did a lot of things really well,” he said. “Overall, I thought it was a pretty good start.”
As a team, the Irish men finished strong, claiming seven of the top-12 finishes. Following Rae was senior Johnathan Shawel and ju­nior Walter Schafer. Shawel finished fifth with a time of 24:34.6, while Schafer cruised to a seventh-place finish with a time of 24:46.0. The Irish had runners grab the eighth and tenth spots as well, rounding out five runners in the top 10. Sophomore Jake Kildoo finished eighth with a time of 24.52.1, and senior Jeff MacMillan finished 10th with a time of 24:54.4.
“I don’t think anybody ran great. I don’t think our team ran great,” Piane said. “Still, it’s still a good start. For most of those guys, it was their first race of the year.”
For the women, the Irish claimed four of the top five spots. Junior Kelly Curran finished third with a time of 17:22.2, freshman Molly Seidel claimed fourth with a time of 17:22.9 and sopho­more Gabby Gonzales took fifth with a time of 17:26.1. The only non-Irish runner in the top five was Duquesne sophomore Amber Valimont, who finished second. Valimont crossed the line just behind Tracy with a time of 17.12.7.
“[The Irish women] did a really good job of getting out well, finding each other early in the race and running to­gether for a long stretch of the race,” Connelly said.
Historically, the Irish have done very well, with the men capturing 23 victories and the women winning 19. Since 2003, the women have claimed both the individual and the team title every year. This was the fourth-consecu­tive victory for the men.
Much of this is a result of the strong training regimen the Irish have instituted, which can provide a better start to the season, Piane said.
“The team has been train­ing exceptionally well,” he said. “Still, it’s not the hard­est meet we’re going to run. For the majority of the guys, this was the easiest race they will run in.”
The Irish responded posi­tively in their first big race this year, Connelly said.
“Whenever you come off a really hard training phase, it’s hard to know exactly how people will respond to rac­ing,” Connelly said. “Overall, it was pretty close to what I had hoped for and what I had expected.”
For the Irish, the training continues this week and next. The teams next compete on Sept. 28, when the Irish host the Notre Dame Invitational. The meet will take place on the Notre Dame Golf Course and will begin at 2 p.m.
Contact Aron Sant-Miller at asantmil@nd.edu


KIRBY McKENNA | The Observer
Senior Spencer Talmadge prepares to hit a backhand during his doubles match victory against Lousiville on April 14.

By MEGAN FINNERAN
Sports Writer
This weekend the Irish split up for their first round of tourna­ments on American soil. Nearly every member of the team con­tributed an individual win. 
Eight members of the squad traveled to Olympia Fields, Ill., for the OFCC Invitational hosted by the University of Illinois, where co-captains senior Blas Moros and junior Greg Andrews set the tempo. The other seven Notre Dame players competed in the Vredevelt Invitational, hosted by Western Michigan in Kalamazoo, Mich., where freshmen estab­lished themselves as contributors. 
The Irish made up for a diffi­cult time on the doubles courts by stepping up their game in singles competition, earning two spots on the All-Tournament team in each tournament.
“Our freshmen performed very well,” Moros said.
The luxury of a stunning lo­cation at the OFCC Invitational came with the cost of a clay court, a new surface for the Irish team that led to a rocky start in the first round of play. Despite this, the Irish turned things around. Both co-captains were name to the All-Tournament team and Andrews earned the Most Outstanding Player award. By the second day of competition, Notre Dame players had moved past their first round of three singles victories and picked up another eight. Moros led the squad with victories across the board in the first three rounds of singles play, taking down Chris Camillone of Texas, Brian Page of Illinois and Mousheg Hovhannisyan of Pepperdine, respectively. Freshman Quentin Monaghan also added to the tally on day one, winning his first colle­giate match 6-1, 6-0 against Julian Childers of Illinois. Junior Billy Pecor took the third victory of the first day, topping David Sofaer of Pepperdine 6-3, 6-4.
The second day of play brought six other Irish victories to accom­pany Moros’ two, including one from Monaghan, who beat Sofaer once again 6-4, 1-6, 6-3. Freshman Alex Lawson also collected his first collegiate win against Pepperdine’s Damian Gryzelko. No. 24 Andrews bounced took two wins on the day, defeating Farris Gosea of Illinois and David Holiner of Texas. Senior Spencer Talmadge and sophomore Wyatt McCoy each added a win in the third round of singles play, with an easy 6-2, 6-3 over Childers for Talmadge and a three-set 2-6, 6-4, 6-2 comeback against Page for McCoy.
By the third day of play, the Irish had mastered their game plan. They captured three of four wins in doubles play and seven of eight wins in singles play.
“We had a very good weekend, but still have a lot of work to do in doubles,” Moros said.
In Kalamazoo, freshman Kenny Sabacinski led the squad, taking a win in singles play in each of the first three rounds to knock out players from Illinois State, Cleveland State and Green Bay. Sophomore Michael Fredericka added a singles victory on the first day of competition and freshman Nicolas Montoya contributed a pair of singles victories in the first two days. The only Irish win in a doubles match came from Fredericka and Montoya, who took down Patrick Bandy and Adam Krull of Xavier, 8-3. While a seemingly small win for the Irish, this was the only loss for the Xavier team in singles and dou­bles throughout the day.
During the final day of singles play, junior Ryan Bandy chalked up his first win of the tournament, defeating Mesa Mei of Xavier 6-3, 6-3, and Montoya added another win against Xavier’s Brandon MacDonald. On the doubles side, Notre Dame found its groove. Ryan Bandy and Sabacinski took down a Western Michigan pair, while sophomore Doug Barnard and Montoya took down the Broncos other team. 
The Irish take a break this week in preparation for the IRA All-America Championships, which began Oct. 4 in Tulsa, Okla.
Contact Megan Finneran at mfinnera@nd.edu

PAID ADVERTISEMENT


18

THE OBSERVER | MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 17, 2012 | NDSMCOBSERVER.COM

SPORTS

Midfield
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 20



SARAH O’CONNOR | The Observer
Sophomore opposite sit hitter Jeni Houser sets the ball during Notre Dame’s 3-1 victory over Kansas on Sunday.

ASHLEY DACY | The Observer
Junior midfielder Mandy Laddish evades the Louisville defense during Notre Dame’s 2-1 victory over the Cardinals on Friday.

Kansas
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 20

PAID ADVERTISEMENT


Ryan
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 20

19

NDSMCOBSERVER.COM | MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 17, 2012 | THE OBSERVER

DAILY

CROSSWORD | WILL SHORTZ

HOROSCOPE | EUGENIA LAST


CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Nick Jonas, 20; Alexis Bledel, 31; Amy Poehler, 41; Mickey Rourke, 60.
Happy Birthday: Live, learn and love this year; you won’t be disappointed by the results you get. Excess is the enemy, and prudence and accomplishment your goals. Focus and achieve, and you will not look back. Distance yourself from those too eager to let you do all the work. Less is more, and old habits must be broken. Your numbers are 3, 10, 23, 29, 33, 38, 40.
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Avoid erratic behavior. You may not agree with some­one, but letting your emotions intervene to cause an unnecessary rift will lead to sadness, not joy. Rethink your position and do your best to find a workable solution. 



TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Check into professional possibilities, educational pur­suits or whatever you need to do in order to upgrade your lifestyle. Don’t let anyone put you down or discourage you from following your dreams. Avoid arguments and minor mishaps. 



GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Too much of anything will lead to disaster. You can have fun without overspending. Broaden your spectrum when it comes to playful pos­sibilities. Coming up with a fun-filled day that is cost-efficient will impress someone you love. 





CANCER (June 21-July 22): Your ability to masterfully come up with solutions that make your home and family life better will lead to gratitude from those in your life who count the most. Discuss your plans and you’ll get the help you need. 




LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You aren’t lost -- you’re just sightseeing. Taking the scenic route to your destination will allow you time to think, relax and enjoy the moment. Love is highlighted, and spending time with someone special will make your day. Live, love and laugh. 




VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Take on a challenge that makes you think about the future and what you are capable of doing. A change in plans will enable you to help someone who has something to offer in return. Don’t take risks when it involves your physical well-being. 



LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): Hiding something or withholding information will lead to friction. Think about what’s happening in your personal life and make the adjust­ments required to lead to a better future. 




SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Take advantage of any expert advice being offered. The suggestions you receive will allow you to move ahead with your plans. A change of location will give you a different outlook and greater opportunities. 



SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Take care of your physical health, and do your best to avoid excess of any kind. Alter the way you live if it will help you improve your lifestyle. Love is on the rise and socializing will pay off romantically. 




CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Make decisions based on practicality, not what others want. You may not please everyone, but you will eventually get the praise you deserve for your efforts and insight. Update your image and do your best to make new acquaintances. 


AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Put money into your surroundings and future. There will be a high return for the alterations and investments you make now. Love, pas­sion and showing your true feelings will bring excellent results and resolve uncer­tainties you are undergoing. 





PISCES (Feb. 19- March 20): Check out your options and do what’s most cost effi­cient. The pressure and stress you are spared by making the right choice will be well worth any opposition you receive from family, friends or a partner. Secretive action will raise suspicion. 



Birthday Baby: You are outspoken, outgoing and often overdo it. You are intense and persistent.

JUMBLE | DAVID HOYT AND JEFF KNUREK

SUDOKU | THE MEPHAM GROUP

HIGHLY PUNLIKELY | CHRISTOPHER BRUCKER




LOWER YOUR EXPECTATIONS |   LENNY RAGO &             				                      PATRICK CROSS


WORK AREA

Make checks payable to and mail to:	The Observer
	P.O. Box 779
	Notre Dame, IN 46556

  Enclosed is $130 for one academic year

  Enclosed is $75 for one semester

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community.
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home.

Name
Address 
City  						State  		Zip

20

THE OBSERVER | MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 17, 2012 | NDSMCOBSERVER.COM

ND WOMEN’S SOCCER | ND 2, LOUISVILLE 1; ND 7, CINCINNATI 0

MEN’S SOCCER | ND 2, MSU 0; ND 1, MICHIGAN 0

Notre Dame  remains perfect

Offense sparks victory

By MATTHEW ROBISON
Sports Writer
Notre Dame kicked off its Big East schedule with a pair of victories this weekend at Alumni Stadium, winning 2-1 over Louisville on Friday and 7-0 over Cincinnati on Sunday. 
Friday’s game was a state­ment by the Irish (5-3-1, 2-0-0 Big East). Last year, Louisville (6-2-0, 1-1-0) beat Notre Dame in both the regular season and the postseason, knocking the Irish out of the Big East tour­nament. The Irish won 2-1 on Friday off goals by freshman forward Crystal Thomas and sophomore forward Lauren Bohaboy, followed by a late goal by the Cardinals.
Sunday’s game was a dif­ferent story, as the Irish dominated the Bearcats (3-5-1, 0-2-0) from start to finish. Early on, Notre Dame found an offensive flow and never let off the accelerator.
“That’s a lot more like the way we are used to, having that standard,” Irish coach Randy Waldrum said. “We’re used to being able to put those kinds of numbers up and win that way.”
Nine different players con­tributed with at least one goal or one assist in the over­whelming offensive explo­sion. Freshman defender Katie Naughton, freshman forward Cari Roccaro and junior mid­fielder Nicole Rodriguez all scored their first career goals Sunday. Junior captain and midfielder Mandy Laddish scored her first goal of the season. Junior captain and midfielder Elizabeth Tucker and junior midfielder Rebecca Twining also scored. Bohaboy added two assists.
“I don’t know what I would say that really triggered it for us,” Waldrum said. “But I think we started out with our pos­session and our passing. We got into our rhythm right away, which we struggled with in some of our games lately.”
Roccaro and Laddish played their first games of the season for Notre Dame on Friday. The two recently returned from Japan with a gold medal after playing for the U.S. in the U-20 Women’s World Cup. The addi­tion of the two talented mid­fielders tied up some loose ends for the Irish in the midfield.
“I think just having Roccaro and Mandy back and getting a second game under their belt with the team helps kind of settle some things down for us, both offensively up front and in midfield,” Waldrum said.
Roccaro was a highly-touted prep player coming out of East Islip, N.Y. She adds a level of tal­ent to the midfield the young Irish lacked in the first several games. She can set up and han­dle the offense, and other play­ers can work off her, Waldrum said.
“She’s so good at holding the ball for us,” Waldrum said. “She’s almost like a post-up player in basketball. You need that player that, when you play into them, they can hold it so you can get your runs and your movement off that player. Up until she’s come back, we’ve re­ally struggled.”
Laddish has been a big con­tributor for the Irish over the last two years. As one of the tri-captains and most experienced midfielders, she will be a cata­lyst for the Irish.
“She’s just so skillful with the ball and so composed with it, just that ability to help us keep it,” Waldrum said. “We really struggled, I thought, in a lot of our games this year to really keep the ball and get into our passing game. To add another player who knows how to do that is key for the way we play.”
The 2-0 start to the confer­ence slate is exactly how the Irish were looking to begin the season. As two of the power teams in the conference, the matchup between Louisville and Notre Dame always has added significance. This year, Notre Dame is also placing more emphasis on the confer­ence lineup.
“What we talked about after we got out of the nonconfer­ence schedule is that it’s time now to really make that [con­ference] run,” Waldrum said. “We want to get back and we want to win the Big East. That’s a goal of ours. In years past we’ve not put as much em­phasis on the Big East. We’ve always put it on the NCAA and the Final Four.”
Notre Dame’s Big East sched­ule continues this weekend with another Friday home game against Pittsburgh in Alumni Stadium at 7:30 p.m.
Contact Matthew Robison at mrobison@nd.edu


see MIDFIELD PAGE 18

ND VOLLEYBALL | GOLDEN DOME INVITATIONAL

Irish take two of three


SARAH O’CONNOR | The Observer
Irish senior forward Ryan Finley, right, presses the ball upfield during Notre Dame’s 3-1 victory over Akron on September 9.

By JOSEPH MONARDO
Sports Writer
After jumping out to their best start in 25 years, the No. 3 Irish welcomed Michigan State on Friday before travel­ling to Ann Arbor, Mich., to face Michigan on Sunday. It wasn’t always easy for Notre Dame, but the team added two more victories to its al­ready impressive resume. 
The Irish (7-0-0) captured a 2-0 victory over the Spartans (2-5-1) in Alumni Stadium and used a late goal by senior forward Ryan Finley to beat the Wolverines (2-4-0) 1-0 in double overtime.
In the weekend opener the Irish found themselves in a highly-competitive match against a Spartan team that had played six one-goal games in as many outings before Friday. The two teams traded fouls and possession time throughout the first half, but Notre Dame explod­ed onto the scoreboard with a blast from the top of the box off the foot of junior forward Harry Shipp in the 28th min­ute. The Irish added another goal at the 53-minute mark in a similar fashion. Freshman midfielder Patrick Hodan notched his first career goal by gathering the ball after a corner kick and sending it past Michigan State red­shirt junior goalkeeper Bryce Dobbins from 20 yards out. 
“When we got the ball into their half we are so good, we are such a fun team,” Irish coach Bobby Clark said. “But [the Spartans] were pretty dangerous getting balls up to us. It wasn’t an easy game … They are a fairly direct team. And we caused ourselves some of the problems in the back with sloppy passes, and a couple of times we set them up with just silly passes. That encourages them, but at the end of the day, it was a very good result.” 
Clark said Hodan played “like a veteran,” but reserved the highest praise for Finley.
“When he came on, he and Harry came on today, [they] were again magnificent,” he said. “Harry got the goal which was really nice, but I thought Ryan, even though he didn’t score, it may be his most complete game since coming to Notre Dame [last year as a transfer from Duke]. To me, I thought he really brought other players into the play. I was really happy for Ryan.”
After distributing the ball Friday, Finley delivered in the weekend finale with his fifth goal of the season to give Notre Dame the victory in the 104th minute. Finley tracked down a cross off a set piece from Irish senior captain and midfielder Dillon Powers and netted the decisive goal.
“It was a free kick out on our right flank and Dillon played a really good ball into the space, Ryan made a great run and he got a good flick,” Clark said.
Notre Dame escaped with the win, but showed fatigue in the early portion of the contest, Clark said. Still, in the late stages of the game it was Notre Dame who was able to deliver the winning performance.
“I thought that the first half looked like the second game in a two-day weekend. I thought we were very slow. But I thought we were excel­lent in the second half,” Clark said. “I thought we did well, I was very happy with the way we played in the second half and the overtimes. We were the team that was try­ing to win it. I thought [the Wolverines] were hoping, I think, to try and sneak out with a tie.”
Still riding the wave that brought them from unranked at the start of the season to No. 3 in the Soccer America poll after only seven games, the Irish have plenty of chal­lenges looming on the ho­rizon. Notre Dame is set to begin conference play on the road against Louisville on Saturday before travelling to No. 16 Indiana and No. 4 Connecticut. The Irish should have no problem focusing on the task at hand against that slate of competition, Clark said.
“The next games will look af­ter themselves pretty clearly,” he said. “We go to Louisville, we go to Indiana and then you go to Connecticut. You are playing three of the best teams in the country, so I was mostly more worried about [us losing focus in] that game [against Michigan]. The next three games will completely look after themselves. We will have to be ready. We will be ready.”
The Irish take on the Cardinals at 7 p.m. on Saturday in Louisville.
Contact Joseph Monardo at jmonardo@nd.edu

SARAH O’CONNOR | The Observer
Junior middle blocker Andie Olsen, left, and sophomore right side hitter Toni Alugbue defend the net during Notre Dame’s 3-1 victory over Kansas on Sunday.

By CONOR KELLY
Sports Writer
In their final tune-up tourna­ment before the start of Big East play, the Irish took two victories in three matches at the Golden Dome Invitational, but the loss to Loyola Marymount on Saturday afternoon will stick with the team going forward. 
While the failure to get three wins at home was disappoint­ing for Irish coach Debbie Brown, she said she was im­pressed with how her team bounced back and she feels good going into the Big East season.
“We’re disappointed because we felt like we could have had three victories, but to take two out of three from those teams isn’t bad,” Brown said. “It puts us in a good spot going forward.”
Notre Dame (7-5) began its Golden Dome slate taking on Xavier on Friday and eked out a five-set victory, putting away the pesky Musketeers 3-2 (25-19, 18-25, 25-18, 28-30, 15-6). The Irish took the first, third and fifth sets, but the match was highlighted by the mara­thon fourth in which Xavier (7-7) clawed back from a late deficit to force continued play. The teams traded points un­til the Musketeers finally took two in row to win the set. Notre Dame’s frustration was short-lived, however, as the Irish took care of business easily in the fifth and decisive set.
“That fifth set was about the only thing pretty about that whole match,” Brown said. “I liked how the girls stepped up and took care of business.”
Junior setter Maggie Brindock tallied 47 assists in the victory.
On Saturday, the Irish took on Loyola Marymount (8-4) but struggled mightily hitting the ball on their way to being out­slugged in hitting percentage by a mark of .333 to .157. The Lions defeated the Irish four sets, finishing with 17 blocks. Notre Dame also committed 27 attack errors.
“We really didn’t play well at all, and that’s credit to Loyola because they really did,” Brown said. “They hit .500 for the first two sets, and we just weren’t effective on either side of the net.”
Despite losing the previous day, the Irish came out strong Sunday, defeating Kansas (11-2) in four sets and snapping the Jayhawks’ nine-match win­ning streak. After dropping a close first set, Notre Dame took the next three all by the narrow­est of margins — winning each by two points — thanks largely to sophomore outside hitter Toni Alugbue, whose 20 kills, 10 digs and four blocks paced the Irish.
“The resilience of our team re­ally showed today,” Brown said. “We were so disappointed after not playing well against LMU, but we were completely focused and executed well. They had to show a lot of poise in tough situations.”
The Irish now begin Big East play Friday at Cincinnati, fol­lowed by Louisville on the road Sunday.
“We’ve prepared with the right competition,” Brown said. “We’ll be ready to go.”
The Irish and Bearcats square off Friday at 7 p.m. in Cincinnati. 
Contact Conor Kelly at                     ckelly17@nd.edu

see RYAN PAGE 18

see KANSAS PAGE 18



