

COMMENTARY 

A conversation about michigan 

Allan Joseph 
editor-in-chief 


Chris Allen 
sports editor 

Editor’s Note: Shortly after Notre Dame’s 20-3 victory over Michigan State, Editor-in-Chief Allan Joseph sent Sports Editor Chris Allen an email, sparking a discussion about this week’s contest against Michigan and beyond. What follows is a lightly edited transcript of their conversation. 
Allan Joseph: chris, what just happened? 
Chris Allen: I’m not quite sure. Are the Irish … good? 
AJ: I think they might be. And I don’t mean qualify-for-the-sun­bowl-and-finish-with-eight-wins good. I mean have-an-outside­shot-at-the-bcs good. That is not exactly what I thought six hours ago, to say the least. but that performance — that domi­nating, complete, astonishing performance against a very good michigan state squad — changed my mind in a hurry. I mean, notre dame completely outplayed the spartans, who are probably a top­20 team. It didn’t even look like an upset. 

CA: It was the kind of game that I haven’t really seen in a while. To go on the road and physically dominate a big Ten team in a night game, to leave a top head coach like mark dantonio searching for answers and to leave no room for doubt, that is the kind of thing notre dame used to do. It was a very encouraging game for the whole fan base. but now the whole roster will look forward, and they’ll see the player who has tormented them more than any other dur­ing the brian Kelly era — denard robinson — coming to town with the Wolverines in a marquee night game. can the Irish do it again? 
AJ: Well, if there’s one thing our time here has shown us, it’s that this michigan game is going to come down to the wire. This rival­ry is too intense and these teams are too closely matched for this game to not be on the line in the fourth quarter. That’s where I think this game will say a lot about the Kelly era. There have been some monumental collapses during the past two seasons: michigan, Tulsa, michigan … You know how it goes. Purdue was a good sign, but can notre dame preserve a victory in a marquee matchup? If they can, this Irish team could be headed for something special. And yes, I know. We’ve said that before. 
CA: Kelly touched on the michigan state victory being a “signature win” in the postgame press conference. his use of the term is interesting, for his tenure at the helm for the Irish has seen a few signature wins — Utah and Usc in 2010 come to mind — but has not produced a signature stretch of wins. A victory over the Wolverines, whose recent victories over notre dame are almost cruel in their similarity, would be the “signature win” of the Kelly era without a close peer. If Kelly’s team makes it happen, the program will likely have its first top-10 ranking in six years — and the success-starved notre dame fan base will really start dreaming big. but one thing is for certain: crazy things will happen under the lights. 

AJ: okay, it’s really late, and I might not be thinking straight. but bear with me for a second. Imagine the Irish beat michigan this week­end. Where’s the ceiling on this team? on the flip side, is yet an­other loss to the Wolverines a sign that Kelly might not be able to win the big game? 
CA: It may just be one game, Allan, but it’s a primetime test in front of a national audience, against arguably the program’s biggest rival in recent seasons. This game will be a litmus test for the progress Kelly has made and the program he has built. he was brought here to win these games, the games charlie Weis couldn’t. he was brought here to build a program with speed at the skill positions and strength on the lines. It’s year three of his tenure, and he has his speedy stars and his strong lines. Kelly led cincinnati to a 12-0 campaign in his third year at the helm there, and though this may just be one game, a big win in pri­metime will have Irish fans dream­ing of similar outcomes. 
AJ: And that’s where we need to pump the brakes. This team is not going undefeated. If they did, Alabama would pound the Irish back into the stone Age (or worse, the davie era) in the national championship game. The ceiling is high, and the future is bright. but to expect a title game berth is simply foolish. Yes, there’s a de­cent chance a win this week puts the Irish in a position to go 10-2. They might be a top-10 team, but they’re not a top-five one. There’s still a year or two to go before notre dame is truly back. 
CA: definitely not. but a senior class that has seen three last-minute defeats at the hands of the maize and blue will probably settle for sending denard back to Ann Arbor empty-handed. And that’s where the focus should be: on this game, this chance to beat michigan. 
AJ: Well, for the sake of the dreams of Irish fans everywhere, let’s hope so. The longer the Irish stay undefeated, the wilder those dreams will get. They might just be dreams, but isn’t it about time notre dame fans can dream big again? 
Contact Allan Joseph at ajoseph2@nd.edu and Chris Allen at callen10@nd.edu. The views in this column are those of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

RECRUITING 


Night game attracts top corners, running backs 
By CHRIS ALLEN 
sports editor 

The much-anticipated saturday night matchup be­tween no. 11 notre dame and no. 18 michigan will attract more than students, fans and national media attention — it will attract dozens of foot­ball recruits from around the country to take in the action. 
A total of 13 notre dame commitments and 18 other recruits from the 2013 and 2014 classes have been con­firmed to be visiting cam­pus this weekend and taking in the second night game at notre dame stadium in as many seasons. Irish re­cruiting analyst mike Frank said the growing tradition of night games at notre dame is an enormous draw for high school talent. 
“recruits love the night game. The atmosphere is just more exciting,” said Frank, who runs the esPn-affiliated Irish sports daily. “The lights are on, the fans are a bit more rowdy, and that all impacts the game. It’s also just antici­pation, you have to sit around and wait all day for this big rivalry game. every college coach wants to get the re­cruits into an environment like that.” 
The focus in recruiting this weekend will be on a group of seven players who have been offered scholarships by notre dame but have not yet committed to the program. Among the seven are a duo of cornerbacks, cole Luke and L.J. moore, who can add depth at a position the Irish recruiting staff is looking to improve. Luke is the fourth-ranked player in Arizona ac­cording to esPn. 
“I think [Luke and moore] are both really good pros­pects. I think [cornerback] is certainly a position where notre dame is in need of some players,” Frank said. “They have two commitments right now in [2013 commitments] rashad Kinlaw and devin butler, but it’s really impor­tant they land at least one more corner. Luke is one of the top corners in the coun­try, when you look at rank­ings. he’s a guy who can run with just about anybody and likes to hit people.” 
Another position under the microscope is the running back position. The Irish will graduate running backs Theo riddick and cierre Wood this year and the coaching staff needs to build back depth at the position. Irish com­mitment Jamel James and Pittsburgh commitment corey clement will both be visiting campus this week­end, and the Irish have some selling to do to both players, Frank said. 
“clement has always made it known that even though he committed early, he still wanted to explore options at some other schools,” he said. “I think he likes Pittsburgh a great deal, but I think he sees opportunity at notre dame, too. I wouldn’t say he’s waver­ing, but he’s making sure Pitt is really where he wants to go. 
“even though he’s a com­mit, Jamel James has never been to notre dame before this weekend. You just don’t know until he visits whether he’s actually going to like it. This weekend is a big week­end to find out if it’s a match made in heaven.” 
For more on Notre Dame recruiting, check out Mike Frank’s irishsportsdaily.com 
Email Mike at mikefrank18@sbcglobal.net and tell him The Observer sent you. 


Contact Chris Allen at callen10@nd.edu 



ndsmcobserver.com | FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 21, 2012 | The observer 




‘RBU: RUNNING BACK UNIVERSITY’ 
By ANDREW OWENS 
Assistant managing editor 
notre dame’s three top run­ning backs do everything to­gether. They practice together, play together and hang out together. 
but when all three are in the same room, it’s obvious what their greatest pleasure is: argu­ing together. 
“I call [sophomore George Atkinson] ‘stallion’ because he runs and gallops like a horse,” senior cierre Wood said. 
“or because he looks like a horse,” senior Theo riddick said with a laugh. 
The trio forms notre dame’s set of rollicking rushers. They lightheartedly argue about each other’s nicknames, which player is the best-looking (“It’s obvious­ly me,” Atkinson said) and which of the three is most talented at video games (“I’m the best on the team,” riddick said). 
When you dig past the blithe personas, there’s one thing they all agree on: the group’s talent, even if they can’t agree on a name. 
“rbU: running back University,” Wood said. 
“Three-headed monsters,” riddick said. 

Keeping each other fresh 
during last week’s 20-3 win at michigan state, riddick, Wood and Atkinson carried the ball 12, 10 and five times, respectively, for 138 yards. riddick said split­ting the carries helped the trio late in the game. 
“oh yeah,” riddick said. “You’re taking less hits. You get to catch a breather, so you’ll feel fresher overall, physically and mentally. 
“I think we all want to be [the main running back], but it’s what’s best for this team. obviously what the coaches have been doing has been successful.” 
Atkinson said their success is fueled by each other’s play. 


Trio of Irish backs shares bond on and off the field 
“definitely,” he said. “It takes some pressure off each other and we feed off each other too. someone might make the big run, so then the next guy wants to make the big run.” 
At times, the format can be a double-edged sword, Wood said. 
“The way we come in and out, it’s kind of hard to get a rhythm, but [Irish coach brian Kelly] al­ways says you have to stay the course and keep pushing, and that’s what I did and they called me [at michigan state] and I got the job done.” 


Serving in many roles 
Kelly has taken advantage of the players’ versatility by creat­ing a hybrid role this season in which the running backs can also contribute as a receiver. 
riddick, who played receiver his sophomore and junior sea­sons after debuting at running back, said his ability to play dif­ferent positions has aided his performance in 2012. 
“my whole life I was only a running back. I had good hands and went out for a few passes here and there, but mainly I was a running back,” he said. “my versatility really came in at the collegiate level and enhanced my game. 
“I feel comfortable every­where. I played wide receiver for two years and now I’m in the backfield.” 

Atkinson dabbled at both run­ning back and receiver in high school and said he is benefiting from his background at both po­sitions while still fine-tuning his the Irish kick returner and im-advantageous for the Irish dur­play out wide. pressed with his blazing speed ing the team’s first 3-0 start in 10 
“It’s helped tremendously,” he while reaching the end zone years. said. “The coaches back home twice, an experience he consid-“It’s a tough matchup group,” prepared me well to play both ers vital to his 2012 success. he said. “When you think of positions. coming [to notre “It helped a lot to find out how some of the formation group-dame], I didn’t know what I was fast the game goes and I believe ings … It creates some issues. going to play, so I prepared for special teams is faster than the And you know, we’ll continue to both positions that summer and regular snap on the field because utilize those multiple groupings. I’m still developing at receiver guys are running full speed at They work well for us. and running plays and catching you,” he said. “You have to make “[We have] versatility … We the ball.” quick reads, so it helped a lot to have to get George some more 
In 2011, Atkinson starred as get on the field and get experi-touches, because we think we ence and hearing the crowd and have got really three backs that getting used to everything else. have equal starting ability. They coming in the next year, I knew can be stars and starters. We what to expect.” have to make sure we integrate 
This season, riddick has them all into the offense.” not only shown off his speed and athleticism, but also his Next man in strength. In the sept. 1 season-during Wood’s two-game sus­opening 50-10 win over navy, pension for a violation of team riddick rushed for some first rules, riddick and Atkinson downs on short-yardage plays; carried the load. Wood’s return against michigan state, he even gives Kelly and offensive coor­contributed as a lead-blocker for dinator chuck martin the ability Wood on a few carries. to let Wood adjust to game speed 
“he’s always been a hard-without rushing him. nosed type of runner and block-“I think the implications are er,” Atkinson said. “I wasn’t more about being fresh in the surprised he’s doing those kinds fourth quarter,” he said. “he had of things and I’m learning from fresh legs. he had not played in him so when I’m thrown in there a couple weeks. he didn’t have and I can block them and the a lot of carries leading up to the same with cierre.” later carries that he got [against 
Kelly said the different of-michigan state]. fensive looks have been “he played like a guy who had a couple weeks off, and I think that depth at running back is going to allow us to keep turn­ing those guys in and have four quarters of physical play at the running back position.” 


Atkinson rushed for 99 yards on nine carries and scampered into the end zone twice in the season-opening romp against navy in dublin, but don’t expect his teammates to be amazed by his 2012 breakthrough. 
“I wasn’t surprised,” Wood said. “I see him every day, I run with him every day. I practice with him every day. It was just a matter of time before those plays exposed him.” 
Wood was proud to see Atkinson emerge, but congratu­latory text messages weren’t the only ones he sent his fellow run­ning backs. 
“I was laughing at [riddick] because I know there were a couple times he got hit and it hurt,” Wood said. “I texted him and I said, ‘I know that hurt,’ and stuff like that. After [the game] he said, ‘Yeah, man, it did. They hit pretty hard.’” 
For this trio, everything’s a laughing matter. 

Contact Andrew Owens at aowens2@nd.edu 





SARAH O’CONNOR | The Observer SARAH O’CONNOR | The Observer 







HEAD TO 
NO. 18 MICHIGAN 

(5th) Roy Roundtree (Jr.) devin Gardner  12  WR  
(Sr.) Taylor Lewan (Fr.) erik magnuson  77 78  LT  
(Sr.) Fitzgerald Toussaint(so.) Thomas rawls  28 38  RB  (5th) Ricky Barnum (Jr.) Joey burzynski  52 56  LG  
(Sr.) Denard Robinson (so.) russell bellomy  16 8  QB  (5th) Elliot Mealer (so.) Jack miller  57 60  C  
(Jr.) Stephen Hopkins (so.) Joe Kerridge  33 36  FB  (5th) Patrick Omameh (Jr.) Joey burzynski  65 56  RG  
(Sr.) Michael Schofield (sr.) erik Gunderson  75 69  RT  
(5th) Brandon Moore (5th) mike Kwiatkowski  87 81  TE  
(Sr.) Jeremy Gallon (Jr.) drew dileo  10 9  WR  
(Jr.) Courtney Avery(so.) raymon Taylor  5 6  CB  
(So.) Desmond Morgan(Fr.) James ross III  44 15  OLB  

(Sr.) Thomas Gordon 
55 DE

30 S (Jr.) Jibreel Black 
(Fr.) Jarrod Wilson 22 (so.) Frank clark 57 
73 DT

(Sr.) Will Campbell 
25 (sr.) nathan brink 67

(5th) Kenny Demens
MLB 
(Fr.) Joe bolden 35 
76 NT 

(Sr.) Quinton Washington
(Jr.) richard Ash 54 
88 DE

(Sr.) Jordan Kovacs 
32 (Sr.) Craig Roh 
S
(so.) marvin robinson 3 (sr.) nathan brink 67 

(Jr.) Jake Ryan 
47 OLB 
(sr.) cam Gordon 4 
(5th) J.T. Floyd 


8 CB 
(so.) raymon Taylor 6 
34 45
(Sr.) Brandon Gibbons 
(So.) Matt Wile 
PK
KO 
 (so.) matt Wile 45 (sr.) seth broekhuizen 46 
43 26

(Jr.) Will Hagerup 
(Fr.) Dennis Norfleet 
P
KR 
 (so.) matt Wile 45 (sr.) vincent smith 2 
10 54


(Sr.) Jeremy Gallon 
(Sr.) Jareth Glanda 
PR
 (Fr.) dennis norfleet 26 (sr.) curt Graman 94 
LS 
WOLVERINES PASSING 
It’s denard. That’s probably all that needs to be said. senior quarterback denard robinson has recorded 944 to­tal yards and eight touchdowns against the Irish the last two years. Last week, robinson threw for 291 yards and three touchdowns in a 63-13 win over for­mer Irish offensive coordinator charley molnar’s massachusetts. It is pretty clear who robinson’s favorite target is, as ju­nior receiver devin Gardner has scored a touchdown in every game this season and leads the Wolverines in receiving yards with 155. Gardner leads a receiving corps that averages 17 yards per catch. 
In last season’s 35-31 victory over notre dame, robinson threw for 338 yards and four touchdowns, which overshadowed his three interceptions. robinson led the Wolverines in an improbable dou­ble-digit comeback mostly through the air, picking apart an experienced Irish secondary. 
With the loss of senior safety Jamoris slaughter for the year, notre dame will start only one returning starter in its secondary: senior safety Zeke motta. Last week, the young secondary looked impressive in holding michigan state to 187 yards on 23-for-45 passing. The Irish defense also ranks seventh in the nation with 11 sacks, led by sophomore defen­sive end stephon Tuitt’s five. Against this stingy defense, opponents are averaging 10 points per game. but based on what robinson has done to the Irish second­ary in the past, michigan comes in with the definite advantage until proven otherwise. EDGE: MICHIGAN 


WOLVERINES RUSHING 
It is not too much of a surprise as to who is leading the rushing category for the Wolverines. robinson has four rushing touchdowns to go with his 351 rushing yards, good for 8.8 yards per carry. The next highest total for michigan? senior running back Fitzgerald Touissant’s 92 rushing yards. 
The Irish defense has held strong against the run this season, only giving up 96.3 rushing yards per game. After putting a stop to navy’s triple option in 


Allan Joseph 
editor-in-chief 

oh, the michigan game. It’s the bane of this senior class’s football existence. Look back on manti Te’o’s illustrious ca­reer, one of the best in notre dame history. does it seem right that he’s never beaten a team coached by rich rodriguez or brady hoke? These aren’t exactly bo schembechlers on the sideline, after all. he’ll be fired up and making plays all night long. 
on the other side of the ball, the Irish can actually control the pace of the game with what should be an effective rush­ing attack, which means they can keep denard robinson off the field. Te’o and his front seven will keep robinson in check, and everett Golson will make a name for himself in a clutch victory. It’ll be close, of course, but Te’o and his class­mates will pull this one out in an electric atmosphere. 
the 50-10 season-opening win on sept. 1 in dublin, the Irish defense shut down heisman contender and michigan state junior running back Le’veon bell. bell rushed for only 77 yards in notre dame’s 20-3 win saturday, almost half of his sea­son average of 140 yards per game. 
but robinson provides a much differ­ent rushing threat than bell. All one has to do is look back at last year’s meeting, where robinson quietly rushed for 108 yards and a touchdown. If that weren’t enough, robinson rushed for 258 yards and two touchdowns in his last trip to notre dame. robinson set the record for the longest run in notre dame stadium history, with a weaving 87-yard touch­down run in the second quarter of the Wolverines’ 21-7 win sept. 11, 2010. EDGE: EVEN 



WOLVERINES OFFENSIVE COACHING 
Last week, the Wolverines displayed great distribution as eight different michigan players scored a touchdown. but this is Irish defensive coordinator bob diaco’s third shot at cracking the denard offense, and he showed last week that he can prepare his defense for the best of the best. EDGE: EVEN 


WOLVERINES SPECIAL TEAMS 
michigan has yet to put up any glow­ing stats in the return category, but its kicking game has been superb. senior kicker brandon Gibbons has only kicked one field goal, but junior punter Will hagerup averages a whopping 48.5 yards 
per punt.  
EDGE: EVEN  
SPARTANS SCHEDULE  
sept. 1  vs. Alabama  L 14-41  
sept. 8    Air Force  W 31-25  
sept. 15 Massachusetts  W 63-13  
sept. 22 @ Notre Dame  
oct. 6  @ Purdue  
oct. 13  Illinois  
oct. 20  Michigan State  
oct. 27  @ Nebraska  
nov. 3  @ Minnesota  
nov. 10  Northwestern  
nov. 17  Iowa  
nov. 24  @ Ohio State  



Andrew Owens 
Assistant managing editor 

With strong defensive play (just 30 points surrendered in three games) and 11 fewer turnovers than last season at this time, Irish coach brian Kelly’s plan for the program is coming together. 
but this week represents a new test for the Irish. For notre dame to truly enter the bcs discussion, it needs a win over michigan first. In each of the past three seasons, the Irish have suffered last-minute losses to the Wolverines, the worst of which was last year’s fourth-quarter collapse. 
denard robinson will make some big plays, but the Irish front seven will contain him most of the time and, most importantly, late in the game when it matters most. This time, a notre dame score in the final minutes will devas­tate michigan and propel the Irish to a 4-0 record. 



Chris Allen 
sports editor 
Any member of the current senior class, be it a mem­ber of the football team or an interested observer in the stands, will have nightmares about denard robinson well after he or she graduates. he has his flaws as a pass­er, but his back-to-back game-winning drives the past two seasons have displayed a knack for the dramatic and swung this rivalry. notre dame has one chance to swing it back and enact a measure of revenge on denard before he leaves town forever. 
If recent history is any indication, it’ll be close and high-scoring. denard will get his chance to win the game again. I suspect this time the increasingly indescribable Te’o and the stout notre dame defense will make a stand, and deliver an iconic win under the lights. 

FINAL SCORE: notre dame 27, michigan 24 FINAL SCORE: notre dame 30, michigan 24 FINAL SCORE: notre dame 34, michigan 30 

ndsmcobserver.com | FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 21, 2012 | The observer 







TO HEAD 

NO. 11 NOTRE DAME 

KEVIN SONG | The Observer KIRBY McKENNA | The Observer 
IRISHPASSING 190 rushing yards and two touchdowns notre dame hasn’t needed sopho-— the bulk of that coming against KeiVarae Russell (Fr.) 
more quarterback everett Golson to navy. sophomore running back George 

CB 43 Josh Atkinson (so.) 
step up yet, but the first-time starter Atkinson rounds out the rushing attack has done enough to keep the Irish com-with 142 rushing yards, nearly averag­petitive offensively. Golson has thrown ing a first down per carry and showing 

Danny Spond (Jr.) 

OLB 
for 611 yards and three touchdowns his big-run potential with an average of 
30 ben councell (so.) 


Zeke Motta (Sr.) 



29 nicky baratti (Fr.) this season, while only throwing one 9.5 yards per carry. notre dame averag-
S


Kapron Lewis-Moore (Gr.) 


interception in the season opener. Last es 155.7 rushing yards per game and are 
DE 
91 sheldon day (Fr.) 

Dan Fox (Sr.) week, Golson threw for 178 yards and a going up agianst a michgian defense 


ILB 
59 carlo calabrese (sr.) 

Louis Nix (Jr.) touchdown, but efficiently managed the that gives up 192.3 rushing yards per 
NG 
Kona schwenke (Jr.) 


Manti Te’o (Sr.) game while not allowing the spartans game and 5.6 yards per carry. expect 


96 ILB 
59 Jarrett Grace (so.) 

DE 
Stephon Tuitt (So.) back into the game with a bad decision the offense to run the ball often against 
50 chase hounshell (so.) 

Matthias Farley (So.) or miscue. meanwhile, eight different the Wolverine defense. 
24 chris salvi (sr.) 

S 
Irish receivers have caught a recep-EDGE: NOTRE DAME 
Prince Shembo (Jr.) 

OLB 
11 Ishaq Williams (so.) tion of at 20 yards or more and Golson’s scrambling ability is surely one of the IRISH OFFENSIVE COACHING reasons why. notre dame’s stable of It will be a true battle of wits saturday 
CB 
21 Bennett Jackson (Jr.) veteran wide receivers have flown un-as michigan coach brady hoke and de-
Jalen brown (so.) 

der the radar, but have come up big in fensive coordinator Greg mattison will recent weeks. Last week, senior receiv-undoubtedly come prepared to face er robby Toma had five catches for 58 Irish coach brian Kelly’s versatile at-yards, while graduate student receiver tack.  may the best coach win. 

T.J.Jones (Jr.) 


10 
John Goodman  pulled in a spectacular EDGE: EVEN 
WR 
davaris daniels (so.) 

one-handed touchdown catch to start 

Robby Toma (Sr.) 


19 davonte’ neal (Fr.) the scoring for the Irish. IRISH SPECIAL TEAMS michigan comes into the game with sophomore kicker Kyle brindza senior safeties Jordan Kovacs and has stepped up following senior nick 
RT 

Christian Lombard (Jr.) Thomas Gordon leading the team Tausch’s injury, going 2-for-2 last week 
WR 
72 nick martin (so.) 

in tackles. even though the defense against michigan state and nailing 

Theo Riddick (Sr.) 
Mike Golic Jr. (Gr.) 


65 
20 cierre Wood (sr.) has yet to record an interception, the the game-winner in the 20-17 win over 
RBRG 

conor hanratty (so.) 

Wolverines only give up 157.7 passing Purdue on sept. 8 in the home opener. 

Everett Golson (So.) 
Braxston Cave (Gr.) 

C 
57 mike Golic Jr. (Gr.) QB 
11 Tommy rees (Jr.) yards per game. The defense hasn’t real-Atkinson always remains a threat on ly pressured the quarterback too much kickoff return after his two touchdown 

Chris Watt (Sr.) 
65 conor hanratty (so.) 

LG 
with only three sacks and the defensive returns last season. senior punter ben 
LT 

Zack Martin (Sr.) line is still trying to replace three grad-Turk is averaging a solid 41.5 yards per 
78 ronnie stanley (Fr.) 


uated starters from last season. but the punt and came up huge last week in 
TE 
Tyler Eifert (Sr.) secondary returns three starters and consistently pinning michigan state 
18 ben Koyack (so.) 

figures to be a solid defense against an deep in its own territory with eight offense that hasn’t been asked to do too punts. 

John Goodman (Gr.) much so far this season. EDGE: NOTRE DAME 
WR 
87 daniel smith (Jr.) 

EDGE: EVEN IRISH SCHEDULE 

IRISH RUSHING sept. 1 vs. Navy W 50-10 
once again, the Irish running game sept. 8 Purdue W 20-17 
came up big when it needed to in sept. 15 @ Michigan St. W 20-3 
the fourth quarter of the win over sept. 22 Michigan 
Kyle Brindza (So.) 
Kyle Brindza (So.) 


40 nick Tausch (sr.) 
40 nick Tausch (sr.) michigan state. After returning from oct. 6 vs. Miami 
KO 
PK 

his two-game suspension, senior run-oct. 13 Stanford 



George Atkinson (So.) 
Ben Turk (Sr.) 
6 Theo riddick (sr.) 27 Kyle brindza (so.) 

KR 
P 
ning back cierre Wood 56 yards on 10 oct. 20 BYU 
PR 
LS 

Davonte’ Neal (Fr.) carries and will become a bigger part oct. 27 @ Oklahoma 

Jordan Cowart (Sr.) 

61 scott daly (Fr.) 81 John Goodman (Gr.) 

of the rushing game in his first home nov. 3 Pittsburgh game this season. since returning from nov. 10 @ Boston College receiver to running back, senior Theo nov. 17 Wake Forest riddick leads the Irish in rushing with nov. 24 @ USC 


Andrew Gastelum 
Associate sports editor 
expectations are sky high. And recently when that hap­pens, the Irish lose and drop from their unusually high ranking. 
but this Irish team showed me something different last week that goes far beyond making tackles and scoring points. The pass defense is young, the offense often sput­ters and yet notre dame still finds some way to pull out a victory when everything looks to be in its way. 
There is really no stopping denard. but the only way to make sure he doesn’t kill notre dame’s dreams for the third straight year is to keep the ball away from him for as long as possible. I believe the Irish rushing attack will do just that, and have a huge game to push the Irish to 4-0 in a hectic september and avoid yet another heartbreak. 
FINAL SCORE: notre dame 31, michigan 21 



Matthew DeFranks 
Associate sports editor 

With a win against the rival Wolverines, notre dame will crack the top 10 for the first time since 2006, when charlie Weis was the future of notre dame football. now, it’s brian Kelly’s shot. 
Last week against michigan state, Kelly and the Irish rolled out a dominating defense and an efficient offense in grinding out a physical win over the then-no. 10 spartans. And the same game plan should work against a michigan team that has given notre dame fits over the past three years. 
For the seniors, it will be their last — and best — shot at taking down denard robinson. The running game will continue to improve as cierre Wood gets reaccli­mated and the defense will be its usual self. 
FINAL SCORE: notre dame 26, michigan 13 








True freshmen Day, Russell boost defense 
By MATTHEW DeFRANKS 
Associate sports editor 
In just two plays, freshman defensive end sheldon day made himself known — even if one did end in him stomping up and down in frustration. 
on back-to-back plays dur­ing no. 11 notre dame’s 20-3 win at michigan state, day recorded a sack and a near-interception that will go down as just a pass breakup. day, in frustration, began jumping up and down before ultimate­ly causing a bone spur. he will, however, play saturday against no. 18 michigan. 
day is just one, along with cornerback Keivarae russell and safeties elijah shumate and nicky baratti, of four true freshmen contributing to the Irish defense. 
“We are much more com­mitted to getting all those players valuable time because of the length and the depth of the schedule that we play and we know we are going to need them at some time during the year,” Irish coach brian Kelly said. 
Kelly, typically known for his high-flying and fast-paced offense, has looked to his de­fense to turn around the notre dame program. 
“Well, I think I said it in my opening press conference when I took the job here, was that it was important that if we wanted to compete nation­ally, we had to have a defense that could control the dif­ferent teams that we play on a week to week basis,” Kelly said. “so getting our defense up to that level through re­cruiting, through player de­velopment, through scheme, has been job one. It’s getting better and better each and ev­ery year.” 
notre dame (3-0) has al­lowed just 30 points through its first three games, the few­est in nearly 25 years. The freshmen have provided not only depth but also produc­tion, totaling 19 tackles, five pass breakups and 1.5 sacks. 
“[They need to] keep doing what they’re doing,” graduate student defensive end Kapron Lewis-moore said. “They’re working hard in practice every day and we’re kind of learning from each other and we have a good positive attitude with each other. I think that’s a big help as well.” 
day enrolled early this spring and forced his way into a deep rotation on the defen­sive line. The Irish consis­tently use six different players along the defensive front. Kelly said defensive line coach mike elston has done a great job with the younger players. 
“his focus is strictly on that defensive line room. he was a special teams coordi­nator as well last year,” Kelly said. “And just getting him focused on that room, the personalities that are within that room, and getting them all to understand they have a role requires a great relation­ship with the players.” 
Lewis-moore said the senior leadership along the defen­sive line has helped day and the defensive backs flourish in their first year. 


“If we wanted to compete nationally, we had to have a defense that could control the different teams we play on a week to week basis.” 
Brian Kelly 
Irish coach 
“It’s a big thing. You just have to keep on them. You can’t let them get lost in the moment,” Lewis-moore said. “You have to be there for them whenever they need anything.” 
In the season-opening 50­10 win over navy, russell be­came the first freshman in program history to start the season at cornerback. russell earned the starting nod after junior cornerback Lo Wood injured his Achilles. Wood is out for the season. 
despite a shaky game against navy, the converted running back and the rest of the secondary have yet to al­low an opponent to throw for more than 200 yards. 
shumate, who will see more playing time after graduate student Jamoris slaughter’s season-ending Achilles inju­ry, has added an instant spark to the Irish defense. Against michigan state, he broke up two passes on third down that forced the spartans to punt. 
“I like elijah. he’s an ag­gressive player and he’s got pretty good ability,” senior safety Zeke motta said. “he’s really improving a lot. Getting him lined up and on the same page as everyone else is com­ing along.” 
day, russell, shumate and baratti will try to slow down the Wolverines and senior quarterback denard robinson on saturday at 7:30  p.m. at notre dame stadium. 

Contact Matthew DeFranks at mdefrank@nd.edu 





ndsmcobserver.com | FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 21, 2012 | The observer 







robinson faces Irish one last time 

By ANDREW GASTELUM 
Associate sports editor 
If michigan senior quarterback denard robinson put together a resume against notre dame, it would look something like this: longest run in notre dame stadium history, two straight comeback wins with under 30 seconds remaining, eight touch­downs and 944 total yards — all in just two games. 
“he’s a superior football player,” Irish coach brian Kelly said. “he’s a difference maker.” 
robinson made the first night game in the history of michigan stadium a night to forget for the Irish last season. The deerfield beach, Fla., native threw for 338 yards and four touchdowns while rushing for 108 yards and a touch­down in the Wolverines’ 35-31 vic­tory on sept. 10, 2011. Two of those passing touchdowns came within the last two minutes of the game, including the game-winner on a 16-yard touchdown pass with two seconds left. 
behind robinson, the Wolverines put up 28 points in the fourth quarter, which they entered facing a 24-7 deficit. With 23 sec­onds left in the game, michigan was stuck at its own 20-yard line trailing by three before robison’s heroics took center stage. 
“Well, I thought we did a pretty good job, really, for three quarters [last year],” Kelly said. “You know, I think if there’s a couple plays we’d like to have back in the pass­ing game maybe; but we liked our plan. [now] we think that we are physically a better football team than we were the previous couple years.” 
It is robinson’s ability to make a big play down the field that Kelly said the Irish will focus on limiting. 
“We have to find a way to limit big chunk plays, just like we have the first few weeks,” Kelly said. “It’s about our defense not giving up those big chunk plays. We gave them up in the running game in year one and we gave them up in the passing game in year two. We have to eliminate and control those big plays that are out there. If we do that, we feel pretty good.” 
In year one against notre dame, robinson torched the Irish for 502 total yards and three touchdowns in a 28-24 win at notre dame stadium on sept. 11, 2010. A major chunk of his 258 rushing yards came on one carry, an 87-yard touchdown that set the record for the longest run in notre dame stadium history. his other rushing touchdown came with 27 seconds left in the fourth quarter to send the Wolverines home with the victory. despite robinson’s success against notre dame, Irish senior safety Zeke motta said he does not change much when trying to prepare for a dynamic quarterback. 
“There’s not much that we do differently,” motta said. “I’m go­ing to keep my preparation the same. I’m going to focus on my fundamentals.” 
robinson does not come with­out his weaknesses, however. no. 1 Alabama’s defense held robinson to 27 rushing yards and 200 pass­ing yards with two interceptions in the 41-14 Alabama win sept. 1. The crimson Tide (3-0) unveiled a possible formula for stopping robinson, based on establishing an early lead and containing the quarterback within the pocket. 
“I think it was attributed to getting up on them,” Kelly said. “[Alabama] got some scores on them. [michigan] got them be­hind the chains a few times. And then, you know, they had some opportunistic turnovers.” 
Kelly said the much-improved Irish defense cannot risk focus­ing too much on either robinson’s running or passing, or the man nicknamed “shoelace” could come away undefeated against notre dame. 
“It’s a difficult proposition, be­cause you can’t sell out on either [rushing or passing],” Kelly said. “You have to be balanced. You have to be able to manage it and you’ve got to keep him from mak­ing big plays. so there isn’t an easy answer to that. he’s a supe­rior football player. he’s not a great player; he’s the best player on the field.” 


Contact Andrew Gastelum at agastel1@nd.edu 
PAId AdverTIsemenT 


PAId AdverTIsemenT 





