The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 46, issue 16 | TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 11, 2012 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Panel encourages reform of civil society 
Experts call for restoration of respectful dialogue to partisan political debate 
By NICOLE MICHELS 
news writer 
partisan politics went under the microscope monday eve­ning as the center for social concerns (csc) hosted the first event in a series of seminars, titled “From battleground to common ground,” featuring an interdisciplinary analysis of the state of american political discourse. 
rosie mcdowell, director of international community-based learning outreach at the csc and organizer of the discussion panel said the csc wants to focus its efforts this year on encouraging civic engagement. 
“The csc theme for the year urges active participation in civil society according to indi­vidual talents, visions and voca­tions,” mcdowell said. 
english professor John duffy said american civil society is in a state of crisis. 
“we are at a time in our pub­lic discourse where there is no agreement on fact, no criteria for 
see csc PAGE 3 

ASHLEY DACY | The Observer 
Notre Dame faculty from left: Daniel Philpott, John Duffy, Margaret Pfeil and John McGreevy participated Monday in a discussion of American civil society. 



Football home opener marred by arrests 

STEPH WULZ | Observer Graphic 

By KRISTEN DURBIN 
news editor 
as the Fighting irish started their home football season on the right foot with a win over purdue saturday, the fan expe­rience went smoothly to begin the 125th season of notre dame football, director of game day operations mike seamon said. 
“we thought the weekend was a huge success,” he said. “compared to the south Florida game a year ago, it was night and day. it was remarkably better.” 
saturday’s unseasonably cool weather was a major factor in opener, seamon said. 
“last year was a really un­comfortable weekend,” he said. “we had excessive heat leading up to the storms. This year was the exact opposite. The weather cooperated. it wasn’t too hot and it wasn’t raining, so that was a pleasant surprise.” 
seamon said the 125th an­niversary pep rally, held Friday evening in front of the Knute rockne memorial gymnasium, started the weekend’s festivities on a high note, with an estimat­ed 15,000 attendees. 
“everyone we spoke with, 

the success of the 2012 home see FooTball PAGE 4 

incident reported to ndsp 
Observer Staff Report 
notre dame security police (ndsp) is investigating a report of forcible fondling that occurred early sunday morning, according to an email sent to the student body monday evening. 
The incident involved two visitors to campus who had met earlier in the day, the report stated. The fondling oc­curred in a non-residential campus building on the south edge of campus. 
The report was made monday to the department. in the email monday eve­ning, police advised students to protect themselves from unwanted contact or sexual assault by being aware of their surroundings. 
“Forcible fondling and other sexual assaults can happen to anyone,” the email report stated. “people are more likely to be assaulted by an acquain­tance than a stranger. being aware of your own safety and watching out for your friends are important steps you can take to reduce the risk of sexual assault. 
“perpetrators may target people who have consumed excessive amounts of alcohol or those to whom they have given drugs.” 
information about sexual assault prevention and resources for survi­vors of sexual assault is available from ndsp at ndsp.nd.edu or through the committee for sexual assault prevention at http://csap.nd.edu. 


Club advocates civil liberty 
By MEGHAN THOMASSEN 
news writer 
limited government, lib­erty and free trade are the basic goals of the college libertarians at notre dame. 
“The first step is educa­tion and logical discourse,” according to senior Todd velianski, president of the club. 
This fall, the club will run 
voter  registration  drives  
w it h  college  republicans  
a nd  col lege  democrats,  
said  sophomore  nick  

Frecker, club treasurer. 

“we dispense and dis­cuss literature dealing with civil rights, libertar­ian philosophy and current issues,” Frecker said. “we have a shipment of ‘atlas shrugged’ books coming in.” 
Frecker and velianski will campaign on the behalf of the libertarian presidential nominee, gary Johnson, and host debate watches in laFortune ballroom. 
“i consider myself fiscally responsible, socially tol­erant and an avid lover of liberty,” said Frecker. “i be­lieve people have the right to effectively do what they see fit, as long as their ac­tions don’t infringe on the rights of others.” 
The views of the par­ty seem to resonate with many students on campus, Frecker said. 
“last year at the ‘holy votes’ debate, they had rep­resentatives from all par­ties and the applause for all three were equal,” he said. “The ideas of libertarian­ism are very popular among young people, but [many] are trapped in the two-party 
see liberTarians PAGE 3 


vigil raises anxiety, depression awareness 
By REBECCA O’NEIL 
news writer 
students gathered outside holy cross hall at 8:30 p.m. monday for a candlelight vigil to kick off “support a belle, love a belle” week at saint mary’s. 
The college’s student government association dedi­cated the first day of the week, world suicide prevention day, to supporting women who suffer from anxiety and depression.  The day marked the second anniversary of former saint mary’s student lizzy seeberg’s death. seeberg passed away in september 2010. 
susan larson, vice president of the class of 2014, said the walk of solidarity from holy cross circle to the grotto was held not only in memory of seeberg. 
“[The walk is] to show 
see groTTo PAGE 4 


daTa sTorage PAGE 3 viewpoinT PAGE 7 scene PAGE 9 men’s soccer PAGE 16 



Have a question you want answered? 
Email obsphoto@gmail.com 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
ndsmcobserver.com 

p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
allan Joseph 

Managing Editor  Business Manager 
megan doyle  Jeff liptak 
Asst. Managing Editor: andrew owens 
Asst. Managing Editor: sam stryker News Editor: John cameron News Editor: Kristen durbin 

Viewpoint Editor: meghan Thomassen Sports Editor: chris allen Scene Editor: Kevin noonan Saint Mary’s Editor: Jillian barwick Photo Editor: suzanna pratt Graphics Editor: brandon Keelean Multimedia Editor: sarah o’connor Advertising Manager: monica mccormack Ad Design Manager: sara hilstrom Controller: peter woo Systems Administrator: william heineman 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 
Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 
Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ajoseph2@nd.edu 
Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 mdoyle11@nd.edu 
Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 aowens2@nd.edu sstryke1@nd.edu 
Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 
News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 
Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
Scene Desk 

(574) 631-4540 observer.scene.editor@gmail.com 
Saint Mary’s Desk 
jbarwi01@saintmarys.edu 
Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 
Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 
Policies 

The observer is the independent, daily newspaper 
published in print and online by the students of the 
university of notre dame du lac and saint mary’s 
college.  editorial content, including advertisements, is 
not governed by policies of the administration of either 
institution. The observer reserves the right to refuse 
advertisements based on content. 

The news is reported as accurately and objectively 
as possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion 
of the majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, 
assistant managing editors and department editors. 
commentaries, letters and columns present the views of 
the authors and not necessarily those of The observer. 
viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include 
contact information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed 
to Editor-in-Chief Allan Joseph. 

post office information The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The observer is published at: 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-0779 periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices posTmasTer send address corrections to: The observer p.o. box 779 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-077 The observer is a member of the associated press. all reproduction rights are reserved. 
What club are you most excited to be a part of this year? 

Holly Lucas 
senior 
off-campus 
“smc economics club” 
Cara O’Connor 
senior 
holy cross hall 
“smc peacemakers” 
Chris Vanckunas 
senior off-campus 
“ace” 


Hannah Peterson 
Freshman 
mccandless hall 
“smc peacemakers” 
Patrick Neeb 
sophomore dillon hall 
“crew” 
Nancy Reynolds 
sophomore 
le mans hall 
“smc hannah and Friends” 


Want your event included here? 
News Sports 

anna boarini Katie heit Email obsnews@gmail.com 
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 
dan brombach megan Finneran adam llorens matthew deFranks 
Graphics Scene 

Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday 
steph wulz ankur chawla 
Photo Viewpoint 

Library Workshop International Open Nanovic Film: Men’s Soccer vs. Outdoor Yoga 
Kirby mcKenna meghan Thomassen 
Hesburgh Library House Coriolanus Michigan State Rolfs Sports 4 p.m. - 5:30 p.m. Hesburgh Center DeBartolo Performing Alumni Stadium Recreation Center Tutorial on 4 p.m. - 6:30 p.m. Arts Center 7 p.m. - 9 p.m. 9:30 a.m. - 10:30 a.m. 
Corrections 

bibliographic citations Discover programs 7 p.m. - 9:30 p.m. A RecSports free 
The observer regards itself as using RefWorks. around campus. fitness class. a professional publication and strives for the highest standards 
Man with a Movie Benjamin Balthaser The Merchant of Film: Damsels in Volleyball vs. Loyola 
of journalism at all times. we do, 
Camera Reading Venice Distress Marymount 
however, recognize that we will make 
DeBartolo Performing Hammes Bookstore Washington Hall DeBartolo Performing Purcell Pavilion 
mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 
Arts Center 7:30 p.m. - 9 p.m. 7:30 p.m. - 10 p.m. Arts Center 1 p.m. - 3 p.m. 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
8 p.m. - 9 p.m. Focus on Modernism Actors from the 9:30 p.m. - 11 p.m. Part of the Golden 
we can correct our error. 

Silent film by Vertov. and Anti-Imperialism. London Stage. Dome Invitational. 

ndsmcobserver.com | TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 11, 2012 | The observer 

CSC 
conTinued From page 1 
expression of language, how to gov­ern or decide what is appropriate or how to use similes, metaphors and other figures of speech,” duffy said. “nor do we save a place for delib­erative discourse, where participants can acknowledge uncertainty and that they might be wrong … instead what we see are assertions and coun­ter-assertions hurled back and forth 
— that is what i consider the crisis of public argument.” duffy said the public discourse has created a charged atmosphere. 
“Toxic public rhetoric is a fact of ev­eryday life,” duffy said.  “it is a form of entertainment, it is a corporate prod­uct that is bought and sold.” 
political science and peace studies professor david philpott said this tox­icity is emblematic of the increased polarization in american politics. 
“polarization technically does not mean nastiness, it means that opinions are distributed far to the left and to the right,” philopott said. “whatever [explanation] one likes, it is clear that our political discourse has gotten nastier and far more mean spirited.” 
philpott said clearly drawing the line between religion and politics has become only more complicated in the modern civil discourse. 
“much liberal enlightenment is premised on the idea that good poli­tics is secular politics … and making an appeal to religion is problematic,” philpott said.  “but, secularism can be highly divisive as well; nastiness is hardly confined to the religious, it’s found among religious and secular alike.” 
in this atmosphere, the challenge to maintain an open mind has only intensified, philpott said. 

“another proposal is to maintain a healthy sense of doubt and skepti­cism… too often the virtue of doubt is made only to the position the recom­mender does not find persuasive, not to the recommender’s own position,” philpott said. 
margaret pfeil, professor of theol­ogy, said pope John XXiii’s encyclical pacem in Terris suggests a framework capable of building a more balanced discourse.  This document reflects the attitudes pope John XXiii exhib­ited during his lifetime, she said. 
“pope John XXiiiacted as an inter­mediary speaking with both [former leader of the soviet union nikita] Khrushchev and the Kennedy ad­ministration during the height of the conflict,” pfeil said.  “in this situa­tion he gave primary importance to the dignity of each person involved rather than to the ideological issues at stake … this enabled him to win even Khrushchev’s trust because Khrushchev knew that he respected the dignity of all of the soviet citizens, of all the citizens of the world.” 
This universal respect allows for cross-factional discourse, she said. 
“John XXiii’s appeal to peace through respect for human dignity offers room for common dialogue … it might be asked whose voices are heard [in the dialogue], and if there are elements of truth and participa­tion in determining the common good,” pfeil said.  “This is something to consider as we mark the anniver­sary of september 11th [Tuesday], what it would look like for love to reign instead of fear.” 
philpott said acknowledgement of universal dignity will be a necessary component to any solution. 
“The broader restoration of the right relationship requires the 
paid adverTisemenT 

struggle that respects the dignity of the opponent and seeks to find what is right to her own position, to per­haps amount to a fuller synthesis of justice,” philpott said. 
a less caustic political climate will develop when the rhetoric used to engage politically changes, duffy said. 
“i think virtuous discourse has to start in other settings … our politics are so deeply compromised that this will not be possible until there is a popular movement for a better kind of language, and until we model that language we won’t get it from the people who inhabit our public spac­es,” duffy said. 
educators and students are re­sponsible for modeling this type of ethical discourse, duffy said. 
“in a sense this is a very deep existential crisis that we have, that there is no agreement on fact … this is something we have to work at,” duffy said. “i was once bemoaning to myself that i don’t know if this was possible or not, but my wife said you wouldn’t be in education if you re­ally believed that.  i think education is where you begin, we need to look very hard at the way we understand our communicative practices.” 
duffy said the notre dame com­munity is the perfect place to enact this change. 
“our task is to pursue knowledge, to ask deep questions,” duffy said. “we live a life not all that different from the students in plato’s acad­emy: incredibly privileged.  The change has to come from people like us who have these opportunities and the capacity to share and spread them.” 
Contact Nicole Michels at nmichels@nd.edu 
Online data storage system launched 
By CHARITHA ISANAKA 
news writer 
storing files just got more con­venient for members of the notre dame community. 
oiT (office of information Technologies) recently sent out an email about box, the cloud storage system notre dame students, fac­ulty and staff now can access. 
The box project began this sum­mer, and since the introduction of box to campus, approximately 2,500 accounts have been created, according to information technol­ogy engineer matt willimore. 
ron Kraemer, vice president for information technologies, said box came into being after students and faculty asked for more file storage space. 
“notre dame faculty and stu­dents consistently were asking for more storage and the ability to eas­ily access and share information anytime, with anyone, from any­where, on any device,” Kraemer said. “Through box, we were able to address that request quickly and securely, and in the process better serve teaching, learning, research and university operations.” 
willimore said box permits its users to share files and collaborate on documents with anyone in the world, with no additional software. 
“you can easily share documents with your instructors, friends and classmates in a secure location, and access files that have been 


Libertarians 
conTinued From page 1 
mentality and vote for the less­er of two evils.” 
velianski said he hopes stu­dents stay informed for the election process. 
“students here will go on to take key roles in the forma­tion of society, in business, politics, religion and technol­ogy, and to be good citizens they must be well educated 
“Libertarianism is the belief that the individual knows how to live his life better than a government official knows how to.” 
Todd Velianski 
president 
College Libertarians 
on current events and vary­ing political philosophies,” he said. 
velianski said he fears what mitt romney’s nomination as the republican presidential candidate will mean to the libertarian party. 
“with the nomination of a new england progressive like romney … i don’t know where the libertarian votes will shared with you,” he said. 
students can use box for docu­ments, images and projects related to their coursework and other ac­tivities so that they can easily be maintained and shared, willimore said. 
“The content on box can be shared both, internally and exter­nally, accessed through mobile devices and extended to partner applications such as google apps,” he said. “you can also sync files from your computer and access them on most mobile phones.” 
willimore said content located on box is not monitored, however, oiT can see how many accounts are created in a time period. box is also an easy way to backup, sync and store files with the 50 gigabytes of storage space, he said. 
notre dame was one of the first schools to sign the box agreement through internet 2, willimore said. internet2 is a consortium of uni­versities working in partnership with the government and industry to deploy new technology, accord­ing to the group’s website. 
willimore said said cornell, carnegie mellon and cal-berkeley are among the other early adopters of the service. 
To set up a box account go to http://box.nd.edu and enter your netid and password in the central authentication service (cas). 
Contact Charitha Isanaka at cisanaka@nd.edu 
go,” velianski said. “[but] the movement is becoming some­thing that both major parties can’t afford to ignore if they wish to maintain electoral domination.” 
dissatisfaction with the republican and democratic parties led velianski to the libertarian party, he said. he said libertarianism is a phi­losophy based on the golden rule: do unto others what you would have them do to you. 
“libertarianism is the be­lief that the individual knows how to live his life better than a government official knows how to,” velianski said. “The greatest problem in society and at notre dame is the belief that the rules of morality do not apply to the government.” 
velianski said he is unfazed by those who think voting libertarian is essentially the same as throwing a vote away, due to the party’s relatively small size. 
“[what they] fail to realize is that obama’s and romney’s policies on social issues are largely the same,” velianski said. “The only vote i can cast with a good conscience is a vote for the party whose integrity has not been corrupted. i vote libertarian so i can sleep at night.” 
Contact Meghan Thomassen at mthomass@nd.edu 


The observer | TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 11, 2012 | ndsmcobserver.com 

Football 
conTinued From page 1 
including students, fans, the team and football administra­tors, liked having it in front of the rock,” he said. “There was a great energy, and we got it in just before the rain started. it was also good because we got to kick off our 125th year in front of the building named after the man responsible for the birth of the notre dame football tradition.” 
in addition to the nearly 3,000 visitors to the stadium tunnel on Friday afternoon, more than 1,500 people visited the labar practice Fields on game day, and the glee club performed on library Quad before the football team walked to the stadium, seamon said. 
“That was the first time they performed on game day, and they performed for several thousand people,” he said. “it was a really nice change. The fans loved it.” 
in response to the high vol­ume of cell phone usage on game day, seamon said the university made “significant investments” in improving cell phone cover­age during the offseason. cell phone chargers were also placed in several campus locations and moved to the guest services 


DIRTY BOOK SALE  
Wednesday, September 12 & Thursday, September 13, 2012 9:30 AM — 3:30 PM HESBURGH LIBRARY CONCOURSE Clean up on our scandalously low priced, dirty, dusty, and otherwise abused, but totally readable books! HARDCOVERS $4.00 • PAPERBACKS $3.00 30% DISCOUNT ON ALL NEW & RECENT TITLES !"#$%&'(%)%*+,-(.,/%0%12345"667237"31  
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME PRESS  

Grotto 
conTinued From page 1 
support for our sisters and friends who suffer from anxi­ety or depression,” she said. 
according to the national institute of mental health, roughly 20 percent of adults in the united states suffer from some sort of anxiety disorder. 
Junior class presi­dent carolyn backes, a freshman roommate of seeberg ’s, addressed the group of 47 women who walked in support of the cause. 
“it is only fitting that [seeberg ’s] memory be celebrated in action and activities that help others 
— particularly on the is ­sue of mental health and well being,” backes said. 
seeberg, who would have been a junior this year, struggled with anxi­ety and a related depres ­sion disorder, she said. 
“awareness of men­tal illness as a very real disease, as real as heart disease and cancer is a critical step in driving out the stigma that still sur­rounds the topic,” backes said. 
larson devoted a prayer to saint dymphna, the patron saint of those af­flicted with mental and emotional illness. 
backes said she believes the march is cathartic and crucial to maintain a close community on saint mary ’s campus. 
booth inside the stadium saturday. 
“early reports tell us that cell phone coverage was better this year,” seamon said. “people kept using the cell phone chargers around campus as well.” 
seamon said medical calls were down from last year due to the cooler weather. 
considering the large scale of the day’s operations, seamon said the game “couldn’t have gone better.” 
“For the first game, we couldn’t be more pleased,” he said. “we had wonderful weather and good, positive energy. people were excited to kick off the home season coming off the win in dublin, and we’re looking for­ward to the michigan night game in two weeks.” 
notre dame security police (ndsp) director phil Johnson said police arrested eight people on campus outside the stadium on game day and issued two ci­tations or tickets for underage drinking. 
Johnson said three were ar­rested for false informing and liquor law violations, one arrest was made for public intoxication, one for resisting law enforce­ment and public intoxication and one for disorderly conduct. additionally, police arrested one 
“i think it ’s a tradition we need to keep up be ­cause we are such a small community. i was her roommate freshman year, so it had a big impact on me,” she said.  “it made me realize early on how much of a community and family we all are. The sup ­port on campus is part of the reason i am still here t o d a y.” 
sophomore anna nolan said the transition to college can be overwhelming. 
“one is granted so much independence and has to cope with a multitude of new responsibilities while simultaneously losing … the physical presence of your support system, or family,” she said. 
Kristen vokt, one of the “support a belle, love a belle” week organizers said she also felt very alone her sophomore year. 
“Knowing that others are empathetic and aware is comforting,” she said. “This march shows that there is a willingness to acknowledge the significant number of people who struggle with mental illness and aiding them to recovery,” she said. 
vokt said the march is a symbol of seeking peace and comfort. 
“it’s supposed to be em­powering,” she said. “it’s about letting things that burden you fall aside to find courage and being support­ed by those that walk with you.” 
Contact Rebecca O’Neil at roneil01@saintmarys.edu 
person for criminal trespass and one man for outstanding war­rants and apprehended a juve­nile for shoplifting. 
inside the stadium, Johnson said police made one arrest for public intoxication. 
after announcing the imple­mentation of its intensified college enforcement program at notre dame, indiana state excise police officers cited two and arrested three minors on nine total charges in legends and the c1 parking lot in front of the stadium during the game, cpl. Travis Thickstun said. 
one female was cited for mi­nor possession, and another was cited for minor consumption and false informing, Thickstun said. 
he said excise officers arrested two females and one male for minor consumption and false in­forming after providing repeated false names and birthdates to officers. They were then turned over to the st. Joseph county sheriff’s office for transportation to jail. 
Contact Kristen Durbin at kdurbin@nd.edu 


ndsmcobserver.com | TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 11, 2012 | The observer 

Mayor faces extortion charge 
Associated Press 
TrenTon, n.J. — Federal agents arrested the struggling mayor of new Jersey’s capital monday on corruption charges, alleging he agreed to accept bribes in connection with a proposed parking garage — ac­tually a fake project created by authorities trying to snare him. 
Trenton mayor Tony mack, his brother ralphiel and con­victed sex offender Joseph giorgianni, a mack supporter who owns a Trenton sandwich shop, were each accused of a single charge: conspiring to extort the undercover infor­mants who pulled them into the scheme. 
u.s. attorney paul Fishman said at a news conference monday that the city-owned land a few blocks from city hall for the garage was assessed at $271,000. he said mack and giorgianni agreed to accept $100,000 for the land for the city coffers — as long as the pur­ported developers paid a bribe of $100,000 to be split between the two alleged conspirators. 
a federal magistrate monday ordered mack released on an unsecured $150,000 bond — the same as his brother — but ruled that he cannot leave the state while free on bail. mack left the courthouse monday without commenting. 
but his lawyer, mark davis, said he believes his client is innocent, as the mayor has professed since his home was raided in July. “i believe that the evidence, as far as i can tell, ap­pears to be insufficient to prove the charge,” he said. 
The charges against mack, a 46-year-old democrat, did not come as a surprise in the city. 
he’s been accused of hiring unqualified cronies to city po­sitions, made deep cuts in the police department and over­seen a chaotic city hall as of­ficials fled their jobs soon after he took office in 2010. 
Things got so bad that the state government threatened to withhold $6 million in aid unless he agreed to hire only department head candidates cleared by the state. 
he avoided a recall election last year after opponents fell about 1,000 signatures short of getting a measure on the ballot. 

Federal agents began work­ing with an informant to gather information on mack and the other suspects in september 2010, just two months after mack took office. Fishman would not say when the inves­tigation began or why. They also tapped the phones of giorgianni and the mayor. 
Fishman said investigators quickly understood the rela­tionship between the mayor and the sandwich shop owner: “it became clear he was a bag-man for the mayor.” 
The defendants received $54,000 — in envelopes stuffed with cash and in one case, in­cluding $100 casino chips — and anticipated accepting an additional $65,000 from a coop­erating witness who purported to be a developer, according to court documents that laid out the sting. 
The criminal complaint por­trays giorgianni as a boastful man who did most of the talk­ing with two Fbi informants, making mack sound eager to accept bribes. authorities would not identify the infor­mants, other than to say one was cooperating to get a better deal in his own criminal case and the other was paid. 
The sting was similar to a 

paid adverTisemenT 


massive sting known as “bid rig” that resulted in criminal charges against 46 people — many of them local officials 
— in 2009. Then, bribes were attached to fictitious develop­ment projects. prosecutors have had mixed success in win­ning convictions. 
giorgianni complained at one point that mack, 46, could not take bribes because he was being watched so closely amid the recall effort, the documents said. “it’s sickening,” he told one of the informants, accord­ing to the court papers. 
“i like to make money for my friends,” he said, according to the papers, and went on to ref­erence infamously corrupt po­litical boss william m. Tweed. “i like to do it like the boss Tweed way. you know boss Tweed ran Tammany hall?” 
he was also caught on tape telling one of the informants: “one thing about the mack administration — when i say that, it’s me and mack — we’re not greedy. we’re corruptible. we want anybody to make a buck,” and “i’m there to buffer the thing where, you know, take the weight ... going to jail’s my business. it ain’t his.” 
by contrast, when mack was recorded, it was mostly just to say he’d meet someone or exchanging pleasantries. but in april, he was recorded at a meeting with giorgianni and one of the informants saying: “i really appreciate what you guys have done for us. i appreciate your support and, like before, i support you and i’ll keep on supporting you.” 
authorities say, though, that the short-in-stature mack, whom giorgianni referred to as “napoleon,” was involved in the scheme. one piece of evidence they offer is that giorgianni re­ferred to money by code — call­ing it “uncle remus” — when he spoke with mack, and that mack seemed to know what he was saying. 
chicago teachers strike over contracts 
Associated Press 
chicago, il. — For the first time in a quarter century, chicago teachers walked out of the classroom monday, taking a bitter contract dispute over evaluations and job security to the streets of the nation’s third-largest city — and to a national audience — less than a week after most schools opened for fall. 
The walkout forced hun­dreds of thousands of parents to scramble for a place to send idle children and created an unwelcome political distrac­tion for mayor rahm emanuel. in a year when labor unions have been losing ground na­tionwide, the implications were sure to extend far be­yond chicago, particularly for districts engaged in similar debates. 
“This is a long-term bat­tle that everyone’s going to watch,” said eric hanuskek, a senior fellow in education at the hoover institution of stanford university. “other teachers unions in the united states are wondering if they should follow suit.” 
The union had vowed to strike monday if there was no agreement on a new contract, even though the district had offered a 16 percent raise over four years and the two sides had essentially agreed on a longer school day. with an av­erage annual salary of $76,000, chicago teachers are among the highest-paid in the na­tion, according to the national council on Teacher Quality. 
but negotiators were still di­vided on job security measures and a system for evaluating teachers that hinged in part on students’ standardized test scores. 
The strike in a district where the vast majority of students are poor and minority put chicago at the epicenter of a struggle between big cities and teachers unions for control of schools. 
emanuel, who has sought major reforms while also con­fronting the district’s $700 million budget shortfall, ac­knowledged his own fight with the union, even as he urged a quick resolution. 
“don’t take it out on the kids of chicago if you have a prob­lem with me,” he told reporters monday. 
as negotiators resumed talks, thousands of teachers and their supporters took over several downtown streets dur­ing the monday evening rush. police secured several blocks around district headquarters as the crowds marched and chanted. 
The protesters planned to rally through the evening at an event that resembled a family street fair. balloons, american flags and homemade signs hung above the crowd. 
Teacher Kimberly crawford said she was most concerned about issues such as class size and the lack of air conditioning. 
“it’s not just about the raise,” she said. “i’ve worked without a raise for two years.” 
The strike quickly became part of the presidential cam­paign. republican candidate mitt romney said teachers were turning their backs on students and obama was sid­ing with the striking teachers in his hometown. 
obama’s top spokesman said the president has not taken sides but is urging both the sides to settle quickly. 
emanuel, who just agreed to take a larger role in fundraising for obama’s re-election, dis­missed romney’s comments as “lip service.” 
but one labor expert said that a major strike unfolding in the shadow of the november elec­tion could only hurt a presi­dent who desperately needs the votes of workers, includ­ing teachers, in battleground states. 
“i can’t imagine this is good for the president and some­thing he can afford to have go on for more than a week,” said robert bruno, a professor of la­bor and employment relations at the university of illinois at chicago. 
For two decades, contract agreements have slowly eroded teachers’ voices, bruno said. 
“but this signals to other col­lective bargaining units that the erosion of teachers’ rights isn’t inevitable. They (the union members) are telling them, ‘you don’t have to roll over.” 
The union has done so in large part by making the most of one of the biggest sources of friction: teacher evaluations. 
in chicago, union president Karen lewis suggested the city’s proposal could put thou­sands of teachers’ careers at risk because the evaluation system relies too heavily on standardized test scores and does not take into account such factors as poverty, violence and homelessness. 
Teachers “have no control over those scores,” said union coordinator John Kugler. 
The union feared the evalu­ations could result in 6,000 teachers losing their jobs with­in two years. city officials dis­agreed and said the union has not explained how it reached that conclusion. 
The strike involving more than 25,000 teachers meant no school for 350,000 students and raised the worries of par­ents who were concerned not just about their kids’ education but their safety. gang violence in some parts of the city has spiked in recent months. 

The observer | TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 11, 2012 | ndsmcobserver.com 

INSIDE COLUMN 

genderlect 
Steph Wulz 
graphics 

a few days ago, i was organizing my desk and came across a folder of old essays. as i was leafing through the stack of papers, one from a communi­cations class caught my eye. vaguely remembering anything from the class, i began to read through what had discussed on Jan. 20, 2010. The paper was a response to deborah Tannen, a professor at georgetown university, her “genderlect theory” and her inter­esting observations between male and female communication. 
as we know, a theory is a set of state­ments that explain a particular phe­nomenon. Tannen’s theory compares the communication skills of men and women to show their differences due to their diverse motivations. For ex­ample, women use “rapport” talk to construct personal connections with others, whereas men practice “report” talk to establish status. by understand­ing these “genderlects” we can achieve a better understanding for the opposite sex and appreciate why we communi­cate the way we do. 
women tend to be reactive commu­nicators and use communication to build relationships with one another. expressing emotion, relating to stories and listening empathically to another being establishes a connection through mutual understanding. one specific quality of being a reactive communica­tor is that they tend to apologize more to show their sympathy. women, there­fore, are more likely to apologize for trivial tasks or instances due to their means of reacting in conversation. 
regarding male communication, men are more likely to engage in con­versation when it makes them seem more competitive, appealing or strong. during discussion, joking and asser­tive speech is used to gain control in the environment. conversations are typically had to be productive and get things done, rather than for just the heck of it. 
it is safe to say that not every male and female fits this description when it comes to communication. however, it is interesting to be aware of these gen­eralized differences between the way the sexes converse. For you ladies, the next time you find yourself apologizing for something that you had no influ­ence on, take note of it. guys, when you are talking about how you just one-upped someone, think of how it relates to your tendency to use report talk and establish status. 
even though guys and girls speak the same language, it will always be dif­ficult to understand one another. i can only hope that you take Tannen’s the­ory and see how it applies on the notre dame campus and with your every day conversations. get talking. 
Contact Steph Wulz at swulz@nd.edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Christopher Damian 
idea of a university 

it was a breezy saturday afternoon as i stood on bond Quad amidst alumni, students and friends of the university. The band, founded in 1846, played music from 2012, and i reflected on the many gifts its members have given to the university. The students, neither for scholarship nor for pay, spend hour upon hour in practice and performance. They are not unlike most of notre dame’s student body. most students selflessly commit their time and energy to remind the world why notre dame is among the greatest of all educational institutions. 
The band, nearly a century older than notre dame stadium, is a reminder that, as many college game days have aban­doned institutional identity in order to look like the nFl, notre dame has striven to maintain the beauty of live human competition and camaraderie, created and maintained by those with a deep love for school and sport. For a few short hours on a saturday afternoon, we manifest our institutional love for this world and the next. 
as Fr. James schall once wrote, “what holds us spellbound for a fascinating moment must not be totally unlike what holds us fascinated forever.” here, he is speaking about the greatness of athletic competition. he reminds us that “we do not go to the game to ‘yell’ ... rather, we yell because there is something to yell about.” we do not yell simply for the sake of yelling. at our best, we yell because we “love the notre dame.” Football, as it turns out, can be a manifestation of identity, of community, of faith. Football, at its best, aids even the intellectual and the spiritual life. 
in his 2009 address to artists, pope benedict Xvi said of beauty: “because it opens up and broadens the horizons of human awareness, pointing us beyond ourselves... [it] can become a path to­wards the transcendent, towards the ul­timate mystery, towards god.” leading us beyond ourselves, the beautiful can aid in our ascendance beyond the merely temporal and direct us towards the eternal. like art, a well-crafted game can lead us to something that is greater than ourselves. we can realise “there is something to yell about.” 
in his 2006 Faculty address, Fr. Jenkins quoted a remark a harvard professor had made to him: “if harvard should stumble and have to shut its doors, yale or princeton could, with time and effort, ramp up and credibly fill the gap. if the university of michigan or cal–berkeley faced some catastrophe, wisconsin or ucla could hire their fac­ulty, increase enrollment and take over research projects without irremediable loss to higher education in america. 
but if notre dame should fail, no other institution could fully take its place.” as we hear about our lack of criminals and the exceptional academic performance of our athletes, we realize that this may be just as true of our football program as it is of all other aspects of the university. 
nonetheless, it may be that traditions are fading, and we find ourselves suc­cumbing to all the rest. in his memoirs, the late ralph mcinerny, professor of philosophy at notre dame, recalled that under Fr. hesburgh, no football coach had ever been paid more than the highest paid professor. Today, we are tempted to scoff at his claim that “any­one who requires two million dollars to come to notre dame should be wished well in his future endeavors and forgot­ten.” yet, this was the notre dame he know. national championship coaches came to notre dame because they wanted to, not merely because they were paid to. 
likewise, as we blare music from our speakers at football games, we forget that the greatest music of our stadium is made by our century-old band, com­posed of students who selflessly give their time and efforts to the university. The music of notre dame is not the sounds created and recorded by those who have never attended, visited or cared for our beloved university. 
so do we have “something to yell about?” This question can only be answered with other questions. is our team composed of magnanimous notre dame men, or do we maintain an “edge” with a “few bad citizens”? are our stands filled with fans cheering for something greater than themselves, or are they intoxicated with a bacchanal frenzy? do we need a seven-digit salary to convince coaches to consider our program, or do coaches seek out our institutional integ­rity and identity? and, finally, do we find ourselves, as individuals and as a com­munity, animated by the Faith which calls us to something greater than even our games? do we love the notre dame? 
Christopher Damian is a senior. He can be reached at cdamian1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

QUOTE OF THE DAY WEEKLY POLL 
“i plan to die at my desk.” 
Don Hewitt 

What was your favorite part of the game against Purdue this weekend? 
Tweet your response with #viewpointpoll 
American news producer and creator of “60 Minutes” by 5 p.m. Thursday. 


The observer | TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 11, 2012 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Obama in the balance 
Alex Coccia 
shard of glass 

heading into the final night of the democratic national convention, president obama had to carefully construct his balancing act. he had to address the promises of his 2008 cam­paign, while at the same time create ones for the next four years. he had to acknowledge the reality of the current economy and jobs market, while pro­jecting his inherent optimism into his policies. he had to emanate a personal responsibility for his policies, while at the same time congratulate collec­tive victories. he had to accept failures gracefully, and promote successes humbly. in short, he had to present a much more realistic portrait of the presidency, having had the experience of a first term. he indicated he was no longer running as a candidate, but as president. 
First lady michelle obama covered his personal character, saying he be­lieves “when you’ve worked hard, and done well, and walked through that doorway of opportunity, you do not slam it shut behind you. you reach back, and you give other folks the same chances that helped you succeed.” 
president bill clinton compared him with the republican candidates mitt romney and paul ryan, reiterat­ing a criticism by paul Krugman, an economics professor at princeton university, that their numbers just 
Micah Burbanks-Ivey 
raising voices 

when each and every notre dame student takes their first step on cam­pus, they can’t help but notice the aesthetics that make the university of notre dame unique. From the golden statue of our lady, which stands erect overlooking our student body, to the outstretched armed mosaic of the iconic “Touchdown Jesus,” this campus harnesses and expands upon the ideal of serene architectural beauty. 
however, do our students fully reflect the peaceful nature of notre dame and the respect for all people which catholic social Teaching calls for? in 1963 pope John XXiii published an encyclical entitled “pacem in Terris,” meaning “peace on earth.” in this en­cyclical, the pope addresses all people, catholic and non-catholic, on meth­ods to “establish with truth, justice, charity and liberty new methods of relationships in human society,” all in an effort to establish universal peace. 
as students, we must critically ana­lyze the social nature of notre dame’s campus, to see how we can create pacem in notre dame. peace on notre dame’s campus would require our student body to honor aspects that promote peace in the american society and notre dame’s social atmosphere to the highest standard. 
do not add up on the budget. he also illustrated the type of balance that president obama learned while in of­fice. “nobody’s right all the time, and a broken clock is right twice a day. and every one of us and every one of them, we’re compelled to spend our fleet­ing lives between those two extremes, knowing we’re never going to be right all the time and hoping we’re right more than twice a day.” 
dr. cornel west, a member of the democratic socialists of america, de­scribes this balance as necessary part of being human. “To encounter honest­ly the inescapable circumstances that constrain us, yet muster the courage to struggle compassionately for our own unique individualities and for more democratic and free societies.” 
barbara deming, an american femi­nist, advocated a similar view, calling this necessary balance an equilibrium between self-assertion and respect for others, one that highlights these unique individualities and the ambi­tion for the common good. 
president obama calls this bal­ance citizenship: “The idea that this country only works when we accept certain obligations to one another, and to future generations.” citizenship and collective agency were the themes that carried the democratic national convention and that gave a collabora­tive face to the presidency. 
in balancing past and future cam­paign promises, president obama acknowledged that “the times have changed” and that he is “far more mindful of [his] own failings.” yet, his promise for america is founded on the inspiring acts of individual americans who know what citizenship means — a hope out of desperate times, sacrifice for a greater good. he mentioned a fam­ily business in minnesota that did not lay off one employee during the reces­sion, an act of true citizenship, where even the strivers did not lose sight of the people around them. obama ef­fectively identified what the pressure and resilience of constituencies can do: provide healthcare regardless of pre­existing conditions, make education affordable and open the door of citi­zenship to thousands of immigrants. 
obama struck a balance in his new “Forward” slogan, revealing a mixture of “hope” weathered by partisanship and a more determined “change we can believe in.” “Forward” has im­portant ties to citizenship, especially taking his 2008 campaign into ac­count. “Forward” carries with it more resilience, nose-to-the-grindstone experience than the 2008 slogans. “Forward” says, “yes, we can. we will.” “Forward” embodies the clear choice that both democrats and republicans have in this election, because the only acceptable direction is “Forward” in a progressive democracy. but most importantly, “Forward” acknowledges the path already traveled — it grants the lessons learned from mistakes, the experiences of successes and failures and, yet, it is a direction for an entire 
pacem in notre dame 
This high standard is what we domers demand in the academic world, and in my opinion, must de­mand in the social atmosphere of cam­pus as well. 
i am not implying that the notre dame social atmosphere is defying all aspects of peace, but i am asserting that some of our catholic principles of peace are not being upheld or are being questioned. emails in the midmorn­ing hours notifying students of sexual assaults are too common in the past years. 
most of the students received one of these warnings in the first week of the academic school year that spoke of a sexual assault that occurred in one of our dormitories. last year, the issues plaguing notre dame’s racial climate were accentuated when racist and disrespectful actions were performed on one of notre dame’s student orga­nizations. The topic of racism has re­surfaced in recent observer viewpoint articles. 
we continue to witness the ongo­ing struggle of one of notre dame’s hopeful student organizations, a gay-straight alliance, to gain recognition from the administration. currently, student organizations are in the midst of a struggle with the university’s investment team concerning notre dame’s investments with hei hotels and hei’s unethical treatment of la­borers. with this racial and social discourse, i asked myself, “where is the strong reliance on catholic social Teaching that notre dame students pride themselves on?” 
This summer, i had the great oppor­tunity of serving a low-income com­munity. There, i had a great revelation on the power of “service” compared to simply “helping.” helping implies that the individual doing the helping is bet­ter off than the one being helped, that the helper is the only one contributing to the relationship. service, however, is a symbiotic relationship where both parties are interdependent on one an­other. Through this interdependence both parties gain insight on ways they can improve their own personalities and spiritual attributes. 
we as notre dame students must serve each other in this important time. we must serve each other in or­der to realize the issues that we can improve in notre dame’s social atmo­sphere. we must recognize and rebuke false evidence, injustice, uncharitable action and inhibition of liberty, as pope John XXiii suggests. noticing these negative societal problems will not be enough however. we must raise our voices and take action against them. 
as students, we can demand these problems be brought forward by en­gaging each of them through passion­ate yet respectful conversation. These conversations will both highlight the issues that concern our student body society, not just an individual. 
The president voiced a stark realiza­tion at the convention. “The election four years ago wasn’t about me. it was about you. my fellow citizens — you were the change.” it was a golden line, rhetorically powerful, one of the more poignant moments, and indicative of “Forward” as a direction founded on the idea that “as citizens, we under­stand that america is not about what can be done for us. it’s about what can be done by us, together, through the hard and frustrating but necessary work of self-government.” The way for­ward in a democracy is citizenship in action, which president obama high­lighted as the fundamental reason for change. citizenship assumes no path is easy. citizenship means that find­ing the balance of self-assertion and protecting others requires us to vote for values as well as policies. ultimately, this election is about whose policies and leadership best reflect citizenship, affirming that rights cannot be called inalienable if they are not granted to everyone, because, as clinton re­minded us, “poverty, discrimination and ignorance restrict growth” and the movement forward. 
Alex Coccia is a junior Africana and peace studies major, and a gender studies minor. He can be reached at acoccia@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
and catalyze a sustainable change in our environment. 
students serving one another will also have another positive affect on the student body: service builds a special bond between students. it will help strengthen the sense of camaraderie among our student body and help form a connection of solidarity between catholic social Teaching and our convictions. 
so, this is a call to action. it’s a call to action asking for students to take a more active role in our social and moral atmosphere. 
in the words of pope John XXiii: “in order to imbue civilization with sound principles and enliven it with the spirit of the gospel, it is not enough to be il­lumined with the gift of faith and en-kindled with the desire of forwarding a good cause. For this end, it is necessary to take an active part in the various organizations and influence them from within.” 
if we follow these wise words and raise our voices and take action from within, together we can create pacem in notre dame. 
Micah Burbanks-Ivey is a sophomore majoring in political science and economics. He can be reached at mburbank@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
The observer | TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 11, 2012 | ndsmcobserver.com 

controversial topics in comedy, sometimes exactly humans messed up the environ-to suit delaney’s humor best and it would 
By PATRICK McMANUS 

scene writer in the same sentence. Though delaney ment and such. when c.K. delivers the joke, be a shame if he were pigeonholed as “The manages to break some new comic ground it is hilarious. delaney’s joke is also funny, Twitter guy”, but that is definitely where 
comedian rob delaney released his spe-in well-trod subjects, one cannot help but but it does not have the same social concern. he will be most popular for the foreseeable cial, “live at the bowery ballroom” on sept. sense that his take is not as deftly delivered c.K.’s is at the expense of himself, and all of future. 4 on his website, available to download for as that of louis c.K. both comedians, with us, but delaney is not indicting society so $5. delaney is best known for his prolific, apparent indifference, discuss topics that much as poking fun at a group of people. Contact Patrick McManus at inappropriate and often-hilarious tweets. make polite society shudder. c.K.’s indif-This comparison is not meant to demean pmcmanu1@nd.edu in may, delaney received the first comedy ference seems to come from weariness delaney’s style of comedy or suggest that ev­
central award for “Funniest person on after living for some time in the modern eryone ought to use humor to save the world. Twitter.” world, whereas delaney’s is instead a post-comedy definitely benefits from a diversity 
Fans of delaney’s online profile will ap-ironic attempt to break down social taboos. of techniques, and if all entertainment had preciate his first hour-long special. The Though both perspectives can be used to a moralizing element or deeper meaning, 
“Live at the Bowery 
event is a constant stream of jokes featuring great comic effect, there is the feeling that it would be far from entertaining. it is hard 
Ballroom” 
increasingly intricate and shocking punch delaney’s comedy is not exactly motivated not to compare the two comedians though, lines. in the same fashion as steve martin’s by a desire to make the world a better place. as delaney released his special in the model standup, delaney’s is characterized by a This can be seen in the segments of the c.K. pioneered, and they touch on many of 
Who: Rob Delaney 
certain lack of self-awareness, pompous comedians’ most recent specials, where the same subjects. stage persona and a feigned ignorance of they both portray conversations with god. rob delaney is a very funny comedian, 
Cost: $5 at robdelaney.tumblr.com/ 
social norms. This allows him to make delaney uses the device to question the and those people who enjoy reading his jokes about eating his baby that are played specificity of clothing worn by hasidic Jews, tweets should definitely look into his special, 
initially for shock value, but give way to a joking that out of all possible wardrobes, “live at the bowery ballroom”. but watch humorous analysis with a serious, if twisted god really likes suits from 1930s budapest. the teasers first. it may not be the case that perspective. when louis c.K. features a dialogue with everyone who likes his tweets will like his 

in his special, delaney tackles the most god, the almighty is inquiring as to how standup. Twitter is the medium that seems 


positive previous experiences, my expecta-would expect from a banana pancake, and than solid selection of muffins or home-ANKUR CHAWLA tions were understandably high. The menu i by no means anticipated that sort of dis-style dinners there are few places better, but scene writer options were limited to strawberry, blue-play (though it would have warranted a five-it was not my favorite breakfast in the bend. 
berry, and buttermilk pancakes, but being shamrock review). Contact Ankur Chawla at 
perkins is a well-established family res-the avid Jack Johnson fan that i am, i went perkins’ presented me a sad-looking plate achawla@nd.edu taurant and bakery chain well known for off-menu and ordered banana pancakes. with three flat, dry excuses for pancakes, The views in this column are those of the au­its home-style meals and pie. most notre little did i know, ordering off-menu was not with less than half a bruised banana’s worth thor and  not necessarily those of The Observer. dame students know it as one of the few the best idea. of banana slices. These were not even wor­
places off-campus that is open 24 hours over the weekend for late-night snacks. prefacing  now there is no real general consen­sus on how banana pancakes ought to be  thy of publishing a picture of. Trying to find consolation with the experience, it was a  Perkins: Banana  
the rest of this review, the vast majority of my  made, but what i was served was anything  busy morning and i did order off-menu,  Pancakes  
experiences at perkins have been nothing but positive. Their pies are delicious, their apple cinnamon and peaches and cream  but. Typically when making them on my own, i use the recipe my mother taught me and blend bananas into the batter, while  but their “world Famous” pancakes could and should only be famous for all the wrong reasons.  Location: 423 South Dixie Way, South Bend, IN 46637  
muffins the best i have ever had. however,  also placing freshly-cut slices in the batter  This was a very uncharacteristic experi- Hours: Sun-Thu, 6a.m. - 11p.m., Fri-Sat  
keeping with the theme of my column, i had  as the pancake is about halfway cooked so  ence i had at perkins, but maintaining the  6a.m.-1a.m.  

to try their pancakes. they don’t fall through, but rest within the integrity of this column searching for the perkins’ menu claims that their pancakes pancake. best pancakes in south bend, my vote is to are “world Famous” and paired with my i realize this is far more than most people avoid these. if you are looking for a more 

STEPH WULZ | The Observer 


STEPH WULZ | The Observer 


SPORTS AUTHORITY 

potential lockout could cripple nhl 

Sam Gans 
sports writer 
i just started my junior year at notre dame, yet the nhl is trying to take me back to sev­enth grade. 
here we are in 2012, just eight years removed from the last nhl work stoppage that eliminated the 2004-2005 sea­son, and another lockout seems imminent. 
on sept. 15, the nhl col­lective bargaining agreement (cba) will expire. negotiations for a new deal don’t seem to be close, at least if you are to believe the owners and the player’s union. 
The lockout made sense when it happened eight years ago. The league was struggling financially. There was no salary cap in place, and the owners stressed the nhl needed a cap. 
The lockout hurt the league badly in the short-term. besides the obvious cost of a full season of play being canceled, a por­tion of the casual fan base did not return when the nhl did resume, and a television deal with espn was gone. 
individual franchises are not. This leads to where most of the disagreement is coming from: how to keep those teams in the red afloat. 
in extremely basic terms, the owners want to do this by both reducing the players’ share of hockey related revenue (hrr) and redefining what exactly hrr is in their favor, while the players want an increase in rev­enue sharing between teams. For example, a very profitable franchise like Toronto (or a bet­ter way to look at it, Toronto’s owners) would give some of its profits to help out phoenix. This has been extremely use­ful in the nFl and mlb to help those leagues flourish. 
i just want hockey, like most fans. 
if a deal’s not done, it will hurt both owners and players down the road. seeing a group of millionaires arguing with billionaires over who gets a bigger piece of the pie for the second time in less than a de­cade will alienate even the big­gest fans. They won’t care the reasoning and they won’t care which side is “right” and which is “wrong”. 

“Seeing a group of millionaires arguing with billionaires over who gets a bigger piece of the pie for the second time in less than a decade will alienate even the 
biggest fans.”  
but over time, the nhl ben­ and this time, many of them  
efited. The league had a major  will stay gone. if that happens,  
increase in revenues. The can- needless to say, business will  
celed season also allowed the  suffer, and all that bargain­ 
nhl to examine its gameplay.  ing will have been for naught,  
new rules such as the shootout  when revenue for owners —  
(which i despise, but many fans  and thus salaries for players  
love), less grabbing of players in  — suffers.  
the offensive zone and delayed  i would like to think nhl  
offsides increased scoring, pace  commissioner gary bettman  
of play, excitement and, most  and the player’s association  
importantly, ticket sales.  leader donald Fehr realize this,  
Television ratings for playoff  and will each give a little. but  
games — if not the stanley cup  then again, both were part of  
Final this past year — are ris­ two of the most notorious work  
ing, and according to pierre  stoppages in american sports  
lebrun of espn.com, the  history – bettman the afore­ 
nhl generated $3.3 billion  mentioned nhl lockout and  
in revenues last year. it took  Fehr the mlb strike in 1994.  
some time, but the nhl is in  ultimately, i expect a lockout,  
much better shape than it was  but not a long one, and only a  
eight years ago, and a large  few games canceled, similar  
reason for that was because of  to the nba’s this past year.  
the changes made during the  Though the nhl and nhlpa  
lockout.  appear far off, they are still  
and the success since the  much closer than when nego­ 
lockout also explains why an­ tiations started on a new cba  
other long lockout could be  in 2004. This is good news.  
catastrophic. most fans could  plus, both the players and  
be fine with one missed season,  owners understand the dam- 
especially if it quite possibly  age an entirely canceled season  
saved the future of the league.  could cause … right?  
They will not be as willing this  
time. not based on the recent  Contact Sam Gans at  
revenue numbers. shame on  sgans@nd.edu  
you if you fool me once, shame  The views expressed in this  
on me if you fool me twice.  Sports Authority are those of the  
of course, though the league  author and not necessarily those  
as a whole is stable, many  of The Observer.  
CALL 312-543-2243 EMAIL 


NHL 

New Sabre Ott losing hope for on-time season 
Associated Press 

williamsville, n.y. — with a potential lockout loom­ing, it’s becoming increasingly more difficult for buffalo for­ward steve ott to remain hopeful. 
raring to go with his new team — the sabres — after an offseason trade from dallas, ott spoke with cautious opti­mism on monday before a golf outing benefiting the buffalo sabres Foundation. he wants to play. he can’t wait to play. but he knows that might not happen. 
For a while. 

“it’s tough,” said ott, who was obtained from the stars in July for forward derek roy. “The players are looking for a fair deal. we want to play, and we want to get going. i think every single guy is ready to go. it would be a complete shame if the doors are locked by ownership.” 
after the entire 2004-05 season was lost due to labor struggles, the nhl is head­ing toward another work stop­page. The collective bargaining agreement expires sept. 15. and for players who are look­ing to make fresh starts on new teams — like ott — any delay makes it that much harder to get acclimated. 
“i can’t wait for the opportu­nity to throw my buffalo sabres jersey on,” said ott, who will be among several players who will hit manhattan Thursday to show their solidarity. “hopefully it starts in october, and it’s ready to go. i love this team. it’s a young team, but it’s molded right.” 

FOR SALE 

NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL ON 
DVD  We  have  all  the  games  
1980-2011.  No  commercials.  
Only  $15  each.  Speedy  de­ 

livery. Stan 301-956-6706 corporatecontact@netscape.net 
CLASSIC 4 BED, 3 BATH RESTORED HOME, 2.5 MILES FROM CAMPUS LARGE 4 BD, 3 BA, W/D, CENTRAL AIR, NEWER APPLIANCES, HARD WOOD FLOORS, GREAT DETAILS, DECK, LARGE YARD WITH FENCE, 2+ CAR GARAGE IMMED AVAIL 
MAGGIEBOGUE@YAHOO.COM 

all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
PERSONAL 

UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don’t go it alone. Notre Dame has many resources in place to assist you. If you or someone you love needs con­fidential support or assistance, please call Ann Whitall at 1-0084 or Karen Kennedy at 1-5550. For more informa­tion, visit ND’s website at: http://preg­nancysupport@nd.edu 
Everybody: Hello. Do you know us? [Everybody, except Rick, puts on their caps] Everybody: We’re a Major League Baseball team. Jake Taylor: But since we haven’t won a pennant in over 30 years, nobody recognizes us - not even in our own home town. Eddie Harris: That’s why we carry the American Express card. Rick Vaughn: No matter how far out 


sabres forward marcus Foligno is also itching to get going. after being called up from rochester of the ahl late last season, Foligno emerged as an imposing force up front. utilizing his size and strength, Foligno registered six goals and 13 points in 14 games with the sabres, and was looking for­ward to playing a full year in buffalo. 
but if there’s any long-lasting lockout, Foligno will ultimately find his way back to rochester ... again. 
“whatever happens, you want to be ready for it,” he said. “i’m preparing like camp is go­ing to happen, but for me i’m in a better position than some of the veterans because i can go to rochester.” 
ott spent that 2004-05 sea­son playing with hamilton of the ahl after playing 99 games for the stars, starting in 2002. 
“it was a shame that we had to miss a whole season,” he said. “it did nobody good. it wasn’t exciting for the fans, it wasn’t exciting for the players, and it wasn’t exciting for the ownership.” 
sabres owner Terry pegula spoke conservatively at a press conference to formally an­nounce a $123 million project he’s building in downtown buffalo across from his arena. pegula has high hopes for this team, especially after it missed the postseason last year. 
“i don’t know if (a lockout) is going to happen,” he said. “obviously, we’ll all want to see some hockey played. so let’s hope it doesn’t happen and be positive on it.” 
The regular season is slated to begin on oct. 11. buffalo finished with 89 points last season, three behind ottawa, which snagged the eighth and final playoff berth in the eastern conference. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit 
of first we are, it’s cool. You know, it keeps us from getting shut out at our favorite hotels and restaurant-type places. Pedro Cerrano: [pointing to us] So if you’re looking for some Big-League clout, apply for that little green home-run hitter. Roger Dorn: Look what it’s done for US. People still DON’T recognize us but... [Roger snaps his fingers] Lou Brown: We’re contenders now. [Also dressed in a tuxedo, Willie slides into home plate and holds up a green credit card] Willie Mays Hayes: The American Express card: Don’t steal home with­out it. 
Charlie Donovan: Vaughn’s been looking good out there today. Rachel Phelps: Don’t worry, he’ll blow it. 



ndsmcobserver.com | TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 11, 2012 | The observer 
NFL 

Kubiak disappointed despite victory 
Associated Press 
housTon — gary Kubiak sounded pretty dissatisfied for a coach whose team won its season opener by three touchdowns. 
yes, the Texans beat miami 30-10, the defense overwhelmed rookie ryan Tannehill and matt schaub and andre Johnson looked as healthy as ever. 
but Kubiak found plenty to pick apart heading into this week’s game at Jacksonville, starting with the running game. arian Foster rushed for 79 yards, and houston finished with just 83 rushing yards overall. The Texans rushed for only 26 yards in the second half after building a 24-3 halftime lead. 
“That’s the mark of a good team — you’ve got to run it and finish the game,” Kubiak said monday. “we didn’t do that.” 
The Texans ranked second in rushing offense last season (153 yards per game), then lost right tackle eric winston and right guard mike brisiel in the offseason. derek newton made his first nFl start at right tackle and antoine caldwell moved in at right guard after only 13 total starts in the previous three years, but Kubiak didn’t single out those two for the faulty ground attack. 
“i’m looking at the big picture,” Kubiak said. “we didn’t run the ball well, whether we ran it right, left or up the middle. when i’m talking to them (the linemen), i’m talking to all five of them. i’m not talking about right or left.” 
houston also had issues on special teams. Trindon holliday, who made the team after return­ing three kicks for touchdowns in the preseason, bobbled a kickoff and gained only 61 total yards on four kick returns. marcus Thigpen ran a punt back 72 yards for a touchdown for miami. 
“we had to start (monday) with that,” Kubiak said. “we did not play well on special teams — we didn’t cover well, we didn’t return well.” 
linebackers mister alexander and whitney mercilus among the regulars who didn’t see as much action on the coverage and return teams in the preseason as normally would, so Kubiak could look at other reserves. 

“Throughout the course of the preseason, we did protect some of those guys, when we feeling very good about how we were looking at young players,” played. but we made the correc­
“That’s the mark of a good team — you’ve 
got to run it and finish the game ... We 
didn’t do that.” 
Gary Kubiak 
Texans coach 

Kubiak said. “it showed a little tions and hopefully, we’re a lot bit (sunday). i don’t think some better next week.” of the key guys on special teams houston still won easily, be-were on top of their game. we cause a lot of other things went didn’t come out of this game right. 
paid adverTisemenT 



The Texans were plus-7 in turn­over ratio last season and scored 119 points off 27 takeaways. They picked up where they left off in 2011, turning four miami turnovers into points in the sec­ond quarter. Johnathan Joseph’s interception set up shayne graham’s first field goal before the Texans claimed turnovers on three straight miami snaps. defensive end J.J. watt swatted Tannehill’s next two passes at the line, leading to interceptions and danieal manning recovered daniel Thomas’ fumble. 
“once we got the turnover, i think we scored six out of seven possessions,” Kubiak said, “so that’s a darn good thing.” 
schaub completed 20 of 31 passes for 266 yards and looked comfortable in his first game since fracturing his right lisfranc joint in week 10 last season. and schaub headed off any poten­tial off-the-field distraction on saturday when he signed a 4-year contract extension. 
“i’m happy for him. it’s good for the organization. it’s good for the football team,” Kubiak said. “we’ve got a fine player and we got him locked up for a while. i’m happy for matt and his family. he wanted to be here. he wants to play here, so that’s a very positive step.” 
Tight end owen daniels also had a solid opener, with four catches for 87 yards. Johnson caught eight passes for 119 yards, including a touchdown, and proved that he and schaub have their chemistry back. 
“andre, the last 10 days of camp, has really looked like the andre i remember from four or five years ago,” Kubiak said. “i’m talking about from a work stand­point at practice. andre is a guy that needs to do it in practice to 
“We did not play well on special teams — we didn’t cover well, we didn’t return well.” 
Gary Kubiak 
Texans coach 
do it in a game. That’s the way he is. he had an excellent week last week and it showed in the game.” 
Kubiak said the five-time pro bowl receiver was on the field for 49 plays, and he and receiv­ers coach larry Kirksey may limit Johnson’s play count in upcom­ing games to “keep him fresh.” 
linebacker Tim dobbins, who left the opener with a neck injury, ran with the team on monday and is expected to return to prac­tice on wednesday. 



The observer | TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 11, 2012 | ndsmcobserver.com 

NCAA FOOTBALL 

Utah quarterback’s career ends after injury 
Associated Press 
salT laKe ciTy — Just three years ago, Jordan wynn’s future looked bright after a record-setting freshman season and poinsettia bowl mvp honors. 
now his football career at utah is over after yet another shoulder injury, suffered in Friday’s over­time loss at utah state. 
“enough is enough,” utah coach Kyle whittingham said monday in announcing wynn’s decision to end his career be­cause of an injury that likely will result in a fourth shoulder opera­tion. “he’s going to move on with life after football. he’s fought the good fight.” 
wynn was injured late in the second quarter after being hit while dropping back to throw. he lay on the ground for a while be­fore being helped off, holding his left, non-throwing arm against his chest. 
he was 6 of 11 for 47 yards, with three sacks Friday. 
wynn finished his career as one of 11 quarterbacks in school history to throw for 4,000 yards (4,637 yards, eighth all-time), with 33 touchdowns and 17 in­terceptions and a 14-7 overall record. 
but he already had three shoul­der operations — one to repair his left shoulder after the 2010 spring game, one on his right in december 2010 and another to his left last october. 
after talking the situa­tion over with his father, and whittingham, wynn decid­ed not to attempt yet another comeback. 
“we really appreciate what Jordan’s brought to our program ... the toughness he’s shown, the resilience he’s shown,” whittingham said as he geared up to face rival brigham young on saturday night. “i think we’re all on the same page. and if he were my son, i’d probably encourage him to do the same thing.” 
whittingham said wynn, who earned his degree in 3 ½ years, will stick around the team the rest of the season to help the two quarterbacks now fighting it out to replace him — senior Jon hays and freshman Travis wilson. 
last season hays was thrust into action despite never having played division 1 football. 
he initially signed with nebraska-omaha after a junior-college career at butte college but came to the utes when nebraska-omaha eliminated its football program. 
The result was a scaled-back utah offense that relied heavily on running back John white. 
“we don’t think we have to reel things in and modify what we’re doing because of the prog­ress he’s made from last year,” whittingham said of hays. 
“he’s markedly improved. we’ve got a lot more confidence in him. i wouldn’t say there was a lack of confidence, but there were a lot of unknowns.” 
hays, who finished with a 6-3 starting record last season after a rough start, said he’s ready to take over. 
“if i learned anything from last year, it’s that i need to be ready at any point. i felt comfortable with the offense. i was prepared,” said hays, who quickly engineered a drive before halftime Friday but couldn’t pull off the win. 
The 6-foot california native was one of the most accurate passers in preseason, and de­spite being overshadowed by the 6-foot-7 wilson, earned the back­up job to wynn. 
yet whittingham may decide the future is now for wilson, who has seen spot action in various wildcat packages and gone 3 for 3 passing, with one passing Td, and two rushing touchdowns. 
with byu (2-0) coming to town, and now ranked no. 25 in the latest ap poll, whittingham isn’t tipping his hand. he said he won’t name a starter until game time saturday night. 
“may the best man win,” whittingham said. 
he acknowledged the gap be­tween hays and wilson is close, and wilson would see spot duty even if he doesn’t start. 
“There’s nothing right now other than experience that (wilson) hasn’t demonstrated,” whittingham said of the 18-year­old freshman. “people react dif­ferently when you’re the guy. right now Travis hasn’t been the guy. he’s been a supplemental guy.” 
wilson, who graduated from san clemente (calif.) high school early, has maintained since spring football that he’s confident enough to start. 


“i’m really disappointed with what happened to Jordan,” wilson said while walking to team meetings monday. “it’s a tragic thing. i hope he can keep his head up, keep fighting and get through it.” 
as for turning the season around for utah (1-1), picked to finish second in the pac-12 south, wilson remained steadfast. 
“i think i can do it,” he said. “i’m really excited. i just hope i can do something and every­thing will work out.” 
NFL 

Jets look to continue dominating performance 
improve.” quarterback that can make a play week that depicted ryan, sanchez five passes for 89 yards and two 
Associated Press 

in a total team effort, new york’s — a big play — on any given play, and Tebow as clowns squeezed touchdowns — all despite getting 
Florham parK, n.J.  — mark offense scored 34 points, antonio and that’s very dangerous.” into a tiny car. ryan brought it up sick on the sideline a few times sanchez jogged over to the side-cromartie returned an intercep-ben roethlisberger will cer-to the team during the week that during the game. line, jumped and then bumped tion for a Td and Jeremy Kerley tainly be a big early season test for there’s a perception that the Jets hips with Tim Tebow to celebrate brought back a punt for a score. the Jets, especially if star corner-are a circus. paid adverTisemenT another touchdown. “it felt great,” cromartie said back darrelle revis isn’t ready to “it seems like that’s how people 
it was a picture-perfect season after the game. “The offense is return from a mild concussion. look at us,” ryan said. “i was like, opener sunday on an afternoon putting up points, throwing the “it looks like big ben is getting ‘you can think that all you want, filled with high-fives, slaps on the ball down the field. mark is mak-the ball out quicker than he used but we see something different.’ i back and trips to the end zone for ing great decisions, receivers are to, where he used to stand back do, and i know this football team the new york Jets. catching the ball. That’s all you there and swing guys around with does. when i said our opponents 
“obviously, when you watch can ask for as a defense.” his body, then throw it 60 yards will take us seriously, i promise the tape, it was a great game,” it was the defense that set up down the field,” ryan said. “he you that. and, they will.” coach rex ryan said monday, “es-the offense early as the Jets turned still has that in him, though.” rookie stephen hill, the Jets’ pecially offensively.” two interceptions into their first That means the Jets better hope second-round draft pick, an-
well, so much for those pre-two touchdowns. by the time they’ve got a few scores left over swered the question of whether he season scoring woes. The Jets’ Kerley ran back a punt 68 yards to from sunday’s outburst. was ready to be a starter, catching offense went from laughable to make it 21-0 early in the quarter, new york actually finished with 
paid adverTisemenT 
unstoppable in a 48-28 rout of the it was clear that it was going to be 6 less net yards than buffalo’s buffalo bills. the Jets’ day. 390, but went 10 for 14 on third-
it was an unexpected scoring next up: the 0-1 steelers, who down conversions and constantly splurge after the starters failed are coming off a 31-19 loss to worked with a shortened field be-to get into the end zone in three peyton manning and the broncos cause of solid defensive and spe­preseason games. Things were so in denver. The Jets are in position cial teams play. good sunday that the defense and to start 2-0 for the third time in “i know we’re a special group,” special teams got in on it, too. The ryan’s four seasons — and send sanchez said after the game. “i’ve Jets didn’t even need to use Tim the steelers to their first 0-2 start known that from the jump, but i Tebow much. after all, sanchez since 2002. think we’re starting to realize it.” was in total control, and he’ll need “They’ve definitely come back sanchez and ryan refused to another big game next week at as a physical team,” linebacker say “i told you so” after the Jets pittsburgh. so will the offensive aaron maybin said. “They’re a took lots of heat from fans and line, which didn’t allow a sack. team that definitely has a lot of media for becoming the first team 
“it wasn’t perfect,” left guard explosiveness and a team that, since the 1977 atlanta Falcons to matt slauson said. “we have a lot on the line, is very physical and not score a touchdown in its first of things to clean up. we could’ve tries to be the bully. That’s re-three preseason games. There done a lot better in the running ally been the steelers that you’re was also the picture on the front of game, and all we’ve got to do is used to seeing. and, they’ve got a one of the new york tabloids last 


paid adverTisemenT ndsmcobserver.com | TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 11, 2012 | The observer 
ND WOMEN’S GOLF 

Holt continues to build 
By NICK BOYLE 
sports writer 
Through her years as a coach at notre dame, irish coach susan holt has always strived to make the team a national contender. 
after finishing second in the big east tournament and quali­fying for the ncaa regional tournament last season, holt hopes her team can continue their climb to the top this year. 
“we’ve been working on building a consistent national contending program here, and i think we’ve done a really good job of that the last few years,” holt said. “[returning golfers] experienced success early on in their careers ... They got a taste of it and want to maintain it.” 
one player holt will look to forward her team’s success is sophomore ashley armstrong. armstrong was named big east women’s Freshman golfer of The year last season and was also the big east tournament champion. 
“ashley really came on in the spring and had the semester that she was capable of,” holt said. 
armstrong will lead an irish squad that includes returning junior Kristina nhim, sopho­more Kelli oride and welcomes freshmen lindsey weaver, Talia campbell and Katherine guo. 
“[breaking into the team in the fall] definitely gave me a big confidence boost and i played much better in the spring,” armstrong said in an interview with und.com. “it’s given me a huge confidence boost for this season.” 
For armstrong, playing for the irish is a special experience. 
“i know for a fact that i wouldn’t want to wear any other golf bag walking down the course, its such an honor to play here,” armstrong said. 


“The academics and great golf are a perfect mix. it feels re­ally great to be representing the school, and i hope that all of our work will pay off and every­thing clicks together.” 
holt believes athletes like armstrong are at the essence of what the university stands for, as well as a player that will push the irish to another level. 
“[armstrong] just speaks to the quality of the student ath­lete that we’re able to atract here,” holt said. “we’ve got great facilities, a great univer­sity and great academics ... it’s a pretty great package. we’ve been able to attract really top talent the past six years.” 
armstrong and the irish tee off the season this week­end when they travel to east lansing, mich., for the mary Fossum invitational. 
Contact Nick Boyle at nboyle2@nd.edu 


Schedule 
conTinued From page 16 
the dean’s Fellows, a group that organizes intellectual discussions on campus and contributes to scientia, the undergraduate research journal for the college of science. 

heeder volunteers with hannah and Friends, an or­ganization that works to im­prove the lives of those with special needs, and starting this semester she’ll be read­ing — in spanish — with a paid adverTisemenT 
perley elementary student once a week as part of the read to a child program. 
and she’ll be doing all this in addition to cross country practice and a full school workload. 
although she came to campus as a biology major, heeder’s decision to join notre dame’s program of liberal studies would not surprise anyone who knew her as a kid. 
“i have always liked read­ing and writing,” heeder said. “when i was little, i would hide out in the library instead of going to recess because i just wanted to read all the time.” 
heeder might have seemed destined to become a run­ner, but it was her bookish tendencies that eventually spurred her to take up the sport. 
“my mom ran every day that she was pregnant with me, and i started running with my dad a little bit in fifth and sixth grade, then i decided i didn’t want to do it anymore,” heeder said. “i picked it up in high school because i wanted to be able to fit more honors classes in my schedule and if i didn’t have to take gym class i would have a free pe­riod. The way i could get out of gym class was by doing a sport for two seasons.” 
although cross country might have started as a way to avoid gym class, heeder says the sport has become a big part of her identity — and a big responsibility. 
“when i was in high school, i never even knew if i would run in college,” heeder said. “it was just an idea. running is fun, but it’s a division i sport and it’s a team of really, really good girls. it’s a responsibility that i have. i need to eat cor­rectly, sleep correctly, train correctly and be willing to do that every day all the time to perform well.” 
Though riding used to be a priority of heeder’s, she says the importance of riding and running have flip-flopped since she started college. 
“riding always, always, always came first,” heeder said. “i started riding when i was six, and i just loved it more than anything else. now riding’s role in my life has really changed. going out to the barn to work with the girls is a job, but i’m lucky enough that it’s an escape. i can just forget about school, so riding is more of an es­cape. i love being around the horses. horses have very unique personalities.” 
heeder says one of the pieces of advice that has helped her most on the course and on horseback came from her time as a member of the prestigious michigan state university children’s choir, which was founded and directed by mary alice stollak. 
“she always told us that the mark of a true profes­sional is that they’re always the same and they’re always consistent,” heeder said. “and that’s something that i always try  every assign­ment i turn in, every time i sing, every time i run: if you’re a professional, you’re consistent.” 
Contact Vicky Jacobsen at           vjacobse@nd.edu 


The observer | TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 11, 2012 | ndsmcobserver.com 


Void 
conTinued From page 16 
as one of only two se­niors on this year’s squad, mcnamara iii worked hard this offseason to prepare 
Roles 
conTinued From page 16 
two different roles in every game this season, starting at attack and then return­ing later in the midfield. because he usually returns to the bench for a spell in 
“Last year it was a struggle, but I think this year we have a different mentality ... We want to come out and we want to finish teams no matter what. I think our attitude towards that is terrific this year.” 
Leon Brown 
Irish junior midfielder 
the middle of the game, brown said he must strive keep his concentration on the game. 
“i’ve just got to stay tuned in when i come off, i can’t lose my focus,” he said. “i just have to rally, push through it when i come back in.” 
whether he lines up on the front line or in the mid­field for the irish, brown represents part of an irish offense that has propelled the team to its first 5-0 start since 1987. The irish are av­eraging 2 goals per game on 19 shots per game after re­peatedly struggling to net decisive goals in close con­tests last year. 
“last year it was a strug­gle, but i think this year we have a different mental­ity,” brown said. “we want to come out and we want to finish teams no matter what. i think our attitude towards that is terrific this year.” 
brown netted a game-tying goal for the irish in the 49th minute against no. 4 akron on sunday. after falling behind 1-0 to the Zips in the title game of the mike berticelli memorial Tournament, the irish added two more goals to brown’s equalizer and cap­tured the tournament title with a 3-1 victory. 
brown and the irish will return to action Friday night when they host michigan state in alumni stadium at 7 p.m. 
Contact Joseph Monardo at jmonardo@nd.edu 
needed to be going into the season,” mcnamara iii said. “over the summer i played a tournament, a qualifier for the u.s. amateur — [i] didn’t perform the way i wanted to, and my coach and i decided that i needed to really step up my work just to make sure i was ready for the season. 
“i did that, and i have come back to school much more confident in my over­all game and putting up some really good numbers. i believe that now, going forward, i am in a position 
where i  can  help lead  our  
team to success.”  
The  finance  major  fo­ 

cused particularly hard to improve his ability with the wedge in his hands, he said. 
“i have been particu­larly dialed in from about 80- to 120-yards from the hole, and that was an area i needed to improve from last season.” mcnamara iii said. “i have spent a lot of time just hitting lots and lots of shots, repetition. Figuring out exactly how far i am going to hit the ball under certain circumstanc­es [and] wind conditions, and it’s really paying off.” 
mcnamara said he ex­pects his hard work to con­tinue to payoff throughout the season, adding the direct correlation in golf between preparation and performance is one of his favorite things about the sport. 
“The thing that i most enjoy about golf is that it is a solitary sport,” he said. “what i mean by that is anything you do, or any success or failure that you have is ultimately under your control. There is no 
paid adverTisemenT 
dependency on other team­mates, there is nobody to blame when something doesn’t go your way. 
“but also, when things do go your way, you know that it’s because of something 
“The thing that I most enjoy about golf is that it is a solitary sport. What I mean by that is anything you do, or any success or failure that you have is ultimately under your control.” 
Paul McNamara III 
Irish senior co-captain 
you did and the hard work that you have put in and you can take a lot confi­dence from that. it is really just a competition against yourself, and i think that is one of the most rewarding aspects of the game.” 
mcnamara iii and the rest of the irish will get the season underway saturday when they travel to chapel hill, n.c., for the Tar heel intercollegiate. 
Contact Joseph Monardo at     jmonardo@nd.edu 
for his final go-around with notre dame. 
“The last month or so of the summer i really worked hard with my golf coach at home in california to make some swing adjustments to get my game where it 



ndsmcobserver.com | TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 11, 2012 | The observer 

CROSSWORD | will shorTZ 

ACROSS 31 Smell, taste or 63 ___ fixation 1 Empty spaces touch 64 Capital of Belarus 5 Writer Roald 35 Partner of legis. 65 Gaelic speaker and jud. 
who created the 66 1960s secretary Oompa-Loompas 37 Plotter against of state Dean 
9 What a landscape Cassio in 67 Party throwers 
“Othello” 

painter paints 68 Jazzy Fitzgerald 
38 See 20-Across 

14 Father of Thor 69 Rented living 40 With 57-Across, 
15 Company qtrs.
response to the 
name whose complaint second letter is 
DOWN 
capitalized 42 Prefix with 1 Astronaut -gramme

16 Photocopier Cooper,
43 Attire for Antonius 
cartridge informally
45 Without 

17 Saturn’s second-2 On an ___ basis
assistance 

largest moon 3 Gun, in slang 
46 Decorative pin 

18 Stoop 4 Symbol of 
48 Shoreline 

19 Birdlike slowness 
structure 20 With 38-Across, a 5 Election year 
50 Subject of a

complaint event
painting by 23 New World cat Picasso or 6 Not yet up Rousseau 7 Use a whisk on
24 HBO’s “Real Time With Bill 52 Entrees brought 8 Neighbor of ___” out with carving ancient Phrygia 
25 Drink named for 9 New York’s ___ 
knives a certain small 57 See 40-Across Island stature 61 Situated near the 10 Beauty on display 
27 Bergman who upper part of the 11 Woman’s name directed “Wild hip that means “eat” Strawberries” 62 Mid-March date backward 
12 Like Felix, but not 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE Oscar 13 Puzzler Rubik 21 “Les Coquelicots” 
artist 22 Marx brother at a piano 
26 Tarzan or Buck Rogers, e.g. 28 It’s sometimes 
held at a deli 29 Not fer 30 Terminus for all 
roads, in a saying 31 Wound for Cassio 32 Still-life pitcher 33 Actor Robert De 


1  2  3  4  5  6  7  8  9  10  11  12  13  
14  15  16  
17  18  19  
20  21  22  
23  24  
25  26  27  28  29  30  
31  32  33  34  35  36  37  
38  39  40  41  
42  43  44  45  
46  47  48  49  
50  51  52  53  54  55  56  
57  58  59  60  
61  62  63  
64  65  66  
67  68  69  

Puzzle by Mike Buckley  
34 Didn’t compromise  49 Bygone recordlabel  55 Breakfast side dish  
36 “Hairy man” in Genesis  51 Fictional character who  56 Is a sore loser, say  
39 One of the  cried “Curiouser  57 “The Secret  
Barrymores 41 Synthetic material 44 Hunk on display 47 Some pottery containers  and curiouser!” 53 Ancient Greek marketplace 54 Staple of IHOP booths  of ___” (1982 animated film) 58 Jumble 59 Biscuit containers 60 Wishing place  

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a credit card, 1-800-814-5554.Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS.AT&T users: Text NYTX to 386 to download puzzles, or visit nytimes.com/mobilexword for more information. Online subscriptions: Today’s puzzle and more than 2,000 past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year).Share tips: nytimes.com/wordplay. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
HIGHLY PUNLIKELY | chrisTopher brucKer 
SUDOKU | The mepham group 


LOWER YOUR EXPECTATIONS |   lenny rago & paTricK cross 


Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: ryan phillippe, 38; colin Firth, 52; amy irving, 59; Joe perry, 62. 
Happy Birthday: don’t make impulsive moves, especially when it comes to financial matters or contracts. look at what’s going on around you and observe the different scenarios you face. a thought-out, conservative move will enable you to get past any unsavory situation and reach a destination that is not only satisfactory, but also quite successful. your numbers are 4, 15, 17, 27, 33, 38, 44. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): do the things that help you feel good about you and your surroundings. love can conquer all. put greater effort into your relation­ships with people who share your interests. hard work will bring about physical changes that ease your stress. 

TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Take a chance and try something different. mix things up a bit and you’ll find new ways to accomplish old goals. adopt change, but don’t force your ways on others.  


GEMINI (May 21-June 20): don’t give in to restrictions. regulate your time wisely, enjoy friends and take care of your obligations. romance is in the stars, and networking will bring you in touch with someone who helps you revise your personal goals. 


CANCER (June 21-July 22): an emotional moment will bring clarity to a situa­tion you face. size up what’s going on and make the necessary changes. you may not like to alter your life, but putting up with an unsatisfactory condition won’t help you move forward. 


LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): don’t get angry, get moving. rely on past experience and knowledge you acquire about others, and you will find a way to get what you want. covert actions will help you win in the end. love is on the rise. 


VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): you have the wherewithal to make a difference. add to your popularity by jumping in and helping a friend in need. being positive and a great role model will result in opportunities that will set you up for a bet­ter future. 


LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): not everyone will agree with you. attending an activ­ity, event or gathering that you feel will enhance your chance to experience something worthwhile or allow you to meet someone who has the potential to change your life must be your priority. 


SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): choose whom you spend your time with. poor in­fluences will result in mishaps. spend time taking care of your needs or pursuing your creative interests. avoid anyone who is unpredictable or that you cannot count on to help you. 


SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): get things out of the way when asked to face complaints. not everyone will be easy to deal with. avoid excessive behavior on your part and people expressing poor judgment or habits. make personal changes if it will make your life better. 


CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): an interesting proposal will grab your attention. look at the details carefully. an opportunity that can raise your visibility or enhance your bank account is apparent. don’t let emotions stand in your way when action must be taken. 


AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): do whatever will bring you the highest returns personally, professionally and financially. a way you can bring in extra cash will lead to a better lifestyle. distance yourself from anyone who encourages you to indulge in poor habits. 


PISCES (Feb. 19- March 20): attend an event and you will meet someone who shares your concerns and is willing to stand by you and take action. money is heading in your direction from an unusual source. an interested party will help you walk away from a poor influence. 


Birthday Baby: you are practical, caring and creative. you are helpful and popular. 
JUMBLE | david hoyT and JeFF KnureK 

make checks payable to and mail to:  The observer p.o. box 779 notre dame, in 46556  
enclosed is $130 for one academic year enclosed is $75 for one semester  
name  

address 

city      state Zip 

The observer | TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 11, 2012 | ndsmcobserver.com 
MEN’S SOCCER 

Brown finds new place in lineup 
Junior midfielder juggles several roles on team as injuries open new doors 
By JOSEPH MONARDO 
sports writer 
irish junior forward leon brown takes a lot of things from his father. The son has picked up his dad’s old sport and native music. but brown won’t restrict him­self to the old position his father started him off at many years ago. 
The mattapan, mass., na­tive has spent time at mid­field as well attack this year, but both positions represent a change from his first role on the soccer field. 
“it began early, with my dad,” brown said of his in­terest in soccer. “my dad, he used to play. he’s from Jamaica, so really he got me into it at a young age. i stuck with it, i loved it. 
“i actually started out at center back, but made the move when i was about 13 to forward, and then i just went on with it. it got me here.” 
brown, who enjoys listen­ing to reggae music before games, has found a new role for himself on the no. 13 irish squad this year. Through five games this year, brown has one assist and one goal, while split­ting time at forward and midfielder. 
“it’s a nice changeup,” brown said. “i mean, i like forward a lot, but you [have] got to do what you [have] got to do for the teambrown. i feel pretty comfortable out there [at midfielder]. i have played there in the past, so it’s nice to come in and con­tribute from that spot.” 
brown’s move to part-time midfielder is a by­product of knee injuries sustained by irish senior midfielders adam mena and captain michael rose. 
although injuries may have forced brown into a midfield spot on occasions, it is a position in which the junior is comfortable, irish coach bobby clark said. 
ND CROSS COUNTRY 

heeder balances passions 
By VICKY JACOBSEN 
sports writer 
sophomoremeganheederhas already done some pretty im­pressive things in her life. aside from running at a division i lev­el, she’s performed at carnegie hall as a member of a grammy award-winning children’s choir and competed in international-level equestrian events. 
but most impressive may be the fact she finds time for eight hours of sleep a night. 
“i’m really good at time man­agement,” heeder said. “when i was in high school, i would have school, and then i would have cross country practice. and then i would go home, pack dinner and eat dinner and do home­work in the car on the way to the barn. i’d get home at 10:30 to 11:30, depending on when i finished at the barn, and then i’d finish homework and go to bed. and that was every day.” 
heeder’s schedule has only gotten busier since she arrived at notre dame. she sings in breen-phillips hall’s mass on sundays, takes voice lessons and gives riding lessons to two twin girls. she is a member of 
see schedule PAGE 13 


MEN’S GOLF 

senior co-captain steps up for squad 
By JOSEPH MONARDO 
sports writer 

louis oosthuizen is best known as the south african who cap­tured the british open championship in 2010, but irish senior paul mcnamara iii pegs the world’s no. 10 player as his favorite golfer for an­other reason. 
“i am a fan of his over­all demeanor and his golf swing,” mcnamara iii said. “i think he’s got his priorities in order off the golf course as well.” 
mcnamara iii has shown to have his priorities well in order, too, having been elected co-captain along with junior andrew carreon for his upcom­ing senior campaign with the irish. The senior said he looks forward to filling his role as a team leader. 
“i have the most expe­rience on the team,” he said. “i have been here for three years, i have played for two of them, i have played almost every tournament the past two years … i can help the other guys on the team with any problems that they might encounter, or i will be able to give them advice both on and off the golf course. hopefully [i will fill] a good leadership role.” 
The palos verdes estates, calif., product will be one of the players called upon to fill the void left by the graduation of three for­mer starters from last year’s roster. in the 2011 ncaa southeast regional, mcnamara iii carded a fi­nal day 67 (5-under-par), the second-lowest 18­hole score in irish ncaa history. in last year’s big east championship, he helped notre dame cap­ture the conference title by finishing fifth with a tournament score of 213 (3-under-par). 
see void PAGE 14 


“he played there with his injuries came, you’ve got to ability to play in different club team when i was re-look at who else can play roles.” cruiting him,” clark said. things. and the modern brown has certainly “he played there in the soccer player can play in shown that ability by filling wide area, so he is more ca-all different positions, any­pable of doing that … when way. you should have the see roles PAGE 14 



