
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


Professor set to go on trial in June 
Observer Staff Report 
A Notre Dame criminal law professor will go to tri­al June 4 on a felony charge of one count of domestic battery. 
The case against Stephen Smith has been delayed twice: once in December due to a congested court calendar and a second time in March at the request of Smith, according to court records. 
Smith, 44, pled not guilty to the charge in 2011. He appeared in St. Joseph Su­perior Court Wednesday with his attorney, Dave Newman. During this ap­pearance, Judge Jerome Frese set Smith’s trial date for June 4. 
University Spokesman Dennis Brown said Notre Dame would not comment on personal matters, but it “will continue to monitor as the criminal justice system addresses the matter.” 
Smith is still teaching at the University, Brown said. 
Police responded to a re­port of domestic violence 

see TRIAL/page 6 


Search for cure is personal 
Survivors and supporters unite together in Relay for Life 

By MARISA IATI 
Associate News Editor 

For Dave Prentkowski, director of Notre Dame Food Services, en­couraging members of the Notre Dame community to participate in Relay for Life is about more than just supporting a good cause. It’s personal. 
Prentkowski is the honorary chair of this year’s American Can­cer Society fundraiser, which will take place Friday evening through Saturday morning at Notre Dame Stadium. 
After being diagnosed with pancreatic cancer in the fall, Prentkowski is promoting partici­pation in Relay. He said he spoke to team leaders at a meeting in March to show his support and will be involved in various cer­emonies at the event. 
Prentkowski said he wanted to raise awareness on the fundrais­ing effort, even though the money donated to cancer research might not personally affect him. 
“It certainly will affect others down the road and I think that’s important,” he said. “It could be family members or people you know or people that you don’t 



Vigil responds to University 
By NICOLE MICHELS 
News Writer 
In response to the University declining to add sexual orien­tation to its non-discrimina­tion clause April 25, students held a candlelight vigil on the Fieldhouse Mall on Thursday night. Members of the Notre Dame community expressed their personal reactions to the statement issued by the Univer­sity on the non-discrimination clause and their resolve. 
A University statement re­leased Wednesday stated Notre Dame would not add sexual orientation to its non-discrim­ination clause, though it would work to increase the degree of inclusion of its lesbian, gay, bi­sexual, transgender and ques­tioning (LGBTQ) members. The University said it would do so by increasing awareness of 
XULE LIN/The Observer 
its existing non-discrimination 

Students hold a candlelight vigil Thursday night in support of see VIGIL/page 5 the LGBTQ community at Notre Dame. 
Pro-life group submits letter to Jenkins, faculty 
By SAM STRYKER 
Assistant Managing Editor 
On Thursday morning, pro-life activist Randall Terry vis­ited Notre Dame’s campus to host a press conference and deliver a letter to University President Fr. John Jenkins. 
The document was also submitted to over 100 Uni­versity faculty and professors who signed a letter earlier this week addressing contro­versial statements made in an April 14 homily delivered by Bishop Daniel Jenky of the Diocese of Peoria, Ill. Jenky is a member of Notre Dame’s Board of Trustees and serves as a University Fellow. 
In his homily, Jenky com­pared the dispute over Pres­ident Obama’s healthcare reform to challenges the Catholic Church has faced in the past. He cited Adolf Hit­ler and Joseph Stalin as ex­amples. 
The letter signed by at least 143 Notre Dame professors and faculty was addressed to Jenkins and University Fel­low and Chair of the Board of Trustees Richard Notebaert. It called for a public state­ment distancing Notre Dame from Jenky’s statements. The professors and faculty also requested for Jenky to re­nounce his statements or re­sign from his positions at the University. 
In Terry’s response, he and the 13 other cosigners call on the professors and faculty who submitted the letter to Jenkins and Notebaert to re 
see LETTER/page 5 


know.” 
Cancer can touch anybody and affects each person differently, Prentkowski said. 
“It’s not discriminatory,” he said. “That’s for sure. It doesn’t re­ally care who you are or anything like that.” 
Still, there has been progress in treating certain types of cancer, Prentkowski said. 
“You see a lot more people that now say that they’re cancer-free,” he said. “Now, a lot more people are being able to recover from it.” 
see RELAY/page 7 



Registry collects samples 
By CHARITHA ISANAKA 
News Writer 
Howard Hall and Morrissey Hall will hold a bone marrow drive today in LaFortune’s Dooley Room with Be the Match Registry, an organiza­tion in charge of the national bone marrow registry. 
Event organizer Sarah Calahan said the drive pro­motes the dedication Notre Dame students have to ser­vice. 
“We do so much service here to help people and im­prove the world — this is just another powerful way for you to save a life,” Calahan said. “It’s a great cause to get involved with so come on by for a free bro tank, free food and to save a life.” 
Calahan said participants’ DNA samples are registered in the national registry after a sample is taken. 
“All you have to do is take a glorified Q-tip [and] swab your cheek. If you are matched to a patient, then you can choose to donate your marrow,” said Sarah, “It is serious if you are called 
see MARROW/page 4 

INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER Activist speaks to community page 3 u Viewpoint page 8 u Vanessa Carlton to perform page 10 u Men’s lacrosse to play Syracuse page 20 
page 2 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u DAY-TO-DAY Friday, April 27, 2012 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT IS THE BIGGEST MYTH ABOUT NOTRE DAME? 

www.ndsmcobserver.com P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 Editor-in-Chief Allan Joseph Managing Editor Business Manager Megan Doyle Jeff Liptak Asst. Managing Editor: Andrew Owens Asst. Managing Editor: Sam Stryker News Editor: Kristen Durbin News Editor: John Cameron Viewpoint Editor: Meghan Thomassen Sports Editor: Chris Allen Scene Editor: Kevin Noonan Saint Mary’s Editor: Jillian Barwick Photo Editor: Suzanna Pratt Graphics Editor: Brandon Keelean Multimedia Editor: Sarah O’Connor Advertising Manager: Katherine Lukas Ad Design Manager: Amanda Jonovski Controller: Jason Taulman Systems Administrator: William Heineman Office Manager & General Info (574) 631-7471 Fax (574) 631-6927 Advertising (574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu Editor-in-Chief (574) 631-4542 dfarmer1@nd.edu Managing Editor (574) 631-4542 smervosh@nd.edu Assistant Managing Editors (574) 631-4541 apratt@nd.edu, cmasoud@nd.edu Business Office (574) 631-5313 News Desk (574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com Viewpoint Desk (574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com Sports Desk (574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com Scene Desk (574) 631-4540 mgustin@nd.edu Saint Mary’s Desk chousl01@saintmarys.edu Photo Desk (574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com Systems & Web Administrators (574) 631-8839 Policies The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College.  Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Allan Joseph. Post Office Information The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 and additional mailing offices 024 South Dining hall Notre Dame, IN 46556-077 The Observer is a member of the Associated Press.  
TODAY’S STAFF News Sports Nicole Toczauer Jack Hefferon Jillian Barwick Megan Finneran Drew Pangraze Brendan Bell Graphics Scene Marina Kozak Carrie Turek Photo Viewpoint Kirby McKenna Amber Galik  
CORRECTIONS The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so we can correct our error.  
HIGH 55 LOW 42 



Jordan Stumph  Laura Semeraro  Nick Galasso  Rob Goodale  
sophomore  junior  senior  junior  
Zahm  Welsh Family  Keough  Keough  
“That SDH is  “That Sbarro’s is  “That South  “That The  
better than  closing ... Psych!  Dining Hall is  Backer is  
NDH.”  It is.”  based on Harry  closing, because  
Potter.”  it is not.”  

Have an idea for Question of the Day? Email obsphoto@gmail.com 


OFFBEAT 

Woman threatens company with bomb for electric bill 
OKLAHOMA CITY — De­idra Reed is facing a felo­ny charge after allegedly threatening to blow up Okla­homa Gas & Electric over a $14 utility bill. 
“I remember flipping out, but I don’t really remember what was said,” Reed told lo­cal TV affiliate News9. 
According to an OG&E employee who has agreed to testify against her, Reed re­portedly called the electric company and said, “I am go­ing to blow OG&E up ‘cause y’all are charging me for electric I haven’t used.” 
“The detective actually told me he heard [the call in question], so I can’t really argue with it if it’s me,” Reed told the station. 
“I don’t have a criminal re­cord,” Reed said. “I’m strug­gling to pay $40 a month for rent. How the hell am I [going] to buy some bomb equipment? I don’t have [the] know how to make a bomb.” 
Burglar offers to exchange items with homeowners 
BREMERTON, Wa. — Hours after breaking into a Washington State home, a burglar dialed up the vic­timized homeowners’ cous­in, asking if he could stop by to swap some of the stolen items in exchange for a few personal items he’d left. 
KOMO News reports that the only thing the alleged burglar asked in return from the homeowners was that they not call the police to report the actual crime. 
“It’s very unusual,” Sgt. Kevin Crane of the Bremer­ton Police Department told KOMO. 
Earlier on Tuesday, the burglar had fled the scene of the crime after he broke into the residence only to find one of the occupants, a former Marine, was at home and holding a gun. “Get out! I have a gun!” 
The robber, Shane Jack­man, reportedly said, “Yes, sir!” before running away. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
IN BRIEF 
Howard Hall and Mor­rissey Manor are sponsor­ing the Be the Match Bone Marrow Registry Drive to­day from 11 a.m. to 6 p.m in the Dooley Room of LaFor­tune Student Center. To join you need to be between the ages of 18 and 60, be will­ing to donate to any patient in need and meet the health guidelines. 
The Notre Dame varsity baseball team squares off against St. John’s today at 
5:35 p.m. in the Eck Base­ball Stadium. Tickets are $5 for adults and $3 for youth and seniors. 
Notre Dame’s Relay for Life starts tonight at 6 p.m. in Notre Dame Stadium. Check-in will be held at the Media Entrance of the Sta­dium, the opening ceremony will start at 6:30 p.m. and the luminary ceremony will begin at 9:30 p.m. Join the fight against cancer. 
Harmonia, Notre Dame’s premiere women’s a ca­pella  group, will host its spring concert tonight at 7 
p.m. in Washington Hall at the Mainstage Auditorium. Tickets are $5 at the La-Fortune Box Office or at the door. 
Notre Dame’s Depart­ment of Music hosts the op­era “Sweeney Todd” tonight and tomorrow evening at 
7:30 p.m. in the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. Tickets are $7 for students, $14 for seniors, and $19 for general admission. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail de­tailed information about an event to obsnews.nd@gmail. com 

LOCAL WEATHER 
TODAY TONIGHT SATURDAY SUNDAY MONDAY TUESDAY 









Friday, April 27, 2012 The Observer u NEWS ndsmcobserver.com | page 3 

Activist speaks on sexual minorities in Uganda 
By CHRISTIAN MYERS openly homosexual individu-News Writer als. There is also a provision in the bill that would create 
Winning the Robert F. Ken-a death penalty for serial of­nedy Human Rights Award fenders, Mugisha said. has brought activist Frank “I would receive the death Mugisha respect in the United penalty under this bill,” he States, but in his home coun-said. try of Uganda, he and his The bill was first introduced cause still meet with a great in 2009 three months after a deal of enmity. group of American evangeli-
Mugisha is the executive cals, including activist Scott director of Sexual Minori-Lively, came to Uganda to 
ties  Uganda  c a m p a i g n  
(SMUG)  and  against  ho- 
works  to  m o se x ua l ­ 
promote  the  ity,  Mugisha  
rights of LG- said. Support  
BTQdans.   Ugan-He  “There are no Western  for the bill is estimated to  
spoke at the event “Hu­ values, Eastern values, Southern values or  be around 85 percent in the  
man  Rights  Northern values when  p a rl i a men t  
and Ho­mophobia: A  the issue is humanity.”  and will pass if it reaches  
Conversation with Frank Mugisha” in the Andrews  Frank Mugisha executive director Sexual Minorities Uganda  the floor. M u g i s h a said the bill and propa- 
A ud i t o r iu m  ganda  from  
of  Geddes  Ugandan reli- 
Hall  yester­ gious leaders  
day.  has  changed  
The  Pro- the way ho­ 
gressive  Stu- m o se x ua l s  

dent Association (PSA) spon-are treated in Ugandan com-sored the event in conjunction munities. with the Kellogg Institute’s “Before the bill was intro-Africa Working Group. duced we had gay and lesbian 
PSA co-president Alex Coc-people who lived in the com­cia said Mugisha’s work has munity but were not persecut­estranged him from his family ed,” Mugisha said. and forced him to flee Uganda He said people in Ugandan on repeated occasions. (Edi-villages do not always have tor’s Note: Coccia is a View-a sense of the difference be-point columnist for The Ob-tween bills in parliament server.) and established laws. He said 
Mugisha said a pending bill neighbors turned in one homo-in the Ugandan parliament sexual man who had lived in a might criminalize both ho-community for twenty years. mosexuality and support for Mugisha said the people only acted because they believed it was required by law. 
There is also a prevalent characterization of homosex­uality as “not African,” which extends to the leadership of many African nations, Mugi­sha said. He said many Ugan­dans, and Africans generally, view homosexuality as a cul­tural construct of Europe and the United States. 
“Almost all African leaders say homosexuality is abnor­mal,” Mugisha said. “Many African leaders say homo­sexuality is Western, not Af­rican.” 
Ignorance on the subject of homosexuality is the primary reason for homophobia and the main obstacle to his ef­forts, Mugisha said. 
“My biggest struggle is against ignorance,” he said. “I wish I could talk to every Ugandan one-on-one and tell them there is no disease they are going to catch.” 
Mugisha said it is difficult for Ugandans to recognize ho­mosexual rights as a human-rights issue. He said he has to explain that his homosexual­ity does not harm anyone else while the government claims 
homophobia does harm  oth­ 
ers.  
Mugisha  said  he  is  also  

frustrated by the opposition to homosexuality in Ugandan churches, which also believe homosexuality is the result of Western influence. 
“There are no Western val­ues, Eastern values, South­ern values or Northern values when the issue is humanity,” he said. “When you are talk­ing about God as love it is all the same.” 


Mugisha said he is a Catho­lic and urges other homosex­ual Ugandans to retain their faith. 
“I can’t wake up in the morn­ing and say ‘I don’t believe in God,’ that’s not me,” Mugisha said. “Being a gay person, les­bian person, transgender per­son or bisexual person does not prevent you from being Christian.” 
SMUG’s greatest success is the visibility the organization has brought to the issue inter­nationally and within Uganda, he said. 

Trial 
continued from page 1 
at Smith’s south side home June 25, according to court documents. 
Smith allegedly became upset with his wife after an evening out with friends. His wife told police he yelled at her, knocked her to the ground and kicked her. 
Court documents state that the couple’s 23-year­old son heard the argument and confronted Smith. The two struggled before the son took his mother and brother to a neighbor’s house. 
SMUG has been success­ful with two legal cases in Uganda, Mugisha said. One was against the government for abuse of homosexuals by police, and the other was against a paper which called for the hanging of perceived homosexuals. 
“We’ve created a visibility in my country. The govern­ment can’t say there are no homosexuals in Uganda any­more,” Mugisha said. 

Contact Christian Myers at cmyers8@nd.edu 


The son told police his 10-year-old brother was present when Smith struck his wife. 
Police arrested Smith at the scene, and he posted $1,000 bond June 30. Court documents state the judge ordered Smith to have no contact with his wife as a condition of his bond. 
Domestic battery is a Class D felony. Indiana state law requires a felony charge for domestic battery if the act is committed in the presence of a child less than 16 years old. 
Smith’s final court ap­pearance has been set for May 21 at 9 a.m.  If convict­ed, Smith could serve up to three years in prison. 


page 4 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u NEWS Friday, April 27, 2012 
SMC Tostal features new activities and treats 
By CAILIN CROWE 
News Writer 
After a Sammy Adams con­cert highlighted Tostal Part One in March, Saint Mary’s students celebrated Tostal Part Two on Thursday with stunner shades, YOLO tanks and Dippin’ Dots. The Saint Mary’s Student Activities Board (SAB) hosted Saint Mary’s Tostal and worked to make this year’s event unique. 
SAB president Liz Kraig said SAB prepared for Saint Mary’s Tostal with a con­ference to discuss ideas row trans­
“We do so much service 
marrow last plants are 
here to help people and 
year to a pe-not as medi­diatric pa-improve the world — this cally serious 
tient. is just another powerful now as they 
“I was sit-way for you to save a life.” were. 75 per-ting in my cent of the best friend’s bone marrow 
Sarah Calahan 
dorm room transplants 
event organizer 
when I re-are non-in-
Marrow 
continued from page 1 
[because] you could save a person’s life.” 
This year, the drive chose senior Bridget Dillon and sophomore Scott Dawson as its two spokespeo­ple from the Notre Dame community. Dillon do­nated bone 
ceived a call that I was a possible match for a nine -year old girl with aplastic anemia,” Dillon said. 
Calahan said though Dil­lon signed up for the registry during her sophomore year, she was chosen later because bone marrow matches are very rare. 
“Out of the 500 people that register every year, Bridget was the only one who was re­quested to donate her mar­row,” said Sarah. 
Dawson said he was on the other side of the donation process. He said he had leu­kemia and got a bone mar­row transplant during his sophomore year. 
“I underwent four rounds of chemotherapy and thank-and connect with vendors. Though Tostal has featured lawn inflatables in past years, Kraig said members of SAB focused on other ac­tivities this year. 
“We decided to do some­thing instead of the inflat­ables because although in­flatables are fun, we think Saint Mary’s girls really enjoy the giveaways,” Kraig said. “Photos are a great way for students to keepsake their Tostal memories.” 
Kraig said this year’s ac­tivities also let students shake off stress with treats from The Sweet Ride Cup­cake truck, photos from a wild-west photo shoot and a movie screening of “The Vow.” 
Senior Liz Busam said To­stal provides a study break for students as the semester ends and finals approach. 
“I like the break in the day that Tostal offers, especial­ly as we approach finals,” she said. “It’s a great way to relax and enjoy a beautiful day on campus.” 
Junior Caitlin Paulsen said the free giveaways were her favorite part of To­stal. 
“I love Tostal because I got to make a lion balloon animal and tye-dye stunner shades,” Phelan. 
Students like senior Tor­rie Thompson said they most enjoyed the sweets. 
“I was most excited about the cupcake truck,” Thomp­son said. 
This was the final Tostal for Saint Mary’s seniors. Senior Katelynd Park said she would miss Tostal after graduation. 
“I love Tostal because it’s a great way to have fun with your friends and celebrate a Saint Mary’s tradition,” Park said. 
Kraig said Tostal was a perfect way to end the year and spend time with friends before exams. She said the positive responses from stu­dents made planning for To­stal worthwhile. 
“I just love seeing every­one come out and having a good time. It’s a great way to end the year, take a pic­ture with friends and enjoy the free snacks,” Kraig said. “We like to put on big events that the student body really enjoys.” 


Contact Cailin Crowe at  ccrowe01@saintmarys.edu 
fully have been cancer-free since,” Scott said. “Although I don’t need a transplant at this time, leukemia patients like me rely on generosity of donors through the Be The Match Registry to beat this disease.” 
Calahan said technologi­
cal improvements have made bone marrow transplants easier to per­form than in the past. 
“Bone mar-


vasive [and] 
perfor med 
non-su rgi ­
cally,” she 
said. “Blood 
is drawn from one arm, it is filtered and then put back into the other arm.” 
Dillon said her transplant was surgically harvested. This exception was made since she was donating to a pediatric patient. 
“Bone marrow transplants that were done surgically from the hip bone used to happen within families be­cause no one wanted to go through so much pain for a stranger,” she said. “But now it is relatively simpler and so it is easier to save lives.” 


Contact Charitha Isankaka at cisankaka@nd.edu 



Friday, April 27, 2012 The Observer u NEWS ndsmcobserver.com | page 5 
Vigil 
continued from page 1 
policies. 
The statement stated there are plans to improve train­ing of community members on treatment of LGBTQ issues and enhance the Core Council for Gay, Lesbian and Bisexual Students . 
Sophomore Mia Lillis, a par­ticipant in of Core Council, said in the wake of the state­ment’s release, supporters felt the need to respond collec­tively. 
“We [held] this candlelight vigil to both stand in solidar­ity with those students who have experienced hardship under the current conditions at the University, and also as a response to the administra­tion to indicate that we don’t feel as if this present dialogue is enough,” Lillis said. 
LGBTQ community mem­bers and allies who have been pushing for the addition of sexual orientation to the non­discrimination clause feel this statement is not satisfactory, she said. 
“Though the statement seems to have said there is go­ing to be change to come, in reality this statement is say­ing that little to no change will happen, because the five ini­tiatives outlined at the end of the statement are things that the University has been doing for the past fifteen years,” Lil­lis said.  “We have plateaued, it is time to take the next step.” 
Even more disquieting was the lack of explanation for the decision, Lillis said. 
“One of the biggest problems with this statement is that the wording of the University’s non-discrimination clause re­mains in its current form,” Lil­lis said. “It doesn’t go into any detail as to why the University decided to deny that request.” 
Lillis said she believes the University is unwilling to commit to its LGBTQ students, and as a result these members of the community are unable to develop a substantial rela­tionship with the Notre Dame family. 
“Obligation is a scary word, but it’s the reason that the ad­ministration doesn’t want to change the clause,” Lillis said. “They don’t want to be obligat­ed to their gay students, they don’t want to have the obliga­tion to stand up for us.” 
Senior Samuel Costanzo, secretary of AllianceND, the unofficial gay-straight alli­ance [GSA] at the University, said he believes if sexual ori­entation were included in the non-discrimination clause, it would strengthen the sense of connection that LGBTQ stu­dents have to the campus com­munity. 
“If wording was present in the non-discrimination clause, it would contribute to a sense of trust that I don’t have something to fear from the ad­ministrative body or from the University as a whole, because legally the clause is there [that states] that I personally am an included party,” Costanzo said. 
Freshman Lauren Moris­seau, co-president of the Pro­gressive Student Alliance (PSA), said LGBTQ students feel they still have to fight to belong to the campus commu­nity. 
“People would feel safer, more protected,” Morisseau said.  “I think it is sad for LG­BTQ students that to get into this school is not the only ac­ceptance that they’re looking for, [because] they also have to fight for another level of ac­ceptance.” 
This conditional inclusion prompted these students to look for other ways to find a home at Notre Dame, she said. 
“When you look at Notre Dame, there is a huge empha­sis on the ‘Notre Dame family,’ but there are a lot of people who feel that they are not in­cluded in this [Notre Dame] family for a variety of reasons, but sometimes it’s because they are considered a minority for their sexual orientation,” Morisseau said. 
Sophomore Alex Coccia, co-president of PSA, said those looking to make Notre Dame a more inclusive community have had a variety of successes this year, but the conversation needs to continue. (Editor’s note: Coccia is a Viewpoint columnist for The Observer.) 
“We have already seen suc­cess … this year has seen more of a push, more of a commu­nity-building movement than before,” Coccia said.  “One of our goals at the beginning of the year was that the 4 to 5 Movement is about getting people to speak up because we recognize that we are a sup­portive majority — and we are at that point now.” 

Coccia said progress has been evident through other initiatives started by both Notre Dame’s students and students at other universi­ties. At Notre Dame, the focus should be to work to better embody its claims of commu­nity, he said. 
“I think that all of [those successes] have contributed to raising awareness on campus, making clear that this should be a campus priority if we are to talk about truly being a healing, unifying and enlight­ening university,” Coccia said. 
Lillis said if the administra­tion approves AllianceND’s application to gain official rec­ognition as a club, the needs of the LGBTQ community would be better addressed. 
“Some students are going to need to seek help from other visible students who are not tied to the administration, who could for example be a part of a [GSA],” Lillis said. 
Costanzo said a GSA would enhance the support offered by existing organizations. 
“It is sometimes easier to talk with someone who might have had an experience … or who might have been related to someone that has had a similar experience,” Costanzo said. “A student group would be an additional part com­plimenting the pre-existing structures that the University refers to … some people need one thing, some people need another, and some people need a combination, but that shouldn’t preclude the actual club’s existence.” 
Costanzo said he envisions the greatest change to the community atmosphere com­ing from student efforts to live out the spirit of incluwsion. 
“The administration can provide important resources, which are good and they have a purpose, but in terms of the student body getting on board and really accepting substan­tial change in the campus cul­ture to really live out this spir­it of inclusion, then everybody has to be engaged so that they think very carefully about how they act and how they treat other people,” he said. 

Contact Nicole Michels at nmichels@nd.edu 
Letter 
continued from page 1 
pent or “have the decency to resign.” 
“You clearly have little hon­or, and even less regard for innocent human life,” Terry’s letter stated. “There was not one word — not one syllable 
— in your let­ter that con­demned or confronted the atrocities be­
 commit­

ing being ca­
“[We look to] the faculty’s 
ted by Obama. lumniated 
call to repentance and 
By your words by people 
and your to apologize to Bishop within a 
omissions, Jenky for their damaging Catholic in-you show your statements to this humble, stitution, it own treachery holy leader of the Church.” is the Chris-against inno-tian’s re­cent human sponsibility 
Gary Boisclair 
life, and the to stand up 
press agent 
teachings of and defend 

“[We look to] the faculty’s call to repentance and to apologize to Bishop Jenky for their damaging statements to this humble, holy leader of the Church,” he said. 
Boisclair said the group be­lieves Catholics must protect Jenky and the remarks made in his homily. 
“It is necessary for Chris­tians and Catholics to stand up when a bishop proclaims the gospel of Jesus Christ so clearly,” he said. “If they are 
Photo Courtesy of Andrew Beacham 

Gary Boisclair, right, speaks at a press conference outside the University entrance Thursday morning. 
the Church.” 
In the ver­sion submitted to Jenkins and Notebaert, the letter requests “immediate action” be taken against the signing professors and fac­ulty “who have unethically cast aspersions upon a holy bishop.” 
Gary Boisclair, press agent for Terry and one of the let­ter’s signees, said the visiting group was looking for a re­sponse from the faculty who reacted to Jenky’s homily. 


the bishop.” 
As of 
Thu rsday 
afternoon, 
Boi sclair said the group had not re­ceived a response from any­one their letter was submit­ted to. 
“I’m not holding my breath, to be honest,” he said. 
In addition to hosting a press conference, Boisclair said the group submitted their letter to professors and faculty through the Mail Dis­tribution Center. He said the group also personally deliv­ered a copy to Jenkins’ secre­tary in the University presi­dent’s office. 
University spokesman Den­nis Brown declined to speak on the visit or the letters de­livered. 
“We do not comment on the personal views of our Trust­ees, or what others think of them,” he said. “We do, however, support the First Amendment right of parties on all sides of this issue to ex­press their views.” 
According to a press release from Randall Terry Media, Terry and his team followed their visit to the University with a press conference in Fort Wayne, Ind., in front of the offices of the Diocese of Fort Wayne-South Bend “in solidarity with Bishop Kevin Rhoades.” 
Six of the signees of Ter­ry’s letter, including Terry himself, identify themselves as members of “ND 88,” the group of 88 individuals arrest­ed in May 2009 for protesting Obama’s commencement ad­dress at the University. 


Contact Sam Stryker at sstryke1@nd.edu 

page 6 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u NEWS Friday, April 27, 2012 
Hall to support global nonprofit 
By AMY KLOPFENSTEIN 
News Writer 
Ryan Hall will host a 5-on­5 wheelchair basketball tour­nament tomorrow afternoon to support the Wheelchair Foundation, an international nonprofit which distributes wheelchairs to those in need across the globe. 
Freshman Emily Voorde helped coordinate the event with Bookstore Basketball, SAO and other halls. Voorde, who uses a wheelchair, has played wheelchair basketball with a local team and helped sponsor a similar wheelchair basketball tournament at her high school. 
“I thought it would be a good event to raise aware­ness and funds for a good cause,” she said. 
Voorde said the rules for regular basketball still ap­ply for the tournament. The hoops, courts and balls are the same size. The only rule change applies to dribbling, she said. Each player must dribble once for every two pushes of the chair. 
Voorde said people may need time to adjust to the game and will have a very different experience in this tournament than they have in others. 
“People have a lot of ques­tions because it is not some­thing they are familiar with,” Voorde said. 
Alick’s Home Medical do­nated 30 wheelchairs for the tournament. Voorde said she worked with the South Bend medical supply store when planning her high school’s wheelchair basketball tour­nament. 
Ryan president sophomore Alison Quinn said though the team first hoped to work with a local organization, many South Bend charities focusing on wheelchair distribution already had sponsors. Quinn said they were then drawn to the international mission of the Wheelchair Foundation. 
Quinn said she hopes to raise enough money to pur­chase at least one wheel­chair, which costs $150. She also said she hopes the tour­nament encourages solidar­ity and deeper understanding among students. 
“It’s fun because you get to play basketball in a wheel­chair, but it’s also demon­strative of what some people go through every day,” Quinn said. 
Students can enjoy free food and winners will receive prizes at the event, she said. Quinn said she hopes for a high level of student involve­ment and wants to make the tournament an annual event. 
“Given it’s our first year, we hope to get enough involve­ment [to continue the event] in future years,” Quinn said. 
Voorde said students should register to support the char­ity and have fun with friends. 
“It’s the same game, same ball, same rules, just on wheels. It’s really fun, and I think it will be a great expe­rience,” Voorde said. 
To register for the tour­nament, visit www. nd.edu/~ryan and click on the wheelchair basketball logo. Registration is also available through the group’s Facebook page. 


Contact Amy Klopfenstein at aklopfen@nd.edu 

Female voters lean towards Obama 

Associated Press 
WASHINGTON — President Barack Obama, polls show, holds a sizable lead over Republican chal­lenger Mitt Romney among wom­en — the country’s largest voting bloc. 
That becomes important in any presidential election year not only because there are more women voters but also because a greater percentage of the female popula­tion historically cast ballots. 
For example, in the 2008 presi­dential election, in which Obama defeated Sen. John McCain, 60 percent of women voted. Just 55 percent of men went to the polls. 
The race this year looks to be very close. With just more than six months remaining before the Nov. 6 election, most polls of all reg­istered voters show Obama and Romney neck-and-neck or with the incumbent holding a slight lead. 
But the heft and importance of the women’s vote is already show­ing. Among that group Obama is leading Romney by an average of 
11.5 percentage points in six major polls. The same polls of male vot­ers show the candidates statisti­cally even in three surveys and with Romney up by an average of 
6.6 percentage points in the other three. 
Democratic presidential candi­dates have enjoyed an advantage with women voters for the past two decades, and political scien­tists credit that to the party’s ap­proach to broad social issues, edu­cation, questions of war and peace and economic policy as it affects women and the family. 
That’s particularly true in these very difficult economic times, said Robin Lauerman, a professor of politics at Messiah College. 
Perhaps most damaging in the eyes of women voters will have been his backing for a Republi­can spending plan written by Rep. Paul Ryan. It calls for deep cuts in government support for many programs that keep an economic floor under poor and low-income Americans, women especially. 
The budget proposal does not, however, stop at cuts that affect voters in the lower socio-economic realm. It also alters the govern­ment’s Medicare insurance pro­gram for Americans age 65 and above. Some estimates show the changes would shift the burden of paying for health care to the el­derly. 
That is particularly important to older women, said Thomas Bro­gan, political science professor at Albright College. On average, women live longer than men and rely more heavily on the health insurance program that has been a part of the social contract in the United States for nearly a half cen­tury. 
Obama also has found an ad­vantage in contrast to Republican positions on issues such as birth control and invasive ultrasound procedures Republicans in some states sought to institute before a woman could have an abortion. 
That line of attack blew up into a political storm after offensive remarks made by a conservative radio talk-show personality about a female law student who publicly joined a public battle. The student became a spokesperson for wom­en concerned that birth control not be dropped from health insurance coverage provided to employees of religious institutions, Catholic church-operated hospitals for ex­ample. 
The contraceptives issue arose from a ruling by the Obama ad­ministration that would have forced such institutions to include coverage of birth control as part of their health insurance pack­age for employees. Contraception runs counter to Catholic religious teaching. 
Desperate to diminish the president’s standing with women, Republicans seized earlier this month on comments by a Demo­cratic strategist, a woman who said on cable television that Rom­ney’s wife, Ann, had never worked a day in her life. She was trying to criticize the multimillionaire Romney for being out of touch and relying on Ann for briefings about women’s concerns. 

Best Buddies to host first Friendship Walk 
By ADAM LLORENS 
News Writer 

The Best Buddies of Notre Dame will hold their first Friendship Walk and 5K Run tomorrow morning to benefit Best Buddies In­diana. 
Junior Elizabeth Klinepeter, president of the club, said the event is designed to spread the im­pact the organization has on those with developmen­tal disabilities. 
“Best Buddies is an inter­national organization and their largest fundraisers throughout the country are state Friendship Walks,” Klinepeter said. 
She said while state chapters hold a Friendship Walk each spring, Notre Dame is one of three col­lege chapters to host the first collegiate Friendship Walks. 
“We will be having a 1.5­mile walk and a 5K run starting at Stepan Center, going around South and God Quads, and ending at Stepan Center,” Klinepeter said. “All of our chapter members and their buddies will be walking with us.” 
Klinepeter said she hopes the walk attracts many people from the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s communities. 
Junior Nick Pellegrini, the event’s coordinator, said the proceeds from the Notre Dame event will ben­efit Best Buddies Indiana. 
“This is a fundraiser for chapters, specifically across the state of Indiana, to support people with de­velopmental disabilities in their specific areas,” Pel­legrini said. 
Pellegrini said planning for the walk began last summer and continued through the academic year. 
“Most of the planning this semester has been a combination of working with the Best Buddies In­diana Office, our club of­ficers here on campus and [the Student Activities Of­fice (SAO)],” Pellegrini said. “We have weekly con­ference calls with the state office and, in between them, meetings with SAO to try to prep for the event and make sure the race lo­gistics are organized well.” 
The event encourag­es close interaction and brings participants togeth­er, Pellegrini said. 
“This walk is a good ex­ample of bringing our col­leges students and buddies together for a fun event and raising awareness on cam­pus by walking through campus,” he said. 


Contact Adam Llorens at allorens@nd.edu 


Friday, April 27, 2012 The Observer u NEWS ndsmcobserver.com | page 7 
Relay 
continued from page 1 
Prentkowski said he receives a great deal of support from his wife, who has been an oncology nurse for 20 years. 
“Having her with all that exper­tise has been helpful for me be­cause she’s more capable of talk­ing to the doctors and the language they talk than I am,” Prentkowski said. “Also, she’s certified to do [medical] things, so I avoid having to go back to the clinic … It’s nice to have that kind of support.” 
Junior Courtney Reinkemeyer said she began participating in Re­lay for Life in high school because many of her classmates were in­volved. Once she came to Notre Dame that changed, she said. 
“I kind of experienced firsthand the effects of cancer, so that just made it a lot more important to me to participate in it,” she said. 
Reinkemeyer said she was diag­nosed with breast cancer during fall break of her freshman year. After several surgeries, she said she is now cancer-free. 
“Back home, my best friend’s mom was diagnosed with cancer probably a year after I had been, she said. “My mom and her friends were in a book club, and they started a [Relay for Life] team. It was kind of a combined effort for her as well as me.” 
Reinkemeyer said she helped promote the team and participat­ed in the Relay event last summer in her hometown, Jefferson City, Mo. 
“I think [my experience with cancer has] definitely put a lot more passion into going and just trying to raise awareness about it,” she said. 
At Notre Dame, Reinkemeyer conducts cancer research with Steven Buechler, associate dean for undergraduate studies in the Department of Mathematics. She said they study the levels of gene expression in breast cancer pa­tients to determine what treat­ments they need. 
“Low expression in some of the genes actually shows that [some] patients don’t need chemotherapy, or without chemotherapy, their cancer shouldn’t come back,” Re­inkemeyer said. “It’s just trying to find the subset of women that don’t need to find extra treatment.” 
Reinkemeyer said Relay for Life is an opportunity to raise money for cancer research and help de­velop treatment options. 
“I think the most important part is that it just brings hope to so many people, and that’s one of the main reasons that I keep going back,” she said. 
This year, sophomore Laurel Komos said she is participating in honor of her friend from high school who is battling osteosarco­ma, a cancerous bone tumor. 
“She has pretty much the bright­est personality ever and is a pretty big inspiration,” Komos said. “Just following her story made me really want to do it. I’m for ‘#TeamEvans’ … That’s her unofficial Relay team name.” 
Komos, who is on Pasquerilla West’s team, said her friend keeps a blog about her experience bat­tling cancer. 
“She just says that every day is a gift, and her whole thing is based on an Andy Grammer song, ‘Keep Your Head Up,’” Komos said. “I hope that people kind of get a little bit of that mentality out of it, a bet­ter appreciation for our health.” 
Komos said she hopes Relay participants are inspired by the stories of survivors and people currently battling cancer. 
“I never really realized how much cancer changes your life, and I’ve never really been affected by it until this … situation,” she said. “Watching her optimism and the way she fights through it is re­ally shocking, and it makes you appreciate the things in your life more.” 
For many years, sophomore Alison Quinn did not know anyone who had cancer. But when she was 16, her close friend was diagnosed with pineoblastoma, a brain tu­mor. 
“That’s kind of where my in­volvement with the American Can­cer Society and Relay for Life start­ed,” Quinn said. “When she had cancer, we would always do stuff like raise money for her family.” 
Quinn said participating in Re­lay for Life at Notre Dame last year was a way for her to honor her friend and give back to her friend’s family. After her friend passed away last spring, Quinn said Relay took on additional meaning. 
“That’s why this year means so much more to me,” she said, “because not only do I now know more people who have cancer just through getting older and knowing people, but also I know someone whose story, a big part of it was cancer. By knowing her, it made me that much more involved and makes me want to honor her life and keep fighting for everyone else who is fighting.” 
Quinn, who is a member of the Ryan team, said Relay is a way for people to visualize how many peo­ple cancer affects. 
“For some people, cancer is just a concept, it’s just a disease, it’s just something that’s there and that we know happens, but when it gets personal is when it really hits you,” she said. “You’re connected through cancer. It’s kind of like that six degrees of separation type thing.” 
Honoring specific people who have been affected by cancer is a way to bring the concept of fighting the disease to life, Quinn said. 
“There’s so much we can do, even if we’re not directly involved in a situation where someone has cancer,” Quinn said. “We all can be involved, and we can all step up and be a part of something re­ally powerful. And hopefully in the future … we might find a way to make it better.” 


Contact Marisa Iati at                          miati@nd.edu 
NORWAY 

Mass murderer denies insanity 

Associated Press 
LONDON — Norwegian mass killer Anders Behring Breivik is insisting in court that attempts to label him as insane are mis­placed — and some psychia­trists agree that simply com­mitting such monstrous crimes does not mean a person is men­tally ill. 
The far-right, anti-Islam Breivik has already confessed to committing Norway’s worst mass murder in a bomb-and­shooting rampage that killed 77 people last July. Whether or not Breivik is sane is at the crux of his ongoing trial and will deter­mine how he is sentenced. 
“Everyone’s first assumption is that Breivik must be insane because he’s done such terrible things,” said Dr. Simon Wessely, of the Institute of Psychiatry at King’s College London. “But it doesn’t automatically follow that he must be mad just be­cause what he has done is inex­plicable.” 
In a commentary published Friday in the British medical journal Lancet, Wessely writes that explanation is too simplis­tic. 
For the 33-year-old Norwe­gian to be schizophrenic — as some psychiatrists have sug­gested — his actions would have to be the result of delusions, or based on beliefs not shared by others. 
“As ghastly as his views are, there are other people in society who believe countries are being destroyed by multiculturalism and Islam,” Wessely said. 
Breivik’s extraordinarily well-organized and methodical massacre also undermines the idea that he was suffering from a serious mental illness. 
“It doesn’t tally with the kinds of disorganized crimes usually committed by people with men­tal health problems,” Wessely said. 
One Norwegian psychiatric report found Breivik to be in­sane, while a second concluded that he was sane. A panel of judges is hearing weeks of testi­mony to decide which is correct. 
Breivik himself has slammed reports concluding that he is insane, describing them as based on “evil fabrications.” He said earlier this week the worst thing that could happen would be for officials to declare he has a mental illness, since that would “delegitimize” every­thing he stands for. 
Breivik claims the attacks were “necessary” and that the victims — many of whom had some ties to the ruling Labor Party — had betrayed Norway by embracing immigration. 
Breivik claims to belong to an anti-Muslim militant group inspired by medieval crusad­ers and working with two other cells in Norway. Investigators have said they don’t believe the group exists, and prosecu­tor Seven Holder noted that the second psychiatric report de­scribed it as a “fantasy.” 
Some experts said the pub­licly known information about Breivik and his crimes suggest he has a personality disorder, like psychopathy and narcis­sism. That may also be appar­ent in Breivik’s complete lack of empathy for his victims or his tendency to remain emotionless in court. 
“The way he perceives the world is probably within the bounds of normality,” said Dr. Paul Keedwell, a psychiatrist at Cardiff University, who has not examined him and was not linked to the Lancet commen­tary. 
“But because of the person­ality disorder, he may be over­whelmed by a sense of strong anger and indignation when he believes people are not listening to his point of view,” he said. 
Keedwell said it was difficult to know the cause of Breivik’s condition without knowing more about his personal histo­ry. He hypothesized the crimes could have been the result of a series of bad decisions after Breivik had his mind “warped” by far-right propaganda. 
If found guilty and sane, Breivik will face 21 years in prison, though he could be held longer if deemed a danger to society. If declared insane, he would be committed to manda­tory psychiatric care. 



page 8 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com Friday, April 27, 2012 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Why so serious? 
Anyone who knows me at all knows that I love to tell jokes. And since I’m all about giving, I think I’ll start off this column by sharing with you of one of my all time, absolute favorite jokes/ puns. 
I wonder … is President Bridget Feeney Obama good at basketball? Associate Saint Or is he just an Mary’s Editor Obamanation to the sport? 
If you didn’t enjoy that, then stop reading. But if you cracked even the tiniest smile, then proceed. 
That joke is as much of a play on words as it is a testament to the power of the pun. One of my favorite quotes is by e.e. cummings: “The most wasted of all days is one without laughter.” It’s so simple, yet so accurate. 
Think of the people you surround yourself with every day. Your favorite professors, your best friends, your col­leagues. Who are the people that stand out to you? Those who are always in a bad mood, never smiling or happy? No. The people you naturally gravitate towards are those who are clever, fun and enjoyable to be around. 
That is why laughter prevails, why movies like “Bridesmaids” and “The Hangover” are blockbusters, why shows like “Saturday Night Live” have been around for over 35 years. 
Even on my worst days, where noth­ing in my life is going the way it should be, one of the very few things that I know is always constant, always right, always true, is laughter. 
Ready to greet us at the end of an old day like an old friend, laughter never leaves our lives. Humor is one of the few defenses we have against disap­pointment, heartbreak and sadness. Just the other day, I experienced the painful feeling of rejection. You see, I submitted ten puns to a pun contest hoping at least one would win, but no pun in ten did. But thanks to humor, I was able to move past that train wreck of a day and focus on bigger and better things. 
Something I have noticed in my 21 years of life is most people don’t ap­preciate the simple humor of ordinary people. Don’t get me wrong, I love Tina Fey, Chelsea Handler and Will Ferrell. They are true masters of their craft and I have nothing but respect and admiration for them. 
But a joke doesn’t have to come from a seasoned comedian or blockbuster movie for it to be funny. Sometimes the simpler a joke is, the better. Sometimes all it takes is one punch line and that problem you were stressing about ear­lier doesn’t seem so significant. 
So every day, I make it my goal to make at least one person laugh. I don’t care if it is at my expense or by ac­cident; I just want someone to have at least one bright spot in their day. I think people who can make others genuinely laugh are pun in a million. Those people are special. 
So what if you haven’t started writing that term paper that’s due in a week, or you skipped class to catch up on Hulu or you called in sick to work when you really just wanted to nap? 
It’s not too late to do something pro­ductive. You can still laugh. Go be that bright spot. 
Don’t waste today. 
Contact Bridget Feeney at      bfeene01@saintmarys.edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

Jenky should issue formal apology 
On April 14, Bishop Daniel Jenky of the Diocese of Peoria, Ill., delivered a homily that touched on the healthcare reform of President Barack Obama’s administration. In his remarks, Jenky compared the challenges the Catholic Church is fac­ing today to others it has faced in the past — including the regimes of Adolf Hitler and Joseph Stalin. 
In addition to serving as bishop, Jenky is a member of the University’s Board of Fellows, the upper tier of the Board of Trustees at Notre Dame. In this role he is responsible for, amongst other things, “[ensuring] that the University main-words. As students, we are held to this standard every day, whether traveling or studying abroad, working in an intern­ship or participating in community service. Our words and actions reflect the principles of our University. As a Univer­sity Trustee and Fellow, Jenky should adhere to these same standards, and we as members of the Notre Dame community must demand this from him. 
Pursuant to this belief, more than 140 professors and fac­ulty signed a letter calling for Jenky to either renounce his statements or resign from his post on the Board of Fellows. 
tains its essential character as a Catholic in-
Jenky’s statement was polarizing and offensive, stitution of higher learning.” His public state-and should in no way be associated with the ments are not just his own — they reflect on work done every day by students, professors, Notre Dame as well, and flout his responsibil-administrators and faculty of Our Lady’s Uni­ity as a University Fellow. versity. The Diocese of Peoria issued a statement There is nothing inherently wrong with claiming Jenky’s statements were taken out of Jenky’s argument — the Church has a duty to context — but invoking the names of Hitler and 
stand up for its rights, and the bishop’s state­ment is protected by the First Amendment. However, by com­paring a current political figure to the extreme examples of Hitler and Stalin, Jenky compromised any possibility for reasonable discourse. It doesn’t matter that Obama or his politics were the subjects of his homily. Jenky could have been speaking about any American politician, Republican or Democrat. Drawing comparisons to such figures as Hitler and Stalin sends a clear and irrevocable message. They are not mere historical figures; they are men who were responsi­ble for the deaths of tens of millions of innocent women, chil­dren and minorities — the very people the Catholic Church takes upon itself to protect. These men epitomize evil to the entirety of the international community. 
Although Bishop Jenky focused on healthcare policy, what is at risk has nothing to do with politics, but the civil rheto­ric we hold so dear as an institution of higher learning. The spirit of Notre Dame fosters an environment of respecting the differences of others and using discourse and cooper­ation to solve problems. Jenky, one of the highest-ranking members of our community, did not embody this spirit. 
Around campus on lampposts and in the dining halls hang signs that read “Heal. Unify. Enlighten.” All members of the University’s community are responsible for living up to these 
Stalin leaves no gray area. Jenky’s homily was offensive and demonstrates a gross disrespect for his respon­sibilities as a University Fellow and Trustee. 
We believe Jenky’s remarks reflect poorly upon Notre Dame and the members of its community. As a high-ranking mem­ber of the University, the bishop ought to issue a clear, full-fledged and public apology. Jenky must take responsibility for his mistake. If he is unwilling to publicly recognize the vulgarity of his statement, then the bishop should resign from his role as a trustee and fellow. A minority of the Editorial Board believes Jenky should resign regardless of whether he publicly apologizes, as he has compromised his standing as a high-profile and highly influential member of Notre Dame’s community. 
Notre Dame’s mission states “intellectual interchange” is “essential” to a University environment. Unfortunately, Bishop Jenky’s aggressive remarks curtail any discourse that might take place concerning the issues he addressed in his homily. His statements reflect poorly on the University, and he, like any member of the Notre Dame community, must be held ac­countable for his actions. 
Only through an uncompromising apology can we main­tain the integrity of our University and uphold our mission to maintain intellectual discourse. 
A call to the Notre Dame family 
I love Notre Dame deeply and for many reasons. Notre Dame aspires to create a sense of family among all those as­sociated with Notre Dame. This is particularly fitting when one considers that our alma mater begins with the words, “Notre Dame, Our Mother.” 
With this in mind, I read with great dismay that 95 professors Matt Gelchion had signed a letter calling for the University to publicly distance it-Guest Columnist self from the Most Reverend Daniel Jenky and requesting his resigna­tion from the Board of Fellows. I was dismayed both by their mischaracterization of Bishop Jenky’s message and by the manner in which they expressed their frustration. 
Bishop Jenky provided historical examples of leaders who attempted to minimize or eliminate the presence of the Catholic Church in their countries. First, Bishop Jenky highlighted Otto von Bismarck’s attempt to close Catholic in­stitutions in Imperial Germany. Next, he noted that Georges Clemenceau sought the same in France during the early 1900s. Subsequently, he mentioned that Hitler and Stalin just barely tolerated churches remaining open and did not tolerate any competition in other realms of society. Bishop Jenky then contended that President Obama “now seems intent on following a similar path.” 
I believe it is clear to anyone who reads the homily in full that the comparison is narrowly restricted to various lead­ers’ attempts to limit religious freedom, particularly among Catholics. If I were to write that both Hitler and Martin Lu­ther King, Jr., demonstrated an incredible ability to mobilize people, surely it would be incorrect to suggest that I were 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“A dog owns nothing, yet is seldom dissatisfied.” 
Irish proverb 
equating Martin Luther King, Jr., who courageously advanced civil rights in this country, with Adolf Hitler. Context matters. The context of Bishop Jenky’s comments must be considered. 
Nevertheless, I recognize it is certainly possible that some might reach a different conclusion. If so, I think it’s essential to remember that there is a right way of doing things, par­ticularly in the context of a community or (ideally) a fam­ily. Publicly calling on the University to distance itself from Bishop Jenky’s comments and suggesting Bishop Jenky is no longer fit to serve on the Board of Fellows is not that way. 
I can only imagine the faculty reaction if even a handful of students (never mind dozens) published a letter in The Ob­server imploring Fr. Jenkins and the University to disavow a professor’s remarks and requesting that the professor resign. Both students and faculty members alike would claim that such a letter reeks of self-righteousness and is not only utterly disrespectful but ultimately counter-productive.  Instead, the disgruntled students would be encouraged to explore avenues that successfully addressed their concerns and did not involve targeted attacks on a member of the Notre Dame family. 
I do believe it’s within the rights of faculty members to disagree with Bishop Jenky, but I hope if there were ever any question about the intentions of one of our own, we would seek first to understand rather than to publicly condemn. It is only with such faith in and respect for one another that we can live out the “Notre Dame family.” 
Matthew Gelchion is a 2009 Notre Dame graduate. He can be reached at Matthew.J.Gelchion.1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 



Friday, April 27, 2012 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 9 
Graduating seniors: keep your head up 
Like generations before, and many who will follow in generations to come, this year’s seniors face both excitement and uncertainty as graduation nears. Their secure campus routines are about to forever change. An eccentric, Gary J. Caruso uncertain world looms dead ahead Capitol — one slowly Comments rebounding from a great economic recession while anemi­cally expanding job opportunities. For my soon-to-be graduated and future neighbors, let me offer some advice to relieve your pain and ease your transi­tion.
 First, your waking moments will forever change in May. Friends will dis­perse across the globe. Some will never be seen again, while others will reunite sporadically throughout your lifetime. Some may die early — way too early to prevent your heart from breaking or a gnawing feeling of loss from haunt­ing you for the remainder of your days. Therefore, drink in every remaining campus moment you have until gradua­tion, so that you can slow time and savor your final student seconds on campus. Those memories will burn more vividly as your path away from campus length­ens.
 Second, nothing you do can fully restore the antics, weekend parties or casual relationships that dominated your student way of life. Gone is the option to begin the day with a late class or break your afternoon with a much-needed nap. Your lives are about to be replete with unwelcome, mandatory, yet-to-be-determined regimented sleep and work schedules — that is, once you have accepted a job. Remember, careers rarely begin with the first job out of col­lege. My initial post-graduate position began at Radio Shack.

 As unique as national conditions to­day may seem to seniors, I faced similar factors upon my graduation from Notre Dame decades ago. The trick to suc­ceeding after graduation is in utilizing your optimism and persistence. In fact, searching for a job is a job in itself; so treat any job search as a full-time com­mitment. Learn to network with anyone and everyone who has the slightest com­monality with you. Pick your head up away from your smartphone and inter­act personally with others. Ask to “have coffee” to individually meet and discuss leads or specific prospects. Offer to drop off your résumé to gain a quick moment of face-to-face time. Coincidentally “run into” someone, but within the limitations of local stalking laws. Mold your op­portunities, and your perseverance will eventually pay dividends.
 Like my classmates of decades ago, the Class of 2012 will face frustrations and setbacks, sometimes for consecu­tive years on end. How anyone reacts to adversity determines whether you can become like Rudy, who was allowed to be a hero on the last play of the game, or simply a failure. Be confident, deter-
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

On the administration’s “enhanced support” for LGBTQ students 
We have been told all our lives that actions speak louder than words. 
Notre Dame students and faculty have always embodied this, especially in the form of the 4 to 5 Movement, which has been working tirelessly to raise awareness of LGBTQ rights on campus this year. However, the administration’s latest response to repeated pleas for equality on campus is the exact opposite of this principle. 
They “continue to be committed to” existing policies which do not legally protect every member of the Notre Dame family. They will reinforce existing methods of “creating a safe space” and “raising awareness” without taking action to create a true safe space for LGBTQ individuals and their straight allies on campus — not one that the administration deems to be adequate, but one that the LGBTQ community deems to be adequate. 
I love this school and what it stands for in the realm of social justice. However, this is a glaring injustice to the LGBTQ community, and it flies directly in the face of the Church’s teachings that homosexuals “must be accepted with respect, compas­sion and sensitivity,” and that “every sign of unjust discrimination in their regard should be avoided.” 
This situation must, must be rectified. 
Julia Kohn 
junior Lewis Hall April 26 

mined and utilize your innocent bravado to make an impression in the workforce. You don’t necessarily need to resurrect your “tell-it-like-it-is” bluntness of youth, but always be honest in your advice and approach. Your character will be built on your professional reputation for being truthful and keeping your head up from your smartphone during meetings.
 Within our uber-snarky and anony­mously impersonal digital age, always remember the past while you look ahead to what’s cool, what’s happening or what’s the latest in life. Remember that your schoolyard code of ethics was developed instinctively from your own common sense, competitive spirit and natural ability to be reasonable without strict formal rules, nagging coaches, blind referees or overzealous adult su­pervision. Now that you have fine-tuned that code while on the campus quads and in the campus dormitories, you are ready to face the world. The world that depends not on petty “gotcha” moments, like those played endlessly through presidential political advertising this year. The world — your future, my future, our futures — that depends upon fairness, teamwork and justice. Cham­pion to balance that trilogy of values in your endeavors.
 Someday — and it will seem like for­ever from now — you will sit in my seat, cushioned with retrospection and hind­sight. The moments you relished during your last days on campus will still flicker with clarity. You will share the hard-learned secrets that you utilize each day to reconcile conflict or to merely coexist peacefully with those unlike yourself. You will have mastered the transition of leaving like-minded persons with like-minded values on campus for a peaceful coexistence and respect for your neigh­bors who are different in both thought and deed. You will have learned that what makes life real are the everyday routines and the ordinary lives we en­counter. You will know the advantages of experience.
 In the meantime, while your uncer­tainties abound like land mines on a battlefield, I know that the Class of 2012 will succeed. The old saying indicates that much is expected from those to whom much is given. The opportu­nity to graduate may have been given to this year’s seniors, but graduation was earned through a will to succeed. Through the good and bad, our seniors will succeed by keeping their heads up (away from their smartphones) and focusing on their dreams and ideals.
 Best of success to the class of 2012. 
Gary Caruso, Notre Dame ‘73, serves in the Department of Homeland Security and was a legislative and public affairs director in President Clinton’s admin­istration. His column appears every other Friday. He can be contacted at       GaryJCaruso@alumni.nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
What lack of compassion? 
Having read excellent columns by Alex Coccia in the past, I was disappointed by his treatment of the Vatican’s investigation of the Leadership Conference of Women Religious (“Catholic compassion, not condemnation,” April 25). Mr. Coccia’s notion of compassion rightly emphasizes social justice and the promo­tion of equality, but he overlooks the possibility of a corrective compassion, a “tough-love” compassion which seeks the betterment of the other through the cultivation of truth and the correction of error. 
It is this sort of compassion for which the Congregation for the Doctrine of the Faith exists to embody. It is this sort of compassion at which the CDF’s investi­gation of the LCWR aims. 
It can be argued that the investigation doesn’t hit the mark, but I don’t see any substantial argument for that conclusion in Mr. Coccia’s column. Changing the “doctrinal problems” explicitly mentioned by the CDF — women’s ordina­tion, abortion, euthanasia, public defiance of bishops — would have little effect on the sisters’ work of “‘providing people with the best possible spiritual guid­ance’” and “‘minister[ing] to people everywhere who are suffering.’” For this reason, the investigation, with its corrective compassion, is not tearing down the compassion of social justice. It will preserve what Mr. Coccia agrees is best in the sisters’ ministry — namely, serving everyone in accordance with the Gospel. 
Mr. Coccia cites problematic trends in the Church. I recommend to him the writings of Pope John Paul II, who preached a “New Evangelization” which sounds very much like the renewal Mr. Coccia recommends. 
As for incidents like this one “removing focus from the good work the Church does,” bishops don’t exactly choose which of their statements make headlines. As long as one acknowledges that the Church does good work, as Mr. Coccia does, one should criticize the newspapers, not the hierarchy, for giving the Church bad press. 
Matt Cole 
sophomore Carroll Hall April 26 




By NEIL MATHIESON 
Scene Writer 
In 2011, a drama finally attempted to address the convoluted back woods of the finance industry that caused the economic crisis in 2008. 
More relevant than ever, the sharp and shrewd “Margin Call” cuts like a scalpel into an often eth­ically opaque industry few Americans are privy to but are all affected by. 
Unfortunately, most people missed “Margin Call” and with it, a genuinely fair but decidedly uncompassionate look into an uncompassionate industry. 
This could be due to the film lacking a real lead­ing star or perhaps its “too close to home” subject matter; but for whatever reason, it is one of the year’s most overlooked films. “Margin Call” re­mains overlooked despite being nominated for an Oscar for best screenplay. 
Since 2008 it has become popular to demonize Wall-Streeters. Seeing them as nothing but con­niving and money-hungry, we are quick to direct our anger towards them. People protest in the streets, seeking restitution from the individuals that managed, gambled and eventually lost their money. 
Luckily, “Margin Call” is not a battle cry at­tempting to galvanize such a movement. Instead it humanizes the events of 2008 so many of us hear about but so little of us truly understand. 
The film takes place over the course of day, as a firm realizes that their holdings of mortgage-backed securities are about to go sour. The bottom is about to drop out of the subprime market and in approximately 24 hours the company will be of no value. 
The company decides to get out of the market, salvaging what they can while selling their worth­less assets to uninformed buyers. The crisis is first discovered by an analyst on the bottom of the fi­nancial totem pole. Over the course of the film, we watch as this piece of information moves its way 


up to the top and leaves destruction in its wake. The script, by writer/director J.C  Chandor, is an original written with a truncated eloquence. 
His father, a former employee at Merrill Lynch, gives Chandor a background to intelligently write about the subject. The dialogue, quick and con­stant, fascinates the viewer. Its meticulous word choice allows the average non-Wall Street insider a lucid window in without compromising the film’s authenticity. 
For the characters, every conversation is a chess match, and it’s a business deal. The characters enter into a precarious juggling act in which par­ticipants must completely protect their interests while practicing rabid opportunism. 
Luckily, the cast in “Margin Call” is stacked with talent. It’s an ensemble with the ability to take such an impressive creation off the page and run with it. 
Jeremy Irons, Kevin Spacey, Demi Moore and Paul Bettany are all present, giving performances that are all busting with restrained energy. Jer­emy Irons shines slightly brighter than most, play­ing the firm’s duplicitous CEO. His scenes are an immense pleasure to watch as he orchestrates his character’s pragmatism and hubris brilliantly. 
Like Jeremy Irons, those at the top rarely get hurt when it hits the fan. Their position often pro­tects their incompetence, and as we see in “Mar­gin Call,” it is almost always their professional inferiors that are sacrificed and the public that suffers. 
People have growing disdain for the “one per­cent” who often feel their stature and affluence elevates their value over others. 
However, “Margin Call” neither disputes nor proves these sentiments. It is not here to play the blame game or be any sort of arbiter of people’s characters. The system and the story is what Chandor keeps the spotlight on — and both are replete with intrigue. 
Contact Neil Mathieson at nmathies@nd.edu 

MARINA KOZAK | Observer Graphic 


Friday, April 27, 2012 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 11 


By ADRIANA PRATT 
Senior Scene Writer 
She’s making her way downtown, walking fast while the faces pass on Saturday night. So stop holding onto your secrets in white houses and head to Legends for what promises to be a fun and nostalgic Vanessa Carl­ton performance. 
The 31-year-old singer and song­writer may have dis­appea red from the mainstream in recent years, but her tunes are still sta­ples at both dorm and 
off-cam­pus parties alike. 
You would think her whimsical piano bal­lads draw primarily female au­diences, but the num­ber of Notre Dame men who can proudly belt out “White Houses” is astounding. 
Carlton’s career took off as a young girl, first in the world of ballet and then in front of the mi­crophone. She attended Columbia University, was a waitress in Hell’s Kitchen and performed in bars and clubs in Manhattan while still a col­lege kid. And we Domers thought we were overachievers. 
Her 2002 Grammy-nominated de­but album “Be Not Nobody” went platinum and featured Carlton’s first hit single “A Thousand Miles.” Both “Ordinary Day” and “Pretty Baby” also came from the successful re­lease and set Carlton’s career on a promising path. 
“Be Not Nobody’s” follow-up record “Harmonium” debuted in 2004 and brought with it a powerful tune about losing one’s innocence. 
“White Houses,” the first single off the album, became somewhat of a cult classic. Co-written by Stephan Jenkins, the lead singer of Third Eye Blind, it took off amongst teens but didn’t fare as well in the main­stream. In fact, MTV censored it for its controversial lyrics about losing one’s virginity — yes, you read that right. MTV censored a piano ballad for its non-descript lyrics about sex. 
The ties between Carlton and Third Eye Blind didn’t end there. The sing­er opened for the band on tour and dated Jenkins for four years, accord­ing to Slate Magazine. Co­incidence that Notre Dame brought both to campus this year? Probably. 
Carlton’s re­cent hit, 2007’s “Nolita Fai­rytale” off the album “Heroes & Thieves,” harkens back to her past successes and cha llenges, depicting a singer who has matured. The lyrics speak to conquering tough times, living a real life and finding the fairytale within. 
These days, Carlton is pro­moting her 2011 album “Rabbits on the Run.” 
She also per­formed with Gavin DeGraw 

earlier this month at the third an­nual Origins Rocks Earth Month Concert to promote environmental awareness. 
As the cherry atop AnTostal’s event-filled sundae, Carlton’s concert is sure to bring in a mass of devot­ed fans. And to make the draw even more enticing, Hip-Hop Night will fol­low the show, hosted by DJ 3J and se­nior Eugene Staples. 
Seniors, remember those underage days when Legends was as hip as our hop got on a Saturday night? Let’s bring it back, just one last time. 
On a cloudy day, it’s more common than you think to head to Legends for a little nostalgia and a lot of fun. Reminisce with Carlton about all the journeys we’ve been through and an­ticipate the learning still to come. 

Contact Adriana Pratt at apratt@nd.edu 
MARINA KOZAK | Observer Graphic 


MARIA FERNANDEZ /The Observer 
By MARIA FERNANDEZ 
Scene Writer 
Name: Priscilla Nyankson 
Spotted: Grace Hall 

Priscilla definitely knows how to combine classic red, white and blue items, creating a chic ensemble for the day. Her white pencil skirt and stripped navy blue shirt look great paired with a skinny bright red belt. Her brown booties perfectly complete the outfit. Priscilla looks cool, trendy and ready to take on these last few weeks of school in style. 

Contact Maria Fernandez at mfernan5@nd.edu 

page 12 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u SPORTS Friday, April 27, 2012 
BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL 

No. 1 The Legacy of Alex Klupchak heads to Final Four 
Mendozer Bulldogs, Hoops We Did It Again and SWAG advance to next round of play 


six points from Pasciak led the ment,” Schafer said. “They have bar said. “That was a big part top-ranked team to victory. size, defense and great ball-of our win.” 
“That was a very good team,” handling. They have everything Pasciak said. “It was a great test you need to win this.” Hoops We Did It Again def. for us and a great way to get us The Killer Fraileys ready for the Final Four.” SWAG def. Real Decent Freshman Darrell McIntyre’s No. 1 The Legacy of Alex Klup-In a brutal physical match-emphatic dunk to finish the chak will look to take one step up that featured tough calls Elite Eight matchup exemplified closer to a tournament title prompting crowd outrage, the type of game Hoops We Did when it faces No. 4 SWAG on fourth-seeded SWAG earned It Again played all night — ag-Saturday at 3 p.m. in the Final the victory by forcing No. 5 Real gressive and dominating. Four. Decent to commit turnovers and Utilizing their length, leaping 
turning them into offense. ability and transition offense, Mendozer Bulldozers def. One SWAG — comprised of juniors Hoops We Did It Again defeated More Time for Old Times’ Sake Tebo Barnett, Ryan Dunbar, The Killer Fraileys 21-8 to move 
After the tough loss, tenth-Nate Carr, Mike Broghammer onto the Final Four. seeded One More Time for Old and senior Tim Van Harmelen Hoops We Did It Again sprint-Times’ Sake senior Joe Idaszak — focused on taking advan-ed out of the gate, going on a could only describe the No. 2 tage of its size and pounding 6-1 run to start the game. The Mendozer Bulldozers’ effort in the ball down low. Dunbar and Killer Fraileys struggled to keep the 21-6 win with two words. Van Harmelen provided bal-up with Hoops We Did It Again’s 
“They’re good,” Idaszak said. ance with good outside shooting transition offense, which gen-
The Bulldozers featured coming off of screens. erated a majority of its points three seniors in Chris Jung, “Our size was definitely our throughout the game. Griffin Naylor and captain Pat-biggest asset,” Carr said. “It “We are pretty upset with the rick Kelly, as well as sopho-helped us get easy buckets on way we came out,” Killer Frail-mores Thomas Hickey and Tyler offense.” eys junior Ryan Robinson said. Sonsalla. The Bulldozers domi-Seniors Will Gesicki, J.P. Mc-“We started out the game flat. nated the game on the defensive Cabe, Bobby Huffman, Joe We thought we came out in the side of the ball and converted Mezyk and captain Garrett second half better, but they are that energy into instant offense. Quinn made up Real Decent. a real good team.” The Bulldozers had suffocating The team struggled to get the While Hoops We Did It Again defense using switches on the ball on the inside against the headed into halftime with an ball. 2-3 zone from SWAG, but in to-11-3 lead, the Killer Fraileys, 
“We played really solid de-tal, their energy and quickness composed of juniors Robinson, fense and we turned that into kept the team in the game. Chris Herlihy, Brian Dunlap, points on offense,” Hickey said. “It was tough out there with Kevin Dunn and senior Steve “During the entire tournament, Broghammer and all the size Brown, displayed its resiliency By ERNST CLEOFE and PETER Both teams racked up fouls our goal has been to stop the they have,” Quinn said. “But we in the second half by trading STEINER near the end of the first half. other team from scoring.” still did a pretty good job out baskets with Hoops We Did It Sports Writers Consequently, You Knew It One More Time for Old Times’ there on defense. We definitely Again until the score increased 
made four-straight shots from Sake was made up entirely of beat up on Broghammer and to 15-7. The Legacy of Alex Klupchak the charity stripe to head into seniors in Idaszak, Corey Scott, Dunbar a bit.” But Hoops We Did It Again def. You Knew It the half up two. Ed Redden, Wes Howard and Each team played physi-pulled away, making use of its 
Relying on its size and experi-Free-throws proved to be the captain Brian Schafer. One cally throughout the game and length and athleticism to close ence, No. 1 The Legacy of Alex difference in the second half, More Time had difficulty break-throughout the first half de-the passing lanes, get steals and Klupchak narrowly avoided the as both teams entered the bo-ing down the opposing defen-fense dominated the game. Al-contest any shot by The Killer upset, taking down No. 8 You nus by the time the score was sive switches. though SWAG’s size started to Fraileys. Knew It 23-21. tied 14-14. The Legacy of Alex “Today wasn’t our best effort, pull away late in first half, two “I think we rebounded well 
The game was even from the Klupchak, composed of gradu-but we weren’t meant to make loud blocks from Gesicki turned and got some steals and played start, as both teams exchanged ate students Bryan Pasciak, it this far anyway,” Schafer into fast break points to keep solid defense,” McIntyre said. baskets from fast breaks and John Rompf, Zander Shadley, said. “But either way, we played the score close. “We were missing a lot of easy strong post play. The Legacy Fritz Shadley and Mauri Miller, hard and I’m really proud of our In the second half, the physi-shots. We covered the lane of Alex Klupchak jumped out combined for five free-throws team.” cal play continued, and the more, and tried to get rebounds to a 3-1 lead, but You Knew It in the second half, including the The Bulldozers used their referees were forced to make and try to get the ball out.” returned fire with points in the game-winner by Pasciak. defensive acumen and size and tough calls. The crowd heavily Freshmen McIntyre, George paint from senior Taylor Wil-“Defense and free-throws ball-handling capabilities to supported Real Decent and al-Stainko, Alajowon Edwards liams and points off drives from wins championships,” Pasciak dominate the paint on the of-most stormed the court. and Zoe Bauer and Notre Dame senior J.T. Breveard. said. “Zander Shadley hit a very fensive side. Combined, their Midway through the second, Sports Properties employee 
Due to the windy conditions, big free-throw down the stretch, skill on both ends of the floor SWAG’s defense became the dif-Beau Bauer make up the No. 3 players were forced to drive to and that’s what you have to do was enough to overwhelm One ference-maker. With Real De-Hoops We Did It Again, whose the basket or make put-backs to win games.” More Time. cent struggling to score inside goal for the tournament is very off of offensive rebounds. As The game swung back and One More Time tried break-against SWAG’s height, Dunbar clear. a result, the physicality of the forth, with nine ties and four ing the defense with isolations and Van Harmelen became ag-“It’s tough competition but we game escalated quickly. lead changes in the second half late in the game, but good foot-gressive and forced turnovers expect to win the whole thing,” 
“It got really physical, but ev-alone. Despite strong play from work and defense in the paint on the perimeter that lead to McIntyre said. erybody just played hard and Holy Cross students Willliams, from the Bulldozers prevented five second-half points that that’s the reason it got that Breveard, junior Yama Kader, any runs. helped seal the victory, 21-16. Contact Ernst Cleofe at             physical out there,” Breveard sophomore Brendan Burke and “Honestly, I think they’re the “Our offense was directly ecleofe@nd.edu and Peter Steiner at said. senior Zac Cook on You Knew It, best team left in the tourna-sparked by our defense,” Dun-psteiner@nd.edu 
Captain 
continued from page 20 
when he was tabbed by the Vi­kings at No. 29 overall. Smith controlled the Notre Dame defensive backfield en route to recording 90 tackles in his senior season. He joins former Irish tight end Kyle Rudolph on the Minnesota roster. 
“Harrison Smith is one of the best leaders I’ve ever had on any of my teams,” Kelly said. “He is an intelligent and instinctual player on the field, and a true student of the game off the field.” 
The 2012 NFL Draft contin­ues Friday at 7 p.m., with a handful of former Irish players still awaiting selection. 


Contact Chris Allen at                  callen10@nd.edu 
SMC SOFTBALL 

Belles propel forward with doubleheader victory 
By NICK BOYLE 
Sports Writer 

Saint Mary’s swept their doubleheader Thursday, de­feating Manchester by scores of 3-2 and 9-8. 
The wins mark a near-record number of wins for the Belles (26-10, 9-6 MIAA). 
“I’m very proud of our girls’ accomplishments this season,” Belles coach Erin Sullivan said. “This is the most wins we have had since 2007, second-most in program history.” 
The first game proved to be a close contest dominated by pitching. 
Saint Mary’s struck first, scoring in the top of the sec­ond. Freshman first baseman Michelle Duncan came through with an RBI single for the visit­ing Belles, putting them up 1-0. 
Manchester (18-20, 7-7 Heartland) responded by tal­lying runs in the second and fourth innings to claim a 2-1 lead. 
Down to their last at-bats, Saint Mary’s rallied back to take the lead. Senior center-fielder Lauren Enayati drove in the tying run with an RBI sin­gle. Sophomore pitcher Callie Selner followed with a bases-loaded walk to push across the winning run for the Belles. 
Selner then closed out the game on the mound, finishing off her complete-game win. She allowed no earned runs, while only giving up five hits. 
“Game one was a real pitch­er’s duel,” Sullivan said. “Sel­ner threw a great game for us 
— gave up only 4 singles.” 
The second game was much more of an offensive contest, with 17 total runs scored. 
Saint Mary’s jumped out to an early lead, and after three innings held a slim 5-4 advan­tage. The Belles then plated three in the fifth inning, taking a four-run lead. 
The Spartans came back to tie the game at 8-8 entering the seventh inning. Selner came up big once again for Saint Mary’s, hitting a two-out double to drive in the winning run in the top of the seventh. 
“We showed great mental toughness entering the seventh inning, down a run in the first game and tied 8-8 in seventh inning of the second game,” Sullivan said. 
The Belles next take on Alma at home on Saturday. It will be senior day for the Belles, and a win will secure a berth in the MIAA tournament. First pitch against the Scots is scheduled for 2 p.m. 


Contact Nick Boyle at          nboyle1@nd.edu 

Friday, April 27, 2012 The Observer u SPORTS ndsmcobserver.com | page 13 
WOMEN’S LACROSSE 

Irish excited to honor seniors, fight cancer at game 
By JACK HEFFERON 
Sports Writer 
Coming off a devastating 17-7 loss to No. 1 Northwestern on Wednesday, No. 6 Notre Dame will look to bounce back, honor its seniors and help find a cure for cancer in a single game against Cincinnati on Saturday. 
After besting some of the top teams in the nation this season, the Irish (12-3, 5-2 Big East) were excited for the chance to take on the Wildcat dynasty. Northwestern has won six of the last seven national champion­ships. The Wildcats were able to force Notre Dame out of its usual game though, and overpowered the Irish’s upset efforts. 
“Everybody was disappointed with the final outcome, espe­cially when we made mistakes that were uncharacteristic of us,” Irish coach Christine Half­penny said. “We had some turn­overs we typically don’t have, we had some opportunities we just didn’t finish on. It’s just tough.” 
After the tough loss and a late return from Evanston, Ill., 
— not to mention four games in 11 days — Halfpenny elected to give her team the day off on Thursday. 
“[Thursday] was a day to take stock in what an awesome jour­ney it’s been to this point, relax, rejuvenate and come back ready to take another step forward,” Halfpenny said. “We want to close out the regular season on a high note.” 
Notre Dame will look to cap off the season against Cincin­nati (3-11, 0-6), a team that has traditionally fallen at the bot­tom of the conference stand­ings. The Bearcats have yet to win a conference game since joining the Big East in 2008. 
Despite their in-league strug­gles, Halfpenny said Cincinnati will still pose a physically-im­posing challenge to her players. 
“They have a lot of heart,” she said. “These guys battle, they’ve got nice speed and they’re very athletic. Plus they’ll be looking for their first-ever Big East win, so that’s something you can’t look past.” 
Notre Dame is coming off an important game, and will be playing a weak opponent. Throw in the fact that Notre Dame is locked into the No. 3 seed for the Big East playoffs, and Saturday’s matchup might appear to be a classic trap game for the Irish. 
However, Halfpenny said her team will be as motivated as ever when they take the field. 
“I think we’ve done a really good job — especially our lead­ers on the field — in keeping the team focused and remembering that lacrosse is a game of mo­mentum,” Halfpenny said. “Cin­cinnati has done a good job of scoring on everybody this year, and we know what they’re ca­pable of.  I’m excited to see how hungry they are when that first whistle goes off.” 
The Irish will also draw inspi­ration from two other celebra­tions associated with the season finale. Notre Dame will raise funds and awareness for cancer research as part of its second annual “Lax for the Cure” fes­tivities. 
In addition, the team will cel­ebrate its eight seniors before the game as part of their last regular season home match. 
While this may be Halfpen­ny’s first year with the program, she said she has already formed a lifelong bond with her senior leaders. 
“This is going to be a really special group for me through­out the remainder of my ca­reer at Notre Dame,” she said. “They have embraced all the change that was necessary for us to succeed this season, and they’ve showed such great lead­ership. These eight will always have a special place in my heart ... They’ve laid the first brick of this new foundation, and I’m re­ally excited to honor them on Saturday.” 
On a Saturday full of lacrosse at Arlotta Stadium, Cincinnati and Notre Dame will face off at noon. 


Contact Jack Hefferon at wheffero@nd.edu 
MEN’S GOLF 

Notre Dame ends regular season with momentum 

By CONOR KELLY 
Sports Writer 
The Irish started the spring regular season with a tourna­ment victory. With their win at the Battle at the Warren last weekend, they ended it with one as well. Now, the Irish hope to continue their winning ways as they head to the Big East tour­nament at the Reunion Resort Watson Course in Orlando, Fla. 
After a spring of competing against the top competition in the country, the Irish will be in the unusual position of tourna­ment favorites as they descend on the Sunshine State, Irish coach Jim Kubinski said. 
“I think I’d consider us and South Florida as co-favorites going into the tournament,” Kubinski said. “I think GolfStat has us a couple spots above them, but I consider us pretty even. We’re going to have to put up good scores.” 
Registering four solid scores has been an issue for the Irish all spring, with the lineup get­ting murky after its clear-No. 1, senior Max Scodro. Sophomore Niall Platt has shown flashes of brilliance, but it is getting four top scores that has kept the Irish from challenging top teams like Arkansas and Ala­bama. 
“Especially after last week­end, we’re feeling very good about our team going into the tournament,” Kubinski said. “I thought our guys did a great job in cold and windy weather. It will be much nicer to be 87 and sunny in Orlando.” 
In order to defend their 2011 Big East championship, the Irish will have to stave off a slew of challengers in Louisville and South Florida, amongst. In addition, Kubinski said there is always one team that steps up and challenges unexpectedly at the Big East tournament. 
“It’s all about getting hot at the right time,” Kubinski said. “We’re obviously very focused on South Florida and Louisville, but there’s always someone who comes out of the woodwork.” 
The Irish will return to the Reunion Watson Course, the site of February’s The Match Play tournament in which the Irish claimed the first of their two victories on the spring. The team’s added experience will be important, given the Irish need at least a second place finish to advance to NCAA tournament. 
“Right now, the NCAA is look­ing at taking about 71 teams for the national tournament, and right now we’re sitting at about 68 or so,” Kubinski said. “We’re probably one of the last four in. I don’t know if [ESPN basket­ball analyst] Joe Lunardi does bracketology for collegiate golf, but we’re definitely right on the bubble. If we finish second, we may drop down a couple spots and still get in, but if we don’t finish in the top two, I don’t like our chances.” 
The Irish begin the Big East championships April 29 in Or­lando, Fla. 


Contact Conor Kelly at                   ckelly17@nd.edu 

Tickets 
continued from page 20 
on ESPNU. 
This is exactly how la­crosse should be. It should be played in front of sold-out stadiums, broadcast nationally and be the high­light of a spring weekend in sports. But across the country, that is not neces­sarily the case. 
As a Baltimore native, I grew up surrounded by la­crosse. The league in which my high school played was consistently one of the best in the country, and I had the luxury of being able to watch great college la­crosse on TV every Satur­day. 
While I knew the game was primarily an East Coast phenomenon with pockets of presence in plac­es like Colorado, Ohio and California, I never realized the lack of awareness for the game until I came to Notre Dame. Some people had never seen it played, and still others had never even heard of it. 
But I am happy to see how quickly the game is spread­ing. I am always hearing from friends that their high schools just started programs, that students have decided to start play­ing interhall lacrosse even though they have no expe­rience and that people are coming to the games be­cause they are interested in learning about the sport. 
It has fast-paced, hard-hitting precision and brute force style. It should appeal to anyone who likes hockey, football or basketball. 
Saturday evening will be a perfect opportunity to watch two of the na­tion’s best go head to head. The Irish (10-1, 5-0 Big East) stand atop the Big East standings and have a chance to finish the confer­ence schedule undefeated. Their only loss came to a solid Penn State team in overtime back in February. 
Syracuse (7-6, 3-2), on the other hand, has had a rela­tively rough season. I say “relatively” because many programs would love to be ranked, playing on ESPN and in the running for an NCAA tournament bid. But as it is, the Orange have 11 NCAA national cham­pionships, four pre-NCAA national championships and 25 Final Four appearances in their history. They sim­ply are not accustomed to entering their final regular season game with six losses and as a severe underdog. 
The Native Americans in­vented lacrosse as a ritual­istic war game with teams of up to 1,000 men on fields up to three kilometers long. While the Irish and the Orange will be limited to the 110-yard by 60-yard pa­rameters and 10 members on the field, we can still expect an absolute battle in Arlotta on Saturday. 
And that is just the way it should be. 


Contact Matthew Robison at mrobison@nd.edu 

page 14 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u CLASSIFIEDS Friday, April 27, 2012 
SPORTS AUTHORITY 
Arkansas made poor choice hiring Smith 
8-5, 5-7, 5-6 and 4-8. The four preceding sets of num­bers were the records for the Michigan State football program from 2003-2006. 
The Spartans were led those years by coach John 
L. Smith. And now, Smith is back in the BCS head coaching ranks. Af­ter coach­ing special teams at Arkansas from 2009-2011, Smith left to become head coach at his alma mater Weber State this offseason. 
When Razorbacks coach Bobby Petrino was fired for his now infamous scan­dal, Smith headed back to Arkansas, this time as head coach. He was introduced to the media by Arkansas athletic director Jeff Long on April 24. 
The Razorbacks made the wrong decision. 
The line of thinking be­hind the hire probably was that Smith is familiar with the program after his three seasons there, unlike Taver Johnson, an offseason as­sistant hire who was briefly the interim coach for two weeks after Petrino’s firing. Additionally, Johnson has zero head coaching experi­ence. Smith’s knowledge of Arkansas and head coach­ing experience made him the choice. 
It sounds like sound logic on the surface, but it fails. 
Smith has had success as a head coach before at non-BCS stops, including Idaho, Utah State and Louisville (which was in Conference USA during Smith’s tenure). But there’s a difference be­tween winning at non-BCS schools and winning in one of the “Power Six” confer­ences. 
Some coaches have the ability to take success at lower levels of college football and translate it to the BCS level. Some don’t. And Smith’s failure with the Spartans shows he doesn’t have it. It wasn’t the pro­gram he was at, either. Af­ter making just one bowl in four seasons under Smith, Michigan State has gone bowling each of the past five years under Mark Dan­tonio and came just short of 

Sam Gans 
Sports Writer 
the Rose Bowl last year. 
As big of a step up as the Big Ten is from non-BCS conferences, the SEC is an even greater challenge. If Smith couldn’t succeed at Michigan State, how will he in the best conference in college football? 
There is a reason he was out of a coaching job for three years after his time at Michigan State. There is a reason that when he reentered coaching, it was not as a head coach or even a coordinator, but as a special teams coach. There is a reason he is more famous for both a meltdown halftime inter­view during the Spartans’ 2005 loss at Ohio State and slapping himself in the face following a 2006 col­lapse against Notre Dame (both great YouTube clips) than he is for his coaching ability. 
Of course, Arkansas may be thinking the 2012 season is now lost without Petrino and hired Smith to be a temporary solution. After all, he only signed a 10-month contract. There will likely be a search for a permanent coach after the season, and Smith is simply leading Arkansas through the turmoil. 
But if the year is now a throwaway — which would be a shame for a team that’s widely regarded as one of the top 15 in the country — then why not just go with Johnson and see if he’s a potential permanent option? On the opposite end of the spectrum, if the Razor­backs are seriously try­ing to contend for an SEC championship, then again why not choose Johnson? Smith has shown he can­not do it. Maybe Johnson could have. 
We will never know now. What we do know is the fate of the Razorbacks this year is in the hands of a man who hasn’t been responsible for anything on a football field besides special teams in the past five years. And the last time he was, the results were disastrous. 
Good luck, Arkansas. 
Contact Sam Gans at sgans@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
MLB 

Rangers lead MLB standings 

Associated Press 
ARLINGTON, Texas — The Texas Rangers are sending a clear message to anyone won­dering how they would recover from that crushing World Se­ries loss. 
There is no hangover ef­fect from being so agonizingly close to winning it all. 
The Rangers (15-4) entered Thursday’s off day with the best record in the majors. The two-time defending American League champions have won their first six series in a sea­son for the first time in fran­chise history. They lead the majors in hitting, with a .295 average and 31 home runs, and have one of the top pitch­ing staffs as well. 
“It tells you that they’ve put the World Series behind them and they’re dealing with this season, and they feel like that they’re as good as any team in baseball,” team president Nolan Ryan said. “And I think they want to prove that.” 
Only six months ago, the Rangers were twice within a strike of a World Series-clinch­ing victory before losing Game 6 in extra innings at St. Louis. They jumped to a 2-0 lead in the first inning of Game 7 be­fore losing that game as well. 
“Yeah, it hurt at the time. Of course it did,” second base­man Ian Kinsler said. “But it has no bearing on the games we’re playing now. We all love to compete and we want to win as many games as possible.” 
At their current pace, they would win 128 games this sea­son. 
While it’s highly unlikely they will reach that total, the fast start reinforces what the Rangers consistently said throughout the offseason and during spring training. They are focused on 2012 and try­ing to get to the World Series again, not what happened last October. 
“We’re a confident group. We go out to win every day, we kind of expect to go out there to win and play a good game on defense, offense and get good pitching,” catcher Mike Napoli said. “We’re playing good team baseball right now. We’re play­ing how we want to play. We expect to play good, so I don’t think it’s surprising that we’re having a good start. But we’re glad we’re off to this start.” 
Texas already leads Oakland and Seattle by 5½ games in the AL West. The Los Angeles An­gels, one of the preseason favor­ites, are off to a rough start and are nine back. 
“It’s good to see the guys with the same mentality and attitude that they had last year,” said Rangers star Josh Hamilton, who is hitting .390 with eight home runs and 19 RBIs. 
Manager Ron Washington is basically using the same every­day lineup he did last season, since the top-hitting team is un­changed. 
“We have a good understand­ing of what we expect out of each other,” said Kinsler, the leadoff hitter whose new $75 million, five-year contract through 2017 makes him one of league’s top-paid second basemen. 
After a career-best 30 homers last season, Napoli already has seven this year. Michael Young, the longest-tenured Ranger in his 12th season, is hitting .356. 
The Rangers have scored a majors-best 107 runs, more than twice as many the AL-low 52 runs they have allowed. That means they’re outscoring teams by an average of nearly three runs a game. 
They’re the only team this season that hasn’t lost consecu­tive games — the only time they have since losing three in a row against Boston last August were those final two World Series games. They have won a fran­chise-record 12 consecutive regular-season series, dating to last season. 
C.J. Wilson, who signed with the Angels in the offseason, has been replaced in the starting ro­tation by Yu Darvish (3-0, 2.42 ERA), who has gotten better in each of his four starts. The Japanese standout, the Rang­ers’ big offseason acquisition, struck out 10 in 8 1-3 scoreless innings against the New York Yankees on Tuesday night. 
Matt Harrison (3-0, 1.66 ERA) and Colby Lewis (2-0, 2.03 ERA) are off to solid starts. Derek Holland (2-1), the 25-year-old left-hander who got a new five-year contract during the offsea­son, has a team-high 4.78 ERA only because of one rough out­ing against the Yankees. 
The Rangers’ 2.62 ERA is the AL’s best. Only one other time have they gotten this far in a season with that number so low, back in 1983. 
Joe Nathan, their new closer who came from Minnesota, has five saves and bounced back from two early losses. Rookie Robbie Ross (4-0), the only lefty in the bullpen though he wasn’t even really in the team’s plans before his impressive spring, was tied for the major league lead in victories. He is first pitcher in the majors since at least 1918 to earn four relief wins in his first six career ap­pearances. 
Along with the hitting and pitching, the Rangers have made only seven errors. Shortstop El­vis Andrus has been flawless in his 82 fielding chances, and has gone 51 games without an error. 
“We’re playing good baseball. ... We’re just playing complete baseball,” Washington said. “Our mindset is let’s try to play the best game we possibly can that day, try to do the things the game asks us to do, and you find out that you’ll have more fun than that. And we’re having fun.” 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The 
Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

FOR SALE  PERSONAL  WANTED  
Recent First Overall Picks in the  
NFL Draft:  
Newly renovated home.  Technical Language Service  2002-David Carr  
MUST SELL!  UNPLANNED PREGNANCY?  Dance teacher wanted for 2012-13  (www.tls-translations.com)  2003-Carson Palmer  
Close to campus - good location.  Don’t go it alone. Notre Dame has  school year.  2004-Eli Manning  
21915 Locust Bend  many resources in place to assist  2005-Alex Smith  
2+ BR, 1BA. Lots of character.  you.  Beginning levels, children, teens.  looking for Jpn majors capable  2006-Mario Williams  
SB Gorgeous!  If you or someone you love needs  of being trained as technical  2007-Jamarcus Russell  
Large fenced yard.  confidential support or assistance,  Openings for ballet, modern, tap,  translators from Jpn to Eng.  2008-Jake Long  
ND neighborhood  please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819.  jazz. Early evenings.  2009-Matt Stafford  
Attached garage.  For more information, visit  2010-Sam Bradford  
4BD 3BTH  ND’s website at: http://  Please go to http://goo.gl/CZq87  2011-Cam Newton  
Jackie 574 276 8530  Call 574-286-8993  pregnancysupport@nd.edu  Call 574-247-1590  to complete a test.  2012-Andrew Luck  

Friday, April 27, 2012 The Observer u SPORTS ndsmcobserver.com | page 15 
TRACK AND FIELD 

Irish prepare for last chance to qualify for championships 

By BRIAN HARTNETT 
Sports Writer 
With the Big East outdoor championships set to begin next weekend, Notre Dame will look to make its final prepara­tions toward its goal of a con­ference title at a pair of relays this weekend. Several team members will travel to Hills­dale, Mich., to compete in the Hillsdale Gina Relays, while select Irish relay teams and athletes will journey to Des Moines, Iowa, to participate in the famed Drake Relays. 
Notre Dame will send a large contingent of runners, throw­ers and jumpers to Hillsdale, a meet featuring hundreds of competitors ranging from the Division I level to NAIA teams. Although the Irish have set the majority of their squad for the Big East meet, Irish coach Joe Piane said good performances at the Hillsdale Gina Relays will allow some team members to punch their ticket to Tampa for the conference championships. 


“[The Hillsdale Gina Relays] is going to help some kids en­sure a spot at the Big East,” Pi­ane said. “It will also help some [team members] who have qualified and may need to run a little bit better in order to en­sure an opportunity to go to the Big East.” 
Piane said he is looking forward to watching sopho­more sprinter Jarrod Bucha­non compete in the 400-meter hurdles and observing several long-distance runners, par­ticularly sophomore Meg Ryan in the 1,500-meter event and senior Susanna Sullivan in the 5,000-meter race. 
A significant component of Notre Dame’s competitors at Hillsdale will be the Irish field team, a crucial part of the reci­pe for capturing a Big East title. The Irish will send their entire squad of throwers to Hillsdale and will have multiple entries in the pole vault, long jump and hammer throw, among other field events. This team helped contribute to Notre Dame’s eight victories at the Polytan In­vitational in Bloomington, Ind., last week, as senior pole-vault­er Kevin Schipper and fresh­man jumper Keith Mesidor won the pole vault and long jump events, respectively, for the men. On the women’s side, sophomore jumper Kelly Burke took home a victory in the triple jump. 
Meanwhile, several Irish re­lay teams will participate in their final tune-ups for the Big East meet against tough com­petition in Des Moines. The men’s 4x100-meter, 4x400­meter and 4x800-meter re­lay teams will all race, while the women’s 4x400-meter and 4x800-meter relay teams will also compete in the relays. Al­though the relay teams haven’t competed often in the outdoor season, the progress of the in­dividual members on the relay teams gives the Irish much con­fidence, Piane said. 
“To be candid, we haven’t run the men’s or women’s 4x800 [re­lays] since the indoor season, so it’s really up to how each of the individuals have progressed,” Piane said. “They’ve done a very good job — this is the best women’s 4x800 team we’ve had in probably forever, and the men feel very confident they can run roughly 1:50 a man [in the 4x800-meter relay].” 
In addition to the relay teams, several of Notre Dame’s top athletes will compete at Drake, including Schipper in the pole vault, senior multi-event athlete Maddie Buttinger in the long jump and sopho­more jumper Logan Renwick in the triple jump. 
As the regular outdoor sea­son winds to a close for the Irish, Piane said the Irish are committed to their goal of win­ning a conference title. 
“That’s always the goal for both genders,” Piane said on winning the Big East champi­onships. “The women need to improve vastly on what they did indoors, and the men will face their biggest competition from Connecticut, who is very good.” 
The Irish commence compe­tition at the Drake Relays and the Hillsdale Gina Relays today, and both meets conclude Satur­day. 


Contact Brian Hartnett at       bhartnet@nd.edu 
SMC TENNIS 

Belles seek final win despite lost MIAA hopes 
By ISAAC LORTON 
Sports Writer 
Now mathematically eliminated from qualifying for the MIAA con­ference tournament, Saint Mary’s will not be backing down in its fi­nal conference match against con-ference-leading Hope on Saturday. The Belles (10-8, 3-4 MIAA) are playing for the win against the Fly­ing Dutch (15-7, 7-0 MIAA) as they always do, Belles coach Dale Camp­bell said. 
“You never know,” Campbell said. “We know it’s an uphill battle and that we can’t make the tournament but we will always play for the win.” 
Campbell said that in order to beat the Flying Dutch, the Belles will need to continue their strong play in doubles and get some key wins in singles, as well. 
“[The Flying Dutch] are pretty equal across the board in singles from what I’ve seen,” Campbell said. “I think our best chances are at the top and [we’ll] try to exploit any advantage we can get.” 
As his team heads into the last conference game of the season, Campbell believes the Belles have reached certain goals set for the season, but failed to accomplish their main goal. 
“We did fall short of our goals, yes,” Campbell said. “The five-four loss to Alma was tough and we want that one back. The six-three loss to Kalamazoo was tough too. We were up by three and they just outplayed us in singles.” 
There is a silver lining to the Belles’ season, Campbell said. 
“We have never folded under pressure and for this freshman-dominated team, that’s an accom­plishment,” Campbell said. “Also, we aimed for a winning season and so far we have accomplished that.” 
Campbell is pleased with how his three sophomore captains — Mar­garet Boden, Mary Catherine Faller and Sarah Monte — have become better leaders as the season has de­veloped. 
“Our leaders have learned, and still are learning how to lead,” Campbell said. “They are only soph­omores.” 
Campbell said the team has grown a great deal, and the entire lineup will be returning next year. 
“We have two and three years left out of our players,” Campbell said. “With the way they played this year, it is a great sign for next year.” 
The Belles will host the Flying Dutch, as they look to sink the unde­feated conference leaders Saturday at 4 p.m. 


Contact Isaac Lorton at                  ilorton@nd.edu 


Friday, April 27, 2012 The Observer u SPORTS ndsmcobserver.com | page 17 
ROWING 
Irish hope to carry on hot streak at invite 
BASEBALL 

ND set for series with St. John’s 

By JOE WIRTH 
Sports Writer 
After turning in strong show­ings in back-to-back nonconfer­ence matchups, the Irish look to continue their success against some familiar foes at this week­end’s Big East Invite. 
The Irish began their cur­rent hot streak with an impres­sive showing at Virginia Invite, where they won seven of 12 races. 
season. We have raced the last couple of weeks and races well. If we want to repeat as Big East xhamps, we have to continue to race hard this week. We are excited for the opportunity we have to show our stuff this weekend.” 
The Big East Invite also pro­vides an opportunity for the whole team to compete. Most boats will be racing and it will allow some 
They continued “This weekend’s races newer their strong row-are really just a preview members ing last weekend for the Big Easts in a to show with three race what they 
couple of weeks.” 
victories against can do in Stanford and the water. 
Molly Bruggeman 
USC, two of the “Th is top programs in Irish sophomore weekend 
the country. 
This week­end’s event is the last regular season race for the Irish and they hope to send a message to the rest of the conference with their per­formance. 
Sophomore Molly Bruggeman said it is crucial for Notre Dame to stay in good form, because this weekend’s event is the last race be­fore the Big East Championships. She also explained how the Irish have to remain sharp if they are going to defend their Big East title. 
“This weekend’s races are really just a preview for the Big Easts in a couple of weeks,” Bruggeman said. “It is just another step in our will be the 
first time 
some girls, 
especially those who came in the fall, will be able to race. It will be a little different, but it is great for some of the news girls to get some experience” Bruggeman said. 
With a good showing this weekend, the Irish will solidify their role as one of the favor­ites heading into the Big East Championships in two weeks. 
The races will begin Satur­day in Indianapolis. 


Contact Joe Wirth at         jwirth@nd.edu 
By JACK HEFFERON 
Sports Writer 
Fans at Frank Eck Stadium will be in for a treat this week­end, as two of the Big East’s top teams will square off in a key midseason series. 
The Irish (22-17, 9-6 Big East) currently sit fourth in the Big East standings after winning five of their last six games in conference. They will host con-ference-leading St. John’s (25­16, 11-4) for a Friday double­header and a series finale on Sunday. 
Irish coach Mik Aoki said that he thinks his team may have begun to hit its stride in con­ference play, and hopes it can continue its solid run of league play against the Red Storm. 
“I thought that at George­town we had turned a little bit of a corner there,” Aoki said. “Between the Cincinnati and Georgetown series we had won five of six so [we’ve] started to feel a little more positive about ourselves.” 
Despite its recent dominant play in the Big East, Notre Dame will come in with some­thing to prove after a loss to Central Michigan on Wednes­day. The Irish jumped out to a 3-1 lead after the first inning, but the Chippewas (18-24, 7-8 Mid-American) stormed back and shut down the Irish lineup en route to a 9-4 win. 
Aoki said his team will need to improve in nearly every as­pect of the game after such a disappointing defeat. 
“We have got to play a hell of a lot better,” he said. “We have got to pitch a lot better. We have got to defend a lot better. And we have got to hit a lot bet­ter. So that probably covers it.” 
In addition to their own is­sues, the Irish will also need to deal with the Red Storm’s depth. St. John’s has seven reg­ular players batting over .300, and also boasts the reigning Big East Pitcher of the Week, junior Kyle Hansen. Hansen led St. John’s to a sweep of Cin­cinnati last weekend through a dominant complete-game shutout on Sunday, in which he walked no batters and had a career-high 16 strikeouts. 
With such a tough opponent, Aoki said that the Red Storm will not allow the Irish to suc­ceed if Notre Dame repeats Wednesday’s mistakes. 
“We have got to play better than [we did against Central Michigan] in order to be where we want them to be at the end of the year,” he said. “And if we play like that, we are not going to be. If we play like that this weekend we are going to lose three games.” 
The heated conference matchup will begin at Frank Eck Stadium with a double­header on Friday. The first game will start at 2:35 p.m., with the second following 30­40 minutes after the final out. The rubber match is slated for Sunday, where first pitch is scheduled for 1:05 p.m. 

Contact Jack Hefferon at           wheffero@nd.edu 
Clark 
continued from page 20 
Clark and the Irish will have another opportunity for a stun­ning snapshot tonight, when they take on Mexico’s under-20 team at Alumni Stadium. 
The scrimmage against Mex­ico will be the final contest slated in a busy spring season for the Irish that began with a 2-2 draw against Major League Soccer’s Columbus Crew. Notre Dame has also faced Michigan and Indiana, among others, this spring. 
Clark said the Irish have used the spring to try and re­build their back line, now left empty by departing players Michael Knapp, Aaron Maund and Greg Klazura. 
“These are holes we need to fill,” Clark said. “[The Mexico game] will really test us [on defense]. This is a really good testing game to see where we are.” 
The under-20 roster will fea­ture five players that were on the World Cup-winning un­der-17 Mexican national team. Clark said one of the Mexican players, Carlos Guzman, even had to leave the team sudden­ly because of an injury on his club team, Monarcas Morelia. 
This game will mark the seventh time in eight years the Irish will host a Mexican national team. Notre Dame carries a 4-1-1 mark all-time against those teams that in­cludes a 2-1 setback to the un­der-17 team last year. 
“[The United States is] their main opponent. I think the more experience they can get against younger U.S. players, the better,” Clark said. “They enjoy it. They come play us and then go down and play Indi­ana, which are two really good teams.” 
The Irish and the under-20 Mexican national team will kick off tonight at 7 p.m. in Alumni Stadium. 
Women’s Soccer vs. Haiti 
Before the men’s soccer team takes the field against the U-20 Mexican national team, Irish coach Randy Waldrum will lead the women’s team against the Haitian national team at 
4:30 p.m. 
Usually the Irish face the Mexican national team each spring, but things quickly changed when the Mexican team qualified for the 2012 London Olympics. Waldrum, however, said he welcomes the change to Notre Dame’s spring slate, especially because of the way it benefits the visiting team. 
“I am excited for a couple of reasons,” Waldrum said, “The first thing is with the disas­ter with the earthquake and all that the county has gone through, it is a great opportu­nity to get out of the country and tour.” 

Haiti is led by former Indi­ana FC coach Shek Borkowski, who led Indiana FC to Wom­en’s Premier Soccer League titles in 2005 and 2007. Wal­drum admitted he didn’t know much about the Haitian team, and said Borkowski has been around Indiana long enough to know how to play the Irish. 
“[Haiti] has been training here and typically they don’t have a lot of funding,” Wal­drum said. “They have so very little, but bringing them over here was a great idea. And they have been playing together and training, so I expect them to be pretty good. 
“They know our team well, with Shek being from the area. And I know close to zero about their players. Everything is just word-of-mouth.” 
The Irish lost six seniors from last year’s squad, includ­ing three-time All-American forward Melissa Henderson as well as two other captains. And with an outstanding in­coming class of freshmen, the Irish are in need of a bona fide leader. 
“We are pretty thin this spring, down to 13 players,” Waldrum said. “It has been a good spring getting to know the team, but it is not the team we had in the fall. Some of the players are stepping up to take that leadership position. Although I don’t think anyone really has any international experience, so they are really looking forward to this one.” 
The Irish will host the Hai­tian national team at 4:30 p.m. today at Alumni Stadium. 


Contact Matthew DeFranks at mdefrank@nd.edu and Andrew Gastelum at agastel1@nd.edu 


page 18 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u SPORTS Friday, April 27, 2012 

Friars 
continued from page 20 
from the Big East advance to the conference tourna­ment, and the Friars cur­rently find themselves in 10th place with six games to go. Gumpf said Notre Dame needs to stay in con­trol against its feisty oppo­nent by scoring runs. 
“[Providence] is better than their record shows,” Gumpf said. “They beat Seton Hall — who we just beat — in two out of three games … They’re scrappy and they have a good of­fense but we need to attack the ball offensively. We need to score a lot so we can stay in control of the game.” 
The Irish will likely face senior pitcher Alicia Grosso and junior pitcher Corinne Clauss over the weekend. The Notre Dame offense has averaged just over five runs a game during its re­cent eight-game winning streak. Gumpf said the key to scoring runs against the likes of Grosso and Clauss is putting runners on base. 
“We really have to have a great offensive team threat,” Gumpf said. “When we get runners on we score. We’ve done that against everyone for the most part but it’s really im­portant down the stretch so we can let our speed take over.” 
The Irish have excelled in putting runners on base recently, and senior first baseman Dani Miller has been driving them in. The California native, who has homered in each of her last three games and five of her last seven, now leads the team with 12 home runs, 83 total bases and a .680 slugging percentage. 
“There’s never a day that [Miller] isn’t working to better her swing a little bit,” Gumpf said. “She’s never satisfied. She has been focused on making a few adjustments and it’s been huge. She looks like a different hitter because she has been working hard with hitting coach Lizzy [Lemire].” 
While the offense has been steady for Notre Dame, the pitching and defense have been equal­ly consistent during the last month, a time span in which the Irish have won 18 of 21 games. 
Sophomore pitcher Lau­ra Winter — who threw a no-hitter Saturday against DePaul — has been the workhorse of the staff, completing 19 of her team-leading 27 starts. Winter is 20-8 with a 1.95 ERA and is looking to continue her recent success, Gumpf said. 
“Right now it’s at the point where every out­ing has to be a good one, if only to stay consistent coming down the stretch,” Gumpf said. 
Gumpf said the team is also hoping junior pitch­er Brittany O’Donnell can pick up right where she left off against Seton Hall on Wednesday. 
“I’m expecting more from [O’Donnell],” Gumpf said. “She dominated Se­ton Hall in those last few innings so that was good to see. We really need to get outings like that from her.” 
The Irish square off with Providence on Saturday at 12 p.m. and again at 2 
p.m. at Raymond Field in Providence, R.I. The teams return Sunday to conclude the series at 12 p.m. 


Contact Mike Monaco at jmonaco@nd.edu 
SMC GOLF 

Belles travel for anticipated meet 
By ANDREW CARDOZA 
Sports Writer 
The Belles will travel to Mar­shall, Mich., for the final two rounds of the MIAA NCAA qual­ifier today, the biggest meet of their season thus far. The team with the lowest three-round score will earn the conference’s automatic spot in May’s NCAA Division III championship. 
“This meet gives us the abil­ity to allow our season to con­tinue,” Belles coach Mark Ham­ilton said. “We have had a long season and we now know what it takes to stick with some of the top teams in the country.” 
In this qualification meet, the Belles will face very competi­tive play from conference rivals and host, Olivet, as well Hope, Calvin, Adrian and Trine. The Belles have seen most of their opponents throughout the sea­son tournaments and confer­ence play. 
“This will be a great meet to see how we match against some of the best teams in the region,” Hamilton said. “This weekend will allow our school to get one step closer of achieving our sea­son goal. I expect nothing but big performances and a fantas-
Orange 
continued from page 20 
the thing that concerns me the most,” Irish coach Kevin Corri­gan said. “You recognize their athleticism.” 
Syracuse and Notre Dame play with opposite offensive styles. The Irish typically run set plays and wear down the defense with long possessions, while the Orange prefer to at­tack on the fast break and score in transition. 
Corrigan said Syracuse’s ath­leticism will challenge the Irish defensively. 
“We have to do a good job in defending them in all the vari­ety of situations where they’re really good and their athleti­cism is really effective, where they’re almost [impossible to defend],” he said. “They’re very effective in transition and situ­ations where they catch you four-on-four or five-on-five and kind of athletically take advan­tage of you.” 
Syracuse’s unconventional offense will face a Notre Dame team that leads the country in scoring defense, allowing an average of just 5.73 goals per game. 
Irish junior goalkeeper John Kemp said he believes defense is the key to winning games. 
“I think you have to have a good defense to get far, es­pecially in playoffs. That’s brought us pretty far, and the offense has done quite well re­cently,” he said. “Defense has tic finish to this weekend.” hold a significant advantage 

Hamilton will look for a strong heading into this weekend’s ac-team performance as well as tion, as it dominated the field growth in the open-rather than ing round and focusing on now leads by the indi-21 strokes over vidual play. second-place 
This will be the second qualification tournament for the Belles this year. “We need  “This meet gives us the ability to allow our season to continue ... We have had a long season and we now know what it takes to stick with some of the  No. 21 Olivet. The Belles hope to grow from that strong start and use it to their advantage in the final two  
to just apply what we have  top teams in the country.”  rounds. “Everyone  on  
worked on in practice and use it to your  Mark Hamilton Belles coach  the team knows that they each have an impor­ 
strengths  on  tant role,” Ham- 
the  course  ilton said. “We  
this  week- will learn a lot  
end,”  Ham- from this meet,  
ilton  said.  and  hopefully  

“We need everyone to play well we will find ourselves coming and give it their all. The beauty out of this meet with an oppor­of a this meet is we control our tunity at a national champion-destiny of continuing our season ship.” and reaching our ultimate goal The conclusion of the MIAA of a championship.” NCAA qualifier will be played 
The Belles are coming off a Friday and Saturday at the Med-strong performance from the alist Golf Club in Marshall, Mich. first round of the NCAA quali­fier — held two weeks ago in Contact Andrew Cardoza at       Holland, Mich. Saint Mary’s will acardoza@nd.edu 
been important late in the sea­son because that’s what wins championships.” 
The Orange have won seven titles over the past 20 seasons, and four of those champion­ships have come in the past 10 years. The Tewaaraton Trophy has been awarded to a Syra­cuse player three times since the honor was founded in 2000. 
Corrigan said his team will treat the Orange just like every other team it has faced thus far, despite Syracuse’s champion­ship heritage. 
“They’ve been one of the top three or four programs in the history of our sport. That’s their legacy,” Corrigan said. “The good thing is we don’t have to face all those [former Syracuse] teams. We just have to play the one we meet on Sat­urday. Their program is almost unparalleled.” 
Corrigan said the Irish are excited to play in front of a packed house at Arlotta Sta­dium. 
“I think more than anything else it’s a great experience for our guys,” he said. “How many chances do you get to play in front of a sold-out crowd and a national television audience? They’re excited about the expe­rience, but we’ve played in a lot of big games the last few years, and we intend to play in more.” 
Notre Dame will try to extend its winning streak to 10 games when it hosts Syracuse at 5 p.m. at Arlotta Stadium. The game will be televised on ESPNU. 


Contact Megan Golden at         mgolde01@saintmarys.edu 



Friday, April 27, 2012 The Observer u TODAY ndsmcobserver.com | page 19 
WILL SHORTz 
EUgENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 
CROSSWORD 



JUMBLE

LONDON EXPRESS LEE HAggENJOS and ALEx gRISWOLD 
JEFF KNUREK 





Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 

Make checks payable to The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556

 Enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year


 Enclosed
 is $75 for one semester 


Name ____________________________________________________ Address __________________________________________________ City ____________________ State___________ Zip______________ 

Friday, April 27, 2012 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 20 
MEN’S LACROSSE 

Big finish 
Irish host Syracuse to close regular season 
By MEGAN GOLDEN 
Sports Writer 
No. 3 Notre Dame will take the field against No. 17 Syra­cuse on Saturday as it looks for its 10th consecutive win in its final Big East game of the regu­lar season. 
The Irish (10-1, 5-0 Big East) are coming off yet another impressive defensive outing against Villanova, a team that outscored the Orange (7-6, 3-2) on March 25 by a score of 11­10. 
Notre Dame’s offense has heated up over the past five contests, averaging over 10 goals per game. The Irish will face a Syracuse team that ranks fifth in the country in forced turnovers, causing an average of 9.38 turnovers per game. 
“They are a big, strong ath­letic team, and that’s probably 
see ORANGE/page 18 
ND SOFTBALL 
Providence to challenge recent string of success 
By MIKE MONACO 
Sports Writer 
On the road again. 
The Irish, coming off an 11-game homestand in which they won nine games, head to the East Coast this weekend to take on Provi­dence in the penultimate conference series of the regular season. 
While the confines of Me­lissa Cook Stadium have been particularly friendly 
— the Irish (29-13, 10-3 Big East) are 16-2 at home and have won their last eight games there — the team hasn’t played an away game since a 7-6 loss to Rutgers on April 11. 
Irish coach Deanna Gumpf said road games are important as preparation for the Big East tournament as well as the NCAA tour­nament. 
“We just need to start playing really well on the road coming down the stretch,” Gumpf said. “Ev­ery game is critical in Big East play and we want these games to prepare us for the conference tournament and also for a potential at-large bid for the NCAA tourna­ment.” 
Although the Friars (15­31, 6-9) come in having lost 13 of their last 15 games, Providence will be looking to knock off the Irish with a postseason berth at stake. The top eight teams 
see FRIARS/page 18 
ND SOCCER 

Teams to play against Mexico, Haiti 
By MATTHEW DeFRANKS and ANDREW GASTELUM 
Associate Sports Editors 

Irish coach Bobby Clark has a very simple recruiting tool hanging in his office — a pho­tograph. What makes the pho­tograph special, though, is who is in the picture. 
Featured in the photo­graph are former Irish play­ers Michael Thomas and Jus­tin Morrow challenging for a header against former Mexico under-20 forward and current Manchester United star Javier “Chicharito” Hernandez. 
“Every time a recruit comes in, you just say ‘Do you want to be in that photo?’ He usually doesn’t know Michael Thomas and he usually doesn’t know Justin Morrow but he does know Javier Hernandez,” Clark said. 
see CLARK/page 17 


Lacrosse fever spreads through South Bend 
As No. 3 Notre Dame prepares to take on Big East rival No. 17 Syracuse on Saturday in Arlotta Sta­dium, I can’t help but think that this is exactly the direc­tion in which the game of lacrosse should be head­ing. Tickets have al­ready sold out for the 5 p.m. start time, and students must go to the ticket office two days in advance to se­cure a seat in the stadium. Two of the country’s pre­mier programs will square 
see TICKETS/page 13 

NFL 

Cardinals, Vikings take Floyd, Smith in first round 
By CHRIS ALLEN 
Sports Editor 
Two former Notre Dame players joined professional rosters after being selected in the first round of Thurs­day night’s 2012 NFL Draft, as wide receiver Michael Floyd and safety Harrison Smith be­came the first Irish teammates to be selected in the first round in the same year since 1994. 
Floyd was selected No. 13 over­all by the Arizona Cardinals and Smith was chosen 16 picks later at No. 29 overall by the Minnesota Vikings. 
Floyd became the second wide receiver to be selected in the Draft, held in New York, after his name was called by Arizona. After a record-break­ing career in an Irish uniform that included more receptions and receiving touchdowns than anyone in program his­tory, Floyd became the high-est-drafted Irish player since standout defensive tackle Bry­ant Young went No. 7 overall in 1994. The Minnesota-native Floyd returned to Notre Dame after his junior season and led the Irish with 100 receptions and nine touchdown recep­tions. 
“I could not be happier for Michael and his family,” Irish coach Brian Kelly said. “I’ve said many times I have never coached a person as talented as Michael, and his selection tonight shows that. Michael’s work ethic and passion for football are unparalleled, and fans of the Cardinals will love the productivity he’ll bring to Arizona’s offense.” 
In Arizona, Floyd will have the opportunity to feature in the same receiving corps as fellow Minnesota native and personal friend Larry Fitzger­ald, a six-time Pro Bowler. 
“It’s exciting just knowing [Larry is] on the opposite side of me, one of the best receivers in the game,” Floyd said. 
Smith, the lone captain of the 2011 Irish, became the highest-drafted Notre Dame defensive player in 15 years 
see CAPTAIN/page 14 





