
page 2 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u IRISH INSIDER Thursday, February 2, 2012 
COMMENTARY 
Despite all the talk, it’s too early to judge 
Disappointing? Yes. But a disappointment? Absolutely not. 
Notre Dame’s recruiting class of 2012 was not all it could have been, but it should certainly not be considered a failure. 
Judging the pending suc­cess or failure of a player as he moves from college football to the NFL is difficult enough. Judging the same as a player moves from high school to college is intelligent guesswork at best. 
That is not to say National Signing Day is not important. Recruit­ing is an invaluable part of the college football process and should be treated as such. But to claim Notre Dame failed because it did not rank higher on an analyst’s list of top classes is ludicrous. 
The Irish missed out on a few opportunities, losing receiver Deontay Greenberry in the eleventh hour to Hous­ton and highly touted defen­sive back Ronald Darby a few weeks earlier. But to claim these losses signal a down­ward spiral for the state of the football program is absurd. 
Last season, Notre Dame hit a home run, signing defensive lineman Aaron Lynch and Stephon Tuitt, along with line­backer Ishaq Williams, who at the time was considered to be on their level. Irish coach Brian Kelly went into the recruiting process knowing he needed to solidify his defensive front, and he did just that. 
But the impact of Tuitt and Lynch was not just on the field. Certainly they played well this season, but they provided much-needed depth on the de­fensive line, and that was their greatest contribution this year. 
Kelly did not hit that same home run this year. He said at last year’s National Signing Day press conference that after recruiting well on the defensive interior, this year’s focus would be the exterior. The home run would have been signing corners Tee Shepard, Darby and Brian Poole. On signing day, only Shepard belongs to the Irish. But the class of 2012 

Eric Prister 
Senior Sports Writer 
includes five players who will enter camp as defensive backs, and that depth is what is im­portant. 
And while defensive back was highlighted as the posi­tion to watch as early as last February, the most immediate concern for most Irish fans is the quarterback position, and the Irish nabbed one of the best. Gunner Kiel fits in perfectly with Kelly’s system and should complete for the starting job immediately as an early enrollee. 
But it is very difficult to judge players at this stage. According to Rivals.com, Notre Dame signed just two players in the top-100. According to ESPN, they signed three. But what does this mean? 
Arguably the best quar­terback in recent memory at Notre Dame, Brady Quinn, was a three-star prospect coming out of high school, nowhere near the top-100. Tyler Eifert was also a three-star recruit. Jeff Samardzija was as well. 
Rankings are meaningless until a coach gets his hands on the players. Receiver recruit Justin Ferguson is rated the 14th-best receiver by ESPN and the 58th-best receiver by Rivals.com. Which is right, or is either? Only time will tell. 
Kelly said Wednesday that Notre Dame did exactly what it set out to do this year, and for now, there is no reason to doubt him. Certainly there were some slip-ups, and things did not go exactly according to plan. But to judge the success or failure of a coaching hire based on the whims of one or two 18-year-olds is bordering on certifiable insanity. 
Notre Dame football is moving in the right direction. It may not be going there as quickly as some would like, and Kelly’s third year prob­ably will not bring a national championship. 
There certainly have been setbacks, the loss of Green-berry potentially being one of them, just as the loss to South Florida at the beginning of last season undoubtedly was. 
But Brian Kelly has a plan, and if he says things are mov­ing according to it, who’s to say he’s wrong? 
Contact Eric Prister at eprister@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


Kelly unveils 2012 recruits 


Irish coach Brian Kelly discusses Notre Dame’s 2012 recruiting class with the media Wednesday at the Guglielmino Complex. The Irish added 16 recruits and one transfer in the recruiting haul. 
By CHRIS MASOUD 
Assistant Managing Editor 
No pleasant surprises and no 11th-hour recruiting coups 
— National Signing Day 2012 simply turned out a group of solid football players. Irish coach Brian Kelly added one transfer stu­dent and 16 high 
school seniors to “I think we painted the the 2012 football picture ... clearly about roster, including 
what we were about, and 
10 skill players, 
we made sure that this 
four power play-
is what you’re going to 
ers, one big skill 
get at Notre Dame.” 

player and one specialist. “Today we Brian Kelly have a class that Irish coach 
represents the needs that we had in our foot­ball program,” Kelly said Wednesday. “As you know, last year our need base relative to our class was centered around the power position. I thought we did a great job of addressing that. This year was about that skill level, and especially at the de­fensive backfield and the wide receiver position, and we feel like we have addressed those needs within our program for the 2012 class that we’re an­nouncing.” 
Among the 16 high school recruits, defensive lineman Jarron Jones, quarterback Gunner Kiel, running back KeiVarae Russell and defen­sive back Elija Shumate were selected for the U.S. Army All-American Bowl. Kelly and his staff crisscrossed 13 states, visiting recruits and their families from the Midwest, the South and both coasts to secure National Letters of In­tent. 
“It starts with making sure that we talk about our dis­tinctions and not shy away from them,” he said. “We talk about a faith based educa­tion; we talk about, ‘You got to live in the dorms.’ We talk about those things as they re­late to Notre Dame because we don’t want you to get here, and you’ve signed a letter of intent, and it wasn’t the right fit. You just got sold a bill of goods.” 
The lone surprise of the day was the fax that never came 
in. Wide receiver Deontay Green-berry, the No. 7 wide receiver ranked by Scout.com and a ver­bal com­mit ment up until Wed nes ­day, signed with Hous­ton in­stead. 
Kelly said con­versations that took 
place between last night and this morning indicated Green-berry had changed his mind. 
“I think we painted the pic­ture … clearly about what we 
were about, and we made sure that this is what you’re going to get at Notre Dame. For me it’s hard to be disappointed about some­thing you’ve never had or you’ve never coached,” he said. “I’m more excited about the guys that signed because they are the right kind of guys.” 
propriate messages on Twit­ter. 
“[Social media has] opened up the eyes of everybody, and in particular what you say tracks you. I think that’s ap­propriate … I think social me­dia is definitely a window in which we can see more about a young man. Sometimes it’s just being silly, but the recognition that it does track you, it is very important and it’s a point that we made this year. I brought in a specialist this year to talk about social media and the im­plications of that. We’re going to have to continue to teach and educate.” 
Transfer running back Amir Carlisle, defensive lineman Sheldon Day, defensive back Tee Shepard and Kiel enrolled at the University in Janu­ary and have already started taking classes. Kelly said the coaching staff has maintained constant contact with the ear­ly enrollees to ease the transi­tion process. 
But Kelly quickly dashed any implications of coddling, adding he expects each recruit to push incoming players for 
time  on  the  
field.  
“In  the  

recru iti ng process we 

“In the recruiting process clearly tell we clearly tell our our fresh­
men, ‘You 

freshmen, ‘You better 
better be

be ready to compete,’ 
ready to

whether it’s Gunner 
c omp et e,’ 

Kiel or Sheldon Day 
whether it’s 

or Tee Shepard.” 
Gunner Kiel or Sheldon Brian Kelly Day or Tee 
Irish coach Shepard … If you think you’re go­ing to come in and get a free year 


Unlike previous years, Kelly said social media emerged as a factor in the recruiting pro­cess. Originally recruited by Notre Dame and Michigan, cornerback Yuri Wright com­mitted instead to Colorado af­ter being dismissed from his high school by posting inap­and red shirt, [that’s] some­where else,” Kelly said. “Come to Notre Dame if you want to compete.” 
Spring football practices be­gin March 21. 
Contact Chris Masoud at cmasoud@nd.edu 

Thursday, February 2, 2012 The Observer u IRISH INSIDER ndsmcobserver.com | page 3 

Photo courtesy of James Clancy 



Nick Baratti 
S, ***, 210 pounds, 6 2 Klein Oak High School Spring, Texas 
Nick Baratti features a deadly com bination of acceleration and size com ing out of Texas, one of the country’s premier football states. Considered by many a three star recruit, the Irish ex pect Baratti to play safety in order to utilize his ball skills, great closing speed and explosiveness in and out of cuts. 
At 6 foot-2 and 215 pounds, he has a build nearly exactly copying that of out going safety Harrison Smith, but he also runs a 4.48 40 yard dash. 
Baratti was primarily used in a run ning back and quarterback combina tion while also posing as a dangerous receiving threat in high school. In his junior year the Spring, Texas, native threw for 1,873 yards and 13 touch downs while rushing for 1,267 yards and 17 touchdowns. 

Scott Daly
LS, **, 210 pounds, 6-2 Downers Grove South High School Downers Grove, Ill. 
Long snappers are rarely noticed until they make a mistake, but Scott Daly’s performance earned him the recognition of a Notre Dame schol­arship. 
Playing for the Irish has been Da­ly’s top goal from the beginning of the recruiting process, and he ac­cepted a scholarship offer just sec­onds after Irish coach Brian Kelly offered it. 
The Downers Grove, Ill., resi­dent made the trip for five of Notre Dame’s six home games this fall and has made several visits to cam­pus during the winter. 
Daly’s consistency and work ethic at the position are unrivaled, and his quickness will be an asset in punt coverage. 

Chris Brown 
WR, ****, 180 pounds, 6-2 Hanahan High School Hanahan, S.C. 
While the Irish have churned out plenty of solid possession receivers, the offense has lacked a pass-catcher with blazing speed. Enter Chris Brown and his 40-yard dash time of 4.44. 
Brown shot up recruiting boards across the nation toward the end of his high school career. 
Though he missed half of his senior campaign because of a broken collar­bone, Brown still had a productive high school career, including a junior season in which he recorded 52 catches for 1,105 yards and 16 touchdowns. 
Brown has tremendous athleticism; in addition to his top-end speed, he has great jumping ability. 
Brown has the versatility to play in the slot or on the outside for Notre Dame. 


Sheldon Day
DE, ****, 280 pounds, 6 2 Warren Central High School Indianapolis, Ind. 
One of the highest-rated prospects in the Irish recruiting class, Day is ranked among the nation’s top defensive tackles by most recruiting services. The 280 pound lineman from Indianapolis drew a slew of impressive scholarship offers from around the country. Other offering pow erhouse programs including Arkansas, Michigan, LSU, Penn State, Virginia Tech and Wisconsin, but he chose to stay in his home state and play for the Irish. 
Day joins an already loaded Irish front and will likely figure into the rotation in the middle of the Irish defensive line im mediately. He is smaller than current Irish nose guard Louis Nix, but has been an active force against the run and the pass at Warren Central High School, with nine sacks and 11 tackles for loss in his senior season. 


Photo courtesy of Hanahan High School 


Capsules by Observer Sports staff 


The Observer u IRISH INSIDER
page 4 | ndsmcobserver.com 

Photo courtesy of Flanagan High School 

Photo courtesy of Lakiescha Titus-Jones 



Justin Ferguson
WR, ***, 205 pounds, 6 2 Flanagan High School Pembroke Pines, Fla. 
With the departure of the most ac complished wide receiver in Notre Dame history, Justin Ferguson will be one of the players hoping to emerge as a threat in the Irish passing game in 2012. 
Ferguson brings good size to the position and his game is fundamen tally reliant on outmuscling defensive backs. However, Ferguson’s impres sive power is coupled with consider able agility and speed. He figures to line up primarily on the outside where he will have the ability to get behind defenses and extend the field. 
The Florida native is athletic and talented, and if he is able to improve his technique he could develop into an important player in Notre Dame’s field of young receivers. 

Jarron Jones 
DE, ****, 290 pounds, 6-6 Aquinas Institute Rochester, N.Y. 
A two-way lineman in high school, Jarron Jones is expected to play on the defensive side of the ball at Notre Dame, adding even more youth to a line deep with potential. 
He is ranked as a four-star recruit by most major recruiting services, is a member of the ESPNU 150, and played in the U.S. Army All-American Bowl on Jan. 
7. Jones, who has a scary combination of size, strength and athleticism, is an in­telligent player who shows a good ability to read and react on defense. He initially committed to Penn State in April, but then decommitted in July before com­mitting to the Irish in late August. 
As a junior, Jones had 68 tackles, 10 sacks and an interception. During his se­nior season, he recorded 71 tackles and five sacks. 

Mark Harrell 
OL, ***, 270 pounds, 6-5 Charlotte Catholic High School Charlotte, N.C. 
Mark Harrell is a versatile prospect who will be able to contribute at a number of positions for the Irish. At 6’ 5” and 265 lbs, he has the athleti­cism and length to excel at guard but also the drive and competitiveness to be a force in the middle. It is not yet determined where on the offensive line he will end up, but he is primed to succeed in Notre Dame’s spread of­fense, which places a premium on big, athletic linemen who can both protect the quarterback and get to the second level on runs and short passes. 
While he still has to add bulk to 
his frame, the senior from Charlotte, 
N.C., and Charlotte Catholic High 
School should be a force when his 
body catches up to his skills and natu­
ral size. 


Gunner Kiel 
QB, *****, 215 pounds, 6 4 Columbus East High School Columbus, Ind. 
Originally committed to Indiana, Kiel switched to LSU in December before cap ping off a roller coaster recruitment by finally choosing the Irish hours before the start of the second semester. 
The quarterback is one of three early enrollees and will compete for the start ing job in spring practice. He joins an already crowded quarterback position that struggled to provide consistency last season. Expectations for Kiel range from earning the starting job to redshirt ing his first year on campus, similar to the blueprint used in 2011 for freshman quarterback Everett Golson. 
Kiel, at 6 foot-4 and 220 pounds, car ries good size and above average skills on the ground. Due to his arm strength and accuracy, Kiel was tabbed the top rated quarterback prospect in the nation. 
Thursday, February 2, 2012 





William Mahone 
RB, ****, 205 pounds, 5-11 Fitch High School, Austintown, Ohio 

A strong and well-built running back, Will Mahone hopes to step in as Notre Dame’s primary physical back and fill the void created by Jonas Gray’s graduation. 
In his senior season at Fitch High School in Austintown, Ohio, Mahone averaged 7.3 yards per carry and reeled off several long touchdown runs. He also contributed as a linebacker for Fitch, creating two forced fumbles and snatching four interceptions. 
Mahone’s size makes it difficult for defenders to tackle him, as he is powerful enough to drive through defenders. He is not ex­actly a speedy running back but possesses a quick initial burst and has the ability to change direction with ease. 

Beamer Sports Photo 

Add another impressive young pass rushing talent to the Irish front seven — Romeo Okwara, a 6 foot, 4 inch, 225 pound defensive end from Charlotte, N.C., spent last season tirelessly chasing dwn opposing quar terbacks en route to nine sacks and 70 tackles. 
Okwara has been a solid commitment for Notre Dame since before the 2011 season and took in multiple Irish games this past fall, both in South Bend and on the road. Okwara was in attendance for the Oct. 22 loss to USC before taking in wins over Wake Forest and Maryland. As a menacing presence for Ardrey Kell High School, he caused havoc in the opposing backfield with a knack for causing turnovers. He carries a 3.5 grade point average into Notre Dame. 
Capsules by Observer Sports staff 

Thursday, February 2, 2012 The Observer u IRISH INSIDER ndsmcobserver.com | page 5 


C.J. Prosise 
S, ***, 205 pounds, 6 2 Woodberry Forest High School Woodberry Forest, Va. 
C.J. Prosise, a 6 foot-2, 205 pound defensive back, should provide much-needed depth at the safety position for the Irish. 
He picked Notre Dame over offers from schools such as Wisconsin, Vir ginia Tech and Penn State. 
Prosise finished his senior season with 51 tackles, six interceptions and 10 pass breakups. He also should fac tor into the nearly nonexistent Notre Dame punt return game, as Prosise returned four punts for touchdowns last year. 
The Central Virginia Defensive Player of the Year possesses 4.55 speed, yet has the size needed to be a 
Photo courtesy of Flanagan High School safety in college. 



Tee Shepard
CB, ****, 180 pounds, 6-1 Washington Union High School Fresno, Calif. 
The first commitment to Notre Dame’s class of 2012, doing so all the way back in March, Tee Shepard is one of three members of the class who enrolled early for the spring se­mester. 
The fourth best cornerback pros­pect in the country according to rivals.com, Shepard has great size and length for cornerback and im­pressive football instincts, which makes him a potential lockdown de­fensive back for the Irish. 
Shepard sat out his senior season due to an eligibility issue after trans­ferring high schools, but competed in the Semper Fidelis All-American AP Bowl in January. 


Ronnie Stanley
OL, ****, 285 pounds, 6 6 Bishop Gorman High School Las Vegas, Nev. 
Ranked as the top recruit in Nevada, Ronnie Stanley committed to Notre Dame after making an official visit in December, selecting the Irish over Ar kansas and Nebraska. 
A three year starter for powerhouse Bishop Gorman High School in Las Vegas, Stanley’s solid play on the line helped his team capture three consecu tive state championships and deliver a 43 3 record over the last three years. 
Stanley’s 6 foot-7 frame and agility gives him a strong mix of size and ath leticism, which should play well in Irish coach Brian Kelly’s spread offense. He is still seen as raw and needs more time in the weight room but has great 
Photo courtesy of Bishop Gorman High School upside. 


KeiVarae Russell 
ATH, ****, 170 pounds, 6-0 Mariner High School Everett, Wash. 
Running back KeiVarae Russell chose 
the Irish over his home-state Washing­
ton Huskies on Dec. 29. Russell, who also 
received offers from USC and Cal, among 
others, rushed for at least 1,200 yards in 
each of his sophomore, junior and senior 
seasons, including 1,850 yards as a junior 
and 1,293 yards as a senior, despite miss­
ing three games due to injury. 
Russell, who participated in the U.S. 
Army All-American Bowl in January, pro­
vides versatility with his ability to catch 
passes out of the backfield and can play in 
the slot if necessary. Russell’s elusiveness 
and change of pace ability also provides 
a nice complement to fellow Irish signee 
running back Will Mahone’s more power­


ful running game. 
Photo courtesy of Mariner High School 


Elijah Shumate
S, ****, 205 pounds, 6 1 Don Bosco Prep Ramsey, N.J. 
This four star recruit was a huge recruiting coup for a depleted Irish secondary. While receiving offers from Oklahoma, South Carolina and Michigan among others, Shumate chose Notre Dame in early January at the U.S. Army All American Bowl after a late December visit while being heavily recruited by defensive coordinator Bob Diaco. 
Shumate played linebacker in high school, but is expected to make the switch to strong safety for the Irish. 
The Don Bosco product is the No. 4 overall recruit coming out of New Jersey and is known for his jarring hits and tremendous closing speed. 


John Turner 
S, ***, 195 pounds, 6-1 Indianapolis Cathedral High School Indianapolis, Ind. 
John Turner will be a key piece of Notre Dame’s secondary-heavy class, bringing both talent and a tradition of winning to the Irish defense. 
As a cornerback at Cathedral High School in Indianapolis, Turner led his school to two state championships. His lean frame and imposing wingspan caused most opposing offenses to shy away from throwing to his side of the field, and his coverage skills will allow him to challenge for time on defense and special teams immediately. 
Turner made the short drive to South Bend for several games this sea­son, and spoke to other interested re­cruits about the benefits of playing at 


Notre Dame. Photo courtesy of Cathedral High School 
Capsules by Observer Sports staff 



page 6 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u IRISH INSIDER Thursday, February 2, 2012 


Admissions discusses early enrollment process 
Notre Dame has admitted 24 early enrollees to its football program since creating the policy seven years ago 
By ANDREW OWENS in 2009 and an all-time high that they need to buy into that.” Associate Sports Editor of 141 in 2010. No total has yet Of Notre Dame’s 24 early en-been released for 2012. rollees, eight have graduated, 
More than six years ago, with “In general, when there is a two have transferred and 13 the number of high school play-shift in access policies by the are still enrolled at the Univer­ers opting for early enrollment NCAA, we’re always going to sity. Safety Chris Badger has skyrocketing, Notre Dame real-have to look at those issues to been on a two-year mission and ized it was at a competitive dis-make sure it fits what we do at is expected to return to school advantage unless it instituted a Notre Dame and it also keeps this summer. similar policy of its own. the programs competitive with Because Notre Dame has 
So that’s exactly what the what’s going on out there,” As-such a small sample size at this University did. sociate Vice President for Un-point, it is too early to notice 
With three early enrollees dergraduate Enrollment Don any trends, Bishop said. already taking classes at Notre Bishop said. “But it has to serve “We have not seen any con-Dame this semester, only six both purposes. It has to be a cerns as to retention issues. If weeks after they were in sitting reasonable accommodation you look at normal retention in high school classrooms, the to a change in the competitive patterns, they fit within that, total the University has admit-environment that’s out there in although you’re only looking ted in seven years is 24. recruiting, but also it still has at how many have now gone 
“We were approached at the to fit with what Notre Dame through graduation, especially time about this possibility of does. It’s never going to be just with five-year eligibility now enrolling students in essence one side.” being in play, so it’s a little ear-early after three-and-a-half Bishop said the decision of ly to be talking about trends,” years of high school and it whether to accept an early en-he said. “With that said, what clearly was a reflection of the rollee is a collaborative effort we’ve seen with the progress changing world of particularly between the admissions office, of student-athletes, academi­football recruit-the foot-cally, socially, on campus, their ment,” Director ball pro-desire to remain in-state, suc­of Admissions gram and cessful, is all fine. Bob Mundy said. the athlet-“Is there an advantage these “So we obviously “We were approached ic depart-students benefitted from as far agreed that we at the time about this ment. as athletically on the field, or would consider possibility of enrolling “ W e GPA-wise or graduation? [We] it and it’s been students in essence early take real haven’t seen enough of that to a pretty modest care, as say yes to that, but we haven’t 
after three-and-a-half 
number here. does the any problems, either. Rest as-
years of high school 
“It’s a challenge f o o t b a l l sured, if we see problems, we 
and it clearly was a 
for students. Stu-office, in are willing to make corrections 
reflection of the changing 
dents in high that we into any future decision-mak­
school have to be world of particularly interview ing process.” planning this in football recruitment.” these stu­advance so that dents. A shift in transfer policy? they meet all the Bob Mundy We really In August, freshman offen­graduation re-look them sive lineman Jordan Prestwood 
Director of Admissions 
quirements.” in the eye transferred from Florida State 

Former Georgia and talk to Notre Dame, becoming the quarterback Eric to them first scholarship transfer the Zeier is regarded about life Irish have taken in decades. Bishop, who cannot discuss been given is where we already as one of the first high-profile in college and at Notre Dame,” Notre Dame, who had re-individual cases, said the addi-knew them pretty well through players to enroll early out of Bishop said. “So this is not just ceived Prestwood’s commit-tion of the two players did not the process. They went through high school, a move he made a football decision they’re mak-ment during the recruitment represent a shift in the transfer the whole process.” in 1991. There was no NCAA ing; it’s an academic, it’s a per-process before he ultimately policy. Mundy said admissions policy against early enroll-sonal and an athletic decision. flipped to the Seminoles, did “While we had not had [mid-meets with a recruit during the ment, but the practice did not “We give that feedback back not wait decades before ac-year scholarship transfers] be-process, reviews high school gain much momentum until the to the coaches. I’ve been im-cepting its next transfer. USC fore, when we were asked this, transcripts, test scores and se­early 2000s. pressed by the quality of the freshman running back Amir we employed nior sched-
According to USA Today, 15 people we’ve been meeting … Carlisle transferred from the the same treat-ules and players from BCS conferences I think that the kids that are rival Trojans to Notre Dame ment to these tells the foot-enrolled early in 2002, 53 in coming here are coming with in January and enrolled at the transfer kids ball program 
“While we had not had 

2006 (the first year Notre Dame a very specific sense that Notre University for second semester that we would whether they 
[mid-year scholarship 

implemented the policy), 110 Dame is a unique place and classes. to any non-ath-can continue 
transfers] before, when 
lete request-to recruit the 
we were asked this, 
ing it,” he said. athlete. 
we employed the same 
“We just didn’t “If that feel they should treatment to these student com-be singled out transfer kids that we mits to an-and not given would to any non-other place, the same ac-athlete requesting it.” he’s not go­cess that other ing to ap­students did. ply to Notre 
Don Bishop 
“I can’t speak Dame, so we 
Associate Vice President for 
to why it wasn’t never had asked for [by Undergraduate Enrollment the opportu­the football nity to admit program] be-him, but the fore, but when implication it was asked for and we looked clearly is that we would have.” at our policies, we said, ‘Yes. Bishop said it is unlikely that We do this. We do take mid-the Admissions Department year transfers.’” would be unfamiliar with a 
Mundy said the University football player looking to trans-often receives calls during the fer because of how widely Notre summer or after a semester Dame seeks out players during from students regretting the recruitment. decision not to attend Notre “The football program is so Dame. If the student had been thorough that they’ve engaged previously admitted to Notre every student-athlete in the Dame, their case is reviewed if country who has reasonable the University has open spots. academics for Notre Dame, 
While football recruits typi-who is a high talent,” Bishop cally do not officially apply to said. “They don’t miss those. I a school until they are commit-don’t know if there will ever be ted, the admissions office has a case where they will present completed a vetting process somebody that was not recruit-with all players considering ed, who was not a part of a pro-Notre Dame, Bishop said. cess with us. … They already 
“If we were unfamiliar with know the top kids in the coun­them completely and there try, they’re already recruiting wasn’t much information avail-them.” able, then no, we would not 



Irish freshman defensive end Aaron Lynch chases Maryland quarterback Danny O’Brien in Notre be moving forward on them,” Contact Andrew Owens at Dame’s 45-21 victory on Nov. 12. Lynch enrolled early at Notre Dame in January 2011. he said. “The only cases we’ve aowens2@nd.edu 
Thursday, February 2, 2012 The Observer u IRISH INSIDER ndsmcobserver.com | page 7 


After early surge, ‘12 recruiting finishes slowly 
By ALLAN JOSEPH ceiver class. I like all the guys Sports Editor there,” Frank said. “I think one highly underrated player When Irish recruiting expert is KeiVarae Russell … He’s a Mike Frank considers recruiting guy that can get moving in a classes, he uses three all-impor-hurry, and he’s exactly the type tant criteria for evaluation. of player they’ve been lacking. 
“The first thing you want to “I think Chris Brown brings a do is make sure you fill all your lot of good size and speed. He’s needs, and the second thing you a guy that can stretch the field want to do is make sure you and get behind the secondary.” get some quality depth,” said Despite a solid group of re-Frank, who runs the ESPN-cruits, Frank said there were affiliated Irish still a few Sports Daily. weakness­“The third thing es in the is that you’ve incoming got to get some group of impact players. freshmen. You’ve got to get “The first thing you want “They guys that when to do is make sure you fill really you watch them all your needs, and the needed an­on film, you look second thing you want to other cor­at them and you do is make sure you get ner — they 

say, ‘Okay, that missed
some quality depth.” 
guy is going to there,” play here. I have Frank said. 
Mike Frank 
no doubt that “I think he’s going to be a Irish recruiting analyst they need-“[Last year,] people looked at cruits look for when they’re sive line is huge,” Frank said. player here.’” ed at least it and said, ‘Well, Brian Kelly’s considering schools. One is good “They’re going to have to get five 
Based on those one more turning this around. This is a football, one’s a good social life [linemen], and they’re going to criteria, Frank o f f e n s i v e program on the rise, and I want and one is a good education — need to get some guys who can said Notre Dame’s lineman. I to jump aboard,’” Frank said. and I think play already … 2012 class was really like “This year, ups and downs for a lot of These guys know a good class, al-the two all throughout the season, these guys, how to evaluate though not a spectacular one they have … they definitely and unfortunately the last two it’s in that offensive line tal­like the 2011 signing class. needed one more, and maybe games didn’t go their way … I o r d e r , ” ent. I’ve been re­“I think it was a solid class,” another, and unfortunately they think what you’re seeing now is Frank said. “This year, ups and ally impressed Frank said. “Last year they got missed there. just perception. These recruits “ N o t r e with that they’ve 
downs all throughout the 
a number of [impact players.] “I think they would have liked are having a little pause, say-Dame has done so far in 
season, and unfortunately 
This year, they’ve got quite a to have another running back ing, ‘I thought this was turn-a l w a y s that area.” 
the last two games didn’t 
few, but it’s not as many as last other than Will Mahone … I Like ing around but maybe it’s not.’ been able All in all, Frank 
go their way ... I think 
year. They got some key players, Will Mahone, but I just think they “I don’t think it was any lack of to land said Kelly and his though, at need positions.” would have liked to have another effort. I think Notre Dame’s staff elite play-what you’re seeing now staff did a good Despite California receiver different type of running back.” really worked hard to get these ers from is just perception.” job recruiting. Deontay Greenberry’s surprise Frank said the late-season players, but they came out just a all across “They got a lot commitment to Houston over surge the Irish had on the field bit short.” the country Mike Frank of really good the Irish, Frank said he was still in 2010 helped the 2011 signing Frank said Notre Dame relies when they players. They 
Irish recruiting analyst 
pleased with the receivers who class, while the late-season in-on winning football games to play good did a good job,” signed letters of intent. consistency in the 2011 season recruit most effectively. f o o t b a l l . Frank said. “Overall, I really like the re-hampered the 2012 class. “There are three things re-T h e y ’ v e “Unfortunately, never had a they’re about two problem. or three impact 

“ W hen players away they were winning enough from this being a great class … games, kids were lining up to They were so close on so many come here. They were turning of these guys.” kids away.” 
As Frank looked ahead to the For more information on Notre class of 2013, he pointed out a Dame recruiting, check out Mike number of positions the Irish Frank’s irishsportsdaily.com. will need to fill, including in-Email Mike at side linebacker, running back mikefrank18@sbcglobal.net and and defensive end. One position, tell him The Observer sent you. however, stood out more than any other. Contact Allan Joseph at 
“Without a question, offen-ajoseph2@nd.edu 
Irish coach Brian Kelly discusses the 2012 recruiting class at a press conference Wednesday. The class, Kelly’s second full haul at Notre Dame, consists of 16 recruits from across the country. 






