
COMMENTARY 

Four-way QB scramble yields clear best choice 
“Quarterback Scramble,” huh? 
That sounds about right, and it isn’t just because I love breakfast food. 
This is really a wide-open race — as it should be. 
As often as I criti­cize Tommy Rees for poor arm strength and bad throws, Irish coach Brian Kelly has faith in him. And yes, I know, col­umnists aren’t supposed to admit this, but Kelly knows a lot more about football than I do. 
Anyone who has watched Everett Golson’s nearly-legendary high school high­light reel knows why he has such a large following in ND Nation. Golson’s athleticism is unmatched under center, and the growing success of mobile quar­terbacks in college foot­ball makes choosing him age. That rules out Golson, as exciting as he is. While there’s room for Golson as a part of special packages and as a change of pace, he sim­ply doesn’t have the accuracy to run Kelly’s offense on a consistent basis. 

To be a truly effective quarterback, the starter will need a comprehensive and comfortable grasp of the playbook and all of the pre­and post-snap reads he could possibly be asked to make. By all accounts, Kiel is a smart kid, but asking him to do that in time for the season opener is simply too much. 
That leaves Rees and Hendrix, and I suppose the second word makes it a dead giveaway why I don’t think Rees should be at the top of the depth chart. Yes, a Notre Dame quarterback needs to be able to scramble. 
When the pocket collapses, the guy looking downfield needs to have the presence 
— and quickness — to roll out and buy himself some time. Every now and then, he might even need to tuck 
the ball and run without the entire stadium holding its 

tempting. This isn’t just a process collective Of course, breath. 
of elimination decision. 
how can you Again, 
Hendrix really is 
count out the nothing 
the best choice. 
No. 1 quarter­back recruit in the entire na­tion, especial­ly considering his name is Gunner? The young Kiel has a skill set nearly unheard of at his young age, and his ear­ly enrollment might just give him enough time to become familiar enough with the of­fense to lead it for three (let’s be honest, not four) straight years. 
But we did say “quarter­back scramble,” right? Be­cause that makes the answer pretty clear, and it’s the guy we haven’t mentioned yet: Andrew Hendrix. 
Let’s take that phrase and take it one word at a time. 
“Quarterback.” Notice that it doesn’t say “glorified running back.” The Irish need a true gunslinger in the backfield, not a Denard Robinson-style running back who occasionally heaves the ball downfield hoping to get lucky against single cover-against Rees, but he just isn’t that guy. When his protection 
is stellar, he does a passable job. But when he faces any sort of pressure, the play is over. He has to tuck the ball and protect it. 
This isn’t just a process-of­elimination decision. Hendrix really is the best choice. 
There’s no one who has a quicker release — which translates into more accurate throws. Hendrix is smart and a hard worker, and he’s comfortable enough in a gold helmet to be a leader on the field. 
Yes, it’s a quarterback scramble. But it’s not as jum­bled up as you might think. 
Contact Allan Joseph at ajoseph2@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

RECRUITING 


OL Montelus headlines visits 
By CHRIS ALLEN 
Sports Editor 
The Irish welcome 20 recruits and six signees from the Class of 2012 to campus this weekend to take in the 83rd annual Blue-Gold Game. Though a number of future impact players will line the sidelines to watch the spring scrimmage, Irish recruiting ex­pert Mike Frank said the focus this weekend is on welcoming back commitments and signees and to build chemistry among the future Irish players. 
“There really isn’t a whole lot going on with recruiting this weekend,” said Frank, who runs the ESPN-affiliated Irish Sports Daily. “The big thing is that they’re going to bring a lot of guys back, a lot of guys who are committed in this class. [Quarterback] Malik Zaire and [athlete] James Onwualu and all the offensive linemen along with [cornerback] Devin Butler who recently committed will be here.” 
Frank said the weekend is not as critical to recruiting as it has been in years past because of all the early commitments the Irish have received. 
“Pretty much everybody who’s committed in this class minus one or two is going to be up there. Also, a lot of the 2012 class that recently signed will be up there. Notre Dame wanted to make sure those guys got together and hung out.” 
Frank said the hectic schedule for coaches that comes with the annual spring game has lessened the importance of the game in the recruiting cycle. 
“The coaches are really busy during this time, they’re coach­ing a game, and they don’t have a lot of time to spend talking to each player,” he said. “I think if they get a kid on campus they re­ally want to spend time with him and I think it was more of a fo­cus of ‘Let’s get them here when we can spend more time with them,’ and the spring game isn’t necessarily the best time to do that. What they’re trying to do is get all their committed guys up here and refresh their memories about Notre Dame and building a bond among each other. I think that was the vision for recruiting this weekend.” 
Highlighting the list of uncom­mitted visitors this weekend is coveted offensive lineman John Montelus from Everett, Mass. A 6-foot-5, 295-pound player, Montelus has fielded offers from Florida, Michigan, Ohio State and Nebraska among others includ­ing Boston College, the in-state favorite. Though Notre Dame already has four commitments on the offensive line, Frank said Montelus deserves a look. 
“Originally the plan was just to take four offensive linemen, and they already have the four committed, but a player of Mon­telus’ caliber, you’ve got take to take him. He’s just too good to pass up,” he said. “There’s prob­ably two or three offensive line­men left on the board they would take a commitment from, and he is definitely one of them. He’s got offers from SEC schools, ev­erybody up the East coast, and some of the Big Ten. He’s just a very athletic kid who moves very well, has very good size and is a smart kid.” 
Notre Dame’s coaches will also hone in on the visit of tight end Mike Heuerman of Naples, Fla., who is slated to make a decision between a handful of schools including Notre Dame and Ohio State on Apr. 27. 
“His brother was a tight end at Ohio State, and he’s going to Ohio State this weekend. I believe Notre Dame is in the driver’s seat for Heuerman,” Frank said. “I think he likes Notre Dame quite a lot, and I think this solidifies his thoughts on Notre Dame and Ohio State. I think if he has an­other good visit and gets along with people, Notre Dame’s going to be tough to beat when it’s all said and done.” 

The group of recruits and com­mits will arrive on campus in the wake of sophomore defensive end Aaron Lynch’s transfer an­nouncement. Frank said Lynch’s departure poses a challenge to the Irish recruiting efforts. 
“It’s going to be a challenge. It’s certainly not a positive that he’s leaving. But I think for [Irish coaches] Brian Kelly, Tony Al­ford, Scott Booker and the guys who are recruiting in [Florida], it’s easy to explain,” Frank said. “Some people will feel comfort­able at Notre Dame and some won’t. Kids transfer from schools all over the country, it’s not just a phenomenon at Notre Dame. Great players leave programs, it happens everywhere. 
“Is it a positive? Obviously I don’t think it’s a positive, and the coaches will have some questions to answer about some previous positions kids may have about Notre Dame. But that’s been that way for many years trying to lure kids from California, Texas and Florida. It is a different environ­ment, and a totally different cul­ture from what they grew up in and are comfortable in.” 
For more on Notre Dame recruiting, check out Mike Frank’s irishsportsdaily.com. 
Email Mike at mikefrank18@sbcglobal.net and tell him The Observer sent you. 
Contact Chris Allen at callen10@nd.edu 






Mixed signal-callers 
Experienced Rees competes with up-and-comers Hendrix, Golson and Kiel for crucial starting QB spot 
By MATTHEW DeFRANKS 
Associate Sports Editor 
Call them the Four Horsemen 
2.0. Call them the Four-leaf Clo­ver. Call them Tommy, Andrew, Everett and Gunner. 
No matter what you call them, only one quarterback can be the starter. 
For the second consecutive year, Irish coach Brian Kelly and Notre Dame enter the annual Blue-Gold Game with four signal callers vying for the one starting spot. This year’s candidates — ju­niors Tommy Rees and Andrew Hendrix, sophomore Everett Gol­son and freshman Gunner Kiel 
— have all earned reps with the first-team offense during prac­tice. 
“From an offensive perspec­tive, great work for our quarter­backs [this spring],” Kelly said. “I thought each one of them im­proved in the areas we were looking for. The biggest point of emphasis was taking care of the football, not turning it over. 
“I feel really good after the spring that our quarterbacks are well on the way to being the quarterbacks we need — that is very efficient, takes great care of the football and can make the throws when necessary.” 
After starting as a back-to­basics competition, the quarter­back race has evolved into one that now includes checks, a heavy part of Kelly’s spread offense. Ad­ditionally, all four gunslingers will be live (allowed to be hit) in the scrimmage Saturday after­noon. 
“They’re all running the same offense,” Kelly said. “Maybe you accentuate more of their strengths by running a particular play for them more than another but all of them need to be able to digest. We’re not calling, like we did last year, two different games. We’re not installing two different offenses. This is one offense that they all have to master.” 
Kelly said the rotation in the spring game will be in order of seniority. Rees will play first, fol­lowed by Hendrix, Golson and Kiel. 
The incumbent 
As the returning starter, Rees has extensive experience with the Notre Dame offense in the past two seasons. In two years of play­ing time and 22 games played (in­cluding 16 starts), Rees has accu­mulated 3,977 yards passing and 32 touchdowns. He has, however, thrown 22 interceptions. 
“Tommy’s thing was turn­overs,” Kelly said. “If Tommy didn’t turn the ball over at the rate he did, we’d be talking about this kid at the highest level. He did, though. That’s why it’s an open competition.” 
Kelly said he wanted Rees to fo­cus on extending plays while un­der duress. While Rees may have simply rolled out toward the side­lines and thrown the ball away before, Kelly said he would like to have him use his legs more. 
“Keeping plays alive, using his feet. He’s a better athlete than he gives him credit for,” Kelly said. “We’ve tried to give him opportu­nities to extend plays as well as doing a better job with ball place­ment. We threw the ball into in­terceptions that could have been avoided.” 
The Lake Forest, Ill., product is not exactly known for his run­ning prowess, though. His career high for rushing yards in a game stands at six while the longest carry of his career tallied just 12 yards. In one spring practice, Rees ripped off an eight-yard de­signed run that gave him some confidence. 
“[Running is] something we’ve been working on and something that I’ve wanted to do live and have a real situation where I can be hit,” Rees said. “It’s definitely something I think I can do. It’s something you want to have in your arsenal if you’re trying to be the starting quarterback.” 
The prototype 
While Rees is just growing into his role as a runner, Hendrix has grown into his responsibility as a dual-threat quarterback over the past year, when he had special packages designed to highlight his athleticism. 
Hendrix has been described as the perfect quarterback for Kelly’s system, one that benefits greatly from having a mobile quarterback. Kelly, however, said Hendrix needs to improve on his confidence in order to reach his full potential as a signal caller. 


“[He needs to improve on] comfort within the offense and going out there and command­ing the offense,” Kelly said. “Go­ing out there and saying ‘I’m the guy, let’s go.’ That’s what I want from him. That’s what I need from him. I don’t know whether it’s just learning the offense and really being comfortable or he’s never been required to do that. But I know what I have to get out of him. He can do it. I just need it consistently.” 
While Kelly harps on Hendrix’s mental state of mind, the Cincin­nati native said he is focused on other parts of his game. 
“I would say [I need to work on] probably footwork and bal­ance,” Hendrix said. “That’s my big thing, that’s coach Kelly’s big thing. Keeping my back foot planted, just not getting too excit­ed, staying relaxed and following through. It’s just things like that. I definitely worked on my mechan­ics a lot.” 
Hendrix impressed in limited playing time a year ago, passing for 249 yards and rushing for 162 yards, making him Notre Dame’s third-leading rusher last season. Despite his performance in 2011, Hendrix said he does not know where he stands in the race. 
“Some days I can be first, some days I can be last. Honestly, I can say I have no idea,” Hendrix said. “We have four really, really good quarterbacks. The level of competition is so extremely high from Tommy and Everett to Gun­ner who just got here and can throw like any of us can. So it re­ally helps to keep you motivated when you see all four guys be­cause it could be anyone’s job at any time.” 
The wild card 
The open competition is not new for Golson, who partook in last year’s derby before eventu­ally sitting out the season to pre­serve a year of eligibility. He said the 2012 version is different from last year’s, though. 
“It’s a full-out four [this spring],” Golson said. “It’s good for me because we have four quarterbacks out there really competing who are all kind of on the same level and bring different things to the table.” 


The Myrtle Beach, S.C., product 
— named the offensive practice squad MVP for 2011 — said en­rolling early last year helped him grow as a quarterback. 
“I think I’ve grown tremen­dously from last spring until now,” Golson said. “I’ve al­play in which Kiel forgot the play and put sophomore tight end Ben Koyack in a dangerous situation. Kelly said Kiel came up to him, accepted the blame and absorbed his advice to throw the ball away next time. 
“He’s great in the classroom. He’s great on the field. He has a great temperament and demean­or,” Kelly said. “I just like the fact that he’s very, very coachable. 
He’s someone 
that’s going to 
pick it up very 
quickly.” 

most doubled “This is one offense that “I think [I 
my IQ of how they all have to master.” have made] a football works. ton [of prog-I still have a ress toward 
Brian Kelly 
long, long way being the 
Irish coach 
to go.”  
Golson,  a  
three-star  re­ 
cruit  and  No.  

16 -ranked quarterback in his class, also possesses the ability to take off and run for additional yards. 
“When Everett got here a year ago, it was the unconscious in­competence. He didn’t know that he didn’t know,” Kelly said. “He’s grown to a conscious competence but it’s so hard for him every day to be that guy. He will do it, we just wish it was sooner.” 
The blue chip 
As the young but highly tout­ed early enrollee, Kiel chose the Irish late in the recruiting pro­cess after initially committing to Indiana and then LSU. The 6-foot­4, Columbus, Ind., native said he is adjusting well to college foot­ball so far. 
“Things are going great. I can’t believe things have gone by so fast. But I have definitely learned a lot,” Kiel said. “[I’m] going to ev­ery practice the same way, hav­ing a great attitude. Just trying to do my best and work on some small things. I’m trying to build a bond and get everything coach Kelly and coach Martin are try­ing to teach me.” 
Kelly said the top-ranked high school quarterback is easy to coach and referenced a practice starter],” Kiel 
said. “All of us 
came in try­
ing to compete 
for the same thing. The one thing about us is that we have really grown a strong bond. When I first came in I didn’t really know anyone or know the quarterbacks that well, but now I can go to them anytime and they are willing to help me, which is huge.” 
The starter 
Who will it be? 
Kelly said a starter will not be named until August as the coach­ing staff still needs time to evalu­ate the four candidates. 
“Let’s see who that guy is that takes those voluntary workouts [in the summer] seriously and is not just out there whipping it around like he’s in the backyard,” Kelly said. “Who’s that guy who wants to do that? The next step would be all those practices [in August].” 
Will it be the maligned yet ex­perienced former starter? Will it be the versatile yet inexperi­enced up-and-comer? Will it be the exciting yet undersized dual-threat? Will it be the talented yet raw top recruit? 
Who will it be? 

Contact Matthew DeFranks at mdefrank@nd.edu 




T.J. Jones 
Junior 
Luke Massa 
Junior




2012 Season 
Tyler Eifert 
Senior


Projected 
Ben Koyack 
Sophomore 


Zack Martin 
Senior


Depth Chart 

Jordan Prestwood 
Sophomore 




Editor’s Note: These depth charts are based on spring practice observations by Observer beat writers Chris Allen, Matthew DeFranks, Andrew Gastelum, Allan Joseph, Andrew Owens. 
Season Predictions 
Nick Tausch 
Senior 
Kyle Brindza 
Sophomore 

Ben Turk 
Senior 
Kyle Brindza 
Sophomore 

Andrew Hendrix 
Junior 
Tommy Rees 
Junior 


Cierre Wood 
Senior 
Theo Riddick 
Senior 




Robby Toma 
Senior 
Daniel Smith 
Junior 



Chris Watt 
Senior 
Bruce Heggie 
Junior 

Braxston Cave 
Graduate Student 
Mike Golic, Jr. 
Graduate Student 

Mike Golic, Jr. 
Graduate Student 
Nick Martin 
Sophomore 


Christian Lombard 
Junior 
Tate Nichols 
Junior 



John Goodman 
Graduate Student 
DaVaris Daniels 
Sophomore 
Allan Joseph 
Editor-in-Chief 

I suppose it goes without saying that this is a pretty tough slate to predict. If the quarterbacks strug­gle, the secondary fulfills fans’ worst fears and the running game suffers an early injury, this squad could struggle to be bowl-eligible, especially considering the sched­ule, which is one of the toughest in 
recent memory. 
I think this team is better than that, though. Cierre Wood will have a breakout year, and the defense will outperform expectations. Whoever ends up starting at quarterback will have tight end Tyler Eifert as a safety blanket, and DaVaris Daniels has the capability to be­come a dynamic playmaker. Considering the difficult schedule, 9-3 is a little too optimistic. But look for at least one signature victory this year, if not more. 
REGULAR SEASON RECORD: 8-4 
Andrew Owens 
Assistant Managing Editor 


Jimmy Clausen has been gone for two seasons, and in those two sea­sons, Notre Dame could not find a worthy successor. 
In 2012, Irish fans will finally see a ray of hope from their signal caller, as Andrew Hendrix or Everett Golson will provide stability in the present and high expectations for the future. 
The most intriguing positions out­side of the quarterback derby happen to face each other: wide receivers and cornerbacks. The problem is we can’t learn much in the Blue-Gold Game. If one unit performs well against the other, is it due to its own talent or be­cause of a lack of development by its counterpart? Only the regular season can tell us for sure. 
Fans need to be patient while the groundwork is built in 2012. 
REGULAR SEASON RECORD: 7-5 
Chris Allen 
Sports Editor 


It may be a new year, but the rheto­ric this spring has been very similar to the rhetoric last spring: it’s about the guy under center. This year, another four-person competition will produce the starter. Though the quarterback is obviously an important compo­nent, the 2012 Irish will be a team remembered for what it does on the 
ground. Cierre Wood, Theo Riddick, USC transfer Amir Carlisle and big back George Atkinson give Notre Dame a legitimate stable of backs with which to facilitate the running game. If Hendrix or Golson win the quarterback job, the ground game will improve even fur­ther. Against dynamic passers like USC’s Matt Barkley and Oklahoma’s Landry Jones, the running game will have to put points on the board. The daunting schedule will make it a tough year, but I foresee a similar record to 2011. 
REGULAR SEASON RECORD: 8-4 





Bennett Jackson 
Junior 
Jalen Brown 
Sophomore 



Danny Spond 
Jamoris Slaughter 
Junior Graduate Student 
Ben Councell Austin Collinsworth 
Sophomore Junior 

Kapron Lewis-Moore 
Graduate Student 
Sheldon Day 
Freshman 



Manti Te’o 
Senior 

Kendall Moore 
Junior 


Louis Nix 
Junior 
Kona Schwenke 
Junior 



Carlo Calabrese 
Senior 

Dan Fox 
Senior 


Stephon Tuitt 
Sophomore 
Chase Hounshell 
Sophomore 



Prince Shembo 
Zeke Motta 
Junior Senior 
Ishaq Williams Eilar Hardy 
Sophomore Sophomore 


Lo Wood 
Junior 
Josh Atkinson 
Sophomore 
XULE LIN/The Observer 

BRANDON KEELEAN | Observer Graphics 
Andrew Gastelum 
Associate Sports Editor 

Two years in, this season will truly determine which direction Brian Kel­ly’s program will head. And he knows the pressure is on because these are mostly his recruits now. 
With this team, fans are quick to point out its weaknesses, while not focusing on the obvious strengths — such as a veteran, close-knit offensive 
line and a running back duo that will surprise everyone this season. On the defensive side, the front seven is downright scary, even with the loss of Aaron Lynch. Meanwhile, the secondary is anchored by a leader in Jamoris Slaughter and group of athletic corners locked in a fierce competition, which is where I will keep my eyes fixed this weekend. 
The Irish will find a way to finally squeeze into the BCS, and it will start with far fewer turnovers. 
REGULAR SEASON RECORD: 9-3 
Matthew DeFranks 
Associate Sports Editor 


When the daunting 2012 sched­ule was released in 2010, many pegged it as a lost season. Since then, well, not much has changed. 
With a slate featuring road games against two probable prese­son top-five teams (Oklahoma and USC), Notre Dame will struggle to match it’s eight-win regular season 
from a year ago. I think those are the only two losses penciled in for the Irish next season while games against Michigan State, Michigan, Miami and Stanford seem like toss-ups — which the Irish have tended to lose recently. 
Cierre Wood. Theo Riddick (look for him in the Blue-Gold game) and the Manti Te’o-led but Aaron Lynch-less defense will do their best job to help Andrew Hen­drix’s offense but it just won’t be enough for the Irish. 
REGULAR SEASON RECORD: 7-5 

Goodman, Daniels among group to replace Floyd 
By ANDREW OWENS but [I have a short memory]. Assistant Managing Editor My drops this spring have gone 
down so much compared to 
How do you replace a receiv-past years and it’s a confidence er that amassed 271 catches, factor.” 3,686 yards and 37 touchdowns Goodman said he worried too in four illustrious seasons at much in the past about where Notre Dame? he would be on the depth chart 
While finding an individual or what the coaches thought of to produce in 2012 at Michael his performance. This spring, Floyd-like levels is virtually im-he said he has realized just how possible, the Irish aren’t impos-much confidence the coaches ing the burden on any one play-have in him, which has led to a er. Rather, it’s a ragtag group more relaxed approach. of upperclassmen attempting Junior Daniel Smith partici­to finally find their niche while pated in each of Notre Dame’s also leading the way for the un-spring practices after being derclassmen. hampered by injuries most of 
“I don’t think anyone has his time since enrolling at the roles right now,” said senior University. running back Theo Riddick, “Daniel is important to us, who is in his second stint in the Kelly said. “We need him to backfield after dabbling at re-come up and be a consistent ceiver for two seasons. “At this player for us … He’s had the point, we’re still trying to find injury bug and it looks like he’s who can do what and who has kicked it because he made every weak points there and strong spring practice and he wasn’t points there.” able to do that in his previous 
While Riddick can no longer time here.” be found at a receiver position Since shaking off an injury on the depth chart, the New of his own, sophomore DaVa-Jersey native will be a hybrid of ris Daniels has experienced an sorts for Notre Dame and will epiphany similar to Goodman’s be called upon to make plays in during the course of spring many different roles. practice, Kelly said. 
“You can be very dangerous “This week DaVaris Daniels if you can [run and catch],” he really stepped up his play and said. became a guy we can feel com-
While previous contribu-fortable now saying that he’s tors senior Robby Toma and going to help us win games next junior T.J. Jones return along year,” he said. “And that’s really with senior tight end Tyler Eif-important.” ert in 2012, the rest of the unit After sustaining a leg injury involves an influx of familiar early in spring practice, Daniels summer now as it relates to names who have yet to make is healthy again and is starting Daniels.” their mark on the field. to display some of the flashes Daniels said the proverbial 
Graduate student John Good-that made him a highly touted light bulb turned on after the man said he needed to find a four-star recruit coming out of Champs Sports Bowl after hav­new mental approach before high school. ing a discussion with the coach-being able to step up as the “He made a couple plays es about his role in 2012 and threat he says he is today. [in practice],” Kelly said. “All beyond. 
“[Last year] I’d drop a ball he’s heard is all this potential “[They put] that motivation here and there and [Irish coach [he has], but then he makes a in my head and I’m doing it I Brian] Kelly would say, ‘You’re couple plays and that’s just the guess,” he said. “My confidence two catches from being a good igniter. And once that guy ignit-is much more than what it was receiver,’” Goodman said. “I’d ed, he made a ton of plays. We last year … When you have a keep that in mind and then this know it’s there, now we have to head coach that believes in you, year I count my drops and if I get it from him and we feel re-you can’t help but believe in get one I get [upset] at myself, ally good about going into the yourself.” 
FALL 2012 IRISH FOOTBALL SCHEDULE 
Date  Opponent  Location   Time (EST)  
Sept. 1  Navy  Dublin  9 a.m.  
Sept. 8  Purdue  Notre Dame Stadium  3:30 p.m.  
Sept. 15  Michigan State  East Lansing, Mich.  TBA  
Sept. 22  Michigan  Notre Dame Stadium  7:30 p.m.  
Oct. 6  Miami  Chicago  7:30 p.m.  
Oct. 13  Stanford  Notre Dame Stadium  3:30 p.m.  
Oct. 20  BYU  Notre Dame Stadium  3:30 p.m.  
Oct. 27  Oklahoma  Norman, Okla.  TBA  
Nov. 3  Pittsburgh  Notre Dame Stadium  3:30 p.m.  
Nov. 10  Boston College  Chesnut Hill, Mass.  TBA  
Nov. 17  Wake Forest  Notre Dame Stadium  3:30 p.m.  
Nov. 24  USC  Los Angeles  TBA  



Daniels said his next step on the path to becoming an elite receiver is becoming a better route runner to complement his speed, but he said the unit isn’t feeling the pressure as much as fans and the media might ex­pect. 
“From the outside looking in, there’s a lot of pressure, but we’re a loose group,” he said. “We know what we can do, so we’re just going out there and having fun and trying to make plays. We don’t feel the pres­sure at all.” 
It’s one thing when the re­ceivers exude confidence about their own play, but it’s another when the defensive backs whose job it is to stop them agree. 
“I think the receivers have been looking great this spring and they have definitely been very competitive,” Irish senior safety Zeke Motta said. “We have some good looking ath­letes on that side of the ball, from DaVaris to Robby. We have a lot of versatile guys. 
“It’s exciting to see from a de­fensive perspective. Obviously [the defensive backs] don’t like to give up anything, but it’s cool and I think they’ve been doing a good job of bringing them along.” 
Motta said he has seen the receivers’ confidence grow dur­ing practice and thinks the unit will be a strength for Notre Dame in the fall. 
“Confidence is key for any player,” he said. “[It helps] just to be able to come out and know you’re going to be making plays and stuff like that. Obviously it helps when you see that and make those plays. Everybody’s confidence has been going up because we’ve been coming to­gether and focusing on that.” 
While Floyd may be on the brink of signing a lucrative NFL contract, his former teammates contend they are ready to apply the lessons they learned from the All-American in their daily routine. 
“He came in every single practice to dominate, and that’s my objective now and I believe I can do that every single day,” Goodman said. “He came to dominate, he came to lead, he came to do whatever made the team better. As a fifth-year se­nior … I have to assume that role.” 
Jones. Toma. Daniels. Smith. It may not carry the same ring as Stuhldreher, Miller, Crowley and Layden, but the current Irish receivers have learned it’s more about today than the past. 
Contact Andrew Owens at aowens2@nd.edu 


Early enrollees Kiel and Day adjust to Notre Dame 

By ANDREW GASTELUM 
Associate Sports Editor 
It’s two weeks before prom, which means freshman quar­terback Gunner Kiel should be worried about renting a tuxedo, filling a limo and what moves he will pull out on the dance floor. But it is a different type of fan­cy footwork that concerns Kiel now, where the high school su­perstar goes from waltzing with a prom queen to fox-trotting away from 6-foot-6, 300-pound defensive brutes. 
“I haven’t really thought about [going to prom] too much. I have been thinking about school­work,” Kiel admitted in the first week of spring practice. “I have a lot of [football and school] stuff going on here, so I should probably do that first.” 
Thrown into college life af­ter winter break, the term ‘freshman adjustment’ took on a whole new meaning for the early enrollee. The Friday night lights are gone, as are the home­room classes, flung away nearly as quickly as a bullet pass from the 18-year-old gunslinger. At the same time senioritis should start to creep in, Kiel said he must comprehensively focus more than ever on his academ­ics. 
“[The toughest thing] has been classwork. It’s very diffi­cult,” Kiel said. “But it’s what you are going to get. I mean, Notre Dame is like an Ivy League school. It’s the best of the best. 
“When I was getting recruited I had three things on my mind. One of them was the distance from home, the guys on the team and the education I was going to get.” 
Tumultuous as it was, Kiel chose Notre Dame after switch-

CHANGES THIS SPRING 
POSITION CHANGES 

Sr. Theo Riddick from wide receiver to running back So. Troy Niklas from linebacker to tight end So. Cam McDaniel from running back to cornerback 
So. Matthias Farley from wide receiver to safety 
NUMBER CHANGES 

So. George Atkinson from No. 34 to No. 4 So. Ishaq Williams from No. 1 to No. 11 So. Troy Niklas from No. 58 to No. 85 So. Eilar Hardy from No. 34 to No. 4 
ing his commitment from de­fending SEC-champion LSU (and Indiana long before that) just hours before enrolling, drawing the ire of Tiger fans and even eccentric coach Les Miles him­self. But that was already three months ago, and Kiel said he quickly jettisoned his persona­non-grata status in the Bayou when he took a blindside hit from the South Bend winter. 
“It’s been awesome, but when I first got here there was seven inches of snow and I didn’t know where anything was at and all the buildings looked the same, so it was kind of hard to find my classes,” the five-star quarter­back said. “But I’m good now.” 
However, the Columbus, Ind., native was never alone in his assimilation into life under the dome. In fact, all Kiel had to do was look across his O’Neill Hall dorm room to find solace in fel­low Hoosier and early-enrollee, defensive lineman Sheldon Day. 
“When you have another early enrollee that comes in, it makes the transition easier because you have someone to talk to,” Day said. “When you’re going through a slump, they’re prob­ably going through it too. You can talk to each other and work your way out of the slump.” 
The premature and unantici­pated departure of early enroll­ee cornerback Tee Shepard left the roommates as the only early enrollees, compared to last sea­son’s crop of five. Regardless, there was football to be played 
— college football with new, en­hanced schemes, plays and com­petition. 
“Yeah it’s a little bit [surreal],” Kiel said. “I was talking to Shel­don about it, he feels the same way. It was completely differ­ent coming from high school … [The difference] is pretty unre­al. Looking at the playbook and terms and concepts, it’s hard but it’s something you can do.” 
Day said the effect of the swift turnaround from high school All-American to the new kid in school did not set in en­tirely until his first practice, when he lined up behind the vaunted Irish defensive line and standouts Aaron Lynch, who announced last week he will transfer from Notre Dame at se­mester’s end and Stephon Tuitt, whom he calls his “big brother.” 
“My first day … it kind of hit me fast,” Day said. “I was with the second group, and I’m sup­posed to be a senior in high school, but I’m here. It kind of hit me then. 
“I get a jump start on school and jump start on the football, and I’m glad I made that deci­sion [to enroll early].” 
Always quick to cite school­work as his first priority in any question about college life, Kiel reiterated his roommate’s senti­ment with the wisdom and fore­sight of a college senior, while just three months into his First Year of Studies program. 
“It was pretty huge [to be an early enrollee],” he said. “Defi­nitely to get a start on school­work and all that stuff, but also to get into the playbook and learn new things. And just to let the guys know that I was here and I was going to work hard and do whatever I can to make the team better.” 
It is unknown whether 2011’s Mr. Indiana Football will at­tend his senior prom, but even he might trade in a corsage for a wristband playbook and a bou­tonniere for a bootleg pass. 
Contact Andrew Gastelum at agastel1@nd.edu 







