the Independent newspaper serVIng notre dame and saInt mary’s 




U.S. News & World Report ranks ND, SMC 
 University  rises to 17th in list of national institutions 

By ANN MARIE    JAKUBOWSKI 
news writer 
In this year’s u.s. news and world report best colleges rank­ings released earlier this month, notre dame jumped from no. 19 to no. 17, landing at that spot in a tie with Vanderbilt university and rice university. 
the rankings take into ac­count not only standard data such as admission rate, student retention rate and graduation rate, but also student satisfaction survey results, faculty resources and percentage of alumni who contribute. 
donald bishop, associate vice 
see ranKIngs paGe 5 



College named 87th among liberal arts schools 
By BRIDGET FEENEY 
associate saint mary’s editor 
for the fourth year in a row, u.s. news and world report ranked saint mary’s college among the top-100 best national liberal arts colleges. the college came in at no. 87, up from no. 90 last year. this year marks the fourth year in a row the college’s position has moved higher in the u.s. news and world report rankings. 
In a recent press release, saint mary’s president carol ann mooney said she is extremely satisfied with the progress the college has made each year. 
“we know that national rank­ings are important to many 
see college paGe 5 



faculty support lgbtQ individuals 
By JOHN CAMERON 
news editor 
nearly 400 university fac­ulty and staff called upon the administration to add protec­tion for lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender and questioning (lgbtQ) persons to its non­discrimination policy in a full-page ad in tuesday’s is­sue of the observer. 
the university publically declined to add sexual ori­entation to its non-discrim­ination clause in april. on may 2, faculty members sub­mitted a letter to the editor in the observer asking the university to reconsider that decision. 
the tuesday advertise­ment’s text was taken from that letter but included an ex­panded list of 366 signees. 
sociology professor richard williams, who led the effort to collect signatures, said it was important the complete list of signees be made visible to readers, whereas it had been limited to the observer’s website in may. 
“when we first put it out there, we put it together in less than a week and we only had 120 people sign, but we thought we could get a much broader and diverse group [if given more time],” he said. “originally [the list of names] was all online, so I think they got lost in the shuffle. I thought by getting more names and paying to get them all in the paper, it would be a more striking statement.” 
the tripling in signatures between the issuance of the letter to the editor and the running of this week’s ad­vertisement indicates faculty participation in the original letter was limited by lack of awareness, not lack of sup­port, williams said. since running of the ad, 20 ad­ditional names have been 
see support paGe 4 


Seniors seek opportunities to serve 

By MEGHAN THOMASSEN 
news writer 

for seniors networking with representatives from national and international service pro­grams wednesday night at the post-graduate service fair, volunteer work after gradua­tion can be more than a “year off.” 
michael hebbeler, director for student leadership and se­nior transitions at the csc, said the fair, hosted by the center for social concerns (csc) in the Joyce center, of­fered another option for stu­dents looking for jobs from every college. 
“It’s a full-time job,” hebbeler said. “It’s a miscon­ception that it’s a year off and you’re kind of volunteering here and there. [the pro­grams] are looking for stu­dents in all disciplines, there is accounting work to be done, there’s environmental work to be done, there’s counsel­ing [and] education. students of all majors should be able to find something that fits their skill set, their passions.” 
see faIr paGe 3 


electrIfIed ugandapaGe 4 VIewpoInt paGe 6 scenepaGe 8 sammy scofIeld paGe 16 men’s soccer paGe 16 




ndsmcobserver.com 

p.o. box 779, notre dame, In 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, In 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
allan Joseph 

Managing Editor  Business Manager 
megan doyle  Jeff liptak 
Asst. Managing Editor: andrew owens 
Asst. Managing Editor: sam stryker News Editor: John cameron News Editor: Kristen durbin 

Viewpoint Editor: meghan thomassen Sports Editor: chris allen Scene Editor: Kevin noonan Saint Mary’s Editor: Jillian barwick Photo Editor: suzanna pratt Graphics Editor: brandon Keelean Multimedia Editor: sarah o’connor Advertising Manager: monica mccormack Ad Design Manager: sara hilstrom Controller: peter woo Systems Administrator: william heineman 

Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ajoseph2@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 mdoyle11@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 aowens2@nd.edu sstryke1@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 

Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 

Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 


Scene Desk 

(574) 631-4540 observer.scene.editor@gmail.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
jbarwi01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 


Policies 

the observer is the independent, daily newspaper 
published in print and online by the students of the 
university of notre dame du lac and saint mary’s 
college.  editorial content, including advertisements, is 
not governed by policies of the administration of either 
institution. the observer reserves the right to refuse 
advertisements based on content. 

the news is reported as accurately and objectively 
as possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion 
of the majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, 
assistant managing editors and department editors. 
commentaries, letters and columns present the views of 
the authors and not necessarily those of the observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. the free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include 
contact information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed 
to Editor-in-Chief Allan Joseph. 

post office Information the observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through friday except during exam and vacation periods. a subscription to the observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. the observer is published at: 024 south dining hall notre dame, In 46556-0779 periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices postmaster send address corrections to: the observer p.o. box 779 024 south dining hall notre dame, In 46556-077 the observer is a member of the associated press. all reproduction rights are reserved. 




QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
Which dorm is the oldest on campus? 

John McKeown 
sophomore alumni hall 
“walsh.” 

J.P. Perez 
senior siegfried hall 
“st. eds.” 

Madison Hagen 
senior pasquerilla east hall 
“st. eds.” 

Have a question you want answered? Email obsphoto@gmail.com 


Kevin Walsh 
sophomore alumni hall 
“sorin.” 

Katharine Maheras 
sophomore ryan hall 
“walsh.” 


Kylie Gaona 
junior farley hall 
“st. eds.” 




Want your event included here? 

News Sports 
tori roeck Joseph monardo Email obsnews.nd@gmail.com 




THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 
nicole michels conor Kelly rebecca o’neil brain hartnett 

Graphics Scene 

Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday Monday 
brandon Keelean maría fernández 


Photo Viewpoint 

ND Theatre NOW ND Invitational Domer Run Sunday Mass Work Off Your 
mackenzie sain caroline schurz 

DeBartolo Performing Burke Golf Course Legends Basilica of the Sacred Weekend Arts Center 2 p.m.-6 p.m. 9 a.m.-10 a.m. Heart Rolfs Sports 
7:30p.m.-9 p.m. Men’s and women’s Register online for $15 10 a.m.-11 a.m. or Recreation Center 


Corrections 

Tickets $10/$8/$5 cross country meet. through RecRegister. 11:45 a.m.-12:45 p.m. All Day 
the observer regards itself as a professional publication and 

Iron Sharpens Iron Beasts of the Community Energy Volleyball Kano Durbar Lecture 
strives for the highest standards 

Coleman-Morse Southern Wind Day Tours Joyce Center Geddes Hall 
of journalism at all times. we do, 

10 p.m.-11 p.m. DeBartolo Performing South Bend’s energy 2 p.m.-4 p.m. 5 p.m. 
however, recognize that we will make 

Student-led worship, Arts Center efficient organizations ND vs. Syracuse “Political Aesthetics 
mistakes. If we have made a mistake, 

accountability and 6:30 p.m.-8 p.m. 10 a.m.-2:30 p.m. and the Stool of 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 

friendship. Tickets $7/$5/$4 RSVP to llux@nd.edu. Power.” 
we can correct our error. 





Irish explore social entrepreneurship 
By MEL FLANAGAN 
news writer 
the gigot center for entrepreneurial studies and the fellow Irish social hub (fIsh) will host the inau­gural Irish Impact social entrepreneurship conference today and tomorrow in the mendoza college of business. 
the conference, which be­gins tonight with an opening reception, aims to teach stu­dents more about what social entrepreneurship is and how they can become involved in the field. 
melissa paulsen, program manager for the gigot center for entrepreneurial studies and concurrent professor, said several entrepreneurs involved in both non-profit and for-profit work will attend the conference. 
“we really wanted this to be about connecting the notre dame community, specifically notre dame and saint mary’s students, with the social en­trepreneurship practitioners,” she said. 
paulsen said she hopes stu­dents understand the range of possibilities for social entrepreneurship. 
“we define entrepreneur­ship as starting a business but it doesn’t have to be that way,” she said. “It doesn’t mat­ter what your background is or the interests you have or discipline of choice. you can use that experience to engage in social enterprises on many 
paId adVertIsement 


different levels.” 

students are invited to at­tend several workshops friday morning that will cover the basics of social entrepreneur­ship, paulsen said. 
“the idea behind the work­shops is to basically give the community an idea of what so­cial entrepreneurship is, what are start-up issues and incu­bation issues, how do you start a social enterprise,” she said. 
different panels will address the challenges of starting such an enterprise, legal issues surrounding social entrepre­neurship, international de­velopment and more, paulsen said. 
one key feature of the day will be a career panel for stu­dents interested in social en­trepreneurship, which will be followed by an opportunity fair where students can per­sonally interact with the prac­titioners present. 
“you can ask questions like, tell me more about your orga­nizations,’ tell me about your beneficiaries,’ how are you raising money?, how do you sustain yourself?,” paulsen 

paId adVertIsement 

said. “and also, do you have career opportunities or in­ternships for students?.” 
after the workshops, the conference will host a taste of michiana luncheon, where local food entrepreneurs will show off their creations. 
the lunch will be followed by a presentation from the conference’s keynote speak­er, rishi Jaitly, paulsen said. Jaitly founded michigan corps, has worked for google asia and Kiba detroit and has been engaged in policy work, all since he graduated from the princeton university in 2004. 
his keynote speech is titled, “choose your own adven­ture: the power of embracing your social entrepreneurial self,” and will focus on the different ways students can become involved in social entrepreneurship. 
“you don’t have to start a brand-new organization to be engaged in social entrepre­neurship,” paulsen said. 
Contact Mel Flanagan at mflanag3@nd.edu 

Fair 
contInued from page 1 
hebbeler was the conduit be­tween the graduate service world and the student body. he said the fair was primar­ily for seniors looking for opportunities to serve after graduatioy. 
“[there are] post-graduate opportunities ranging from health care to education to ministry,” hebbeler said. “In the programs, [you’re] living in community, living simply, living on a small stipend, but engaged in work that pro­motes the common good that really carries out the mission of the university in a very di­rect way.” 
he said the international and large programs are the most competitive for appli­cants. the full-time positions range from small stipends to salaries, and from living in community to living alone, he said. 
“but all of the organiza­tions are focused on work of peace and justice in a very direct way,” hebbeler said. “we welcome all these programs, there are bigger programs, [such as] teach for america, [alliance for catholic education (ace)], peace corps, and we also re­ally value the small programs who do very good work in their smaller communities.” 
he said the fair benefited students looking for a variety of choices. 
“there’s something for ev­erybody,” he said. you can find your niche, the commu­nity you want to live with, the work you want to do, whether you want a large program or a small progra..” 
Volunteers typically com­mit one to two years to work 40 or more hours per week, hebbeler said. 
he said the time spent serv­ing others guides students as they discern their skillsets in the community and in the business world. 
“students find themselves,” he said. “they mature, they grow in wisdom, they grow in skill set and they are more marketable for jobs after this or applying to grad school. oftentimes this experience makes them a better and more competitive applicant. of course we don’t promote it for the resume, but practi­cally speaking it does help.” 
the programs intend to help students serve outside of their comfort zone, he said. 
“In the end, the real inten­tion is students wanting to live out the mission of the university in a direct and fulfilling way, in relationship with other populations that will stretch them,” hebbeler said. “these are oftentimes not comfortable positions, but because of that they will grow.” 
Contact Meghan Thomassen at mthomass@nd.edu 



the obserVer | Thursday, sepTember 27, 2012 | ndsmcobserVer.com 



nd lights up ugandan towns 

By MEL FLANAGAN 
news writer 
notre dame’s Initiative for global development (Igd) is teaming up with accenture, a global management consulting company, to provide electricity to rural communities in north­ern uganda in hopes of giving them the ability to start their own enterprises. 
many locations in uganda have spotty electricity, a fact reflected in the country’s low gross domes­tic product (gdp), Igd program director patrick murphy said. 
murphy said notre dame and accenture hope that by providing working electricity, the residents of the country will have the op­portunity to form more enter­prises, thereby creating jobs in the area. 
“It’s about electricity, Internet connectivity and training for dis­placed persons in uganda with the intent of generating new jobs built upon the new entrepreneurs that are trained,” murphy said. “what’s lacking to try to start a new enterprise now is reliable electricity.” 
murphy, former manag­ing director for the center for sustainable energy, said accenture, through their skills to 

support 
contInued from page 1 
added online. 
“the biggest reason people didn’t sign is that they didn’t know about it,” he said. “there was no university mailing, it was more list­servs and word-of-mouth. I had people telling me today ‘I would have signed if I had known about it.’” 
one material difference in the secondary issuance is a document posted to williams’s webpage titled “catholic Justification for the notre dame faculty/staff letter in support of notre dame’s lgbtQ community,” which refers to catholic teaching on the treatment of homosexuals. williams said the addition was inspired by questions he received after running the original letter. 
“that was prompted by someone emailing me, ask­ing how [the letter] fit with the catholic mission of the university,” he said. “these statements are not in con­flict with catholic teach­ings in the least. If there are people out there who think we have to be hostile to [homosexual individuals], they can’t use the catholic church to justify those be­liefs and behaviors.” 
while the end of the letter encourages the university to add lgbtQ persons to its non-discrimination policy, williams said he hopes read­ers will not overlook the first paragraph, which pledges succeed program, aims to equip 250,000 people worldwide with the training to start a business. Igd pitched the idea of providing rural africa with electricity to the company and formed a partner­ship, he said. 
the pilot program will work to provide electricity to three initial sites in uganda, murphy said. 
“It barely puts a dent in the electricity needs, but you have to start somewhere,” he said. “that’s why it’s philosophy-driven to start with.” 
over the next two years, murphy said Igd plans to im­prove the initiative and work with on-the-ground partners to install electricity in other loca­tions. bosco uganda, the 31 lengths campaign and the ngo educate! program will assist Igd in uganda. 
“we will install power systems, install Internet where it’s not al­ready connected and some of our partners will provide train­ing,” murphy said. “we have to measure the impact of how many people we can train, how much power we can provide, but the in­tent is to start having businesses spin out.” 
If the program shows some success, murphy said he hopes accenture will agree to expand 
signees’ “offices and class­rooms will be safe and open spaces, where anti-lgbtQ discrimination, harass­ment or violence will not be tolerated.” 
“we aren’t just trying to influence the university. ... we can’t control what other people do, but we can con­trol what we do ourselves,” he said. “we wanted to show the members of the lgbtQ community that we support them, that we will not dis­criminate against them.” 
the number of sites and the im­pact of the initiative. other notre dame faculty are involved in the effort as well. 
michael sweikar, associate director of Igd, said electrical engineering professor michael lemmon is working to design more efficient models for so­lar micro grids. Juan carlos guzman, director of research for the Institute for latino studies, will conduct the impact evalua­tion of the project, sweikar said. 
“one of the real goals of Igd is to help link our resources on the ground with global development challenges,” sweikar said. “that will lead to more opportunities for students to become engaged with faculty around doing real project and contributing to global development.” 
the project aims to prove a philanthropic-based program can eventually turn a profit while still having a positive impact on the world, murphy said. 
“we’re not just providing elec­tricity in today’s technology, but we’re looking into the technology, models, education and enterpris­es that can change the way busi­ness is done,” he said. 
Contact Mel Flanagan at mflanag3@nd.edu 
whether or not the decla­ration of support affects the university’s decision on the non-discrimination policy, williams hopes it will im­pact individuals’ views and behaviors toward lgbtQ people. 
“maybe we’ll influence someone in their personal behavior,” he said. “we don’t know what will come of this, but we hope some good will.” 
Contact John Cameron at jcamero2@nd.edu 


students support local dentist’s charity 
By HAYLEY MILLER 
news writer 
several st. mary’s and notre dame students volunteered their time saturday during mahoney family dentistry’s second annual “dentistry from the heart” event, providing 297 people in the south bend community with free dental care. close to 200 people camped out the night before to ensure a spot for the 6 a.m. registration. 
a total of five local dentists and 75 volunteers, under the leadership of dr. terrance mahoney, provided exams, cleanings and fillings for underprivileged citizens 18 years old and older, dr. mahoney said. 
“you get back more than you are giving and to know you can make a difference in someone’s life is so rewarding,” dr. mahoney said. “access to care is the major prob­lem in dental health care right now because many people don’t have insurance.” 
dr. mahoney said this year’s “dentistry from the heart” event provided close to $125,000 in dental work. the money came from both mahoney family dentistry and generous donations from sponsors such as heraeus dental supplies, he said. 
Volunteers ranged from notre dame seniors planning to attend dental school to parishioners of lo­cal churches, he said. dental stu­dents from the community also gathered to provide education and advice on oral health to those wait­ing outside. 
st. mary’s junior Kathryn mahoney and daughter of dr. mahoney said she felt honored to be able to give back. 
“It was a great opportunity to serve the community,” Kathryn mahoney said.  “It was truly an amazing experience to see so many different people come together and help provide such an expen­sive necessity for absolutely free.” st. mary’s junior and volunteer brookelin propestsaid it was a day well spent. 
“dr. mahoney and his office touched the lives of both the people who received the free dental care 

“You get back more than you are giving and to know you can make a difference in someone’s life is so rewarding.” 
Dr. Terrance Mahoney 
local dentist 
and the volunteers who witnessed it,” propes said.  “everyone involved made a huge impact in the lives of the community.” 
local businesses einstein bagels, martin’s supermarket and papa Vino’s provided breakfast and lunch throughout the day, and Kevin’s guitar studio students played live entertainment through­out the afternoon. 
from registration at 6 a.m. to the final person served at 8 p.m., dr. mahoney said the day was a suc­cessful one for the community. 
“the people were extremely thankful and many of them shed tears of gratitude,” dr. mahoney said. 
mahoney family dentistry will also be holding a free day of dental care just for children in february. dr. mahoney said he and his associ­ates hope to see even more students from the saint mary’s and notre dame communities for another day of giving back. 
Contact Hayley Miller at hmille01@saintmarys.edu 


paId adVertIsement 


senaTe 



group considers arrests, dorm issues 
By MADDIE DALY 
news writer 
student body president brett rocheleau began this week’s student senate meeting with some alarming news concerning the past home football weekend. 
“In case you haven’t heard by now, there were 72 arrests over the weekend by the excise police,” rocheleau said. “a quick thing to note though is that the word ‘arrest’ means ticketed in most cases, not necessarily literal arrests.” 
while student government looks for ways to prevent more ar­rests in the future, senate turned their meeting’s conversation to dorm business. members of stu­dent government, including chief of staff Katie baker, have visited hall council meetings this week. baker thanked senators from breen-phillips hall, badin hall and morrissey manor for welcoming her. 
“I was so impressed with what I saw in your hall councils, so thanks a lot,” she said. “we will continue going to hall councils in the next couple of weeks.” 
rocheleau said student govern­ment can be a voice to the board of trustees about the quality of residence life in campus. 
“most people on the board of trustees haven’t been in the dorms recently, so they don’t have the cultural sense of everything going on in dorms,” rocheleau said. “we have two meetings with the board of trustees, one in october and one in may. this coming meeting will focus on quality of residence life across the board, not on specifics per dorm.” 
breen-phillips hall senator hope feist and Zahm house senator Joe corsaro both raised the issue of air conditioning. 
“since it would be expensive to get air conditioning in the whole dorm, at the very least we would like to see more rooms like study lounges that do have air condition­ing,” corsaro said. 
coming from a dorm with one of the smallest-sized rooms, morrissey senator billy mcmahon voiced a concern about inconsis­tent costs. 
“Is there any way to have room and board payments be made per square foot?” mcmahon said. 
farley hall senator monica daegele said privacy is an impor­tant factor for students planning to move off campus. 
“since most dorms only have one 
paId adVertIsement 


24-hour space, it is really hard to get group work done past parietals if other people are watching tV or so­cializing,” daegele said. 
mcglinn hall senator enator ali wellman, as well as several other senators, saw food as a big issue. 
“I think one problem is access to kitchens,” wellman said. “a lot of students like to cook for them­selves, and a lot of dorm kitchens aren’t kept up well or don’t have all the equipment.” 
Keenan hall senator John Vernon said he blames the cost of living for students moving off campus. 
“guys in my dorm said finances were a big reason,” Vernon said. “off-campus they will get bigger houses with more space and pay less money. also, if they aren’t us­ing all their meals they can get off the meal plan. more freedom, more independence.” 
daegele shared a striking reason one student in her dorm decided to move off campus. 
“one girl told me she moved off campus because she felt like she lived in a prison cell,” daegele said. “with the ras jingling keys every hour at night and door alarms after parietals … she just felt like she was in a prison cell or a summer camp or something.” 

College 
contInued from page 1 

high school students in their college search,” she said. “I am very pleased that saint mary’s college is ranked among the top-100 best national liberal arts colleges for the fourth year running. students graduate from saint mary’s with an education that challenges their minds, awak­ens their imaginations and instills in them the desire to leave the world a better place.” 
student body vice president meghan casey said saint mary’s al­lows for unique opportunities and one-of-a-kind experiences. 
“I believe the students here know what a great school it is and to see actual proof that our ranking has moved up solidifies my feelings that saint mary’s is such an outstanding institution,” casey said. 
the college works to benefit each and every student the best education possible, casey said. 
“our education is individual and saint mary’s strives to give each stu­dent the best education that they can receive,” casey said. “saint mary’s determination to empower students can be attributed to this increase in our position.” u.s. news and world report determines placement on the list bysassessing criteria from the carnegie foundation for the advancement of teaching, which parents, students and teachers con­sult when exploring higher education opportunities. 
the report also considers alumni giving, peer assessment, student se­lectivity and financial resources, as well as high school counselor assess­ments and faculty resources. 
the saint mary’s office of 
senator marissa martin said girls from howard hall move off cam­pus to get ready for life after college. 
“when you graduate, that’s how you’ll be living — on your own, not in a big community like a dorm,” martin said. “we don’t have any apartment-style dorms, so people move off campus.” 
off-campus senator marina seminatore told the senate why she herself moved off campus. 
“there were quite a few reasons,” seminatore said.  “It wasn’t a deci­sion I made automatically. I don’t think there’s a mass exodus of stu­dents moving off campus. there are a lot of things I miss about living on campus.” 
while the decision was a difficult one, seminatore said she was look­ing for the freedom of an off-cam­pus residence. 
“however, what I don’t miss are not just the big rules like parietals and alcohol possession, but the re­ally naggy things from rectors,” she said. “I used to get emails about not leaving things in the hallway, leav­ing dirty dishes in the kitchen – I felt like I was being babied by my mom or something.” 
Contact Maddie Daly at mdaly6@nd.edu 
Institutional research reports 93 percent of students who graduate from saint mary’s do so in four years. according to a recent press release, this high graduation and retention rate also contributed to the college’s inclusion on the list. 
this ranking comes just several weeks after the college received national recognition from the princeton review, which named saint mary’s on its “best colleges in the midwest” list for the 10th year in a row. 
director of media relations gwen o’brien said the “impressive” ranking is an invaluable asset to theecollege and is especially important for its con­tribution to mooney’s goals. 
“this ranking is affirmation that we are on course to meet a key goal in the college’s strategic plan, which is to provide ‘educational excellence equal to that of the best colleges in the country,’” she said. “this is one of the goals president mooney set early in her presidency. … under her lead­ership, the excellent academic reputa­tion of saint mary’s college continues to grow and our peers are taking no­tice. our hope is this ranking instills pride in students, faculty and staff alike.” 
casey said the report is a point of pride for fellow students.
 “I believe the ranking validates stu­dents’ positive opinion of our unique education and that we are getting an education [that is] very special,” casey said. “being a student leader, seeing our school excel and the proof that we are ranked highly makes me proud of being a leader at such an amazing institution. I am proud to call saint mary’s my college.” 
Contact Bridget Feeney at bfeene01@saintmarys.edu 


rankings 
contInued from page 1 
president for undergraduate en­rollment, said this year’s rise in the rankings was the result of several advances and improvement ini­tiatives at the university. 
“first, we now have a larger ap­plicant pool and a lower admis­sion rate, with a higher profile of the incoming freshmen,” bishop said. “we have a strong alumni giving record, which ranks third among all universities, and gradu­ation success rates that place us in the top four of the nation. notre dame has also enhanced spend­ing on academics and student development.” 
bishop said he did not expect the ranking to significantly change this year’s pool of applicants. 
“I think our rankings in the various guidebooks have been consistently strong,” bishop said. “being ranked 17th in u.s. news is pretty similar to where many stu­dents have thought notre dame has been ranked in the past, so I doubt it will change behavior. notre dame is often the top choice for our admitted students. they collected 600 admits at schools ranked higher in u.s. news and still thought notre dame was a better match for them.” 
the recruitment efforts of the admissions staff have the poten­tial to increase both the applica­tion rate and the quality of the application pool, with the goal of increasing the yield of admit­ted students who enroll at the university, bishop said. 
“among the schools ranked [no.] 15 to [no.] 25, notre dame enjoys a high success rate of en­rolling joint-admitted students, in which students admitted to two top institutions choose notre dame,” he said. “In head-on com­petition, our yield rate of admitted to enrolled students ranks in the top 10.” 
while the rankings are nice indicators of university quality, bishop said they are not necessar­ily authoritatively accurate. 
“being ranked 17th is obviously better than being 19th, but the u.s. news variables and weights re­flect their opinion of what makes a good college,” he said. “forbes magazine ranks nd 12th among national universities and 8th among research universities.” 
bishop said he believes rank­ings are more valuable for stu­dents in the beginning of the college search process than when making a final decision. 
“rankings are okay to use to develop your first list of colleges to consider, but students need to visit the colleges and judge for themselves what is important to them,” bishop said. “students and parents like simplistic rankings so that they don’t have to think as much, but rankings shouldn’t be a determining factor in your fi­nal selection unless you are more concerned about what others think than what you determine for yourself.” 
Contact Ann Marie Jakubowski at                  ajakubo1@nd.edu 

the obserVer | Thursday, sepTember 27, 2012 | ndsmcobserVer.com 
InsIde Column 


never gets old 

Laura Coletti 
sports writer 
let me tell you why I am certain that notre dame will always evoke feelings of happiness, every day, no matter what. 
now, you may think that I am cur­rently all “rah-rah,” mushy and emo­tional because of the state of our football team. but while waving mul­ticolored leis in the air and dancing to “december 1963” may have been an unforgettably high moment, something else earlier this semester made me real­ize that the magic will never die, win­ning football record or otherwise. 
It all started during the summer. after three plus years of hanging up the basketball sneakers, a little outside mo­tivation fueled my desire to get serious about getting back in shape. I suddenly realized that it was absurd to peak ath­letically at age 18. 
so, what did I do? I started running. an activity that I had previously written off became something I looked forward to each and every day. 
but it became boring. running around my neighborhood in central new Jersey inevitably had “mundane” written all over it. seeing the same houses and landscapes every day start­ed to get old, and running became a chore once again. 
contrast this with notre dame. for the past three years and five-and-a-half 
weeks I have walked this campus every single day, and not once has it felt old. for the last five-and-a-half weeks I have run at least three times a week, very of­ten the same route. and it has never felt like a chore. It has never felt old. In fact, it has been quite the opposite. there is always something new at notre dame. 
take this past weekend. one of many things senior year has taught me so far is that there are still people in a given class who don’t know each other. I’m not even talking about the kind of person who is someone you say, “oh, I know the name, but we don’t know each other,” if asked. I mean the kind of person who you had no previous knowledge of their existence. last saturday, my night start­ed by entering the stadium with a group of old friends and entering the backer with people I had met in my section. there is always something new. 
It by no means took my newly, rou­tine evening jogs for me to realize the novelty of notre dame. they simply enhanced my belief that it will never go away. the fact that running here has not become mundane like it did at home this summer reinforces my confidence in the fact that until from now, until I graduate, and beyond, I can always be certain that notre dame will make me happy and continue to offer something new. 
Contact Laura Coletti at lcoletti@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

Kate Barrett 
faithpoint 
at a beautiful funeral I attended earlier this week, the eldest son of the woman who had died described her life as a classic, unforgettable book, filled with great plots, memorable characters, significant themes and de­tails to talk about for years to come, as those who loved her will continue to recall different elements of what made her life “a great read.” 
I have been thinking about his anal­ogy as I return to the ordinariness of my daily life, even as his family con­tinues to mourn and struggle with the loss of this remarkable, faithful lady. for if we pay attention to the “books” which contain each of our autobiogra­phies, certain moments highlight the deep and vast extent to which we must allow our faith to guide and direct our stories. to believe with all our hearts the promise that if we have lived seek­ing god in our lives, in our deaths god will in turn seek us out and draw us close to him. to trust that our deepest longings can be filled by nothing and no one other than our lord. this faith gives authentic meaning to the expe­riences and relationships, which make up both who we are and who we might become. our belief in god’s intimate presence in our lives provides comfort when we fear death or grieve for one who has died. It becomes a compass when we face difficult choices. It pro­vokes and challenges us when we have become complacent or self-satisfied. 
catholics believe that our faith can imbue our life stories with meaning when we allow ourselves to be trans­formed by the eucharist, when we read and pray with the word of god in the scriptures and when we look to the lives, examples and prayers of holy people for guidance.  these next few days just happen to offer a ridiculous abundance of opportunities to unite our faith to our stories, to who we hope to be. 

take today, for example. the church celebrates the feast of st. Vincent de paul today. ordained a priest, he was assigned to the household of the queen of france. doesn’t that sound something like drawing the lucky straw for “doctor on an alaskan cruise ship” or “tour guide in tuscany?” however, st. Vincent de paul allowed his faith to shape the real plot and themes of his life, and he devoted himself to feeding the poor, free­ing slaves from the cruel conditions which they endured and organizing charitable societies to help orphans, homeless, sick and disabled people. what caused st. Vincent’s change of heart? what do we allow to influence ours? 
within the next couple of days, we celebrate feasts of martyrs and arch­angels and hear scriptures during mass that should shake us up if we read or hear them with open hearts. In tomorrow’s gospel, Jesus asks his disciples: “who do you say that I am?” peter replies, “the christ of god.” will our stories include time spent on serious reflection about who Jesus is, or do we stick to easier questions that don’t require much of us to answer? 
promise yourself right now to lis­ten as intently as you possibly can to sunday’s reading, and get ready for verses from scattered parts of the bible that promise vivid characters, startling plot twists and challenging, even daunting, directives to examine the way we think about and treat oth­ers.  Jesus, in sunday’s gospel, says to the disciples: “anyone who gives you a cup of water to drink because you be­long to christ, amen, I say to you, will surely not lose his reward.” In the very next sentence, Jesus says: “whoever causes one of these little ones who believe in me to sin, it would be better for him if a great millstone were put around his neck and he were thrown into the sea.” first, Jesus says that we don’t get to choose who is a part of the Kingdom of god, even though we often certainly act like we do. second, he tells us that we may have to choose what we will give up so that we don’t rule ourselves out of the Kingdom. 
as we think about people who are examples to us in our lives, hear these scriptures and participate in the life-giving celebration of the mass, per­haps we can ask god for the courage to allow the plot lines, the characters, the themes and yes, even the details of our life stories, always to be oriented toward him. 
Kate Barrett is the assistant director of undergraduate ministry in Campus Ministry. She can be reached at kbarrett@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer.  
edITorIal CarToon 


QuoTe oF The day  Weekly poll  
“the refreshing pleasure from the first view of nature, after the pain of illness, and the confinement of a sick-chamber, is above the conceptions, as well as the descriptions, of those in health.”  What did you do after Notre Dame demolished the Wolverines?  
Ann Radcliffe English writer and pioneer of the gothic novel  tweet your response with #Viewpointpoll by 5 p.m. thursday.  



the obserVer | Thursday, sepTember 27, 2012 | ndsmcobserVer.com 


Taking time ‘off’ 
Whitney Young 
raising Voice 
I still remember that awful point sometime during the fall of senior year when you start getting the dreaded question: “what are you doing af­ter graduation?” It’s the worst thing to hear as you are trying to soak up the last football game, last dive in the fountain, last karaoke at club 23 (r.I.p.), last syr and last time getting something sticky all over your shoes at finnegan’s. 
when I was a senior, though, I did not fear the “what’s next” question because I had a plan. I knew I wanted to do some direct service work abroad. then, I was going to get my master’s in public policy and go on to work in some government office where I’d make a name for myself as a creative young mind. of course, I would even­tually work my way into the west wing of the white house where I’d be the right hand gal for policy and speech writing for the president, who, natu­rally, would be martin sheen. 
despite the fact that aaron sorkin had personally scripted my future when I accepted the position to vol­unteer in east africa, my “plan” still faced scrutiny.  concerned loved-ones wondered if I was making a mistake by taking two years “off.” would I lose valuable time that would get me off the academic track? would the extra time “off” set me back so by the time I got to the west wing I’d be too old and frail to keep up with all those walking meet­ings and fast-paced banter? 
I talked a good game, but, in real­ity, I also questioned my decision. I wondered if I would be two years be­hind my peers in degrees and career achievements. would the president think I spent two years being a lazy hippie? 
looking back, the choice to work in uganda was the most fulfilling person­al, spiritual and practical decision of my life. I could never fully explain how my time in east africa changed and formed me.  I could write countless observer articles that describe how post-graduate service work is incred­ibly beneficial to spiritual and personal growth, urging every student to im­mediately sign up. I could compose an epic ballad about falling in love with east africa. Instead, I’m going to tell you, despite my practical concerns, my “two years off” turned out to be the best “two years on” the path to my fu­ture career. 
as it turns out, the gre books I packed to “study” before heading to east africa were unnecessary. uganda changed my plan. 

I met so many incredible people in east africa. In particular, I met some incredible lawyers doing great work in land use, prisoners’ rights and labor rights.  moreover, I saw many oppor­tunities where a law degree would help me engage in various human rights efforts more seriously. 
so, I strayed from my path. Instead of taking the gre, I loaded a crowded bus to nairobi to take the lsat.  I didn’t have study aids or special lsat prac­tice courses, just the newfound free­dom of embarking on an unplanned journey.  It was one of the craziest, best things I could have done. 
the law schools to which I applied were excited about my time in uganda. the opportunity to accept fully-funded public interest scholarships at various schools started popping up.  In inter­views for these schools and scholar­ships, I was never questioned about my grades, lsat scores or previous work experience. all anyone wanted to hear about were ugandan babies and what matoke tastes like. 
as a second-year law student, I am currently rounding out a marathon of interviews. employers from firms, the government and non-profit groups all want to hear about the same thing. none of them ask about my gpa or what my law review topic is, and most don’t even care where I interned last summer. the vast majority of ques­tions revolve around my time in uganda, and I’m sure that uganda is the primary reason I was even invited to the interviews. 
I encourage all graduating seniors looking ahead to seriously consider do­ing post-graduate service work. more than anything, you will come out on the other end a better, more complete and grateful human being. you will learn true compassion, empathy, un­derstanding and how to be fully pres­ent to those around you.  you will be more thoughtful and more open. you will be changed and you will be “ru­ined for life.” 
but if practical, career-oriented con­cerns are holding you back, I want to assure you to push those doubts aside. before going to east africa, I thought I was taking a couple years “off.” In the end, boarding that flight to entebbe did more than introduce me to a country and people that I fell madly in love with. It launched me forward on a fruitful academic and career path. and, one day, I think president sheen will really respect that. 
Whitney Young is a member of the Class of 2009. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


Standing in Iran’s shoes 
Brian Kaneb 
guest columnist 
we are encouraging Iran to obtain nuclear weapons. of course, we will never hear this from president barack obama or prime minister banjamin netanyahu, but remember they are politicians whose allegiance is not necessarily to the truth, but to those who elected them. the reality of the situation can best be found by putting ourselves in the shoes of those who actually make the decision. you are now grand ayatollah ali Khamenei, the most powerful person in Iran. 
perhaps in part motivated by the 1953 coup d’état in which the united states overthrew prime minister mohammad mosaddegh, you readily admit Iran is an enemy of the west. the united states appears to be a mere “puppet” of the Zionists, but you reserve some of your harshest words for Israel. not only is it a “cancerous tumor” that would not exist in an ideal world, but your country also supports jihadis in palestine that oppose Israel. this understandably results in count­less claims from the outside that such stances are extreme overreactions. 
yet, all that matters to you is what those on the inside think. you are like president obama and prime minister netanyahu in this sense, but, becuase Iran is less representative, it means you answer more to the regime and less to the citizens. so what does the regime want? It wants other countries to listen when it speaks and watch when it acts. It wants influence. 
because this is more of a long-term plan than a short-term plan, you have no reason to implement an aggressive foreign policy. that would entail too much risk. you may not miss an oppor­tunity to point out Iran is on the rise, but you at least recognize it would be much easier for your western enemies to sustain a war against Iran than it would be for Iran to sustain a war against her western enemies. your rela­tive lack of resources and technology can most obviously be seen in your de­fense budget, which is about 75 times smaller than that of the united states. 

yet, even if the worst-case scenario does not materialize, the other scenari­os that come with an aggressive foreign policy are less than ideal considering your lack of regional hegemony. Iran may very well have an advantage in its relatively high population, but this becomes an ineffective measurement when you consider its full potential can only be reached through a draft. as the supreme leader of Iran, you are forced to accept the reality of the status quo: Iran lacks the military culture that other regional powers have. 
whereas approximately 10 percent of Israelis are serving their country, just 1.5 percent of Iranians are in their military. this may be yet another in­effective measurement because of the disparity in population between the two countries, but even similarly populated countries in the region have stronger military cultures. both egyptians and pakistanis, for example, have become accustomed to their re­spective militaries being a part of their daily lives. 
let us also not ignore the Iranian economy. the cIa points out it “is marked by … reliance on oil” and that as a result, this fossil fuel “provides the majority of government revenues.” the inherent volatility of an aggressive foreign policy magnifies the fragility of the Iranian economy. 
so, if all of this is true, how are we pushing Iran to further develop its nuclear program? we are simply forc­ing its hand. It would rather not adopt an aggressive foreign policy, but would rather have the most dangerous weap­on in the world when facing the in­creasingly stubborn rhetoric and action of the international community. It is no wonder Israeli defense minister ehud barak said if he were Iran, he would “probably” want nuclear weapons “just because of Israel.” 
Brian Kaneb is a junior studying political science. He can be reached at bkaneb1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 



By KEVIN NOONAN 
sceneeditor 
the department of film, television and theatre (ftt) presents “ndtheatre now!,” a show­case of student theatre, this week at the debartolo performing arts center (dpac). 
the show, which features two plays written, directed and acted by notre dame students, spawned from a playwriting class taught in the spring by professor anne garcía-romero when students wrote their own short plays. two plays from that class have been chosen for full perfor­mances in dpac. 
the first play, “she,” written by junior renée roden, follows three teenage girls over the course of one day as they interact in the bathroom. roden explains the choice of setting is because teen­age girls are often times most vulnerable with each other in the bathroom  — it’s a space of privacy and intimacy between friends unrivaled by any other. 
the story deals with topics directly affecting many girls, including relationships, body image issues and communications, and the destructive ways in which those issues can be handled. 
the second play, “sinopean,” written by senior daniel garcía de paredes, is a surrealist drama 
that follows an aristocratic couple trying 
to host a dinner party, but instead are 
invaded by strangers. garcía de paredes 
describes the play as a critique on peo­
ple’s inability to be honest with each oth­
er, preferring to hold on to unnecessary 
notions of being polite rather than telling 


the whole truth. 7:30 p.m. in the philbin studio theatre at dpac, runs approximately 90 minutes long. student 
the story is absurdist, as time is in flux tickets are $5. tickets and further showtime information can be found on the dpac website, per-
and the meaning of many elements of formingarts.nd.edu. 
the plot is readily obvious at first. 


the show, which begins tonight at Contact Kevin Noonan at knoonan2@nd.edu 




most base. to resemble one of father and son. as dark and muddled as it must be methods and when examined 

By KEVIN NOONAN 

scene editor the film stars Joaquin phoenix Quell’s drinking and erratic, in order to reflect reality. closely it leaves more questions 
as freddie Quell, a deeply trou-violent behavior begin to cause hoffman’s dodd is the defini-than answers. 
watching “the master” is akin bled world war II veteran suf-problems for the movement, and tion of charismatic. his personal-anderson’s work is a study of to driving through fog. not fog so fering from extreme alcoholism dodd’s wife (amy adams), son-ity draws all people to him, and he the american spirit and way, and dense as to be completely blind-and post-traumatic stress disor-in-law (rami malek) and daugh-speaks with an easy confidence each of his films has used differ­ing, but such that, while driving der. freddie turns anything and ter (ambyr childers) attempt to that it seems that there could be ent forms of american culture to through it, low beams shining, everything into a drink, from convince dodd that freddie is be-no question that his words are explore it, including pornography you can see well enough in front photography development prod-yond help. but in addition to the truth. (“boogie nights”), oil (“there will of you that it seems that there ucts, paint thinner and even father-son dynamic the two have Quell embodies the confusion be blood”) and now religion. might not actually be fog at all. fluid drained from a navy ship’s developed, dodd seems to have of post-war society, especially for this is likely anderson’s least while you’re in it, you think you missile. an obsession with making Quell mentally damaged veterans. he likeable film, but it is undoubt­can see clearly, and nothing is Quell is disturbed, and clearly normal with his methods, and just can’t fit in with society. he edly one of his best ¾  a masterful obscured. an outsider. he stands, talks and intensifies his work with freddie. can’t hold down a job, he runs dissection of religion, fathers and 
but look in the rear-view mirror, laughs awkwardly, and has an anderson has made no secrets away from the only woman who sons and, above all, the confusion and you realize there’s nothing incessant and destructive sexual about the fact that lancaster ever loved him (a 16-year-old girl) and destruction of a lonely man’s but the gray, misty obliqueness obsession that drives him into dodd’s character is based on and he can’t put down liquor long search for answers. that was actually there the whole behavior that is, to say the least, l. ron hubbard, and dodd’s enough to escape his constant time. cringe worthy. religion, “the cause,” has its state of stupor. the repeated im-Contact Kevin Noonan at 
paul thomas anderson’s lat-after one of his alcoholic con-roots in scientology. It’s a fasci-ages in the film of waves crashing knoonan2@nd.edu est dramatic masterpiece, “the coctions poisons a migrant work-nating choice of source mate-quietly in the ocean and freddie 
master,” evokes the same kind of er, he finds himself on the run, rial, as many in society consider hugging a woman made of sand self-questioning, introspective where he eventually drunkenly scientology to be an odd, fringe on the beach express the total, 

“The Master” 

confusion in its audiences that its stows away in a yacht owned by religion, if not a cult, and question destitute loneliness of his being. 
Director: Paul Thomas 

characters explore on screen. and lancaster dodd (phillip seymour how anyone could ever get caught In all aspects, the film is at the 
Anderson 

while confusing, sometimes dis-hoffman), the leader of a new, up in it. same time abrasive, broken, con-
Studio: Annapurna Pictures 

tant and often unlikeable (both controversial religion, “the the relationship between fusing, intriguing and beautiful. the film and the main character), cause.” dodd and Quell, which is with-It has a point, perhaps ¾ man is 
Starring: Joaquin Phoeniz, 

this deeply affecting drama suc-dodd, whose followers call out a doubt the core of the film, an animal, and attempts to con-
Phillip Seymour Hoffman and 

ceeds on all levels on the strength him “master,” takes an interest explores this question. and, trol that animal or denial of that 
Amy Adams of its intricate exploration of hu-in freddie and, like in many of thanks to the oscar-worthy per-fact are inevitably futile. but, like man nature, especially interac-anderson’s films, the two develop formances from both phoenix the religion it portrays, the film tions and relationships, at its a relationship that quickly evolves and hoffman, the exploration is delivers its point with roundabout 


BRANDON KEELEAN | The Observer 

the obserVer | Thursday, sepTember 27, 2012 | ndsmcobserVer.com 



WEEKEND EVENTS CALENDAR 
THURSDAY 

What: acousticafe Where: reckers When: 10 p.m. how much: free 

come to reckers tonight and listen to some of the best stu­dent performers on campus play some of their favorite songs live. acousticafe is a great place to hang out with friends, relax and unwind from all of the week’s work. 

FRIDAY 


What: sub movie — “the hunger games” Where: debartolo 101 When: 8 p.m. and 10:30 p.m. how much: $3 
are you a hunger games fan? have you read the trilogy and can’t wait for the second mov­ie to come out? relive Katniss and peeta’s struggle to survive panem’s annual hunger games as they fight other district mem­bers to the death. don’t miss it! 

SATURDAY 

What: domer run Where: legends When: 9 a.m. how much: pre-registration $15, race-day registration $20 
run in saturday’s domer run for cancer education and awareness. you can choose to run from three to six miles or walk for two miles. come with a group of friends and support the cause. 

SUNDAY 

What: nd theatre now Where: dpac, philbin studio theatre When: 2:30 p.m. how much: $5 for students 
enjoy two student-run theat­rical productions at dpac on sunday. this year’s play titles are “the sinopean” by daniel garcia de paredes and “she” by renee roden. 

than redeemed the sub-par eggs, however. the pota-with sausage gravy, belgian waffles with a side, pan-
By CLAIRE STEPHENS 

scene writer to slices were perfect in ways that is hard to describe: cakes with a side and the country scrambler. not too seasoned or too plain, not too crispy or too before the salad bar is even included, the lunchtime when you enter the first floor of grace hall, you’ll selection is huge, including daily specials, soup and be hit with the smell of something delicious. the 
hot plate grab ‘n go. the sandwich and chicken wrap aroma draws your eyes towards café de grásta where 
sandwich options alone include more choices than the whiteboard of the day’s specials stands, luring 
one could make at the dining hall, with a wide variety you in with the promise of a belgian waffle or some 
of vegetables, cheeses, meats and breads for made to barbeque-pulled chicken. 
order sandwiches. serving faculty and students alike, café de grásta, 
lunch specials during the week are asian specialty, despite its title, is really a restaurant open during 
grilled chicken sandwich, southwestern favorites, business hours with large indoor and outdoor seating 
pasta selection, barbeque and sloppy Joe sandwiches, areas facing mod Quad. 
grilled specialty sandwich, hearty home-style meal, Its claim to fame is the fresh and colorful salad bar, 
hot sub and toasted fiat. an attraction especially popular amongst faculty and 
the best of both worlds between hot food and grab employees working at grace, as well as the home­
‘n go — the hot plate grab ‘n go — consists of quar­cooked specials that more resemble a small sit-down 
ter-pound burgers, all-beef hot dogs, brats, spicy and meal than an on-the-go option. 
grilled chicken sandwiches, vegetarian burgers, fries while many express eateries on campus offer 
and potatoes. breakfast sandwiches, cafe de grásta also offers big 
despite all the hot food and unique dishes, café de and small breakfast wraps, a choice popular amongst 
grásta also has an enormous range of sides and to-go students. another student favorite is the chicken 
items. the standard sandwich and vegetable grab ‘n wraps that often run out due to the lines out the door. 
go packaged options are available, plus an entire wall 
I tried monday’s breakfast special, two fresh eggs of drinks including soft drinks, waters, juices, milks, with meat and potatoes, ingredients also used in energy drinks, teas and hot coffee. there are also breakfast wraps and sandwiches. the bacon was soft, not too big or too small. they were simply some shelves and racks of energy bars, chips and candy to crispy and hearty as american bacon should be (the of the best potatoes I’ve ever had, period. buy alongside an à la carte item. sausage choice looked sizzling and appealing as well) café de grásta has a moderate amount of break-If you’re looking for a real meal or a quick on-the-go alongside the not-particularly-fresh-looking but de-fast selections, including breakfast sandwiches and choice for breakfast or lunch, café de grásta has both. cent scrambled eggs. wraps, specials, à la carte items and freshly baked 
the potatoes alongside the breakfast options more pastries. other breakfast specials feature biscuits Contact Claire Stephens at cstephe4@nd.edu 

BRANDON KEELEAN | The Observer 



sporTs auThorITy 



NFL referees need to return now 


Matt Robison 
sports writer 
never has a group had more bargaining power in a contract negotiation in the sporting world. the nfl referees have the league in a virtual stran­glehold. after monday night football’s absolute debacle, the league has no choice but to bring back the veteran crew. 
honestly, I expected a deal to be made tuesday morning. obviously, that did not hap­pen. nfl commissioner roger goodell and the rest of the league officials have to realize what is at stake. for perhaps the first time in the history of the league, the credibility of the is a problem. 
It is time for the nfl to return to sanity. In the coming weeks, division rivals will be squaring off and playoff positioning will already be at stake. Indeed, ev­ery regular season game mat­ters in the nfl. therefore, the league cannot waste another week. there could be genuine concern that if the referee ne­gotiations carry on further into the season that this season will be permanently marred. people will look back in the annals of nfl history and mark the 2012­13 season with disdain. there will be a virtual asterisk next to the super bowl winner’s name in the record books. 
almost every other league has experienced something 

People will look back in the annals of NFL history and mark the 2012-13 season with disdain. There will be a virtual asterisk next to the Super Bowl winner’s name in 

the record books. 
nfl was seriously brought to question. sure, there have been debates before. what exactly constitutes a helmet-to-helmet hit, rather than a shoulder to the chin? why does the league seem to protect quarterbacks so much? today, those problems are all minor. 
on monday night, the seahawks pulled a victory from the jaws of defeat — or from the hands of m.d. Jennings. now, I won’t go into the specifics of the play. we have all seen the replay dozens of times. but the fact of the matter is that a bad call cost the packers a victory, plain and simple. when the referees — not the players or the coaches — can directly de­termine the outcome of a game, the game becomes fundamen­tally flawed. 
when thousands of people are tweeting and posting facebook statuses that the nfl has become a joke, that is a problem. when you can tell by the tone of a coach or a player’s voice that they know they won on a bad call, as was the case with pete carroll and russell wilson after the game, that is a problem. when former players are genuinely concerned for the direction of the league, as was the case with hall of fame quarterback steve young, that similar. baseball hall of fame writers take a special eye to players who posted their best numbers during the steroid era. when two slam-dunk first-bal­lot hall of famers — cal ripken Jr. and Kirby puckett — were expected to be the first consen­sus elections to the hall, some writers abstained, their reason­ing being no players from the steroid era can be trusted. 
now, it may sound like I’m overestimating the impact of one bad call at the end of the game. but I don’t believe I am. the calls are not going to get better on their own. In fact, there will be even greater atten­tion paid to every bad call and fans will react even more vio­lently to future mistakes. the integrity of the game is in flux. 
the solution is simple. I just don’t want our beloved golden tate to be the everlasting sym­bol of the day the nfl died. 
roger goodell and league officials need to bite the bul­let and give the referees what they want. there is too much at stake for them not to. 
Contact Matt Robison at mrobison@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


nFl 


packers move on after loss 
Associated Press 

green bay, wis. — one day after venting on his radio show about the refereeing de­bacle that cost the green bay packers a game in seattle, aaron rodgers saved one last barb for the nfl. 
asked wednesday about how the packers were handling the aftermath of a monday night loss that touched off a national firestorm about the league’s use of replacement officials, rodgers dismissed an nfl­issued statement generally sup­porting the officials’ handling of the situation a “bogus report.” 
beyond that, though, the mVp said it’s time to move on. 
“I think one thing that we re­ally learned from it is, as frus­trating as it is, ultimately it’s a game judged by people who are imperfect, and there’s going to be mistakes,” rodgers said. 
“and you hate it that it affect­ed us and we lost a win because of it, but there’s a lot of blame to go around other than referees. they have a job to do. they’re trying to do their best. they ob­viously didn’t bring their best in that game and in that play, but there’s a lot of blame to fall on the shoulders of guys like myself who didn’t play their best game that night.” 
going into sunday’s game against new orleans, packers coach mike mccarthy says it’s fine for his players to use the incident as motivation — to a point. 
“I love emotion,” mccarthy said. “emotion is the engine that makes this thing go. so I’m for any kind of emotion, as long as it’s channeled properly. so you want to talk about chips on your shoulder, whatever it is, the only emotion I don’t really care 

FOR RENT 

IRISH CROSSING4BDR/3.5BTH. Available ‘13/’14 year; ND alum owner. 281-635-2019 
Football Rental. Available BYU and Stanford. 1BR Varsity Club. Call 847-602-8170 

PERSONAL 

UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don’t go it alone. Notre Dame has many resources in place to assist you. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Ann Whitall at 1-0084 or Karen Kennedy at 1-5550. For more information, visit ND’s website at: http://pregnancysupport@nd.edu 

about is self-pity. we’re not the 
victim.  nothing’s guaranteed  
to you  
with  mccarthy urging his  

team to put the situation aside and focus on the saints, it’s worth pointing out that the packers wouldn’t have been in position to have that game tak­en from them if their sputtering offense was performing closer to its recent high standards. 
replacement officials didn’t allow rodgers to get sacked eight times against the seahawks, and the refs can’t be blamed for the packers making themselves one-dimensional by handing the ball to running back cedric benson only twice in the first half. 
this week’s drama took the focus off what has been an un­characteristically poor start to the season by the packers’ offense. 
three games into the season, the packers rank 20th in yards passing per game (226), 28th in yards rushing per game (78.3) 
and 25th in total offense (304.3). 
packers players know the time for venting is over. there’s too much work to be done to dwell on anything else. 
“It’s easy to put it behind us,” said m.d. Jennings, the player who appeared to intercept the decisive pass before the call went against him monday night. “In this game, you’ve got to have a short memory and just learn from things and move on.” 
the packers are 1-2 after a last-second pass by seahawks quarterback russell wilson was ruled a touchdown catch by golden tate — when the packers, their fans and most of the football-watching public saw it as a clear interception by Jennings. 
“It’s tough to learn something from that situation,” Jennings said. “you can second-guess yourself thinking, catch it or bat it down, but I just had to go on with my instincts and that was to go up and try to make a play on the ball.” 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit 
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
“Wasted Time” by the Eagles 
Well baby, there you stand/With your little head, down in your hand/ Oh, my God/ You can’t believe it’s happening again/ Your baby’s gone, and you’re all alone and it looks like the end. 
And you’re back out on the street/And you’re tryin’ to remember/ How will you start it over?/ You don’t know what be­came/You don’t care much for a strang­er’s touch/But you can’t hold your man. 
You never thought you’d be alone this far down the line/ And I know what’s been on your mind/ You’re afraid it’s all been wasted time 
The autumn leaves have got you think­ing about the first time that you fell/ You didn’t love the boy too much/ No, no, you just loved the boy too well/ Farewell,So you live from day to day, and you dream about tomorrow/ And the hours go by like minutes and the shadows come to stay/ So you take a little something to make them go away/ And I could have done so many things/ baby, If I could only stop my mind from wondrin’ what/ I left behind and from worrying ‘bout this wasted time 
Oh, another love has come and gone/ Oh, and the years keep rush­ing on/ I remember what you told me before you went out on your own/ “Sometimes to keep it together, we got to leave it alone”/ So you can get on with your search, baby/ and I can get on with mine/ And maybe someday we will find/ that it wasn’t really wasted time/ Mm, hm, Oh hoo, ooh, oh/ Ooh, ooh, mm. 
Quote of the Day – Sept. 27: 
“My friend is one ... who takes me for what I am.” 
- Henry David Thoreau 



nFl 

McKnight moved to corner after Revis injury 
Associated Press 
florham parK, n.J. — Joe mcKnight walked into the Jets’ offensive meeting room and rex ryan broke the news to the backup running back. 
“he said I’ve been trad­ed,” mcKnight recalled wednesday. “I was traded to the defense.” 
mcKnight will start work­ing “a ton” at cornerback to help offset the loss of all-pro darrelle revis, who’s likely out for the season with a knee 
paId adVertIsement 

injury. mcKnight, whose role on offense has been limited this season, played the posi­tion in high school and prac­ticed at cornerback in week 2 when revis was sidelined by a concussion. 
still, finding out about his new role on monday wasn’t exactly an exciting moment for mcKnight. 
“I mean, I was drafted as a running back,” the former southern california star said. “the way I took it as was I wasn’t good enough to play running back. I don’t know if that’s the case or not, but that’s the way I’m looking at it right now.” 
mcKnight didn’t ask ryan if that was the situation, and insisted he’s not disappoint­ed. after all, it could mean getting on the field a lot more after carrying the ball just three times for 14 yards in three games. 
“I kind of get tired of just standing on the sideline watching,” mcKnight said. “I’m just happy to play right now.” 
mcKnight practiced on de­fense wednesday, wearing a green no. 25 jersey instead of the offense’s usual white, and intercepted mark sanchez, tim tebow and greg mcelroy once each. 
“he’ll have a role on of­fense, but we’re also teaching him to play corner in almost, not quite a full-time capac­ity, but he’s going to be over there a ton — in the meetings and everything else,” ryan said. 
ryan first mentioned the idea of using mcKnight in the secondary in the run­ning back’s rookie season in 2010. mcKnight, who’s also the team’s primary kickoff also have ellis lankster and Isaiah trufant as backups, the athletic mcKnight gives ryan another option in the secondary. 


mcKnight was actually an outstanding cornerback in high school in louisiana, re­turning three picks for touch­downs in his junior season. 
“It’s been a while since I’ve played cornerback,” he said. “maybe if I would’ve played it four years in college, that would’ve helped. but me playing cornerback in high school doesn’t help me right now. I’ve got to work on some things.” 
he was even better as a running back back then, with his speed and shiftiness making him a top recruit af­ter his senior year. after an up-and-down career at usc, the Jets drafted him in the fourth round in 2010 — but he hasn’t yet made the im­pact on offense that was ex­pected. Instead, new york is hoping mcKnight can help make up for the loss of argu­ably the league’s top defen­sive player. 
and that might start sunday, when the Jets take on the san francisco 49ers. 
“hey, they can go ahead and do it,” mcKnight said. “I’m ready for it. If they want to come throw to my side, I can easily show them I can play.” 
returner, even got into new york’s game at baltimore last season on defense as a blitzing defensive back who forced Joe flacco into throw­ing an interception. 
“he’s a guy we saw on scout team as a rookie that he has the necessary skills to be able to play corner,” ryan said. “he’s got the speed, the size, the athleticism, the ball skills — everything you look for in a corner. ... I definite­ly would not bet against Joe mcKnight becoming a good corner.” 

revis tore the anterior cru­ciate ligament in his left knee at miami on sunday, and will be replaced by Kyle wilson as a starter. while the Jets 

paId adVertIsement the obserVer | Thursday, sepTember 27, 2012 | ndsmcobserVer.com 


mlb 
Associated Press 
atlanta — Josh Johnson didn’t feel he could afford to give up any runs if he wanted to beat the atlanta braves. 
that plan was in trouble af­ter Johnson had faced only two batters. 
Johnson gave up martin prado’s homer with one out in the first, and the marlins’ strug­gles continued as they were shut out by paul maholm and three relievers in a 3-0 loss wednesday night. 
miami has lost six straight and eight of nine. 
the braves have won four straight, including the first two games of the three-game series. 
“they’re playing good base­ball,” Johnson said of the braves. “you’ve got to throw up a zero.” 
Johnson (8-14) allowed three runs, two earned, four hits and five walks in six innings. 
marlins manager ozzie guillen said Johnson “threw the ball well” but said “the other guy threw the ball better than him. 
“I don’t want to take anything away from the lefty (maholm),” guillen said. “he shut us down.” 
maholm (13-10) earned only his second win in his last seven starts. he gave up five hits with no walks and six strikeouts in 6 2-3 innings. 
“I tried to do as much as I could to try to treat it like a 

Braves shut out Marlins, beat Josh Johnson 
playoff game,” maholm said. 
“obviously, this is what you play for. you want to play in october. you want to play in the postseason. It’s fun to come to the park and know there’s some added pressure to come in and try to do some things.” 
from the first inning, when prado homered, to the ninth, when closer craig Kimbrel struck out four, the braves showed they haven’t given up on catching washington in the nl east. 
the win came one night after atlanta clinched at least an nl wild-card berth with tuesday night’s 4-3 win over the marlins. after the game, braves players sprayed champagne on each other in the clubhouse and on the field. 
the braves remained four games behind first-place washington in the nl east. the nationals beat the phillies, 8-4. 
with only seven games re­maining in the regular season, the braves are running out of time to catch the nationals. they haven’t given up on the chase. 
“It’s going to be a difficult task, but it can be done,” gonzalez said. “we just have to win and see what happens.” 
prado said a strong finish to the regular season is important to the postseason hopes. 
“I think the way we’re playing right now, we just want to keep 

the braves scored an un­earned run off Johnson in the sixth. dan uggla reached on third baseman Velazquez’s low throw to first base for an error. uggla moved to third on brian mccann’s single. 
with maholm at the plate, uggla took off from third on an apparent attempted suicide squeeze. maholm waved his bat at the pitch, which was wide of the plate and beyond the reach of buck, the catcher. uggla scored easily and was credited with a stolen base. 


By BRENDAN BELL 
sports writer 
saint mary’s stayed in the middle of the mIaa pack wednesday with a score of 335 and a third-place fin­ish on the third day of tournament competition. 
the belles finished the day six strokes off the leader, olivet college, which totaled a score of 329.  hope college placed second with a score of 334, one shot ahead of saint mary’s.  saint mary’s beat the fourth-place team, calvin college, by seven strokes to jump ahead to third place in the overall mIaa Jamboree standings. 
belles coach mark hamilton said one of the advantages the belles had wednesday that helped to im­prove their scores was playing on the team’s home course, blackthorn golf course in south bend, Ind. 
“we felt a little bit more comfort­able going into the round,” hamilton said. “for some players it contribut­ed to shooting a little better and for other players it didn’t make as much of a difference as we expected.” 
the mixed results came on the heels of a busy schedule for the belles, who completed three match­es since sept. 20, hamilton said. 

“we have had a whirlwind over the last few weeks,” he said. “between school and golf, the ladies have been under a lot of duress and we hope that we can now take a step back and improve our golf games.” 
the belles will travel next to play at adrian college’s home course, lewanee country club, on oct. 
6. hamilton said the belles have plenty of time between now and the next match to improve. after three rounds of tournament golf completed within a week, now the belles have an opportunity to step back and address concerns before the next competition, hamilton said. 
“some of the keys are to work on some mechanical issues and just improve our golf IQ,” the coach said. “we will be playing a lot of between now and our next match.” 
the belles will travel to lewanee golf course on oct. 6 for the final mIaa Jamboree before the season-ending two rounds, which will be­gin oct. 12. saint mary’s will try to use the upcoming event to make a push towards the top of the mIaa standings before the finale. 
Contact Brendan Bell at bbell2@nd.edu 
going all the way to the end,” prado said. 
“we want to finish strong, to win as many games as we can.” 
prado drove in Jose constanza with a third-inning single off Johnson. prado had two of the braves’ four hits. 
chad durbin recorded the final out in the seventh. eric o’flaherty pitched the eighth. 
Kimbrel earned his 40th save, matching Jason motte for the nl lead, with a perfect ninth inning. he struck out four in the inning. donovan solano struck out but reached on a wild pitch. Kimbrel also struck out greg dobbs, John buck and gil Velazquez. 

“this kid’s amazing!” guillen said of Kimbrel. “every time he’s on the mound, I guarantee you everybody in the atlanta orga­nization feels pretty good about it. he’s one of the best ones on the mound right now, if not the best.” 
Kimbrel is the first brave to re­cord four strikeouts in an inning since mark wohlers against the cubs on June 7, 1995. 
paId adVertIsement 
smC GolF | 3rd place 

belles finish third in tournament 


smC volleyball | smc 0, calVIn 3 smC soCCer 
belles fall at home to calvin Belles host Calvin 

By NICK BOYLE 
sports writer 
saint mary’s endured a sweep in its match against no. 2 calvin wednesday evening, falling  3-0 at home to the conference foe (25-15, 25-23, 25-16). 
though the belles (8-8, 4-4 mIaa) failed to win a set, the home team competed well against calvin (14-1, 7-0), belles coach toni Kuschel said. 
“I thought we played well against a great team,” Kuschel said. 
“I thought our serve receive and serving was exceptional.” 
the visitors jumped out to an early lead in the first set, and never looked back. saint mary’s fought hard in the second game, but ultimately dropped a close set. 
“I thought we had a lot of great intensity during the sec­ond set.” Kuschel said. “we were able to go point for point and hit .324 during that set.” 
Kuschel was quick to give her players praise for a tough fought battle, even in defeat. 
“having a first-year Katie hecklinski have a double-dou­ble with 11 kills and 11 digs was so great to see,” Kuschel said. “[sophomore] taylor etzell also did a great job up at the net.” 
though the belles competed hard on wednesday, Kuschel said she hopes her team can pick up their play even more in upcoming matches. 

“we feel good about the way we played, however, we know that we can play better and with more intensity,” Kuschel said. 
Kuschel said her team will learn from this experience, and come back stronger in their next match. 
“we will need to use what 
paId adVertIsement 

after blowout win 

scofield 
contInued from page 16 
“It was an honor to be recog­nized for that,” scofield said. “I really appreciate randy seeing me and putting me into such a highly talented envi­ronment. It was a really good experience for me. It’s good to play outside of your comfort zone. so yeah, it was a great honor to be invited.” 
playing outside her comfort zone over the summer has helped scofield elevate her game this year. after failing to score in a full season at mid­field last year, she already has two clutch goals early on this year from her spot on the de­fense. within the past month, her headed goal brought the Irish (7-3-1, 3-0 big east) back to level in a 1-1 draw at then-no. 18 portland, and she scored the game-winner — another flying header — in a 2-1 win over then-no. 16 santa clara. 
as for her improvement, scofield said she believes having a year of experience already under her belt has al­lowed her to excel this season. 
“I think I’ve got more con­fidence this year,” she said. “last year, it was hard to come in and be a freshman and just put yourself out there. I’m more confident and more comfortable with the things today’s match the belles will have only one day off before two straight days of conference play saturday and sunday. following ttose contests, saint mary’s will have three days to rest and recuperate before an­other set of three games in only six days. 
“every year you have some tough stretches with lots of games,” Joyce said. “I think we’re a stronger team this year than we have been in the past, so we’re able to dominate some games. we get a lot of players on the field. that helps break things up and keep people fresh.” 
Joyce said while his players have been performing at the top of  their games, the fresh­men have been a key part to the belles’ success so far this season. 
“they’ve jumped right in, ready to compete,” Joyce said. “we haven’t had to wait around for them to get adjusted to the league.  they slide right in and play like veterans. It has been a big boost.” 
In the midst of a busy slate of games, the belles will face off against calvin today at 4 p.m. at home. 
Contact Katie Heit at kheit@nd.edu 

we learned this evening and continue to get better,” Kuschel said. 
saint mary’s has a break until tuesday when it travels to hope college to continue conference play. 
Contact Brendan Bell at bbell2@nd.edu 
By KATIE HEIT 
sports writer 
with their third game in five days, the belles look to keep their energy high as they square off against conference opponent calvin today at 4 p.m. 
saint mary’s (5-1-1, 3-1-0 mIaa) bounced back after a devastating 2-1 loss against no. 24 alma on saturday to defeat albion, 7-0, on tuesday with the highest scoring game the belles have competed in since 2007. now, they look to im­prove their conference record with a match against calvin (4-2-0, 3-1-0). saint mary’s and calvin are currently side-by­side in the mIaa rankings, sit­ting in third and fourth place respectively. 
belles coach michael Joyce said success early in the game will be key to a saint mary’s victory against the Knights. 
“as long as we start off strong against calvin, we’ll be fine,” Joyce said. “If we start off well, we’ll play with a lot of confi­dence the whole way through.” 
Joyce said the tight lineup of games during saint mary’s re­cent stretch comes as a natural result of having a conference season that is compressed into only a month and a half. after we’re doing this year.” 
scofield has also made a seamless transition to the Irish defense, helping to lock down what has been a young but strong unit for waldrum this year. the position switch has yet to make her notice­ably uncomfortable, as she enjoys being in the center of the action. 
“I like playing center back,” scofield said. “there’s defi­nitely more action in the mid­field than there is in back. I’d say I just like being in the middle.” 
that comfort and control as the last line of defense has al­lowed scofield to take charge of the Irish defense, where waldrum usually starts four underclassmen. 
“there are a lot of fresh­men, so we have to lead them,” scofield said. “also there aren’t that many upperclass­men so us younger kids have to step up and take more of a role of leadership, probably more so this year than last year.” 
scofield will try to continue leading notre dame through its conference schedule this weekend, as the Irish will take their perfect big east record to new england for matchups at providence and connecticut. 
Contact Jack Hefferon at wheffero@nd.edu 



big east 
contInued from page 16 
conference: the big east. 
and while the current big east may look like a geograph­ically confusing assortment of former conference usa champions, notre dame’s opponents aren’t exactly the little sisters of the poor. 
the Irish have captured 11 conference tournament championships in their 17 years of big east play but have fallen short of the crown in three of the last five seasons. this includes a stunning con­ference tournament quarter­final loss to connecticut in the team’s national champi­onship 2010 season, as well as a nail-biting loss to louisville in last year’s semifinals. 
these recent failures are ex­actly why it’s refreshing to see this Irish squad so focused on reclaiming the top spot in the conference, a goal waldrum has emphasized as the Irish move into the heart of their conference schedule. 

stabilizing force in an unex­perienced midfield group. 
as important as their con­tributions have been, roccaro and laddish will play only small part in determining notre dame’s conference title chances. the rest will be left largely to the “baby Irish,” in­cluding the eight underclass­men that started in the team’s most recent contest, a 3-0 home win over oakland. 
fortunately for the Irish, the team’s young core was thrown into the fire early, as it began its college career with road trips in tough environ­ments like portland and cru­cial home matchups against the likes of santa clara and north carolina. 
although notre dame jumped out to a rough start, it seems the challenging non-conference competition has undoubtedly forced the team to mature quickly and has prepared the team for its tough in-conference tests to come, which include a visit to no. 14 georgetown and a po-
So far, Waldrum’s squad has made good on its coach’s goal, as the team has won its first three conference games by a combined score of 11-2. 
so far, waldrum’s squad has made good on its coach’s goal, as the team has won its first three conference games by a combined score of 11-2. 
more importantly, in just 270 minutes of conference play, notre dame partially exorcised its demons from last year (in a 2-1 win over then-no. 12 louisville), dem­onstrated the offensive fire­power it possesses (in a 7-0 win over cincinnati) and showed great poise in domi­nating the time of posses­sion battle (in a 2-1 win over pittsburgh). 
of course, it’s not purely co­incidental that notre dame’s recent breakout has come at the same time as the return of freshman forward cari roccaro and junior midfield­er mandy laddish from the fIfa u-20 women’s world cup. roccaro has sparked the Irish offense, scoring three goals in four games thus far, while laddish has been a tential tournament date with no. 19 marquette. 

If the Irish can survive those games and not suffer any breakdowns in the pro­cess, they should have an unblemished path toward recapturing that recently elusive big east crown. and, although most loyal notre dame fans claim not to care about conference titles, a big east championship this year would mark an important first step for an Irish squad primed to peak in two or three years. 
so, by all means, bring on the acc competition. Just make sure it comes after notre dame shows the big east why it’s been the confer­ence’s premier program since 1995. 
Contact Brian Hartnett at bhartnet@nd.edu. 
The views represented in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Clark 
contInued from page 16 

defends. we start defend­ing from the highest for­ward. … obviously the defense has got to play a part and they were well-or­ganized and they certainly did well. 
“It was the first game for [junior defender] connor miller and that was great that he came in … and I think grant Van de casteele, he’s a great per­son to make him feel at home. I think grant did a good job making him feel comfortable.” 
the Irish are now un­beaten in their last three matches against Indiana, which entered the contest on a three-game winning streak. the match also marked the fifth time this season the Irish scored the game-winning goal in the final 20 minutes and pushed notre dame’s re­cord to 6-1 in one-goal matches. 
notre dame won its first seven matches of the sea­son before losing its first big east fixture 2-1 on saturday at louisville (5-3­0, 1-0-0). the Irish resume big east play saturday when they travel to no. 2 connecticut, concluding what clark called “a week from hell.” 
“these are all good tests for the team,” clark said. “If you’re going to be a serious contender for a national championship, team is still growing.” you’ve got to be able to the Irish and huskies go to places like Indiana kick off at 7 p.m. on and to louisville and to saturday in storrs, conn. connecticut and take something positive away. Contact Sam Gans at It’s a growing period. the sgans@nd.edu 

paId adVertIsement 



CrossWord | wIll shortZ horosCope | eugenIa last 

hIGhly punlIkely | chrIstopher brucKer sudoku | the mepham group 

loWer your expeCTaTIons |  lenny rago &        patrIcKcross 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: christina milian, 31; serena williams, 31; James caviezel, 44; olivia newton-John, 64. 
Happy Birthday: past experience will help you expand your interests. get in touch with people who have something to offer you. a change regarding a partnership will be difficult, but beneficial in the end. networking and sharing what you have to offer will lead to greater opportunities. attend reunions or events that will bring you in contact with old ties. your numbers are 4, 16, 22, 28, 36, 40, 44. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): don’t force change; accept what’s being offered. your communication skills will help you establish a position that will bring you greater clout. share your vision and you will attract interest in what you are doing as well as in who you are. 

TAURUS (April 20-May 20): sudden changes will alter the way you do things professionally. don’t trust what others do or say. look out for your own interests and protect your position, finances and health. when one door closes, another will open. 

GEMINI (May 21-June 20): expand your interests and put your skills to the test. set your priorities straight and don’t stop until you reach your destination. love is in the stars, but it must not throw you off your professional game plan. 


CANCER (June 21-July 22): consider your options, look at what others are contrib­uting and make a decision that will keep you out of trouble. Keeping your emotions under control will be necessary, especially when dealing with children, elders or someone you don’t trust. 

LEO (July 23-Aug. 22):temper tantrums will develop if you don’t compromise. a personal relationship may suffer if you use pressure to get your way. travel plans or visiting unfamiliar places will help you broaden your perspective on a situation you face. 

VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): try your very best. get everything on your to-do list out of the way before you take on more commitments. a work-related event would al­low you to share your plans for the future, gathering interest from those who might help you advance. 

LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): discussing plans will motivate you to get started. love is on the rise. getting involved in causes you feel strongly about will allow you to engage in a friendship based on common interests. 


SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Keeping your thoughts private will be beneficial finan­cially and emotionally. once you are sure you have your plans ready to launch, you will not have to worry about someone disclosing information that has the potential to stand in the way of your success. 

SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): don’t hesitate to show off what you can do. some­one will see the value you bring to the table and want to include you in something you’ll find interesting and lucrative. love is in the stars. travel and communication are favored. 

CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): communication must be well thought out and executed with precision. an unusual reaction from someone you thought you knew well will catch you off guard. don’t share information that you don’t want spread around. love is likely to be costly. 

AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): make personal changes that will help to simplify your life and bring in more cash. cutting your overhead or sharing your expenses with someone will help you get a better handle on your situation. a love relationship will enhance your life. 

PISCES (Feb. 19- March 20): emotional stress and deception can be expected. don’t share secret information. concentrate on learning as much as you can about a situ­ation that could end up causing you a problem. Keep your money and possessions in a safe place. 

Birthday Baby: you are a leader, not a follower. you are creative, original and charming. 
Jumble | daVId hoyt and Jeff KnureK 




make checks payable to and mail to: the observer 
p.o. box 779 
notre dame, In 46556 


enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year 


enclosed
 is $75 for one semester


Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information 
on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
name 

Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an 
indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying 
address 

form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
city      state Zip 

the obserVer | Thursday, sepTember 27, 2012 | ndsmcobserVer.com 
nd men’s soCCer | nd 1, IndIana 0 
Irish topple ranked Indiana 
Team rebounds from first loss of season to defeat Hoosiers in Bloomington 
By SAM GANS 
sports writer 
after dropping its first game of the season saturday against no. 24 louisville, no. 8 notre dame rebounded strongly with a 1-0 victory wednesday night at no. 10 Indiana. 
Irish senior defender grant Van de casteele netted his first goal of the season in the 71st minute on a header past Indiana redshirt senior goal­keeper luis soffner. the goal came off a corner kick from Irish senior captain and mid­fielder dillon powers to give the Irish (8-1-0, 0-1 big east) the lead over the hoosiers (6­2-1, 1-0-0 big ten). 
the connection between powers and Van de casteele, who were youth club soccer teammates in texas, was just the second strong scoring opportunity for the Irish off a corner, Irish coach bobby clark said. 
“In the first half actually if it wasn’t for a fantastic save by their goalkeeper, [Irish sophomore midfielder] nick besler would have done the same. … [In the second half,] dillon powers took the corner and grant headed it home, so it was the dallas connection,” clark said. 
Van de casteele’s con­tribution was not just felt on the offensive side of the field, but also the defensive end. the Irish did not allow a shot on goal until the 86th minute when junior goal­keeper patrick wall made his only save of the evening on a header attempt from Indiana freshman midfielder femi hollinger-Janzen. 
clark said the success was a team effort, not just a result of the back four’s play. 
“It’s not just the defense,” clark said. “I always say it’s about how the whole team 
see clarK paGe 14 


SARAH O’CONNOR | The Observer 

Irish senior midfielder Dillon Powers moves upfield during Notre Dame’s 3-1 victory over Akron on Sept. 9. at Alumni Stadium. The Irish defeated No. 10 Indiana 2-1 Wednesday. 
nd Women’s soCCer 

Scofield becoming a fixture on defense 
Sophomore keys 


Big East still defense in second presents challenges 
year with Irish for Irish 
By JACK HEFFERON 

Brian Hartnett 
sports writer sports writer 
the “sophomore slump” is a common phenomenon in 

Irish coach randy waldrum sports when breakout rookie 
said he was ecstatic over it. athletes regress back to aver-
coaches and fans across the age play. but after leading all 
country applauded it. espn Irish freshmen in playing time 
devoted a significant amount last year, sophomore center 
of coverage to it. back sammy scofield has only 
I’m talking, of course, about improved upon her solid play 
the recent announcement from last year and has become 
of notre dame’s impending a force on the Irish back line. 
move to the acc. last season, scofield was a 
after examining the move, fixture in the Irish lineup and 
who could possibly blame appeared in all 21 matches, 
them for their enthusiasm? although she usually came 
notre dame will soon play off the bench and played in 
current rival north carolina the midfield. as Irish coach 
yearly and face a confer-randy waldrum saw more 
ence slate that includes eight of scofield’s play, the rookie 
teams ranked in this week’s found a regular spot in the 
top-25 standings. not to men-starting lineup as the year pro­
tion, the Irish will make mul­gressed, playing every minute 
tiple trips each season to key of notre dame’s abbreviated 
southern recruiting hotbeds. stay at the ncaa tournament. 
however, as appetizing as waldrum was so impressed 
the acc may look to Irish he invited scofield to play 
fans, the timetable for the with the u-23 national team 
conference switch is still to be in January, an experience 
determined. In the meantime, scofield said was a competi­
it’s easy to forget notre dame tive learning experience. SARAH O’CONNOR | The Observer is already part of a different 
Irish sophomore defender Sammy Scofield kicks the ball upfield during Notre Dame’s 2-1 win over see scolfIeld paGe 13 Pittsburgh on Sept. 21 at Alumni Stadium. see bIg east paGe 14 




