
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


OIS releases study abroad decisions 
754 students chosen from  pool of 1,535; English language programs prove most popular 
By TORI ROECK 
News Writer 
Antsy students are dream­ing of Big Ben, the Colosseum and the Parthenon this week in the wake of Friday’s re­lease of study abroad deci­sions from the Office of Inter­national Studies (OIS) for the 2012-2013 academic year. 
Kathleen Opel, director of OIS, said her department is “as excited as ever” for next year’s class of international scholars. 
“We’ve given our decision, and now [students] need to either confirm that they’re going to accept or decline the offer,” Opel said. “If that’s the case, then we’re able to offer that spot to somebody else. “ 
Opel said OIS received a total of 1,535 applications from 1,005 students. Out of the 1,005 students who ap­plied, 754 were accepted into a study abroad program for next year, she said. 
Out of these 754 accepted students, Opel said 721 were admitted to their first choice program. 

Additionally, 245 students were waitlisted for study abroad programs. Opel said she has seen an increase in the popularity of English lan­guage programs such as Lon­don, Dublin and Perth, mak-


By DREW PANGRAZE 
News Writer 
The number of club sports at Notre Dame is on the rise due in part to a new Univer­sity policy, RecSports Assis­tant Director Dave Brown said. 
“We are now including clubs in sports that also in­clude varsity programs at Notre Dame,” Brown said. 
This spring semester, men’s and women’s soccer, women’s volleyball and co­ed golf will start new club teams on campus through RecSports, he said. In the past, club sports were not permitted to form if a varsity team for that same sport al­ready existed at Notre Dame. 
“Alex McIntyre and I were just chilling in our dorm room one day, looked at each other and asked, ‘Why can’t we start our own club soc­cer team?’” sophomore Nick Reineke said. 
McIntyre and Reineke gathered support for their club team, and practices will start up this spring. 
“After receiving some positive feedback from the schools, we put up sign-up sheets in dorms to see if students were interested,” Reineke said. 

The club teams are great for those students who are not quite good enough or committed enough to be on the varsity team, but still hunger for greater competi­tion and community than in­ing them more competitive for students to get into. 
“Specifically the programs that we have in English tend to be those that can suit the needs of business, science, engineering and Arts and 


Club sports participation grows 
ND blog network spurs online dialogue 
By SHANNON O’BRIEN 
News Writer 
Students, faculty and staff are using the Notre Dame blog network to connect globally, ac­cording to Don Schindler, the managing director of Market­ing Communications at Agen­cyND. 
Schindler, one of the founders of the network, suggested the idea upon starting his employ­ment at the University in 2009. 
“I was an avid blogger at my previous position before join­ing the University, and I be­lieve that blogs are great way to communicate online, espe­cially when it comes to being found via the search engines,” Schindler said. 
Fueled by his passions for blogging, Schindler put his idea into action with the team at AgencyND, the University’s communications unit, using a program called Wordpress, which currently powers over 60 million blogs worldwide. The Notre Dame blog network went live in February of 2010 and started to gain traction in June of that year, Schindler said. 
The University provides this service for free, he said. It pro­vides both student and faculty bloggers a platform to use un­der nd.edu, giving them an in­stantly higher search ranking than blogs posted elsewhere from a .com or .org domain. 
“For students, the blog net­work allows them to get a feel for what blogging is like,” Schindler said. “Most small businesses and large corpo­rations are creating blog net­works and expect their employ­ees to engage their customers through this type of platform.” 
Currently, there are 171 blog sites with 602 users in the net­work, according to Schindler. More than 114,731 unique visi­tors have visited 189,617 times and looked at 432,203 pages as of Tuesday. 
One current promoter of the Notre Dame blog network is professor Christine Becker of the Film, Television and The-


see BLOGS/page 3 


terhall sports offer, Brown said.  
“Our club is going to be an organization of fun, accep­tance and competition of all skill levels,” junior Michael Kennedy said. 
Kennedy and his golfing buddy, junior Tim Scott, are 

see RECSPORTS/page 4 

Letters students,” Opel said. “There is a growing number of business students, and be­cause of that growth in the College of Business, where 

see ABROAD/page 4 


Professor recognized for  writings 

By AUBREY BUTTS 
News Writer 
Sociology professor Christian Smith recently received honors for his lat­est works, “What is a Person” and “Souls in Transi­tion,” from top scholarly institutions, including “Ch oic e” magazine and the Lilly Fellows Program. 
Smith expressed gratitude when presented with his awards and praised the University for its contributions to his research. 
“You spend years and years working on books, so it’s nice when someone thinks they’re worthwhile. I’m very happy for Notre Dame as well,” Smith said. 

see AWARDS/page 3 

INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER SMC celebrates African-American heritage month page 3 u Viewpoint page 6 u ‘Stuff People Say’ page 8 u Women’s basketball defeats Syracuse page 16 
page 2 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u DAY-TO-DAY Wednesday, February 8, 2012 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT IS THE ONE THING YOU WOULD GIVE UP A LIMB FOR? 

www.ndsmcobserver.com P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 Editor-in-Chief Douglas Farmer Managing Editor Business Manager Sarah Mervosh Jeff Liptak Asst. Managing Editor: Adriana Pratt Asst. Managing Editor: Chris Masoud News Editor: Sam Stryker Viewpoint Editor: Meghan Thomassen Sports Editor: Allan Joseph Scene Editor: Maija Gustin Saint Mary’s Editor: Caitlin E. Housley Photo Editor: Pat Coveney Graphics Editor: Brandon Keelean Advertising Manager: Katherine Lukas Ad Design Manager: Amanda Jonovski Controller: Jason Taulman Systems Administrator: William Heineman Office Manager & General Info (574) 631-7471 Fax (574) 631-6927 Advertising (574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu Editor-in-Chief (574) 631-4542 dfarmer1@nd.edu Managing Editor (574) 631-4542 smervosh@nd.edu Assistant Managing Editors (574) 631-4541 apratt@nd.edu, cmasoud@nd.edu Business Office (574) 631-5313 News Desk (574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com Viewpoint Desk (574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com Sports Desk (574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com Scene Desk (574) 631-4540 mgustin@nd.edu Saint Mary’s Desk chousl01@saintmarys.edu Photo Desk (574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com Systems & Web Administrators (574) 631-8839 Policies The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Douglas Farmer. Post Office Information The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 and additional mailing offices 024 South Dining hall Notre Dame, IN 46556-077 The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved.  
TODAY’S STAFF News Sports Amanda Gray Chris Allen Anna Boarini Kaite Heit Brooke Kovanda Brian Hartnett Graphics Scene Lauren Kalinoski Alex Kilpatrick Photo Viewpoint Sarah O’Connor Ren Brauweiler  
CORRECTIONS The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so we can correct our error.  
HIGH 34 LOW 20 


Joe Digaetano  Matt Skly  Eileen Chong  Joshua Whitaker  Adrianne Cline  Eliza Nagle  
freshman  freshman  junior  junior  sophomore  sophomore  
Dillon  Dillon  Howard  Off campus  McGlinn  Ryan  
“A date with a  “Family.”  “A date with Fr.  “To reign over  “Friends and  “A date with  
hot girl.”  Hesburgh.”  the squirrels of  family.”  Jack Trunzo.”  
South Quad.”  


Have an idea for Question of the Day? Email obsphoto@gmail.com 


OFFBEAT 

Last known World War One veteran dies at 110 
LONDON — Florence Green never saw the front line. Her war was spent serving food, not dodging bullets. 
But Green, who has died at age 110, was the last known surviving veteran of World War I. She was serv­ing with the Women’s Royal Air Force as a waitress at an air base in eastern England when the guns fell silent on Nov. 11, 1918. 
It was not until 2010 that she was officially recog­nized as a veteran after a re­searcher found her service record in Britain’s National Archives. 
Green died Saturday at the Briar House Care Home in King’s Lynn, eastern Eng­land, two weeks before her 111th birthday, the home said. 
Retired Air Vice-Marshal Peter Dye, director-general of the RAF Museum, said it was fitting that the last survivor of the first global war was someone who had served on the home front. 
“In a way, that the last veteran should be a lady and someone who served on the home front is something that reminds me that warfare is not confined to the trench­es,” Dye said. 
McDonald’s apologizes for offending pit bull owners 
LOS ANGELES — McDon­ald’s has apologized and pulled an ad that came back to bite it. 
The ad said eating a Chicken McBite was less risky than petting a stray pit bull, shaving your head, naming your son Sue or giv­ing friends your Facebook password. It enraged pit bull owners and their support­ers. 
The radio ad for Chicken McBites only ran for a few days in the Kansas City area before the complaints start­ed. The campaign against the ad circulated on social media sites, and the apology was delivered the same way. People who called a well-publicized toll-free number got a recorded apology. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 


IN BRIEF 
Rolfs Sports Rec Center will hold a Blood Drive today from 11 a.m. to 5:30 p.m. in the lobby area. Appointments are encouraged. 
Sponsored by the Insti­tute for Latino Studies, the sculpture Jesús Crucificado will be dedicated today in the Notre Dame Conference Center of McKenna Hall from 
4:30 to 5:30 p.m. Concurrent with the presentation is an opening reception for an art exhibition by Frederico Vig­
il. The event is free and open to the public. 
Today from 5 to 6:15 p.m., the Graduate School and Writing Center will host a workshop on how to create a five minute elevator pitch for a research project. The workshop is free and will take place in Room 120 of DeBartolo Hall. 
The Nanovic Institute for European Studies will show the film “La Havre” in the LaFortune Student Center from 7 to 10 p.m. tonight. Tickets cost $6 for adults, $5 for faculty and staff, $4 for senior citizens, and $3 for students. Call 574-631­2800 or visit performingarts. nd.edu to order tickets. 
Pasquerilla West Hall will be holding a Valentine’s Day Flower Sale today from 7 to 10 p.m. in the LaFortune Stu­dent Center elevator lobby. The cost is $1 per flower, and Domer Dollars are accepted. Proceeds will benefit the Fa­ther Jim Karaffa Business Academy for Women. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews.nd@gmail.com 



LOCAL WEATHER 
TODAY TONIGHT THURSDAY FRIDAY SATURDAY SUNDAY 









HIGH 36 LOW 27 
HIGH 32 LOW 18 
HIGH 22 LOW 16 
HIGH 25 LOW 20 

Wednesday, February 8, 2012 The Observer u NEWS ndsmcobserver.com | page 3 



Awards 
continued from page 1 
“The University’s resources have been invaluable to my re­search.” 
In addition to teaching soci­ology courses, Smith serves as Director of the Center for the Study of Religion and Society and the Director of the Center for Social Research. 
Smith said he developed an interest in religion and the spiritual lives of youth early in his career. 
“I was always interested in the field of religion,” he said. “In 2000, I began studying the religious and spiritual lives of teenagers. I find the lives of young people fascinating and a great way to understand cul­ture and society.” 
“Souls in Transition,” the winner of the 2011 Lilly Fel­lows Program Book Award, ex­plores spirituality and religion during emerging adulthood, a time Smith defines as between 18 to 23 years of age. 
“There’s a lot of freedom, op­portunity and dangers during this limbo phase between the teenage years and young adult­hood,” Smith said. “In the book, I look what happens to the les­sons from childhood. Also, growing up in a pluralistic society, I wondered how teen­agers would approach spiri­tuality once leaving home and separating from their parents.” 
While researching for his book, Smith discovered his findings supported previously established claims, while also validating obvious yet surpris­ing explanations concerning the religious lives of young adults. 
“We have known that going to church declines in this pe­riod. There’s not a decline in beliefs necessarily, but more so in public practice,” he said. “It should be obvious then, but the most important factor in shap­ing the lives of young people is their parents. It’s surpris­ing because we tend to believe parents become less and less important, and this is not the case at all.” 

Smith has brought his re­search to the Notre Dame com­munity, hoping that residence staff and campus ministry can help students develop and sus­tain their spiritual lives during their undergraduate careers. 
“I have presented my find­ings to all the rectors, and my main message is if you really want to reach young people with faith, then you have to en­gage them where they are in their lives,” Smith said. “Notre Dame can’t control what par­ents have taught, but they can continue to engage students in conversation.” 
Smith’s other work, “What is a Person,” explores the ques­tion of personhood within a comprehensive framework informed by sociological and philosophical principles. 
“I think social science gets human beings wrong in a lot of ways,” Smith said. “What it means to be a person is some­thing very particular and com­plicated. If humans are per­sons, then social science needs to take personhood seriously rather than taking a reduction­ist view.” 
Smith said he advocates a pluralist approach, a philo­sophical system recognizing the possibility of more than one ultimate principle. 
“We need to develop a bet­ter theory of personhood that defends a humanistic view as human beings are special and worthy of dignity,” Smith said. “I think culture is moving away from this view, and it’s a big problem.” 
Contact Aubrey Butts at abutts@nd.edu 



SMC celebrates heritage month 

By MADELINE MILES 
News Writer 
Saint Mary’s College Student has officially kicked off African Ameri­can Heritage Month (AAHM) cel­ebrations, according to Tamara Taylor, the assistant director of Stu­dent Involvement & Multicultural Services (SIMS). 
The month-long celebration is a time to rec­ognize the the story of others.” 
Taylor said AAHM is about being truly able to understand people of a different race or culture, thus be­coming culturally aware and com­petent of the opportunity to engage in educational opportunities when offered. 
“My goal as the assistant direc­tor for Multicultural Services is to work with students to plan cultural 

achievements “[Apollo Night is] our 
and contribu­

highlighted event. We 
tions of African 

want to highlight the 
Americans, 

importance of the theatre 
both past and 

in relation to African 
present. 

“Just like all American Heritage.” other cultural activities at Tamara Taylor Saint Mary’s 
assistant director 
College, I hope 

Student Involvement & 
to spark peo-

Multicultural Services 
ple’s attention and to put on events that are events that not only require an audience to show up and hear some­thing, but to actively engage and take away a lifelong mem­ory,” she said. 
The College’s AAHM celebra­tions started on Feb. 1 with an exhibit and recitation of se­lected poems, 

meaningful,” Taylo said. “It is im-but many other events are planned portant for Saint Mary’s to partici-during the month of February, pate in African American Heritage Taylor said. Among the upcoming celebrations to support and learn AAHM events include a soul food dinner to be served by Sodexo in the Noble Family Dining Hall, a mass commemorating black histo­ry, a movie night featuring Disney’s The Princess and the Frog and Apollo Night Talent Show. 
Taylor said the Apollo Night Tal­ent Show, named after the Apollo Theater in Harlem, is the most an­ticipated event. 
“It’s our highlighted event,” Tay­lor said. “We want to highlight the importance of the theatre in rela­tion to African American Heritage.” 
Poets, dancers, vocalists and many other talented individuals will be participating in the event, but students are welcomed to sub­mit an entry form to perform in the Apollo Talent Show. 
Taylor said she has high expecta­tions for the celebration of AAHM on Saint Mary’s campus. 
“I would like to invite the cam­pus to take part in as much of our programming as they can for Af­rican American Heritage Month,” she said. “It’s a great opportunity to learn something new.” 
Contact Madeline Miles at mmiles01@nd.edu 




Blogs 
continued from page 1 
atre Department. She has started using the blogs for her course on British television. 
“I decided to try it out be­cause I wanted to foster more conversation among the stu­dents and get them exposed to each other’s ideas more fully,” Becker said. 
Students in Becker’s course are required to blog and post weekly comments, voicing their opinions and responses to dif­ferent British television pro­grams.  
“I’m so often impressed by the depth of thought students ex­press in short essays,” she said. “It struck me as unfortunate that I was the only one who got to read them and believed stu­dents would benefit from seeing what their peers were coming up with, so that’s another rea­son to have them blogging.” 
According to Becker, blogging has become an important tool in the marketing world since 
LAUREN KALINOSKI | Observer Graphic 
possibility of student posts gen­erating feedback from others beyond the class, including pos­sibly British scholars and stu­dents who could lend first-hand insights from their cultural 
it provides a coveted goal  “I decided to try it out because I wanted to  perspectives,” she said.  
of many busi­ foster more conversation  The  blog  
nesses: expo­sure. Not only does the Notre Dame blog net- among the students and get them exposed to each other’s ideas more fully.”  posts are ag­gregated onto the main page of the web- 
workNotre  provide  Dame  Christine Becker  site, also which  provides  
programs and  professor  a list of blogs  
coursesexposure   with in  Film, Television and Theatre  studentsfollow.   can Stu- 
the  virtual  dents  who  
world, it also  wish  to  join  

delivers a unique opportunity the blog network need faculty for experts in other parts of the approval and can visit http:// world to contribute to the Notre blogs.nd.edu to get started. Dame conversation. 
“The class is on British tele-Contact Shannon O’Brien at vision, so I also envisioned a sobrie12@nd.edu 

page 4 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u NEWS Wednesday, February 8, 2012 


Handel resigns amid Parenthood scandal 

Associated Press 
ATLANTA  — A vice presi­dent at the Susan G. Komen for the Cure resigned Tuesday, saying the breast cancer char­ity should have stood by its politically explosive decision to cut off funding for Planned Parenthood. 
Karen Handel, a Republican who opposed abortion as a candidate for Georgia gover­nor, said she was actively en­gaged in efforts to cut off the grants and said the charity’s reversal hurt its core mission. 
“I am deeply disappointed by the gross mischaracteriza­tions of the strategy, its ratio­nale, and my involvement in it,” Handel said in her letter. “I openly acknowledge my role in the matter and continue to be­lieve our decision was the best one for Komen’s future and the women we serve.” 
The grants, totaling $680,000 last year, went to breast-screening services of­fered by Planned Parenthood, which provides a range of women’s health care services including abortions. Under criteria developed by Ko­men during Handel’s tenure, Planned Parenthood would have been disqualified from future grants because it was under a congressional investi­gation launched at the urging of anti-abortion activists. 
Komen, the nation’s larg­est breast-cancer charity, reversed course after its de­cision ignited a three-day fire­storm of criticism. Members of Congress and Komen affiliates accused the group’s national leadership of bending to pres­sure from anti-abortion activ­ists. 
“Neither the decision nor the changes themselves were based on anyone’s political beliefs or ideology,” Handel said in her resignation letter. “Rather, both were based on Komen’s mission and how to better serve women, as well as a realization of the need to distance Komen from contro­versy.” 
Handel said the discussion had started before she ar­rived at the organization last year. She said the charity was concerned that some Roman Catholic Dioceses had encour­aged believers not to give to Komen because it supported Planned Parenthood. 
“I was tasked with identify­ing options that would allow us to move to neutral ground about this so we weren’t on ei­ther side of you know, pro-life, pro-choice,” Handel said. 
Komen Founder and CEO Nancy G. Brinker said she ac­cepted Handel’s resignation and wished her well. 
“We have made mistakes in how we have handled recent decisions and take full ac­countability for what has re­sulted, but we cannot take our eye off the ball when it comes to our mission.” Brinker said in a statement. “To do this ef­fectively, we must learn from what we've done right, what we’ve done wrong and achieve our goal for the millions of women who rely on us.” 
Planned Parenthood spokes­woman Andrea Hagelgans de­clined to comment. 
Handel said the now-aban­doned policy was fully vetted by the Komen organization. Its board did not raise any objec­tions when it was presented with the proposed policy in November, Handel said. 
The breast cancer charity cited a probe backed by anti­abortion groups and launched by Rep. Cliff Stearns, R-Fla., to determine if Planned Parent­hood improperly spent public money on abortions. Planned Parenthood says taxpayer money is strictly separated. 
Until Tuesday, Handel had publicly kept silent about her role in the dispute. 
“What was a thoughtful and thoroughly reviewed de­cision — one that would have indeed enabled Komen to de­liver even greater community impact — has unfortunately been turned into something about politics,” Handel said. “This is entirely untrue. This development should sadden us all greatly.” 


RecSports 
continued from page 1 

starting the co-ed club golf team on campus this spring. 
“Whether you love to golf simply for relaxation and fun or want to relive the com­petitive days of high school golf, we would love for you to join,” he said. 
Starting a new club team does not happen overnight though, Brown added. Club sports teams must start the process through the Student Activities Office. 
“Clubs that would fall un-

Abroad 
continued from page 1 

they do not have a language requirement, more of those students are gravitating to­ward programs where lan­guage is not a requirement.” 
Opel also said spring pro­grams are more popular overall than those in the fall “by a very small margin.” 
The number of applicants remained relatively stagnant from last year’s numbers. Last year, 1,011 students ap­plied for study abroad pro­grams during the academic year and 780 students were initially accepted. 
Waitlisted students should not lose hope, Opel said, because some students do choose not to attend the program in which they have been accepted. 
Opel’s advice to waitlisted students is “be patient and be optimistic.” 
“We will stay in touch with [waitlisted] students and let them know at what point we’ve pretty much filled the spring, according to se­nior Stephanie Cripps. 
“We are really excited that we finally have our own club volleyball team at Notre Dame and can't wait to get the season started,” Cripps said. “It has been a lot of work, but we are very happy that Notre Dame is allowing club sports and that we get to spend our senior year be­ing a part of it.” 
The club sports are open for any and all students to join. Visit recsports.nd.edu for more information. 
Contact Drew Pangraze at apangraz@nd.edu 
der club sports are sent to me,” Brown said. “There are several steps ¾ formal ap­plication, completion of a club constitution and a mis­sion statement. We need a list of proposed officers with contact information and an identified adviser. For com­petitive club sports we inves­tigate Midwest conferences and leagues in the sport, na­tional associations and costs of travel, entry fees, mem­bership fees for any league and what sources of reve­nues the club expects to have at its disposal.” 
The women’s volleyball club team will also begin in 
capacity and don’t see any more changes coming,” Opel said. 
Opel added accepted stu­dents should begin to think about what is required of them before they travel abroad. OIS will offer pre­departure programs in the coming months for students studying abroad during the fall 2012 semester, but she said they should work on ob­taining a passport and fa­miliarizing themselves with safety and security measures as soon as possible. 
“By the time [students studying abroad] leave cam­pus, they should have a pret­ty good grounding of what to expect when they get there,” she said. 
Sophomore Matt Hayes said he is already gearing up to spend the spring 2013 se­mester in Bologna, Italy. 
A Program of Liberal Stud­ies and Italian major, Hayes said he hopes to become flu­ent in Italian during his time abroad. 
“I chose Bologna for the opportunity to become fluent and study at an actual Ital­ian university,” he said. 
Hayes also plans to spend Easter at the Vatican. How­ever, he said he is most look­ing forward to the food. 
“Bologna is called ‘La Grassa,’ meaning ‘the Fat One.’ It is the food capital of Italy,” Hayes said. “I’m ex­cited to eat my way through Italy.” 
Sophomore Margeaux Prin­ster will spend the spring 2013 semester in Rome. As an anthropology major with a peace studies minor, Prin­ster said she is fascinated by the archeological value of Rome. 
“I’m really interested in archeology, and Rome is an awesome place to be for that because you’re basically liv­ing in ancient Rome with a modern twist,” she said. 
Prinster added she also wants to travel beyond Rome. 
“I’m most excited about travelling and seeing every­thing,” Prinster said. “I re­ally, really want to go skiing in the Alps.” 


Contact Tori Roeck at vroeck@nd.edu 


Wednesday, February 8, 2012 The Observer u NEWS ndsmcobserver.com | page 5 



Search for missing woman continues 
Associated Press 
OLYMPIA, Wash. — Utah au­thorities have for at least six months investigated the dis­appearance of Susan Powell as a murder case. But without a body, they publicly held out hope that she would be found alive. 
So what evidence did they have that the mother of two was dead? And was there any­thing to identify her killer? 
There was the damp spot on the floor in their Utah home and a curious late-night camping trip described by her husband. There were also the recollec­tions of their young son Braden about a camping trip and his mother being “in the trunk.” 
That could strike some as a clue, or the ramblings of a boy who was then just 2. 
For authorities in Utah, none of it was enough to bring charg­es. 
The man identified by inves­tigators as a “person of inter­est” — Powell’s husband Josh 
— had already moved from Utah to Washington state, tak­ing with him their two young sons. On Sunday, he torched his house, killing himself and the boys. 
Now, as authorities try to de­termine what led him to take such a drastic measure, many questions remain about the status of the investigation into Susan Powell's 2009 disappear­ance and how close they were to bringing charges. 
A Washington state search warrant obtained by The As­sociated Press through a pub­lic records request Tuesday showed that police were inves­tigating three felonies in Utah: first-degree murder, kidnap­ping and obstructing a public servant. 

Salt Lake County District At­torney Sim Gill acknowledged for the first time that investi­gators believe Powell is likely dead, but he said in an inter­view with the AP that the case remains a missing persons probe for now. 
Gill wouldn't discuss the evidence but said authorities didn't have enough information to file charges. 
“I think when I talk about it as a missing persons case, that’s because we haven’t lo­cated the body of Susan Pow­ell,” Gill said. “Do we think that she may have met harm? Sure. I think that’s been an ongoing assumption with law enforce­ment.” 
Investigators said Josh Pow­ell withdrew $7,000 in cash from a bank the day before he killed himself and his two young sons in the house fire. 
Pierce County Prosecutor Mark Lindquist said detectives obtained Powell’s bank records Monday, and on Tuesday they searched a storage unit he rented. It isn’t clear what hap­pened to the money. 
Josh Powell claimed that on the night Susan Powell van­ished, he took sons Charlie and Braden from their home in West Valley City, Utah, on a late-night camping trip. Au­thorities eventually searched the central Utah desert but found nothing. 
Susan Powell’s father said that when police went to the family home after she was re­ported missing, they found a wet spot in the house being dried by two fans. Police have not commented further on what they found. 


Coca-Cola’s earnings beat Q4 estimates 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK — Coca-Cola reported an effervescent fourth quarter Tuesday, as the company sold more of its drinks globally and its earn­ings beat analyst expecta­tions. 
Coca-Cola is benefiting from raising prices in North America, where consum­er sentiment is slowly im­proving, and expanding in emerging markets including Africa and Latin America. 
“Compared to 12 months ago, there are very early in­dications that the consumer (in North America) is feeling a little better, with more mo­bility, travel and eating out,” said CEO Muhtar Kent in a telephone interview with the AP. “That all translates into better business for us.” 
Coca-Cola Co.’s fourth-quarter net income dropped 71 percent, weighed down by restructuring charges and a difficult comparison with last year’s fourth quarter, when the beverage maker had a hefty benefit from buy­ing its bottlers. 
But the Atlanta com­pany said Tuesday its ad­justed results topped Wall Street’s expectations as it sold more drinks in the U.S. and abroad, particularly in emerging markets. 

“Even as we believe that global market volatility will continue in the near term, the breadth of our global footprint and the strength of our brands create a resil­ient business that was built for times like these,” CEO Muhtar Kent said in a state­ment. 
Shares of Coca-Cola rose 52 cents to close at $68.55 Tuesday. 
Coke also said it will start a cost-cutting program in 2012 to save $550 million to $650 million annually by 2015 in part to help offset continued high commodity costs. 
Coca-Cola, whose brands include Sprite and Minute Maid, earned $1.65 billion, or 72 cents per share, for the period ended Dec. 31. 
That’s down sharply from $5.77 billion, or $2.46 per share, a year earlier. 
But a year ago, the com­pany had a one-time net gain of $1.74 per share, mainly related to buying a bottler’s North American operations. 


Court rules Prop. 8 unconstitutional 

Associated Press 
SAN FRANCISCO — Same-sex marriage moved one step closer to the Supreme Court on Tuesday when a federal ap­peals court ruled California’s ban unconstitutional, saying it serves no purpose other than to “lessen the status and human dignity” of gays. 
A three-judge panel of the 9th Circuit Court of Appeals gave gay marriage opponents time to appeal the 2-1 decision be­fore ordering the state to allow same-sex weddings to resume. 
“I’m ecstatic. I recognize that we have a ways to go yet. We may have one or two more legal steps,” said Jane Ley­land, who was gathered with a small crowd outside the fed­eral courthouse in downtown San Francisco, cheering as they learned of the ruling. 
Leyland married her long­time partner, Terry Gilb, dur­ing the five-month window when same-sex marriage was legal in California. 
“But when we first got togeth­er, I would have never dreamed in a million years that we would be allowed to be legally married, and here we are.” 
The ban known as Proposi­tion 8 was approved by vot­ers in 2008 with 52 percent of the vote. The court said it was unconstitutional because it singled out a minority group for disparate treatment for no compelling reason. 
The justices concluded that the law had no purpose other than to deny gay couples mar­riage, since California already grants them all the rights and benefits of marriage if they reg­ister as domestic partners. 
“Had Marilyn Monroe’s film been called ‘How to Register a Domestic Partnership with a Millionaire,’ it would not have conveyed the same meaning as did her famous movie, even though the underlying drama for same-sex couples is no dif­ferent,” the court said. 
The lone dissenting judge in­sisted that the ban could help ensure that children are raised by married, opposite-sex par­ents. 
The appeals court focused its decision exclusively on Califor­nia’s ban, not the bigger debate, even though the court has juris­diction in nine Western states. 
Whether same-sex couples may ever be denied the right to marry “is an important and highly controversial question,” the court said. “We need not and do not answer the broader question in this case.” 
Six states allow gay couples to wed — Connecticut, New Hampshire, Iowa, Massachu­setts, New York and Vermont, as well as the District of Colum­bia. California, as the nation’s most populous state and home to more than 98,000 same-sex couples, would be the gay rights movement’s biggest prize of them all. 
The 9th Circuit concluded that a trial-court judge had correctly interpreted the Con­stitution and Supreme Court precedents when he threw out Proposition 8. 
The measure “serves no pur­pose, and has no effect, other than to lessen the status and human dignity of gays and les­bians in California, and to offi­cially reclassify their relation­ships and families as inferior to those of opposite-sex couples,” Judge Stephen Reinhardt, one of the court’s most liberal judg­es, wrote in the 2-1 opinion. 
Opponents of gay marriage planned to ask the Supreme Court to overturn the ruling, which came more than a year after the appeals court panel heard arguments in the case. 
“We are not surprised that this Hollywood-orchestrated attack on marriage — tried in San Francisco — turned out this way. But we are confident that the expressed will of the Amer­ican people in favor of marriage will be upheld at the Supreme Court,” said Brian Raum, se­nior counsel for the Alliance Defense Fund, a Christian legal aid group based in Arizona that helped defend Proposition 8. 
Legal analysts questioned whether the Supreme Court would agree to take the case because of the narrow scope of the ruling. California is the only state to grant gays the right to marry and rescind it. 
Douglas NeJaime, an asso­ciate professor at Loyola Law School in Los Angeles, said the Ninth Circuit’s narrow decision would allow the Supreme Court to uphold the measure without ruling “on marriage for same-sex couples on a national scale.” 
“In effect, the Ninth Circuit’s decision allows the Supreme Court to continue the incremen­tal, case-by-case trajectory of marriage for same-sex couples in the United States,” NeJaime said in an email. 
Weddings appeared unlikely to resume anytime soon. The ruling will not take effect un­til the deadline passes in two weeks for Proposition 8’s back­ers to appeal to a larger panel of the 9th Circuit. Lawyers for the coalition of conservative religious groups that spon­sored the measure said they have not decided if they will seek a 9th Circuit rehearing or file an appeal directly to the Supreme Court. 
The panel also said there was no evidence that former Chief U.S. Judge Vaughn Walk­er was biased and should have disclosed that he was gay and in a long-term relationship with another man. 
Proposition 8 backers had asked the 9th Circuit to set aside Walker’s ruling on con­stitutional grounds and be­cause of the judge’s personal life. It was the first instance of an American jurist’s sex­ual orientation being cited as grounds for overturning a court decision. 
Walker publicly revealed he was gay after he retired. Sup­porters of the gay marriage ban argued that he had been obliged to previously reveal if he wanted to marry his part­ner. The 9th Circuit held a hearing on the conflict-of-in­terest question in December. 
In its ruling Tuesday, the panel majority said it was un­reasonable to presume a judge cannot apply the law impar­tially just because he is a mem­ber of the minority group at is­sue in a case. 
“To hold otherwise would demonstrate a lack of respect for the integrity of our federal courts,” the opinion said. 
Reihardt, who was appointed to the appeals court by Presi­dent Jimmy Carter, was joined in the majority opinion by Judge Michael Hawkins, an ap­pointee of President Bill Clin­ton. 
Judge Randy Smith, who was appointed by President George 
W. Bush, dissented, saying he disagreed that Proposition 8 served no purpose other than to treat gays and lesbians as second-class citizens. 
Smith said Proposition 8 could serve to promote re­sponsible child-rearing among opposite-sex couples, adding that even if those beliefs were flawed, they would be enough to make the measure constitu­tional. 
Voters passed Proposition 8 five months after the state Su­preme Court legalized same-sex marriage by striking down a pair of laws that had limited marriage to a man and a wom­an. 
The ballot measure added the one man-one woman provi­sion into the California Consti­tution, thereby overruling the court’s decision. Its passage followed the most expensive campaign on a social issue in the nation’s history. 


page 6 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com Wednesday, February 8, 2012 

INSIDE COLUMN 


Giants among men 
I’m having a pretty good week. 

I am a pretty avid sports fan, and I support the New York Giants, who upset the New England Patriots 21-17 on Sun­day to claim Super Bowl XLVI. 
This made me extremely happy, and turned an average Monday and Tuesday into a pretty awe­some couple of days. But back on Sunday night, about an hour after the game, I sat for a second to enjoy Jack Hefferon the win, and I found that I was actually, Sports Writer legitimately happy for the Giants, a bunch of grown-men millionaires whom I’ve never met. 

Both Eli Manning and Tom Cough­lin, men whose abilities have oft been questioned during their Giants careers, solidified their legacies with another improbable Super Bowl run. Those are the big names that were big storylines during the game, but there are other, more awesome and inspiring stories deeper in the organization. 
There’s linebacker Chase Blackburn, who as of Thanksgiving was a substi­tute math teacher in Dublin, Ohio. One week later, he signed and was starting for the Giants, and his interception on Sunday was the only turnover of the game. 
Tight end Jake Ballard was the key to the Giants’ regular season win over the Patriots, but he injured his knee early on in the Super Bowl. He pushed him­self to try and reenter the game for his team and tore his ACL putting himself through sprints on the sidelines. 
Then there’s linebacker Mark Her­zlich, who was diagnosed with cancer two years ago and was told he would never walk again. Not only did he get back on his feet, but he returned to football and made a huge impact as an NFL rookie, and now has a Super Bowl ring to show for his efforts. 
All of this has taken place under the ownership of the throwback Giants organization, which has been owned by the Mara family since the team’s incep­tion in the 1920s. The Maras are, by all accounts, a great family and involved in the community, and they’ve continu­ally kept the organization classy and taken care of their own. 
I believe it’s the stories like this, out­side the game and in it, that make us care so much about sports. Sports are fantastic entertainment to begin with, but when we begin following a team, in an indirect way we form a bond with the people on it. We get to know the stars, role players and big person­alities, and we root them on with our fathers, grandmothers, brothers and friends. 
If you look hard enough, you can find these great stories on any team in sports (possible exceptions: USC Football, Kentucky Basketball and the Dallas Cowboys). The game on the field can be exciting, beautiful and improb­able, but it’s augmented by our famil­iarity with the people making the plays. That’s why I was so pumped after the Super Bowl, and that’s what makes sports so special. 
And if you were just watching the Super Bowl for the commercials? Hey, I guess you missed out. 
Contact Jack Hefferon at      wheffero@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

The immigration challenge of a booming Brazil 
The international community has been aware of Brazil’s potential for a long time. However, it was not until recently that the country broke free from corruption, high crime rates and extreme pov­erty. Last month, William Miller Brazil passed the United Kingdom Guest as the sixth big-Columnist gest economy; in addition to an expanding economy, the country will be hosting the 2013 World Youth Day, the 2014 World Cup and the 2016 Olympics. 
Brazil has been carrying a lot of momentum, and this has definitely been evident in the media’s depiction of the country. Consequently, the narrative about Brazil’s future has changed from one of a to-be superpower to one of an active player in the international politi­cal/economical arena. 
I visited Brazil for three weeks dur­ing Christmas break and the boom­ing economy was definitely the most frequently discussed topic (besides the absurd traffic). This was definitely ap­parent — everywhere I looked I saw a new construction project, from build­ings to bridges to shopping malls. 
Brazil is now in unfamiliar territory, and the country will face new challeng­es and responsibilities. The most obvi­ous of these is immigration, which will feature prominently in Brazil’s future. 
Latin Americans looking for a better life may find it more convenient to enter Brazil illegally than the United States, 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
raising the same problems that immi­gration has created in the U.S. 
Brazil did not have to worry about this until recently. In fact, Brazil was more concerned about the fact that many of its highly skilled citizens were leaving the country to work in Europe than a new wave of immigration. 
Now that the narrative about Brazil has changed, the country’s skilled work force is more inclined to stay, and a new foreign low-wage work force is flooding the country. 
The New York Times recently pub­lished an article highlighting some of these immigrants’ stories about their journey to Brazil. 
The article mentions that 4,000 Haitians have immigrated to Brazil since the 2010 earthquake, and that thousands continue to arrive every year. Brazil usually expels immigrants from India and Pakistan, but has made an exception for Haitians and other Latin Americans. 
In the words of Haitian immigrant Wesley Saint-Fleur, “All I want is work, and Brazil, thank God, has jobs for us.” In order to illustrate how this Latin American powerhouse differs from its fellow Latin American countries, Saint-Fleur mentions that before crossing the border from Bolivia to Brazil, the Boliv­ian Police stole his family’s clothes and their $320 life savings. 
In contrast to their previous expe­riences, when Saint-Fleur’s family members finally crossed the border into Brazil, authorities quickly gave them a place to stay and provided them with meals, vaccinations and humanitarian visas that would allow them to work. Brazilian officials say that Brazil is big enough to absorb up to 100 Haitians per month and that they are in the position to help fellow Latin Americans in search for a better life. Additionally, Brazil’s unemployment rate continues to remain at a historic low of 5.2 percent. Compa­nies say they usually have a hard time finding workers with the increasing de­mand for labor needed in the construc­tion of two huge dams, in addition to the new stadiums needed for the World Cup and the Olympics. Many of these immigrants are earning $800 or more per month. Peruvian immigrant Edgar Villar says he receives great satisfaction by being able to send up to $500 per month to help his family back in Peru. Villar explains that he entered Brazil as an illegal immigrant, but like many oth­ers, was quickly given a visa through an amnesty program without much hassle. 
Another immigrant described Sao Paulo (Brazil’s economic center) as the New York of South America. I would definitely agree, and I believe that with Brazil’s new political and economical role, Americans should be more care­ful when calling Latin America their backyard. 
William Miller is a freshman. He can be reached at wmiller3@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 



QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“We are an impossibility in an impossible universe.” 
Ray Bradbury 
U.S. author 


WEEKLY POLL 
Which was the best Super Bowl commercial? 
Pepsi — King’s Court Audi — Vampire Party Budweiser — Prohibition Volkswagen — Dog Strikes Back 
Vote by 5 p.m. Thursday at 

ndsmcobserver.com 


Wednesday, February 8, 2012 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 7 



Global citizens and scholars of ingenuity 
In his work, “How to Change the World: Social Entrepreneurs and the Power of New Ideas,” David Bornstein writes, “In rich and poor countries alike, it is com­mon to find the ‘best and the brightest’ 
—
 young people with an array of options 


—
 choosing work that allows them an opportunity for social impact.” The students at Notre Dame should be extremely proud to be a part of that dynamic — the best Alex Coccia and the brightest who focus on achieving Shard of Glass social change for the betterment of the human family. 



Notre Dame students are committed and creative in their call to “heal, unify and enlighten a world deeply in need.” Notre Dame students can truly be classi­fied as citizen scholars — global citizens and scholars of ingenuity. Whatever current claims there are regarding this generation’s inability to “link [moral] feelings to any broader thinking about a shared moral framework or obligation” (David Brooks, The New York Times, “If it feels right”), Notre Dame students ef­fectively and in heartfelt action discredit these claims. 
Our generation, it seems, is leading the way in creative thought to solve world problems with applicable solutions — the role of the scholar — and a greater under-
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 


Against control condemnations 
Mr. Pearce? 

In your Feb. 6 Letter to the Editor (“Contraceptives and control”), you make several arguments I wish to counter. First, you state that the problems of domestic violence and rape cannot be solved by contraceptives and that “If women are really so afraid of being as­saulted ... our society suffers from a far greater problem than a lack of reproductive choice.” Unfortunately, our society does suffer from that greater problem. Certainly, our ultimate goal must be eliminating sexual and physi­cal violence against women, but until we are able to do so, the use of contraceptives by women who live in the constant fear you seem so skeptical of is entirely war­ranted. 
The next point I take issue with is your strong support of NFP in place of other forms of contraception. First, while researchers at Heidelberg did find that NFP is as effective as oral contraceptives, others have found that it’s not. A review of 139 birth-control-efficacy studies found that NFP lead to at least twice as many pregnan­cies in a year as the pill. You also state that NFP, unlike other contraceptives, “does not fundamentally change the nature of the sexual act by chemically or mechani­cally eliminating one of its key functions.” You’re cor­rect, but what users of NFP are doing is temporally eliminating that key function by having sex only when it is physically impossible for the woman to become pregnant. Why temporally impeding sperm is any dif­ferent than mechanically or chemically impeding them is beyond me. 
Finally, I take issue with your claim that the only rea­son a woman “needs” birth-control is so she can be have sex with whomever, whenever. While I fully respect a woman’s right to embrace her own sexual freedom, I would like to point out that many women use contracep­tives for medical reasons. So, until you find yourself in a ball on the floor in debilitating pain every month, or until you’ve experienced the sickening feeling of real­izing your three-month-late period has finally started during class, I suggest you avoid making sweeping generalizations about who uses contraception and for what reasons.
 Deborah Cronin 
senior 
Lewis Hall 
Feb. 6 

standing of our moral role of obligation within a global community — the global citizen. Notre Dame students exemplify this role of citizen scholar. The world is coming closer and closer together, espe­cially through social media and the ability to travel widely, and we are all a part of it. Notre Dame students embrace such a change because they believe that they can be transformative. They utilize the dynam­ics of change to promote developments in education, health care, sport facilitation, gender equality and income equality. They use their specific skills online, via Facbeook, Twitter, YouTube and other social networking and media sites in order to promote what they are fighting for. 
Whether it is sustainable agricul­tural projects, equitable micro-financing structures, constructive paths of dialogue between religious faiths, for-profit busi­ness models to promote literacy or greener ways to run businesses, Notre Dame students have ideas and the passion to implement them. These initiatives include individual research projects, Urban Plunge trips, service learning programs, Play­ing for Peace initiatives from South Bend to South Sudan and athletic initiatives in Uganda. 
The citizen scholar aspect of the Notre Dame student is illustrated by the fact that Notre Dame has placed on the Peace Corps’ list of top universities nationwide for the 12th straight year, ranking 10th in Medium Colleges and Universities. With students who seem to be leading the way in innovative changes, the University must be commended for its facilitation and support of its students’ dreams, and also its creation of such an “array of options.” As decision times came around regarding study abroad for the current sophomores, Facebook statuses professed new homes in Chile, Spain, Ireland, Australia, Lon­don and Italy, to mention a few. With an enormous and expanding repertoire of study abroad locations, Notre Dame and its Office of International Studies provide the connections to allow students to com­bine their academic, social and spiritual interests. OIS states, “students develop awareness of the importance and benefit of a global perspective through interna­tional study and complementary campus activities.” 
The University provides an enormous amount of funding through a myriad of sources, including the Center for Under­graduate Scholarly Engagement, the Glynn Family Honors Program, the Kellogg Insti­tute, the Kroc Institute, the Undergradu­ate Research Opportunity Program — a mark of an elite institution, and one that invests in the citizen-scholar potential of its students. 
The University focuses on each indi­vidual. She asks, “What are your ideas? How do you want to apply them? How can I help?” The University focuses on the individual so that we can bring unique solutions to the problems of the world and so that we can combine and implement our ideas. Indeed, the individual is a key vehicle by which change can occur. Born-stein writes, “An important social change frequently begins with a single entrepre­neurial author: one obsessive individual who sees a problem and envisions a new solution, who takes the initiative to act on that vision, who gathers resources and builds organizations to protect and market that vision, who provides the energy and sustained focus to overcome the inevi­table resistance and who — decade after decade — keeps improving, strengthening and broadening that vision until what was once a marginal idea has become a new norm.” 
One of the important things that Notre Dame teaches, however, is that we need the world, more than the world needs us. Our reaching across borders tears down our own internal barriers and prejudices. Our respect for the diversity within the world creates self-respect for our own uniqueness. Notre Dame not only provides the support for these opportunities to enhance global development by student initiatives, but our university also provides the foundations for personal development as citizen scholars. 
Alex Coccia is a sophomore. He ap­preciates the conversations he has in the Student Welfare and Development Lounge. He can be contacted at acoccia@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


Respect candidacy of Rocheleau/Rose 
Dear Observer Editorial Board, 
In response to your Feb. 7 editorial “Send a mes­sage, demand a choice,” I must disagree with your use of The Observer asking students to abstain in the upcoming election. A half-page editorial demand­ing a choice directly below the pair of students brave enough to take on the challenge as voices of this University seems quite cold and callous, and I must question the motives of The Observer in this situa­tion. The Editorial Board claims that when Student Government put forth Rocheleau and Rose, “the decision was made for the student body, not by the student body.” To my eyes, this appears to be a politi­cal party selecting its two best candidates more than anything else. If the Editorial Board feels so strongly in having a choice, I suggest they should have found a pair of candidates they deemed suitable and put them forth in the election. The time for a fight is not now. The time to fight for additional candidates was when the first emails for information meetings went out. It was when the emails for another information meeting were sent. It was when petitions were being signed and applications were being submitted. Now, to write a half-page editorial demanding a choice, directly below the only two brave enough to run for a grueling job, seems to be both petty and unprofessional. And now, to answer the last question of your editorial, “But are they the best candidates?” 
Yes. Unequivocally. They alone had the courage to stand up and run to represent the 12,000 students of this University. They alone have signed on to take the heat from many corners, including the burning words from a computer beneath South Dining Hall. For this reason, I will be opening my computer on Wednesday, and I will be clicking Rocheleau/Rose with conviction.
 Kevin Wildey 
sophomore Duncan Hall Feb. 7 


Know the Church’s stance 
I am writing in response to several of the Letters to the Editor published on Friday, Feb. 3. In her letter (“A woman’s dignity”), Ms. Reser describes the perspec­tive taken in “Contraception and dignity” (Feb. 1) as “discouraging.” What is discouraging, Ms. Reser, is that at the most renowned Catholic university in the nation, so many people fail to understand the Church’s stance on contraception, or for that matter, to even care to find out. Mr. Galeziewski’s question, “How is (NFP) any dif­ferent than using a contraceptive?” (“A (brief) case for contraception,” Feb. 3) gets at the crux of the problem. The fact that he, like so many, doesn’t see the distinc­tion is illustrative of the apathetic attitude that is far too common among students. 
For those of you concerned about this issue, before subscribing to the views of popular culture that tell us that any view other than complete and unquestioned acceptance of the use of contraceptives is backward or ignorant, as so many would have it, I encourage you to actively seek information about the Church’s position. You may find that contrary to what the constant stream of secular rhetoric would have you believe, this position actually shows extreme respect for women and their role in meaningful relationships. At this school, we have more resources than many Catholics would dare to imagine right at our fingertips, eager to inform us about the faith that we unabashedly profess at Our Lady’s University. Talk to a Holy Cross priest, a theology profes­sor, a campus minister, or even, dare I say, a member of the Right to Life club (too much?). Go to one of the many lectures put on by the Center for Ethics and Culture and the GRC (there is one tomorrow entitled “Catholicism and Sexuality”). Take a class. Attend the Edith Stein Conference and actually hear women who have used NFP talk about their experiences. Then decide whether you agree or not. 
But to lash out and take the remarks from a previous article completely out of context without a fundamental understanding of the Church’s position is a reflection of exactly the narrow-mindedness of which you are so quick to accuse others. And by the way, Ms. Reser, in the future, please don’t profess to “speak for many of my fellow Catholic women.” I’ll speak for myself, thanks. 
Emily Thompson 
senior 
Breen Phillips Hall 
Feb. 7 
Wednesday, February 8, 2012 



By BRENNA WILLIAMS 
Scene Writer 

For many people, the best part of going out for Mediterranean food is dessert. For many, the dessert of choice is baklava, layers of light and flaky filo dough layered with honey and nuts. There is a rela­tively easy alternative to this time-intensive dessert: baklava bars. This version of the Greek specialty begins with a sugar cookie base, covered with a sugar, cinnamon and filo dough crumble and finished off with a honey cinnamon glaze. 
The recipe, which won the Mix It Up with Betty! Recipe Contest in 2007, doesn’t call for anything es­pecially exotic. The recipe can be found below, as well as some tips to help make your trial run easier and substitutions to make it a little healthier or easier to bake. 
Ingredients 

Cookie Base: 1 pouch sugar cookie mix, 1/2 cup butter or margarine, softened, 1 egg, 1/2 teaspoon grated lemon peel 
Filling: 1 1/2 cups chopped walnuts, 1/3 cup granulated sugar, 1/4 cup butter or margarine, soft­ened, 1 teaspoon ground cinnamon, 1/8 teaspoon salt, 8 frozen mini fillo shells 
Glaze: 1/3 cup honey, 2 tablespoons butter or margarine, softened, 1 tablespoon packed brown sug­ar, 1/2 teaspoon lemon juice, 1/4 teaspoon ground cinnamon, 1 teaspoon vanilla extract 
Tips and substitutions for ingredients 
For everything but the cookie base, you can use applesauce in place of butter (using it in the cookies or anything that should be crispy is ill-advised). 
If you’re stuck on campus and don’t have cinnamon or vanilla on hand, pick some up at the sugar bar next time you go to Starbucks (after paying for a drink, of course). 
Substitute Splenda (original or baking specific) for sugar. 
Substitute egg whites for the egg. There are measurements on the sides of boxed egg whites that let you know how much to use in place of an egg, usually three tablespoons. 
I used frozen filo sheets and crumbled a little over 1 cup of those instead of using the cups. If you can’t make it to the store, it will be just as delicious without the filo. 
Since fresh produce is hard to come by on campus, the lemon juice and peel are optional. 
Directions 

Heat oven to 350°F. Spray bottom only of 13x9-inch pan with cooking spray. 
Tip: Don’t drench it; that will make the bottom too crispy. Obviously spray is the healthier choice, but if you don’t have cooking spray, why not make Paula Deen proud by adding more butter? Rub a stick on the bottom in place of spray. 
In large bowl, stir cookie base ingredients until soft dough forms. Press dough in bottom of pan. Bake 15 minutes. 
Meanwhile, in medium bowl, stir all of the filling ingredients except the filo until crumbly. 
Sprinkle mixture evenly over partially baked base. With hands, crumble frozen filo shells evenly over nut mixture. 
Bake 18 to 20 minutes longer or until golden brown. 
Meanwhile, in small microwavable bowl, microwave all of the glaze ingredients, except the vanilla, uncovered on High for one minute or until bubbly. Stir in vanilla. 
Tip: If you don’t have a microwave, stir ingredients together over low heat on the stove for about 10 minutes or until the ingredients have all combined. Keep the mixture warm by keeping it over the lowest heat setting. 
Take the base out of the oven and drizzle the glaze evenly over it. Cool completely before cutting. 
Optional: Drizzle honey over your bars before taking them out of the pan and serve or store them in a covered container. 
Opa! 

Contact Brenna Williams at bwillia9@nd.edu 
Wednesday, February 8, 2012 




By TROY MATHEW 
Scene Writer 

Lana Del Rey is someone a lot of people love to hate. 
Del Rey was first thrust into the spot­light with the success of her melancholic single “Video Games.” The song’s video, a collection of lo-fi video clips and pictures, became one of the most-watched videos on YouTube, and suddenly Del Rey was a hot topic of conversation. 
Most of the criticism arose from the fact that Del Rey had the audacity to come from a privileged background. Del Rey originally recorded music as Lizzy Grant, but re-emerged with a totally revamped image — and a significant amount of plastic surgery. Being the daughter of a millionaire, many saw Del Rey as an en­gineered and inauthentic indie artist who bought her way into the music industry. When Del Rey was invited to perform on Saturday Night Live in January, she had a chance to silence her critics. 
She did precisely the opposite. 

Her performance was terrible. The statuesque Del Rey slunk awkwardly around the stage, stared into the crowd with a dissociated gaze and mumbled through her songs. The subtle melodies in her songs became tuneless mutter­ings. Perhaps her giant collagen-balloon lips muffled her voice, because the bi­zarre resulting noise sounded like a Jap­anese man trying to speak English with a German accent. Del Rey was scoffed at by critics and was deemed SNL’s worst act since Ashlee Simpson’s lip-syncing disas­ter in 2004. 
Considering these recent events, there was a lot of hype surrounding Del Rey’s debut album. She doesn’t seem to be quite as enthused, however, because “Born to Die” features track after track of Del Rey sounding bored. 
The album features a couple of spec­tacular songs, however. “Video Games” deserves the tens of millions of YouTube hits it garnered. Her hit single is the best song on the album, and the song’s minimalist production makes it stand out from the other tracks. 
“Born to Die,” her second single, is also worth a download. The song features pounding drums and raspy vocals, which swirl into a depressing yet enjoyable mu­sical experience. Del Rey’s hit singles seem to suggest she is at her best when she is at her saddest. 
The other songs on the album rob these singles of their brilliance. “Dark Para­dise,” along with the majority of the other songs, has a nearly identical drumbeat to “Born to Die” and is replete with cliché lyrics and vapid vocals. Although her voice sounds significantly better on the album than it did on SNL, there are defi­nitely moments on the album that call to mind her horrific performance. 
Ultimately, the problem with “Born to Die” does not lie in the fact that Del Rey’s image is inauthentic. It lies in the fact that this contrived image is not in­teresting or convincing. Del Rey, the self-proclaimed “Gangster Nancy Sinatra,” thinks peppering her songs with phrases like “gettin’ paper” will make up for her upstate New York prep school past, but she is unfortunately mistaken. The al­bum has two good singles to show for it, but overall is a repetitive and boring de­but effort. 
Contact Troy Mathew at tmathew2@nd.edu 


“Born to Die” Lana Del Rey 
Record Label: Interscope Best Tracks: “Born to Die,” “Video Games” 

By PATRICK McMANUS 
Scene Writer 

From a trailer one can glean a film’s genre, the actors who portray the main characters, possibly the relationship between those characters, perhaps the primary setting and the central conflict. All of those elements are important for gauging potential interest in a film. But the quality of the film is not a product of its parts; rather, quality emerges from the way the concepts are executed. A trailer does not give much indication of how deftly the pieces of a film were crafted. That is why I am worried. 
“Safe House” is an action-thriller film that stars Denzel Washington and Ryan Reynolds, set for release on Feb. 10. The trailer looks exciting. Washington plays a rogue CIA agent taken into custody by Reynolds in a titular safe house, but something goes wrong and the two end up on the run through South Africa. It’s a premise laden with potential. Indeed, “Safe House” could be a smart, action-packed, awesome movie. But it could just as easily be an incoherent mess. 
Washington makes quality movies. He is a great actor who has a solid track record of picking movies that are excit­ing, while maintaining a certain so­phistication. But Washington’s perfor­mance isn’t the factor that determines the movie’s overall quality. 
The director is responsible for that, and for some of Washington’s best ac­tion movies, he has worked with talent­ed directors. He worked with Tony Scott (“Top Gun”) on such films as “Man on Fire,” “Déjà Vu” and “The Taking of Pel­ham 123.” Ridley Scott directed “Ameri­can Gangster,” while Spike Lee helmed “Inside Man.” 
Daniel Espinosa, the director of “Safe House,” has not yet made a movie out­side Scandinavia. Will he adroitly uti­lize his actors’ skills in putting together his movie, or will he cobble a poor ap­proximation of a compelling story? Un­til it comes out, there is no way to know. 
But if it was just an untested direc­tor, I don’t think I’d be so anxious. “Safe House” also has to overcome Ryan Reynolds. I don’t find Reynolds to be a good actor, and he has ruined two great super heroes for me: Deadpool and the Green Lantern. I doubt even a poor performance from Reynolds can ruin “Safe House” because Denzel even made Ethan Hawke seem like a likable guy in “Training Day.” If “Safe House” turns out to be another “Training Day” and the similarities in the relationship between the main characters are there, that would be awesome. 
However “Safe House” turns out, there are enough factors to explain why it came out that way. The main reason I hope it is a good, thought-provoking movie is because of its setting. Cape Town is a wonderfully diverse and vi­brant city. From Table Mountain and the Malay Quarter to the Castle of Good Hope and the townships, where hun­dreds of thousands of poor South Af­ricans live in deplorable conditions of poverty, there is perhaps no city quite as interesting as Cape Town. There is a lot to work with, and Cape Town could enormously enhance the flavor of the movie. 
On the other hand, “Safe House” could turn out to be another run-of-the­mill, evanescent action flick; that would be a shame given the potential of the cast and the setting. 
Contact Patrick McManus at pmcmanu1@nd.edu 


page 10 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u CLASSIFIEDS Wednesday, February 8, 2012 
SPORTS AUTHORITY 

Changing the world of professional sports 
As the GM of Sports, Executive of Athletics, President of Play and Dictator of the Sporting World, I would guide my realm to prosper­ity. Changes and mandates would abound as my opinion became the only one that mattered. 
Firstly, there are some sports that could stand to be terminated. Despite its apparent popularity (how many true racing fans do you know?), NASCAR is a goner in my world. It is extremely dangerous, the drivers feud and pout ad nau­seam and the events are too long. 
Billiards should never be seen again on ESPN or its affiliate networks. I don’t think I need to provide any justification for this. Rather, I should ask ESPN to justify why they would ever have crowded the wonderful world of sports with billiards of all things. 
Ditto for bowling. 
UFC has no place in the sport­ing world. The violence of the brawls is startling, and I want no such event to call my kingdom home. 
Having expelled some of the less appealing sports (I am the dictator, remember), I find it fit to add at least one sport into the mix. Team handball should at the very least have a chance in the United States. Already popular in other countries around the world, the sport offers excitement, rewards versatile athleticism and produces “SportsCenter” worthy highlights. Why I have never seen team handball on television inside the United States is beyond me. The initiation of a televised American Handball League, or even the importation of European matches to American television, would provide a welcome addi­tion to the periods in between the NFL and MLB seasons. Worst case scenario, team handball is a flop in the states. It would still be 100 times less ridiculous than slam ball. 
One of the main targets for my reform would be the NFL, where the product on the field is fantas­tic, the fan base is enormous and superstars abound. My reforms won’t be aimed so much at the Na­tional Football League, but rather at the No Fun League, the damn­ing nickname that NFL commis­sioner Roger Goodell has earned for his league in recent years. 
Remember the days, not so long ago, when a player could christen his entrance into the end zone with a celebratory dis­play of triumph? When Terrell Owens showered himself with popcorn, Randy Moss mooned the crowd at Lambeau and the receiver formerly known as Chad Johnson went golfing with the pylon? Remember the buzz created when Johnson hinted at a touchdown celebration involv­ing a live deer? Alas, the cervine celebration never was, and the NFL voted to restrict end zone celebrations in 2009. 

The dances, slam dunks, leaps and belt-bucklings that follow touchdowns in today’s NFL lack the creativity and flair of their predecessors. If the restrictions were intended to eliminate shows of selfishness or ego, they failed. Jumping into the crowd, rising up to slam the football through the goal posts or “dou­gie-ing” are equally instances of a player wishing to make himself stand out in his celebra­tion. Because celebrations now prohibit multiple team members from participating, the league rules actually mandate that any player wishing to celebrate a successful play does so without the inclusion of his teammates. 
As dictator of the sporting world, I would not only allow touchdown celebrations in all of their forms, I would encourage creative and thoughtful displays. Celebrations allow professional football players, often regarded as other-worldly figures, to con­nect with the fans on a personal level. 
I would implement a sys­tem by which a committee of selected fans and sports writers, headed by Chad Ochocinco . when he retires . would record and rate all touchdown celebra­tions. At the end of the sea­son, the top player in terms of Touchdown Celebration Rating will receive recognition and be crowned King of all End Zones for the year. This system would spark inventiveness and provide a further incentive for players to reach the end zone and cater to the fans’ wants. 
And for those of you who don’t like the idea of offensive players dancing their way to glory, keep them out of the end zone. Maybe there will be a defensive edition of the award in coming seasons. 
Contact Joseph Monardo at jmonardo@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
NFL 

Giants celebrate Super Bowl 
Associated Press 
EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J. 
— It wasn’t the Canyon of Heroes and there wasn’t as much tickertape, but that didn’t seem to bother about 30,000 New York Giants fans who flocked to MetLife Stadium Tuesday to cel­ebrate the team’s rousing Super Bowl victory over the New England Patriots. 
Some of them even got to touch a piece of history when Giants running back Brandon Jacobs capped the boisterous celebration by taking the Vince Lom­bardi Trophy and walking it around the stadium to give delirious fans in the lower rows a chance to lean over and put their hands on it. It was an impromptu moment that fit the mood of the af­ternoon. 
“We just came from a great parade in the Can­yon of Heroes, but when you pull into this place and see all the fans, there really is no place like home,” team co-owner John Mara told the cheering crowd. 

Thousands of fans showed up hours early to tailgate in the parking lot as if it were a Sunday during the season. Scottish,” Andrew explained. And with weather in the up-Ubiles said he never doubt-per 40s and low 50s, it was ed the Giants would rise hard to distinguish it from to the occasion even when 

Octob er anyway. 

“We just came from 
Carol 

a great parade in the 
and John 

Senatore Canyon of Heroes, but of Stony when you pull into this Point, N.Y., place and see all the near West fans, there really is Point, no place like home.” 
share a season-

John Mara 
ticket 

co-owner 
package and didn’t New York Giants even con­sider go-they lost four games in a row late in the season. He said he chose to come to the New Jer­sey celebra­tion because he thought it would have a little more edge. 
“I think the players will really kick touchdown runs and end-zone salsa performances, signed autographs for doz­ens of fans who leaned over the front row of the stands to get close to him. At one point during the bedlam, he posed for a picture with 18-year­old Zack Pollack of Passaic, a cerebral palsy sufferer who watched the ceremony from his wheelchair on the field. 
“This means so much to him,” his father, Larry said. “He watches all the games.” 
Zack couldn’t contain him­self, shouting out, “I love Victor Cruz!” 
Several players, including quarterback Eli Manning and defensive lineman Jus­tin Tuck, addressed the fans, with Tuck proclaiming that the stadium the Giants share 
with the New 
York Jets is 
“our house.” 
Gov. Chris 
Christie at-back,” he said. “We might see some salsa.” 
It wasn’t salsa being per­formed on the players’ stage in the middle of the field, but there were some non-football 

across the river instead moves being “Thank You Giants, We tended the of heading downtown. He made when Got To Miss School Again.” ceremony managed to get son Andrew the rap group but did not out of his elementary school Naughty By speak. 
Sign held up by 

for the day. And the two Nature per-One fan 
 Giants fan at parade 

were ready to celebrate, formed at the held a ing into New York for the morning parade. 
“We tailgate all year, so we figured why not do it today, too,” John Senatore said. “This is more inti­mate.” 
Dennis Ubiles, a Manhat­tan resident, opted to come 
up 
sign that 
captured 
the essence 
of the day: 
“Thank You 
Giants, We Got To Miss 
School Again.” 
Dennis in his Victor Cruz jersey like so many Giants fans, and Andrew with the No. 9 of kicker Lawrence Tynes. 
“I like him because he’s Scottish and my mother’s end of the program. 
Afterward, Cruz, the wide receiv­er who became an instant hero this season with his long 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The 
Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

On This Day in History 1910- Boy Scouts of America 1963 - AFL’s Dallas Texans 1986 - 5’ 7” Spud Webb of Atlanta 
FOR RENT PERSONAL 
incorporated and chartered become Kansas City Chiefs Hawks wins NBA Slam Dunk 
1693- William and Mary college is Competition 
2nd college chartered in US 1912- First eastbound U.S. 1965 - Supremes release “Stop In WALK TO CAMPUS                  UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don’t 
transcontinental flight lands in the Name of Love” 1996 - NFL and Cleveland allows Great Specials!                         go it alone. Notre Dame has many 
1887- Aurora Ski Club of Red Jacksonville, Fla Art Modell to move his NFL 
resources in place to assist you. Wing, Minnesota became the 1st 1973 - Senate names 7 members franchise to Baltimore but he had Studio, 1, 2, 3 Bedroom  If you or someone you love needs U.S. ski club 1926-Walt Disney Studios forms to investigate Watergate scandal to leave the Browns’ name behind Townhomes available. confidential support or assistance, 
please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819 1896- Western Conference forms 1936- First NFL draft, Eagles 1974- Ringo releases “You’re 16 Morgan, I must apologize. I forgot (574) 272-8124. 
or Ann Firth at 1-2685. For more from Midwestern Universities, later select Heisman Trophy winner Jay to call you on your birthday. information, visit ND’s website at: renamed Big 10 Conference Berwanger 1977 - Earthquake in San I can only hope this public  www.clovervillageapartments. 
Francisco, at 5.0, strongest since admittance of my failing will be com http://pregnancysupport@nd.edu 1904-Russo-Japanese War begins 1944- U-762 sunk off Ireland 1966 sufficient to make up for it. 
Wednesday, February 8, 2012 The Observer u SPORTS ndsmcobserver.com | page 11 
NFL 

Chiefs O-coordinator plans to oulast predecessors 
half of a season that ended with a 7-9 mark and Haley’s dismiss­al. 
Daboll promised an aggres­sive approach. 
“The first word I want to use is ‘attack,’” he said. “When you’re an offensive football coach, you want to try to really set prec­edent on the defense and attack the defense.” 
Daboll’s best NFL offense so far has ranked 22nd in the league. Since Crennel plans to be defensive coordinator as well as head coach, Daboll will have more autonomy than most offen­sive coordinators in the NFL. 
“You know what, to a degree he will because I’m going to de­pend on him to handle the of­fensive side of the ball,” Crennel said. “But that being said, be­cause of our relationship, we’re going to be able to sit down and say, ‘This is how we need to at­tack an opponent, this is what we need to do in a game plan,’ and then expect Brian to imple­ment those things.” 
Daboll shrugged off reports that he was hard to get along with and feuded with quarter­back Colt McCoy while in Cleve­land. 
“With most of the players that I’ve coached, I have a very good relationship,” he said. “Colt and I have a good relationship. It’s not a bad relationship. I think there’s certain times when you’re a coach and sometimes emotion can get to you. Maybe you step back and say, ‘Boy, I would rather have handled it that way rather than this way. But I think the job as a coach is to tell the players what to do and show them how to do it and re­ally not accept any excuses. It’s an emotional game.” 
He added: “I’m a high-energy, up-tempo guy. I expect perfec­tion. I know that’s not possible 
Associated Press 
KANSAS CITY, Mo. — Kansas City’s fifth offensive coordinator in four years is hoping to lend some much-needed permanence to his new team. 
Brian Daboll said Monday that he considers stability to be very important. 
“You look at teams, for the a few days before the 2009 sea­son began and replaced by Todd Haley, who spent his first year as a head coach also running the offense. 
Charlie Weis held the job the next season, resigned and was replaced for one year by Muir. 
“So we’ve got some work to do here installing our stuff and I look forward to it,” Daboll said. 

most part percentage-wise that have been success­ful over the years, one word I think is sometimes overlooked is c ont i nu it y,” Daboll said Monday at his introductory news confer­ence with the Chiefs. “When you can have a system in play and you understand that your play­

“When you can have a system in play and you understand that your players are going to be in that system and they understand their roles, that gives you a little bit of a jump start.” 
Brian Daboll Chiefs offensive coordinator 
Like Pioli and head coach Ro­meo Crennel, Daboll’s ca­reer roots are deep in the New England system, where he was a young assistant from 2000-2005. 
“I think a lot of people say he’s another guy from the New England tree,” Crennel said. “But it’s been a while since he’s been 
ers are going to be in that sys­tem and they understand their roles, that gives you a little bit of a jump start. 
The 36-year-old Daboll will replace the retired Bill Muir. He was offensive coordinator last year at Miami and ran the of­fense at Cleveland the two years before that. 
Since Scott Pioli took over as general manager after the 2008 season, offensive coordinator in Kansas City has been one of the most insecure positions in the NFL. Chan Gailey was fired in Mew England, and I just hap­pen to be from that New Eng­land tree also. Sometimes know­ing people and knowing what they’re about is important. In this case, that was important to me. Plus, I know he’s a good per­son and a very hard worker.” 
Daboll inherits an offense that was devastated by injuries last year, losing Pro Bowl running back Jamaal Charles after only 12 carries and tight end Tony Moeaki in the preseason. A hand injury shelved quarterback Matt Cassel for much of the second all the time but I think we need to all hold ourselves to a high standard, to really setting the tone and expecting the high­est detail and highest execution from ourselves.” 
NFL 

Baltimore RB Ricky Williams announces retirement 
Associated Press pears to be for good. Rice this year, Williams ran ground. against Cleveland. The 34-year-old Williams for 444 yards and scored two Williams led the NFL in “I have to thank coach (John) 
OWINGS MILLS, Md. — Ricky told the Baltimore Ravens touchdowns. 2002 with 1,853 yards rushing Harbaugh and the Ravens or-Williams is retiring from the on Tuesday he won’t be back He also became the 26th for the Miami Dolphins and re-ganization for the opportunity NFL. to fulfill the second year of a player in NFL history to reach ceived his lone Pro Bowl invi-they gave me this year,” Wil-Again. contract he signed in August. 10,000 yards rushing, reach-tation that season. He backed liams said. “I had so much This time, however, it ap-Playing as a backup to Ray ing the plateau in the season that up with 1,372 yards in fun and really appreciated finale at Cincinnati. 2003, giving him what re-the chance to finish on such a 
“The NFL has been an amaz-mains the two most productive great note.” 
ing page in this chapter of my rushing seasons in Dolphins Williams fit in well with the 
life,” Williams said. “I pray history. Ravens and made a lasting im­
that all successive adventures Although Williams’ last pression on Rice, who led the 
offer me the same potential for start was in 2009, he enjoyed NFL this season with 2,068 
growth, success and most im-coming off the bench for the yards from scrimmage. 
portantly, fun. ... As for what’s Ravens. “I was a big fan of Ricky be-
next, I am excited about all the “It’s been interesting,” he fore we were teammates, but 
opportunities ahead — con-said in November. “It’s been an being around him this year is 
tinuing my education, running adjustment for me, but I love the best thing that happened 
The Ricky Williams Founda-the organization and I love to me in my NFL career,” Rice 
tion and whatever other oppor-my teammates so I’m having a said. “As a young player, you 
tunities present themselves.” good time. I’m enjoying myself. need to be around a guy who 
Williams retired previously Anytime you play a team sport, knows what he is doing, and before the 2004 season when the success of the team really Ricky was tremendous to learn facing a four-game suspension makes everything better. It’s from. The way he took care of for violating the league’s drug nice.” his body and the way he pre­policy. He returned in 2005, Baltimore went 12-4 this pared, he always showed that then left to spend the 2006 season and lost to New Eng-he is a true professional. This season with Toronto of the Ca-land in the AFC championship past season with him is a year nadian Football League. game. I will never forget. 
After an outstanding college During that November in-“I had the best year with him 
career at Texas, where he won terview, Williams was asked beside me, and that was no 
the Heisman Trophy, Williams whether playing as a backup accident. I believe that Ricky 
broke into the NFL in 1999 could possibly extend his ca-Williams is a Hall of Famer. 
with the New Orleans Saints. reer. All that he has done in his ca-
Mike Ditka, then coach of the “At this point, my focus is just reer, he deserves that.” 
Saints, traded all the team’s to finish my career strong,” he Harbaugh said during his 
draft and first- and third-said. “I’m not even thinking time in Baltimore, Williams 
round picks in 2000 to pick two or three years down the “made a valuable and lasting 
Williams fifth overall. line. But one positive about not contribution. I especially en-
Williams spent only three carrying the ball is my body joyed getting to know him as a 
years with New Orleans, but does feel good.” person, and I have the utmost 
during over 11 years in the Williams scored 73 touch-respect for him. 
league he had five 1,000-yard downs over his career, all but “He was great to be around 
rushing seasons and finished eight of them on the ground. and to work with every single 
with 10,009 yards on the His last score came on Dec. 4 day.” 

page 12 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u SPORTS Wednesday, February 8, 2012 
Bail revisions could force Sandusky inside 
Associated Press 
STATE COLLEGE, Pa. — Prosecutors asked Tuesday to have Jerry Sandusky kept in­doors as part of his bail con­ditions, citing complaints that the former Penn State foot­ball assistant was seen out­side and watching children in a schoolyard from the back porch of his home, where he remains under house arrest while awaiting trial on child molestation charges. 
The state attorney general’s office argued in a court fil­ing that Sandusky’s bail con­ditions should be revised so that he is not allowed outside except to seek medical treat­ment. Prosecutors said they opposed Sandusky’s request to be allowed contact with his grandchildren as he awaits trial on 52 child sex-abuse charges. 
“Several individuals from the adjacent elementary school have expressed con­cerns for the safety of chil­dren at their school and the adjacent neighborhood,” pros­ecutors wrote. “Such concerns will only mushroom if defen­dant is permitted to roam at will outside his house.” 
The allegation he was watching children was out­lined in an exhibit attached to the filing, a memo from a state investigator to a county probation officer that said a teacher and intern had re­ported concern for the chil­dren’s safety. 
“They advised the neighbor that yesterday they had the children outside for recess as it was a warmer day, and that they both witnessed Mr. San­dusky on his rear house deck watching the children play,” wrote investigator Anthony Sassano on Jan. 26. 
Sandusky’s lawyer, Joe Amendola, did not immedi­ately respond to requests for comment about the latest prosecution filing. 
Sandusky’s two-story home at the end of a dead-end street has a black and orange “No Trespassing” sign staked near the base of the drive­way, while the two properties directly adjacent to his home have white signs supporting the Rape, Abuse & Incest Na­tional Network. 
Nearby neighbor Jody Har­rington said he has seen San­dusky walking his dog and on his back porch nearly daily, and at times when children are playing on the Lemont Elementary playground. 
He said he has expressed concerns informally with other neighbors, the school principal and police, and told his children to avoid Sandusky. 
“Because of due process, we have to sit and wait. But that waiting process, it’s painful. It’s hard,” he said. “The best way to describe it is I feel very violated.” 
The prosecution fil­ing regarding bail said Sandusky’s son’s ex-wife “strenuously objects” to her three minor children having any contact with him, and that prosecutors believe Sandusky was for­tunate to be granted bail. 
“The commonwealth be­lieves that (the) defendant should be in jail,” prosecu­tors wrote. “He has been granted the privilege of being confined in his own home, which is spacious and private and where he can eat food of his own preference and sleep in his own bed at night. House arrest is not meant to be a house party.” 
That court document, and several motions filed late Monday by Sandusky’s lawyer, come ahead of a court hearing Friday re­garding his bail modifica­tion request. 
Sandusky, 68, a former longtime defensive coordi­nator for Penn State’s foot­ball team, has maintained he is innocent of the al­legations, which claim he engaged in a range of ille­gal acts with boys over 15 years, from touching their legs to subjecting them to violent sexual assault. 
As Sandusky’s lawyers prepare for trial, they have asked a judge for copies of secret grand jury testi­mony, the phone numbers of his accusers and other material. A 37-page pretri­al discovery motion sought dozens of records from the state attorney general’s of­fice, including subpoenas, photos, unredacted pas­sages of blacked-out docu­ments already provided to the defense, investigative notes and psychiatric re­cords. 
PGA 

Woods shines at Pebble Beach 
Associated Press 
PEBBLE BEACH, Calif. — Bill Murray stumbled into the back of a crowded conference room Tuesday just as Tiger Woods was wrapping up his press confer­ence at the Pebble Beach Nation­al Pro-Am. The “Caddyshack” star looked more confused than usual. 
“Where’s the other guy?” Murray asked. 
Murray, as it turned out, was an hour late. 
He was supposed to be at the interview table with D.A. Points, his partner last year when they won the pro-am, and perhaps the most overlooked defending champion at a PGA Tour event since Nick Price at Colonial in 2003. 
“I got here and I got the pro­gram and I looked at the tick­ets and I thought, ‘Wait a min­ute. Didn’t I win?’” Points said. “And there are pictures of Bill everywhere. I’m driving down the highway, I see a billboard. There’s Bill. There’s Tiger. I’m like, ‘Where am I?’” 
It’s the only PGA Tour event Points has won, so he was a little bummed at the oversight. 
But he gets it. 
“The celebrities obviously make this event larger-than-life sometimes,” he said. 
That’s the effect Woods has this week at Pebble Beach. 
It’s not unusual for him to start a PGA Tour season along the Pacific coast, though it’s usu­ally at Torrey Pines. And there is a certain magic about Woods and Pebble Beach, which has been a big part of his career even though he has won only twice, both in the same year. 
The first was the AT&T Pebble Beach National Pro-Am, and it’s a timely memory considering the last two weeks have featured wild comebacks and ugly melt­downs. Brandt Snedeker came from seven shots behind at Tor­rey Pines to beat Kyle Stanley, who made triple bogey on the final hole; then Stanley came from eight shots back and won in Phoenix after Spencer Levin shot 75. 
Woods was seven shots out of the lead with seven holes to play in 2000, and still looked to have no chance until he holed a wedge for eagle on the 15th, nearly holed another shot on the 16th and beat a fast-fading Matt Gogel. 
“I was just trying to somehow get in it,” Woods recalled. “All of a sudden, boom! Three shots, two holes, I’m back in the ball game.” 
It was even more significant because that was his sixth con­secutive PGA Tour win. 
Then came the greatest single feat of his career that summer in the U.S. Open, a major where Woods was at the absolute apex of his game. On a course so dif­ficult that no one else broke par, he shot 12-under 272 and won by 15 shots. 
Now, the mystique has given way to curiosity. 
Woods still draws the biggest crowd and drives attention in golf — Saturday’s round when the celebrities are at Pebble Beach was headed for its first sellout — but no one can be sure what to expect. There is unpre­dictability about Woods that wasn’t there before. 
That, too, might be changing. 
Woods began his 2012 season in Abu Dhabi, where he was tied for the lead going into the last day and was outplayed by Robert Rock. What some might see as more evidence that Woods can no longer be the player he was, Woods sees as real progress. 
His golf — and his life — has been a series of stops and starts since his last tour win at the 2009 Australian Masters, right before his personal life came crashing down. 

The divorce. The new swing coach. The injuries. The new caddie. 
Woods had to adjust to a new lifestyle as a divorced father of two children, but equally time-consuming was the recovery from injuries. He finally got that sorted out late last summer, and then he missed two months be­cause he was ineligible for the FedEx Cup playoffs. 
His game has been trending up over the last few months. 
Woods took the 36-hole lead in the Australian Open and fin­ished third. He was among the best players on the U.S. team at Royal Melbourne in the Presi­dents Cup. Then, he ended a two-year drought by winning at Sherwood with birdies on the last two holes. 
He was starting to warm up. He stopped for a winter break. 
And then in Abu Dhabi, while he didn’t win, he was right back where he left off — contending. 
“I think that’s what’s exciting,” Woods said. “Because before .... I didn’t go into those breaks feel­ing good about where my game was. I was still making changes, still trying to get healthy. It was never really there. This time was different. I went into it healthy, went into it playing well, and then was able to build on it over the break. 
MLB 

George Brett faces lawsuit for falsely advertising jewelry 
Associated Press 
IOWA CITY, Iowa — Law­yers are seeking class-ac­tion status for a lawsuit that claims Hall of Fame slug­ger George Brett has been falsely advertising necklaces and bracelets as being able to help improve health and sports performance. 
A lawsuit filed Mon­day in federal court in Des Moines claims Spokane Val­ley, Wash.-based Brett Bros. Sports International Inc. has falsely claimed its Ionic Necklaces help customers re­lieve pain in the neck, shoul­ders and upper back, recover from sports fatigue and im­prove focus. The company has also falsely claimed its bracelets, which include two roller magnets, would relieve wrist, hand and elbow pain, the lawsuit said. 
Brett, who was inducted to the Hall of Fame in 1999 af­ter a 21-year career with the Kansas City Royals, has been president of the company since 2001 and appears in its advertisements. 
The claims appeared on the company’s website from 2008 to 2010, and still ap­pear on the packaging of the products and on the websites of its distributors, according to the lawsuit. 
“Most consumers, when reading these claims, and seeing the products endorsed by a high-profile baseball player, assume that these products have the health benefits that are marketed and advertised and that sci­entifically significant re­search supports statements made by Brett Bros., when in fact that is not the case,” reads the lawsuit, which al­leges the company has vio­lated the state Consumer Frauds Act and been unjustly enriched. 
The lawsuit says an Iowa man, Seth Thompson of Adel, bought one of the necklaces for $30 at the College World Series in Omaha last year af­ter reading Brett’s endorse­ment of them. He hoped the product would reduce stress and fatigue and boost his en­ergy and concentration, but none of those benefits were realized, rendering the prod­uct “useless to him,” the law­suit says. 
His lawyers, who include Bart Goplerud of West Des Moines and two from firms in Los Angeles, are ask­ing a federal judge to ap­prove a class-action lawsuit on behalf of thousands of customers who have bought the products in the last four years. Total damages “are likely in the millions of dol­lars,” the lawsuit says. 
A representative of Brett Bros., which also sells base­ball accessories such as bats and baseballs, did not return an inquiry seeking comment. 
Brett, 58, retired from baseball in 1993 after accu­mulating 3,154 hits and 317 home runs, winning three batting titles and making 13 All-Star teams. 

Wednesday, February 8, 2012 The Observer u SPORTS ndsmcobserver.com | page 13 
Jones 
continued from page 16 
could prove deadly in the hos­tile WVU Coliseum. 
“We have had some good nights in Morgantown but also some nightmares,” Brey said. “They have a great crowd and I am always im­pressed with their atmo­sphere, but our kids love playing in that type of atmo­sphere. Our guards want to play good in big games and come out under the bright lights.” 
Notre Dame (15-8, 7-3) is coming off a 76-59 rout over No. 15 Marquette on Satur­day, highlighted by freshman forward Pat Connaughton’s 23 points and 11 rebounds. The co-Big East Rookie of the Week finished five-of-eight from beyond the arc and elec­trified the crowd with his dy­namic play. 
“The biggest step for [Con­naughton] was to be a con­sistent practice player,” Brey said. “The comfort level of playing with those four [other starters] has helped a lot. We want him to be aggressive. His stroke is so beautiful. We don’t need him doing crazy stuff but I don’t want him 


turning any­thing down.” 
Leading by only four at halftime, the Irish erupted for 46 points in the second half, show­ing a killer instinct Brey said was uncharac ­teristic of a young team. The upset ning streak. 

“We have had some good 
“That is an 

nights in Morgantown but 
important 

also some nightmares.” 
aspect of a 

group, show-Mike Brey ing some ma-Irish coach turity and 
marked the fifth win this sea­son over a top-25 team for the 

Irish, tying them with Ohio 
State for the NCAA lead, while breaking the Golden Ea­gles’ seven-game win-
feeling you have a eam in a position where you can put them away,” Brey said. “they have figured out who they are and 
feel good about each other.” 
“When you play a group a lot you get better defensively. Being able to get out in pass­ing lanes and cause some turnovers creates some pres­sure. Certainly beating Syra­cuse makes a group feel good about [itself], but we didn’t get satisfied or distracted. We got more hungry, and we think that we have something here.” 
The Mountaineers will host the Irish tonight at 9 p.m. at the WVU Coliseum. The game will be televised on ESPNU. 
Contact Andrew Gastelum at agastel@nd.edu 

WOMEN’S SWIMMING AND DIVING 
Prestinario serves as model for young team 
By MATT UNGER 
Sports Writer 
On a squad where youth domi­nates the roster, senior swimmer and co-captain Amy Prestinario has managed to post impressive results in the pool and hold a strong leadership role outside of it. 
Prestinario and fellow co-cap­tain junior Emily Barton have welcomed an increased leader­ship role on a squad that features only two seniors on a roster of 23 
swimmers. “She’s a very good earning addi-
In the pool, role model, especially tional honors Prestinario, for a team with a lot for two relay a freestyle of freshmen on it.” teams during swimmer, re-her sophomore cently capped ca mpa ig n, 
Jenny Chiang 
off the last Prestinario 
junior diver 
dual meet took home 
of her Irish career with two wins in Muncie, Ind., against Ball State. She took first place in the 50-yard freestyle with a time of 24.46 seconds and won the 100-yard freestyle in 
52.33 seconds. Prestinario also raced a leg for the 200-yard free relay team, which won its race by just over a second. 
Outside of the pool, Prestinario earns praise and respect from her teammates. 
“She’s a very good role model, especially for a team with a lot of freshmen on it,” junior diver Jenny Chiang said. “When she says something she means it and has a tremendous work ethic. 
Unity 
continued from page 16 
difficult, Louderback said the visiting team does have some advantages. 
“The disadvantage is just being used to the courts and the lighting and the oppos­ing team’s crowd; that’s the toughest thing,” Louderback said. “The good thing for us is that it’s good to have the kids all together; they’re not in the dorm or in their apartments at night. Our seniors live off-campus and we know they’re in their rooms, and it’s nice on the road having everyone together all the time.” 
The players said they en­joy their nights bonding as a team during long road trips. 
“When we are off the court during away matches, we are usually laughing,” McGaffi­gan said. “We try to utilize our time to do schoolwork, but we all love getting to spend time with each other.” 
She’s also a person who’s fun to be around.” 
Throughout her four-year Irish career, the senior psychology major has delivered strong per­formances in freestyle and relay races. She has amassed all-Big East honors in each of her first three seasons. 
During her freshman season, Prestinario earned honors as a member of the 400- and 800­yard freestyle relay squads, which placed third and first respectively at the conference meet. After 
indiv idua l 
all-Big East 
honors in her 
junior year in the 50- and 100-yard freestyle races. 
She was also a member of the Big East-champion 400-yard freestyle relay squad. 
Prestinario and the Irish com­pete in the Big East Swimming and Diving championships over the next two weekends in Pitts­burgh. The divers will compete Friday through Sunday, while the swimmers hit the pool from Feb. 15-18 for a chance at winning the Big East title. 
Contact Matt Unger at munger3@nd.edu 
Sanders also said the team has no trouble amusing itself. 
“We like to hang out with each other in the hotel. We don’t go out much because we want to rest up for the next match,” Sanders said. “We end up watching a movie together or just talking and laughing about random things. We joke about starting a book of all our funny quotes.” 
The Irish hit the road next on a spring break trip to Ho­nolulu, where Notre Dame will take on Texas Tech, Ha­waii and Southern Methodist. Louderback said the trip will feature top-notch tennis in an ideal setting. 
“Every four years we go to Hawaii, and we go there this year,” Louderback said. “The last time we were there we went out on a boat, went whale watching; we went up to look at volcanoes. We al­ways have a great trip when we go to Hawaii.” 
Contact Vicky Jacobsen at vjacobse@nd.edu 


page 14 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u SPORTS Wednesday, February 8, 2012 

Watt 
continued from page 16 
net a few times.” 
The Northwestern match marked the middle por­tion of a busy stretch of tennis for the Irish. Af­ter two matches in North Carolina this past weekend and the mid-week match against the Wildcats, Notre Dame is slated for three more matches this upcom­ing weekend, starting with Wisconsin on Friday. 
“There’s not a lot of time to reflect on anything,” Bayl­iss said. “[Wednesday’s] a day off and then we’ll have one day of practice before we play Wisconsin.” 
The next match for the Irish, against the Badgers, is scheduled for Friday at 4 
p.m. in the Eck Tennis Pa­vilion. 
Contact Sam Gans at sgans@nd.edu 

Peters 
continued from page 16 
sive boards. She was avail­able when the guards were in trouble. She just got so many easy shots. She made some jumpers. She was just really, really working the offense to perfection.” 
Both teams struggled from the floor in the early going. The Irish (24-1, 11-0 Big East) started just three-for-11 from the field, and Syracuse (15­10, 4-7) started two-for-11. Notre Dame was still able to capture an 18-point lead go­ing into the locker room at halftime. 
“The first half in particu­lar I thought was outstand­ing,” McGraw said. “We held them to 19 points. We just re­ally, really played well.” 
Syracuse had a few late spurts in the game, but the Irish were able to hold the Or­ange off and go on a few runs of their own each time. Syra­cuse came within 11 points of the Irish at one point, but Notre Dame squashed any hope of an upset with runs of its own. Junior guard Skylar Diggins and Peters consistently sparked the Irish transi­tion offense. Diggins fin­ished with 
really was able to work the high-post area, really kept their defense a little off bal­ance. I don’t think they were expect­ing her to attack like she did. She 

11 points, six rebounds and five as­sists. Sophomore guard Kayla  “The first half in particular I thought was outstanding ... We held them to 19 points. We just really, really played well.”  played really well.” Once again, the Irish de­fense domi­nated. Mc- 
McBride con- Graw was not  
tributed 19 points, ty­ing a season  Muffet McGraw Irish coach  pleased with her team’s defense in  
high.  its  previ­ 
“Kayla Mc­ ous  game  
Bride did an  against  De- 
outstanding  Paul. Despite  
job,” McGraw  the  20-point  
said.  “She  margin  of  

played inside a little bit more victory, McGraw felt the Irish than usual this game, and could have played better de­
fensively against the Blue De­mons. Tuesday, the Irish held Syracuse 15 points below their season average. 
“I was happier tonight,” McGraw said. “Holding them to 55 is good.” 
Notre Dame consistent­ly beat the Orange on the glass, gathering in 10 more rebounds than Syracuse. On the season, the Orange out-rebounds opponents by an av­erage of 12 boards per game. 
Senior Brittany Mallory scooped up five steals in her 137th career game, the latter an Irish record. The margin of victory was the largest for the Irish at Syracuse since 2004. 
The Irish play host to West Virginia Sunday at 3:30 p.m. in Purcell Pavilion. 
Contact Matthew Robison at mrobison@nd.edu 
SMC BASKETBALL 

Belles battle for MIAA tournament spot 
By PETER STEINER 
Sports Writer 
After defeating Olivet on Sat­urday, the Belles will attempt to stave off another opponent looking to overtake them in the standings when they face off against Adrian tonight. 
With only three confer­ence games remaining, Saint Mary’s (11-11, 7-6 MIAA) is clinging to the last MIAA post­season tournament spot. 
Adrian (9-11, 5-8) enters the game on a three-game win­ning streak that has vaulted it into fifth place in the MIAA. 
Defense will be the key to stopping Adrian’s mo­mentum, of talent on their team, and they are playing with great chemistry right now. We have to do a better job playing team defense and doing the little things right.” 
The Belles lost to the Bull­dogs on the road earlier this season, scoring only 52 points 
— their lowest point total this season. According to Henley, the Belles will need to depend on their transition game, solid rebounding and the ability to draw fouls on shots in order to beat Adrian this time around. 
“We are going to look to get out and run on Adrian as much as possible,” she said. “We cer­
tainly are go­ing to try to get to the foul 

Belles coach Jennifer Hen­ley said. “In or­der for us to secure the  “In order for us to secure the fourth place in the MIAA tournament, this is definitely a must win for us.”  line; it has been one of our strengths all season. I also think reb ou nding  
fourth  place  will be a big  
in the MIAA tournament, this is defi- Jennifer Henley Belles coach  factor for us. We have been working hard  
nitely a must  on  crashing  
win for us,”  the  offensive  
Henley  said.  boards  and  

“I believe Wednesday’s game putting more effort into our will come down to defense own box-outs lately.” once again. Adrian has a lot The Belles will also continue to depend on senior guard Pat­sy Mahoney, who was named MIAA Player of the Week for the second time this year Mon­day. Mahoney scored a career-high 29 points in Saint Mary’s victory over Olivet Saturday and will look to continue her hot shooting against an Adrian team ranked third in defense in the conference. 
In addition to the key match-up, this second-to-last home game for the Belles serves as the Think Pink Game. All the profits from concessions, ap­parel and tickets sales at to­night’s game will be donated to a local organization called “Young Survivors,” Henley said. 
“We are hoping for a great turn out for our Pink Night,” Henley said. “Young Survivors is a wonderful organization that is dedicated to helping all women who have survived or are recovering from breast cancer. We are honored to join them in the fight to end breast cancer.” 
The Belles will face off against Adrian tonight at 7:30 
p.m at the Angela Athletic Fa­cility. 
Contact Peter Steiner at psteiner@nd.edu 


1  2  3  4  5  6  7  8  9  10  11  12  
13  14  15  16  
17  18  19  
20  21  22  
23  24  25  26  
27  28  29  30  31  
32  33  34  35  36  37  38  
39  40  41  42  
43  44  45  46  47  
48  49  50  51  
52  53  54  55  56  57  58  
59  60  61  62  63  64  
65  66  67  
68  69  70  
71  72  73  

Wednesday, February 8, 2012 The Observer u TODAY ndsmcobserver.com | page 15 
CROSSWORD 
Across 32 “The buck stops 1 Scratch here” pres. 4 Cries out loud 33 Place to hang a jacket 
8Football team 39 Words in anwith a blue analogy
horseshoe on its helmet 41 Thurman of Hollywood
13 ___-Wan Kenobi 42 Pet lovers” org.
14 Annoying computer 43 Sign of alien life, message some say 
16 Nail a test 47 Chihuahua”s 17 Stogie holder bark 19 Letter after eta 48 Tiny amount 20 Kitchen range 49 Army do 21 Florida city on 52 HBO alternative 
the Gulf 55 Fishing sticks 23 Singer Horne 58 “I cannot tell ___”
25 “___ the Explorer” 59 Fessed up (Nickelodeon 
62 Follow 
show) 65 Japanese port 26 NBC skit show 66 The French since ”75 Open is the only 27 What a TV host Grand Slam 
often reads from 
tournament 30 Type played on this 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 


68 “On the ___ hand …” 
69 Completelydead, as an engine 
70 “Here ___ Again”(1987Whitesnake hit) 
71 Razz 72 Projects forbeavers 73 Card below a jack 
Down 
1Footwear that may be worn with PJs 
2Somewhat 3Verdi opera 4Venus”s sister 
with a tennis racket 5“The Lord of the Rings” creature 6Bric-a-___ 7“”Tis a pity” 8Bit of razzing 9Cinco + tres 10 Lecherous looks 11 Mythical giant 12 Play for time 15 Seized vehicle 18 With: Fr. 22 Clapton of rock 24 Path of a fly ball 27 Trendy 
28 The Beatles” “Back in the ___” 
29 Gloomy 31 Dramatic boxingresults, briefly 34 “Mad Men” 
network 35 Soft powder 36 Astronaut”s attire 37 Off-white shade 

WILL SHORTz 
HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 

Puzzle by Ian C. Livengood 
38 President whose 50 Chooses for 57 Leafy course father co-office 
founded Yale”s 60 Just manages, 
51 Excessive lover 
with “out” Skull and Bones 

of the grape 40 Choose (to) 61 California”s ___
52 Get a move on 
Valley 44 Auto 53 Waste maker, in 

maintenance a proverb 
63 Longing 45 One who”s 54 Midwest city 
64 School on the worshiped whose name is a Thames
poker variety 

46 ___ of Good Feelings 56 All 52 cards 67 “Dee-lish!” 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a credit card, 1-800-814-5554.Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. AT&T users: Text NYTX to 386 to download puzzles, or visit nytimes.com/mobilexword for more information. Online subscriptions: Today”s puzzle and more than 2,000 past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year).Share tips: nytimes.com/wordplay. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 

HENRy ARNOLD 
JUMBLE 

THE CLAMMY HANDSHAKE JOE MILLER and KELLy LyNCH 
MIKE ARGIRION 






Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556

 Enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year


 Enclosed
 is $75 for one semester 


Name ____________________________________________________ Address __________________________________________________ City ____________________ State___________ Zip______________ 

Wednesday, February 8, 2012 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 16 
ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 
Beaten to a pulp 
By MATTHEW ROBISON 
Sports Writer 
Devereaux Peters scored a season-high 21 points and pulled in 16 boards over the nation’s second-best re­bounding team as No. 2 Notre Dame took down another Big East opponent at Syracuse on Tuesday by a 74-55 score. 
“I was so pleased with the rebounding, in particular [graduate student forward Peters] and [sophomore for­ward] Natalie Achonwa,” Irish coach Muffet McGraw said. “They both did a fan­tastic job. But I felt the whole team really contributed by getting in there and doing a good job boxing out. That was quite an accomplish­ment because [the Orange] are an excellent rebounding team.” 
Peters’ numbers gave her a seventh double-double this season and her fourth in the last five games. It is also her fourth game with at least 15 boards in the previous five. McGraw was more than pleased to see Peters domi­nate the post. 

“Devereaux was always in the right place at the right time,” McGraw said. “She did a good job on the offen-DILLON WEISNER/The Observer 
Irish freshman forward Markisha Wright battles for a rebound see PETERS/page 14 during Notre Dame’s 90-70 victory over DePaul on Sunday. 

MEN’S TENNIS 
Northwestern falls to new doubles pairing 
By SAM GANS 
Sports Writer 
After falling to No. 10 Duke on Sunday, the No. 30 Irish rebounded Tuesday with a dominating start to earn a 5-2 victory at North­western. 
Notre Dame (6-3) began the match strongly by tak­ing the doubles point after winning all three doubles matches. The newly-com­posed pairing of seniors Niall Fitzgerald and Casey Watt improved to 2-1 on the year, while junior Spencer Talmadge and sophomore Greg Andrews remained undefeated at 3-0. 
“Doubles was pretty im­portant tonight,” Irish coach Bobby Bayliss said. “We got down a break [point] on a couple of the courts right away. Their courts are newly resur­faced and they’re slower [which] makes for longer rallies. And some of the balls we thought we’d put away came back and we were out of position. So I think that our guys made good adjustments and we sort of hunkered down and broke back and stayed the course. It was a pretty good effort for us.” 
In singles play, the Irish clinched the match early by winning the first three completed matches to go up 4-0 against the previ­ously undefeated Wildcats (5-1). Notre Dame was also victorious in its top three singles positions, with Watt, Andrews and senior Sam Keeton each earn­ing straight-set victories. Fitzgerald also won at the No. 6 singles position. 
“Casey Watt was down early, 2-0, and he really pulled himself togeth­er and won the match in straight sets,” Bayliss said. “Greg Andrews was a war­rior tonight. He played Josh Graves, who might be their best player and he won a long two-and-a-half hour 6-4, 6-4 match. Sam Keeton, his ability to play up in the court forced Spen­cer Wolf, his opponent, to constantly be out of posi­tion and Sam was able to control the match from off the ground and get to the 
see WATT/page 14 
ND WOMEN’S TENNIS 

Team unity keeps Irish focused on the road 
By VICKY JACOBSEN 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame students have various ways of dealing with the permanent gray skies of the winter months. For members of the women’s tennis team, escaping the dull and dreary South Bend winter is often just one road match against an SEC oppo­nent away. 
“I love going to places that are different from South Bend,” sophomore Britney Sanders said. “This week­end is a perfect example. We went to Knoxville and Nash­ville, which are very south­ern areas. I loved hearing the southern accents and seeing people wear cowboy boots. It was also warm, which is a great break from the snow in South Bend.” 
As much as the Irish (5-2, 1-0 Big East) enjoy occasion­al breaks from sub-freezing temperatures, they spend a lot more time studying than sunbathing on road trips. 
“You can see when we’re flying or on the bus, the kids spend a lot of time studying,” Irish coach Jay Louderback said. “It’s a little bit like the library or something. I’ll get up for breakfast and go down to the lobby, and in the morning and there’s a couple already up that are studying then, so they do a lot of studying on the road.” 

Several members of the team say the “traveling li­brary” is necessary because they often miss classes to compete in away meets. 
“The worst part about be­ing on the road is staying on top of schoolwork and com­municating with groups,” junior Chrissie McGaffigan said. “It also can be drain­ing when we travel all day.” 
But the point of these road trips is to play competitive tennis, and the Irish often welcome extra practice to acquaint themselves with unfamiliar facilities before the match. 
“The day of the match, if we have an afternoon match, we’ll usually hit in late morning at those courts just to get another chance to hit on them,” Louderback said. “Then we get a longer warm-up, and it’s mainly just to get used to the courts and the lighting and every­thing.” 
While adjusting to an op­ponent’s home court can be 
see UNITY/page 13 
MEN’S BASKETBALL 

WVU seniors are Brey’s main worry 
By ANDREW GASTELUM 
Sports Writer 
During their current four-game winning streak, the Irish have upset the No. 1 team in the country, outhustled the defending NCAA national champions on the road and ended the conference’s lon­gest winning streak. Now, the Irish have yet another daunt­ing task ahead of them as they look to stop the Big East’s top scoring duo in one of college basketball’s most hostile at­mospheres: West Virginia. 
Senior forward Kevin Jones 
(20.8 points per game) and se­nior guard Darryl Bryant (17.6 points per game) lead the mul­tifaceted West Virginia attack. The dynamic senior tandem is the biggest worry for Irish coach Mike Brey heading into the contest. 
“We are dealing with a heck of a team and [they] have two guys who are [almost] aver­aging 40 points,” Brey said. “That is amazingly impressive. They set the tone for them. Jones would be my player of the year candidate. I am very impressed with him with the numbers, but I also love how he leads the team and in­teracts with the guys. He is a clutch guy who makes his teammates believe. 
The Mountaineers (16-8, 6-5 Big East) broke out of a three-game skid Sunday with an 87-84 overtime victory over Providence. The Friars (13-11, 2-9) held Jones to his 20-point average, but Bryant exploded for 32 points, including the game-winning 3-pointer with one second left in overtime. 

Ranked fourth in the coun­try in rebounding, Jones is one of two Big East players who averages a double-double, tal­lying 11.2 rebounds per game. The veteran senior has 15 dou­ble-doubles on the year and has notched at least 20 points in his last nine games, which 
see JONES/page 13 






