
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


HHS compromise leaves questions for University 
Professors say Obama administration’s revision does not specify policy’s exemptions for self-insured firms 
By SARAH MERVOSH sors say the Obama administra-promise.” Evans said it would not be out among a large pool of em-Managing Editor tion has not specified how this “[The Obama administration] financially feasible for Notre ployees. 
exemption would work for insti-promised to try to ‘work it out’ Dame to buy health insurance “It is a lot cheaper for them 
The revised contraception tutions like the University. for self-insurers,” Snead said. from a provider as a way for the to be their own insurance com-mandate, which shifts respon-“The problem is that, it’s not “No elaboration.” University to not directly fund pany than to pay someone else,” sibility for funding contracep-clear how this compromise is University Spokesman Dennis contraception. he said. “You want a large risk tion from religiously affili-going to be handled for firms Brown said finding a solution “I think the costs would be pool. If you have some fairly ated institutions to insurance that self-insure, which are the for self-insured employers is prohibitive,” Evans said. “If it high expenses, that’s going to companies, will apply to self-majority of large firms,” eco-among the “unresolved” issues were a cost-efficient way to be be averaged out by people who insured employers like Notre nomics professor William Ev-University President Fr. John providing health insurance, have low expenses.” Dame, Health and Human Ser-ans said. Jenkins and other religious they’d be doing it right now and Brown said it would be “fea­vices Secretary Kathleen Sebel-Law professor Carter Snead leaders are working with the they’re not.” sible, but very expensive” for ius announced last week. called last week’s announce-Obama administration to sort Evans said most large firms 
However, Notre Dame profes-ment a “vague, unenforceable out. self-insure so risks are spread see HHS/page 4 

Students celebrate Mardi Gras holiday 
By AMANDA GRAY 
News Writer 
When most people think of Mardi Gras, they probably imagine raucous parades down Bourbon Street filled with mu­sic, floats and the infamous Mardi Gras beads. 
But junior Emily Degan said one of the misconceptions about Mardi Gras is that it is scandalous or full of misbe­havior. 
“It’s definitely not just Bour­bon Street and craziness,” she said. “It can be a family atmo­sphere. You can pick your own Mardi Gras. It’s a strong mis­conception that it can’t be fun for all ages.” 
Degan said this family atmo­sphere and sense of communi­ty are the best things about the Mardi Gras season, which runs from the Epiphany in January through Fat Tuesday, or the Tuesday before Ash Wednes­day. 
“Everything is so much fun and everyone is in such a good mood,” the New Orleans native said. “There is good food ev­erywhere.” 
Degan said she returned to the Big Easy for a Mardi Gras ball last Wednesday. 
“In New Orleans, we have debutante balls, known as Mardi Gras balls,” Degan said. “A lot of the Mardi Gras orga­nizations who put on parades have Mardi Gras balls, or just balls alone.” 
At Mardi Gras balls, female college juniors are present­ed into society at the ball as “maids in court,” she said. 
“The people in the ball were masked, but I was unmasked and wearing a white, large gown,” she said. 
Degan said she had almost forgotten what it was like to celebrate Mardi Gras, New Orleans-style. After the ball, she was able to attend some parades before she returned to 


see PARADE/page 4 


AP 

People reach for beads as a float passes by during the St. Paul Carnival Association parade Sunday in Pass Christian, Miss. 

Alumna addresses anorexia 
By KAITLYN RABACH 
News Writer 
As part of Love Your Body Week at Saint Mary’s, Chris­tina Grasso, a 2011 College alumna, shared the story of her personal battle with anorexia, titled “Down the Rabbit Hole,” with the Saint Mary’s commu­nity Monday. 
Grasso, a current intern in the New York City fashion in­dustry, likened her experience with anorexia to the title char­acter’s tumultuous journey in Alice in Wonderland. 
“Like Alice, I felt trapped,” said Grasso, who has fought anorexia for nearly a decade. 
see ANOREXIA/page 5 



By DAN BROMBACH 
News Writer 

The Notre Dame faculty added another award to its collection of acco­lades when Kristin Shrader-Frechette, professor of philoso­phy and biological sciences, was hon­ored with the Jean Mayo Glob­al Citizenship Award in rec-


Scholar honored for scientific work 
ognition of her body of work in both global health and pol-lution-related environmental justice. 
Along with a group of Notre Dame students and several faculty members, Shrader-Frechette works to combat environmental injustice in poor and minority communi­ties, she said. 
“Environmental injustice occurs whenever poor people or minorities experience dis­proportionately heavier pol­lution burdens, as indeed they do throughout the world,” Shrader-Frechette said. 
She and her team provide free scientific and ethical as­sistance to poor communi­ties to improve quality of life and serve as the community’s voice and advocate, Shrader-Frechette said. 
“Our goal in this environ­mental justice work is to save lives, especially the lives of children, to ensure use of the best science to analyze pol­lution problems and to help ensure that poor people and minorities can exercise their rights to know about, and to consent to, pollution risks,” Shrader-Frechette said. 
Although she is on sabbati­cal this semester, Shrader-Frechette said she is current­ly engaged in three unique 
see POLLUTION/page 5 

INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER CLC discusses medical amnesty page 3 u Viewpoint page 6 u A guide to Lenten promises page 8 u Women’s basketball vs. Louisville recap page 16 
page 2 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u DAY-TO-DAY Tuesday, February 21, 2012 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT IS YOUR FAVORITE BENGAL BOUTS NICKNAME? 

www.ndsmcobserver.com P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 Editor-in-Chief Douglas Farmer Managing Editor Business Manager Sarah Mervosh Jeff Liptak Asst. Managing Editor: Adriana Pratt Asst. Managing Editor: Chris Masoud News Editor: Sam Stryker Viewpoint Editor: Meghan Thomassen Sports Editor: Allan Joseph Scene Editor: Maija Gustin Saint Mary’s Editor: Caitlin E. Housley Photo Editor: Pat Coveney Graphics Editor: Brandon Keelean Advertising Manager: Katherine Lukas Ad Design Manager: Amanda Jonovski Controller: Jason Taulman Systems Administrator: William Heineman Office Manager & General Info (574) 631-7471 Fax (574) 631-6927 Advertising (574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu Editor-in-Chief (574) 631-4542 dfarmer1@nd.edu Managing Editor (574) 631-4542 smervosh@nd.edu Assistant Managing Editors (574) 631-4541 apratt@nd.edu, cmasoud@nd.edu Business Office (574) 631-5313 News Desk (574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com Viewpoint Desk (574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com Sports Desk (574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com Scene Desk (574) 631-4540 mgustin@nd.edu Saint Mary’s Desk chousl01@saintmarys.edu Photo Desk (574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com Systems & Web Administrators (574) 631-8839 Policies The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College.  Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Douglas Farmer. Post Office Information The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 and additional mailing offices 024 South Dining hall Notre Dame, IN 46556-077 The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved.  
TODAY’S STAFF News Sports Kristen Durbin Andrew Gastelum Marisa Iati Jack Hefferon Adam Llorens Brian Hartnett Graphics Scene Brandon Keelan Maija Gustin Photo Viewpoint Tom La Ren Brauweiler  
CORRECTIONS The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so we can correct our error.  
HIGH 42 LOW 32 



Frank Conway  Brian Tower  Eric Tommarello  Jake Joe  Joey Kim  Reid Paape  
senior  senior  freshman  junior  junior  junior  
off-campus  off-campus  O’Neill  Sorin  O’Neill  Sorin  
“‘One tough son  “Wobbly  “Fess the Mess”  “James ‘Golden’  “‘One tough son  “Gong ‘Can’t  
of a’ Beach”  Wobbidy”  Doan”  of a’ Beach”  Touch This’  
Weng”  

Have an idea for Question of the Day? Email obsphoto@gmail.com 


OFFBEAT 

Woman heads to trial for stealing two dollar pumpkin 
ALBUQUERQUE, N.M. — A 23-year-old college stu­dent from New Mexico is scheduled to go to trial for allegedly stealing a small pumpkin worth two dol­lars. 
KOAT-TV in Albuquer­que, N.M., reports that Lauren Medina will go before a jury and Moriar­ity Magistrate Judge Steve Jones on Tuesday. She is accused of taking the pumpkin in October 2011 from McCall’s Pumpkin Patch in Moriarty. 
Her sister, Annette Aten­cio, says Medina spent $75 on food that day but forgot to pay for the pumpkin she picked up as she was leav­ing. Atencio says her sister offered to pay but was re­fused and then handcuffed. 
Atencio says she’s in dis­belief that the theft charge against her sister was not dropped. 
She says her sister could have pleaded guilty and be given probation, but re­fused. 
Female inmates put pig image in police decal 
MONTPELIER, Vt. — Fe­male prison inmates are to blame for a prank that put the image of a pig in a decal on the doors of some Vermont state police cruis­ers. 
Department of Correc­tions Commissioner Andy Pallito tells WCAX-TV fe­male inmates at the prison work center in Windsor are responsible for alter­ing the decal in 2009. But he says figuring out spe­cifically who did it is im­possible unless someone confesses. 
The pig in the 16-inch decal was first noticed by a state police trooper wash­ing his car Feb. 1. 
One of the spots on a cow in the state crest was changed to the shape of a pig, a derogatory term for police. 
State police say they be­lieve the pig decal has been added to about 30 cruisers in the past year. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 


IN BRIEF 
Students will have an op­portunity to thank those who donate to the Univer­sity at the “Thanksgiving in February” event held in the Sorin Room of LaFor­tune from 11 a.m. to 3 p.m. today. Free food will be pro­vided. The event will be held tomorrow at the same time and place. 
The Red Cross will hold a blood drive in the LaFor­tune Ballroom from noon to 6 p.m. today. Appointments are available through on-line registration. 
The Association of Wom­en in Matheamtics of Notre Dame will hold a bake sale in the LaFortune Eleva­tor Lobby today from 3 to 6 p.m. Each item costs one dollar and Domer Dollars are accepted. 
The run-off election for sophomore class council will take place via an online link from 8 a.m. to 8 p.m. Tuesday. The two tickets proceeding to the run-off election are that of Kevin McMannis, Cristin Pacifico, Ryan Newell and Kai Gayoso and that of Tim Scanlan, Nathan Foje, Andrea Palm and Emily Voorde. 
Student Affairs is now ac­cepting nominations for the Denny Moore Award for Excellence in Journalism, named after the University’s late Associate Vice Presi­dent for Public Affairs. Can­didates may be nominated by faculty, staff or fellow students. The deadline is Friday, March 2. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, email detailed information about an event to obsnews.nd@gmail.com 


LOCAL WEATHER 
TODAY TONIGHT WEDNESDAY THURSDAY FRIDAY SATURDAY 









HIGH 47 LOW 36 
HIGH 47 LOW 32 
HIGH 38 LOW 27 
HIGH 33 LOW 25 

Tuesday, February 21, 2012 The Observer u NEWS ndsmcobserver.com | page 3 


CAMPUS LIFE COUNCIL 

Group discusses medical amnesty 
By NICOLE TOCZAUER 
News Writer 
Members of Campus Life Council (CLC) discussed medi­cal amnesty and the avenues Notre Dame can take to combat the use of conflict minerals in electronics during their meeting Monday. 
Student body president Pat McCormick asked council mem­bers if they believe the Univer­sity should include some form of medical amnesty in its poli­cies. Medical amnesty protects students in need of medical as­sistance, and the related Good Samaritan policy protects the student who seeks assistance for the student in need. 
CLC has spoken in favor of medical amnesty in the past, McCormick said. 
Ed Mack, O’Neill Hall rector, said the student body of Notre Dame is held to a higher stan­dard of helping others, even if it means facing disciplinary risk. 
“It always strikes me that it would seem better if the student body said, ‘I stand first for my brother or sister,’ rather than the perception of ‘I’ll worry about myself and maybe take care of one in need,’” he said. “I think more highly of you.” 
Ronald Vierling, rector of Morrissey Manor, said in two instances this year, students were not punished for helping other students, even though they themselves were intoxicated. These situations place the Notre Dame Security Police (NDSP) in a difficult position, he said. 
“Did we penalize the student? Of course not,” he said. “Frankly, our NDSP often casts a blind eye, but it’s state law. There will be things they have to do to follow through with that.” McCormick said Notre Dame 

Vierling said a policy of medi-has used its investment portfo­cal amnesty is not needed if stu-lio to influence global justice in dents uphold the level of honor the past, and it can do so now to expected of them and take ap-make a statement about its posi­propriate action in difficult situ-tion on this issue. ations. “It would advance compliance 
“Do we need something legis-in companies to source where lating an obvious standard?” he their minerals are coming said. from,” he said. “Minerals are 
McCormick said some students making their way from places 
still hesitate to  with  human  
help peers in need for fear of punish­ment, despite the standard of integrity  “It always strikes me that it would seem better if the student body said, ‘I stand first for my brother or sister,’ rather than the  atrocity and into our cell phones and electronics.” S t u de nt s can take re- 
they are gen­erally held to by supporting their fellow  perception of ‘I’ll worry about myself and maybe take care of one in need.’”  sponsibility on the issue of conflict minerals by  
students. “We believe this standard  Ed Mack O’Neill Hall rector  writing their congressmen and purchas­ 

is innate and honor it, but from a student perspective, there are cases where there is no mercy shown,” he said. “In­stead, there’s punitive measure taken against the student that runs counter to our higher aspi­rations as a community.” 
McCormick said the issue will be addressed in Wednesday’s Senate meeting. 
CLC also discussed the issue of conflict minerals and how it relates to the Notre Dame stu­dent body. McCormick said stu­dent advocates raised Student Government’s awareness of the devastating effects of the mining of conflict minerals in the Demo­cratic Republic of the Congo. 
Regional scrambles for natu­ral resources like these conflict minerals are the principal driv­er for human abuse and armed conflict in Congo, he said. 
ing electron­

ics from cer­tain companies over others. 
“Students can assign grades to congressmen and congress­women to increase awareness,” McCormick said. “And they can use consumer purchases as a way of voting for particular sup­ply chains.” 
He said student advocacy can be a powerful form of leverage for broad issues like the prob­lem of conflict minerals. 
“The choices we make down­stream to the extraction process are contributing to violence and human atrocity,” McCormick said. “If we can get students in­volved, that creates a sense of broader solidarity beyond bor­ders that Notre Dame aspires to.” 
Contact Nicole Toczauer at ntoczaue@nd.edu 

Professor speaks about teacher education 
By CAROLINA WILSON 
News Writer 
With education reform emerging as a hot-button is­sue among the American pub­lic, Suzanne Wilson, univer­sity distinguished professor and chair of the Department of Teacher Education at Mich­igan State University, outlined her research on developing measures for tracking learn­ing in teacher education pro­grams during a lecture at the Eck Visitor Center on Monday. 
In “Teacher Preparation in an Era of Reform,” Wilson discussed the essentials of teacher education, the cur­rent American position on this topic and the ways in which her research could im­force, 


“This is the promise we 
pact teach-said. 
made as a nation, as the 
er reform. Wi lson
world’s leading democracy, 
“[My re-added she 
search] giving all our children in our beli eves could be a counry an equal education.” change in revolution the educa­in how we tional re-
Suzanne Wilson 
think about form for 
chair 
teacher teachers is 
Department of Teacher Education 
education a positive problem s,” Michigan State University one, but 
form that refers to whether or not a student would be more successful in school based on the efficiency of his or her current teacher. 
Wilson equated the final theme of effectiveness to the “discourse of accountabil­ity.” Critics of the education system frequently point to the ineffectiveness of current teacher preparation methods, but Wilson said those critics should ask better questions and “fight for better pro­grams.” 
These improved programs, or “alternate routes,” are al­ready in place in some school systems and include residency programs and other routes for people of color and male teachers to diver sify the teach­ing work she 
she said. 
Wilson said her biggest question regarding teacher education reform concerns the current status of the issue in terms of its larger histori­cal context, asking whether or not we are at a “historical mo­ment” in the history of educa­tion in America. 
Wilson spoke about three current themes in the dia­logue about education reform: equity and equality, efficiency and effectiveness. 
Regarding equity and equality, Wilson said it is our nation’s duty to provide its children with equal educa­tional opportunities. 
“This is the promise we made as a nation, as the world’s leading democracy, giving all of our children in our country an equal educa­tion,” she said. 
Wilson said this theme is the “center” of all discourse regarding education reform, and it constantly raises ques­tions about the relative level of equality in our educational system. 
According to Wilson, ef­ficiency can be measured by a teacher’s “added value,” a new concept in education re­cited uni­
versitie s 
as being 
“extremely slow and getting in the way of change” in terms of teacher education reform. 
One hindrance to progress is the disproportionate focus on ranking individual teach­ers, rather than making com­parisons within teacher edu­cation programs themselves, Wilson said. 
“We create standards. We create scoring rubrics. We rank ourselves. Everyone wants to be number one,” she said. 
In lieu of grading systems, Wilson suggested a new ap­proach to teacher education reform based on the pragma­tism of Frederick Taylor, en­couraging leadership through practice rather than knowl­edge alone. 
To conclude the lecture, Wilson said teacher education programs must renew their focus on instructing teachers in how to teach their students. 
“We haven’t spent enough time studying what it takes to help somebody learn some­thing,” she said. 
Contact Carolina Wilson at              cwilso16@nd.edu 

page 4 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u NEWS Tuesday, February 21, 2012 
Chef outlines raw food health benefits 
By JILLIAN BARWICK 
News Writer 
Saint Mary’s kicked off “Love Your Body Week” with a presentation by Michele Dahms, a certified raw food chef and lifestyle instructor, who spoke to students about the importance of healthy eating in everyday life, espe­cially in relation to women’s health. 
“Women are the ones that have to take care of them­selves first before taking care of their families,” Dahms said. “That is why having ‘Love Your Body Week’ on 
“Women are the ones 
your campus of these en-
that have to take care 
is so great.” zymes and 
Dahms said of themselves first other sub-people have before taking care stances in-strayed from of their families.” volved in ba­the real pur-sic functions pose of food of the body. 
Michele Dahms 
as a source of “Water,
chef and lifestyle instructor 
nutrients, and protein, nat­healthier living. 
“Some of the main food groups of raw foods are fresh fruit, vegetables, natural fats and grains,” Dahms said. “Nutritional benefits from raw foods include vitamins, which are complete nutrients in whole foods and isolated nutrients. Raw foods also contain enzymes, which are catalysts for all of our bodily functions.” 
The digestive system func­tions more regularly when it receives the enzymes it needs to break down foods, Dahms said, and raw food provides a good source 
obesity and other chronic health issues stem from the body’s lack of nutrients as a result of an un­healthy diet. 
Dahms presented the audi­ence with a 10-year-old Mc­Donald’s burger and an order of fries that showed no signs of mold. She also held up a 7-Eleven Slurpee cup contain­ing more than 20 packets of sugar inside, the equivalent of the Slurpee’s sugar con­tent. 
“An average teenager eats a cup of sugar a day current­ly,” Dahms said. “Our bodies are getting more and more calories without the nutrients because of the foods we eat, which is not helping our sys­tems.” 
Adhering to a healthy diet can improve a person’s over­all lifestyle, from increasing mental clarity to maintaining a healthy weight and improv­ing skin quality, Dahms said. 
“As you start eating health­ier, you can get to know your body better, the things it likes and doesn’t like, and what healthy options are a good fit for you,” she said. 
In a PowerPoint presen­tation, Dahms outlined the basic principles of vegetari­anism and veganism and dif­ferent types of raw foods to demonstrate some methods of ural fats, di­
gestion aid 
and acid-alkaline balance are all at­tributes of raw foods,” Dahms said. “Cells function better when balanced, and being acidic weakens the immune system, so it is important to have a balance between acid and alkaline.” 
Contrary to popular belief, people do not have to make dramatic changes to improve their diet and lifestyle, Dahms said. Drinking more water, eating salad before lunch and dinner and consuming raw fruits and vegetables as snacks can improve diets, she said. 
“You have to be the ones that take the responsibility. It’s the choices that you make that no one can make for you,” she said. “Have your friends join in with you.” 
In conjunction with the Real Food Campaign on campus, Saint Mary’s will dedicate the week of April 16-20 to food, with each day focusing on a different aspect of food. 
“This is the first genera­tion that will not outlive their parents in age,” Dahms said. “If you don’t take care of your body, where are you going to live?” 
Contact Jillian Barwick at jbarwi01@saintmarys.edu 

HHS 
continued from page 1 

Notre Dame to switch from self-insurance to an outside insurance company, adding this option was a “moot point” based on Sebelius’ announce­ment last week. 
Though the University is self-insured, Notre Dame works with Meritain Health, a third-party administrator that processes insurance claims and provides administrative services to the University. 
Donna Hofmeister, director of marketing for Meritain, said 
the company is “still evaluat-Obama administration has ing” if and how the latest policy not figured out how to accom­
changes will affect Merit­ain. However, she said if the “We intend to fully comply law requires with any obligations that Meritain to result from this change.” 
pay for con­traception for 
Donna Hofmeister 
Notre Dame 
director of marketing 
employees, the company plans Meritain to do so. 
“We intend to fully com­modate re­ligiously affiliated employers that self-insure. 
“I have no idea what their path is going to be and how to get out of this box,” he said. “There 
ply with any obligations that is no easy solution to this.” result from this change,” she said. Contact Sarah Mervosh at 
As it stands, Evans said the smervosh@nd.edu 

politicians or controversial topics. Different crews put on different parades, and each continued from page 1 is known for something. One might be the political one, campus. while one has just male or fe­
“I hadn’t been home for Mar-male riders.” di Gras since I was a fresh-Degan said she will not be man,” she said. “I forgot about able to celebrate Mardi Gras the whole season. In New Or-today in true fashion as she 
Parade 

leans, it’s not  normally  does  
just  one  day.  due to  an  un- 
There are three or four parades every weekend. It was fun being home.” Each pa­rade is differ­ “I’m lucky that I got to spend time before coming here as both a spectator and participant in Mardi Gras parades.”  timely exam. “I will wear my beads and eat some New Orleans-style food at the din­ing hall,” she said.  
ent from the next, Degan added. From  Elizabeth Owers sophomore  Sophomore Elizabeth Ow­ers said she  
t h r o w i n g  didn’t appreci­ 
beads  to  at- ate  the  glitz,  
tending multi­ glam and com­ 

ple parades in one day, the pa-munity generated by a New rade culture of New Orleans is Orleans Mardi Gras until she an integral part of the Mardi came to Notre Dame. Gras celebration. “It’s more than just what 
“Everyone on the floats is you see on television,” the masked,” she said. “There is New Orleans native said. “I’m this big culture around the lucky that I got to spend time parade. Floats are often sa-before coming here as both a tirical, making fun of local spectator and participant in Mardi Gras parades.” 
Owers said the Mardi Gras season offers something for everyone. 
“For us — my sister and my­self — we always marched in parades,” she said. “You also get to spend time with your family, and it’s a great show­ing of community.” 
Though she won’t be re­turning home for Mardi Gras, her family will be making a trip to campus to spend time together. 
“I’ll miss being a part of [the celebration in New Or­leans],” she said. “I didn’t re­alize how much I miss being there. Notre Dame doesn’t re­ally do anything to celebrate, beyond the dining halls. But my family will visit, so I’ll see them.” 
Traditionally children get the entire week off of school, Owers said. 
“You spend all day at the parades,” she said. “Or some­times you go on vacation. It’s about spending time with your family.” 
Contact Amanda Gray at agray3@nd.edu 


Tuesday, February 21, 2012 The Observer u NEWS ndsmcobserver.com | page 5 
dietetics and frequent purging. August and now resides in New 
Anorexia 
Grasso explained thinness is York City, where she works in a 

just one side effect of anorexia, public relations firm within the continued from page 1 as she also experienced hair fashion industry. She is cur-
loss, bruising, low body tem-rently in recovery, but she said “I never imagined embarking perature, low blood pressure, each day is a fight for survival. on a journey that could nearly low heart rate and susceptibil-Grasso said one of her big-kill me, but if there is anything ity to multiple organ failure. gest challenges has been work-I have learned throughout all “I could have died at any ing in an industry where per-of this, it is that if it happened given moment,” Grasso said. fection and thinness are seen to me, it can “I never as the norm. happen to wanted or “I must continue to always anyone.” “I felt like in my four years i nt e n de d be conscious of my thoughts,” 
Grasso here eating disorders to die, but Grasso said. “This is a difficult grew up in a were such a taboo topic. every night industry for me to work in, but small town We really need to get the I went to I do it not only for the little girl in Pennsyl-bed not that always dreamed of being 
dialogue going and make 
vania with k now i n g here, but also for the person 
sure that people know it 
dreams of if I would that this illness has shaped to-
is not a shameful thing to 
working in wake up.” day.” 
have an eating disorder.” 
the fash-G r a s s o Laura Glaub, Love Your Body ion indus-continued Week co-chair, expressed her try. As a Christina Grasso to spiral gratitude for Grasso and said young girl, 2011 alumna into her she is an inspiration to herself she focused own “rab-and others. 
Saint Mary’s 
on dance, bit hole” “I was planning on doing gymnastics until one Love Your Body Week activi­and fash-life-threat-ties for one day, but Christina ion, all of which place value on ening incident opened her eyes inspired me to make it a week-image perfection and thinness. to the seriousness of her ill-long event,” Glaub said. “She 
“I have always been very ness. is such an inspiration and her driven,” Grasso said. “I strug-“Because my body had such a presentation is a great kick gled for perfection in all of lack of nutrients, I fainted quite off for the rest of the week’s my endeavors. I tried to numb often,” Grasso said. “One time events. She incorporates fam­the pain of never feeling good while driving outside of Chica-ily, friends and the media, all enough.” go, I blacked out at the wheel. topics that will be covered this 
Her illness began at age 13, It was around that time, my ju-upcoming week.” but Grasso was not officially nior year in college, that I ac-Grasso said events like Love diagnosed with anorexia un-knowledged I have a problem.” Your Body Week have the pow­til she was a 19-year-old stu-With the er to make dent at Saint Mary’s. She said support of changes in 
“This is a difficult industry 

she remembers dieting for the her fam-society’s per-first time at age seven, and by ily and for me to work in, but I ception of eighth grade, she began to eat friends, do it not only for the little eating dis-even less. Grasso en-girl that always dreamed orders and “I made accomplishment af-gaged in of being here, but also for body image. ter accomplishment,” Grasso s e ve r a l the person that this illness “I felt like said. “But nothing felt as good different in my four 
has shaped today.” 

as losing another pound. I was types of years here running on self-hatred.” treatment, eating dis-
Christina Grasso 

Grasso said her illness wors-but she orders were ened as she grew older. Her continued 2011 alumna such a taboo loved ones began to express to relapse Saint Mary’s topic. We re-their concerns for her health, into the ally need to but she herself could not grasp d i s e a s e . get the dia­the seriousness of her own After several unsuccessful logue going and make sure that problem. treatments, Grasso’s physician people know it is not a shame­
“I was blindly unaware of recommended inpatient treat-ful thing to have an eating dis-the fact that the only one I was ment at a center for eating dis-order,” Grasso said. “This idea hurting was myself,” Grasso orders. of it being kept hush-hush just said. “This is when I realized there perpetuates how victims thrive 
In addition to dramatic were no further treatments for off of secrecy. Events like this changes in eating habits, Gras-me to try,” Grasso said. “I was show it is okay to talk about it.” so’s anorexia also included at the end of the line.” excessive workouts, experi-Grasso was released from Contact Kaitlyn Rabach at mentation with laxatives and the treatment center in mid-krabac01@saintmarys.edu 
Glenn celebrates orbit anniversary 
Associated Press 
COLUMBUS, Ohio — John Glenn made his historic space­flight alone in 1962 but cel­ebrated its 50th anniversary Monday among hundreds of people within his orbit, from fel­low headline-making astronauts and NASA’s administrator to family, friends and students at Ohio State University, where the public affairs school bears his name. 
They watched footage of the launch, laughed at his enduring sense of humor and showered him with applause, praising the man who became the first American to orbit the Earth on Feb. 20, 1962. 

Neil Armstrong, the first man to set foot on the moon, told the audience at the celebratory gala that Glenn was “no ordinary pi­lot.” There was a need for lead-eye of the beholder,” Glenn said Her husband Mark Kelly, a ership in the space program in during a question-and-answer retired astronaut and com-the early 1960s, Armstrong said, session with Annie, his wife of mander of the space shuttle and Glenn “literally rose to the nearly seven decades. “I don’t Endeavour’s final mission, was occasion.” look at myself that way.” the night’s featured speaker and 
The former astronaut and Asked about his heroes, Glenn said he was honored to be sit-
U.S. senator from Ohio, now 90, said he admires different quali-ting between two of his own he-circled the Earth three times in ties in different people, such as roes, Armstrong and Glenn. He five hours and was viewed as a the perseverance of former U.S. brought the audience a message national hero for helping to lead Rep. Gabrielle Giffords of Ari-from Giffords: “Be passionate. the United States into space. zona, who was severely injured Be courageous. Be strong. Be 
“I think the hero thing is in the in a shooting last year. your best.” 
Pollution 
continued from page 1 
pro-bono environmental jus­tice projects around the world. She is studying the fallout from radiation leakage after the earthquake and nuclear reactor disaster on children in Fukushima, Japan, the ef­fects of a hazardous waste dump on Native Americans in upstate New York and the 
harmful im-“Every year I find at Al-pact of a Su-least five times more though it perfund site may not 
students here than at 
on an Afri-impact
large state schools who 
can-American the lives 
want to do this work.” 
community of most on Chicago’s peopl e, South Side. Shrader ­
Kristin Shrader-Frechette Sh ra der -professor of philosophy Frechette Frechette said and biological sciences said all 
she and her colleag ues use concrete evidence of envi­ronmental injustice to provide victimized communities with the opportunity to stand up to wealthy, powerful polluters. 
“By providing detailed sci­entific and public-health evi­dence and assessments about specific health threats 
can help em­power them so that they can force nox­ious facilities to clean up and to obey the law,” she said. 
Despite the University’s rel­atively small student popula­tion, Notre Dame has far more students who are passionate about and willing to engage in this kind of environmental jus­tice work, Shrader-Frechette said. 
“Every year I find at least five times more students here than at large state schools who want to do this work,” she said.  “Notre Dame’s incred­ible students make all this pro-bono work possible.  I love them.” 
Shrader-Frechette added she hopes the award will bring increased recogni­tion to her cause and help to combat public ignorance of environmental injustice. 
“A major current problem is that people are often un­aware that poor people and minorities are the ‘canaries in the coal mines’ of pollu­
tion,” she 
said. 
people 
have a re­sponsibility to fight envi­ronmental injustice. 
“Stopping environmental injustice is our duty because we unfairly benefit, both medically and economical­ly, when we [perhaps unin­tentional­ly] impose our envi­ronmental 
that a given “If we don’t work to help bu rden s com mun ity stop this injustice, we are on poor faces, then part of the problem.” people and sharing these minori­results with ties, espe-
Kristin Shrader-Frechette 
the members cially chil­
professor of philosophy 
of the commu-dren,” she nity, often we and biological sciences said. “If 
we don’t 
work to 
help stop 
this in­justice, we are part of the problem.” 
Shrader-Frechette said being recognized for her work is a truly humbling experience. 
“My only concern, af­ter receiving the award, is that many Notre Dame faculty members deserve it more than I do,” Shrader-Frechette said. 
Contact Dan Brombach at dbrombac@nd.edu 




page 6 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com Tuesday, February 21, 2012 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Lamentation of the DisneyChannel 
Once upon a time, there lived a little girl who grew up without the Disney Channel. She didn’t spend Saturdays with Lizzie McGuire or nights antici­pating DCOMs. She grew up wondering 
what “Zenon” was  
and what Johnny  Carrie Turek  
Tsunami was  
all about. She  Scene Writer  
made it through  

childhood, but there was still a part of her that wondered what she had been missing. 
As a child who grew up deprived of the Disney Channel, I entered college hoping to make up for lost time. Sadly, though, when I flip to channel 50, Kim Possible and Ron Stoppable have been replaced by cartoon fish and dancing preteens. What happened to the good old days of “Even Stevens” and “Lizzie McGuire?” Did Phil ever return to the future? 
I remember growing up watching recorded versions of Disney Chan­nel Original Movies on VHS. My best friend would tape the specials, and I would watch them after they aired. I still remember a very young Hilary Duff in “Cadet Kelly” and a pre-scandal Lindsay Lohan in “Get a Clue.” Today though, all that’s left are sour Lemon­ade Mouths and triple-threat stars who can neither sing, dance nor act. Where has the quality gone? 
For some reason, I always had this idea that the Disney Channel “release” of an original movie was a big deal 
— something that called for popcorn and late-nights. As I got older (let’s say somewhere around age 18), that idea began to wear off. 
Still cable-less at home, college gave me a much anticipated opportunity to see what I had been missing. As I soon learned, it wasn’t much. 
I experienced my first Disney Channel release in real time during the first few weeks of college freshman year. It was Sept. 3, 2010. I watched “Camp Rock 2: The Final Jam.” Epic, I know. 
But “Camp Rock 2” did not come with popcorn. I don’t think it even came on during the night, when all real movie-watching takes place. The child in me was disappointed. But still I held on to hope that “Camp Rock” was just a fluke — that the real joy and magic of the Disney Channel would still come to light. 
My new college friends laughed at me as I tried to catch “Hannah Montana” and “Suite Life.” They could not seem to understand my need to prove how great the Disney Channel was. But even I became disillusioned. 
Soon, even “Hannah Montana” left the air. Zack and Cody were relegated to the 2 a.m. slot and new shows featur­ing identical dancing children cropped up. “Fish Hooks” aired much too often, and “Shake It Up” was a mystery to me. 
“Phineas and Ferb” was the channel’s only saving grace. The hopeful Disney fan in me is just plain sad that all of Disney’s talent lies in two (very cute) cartoon boys. 
So, Disney Channel, bring back the favorites and “getcha’ head in the game.” 
Contact Carrie Turek at      cturek@nd.edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

Holy Half Marathon, feat. You 
More than anything else, the Holy Half is about the runners. As race directors, we take special consider­ations to pay individual attention to each person participating in the Holy Half. We have hired professional Carolyn Green photographers to capture everyone’s Guest uniquely definitive Columnist race moments, we will acknowledge runners by name as they finish, and we have rented more port-a-potties than in years past to en­sure that no one experiences any dis­tress during the race. Fun fact: In the business, an extra-large port-a-potty is known as a “Comfort Inn.” We are still waiting for word on the “La Quinta.” 
Running should be about you — your motivations, your goals and your de­sires. Some people run for fitness, oth­ers run to procrastinate on homework and others run to simply get away. Most often, people run for a combina­tion of many different factors. For me, running is personal time with myself. I find I have my best, most intimate thoughts while running. Never have I gone for a run and regretted it after­wards. 
In the same fashion, people run the Holy Half for many different reasons. Sophomore Jake Frego says he is run­ning the Holy Half to “discover where Carroll is located.” Frego, who partici­pated in the Holy Half last year, loves running for the companionship aspect of the sport. He prefers not to use an iPod when he runs, but to ponder life’s persistent questions with the person running next to him. Frego’s go-to race 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
strategy is pre-race carbo-loading, so he is hoping South Dining Hall is well stocked with spaghetti the night before the Holy Half. 
Cassie Mead, who moved to South Bend from Hawaii with her boyfriend, a Submarine Lieutenant and Notre Dame ROTC instructor, is running the Holy Half as her first attempt at the 13.1-mile race. Mead works for the Hypertrophic Cardiomyopathy Associa­tion, for which she is doing a separate fundraiser along with the Holy Half. Hypertrophic cardiomyopathy, or HCM, is sometimes referred to as the “enlarged heart” disease, and is the leading killer of young athletes. Even though the Holy Half course will be slightly colder than Mead’s favorite place to run (Diamond Head Crater in Honolulu), Mead will rely on her dedi­cation to her cause and her running partner, Lauren Fenlon, to make it to the finish. 
Fenlon and Mead run together on a regular basis. Fenlon played lacrosse for Notre Dame and graduated in 2011 with a major in sociology. She now works as an administrative intern in the Athletics Department and says her favorite thing about running is, “You don’t need anything; you just lace up your shoes and get out there!” Fenlon’s race strategy is to stick with Mead and remember her favorite quote, “No matter how hard life gets, we only have one chance, which is why we owe it to ourselves to make the best of it for as long as we have it.” 
Both Seamus Donegan and Kerri Whelan are from New York State, but they come to the Holy Half for different reasons. Donegan has never run more than ten miles before, and is running the Holy Half for fun and for the chal­lenge. Whelan, on the other hand, says she is “all about endurance,” and her favorite place to run is “circles around her competitors.” Whelan names Charlie Weis as her celebrity crush and says her favorite part about running is the finish. Donegan, whose guilty pleasures include warm chocolate chip cookies from South Dining Hall and anything baked by Adam Joslyn, has no specific race strategy. He has only run one race before, a 5-K, but says, “We value the things we work the hardest for.” 
On March 24, people of all shapes, sizes, backgrounds and experience levels will cross the finish line of the Holy Half. No matter their differences, or why they choose to run the Holy Half, they all deserve equal recogni­tion. Of course, not everyone will walk away with a medal (this isn’t CYO basketball), but all will have accom­plished something great. Some people will finish their first half-marathon, others will set a new personal record and everyone will help to raise money for local South Bend charities. 
Decide why you will run the Holy Half. To borrow a quote from that one famous guy, “Run like a champion today.” 
Carolyn Green is the student director of the Holy Half Marathon. She can be reached at cgreen9@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“Another belief of mine: that everyone else my age is an adult, whereas I am merely in disguise.” 
Margaret Atwood 
Canadian novelist 

WEEKLY POLL 
What are you giving up for Lent? 
Huddle candy Facebook stalking Super Smash Brothers Naps 
Vote by 5 p.m. on Thursday at 
ndscmobserver.com 


Tuesday, February 21, 2012 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 7 
My personal vision of purgatory 
I had a harrowing experience this weekend. My idyllic Saturday at the Art Institute of Chicago was inter­rupted by a prophetic vision of purga­tory. If you don’t mind, I am going to use my column this week to try Arnav Dutt to make sense of the awful, aw-Guest ful things I was Columnist shown. I hope some of you will get something out of this, too, or else my vision was in vain. 
Article One: Whether There Is a Purgatory After This Life? 
Objection 1. It would seem that there is not a Purgatory after this life. For it is said (Kodak 14:13-16): “Blessed are the dead who die in the Lord. From henceforth now, saith the Spirit, they are spared having to look at all those awful vacation photos that no one ever looks at, let alone the neb­bishes who take them. For our God is a God of love, and He reserveth such torment only for the gravest, most unrepentant sinners.” 
Objection 2. If indeed there exists a place where people have to look at my pictures from the Art Institute for an indefinite period of time, it wouldn’t be that bad. Like, I took the cutest pictures! Karen saw them, and she absolutely loved them. She said the angles I took were “artsy.” Why did you get me this camera for Christmas if you aren’t interested in my pic­tures? You’re so unsupportive. 

On the contrary, after this life, there are some not yet loosed from sins, who can be loosed therefrom; and the like have charity, without which sins cannot be loosed, for “charity covereth all sins” [Proverbs 10:12]. Hence they will not be con­signed to everlasting death, since “he that liveth and believeth in Me, shall not die for ever” [John 11:26]; nor will they obtain glory without being cleansed, because nothing unclean shall obtain it, as stated in the last chapter of the Apocalypse (verse 14). Therefore some kind of cleansing re­mains after this life. 
Further, Gregory of Nyssa points out that, so long as the images you are capturing with your camera aren’t themselves immoral or copyrighted or anything like that, and so long as you are not acting contrary to any nearby signs banning the use of cameras, or perhaps just flash photography, the act of taking pictures itself is morally neutral. But as Origen pointed out before him, taking too many vacation pictures, particularly of things that just aren’t that special or that aren’t even unique to you, is unequivocally a venial sin. 
Indeed, somewhat amazingly, the rest of Tradition, Scripture and Aristotle sheds no more light on the matter of the sinfulness of taking im­moderately many vacation pictures. I would go out on a limb and suggest that blowing through a gallery while taking still-life pictures of paintings that have already been photographed several thousand times by profession­als really ought to stamp your ticket to gehenna. But that’s just a hunch. 
As such, there has to be somewhere to put people who pull those shenani­gans during their purgation. And, the fact is, we are no less free from sin than we are from the urge to take stupid pictures now and then, when we find ourselves removed from our normal routine. 
I answer that from the conclusions we have drawn above (III, 86, 4-5; Supplement, 12, 1), it is sufficiently clear that there is Purgatory after this life. For if the debt of punishment is not paid in full after the stain of sin has been washed away by contri­tion, nor again are venial sins always removed when mortal sins are remit­ted, and if justice demands that sin be set in order by due punishment, it follows that one who after contrition for his fault and after being absolved, dies before making due satisfaction, is punished after this life. 
And it totally follows that you have to watch a slideshow of all the lonely, unwanted, unloved vacation photos ever taken while you’re there. 
Reply to Objection 1. Look, I saw what I saw. It’s there. Maybe if you stop taking your camera everywhere, you’ll only have to sit through the equivalent of a graduation party slideshow before you’re done. 
Reply to Objection 2. Thanks to Google, we can now look up perfectly good professional photographs of just about every great work of art ever. For example, the Art Institute of Chi­cago has a web-database of pictures of its works. I understand if you want to pose in your pictures, but if you’re just taking pictures of things that have already been shot ... As a side note, many of the world’s best muse­ums have teamed up with Google to create the Google Art Project, which … Wait! — why are you walking away? Come back! I’m not finished! 
Arnav Dutt is a junior. He can be reached at adutt1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Irish against ALS: A call to action 
Here at Notre Dame, it seems like we have a group for everything. But I’ve noticed a gap. ALS, more commonly known as Lou Gehrig’s disease, doesn’t have representation here. That might seem logical, because it’s a neuro­logical disease that affects voluntary muscles and is usually contracted between 40 and 60 years of age. However, ALS is becoming more common, and there is no cure and little treatment. You may have seen Steve Gleason’s story at the Superbowl, or Friday night’s epi­sode of “Say Yes to the Dress,” which featured a young couple’s struggle with ALS. More and more people are contracting ALS and the ages are getting younger. The next victim could be any of us, and if it’s not today, it could be soon. 
ALS is not very well known. I didn’t find out about it until my grandma passed away from it a few years ago. I didn’t have an outlet and didn’t know how to help. I want to change that for anyone who is struggling, and I want to give direction for those looking to help. I’d like to start a group for support, awareness and fundraising for ALS. I want to start here and get the word out so that we can spread awareness and find a cure. Students here have a lot of drive. I know we can make a dif­ference and prevent more cases in the future. In the meantime, those of us here who have experienced the disease can support each other. 
I can’t do all of this on my own. I’m look­ing to see who else is interested and who else has been affected. I encourage you to check out the Facebook page “Irish Against ALS” and look out for more news and information on campus. This disease seems like a remote possibility, but the next victim could very easily be one of us. Let’s do all that we can to keep this disease from taking any of the Notre Dame family. 
Molly Daily
                              sophomore                             Welsh Family Hall Feb. 20 

UWIRE The advertising photoshop epidemic and you 
When the impossibly skinny get even skinnier, there’s really only one product to blame: Photoshop. But Photoshop doesn’t misguide people – people with Photoshop misguide people. 
A new bill proposed in Arizona last week would require all airbrushed ads to come with disclaimers like “This photo Sam Bouchat has been altered by post-produc­tion techniques. Similar results The Oregon may not be achieved.” The Arizona Daily Emerald Republic reported that “the bill has little to no chance of success.” 
Rep. Katie Hobbs (R-Phoenix) introduced House Bill 2793 in order to address advertising that depicts people looking more idealistic than the product would be able to provide for a customer. Arizona is the first state to consider such legislation. 
“We need to bring attention to these body-image issues, especially with young girls,” Hobbs told The Republic. “Girls need to know that they don’t have to look perfect.” 
Many readers of articles concerning this legislation give negative feedback. The overall feeling is that the bill is a waste of time, and that politicians have big­ger issues to deliberate over. 
Another large consensus I was able to draw from the audience was that the legislation was unneces­sary as Photoshopped models in advertisements is now common knowledge. Advertisers would be able to save time and ink by instead labeling those ads that weren’t Photoshopped. 
But the same could be said for cigarettes – the fact that they can lead to lung cancer is common knowl­edge now in the U.S., but the law still requires ciga­rette advertisements to contain a disclaimer. Why should ads promoting impossible physical standards be any different? 
But the question lies on more than how this would change a reader’s perception of an ad, but also how this would impinge on advertisers. Would it be a positive change, encouraging advertisers and product developers to work harder on their products in order to show truthful results in their advertisements? Or would this encroach unfairly on the artistic creativity of advertisers? 
This bill will likely not pass further than simple speculation, but it still opens up the debates on the concept of truth in advertising versus freedom of interpretation. 
However, I believe advertisers have a responsibil­ity to portray truth just as much as a journalist. At the end of the day, advertisers answer to a client, but that reality should not put the advertiser’s integrity in jeopardy. 
One can argue that any form of Photoshopping in an ad is a means of artistic expression — like art, it represents a window into an idealized fiction. But art is meant to inspire emotional introspection. Art doesn’t pretend to be reality. Ads sporting a 6-foot-4 woman with a 13-inch waist, with a product name sprawled across the page, illustrate an unattainable perfection presented as an attainable one. 
The simple fact is, regardless of how well-known the practice of Photoshopping models to sell products is, it is also a lie. Sure, most people know it’s a lie, but that doesn’t make it any less of one. 
The products that these pictures of physically ma­nipulated men and women are selling cannot do what the models promise. No amount of Dolce & Gabbana clothing can make Madonna look 25. No, Adele did not lose 15 pounds for that Vogue photo shoot. And I don’t care if she has an inch-thick layer of Lancome coverup on her face; Julia Roberts’ face is not actu­ally plastic. 
I, for one, would like to see some form of this law pass in the U.S. It would be nice to see how advertis­ers (at least, those uncreative and clichéd ones) deal with having their crutch pulled out from under them. Maybe then we would see more real art in advertis­ing. 
This article first ran in the Feb. 20 edition of The Oregon Daily Emerald, the daily publication serving the University of Oregon. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the au­thor and not necessarily those of The Observer. 



page 8 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com Tuesday, February 21, 2012 
Fat Tuesday Edition 

˜ere’s never been a better day to indulge in all your fa­vorite foods than Fat Tuesday. With Lent just around the corner, scarf down all the best food you can eat while you can. With so many options to choose from, this special Fat Tuesday edition of Scene Selects is your guide to the best seasonal food around. 


By MARY CLAIRE O’DONNELL 
Scene Writer 

Happy Mardi Gras! Tomorrow Lent begins, and we all know what that means — we have to give something up. Oh, and Easter arrives in about eight weeks. Your Lenten promise has to be the perfect mix of God-fearing Catholicism and temperance. This can often be a tough balance to strike, but it is achievable. And so here are some tips for devising your Lenten promise as you enjoy the fondue in the dining hall today. 
To begin, here are two basic tenets of any good Lenten promise: 
1. One-up your friends 
Life’s a competition, and noth­ing says Christian spirit like making your love for Jesus into one. It’s all well and good to give up chocolate for Lent, but everyone does that. Give up chocolate and run two miles everyday. Your friend is only going on Facebook once a week? Have someone change your password for the entirety of the Lenten season. And remember, in or­der to best one-up your friends, don’t announce your promise until your friends have already told you theirs. 
2. Make sure everyone knows 
What else are social networks for but to publicize your inner-most thoughts to the world. This Lenten season, use Twitter or Facebook unless you gave them up to let the world know your promise and also your progress on keeping that promise. Maybe even think about making yourself a Lenten Twitter, like @fastingforjesus. Sample tweets for someone giving up candy can include, “Walked past the candy wall today without even looking at the Swedish fish #winningLent #20days,” or “Bit into a Kit Kat bar, spit it out but still feel guilty #sinner #grotto­tripnow.” 
And here are some other things to possibly consider when making your Lenten promise: 
cuisine before the Lenten fast begins. 


cino or hot chocolate. Beignets are the bomb. 

overpowering the mint for a dessert to please all. 

3. Don’t give up something you need 
If you have a serious caffeine addic­tion and you cannot function without a morning and afternoon cup of coffee/ tea/Diet Coke, don’t give that up. For one, you will just be cranky and annoy all your friends. And two, your school­work will suffer, and neither you, nor Jesus, nor your parents would want that. Lent is for giving up superfluous things in life, not essentials. Try trad­ing the Triple Grande Nonfat Upside Down Caramel Macchiato Extra Hot for just a regular coffee. Your wallet will also thank you. 
4. Give yourself Sundays 
Lent commemorates Jesus fasting for 40 days in the desert, but Lent itself is 47 days long. No one expects you to be better than Jesus, so take a free pass on Sundays to even out the numbers. But in all seriousness, sometimes you have a really bad week or a stressful night and that bar of chocolate or 20 minutes on Facebook is exactly what you need to decom­press. Catholic guilt can be overpow­ering, but don’t let it get to you too much. Notre Dame can already be a high stress situation. Don’t allow Lent to make it any more stressful the sea­son is about taking time to reflect on your life, not make things monumen­tally harder. 
5. If you don’t want to give some­thing up, do something 
Sometimes it is really hard to figure out what you want to give up for Lent. So don’t give up anything. Devote an hour or two a week to helping out at a local community organization or through a group on campus. There are tons of organizations that are always looking for volunteers. You’ll put your Catholicism into action and help bet­ter the South Bend community. And who knows, you might like it so much you’ll continue doing it after Lent. 
Contact Mary Claire O’Donnell at modonne5@nd.edu 
strawberry, chocolate and more. 
BRANDON KEELEAN | Observer Graphic 


Tuesday, February 21, 2012 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 9 


By COURTNEY ECKERLE 
Scene Writer 

Heartless Bastards truly lived up to its name by releasing its new album “Arrow” on Valen­tine’s Day. Hailing from Austin, Texas, the band is fronted by lead singer Erika Wennerstrom. The group got its name from a pub trivia game asking what the name of Tom Petty’s band was (The Heartbreakers), and one of the wrong op­tions was “The Heartless Bastards”. While its name might have started from a joke, the band has proved it’s not, as “Arrow” serves as an­other great addition to the band’s stellar rock discography. 
It’s a rare and wonderful thing for a band to have a front-woman with such a commanding voice, and Wennerstrom’s vocals are stunning . the only current comparable setup is The Ala­bama Shakes. 
The band’s producer on this venture, Jim Eno of Spoon, showcases Wennerstrom’s voice while also focusing on the guitar and rhythm. The re­sult is a powerhouse pairing that can hold its own next to her voice, as well as some time for jamming. 
In true write-what-you-know fashion, “Ar­row” is an album about traveling and journeys. In “Marathon,” the six minute album-opener uses a race as a metaphor for life, asserting that life is a “long race home.” 
While not a unique concept at all, the arrange­ment of the song laced with Wennerstrom’s coarse velvety voice makes it human and heart wrenching. The song’s unusual pairing of unob­trusive and powerful makes “Marathon” a track to watch out for as a complement to a scene in a movie. 
“Parted Ways” continues along the same vein, but with a kick: “I just don’t see things the same way now / since we parted ways ... The hum of the wheels they are carrying me home.” The Texan influence on the band shows with the pleading, “I need a little bit of whiskey and a little bit of time to ease my troubled mind.” 

“Gotta Have Rock and Roll” leans on electric guitar pulses and percussion to get its engine revving, while “Simple Feeling” starts off as an intense clash of guitar and percussion, with Wennerstrom’s voice floating overhead. 
“Only for You” shows off Wennerstrom’s range by mixing gorgeous high notes and her signa­ture deeply broad, musky tone. It’s the perfect song for meeting eyes over a crowded bar with the opening line, “Been a while since I’ve felt this way about someone / that really really like to know you / All your eyes sing the song to me.” 
“Skin and Bone” is one of the stand out tracks, a bittersweet rock song about home­town blues. With lyrics, “dilapidated buildings ... At least my town is coming down and is hard for me to stay.” 
“Late in the Night” is all the things a good rock ‘n roll song should be at­titude mixed with killer electric guitar and drums. “Low Low Low” mixes it up with guitar-picking, Mississippi John-Hurt style and a down home feeling with broad, honest vocal acoustics. 
Hailing from Ohio, Wennerstrom has a blues-rock sound 
that seamlessly and impressively melds with the country and folk influence of the band’s Texan base. Heartless Bastards is really anything but its namesake, and “Arrow” simply channels all the complexities of human longing and wan­dering, resulting in what might be the group’s strongest project yet. 
Contact Courtney Eckerle at cecker01@saintmarys.edu 




page 10 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u CLASSIFIEDS 
SPORTS AUTHORITY 
Lacrosse offers thrilling alternative to baseball 
As the weather has turned warm-ish and the sun has begun making cameo ap­pearances in the South Bend sky, there have been at least three columns in this fine paper celebrating that, finally and gloriously, it’s baseball season once again. 
I’d like to challenge that. 
While pitchers and catch­ers reporting is the tradition­al mark of base­ball’s return from the offsea­son, I don’t know if we can qualify this as its true arrival. Spring training, when all thirty clubs flee the cold weather for the warmer diamonds of Florida and Ari­zona, is an over-celebrated date, helping to break the monotony of February sports and giving talk radio another source of material. We won’t see these teams back up north until the calendar says April and the thermometer says 50, at least. 
In the meantime though, there is a sport that has cut its hibernation short and braved the cold. 
Ladies and gentlemen, wel­come to lacrosse season. 
Lacrosse is a sport that has yet to establish a place in America’s consciousness, which is ironic considering it is America’s first sport. It’s been played in this coun­try for nearly a millennium, but is more likely to result in bruised arms than con­cussions, which is why it’s exploding at the youth level as well. 

Games only last about two hours and average a total of around 20 goals, which is plenty of scoring, but few enough to make each score worthy of a celebration. 
The sport has dipped into the professional ranks with Major League Lacrosse, founded in 1998. The fledg­ling league has maintained a steady presence of six teams, with several failed expansions and folded teams dotting its history. However, it holds a television deal with ESPN and plans once again to expand next year. 
But as professional lacrosse flounders along, the college game has thrived for a num­ber of years. The sport main­tains a strong following on the east coast, and the Final Four on Memorial Day week­end has consistently drawn well over 100,000 fans, sec­ond only to men’s basketball in attendance. And with new programs springing up every year, college lacrosse can only grow from there. 
And for the average Notre Dame student, access to a high level of lacrosse can be found right on campus. Both the men’s and women’s teams braved 30-degree weather last weekend to upset top-10 opponents at Arlotta Sta­dium, and they’ll be back out there this weekend. The men boast one of the nation’s best defenses, and the women’s high-powered offense has al­ready gotten off to a record-
setting 
start, 
posting 
17 goals 
or about 700 So do yourself a favor against No. years longer 6 Stanford.
and make the walk to 
than “Ameri-So do
a game this weekend,
ca’s pastime.” yourself a
however chilly it may be.
In addition, favor and 
it’s the fastest growing sport over the past decade at both the high school and col­legiate levels. Unfortunately, none of that has translated into anything more than fringe popularity for the sport. 
Yet. 
A short pitch for the sport: It’s like hockey played in the air, with transition play and set offenses resembling something like basketball. It has physical play that can appeal to any football fan, make the 
walk over 
to a game 
this week­end, however chilly it may be. Take a spot on the mound that runs right next to the field and experience a sport that you might not hear about every day. 
Yet. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Jack Hefferon at wheffero@nd.edu 
NCAA BASKETBALL 

Big Ten title still up for grabs 
Associated Press 
EAST LANSING, Mich. — Michigan State has surged to the top of the Big Ten stand­ings, winning five straight, including a game at Ohio State, to snatch sole posses­sion of first place. 
Tom Izzo isn’t ready to cel­ebrate. 
“Not even a little bit,” Izzo said Monday. 
The sixth-ranked Spartans aren’t comfortable with only a one-game lead over the eighth-ranked Buckeyes and No. 11 Michigan with four games left in the regular sea­son, potentially setting up a fantastic finish in the confer­ence race. 
“To be in first place means nothing at this point in the season,” Michigan State’s do-it-all forward Draymond Green said. 
No. 16 Wisconsin is just two games behind Michigan State and 23rd-ranked Indiana is lurking close enough to have a chance to rally for at least a piece of the Big Ten title if the Spartans have a setback. 
“There’s still four or five teams that have a definite shot at winning it,” Izzo said. 
Who and where the con­tenders play may prove to be pivotal. 
Michigan State might have the toughest road to claim its third Big Ten champion­ship in four seasons, playing at Minnesota on Wednesday night before hosting Nebras­ka, traveling to play Indiana and closing the regular sea­son March 4 at home against the Buckeyes. 
“I think we have the tough­est four games left,” Izzo said. “With Minnesota, play­ing for their playoff lives; and Indiana down there, I think they’ve lost one game at home; the trap game with Nebraska in between and Ohio State at the end. 
“I don’t feel very comfort­able — and I’m not paranoid about it.” 
Izzo, though, wouldn’t have believed it if he was told a few months ago that his team 
— unranked in The Associ­ated Press’ preseason poll — would be alone in first place with two weeks left. 
“I am pleasingly surprised at how we’ve been defensive­ly and offensively and even rebounding,” he said. 
In conference games, Mich­igan State leads the Big Ten in field-goal percentage on offense and defense and its rebounding margin overall ranks No. 3 in the nation. 
The two-time defending Big Ten champion Buckeyes need to bounce back from losing Saturday night at Michigan, a week after losing on their home court to Michi­gan State, to have a shot at a three-peat. 

Ohio State hosts Illinois, which has lost five straight and eight of nine to put Bruce Weber’s future in doubt, and Wisconsin this week be­fore hitting the road to face Northwestern and Michigan State. 
Buckeyes coach Thad Mat­ta said he is trying to get his players ready to roll after what 
he called a “To be in first place Illinois. 
“tough loss” means nothing at this Indi ana against the point in the season.” has just three Wolverines. games left “As we go against Big
Draymond Green 
into Tues-Ten teams,
Michigan State forward
day’s playing at
game, it’ll be a test,” Matta said. “As a coach as crazy as it sounds, you’re excited to see how your guys respond.” 
Michigan has won three straight to get in a position to possibly win its first Big Ten title since 1986 — four years before senior guard Stu Dou­glass was born — with what appears to be a favorable schedule. 
The Wolverines, who have earned their highest rank­ing in the AP poll since Dec. 31, 1996, are the only team among the Big Ten’s top five without a game left against a ranked opponent. They play at Northwestern on Tuesday night, host Purdue on Sat­urday night, and finish the regular season on the road against Illinois and Penn State. 
“We don’t play Michigan State or Ohio State or the top of the Big Ten to win it,” Douglass said. “We play some teams that you got to stay mentally focused and game plan for, especially a team like Northwestern. We know we can’t relax with their sys­tem.” 
Wisconsin, which won the Big Ten title outright in 2008, closes the regular season at Iowa and Ohio State before going home to play Min­nesota and 
Minnesota 
and host­
ing Michigan State and Purdue with long-shot hopes of coming back from the pack to share part of the Big Ten title for the first time since it was in a four-way tie with Ohio State, Wisconsin and Illinois a de­cade ago. 
Michigan coach John Beilein insisted he hasn’t looked at who the contend­ers play, but acknowledge his program has a chance to end its Big Ten title drought. 
“If we’re in that mix this time of the year, that’s good,” Beilein said. “I haven’t done any math on anything in re­gards to that, but I know someone is going to have to win road games and protect their home because it is so tight at the top.” 

CLASSIFIEDS  The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds.  
FOR RENT  $3,600/month. Please contact Rob or Bob at  PERSONAL  Born on this day:  1964- Mark and Scott Kelly-American Astronauts  1983-Braylon Edwards-American Football Player  
574-271-4060 or email robpryor@  1927- Erma Bombeck- American  
cressyandeverett.com or  Humorist  1969- Tony Meola- American  1987- Ellen Page- Canadian  
Six student rental for the 2012-13  bobdunbar@cressyandeverett.  UNPLANNED PREGNANCY?  Soccer Player  Actress  
school year.  com  Don’t go it alone. Notre Dame  1946- Alan Rickman- English Actor  
Extra nice, 3 year old house,  has many resources in place to  1973- Brian Rolston- American  1987- Ashley Greene- American  
one mile south of campus at 330  WALK TO CAMPUS assist you. If you or someone you  1955- Kelsey Grammar- American  Hockey Player  Model and Actress  
Sunnyside Avenue.  Great Specials!  love needs confidential support  Actor  
Three two student furnished suites  Studio, 1, 2, 3 Bedroom;  or assistance, please call Sr.  1977- Steve Francis- American  1989-Corbin Bleu-American Actor  
with common living area, hardwood  Townhomes available.  Sue Dunn at 1-7819. For more  1958- Alan Trammell- American  Basketball Player  and Singer  
floors, granite, stainless appliances,  (574) 272-8124.  information, visit ND’s website at:  Baseball Player and Manager  
40’ flat screen TV, cable, wireless  1979- Jennifer Love Hewitt- “It is easier to fight for one’s  
internet, ADT security.  www.clovervillageapartments.com  http://pregnancysupport@nd.edu  1960- Steve Wynn- Singer  American Actress  principles than to live up to them”  

Tuesday, February 21, 2012 The Observer u SPORTS ndsmcobserver.com | page 11 
UEFA CHAMPIONS LEAGUE 

Real Madrid preps for CSKA test 
Associated Press 
MOSCOW — Real Madrid will be aiming to continue its perfect run in the Champions League on Tuesday when it faces CSKA Mos­cow in subzero temperatures on the Luzhniki stadium’s artificial pitch. 
Madrid goes into the last-16 match after winning all six of its group games in the competition and also in fine form domesti­cally, having won 18 of its last 19 matches to lead Barcelona by 10 points in the Spanish standings. 
For CSKA, the first-leg match will almost be a season-opener as the Russian league is on a winter break till mid-March. 
While Madrid is in fine form with Kaka, Marcelo and Sami Khedira all returning to the line­up for Saturday’s 4-0 rout of Rac­ing Santander, Angel di Maria’s return was bittersweet after the Argentina international appeared to aggravate a right leg muscle in­jury as the match ended will miss Tuesday’s game. 
Fullback Alvaro Arbeloa re­turns to the squad while striker Gonzalo Higuain is also available. 
“We need to now focus on the match against CSKA. Everyone’s happy (with our play), we have two days to recover now and we’re a happy group,” Madrid coach Jose Mourinho said. “We’ve got a long trip ahead … but our motivation is high even though we know it won’t be easy in Moscow.” 
Though it’s getting warmer in the Russian capital, the tem­peratures are expected to range between minus 8 degrees (17.6 degrees Fahrenheit) and minus 10 degrees Celsius (14 degrees Fahrenheit). 
“The ball resembles a peace of plastic when it freezes,” CSKA coach Leonid Slutsky said. “A stone. It’s painful to catch or block it. And it doesn’t bounce high from the pitch.” 
Madrid’s Brazilian playmaker Kaka said the cold would be a negative factor for both teams. 
“We have to prepare well and play a phenomenal match,” Kaka said. 
Midfielder Xabi Alonso backed him. 
“Now we return to a competi­tion that is very important for us,” Alonso said. “We all know what we’re playing for and it’s funda-
MLB 
Manny signs minor league deal with A’s 
PHOENIX — Manny Ramirez found a taker in Oakland — at a bargain price. 
The suspended slugger agreed on a minor league contract Mon­day with the Athletics that is worth approximately $500,000 if he’s added to the big league ros­ter. 
The A’s announced the deal and said Ramirez is expected to re­port to spring training by the end of the week, in time for Oakland’s first full-squad workout Saturday. He is a non-roster invitee. 
The 12-time All-Star is due to serve a 50-game suspension for his second positive drug test be­fore he can play for the A’s. Bar­ring rainouts, his first game could be May 30 — on his 40th birthday. But that didn’t deter general man­ager Billy Beane and the Athlet­ics. 
“I am very pleased Billy was able to add Manny to our team,” owner Lew Wolff said in an email. “I look forward to welcoming him and the entire team that Billy and his people have assembled for the coming season.” 
ESPN first reported earlier in the day that the sides had reached an agreement, speaking directly to Ramirez. 
The A’s made public their in­terest in the enigmatic outfielder, who had been working out in Florida this winter. Starving for offense, Oakland finished third in the AL West last season at 74-88 and ranked 12th out of 14 Ameri­can League teams in runs. 
For the small-budget A’s, Ramirez presents little financial risk. They don’t have to pay him during his suspension and will give him per diem money during the club’s spring training stint in Phoenix, which is shorter than usual because of two season-opening games in Japan next month. 
Oakland sent representatives to Florida this winter to watch workouts by Ramirez, who retired from the Tampa Bay Rays last season rather than serve a 100­game suspension. For Ramirez, this could become a chance to help mend his reputation — at least a little bit — and serve as a positive clubhouse influence on a young team. 
The A’s recently agreed to terms on a $36 million, four-year contract with highly regarded outfielder Yoenis Cespedes, a Cu­ban defector who has expressed interest in playing with Ramirez. 
At baseball’s winter meetings in December, it was announced that Ramirez had applied for rein­statement. He had his suspension for a second failed drug test cut to 50 games because he sat out near­ly all of last season. MLB had an­nounced his retirement on April 8, saying he was notified “of an is­sue” under the drug program. 


mental to get a good result away from home.” 
CSKA has sold its Brazilian star playmaker Vagner Love to Fla­mengo, but has signed 22-year­old South Korean midfielder Kim In-sung from Gangneung. 
Sweden midfielder Pontus Wer­nbloom has joined from AZ Alk­maar in a four-and-a-half-year deal, becoming the Russian side’s second January buy after forward Ahmed Musa, who arrived from another Dutch club, VVV Venlo. 
“You never know for sure when it comes to new signings,” Slutsky said. “Only competitive games can prove it was a right deal.” 
The home side is meanwhile still without injured first-choice goalkeeper Igor Akinfeev and Japanese midfielder Keisuke Honda. 

page 12 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u SPORTS Tuesday, February 21, 2012 
CLUB SPORTS 

Squash turns in solid showing at National Championships 
Men’s volleyball knocks off No. 1 Wisconsin-Oshkosh en route to winning the Hoosier-Illini Classic 
Special to The Observer second place in the pool, and it sophomore Lindsey Smith caught Gold Bracket was where the top The 27-19 game loss to Michi­
would have to beat Ohio State’s B the team’s largest fish, a fat nine-two seeds from each pool were gan State was unfortunate for Squash team to earn a trip to the Gold inch yellow perch, a good-sized placed to have a chance at at-the team because it meant that 
Notre Dame opened play in bracket. After a tough first game, specimen for that species. She tending USTA Tennis on Campus Notre Dame was in the back the Collegiate Squash National the Irish bounced back to defeat also caught four fish total, the Nationals. draw of the bracket with no op-Championships Friday at Penn’s the Bucks in three sets, 22-25, highest tally on the team. The Saturday morning Gold Brack-portunity to play for a chance famed Ringe Courts, adjacent 25-21, 15-10. weather was cooperative and et play began and Notre Dame at nationals. Despite the disap­to the Palestra. The Irish faced An early, 8 a.m. start on Sun-made for a comfortable day on went into a match against Michi-pointing defeat, the Irish rose up Illinois-Springfield in the first day against the University of the ice. gan State after State defeated and went on to play the Univer­match, and got off to a great Illinois-B team was exactly what The club had a great time fish-Cincinnati. In doubles, Harding sity of Michigan. The opponent start, winning 7-2. Freshman Notre Dame needed to get back ing a new lake and experiencing and Rush lost a close match 6-2, in this match came as a surprise Reilly Bench, sophomore Paul on track, and after routing the a new and different type of fish-and Broun and Leary took con-after University of Wisconsin (B) Mickan, freshman Mike O’Neill, Illini in straight sets, 25-14, 25-ing. Each person who attended trol and won men’s doubles 6-3. took out the defending sectionals junior Kevin Sandner, senior 19, the Irish were set to face expressed great interest in mak-Kielb and Wanzek played the champions. Dennis Grabowski, sophomore Michigan State for the first time ing the tournament an annual singles, and Wanzek had another Notre Dame played hard, but Joe Whalen and freshman Mike this year. The Spartans had just event for the fishing club, and difficult 6-1 loss. Kielb was ex-unfortunately things didn’t end McGraw registered wins for the knocked off No. 3 Indiana to ad-Notre Dame plans to participate tremely close to earning a win in well. In the women’s doubles Irish. Senior Ryan Jenks and vance to the quarterfinals, but in the contest on an annual ba-a very intense match, but Michi-Rush and Harding played a good sophomore T.J. Sarda lost close nothing was stopping the Irish, sis, and hopes to do better each gan State’s player managed to match, but dropped the set 6-4. matches at the one and three and the Irish rolled MSU, 25-19, year. defeat him 6-5 (3) in a tiebreak. In the men’s doubles, Kielb and positions. Everyone played well, 25-19. The team was in a tight situation Mansour faced a tough 6-0 de­and the Irish were feeling confi-For the second straight year, Tennis as the mixed doubles went on, feat. Notre Dame also lost both dent after a big first-round win. Notre Dame squared off against This past weekend the Notre because at this point Notre Dame the singles sets 6-1 despite Hing 
Success gave way to heart-No. 1 Wisconsin-Oshkosh in the Dame club tennis team competed was down by seven games. Rush and Wanzek’s efforts to hold on break in the next match, which semifinals of the Hoosier-Illini in the USTA Midwest Tennis On-and Mansour went out ready for in the no-ad deuce format. To took place against NYU on Satur-Classic, and this time, it was the Campus Sectionals. The section-a challenge in an attempt to win end the round, Broun and Hard-day morning. Mickan, Grabows-Irish who were out for revenge als event was held in Madison, the set and go into overtime to ing made Notre Dame proud by ki, sophomore Clayton Smith and after losing to the Titans in the Wisc., at the Nielson Tennis Cen-even the game score. earning the team’s only win, Whalen won their matches at 4, national championship last year, ter. Teams were placed into eight The mixed doubles was neck an 8-5 victory in overtime play. 7, 8 and 9, respectively, as the and again two weeks ago at the pools. Notre Dame was placed in and neck, but eventually Rush Michigan defeated Notre Dame Irish fell 5-4. Conference Play Day at Mar-a pool with Lorrain County CC, and Mansour had a close 6-5 (2) to move on to the next round of 
Notre Dame then lost to North-quette. It was a thrilling match IUPUI and Northwestern. The loss in a tiebreak. play, but the Irish stayed strong. western on Saturday afternoon, from start to finish, and the Irish team’s players competing in the 7-2. Highlights for the Irish in-exacted their revenge in a wild, event were freshman Ed Broun, cluded a grueling victory for No. three set match, winning 26-24, freshman Casey Leary, fresh­3 Sarda, who won in five games 21-25, 15-11. While the sour taste man Ed Kielb, freshman Matt (two of which went to extra of the Irish’s trip to Marquette Hing, senior Lukas Mansour, points), and the smooth victory two weeks ago was washed away freshman Elle Harding, junior of No. 5 O’Neill, whose consistent after they knocked off Oshkosh Anna Wanzek and freshman play led to a win in three straight in the tournaments semi-finals, Christine Rush. games. No. 10 McGraw also re-another challenge lay ahead as In the first round of play Fri-corded a 3-0 victory in exhibi-No. 5 Illinois awaited them in the day, Notre Dame took on Lorrain tion play. finals. County CC. Rush and Wanzek 
The Irish closed with a win Not a single player on this took the women’s doubles 6-1 over Ithaca College in what was a Irish team had beaten the Uni-and Kielb and Mansour also took hard-fought battle by both teams. versity of Illinois-A team in their the men’s doubles 6-1. Leary won The Irish were forced to sub out career, and the Illini also had a the men’s singles 6-1, and Hard-Whalen for McGraw due to a huge amount of support from the ing won the women’s singles 6-0. shoulder injury sustained by the hometown fans in attendance. Finally, Harding and Broun de­former during his match against However, Notre Dame opened up feated Lorrain 6-0 in mixed dou-Northwestern. McGraw would a quick lead in the first game, and bles to give Notre Dame a 30-3 go on to play superb squash, but completely removed the crowd victory. would eventually lose to Ithaca’s from the action. Illinois seemed Friday afternoon, the second talented No. 9 player. Sarda’s ini-out of energy, and the Irish went round against IUPUI was com­tial victory in the third slot was on to a 25-17 victory in the open-pleted. In this round Harding further offset by the early loss ing game. In the second game, and Wanzek won the women’s of Sandner. Smith would then the Illini seemed to find a spark doubles 6-2 and Leary and win his game in the eighth po-though, and the tables turned on Broun won the men’s 6-1. Chris­sition, and O’Neill and Mickan the Irish as Illinois sprinted to a tine Rush played an intense would record blazingly fast wins 25-15 win. After all of the drama match for the women’s singles, in their respective slots. With and excitement that the week-but despite her hard work and Ihtaca victories at both No. 1 end held for this tournament, great sportsmanship IUPUI won and No. 2, the match hinged on the decisive game three of the the match 6-4. Mansour helped the play of Grabowski in the No. championship game certainly the team out by taking the lead 7 position. After losing his first lived up to expectations. In what and winning the men’s singles game, the motivating words of was supposed to be a game to 6-2. To finish the more difficult Irish coach Geoff McCuen and a 15, neither team had any desire round off, Rush and Hing came supportive audience propelled to lose. The fight was intense as out fighting to take the mixed Grabowski to win three consecu-both teams traded points well doubles 6-1. The team’s hard tive games and secure the match beyond a normal third game work and patience lead to a 28­for the Irish, 5-4. score. Notre Dame’s defense was 12 win over IUPUI. 
Boston University would go on spectacular the entire weekend, Later that night, Notre Dame to win the Hawthorne Cup and and it proved to be the deciding faced Northwestern in its tough-this Division, beating Charleston factor as the Irish finally finished est match of the day. Leary and in the finals, 6-3. But the excep-off their opponent 25-23. Broun fought hard in an intense tional leadership of Grabowski This weekend was a huge suc-doubles match to earn a win at and fine play from Jenks and cess for the No. 2 ranked Irish, 6-3. Rush and Harding also had others present a promising fu-and as this team hunts for a na-a great match and took the wom­ture for the club. tional championship, beating en’s doubles 6-2. The round was 
top-ranked teams like Oshkosh on the upswing, but both Kielb Men’s Volleyball and Illinois is a giant step to-and Wanzek faced tough oppo-
The men’s volleyball team re-wards that goal. nents in singles and would lose turned home with another tro-6-3 and 6-1, respectively. The phy this weekend as it won its Fishing mixed doubles was sent out in second tournament of the year The fishing club participated hopes of earning a third win for at the University of Illinois in the in the Dam to Dam ice fishing Notre Dame and Hing and Wan­Hoosier-Illini Classic. Opening contest this past weekend. The zek played some intense points with pool play on Saturday, Notre Irish fished the Muskegon arm of before dropping the set 6-1 to Dame got off to a good start by Croton Lake in Newaygo, Mich. Northwestern. beating the University of Illinois-They had six participants among Notre Dame played some great Chicago in straight sets, 25-22, thousands of other friendly com-matches this round, but North­25-20, followed by a hard fought petitors. The contest was laid western came out on top 23-17 win over Pittsburgh in three back, with the focus on having as the top seed in the pool. Notre sets, 25-23, 23-25, 15-10. Ohio fun out on the ice. Dame received second-place in State was out for revenge after The club caught six fish, none its pool. The team was excited the Irish beat them twice in the of which were large enough to after a great first day of play fall, and nothing went right in place at the end of the competi-and began to plan for the initial a 25-16, 25-20 loss to the Buck-tion. Despite having never set rounds of the Gold Bracket play eyes. This loss put Notre Dame in foot on a frozen lake before, that would start Saturday. The 


Tuesday, February 21, 2012 The Observer u SPORTS ndsmcobserver.com | page 13 
NBA 

Williams scores 38 to help New Jersey slow the Linsanity 
Assosciated Press 
NEW YORK — Linsanity ran into reality: All-Star Deron Williams wasn’t getting em­barrassed by the Harvard guy again. 
Williams scored a season-high 38 points, outplaying Jer­emy Lin and leading the New Jersey Nets to a 100-92 victory over the New York Knicks on Monday night. 
Lin began his remarkable run against the Nets about two weeks ago, but Williams and the Nets were ready for him this time. 
Lin finished with 21 points, nine assists and seven re­bounds, but Williams out­scored him 36-11 through three quarters, when the Nets led by 18. Lin shot only 7 of 18 and the Knicks lost for the second time in 10 games since his emergence against the Nets on Feb. 4. 
Carmelo Anthony, clearly rusty in his return from a seven-game absence with a strained right groin, shot 4 of 11 and scored 11 points. 
Williams scored 18 in the third quarter, including 12 straight Nets points during one surge. Clearly amped up for the rematch — may­be too much so, because he fouled out with 3:07 left — he skipped across the court with three fingers in the air af­ter burying a second straight 3-pointer during his blister­ing stretch. 
MarShon Brooks had 18 points for the Nets in their third game in three nights. 
They shut down a Knicks of­fense that rang up 104 points against the defending cham­pion Dallas Mavericks on Sun­day, when Lin had 28 points and a career-best 14 assists. 
But Williams was locked in this time, and the U.S. Olym­pian could’ve gone for plenty more if not for spending most of the fourth quarter on the bench in foul trouble. But by then he had the Nets too far ahead for the Knicks to catch. 
The Knicks had their five-game winning streak against the Nets snapped and failed again to move back over .500. 
Baron Davis had three points in 9 minutes in his Knicks de­but after overcoming a herni­ated disk in his back. Expect­ed to be the starter whenever he became available, he’ll be Backup Baron as long as Lin keeps it up. 
The Knicks were 8-15, com­ing off losses on consecu­tive nights, and had already fallen into a double-digit hole against the Nets on Feb. 4 when Lin got his chance, com­ing off the bench for 25 points in a 99-92 victory. 
So uncertain of his NBA future at the time that he re­fused to get his own place to live, Lin slept on teammate Landry Fields’ couch the night before that game. 
The days of sleeping on couches and riding the bench­es are long gone. 
Lin had since averaged 25 points and 9.2 assists, the most remarkable story in the NBA this season. And even the Nets have been impressed. Coach Avery Johnson praised Lin and downplayed the notion that his stats were a product of Knicks coach Mike D’Antoni’s system, though Johnson also wasn’t buying a certain com­parison that has been popping up more regularly. 
“I’ve heard a lot of different stories and even I got a ques­tion from even my daughter whether Lin was in (Steve) Nash’s category. So we don’t want to go there, OK?” he said. “It’s only been nine games. Give the kid a chance. 
“It’s a great story and he’s inspiring a lot of kids, but let’s give the kid a chance to play a whole season, maybe even play a playoff series, before you know, we start putting him in Nash’s category.” 
Nor is he in Williams’ cate­gory. The All-Star point guard was in constant motion with or without the ball, powering his way to the basket on drives or hitting from well beyond the 3-point arc — once while being fouled by Lin for a four-point play. 
It was a learning experi­ence for Lin, anonymous last month but a marked man in the league now. 
Knicks ratings have surged 
— Sunday’s victory earned ABC’s third-highest overnight rating ever for a non-Christ­mas broadcast — and celeb­rities are packing Madison Square Garden again. New parents Jay-Z, a part-owner of the Nets, and Beyonce were in the crowd for this one. 
Lin graced the cover of Sports Illustrated and was the subject of a sketch on “Satur­day Night Live” and there’s no telling how far his celebrity will rise. The online sports book bovada.lv even is giv­ing 5 to 1 odds he’ll go on a date before the NBA finals are over with Kim Kardashian, split from Nets forward Kris Humphries. 

Humphries, booed as usual since their brief marriage, had 14 points and 14 re­bounds, and drew technicals on the Knicks when Anthony tried to trip him and when Tyson Chandler followed him to the bench jawing during a timeout. 
The only question left for Lin was what he would do with Anthony, who was hurt 6 minutes into Lin’s starting de­but two nights after that Nets game. Both players scoffed at the idea that Anthony would mess it up, and Anthony has even said he went to D’Antoni and told him to give Lin more minutes — though the coach had no recollection of it. 
Anthony’s first basket came off a connection with Lin, set­ting a pick and popping out for a jumper. But the Knicks’ offense went stagnant in the second quarter, and Williams took over the game in the third. 


seed for the Belles, matched 
Campbell 
up against Spartan junior 
Erika Lim, who is No. 2 in continued from page 16 the regional rankings. Fuller 
dropped the first game 6-0, “It was good for us to see a but showed promise as she high quality team, especially took three games in the sec-for the freshmen,” Campbell ond set before falling 6-3. said. “It was good for them “Mary Catherine showed to see the level of competi-she is a competitor,” Camp­tion they should be, and can bell said. “She lost to Lim in be, competing at.” the fall pretty quickly, but 
He added Saint Mary’s learned from that match and discovered put up a bat-what it needs tle this time to work on around.” and what There are it can do to still no abso­improve its lute goals set game mov-for the Belles ing forward, “It was good for us this season, Campbell to see a high quality but Camp-said. team, especially for bell said 
“We the freshmen. It was he believes learned we they will 
good for them to see 
need to be start setting 
the level of competition 
more ag-specific ob-
they should be, and can 
gressive as jectives as 
be, competing at.” 
a whole,” they begin Campbell conference said. “We Dale Campbell matches. are going to Belles coach “We com-work on tar-peted well geting shots, and I saw a playing at a lot of posi­greater pace tives we can and being build on,” more aggres-Campbell sive at the said. “It will nets, especially in our dou-just take some time and ex­bles matches.” perience for us to start fig-
Freshman Kayle Sexton uring it out.” and sophomore Mary Cath-Saint Mary’s looks to shake erine Fuller both put up off its first loss when it takes strong fights in their respec-on Olivet on Sunday at Michi­tive single matches. Sexton, gan State at noon. in her first collegiate match, battled back before falling Contact Isaac Lorton at                   6-2, 6-2. Fuller, the No.1 ilorton@nd.edu 

page 14 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u SPORTS Tuesday, February 21, 2012 

Cardinals 
continued from page 16 
Irish defense, going 3-for-16 from the field and 1-for-8 from three-point range, while miss­ing all seven shots in the first half. 
“It’s never easy going against the [third]-best team in the na­tion,” Schimmel said. “Just shots weren’t falling that usually fall. I just tried to get my other team­mates involved.” 
Though Notre Dame held Schimmel to just two points in the first half, Louisville sopho­more guard Antonita Slaugh­ter came off the bench with six points, three boards and a steal in the first half to help the Car­dinals keep it close going into halftime. 
Notre Dame junior guard Kaila Turner shifted the mo­mentum at the end of a closely-contested first half with a three-
Marlatt 
continued from page 16 
though we were down two goals.” 
Marlatt buried two goals in the back of the cage be­hind Duke junior goalie Dan Wigrizer to help lead the Irish offense. His second goal, which came with 5:59 left in the fourth quarter, seemed to put the game out of reach as Notre Dame took a commanding 6-2 lead. Mar­latt also admitted to feeling pregame nerves, but said those anxieties were allevi­ated by the preparation of the coaching staff and the rest of the team. 
“We were definitely ner­vous after not playing at all last year,” Marlatt said. “Ev­eryone was, really, since it was our first game. But the way we practiced ¬. so hard and so intense . made the game pretty easy. The coach­ing staff did such a good job preparing us that we felt pretty confident by game time.” 
Both players were under­standably excited to find suc­cess in their first career ap­pearances, but O’Hara and Marlatt both were quick to note the win was a total team effort. 
“I think we were very well-prepared,” O’Hara said. “We knew mostly what to expect out of Duke. With the way coach [Gerry] Byrne teaches pointer that gave Notre Dame a 28-25 edge at the break. 
But the Irish broke the game open early in the second with a 12-4 run to take their first double-digit lead of the contest, one they never gave up for the remainder of the game. 
“I was really pleased with the second half,” McGraw said. “I thought we looked like our old selves again. We scored easily, we had 40 points and I’m just really happy with the way we moved the ball, shot the ball, drove the ball in the second half.” 
The one area in which the Irish continue to struggle is on the boards. Even in a game in which the opposition did not lead once, the Cardinals still outrebounded Notre Dame, 32­28, and offensively, 15-7. 
“[Rebounding is] a problem area,” McGraw said. “We need more from the guards, McBride and Novosel, and [sophomore Natalie] Achonwa. Those three need to do a much better job on 
us to play [defense], we have one of the best defenses in the country with nine or 10 guys who all play great, and especially with [junior goal­ie] John Kemp in net.” 
Marlatt echoed a similar team-centric sentiment. 
“[My] first goal was a great look from [sophomore attack] Westy [Hopkins],” Marlatt said. “He was more of a fin­isher last year. That was his first career assist, so it was cool to help him out with that, and the second one was a great look by [junior mid­fielder Ryan] Foley … They were both products of good offense.” 
Saturday’s performances by Marlatt and O’Hara were far cries from their freshman campaigns, when neither played, much less traveled to away games. But the sopho­mores both said they realized that the struggle was part of the transition to collegiate lacrosse and learned from the experience. 
“Last season, 10 of us [then-freshmen] didn’t trav­el with the team to away games,” Marlatt said. “So it was frustrating. We were all used to playing every day in high school, but we got through it together. [O’Hara] had two all-Americans ahead of him on defense and I had two all-American midfielders ahead of me, so we learned by watching them play.” 
O’Hara added the freshman campaign provided an op­portunity to acclimate to the the boards.” 
Despite the slow start and lackluster rebounding, McGraw said she feels her squad is back in a good mental state going into its last two games of the regular season. 
“I think the whole team feels happier,” she said. “I think we all feel like we played better. We look better; it just was bet­ter. We’re really, really feeling good.” 
The Irish are primed for a Big East regular-season champion­ship, with just two foes standing in their way — South Florida on Saturday at home and No. 4 Connecticut at the formidable XL Center in Hartford two days later. 
“I would say Notre Dame [will win the conference], just be­cause they’re older and they’re wiser,” Schimmel said. “[Con­necticut] is pretty young, so I’d say Notre Dame.” 
Contact Kelsey Manning at               kmannin3@nd.edu 
collegiate game, a significant learning curve. 
“Last year was more of a learning experience,” he said. “We focused on learn­ing the system and getting used to the speed of the col­lege game compared to high school. Watching the guys ahead of us last year com­pete really set the tone for this year.” 
Getting past the first game was important, Marlatt said. Now the roommates are hop­ing to build off their strong debuts against Duke. The first opportunity to contin­ue their newfound success comes Sunday against Penn St. 
“Just getting that first game out of the way really helps us as far as nerves go,” Marlatt said. “From a team perspective, the first game is big, but now we have to focus on Penn St. … Our coaching staff does a good job of get­ting us focused and prepared week-to-week.” 
Starting a winning streak is on O’Hara’s mind as well. 
“[Saturday] was a good win, especially to get one un­der our belt,” O’Hara said. “But we can’t get too cocky. We need to keep building and keep getting better for the rest of the season. We play a tough team every week, so we have to keep it up throughout the whole year and use it in the playoffs.” 
Contact Mike Monaco at                  jmonaco@nd.edu 
set goals for both this season 
Andrews 
and the remainder of his ca-
continued from page 16 
“[The backhand] was not one of my strengths last season and I have really made some strides in improving that.” 
Despite his strong play thus far into his collegiate career, Andrews has re­mained humble. “[Andrews] is one the most humble kids I have ever coached,” Bayl­iss said. “He comes in every day with the same intensity and really leads by example. There is no cockiness at all with him. He just wants to do whatever he can to help the team win.” 
As a sophomore, Andrews reer. “I set a goal for myself at the beginning of the year to be a top-50 singles player nation­ally,” Andrews said. “As a team, I want to see us win the Big East and compete well into the NCAA tournament. For the rest of my career, I think it’s a bit hard to have specific expectations, but I do know I want to continue to become the best player and the best teammate that I can.” 
Andrews and the No. 30 Irish return to the court Sunday when they host Michigan State and Marquette at the Eck Ten­nis Center at 10 a.m. and 5 p.m. respectively. 
Contact Walker Carey at wcarey@nd.edu 
that year, and they had a big 
Perfect 
say in that. We’ve just been 
able to build off that over the continued from page 16 last four years. I think that 
every single one of them has stuff.” done remarkable things both 
The Belles’ perfect 21 on and off the court here at free throw shots set a new Saint Mary’s.” MIAA record previously Having earned the fourth held by Calvin. Nine of and final seed in the MIAA those foul shots came from tournament, the Belles will senior forwards Kelley face off against No. 5 Calvin Murphy and Jessica Centa, (15-1, 23-1) in the first round who led the Belles with 19 of the conference tourna­and 12 points, respectively. ment. The Knights are fa-
Murphy, Centa and senior miliar foes for the Belles, guards who defeat-Maggie ed Henley’s Ronan, squad 73-52 Patsy Ma-on Feb. 15. ho ne y “Neither and Katie “These five have team is going Su llivan really helped put the to have any-led Saint program on the map.” thing new,” Mary’s to Henley said. a fourth-“We are go-
Jenn Henley 
place fin-ing to be very 
Belles coach 
ish in the familiar with MIAA this Calvin. Our year, but preparation they have is going to be also made the same. We significant just have to contributions to Belles’ find a way to put 40 minutes basketball over the past together instead of just 20, four years, Henley said. which seems to be the case 
“These five have really over the last two times we’ve helped put the program played them.” on the map,” Henley said. The Belles will travel to “When they came in as Grand Rapids, Mich., on freshmen, they were a big Thursday night to face Calvin reason why we beat Hope, in the first round of the MIAA who was ranked No. 1 (Di-tournament. vision III) in the country. We swept Calvin and fin-Contact Peter Steiner at             ished second in the league psteiner@nd.edu 


Tuesday, February 21, 2012 The Observer u TODAY ndsmcobserver.com | page 15 
CROSSWORD WILL SHORTz 
HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 



HENRy ARNOLD

JON REPINE
EXPND 
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 





Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 

Make checks payable to The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556

 Enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year


 Enclosed
 is $75 for one semester 


Name ____________________________________________________ Address __________________________________________________ City ____________________ State___________ Zip______________ 

Tuesday, February 21, 2011 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 16 
ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 

Back in the groove 
Irish get back to winning mindset with commanding win over No. 19 Louisville 
kind of lost the fun in it.” 
The attitude shift was ap­parent as the junior guard paced the Irish with 21 points, seven assists, three steals and three rebounds in the win over the Cardinals (19-8, 8-6). Con­tinuing her breakout season, sophomore guard Kayla Mc­Bride contributed 15 points to the effort, while graduate student guard Brittany Mal­lory added 13 and graduate student forward Devereaux Peters chipped in 10.  
The Cardinals have now lost four of their last six games, as the Irish defense suffo­cated their leading scorer, sophomore point guard Shoni Schimmel. Schimmel admit­ted she was shaken up by the 
see CARDINALS/page 14 
SMC TENNIS 
Belles lose in opener to CWRU 
By ISAAC LORTON 
Sports Writer 
Saint Mary’s opened its season with a rough start, falling to No. 14 Case West­ern Reserve University 9-0. The Belles (0-1) continued to fight despite being swept in two doubles matches and two singles matches. 
Belles coach Dale Camp­bell said he thinks the young team, consisting of only freshman and sophomores, gained valuable experience in playing the ranked Spar­tans (1-0). 
see CAMPBELL/page 13 

By KELSEY MANNING 
Sports Writer 
With a commanding 68-52 win over No. 19 Louisville, the No. 3 Irish appear to be back on track in pursuit of their first Big East title since sharing the crown with Connecticut in 2001. 
After West Virginia snapped Notre Dame’s 21-game win streak in a 65-63 loss Feb. 12, the Irish (26-2, 13-1 Big East) have their swagger back, ac­cording to junior guard Skylar Diggins. 
“I think we’re finally getting back to playing with our swag, playing our style of basketball. And it feels good. We’re hav­ing fun out there again,” Dig-gins said. “We’re smiling, we’re laughing … With that tough schedule, we took it too serious, 
MEN’S TENNIS 

Andrews displays exceptional play, continues to improve 
By WALKER CAREY Mich. man campaign last season. lot if things were not going my season as a sophomore, he has Sports Writer “To tell you the truth, I am The impact was so strong that way. I am definitely learning been much more level-headed 
not surprised by the way [An-Andrews was named Big East how to deal with disappoint-and composed on the court. 
While the Irish have bat-drews] has played,” Bayliss Freshman of the Year. ment better and move past He is really doing a great job tled some inconsistency this said. “I had pretty high expec-Despite his immediate suc-some frustration.” with it.” Andrews was quick spring, they can count on tations for him going into the cess and smooth transition to Bayliss echoed many of the to give credit to Irish associ­sophomore Greg Andrews at season. He works very hard, is collegiate athletics, Andrews same sentiments. ate head coach Ryan Sachire No. 2 singles to produce con-a great athlete and has quite said he feels he has made some “[Andrews] has really gotten for helping him to improve in sistent performances, evident the weapon in his forehand. considerable improvements to better at controlling his com-the technical side of his game. in his impressive 11-1 mark When you combine those three his game this season. posure on the court,” he said. “[Coach Sachire] and I have this season. Irish coach Bob-tools, you are going to have “I am much more composed “For being such a humble and spent a lot of time working on by Bayliss said he is not sur-some considerable success.” now than I was last season,” soft-spoken guy, [Andrews] my backhand,” Andrews said. prised with the strong play of Andrews made a tremen-Andrews said. “As a fresh-has the tendency to get down the sophomore from Richland, dous impact during his fresh-man, I would get frustrated a on himself sometimes, but this see ANDREWS/page 14 
MEN’S LACROSSE 

Roommates shine in starting debuts 
By MIKE MONACO 
Sports Writer 
What were you and your roommate doing on Saturday? Whatever it was, it probably didn’t consist of knocking off the No. 2 lacrosse team in the nation with a 7-3 win in your first varsity appearance. 
Sophomores midfielder Jim Marlatt and defenseman Ste­phen O’Hara did just that Sat­urday. In their collegiate de­buts, O’Hara started for the Irish defense and helped hold the potent Blue Devil attack to three goals, while Marlatt received significant playing time in the midfield and re­sponded with two goals. 
The roommates were happy to be a part of a winning ef­fort against Duke, Marlatt said. 
“We hadn’t played in over a year in a game that mat­tered,” Marlatt said. “The coaches prepared us well and it was a big game. The first game is always big, but when you’re playing your rival it’s even bigger.” 
O’Hara got the starting nod for the Irish (1-0) and played a key role in holding the Blue Devils (1-1) scoreless for over 40 minutes. After feeling a lit­tle nervous before his debut, O’Hara said he settled in even after the Irish went down 2-0. 


“I was a little nervous at first considering how big of a game it was and also since it was my first time playing,” O’Hara said. “I thought we stayed pretty calm even 
see MARLATT/page 14 
SMC BASKETBALL 
SMC earns senior day win with perfect day at line 
By PETER STEINER 
Sports Writer 
Led by five starting se­niors, the Belles finished their regular season Satur­day with a 68-49 victory over Kalamazoo. 
By scoring 33 points off Kalamazoo turnovers and shooting a perfect 21-for-21 from the free-throw line, the Belles (9-7, 13-12 MIAA) turned in an impressive Se­nior Day performance at the Angela Athletic Facility. 
The home victory was a fantastic finish to the reg­ular season, Belles coach Jenn Henley said. 
“I think Saturday’s game was a really good game for us,” Henley said. “I thought we played very well on both ends of the floor. I think it was a great way for our se­niors to end their careers at home here.” 
Tied at 17 midway through the first half, it appeared as if the last-place Hornets (2-14, 4-21) would give the Belles a competitive game. But a 15-2 run by Saint Mary’s near the end of the first half gave the Belles a big lead they never relinquished. 
The Belles’ dominance con­tinued through the second half, and after the 17:47 mark, the Belles’ lead never dropped below seven. The Belles’ abil­ity to force turnovers and con­vert them into points proved to be the biggest difference, Henley said. 
“Defensively, we caused a lot of problems for Kalama­zoo,” Henley said. “We had 16 steals, which I thought was great. It was a good way to go out defensively. I also thought our transition game looked good offensively. Again, when you hold a team to 49 points, you have done some good 
see PERFECT/page 14 






