
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


LGBTQ students discuss campus relationships 
Members of gay community express challenges and unique aspects of dating, friendships and hook-ups 
By SARAH MERVOSH 
Managing Editor 
Editor’s note: This is the third and final installment in a series about the expe­rience of LGBTQ students at Notre Dame in light of recent requests that the University grant club status to a gay-straight alliance. 
For senior Rocky Stroud II, meeting up with other gay men on campus is not as simple as getting coffee or hanging out in a dorm room. With other gay students sometimes still in the closet, it often takes planning, and a bit of secrecy. 
“[Some guys don’t] want the same guy who has been labeled or somewhat seems like he’s gay to keep com­ing in and out of his room,” Stroud said. “People will then either suspect or know or figure out that he is not coming over to just watch the game.” 
So when Stroud II spends time with a male student who is not out to the Notre Dame community, the pair will go off campus for dinner, wait until late at night to see each other or sometimes, look for obscure places to hook up. 
“There are rooms on cam­pus that students have used,” he said. “The Jordan science lab was one of them.” 
At a Catholic university that has not recognized a gay-straight alliance or add­ed sexual orientation to its non-discrimination clause, the gay, lesbian, bisexual, transgender and question­ing (LGBTQ) community has formed an underground net­work that helps them find friendship, love or simply a hook up. 
Sophomore Mia Lillis said this network is particularly important at Notre Dame — not only for meeting poten­tial romantic partners, but also for finding support. 
“In an environment like this, a community is neces­sary because we still feel discriminated against by the official standpoint of the University,” Lillis said. “So we all connect to each other so we can have that haven.” 


Running underground 
Students said the under­ground network is par-


see DATING/page 6 
Seniors Rocky Stroud II, above, and Jason G’Sell, right, discussed their experience as gay students at Notre Dame with The Observer. 




Sociology professor dies at 70 
Observer Staff Report 
C. Lincoln Johnson, asso­ciate professor of sociology emeritus at the University of Notre Dame, died Thursday. He was 70 years old. 
Johnson specialized in sta­tistical methods and social psychology, pursuing a par­ticular interest in the effects of globalization on the world food supply. In addition to teaching a popular course titled, “Global Food Sys­tems: the Sociology of Food,” he applied this interest to local needs by serving on the board of the Northeast Neighborhood Center Food Pantry in South Bend and ac­tively served the community. 
A native of Valparaiso, Chile, Johnson joined the Notre Dame faculty in 1971 after earning master’s de­grees from the New School of Social Research and the University of Kansas in 1966 and 1968, respectively, ac-

see PROFESSOR/page 5 



Saint Mary’s holds class board elections 
By BRIDGET FEENEY and MEAGHAN DALY 
News Writers 
Saint Mary’s students will cast their ballots Thursday to decide on the next team of student leaders for the 2012­2013 school year, as elections for class councils and school boards begin. 
Voting starts at 8 a.m. Thursday and ends at 8 a.m. Friday. Students can vote electronically, or they can cast their ballots at Student Gov­ernment Association’s (SGA) booths set up in the Student Center, Spes Unica atriums and the Dining Hall. Senior Emma Brink, SGA executive secretary, said SGA is hopeful these elections demonstrate a high voter turnout. 

“SGA is so excited about last week’s Student Body election turnout that we hope to repli­cate the same enthusiasm for the class and big board elec­tions this week,” Brink said. 
Class of 2013 President and Vice President 
Three tickets are running for class of 2013 president and vice president: Emily Caltrider and Megan Hogan, Meg Brown and Christina Bueno, and Sil­via Cuevas and Ambreen Ah­mad. 
Though each ticket has ex­pressed plans to unify the se­nior class and host a variety of events, the candidates have expressed different means to achieve their platform goals. 
Caltrider and Hogan, mem­bers of the class of 2013 board, are running on a plat­form focused on offering di­verse events, including a barn dance, wine tours and various service activities. 
Hogan said these events 


see ELECTION/page 7 


Special Olympics works to end ‘r-word’ 
By ADAM LLORENS 
News Writer 
Members of the Notre Dame community will look to remove the derogatory term “retard” (“r-word”) from their vocabulary in a show of solidarity with the “Spread the Word to End the 
Word”  international  cam­ 
paign today.  
Graduate  student  Jenna  

Newcomb, a project leader of the Notre Dame Special Olympics Club, which coor­dinates the event, said the project is focused on chang­ing the way people with disabilities are perceived worldwide. 


“[Today] is essentially an international day of aware­ness,” Newcomb said. “It is a day we set aside to gauge the effect we are having across the world.” 
Newcomb said the cam­paign has gathered about 15 million pledges globally since 2011 alumnus Soeren Palumbo started the pro­gram in 2009. She said over 1,000 high schools and 200 
LISA HOEYNCK I Observer Graphics 


see WORD/page 5 

INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER  College holds lecture on Dutch mystic page 3 u Viewpoint page 8 u Notre Dame in pop culture page 10 u Women’s basketball falls to UConn page 20 
page 2 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u DAY-TO-DAY Wednesday, March 7, 2012 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT DID YOU DO WITH YOUR SUNNY DAY ON TUESDAY? 


www.ndsmcobserver.com 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
Allan Joseph 

Managing Editor Business Manager 
Sarah Mervosh Jeff Liptak 
Asst. Managing Editor: Adriana Pratt Asst. Managing Editor: Chris Masoud News Editor: Sam Stryker Viewpoint Editor: Meghan Thomassen Sports Editor: Chris Allen Scene Editor: Maija Gustin Saint Mary’s Editor: Caitlin E. Housley Photo Editor: Pat Coveney Graphics Editor: Brandon Keelean Advertising Manager: Katherine Lukas Ad Design Manager: Amanda Jonovski Controller: Jason Taulman Systems Administrator: William Heineman 

Office Manager & General Info 
(574) 631-7471 
Fax 
(574) 631-6927 
Advertising 

(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 

Editor-in-Chief 

(574) 631-4542 ajoseph2@nd.edu 
Managing Editor 

(574) 631-4542 smervosh@nd.edu 
Assistant Managing Editors 

(574)631-4541 apratt@nd.edu, cmasoud@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 


News Desk 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
Viewpoint Desk 

(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 
Sports Desk 

(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 

Scene Desk 

(574) 631-4540 mgustin@nd.edu 
Saint Mary’s Desk 
chousl01@saintmarys.edu 


Photo Desk 

(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 


Policies 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College.  Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Allan Joseph. 

Post Office Information 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 and additional mailing offices 024 South Dining hall 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-077 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

Kayla Tinsley  Derek Wolf  Eric Bens  Sara Cloon  Christine Fagan  Michael  
McCormick  
junior  junior  junior  sophomore  senior  junior  
Farley  Siegfried  Siegfried  Breen-Phillips  Farley  St. Edward’s  
“Walked around  “Homework.”  “Got kicked off  “Laid on the  “Ran around all  “Gave my lovely  
the lakes.”  the Warren Golf Course practice facility.”  quad.”  the lakes!”  girlfriend, Morra, a foot rub on the  
quad!”  



Have an idea for Question of the Day? Email obsphoto@gmail.com 


OFFBEAT 
SC country GOP endorses purity pledge 
LAURENS, S.C. — A county Republican group in South Carolina wants its candi­dates to promise to not cheat on their spouses and not watch pornography. But the state GOP says it would be il­legal to keep candidates off the ballot only because they refuse to sign the pledge. 
Bobby Smith, the chair­man of the Laurens County Republicans, says the “pu­rity pledge” endorsed by the group last month is meant to encourage good values in the party’s candidates. He says it won’t prevent anyone from getting on the ballot. 
The pledge would require candidates to promise they have not had premarital sex and will protect gun rights and oppose abortion, among other things. 

The state Republican par­ty says it would be illegal to enforce such a pledge. 
Miss Seattle apologizes for city-bashing tweet 
SEATTLE — The newly crowned Miss Seattle says she was just having a bad day back in December when she tweeted, “Ugh can’t stand cold rainy Seattle and the annoying people.” 
Since winning the pag­eant on Saturday, Jean-Sun Hannah Ahn has said she was just complaining about the weather like any Seattle native and didn’t mean that people in Seattle are an­noying. 
She is a former Miss Phoenix who graduated from Arizona State Uni­versity. Ahn told KIRO-FM that she was in a transi­tion period three months ago, missing friends and sunshine. 
She says she learned a valuable lesson. 
She tweeted on Monday that: “I really do love Se­attle ... the summers are to die for.” 
Miss Seattle represents the city this summer at the Miss Washington Pag­eant. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 


IN BRIEF 
A campus-wide pledge called “Spread the Word to End the Word” will be avail­able at South Dining Hall, North Dining Hall and La-Fortune from 11 a.m. to 2 
p.m. on Wednesday to curb casual use of the word “re­tard.” The event will contin­ue at both dining halls from 
4:30 to 8 p.m. 
A physics colloquium ti­tled “Development of Next-generation Ultraviolet Astro­nomical Instrumentation” will be held Wednesday at 4 p.m. in Room 118 of the Nieuwland Science Hall. 
An apparel sale for the class of 2014 will be held to­day in the LaFortune lobby from 5 to 8 p.m. 
An event called “Domer Rally for Human Dignity” will take place in the ballroom on the second floor of LaFortune from 5:15 to 6:15 p.m. 
A screening of the film “Promising the Moon,” sponsored by the Nanovic Institute for European Stud­ies, will take place at 7 p.m. Wednesday in the DeBarto­lo Performing Arts Center. Tickets cost $3-6. 
A Lenten vigil to pray for those affected by the death penalty will be held at 9 p.m. tonight in the Geddes Hall chapel, fol­lowed by a walk to the Grotto. 
The Howard Hall Chapel Crawl will move to Ryan Hall’s waffle Mass at 10 

p.m. Wednesday. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, email detailed information about an event to obsnews.nd@gmail.com 



TODAY’S STAFF 
News 
Sam Stryker Anna Boarini Ann Marie Jakubowski 

Graphics 
Lisa Hoeynck 


Photo 
Sports 

Matthew Robison Peter Steiner Joseph Monardo 

Scene 

Mary Claire O’Donnell 

Viewpoint 


LOCAL WEATHER 
HIGH 60 LOW 49 

HIGH 47 LOW 32 
HIGH 38 LOW 25 

HIGH 47 LOW 36 
HIGH 50 LOW 42 

TODAY TONIGHT THURSDAY FRIDAY SATURDAY SUNDAY 
Sarah O’Connor Ren Brauweiler 












CORRECTIONS 

Tuesday’s “Community Addresses Discrimination” article misattributed a statement as being made by Nneka Ekechukwu. The statement was actually made by Kennena Amuzie. The Observer regrets this error. 
Wednesday, March 7, 2012 The Observer u NEWS ndsmcobserver.com | page 3 



Professor discusses Dutch mystic 
Campus elections see 
By KAITLYN RABACH 
News Writer 
The works of the Dutch poet and mystic Hadewijch inspired Saint Mary’s women to deeply analyze thirteenth century spiritual life Tues­day night. 
Professor Amy Holly­wood of the Harvard Divin­ity School explored the work of Hadewijch in the lecture “Love Abyss: Hadewijch’s Infinite Desire” in the Sta­pleton Lounge. She said it is crucial to understand the time period the mystic lived in to understand the poet’s work. 
“To understand Hadewi­jch, one must understand the context in which her work was created,” Hollywood said. 
Hadewijch’s work was sparked by the practices of the beguines in the thir­teenth century, groups of women that were semi-reli­gious, but not bound by tak­ing formal vows, Hollywood said. 
“These women often worked in the cloth indus­try, took care of the sick or were school teachers,” she said. “They were spiritual women, but since they were not bound by vows there was more permeability between the beguines and the outside world. This is what sparked a movement.” 

Hollywood said this prog­ress includes the many let­ters, poems and the manu­script of Hadewijch. Today, the work of Hadewijch is studied and translated into many languages, but Holly­wood said experts are still trying to fully understand the poet. 
“We really do not truly know anything,” Hollywood said. “All we have are these texts and poems. We do not 
believed love was God’s act. Hollywood said it is 



three unopposed races 
through this understanding 
of love that Hadewijch de­scribed her divine mystical experiences. 
“Hadewijch had intense personal devotion and this allowed for spontaneous mystical ways in which the divine can be encountered,” she said. 
Hollywood said it is im­portant to study the intense practices of spirituality of 

even know if there is a Hadew ijch, but we assume there was based on bod­ies of text with her name.” 
Hollywood said commu­nal prayer, manual la­bor and pri­vate reading and devotion 
“To understand Hadewijch, one must understand the context in which her work was created.” 
Amy Hollywood professor Harvard Divinity School 
the past in order to bring the same pas­sion into-modern times. 
“For Hadewijch and other women in the thir­teenth centu ry, there was 


were the main components in Hadewijch’s texts where she described her divine epi­sodes. 
“For Hadewijch, commu­nal prayer is a necessary pre-condition for anything to do with the divine,” Hol­lywood said. “This especially includes psalms.” 
Hollywood said Hadewijch often referred to the word love as meaning God, and an understanding of their own intense amount of labor for being a Christian,” Holly­wood said. “By reading ma­terial from the past we see this intensity and the vitality it had within Christianity at the time. When we see this intensity we must recognize it and think about it.” 
Contact Kaitlyn Rabach at krabac01@saintmarys.edu 


our events “We want to incorporate Diverse Stu-and maintain the opinions of the student dent’s Leader-Saint Mary’s body into every event, ship Confer­traditi ons create unity among ence. while bringing “[The Con-
the three campuses 
new exciting ference] is a
through our events 
events to cam-year of hard 
and maintain Saint 
pus,” she said. work from so 
Mary’s traditions while 
To do this, many amaz­
bringing new exciting 
the ticket ing girls,” she plans on events to campus.” said. “The maintaining conference traditional Liz Kraig is the largest events such as student led 
SAB candidate 
unopposed on this year’s SDB ticket. 
Galvin said she and Meckes hope to stick with tradition but introduce new programs. 
“One of our goals for Student Diversity Board next year is to continue with our traditional events while launching new ones,” she said. “We want to be as successful as all of the pre­vious boards while adding our own twist to things. There are always new issues being pre­sented as time goes on and we plan on addressing them in cre­ative ways.” 
As in years past, Galvin said 
the  biggest  project  she  and  
Meckes  will  
plan  is  the  



By CAITLIN HOUSLEY 
Saint Mary’s Editor 
Saint Mary’s campus elec­tions March 8 will feature three races with tickets running  un-opposed—Student Activities Board (SAB), Student Diversity Board (SDB) and the Resident Hall Association (RHA). 
Juniors Liz Kraig and Stefanie Schwab are the only names on the SAB ticket.  Kraig said she and Schwab want to incorporate student voices, amongst other things, in next year’s Board. 
“We want to incorporate the opinions of the student body into every event, create unity among the three cam­puses through 
Belles Bash, Midnight Madness and SMC Tostal, while launching new events such as a field day and a Slip n’ Slide day. 
Kraig said a top priority of the team is to cater to the wants of the student bodies — Notre Dame and Holy Cross included. 
“We are very interested in collaborating with Notre Dame and Holy Cross to create a kick­off of the school year or ending school year event for all three campuses to enjoy,” she said. “This year we really want to stress the importance of the student body’s opinion and are looking for feedback for new events that students would like to see brought to campus. 
In order to better meet the needs of the student body, Kraig said the team will rely heavily on student feedback. 
“We would like to send out more surveys and create an open door policy where students can feel free to email us with ideas or suggestions for new events or improvements for old events,” she said. “SAB caters to the wants of the student body so it is important for us, if elected, to make sure these wants are fulfilled to the best of our abil­ity.” 
Juniors Maggie Galvin and Maddie Meckes are running conference in 
the Midwest 
and we can­not wait to begin planning the eighth conference next year.” 
Galvin also said she hopes to use the Student Diversity Board as an outlet for welcoming study abroad students. 
“We … want to be mentors and support systems for the multicultural community on campus,” she said. “We are aware of how hard it is to be immersed in a different culture after our study abroad experi­ence in France. So we would like to be there for the students coming from all over the world to help them and make it a little easier.” 
Most importantly, Galvin said, the team will help enhance the campus’ perception of diversity. 
“We hope to bring awareness to the community that everyone is diverse as well as embracing each other’s differences,” she said. “We want to make Saint Mary’s a welcoming place for every girl who comes here.” 
Rounding out the campus elections are junior Sarah Copi and freshman Lauren Meyer, who are running as RHA presi­dent and vice president, respec­tively. 


Contact Caitlin Housley at chousl01@saintmarys.edu 

page 4 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u NEWS Wednesday, March 7, 2012 


Kroc Institute fellow discusses Arab Spring research 
By CHRISTIAN MYERS 
News Writer 
Will Moore, a visiting re­search fellow at the Kroc In­stitute and Florida State Uni­versity professor of political science, addressed the short­comings of popular perspec­tives on the events of the Arab Spring. 
He revisited the dissent and revolutions in the Middle East on Tuesday during the lecture “Dissent, Repression and Out­comes of the Arab Spring.” 
“Conventional Arab Spring narratives are unpersuasive because they don’t focus on 
outcomes,” he said. 
said. 
Moore outlined the research methodology and theoretical approach for his current proj­ect, which will supply the con­tent for an eventual book on the subject. 
“I don’t yet have the answers to the questions I’m address­ing. I’m going to be laying out how I’ve designed a research project,” he said. 
Eventually, the project will include case studies for every country in the entire Middle East and North Africa, as well as further analyses for the pe­riod of 1990 to 2011, Moore said. Currently, he is focused on 10 coun­tries in partic­

“These nar­ratives also have a very strong ‘blame the victim’ a p pr oa c h ,  “Unless you start paying attention to the interaction of states and dissidents, you can’t understand the outcomes.”  ular and only has access to data from 1990 to 2004. “ D u r i n g this time and  
which  is  in all of these  
ahistorical.”  Will Moore  countries, dis- 
Moore said there should  Kroc research fellow  sidents and states are in- 
be a focus on  teracting.  In  
the behavior  every  single  

and interactions of dissidents one of these 10 nations, there and states. He discussed 24 is a long history of people chal­instances of mass protests in lenging government and gov-four different countries — Al-ernment responding in kind,” geria, Egypt, Jordan and Syria Moore said. 
— since 1990 and said it was During the lecture, Moore significant that only one of displayed a graph of dissident those protests resulted in a and state activity in each of victory for the dissidents. the 10 countries and pointed 
“Unless you start paying at-out that some, such as Tunisia, tention to the interaction of stood out as having less dis-states and dissidents, you can’t sident activity. The data came understand the outcomes,” he from a database of news re-ports, he said. 

“Something I have to consid­er is whether there is less news coverage or actually less dissi­dent activity,” he said. 
Moore said he intends to evaluate the behavior of two actors, the state and the dis­sidents, along a Hostility-Coop­eration Continuum. 
He said the continuum shows how one side responds to the behavior of the other and how both the desire to stay in power and the influence of constitu­ents are important in deter­mining this behavior. 
“If you’re halfway up the hos­tility scale, my people want me slightly … more hostile than you,” Moore said. 
Moore said the continuum allows him to estimate the av­erage behavior when the other actor does nothing. For exam­ple, the state will be very co­operative on average when the dissidents do nothing. 
He said he can also estimate the average responsiveness to surprise for each actor, though his calculations do not differ­entiate between hostile and cooperative responses to sur­prises. 
Moore said his current data reveals interesting patterns, but he has not analyzed the set thoroughly enough to draw any conclusions. 
“I haven’t delved into how much I can trust these particu­lar estimates,” he said.  “I’m showing you a flavor of what I’m going to be able to do,” 
Moore said his project might not lead to the kind of results he hopes for, but he believes it addresses something existing literature is missing. 
“Does this project that I’ve launched give me any lever­age? It’s possible I’ll strike out,” he said. “I’ve argued ex­isting scholarship ignores be­havior and limits our ability to understand and answer impor­tant questions. The missing ob­jective of inquiry is the behav­ior of dissidents and states.” 

Contact Christian Myers at cmyers@nd.edu 


Wednesday, March 7, 2012 The Observer u NEWS ndsmcobserver.com | page 5 



Physics professor simplifies discipline 

By ANN MARIE JAKUBOWSKI 
News Writer 
Most students are so preoc­cupied enough with classes, schoolwork and extracurricu­lars that they cannot escape their immediate surroundings. However, for Brian Greene, his work places him in the cosmic realm on a daily basis, tran­scending the world, the gal­axy and even the universe.
  Greene, a professor of physics and mathematics at Columbia and a leading expert on string theory, delivered a lecture Tues­day titled “The Fabric of the Cosmos” at the DeBartolo Per­forming Arts Center. 
Greene has published three books written for a non-scien­tific audience, which he drew material from for Tuesday’s lec­ture. 
Greene cited Einstein’s theory of general relativity as the foun­dation of today’s work in the cosmic arena. Using the anal­ogy of a rubber sheet, Greene explained general relativity in terms of the physical observa­tions gleaned from gravity. He said warps created by an object with mass, such as a bowling ball, parallel those in space and time itself, creating the gravita­tional force we know. 
“Imagine space and all around us, envisioning an as­tronomical body like the sun warping the fabric of space just by virtue of its presence in it, changing the trajectory of ob­jects around it,” he said. “The moon is kept in orbit because in a sense, it’s rolling along a valley in the curved environ­ment [in the rubber sheet] that the earth creates. This means that at the deepest levels of our understanding of the cosmos, space and time are vital par­ticipants, not just the stage on which events take place.” 
According to this theory, Greene said black holes are warps so steep, not even light can escape. He said in effect they are masses so compact they create nearly vertical vor­texes. 

“One very specific puzzle that black holes have raised is the question of what happens if I take an object and throw it into a black hole,” Greene said. “One of the very basic principles of physics is that the data in any object, everything from its ap­pearance to the distribution of the molecules and atoms that make it up, cannot fundamen­tally be lost. If a black hole were to actually eat information and it was permanently gone from the universe, it would violate this law and ultimately wreak havoc on our fundamental equations of quantum mechan­ics.” 
The widely accepted solution to this problem has fantastic im­plications for the conventional understanding of our very exis­tence, Greene said. 
“We now believe that when an object crosses the edge of a black hole and falls in, the infor­mation it contains gets ‘smeared out’ over the surface of the black hole and that the bits of infor­mation on the surface are in principle retrievable,” he said. “The two-dimensional version of the object that is smeared out on the surface has a three-dimensional counterpart inside the space of the black hole.” 
Because the spatial environ­ment within a black hole is gov­erned by the same laws of three-dimensional space, Greene said it is probable the environment we inhabit can also be de­scribed by two-dimensional in­formation at the very edge of the observable universe. He com­pared this to a holograph. 
“Not only do objects in a black hole have a holographic descrip­tion, but so do we in the two-di­mensional surface surrounding the universe,” Greene said. “A sort of binary code can contain a fundamental description of everything we see, so every­thing we perceive is, in some sense, just an illusion.” 
Continuing his examina­tion of the expansion of space, Greene addressed the always-transient nature of our obser­vational capacity and the effect this may have on future discov­ery. He said the increasing ex­pansion speed of the universe means one day the other galax­ies will be beyond our observa­tional capacity. 
“Now, we can examine faint pinpoints of starlight from dis­tant galaxies, but in the future those galaxies will be rushing away faster than the speed of light,” Greene said. “This means we won’t be able to see them because they’ll be going faster than light can show us.” 
Greene said he sees this as a source of urgency in physics today. 
“We are living in a remark­able era when answers are in reach, which may not always be the case,” he said. “Sometimes, nature guards her secrets with the unbreakable grip of physi­cal law, but sometimes the true nature of reality beckons to us from beyond the horizon.” 
The most important thing this generation’s scientists can do is retain their childlike won­der, Greene said. 
“It’s so important not to lose what you already have; we all begin life as little scientists smashing things together to figure things out,” he said. “A successful scientist goes into the unknown not afraid of be­ing right or wrong, but giving it an uninhibited shot. The great scientists are the ones who don’t lose their childlike wonder and willingness to ex­plore.” 
Contact Ann Marie Jakubowski at ajackubo1@nd.edu 



Word 
continued from page 1 
colleges and universities are participating. 
Notre Dame gathers the most pledges of any univer­sity, Newcomb said. 
“Last year, 2,701 pledges came from Notre Dame,” she said. “Our goal this year is to beat that number, a goal we have accomplished every year.” 
Newcomb said the use of the word carries a negative stereotype, but students have the power to end the use of the term. 
“Even when used in a jok­ing way among friends, you still evoke all of those nega­tive implications,” she said. “As college students, we are in a position to set an example for our parents and those who will come after us.” 
Graduate student Molly Car­ey, also a project leader for the Notre Dame Special Olym­pics Club, said the campaign is concerned with the way the “r-word” is used by people in everyday language. She said Notre Dame students in par­ticular have a responsibility to end such discrimination. 
“The mission of this Univer­sity is committed to justice and serving those vulnerable in our society,” Carey said. “The Notre Dame community must be committed to that message.” 
Solidarity with the global community is an important aspect of the Notre Dame mis­sion, Carey said, and the use of the “r-word” detracts from this harmony. 
“When you use the ‘r-word’ with friends, it suggests peo­ple with disabilities are less­er,” Carey said. “It takes away their humanity.” 
Best Buddies International , a non-profit group dedicated to improving the lives of those with intellectual and devel­opmental disabilities, helped the Special Olympics plan the campaign. 
Junior Elizabeth Klinepeter, president of the Notre Dame Best Buddies chapter, said Best Buddies and the Special Olympics club collect pledges and spread awareness of the “Spread the Word to End the Word” message. 
“This event is really impor­tant because the ‘r-word’ has such a derogatory meaning in our society,” Klinepeter said. “It is so commonly used by ev­eryone in our country, around the world and here on our campus. 
“Whether people realize it or not, the ‘r-word’ is a form of hate speech and threatens the dignity of people with in­tellectual or developmental disabilities.” 
Klinepeter said if students consider the detrimental ef­fects of using the “r-word,” they will understand the im­pact the word has on people with intellectual or develop­mental disabilities. 
“The event promotes re­spect and inclusion both on campus and whenever we go out into society,” Klinepeter said. 
Klinepeter said if a stu­dent hears someone use the “r-word,” the student should nicely ask the user of the word to avoid saying it and explain the word’s harm. 
“It is so engrained in peo­ple and it is such a common word,” Klinepeter said. “It’s not promoting the kind of re­spect we want here on cam­pus and in the wider world.” 
Interested students can pledge to end the use of the “r-word” during lunch and 
dinner  hours  at  LaFortune  
Student  Center  and  both  
dining  halls  or  online  at  
www.r-word.org  

Contact Adam Llorens at allorens@nd.edu 


Professor 
continued from page 1 
cording to a University press release. 
He earned his doctoral de­gree from the University of Kansas in 1974, graduated from the University of Ar­kansas in 1963 and earned a bachelor’s degree in divin­ity from Southern Methodist University in 1966. 
Johnson, who directed Notre Dame’s Laboratory for Social Research for 14 years, once said his many interests helped him better under­stand himself and his place in society. 
“I have a wide range of interests, but each area of study usually comes down to focusing on that interest­ing intersection between self and society: How one un­derstands a sense of self in a rapidly changing world, and how the social structure tends to shape and mold the ways we think and act,” he said. 
Contributions in Johnson’s memory may be sent to the Center for Social Concerns, Relief for World Hunger, Geddes Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556. 



Apple rumored to release new iPad model Wednesday 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK  — Apple is hold­ing an event Wednesday in San Francisco, and has hinted that it will reveal a new iPad model. Rumors speak of an updated tablet with a speedier processor, a sharper screen and an option for faster wire­less broadband access. 
If last year’s launch of the iPad 2 is any guide, the new iPad model will go on sale in the U.S. next week, likely on Friday. 
The upgrade from the iPad 2 to the iPad 3 will be less significant than the upgrade from the original iPad to the iPad 2, which added two cam­eras while cutting both the thickness and the weight of the device. 
One big unknown is wheth­er Apple will keep the iPad 2 in production and offer it at a lower price, like it kept the iPhone 3GS after the launch of the iPhone 4. 
Another big question is whether Apple will reveal its rumored foray into making TV sets. Some have speculated that the invite to the Apple event, which said “We have something you really have to see,” points in that direction. 
Apple already sells and “Apple TV.” It's not a TV, but a small box that attaches to a television set to display movies and play music from iTunes. 
The iPad launch comes as Apple has reached a rare milestone: Last week, it was worth more than $500 billion. Only six other U.S. companies have been worth that much, and none have held that valu­ation for long. On Tuesday, Apple’s stock fell, bringing its market value down to $493 billion, but analysts believe the company is worth closer to $550 billion. 
These are some rumored features of the iPad 3: 
A sharper screen, similar to the “Retina Display” on the iPhone 4 and 4s. The rumored resolution is 2048 by 1536 pixels, which would make text look smoother and some high-resolution pictures look bet­ter. It won't make much of a difference for images on the Web, or video. 
Some speculate that Apple will call the model the “iPad HD,” for “high definition,” rather than “iPad 3.” 
The new iPad could include Siri, the voice-activated “as­sistant” found on the iPhone 4S. Siri has gotten mixed re­views, but Apple has been touting the feature heavily in its advertising, and it would make sense to expand the availability of this high-pro­file feature.
 Faster wireless capabilities. IPads are available with built-in modems for AT&T’s and Verizon's third-generation, or “3G"”cellular networks in the 
U.S. The iPad 3 could come in a version that offers faster “4G” or “LTE” networks. How­ever, most iPads are used only on Wi-Fi, so an “LTE” chip wouldn't matter to most buy­ers. 
In this respect, Apple is playing catch-up. Some com­petitors, such as Samsung and Motorola, already sell LTE-compatible tablets. 
Since last fall, Sprint Nex­tel Corp. has sold the iPhone. But it doesn't sell the iPad. It's possible it could join AT&T and Verizon Wireless in sell­ing the iPad 3. 

page 6 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u NEWS Wednesday, March 7, 2012 

Dating 
continued from page 1 
ticularly strong among gay men on campus, who meet each other through word of mouth, unofficial student clubs and technology. 
When students do meet to hook upFor those students that use the network to hook up, Stroud II said there is of­ten a mutual understanding of secrecy. 
“It was always kind of like an understanding,” he said. “You won’t tell. I won’t tell. No one will know sort of thing.” 
However, when the under­ground nature of the net­work is accidentally brought to the surface of social cir­cles, things can get messy. For example, Stroud II once had a closeted student con­tact him asking to get to­gether. When someone later saw Stroud II calling him, it resulted in accidentally out­ing the student. 
“It’s always walking on thin ice and there’s a lot of room for hurting people un­intentionally,” he said. 
Despite the challenges of connecting with other gay men on campus, Stroud II said he feels the pool is larg­er than many straight stu­dents might think. 
“I personally have found it to be enough of people to choose from,” he said. “There are definitely catego­ries to pick from.” 
However, Lillis said the underground network is less connected among lesbian students because gender stereotypes allow women to stay in the closet if they choose to do so. 
“Girls will come out to their close friends and then they don’t really feel the need to get connected to the community,” she said. “It’s very possible that there is an equal amount of gay guys and gay girls on campus, it’s just that the girls are not as networked in as the guys.” 
Another difference be­tween the gay and lesbian communities on campus is the amount of sexual activity among members, which Lil­lis said is typical of the LG­BTQ population in general. 
“A few [girls] have hooked up, but a very minimal amount,” she said. “I think we are very wary about hooking up with someone or even starting a relation­ship with someone simply because we do not want to jeopardize friendships.” 
Without a University rec­ognized gay-straight alli­ance and only a few sanc­tioned get-togethers a month through Core Council, senior Jason G’Sell said students use invite-only Facebook groups, websites and cell phone applications to con­nect. 
On one popular cell phone app, Grindr, gay men create profiles and the app sorts users by distance, he said. 
“It shows you headshots of people based on location. So this guy is the closest to me. Again, there is still the rule He is 558 feet away,” G’Sell against having sex and that said. “You can guess by their applies to everyone.” age and how close they are According to the student [if they are a student.] Some handbook, du Lac, one rea­people will say on their pro-son parietals exist is to re­
file  that  spond  to  the  
they are a  privacy needs  
student at Notre Dame or a grad student or something.” G ’ S e l l said stu­dents can chat on Grindr and choose to meet in per­son. While he said the  “I think a large part of the problem here is not at all the student body. I think the student body is majority on board with granting the gay students on this campus what they are asking for, but I think a large part of it is the administration and the alumni that are holding the University back.”  of students sharing com­mon living space. “It’s kind of awkward then if someone is gay because how are you supposed to enforce that? Would it make my room­mates more  
o r i g i n a l  u n c om f or t - 
purpose  of  Mia Lillis  able if I had a  
the app was to find peo­ sophomore  gayor   guyif I   over had  
ple to hook  my  girlfriend  
up  with,  over to sleep  

most students do not use it over?” Lillis said. “Because for that purpose. one of them the University 
“On campus, it’s more of a doesn’t approve of, but the social networking tool than a other one the University has hook up tool,” he said. nothing to say about.” 
Lillis said lesbian stu-Stroud,  IIwho lives off dents do not use websites or campus now, said he never apps to meet each other, and ran into a problem when he mostly meet by chance. had male students sleep over 
“A lot of it is just heresay,” in the dorm. However, he she said. “I’ll come out to said he was often cautious so someone and they’ll be like, he did not out a closeted stu­‘oh, I know a lesbian.’” dent by accident. 
A key component of the “Yes, parietals and the RA underground network is couldn’t get me in trouble, OutreachND, a student or-but running into another guy ganization solely for LGBTQ could get him in trouble,” he students that does not apply said. for club status at the Univer­sity, G’Sell said. A range of relationship 
“It’s totally underground. experiences By going there you’re not G’Sell said once LGBTQ outing yourself,” he said. students enter a relation­“It’s only through word of ship, the degree to which mouth that people would couples are “public” varies. hear about them.” However, these students said 
The group puts on par-they have been able to en-ties once a month and has a gage in typical Notre Dame private Facebook group that dating experiences — from students must be added to in SYR’s to dining hall dates. order to see. When G’Sell was dating his 
“We just hang out and play ex-boyfriend, he said “ev­silly games and stuff,” Lillis eryone” in their dorms knew said. “It’s just for fun.” they were together. 
“He came to Duncan’s The ‘gay loophole’ dance with me. I knew his 
Despite the challenges rector and he knew my rec­to identifying as LGBTQ at tor,” he said. “There was Notre Dame, students have no doubt about it. I mean, found one we would 
clear advan-hold hands 
“It makes relationships 
tage — pari-all the time etals don’t ap-be the extreme. It’s either and kiss in ply when they a one night stand, maybe public.” look to want twice or monogamy is Stroud to sleep over going to start happening said he has with mem-had “all 
to where it is serious 
bers of the sorts of ex-
after a week. There is no 
same sexgen-periences” 
room to ‘date’ because of 
der. in the dat­
the underground culture 
“It’s the ing world, 
just perpetuates easy 
gay loop-from rela­
access, convenience and 
hole,” G’Sell tionships to said. “We no strings attached. ” hook ups to joke about it dining hall all the time. Rocky Stroud II dates. It’s like, if “Just
senior 
the Universi-like a nor­ty is going to mal couple screw us over in every other would,” he said. dimension, at least we get Stroud II said his first this one thing. We get the Notre Dame gay experience gay loophole.” was at a party his sophomore 
When G’Sell was dating year, before he was out to his ex-boyfriend, he said he the campus community. spent the night more than “This guy was just kind once. of looking at me funny, dif­
“I slept over in his room,” ferently than a straight guy G’Sell said. “No one cares. would look at you,” he said. 
now been dat­ing another student for the past three months, and said their relationship is fairly public. 
“It’s a very open, kiss you goodbye, hold your hand type of relationship,” he said. “Everyone can pretty much tell when we’re walk­ing down the quad that we’re dating.” 
When Lillis came to Notre Dame, she assumed she would be single her entire college experience. But as a freshman, she met an alum­na who lives in the area and they began dating. 
Though Lillis has been out since middle school, she sometimes felt uncomfort­able expressing affection in “I kind of let it happen.” 


After that, Stroud IIhooked up with him for the next week or two. He said in an underground network that often relies on immediacy and secrecy, a relationship that lasts even a few weeks can seem more serious than it is. 
“It makes relationships be the extreme,” he said. “It’s either a one night stand, maybe twice, or monogamy is going to start happening to where it is serious after a week. There is no room to ‘date’ be­cause of the public at Notre Dame. 
“We would hold hands on campus sometimes and I was so wary of who was around and who was looking at us,” she said. 
Without sexual orienta­tion in the University’s non­discrimination clause, Lil­lis feared she would receive backlash at work if a co­worker saw her with another girl because she works at an organization that values Catholic tradition. 
“I feared that my orienta­tion was a conflict of inter­
est at the 
job,” she 

underground said. 
“Yes, parietals and the 
culture just However, 
RA couldn’t get me in 
perpetuates she said she 
trouble, but running 
easy access, didn’t expe­
into another guy could 
convenience rience any and no strings get him in trouble.” overt nega­attached.” tive reac-
However, Rocky Stroud II tions from Stroud II has the campus 
senior 
community 
when the 
couple was affectionate in public. She said current students seem to be progressive when it comes to gay men and wom­en expressing themselves ro­mantically on campus. 
“I think a large part of the problem here is not at all the student body,” Lillis said. “I think the student body is majority on board with granting the gay students on this campus what they are asking for, but I think a large part of it is the admin­istration and the alumni that are holding this University back.” 

Contact Sarah Mervosh at smervosh@nd.edu 


Wednesday, March 7, 2012 The Observer u NEWS ndsmcobserver.com | page 7 
that we know how to get things 
done and get them done right, 

since we are both involved in continued from page 1 various parts of the College,” 
she said. would build on the traditions Brown and Bueno are run-of the College. ning a platform focused on 
“If elected, we plan to incor-establishing strong alumnae porate Saint Mary’s rich his-connections after graduation. tory and traditions while intro-Brown, who serves as the Le­ducing new ideas,” she said. “I Mans Hall treasurer, said rela­would love to have the oppor-tionships with fellow alumnae tunity to represent the Class of are crucial. 2013 and make our senior year “The senior year is an im­memorable.” portant year for building con-
Caltrider said the pair would nections and preparing for life look to foster an environment after graduation,” she said. where members of their class “We will increase networking could express their thoughts opportunities not only within and concerns. the class, but also with the 
“We hope to create a wel-alumnae network by work-coming environment in which ing to get graduating Belles our peers can voice their con-in touch with their successful cerns and be heard,” she said. predecessors already tasting “We also want to focus on bet-success in the ‘real world.’” ter communication and collab-Bueno said she and Brown oration among the four classes are also focused on ensur­at [Saint Mary’s].” ing students have a say in the 
Ahmad said she and Cuevas planning of events. want to build on Saint Mary’s “The opinions and contribu­traditions, while introducing tions of my fellow classmates is new and exciting experiences a real focal point for me,” she to the Class of 2013. said. “I really want my fellow 
“Our slogan is ‘New per-class members to be a part of spectives on old challenges,’ the planning process for se-vious alumnae who were not these fun activities and hear-ing activities,” she said. “We as Silvia and I hope to bring nior year events such as Senior given this opportunity to par-ing their opinions and voice we want to use our ice cream so-new ideas on how to have a Dad’s Weekend, Senior For-ticipate. could do just that.” cials, community service and great senior year, while also mal and Senior Week. I want Backes said through her and Trahan said one of the focal t-shirts to give our class lots requesting feedback from ev-these well known events to be Larson’s varied experiences, points of her ticket’s platform of quality time together and to eryone in the class,” she said. new and exciting, and more at-students can expect the pair is planning a retreat for their really build on the sisterhood “I think it is important that we tractive to the majority of the to bring their class together in classmates. we have here at Saint Mary’s.” continuously strive to create a class.” the next year. “Another big idea we have is With her current position as bond, and that should definite-“People should vote for [us] a sophomore retreat that focus-class treasurer and Sampson’s ly not stop, especially in our Class of 2014 President and because we come from differ-es on empowering one another role as the class of 2015 vice last year.” Vice President ent backgrounds including our as a class. The retreat will be president, Gutrich said she and 
Cuevas, who serves as SGA Susie Larson and Carolyn majors and our hometowns. I a way for all the sophomores Sampson are prepared for the commissioner, said her ticket Backes will run unopposed for think as a team we would be to touch base with one another job. is focused on listening to the class of 2014 president and vice able to bring lots of different and reflect on how we have all “[These roles have] pre­needs of their classmates. president. The ticket’s platform people together and unite our grown academically, socially pared me to take on the role 
“As seniors, many of us will is focused on unifying their class like it should be,” Backes and spiritually,” she said. “It of president. I know how the be taking different paths af-class and involving students said. will also give us a weekend class board operates, and can ter Saint Mary’s, so we want in more campus activities. The where we can develop stronger use the knowledge gained from to stress to our class that we pair is also looking to provide Class of 2015 President and friendships within the class.” experiences this year to make are here to listen to their ideas more community outreach pro-Vice President In addition to developing next year even more of a suc­and try our ultimate best to put grams in the South Bend area. Two tickets, composed of on-campus volunteer oppor-cess for our class and school,” those ideas into action,” she In addition to hosting a mem-Anna Fanelli and Amy Trahan, tunities, Fanelli said she and she said. “We are an awesome said. orable Junior Mom’s Weekend, and Kelly Gutrich and Maddie Trahan would like to facilitate pair and have already gained 
Ahmad said her and Cuevas’ the Larson and Backes are Sampson, will run for class of community service for students a lot of experience working to-involvement with other campus planning a class trip to Chi-2015 president and vice presi-in the South Bend community. gether.” groups makes them qualified cago and mixers with Notre dent. Both tickets emphasize “We thought becoming more Sampson said the pair will to serve the needs and inter-Dame students. Larson said a passion for student govern-active in South Bend missions build off their leadership ex­ests of their class. her ticket also envisions imple-ment and staying involved in and food shelters by providing perience in the coming year if 
“Silvia and I are involved menting a ring ceremony for the Saint Mary’s community. transportation to such volun-their peers elect them. in many different extracur-the junior class. Each woman on the ballot has teering opportunities would “I know what can be done, riculars, making us more well-“Receiving your class ring said she is focused on unifying give more incentive and ac-and how to go about getting rounded and representative of calls for time to reflect upon the class of 2015 and planning cessibility for those without them done,” she said. “[Kelly the many interests of class,” who you are as a Saint Mary’s a memorable Sophomore Par-means of transportation,” she and I] have knowledge about she said. “We both have expe-woman and what you will rep-ents Weekend. said. how the system works, and rience in leadership and orga-resent to the world when you Fanelli said her ticket is fo-Gutrich said she and Samp-genuinely want to make our nizing for events through our leave this unique and empow-cused on planning fun events son are focused on planning sophomore year as exciting various endeavors.” ering campus experience,” she for their classmates. events that will foster rela-and worthwhile as possible.” 
Cuevas said their experience said. “Amy and I are just really tionships between members of in campus activities would The ticket also looks to foster stressing what the class wants their class. Contact Bridget Feeney at benefit their leadership skills a sense of community through and needs and (we) want to “If elected, some of the first bfeene01@saintmarys.edu and if elected to office. the event, as they plan on invit-serve them the best we can,” tasks Maddie and I hope to ac-Meaghan Daly at 
“We want our class to know ing current students and pre-she said. “We think through complish are the class bond-mdaly01@saintmarys.edu 


Election 




Romney adds to delegate lead with strong Super Tuesday 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON — Mitt Rom­ney squeezed out a win in piv­otal Ohio, captured four other states with ease and padded his delegate lead in the race for the Republican presidential nomi­nation but was forced to share the Super Tuesday spotlight with a resurgent Rick Santo-rum. 
“I'm going to get this nomi­nation,” Romney told cheering supporters in Massachusetts, pointing particularly to his growing delegate totals. 
On the busiest night of the campaign, he scored a home-state win in Massachusetts to go with primary victories in Vermont and in Virginia — where neither Santorum nor Newt Gingrich was on the bal­lot. He added the Idaho caucus­es to his column. 
Ohio was the big win, though, and the closest contest of all as the Republican rivals battled for the chance to face Demo­cratic President Barack Obama in November. 
Santorum countered crisply, winning primaries in Okla­homa and Tennessee and the North Dakota caucuses — rais­ing fresh doubts about Rom­ney’s ability to corral the votes of conservatives in some of the most Republican states in the country. 
Ohio was the marquee matchup, a second industrial-state showdown in as many weeks between Romney and Santorum. It drew the most campaigning and television advertisements of all 10 Su­per Tuesday contests and for good reason— no Republican has ever won the White House without carrying the state in the fall. 
After trailing for much of the night, Romney forged ahead in a count that stretched past mid­night. With votes tallied in 99 percent of the state's precincts, he led by about 12,000 out of more than 1.1 million cast. 
Gingrich had a victory in his column, too — his first win in more than six weeks. The for­mer House speaker triumphed at home in Georgia, but a bar­rage of attack ads by a super PAC supporting Romney helped hold him below 50 percent and forced him to share the del­egates. 
Texas Rep. Ron Paul pinned his hopes on Alaska as he scratched for his first victory of the campaign season. 
Santorum waited until Okla­homa and Tennessee fell into his column before speaking to cheering supporters in Ohio. “This was a big night tonight,” he said. “We have won in the West, the Midwest and the South, and we're ready to win across this country.” 
In all, there were primaries in Virginia, Vermont, Ohio, Massachusetts, Georgia, Ten­nessee and Oklahoma. Caucus­es in North Dakota, Idaho and Alaska rounded out the calen­dar. 
Romney picked up at least 183 of the 419 Super Tuesday delegates at stake. Santorum gained at least 64, Gingrich 52 and Paul 15. About 100 re­mained to be allocated, and Romney and Santorum ap­peared in line for many if not most of them. 
That gave the former Mas­sachusetts governor 386, more than all his rivals combined, a total that included endorse­ments from members of the Republican National Commit­tee who automatically attend the convention and can sup­port any candidate they choose. 
Santorum had 156 delegates, Gingrich 85 and Paul 40. It takes 1,144 delegates to win the nomination at the Republican National Convention in Tampa, Fla., this summer. 
The split of the states ensured that the most turbulent Repub­lican presidential campaign in a generation would continue. 
Already, the candidates were looking ahead to the next con­tests, Kansas and Wyoming caucuses on Saturday, followed by Alabama and Mississippi primaries on March 13. 
Restore our Future, the super PAC that backs Romney, dis­closed a near-$1 million invest­ment for television ads in Illi­nois, the next big-state primary on the calendar, on March 20. The organization is already air­ing commercials in Mississippi and Alabama, as is a group that supports Gingrich, although at lower levels. 


page 8 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com Wednesday, March 7, 2012 

INSIDE COLUMN 


Love, hate and laundry 
I despise laundry. 

I despise most everything about it. I hate the separating of dirty clothes. I hate walking up and down the stairs. I hate the money I need to spend. 
So I guess that’s 
why I wait until I absolutely have to in order to do my laundry. 
Up until yester­day, I had a moun­tain of clothes climbing from my hamper up toward my bed like a bon-



fire’s smoke reach­ing the sky. 

I had jeans. I had sweatshirts. I had polos. I had boxers. I had socks. I had everything in that monstrous pile. For a while, I thought I was having a competition with myself to see just how high it could reach. 
I almost took a Sharpie and made tick marks on the wall as if the laun­dry was my own child and I wanted to see its progress each and every day. But I didn’t because I would have had to fix the walls and because that would have been weird to treat dirty gar­ments as children. 
I hate separating the clothes. My wardrobe tends to look like the colors of the rainbow. I have pastels and dark colors and whites. I need to make sure the colors don’t bleed on each other and mess up whenever I attempt to match. 
So I need to turn one big pile of laun­dry into four smaller piles? Sounds like so much fun. 
No one likes to walk down two flights of stairs (For you people that must climb five stories, I feel for you. Except you people in Ryan, it’s so nice there.) more than me. I’m a lazy college kid. I like to sit in my room doing almost nothing. But when I have to walk up and down stairs multiple times car­rying clothes, I become an angry lazy college kid. 
Even worse than the walking is the moment when you swipe your I.D. card and you realize that you don’t have enough Domer Dollars to pay for the four loads of laundry you need to do. 
Not only is this frustrating but it is also an additional task for the angry, lazy college kid. One does not simply put cash into your Domer Dollars on the weekend (I know you can do it online, I just do not know how to) and it becomes an extra thing to do during the busy week of a Notre Dame stu­dent. 
Laundry does have some redeeming qualities, I guess. 
The smell of freshly cleaned clothes is like walking into the kitchen to smell your mom’s home cooking — ex­cept these are clothes and not steaks. The lingering aroma of the fabric softener is kind to everyone’s noses, especially to the one wearing said clothes. 
A newly washed batch of clothes also opens your wardrobe up infinitely. That shirt you wanted to wear a week ago but was dirty? Yeah, it’s fair game now. Those comfortable socks you like so much? It’s go time. 
So, maybe I don’t despise laundry so much. 
I just hate it. 
Contact Matthew DeFranks at mdefrank@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

The power of voice 
Pastor Martin Niemöller’s famous quote reads, “They came first for the communists, and I didn’t speak out because I wasn’t a communist. Then they came for the trade union­ists, and I didn’t speak out because I wasn’t a trade unionist. Then they came for the Jews, and I didn’t speak out because I wasn’t a Jew. Then they came for me, and by that time there was no one left to speak out for me.” 
The turnout to the Town Hall meeting on Monday in response to the recent racist and criminal acts was enormous. The fact that it ran over its scheduled time indicates not only its impor­tance, but also the passion and desire for change that the people in attendance brought with them. During the segment in which people could provide witness regarding acts of discrimination and harassment that they had faced in the classroom, in the residence halls, because of campus culture and traditions and because of systems and resources, one sentiment was shared above all others: To dispel the ignorance, you must raise your voice. 
From the mundane example of correcting someone in class about a misspeak to the more demanding example of correcting someone when they use hateful slurs, any ignorance can only be dispelled through vo-


EDITORIAL CARTOON 

cal action. Silence is indifference, and indifference always sides with the perpetrators. In any process for change, your voice is the necessary spark. These recent acts of racial intolerance are small flickers that have illuminated the bigger picture. As one student put it, the core of the problem is a lack of respect — giv­ing it, getting it and creating an atmosphere that fosters it. How we respond to acts such as these says an enormous amount about how we define our Notre Dame family. Do we fall silent in the face of injustice? Do we speak up? The forum on Monday was a clear example of the latter. 
I would certainly consider Mon­day’s Town Hall meeting a “victory” of sorts. It was a victory because of the witnesses who spoke out, be­cause of the possible solutions that were shared and because of the shared sentiment that we can work together to make our Notre Dame family better. Nevertheless, one “vic­tory” over racism does not preclude our obligation to act preventatively through education in order to dispel any veins of racial hatred that exist. 
The conversation did not end Monday night. It cannot have ended Monday night. To truly lay claim to our responsibility to educate, to dispel the ignorance and to combat the prejudice, we must continue the conversation, we must elicit ongo­ing dialogue and we must not be afraid to speak from the heart. The conversations that were had Mon­day night must be the conversations that we have daily in the dorm room, the classroom, the dining halls, in the paper and in LaFortune. These acts of racial harassment and those deeper issues they have brought to light affect every single person who calls this University home. 
So here is the challenge: The next time we hear things that are insensi­tive or ignorant, we must engage. 
Engage, engage, engage. That’s the only way to educate. It doesn’t matter if those who feel they are not involved are engaged until they can­not stand hearing about it anymore. Because as long as racial harassment is a reality, it is an injustice not to speak of it. Because, until we speak the truth fully and openly, the false and seductive nature of “there are no problems here” cloud any chance at improvement. 
Those who gave witness at Mon­day’s event truly stood up and told truth to power. They told truth to the power of ignorance. They told truth to the power of silence. Most impor­tantly, they told truth to the power of those with the ability to change things. So let’s change things. All of us. Let’s all join in this conversation and action. 
Spring Break presents us with a great opportunity to search our­selves and find the inner strength to speak, even if our voices might tremble. We owe it to ourselves. We owe it to our friends. We owe it to our University. 
Alex Coccia is a sophomore. He can be contacted at acoccia@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“I don’t want someone shoving his views down my throat, unless they’re covered in a crunchy candy shell.” 
Stephen Colbert American comedian and satirist 



WEEKLY POLL 
What are you doing for spring break? 

Visiting friends Going home Celebrating St. Patrick’s Day Going on a cruise 
Vote by 5 p.m. Wednesday at 
ndsmcobserver.com 


Wednesday, March 7, 2012 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 9 

Finding a family 
In general, I feel the most at home at Notre Dame when I spend time with international or ethnic minority stu­dents. That is not to say I do not have other friends; I just identify more with the international students, being Nikitha one myself. This Taniparti occurred to me at Monday night’s Guest Town Hall meeting. Columnist The Carey Audito­rium was full of students voicing their concerns and experiences with racial discrimination or incidents that have impacted their time here. 
First, I commend all who shared their stories. People like Victor, Lind­sey and Ryan definitely highlighted key issues we have to deal with on campus, ranging from name calling from pass­ersby to racial derogations from hall staff. Most students are familiar with some episode or another in which a student has been negatively, or in some cases positively, affected by the ethnic background they identify with. 
What is the basis of this? If we ac­cept that stereotypes are inevitable and inescapable, then does that justify incidents of racial offense? While I do not agree that these stereotypes can stand as an excuse for people’s behav­ior, I do maintain that they are very much present everywhere and there are some things we can do to embrace them. Not accept, but use construc­tively. 
The Town Hall was a great first step. Others include open dialogue and com­munication among everybody in the Notre Dame community. I also ac­knowledge that this is easier said than done. I can only imagine what every­one personally felt about the proceed­ings from Monday night — frustration, confusion, amusement — but I actually felt a sense of connection. I walked away glad that there existed so many people who would understand without much explanation what I feel like as a minority student on campus, secure that other people could relate to how I felt at the end of some of my days and enthusiastic about what will happen next on campus to address these mat­ters. 

While working, I often tell prospec­tive students when asked how I felt about leaving home to come here for college that “I feel confident in hav­ing left my family halfway across the world only to find a wonderful new family here.” The past couple of weeks have definitely seen me struggle to sustain that sentiment. I am differ­ent from the majority of people here, I can’t quite follow most (actually, any) Rudy references, I do get asked very of­ten, “How do you know English?” and I do think that American food is really bland. But is that necessarily wrong of me? I could have the same thoughts if I were anyone — why is the way I look and the place I come from reason enough to treat me differently? 
As these questions linger in my mind, I know that things will eventu­ally get better. They always do. I hope, though, that it happens because of the cohesive change arising from the student body, not because it’s imposed upon them. Bad days though I have had, I want to say thank you to the ever-increasing and amazing support system all around me — I live in the best dorm ever. I have too many pro­fessors who have adopted me for good and all the friends who put up with me, crazy Indian-girl that I am. Oh, and my favorite South Dining Hall staff. 
Ultimately, I just wanted to say that while I understand and can attest to the unfair actions directed towards us “diversity kids,” I also somehow managed to still find that Notre Dame connection we talk about and fall in love with. 
Nikitha Rao Taniparti is a sophomore. She can be reached at ntanipar@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 


ND needs GSA 
I am deeply disappointed by the SAO’s apparent response to the current request for a gay-straight alliance. 
Ms. Hnatusko, the director of student activities for program­ming, was quoted in the recent Observer article “Gay-straight alliance asks University for official recognition” (Mar. 5) as saying “It remains the viewpoint of the Student Activities Of­fice that due to the sufficiently complex nature of the issue, the needs of gay, lesbian, bisexual and questioning students can best be met through the structures that are currently in place.” 
With all respect, I find this statement condescending and offensive. Notre Dame students are intelligent, mature adults who are capable of making their own decisions. Who is the SAO to decide what students need? 
If the GLBTQ community is satisfied with the “structures that are currently in place,” if its needs are being met, then why does it continue to petition for a GSA? Why would students con­tinue to ask for a safe space on campus if they didn’t need one? The needs of GLBTQ students and their allies on this campus are clearly not being met. 
I hope the SAO takes the time to consider Sam Costanzo’s request for an official GSA, keeping in consideration that the Church preaches that all people are God’s children, equally deserving of love and dignity, and this includes everyone at Notre Dame. 
Julia Kohn
 junior Lewis Hall Mar. 6 


Support from afar 
I am writing in response to an article published on the front page of your Mar. 5 edition of The Observer titled “GSA Asks University for Official Recognition.” I am in no way affiliated with Notre Dame, The Observer or the state of Indiana for that matter. I am a student at The American University in Washington, D.C. As a gay Catholic college student I am fortunate enough come from a university whose Methodist affiliation appears meager when com­pared to the prevalence of its religiously diverse student body, representing everything from Catholicism and Judaism to Mormonism and Islam. Additionally, The American University was given five stars in the Campus Climate Index, ranking it among the top LGBT friendly universities in the country. 
Queers and Allies (our student organization) often works alongside the student govern­ment and university administration to ensure that our university is kept up to par with the latest developments in the ever changing LGBT spectrum. However, from my experience with Q&A, I know why Notre Dame takes issue with the development of a similar club on its campus. 
As a gay Catholic I have found that it is quite difficult to build a bridge between religion and sexuality, especially when the religion is Catholicism. As a private university with a Catholic background, it seems as though AllianceND’s fight for recognition could last forever. That being said, I’d like to offer a possible solution. If it is not feasible to reach an agreement between one’s desires for an LGBT Alliance (LGBTA) peer-to-peer interaction and the University’s necessity to remain Holy, why not merge the two concepts? 
Catholics for Equality is a DC based non-profit for Catholics who support full civil equality for LGBT Americans. Perhaps AllianceND could create a group based on this organization’s platform to bring together LGBTA Catholics who believe in both the fundamental teachings of Christ and the need for a more progressive Catholic Church which equally recognizes LGBT Catholics as God’s children. 
My support goes out to Notre Dame’s LGBTA identifying students. May God be with you as you push forth for equality. 
God bless, 
Joe Corcoran
 Washington, D.C. Mar. 6 


EDITORIAL CARTOON 




By BRANDY CERNE 
Scene Writer 

Notre Dame students have always bonded over pop cul­
ture, whether it’s watching TV shows together in dorm 
rooms, belting out Lady Gaga at parties or quoting com­edies over dinner at the dining hall. That’s what makes it all the more exciting when we hear our very own school mentioned on a show or know that a celebrity is a fan just like us. This guide provides the most well known Notre Dame references in pop culture. Beyond the clas­sic football movies “Rudy” and “Knute Rockne, All Ameri­can” (starring future President Ronald Reagan), Notre Dame has become a mini-star in Hollywood. One way to impress visitors is to point out all the parts of “Shrek” that relate to Notre Dame. It’s been said that the connec­tion is a myth, but 


there are just too many coincidences: the outline of the 
Dome is clearly visible on the back of Shrek’s vest through­
out the film; the names of Duloc and Lord Farquaad seem 
awfully similar to everyone’s favorite rule book and far-off 
men’s dorm; Duloc’s castle resembles Hesburgh Library; 
and chemistry professor Graham Lappin’s Scottish accent 
is a spot-on Shrek. In both the book and movie versions of “Something 
Borrowed,” Notre Dame provides a pivotal plot line. Ra­
chel’s dream was to be accepted to the law school. After 
she’s rejected, her friend Darcy lies about getting in, even 
though she received lower test scores. This is just the start 
of Darcy one-upping Rachel, leading to their tense friend­
ship throughout life. There’s also a not entirely positive 
conversation about the arrogance of Notre Dame students. Arts & Letters ma­jors often get a bad rap, but they can al­ways defend their choice of study by turning to Brad Pitt’s character in “Mr. & Mrs. Smith,” who ma­jored in art history at Notre Dame. With that degree, he be­comes a secret agent married to Angelina Jolie. Your move, Mendoza. Notre Dame is also a fixture on the small screen. In the pilot episode of “Fri­day Night Lights,” star quarterback Jason Street is heav­ily recruited to Notre 


Dame before getting a career-ruining injury. On “That 
70’s Show,” Red wants Eric to attend Notre Dame. It also has a presence on reality television. On the 17th 
season of “The Amazing Race,” Thomas Wolfard, class of 
LISA HOEYNCK | Observer Graphic 





2002, and his girlfriend made it all the way to third place, sporting Notre Dame apparel along the way. 
In addition to perking up when seeing Notre Dame men­tioned on screen, students get a rush to see celebrity fans on the sidelines of football games. In recent years, Jon Bon Jovi has appeared several times. He originally visited be­cause Charlie Weis is a big Bon Jovi fan, but he even came last year after Weis had left. 
Vince Vaughn grew up in Chicago and has supported 


the school his whole life. In the credits of “The Break-Up,” Vaughn and Jennifer Aniston’s characters are shown at­tending a football game here. He also has a brief role as a football player in “Rudy.” 
Taylor Swift has visited campus, both on a tour and at a football game with Selena Gomez in tow. But Swift prob­ably isn’t too much of a fan after her brother Austin trans­ferred last year. 
Snoop Dogg is a professed USC fan, but after performing 


Duloc Castle from “Shrek” (2001) resembles Hesburgh Library. 
at Club Fever for two years in a row sporting Notre Dame gear, he just may have converted. 
Catholic actor Jim Caviezel (“The Passion of the Christ,” “Person of Interest”) turned to Notre Dame for its educa­tion, taking courses in Spanish here for a summer in 2006. 
It almost seems superfluous to mention super-fans Mar­tin Sheen and Regis Philbin, but they have contributed to the most visibility of Notre Dame in pop culture yet. Sheen is a devout Catholic and received the Laetare Med­al at the 2008 commencement ceremony. His character President Josiah Bartlett on “The West Wing” was an alumnus of Notre Dame. 
With Philbin retired and off the air, there will be a lack of Notre Dame’s presence in on-air morn­ing discussions. His daughters and fellow alum­nae J.J. Philpin, TV producer and writer of shows such as “The OC” and “Heroes,” and Joanna Philbin, writer of young adult novels, will have to carry the torch. 

Speaking of Philbin, when he interviewed George Clooney on the Oscars red carpet in 2008, the first thing Clooney mentioned was the Notre Dame basketball team, which continued to dominate the conversation. That may not be enough to convince anyone Clooney is a fan, but it’s enough to spark hope. 
Fan ambiguity abounds, especially concerning Leonar­do DiCaprio. DiCaprio has been spotted numerous times in a Notre Dame baseball cap, but further research shows that DiCaprio is really just a fan of sporting all college hats, representing North Carolina, Louisville, Long Beach State and more. However, none of these schools’ hats had the distinction of being worn on DiCaprio’s romantic ren­dezvous with Blake Lively in Venice. 
But what does this all mean for our Catholic school in the middle of the Midwest? It shows how pervasive Notre Dame is in not only the world of entertain­ment, but also in our world. Pop culture re­flects the views of society at any point in time, and with Notre Dame’s presence throughout the decades across various media, it just goes to show how relevant and recognized it really is. 

There’s a Notre Dame mystique, and a reference to the school carries an inherent meaning that stands for some­thing more than just football. Above all, besides reaffirm­ing how much Notre Dame has permeated society, it’s just plain fun to notice these pop culture references. 


Contact Brandy Cerne at bcerne1@nd.edu 

Wednesday, March 7, 2012 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 11 

By BRIGID MANGANO  often they are purely decorative.  
Scene Writer  Easily the most eye-catching piece by Palmore is a mon­ 
umental painting of someone’s right hand, set against a  
Most students at the University of Notre Dame have nev­ midnight blue background. At first glance, the hand con- 
er set foot in downtown South Bend’s art galleries. If they  jures up mental images of the humanoids Cuban artist To- 
feel an urge to experience art, they might pay a visit to the  mas Esson is wont to paint. B/elow the canvas are three  
Snite Museum on a non-football weekend or stroll through  plates, covered with uncooked rice, rusty nails and len­ 
the Isis Gallery in O’Shaughnessy Hall between classes.  tils, respectively. The hand and nails are meant to suggest  
Although that’s certainly time well spent, students are  mankind’s incredible capacity to build and create, while  
nonetheless missing out on the vibrant arts community  the oxidation of the metal reminds us of the need to re- 
only a few miles south of campus.  build and begin anew. The rice and legumes signify the  
A perfect example is “Undiluted: Paintings by Julian  sustenance mankind depends on.  
Alcantar and James Palmore,” a show currently on view  Several of Palmore’s mixed-media works draw upon  
at Artpost Gallery featuring the work of two regional art- traditional Christian iconography. “Redeemed Innocence”  
ists. The title is somewhat misleading, because although  consists of a red apple laid atop a miniature altar and set  
Alcantar is represented by a series of large-scale, abstract  within a roofed, wooden platform adorned with a vegetal  
paintings, Palmore contributed a number of mixed-media  frieze. Nails of varying dimensions point toward the fruit,  
works that incorporate both found objects and common  an age-old symbol of Eve.  
building materials.  This spring, students should venture beyond the cam- 
Most of Alcantar’s paintings are untitled, giving viewers  pus perimeter and explore the colorful arts scene in  
little hint as to how one might interpret these bold exercis­ downtown South Bend. A good place to start would be  
es in color. Sometimes his brushstrokes seem haphazard  “Undiluted” at Artpost, which will remain on view until  
and uncontrolled, while at others they seem much more  April 29.  
intentional, creating organic shapes that are pleasing to  
the eye. In one particular painting, shades of bubblegum  Contact Brigid Mangano at bmangano@nd.edu  
pink and baby blue predominate, and the viewer can dis­ 
cern a shape resembling a long-necked stringed instru­ 
ment.  
“Katz,” one of the only paintings Alcantar chose to  In The Bend  
name, is also the artist’s personal favorite. When asked  
about the significance of this mysterious title, he acknowl­ 
edged that the word is his own coined term, which he for- What: “Undiluted: Paintings by Julian  
mulated letter-by-letter. The square canvas is filled with  
swooping curves, the largest of which calls to mind a yin- Alcantar and James Palmore”  
yang, and pseudo-alphabetic characters scrawled in every  
direction. Although Alcantar intended for these symbols  Where: Artpost Gallery (216 West  
to evoke a system of writing, they also serve the practical  
function of filling up space.  Madison Street)  
A diverse sample of Palmore’s work is on display at  
Artpost. Many of his abstract paintings bear playful ti- When: Now through April 29  
tles such as “Wasn’t Me” and “You Can See It Too.” These  
phrases inevitably arouse the curiosity of the viewer, who  How Much: Free  
wonders what wrongdoing is being shirked or what object  
he should be seeing. One of Palmore’s favorite motifs is a  Learn More: www.artpostblog.com  
series of dots, usually in a single band of color. Sometimes  
the dots seem as though they might lead somewhere, but  



By KEVIN NOONAN 
Associate Scene Editor 

Chidera “Chiddy” Anamege and Noah “Xaphoon Jones” Beresin, better known as the rap duo Chiddy Bang, dropped their debut studio album, “Breakfast,” February 22. The debut came after months of delays and eight months after the release of the album’s first single, “Mind Your Manners.” 
The album, while far from perfect, was worth the wait. At times it displays the limitations of both Chiddy as a lyricist and Xaphoon as a producer, but the bright spots are exciting and promising enough to make it a success. 
Fans of Chiddy Bang know their music is often light­hearted and fun, with a sense of childhood innocence informing their sound. While the album suffers from a lack of focus at times, the general theme revolves around the two artists coming into the realization that they’re currently living out their childhood dream. It is this concept that gives the duo their success. 
A few artists (i.e. Wiz Khalifa) have recently broken into the mainstream after years on the indie radar, only to lose their indie spirit and devolve into talking about how much they party and the drugs they smoke. 
Chiddy Bang, however, manages to sound more le­gitimate than a mixtape band while maintaining their fun-loving spirit and focusing on things other than the party life. 
The songs “Mind Your Manners,” “Ray Charles,” “Handclaps and Guitars” and “Happening” will sound familiar to long-time fans of the group, and epitomize the spirit of the album. Chiddy’s lyrics are fun but slightly introspective on closer listen, while Xaphoon is at his best producing songs that ooze laid-back fun. 
These songs, in addition to being among the best on the album, mix the celebratory emotions the artists feel with a bit of the uncertainty they face not knowing what’s next. 
It’s when the duo drifts away from this core theme that they stumble. Their other songs deal with a sort of frustrated love that speaks to their punk-rock influ­ences. Xaphoon says he was both a hip-hop and an al­ternative music fan growing up. 
“When I was 15 years old, they closed the local Tower Records and turned off all the metal detectors, so my friends and me stole every CD in the rap section,” said Jones in an interview with The Daily Beast. “I remem­ber putting The Roots’ ‘The Tipping Point’ on my Walk­man and listening to the opening tracks. I had grown up on punk, and when I heard that it was mind-blow­ing.” 
But their attempts to delve into the genre are shaky at best. Jones shows why he is criticized for being oc­casionally repetitive and unoriginal, as some of the beats sound similar at best and indistinctive at worst. 
Chiddy’s fun-loving lyrics, which work perfectly in less serious songs, sound borderline childish and betray the songs’ more serious ideas. 
On the whole, the album is fun and has a happy-go­lucky sense about it that the hip-hop world seems to be lacking. It’s not the album of the year by any stretch of the imagination, but for the debut album of two young and promising artists, this is a solid entry. 
Contact Kevin Noonan at knoonan2@nd.edu 

“Breakfast” Chiddy Bang 
Label: I.R.S Records and Virgin Records Top Tracks: “Mind Your Manners,” “Ray Charles,” “Handclaps and Guitars” and “Happening” 
LISA HOEYNCK | Observer Graphic 

page 12 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u CLASSIFIEDS Wednesday, March 7, 2012 



SPORTS AUTHORTY 


Entering a bracket pool is distraction from fun 

The approach of March Madness brings the assurance of something new, something unseen or unpredictable. New Cinderellas wear the glass slip­per, freshman phenoms enjoy college basketball’s biggest stage before heading to play for the Charlotte Bobcats. Crafty vet­erans lead their teams deep into the tourna­ment and, ultimately, a new cham­pion wears the crown. 
Even in the midst of all the flux, at least one thing remains constant. Every single year, my failing bracket disrupts what would otherwise be a perfectly enjoyable event. 
Perhaps giddy with the com­ing of spring, anxious for the start of baseball or deluded by something else, I eagerly accept a friend’s invitation to join a bracket pool. Before I even pay the entry fee, I am already plan­ning how to spend my winnings. Yeah, I make picks after maybe a half hour of research and have not even seen some of the teams play during the season, but why wouldn’t I win? How hard could it be? Right? 
It is simple, really. Pick the Big East over everybody else, pick against the SEC (a small rebel­lion against my Georgia 


heritage, I Every single year, my filling out guess), pick at failing bracket disrupts a bracket, least one five-what would otherwise be a reciting the 12 upset, have perfectly enjoyable event. refrain of 
a Final Four composed of mostly top seeds with maybe a two-seed sneaking in from one re­gion and, of course, have Notre Dame making the Elite Eight. 
Gut decisions? Great. Can’t name one player on either team? Fine. No justification is needed for anything. 
Although I make many picks with limited knowledge, or even in opposition to known trends and facts, I figure I have as good a chance as anybody else in the field. It is March Madness, after all. 
Eventually, after my accuracy dips below .500, the majority of my Elite Eight teams go down or my Sweet 16 sleepers stumble in the second round, I give up on the bracket that I had only several days earlier forged with such hope. Rather than torture myself by calculat­ing possible points left as my bracket slides down the group standings, I abandon the choices that were supposed to deliver to me the Pick‘em title. 
Last year, I was spot on for 21 percent of possible points, good enough for ninth out of 10 in a small pool. In 2009, I managed just 21 percent. 2008 must have been a miracle year, because I picked correct­ly enough to collect 56 percent of the points and finish 221st out of 500 entrants. 
Due to my repeated failure, my annual entrance into a bracket pool predates only by a week or so my annual declaration to never create a bracket again. “What is the point?” I ask. I concern myself so completely with my picks that I am unable to enjoy the results as they unfold. Rather than being able to enjoy the amazing individual perfor­mances, the buzzer beaters and the jaw-dropping upsets, I am instead engrossed by how my big upset pick barely missed, how the likeable mid-major just bounced my Final Four team and how generally awful my bracket is. 
“Next year, I will save my money and skip the whole process,” I vow. No baseless picks, no finger-crossing and no stressing. I will be able to simply watch the basketball. 
What could 
be better? 
And yet, 
every year, 
there I am 
“This year 
is the year, 
and even if 
it isn’t, I am 
only paying a few bucks.” As much as I complain about the intrusion of my printout’s failure on my enjoyment of the hardcourt’s action, I cannot not make a bracket. To avoid brackets would be to avoid an integral part of the insanity of the season. It is, after all, March Madness, a time when the whole sports world revolves around dancing. 
Contact Joseph Monardo at jmonardo@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
NBA 


Kings closer to arena agreement 
Associated Press 
SACRAMENTO, Calif. — The Sacramento City Council has begun a critical meeting that will decide the future of the Sacramento Kings. 
A year after the team al­most moved to Anaheim, Sac­ramento’s plan to help finance a new $391 million arena was a vote away from approval Tuesday night. The non-bind­ing term sheet, signed off by the Kings and the NBA last week, would keep the team in Sacramento for at least anoth­er 30 years. 
Under the agreement, the city would contribute $255.5 million to the project, mostly by leasing out parking ga­rages around the facility. The Kings have agreed to pay $73.25 million and arena op­erator AEG would contribute $58.75 million. The remain­ing gap would be covered by a ticket surcharge, advertising around the facility, the sale of public lands and a sponsor­ship campaign to sell bricks and plaques around the com­plex, which would open for the 2015-16 season in the downtown rail yards. 
The meeting began just af­ter 6 p.m. local time in Sacra­mento. 
City Manager John Shirey told the council that the de­cision would be “one of the toughest votes of your career” and implored members to ap­prove the plan for the eco­nomic benefit, job creation and untold notoriety of remain­ing a ma-Mayor Kevin Johnson — a for­mer NBA All-Star — among the scores of Kings signs and jerseys in the crowd. A group of about 120 supporters of the plan wore white T-shirts with black letters that read “5 Votes,” signifying the amount needed for approval from the nine-member council. 
“This is bigger than basket­ball,” said Michael Tava­res, one of the leaders of the 

jor profes-“We’re on the verge of group called sional sports doing something very (hash)Fans, city, saying special. We’re finally which stands “there are at the point where we for Fund the only 30 of have one single vote, Arena Now those (NBA) one moment in time to Sacramento. franchises in totally transform the “It’s about all the world downtown community making Sac-and we hap-and Sacramento for ramento a pen to have generations.” destination.” one of them.” Those who 
“The sta-opposed the 
Kevin Johnson 
tus quo is arena plan 
Sacramento Mayor 
not really an seemed to be 
option be­fore you this even ing, ” Shirey said. “If we do nothing, the Kings will likely leave Sacramento.” 
Kings co-owner Gavin Maloof walked into the jam-packed chamber just before the meeting to a light stand­ing ovation. A line of residents snaked around City Hall and seemingly every TV truck and radio station in the Central Valley were broadcasting out­side. 
One fan wore an old Phoe­nix Suns jersey of Sacramento in the extreme 
minority. 
One man, 
who asked not to be named, stood outside with a sign that read “Don’t Let The Mayor Loot The City.” A few dozen other opponents were sprinkled in the crowd of hundreds that swarmed down­town. 
“We’re on the verge of do­ing something very special,” Johnson said before the meet­ing, later shaking hands with all those waiting to get inside. “We’re finally at the point where we have one single vote, one moment in time to totally transform the downtown com­munity and Sacramento for generations.” 
What a turnaround for town that once seemed assured of losing its only major profes­sional sports team. 
The Kings seemed deter­mined to move to Anaheim last year before Johnson convinced the NBA to give the city one last chance to help finance an arena. At one point, Johnson even called the process a “slow death” and compared the city’s efforts to keep the Kings a “Hail Mary.” 
All of it worked. 
Johnson made a desperate pitch to the NBA Board of Gov­ernors last April, promising league owners the city would find a way to help finance a new arena to replace the team’s current outdated suburban fa­cility. He also bought time by presenting more than $10 mil­lion in commitments for new advertising, ticket purchases and other financial support from regional businesses for this season. 
The NBA’s relocation com­mittee, headed by Oklahoma City owner Clay Bennett, who moved the team now known as the Thunder from Seattle in 2008, recommended that the league give the city a shot to fol­low through and handed down a March 1 deadline to come up with a plan to help finance an arena. Johnson delivered the agreement last Thursday — on March 1, no less — to send the plan to the City Council. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The 
Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 

CLASSIFIEDS 

Big East NCAA Tournament Bids Big East Teams  that reached the Big East Teams  that reached the Big East Teams  that reached the History of Notre Dame’s finishes in 
PERSONAL 

in 2011: Sweet Sixteen in 2011: Sweet Sixteen in 2010: Sweet Sixteen in 2009: NCAA tournament: 
Connecticut Syracuse Syracuse Marquette Marquette West Viginia Villanova 2011 - Second Round Villanova Pittsburgh 2010 - First Round UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don’t St. John’s Big East Tournament Bids in 2010: Big East Tournament Bids in 2009 Louisville 2008 - Second Round go it alone. Notre Dame has many West Virginia Louisville Connecticut 2007 - First Round resources in place to assist you. 
Georgetown Marquette West Virginia 2003 - Sweet Sixteen If you or someone you love needs Cincinnati Notre Dame Marquette Notre Dame Tournament Facts 2002 - Second Round 
confidential support or assistance, 

Connecticut Georgetown Villanova All-time NCAA Tournament bids: 2001 - Second Round please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819 Louisville Pittsburgh Connecticut 31 1990 - First Round or Ann Firth at 1-2685. For more Syracuse West Virginia Louisville 1989 - Second Round 
information, visit ND’s website at: 

Notre Dame Villanova Syracuse All-time NCAA Tournament wins: 1988 - First Round Pittsburgh Panthers Syracuse Pittsburgh 30 1987 - Sweet Sixteen 
http://pregnancysupport@nd.edu 

Wednesday, March 7, 2012 The Observer u SPORTS ndsmcobserver.com | page 13 

NCAA MEN’S BASKETBALL 




UConn starts title defense with win over DePaul 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK — Connecticut’s start to the 2012 Big East tour­nament looked a lot like the way the Huskies began last year’s incredible run that end­ed with a conference title and a national championship. 
Coach Jim Calhoun was on the sideline again, just eight days after undergoing back surgery. The Huskies, again the tournament’s ninth seed, had a guard leading the way, but this time it was Jeremy Lamb, not Kemba Walker, who led UConn against 16th-seeded DePaul. 
Lamb scored 25 points and Ryan Boatright added 19 to lead Connecticut to an 81-67 victory over the Blue Demons on Tues­day in the opening round of the Big East tournament. 
Calhoun missed eight games last in the season after being diagnosed with spinal stenosis, and the Huskies won only three of those. 
He looked like his old self Tuesday, getting up and down from his seat often and making his way on the court at a whis­tle to make sure Boatright un­derstood what he wanted him to do in running the offense. 
“It’s been a different kind of season. But through it all, somewhat by separation, I re­alized how much I care about these kids,” Calhoun said. “The pain is a different kind of pain, it’s a muscular pain and I’m not walking with a cane anymore. I couldn’t walk with a cane on the sidelines because the of­ficials might have been hit. There was always the fear of pain of some sort but to allevi­ate that pain was incredible.” 
It was Calhoun’s 34th career win the Big East tournament, passing Georgetown’s John Thompson for sole possession of second place behind the 46 of Syracuse’s Jim Boeheim. 
The ninth-seeded Huskies (19-12) will play eighth-seeded West Virginia in the second round on Wednesday at Madi­son Square Garden. 
Cleveland Melvin and Moses Morgan both had 19 points for the 16th-seeded Blue Demons (12-19), who closed the season losing 10 of their last 11. 
“I’m disappointed it’s over,” DePaul coach Oliver Purnell said, “but we lost to a better team today.” 
The Huskies started shooting like a team destined to again do big things in the postseason. They made their first seven 3-point attempts and were 7 of 9 from beyond the arc in taking a 46-33 lead. 
A 15-4 run to start the sec­ond half, capped by a 3 by Ros­coe Smith, gave Connecticut a 61-37 lead with 14:47 to play. 
“I think today we moved the ball well,” Lamb said when asked about the 3-point shoot­ing success for a team that en­tered the game 11th in the con­ference at 32.4 percent. “Early I had a couple open shots. I tried to set my man up and our big men had great screens so I was able to knock a couple down.” 
Unlike last year when the Huskies went on to a 97-71 win, the Blue Demons found a way to make a game of it. An 11-0 run got DePaul within 63-51 with 11:09 to play and the Blue Demons were able to get within 70-61 on a 3 by Morgan with 
7:15 to play. 
“I really admired our guys’ fighting spirit to get back into the game in the second half,” Purnell said, “but we couldn’t keep them off the offensive boards in the second half and they just got enough in transi­tion.” 


Lamb had four points in a 6-0 run that got the Huskies straightened out and the Blue Demons were never closer than 12 points the rest of the way. 
Lamb wouldn’t get caught up in comparisons to Walker. 
“I’m not trying to be Kemba,” Lamb said. “Of course every­body wants to lead their team to championships but I’m just trying to do what’s best for this team. The whole team knows we’ve got five great players, so it’s a great team effort.” 
As good as Connecticut was from behind the 3-point line (8 of 13) it was terrible from the free throw line, making 11 of 24, including an 0-for-6 ef­fort by freshman center Andre Drummond. 
The Huskies, who came in fourth in the country with 6.7 blocks per game, blocked 10 shots against DePaul with Drummond and Oriakhi get­ting four each. DePaul shot just 
32.4 percent from the field (23 of 71), the 12th time in the last 21 games an opponent didn’t shoot 40 percent against the Huskies. 
Lamb finished 10 of 18 from the field, including 3 of 6 on 3s, and Boatright was 5 of 9 overall and made his two 3-point at­tempts. Boatright matched his career high with seven assists. 
NBA 


Heat roll past Nets in Bosh’s return to lineup 
Associated Press 
MIAMI — LeBron James scored 21 points and capped his night by banking in a half-court shot, Chris Bosh added 20 points and the Miami Heat snapped a two-game slide by rolling past the New Jersey Nets 108-78 on Tuesday night. 
The win came with a cost: Dwyane Wade turned his right ankle late in the first half and did not return, finishing with 13 points. Wade missed six games earlier this season after sprain­ing the same ankle, though the team said he could have re­turned to this one if needed. 
The Heat made 12 of their first 15 shots on the way to a 10th straight home win. James finished 9 for 11, adding nine rebounds and six assists, and the 78 points allowed matched Miami’s season-best. 
Deron Williams, who was coming off an NBA season-high 57 points in a win over Char­lotte, scored 16 for the Nets. MarShon Brooks scored 12 and Johan Petro added 11 for New Jersey, which lost to the Heat for the ninth straight time. 
Miami’s lead was 64-37 at the half, the Heat having shot a sea-son-best 66 percent in the first three quarters. 
New Jersey was without Brook Lopez, who’s expected to miss the next three weeks with a sprained right ankle. His re­placement, Shelden Williams, went scoreless in 17 minutes. 
Miami’s “Big Three” of James, Bosh and Wade combined for 54 points on 24 of 33 shooting. All 12 Heat players either scored or logged double-figure minutes and even little-used center Eddy Curry got into the act, getting into his 10th game of the season and playing the final 5:59. 
Bosh had missed Miami’s last three games while dealing with the death of his grandmother, and had a message written to her on his game sneakers. 
“She wouldn’t have it any other way,” Bosh said. “She’d tell me, ‘Go back to work. Work hard.’ She lives on in our minds, so I came back to work.” 
With the win, Miami (29­
9) pulled within two games of the Chicago Bulls (32-8) for the top spot in the Eastern Confer­ence. And the Heat are appar­ently getting into scoreboard-watching mode, with coach Erik Spoelstra spending part of the team’s shootaround Tues­day morning going over the lat­est standings and where Miami matches up among the other NBA elite. 
NHL 


Blue Jackets quiet Coyotes 
Associated Press 

COLUMBUS, Ohio — Jack Johnson scored his first goal for Columbus, Steve Mason made 38 saves and the Blue Jackets beat the Phoenix Coy­otes 3-2 on Tuesday night for their first three-game win­ning streak in more than a year. 
Mason, who struggled all season until recently, has al­lowed just four goals in two wins over Phoenix and one over Colorado in the last six days. 
R.J. Umberger and Derek MacKenzie also scored for the Blue Jackets. Johnson, ac­quired in the deal that sent Jeff Carter to Los Angeles just before the trade deadline, added an assist. 
Antoine Vermette and Keith Yandle had goals for Phoenix, which has lost four in a row in regulation, its longest such skid of the season. 
The Coyotes have been out­scored 14-7 during their slide, which has knocked them out of the lead in the Pacific Divi­sion. They started the night in seventh place in Western Con­ference standings, their mar­gin for error reduced by their recent losses. 
Mason had 30 saves in a 5-2 win at Phoenix on Saturday night. 
Columbus last won three in a row against Chicago, Nash­ville and Phoenix from Feb. 18-25, 2011. 
The Blue Jackets took their second two-goal lead of the game when MacKenzie con­verted a wrister from a hard angle early in the second pe­riod to make it 3-1. 
The Coyotes countered on Yandle’s laser beam of a shot from the top of the left circle, tucking the drive just inside the far post and past Mason’s outstretched glove. 
There were no goals in the third period, but plenty of action. The Coyotes had 20 seconds of 5 on 3 as the Blue Jackets killed all five penal­ties. 

Oliver Ekman-Larsson was stymied on a hard shot gloved by Mason while the Coyotes were short-handed with 7:35 left. Phoenix’s Radim Vrbata’s chest-high shot stunned Ma­son in the final seconds, but Columbus defenseman James Wisniewski cleared the puck from the crease. 
Mason also made big saves on Shane Doan and Ray Whit­ney early in the final period. 

page 14 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u NEWS Wednesday, March 7, 2012 
NFL 


Foster signs $43.5 million contract with Houston 
Associated Press 
HOUSTON — Arian Foster’s mother finally got her fruit basket. 
The Texans star running back fulfilled a childhood promise to her on Tuesday af­ter signing a five-year, $43.5 million to stay in Houston. 
When Foster was growing up in Albuquerque, N.M., the big-dreaming kid told each family member what he was going to get them when he hit the sal­ary jackpot in pro football. 
“I was, like, 7 years old,” Fos­ter said at a news conference. “I was going to buy a house, I was going to buy a car.” 
He had a specific gift in mind for each family member, and told his mother, Berna­dette Sizemore, that he’d get her a fruit basket. It became a running gag in the family for years, with relatives always asking Arian when he would make good. 
On Tuesday, Sizemore got the fruit basket delivered to her office in Albuquerque, where she’s an administrative assis­tant for African-American stu­dents at the University of New Mexico. 
“I was just really floored,” Sizemore said in a phone in­terview. “It’s funny, it’s a joke. But it’s also so profound in so many ways.” 
Foster held back tears as he recalled hardships that his family made when he was young. At one point, Sizemore pawned her wedding ring to buy food. 
“I just told myself that I wanted to do something with my life,” Foster said before stepping away from a podium to gather his emotions. “I just wanted to do something with my life to make sure that when I have a kid, she never had to worry about the lights being on, she never had to worry about any of that. I didn’t care if I had to work three jobs, whatever.” 
Foster has a 2-year-old daughter, Zeniah, and thanks to the Texans, all the financial security he and his family will ever need. 
“It’s overwhelming,” Size-more said. “There were a lot of hard times along the way.” 
The contract also further validates the two-time Pro Bowl selection as one of the NFL’s elite running backs. 
An undrafted free agent in 2009, Foster made only $525,000 last season, even af­ter leading the league in rush­ing in 2010 (1,616 yards). His agent, Mike McCartney, said Monday that the Texans told Foster that they needed to see him have another productive year before they talked about an extension. 
Foster never considered holding out before the season, and never seemed upset by his contract situation during it. Bothered by a hamstring injury early in the season, he still ran for 1,224 yards and 10 touchdowns. Since be­coming a full-time starter in 2010, Foster has led the NFL in rushing yards per game (97.9), rushing touchdowns 
(26) and yards from scrim­mage (4,061). 
“I’m an extreme believer in karma, for the most part,” Foster said. “If you take care of this game, it will take care of you. Even if it didn’t, some­thing else in my life, I was go­ing to be OK somewhat. I just believe that. I think belief is 90 percent of the battle.” 
Foster will make $18 million in base salary next season, and the deal includes $20.75 million guaranteed. He ac­knowledged that the negotia­tion was “nerve-racking,” but says now the pressure is off. 
“It’s tough for an athlete to go out and play knowing a pending contract is there,” he said. “I think playing with that weight off of your shoulders and not having to worry about a long-term contract, you get to play free and you just get to play ball. I’m excited. I can’t wait to get back on the field and do what I do best.” 
The team’s next major order of business is deciding the fate of outside linebacker Mario Williams, who will become an unrestricted free agent next week. 
Another key unrestricted free agent is center Chris My­ers, part of the offensive line that helped Houston finish second in rushing (153 yards per game) and set a franchise record for yards on the ground (2,448). 


Myers, who just finished his fourth year in Houston, says he’s hopeful that he and the Texans will get a satisfactory deal done. 
NHL 


Crosby returns to practice following medical clearance 
Associated Press York Islanders and collecting 
12 points in eight games be-

PITTSBURGH — Sidney fore he woke up with an all-too Crosby’s head is clear. The su-familiar feeling on Dec. 6. perstar’s return, however, re-During that initial comeback mains murky. he was cleared for contact in 
The Pittsburgh Penguins early October and had to wait captain participated in his about six weeks before getting first full practice since con-the OK to suit up for a game. cussion-like symptoms resur-It may not take that long this faced in December and there time. is growing optimism he’ll be “I’m going to give myself back before the playoffs begin days, for sure, of contact,” next month. Crosby said. “If you look at our 
The ever-cautious Crosby schedule, we have two more insists there still is no time-practices, I think, this week. table on when he’ll be cleared No sooner than Sunday I would to play in a say but I’m game, but he not going to looked crisp sit here and while spend-“I’m going to give myself put a date on ing more than days, for sure, of contact it. It would be an hour on total guess­
... If you look at our 
the Consol work.” 
schedule, we have two 
Energy Cen-Coach
more practices, I think, 
ter ice. Dan Bylsma 
this week. No sooner 
“It’s a good echoed Cros­step,” Crosby than Sunday I would by’s senti­
said. “Hope-say but I’m not going ments, but fully, I can to sit here and put a made sure keep the mo-date on it. It would be Crosby got 


mentum and get out there  total guesswork.”  bo u n ce d around dur­ which Crosby crisscrossed the country visiting specialists in  over the last two months even with Crosby watching from a  Crosby himself has been pushing  during non-contact  
soon.” Though the he a d a c he s  Sidney Crosby Penguins center  ing a lively practice ses­sion.  hopes of getting a better han­dle on his health. Tests conducted out in Cali- suite well above the ice. Pitts­burgh has a six-game winning streak going into Wednesday’s  drills in recent weeks and en­joyed getting knocked around on Tuesday. Yet he knows noth­ 
and  motion  “It  was  fornia in late January discov­ game against Toronto behind  ing can replicate game action.  
issues  that  man-on-man  ered a previously undiagnosed  the play of MVP-candidate Ev- All he can do is get prepared.  
have  both- type  stuff,  soft tissue injury in his neck  geni Malkin and wingers Chris  After that, it’s up to chance.  
ered him intermittently since  some puck battles,” Bylsma  that mimics a concussion. He  Kunitz and James Neal.  Either way, he’s feeling bet­ 
a loss to Boston on Dec. 5 have  said. “We had him get through  took a shot as part of the treat- Kunitz has typically teamed  ter both on and off the ice.  
subsided,  Crosby  has  been  today,  we’ll  see  where  we  ment and claims the results  with Crosby since arriving in  Considering  what  he’s  gone  
through this drill too often  progress on day three, four,  have been largely positive.  Pittsburgh in 2009, but Crosby  through  the  last  14  months,  
over the last 14 months to get  five and six.”  “It’s nice to be symptom free,  doesn’t expect Bylsma to break  that’s good news.  
too excited.  Crosby called the lineup “a  but it’s not as fulfilling until  up arguably the league’s hot­ “It’s just one of those things  
The 24-year-old former MVP  dangerous place to be” and felt  you get out there,” Crosby said.  test line whenever he’s cleared  where you get used to having  
was spectacular in his return  he “was getting a lot of bumps  “I just want to make sure that  to play.  things for so long you forget  
from a 10-month layoff in No- out there.”  I take the right steps here and  “They  have  a  perfect  mix  what normal is,” he said. “I  
vember, scoring twice in his  It was a welcome feeling af­ get back out there soon.”  of guys there to create every  feel like normal has been a lot  
season debut against the New  ter three anxious months in  The Penguins have surged  shift,” Crosby said.  more regularly.”  

Wednesday, March 7, 2012 The Observer u SPORTS ndsmcobserver.com | page 15 
NFL 


Colts expected to release Manning after 14 seasons 
Associated Press With a $28 million bonus 
payment due Thursday to Man-

INDIANAPOLIS — The Peyton ning, his neck problems, and Manning era in Indianapolis is the fact that the Colts own the expected to end Wednesday, ac-No. 1 pick in April’s draft, the cording to a report. Colts seem to have deemed it 
Citing anonymous sources, too risky — and too pricey — ESPN reported Tuesday that the to keep the longtime franchise Colts plan to hold a news con-quarterback, who will turn 36 ference to announce the long-later this month. expected decision. Manning The twists and turns of a and team owner Jim Irsay are public debate between Man-expected to attend, the network ning and Irsay, who have been said. friends for more than a decade, 
Colts spokesman Avis Roper created the sense the two had said he could not confirm the been fighting. Irsay twice is-decision — or that a news con-sued statements to deny a rift. ference would be held Wednes-Still, with the Colts in full re-day — because Irsay was out of building mode, Irsay has been town and could not be reached expected by many to play for for comment. Neither Irsay nor the future and let Manning try Manning’s agent, Tom Condon, to chase a second Super Bowl responded immediately to mes-ring somewhere else. sages left by The Associated The Colts are expected to Press. take Stanford quarterback An-
Manning has said in the drew Luck with the first pick in past that all he wanted to do April’s draft. was finish his career in a Colts Manning’s impending de­uniform, but an injured neck parture marks the end of a re-forced him to miss all of the markably successful era that 2011 season. included the 2006 league title. 
“I can’t tell you what an honor He started every meaningful it is to go start-to-finish with the game for 13 seasons in Indy, 
same  organi­ 227 straight  
zation here in  including  the  
Indianapolis. That is some­thing I have always want­ed to do as a rookie coming out,” Manning said after signing a five-year, $90 mil­lion contract in July. “Of course, you  “This isn’t an ankle, it isn’t a shoulder. Often times the NFL is criticized for putting someone outthere at risk, and I’m not going to doing that ... Ithink he and I just needto see where his health is because this isn’t about money or anything else.It’s about his life and his long-term health.”  playoffs, and took the Colts from peren­nial also-ran to one of the NFL’s model franchises. In the two decades pre­dating his arrival, the Colts won 116 games, one  
never  know  division  title  
if that is pos­sible, but af­ter yesterday  Jim Irsay Colts owner  and made the playoffs three times. With  
it  is  official  Manning  tak­ 
that I will be  ing snaps, the  
an Indianapo- Colts  have  

lis Colt for my entire career. I won 150 games, eight division will not play for another team. titles, two AFC championships My last down of football will be and the franchise’s first Super with the Colts, which means a Bowl since moving from Balti­great deal to me.” more in 1984. 
But things have changed Indy broke the league record since last summer. Now it looks for most regular-season wins like the NFL’s only four-time in a decade (115), tied Dallas’ MVP, and a former Super Bowl league record for most consecu­champion, won’t be wearing tive playoff appearances (nine) No. 18 for Indy. and the success changed Indy from a basketball town to an NFL town. 

Manning is one of four play­ers with more than 50,000 yards passing, one of three with more than 350 touchdown pass­es and one of two quarterbacks with more than 200 consecu­tive starts. The only non-active quarterback with a rating high­er than Manning’s 94.9 is Hall of Famer Steve Young (96.8). He broke all of the franchise’s major career passing records, previously held by Hall of Fame quarterback John Unitas, and he may not be finished. 
In 2009, the star QB had the Colts on the cusp of history with a 14-0 start. 
It’s been mostly bad news ever since. The Colts pulled their starters against the New York Jets and lost the final two games that season. Indy then wound up losing to New Or­leans in the Super Bowl. During the offseason, Manning had the first of his neck surgeries. 
Then, after making an early playoff exit in the 2010 season, Manning underwent another neck surgery to repair a dam­aged nerve that was causing weakness in his throwing arm. 
But when the nerve did not heal as quickly as anticipated, Manning had two vertebrae fused together in September, a surgery that forced him to miss the first game of his career. There are still questions about how strong Manning’s arm is. 
Yet he has repeatedly insisted he plans to play football again next season. 
“My plan hasn’t changed,” Manning said during Super Bowl week. “I’m on track with what the doctors have told me to do, and I’m doing that. I’m rehabbing hard.” 
The question is where might Manning land if he is no longer a Colt. 
Arizona, Miami, Tennessee and the New York Jets have all been rumored as possible spots, and Manning’s former longtime offensive coordinator Tom Moore did work with the Jets as a consultant less season. 
It’s still possible, however un­likely, that Manning could re­turn to Indy for a lower price if he can prove he’s healthy. 
“This isn’t an ankle, it isn’t a shoulder. Often times the NFL is criticized for putting someone out there at risk, and I’m not go­ing to doing that,” Irsay said in January. “I think he and I just need to see where his health is because this isn’t about money or anything else. It’s about his life and his long-term health.” 



page 16 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u SPORTS Wednesday, March 7, 2012 
NBA 


Hawks capture third straight win 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS  — The Atlan­ta Hawks are back on track, and Josh Smith is a big reason. 
Smith had 27 points and nine rebounds, leading the Hawks to their third straight victory, 101­96 over the Indiana Pacers on Tuesday night. 
“Josh has been on a roll as of late,” coach Larry Drew said. “We’ve been going through him offensively and defensively. He’s been an anchor for us. Tonight I felt he played another phenome­nal ball game. He was just solid.” 
Smith scored 13 points in the first quarter, 11 in the third, and fell three points shy of his season high. He passed the credit onto his teammates. 
“It’s great when your team­mates lift you up,” Smith said. “That really helped in the third and fourth quarter. We’re com­ing together and figuring out a way to win ball games.” 
Jannero Pargo had 16 points, while Marvin Williams and Zaza Pachulia each scored 12 for the Hawks. 
David West scored a season-high 24 points for the Pacers, who have lost two straight. Dan­ny Granger had 19 points and eight rebounds, and George Hill 

SMC TENNIS 


scored 15 points off the bench for Indiana. 
“They kept us off balance with good ball movement and we couldn’t seem to adjust to their schemes,” West said. “We just weren’t able to figure them out in the time to stop them.” 
The Hawks led by as much as 16 points in the first half, but Granger’s 3-pointer tied it at 62. 
West’s basket gave Indiana its last lead at 71-69 before Wil­liams answered with a 3-point­er. 
The Hawks outrebounded the Pacers 45-37 and grabbed 14 of­fensive rebounds. 
The Pacers returned home af­ter losing Monday to the Chicago Bulls on the road, 92-72, snap­ping a season-best, six-game winning streak. 
“We didn’t defend the 3 well and didn’t do a good enough job on the defensive glass,” Pac­ers coach Frank Vogel said. “It cost us the game. I don’t think we were ourselves the last two games.” 

Belles get sweep in home opener 
By ISAAC LORTON 
Sports Writer 
Starting its home campaign with a strong showing, Saint Mary’s dominated Indiana Tech in a 9-0 victory. The Belles (2-1) won in five straight sets and gained a forfeit over the Warriors (0-4) in their single matches. They took doubles 8-1, 8-1 and earned another forfeit. The Warriors only fielded a five-person roster, giving the Belles an early, uncontested 2-0 lead. 
“It’s definitely nice to have a start like (that) right away,” coach Dale Campbell said. 
Although young, Campbell claimed the Belles are learning to close games and avoid giving up sets to easier opponents. 
“I think it shows maturity to take care of business and fin­ish in two sets,” Campbell said. “In the Olivet match we gave up a few second sets that we shouldn’t have and had to win some tie breakers — we even lost one. It is a good sign that we are starting to shut down the games when we need to and not give the other team a chance.” 
Campbell said the Belles have gained invaluable confidence from the past three matches, especially this one. The past two matches, he said, have al­lowed the Belles to work out the issues they faced. 
“Now they have seen it all,” Campbell said. “We have gone against a tough ranked team and two easier teams, and gained a lot of experience. It is good for them to get a couple of wins under their belts and get through some early season nerves. 
“They know what it takes to come back from a loss and, more importantly, what it takes to win.” 
Campbell gave a nod to Saint Mary’s No. 2 player, freshman Kayle Sexton, as well the Belles’ No. 4 player, freshman Jackie Kjolhede. 
“Kayle played a solid oppo­nent who had some weapons, but she showed that she had a lot of strength, stepped up and won convincingly,” Campbell said. 
Coming off a foot injury, Kjol­hede moved back to her normal No. 4 spot after playing in the No. 5 spot against Olivet. 
“[Kjolhede] had a dominant match,” Campbell said. “She had been fighting a nagging injury and she won in straight sets. It was good to see that.” 
With this newly gained confi­dence, the Belles are looking to heat up play in Orlando, Fla., for 


their annual spring break trip. 
 Contact Isaac Lorton at ilorton@nd.edu 
NBA 

Stuckey leads Pistons in OT win over Lakers 
Associated Press 
AUBURN HILLS, Mich. — Rodney Stuckey scored 34 points, and the Detroit Pis­tons overcame a tying shot by Kobe Bryant at the end of regulation Tuesday night, beating the Los Angeles Lakers 88-85 in overtime. 
Bryant’s basket at the buzzer forced the extra ses­sion, but he missed from 3-point range in the final seconds of overtime. Metta World Peace came up with the ball and dribbled back toward the top of the key, but his last-ditch turn­around missed as well. 
Andrew Bynum had 30 points and 14 rebounds for the Lakers. 
Bryant finished with 22 points on 8-of-26 shooting. He started the game with black mask protecting his injured nose but switched to a clear one while struggling through the first half. 
In front of a rare sellout at The Palace — with Gladys Knight performing at half­time — the Pistons won despite scoring only nine points in the third quarter. Down 74-71 in the fourth, Stuckey shook free of Bry­ant with a nifty crossover dribble, stepping back to make a shot from near the free throw line. He then put the Pistons ahead with a driving layup. 
World Peace stole the ball near midcourt and went the other way for a layup to put the Lakers ahead 76-75, but Stuckey’s 3-pointer with 9.8 seconds left gave the Pistons a two-point lead. 
As the clock ticked down, Bryant calmly dribbled to his right and sank a shot from about 17 feet over Tayshaun Prince to force overtime. 
Neither team led by more than three in the extra session, and the Pistons won by forcing the Lakers to take bad shots from the perimeter late. With the Pistons up 86-85, World Peace forced a 3-pointer with the shot clock running down. After that miss, Stuckey drove hard to the basket and drew a foul, sinking both free throws with 36.8 seconds remaining. 
Bryant missed a quick 3-pointer from the top, but the shot clock was still on for the Pistons, who had to settle for a perimeter shot by Jason Maxiell that missed badly. The Lakers rebounded and called a timeout. 
The Pistons had a foul to give and used it immediately on Bryant. When the Lakers inbounded again, Bryant — perhaps anticipating another foul — tossed up a quick shot that missed. Although World Peace had time for another try, it missed as well. 
Bryant took the floor wear­ing a black-rimmed mask to protect the nose he broke in the All-Star game. As missed shots piled up in the first half, he switched to a clear mask that looked more similar to what he wore in a win over the Miami Heat on Sunday. 


Wednesday, March 7, 2012 The Observer u SPORTS ndsmcobserver.com | page 17 

Aoki 
continued from page 20 
have caused a little consterna­tion, especially in the minds of the players. I hope, anyway, that that sort of thing is water under the bridge.” 
Aoki said he has sensed a change in the team atmosphere since he took over, which he thinks will translate into wins. 
“I think that that’s inevitable with any coaching change, be­cause any coach has their own ideas of the way things need to get done and has their own ex­pectation for the way that play­ers should practice or prepare and play and all of that,” Aoki said. “In my eyes that change is positive — I guess you have to ask the players as to whether or not that’s true. I think I’ve really changed the way this group has gone about its work, and I think they’re doing a good job.” 

Although Aoki said the Irish won’t be able to overpower their opponents with superior talent, he still has big plans for them. Notre Dame sped off to a 5-1 record in the first two weekends of the season before suffering a three-game sweep at the hands of Texas State last weekend. 
“I would hope that we would have a number of more wins, 
[I] hope that we can be above .500,” Aoki said. “I hope that we can really compete to be in the upper-half of the Big East and potentially get into a re­gional. I think we have a long way to go to achieve that level of play, but I certainly feel like it’s within the realm of what this team is capable of doing.” 
The Irish face Michigan in Baton Rouge, La., in their first game of the LSU Baseball Tournament at 2 p.m. on Sat­urday. 
Contact Vicky Jacobsen at vjacobse@nd.edu 

Platt 
continued from page 20 
er of the Week on Feb. 15 af­ter going 4-0 at Notre Dame’s opening event, Platt’s early success, combined with the play of his teammates, has 
the  Irish  excited  about  the  
prospects  of the  young  sea­ 
son.  

“I felt great about our first event,” Platt said. “The big­gest thing is that it’s a team effort. We had guys making comebacks all over the place. I think we’re set up really well going into spring break.” 
As the Irish travel to Geor­gia for the break, Platt, a Southern California native, is relishing the opportuni­ty to return to regular play outdoors, a luxury taken for granted in the Golden State. 
“It’s tough to keep your game sharp the whole time when you’re playing indoors,” Platt said. “In California we would practice every day, but here we just have windows at either end of the school year. It’s hard to avoid rust.” 
Even though Platt has been cooped up inside the Rolfs Family Varsity Golf Facility at the Warren Golf Course for much of the spring semester, Kubinski credits Platt’s work ethic for much of his early success. 
McBride 
continued from page 20 
of attacking it,” McBride said. “I think we kind of got compla­cent a little bit, and just weren’t in our attack mode that we’re usually in. They were just box­ing out and rebounding.” 
The Irish took a 10-6 lead early on before Connecticut’s freshman forward Kaleena Mosqueda-Lewis took over for a 15-3 Huskies run. Mosqueda-Lewis scored 19 points on the day. Connecticut sophomore guard Bria Hartley contributed 18 points to the win. 
Irish junior guard Kaila Turner sunk a 3-pointer to nar­row the Irish deficit to 31-30 at the half. The Irish took the lead right out of the break 36-33, but gave it up as Hartley and Mosqueda-Lewis paired up for a 10-1 run. The Huskies never let go of the lead again. 
“I think we’ll respond well 
“The kid is a hard worker, one of the hardest I’ve ever coached,” Kubinski said. “He’ll tell you that one of the areas of his game he has to work on is his short game, and he’s one of the best put­ters I’ve ever seen in college. He says that because his stan­dards are so high.” 
Not just a short-game spe­cialist, Platt has executed his irons game with laser-like precision this spring. At one point, the sophomore hit 25­of-29 greens, a rate Kubinski says is above the PGA aver­age. 
“His ball striking has real­ly improved,” Kubinski said. “He really has an all-around game. Lots of professionals don’t put up the numbers that he did a few weeks ago at the Match Play.” 
With three seniors in the starting lineup set to gradu­ate in May, Platt will soon be out of the shadows and in the spotlight. Until then, Kubins­ki says Platt is content to play an understated but essential role on this Irish squad. 
“He’s a great kid, a great young man,” Kubinski said. “He’s a Barry Sanders-type golfer. If he were to score a touchdown, he would just calmly hand the ball to the referee.” 
Contact Conor Kelly at ckelly17@nd.edu 
[to the loss],” McGraw said. “I think we have responded well after losses. We haven’t had a lot of practice, but I think they don’t like to lose. So they’ll be ready to go. It could be a good thing.” 
The Irish will head home to prepare for the NCAA tourna­ment, which begins March 18. The first two rounds of the tournament will be played at Purcell Pavilion. 
“We’re only guaranteed one game,” Diggins said. “This is a great game going into the tour­nament. This is a Final Four team, a championship-caliber team. It’s great for us to play in the Big East and play these competitive games going into the tournament. We’ll learn from it when we get in the gym tomorrow and throughout the week, and we have to practice hard and get ready for that first tournament game.” 
Contact Molly Sammon at msammon@nd.edu 


page 18 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u SPORTS Wednesday, March 7, 2012 

Sheahan 
continued from page 20 
Sheahan is not necessarily the one that garners the most atten­tion. 
Sheahan sits among the top four on the team in goals, as­sists, points and shots, but his most notice­able contri­many skillful players around the league that you’ve got to have a strong two-way game. It’s some­thing I take pride in, but I still have to work on my offensive game, and work on little things when it comes to scoring.” 
And while Sheahan is excit­ed about fulfilling his lifelong dreams with the Red Wings in a few years, he’s focused on a more immedi­ate challenge: 

butions may come on spe­cial teams. Irish coach Jeff Jackson relied heavily on the Ontar­io native this  “In today’s game, there’s so many skillful players around the league that you’ve got to have a strong two-way game. It’s something I take pride in, but I still have to work  Michigan and the CCHA semifinals. The eighth-seeded Irish will travel to the famed Yost Ice Arena on  
past weekend, double-shift­ing him when­ever Notre  on my offensive game, and work on little things when it comes to scoring.”  Friday to take on the No. 2 Wolverines in what will be a  
Dame  was  heated, hard- 
shorthanded. Sheahan and his fellow pen- Riley Sheahan Irish center  fought rival­ry weekend. Taking two of  

alty killers proved up to the challenge, allowing the Buckeyes just one goal on 10 powerplays. 
For Sheahan, it was the little things that made the difference shorthanded. 
“One thing I like to take pride in is having a good stick,” he said. “Reading where the players are trying to pass the puck and getting my stick in that lane and deflecting it out of the zone, or deflecting it to one of my team­mates so we can get a clear, and little things like knowing when to pressure and not to pressure are what I try to bring. I think we’ve got a good group of guys for penalty killing.” 
In addition to playing a role in killing penalties, Sheahan is a key part of the Irish power-play. His powerplay unit, fea­turing the physicality of sopho­more left wing Jeff Costello and sophomore defenseman Stephen Johns, operates by shooting the puck and getting traffic in front of goal. As such, Sheahan leads the team in powerplay shots. 
“Our unit, I think, has more of a grind it out and get pucks to the net and use our big bod­ies in front approach,” Sheahan said. “We’ve all got good shots out there.” 
Sheahan does indeed have a solid shot, as he is among Notre Dame’s leaders in both pow­erplay and shorthanded goals. That scoring ability, combined with his defensive prowess and youth (at 20, Sheahan is younger than most of the team’s fresh­men), inspired the Detroit Red Wings to take Sheahan with the 21st overall pick in the 2010 NHL Draft. But while profes­sional scouts may see him as the total package, the young center said he still has places he needs to improve to break into the next level. 
“I don’t see any NHL teams taking someone they think is go­ing to be a one-sided player,” he said. “In today’s game, there’s so three on en­
emy ice will be 
a tough chal­lenge for Notre Dame. Sheahan said the series will hinge on playing hard, smart hockey. 
“There’s going to be a lot of distractions,” he said. “They have a pretty good student sec­tion and a pretty good fanbase up in Michigan, so we can’t get distracted by that. We need to play our game. 
“They’re a skilled team and we are too, so I think we’re just going to have to outgrit them, play them a little more intense and be ready for their style of play.” 
Contact Jack Hefferon at wheffero@nd.edu 
Sullivan 
continued from page 20 
speaking your language.” 
In addition to facing top international competition, Sullivan also had to battle for playing time with her teammates. Many of them now play lacrosse at top Division I schools. Sullivan said she gained valuable experience competing with her teammates, particularly freshman goalie Allie Mur­ray. Like Sullivan, she would be moving to South Bend shortly after playing in Ger­many to join Notre Dame’s team. 
“Allie and I were actually roommates in Germa­

start, Sullivan said she looks than trying to improve ev­forward to continuing to con-ery day at the game she truly 
tribute to the team and help it reach its potential, a potential she sees as very promis­ing. 
“This team is ca­pable of so much,” Sul­livan said. “We were underrated going into the season, and I think we’re start­ing to prove 

“We were underrated going into the season, and I think we’re starting to prove ourselves. As long as we play the way our coaches want us to play, I think we can go real far, off to the NCAAs and maybe even the Final Four.” 
Barbara Sullivan Irish defender 
ourselves. As long as we play 

ny for two “I think the game and a half of lacrosse itself is weeks, so progressing at such a we became high rate, and it offers really close many opportunities.” there,” Sul­livan said. 
Barbara Sullivan 
“Just be-

Irish defender 
ing able to play with her behind me before we got to college few personal made the transition into college much easier.” 
Although her college ca­reer is still young, Sullivan has made her transition to college look seamless. 
She has started all three games this season for the Irish and been a strong force on defense, recovering five ground balls and forc­ing four turnovers. Finding playing time in the experi­enced Irish defensive front, which includes seniors Jordy Shoemaker, Megan Sullivan and Kate Newall, is not an easy task. But Sullivan said that the senior leaders have been more than willing to make her feel part of the fabric of the team. 
“They’re three great lead­ers, and to come in and play with them has been a really awesome experience,” Sulli­van said. “We’re really close on and off the field, which helps a lot because they’ve taught me so much. I’ve learned a lot from just fol­lowing the little things they do and the way they com­municate with the coaches and each other.” 
With the Irish off to a hot the way our coaches want us to play, I think we can go real far, off to the NCAAs and maybe even the Final Four.” 
As for her­self, Sullivan said she had goals, other loves. A dis-ti ng uishe d three-sport athlete in her native Gar­den City, N.Y., Sullivan also had opportu­nities to play soccer and basketball on the collegiate level, but said she could not be happier with her de­cision to pur­sue lacrosse. 
“I think the game of la­
crosse itself is progressing at such a high rate, and it offers many opportunities,” Sullivan said. “I loved play­ing soccer and basketball, but I definitely made the right decision in sticking to lacrosse.” 
Sullivan and her team­mates will travel to Boston, Mass., on Saturday to face Boston University. 
Contact Brian Hartnett at bhartnet@nd.edu 



Wednesday, March 7, 2012 The Observer u TODAY ndsmcobserver.com | page 19 
WiLL SHOrTz 
EuGENiA LAST 
CROSSWORD 
HOROSCOPE 



HENry ArNOLD 
JUMBLE 

THE CLAMMY HANDSHAKE jOE MiLLEr and kELLy LyNcH 
MikE ArGiriON 





Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556

 Enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year


 Enclosed
 is $75 for one semester 


Name ____________________________________________________ Address __________________________________________________ City ____________________ State___________ Zip______________ 

Wednesday, March 7, 2012 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 20 
ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 
Unlucky number seven 
Irish fall to UConn in tournament final 
By MOLLY SAMMON 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame fell short of winning its first-ever Big East tournament as it suffered a 63­54 loss Tuesday to Connecticut at the XL Center in Hartford, Conn. It was the program’s seventh berth in the title game, and all seven times the Huskies have defeated the Irish. 
“I thought it was a hard fought battle and a really good game,” Irish coach Muffet Mc­Graw said. “I thought in the first half we were only down one without having [senior guard] Natalie Novosel in the game for a big chunk in the half. I thought we’d be better in the second half, and we just didn’t shoot it well. 
“We shot better from the 3-point line than 2-point [shots], and couldn’t even make a free throw. I think we really did some things that didn’t help us, but they came out and really won the game. It was a great game. They just played better.” 
Though the No. 3 Irish beat the No. 4 Huskies in the three games prior to Tuesday’s, once in the last year’s Final Four and twice during the regular season this year, Connecticut ended the streak and earned its fifth consecutive conference tournament championship and 18th in program history. 
“It’s tough to beat a good team three times,” McGraw said. “We won here Monday, so I don’t really think that we have to do anything different. I don’t think there was more pressure on us … I just think they outplayed us.” 
Huskies coach Geno Auriem­ma notched the 800th win of his distinguished career with the victory. He became the sixth coach in NCAA women’s basketball to reach that num­ber, doing so in the shortest amount of games. 


Junior guard Skylar Diggins led the Irish in scoring with 16 points on the evening, but made only 7-of-19 shot attempts. 
With 8:46 left in the game, a 3-pointer from sophomore guard Kayla McBride set-up the Irish for a potential come­back, but the Connecticut de­fense did not let the Irish score from the field for the next five minutes. 
“I think they knew our of­fense, and they were just kind of keeping us out of it instead 
see McBRIDE/page 17 
MEN’S GOLF 
Freshman stands out in spring 
By CONOR KELLY 
Sports Writer 
With senior Max Scodro scorching the competition and the rest of the team struggling to meet its own lofty expectations, it was easy to overlook the per­formance of reigning Big East Freshman of the Year Niall Platt during the fall season. But as the spring season approaches, Platt’s play has become impos­sible to ignore. 
“[Platt] has definitely played in the shadow of our three seniors, and they deserve all the accolades they get,” Irish coach Jim Kubinski said. “But many people don’t realize that he was just a shade under Max Scodro’s team-leading average last spring.” 
Platt is quick to recog­nize the play of his team­mates, especially the se­nior trio of Scodro, Tom Usher and Chris Walker. 
“Our main goal is to win as a team,” Platt said. “Max is a great player. They’re all great players, and I love to see when we all play well.” 
Named the Big East Golf-
see PLATT/page 17 
BASEBALL 

Aoki expects continued improvement in year two 
By VICKY JACOBSEN 
Sports Writer 
When Irish coach Mik Aoki replaced former coach Dave Schrage after the 2010 season, he inherited a team with a 22­32 record, a pitching staff that had given up nearly six earned runs per game and a squad that had missed the Big East tour­nament for the first time in 15 years. 
Aoki also did not inherit was an offensive juggernaut, as four of the five best Irish hitters from the 2010 squad graduated after that season. 
But in Aoki’s first season, the Irish found their way back to the Big East tournament with a 13-13 conference record. Notre Dame also finished the season with a slightly improved overall record of 23-29-1. 
Aoki said his expectations for the squad have risen signifi­cantly in his second season. 
“No doubt, I think that this team is capable of doing more than last year’s team did,” Aoki said. “I’d be disappointed if we didn’t.” 
Aoki, who coached at Boston College before coming to Notre Dame, said he felt he had a good handle on his new team in his first season with the Irish, but the intervening year has shown him what it’s like to coach at Notre Dame. 
“What I learned along the way is that there’s a way that Notre Dame does things versus how other schools do things, and there’s a pressure that a Notre Dame student is under,” Aoki said. “My last stop was at Bos­ton College, so I think that there are differences in the way that the kids are [there]. I think I have a little better feel for that.” 
Aoki also said he expects the team to run more smoothly now that he and the players are more familiar with each other. 
“I think I have a little more of an understanding of each kid, and more than anything I think the players are much more com­fortable with me than they were a year ago,” Aoki said. “I think they know what to expect: how I’m going to manage a game, or the way that I’m going to react to the games. I think that might 
see AOKI/page 17 
WOMEN’S LACROSSE 

Sullivan makes early impact 
By BRIAN HARTNETT 
Sports Writer 
With no current repre­sentation in the Olympics, women’s lacrosse players vie for one of 12 team spots ev­ery summer in the Women’s Lacrosse World Champion­ship. Thousands of athletes pine for the opportunity to represent their nation in the global challenge, but few are afforded the opportunity. 
Last summer, freshman de­fender Barbara Sullivan got the chance to travel to Germany and compete with the United States U-19 squad. 
Sullivan and her teammates made the most of their long jour­ney overseas, going undefeated in the championship and defeat­ing Australia 14-11 to take home gold. Sullivan made her mark on the team by helping anchor a tough defensive unit that al­lowed only 5.38 goals per game. 
Competing in the champion­ships, Sullivan said, would rank as one of the top moments in her lacrosse career. 
“It was an awesome experi­ence,” Sullivan said. “It was so neat to be able to travel to Ger­many, meet new people and play against teams who were not 
see SULLIVAN/page 18 
HOCKEY 

Sheahan focuses on improving 
By JACK HEFFERON 
Sports Writer 
With a number of players that stand out to even the most seasoned hockey fan, Notre Dame is a team that definitely does not lack speed, size or excitement on the ice. Despite being one of the team’s most complete players and its only first-round NHL draft pick, junior center Riley 
see SHEAHAN/page 18 





