
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


10K run supports veterans 
By NICOLE MICHELS 
News Writer 
Notre Dame’s runners can look forward to an­other chance to test their fitness this Saturday at the ROTC-sponsored Warrior Run.  
Previously named the Race for the Heroes, the third annual 10K run will support of the Wounded Warrior Project, an initia­tive that aids wounded vet­erans and their families. This event, sponsored by the service organizations of Notre Dame’s Navy, Army and Air Force ROTC battal­ions, calls on the communi­ty to band together to raise money in support of these heroes. 
Patrick Kelly, Navy ROTC’s public affairs of­ficer, said the idea behind this event was to solicit campus-wide support for the heroes who have given so much for their country. 
“It’s a great organization in general, and when the 

see WARRIOR/page 5 


Day honors community 
Notre Dame, Saint Mary’s celebrate event for fourth year in a row 

By ADAM LLORENS 
News Writer 
The student governments of Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s will celebrate the fourth an­nual CommUniversity Day to­morrow to honor the partner­ships the schools have with the South Bend community. 
Senior Erika Hansen, co-director of Community Rela­tions for Notre Dame student government, said there are 40 projects with 700 student volunteers. This year’s theme, “Deepening Our Roots,” directs many of the projects to work towards improving the envi­ronment, she said. 
“The individuals we work with appreciate the student en­thusiasm,” Hansen said. “I’m most excited about events with student and community mem­ber interaction.” 
Hansen said the day dem­onstrates the enthusiasm stu­dents have for working with the community. 
“What I think is really cool about it is the work and collab­oration that goes on between those of us who work on the event from the student gov­ernment side, and those in the community who are helping us plan the whole day,” Hansen said. 
One of two events new to CommUniversity Day will fea­ture Psychology Club members playing games with residents 

see VOLUNTEER/page 4 




Professor emeritus dies at 89 
Observer Staff Report 
Jaime Juan José Bellalta, professor emeritus of archi­tecture at the University of Notre Dame, died March 20 at his home in Brookline, Mass. He was 89 years old. 
A native of Santiago, Chile, Bellalta joined the architecture faculty at Notre Dame in 1976 after teaching architecture and urban design at his alma mater, the Pontificia Uni­versidad Católica de Chile, from 1968 to 1975. His wife, the late Esmée Bellalta, was also a member of the Notre Dame faculty. 
Throughout his career as an architect, researcher and professor, Bellalta was especially focused on the design and development of affordable and low-income housing. His interest in this area of work stemmed from his commitments to Catho­lic faith and social justice, according to a University press release. 

see PROFESSOR/page 4 


Manager of network design launches third app 
By DAN BROMBACH 
News Writer 
Fans of college basketball who compete with friends to pick winners during March Madness each year need only look to their iPhones for an easier bracket-sharing system. 
Tom Klimek, manager of net­work design for the Office of In­formation Technology, launched the application “Men’s Bracket 2012 College Basketball Tourna­ment” earlier this month. The app is his third men’s basketball March Madness bracket system for the iPad and iPhone. 
Klimek said the application eliminates the hassle of manually filling out, and tracking a March Madness bracket. 

“Instead of everybody having to fill out paper copies of a brack­et and then give it to somebody to keep track of, you can just download the app, create your own pool, invite your friends and all the scoring is done automati­cally,” Klimek said. 
Klimek said both the men’s and women’s bracket applica­tions he developed with his business partner Peter Massey have been extremely successful, breaking the top 10 paid sports applications within 24 hours of their releases. 

see APP/page 4 



INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER Student finds sucess in DJ company 3 u Viewpoint page 8 u Final Four Fashion page 10 u Men’s lacrosse prepares for game at MetLife Stadium page 20 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT DO THE WHITE FLOWERED TREES BY STONEHENGE SMELL LIKE? 

www.ndsmcobserver.com P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 Editor-in-Chief Allan Joseph Managing Editor Business Manager Megan Doyle Jeff Liptak asst. Managing Editor: Andrew Owens asst. Managing Editor: Sam Stryker News Editor: Kristen Durbin Viewpoint Editor: Meghan Thomassen Sports Editor: Chris Allen Scene Editor: Kevin Noonan Saint Mary’s Editor: Jillian Barwick Photo Editor: Suzanna Pratt Graphics Editor: Brandon Keelean advertising Manager: Katherine Lukas ad Design Manager: Amanda Jonovski Controller: Jason Taulman Systems administrator: William Heineman Office Manager & General Info (574) 631-7471 Fax (574) 631-6927 Advertising (574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu Editor-in-Chief (574) 631-4542 ajoseph2@nd.edu Managing Editor (574) 631-4542 mdoyle11@nd.edu Assistant Managing Editors (574) 631-4541 aowens2@nd.edu, sstryke1@nd.edu Business Office (574) 631-5313 News Desk (574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com Viewpoint Desk (574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com Sports Desk (574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com Scene Desk (574) 631-4540 knoonan2@nd.edu Saint Mary’s Desk jbarwi01@saintmarys.edu Photo Desk (574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com Systems & Web Administrators (574) 631-8839 Policies The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College.  Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Allan Joseph. Post Office Information The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 and additional mailing offices 024 South Dining hall Notre Dame, IN 46556-077 The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved.  
TODAY’S STAFF News Sports Nicole Toczauer Jack Hefferon Bridget Feeney Megan Finneran Drew Pangraze Brendan Bell Graphics Scene Marina Kozak Carrie Turek Photo Viewpoint Kirby McKenna Amber Galik  
CORRECTIONS The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so we can correct our error.  
HIGH 59 LOW 46 


Alex Shoeman  Chinelo Onyeador  Drew Williams  Jack Amato  Kara McSweeney  Katelyn Campbell  
sophomore  sophomore  junior  senior  sophomore  Sophomore  
Keough  Lewis  Stanford  off campus  Lyons  Pasquerilla West  
“A fish market.”  “I was gonna  “Sweaty  “Man chowder.”  “My bag of  “The fish trees?”  
say a bad  sailors.”  candy.”  
word but never  
mind...”  


Have an idea for Question of the Day? Email obsphoto@gmail.com 


OFFBEAT 
Man saws off foot for benefits 
MITTERLABILL, Austria 
— It sounds like the plot of a boring “Saw” film, but it’s apparently all too real. 
An unemployed Austrian man cut off his own foot with a mitre saw so he could continue receiving jobless benefits. 
Hans Url, a 56-year-old, took the foot and cooked it in the oven so doctors could not reattach it. 
“The planning was me­ticulous,” Franz Fasching, a police spokesman, told the Daily Mail. “[Url] wait­ed until his wife and his adult son had left the house and he was alone. He then switched it on and sliced off his left foot above the an­kle—throwing it in the fire so it would not be possible to reattach it before he called emergency services.” 
Url was airlifted to a hos­pital in Graz, where he was put in an artificial coma. 
“The foot was too badly burned to reattach,” a hos­pital spokesman said. 
Bear saves man from mountain lion 
PARADISE, Calif. — A California man says he was saved from a mountain lion by a bear. 
Robert Biggs, 69, of Para­dise, Calif., told the Paradise Post he was hiking Monday when he was attacked by a mountain lion. 
“They usually grab hold of your head with all four paws,” Biggs said. “But my backpack was up above my head and (the mountain lion) grabbed it instead.” 
Shortly before the encoun­ter, Biggs said he had seen mother with a pair of cubs— which he thinks is what the mountain lion was after. 
“It must have been stalk­ing the little bear,” Biggs said, “but it was on me in seconds.” 
But just as quickly, the mother bear came to his aid. he said. The hiker and self-described “naturist” es­caped with minor injuries. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

IN BRIEF 
Professor Mark Roche, Chair in German Language and Literature, will be pro­moting his new book, “Why Choose the Liberal Arts?” today from 12:00 p.m. to 
1:30 p.m. in the Oak Room of South Dining Hall.  The talk includes a complimen­tary lunch and is open to all faculty, staff and students. 
Alan Code, professor of philosophy at Stanford Uni­versity, will present a lecture titled, “Causal Definitions in Aristotle’s Metaphysics,” today from 3:00 p.m. to 5:00 
p.m. in 220 Malloy Hall. 
At 6:30 p.m. today cam­pus clubs Jedidiah, the Graduate Student Union, ND-8, and SwellCause will co-sponsor a screening of “Surfing in Bangladesh,” a documentary on the use of surfing to do good in Bangla­desh and India.  The screen­ing will be held in Room 105 of Jordan Hall of Science. 
The Asian Indian Classical Music Society will host the Concert of Indian Classi­cal Music tonight from 7:00 
p.m. to 8:30 p.m. in the Car­ey Auditorium of the Hes-burgh Library. Tickets are $10 for general admission, $5 for ND/SMC faculty and AICMS  members, and free for students. 
The ND Chorale will perform its spring concert tonight at the Leighton Concert Hall in the DeBar­tolo  Performing Arts Cen­ter from 8:00 p.m. to 9:30 
p.m. Tickets will cost $3. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews.nd@gmail.com 



LOCAL WEATHER 

TODAY TONIGHT SATURDAY SUNDAY MONDAY TUESDAY 








HIGH   59 LOW 51 
HIGH 75 LOW 61 

HIGH 80 LOW 50 
HIGH 55 LOW 45 





Student finds success on and off campus with DJ company 
By ABI HOVERMAN 
News Writer 
With blasting beats and mashed-up mixes, senior Walker Anderson’s High Ve­locity Professional DJ Ser­vices has become a major performer in South Bend at events ranging from dorm dances to weddings. 
Anderson said he began the service three years ago based on experience jockey­ing in high school. The stu­dent-owned business now averages two shows each weekend, he said. 
“Once I got to college, I went to a few dances and I was like hey, I could do this,” he said. 
Anderson said he made detailed business plans the summer after his freshman year, and started the com­pany in the fall of 2009. 
“I had to do the research on things like taxes, busi­ness law, client interaction, how to sell things, marketing strategy, everything associ­ated with running a busi­ness,” he said. “It’s largely been self-taught.” 
The company became prof­itable just months after its opening and earned back Anderson’s investments in legal fees and other start-up costs, he said. 
“It was probably halfway through the first semester that … it’s paid for itself over and over again,” Anderson said. “The numbers speak for themselves in terms of growth and our potential.” 
Anderson hired a manager and three DJs after High Ve­locity gained more momen­tum, he said. The company is composed of all Notre Dame students and now does mul­tiple shows every week. 

“At first it was me, and then once I got going I was able to acquire more equip­ment, which meant I could send out more than one crew at one time,” he said. 
The role of student employ­ees servicing their peers’ needs is key, Anderson said. 
“My business model is for students, by students,” he said. “My three goals are to be more affordable, more professional and more per­sonal” 
Anderson said he offers clients shows with top-qual­ity equipment at a low cost. He also offers special rates for charity events. 
“I’ve gone out and done price comparisons with what’s available in the area and then cut it,” he said. “It’s our way of giving back to the community that’s let us grow” 
Notre Dame’s tight-knit community offers Ander­son’s company an advantage in marketing, he said. 
“We have a client focus be­cause at the end of the day, the best advertising is word of mouth,” Anderson said. “It’s easy to grow fast at Notre Dame. “ 
The aerospace engineering major is able to balance his business and academic re­sponsibilities, since the na­ture of his business does not conflict with his class sched­ule. 
“It’s tightened my sched­ule at some points because I do like to meet with my cli­ents beforehand, especially with wedding clients,” he said. “Other than that … the work is limited largely to the weekends, so it impacts more of my social life than aca­demic life.” 



Anderson said for those considering a start-up of their own, careful planning helps turn ideas into suc­cessful businesses. 
“Reach out to people who know about this stuff and don’t be afraid to ask ques­tions,” he said. ”You just have to break it down into steps.” 
Anderson said his expe­rience with High Velocity helped him secure a job in technical consulting in At­lanta after graduation. 
“This experience has helped me get my job and it’s going to help my manager and DJ’s build their portfo­lios,” he said. “Not only do they get to showcase their talent, but they get to learn about client interaction.” 
Anderson said he plans to continue running the com­pany from Atlanta, with the help of members of his staff remaining on campus. 
“The reason I didn’t sell it is because I knew no stu­dent could afford buying the company up front, and I didn’t want to sell it to a non-student who didn’t have that connection with Notre Dame,” he said. 
Anderson said he is thank­ful for the chance to run his business at Notre Dame. 
“It’s been an awesome ride. It started off as an idea and it’s been a very rewarding experience,” he said. “We have the Notre Dame, Saint Mary’s, and Holy Cross to thank for continued sup­port.” 
Contact abi Hoverman at abigail.j.hoverman.1@nd.edu 



SMC honors Earth Hour 
By SARAH SWIDERSKI 
News Writer 
For one hour, the entire earth will be dark. 
Tomorrow, the Sisters of the Holy Cross will partici­pate in Earth Hour with mil­lions of people worldwide by turning off their lights. 
From 8:30 to 9:30 p.m., the Sisters encourage mem­bers of the Saint Mary’s and Notre Dame communities to turn off their lights and oth­er electrical devices in an effort to promote ecological sustainability. 
Sr. Veronique Wiedower, vice president of the Divi­sion for Mission, said Earth Hour has an important hu­manitarian element tied into its focus on sustainability. 
“The idea is that we are a global village, and the same is going to be true about wa­ter as with oil in that there are not endless amounts,” she said. “We need to know what it means to be respon­sible for those resources, or responsible in our use of those resources.” 
The Sisters’ participation in Earth Hour stems from their mission of standing in solidarity with the less fortunate of the world, Wie­dower said.  She said one community can have a sig­nificant impact when unit­ed with other communities across the globe. 
“It is important to be in solidarity with poor who do not have access to these re­sources everyday,” Wiedow­er said. 
By shutting off lights this Saturday, the Sisters hope the conservation of resourc­es will spark further efforts to share with those who need them desperately, she said. 
“During this time of Lent, when we give up, we give an opportunity to give someone access to resources,” she said. “What each person can do is important.” 
Sr. Wiedower encourages participation in any form. 
“If you can’t shut off ev­erything, do a little bit. Each person makes a differ­ence,” she said. “You never know what the tipping point might be, and you might be that last person needed.” 

Contact Sarah Swiderski at sswide01@saintmarys.edu 





Kroc Institute hosts Peace Conference 
By ANNA BOARINI 
News Writer 

Yesterday, the Kroc Insti­tute for International Peace Studies kicked off its annual Student Peace Conference and will continue the event this afternoon. 
Seniors Erik Helgesen and Nhu Phan, the Peace Con­ference co-chairs, said this year’s conference theme is “Strategies of Peace Trans­forming the Modern World.” 
“We decided on the theme because this is a field that is always transforming and during the events of the past year, especially with the events of the Arab Spring, we’ve seen new and interest­ing forms of peace building,” Helgesen said. 

Helgesen said the theme showcases the breadth of peace studies and its impact in transforming the modern world. 
“We want to showcase more traditional methods of peace building with more modern ones like social me­dia,” Phan said. 
Phan said they hope the conference can help show­case development and they ways it can make a differ­ence in the world. 

The conference features 270 representatives from approximately 50 schools from across the country, as well as students from Nepal, India, Poland and Turkey, she said. 
The conference includes a variety of panels, a docu­mentary, and several work-


Professor 
continued from page 1 

After studying at the Pon­tificia Universidad Católi­ca, Bellalta also studied at Harvard University’s Grad­uate School of Design and the University of London. He also practiced private­ly during those years and served as director of Chile’s National Urban Renewal Agency and as executive director of the Academy of Christian Humanism. 
shops. 

Molly Kinder, a 2001 grad­uate and current director of special programs for Devel­opment Innovation Ventures in Washington D.C., will be this year’s featured speaker. 
“She has experience in the field and used the meth­ods and strategies,” Phan said. “She’s a practitioner of both.” 
The peace conference partnered with the Universi­ty of Maryland International Security School for a work­shop and discussion about global security, Helgesen said. 
“The workshop will focus on the two issues of global climate change and nuclear technology,” he said. “20 to 30 people will really delve into the issues and I’m real­ly excited for the workshop because I’m going to partici­pate.” 
Another unique aspect of this year’s conference is a panel on the role of the mili­tary in peace building. 
“The panel will discuss if there is a place for the mili­tary in peace building and if so, in what capacity,” Phan said. 
Helgesen said this confer­ence is a way to showcase the diversity of peace stud­ies as a discipline. 
“It is so cool to see … ev­erything from the environ­mental challenges to how sports and arts are used in peace building,” he said. 
Contact anna Boarini at aboari01@saintmarys.edu 

Bellalta’s award-winning design for the Benedictine monastery in Las Condes, Santiago, is one of Chile’s National Historic Architec­tural Monuments. 
Bellalta is survived by 10 children, 28 grandchildren and 11 great-grandchil­dren. A Mass in his memory will be celebrated today at 
9:30 a.m. in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart. In lieu of flowers, donations in his honor may be made to the Holy Cross Missions, P.O. Box 543, Notre Dame, IN, 46556. 


Volunteer 
continued from page 1 

at Portage Manor, a center for adults with developmental dis­abilities. For the other, mem­bers in Circle K will make Eas­ter baskets with residents at Saint Mary’s Convent. 
“Something that’s really ex­citing is when we will have senior citizens take a bus tour leaving from the Robinson [Community Learning] Center around campus,” Hansen said. “We also have a children’s fes­ferent tasks that different orga­nizations have asked us to do,” Hansen said. “We hope this day can deepen some of the partner­ships we have created through­out this year and hopefully in­spire some more students to get out more into the community.” 
Though registration for proj­ects ended Wednesday, students can still join in celebrating Com­mUniversity Day at a picnic open to the public at the Robinson Community Learning Center at 3 p.m. 

Contact adam Llorens at allorens@nd.edu 
tival on the Irish Green, so I think a lot of community mem­bers are excited to come to our campus to check it out.” 
Hansen said residence hall groups will also play a major role in the events planned for the day. The women of Ba-din Hall will play bingo with residents at Healthwin Nurs­ing Home, she said. The men of Knott Hall will bring children to campus to spend a day as a Notre Dame student during their “Angel for a Day” signature event. 
“We hope to achieve some tan­gible goals … and all those dif-
App 
continued from page 1 

Klimek said he attributes the success of the applications to a process of constant dia­logue with customers. 
“I think the success is due to listening to our customers,” Klimek said.  “Also, we’re bas­ketball enthusiasts ourselves, so we try to put everything in the apps that we know we would want ourselves.” 
Klimek said he and Massey decided not to advertise this year’s application since past promotions have shown little increase in sales. 
“It seems that most of our apps are found by people who 
“My 14-year-old daughter picked a much better bracket than mine,” Klimek said.  “She picked Kentucky to win it all.” 


Contact Dan Brombach at dbrombac@nd.edu 


are just searching for an app on their phone, instead of by people looking for a specific app after viewing an adver­tisement,” Klimek said. 
Klimek said numerous jour­nals and consumer reports have reviewed their appli­cations, and Microsoft even approached them to do busi­ness. 
“They wanted to do a men’s bracket app for the Windows 7 phone, which we felt we didn’t have the time to do,” Klimek said.  “But it was still nice to be recognized by such a big company.” 
Klimek said this year’s tournament has been a rough one though, with his champi­onship pick of Syracuse fail­ing to pan out. 





Warrior 
continued from page 1 
run started three years ago I think they were looking to do something that the entire campus could take part in,” Kelly said.  “In the fall [Navy ROTC] does a 24-hour run to raise money … but we’re looking for something that everyone could take part in.” 
Lizzy Schroff, President of Trident Naval Society [Navy ROTC’s ser­vice organi­munication between veter­ans,” Schroff said.  “Veter­ans are able to email each other, talk with one another and [have] a collective voice to make their needs and the needs of their families known.” 

Schroff said the proceeds will be given to the Wound­ed Warriors Project. She said she has high hopes for a large turnout despite the close proximity of the Holy Half to the Warrior Run. 
“Last year we raised about 
$5,000, so 
if we could 
zation], said “What we do here is close reach that the Warrior to everyone’s hearts. This mark that Run really is the job we’re going would be hit home to be doing and these great and if 
with the ca-more that 
are people who have 
dets. would be 
already sacrificed for 
“It is a even better,” 
their country. I want to 
dangerou s Schroff said.  
make this event bigger to 
job in the Registra ­m ilit a r y… reach more people and to tion begins many of us get more participation.” at 8 a.m., 
will prob-Schroff said. ably be de-Chris Patterson The race will ployed to and start off with 
treasurer 
in situations a tri-mili-
Trident Naval Society 
of combat,” tary color 
Schroff said. “I think it really hits home for us because these people that we’re helping to support will be the men and women that we’ll be serving with when we graduate.” 
The Wounded Warrior Project provides crucial ser­vices to veterans and their families, Schroff said. 
“They provide a lot of dif­ferent programs, such as fi­nancial aid, a combat stress recovery program, physical health programs and finan­cial training,” Schroff said. 
Schroff said the Project builds a network among vet­erans, providing a crucial venue for communication between disparate recover­ing veterans. 
“It’s an open line of com-

guard fea­turing the Glee Club singing the national anthem. 
Schroff said the race starts at 9:30 with ROTC and non-ROTC divisions for male and female runners. 
“We have a lot of partici­pants who are from our bat­talions from ROTC,” Schroff said.  “We also have a lot of people from outside Notre Dame who are in the com­munity [participating in the race]. It’s a great way to get everyone involved.” 
Kelly said the entire com­munity should feel welcome to participate in this race. 
“I think people should know that even though at a lot of ROTC events people might feel like they’re not wanted or shouldn’t be in­cluded, we really want the entire Notre Dame community to get involved with this and to feel they should be a part of this,” Kelly said. 
Michael Falvey, soph­omore midshipman in Notre Dame’s Navy ROTC battalion, said the service men and women are fight­ing for everyone in the community. 
“This is something that intimately involves every­one in the community. I think that it is imperative that the community sup­ports these heroic indi­viduals because these in­dividuals give everything they have for the commu­nity,” Falvey said. 
Chris Patterson, trea­surer of Trident Naval Society, said he wants to expand this event in com­ing years. 
“What we do here is close to everyone’s hearts. This is the job we’re go­ing to be doing and these are people who have al­ready sacrificed for their country,” Patterson said. “I want to make this event bigger to reach more peo­ple and to get more par­ticipation.” 
Patterson said this run is special because it’s for a cause greater than the concerns of a single indi­vidual. 
“I think we try to make it seem as though the run is really a run for some­thing greater than your­self, a run for people who have done very important things for the country,” Patterson said. “We hope 
to  spread  that  feeling  
throughout  the  commu­ 
nity.”  

Contact Nicole Michels at nmichels@nd.edu 



Police arrest 911 caller 


Associated Press 
PASADENA, Calif.  — Oscar Carrillo’s 911 call was clear: Two young men just robbed him of his computer and backpack. At least one of them had a gun and it was pointed in Carrillo’s face. 
Moments later, police caught up with two teens they believed were the thieves in a Pasadena alleyway. When one of them, Kendrec McDade, made a move at his waistband, an officer opened fire, killing the 19-year­old college student, authorities said. 
No weapons or the stolen items have been found. 
Now, police are laying part of the blame for the fatal shooting on Carrillo, who they say admit­ted that he lied about the men being armed so officers would respond faster. “The actions of the 911 caller set the minds of the officers,” police chief Phillip Sanchez said. 
As the nation focuses on the fatal shooting of Florida teen Trayvon Martin by a neigh­borhood watchman, the police shooting in Pasadena raises more questions about the role and responsibility of those who report or witness crimes. 
While experts say it’s not uncommon for people to exag­gerate the circumstances of a crime — especially if they are the victim — most are unaware about the importance of their role in an emergency response and the potential consequences. 
“Lots of people’s lives are in jeopardy,” said Joseph Pollini, a professor at John Jay College of Criminal Justice in New York. “If you make a bogus call, you may be taking away from some­thing where someone else’s life is in danger.” 
Pollini said the Pasadena case is a good example of holding people accountable. 
“To a certain degree he (Car­rillo) is liable for what he caused the police to do what they did,” Pollini said. “There should be a thorough investigation.” 
Caree Harper, an attorney representing McDade’s fam­ily, said arresting Carrillo may be an attempt by police to shift blame away from the officers. Harper added that Carrillo should be prosecuted for filing a false police report. 
“However, he didn’t pull the trigger and the officers can use discretion,” she said. “They can’t blame the caller because they shot an unarmed black man.” 
Calls seeking comment from police on Thursday were not immediately returned. 
Carrillo has been arrested for investigation of involuntary manslaughter. Prosecutors are weighing whether to file charg­es. The juvenile with McDade was charged with two counts of commercial burglary, one count of grand theft and one count of failure to register as a gang member as a condition of his probation. 
Police said the teens matched descriptions provided by Carril­lo, witnesses and surveillance footage. 
Scott Thorpe, of the California District Attorneys Association, said he’s not aware of any cas­es in the state where prosecu­tors have filed charges against someone for the consequences of a false 911 call. 
On the call, the dispatcher asked: “Do they have any weap­ons?” 
“Yeah, they have a gun,” Car­rillo replied. 
McDade was spotted in an al­ley about two blocks from the spot where Carrillo told police he’d been robbed, Sanchez said. McDade ran from police until an officer used the police cruis­er to block his path in an alley and rolled down his window, authorities said. 
McDade made the motion at his waistband and the officer opened fire, police said. A sec­ond officer who was chasing McDade on foot also opened fire. McDade, a Citrus College student and a high school foot­ball standout, died at a nearby hospital. 
One state lawmaker com­pared McDade’s shooting to that of Martin’s. Martin, who also is black, was killed last month dur­ing a confrontation with George Zimmerman. Martin was walk­ing home from the store. Zim­merman said the 17-year-old Martin attacked him. 
Police haven’t charged Zim­merman, who has a white fa­ther and Hispanic mother. That has set off widespread public outrage and protests across the country. 
Pasadena police haven’t re­leased the officers’ names or their ethnicities. 
Assemblywoman Holly Mitch­ell, D-Los Angeles, said that like the Martin case, the Pasadena shooting highlights the need for a continuing discussion about racial profiling. 
“The bigger picture is bias and racism,” said Mitchell, sec­retary of the Legislative Black Caucus. “And while the particu­lars of the two cases may be dif­ferent — while the perpetrator who actually fired the weapon may be different — the fact of the matter is two young black men are dead.” 
The Los Angeles County of Independent Review will inves­tigate McDade’s shooting, San­chez said. 
Pasadena police accepted many of that agency’s recom­mendations two years ago in connection with the fatal shoot­ing of Leroy Barnes Jr. Police acknowledged they incorrectly reported that Barnes fired his gun at officers before being shot during a traffic stop. Barnes was killed in the backseat of his car during a struggle over a gun, police said. 



Spaceport America runway to be extended by 2,000 feet 
associated Press 
ALBUQUERQUE, N.M. — The nearly two-mile-long runway at Spaceport America in southern New Mexico will have to be ex­tended to accommodate Virgin Galactic's sleek rocket-powered spacecraft, spaceport officials confirmed Thursday. 
New Mexico Spaceport Au­
thority board members voted during a regular meet­ing Wednesday to extend the runway by another 2,000 feet. Spaceport America is the world's first terminal, hangar and runway built specifically for commercial space travel. 
Virgin Galactic, which will be the spaceport's anchor tenant, determined through a battery of test flights and simulations that more room would be needed for landings under certain circum­stances. 
"It's really being done for safe­ty," spaceport spokesman David Wilson said. "It was a guess un­til they started dropping it and simulating and doing different scenarios, how this thing was going to behave on the runway. This is all a product of the test­ing and the characteristics of the vehicle." 


Backed by British billionaire Richard Branson, the commer­cial space line has been develop­ing its craft and rocket engines in California's Mojave Desert. The company plans to begin moving into the hangar and terminal facility later this year, and the runway extension is not expected to cause delays. 
The runway was dedicated by Branson and other officials in October 2010 with much fan­fare. 
Stretching across a flat dusty plain 45 miles north of Las Cru­ces, the runway is designed to support almost every aircraft in the world, day-to-day space tourism flights and payload launch operations. It is 42 inch­es thick and includes a 14-inch layer of concrete. 
The extension will cost $7 million, Wilson said. Money will be reassigned within the space­port's $209 million taxpayer-financed budget to absorb the cost of the change. 
Designing the extension will take six to eight months. 
Virgin Galactic has said rocket testing is continuing and commercial flights are at least a year away. 
Wilson said the extension did not come as a surprise to space­port board members. As part of the agreement Virgin Ga­lactic had with New Mexico to build the spaceport, any techni­cal changes that resulted from development of the spaceship technology would have to be ac­commodated by the state. 
One scenario considered was if the rocket ship's engines did not fire. That would require the craft to glide back to the space­port, loaded with unburned fuel. That would mean the craft would be heavier and would re­quire more room to land. 
Other factors involve New Mexico's altitude and high tem­peratures, which make the air thinner. 
"That dictates longer run­ways," Wilson said. 
Branson and Virgin Galactic officials have said repeatedly that everything possible will be done to ensure safety once com­mercial flights begin. 
Unlike experimental pro­grams run by NASA, Wilson said Spaceport America and Virgin Galactic are based on business models and investments. 
"Obviously safety has to be at the highest level, especially when you're talking about com­mercial passenger service," he said. 
Branson announced last week that Virgin Galactic had net­ted its 500th customer, actor Ashton Kutcher. Others include Hollywood types, international 
entrepreneurs,  scientists  and  
space buffs.  
At  $200,000  a  ticket,  the  

space tourists get a 2 1/2-hour flight with about five minutes of weightlessness and views of Earth that until now only astro­nauts have been able to experi­ence. 


Militia leader, son plead guilty in domestic terror trial 
associated Press the “brotherhood.” 
“The government’s case is 
DETROIT — A Michigan built largely of circumstan­militia leader and his son tial evidence,” the judge pleaded guilty Thursday to said Tuesday. “While this possessing a machine gun, evidence could certainly giving prosecutors their only lead a rational fact-finder gain in a domestic terror to conclude that ‘something trial that was upended when fishy’ was going on, it does the judge dismissed charges not prove beyond a reason-of plotting war against the able doubt that defendants government. reached a concrete agree-
Hutaree leader David Stone ment to forcibly oppose the rocked in a chair at the de-United States government.” fense table after pleading Defense lawyers said Da­guilty and told reporters he vid Stone is a Christian who was a “stand-up true Ameri-was preparing to do battle can patriot” whose anti-gov-with the armies of the Anti­ernment comments and bra-christ, not the U.S. govern­vado about wanting to kill ment. police were not a call to at-A juror, Rickey Randall, tack the United States. 58, said the judge made the 
He and six militia members right call. were cleared Tuesday of con-“I heard talk, talk, talk, spiracy charges, which he but no action,” Randall said. called a “victory for every-“I was shocked by their ef­one” who cherishes the First fort to bring the defendants Amendment. to trial. ... Do you think a 
“It’s amazing how someone group that small can go up can take a comment out of against the mighty U.S. gov-context and make it to what-ernment?” ever they want it to be,” In her first remarks since Stone, 51, said. the case was gutted, U.S. 

Gun charges were all that Attorney Barbara McQuade remained for Stone and said she wouldn’t have han-Joshua Stone, 23, both from dled the case differently and David Stone was released paranoia is true,” he said, F Troop,” she said, referring Lenawee County, Mich., af-“strongly” disagrees with on bond after two years in referring to the FBI’s tac-to a 1960s TV satire about ter U.S. District Judge Vic-the judge’s interpretation of custody. He could face an-tics. soldiers in the Old West af­toria Roberts said prosecu-federal conspiracy law. other year in prison when David Stone’s wife, Tina ter the Civil War. tors in six weeks had failed “If you have a suggestion, he’s sentenced for the gun Stone, and another son, Da-Militia members are find-to present evidence of a let me know,” she told The crime on Aug. 8 but hopes vid Stone Jr., were among ing that resuming their specific plan to go to war Associated Press during an the judge will consider the the militia members cleared lives isn’t easy. Despite his against law enforcement interview in her office. past two years as enough of all charges this week. acquittal, Michael Meeks of and federal authorities. “I take the view that you punishment. Joshua Stone, The four Stones walked Manchester, Mich., said he 
Jurors heard hours of se-stop ‘em when you can if too, has been jailed for two away from the courthouse can’t open a bank account cretly recorded conversa-you’ve got evidence,” Mc-years and could face more together Thursday. Tina yet because the bank told tions between David Stone Quade said. “We have an ob-time behind bars. Stone earlier said her hus-him he’s still on a terror and an FBI informant and ligation to protect the pub-The elder Stone said the band’s Hutaree days are watch list. Told of the trou­agent. He talked about kill-lic. The jury and the judge trial’s outcome likely will over, although she said the bles, McQuade didn’t seem ing police, building bombs don’t have that obligation. stir anxieties about the gov-group never was the violent moved. and engaging an interna-... There were many plans to ernment among other mili-threat the government had “It’s the consequences of tional coalition of freedom-oppose by force the author-tias. claimed. their actions,” the prosecu­hating law enforcers dubbed ity of the United States.” “Now they know their “They couldn’t overthrow tor told the AP. 

SPAIN 



Labor reforms cause strikes 

Associated Press 
MADRID — Spanish work­ers enraged by austerity-driven labor reforms to prevent the nation from be­coming Europe’s next bail­out victim has slowed down the country’s economy in a general strike, closing fac­tories and clashing with po­lice as the new-center right government tried to con­vince inves­nesses to fire workers, and give them incentives for hir­ing — but protesters said they are being forced to give up rights they earned de­cades ago. 
“Why wouldn’t I protest?” asked textile worker Jose Jimenez, 60, from the Ma­drid protest. “I’ve spent 45 years working for the same company and now they can 
get rid of 
me almost 
for free.” 

tors the nation “Why wouldn’t I Others isn’t headed protest? I’ve spent 45 said the re-
for a financial forms put 
years working for the 
meltdown. in place by 
same company and 
Tens of Rajoy in 
now they can get rid of 
thousands February 
me almost for free.” 
held protest after his marches in conserva ­Madrid and Jose Jimenez tive Popu­other cit-textile worker lar Party 
ies Thursday, and the dem­
onstrations turned violent in Spain’s second-largest city of Bar­celona, where hooded pro­testers smashed bank and storefront windows with hammers and rocks and set fire to streetside trash con­tainers. 
Traffic was slowed in northeastern Valencia when demonstrators lit mattresses ablaze on a highway, and a Molotov cocktail was hurled at a police car in the east­ern city of Murcia. Authori­ties arrested 176 protest­ers across Spain and said 104 people were injured in clashes, including 58 police officers. There were no im­mediate reports of serious injures. 
The protests came a day before Prime Minister Mari­ano Rajoy’s administration is expected to announce about €30 billion ($40 bil­lion) in spending cuts and tax hikes to ease increasing fears about Spain’s budget deficit. European leaders insist drastic cuts must be made this year even though reductions in government spending are almost sure to boost the unemployment rate of nearly 23 percent, the highest among the 17 na­tions that use the euro. 
The labor reforms make it less costly for Spanish busi­ousted the 
governing 
Socialists in November will only boost the profits of companies and banks. 
“Workers are losing all their rights, and the benefits will go only to the banks and the businesses,” 57-year-old bus driver Fidel Martin said. 
Labor unions said millions of Spaniards in the nation of 47 mil­lion stayed away from work to Spanish electrical consump­tion dropped only 16.3 per­cent, not as much as the 16.9 percent reduction when the country’s last general strike was held in 2010 when the Socialists were in charge. 
Union leaders demanded a “gesture” from the govern­ment to scale back the re­forms, warning they could cause more unrest starting in May. Members of Rajoy’s administration said they are willing to talk with union leaders, but won’t issue con­cessions. 
“There is no stopping on the path to reform,” Labor Minister Fatima Banez said. 
The cuts expected Friday are designed to lower the national deficit to within European Union limits and reassure jittery internation­al investors who determine the country’s borrowing costs in debt markets — and could well determine wheth­er Spain will follow Greece, Ireland and Portugal in needing a bailout. 
Spain’s benchmark bor­rowing rate — the yield on its 10-year bonds — contin­ued to creep up Thursday, to 5.4 percent, suggesting increasing investor concern about wheth­er the coun­try can avoid a bailout, one 

protest, “There is no stopping that European and the on the path to reform.” leaders and 
strike experts say caused could lead to 
Fatima Banez 
transpor -the breakup 
labor minister 
tation de-of the Euro-
lays and prompted Spain’s govern­ment-run national health care system to significantly reduce services except for emergency cases. Workers at car factories that assem­ble vehicles for Renault SA, SEAT SA, Volkswagen AG and Ford Motor Co. largely stayed home, and services at mining and port facilities were also severely limited, union leaders said. 
But many other business­es remained open, and Ra­joy’s government claimed the strike didn’t have its intended impact because zone. Spain’s 
economy is 
twice the size 
of Greece, Ireland and Portugal. 
And the country’s bench­mark Ibex 35 stock index continued a weeklong slide Thursday, closing down nearly 1 percent and below the psychologically impor­tant level of 8,000 points. 
Protester Angel Andrino, 31, said he was laid off a day after the labor reforms were approved in a decree last month. He lives with his parents and brother, who is the only employed person in the family, but working part-time. 


VENEZUELA 


Polls favor Chavez 
Associated Press 
CARACAS, Venezuela — President Hugo Chavez has a double-digit lead over the op­position’s presidential candi­date, but a quarter of Venezu­elan voters haven’t committed to either candidate, a poll said Thursday. 
The survey released by the Caracas polling firm Datanali­sis said nearly 45 percent of those polled said they would vote for Chavez, while 31 per­cent supported Miranda state Gov. Henrique Capriles. About 25 percent were undecided. 
“Those undecided ones are going to indicate the trend in the future,” said Luis Vicente Leon, the polling firm’s presi­dent. 
Chavez, who has been in of­fice since 1999, is seeking an­other six-year term in the Oct. 7 election. 
The survey questioned about 1,300 people in Venezuela be­tween Feb. 29 and March 7, and had a margin of error of nearly 3 percentage points, Leon said. 
He said the percentage of people expressing no choice for a candidate had increased since the firm’s previous poll a month earlier, when almost 50 percent said they would vote for Chavez and 35 percent backed Capriles. 
Leon said the monthly poll is paid for by about 300 clients that include both private busi­nesses and state companies as well as individuals. He said some of the clients include po­litical leaders, but he didn’t identify them. 
About 62 percent of respon­dents said they viewed Chavez’s performance favorably, com­pared to 50 percent who had a favorable view of Capriles’ per­formance as governor. 
Poll results have varied wide­ly in Venezuela recently, with each political camp touting dueling figures. Government media have reported on polls indicating Chavez is ahead of Capriles by as much as 30 points. Last week, the polling firm Consultores 21 released a survey indicating Chavez and Capriles are running head-to­head. 
Chavez appeared on state television early Thursday after returning home from a five-day round of radiation therapy in Cuba, where he has been un­dergoing cancer treatment. 
“Thanks to God, I’ve with­stood the treatment very well,” Chavez said. “Let’s hope that’s the case next time.” 
He said that the radiation treatments had been adminis­tered for five days in a row and that he would be in Venezuela until Saturday, when he plans to return to Havana for the next round. 
Chavez has said the radiation therapy is intended to prevent any new cancer threat after a surgery last month that re­moved a second tumor from his pelvic region. He had another tumor removed from the same location in an earlier operation in June. 

HONDURAS 



Riot kills thirteen 
Associated Press 
TEGUCIGALPA, Honduras — At least 13 people died during an uprising by armed inmates at a Honduran prison Thurs­day, one of them decapitated and the others killed by a fire started by the rioters, authori­ties said. 
Varying reports of local and national authorities said as many as 18 inmates were killed, but national police chief Jose Ramirez said only 13 bodies had been sent to the morgue by late afternoon. 
The unrest came six weeks after a fire at another prison in Honduras killed 361 in­mates. 
Yair Mesa, police commis­sioner of the rough northern city of San Pedro Sula, said Thursday’s riot had been brought under control. 
“The uprising has been put down without the need to fire shots,” Mesa said by telephone from inside the prison. 
San Pedro Sula Bishop Ro­mulo Emiliani arrived outside the prison, saying he had been asked to serve as a negotiator with the inmates. 
Emiliani reflected the pre­vailing view that such trag­edies are bound to recur in Honduras’ overcrowded pris­on system. The 800-bed San Pedro Sula prison was housing 2,400 prisoners, he said. 
“Everybody has known for some time that the authorities have no interest in the prisons. They are a time bomb that will continue to explode,” the bish­op said. 

In 2008, the latest year for which figures are available, Honduras’ prison system had nearly 38 percent more prison­ers than it was built to house, according to the London-based International Centre for Pris­on Studies. 
Mesa said most of the vic­tims apparently died of burns or asphyxiation, but said the cause of death could not im­mediately be determined be­cause the bodies were so badly burned. 
One prisoner’s head was cut off and tossed outside the pris­on during the riot. It was not immediately clear if his body was among those sent to the morgue. 
Inmates carried the burned bodies from the site of the blaze and set them out in the prison yard. 
City fire chief Jose Dani-lo Flores said the prisoners themselves appeared to have fought the fire inside the facil­ity. He said the armed inmates initially kept firefighters from entering. 
San Pedro Sula is believed to be one of the most dangerous cities in a country that has the highest homicide rate in the world. A fire at the San Pedro Sula prison in 2004 killed 107 inmates. 
Thursday’s uprising came a month and a half after Hondu­ras’ overcrowded prisons were hit by the worst prison fire in a century — a Feb. 14 conflagra­tion at the Comayagua farm prison that killed 361 inmates. 

page 8 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com Friday, March 30, 2012 

INSIDE COLUMN 
AnthonyDavis is the 99 percent 
There is a striking resemblance between what sociologist Dr. Harry Edwards calls “the Civil Rights Move­ment for our times” and the Occupy Wall Street movement that has been taking place since October Daniel Azic of last year. The 99 percent Graphic Designer are college athletes. The exploitation of their services with­out any pay is ludicrous, seeing that college athletics has turned into a huge money machine. Some big-name college athletes need to muster up the courage to do something about these injustices. And what better stage than March Madness? 
This is a call to the players of Louisville, Kentucky, Ohio State, and Kansas for this coming weekend: don’t play your Final Four game. Protest these injustices. Show up to the game and right before it starts, grab a microphone. Demand that unless you make some of the billions in revenues created by March Madness, you won’t play. Simple as that. You have the power here. 
Just imagine Jared Sullinger or Thomas Robinson performing such an act. It may upset us fans for a day or two, but it would send a message that should have been sent out years ago. It would call out the NCAA for the fraud they are pulling on us with the phrases “amateurism” and “student­athlete.” 
If the NCAA’s goal was to promote student-athletes, why would they al­low for college basketball players to leave after only one year of college? Why not allow them to go professional straight out of high school? Could it be that they did not want to lose a year of unpaid, world-class services? 
The money being raked in by coach­es, administrators, universities and media outlets such as ESPN is ridicu­lous. In 2010, Kentucky’s conference, the SEC, became the first to make over a billion dollars in a year. The revenue brought in from ticket sales, merchan­dise and television contracts has made college athletics one of the biggest businesses in the country. The players that keep college sports running are making squat in return. Something needs to be done. 
For a specific example in these teams, look no further than the top player in the country and the project­ed first-overall pick in this year’s NBA Draft — Anthony Davis. He has led the Wildcats to their best year in decades. What does he have to show for it? A year of pointless tuition, seeing that he will leave for the NBA at the end of the year. What’s his coach making for all the hard work Davis has put in? A measly $4.5 million. If it weren’t for the one year out of high school rule that was adopted by the NBA, Davis would be making millions right now in the NBA. Instead, he’s not making a penny. 
I’m calling you out, Anthony. Sit out Saturday’s game. Let the NCAA know that their days of exploitation are numbered. 
You can make a change for the 99 percent. 
Contact Daniel Azic at dazic@nd.edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 



Commencement speaker an appropriate choice 
After a long wait, the Notre Dame class of 2012 has its com­mencement speaker: Haley Scott DeMaria, a Notre Dame 1995 graduate and a survivor of the 1992 bus crash that killed two members of the Irish women’s swimming team. 
It would be easy for seniors to reflect on the choice and focus on what DeMaria is not. She is not the President of the United States. She has not hosted “NBC Nightly News” or “Meet the 
Press.” She has not run the U.S. Department of Defense, General Electric or The Carnegie Corporation. She is not another flashy, nation­ally visible commencement speaker — that is undeniable. It would be easy for the seniors to focus on these things. 
Rather, the soon-to-be-graduates could — 
and should — focus on what the choice of De-Maria as commencement speaker offers them. The commence­ment speaker is chosen to inspire a group of young adults on the verge of full adulthood, to evoke a sense of promise in the years ahead and offer advice on dealing with the challenges that lie before the graduates. 
Who better to do this than DeMaria? 
In the days following the tragic bus accident that killed freshmen Colleen Hipp and Meghan Beeler, a paralyzed De-Maria was told she would likely spend the rest of her life con­fined to a wheelchair. Faced with extreme hardship, she per­severed. Within a week, she had feeling in her legs. Within a month, she was walking. 20 months later, she swam once again in an Irish uniform — and won. 
When DeMaria speaks to the assembled Class of 2012 on May 20, she will be speaking to a class that has seen its share 

EDITORIAL CARTOON 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“Achievable goals are the first step to self-improvement.” 
J.K. Rowling British author 


of hardship in its time at Notre Dame. They have weathered the storm together, but there will be many more obstacles in the future. DeMaria offers a golden example of the grace and fortitude with which Notre Dame graduates face hardship. To put it another way, she embodies the intangible quality that is often referred to as the Notre Dame spirit. 
That spirit highlights yet another positive aspect of De­


Maria’s selection that the senior class may overlook: she will deliver a strong Notre Dame-specific message in her address. Robert Gates, Brian Williams or any other national figure may offer an inspiring and positive message, but their words would ring just as true at Stanford, Bos­ton College or Harvard. Having lived through a 
Notre Dame undergraduate experience and all it entails, DeMaria possesses a unique connection with the current undergraduates that national figures almost certainly lack. She understands what the graduating Domer can bring to the world that graduates of other universities cannot, sim­ply because she has lived as a Notre Dame graduate for 17 years. For an institution with as unique a mission as Notre Dame, DeMaria’s experiences and character make her an ide­al choice. 
Yes, Class of 2012, you will not read much of your commence­ment speaker in national publications. Her selection will not inspire discussion on cable news, nor will it bring protesters to campus. After years of political figures that divided the stu­dent body along ideological lines, the graduating seniors have a unifying speaker behind whom they can rally. No, this is not the edgy pick, nor the popular one. But it is the right one. 





Friday, March 30, 2012 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 9 


Supreme Court’s health care decision too big to fail 
Each generation witnesses at least one iconic event that twists our nation­al fate — often for the betterment of so­ciety, other times setting back our way of life. Throughout the last 75 years, American history has been dotted Gary J. Caruso with both tragedy and achievement Capitol Comments through external or internal forces. We have endured dramatic attacks upon our nation and assassinations of our government lead­ers. We have persisted through political intrigue and legislative accomplish­ments while occasionally adjusting to judicial disappointment. The Supreme Court’s consideration this week of the constitutionality of President Obama’s signature landmark legislation, the Affordable Care Act (ACA), will provide another historical twist when we learn in June whether the high court upholds or strikes down portions or all of the law. 
On the opening day, the justices clearly signaled why they are supreme 
— they would not abide by what the layman saw as common sense, namely, a Reconstruction-era law called the Anti-Injunction Act which forbids law­suits filed “for the purpose of restrain­ing the assessment or collection of any tax” until that tax has been paid. The court was eager to make constitutional history in the politically-charged mat­ter. Their questions focused on how to wiggle around the law’s flat ban on tax-restraining lawsuits and how to avoid concluding that the mandate’s penalty is, in fact, a tax. 
By now the justices have probably met to take their preliminary votes in the case. While the Supreme Court usually confines itself to legal prec­edent and matters of written law, the national need for health care is too big for the court to void the law by another 5-4 squeaker vote. It has been decades since the high court has dedicated so much time over a three-day period to conduct oral arguments for a single case. That schedule signaled the first of many clues about the historical enor­mity of their decision. Simply said, the ACA offers too much of a unique and complicated health care remedy for Americans. I believe the chief justice knows that he needs to uphold the law by a 6-3 or better vote. 
Chief Justice John Roberts began the year shrewdly defending the self-polic­ing way his court enforces its ethical standards. He demonstrated just how sensitive he is of his legacy by overtly worrying about his tenure’s institu­tional integrity. Thus, his best interest in the ACA case lies in not gutting the 2,700-page law by a one-vote margin reminiscent of the Bush vs. Gore de­bacle, even though post-Bush vs. Gore appointees to the court are generally seen as rank-and-file partisans. 
Roberts must avoid appearing like the third chamber of Congress. In modern times, the high court polled at a favorable 60 to 80 percent, with its highest ratings earned in the late 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 2012 commencement speaker is disappointing 
Disclaimer: I am not a heartless robot. 
Now that that’s out of the way, I would like to say what I believe many people are thinking but (likely) few will say openly: Notre Dame’s choice of Haley Scott DeMaria for a 2012 commence­ment speaker is disappointing. 
Notre Dame has selected influential politicians, academics, captains of industry, human rights advocates and others to be commencement speakers. Many have been Catholic; some have been Notre Dame graduates. All have achieved great things and bettered humanity in some form. The vast major­ity have been able to give graduates practical advice regarding their future careers, which, in all honesty, is what most of us are thinking about these days. 
Ms. DeMaria has a remarkable and inspiring story, and I’m sure few of us would meet such hardship with her tenacity. However, I must be blunt: she has little to offer my fellow graduates or myself. Previous commencement speakers changed American politics, improved our common discourse and lifted thousands out of poverty. Ms. 
DeMaria’s accomplishments, however inspiring, pale somewhat in compari­son. To my knowledge, she will also have very little to offer us in the way of constructive career advice. 
Some may point out that we needed to have a female commencement speaker. After five male speakers, I agree. But with all the influential, successful wom­en who have contributed so much to the world, and with Notre Dame’s prestige, it smacks of nepotism and questionable judgment to choose someone so strongly affiliated with Notre Dame. 
Our commencement should not be about one woman’s admittedly remark­able story nor her persistence in the face of obstacles. It should be about us, the graduates. The speaker should be someone who can tell us from experi­ence how to accomplish great things and improve the lives of those around us. I have no doubt that we will, but I do not believe Ms. DeMaria is the right person for this job. 
Patrick Hernandez 
senior off-campus March 29 
1990s.  However, since determining the presidential election in 2000, the court’s rating has fallen steadily, with an even steeper plunge after its 2005 eminent domain ruling. Today, just 46 percent of Americans approve of the court’s performance as the guardians of the U.S. Constitution. 
Roberts will make efforts to ac­commodate Justice Anthony Kennedy so that they can join the other four liberals — Justices Sonia Sotomayor, Elena Kagan, Ruth Bader Ginsburg and Stephen Breyer. Roberts and Kennedy left clues on how they will vote dur­ing each of the three days of hearings, just like the unfolding of a three-act play. While most observers point to the second day’s brutal questioning against the government mandate to require everyone to purchase insurance, both swing justices left the tiniest of hints that they may join the liberals. 
For example, on the second day, after saying that the government changed its relationship with citizens, Kennedy raised the possibility that the mandate was a unique effort to force people into commerce to subsidize health insur­ance and that the insurance market may be unique enough to justify that unusual treatment. On the third day, both Kennedy and Roberts seemed to grasp the magnitude of the nation’s health care problems. Kennedy sug­gested a health care fix would require a comprehensive solution. Roberts also spoke about uniqueness, citing that almost everyone uses it at some point. 
“Everybody is in this market, so that makes it very different than the market for cars or the other hypotheticals that you came up with, and all they’re regu­lating is how you pay for it,” Roberts noted, paraphrasing the government’s argument. 
Just as in a Broadway play when the third act ties up loose ends and solves any conflicts, the third day of argu­ments accentuated just how seriously void the nation would be if the mandate is stricken. Most justices agreed that if the mandate fails, two subsequent aspects of the law must also be voided: the requirement that insurers cover people regardless of existing medical conditions and the requirement that limits how much companies can charge for premiums based on a person’s age or health. The long-range ramifica­tions became clear for all when Justice Antoin Scalia said removing the heart kills the body. At this point, both Rob­erts and Kennedy know our national interest — upholding health care for 30 million currently uninsured Ameri­cans. 
Gary Caruso, Notre Dame ‘73, serves in the Department of Homeland Security and was a legislative and public affairs director in President Clinton’s admin­istration. His column appears every other Friday. He can be contacted at      GaryJCaruso@alumni.nd.ed 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
Question of the day: better dining hall? 
I would like to state some concerns I had with yesterday’s “Question of the Day,” which was “which dining hall is better, North or South?” The fact that the most intelligent response was “I like turtles” is saddening. I would like to go through each response and address the issues with each one. 
First, let’s look at Drew Williams’ response of, “South is too confusing. North.” Drew, I’m sorry to hear that you are confused by the layout of South Dining Hall. I could somewhat understand this response if you were a freshman. Seeing that this is not the case, I’m a bit worried. I hope your classes do not cause as much confusion. 
Tina, your response does have some truth to it. South can get quite crowded. But North can also become a free-for-all during the lunch rush. I’m sure we’ve all waited in those seemingly endless salad, pizza and pasta stir-fry lines at North. 
Miss Cleveland, I think your response bothered me the most. To state that North Dining Hall is more aesthetically pleasing than South Dining Hall is abso­lutely mind-blowing to me. Maybe you are just a fan of Cold War-era Communist-bloc housing. Personally, I prefer more detail and creativity in my architecture. Next time you are in South, take a few minutes to look around. The magnificent windows, ornate lighting, artistic additions and Gothic feel are unmatched. The outside is also spectacular. The relief-stone carvings on the side exits alone are enough to put South ahead of North. 
Maureen, I’d just like to say that South also has mints. Granted, sometimes North does vary their mint variety. But North also runs out of mints much faster than South, in my experience. 
Mr. Brandt, you’re spot on. Keep doing what you’re doing. 
In conclusion, I’m very disappointed in all of you (except for Mr. Brandt). The reasons stated for North’s superiority were subpar at best. No mention of the lunchtime salad specials, the make-your-own pizza station, the larger trays or the televisions? You can do better, people. And finally, South rules. 
Robert Ryan 
senior off-campus March 29 



Photo courtesy of sports-logos-screensavers.com Photo courtesy of sports-logos-screensavers.com Photo courtesy of chase-taylor.blogspot.com 
By SEAN FITZGERALD 
Scene Writer 
Kentucky vs. Louisville 
In a battle for the Bluegrass State, Kentucky and Louis­ville face off in the Final Four. Since the tournament this year has been so erratic I figured I would make my choice on who would win based on complete­ly arbitrary and meaningless factors like what they wear. 
Kentucky 
Before we start this, I would like to thank Kentucky’s John Calipari for eliminating the highlighter-wearing Baylor Bears. Kentucky’s maestro doesn’t like to experiment too much.  But why should he? He has a winning philosophy, and if it ain’t broke, why fix it?  You might occasionally see different shades of blue on his ties, but night in and night out, it won’t be too hard to predict what he’ll be wearing on game day.  Late­ly, he’s been sporting the pin­stripe look.  Look for that with a plain blue tie this Saturday. 
Louisville 
Rick Pitino’s full-court press is not just a style of play, but it is also how he picks what to wear on game day.  Have you seen him in that white suit?  He looks a little bit like Colonel Sanders, if the Colonel didn’t have a mus­tache and a beard.  Needless to say, Coach Pitino goes all-out for these games.  Let’s hope he brings his “A” game on Saturday. Advantage: Louisville. Rick Pi­tino believes in the power of his clothes.  I mean, the man changed his clothes at halftime in a 2008 game, and Louisville came back to win.  How can you not believe in someone like that?  I’m feeling a big night from the master of the full-court press. 
Prediction: Louis­ville 70, Kentucky 68 
Kansas vs. Ohio State 
No. 2 in a battle of seeded teams that didn’t lose to No. 15, Kansas faces off against Ohio State. 
Apparently, this year the school’s colors either need to be red or blue to make it to the Final Four.  Sorry Bay­lor, you never had a chance. 
Ohio State 
Despite Thad Matta’s reced­ing hairline, he’s managed to bring his team to the illustrious Final Four. 
I don’t know what his secret is, but this man knows what he’s doing.  Jared Sullinger is not flying under the radar, though. 
I mean, look at those arm sleeves. Even Dwight Howard might be a little envious.  Hon­estly, I have no idea if those sleeves serve a functional purpose. I really don’t care, because they are amazing. 
Kansas 
Bill Self’s Kansas Jayhawks didn’t screw it up this year by losing way too early. That’s a good start. But can they finish? 
Photo courtesy of ukathletics.com 
As a classic powerhouse in the NCAA, they have a consistent look that is professional.  But let’s be honest, it is really bor­ing.  The only thing I think Kansas has going for them is they have already beaten a team wearing red in NC State. I know, it’s completely arbitrary, but maybe they trained with the bulls in Pamplona and have a seething hatred of red. 
Advantage: Ohio State. Be­tween Thad Matta’s hairline and Jared Sullinger’s arm sleeves, they have got to win. 
Prediction: Ohio State 61, Kan­sas 55 
Contact Sean Fitzgerald at sfitzge3@nd.edu 

AP AP AP Photo courtesy of bleacherreport.com 
Ohio State’s Jared Sullinger. Kansas’ Thomas Robinson. Kentucky coach John Calipari. Louisville coach Rick Pitino. 
MARINA KOZAK | Observer Graphic 



COMMENTARY 


Final Four competition poses challenge for Irish 

Here come the Irish to the Final Four, and here come the nail-biting, down-to-the-buzz­er games Irish fans have been waiting for since the tourna­ment began. 
It’s about time they get a real soul-shaking 40 minutes of play in the most important part of their season. 
These — potential — two games won’t disappoint, whether the Irish reach their goal of tourna­ment champions or if they fall short. Notre Dame has old conference tension to break open against Connecticut. This team is incredibly hungry for a cham­pionship, which will fuel them into the finals. 
No matter the outcome, Notre Dame’s season will end here with a pressure-filled contest, in the truest sense of the word. In entirely predict­able fashion, all No. 1 seeds and the top four teams in the polls made it this far, and they promise to not make it 

easy for the These — potential — two tant game Irish any-games won’t disappoint, of their last more. whether the Irish reach season with 
Notre an Irish jer­
their goal of tournament 
Dame won by sey on their 
champions or if they fall 
30 points or backs. 
short. Notre Dame has 
more in three In the Big 
old conference tension 
of the four East tourna­
to break open against 
contests it ment final, took to get to Connecticut. This team Connecticut Denver and is incredibly hungry for gave the was comfort-a championship, which Irish one ably leading will fuel it into the finals. of the rare more games where a combina­tion of their usual rebounding techniques and good offensive management by each of their four guards on the court can run away with a lead as soon as the ball is tipped. 
Against Maryland, they executed this perfectly with hardly a flaw in their play and structure, and a triple-double for Diggins. They made a vic­tory over No. 2 seed Maryland, the ACC conference tourna­ment champions who held an obvious height advantage, look far easier than expected. They ran away with the game like it was the first of the tourna­ment, not a regional final where teams have to not only work hard and show poise, but fight off a team that shares the court as their relative equal. 
Conference foe Connecticut will want to shake Notre Dame first, in their fourth and final time the Irish will play their Big East rival this season with the veteran team they have now. Senior guards Natalie Novosel and Fraderica Miller and graduate students guard Brittany Mallory and forward Devereaux Peters have one last chance to play the once-invincible team before they graduate. It follows that it will be either the most important 
or the second 
more impor­
at halftime in two of those. Sure, Cal was even with the Irish mid-game in the second round back at home to light a little fire under Notre Dame’s feet. But after a good talking-to at halftime, the Irish escaped the pressure and unleashed the true character of their relentless defense, recorded multiple steals and rebounded better. 
Now they are surrounded by the elite company that their play resembled all season, with teams they know, teams they have seen and teams that de­serve to be there just as much as the Notre Dame deserves to be there. 
Two of Notre Dame’s three losses this season came at the hands of teams represented in the trifecta of tournament top-seeds, once faltering against all-too-familiar Connecticut in the postseason and letting Baylor taint the loss column on their record early last Novem­ber. 
These are teams that not only can beat the Irish, but have proven it as well. In the Final Four, there should not be any more blowout wins, no chances to 
feel the real and raw panic associated with losing. Not just a shot-for-shot final few minutes where the Irish had a chance to win, but the feeling of being down by 10 points or more and knowing that losing was inevitable. 
They will see that same encompassing panic one more time, but now it will be magni­fied as the importance grows. If the Irish want to reach their goal of returning to South Bend and graduate this senior class with a national champi­onship, they will need to show the utmost composure, even if they are down by 10. 
One of the benefits of playing on a Final Four team is not having to play through many discouraging situations. But in this year’s finals, stacked with the teams who have been on top all year, Notre Dame will need to learn how and learn it quickly. 
Contact Molly Sammon at msammon@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 




Irish enter semifinal rematch 
By JOSEPH MONARDO 
Sports Writer 
For the second consecutive year, the Irish and the Huskies will face off in the Final Four with a berth in the national championship game on the line. In last year’s semifinal, the two-seed Irish entered the game as the heavy underdogs, trying to prove they belonged among the game’s elite. 
What a difference a year makes. 
No. 4 Notre Dame (34-3, 15-1 Big East) and No. 3 Connecti­cut (33-4, 13-3) both enter this year’s Final Four matchup in Denver as top seeds. No. 1 Baylor and No. 2 Stanford also reached the Final Four as top seeds, making this the first Fi­nal Four since 1989 populated entirely by number-one seeds. 
For the Irish, the arrival at Denver is a long-awaited achievement that brings re­lief. 
“I feel like we have accom­plished what we needed to,” Irish coach Muffet McGraw said. “I think we would have been extremely disappointed had we not gotten this far. I think the expectation from probably November was that these are the four teams that were going to advance, and that is a heavy burden to car­ry throughout the year.” 
Despite the burden, the Irish managed to sustain suc­cess throughout the season, losing only to Baylor (38-0, 18-0 Big-12), Big East foe West Virginia and Connecticut. 
In the tournament’s open­ing rounds, the Irish made the most of their home-court ad­vantage, and blew out 16-seed Liberty 74-43 before ham­mering out a 73-62 victory over eight-seed California. 

The Irish used a dominant defen­sive effort to get past five-seed St. Bonaventure, 79-35 in the Sweet 16, and crushed two-seed Mary­land in the Elite Eight, 80-49. 
“Our last game against Mary­land seemed one of the best we have played this whole tourna­ment, maybe all year, and we just have to really use that as momen­tum going into this game,” Irish graduate student guard Brittany Mallory said. 
The Irish must face a familiar foe in their Final Four matchup with the Huskies, who fell to the Irish twice in the regular season before denying Notre Dame its first-ever Big East tournament championship. 
“We know them pretty well, they know us pretty well, so I don’t think there is going to be a lot of mystery in the game,” Mc­Graw said. “I think it’s a matter of who is going to play well, who is going to make shots, who is go­ing to be able to defend a little bit better. The adrenaline will be flowing, I think anything can happen.” 
The Irish have plenty of prior experience and game tape to help guide them as they attempt to replicate the successes from their two wins. 
“[In our wins over Connecti­cut,] we were just clicking, espe­cially on defense we were getting a lot of stops,” Irish graduate-student forward Devereaux Pe­ters said. “In the [Big East title] game, we were letting them do what they wanted to do … and we let them decide what we were running [on offense] and we weren’t as aggressive as we nor­mally are, so that definitely has to change.” 
As they attempt to move past Connecticut and into the cham­pionship game, the Irish gain confidence from last year’s tour­nament, Mallory said. 
“Since we have been there before, we aren’t as star-struck from the whole Final Four atmo­sphere,” she said. “We are a little more relaxed going in, and just knowing what to expect.” 
The Irish will tip off with Con­necticut at 6:30 p.m. Sunday at the Pepsi Center, as they try to advance to their second-straight national championship game. 

Contact Joseph Monardo at jmonardo@nd.edu 





The fantastic four 
Unique offensive system relies on guards’ speed and versatility, produces strong results for Irish 
By CHRIS MASOUD 2001, but the vehicle responsible added the coaching staff selects Senior Sports Writer couldn’t be more different. Take specific plays in particular to away the loss to Connecticut in signal Diggins it’s her time to 
Notre Dame isn’t running up the Big East tournament finals, take over a game. Diggins said the score for promotional Mc-the rematch in the Final Four, the degree of flexibility granted Donald’s vouchers anymore, but the consensus First Team All-to her by McGraw has been a de­its 29-point average margin of American and the Hall-of-Fame velopmental process. victory in the 2012 NCAA tour-coach, and you’re left with two “I have the green light. I think nament is reminiscent of its very different offensive systems it’s lime-green now in my junior dominant performance during driving the Irish. year,” she said. the regular season. The Irish “I think the players are more start only one player over six complete players [now],” Mc-The offensive threat feet tall, and yet outscore oppo-Graw said. “You used to have Named the Big East’s Most nents inside the paint on a regu-the defensive specialists [like] Improved Player in 2011, No­lar basis, including a Maryland the 3-point shooter who couldn’t vosel has elevated her game to team that started three in the guard. I think players now are so another level in her final sea-regional finals. much better and so much more son in uniform. The talented 
There are no secret plays, no capable of playing the game at guard led the Irish in scoring “Hoosiers” halftime speeches — both ends, and it’s great for the in victories over California in just Irish coach Muffet McGraw’s women’s game.” the regional quarterfinals and patented four-guard offense that St. Bonaventure in the regional has foiled height-advantaged op-The point guard semifinals, including a 28-point ponents all season long. Every team needs one, but the performance against the Golden 
“The four-guard lineup, it’s Irish happen to have the nation’s Bears. just so versatile,” senior guard best. Averaging 16.7 points and A native of Kentucky, Novosel Natalie Novosel said. “Every-5.8 assists per game, Diggins said the four-guard system body can score — it’s so bal-lifted Notre Dame over the Ter-rattles opponents by creating anced. You can just do whatever rapins with her first career tri-mismatches that are difficult to you want, but at the same time ple-double to send the Irish to guard and even harder to pre­it’s a system, so there’s different the tournament semifinals. pare for. options. One person goes back-The point guard leads the “Guards are quicker, faster, door, one person cuts back out. Irish attack with her exceptional sometimes craftier with the There’s just so many different vision, quickness and versatility. ball, so I think it definitely cre­options and it’s so balanced.” “Sky’s the general of the court,” ates a lot of problems for dif-
Averaging 15.3 points per Novosel said. “She just knows ferent people, especially those game as Notre Dame’s second-where everybody is — that’s her who are used to playing against leading scorer, Novosel has de-job and she does it flawlessly. two posts inside,” she said. “Es­veloped into one of the nation’s She’s just really aware and does pecially in transition, guards most efficient players and junior things really well.” can coast down the court, and guard Skylar Diggins’ number-Unlike a traditional Princeton that’s really tough to match up one option under McGraw’s sig-offense that features four guards against.” nature offense. While winning simultaneously directing the of-McGraw said the luxury of basketball games has been the fense, Diggins’ ability to dictate having two prolific scorers in most obvious effect of McGraw’s the Notre Dame offense on the Diggins and Novosel prevents implementation of the four-court makes McGraw’s system opponents from successfully guard offense, her underlying unique. The head coach said she double-teaming on defense. motivation is much simpler. has complete faith in Diggins to “They’re both just really tough In her first NCAA tournament Mallory said the offense can’t 
“Because I love a high-scor-make the right pass, take the matchups,” she said. “They can game, she paced the Irish with function properly if Notre Dame ing game as probably the other right shot and manage the game score in a lot of different ways. a team-high 15 points in Notre relies too heavily on the three-three coaches in this [Final Four by herself. They can score off the dribble, Dame’s victory over Liberty in point shot. Rather, McGraw’s would agree],” she said. “It’s so “I give her complete control. they get to the foul line and they the first round. system flourishes when the much more fun to watch. I think I try to help her if I feel like make great passes.” Afterwards, Liberty coach guards spread the floor and al­it makes the game so much more she needs it, but she generally Carey Green called her the “wild low Diggins to find the open exciting for the fans when you makes great decisions,” McGraw The wild card card” of Notre Dame’s offense. shooter or cutting player. see up-tempo scoring also with said. “I really let her have a lot Sophomore guard Kayla Mc-“I think the four-guard look “When we spread the floor, great defense.” of flexibility to do what she can Bride sat out the second half of really makes it tough for that that creates opportunities for 
Notre Dame’s path to the 2012 do because she’s so talented and the 2010-2011 season to attend fourth defender for the other driving, and when Sky drives NCAA tournament national title hard to guard.” to an off-the-court issue, watch-team. Kayla McBride’s a tough everyone’s going to look at her,” may be remarkably similar to its In addition to letting Diggins ing Notre Dame’s run to the na-matchup because she can go on she said. “We just have to look to successful championship run in facilitate her offense, McGraw tional title game from the bench. the perimeter and hit threes, get open and allow her to get us 
she can drive the ball and she the ball.” can do so many things,” McGraw said. “So if you try to put a post The forward on her, she can take advantage Graduate student forward of that.” Devereaux Peters serves an im-
Two seasons ago, 2010 gradu-portant role as Notre Dame’s ate Lindsay Schrader served lone conventional post player, a similar role as a guard who attracting defenders to free up could score in the frontcourt perimeter shooters while find-while remaining a shooting ing the backdoor cutters. An threat on the perimeter. Howev-athletic forward like Peters who er, McBride’s defensive skill and can run the floor and rebound 3-point shooting ability makes makes McGraw’s offense that her even more versatile. much more effective. 
“K-Mac shoots a lot of threes “The guards really play well and Lindsay really didn’t, but through me,” Peters said. “We she can still bang inside like have found our niche, where Lindsay did,” Diggins said. “It’s we know each other and we different components.” play well together. I move a bit 
quicker than a lot of the posts, The specialist so it works to our advantage in 
Ranked sixth all-time in pro-our case.” gram history with 150 career Regardless of position, Mc­3-point field goals, graduate stu-Graw said her players’ laser-like dent Brittany Mallory serves as focus and motivation to return Notre Dame’s most potent threat to the national championship behind the arc. Despite her re-game, coupled with their ability cruitment by McGraw for her to coach themselves on the floor, exceptional 3-point shooting, set this year’s team apart. Mallory’s experience in the four-“This is a team that has taken guard system and off-ball move-ownership. They’re accountable ment has made her invaluable for each other, they help each on the court. other,” she said. “They feel like 
“Brittany’s the stabilizing they’re coaches on the floor. force. She’s the smart one,” Mc-When they see things they’ll talk Graw said. “She’s going to go about, ‘Hey, why don’t we try back-door, she’s going to make this? This looks great. I see this. a great cut. She’s going to tell This is going to work.’ I think it’s everybody to be in the right spot a real team effort.” and make sure everybody’s do-
Irish sophomore guard Kayla McBride drives to the basket during Notre Dame’s 80-49 victory over ing what they’re supposed to be Contact Chris Masoud at Maryland in the Elite Eight in Raleigh, N.C. McBride had 16 points in the game. doing.” cmasoud@nd.edu 



BAYLOR 38-0, 18-0 BRITTNEY GRINER 23.4 ppg, 9.4 rpg,

199 blocks ODYSSEY SIMS 14.8 ppg, 4.4 apg, 114
                                             steals, 1.62 assist/TO DESTINY WILLIAMS 10.2 ppg, 9.2 rpg KIMETRIA HAYDEN 7.5 ppg, 4.1 rpg BROOKLYN POPE 7.5 ppg, 5.5 rpg 
TEAM – 78.9 ppg, 18.4 apg, 45.3 rpg, 8.55 steals, +26.9 margin 
THREE-POINT .337 
OPPONENTS 52.0 ppg 

STANFORD 35-1, 16-0 NNEMKADI OGWUMIKE   22.5 ppg, 10.3 rpg, 49          
steals, 1.8 apg CHINEY OGWUMIKE         15.3 ppg, 10.3 rpg, 44blocks, 47 assists TONI KOKENIS                   9.5 ppg, 3.2 rpg, 3.6 apg,           53 steals JOSLYN TINKLE 8.9 ppg, 5.5 rpg, 45 blocks, 48 assists AMBER ORRANGE            4.9 ppg, 2.6 rpg, 3.1 apg, 40 steals 
TEAM – 76.8 ppg, 16.8 apg, 43.4 rpg, 6.72 steals, +22.2 margin 
THREE-POINT .316 


OPPONENTS 52.22 ppg 
Joseph Monardo 
Sports Writer 


One of the best teams in the coun­try this year, the Irish have played some of their best basketball the last two times out. Also promis­ing, the Irish seem to have the up­per hand in the matchup with Con­necticut, having won two of three meetings this season and currently on a mission to avenge their Big 
East championship game loss to the Huskies. Diggins and Peters will lead the Irish on both ends as they overcome UConn and move on to the finals against Baylor. The Irish will have their hands full with the Bears, but their penetrating style will put Griner on the bench with foul trouble early while McBride jumps out to a hot start. Ultimately, Griner and the rest of Bay­lor will be too much for Notre Dame to contain as the Irish finish as runner-ups for the second straight year. 
BOTTOM LINE: Baylor 76, Notre Dame 68 
Molly Sammon 
Sports Writer 


Notre Dame might know Connecti­cut better than Connecticut knows Connecticut. They’ve got it down by now, they knew what it took to beat them twice in the regular season, and they got a chance to see what they needed to change in their loss at the Big East Tournament final — keep Connecticut from going on huge runs and they will make it to the fi­nals with no trouble. Baylor will beat Stanford with no obvious problems. The Cardinal regular season schedule was too weak for them to be able to break a team like Bay­lor’s 38-game win streak. Baylor’s junior center Brittney Griner and the Bears will see the Irish in the final game on Tuesday. Irish coach McGraw walked away from that game knowing her team didn’t defend the entirety of the Baylor offense well enough, so they will improve this time. 
BOTTOM LINE: Notre Dame 75, Baylor 72 
Matthew Robison 
Sports Writer 

The Irish have had Connecticut’s number this season, beating the Huskies in two of three matchups. The only Connecticut victory came in a virtual second home game in the Big East championship. Dig-gins, Peters and the Irish will send Auriemma,  Hayes and the Huskies packing after the national semifi­nal. But, as much as I would like to 
see Muffet McGraw and Notre Dame win another na­tional title, I really don’t see anyone getting past Baylor this year. Brittney Griner and the Bears dominated the Irish in the first matchup this year. While I don’t see it being another dominant performance, I think Baylor is just too big and strong for Notre Dame’s post players. I hope the Irish prove me wrong, but Baylor will edge Notre Dame in a close one. 
BOTTOM LINE: Baylor 81, Notre Dame 76 


NOTRE DAME  
34-3, 15-1  
SKYLAR DIGGINS              16.7 ppg, 5.8 apg, 3.3 rpg,2.6 spg  
NATALIE NOVOSEL  15.3 ppg, 4.1 rpg, 47 steals,     1.9 apg  
BRITTANY MALLORY  5.8 ppg, 2.6 rpg, 2.0 spg,2.2 apg  
KAYLA MCBRIDE               11.7 ppg, 4.6 rpg, 1.6 spg,1.8 apg  
DEVEREAUX PETERS        11.8 ppg, 9.4 rpg, 1.9 blocks per game, 2.1 apg  

TEAM – 79.2 ppg, 18.1 apg, 41.1 rpg, 13.0 spg, +27.7 margin 
THREE-POINT .346 
OPPONENTS 51.5 ppg 

UCONN 33-4, 13-3 MOSQUEDA-LEWIS         15.0 ppg, 5.4 rpg, 1.7 apg,
46 steals 
TIFFANY HAYES                14.8 ppg, 5.8 rpg, 3.4 apg,82 steals 
BRIA HARTLEY 13.9 ppg, 3.9 rpg, 3.7 apg,69 steals 
STEPHANIE DOLSON       10.2 ppg, 5.9 rpg, 1.8 apg,      53 blocks 
KELLY FARIS                      6.6 ppg, 5.3 rpg, 4.3 apg,               77 steals 
TEAM – 76.4 ppg, 18.8 apg, 41.6 rpg, 11.38 steals, +30.4 margin 
THREE-POINT .352 



OPPONENTS 46.1 ppg 
Kelsey Manning 
Sports Writer 


The Irish have come up against the Huskies eight times in the post­season, six in the Big East tourna­ment, and twice in the Final Four. And the Irish have  lost every one of those contests — aside from the two Final Four matchups. Notre Dame will make that count 3-0 on Sunday led by continued strong postseason play from Diggins. But in the championship, the Irish will not be able to derail Baylor from the first 40-0 season in NCAA basketball history. The last time Notre Dame matched up with the Bears, Griner dropped 32 points, 14 rebounds and six blocked shots. While the Irish have certainly improved defensively since then and will not allow Griner that kind of statline again, Baylor will simply prove too tough and too big for ND and its four-guard system. 
BOTTOM LINE: Baylor 84, Notre Dame 78 
Chris Masoud 
Senior Sports Writer 


Conventional wisdom suggests the team that has not lost a game all sea­son, Baylor, led by a national champion coach, Kim Mulkey, and powered by the sport’s best player, 6-foot-8 Brittany Gri­ner, will not lose in Denver. But Stanford’s senior forward Nnemkadi Ogwumike is quietly putting together the best perfor­mance in the NCAA tournament thus 
far, averaging 28 points per game after leading the Cardinal to 28 regular season wins against just one loss. But Notre Dame and Connecticut are peaking at the right time. Despite a first half scare against Kentucky, the Huskies rallied against the Wildcats to reach the Final Four, while the Irish thoroughly pounded Maryland in the Elite Eight. Losing to UConn in the Big East tournament finals was the best thing that happened to Notre Dame, who will start a new winning streak against the Huskies instead of trying to extend an old one to five. 
BOTTOM LINE: Stanford 76, Notre Dame 68 


Notre Dame-Connecticut rivalry gains added significance 
By MATTHEW ROBISON 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame and Connecti­cut renew their Big East rival­ry Sunday night in what will determine the premier team in the conference. 
For the last two decades, Connecticut has dominated the Big East. However, recent­ly — and especially this sea­son — Notre Dame has made its claim as the new face of the conference. 
In the regular season, the Irish knocked off the Huskies twice, once at Purcell Pavilion and once at the XL Center in Storrs, Conn. 
“We’ve played them before,” graduate student guard Brit­tany Mallory said. “We know what to expect. They know what to expect. So it’s just go­ing to be a good challenge.” 
Connecticut got revenge for its two defeats this sea­son when it beat Notre Dame, the Big East regular-season champion, in the conference championship game in Hart­ford, Conn. 
“We beat them twice this year and they have beaten us once so it is an equal match-up,” senior guard Natalie No­vosel said. “Going in, it is just going to be all about heart.” 
When asked how the loss to the Hus­kies in the Big East title game will carry over into Sunday, 

the Irish said “We beat them twice have stepped 
they will use this year and they have up in differ-it as a means ent games The Notre Dame-Connect-al renown. When the ball is pursuit of a national champi­
beaten us once so it is 
of motivation. and played icut rivalry has reached new tipped Sunday night, it will no onship. 
an equal matchup  ... 
“In a way it really well. heights. The two teams are longer be about a conference, 
Going in, it is just going 
is a blessing When you’re not only competing for Big a rivalry or a history. It will Contact Matthew Robison at 
to be all about heart.” 
in disguise,” playing a East dominance but nation-be about two teams’ relentless mrobison@nd.edu Novosel said. team like “We look at Natalie Novosel Connecti ­it as a re-senior guard cut, they’ve 
venge game, and we usu­ally do well in revenge games.” 
Sunday night’s matchup figures to be the most heated contest of the rivalry to date. Last season, the Huskies swept the Irish in two regular season meetings and beat them in the Big East championship game. In the Final Four, the Irish finally got a win against Connecti­cut, beating the Huskies to advance to the national cham­pionship game against Texas A&M. 
The Huskies were the No. 1 overall seed, had four-time All-American and AP Player of the Year Maya Moore and were thirsty for a rematch with Stanford, who ended their 90-game winning streak earlier in the season. But Notre Dame came out strong and held on to a 72-63 win, ending a 12-game skid by the Irish in the series. 
After the game, it seemed as though Notre Dame had al­ready won its championship 
— it had beaten Connecticut. The Irish then went on to lose to the Aggies in the title game. 
“Last year with Maya Moore, they were the team to beat, we were the underdog,” McGraw said. “We were com­ing in off the Tennessee win off a high. Nobody expected us to be there.” 
This year, Notre Dame might be even hungrier. But Connecticut has been here before. It may not have a sin­gle go-to scorer like Moore or Tina Charles, but Huskies coach Geno Auriemma knows how to prepare his players for big games. 
“I think when we played UConn, we’ve had a lot of different games with them,” McGraw said. “Stefanie Dol­
son has re­ally beat us. Bria Hart­ley’s beat us. I think dif­ferent people 


had such an equal oppor­tunity team that any one person can step up on a 
given night and play extreme­ly well.” 
Facing such a versatile line­up, the Irish cannot be com­placent with their two vic­tories over the Huskies this year. A national champion­ship is the goal. 
“Now, people expect us not just to be there, but to win,” McGraw said. 







Diggins leads Irish in title hunt 




By KELSEY MANNING 
Sports Writer 
In the midst of racking up nominations for every major na­tional player-of-the-year award, earning spots on three different All-America teams, recording her first career triple-double and claiming the title of Most Outstanding Player of the Ra­leigh Regional, Irish junior point guard Skylar Diggins re­mains focused on one thing — winning it all. 
“We are not just here to par­ticipate,” she said. “We are not just happy to be here. We want to win it.” 
This attitude has been evident in Diggins’ postseason perfor­mance, as she posted her first career triple-double in No. 4 Notre Dame’s 80-49 rout of No. 5 Maryland in the Raleigh re­gional final March 27. 
Diggins finished the game with 22 points, 11 assists and 10 rebounds along with five steals — she was the game’s top performer in all four categories. The feat marked the 13th triple-double in NCAA tournament history, and only the second in a regional final. Diggins also achieved the third triple-double in Notre Dame history, and the first ever in postseason play. 
In the wake of the win over Maryland to advance the Irish to the Final Four for the second straight year, Irish coach Muf­fet McGraw recognized the pro­found mark Diggins has had on the Notre Dame program. 
“This puts us in more elite company,” she said. “This is something that [Diggins] has brought to our program. I think we now have a place with all the elite programs in the coun­try, and I couldn’t be prouder of that.” 
Diggins has been showered with national honors, most re­cently earning a spot on the John Wooden All-American Team and the 10-player United States Basketball Writers As­sociation All-American Team. These selections indicate the finalists for player-of-the-year awards from both organiza­tions. 
But despite all the individual attention, Diggins said her focus is on winning a championship, where it has remained since last year’s loss in the final.    
“The loss against Texas A&M has been in our mind for a year now. [We were thinking] ‘When is a championship going to [come]? When is the tour­nament getting started?’” she said. “I think we tried to win a in one year] matters. I think it is hard beating them once, es­pecially a team like that,” she said. “It’s the game to get to the championship, so I don’t think it matters who we are playing. The fact that it is UConn, I think we both have some familiarity [with each other]. 

In a Wednesday telecon­ference, Huskies coach Geno Auriemma was asked what concerns him the most about playing Notre Dame. 
“The most, everything,” he responded. “This is the eighth time we’re playing them in 12 months, and it’s crazy, isn’t it? I mean, it’s just ridiculous. Ev-
champion ­ship against Arka nsas Pine -Bluff right on the tip [in the first game of the season.] It’s good for us to final­ly be back here, and get into the last hurrah with the team. And with this team, it is kind of bittersweet, 

“The loss against Texas A&M has been in our mind for a year now. [We were thinking] ‘When is a championship going to [come]? When is the tournament getting started.” 
Skylar Diggins junior guard 
erything. Every­thing. I think if you stripped them apart as a team and all the components, you would find they don’t have any weakness­es, and you can’t say that about a lot of teams.” 
Some of that praise can defi­nitely be attrib­uted to Diggins, he said. 
“Cer tainly Skylar Diggins 
because we are at the end of the season with this team. But that gives us more reason to play for.” 
With that in mind, Diggins currently has her gaze set firm­ly on No. 3 Connecticut, who the Irish will face in the tour­nament semifinals in what will be the teams’ fourth matchup of the year.  Brushing off any no­tion of the difficulty of beating a team three times in one year, Diggins said she and the team are using the same approach they have all year — one game at a time. 
“I don’t think [the difficulty of beating a team three times is playing unbelievable basket­ball right now,” Auriemma said. 

Diggins will try to contin­ue this trend, as Notre Dame looks to advance to the nation­al championship game for its second-straight year. And as the Irish take on Connecticut to earn that right, they will look to their junior point guard, who will — as always — have her eye on the prize. 
“We know what it is like to get there, but we don’t know what it is like to win it,” Diggins said. “So it’ll be great for us.” 
Contact Kelsey Manning at kmannin3@nd.edu 


MATT SAAD/The Observer 
Clockwise from left: Sophomore forward Natalie Achonwa handles the ball for the Irish during an 80-49 victory over Maryland in the Elite Eight; Notre Dame huddles before its Elite Eight matchup; the Raleigh regional-champion Irish celebrate their victory over Maryland on Tuesday. 




WAY TO GO IRISH WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 
Remember: Breakfast is the most important meal of the day... YOU can eat it anytime at LePeep! Monday–Friday 6:30–2:00 pm 
Saturday–Sunday 7:00–2:00 pm 



GOOD LUCK IN DENVER! 
127 S. Michigan Street Downtown South Bend 574-288-PEEP 
Big Groups Welcome...call ahead available 

Friday, March 30, 2012 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 11 

As a young girl, I had a very great obsession (well to tell the whole fash­ion truth, I had many, but I’m writing a column, not a memoir so I’ll err on the side of brevity for your sake, dear reader). 
She was glamor­ous, international, musical, and quite the femme fatale­-and my dream was to one day fill her shoes. Her name was Evita. I first fell under this Argentin­ian diplomat and dictator’s wife’s spell when I saw the film adaptation of An­drew Lloyd Webber’s musical, but it wasn’t the rags-to-riches tale, the many lovers or the pure ambi­tion that first caught my impression­able eye. Oh no — it was the montage of the song “Rainbow High.” Fur after 
necklace after hat after shoe is presented in this scene to Eva Peron with un­abashed glee. If you haven’t seen it, YouTube now, please--you’ll never be the same. 
If she was going to be the first lady of Argentina, she needed the ward­robe to match. If she was going to be the people’s savior, she needed to look the part, Christian Dior-ed from head to toe. 
While political 
science fashioni-Sophomore stas among us Andjela Pehar may stop me right models Neon. here and argue 
the Machiavellian 
tactics behind my idol’s ideologies, we all must admit the desire to celebrate oneself through dress is common to us all, and secretly, or openly as is the case here, don’t we all wish we were in this Argentinian rose’s shoes? There are certain times, fellow fashionistas, which call for un­abashed, look-at-me-now-I’m-fabulous fashion. 
At this moment, we Notre Dame fashionistas are partaking in one of them. Spring has finally arrived, spring break and its restful days have given us renewed vigor, and some of us are just a stiletto heel’s length away from graduation. If ever the time to cel­ebrate was at hand, it is now. Even the weather finally seems to be cooperat­ing! For Gucci’s sake, what kind of Evita followers would we be to contest?  This spring season, designers are urging us to create our own spotlight--in neon. 



The Street Style of Paris, New York and Milan Fashion Weeks turned up our fellow fashionistas in the most eye-catching colors: neon pink, blue, green and even orange. 
Instead of those telltale t-shirts that we collegiates are often fond of wear­ing to sporting events, these neon items come in your classic tailored pieces­-cuffed pants, blazers and exquisitely-cut blouses. These key pieces morph into colorful, eye-catch­ing high­lights, prov­ing these colorful bursts don’t just need to draw our eyes to key pieces of academic information as high­lighters do in our text­books. They can also serve as a useful reminder to 
our audiences of our fabulous physical attri­butes. 
The key to the trend is to pair neon with neu­trals — match a neon pink skirt with a beige top, a neon blue pant with a white blazer. Going head­to-toe neon would be too ‘80s- we want modern neon-minimalist, not retro-eighties time traveler. The most titil­lating accessory in stores is the strategically-ne­
on stiletto — no one will be able to keep their eyes off your gams when your heel is bright neon yellow.  Don’t cry for me, Evita — I’m neon high now. 
Contact Felicia Caponigri at fcaponig@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 



By KEVIN NOONAN 
Scene Editor 

In 1938, Orson Welles incited a coun­trywide riot with his radio-play adap­tion of H.G. Wells’ science fiction classic, “War of the Worlds.” Around the same time was the boom of the graphic novel. 
Those forms of media have somewhat died out through the years, as technol­ogy has advanced, but for artists like Jason Neulander, they re­main a continuing source of inspiration for unique storytell­ing techniques. 
Neulander’s show, “Intergalactic Nem­esis,” which he cre­ated and stars in, combines the two into a one-of-a-kind live-action graphic novel. 
His performance consists of a full graphic novel of over 1,000 frames project­ed onto a screen be­hind the stage, three voice actors who pro­vide the speech for all characters in the show, a foley artist who makes the sound effects on stage for the audience to see and a pianist who performs the score live. 
“We’ve created a comic book series to tell the story, and we project the art work from those books, panel by panel, with­out the word bal­loons. It’s a total one-
of -a-kind [show]. There’s re­ally isn’t anythi ng else like it out there at all,” Neu­lander said. 

The story not only combines the presen­tation tech­niques of a radio play and graphic novel, but the plot structure as well. Like many of the pulp fiction stories of the early 1900s, “Nemesis” is a science fiction adventure following a hero who must save a damsel in dis­tress. But the story is far more than it might seem. 


“The show definitely has a broader 
appeal than just comic book fans. It re­
ally is like an homage to and embracing 
of the storytelling that ‘Star Wars’ and 
‘Raiders of the Lost Ark’ had. If you’re a 
fan of imagination and adventures and 
fun, and you like to laugh, then the ‘In­
tergalactic Nemesis’ is probably a show 
for you,” Neulander said. “Now if you’re one of the people that doesn’t like fun and if you don’t like to laugh, then you’re probably clear.” 
The idea for the show came to Neulander in an epiphany, when he realized he needed to do something a little different in order to entertain large audiences. 
“This actually started as a radio play, and I got in­vited to bring it into this 2,400-seat theater in Austin, and I just felt that venue was too big for the experience of watching a radio play be performed. And so it kind of hit me in a flash, the idea of pro­jecting comic book artwork to tell the story visually,” Neulander said. 
And the audienc­
es loved it. “I have been pro­
ducing and direct­ing plays for about 20 years, and no one has respond­ed to anything I’ve ever done the way audi­ences re­spond to this. It’s amaz­ing.” 
“Inter­galactic Nemesis” will be 

performed in the Leighton Concert Hall 
in the DeBartolo Performing Arts Cen­
ter on Saturday night at 7:30 p.m. Tick­
ets are $15 for students. 
Contact Kevin Noonan at knoonan2@nd.edu 
MARINA KOZAK | Observer Graphic 



SPORTS AUTHORITY 


Don’t forget to tune in to the Frozen Four 
One of the most exciting annual events on the sports calendar takes place next weekend. 
And chances are, almost none of you will watch it. 
The Frozen Four of the men’s NCAA hockey tourna­ment commences in not-so-frozen Tampa, Fla., next Thursday night with two semifi­nal games, followed by the nation­al champi­onship two days later. 
Playoff hockey at every level is more than exhilarating, and col­lege hockey is no exception. After a weekend of twelve in­tense contests in four region­als, the tournament field has been whittled from 16 to four for what should provide some of the best hockey yet in the season’s final three games. 
The Frozen Four is typi­cally filled with great mo­ments, as was the case last year. As many might remem­ber, Minnesota-Duluth edged Notre Dame by a goal in the semifinals, while Michigan just hung on to defeat North Dakota in the other game that was in doubt until a late empty-net goal. And in the finale, overtime was needed as the Bulldogs defeated the Wolverines to win their first-ever national championship. 
In fact, two of the past three national champion­ship games have gone to overtime: last year’s and the 2009 title game between Miami and Boston University. That instant classic provided a remarkable finish when the RedHawks were up 3-1 on the Terriers with less than one minute left in regu­lation … and lost. Overall, it has taken more than 60 min­utes to decide the national champion seven of the past 16 seasons. And if there is one thing in this world more exciting than playoff hockey, it’s overtime playoff hockey. 
There have been some duds of Frozen Fours in the past, such as 2010, when the closest of the three games was decided by five goals. But that is the exception, not the rule. And the storylines this season just add to the intrigue. 
In one semifinal, there is Boston College and Minne-sota, two powerhouse pro­grams that have combined for nine national champi­onships. On the other side of the bracket, you have newcomers Ferris State and Union, each making its first-ever appearance in the Frozen Four, with a combined total of five NCAA tournament wins in their histories. 

In a way, it is similar to last year’s men’s bas­ketball Final Four, with juggernauts Kentucky and Connecticut matching in one semifinal and Cinder­ellas VCU and Butler in the other. Except unlike the basketball tourna­ment, with No. 3, No. 4, No. 8 and No. 11 seeds competing, these four teams might actually be the best four teams in America. 
Boston College is the tournament’s top over­all seed and Union also earned a No. 1 seed, while Minnesota and Ferris State were awarded No. 2 seeds. All four squads won their respective con­ferences in the regular season. So even though the Bulldogs and Dutch­men don’t have the name recognition of the Eagles and Gophers, they have proven their ability on the ice this year. 
College hockey is a niche sport and one that I really did not appreciate until attending this university and covering Irish hockey. While Notre Dame has good student support for its hockey team, it does not extend to national inter­est, especially after the Irish did not qualify for the NCAA tournament this sea­son. Therefore, it is quite easy for many to overlook the Frozen Four. 
Doing so would be a mistake. The excitement of playoff hockey, the illustri­ous history of Frozen Four’s past and the unique story of two elite, small-name teams competing with two historically dominant programs for the ultimate prize will combine for in­credible sporting drama. 
Hopefully, you choose to tune in. 
Contact Sam Gans at sgans@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
NFL 


Decision still pending for Saints 
Associated Press 
NEW ORLEANS — Deci­sions are still pending on a possible appeal of Sean Pay­ton’s suspension or an inter­im coach should his season-long punishment be upheld, a person familiar with the situ­ation said. 
The person says Payton, general manager Mickey Loo­mis and their staffs were in meetings at the team’s sub­urban headquarters Thurs­day and focused primar­ily on preparations for next month’s NFL draft. The per­son spoke to The Associated Press Thursday on condition of anonymity because the Saints have not announced their plans. 
“Everyone is working hard, in draft meetings, et cetera ... trying to get better,” the per­son said. 
Payton’s suspension in connection with the Saints’ bounty scandal is slated to begin on Sunday, and NFL Commissioner Roger Goodell has said he has until Monday to appeal. 
Payton has sought advice on the matter from his friend and retired coach Bill Par-cells, who has told several media outlets he’d consider taking the Saints’ interim coaching job if Payton, his protégé, asked him to take over. 
“I had plenty of opportuni­ties to do things with differ­ent teams, and I’ve turned them all down,” Parcells, who turns 71 in August, told the New York Daily News. “But this one is special. This guy is like family to me. And if I could help him, I would.” 
Payton began working with Parcells in 2003, when he was hired as an offensive as­sistant with the Dallas Cow­boys. The two have been close ever since and Payton, throughout his six seasons as New Orleans’ head coach, has continued consulting his mentor on numerous mat­ters, including how to handle preparations for the 2010 Su­per Bowl. 
However, the Saints must clear up several matters be­fore they can choose an inter­im coach. They must not only decide whether to appeal, but would have to see if an ap­peal resulted in a reduced punishment. 
If Payton’s punishment is upheld, the Saints could then proceed with finding an in­terim coach either from their own staff or outside the orga­nization. If the Saints choose the latter approach and Par-cells becomes a top candi­date, the club would still have to interview a minority candidate under the NFL’s “Rooney Rule.” 
“I don’t know how this is going to play out,” Parcells, who was a Hall of Fame final­ist this year, told the news­paper. “I really don’t know anything about the situation. There’s a lot of things going on here, and I would suspect it’s going to take a while to all sort out.” 
There are also three strong candidates among Saints as­sistants to take over as in­terim coach: offensive co­ordinator Pete Carmichael, defensive coordinator Steve Spagnuolo and offensive line coach Aaron Kromer. Payton expressed confidence in the abilities of his own assis­tants to compensate for his absence, but also has voiced some misgivings about sad­dling those coaches with ad­ditional responsibilities. 
“We feel like we’ve got a number of good candidates” on the staff, Payton said ear­lier this week at NFL meet­ings in Florida. “The trick then is what it does to affect their roles that they current­ly have.” 
The appeal process itself, should Payton choose that route, is not expected to give him much additional time to work. Goodell has said he would expedite that process, indicating that it is highly unlikely Payton would be able to keep working through the draft in late April if he files an unsuccessful appeal. 


That is why Payton is spend­ing long hours with Loomis, other coaches and scouts re­viewing draft prospects this week. Payton said he has also laid out plans for the offsea­son training program and the beginning of training camp, up until the Saints play Ari­zona in the Hall of Fame game Aug. 5 in Canton, Ohio. 
If this is indeed Payton’s final week of work in 2012, Loomis will be able to over­see the draft and handle other roster moves up until the season starts. Then he is slated to serve his eight-game suspension for failing to put a stop to the bounty system in a timely way. As­sistant head coach Joe Vitt, who also coaches lineback­ers, is facing a six-game sus­pension. 
The NFL’s investigation in New Orleans found that Pay­ton initially lied to league investigators about the ex­istence of a bounty and in­structed his defensive assis­tants to do the same. Payton twice apologized for his role in an enterprise that offered payouts for knocking out op­ponents, saying he takes “full responsibility” for a system that operated for three years under his watch. 
The NFL has said as many as 27 players also could be sanctioned for their role in the scandal. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The 
Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds.

CLASSIFIEDS 
FOR RENT 
House for rent. GREAT LOCATION 
-close to campus. 
3BR $600 per bedroom. 
Utilities included. Call 574-272­2940 


PERSONAL 
A Baby is a Blessing: Adoption We’re both educators who value learning, family and our happy 8 yr marriage. We’ll give your child a happy home, a stay-at-home mom and a large, devoted Catholic family (9 cousins and growing!). We very much look forward to talking to you. Call Kim & Robert (855) 788-2810. 

UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don’t go it alone. Notre Dame has many resources in place to assist you. 
If you or someone you love needs 
confidential support or assistance, 
please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819. For more information, visit ND’s website at: 
http://pregnancysupport@nd.edu 
High Hopes By Frank Sinatra 

Next time your found with your chin on the ground. There’s a lot to be learned so look around, Just what makes that little old ant. 
Think he’ll move that little rubber tree plant Anyone knows an ant can’t move that little tree plant. 
But he’s got high hopes, he’s got high hopes, he’s got high apple pie, in the sky hopes So any time you’re getting low. ‘stead of letting go just remember that ant Oops there goes 
Another rubber tree plant When trouble calls and your back’s to the wall Once there was a silly old ram, thought he’d punch a hole in a dam No one could make that ram scram He kept buttin’ that dam But he’s got high hopes He’s got high hopes 
He’s got high apple pie In the sky hopes RIP Harry Kalas 
[Chorus] 




Andrews 
continued from page 20 
that match, so we take them pretty seriously. We feel we are playing well and we are really not particularly afraid of anybody, so we expect to do well.” 
In the evening, Irish will head indoors to the Eck Tennis Pavilion to face off against a St. Bonaventure (1-9), a team entering the match with only one victory in their spring season thus far. As it is the second match of the day, the Irish may send out an atypical lineup to meet the Bonnies, Bayliss said. 
“I think we will be careful not to push anybody too hard or cause an injury,” Bayl­iss said. “We think we’ve got eight or nine guys that are all pretty capable of winning in singles and I wouldn’t be sur­prised if two or three of those guys get in to play in the sec­ond match.” 
The Irish have not played since a 4-3 loss to South Flor­ida on March 17 in Tampa Bay, Fla., but thanks to an extended stay in Florida and unseasonably warm weather in South Bend the past two weeks, the Irish had the op­portunity to consistently play outdoors. 

“Fortunately, the weather has really cooperated with us,” Bayliss said. “We got to practice and play for nine straight days in 85 to 90-de­gree temperatures in Tampa. When we got back here, we still had the 80-degree mark, and it was a big surprise.” 
Two months remain in the spring season for the Irish, including the Big East cham­pionships and NCAA tourna­ment. With the warm weath­er, the Irish have been able to practice outdoors, something Bayliss said is crucial, as the majority of these matches will be played in these competi­tions. 
“When you are indoors, it’s easier to go through your shots more and be aggressive and you get rewarded for tak­ing some chances,” Bayliss said. “When you are outdoors, you have to focus on the depth of your shots and your place­ment, and be more patient and work the ball a little bit more before your opportunity comes. 
“So we’ve tried to increase our threshold of how many balls we can make in a row and make sure that feeds into the rest of the year for us.” 
As the Irish look to their matches Saturday and what remains on their spring sched­ule, they have one thought on their mind, Bayliss said. 
“The goal is to win every­thing else we play,” Bayliss said. “We’d like to think that if we play well, we can win any of [the remaining] match­es and the goal is to win them all.” 
The Irish face off against Ball State at 11 a.m. at the Courtney Tennis Center, fol­lowed by a 6 p.m. match with St. Bonaventure in the Eck Tennis Pavilion. 
Contact Peter Steiner at          psteiner@nd.edu 
SMC SOFTBALL 



No. 24 Lady Reds sweep Belles in doubleheader 
By MATT UNGER 
Sports Writer 
Matched against No. 24 Carthage (Wisc.) on Thursday, Saint Mary’s had little room for error. But the Belles (13-7, 0-2 MIAA) faced early deficits in both games of a home doubleheader and could not muster enough offense to avoid back-to-back 8-0 and 12-5 losses to the Lady Reds (12-2). 
In the first game, Carthage quickly grabbed a 2-0 lead in the second when freshman right fielder Olivia Scott drilled a two-run home run to center off of sophomore pitcher Carlie Selner. Selner did not receive support from her defense in the third and fifth innings as the Lady Reds tacked on four unearned runs in those frames to extend their lead to 6-0. The Belles made five errors in the first game. 
“Our defense was all over the place today,” Saint Mary’s coach Erin Sul­livan said. “Our errors piled on as we let physical errors turn into mental ones and made the same mistakes repeatedly.” 
Meanwhile, Lady Reds junior pitcher Krystina Leazer held Saint Mary’s offense to just one hit. She pitched a complete game shutout, allowing only two base runners on a hit and a walk. While Leazer was not overpowering — only striking out four — she induced bad contact from Belles hitters, resulting in a number of ground ball outs. 
“Our hitters looked very anxious today,” said Sullivan. “They all felt the weight of the world on their shoul­ders. [Leazer] is a good pitcher, but we made her look a lot better today with our at-bats.” 
Leazer improved to 8-1 on the season with the win, while Selner dropped to 6-4 with the loss. 
In Game 2, the second inning proved even more disastrous for the Belles, as the Lady Reds scored seven. After recording three straight outs to start the game, senior pitcher Monica Palicki failed to escape the second. Carthage batted around and played small ball, recording eight singles in the inning. 
With one out in the second and trailing 7-0, Palicki was replaced by senior Angela Gillis, who would pitch the remaining 5.2 innings. 
However, the Belles offense showed signs of life in the third inning. Trail­ing 8-0, junior catcher Morgan Bedan stroked an RBI double to right field. The Belles would add two more in the inning on a Selner single. 
In the bottom of the fifth, Bedan, who finished 2-for-3, drilled a 2-run home run to right-center field to cut the Belles deficit to 9-5. 
But Carthage quickly ended Saint Mary’s comeback hopes by respond­ing with three runs in the top of the sixth to retake control of the game. 
“Today was a situation where we didn’t have fun,” Sullivan said. “We can’t put too much pressure on our­selves, as we’re capable of competing in a very good MIAA conference.” 
Senior Alyssa Schrader (4-1) pitched a complete game for the win, but allowed 11 hits in doing so. Four Belles players recorded two hits, in­cluding senior centerfielder Lauren Enayati and junior shortstop Emily Sherwood in addition to Selner and Bedan. 
Meanwhile, Palicki (6-1) suffered her first loss of the season after she could not escape the second. 
The Belles will not play again until April 5, when they resume MIAA play and host Calvin for a doubleheader at home beginning at 3:30 p.m. 
Contact Matt Unger at              munger3@nd.edu 


SMC TENNIS 

Saint Mary’s prepares to recover against Alma 
By ISAAC LORTON 
Sports Writer 
Coming off a tough conference loss against Albion, Saint Mary’s will look to bounce back against another conference front-runner when they take on Alma this afternoon. 
Tuesday’s score may have been 8-1 in favor of Albion (6-2, 2-0 MIAA), but Belles coach Dale Campbell feels the team is not far from the top. 
“Even though the score was 8-1, I did not feel we got blown out like the score shows,” Campbell said. “We did really well at the number-two spot in doubles and won that match. Both the one and three teams had close matches, but didn’t come through. In individuals, we are get­ting there.” 
The Belles (7-5, 1-1) hope to use their home-court advantage against the Scots (8-2, 2-0) on Friday. 
“Playing at home is always good for us,” Campbell said. “I think trav­eling definitely can affect our play, and will affect our opponents.” 
Although still early on in confer­ence play, in order to keep hope alive for a conference championship, the Belles need to capture the next two victories against Alma and Trine. 
“We really do need to win the next two games, for sure,” Campbell said. 
“We realize Albion was the defend­ing champion, and we realize it was a tough loss, but the next two games will dictate our conference season.” 
The Belles had swapped players between the top two doubles teams in their match against Albion, but are switching back to the lineup they had previously. 
“We are going to try and switch back and play with the lineup a bit in the next coming match-ups,” Camp­bell said. “We are going to experi­ment a bit, and see how it goes.” 
Sophomore Mary Catherine Faller and freshman Audrey Kiefer will be back again in the top doubles spot and freshmen Shannon Elliot and Kayle Sexton will team up again at the No. 2 spot. 
“I think switching things up comes with the game,” Campbell said. “I think since they have spent so much time practicing together, there will be good communication and all of these switches will go over smoothly. Right now, this is the best option. This will give us an even spread in the doubles matches.” 
As for singles play, there will be no changes made for the game against Alma. 
Contact isaac Lorton at                  ilorton@nd.edu 

TRACK AND FIELD 

Irish travel cross country for multi-athlete events 

By BRIAN HARTNETT 
Sports Writer 
Irish pentathletes and hep­tathletes spent Thursday com­peting in venues across the country, with three members of the team wrapping up com­petition at the Clyde Littlefield Texas Relays in Austin, Texas and three athletes commencing competition at the Eastern Il­linois Multi-Events Invitational in Charleston, Ill. 
In Texas, senior Maddie Buttinger and freshman Carly Loeffel competed in the final three events of the women’s heptathlon, with Buttinger fin­ishing sixth in the final overall standings and Loeffel finish­ing in 19th place. Buttinger put up strong showings in the long jump, finishing fifth, and in the 800-meter run, where she crossed the finish line in sixth. On the men’s side, junior Ted Glasnow competed in the final five events of the pentath­lon, taking 14th place in the fi­nal overall standings. Glasnow started the day with a victory in the discus throw, taking first with a throw of 42.22 meters, but struggled later on, failing to register a top-ten finish in the other four events. Irish coach Joe Piane said he was satisfied with the results from Texas, particularly those of Buttinger. 
“I would say that Maddie did well, not great,” Piane said. “Her performance might be good enough to qualify her for the NCAAs, but she has done significantly better in the past.” 
Meanwhile, in Illinois, sopho­more Meghan Moore competed in the first four events of the women’s heptathlon, finish­ing just outside the top five with a score of 2,710 points. Moore’s top showing came in the 200-meter dash, where she finished fifth, with a time of 
26.16 seconds. Junior Alex Ba-vis, junior Dean Odegard and freshman Carson Barnes rep­resented the Irish in the first five events of the men’s decath­lon, with Odegard racking up 3,134 points, Barnes earning 3,059 points and Bavis compil­ing 2,329 points. Top finishes included Barnes’ fourth-place finishes in the 100-meter dash and long jump, as well as Ode­gard’s fifth-place finish in the high jump. 
The majority of Notre Dame’s athletes will return to competi­tion on Friday, when the Irish travel to West Lafayette, Ind. for the Purdue Poehlein Invitation­al. The Irish will send over 60 competitors to the meet, which will feature over 550 athletes from 13 schools. 
The Irish will look to con­tinue their success from last weekend’s season-opening Vic­tor Lopez Invitational, where the Irish claimed five victories and several top finishes. The Irish took victories in the men’s hammer throw, won by senior thrower Andy Hills, the wom­en’s hammer throw, won by sophomore thrower Vivien Dev­aney, the women’s 1500-meter event, won by sophomore Kelly Curran, the men’s 3000-meter steeplechase, won by senior Jordan Carlson and the men’s pole vault, won by senior Kevin Schipper. 
“This meet gives a lot of guys an opportunity to get qualified for the Big East,” Piane said. “Some people already qualified last week, so we’ll hopefully get more this week and continue on until the Big East.” 
Piane said he was look­ing forward to watching the steeplechase and several field events — including the discus, hammer and javelin — only of­fered in the outdoor season. With victories by Hills, Devaney and Carlson last weekend, the Irish look to be strong in these outdoor events. 
Despite the team’s strong start, Piane noted the Irish are still far from reaching their full potential. 
“Every area needs to im­prove,” Piane said. “Even if you’re the best team in the NCAAs, you still have to im­prove, and we’ve got a lot of room for improvement.” 
Irish pentathletes and hep­tathletes will finish compe­tition at the Eastern Illinois Multi-Events Invitational on Friday, while the remainder of the team will start competition at the Purdue Poehlein Invita­tional, which runs through Sat­urday. 
Contact Brian Hartnett at         bhartnet@nd.edu 
TENNIS 

Disputed final point leaves Sharapova with win in semifinals 

Associated Press 
KEY BISCAYNE, Fla. — Ma­ria Sharapova was confused and Caroline Wozniacki was 4-6, 6-2, 6-4 Thursday in the semifinals at the Sony Ericsson Open. 
“Obviously you don’t want it to end that way,” Sharapova said. 
At 40-30 in the last game, Sharapova hit a second serve that the linesman called long, which would have been a dou­ble-fault, but umpire Kader Nouni immediately reversed the ruling and ordered the point re­played. The call couldn’t be re­viewed because Wozniacki had no challenges left, although TV replays showed Nouni was cor­rect to overrule. 
Sharapova was awarded two serves and took advantage with a big first serve to set up an overhead slam for the victory. 
Wozniacki, angry about the overrule, declined to shake Nouni’s hand and had words with him as she walked to the exit. 
“It was a pretty crucial point,” she said. “When the ball is so close, I think he should give her a chance to challenge, at least when I don’t have any challeng­es.” 
Sharapova said she didn’t realize Wozniacki had no chal­lenges left, and added she would have challenged the call herself had it not been overruled. 
“It’s obviously a tough situa­tion to be in,” Sharapova said, “because it’s so close to the end of the match, and both of us had fought so hard for over two hours.” 
Top-ranked Novak Djokovic advanced to the semifinals without argument, beating No. 5 David Ferrer 6-2, 7-6 (1). 
Djokovic lost a remarkable 40­shot rally that had spectators gasping as it progressed, but he played a nearly flawless tie­breaker to seal the victory. 
Djokovic seeks his third Key Biscayne title and second in a row. His opponent Friday night will be No. 21 Juan Monaco, who advanced on his 28th birthday by eliminating the last Ameri­can in either singles draw, No. 8 Mardy Fish. The scrappy Mona­co dominated from the baseline and hit only eight second serves during the 6-1, 6-3 victory. 
“This is the way to celebrate my birthday, playing like this,” Monaco said. “I feel proud and very happy.” 
With the departure of de­fending champion Victoria Azarenka, the tournament is guaranteed a first-time wom­en’s winner. Sharapova’s op­ponent Saturday will be the winner of Thursday night’s match between No. 5 Agnieszka Radwanska and No. 7 Marion Bartoli, who handed the top-ranked Azarenka her first loss of the year Wednesday. 
The No. 2-seeded Sharapova improved to 4-0 in Key Biscayne semifinals. She’s 0-3 in finals at the event, losing every set. 
“I’m happy that I gave myself another chance to go out there and try to change that,” said Sharapova, who attended the tournament several times as a fan when she was a youngster training in Florida. 
Sharapova will play in her second successive final and third this year. She was run­ner-up at the Australian Open in January and at Indian Wells two weeks ago. 
Wozniacki, a former No. 1 now ranked sixth, fell to 1-7 lifetime against opponents ranked in the top two. 
Sharapova was in an attack­ing mode against the Dane, a relentless retriever whose de­fense helped her beat Serena Williams in the quarterfinals. 
Sharapova went for winners at every opportunity and hit 55, but she also committed 46 unforced errors. Wozniacki to­taled only 13 winners and 25 errors. 
“Being aggressive is really the key,” Sharapova said. “If you let her play many, many balls, she’s such a great mover around the court and she can be out here for many hours, and that’s not really my game.” 
Sharapova was a point away from a 5-1 lead in the opening set but then began overhitting her forehand, which allowed Wozniacki to sweep five consec­utive games and take the set. 
Shrieking with each shot, Sharapova regained her accu­racy thereafter. By the time she led 4-love in the second set, she had a 27-4 advantage in win­ners. 
She went ahead 5-2 in the fi­nal set before Wozniacki staged one last rally, which fell short amid the fuss at the finish. 
“Maria started off really well and played aggressively,” Woz­niacki said. “She played some good tennis out there. I tried to do my best, and it just wasn’t enough.” 
Sharapova improved to 17-1 in three-set matches since the beginning of 2011. 
mad. The linesman was wrong and the chair umpire was right. 
Sharapova won the disputed final point after an overrule by the umpire, edging Wozniacki 


Pitchers 
continued from page 20 
ration has been good this week. So I’m looking forward to getting out of Fitz what we would have anticipated get­ting out of him at the very be­ginning of the year.” 
Aoki also said he would like to see tighter fielding from his players after Wednes­day’s 8-5 loss to UIC — which saw three more errors from the Irish — but overall, the coach was confident in Notre Dame’s chances going into the weekend. 
“In comparison to the way we’ve played against UIC the other night, I’d like to get us back to taking care of the baseball a little better than we did,” Aoki said. “Of­fensively, we’ve been fairly steady all year and I’d like to be able to see that. I’d like to see a little more production out of whoever we’re playing at shortstop, but overall I just want us to go down there and do a really, really good job of competing and playing hard.” 
Aoki said senior outfielder Alex Robinson will be return­ing to the Irish lineup over the weekend. Robinson, who is batting .344, has been out with injury and last played in Notre Dame’s 12-4 home-opening victory over Eastern Michigan. 
Aoki said the Irish will have their work cut out for them against the Bulls’ start­ing pitching. Junior right-handed pitcher Joey Lovec­chio took a no-hit bid into the eighth inning on March 12 against Yale, and the Bulls have already thrown four shutouts this season. 

“Their strength certainly lies in their starting pitch­ing, but they’ve got some guys who swing the bat pret­ty well,” Aoki said. “They’re a solid all-around team, and so we’re going to have to play quite well in order to try and win the series.” 
Friday’s first pitch will be thrown at 7 p.m. in Tampa, Fla. Saturday’s game will be­gin at 6 p.m., and the series finale will start at 1 p.m. on Sunday. 
Contact Vicky Jacobsen at            vjacobse@nd.edu 
ND WOMEN’S GOLF 

Irish prepare to face ranked opponents 
The compe­tition features six teams ranked in the top-25 nation­ally, and will prove to be a good test for the Irish, who are excited to compete against some of the best squads in the nation. 
“We got here early [Th ursday morning] and had a really good practice round,” Irish 
“We need a big team effort from our players. We have five talented golfers. It would be nice to have four out of five step up each day. We haven’t been able to get that done yet this season, but with a little focus and consistency we can get there.” 
Susan Holt Irish coach 
of compe­tition we play, we can’t have scores that high. We just need to be more consistent across the board.” 
The Irish are no strang­ers to pl aying against the na­tion’s top competi ­tion, with 

“Our tournament sched­ule has been very challeng­ing this season, providing us an opportunity to com­pete against top teams in the country on a regular basis,” Holt said. “There are three or four teams in the top-10 here this week­end. It’s a really good op­portunity to see where we stand. Our players are very excited to compete against the best.” 
While Holt will look to se­nior captain Becca Huffer for leadership, she knows that it will take a great team effort to compete this weekend. 
“We need a big team ef­fort from our players,” Holt said. “We have five talented golfers. It would be nice to have four out of five to step up each day.  We haven’t been able to get that done yet this season, but with a little focus and consisten­cy, we can get there.” 
The Irish tee off the 40th Annual Liz Murphey Colle­giate Classic today in Ath­ens, Ga. 
Contact Nick Boyle at nboyle1@nd.edu 
ND WOMEN’S TENNIS 

No. 17 Notre Dame to host No. 49 DePaul 

By KATIE HEIT 
Sports Writer 
After a dominating shutout of Big East opponent Marquette on Sunday, the Irish will look to keep the success going when they take on DePaul at home on Saturday. 
The No. 17 Irish (13-5) have had a series of strong showings in recent weeks, winning eight of their last ten matches. With three ranked players in singles, a top-five senior doubles pair, and an 8-2 record at home, Notre Dame is looking to continue that mo­mentum in the last six matches leading up to the Big East cham­pionships. 
Senior Kristy Frilling, ranked 84th in the country, said DePaul (10-5) has always proven to be a challenging opponent for the Irish. 
“They’re probably one of the strongest in the Big East,” Frill­ing said. “We always really look forward to playing them.” 
Frilling and fellow senior and doubles partner Shannon Mathews were ranked No. 1 in the country after spring break, but have struggled since receiv­ing the top ranking. In the match against Marquette (10-6), the senior pair split up and played with younger players to balance out the doubles competition. The team swept all three doubles matches. 
Against DePaul, Mathews and Frilling will reunite and attempt to turn their luck around. 
“I think we were just playing tentatively and thinking ‘We have to win, we should win,’” Frill­ing said. “It’s a mental thing that we have to get over. We have to play loose and play how we know we can. We can’t hold back any­thing.” 
DePaul has lost four of their last six matches, but they are still a force to be reckoned with in the Big East. They have had four shutout wins this season, and have won the doubles point in nearly all of their victories. 
Frilling said she and Mathews are focusing on enjoying their last few weeks as college athletes more than on where they are ranked. 
“We’re just really trying to en­joy our last month and a half,” Frilling said. “I’m really just try­ing to make sure I’m having fun. I want to look back on these four years and be really happy with everything I did.” 
The Irish hit the courts on Sat­urday at 2 p.m. at the Courtney Tennis Center. 
Contact Katie Heit at               kheit@nd.edu 
By NICK BOYLE 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame will travel to the University of Georgia Golf Club in Athens, Ga., this weekend to take on the field in the 40th Annual Liz Murphey Collegiate Classic. 
their game. 
“We need to get consis­tent play for all three days,” Holt said. “We need lower scores across the board and to avoid any score over 80. [Scores over 80 have] been our biggest problem this season. Against the level 


coach Susan Holt said. “The team is really upbeat and ready to compete.” 
To hang with some of the best in the nation, the Irish will have to be at the top of every tournament they’ve played in thus far sport­ing multiple top-25 teams. Still, Holt says her team welcomes the regular chal­lenge. 


NHL 

Laich closes shootout to give Capitals win over Bruins 

Associated Press 
BOSTON — Brooks Laich scored in the fourth round of a shootout to give Washington a 3-2 victory over the Boston Bruins on Thursday night and help the Capitals keep pace in the Eastern Conference play­off race. 
Washington is tied with Buffalo with 86 points in pur­suit of the eighth and final playoff spot in the East. The Sabres remain ahead because they have five games remain­ing and the Capitals have four. 
The Bruins could have clinched a playoff berth with a win. The defending Stanley Cup champions will try again when they play the New York Islanders on Saturday. 
Marcus Johansson had a goal and an assist in a 1:55 span midway through the third period to give Washing­ton a 2-0 lead. But the Bru­ins tied it with two goals in the final 3:10, by David Krejci and Andrew Ference. 
Tim Thomas made 21 saves for the Bruins. Michal Neu­virth stopped 19 shots after coming in at the end of the first period when Tomas Vok­oun left with an apparent in­jury. 
No information about Vok­oun’s condition was immedi­ately available. 
Washington came into the game trailing idle Buffalo by two points, but the im­portance of the game did not seem to register. The Capitals managed just one shot in the first 8 minutes, and just two overall in the first period. 
They did not help them­selves when Jason Chimera was given a game misconduct late in the first for a charge that sent Adam McQuaid into the boards and knocked him out of the game. No further information on McQuaid’s condition was immediately available. 
The Capitals killed off the 5-minute major, but not be­fore Vokoun headed to the locker room. Still, Neuvirth managed to keep them in it until the third period. 
Wideman, a former Bruin, beat Thomas over his left shoulder with 12:01 remain­ing in regulation. Less than 2 minutes later, Alexander Ovechkin picked up his sec­ond assist when he worked a 2-on-1 and drew Zdeno Chara out to the left circle before feeding to Johansson in the middle for another goal. 
It stayed that way until Chara flipped a wrist shot from the blue line toward the net and Krejci tipped it out of the air and into the goal with 
3:10 to play in the third pe­riod. Just 1:55 later, Andrew Ference put it past Neuvirth to tie it and send the game into overtime. 
Each team had good chanc­es to score in overtime. But it came down to a shootout. 
Krejci missed, then Matt Hendricks faked Thomas out so badly that the reigning Vezina Trophy-winner fell on his behind. Tyler Seguin tied it 1-1 with a backhander, then Ovechkin missed, putting it off Thomas glove and high into the netting above the glass. 
Patrice Bergeron put the puck through Neuvirth’s legs to give Boston a 2-1 lead in the shootout, but Alexander Semin’s backhander tied it. 
In sudden death, Rich Pe­verly put it off the goalie’s left pad, then Laich went straight in and shot the puck into the goal over Thomas’ glove to give the Capitals the win. 
MLB 

White Sox leave Dodgers with questions for future 


Associated Press 
GLENDALE, Ariz.  — The Los Angeles Dodgers are left with four spring train­ing games and a couple of key questions following a 3-1 loss Thursday to the Chicago White Sox. 
The Dodgers began pack­ing up for the trip home after Sunday’s game with the Ari­zona Diamondbacks at Cam­elback Ranch, hopeful that major injuries aren’t coming with them. 
“I feel like we are pretty much ready,” said Dodg­ers manager Don Mattingly, whose club plays split-squad games Friday and the Dia­mondbacks in Scottsdale on Saturday before departing after Sunday’s finale for a three-game exhibition series next week against the An­gels. 
“This time of year, you just need to stay healthy,” Mat-tingly said. 
Chris Sale allowed one run and struck out seven, in­cluding his first five batters, in six innings and Trayce Thompson homered to lead the White Sox. 
Sale (1-1) fanned Matt Kemp three times, and then Matt Thornton struck out last season’s runner-up for National League MVP in the ninth. Kemp has struck out 21 times in 52 at-bats this spring. 
“It would concern me if he took it half-heartedly,” Mat-tingly said of Kemp. “Obvi­ously, I would like him to be hitting and not striking out. But he has been asking me for more at-bats.” 
Sale gave up the Dodg­ers’ lone run in the fifth when Josh Fields singled, advanced to third on Juan Uribe’s single and scored on sacrifice fly by A.J. Ellis. 
The White Sox took a one-run lead on Thompson’s homer in the seventh, and Adam Dunn’s RBI single in the eighth made it 3-1. 
Josh Lindblom (0-1) took the loss for the Dodgers in relief of Aaron Harang, who allowed one run in six in­nings. 
Harang struggled in the fifth, giving up three sin­gles, throwing a wild pitch and surrendering a run on an RBI single by Alejandro De Aza. 
“That fifth inning cost me,” said Harang, who joined Clayton Kershaw as the sec­ond Dodgers pitcher to work six innings this spring. “Oth­erwise, I felt pretty good.” 
Mattingly hopes to find some more answers about his starting rotation Fri­day. Left-hander Ted Lilly is scheduled for a bullpen session that will determine whether he will pitch at San Diego in a season-opening series that begins April 5. 
Lilly missed his last sched­uled start in spring training because of a stiff neck. 
“He kind of missed a turn,” Mattingly said. “That put him back a little bit.” 
Lilly, third in the Dodgers’ starting rotation, wanted to throw Thursday. 
“That’s a good sign,” said Mattingly, who decided to wait a day on the decision. “We want to make the right decision. We want him feel­ing good and ready.” 
If the Dodgers’ training staff decides that Lilly needs more time to heal, Chris Capuano, fifth in the rota­tion, would move into his spot. If Lilly lands on the dis­abled list, Mattingly said his roster spot would be filled by an extra reliever. 


Corrigan 
continued from page 20 
St. John’s comes into Sun­day’s matchup already pos­sessing more wins than last season’s 4-10 team. Sopho­more attack Kieran McAr­dle leads the team with 29 points, while senior midfield­er Terence Leach ¾ the reign­ing Big East Offensive Player of the Week ¾ paces the Red Storm at 16 goals on the sea­son. On the other side of the field, junior goaltender Jeff Lowman ranks in the top-15 in the country in save per­centage. 
“I think [St. John’s is] a very talented team,” Corri­gan said. “They’re young and they’ve been playing mostly the same guys for the last two years and probably will have most of those same guys in the same spots again next year. I think this is a team that is still finding itself, but that has a lot of talent and I think they’re going to win a lot of games in the next cou­ple of years.” 
The Irish, who enter on a five-game winning streak, have picked up their offen­sive production over the past three games, including scor­ing a season-high 12 goals in a win over Rutgers last Sun­day. 
The defensive end, however, has taken a step back during that same stretch. After sur­rendering 17 total goals in the first four games, the Irish have allowed 25 total goals in the past three contests, which took place over an eight-day span from March 18 through March 25. 
Corrigan believes a way to return back to early-season form is for the Irish to con­centrate more on themselves instead of the opposition. 
“We had three games in eight days, and the good news is we played well enough to win all three of them. The bad news is we lost a little bit of ourselves in the course of that week preparing for three games,” Corrigan said. “I think we got a little bit away from who we are, and there’s nothing more important in my mind than us having a great understanding of our­selves. 
“Maybe it’s on me for spend­ing too much time talking about the teams we’re play­ing, and not enough talking about ourselves. When we’re at our best is when we play with a real good sense of our­selves and real smart, sound fundamental lacrosse.” 
Notre Dame takes on St. John’s in the Big City Clas­sic at 1 p.m. Sunday in East Rutherford, N.J. 
Contact Sam Gans at sgans@nd.edu 
donado said. 
“We just need to be consis­tent and play the like any other team,” she said. “If we can play Notre Dame softball and play errorless and consistent, then we should win the games.” 
Notre Dame will face off with the Huskies at home on Satur­day in a doubleheader starting at 12 p.m. The final game of the series will be Sunday at 11 a.m. at Melissa Cook Stadium. 
Contact Ernst Cleofe at             ecleofe@nd.edu 
Rutgers 
continued from page 20 

so we will be looking to do our best to limit those op­portunities. Hopefully we will be able to limit their top dodgers and have suc­cess.” 
After facing off with 
Rutgers in wick, N.J., on Friday, the Irish will head to Balti­more, Md., to meet up with a Loyola team promi­nently featuring under­classmen. 
“Over­all, they are a little bit young­er. They graduated a ton [last year], and 

New Bruns­
right now when you look at their starting lineup, they have four freshman … with a couple of sophomores in there as well,” Halfpenny said. “I think they gain momentum off of every game that they have, and they are very skilled. They are a very well-coached team and they have a very creative offense.” 
Loyola (5-3, 1-0) al­ready has three wins in five matchups with top­20 teams this season. On Saturday, the Greyhounds captured a 15-14 overtime road win against No. 13 Georgetown. 
Notre Dame and Loyola play similar styles and have comparable talent, Halfpenny said. 
“They are very similar to us, with the amount of weapons that they have. They have a lot of scoring threats, they have a lot of kids who are getting the job done, they move the ball very quickly and they have a very strong team defense,” she said. “We feel like we have something that can com­bat that in the 
same re­

“This is just the way the Big 
gard. 

East schedule shakes out. 
“We

As you prepare throughout 
are the week, you get some looking of the conditioning things forward in and then taper off into a bat-that Friday game. Then tle, to you have to do your best to be hon­
est. This 

recover and move forward.” 
will be a big 

Christine Halfpenny 
game Irish coach for both 
teams.” 
Both 
teams 
will en­
ter the game off only one day of rest, as Loyola hosts Cin­cinnati tonight. 
“This is just the way the Big East schedule shakes out,” Halfpenny said. “As you prepare throughout the week, you get some of the conditioning things in and then taper off into that Friday game. Then you have to do your best to re­cover and move forward.” 
The Irish will try to ex­tend their perfect start at 4 p.m. today against Rut­gers before meeting up with Loyola at 1 p.m. Sun­day. 
Contact Joseph Monardo at          jmonardo@nd.edu 
Big East 
continued from page 20 
three wins will help us get off to a good start to win the Big East,” senior outfielder Alexa Maldonado said. “If we can keep up the momentum, it will defi­nitely help us make through the Big East all the way to hopefully winning a championship game.” 
The road to the Big East tour­nament starts with the team making a big run through its conference schedule. Notre Dame will look to get that path started with a start against a weaker opponent in Connecti­cut. 
“I think they’re a lot like Georgetown, the games we had postponed earlier in the year,” Maldonado said. “They’re a pretty mediocre team, but they’re scrappy and have a few good power hitters.” 
One of the bigger challeng­es will be the adjustments between games throughout the weekend, but the Irish will look to set the tone with a win in their first game. “We’ll see their number one pitcher in the first game,” Mal­donado said. “So, if we can get a win against her, then the rest should be routine.” 
The key for the Irish will be to set the pace for the game and play their brand of softball, Mal­


WILL SHORTz 
EUgENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 
CROSSWORD 



KELLy LyNCH 
HENRy ARNOLD 
THE CLAMMY HANDSHAKE 
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARgIRION 





Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 

Make checks payable to The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556

 Enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year


 Enclosed
 is $75 for one semester 


Name ____________________________________________________ Address __________________________________________________ City ____________________ State___________ Zip______________ 

Friday, March 30, 2012 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 20 
MEN’S LACROSSE 

Meadow bound 
Irish, team to play at MetLife Stadium in Big City Classic 

By SAM GANS 
Sports Writer 
The Super Bowl-winning New York Giants, U2 and Notre Dame don’t appear to have much in common. But after Sunday, all will have played at least once at state-of-the-art MetLife Stadium in East Rutherford, N.J. 
The No. 6 Irish will head to the Meadowlands to take on St. John’s in the Big City Clas­sic this weekend. The game will be the first of a triple-header with Johns Hopkins, North Carolina, Syracuse and Duke also participating. 
This is the fourth year of the Big City Classic, but the game against the Red Storm (5-3, 1-1 Big East) marks the first time the Irish (6­1, 1-0) have played in the event. Though the game will be played in an NFL stadium and in front of a large crowd ¾ the first three years each drew more than 22,000 spec­tators ¾ Irish coach Kevin Corrigan is trying to keep his team’s focus on the task at hand. 

“I think it’s a great place to play and it’s fun to be part of an event like this, but our focus is just on playing St. John’s,” Corrigan said. “The field is the same dimensions as every other one we play on. We can’t get caught up in thinking about anything other than what St. John’s does and what we need to do against them.” 
see CORRIGAN/page 18 
SOFTBALL 

Irish enter weekend with winning streak 
By ERNST CLEOFE 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame is looking to continue its three-game win streak in its three-game home-stand against Connecticut this weekend. 
The Irish (14-10) are com­ing off a packed schedule, with three games over the course of the week before this impor­tant weekend for early-season positioning in the conference standings. On Tuesday, ju­nior catcher Amy Buntin hit a walk-off homerun to give the Irish a 5-3 win against West­ern Michigan. The next day, the team swept Toledo in a double­header at home. 
The win streak should give the team momentum head­ing into their Big East sched­ule, including this weekend’s matchup against the Huskies (13-11, 3-0 Big East). Starting off well in the Big East will be a big boost for the team after a rough beginning to the season. 
“We had a rough start to the season, so hopefully these 
see BIG EAST/page 18 
MEN’S TENNIS 

ND returns to play after two-week recess 
By PETER STEINER 
Sports Writer 
After a two-week respite, the Irish will return to the courts Saturday when they face off against Ball State in their first outdoor match of the spring season. Later Sat­urday evening, Notre Dame (12-7) will meet St. Bonaven­ture indoors, for the first-ever matchup of the two schools. 
While Ball State (13-6) is not typically considered to be a top-tier tennis program, the Irish recognize they cannot underestimate the Cardinals, Irish coach Bobby Bayliss said. 
“Ball State is a team that traditionally has won the Mid-American Conference under Bill Richards, their coach,” Bayliss said. “We played them last year at Ball State, and they were a good enough team that their No. 4 singles actually beat [sophomore] Greg Andrews in 
see ANDREWS/page 13 
BASEBALL 
Fitzgerald leads squad to exciting environment 
By VICKY JACOBSEN 
Sports Writer 
The Irish are heading back to the Sun Belt for a weekend series against conference foe South Florida. But although the games will be played in Tampa, the atmosphere will be miles away from spring training. 
“There are very few venues in college baseball that are quite as electric – [maybe] LSU,” Irish coach Mik Aoki said of USF Baseball Stadium. “We were able to go down [to LSU] and really played our most complete game of the year and got that win against them, so hopefully we can build on that and have a little confidence from it, and play well all weekend.” 
The Irish will be following their regular weekend pitch­ing rotation of senior Will Hudgins, followed by junior Adam Norton and sophomore Sean Fitzgerald, who will close out the series on Sun­day afternoon. Aoki said he doesn’t expect the usually rocking house at South Flori­da (18-8, 3-0 Big East) to faze any of his pitchers. 
“They’re good pitchers, they’re good competitors, they’re really good kids,” Aoki said. “They’re kids who have been in hostile environments and done a good job, and they’re not going to get car­ried away with the moment.” 
Although Hudgins and Norton can boast matching 3-1 records, Hudgins holds a sparkling 1.08 ERA, while Fitzgerald has had rougher results in his first six starts, earning a 5.72 ERA in 28.1 in­nings. 
“Fitz [Fitzgerald] has had a bit of a struggle to this point, and I hope that he’s able to be more like the pitcher he was when we played LSU,” Aoki said. “I don’t really have any reason to believe that he won’t be, because I think his sepa­
see PITCHERS/page 15 
WOMEN’S LACROSSE 

ND looks to remain undefeated 
By JOSEPH MONARDO 
Sports Writer 

After surviving a scare in their Big East opener, the No. 6 Irish are one of only two teams in Division I with an undefeated record. 
Notre Dame will have to defend its perfect start twice this weekend, as it continues its Big East campaign by travelling to Rutgers today and No. 18 Loyola (Md.) on Sunday. 
Their last time out, the Irish (7-0, 1-0 Big East) fell behind 5-1 early to Louis­ville, before battling back to capture the 13-11 home win. As they prepare to take to the road for a week­end swing, the Irish have shifted their focus to Rut­gers (5-3). 
“They have really been developing and growing in their game,” Irish coach Christine Halfpenny said of the Scarlet Knights. “They definitely come into this year’s game with a pretty solid, veteran lineup and they are very athletic ¾ they have great speed. I feel like they have a very aggressive and tough men­tality, and have a system that is working for them.” 

The Scarlet Knights be­gan the season with consec­utive losses, but have since won five of their last six, most recently in an 11-10 double-overtime defeat of Fairfield. The Irish expect a stiff challenge from Rutgers as their opponent opens the Big East portion of their schedule this afternoon. 
“We know that this is their Big East opener on their home field,” Halfpen­ny said. “They have a lot of one-on-one scoring threats, 
see RUTGERS/page 18 






