
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


Theologian explores religion 
By CHRISTIAN MYERS 
News Writer 
The interplay between faith and reason is fre­quently the subject of dis­cussion in theology classes at Notre Dame. However, Tuesday night in the Geddes Hall Coffee House the matter was discussed over pizza by practical theologian Claire Noonan in the talk “Can You Be Faithful Without Being Religious?” 
Noonan said there are three reasons she doesn’t believe she can have faith without religion: Scripture, sacraments, and saints. She said each is a reason why re­ligion is needed to maintain faith. 
“I need Scripture to know the living God, sacraments to communicate with God and saints to struggle along­side,” Noonan said. 
Noonan said to Scripture is not just traditional canon, but any text inspired by a transformational encounter with God. 
“I want to include the cu­mulative written experience of Christians as Scripture,” Noonan said. 
Noonan said the impor­tance of Scripture is it helps people to properly direct their faith toward God. Faith in God relies on Scripture. 
“Everyone has faith. Ev­eryone has to believe in some things they can’t empiri­cally prove for themselves. All faith means is what ul­timately you are concerned about,” Noonan said. “What I’m trying to be faithful to is God, and without Scripture, I would not know who God is.” 
An important aspect of Scripture properly directing faith is it counteracts other worldly influences, Noonan said. 
“The loudest voices in our culture try to point us in a direction very different from Jesus,” she said. “Christian­ity at its deepest, most fun­damental level is different from convention. I wouldn’t have found it on my own.” 
As with Scripture, Noon-an said she maintains an expanded interpretation of sacraments. 
“By sacraments I don’t just mean the seven sacraments 

see FAITH/page 6 


Professordiscusseseducation 

By NICOLE MICHELS 
News Writer 

The United States needs to create stronger public and private education sys­tems, and can do so through decreasing the reliance on standardized testing, ac­cording to Diane Ravitch, professor of education at New York University. 
Her lecture, “Is There a Crisis in Public Education?” was the latest event in Notre Dame’s year-long Forum, “Reimagining School: to Nurture the Soul of a Na­tion.” 
Ravitch spoke Tuesday night in the Eck Hall of Law, saying our nation must fos­ter a system capable of car­ing for the needs of all its students. 
“Our schools are a reflec­tion of our society,” she said. “They are indeed beset by 


see FORUM/page 6 

Alum launches soccer foundation 
By NICOLE TOCZAUER 
News Writer 

2011 Notre Dame graduate Jeb Brovsky plays soccer for a living in Major League Soccer. Rather than only play for his own pay­check, however, Brovsky hopes to use the sport to create change the world over. To do so, he founded Peace Pandemic, a foundation to promote cross-cultural under­standing through soccer camps. 
Brovsky said the group was in India last December to host a soccer clinic for children. The foundation not only affected the children, its work affected several others as well, he said. “One day towards the end of the trip, [Manoj, the group’s taxi driv­er] approached me with a soccer ball wrapped in a plastic bag and tears in his eyes,” Brovsky said. “My translator told me Manoj was so inspired … that he saved up 250 rupees to buy his son his first soccer ball. He saw the influ­ence of this sport and wanted his son to feel what these kids [in the clinic] felt.” 
This weekend, Peace Pandemic will host a two-day 3-on-3 co-ed soccer tournament at Reihle Field next to the Stepan Center to raise 

see SOCCER/page 6 

Professor of English dies at 74 
Observer Staff Report 

James Walton, profes­sor emeritus of English at the University of Notre Dame, died Saturday af­ter a brief illness. He was 74 years old. 
A 1959 Notre Dame alum­nus, the Blue Is­land, Ill.­bred Wal­ton also earned master’s and doctoral degrees in English from Northwestern University in 1960 and 1963, re­spectively, according to a University press release. 
Walton joined the Notre Dame faculty in 1963 and taught popular courses on the English novel and 18th-century literature until he retired in 2003. Throughout his career and after his retirement, Walton was a prolific writer of fiction and lit­erary criticism. 
He also earned the re­spect of generations of colleagues and students during his tenure at Notre Dame. 
“From his earliest days on the English fac­ulty, Jay had marvelous range,” Donald Sniegows­ki, professor emeritus of English, said. “His major publications included an edition of eighteenth-century correspondence, a novel, ’Margaret’s Sto­ry,’ and a critical study of 
J. S. Le Fanu. He edited a wonderful anthology of poetry by Notre Dame poets and published nu­merous scholarly arti­cles. With characteristic wit and self-deprecation, he tried to hide his light under a bushel, but quite a few of us knew differ­ently.” 
Walton’s legacy lasts to the present-day depar­ment. 
“Jay’s contributions to this department are leg­endary, but the chief one was, and remains, his friendship,” Valerie Say 
see PROFESSOR/page 3 

INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER One Day Without Shoes page 3 u Viewpoint page 10 u BFA and MFA theses on display at Snite page 12 u Men’s lacrosse page 24 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT WAS YOUR FAVORITE PART OF EASTER? 

www.ndsmcobserver.com 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
Allan Joseph 

Managing Editor Business Manager 
Megan Doyle Jeff Liptak 
Asst. Managing Editor: Andrew Owens Asst. Managing Editor: Sam Stryker News Editor: Kristen Durbin Viewpoint Editor: Meghan Thomassen Sports Editor: Chris Allen Scene Editor: Kevin Noonan Saint Mary’s Editor: Jillian Barwick Photo Editor: Suzanna Pratt Graphics Editor: Brandon Keelean Advertising Manager: Katherine Lukas Ad Design Manager: Amanda Jonovski Controller: Jason Taulman Systems Administrator: William Heineman 
Office Manager & General Info 
(574) 631-7471 
Fax 
(574) 631-6927 
Advertising 

(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
Editor-in-Chief 

(574) 631-4542 ajoseph2@nd.edu 
Managing Editor 

(574) 631-4542 mdoyle11@nd.edu 
Assistant Managing Editors 

(574) 631-4541 aowens2@nd.edu, sstryke1@nd.edu 
Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 
News Desk 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
Viewpoint Desk 

(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 
Sports Desk 

(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
Scene Desk 

(574) 631-4540 knoonan2@nd.edu 
Saint Mary’s Desk 
jbarwi01@saintmarys.edu 
Photo Desk 

(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 
Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 
Policies 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College.  Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Allan Joseph. 
Post Office Information 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 and additional mailing offices 024 South Dining hall 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-077 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

Alanna Kenney  Marie Cole  Derek Defensor  Veronica Ryan  Andrea Palazzolo  Stacey Kindelan  
freshman Pasquerilla West  freshman Howard  junior Zahm  junior McGlinn  junior Welsh Family  sophomore Farley  
“Reese’s peanut butter eggs.”  “Watching Tarzan.”  “The Easter bunny breaking  “Spending time with my little  “Getting a week-long break  “Sleep and food.”  
into my house.”  sisters.”  because I tore my MCL.”  

Have an idea for Question of the Day? Email obsphoto@gmail.com 


OFFBEAT 

Kodiak bear escapes from wildlife center 
ANCHORAGE, Alaska — An Alaska wildlife center that takes in orphaned and injured animals is missing one of its larger residents. 
The Alaska Wildlife Conservation Center an­nounced Monday that a 300-pound, 2-year-old fe­male Kodiak brown bear escaped six days ago from its enclosure near Portage.
 A spokeswoman for the Alaska Department of Fish and Game said the bear was not a public threat. 
“It’s not like an escaped murderer has gotten loose,” said Jessy Coltrane, the area biologist for An­chorage. 
It’s the first time the center has had an escape, said executive director Mike Miller. 
The bear carries a mi­crochip but is not wearing a collar and has no identi­fying tags. 
Coltrane said the Fish and Game Department spent time last week searching for the bear from the air but has stopped. 
“She could have just kept on walking and just walked into the Alaska wilder­ness,” Coltrane said. “At this point in time, there’s not a whole lot to be done.” 
Thieves steal two tons of coffee
    VIENNA — In a heist 
that could fill the mother of all bottomless cups, thieves in Austria have made off with 2 tons of coffee. Police say the culprits broke into a wholesaler and coffee-roaster’s warehouse east of Vienna, loaded a stolen van with the goods and then drove off. A police statement issued Tuesday put the value of the vehicle and its contents at more than 55,000 euros — $72,000. The thieves also took two coffee machines with them. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
IN BRIEF 

A CRC Seminar on “De­veloping Usable Scientific Software in an academic re­search environment” will be held at 3 p.m. tonight in 136 DeBartolo Hall. 
A physics colloquium on “The search for a primordial magnetic field” will be held today at 4 p.m. in 118 Nieu­wland Hall of Science. 
The celebration of the An­nual Ganey Community En­gagement Awards for Re­search and Teaching will be held tonight at 5:30 p.m. in Jordan Hall of Science. 
An Irish Guard try-out information meeting will be held tonight at 5:30 p.m. in the Band Building. Inter­ested individuals must have completed at least one year of study at Notre Dame in cur­rent good academic standing and be at least 6’2 tall. 
The Notre Dame Baseball team will take on Western Michigan tonight at 5:35 at the Eck Baseball Stadium. Adult tickets cost $5. 
A poetry and prose tag team reading event by Notre Dame MFA students and fac­ulty will take place at 7:30 
p.m. tonight in the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore. 
A talk titled “Profession­al Fashion 101: Managing Your Image Potential” will be held tonight at 7:30 p.m. in 141 DeBartolo Hall to of­fer tips to students about dressing for success in the corporate enviornment. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, email detailed information about an event to obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
TODAY’S STAFF 
News 
Anna Boarini Bridget Feeney Ann Marie Jakubowski 
Graphics 
Lisa Hoeynck 
Photo Sports 

Andrew Gastelum Vicky Jacobsen Brian Hartnett 
Scene 

Maija Gustin 
Viewpoint 
Meghan 

LOCAL WEATHER 
HIGH 35 LOW 31 
HIGH 58 LOW 38 
HIGH 65 LOW 50 

HIGH 72 LOW 62 
HIGH 72 LOW 55 

TODAY TONIGHT THURSDAY FRIDAY SATURDAY SUNDAY 
Sarah O’Connor Thomassen 









CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 

Students raise awareness sans shoes in global event 
By JILLIAN BARWICK 
Saint Mary’s Editor 
The chill felt around South Bend on Tuesday did not keep Saint Mary’s stu­dents from spending a day without wearing shoes. 
A global event sponsored by the footwear company TOMS, “One Day With­out Shoes” is a day where groups of people walk around barefoot to raise awareness for people who cannot afford shoes. 
According to the event’s website, health and edu­cation are major concerns for those without shoes. Millions of children are at risk of injury, disease and soil-transmitted in­fections, the website said. In some areas, shoes are required for children to attend school. 
“Four million people have podoconiosis, a de­bilitating and disfiguring disease caused by living barefoot in volcanic soil,” the website said. “740 million people are affect-
Professor 
continued from page 1 
ers, professor and chair of Notre Dame’s English department, said. “Our best students, under-ed by hookworm, a soil-transmitted parasite that can cause intestinal pain, weakness and cognitive impairment.” 

After learning about the event, senior Hannah Hupp decided Saint Mary’s should get involved in “One Day Without Shoes.” 
“I was just search­ing around on the TOMS website one day, looking around for possible job openings with the com­pany,” Hupp said. “I saw the link to sign groups up to participate and thought that it would be a great event to have at Saint Mary’s.” 
“The website has a tool kit for those who are look­ing to hold the event with their group,” Hupp said. “It was really helpful to have.” 
After speaking with the Student Government As­sociation, Hupp received the go-ahead to organize “One Day Without Shoes” on campus. 
The event included hand-

graduate and graduate, revered him as much for his acerbic bons mots as for his personal generos­ity.” 
More recently, Walton became involved with Notre Dame’s Keough-Naughton Institute for ing out T-shirts designed by TOMS to students who entered the Student Cen­ter barefoot. 
“We had a great turn­out,” Hupp said. “All 300­plus shirts were gone by 
3:30 p.m. to only girls with no shoes on.” 
Irish Studies and the Uni­versity’s Creative Writing Program, according to the release. 
Walton is survived by his wife, Carole, his daughter, Ann Caroline Walton, a son, Jack, and four grandchildren. 
ing in the event. 
“By giving out all the shirts, over 300 girls were braving the bitter cold weather to make a change,” Hupp said. 
Contact Jillian Barwick at jbarwi01@saintmarys.edu 

Students walked across campus barefoot, some wearing socks and oth­ers completely barefoot. While they were not al­lowed to enter the dining hall barefoot, all other campus buildings were open to those participat-
A funeral service will be held at 6 p.m. Wednes­day at Welsheimer Fam­ily Funeral Home North, 17033 Cleveland Rd., South Bend. Visitation with the family will take place at the funeral home from 3 p.m. until the ser­vice begins. A private burial will take place at Cedar Grove Cemetery. 
In lieu of flowers, the family requests that con­tributions be made to the Community Foundation of St. Joseph County or The Center for Hospice Care. 

STUDENT SENATE 

Newly-elected government officials convene for first time 
By MARISA IATI 
Associate News Editor 
At the new student gov­ernment administration’s first Student Senate meet­ing, the group bestowed emeritus status upon the former student body presi­dent, vice president and chief of staff. 
Senate also passed a reso­lution requesting the cam­pus-wide implementation of hydration stations, sustain­able water sources with fil­ters and coolants. 
Ben Noe, director of inter­nal affairs for student gov­ernment, said the emeritus resolutions thank former student body president Pat McCormick, vice president Brett Rocheleau and chief of staff Claire Sokas for their service to the student body. 
Noe said he thought the resolution bestowing emeri­tus status upon Sokas was especially important. 

“The chief of staff is the role that is all of the work for very little glory,” he said. “It’s a tough job be­cause they kind of have to be the rule enforcer and the boss, while at the same time, they have to be your friend as well … and I think Claire did an outstanding job this year.” 
The resolution advocating for hydration stations re­quested the University “im­plement hydration stations in the remaining residence halls and academic build­ings so all students can en­joy clean, fresh-tasting wa­ter and the University can continue fulfilling its sus­tainability goals.” 
Rocheleau, now student body president, said the hy­dration stations would cost approximately $70,000 in total. the summer,” he said. “But a filtered water source, it 

“Right now, all dorms next right now, we still haven’t would be a benefit.” year will have hydration been able to get approv­stations in them, so those als to get them in academic Contact Marisa Iati at will be implemented over buildings … If there were miati@nd.edu 

Speech team looks to expand, build on success 
By MICHAEL RODIO skills and then to convey those against small groups of speak-speech team during her sopho-the University’s academic de-News Writer skills to the rest of the commu-ers from different teams.  Each more year, after competing in-partments have contributed to nity throughout Notre Dame.” speaker in a group presents dividually in high school. She the team. While the team has When junior Catherine Flat-Sophomore and current a “performance,” with judges said the speech team also has grown and this is an encourag­ley first stepped on campus, team president Michael Ap-a w a r din g an additional ing sign, he said a larger team she immediately knew how pel said the speech team r a n k i n g s challenge: un-means higher tournament cos 
“I started the team 
Notre Dame could gain a com-competes in collegiate tour-based on like most col-ts. 
because I wanted to 
petitive edge over other top-20 naments around the Midwest each speak-legiate teams, “The amount of people we universities — so she started a and the nation.  Competitions er’s suc-help build rhetoric and they have no got this year was the biggest competitive speech team. have four basic categories of cess.  After communications at Notre regular coach. thing for us,” Appel says. “It 
“If you look at the other top-rhetoric and style: oratory, im-two or three Dame. I think this is a “We’re the might not seem like much to 20 schools, Northwestern is promptu, extemporaneous and rounds, the really interesting way largest pri-other clubs, but from four to the only other school that has dramatic speech.  Each catego-best speak-for individuals to build marily student-a solid dozen is pretty signifi­a speech team besides Notre ry requires different degrees ers in each run team in cant.” 
those skills and then to 
Dame,” Flatley said.  “I rec-of preparation, research and group move the country,” Freshman Billy McMahon, 
convey those skills to the 
ognized that there was a huge improvised humor, he said. on to semi-she said. “It’s next year’s team president, 
rest of the community 
hole in that market ... I wanted     “Each of the events comes final and fi-c h a l l e ng i ng said he hopes to build on the 
throughout Notre Dame.” 
to fill that need.” back to argumentation writing, nal rounds, because in ad-club’s growth and competitive 
Flatley said a speech team research writing and advocacy against pro-dition to com-experience. gives students an opportunity skills,” Flatley said. “College g r e s s i vel y Catherine Flatley peting, the “For those of us who en-to improve public speaking forensics focuses more with t o u g h e r ND speech team founder team has to joy speech, we have great fun and to travel around the coun-real-world issues, policies that c omp e t i -organize trips, with it, and the wide variety of 
junior 
try. need to be addressed or more tion.  Each fundraise, find events, from the interpretive 
“I started the team because tangible social issues.  As a individual chaperones, to public address to limited I wanted to help build rhetoric whole, it’s a bit more progres-speaker’s points are totaled, and all the other components preparation, keeps it inter-and communications at Notre sive, [in terms of] politics and and the team with the best of bringing ourselves to tour-esting, ” he said. Dame,” she says. “I think this its response to social issues collection of individual scores naments.” is a really interesting way and social concerns.” wins the team title, he said. Appel said fundraising has Contact Michael Rodio at for individuals to build those Team members compete   Flatley said she started the been a challenge, although mrodio@nd.edu 


Contest reduces food waste 
Saint Mary’s OCSE 
By ADAM LLORENS 
News Writer 
During mealtimes, stu­dents head to North and South Dining Halls to chat with friends  and eat with­out realizing how much food is wasted. Waste-Free Wednesdays is trying to change that. 
Senior Elizabeth Davis, founder and chair of Waste-Free Wednesdays, said Notre Dame students wasted 1.25 tons of food and liquids ev­ery day in the two dining halls in 2011. 
Through a partnership between the Office of Sus­tainability, Food Services and GreeND, Waste-Free Wednesdays works to create awareness of how each stu­dent can make a difference in the amount of food thrown away on a daily basis. 
“Before Waste-Free Wednesdays began in No­vember 2011, we were wast­ing 6.27 ounces per person per meal,” Davis said. “That number has gradually de­clined. After the last Waste-Free Wednesdays event, we measured food waste and found it to be 4.25 ounces per person per meal.” 
The approximate two-ounce reduction in food waste benefits both the en­vironment and the South Bend community. 
“Notre Dame students have saved more than 90 tons of food over the course of a year, and 150 tons since the inception of Waste-Free Wednesdays,” Davis said. “In addition, students at the Waste-Free Wednesdays events have contributed over 900 dollars to the Food Bank of Northern Indiana, which provided 6,300 meals.” 
Students will have the op­portunity to become more conscious of their wasteful habits again this month. 
“Every Wednesday for the month of April from 6 to 7 p.m. in both North and 


honors six for service 
South Dining Halls, students  
will have a chance to win  
100 flex points by not wast- By MADELINE MILES  munity. “Whether it is  
ing food and liquids,” Davis  News Writer  helping with a breast can- 
said. “Whenever a student  cer run at Saint Mary’s,  
has zero waste left on their  The Saint Mary’s Office  putting her nursing train- 
tray, they receive a card that  for Civic and Social En­ ing to use in the home of  
will be entered in a raffle to  gagement (OCSE) recog­ a medically fragile child,  
win 100 flex points.”  nized six students for their  practicing as a student  
Donations to the Food  commitment to service  nurse at South Bend’s  
Bank of Northern Indiana  Tuesday night. Seniors  Darden Primary Center,  
will be accepted throughout  Emily Kieffer, Remi White,  providing blood pressure  
the month as well.  Megan Loney, Alayne Riege  screenings at St. Marga­ 
“With this connection to  and Areli Bautista, as well  ret’s House, a day center  
the greater community, stu­ as junior Maeva Alexan­ for women and children  
dents can donate a dollar,  der were honored for their  in South Bend, or mak­ 
or more, at the Waste-Free  efforts at  ing rosaries  
Wednesdays booth in front  an awards  for soldiers,  
of the dining halls,” Davis  banquet.  her heart  
said. “Because of the Food  “Rec ei v- is in helping  
Bank’s purchasing power,  ing this  others, ” the  
every dollar that is donated  award dem­ press re- 
equates to seven meals for  o n st r a t es  lease said.  
local food insecure resi­ to me that I  L o n e y ’ s  

dents.” made a dif-“I want to contribute service at ference,” Clay High 
what I can to the world.” 
Contact Adam Llorens at Loney said. School 
allorens@nd.edu “I’m not as earned her
Maeva Alexander 
proud of the award 
junior 
receiving for educa­
the award, as I am that some­one nomi­nated me to begin with. Knowing that my service made a difference makes all of the time and energy I spent, worth it.” 
Each award represents a specific value from the Sisters of Holy Cross. Kief­fer received the award for service in spiritual­ity, White for service in the health field, Loney for service in education, Riege for service with women, Bautista for general ser­vice and Alexander for her involvement in the College Academy of Tutoring (CAT) program. 
Kieffer has been a mem­ber of Women’s Spirituality Group and Campus Minis­try, but her volunteer work extends to the Center for the Homeless and St. Adal­bert’s Catholic Church. 
According to the OSCE press release, White is an active member in the com­tion. 
“My ser­
vice experi­
ences have 
ingrained in 
me a sense 
of social re­
sponsibility to be aware of issues af­fecting a community and to do something about it,” Loney said. 
Loney said she plans to enter the Peace Corps upon graduation from Saint Mary’s. 
Riege, awarded for her service with women, serves as an intern at the Fam­ily Justice Center (FJC), a rape crisis and domestic violence resource center in South Bend. 
“I love that I get to help women who feel hopeless and alone find their way out of bad situations,” Reige said in the press re­lease. 
She also became involved with SOS (Sexual Offense Services), where she works as an on-call advocate as­sisting women and men who are victims of sexual assault and domestic vio­lence. 
Bautista was awarded for her general service throughout her time at Saint Mary’s College.
 “I have had countless opportunities to grow and be empowered to make a difference in the world.,” she said. “My service has shaped who I am today. I have grown to care for oth­ers and do whatever I can to promote social justice.” 
Bautista plans to attend graduate school at Indiana University. 
Alexander has dedicated more than 650 hours to serving and volunteering for the CAT program. 
“Maeva expresses great leadership and creativity in every aspect of the CAT Program. She inspires all of us to think bigger and better when working with our students and each oth­er,” junior Carla Leal, the program’s student director said. 
“I want to contribute what I can to the world,” Alexander said. 
Contact Madeline Miles at mmiles01@saintmarys.edu 


community,” she said. 
Soccer Faith

  Three student panelists, juniors John Schommer 
continued from page 1 

continued from page 1 and Katie Pryor and senior Roman Sanchez responded funds for camps similar tothe one 
of Catholicism, but all to Noonan with their own held in India. Brovsky said the 
prayer and ritual,” she said. opinions and experiences. tournament is open to all Notre 
Religion facilitates a re-Sanchez said by his se-Dame, Saint Mary’s and Holy 
lationship with the living nior year in high school Cross students. 
God primarily through sac-he had lost both his faith “The goal of the tournament 
rament and ritual, Noonan and his religion. He said is to raise awareness and funds 
said. The marriage of a he was disillusioned by the for our camps abroad,” he said. 
friend provides an example disconnect between the “This particular tournament 
of what is lacking without message he heard in the [is for] our camp this winter for 
sacrament. Noonan said Church and the reality he boys and girls in Guatemala.” 
the friend was faithful, but saw in the world around Senior Will Walsh, the project co-
not religious and elected to him. ordinator, said planning for the 
hold her marriage ceremo-“I’m dissatisfied with the event began over a year ago. The 
ny in a restaurant. God that was presented to Notre Dame Brazil Club as well as 
“This great occasion in me,” Sanchez said. “I guess men’s and women’s soccer teams 
her life was reduced to a activism is worship to me. will volunteer at the tournament, 
functional level,” she said. My faith now is in people, he said. soccer skills and illness-preven-lives but it changes yours as 
“It was kind of sad.” relationships and commu­“The tournament itself is set tion hygiene. well,” he said. “I know that any-
Noonan said when she nity.” up like the World Cup,” he said. Brovsky said the camp coached one who is involved internation­
talks about saints, she re-Pryor said her service “Teams will compete in a brack-boys in the morning and girls in ally with Peace Pandemic walks 
fers to not just canonized work experiences have be­et on Saturday, and the top ones the evening. At the end of each away with a new perspective, 
saints, but people of faith come a part of her faith will advance to finals. On Sunday, session, children met with staff skill and more compassionate 
in her everyday commu-and worship. those teams will play in a single in individual health sessions. outlook on the world.” 
nity. “Jesus repeatedly calls elimination tournament.” “With the boys, we want to fo-Brovsky said as the number of 
Community, which is us to serve in the Gospels,” The winners will receive t-cus more on the messages of non-soccer camps and tournaments 
provided by organized re-Pryor said. “I believe that shirts and gift cards to a local violence and responsibility. We held worldwide increase, the im­
ligion, is important for in serving the less fortu­restaurant, Walsh said. The vic-talk about the equality of women pact they make will grow as well. 
faith, Noonan said. nate, worship and justice tors will also have the chance to with them and the importance of The tournament at Notre Dame 
“Faithfulness requires work together.” play in a separate game against treating [girls] with respect and is one small step in building mo-
community because hu-Schommer said his ex-five Notre Dame soccer players. love,” he said. “We want the boys mentum for this progress, he sa 
mans are social crea-perience with secular vol­“Soccer is one thing that really to feel like their aspirations in id. 
tures,” she said. “There is unteerism in high school permeates through different cul-life are attainable and that they “The more understanding and 
no such thing as the self-was not as fulfilling as tures,” he said. “We hope a lot of can change the world for the bet-unity that we bring just through 
made man. Interdepen-working with Catholic vol-kids come out and play for a good ter.” Brovsky said the message conversation and the sport of 
dence is the reality of hu-unteer groups. The differ-cause.” for girls is tailored toward em-soccer moves the world one 
man life.” ence between the two lies Brovsky said the idea for this powerment. He said he hopes the step closer towards peace,” he 
Noonan said community in the perspective towards event and for Peace Pandemic clinics open them to opportuni-said.  “Obviously this one soccer 
is so vital to faith, those service and the interaction originated during his studies at ties in the future. tournament won’t change the 
who forgo organized re-with those served. Notre Dame. Peace Pandemic “The girls were astonished to course of history, but this one 
ligion have to find some “In seeing the face of blended his passion for social see Caitlin [Phelan], the manager soccer tournament will certainly 
other type of community Christ in someone, you’re change, peace studies, soccer of our Peace Pandemic medical change at least one young child’s 
in order to maintain their seeing their full potential,” and entrepreneurship into one, staff, and hear her speak with life for the better.” 
conviction. Schommer said. he said. such confidence and direction,” Registration will take place 
“If you’re not religious, “I saw the enormous potential he said. “They had no idea that a this week in LaFortune Student 
you’d have to create a re-Contact Christian Myers at of soccer to bridge cultural, na-woman could hold that position, Center on Wednesday and Thurs­
ligion of your own to have cmyers8@nd.edu tional, social, economic, ethnic let alone go to school for medi-day. Teams of three to five people and religious gaps in the world cine.”  Brovsky said running can register for $20. More infor­today,” Brovsky said. an international foundation has mation on the foundation can be 
Peace Pandemic hosted its first its challenges, the rewards are found at http://peacepandemic. international camps in the In-greater than he ever expected. blogspot.com/. dia this past December, he said. “After coaching and staying in The clinics combined sport and the slums with these boys and Contact Nicole Toczauer at health to teach children basic girls, it not only changes their ntoczaue@nd.edu 

Forum 
continued from page 1 
problems and they need to im­prove — but they are not de­clining, and they are not fail­ing.” 
Ravitch employed a histori­cal perspective, exploring the causes of current challenges to the system’s efficacy and the basis of measures enacted to combat them.  She said the No Child Left Behind Act, passed in 2001, is one such key factor. 
“In the decade before the pas­sage of No Child Left Behind, most states had already adopt­ed testing and accountability systems,” she said.  “However, federal and state policy makers just can’t seem to get enough data, they want more.” 
The focus on collecting data prompts policymakers to look at standardized testing to as­certain the worth of a school, Ravitch said. However, she said tests should have a different purpose. 
“Tests should be used to di­agnose learning problems, ex­cept now they are used inap­propriately, to judge the worth of teachers, schools and stu­dents,” Ravitch said. 
Because these tests are being used for more than they were designed to evaluate, Ravitch said policymakers and analysts are drawing incorrect conclu­sions ignoring the real prob­lem. 
“Poverty is the elephant in the room. Reduce poverty and test scores would be in­creased,” she said.  “The odds are on the side of children who live in affluent and secure com­munities.” 

Ravitch said the emphasis on testing impedes the distribu­tion of quality education. 
“We don’t know how to test the things that matter most,” she said. “The more our nation relies on high-stakes testing, the more our educational sense of priorities are warped.” 
Ravitch said the use of stu­dents’ test scores to indicate the relative worth of each teacher is a case of scapegoat­ing. She said blame is placed on teachers, while ignoring other factors. 
“Tests are indication of many different qualities [at play in the life of the student], and the teacher has little or no control over many of these factors,” Ravitch said.  “Tests are also subject to statistical error, ran­dom error and human error. They should be used for infor­mation, but not to reward or punish.” 
Ravitch said the nation’s first priority should be to halt these policies. 
“We have to stop doing wrong things before we start doing right things,” she said. “The role of the government should be to level the playing field and to make sure that adequate re­sources are provided for chil­dren in poverty. The federal government should not be tell­ing schools how to reform.” 
Ravitch said the process would be a long one, requir­ing people to think creatively about possible ways to enhance American education. 
“It will not happen overnight, good things never do,” she said. “We will need the work of peo­ple who have a vision of how to change the lives of children and families … there is a lot of work ahead of us all.” 
Following Ravitch’s talk, for­mer teacher Susan van Fleet, recently retired from Penn High School in Mishawaka, Ind., said she felt Ravitch’s opinions analyzed the issue of testing accurately. 
“Speaking as someone who’s been in the system, she has her fingers right on the problem,” Van Fleet said.  “Our leaders need to stop not listening … to the people who really under­stand the facts, not just basing decisions on politics.” 
Kate Kennedy, administra­tive assistant at the Center for Research of Educational Op­portunity, said she appreci­ated Ravitch’s analysis of the current state of education in America. 
“Ravitch put the brakes on, and took a look and what is actually happening.  The bot­tom line is the same between what each Catholic school and public school wants to do: sup­port schools, support teach­ers, but what is questionable is whether the current methods are serving that goal,” Kennedy said.  “Ravitch brought a more historical view, saying this is how school started, this is what we have tried, now let’s look at what worked.” 
Contact Nicole Michels at nmichels@nd.edu 



California salons find dangerous toxins in nail polish 
Associated Press 
SAN FRANCISCO — Some nail polishes commonly found in California salons and advertised as free of a so-called “toxic trio” of chemicals actually have high levels of agents linked to birth defects, state regulators said Tuesday. 
A Department of Toxic Sub­stances Control report deter­mined that the mislabeled nail products have the potential to harm thousands of workers in more than 48,000 nail salons in California, and their customers. 
The use of the three chemi­cals in nail products is legal if properly labeled. But agency of­ficials said the false claims may violate a state law that requires disclosure of harmful chemicals in consumer products. The state attorney general could decide whether the companies will face legal action, which can include fines and an order to attach warning labels. 
Investigators randomly chose 25 brands of polishes that are available only at nail salons, including a number of products claiming to be free of the chemi­cals toluene, dibutyl phthalate (DBP) and formaldehyde, which are known as the toxic trio. Reg­ulators said exposure to large amounts of the chemicals has been linked to developmental problems, asthma and other ill­nesses. 
Investigators found that 10 of 12 products that claimed to be free of toluene actually con­tained it, with four of the prod­ucts having dangerously high levels. 

The report also found that five of seven products that claimed to be “free of the toxic three” in­cluded one or more of the agents in significant levels. 
The agency said it did not have enough data to accurately estimate how many people were being exposed to the chemicals through the products. 
“We know there are exposures at salons, both to workers and customers, and we’re concerned about potential harm,” said Karl Palmer, the DTSC’s pollution prevention performance man­ager who oversaw the report. 
“Our strategy first and fore­most is to shed light on the re­ality of what’s in these products and put this information out to everyone.” 
Among the products tested that the state says were misla­beled were: Sation 99 basecoat, Sation 53 red-pink nail color, Dare to Wear nail lacquer, Chelsea 650 Baby’s Breath Nail Lacquer, New York Summer Nail Color, Paris Spicy 298 nail lacquer, Sunshine nail lacquer, Cacie Light Free Gel Basecoat, Cacie Sun Protection Topcoat, Golden Girl Topcoat, Nail Art Top-N-Seal and High Gloss Top­coat. The polishes are not sold in retail stores. 
At ZaZa, a nail salon near San Francisco’s waterfront ball­park, customers said they were shocked by news of the mislead­ing labels. The salon, which does not carry any of the mislabeled brands, said it uses products la-beled free of the toxic trio and animal products. 

“I’m shocked. I’m a mother now, so I try to stay away from different chemicals,” said Juani­ta Navarrete, a 27-year-old from San Leandro who was getting a manicure and pedicure. Na­varrete said she relies on labels to make choices in buying prod­ucts and was happy that the state did random testing of nail polishes. 
The DTSC said all three chem­icals are linked to chronic health conditions when inhaled, and that the 121,000 licensed nail care technicians who work in the salons, many of them young Asian-American women, are most at risk. Two of the three chemicals tested on humans and animals have shown links to developmental problems, while DBP has only been tested on ani­mals. 
The agency said the salons are often poorly ventilated, lead­ing to exposure to a number of harmful chemicals. 
Loann Tran, co-owner of Hap­py Nails in Salinas, Calif., said she can only control certain ele­ments of workplace safety for the handful of workers and custom­ers in her salon: better ventila­tion and equipment sterilization. She cannot force manufacturers to accurately label products, she said, and hopes the report will help. 
“They have to be responsible for what they are doing with their products, it’s shocking,” Tran said. “We work in this field, and we need this knowledge to help make our environment healthier.” 

Santorum withdraws from Republican presidental race 
Congress for 16 years, and where the Romney cam­paign planned nearly $3 million in ads against him. 
Whether or not there are lingering hard feelings, Santorum didn’t mention Romney, who has been the front-runner for months and was far ahead in the race for the 1,144 delegates needed to clinch the nomi­nation at the party’s con­vention in August. 
Romney has tried to ig­nore his GOP rivals and campaign against the pres­ident since he first entered the race last year with a pitch focused on the recov­ering but still frail econo­my. But Romney was forced to go after Santorum and former house Speaker Newt Gingrich after Santorum showed strength in Iowa and Gingrich in South Car­olina early this year. Then Santorum kept on, memora­bly winning three Southern primaries. 
Romney’s campaign has long been the best funded, the best organized, and the most professionally run of the GOP contenders. 
Despite Santorum’s refus­al to get out of the race ear­lier — and Gingrich hasn’t officially dropped out yet 
— Romney had already be­gun looking ahead with a unifying message. He told Pennsylvania supporters last week that “we’re Re­publicans and Democrats in this campaign, but we’re all connected with one destiny for America.” 
And Obama has turned squarely to face Romney, recently assailing him by name, as his campaign has worked to paint Romney as a rich elitist who will win the nomination only because he buried his opponents under millions of dollars in nega­tive advertising. 
“Neither he nor his spe­cial interest allies will be able to buy the presiden­cy with their negative at­tacks,” Obama campaign manager Jim Messina said Tuesday after Santorum left the race. “The more the American people see of Mitt Romney, the less they like him and the less they trust him.” 
In response, a Romney campaign spokeswoman in­sisted that “for Mitt Rom­ney, this race has always been about defeating Presi­dent Obama, and getting Americans back to work.” 
But Romney still has had to wage a drawn-out nom­ination fight that’s seen candidate after candidate try to block his path. That has highlighted Romney’s problem with the most con­servative voters. As recent­ly as last week, activists huddled with Santorum to try and figure out how to keep him in the race, and Gingrich was still insist­ing Tuesday that his cam­paign represents the “last stand for conservatives” as he vowed to stay in the race until the convention. 
Claiming a victory of sorts, Santorum said Tues­day, “Against all odds, we won 11 states, millions of voters, millions of votes.” 
That took its toll on Rom­ney. It all started in Iowa, where vote counts initially showed an eight-vote Rom­ney victory — giving him momentum and headlines. But weeks later — after the campaign had moved to South Carolina and Romney was battling Gingrich — Santorum was declared the winner. 
Romney’s campaign left Santorum for dead as he beat Gingrich in Florida and won in Nevada. But he lost three states — Colora­do, Minnesota and Missouri 
— to Santorum on Feb. 7, breathing new life into the former senator’s insur­gent candidacy and forcing Romney to compete for two more months. Santorum eventually won contests in Tennessee, North Dakota, Oklahoma, Kansas, Missis­sippi, Alabama and Louisi­ana. 

Associated Press 
GETTYSBURG, Pa. — Rick Santorum cleared the way for Mitt Romney to claim victory in the long and hard-fought battle for the Republican presidential nomination Tuesday, giving up his “against all odds” campaign as Romney’s te­nacious conservative rival. 
Santorum’s withdrawal sets up what is sure to be an acrimonious seven-month fight for the presidency be­tween Romney, the former Massachusetts governor, and Democratic President Barack Obama, with the certain focus on the still-troubled economy. 

In a preview of the per­sonal attacks that lie ahead, Obama’s campaign manager declared that Americans neither like nor trust Romney, and the Rom­ney camp said the fight had always been about defeat­ing Obama, not GOP rivals. 
“This game is a long, long, long way from over,” Santo-rum said as he bowed out of the contest with Romney. “We are going to continue to go out there and fight to make sure that we defeat President Barack Obama.” 
Santorum had been fac­ing a loss in the April 24 primary in Pennsylvania, the state he represented in 

Gas prices rise across U.S. 

Associated Press 
NEW YORK — U.S. drivers will pay an average of 24 cents more per gallon for gasoline during this summer’s travel season, the government said Tuesday. 
Gasoline will cost an average of $3.95 per gallon from April through September, an increase of 6.3 percent from the same period last year, the Energy In­formation Administration pre­dicted. The peak should come in May, when gas averages $4.01 per gallon, the agency said. 
Gasoline already has jumped by 20 percent this year to a national average of $3.922 per gallon, according to auto club AAA’s Daily Fuel Gauge Report. Prices, which are posted on station signs on street corners across America, have both a financial and psychological ef­fect on drivers, experts say. Al­ready, high prices have led to strong sales of gas-sipping ve­hicles like the Toyota Prius, and they’ve become a major issue in the Presidential campaign. 
Further price hikes will affect the kind of vacations Americans take, and will likely impact how they feel about the economy. They may even influence how Americans vote in November. 
“People are going to notice” if the national average crosses $4, said Fred Rozell, retail pric­ing director at Oil Price Infor­mation Service. “Anytime the price goes up, it’s going to affect things.” 

The government said there’s a small chance the price could climb as high as $4.50 a gallon in June. 
Pump prices have risen with crude oil, which is refined into gasoline and other fuels. Brent crude, which is used to price most of the oil used by U.S. re­fineries, has jumped by 14 per­cent this year. Benchmark U.S. crude has increased by 4 per­cent. The increase is largely due to a dispute over Iran’s nuclear program that has raised fears of a disruption in Middle East supplies. 
Americans have responded to high prices by using less gaso­line. That should continue over the summer, the government says. But energy forecasters still expect households to spend an average of $3,410 for gas this year, up $250 from last year. 
The tourism industry pays close attention to gasoline pric­es during the summer since it has such a big impact on their bottom line. 
Anne Banas, executive editor of the travel website Smarter­Travel.com, said that higher gas prices might force travelers to stay at cheaper hotels this sum­mer. They also may decide to cut their trips short. But most won’t stay home. 
“People will still travel for summer vacation and still per­
ceive  a  driving  vacation  as  
cheaper  than  flying,”  Banas  
said.  


Passengersboardmemorialcruise 


Associated Press 
NEW YORK — Passengers dressed in fur coats and wide-brimmed hats strolled the decks of a memorial ship as it began its journey to Canada to visit the spot where the Titanic sank to the bottom of the Atlan­tic Ocean a century ago. 
The ship was packed on Tues­day with history aficionados who have long been obsessed with the doomed ocean liner. Quite a few wore old-fashioned costumes, and one boy in a fake white beard was dressed up as Captain Edward John Smith. 
The cruise ship Journey, operated by Azamara Club Cruises, was carrying 440 pas­sengers when it departed a pier on New York’s West Side on Tuesday evening, 100 years af­ter the Titanic left Southamp­ton, England. After stopping in Halifax, Nova Scotia, where more than 100 Titanic victims are buried, the cruise will con­tinue on to conduct a memorial service at the spot in the At­lantic where the Titanic sank. Along the way, passengers will listen to lectures about life on board the Titanic and dine at a costume-themed dinner. 
Ticket prices dropped in re­cent weeks from about $5,000 per person to $1,000 per per­son. 
“It’s just such a human trag­edy that just resonates through the years,” said Carol Owens Campbell, 61, of Long Grove, Ill., who was on board with her husband. “What would any of us do if that happened to us?” 
There was a festive atmo­sphere above deck as passen­gers sipped champagne and explored the ship, which was not decorated in any way to re­semble the Titanic and looked like an ordinary cruise liner. 
Another ship operated by the same British travel agency is retracing the route of the Titanic. The memorial cruise aboard the MS Balmoral set sail from southern England on Sunday and made a brief stop in the Irish town of Cobh on Monday before continuing on its journey to New York. The Balmoral had to interrupt its journey on Tuesday because of a medical emergency on board. 

At least one person on board the Journey had a very person­al connection to the tragedy. Sharon Lee Willing, of Tucson, Ariz., bought a ticket to honor her great-grandfather Herbert Chaffee, a farming magnate from North Dakota who per­ished in the sinking. Family lore has it that Chaffee and his wife were in Europe on their second honeymoon, Willing said. 
“I know it’s just going to look like water, but to think of that great ship down there,” Willing said, getting choked up at the thought. “It’s going to be kind of tough, I think.” 
Willing’s great-grandmother Carrie Chaffee was placed in the last lifeboat to make it off the ship safely. 

U.S. coal exports rise for first time in two decades 


Associated Press 

BILLINGS, Mont. (AP) — U.S. coal exports reached their highest level in two decades last year as strong demand from Asia and Europe offered an outlet for a fuel that is fall­ing from favor at home. 
U.S. Department of Energy data analyzed by The Associ­ated Press reveal that coal ex­ports topped 107 million tons of fuel worth almost $16 bil­lion in 2011. That’s the highest level since 1991, and more than double the export volume from 2006. 
Much of the increase went to slake the thirst of power-hungry markets in Asia, where rapid development has sparked what mining company Peabody Energy calls a “global coal su­per cycle” that heralds renewed interest in the fuel. 
The AP’s analysis showed coal exports to South Korea leapt 81 percent last year to more than 10 million tons. In­dia saw a 65 percent jump, to 
4.5 million tons. And Japan bought almost 7 million tons of 
U.S. coal last year — a 119 per­cent increase — as the nation sought alternatives to nuclear power after an earthquake and tsunami prompted the Fuku­shima nuclear complex melt­down. 
King Coal faces a tougher outlook in the U.S., where com­petition from cheap natural gas and costly new rules for power plants are eroding its historic dominance in electricity gen­eration. 
Coal’s share of the domestic power supply has fallen by more than 20 percent in the past sev­eral years, forcing companies to search out new customers or risk having to cut production from U.S. mines that produced almost 1.1 billion tons last year. 
Government projections re­leased Tuesday said domestic power sector demand for could dip another 10 percent in 2012. That would drive total U.S. coal use below a billion tons annu­ally for only the second time since 1995. 
Utilities burn almost all the coal consumed in the U.S. to produce electricity. 
“There’s no question that our supplies of coal are adequate. The question is, how do we find new markets for coal to keep the share of electricity genera­tion strong?” said Luke Popo­vich with the National Mining Association. “While its use is relatively declining here, it is absolutely soaring in most oth­er places.” 
Exports also were up to Bra­zil, China and several Europe­an nations seeking high-quality coal for steelmaking, according to the Energy Department data. 
The Energy Department fore­casts exports to drop slightly over the next two years, then slowly climb to about 130 mil­lion tons annually by 2030. Countries worldwide consume more than 6 billion tons of coal annually. 
Companies including Arch Coal Inc. have offered far more optimistic scenarios under which exports continue to grow rapidly. St. Louis-based Arch has predicted export capacity could reach 245 million tons by 2015. 
To make that happen, com­panies want new or expanded coal ports on the West and Gulf coasts. 
Pending proposals in Wash­ington state would add tens of millions of tons of port capac­ity for coal that would be mined from the Powder River Basin of Montana and Wyoming. 
Port expansions also are en­visioned along the East Coast and in Texas, where Kinder Morgan Energy Partners plans to invest $140 million to expand a coal terminal in Houston. 
“The U.S. has lots of coal. It has a wonderful rail infra­structure. But the piece of the logistical puzzle that is weakest is terminals. To get to the next level of growth, the new termi­nals need to be built,” said Jim Orchard, vice president of Wyo­ming-based Cloud Peak Energy. 
Cloud Peak exported 4.7 mil­lion tons to Asia last year from its Spring Creek mine near the Montana-Wyoming border — an increase of 42 percent from 2010. Orchard added that the only way export demand would dry up would be if economic growth in China and India came to an abrupt halt. 
But many of the port plans are being challenged by the in­dustry’s long-time opponents. 
Environmentalists who filed dozens of lawsuits over the last decade to block new coal plants in the U.S. have turned new attention to export pro­posals in recent months. They fear any pollution reductions from reduced domestic coal use could be lost if the fuel is simply burned elsewhere. 

INSIDE COLUMN 

Give Griner a break 
The women’s basketball national cham­pionship was over a week ago. I watched with friends, many of them witnessing our own women’s basketball team compete for the first time all year, as two great sides battled in a very intense game. While Laura Coletti many of the people I was with shouted at Sports Writer the television, I was a bit more contemplative. This column may be a week too late, but as they say, better late than never. Here are my two cents. 
First, I couldn’t have been more proud to be a student at Notre Dame as I watched these incredible people represent our school. The girls are so tough and unbe­lievably talented, and to make it to back-to­back championship games is a feat not oft accomplished (unless, of course, you’re UConn). Coach McGraw has an amazing program that will continue to be one of the best in the country. 
Now, on Baylor: a few points I’d like to make. This team deserved to win a national championship and yes, when I say “team,” I mean the whole team, not just one player.The group of friends I watched the game with spent a lot of time talking about Baylor center Brittany Griner. Most of the comments were rude and inappro­priate, regarding her gender, or rather, questioning her gender. At one point, my younger brother texted me, “Nice Adam’s apple, Brittany Griner.” I’ll admit, I joined in, laughing and teasing, for about the first half or so. 
Then I got sort of pensive. I try to see both sides of every equation, and so my thoughts became, “Here is this girl using her talent to do something great, and she’s got hundreds of thousands of people across the nation making fun of her for having a deep voice and a flat chest and for being very tall.” I can’t imagine being in that position and I admire Griner for hav­ing such strength amid all the negativity and name-calling. 
Secondly, I’ve heard a few ignorant people say that this girl is, “just tall,” and that’s all there is to her game. Yes, anyone with eyes can see that she is tall, but if she were “just tall” she would not be a national champion. After playing basketball at a competitive level for the majority of my life, I know how girls who are “just tall” play. The ball bounces off their hands. they completely miss the rim and they are im­mobile. My AAU coach called them “stiffs.” Griner is tall and talented. She’s got great footwork and constantly has to work through being double and triple teamed. She’s got a good mid-range jumper and court vision and incredible athleticism. She is not “just tall.” 
My third and last point: Griner is not the only weapon the Baylor Bears have. She is not the whole team. If she were, wouldn’t they have won the national champion­ship for each year Griner has been on the team? Point guard Odyssey Sims and the rest of the Baylor team were equally as integral to Baylor’s success and the team could not have reached the success that they did without every player. Yes, Griner was a primary force for the Bears, but someone had to get her the ball. 
I realize this is old news and that Baylor may even be facing NCAA sanctions at this point for phone call/text message viola­tions. But lay off Griner, because under­neath one of the best basketball players in the country is a heart and soul that doesn’t deserve to be the brunt of insults from a nation of watchers. 
Contact Laura Coletti at      lcoletti@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Why fantasy matters 
“Fairy tales do not tell children that dragons exist. Children already know that dragons exist. Fairy tales tell chil­dren that dragons can be killed.” — G. 
K. Chesterton 

It is easy to Alex Coccia get a sense of isolation as you Shards of Glass enter through the main gate into the Terezín concentra­tion camp outside of Prague. Many would leave Terezín after an extended period, being transported eastward, and many would perish in the gas chambers of Auschwitz-Birkenau. If they stayed in Terezín, many would die of disease. 
Although isolated, the children of the ghetto were able to draw. This was part of the clandestine schooling system within the ghetto. The world in which these children found themselves was chaotic — a vast deviation from what they had been used to, but also absurd. It was a town-like holding cell in the midst of a horrendous era. But in this absurd world, they drew. 
Doris Zdekauerová drew herself as a princess — a beautiful, golden-haired princess with red lips and a bow on her dress. But the rest of the surrounding paper is colored black, perfectly outlining the dress. Beyond the blackness emerges a dragon with green scales, bright colored wings, a myriad of claws and a protruding mouth hurling flames at the frightened princess. I can imagine that Doris was asked to draw how she saw herself at that moment. She drew herself as a princess, as she was in real life, being threatened by the evil of the dragon. 
But as she transported from reality to fantasy, she saw a world where good conquered evil dragons. She knew that dragons existed, for they were the reason of her incarceration. She needed to know that the dragons could be defeated. So she entered the realm of fantasy. 
So what can we make of fairy tales? What can we make of fantasy? 
We oftentimes seem to merge fan­tasy and reality, perhaps making the reality easier to handle. But instead of merging one fully with the other, we must walk, as Doris did, on the line where fantasy and reality begin to blend. It is on that line, the dawn of one and the dusk of the other, we must tread, because hope lives there. 
Fantasy’s interaction with reality does not create escapist hopes, nor is “hope” itself escapist. Fantasy comes from our imagination and the desire to do more, to see more, to feel more or to be more.  Fantasy does not neglect reality, as escapist notions do, but instead, fully integrates our desires into our present contexts, and gives us the hope of fulfillment. Whether we are condemned to push a rock up a hill continuously, like Sisyphus, or to shout cries of justice into the deaf and ir­reverent night, we do so with the hope that we can change things. And some­times, in fact, many times, we can. 
Sometimes that hope creates and facilitates realities we never thought possible. In many cases, these hopes give us the courage to do things we would not otherwise do, to believe in the possibility of things we might not otherwise believe or to appreci­ate those things we sometimes take for granted. Hope can keep us sane, whether it is hope for tomorrow, for a few years down the road or for a lifetime. 
We do well to remember Andy Dufresne’s aphorism in “Shawshank Redemption,” “Remember, Red, hope is a good thing, maybe the best of things. And no good thing ever dies.” Hope can lead us to defy expectations, as Andy did in Shawshank. Hope can leave a legacy, as Harvey Milk did in San Francisco. Hope can move mil­lions, as the Tunisian success inspired another fifteen million to topple their dictator. Hope can redeem the world, as we have yet to see. 
Fantasy is invaluable because it cre­ates a sense of certainty for an uncer­tain future. Hope that we gain from fantasy broadens our perspectives, keeping us grounded in reality but still looking towards the sky. 
Doris Zdekauerová did not survive the Holocaust. She died in Auschwitz at the age of 11. Hundreds of other Terezín children did survive, and they drew and they hoped. Everyone needs hope, so everyone needs fantasy. We do not know what that hope will bring. We do not know if we will see suc­cess. The only thing we know is that, through everything, those societal, personal or figurative dragons can be defeated. 
Alex Coccia is a sophomore. He can be contacted at acoccia@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Off-campus blues 
I always knew my decision to move off campus would create a bit of non-literal distance between the independent off-campus life I wanted and the communal on-campus life I loved, but I never imagined that the immense alienation I have felt this year would be rooted in the dorm of which I still considered myself to be a part. 
Declining my housing application for Walsh Hall this year came with the acceptance that I wouldn’t have the opportunity to live the life I grew accustomed to these past three years, complete with section dinners and group watches for trashy television in the 24-hour lounge. 
Nonetheless, I still looked forward to the weekly emails of dorm happenings and the opportunities to partake in com­munal events like interhall sports and dances. However, my enthusiasm to remain active within Walsh, as I had seen my friends with their respective dorms, became quashed in the fall. 
I was told that I was no longer considered a Walsh resident, and underclassmen complained until myself, and other off-campus seniors were allowed to partake in flag football. 
Even now, this Letter to the Editor may be serving as the official notification to off-campus W.I.L.D. Women that our for­mal is this Saturday. 
So, what exactly does barring us from events and teams accomplish, besides creating a rift in the community and a gap between under and upperclassmen? Should the one year I lived off-campus overshadow the three years I was a Walshie, simply because I lack the physical address? 
The disparities growing between off-campus and on-campus residents are certainly becoming an issue. We’re not simply here to provide shelter from parietals. We still have things to offer and things we’d like to partake in. Residence halls should not be deciding what legacy I get to leave behind and what last memories I get to make. The level of involvement in dorm life for off-campus students should be decided by themselves. 
All of you senior Walshies, whether on or off-campus, please redefine W.I.L.D. this weekend in solidarity. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“Now we sit through Shakespeare in order to recognize the quotations.” 
Orson Welles 
U.S. actor and director 

Meg Kowieski 

senior off-campus April 9 
WEEKLY POLL 

Is Haley Scott DeMaria a good choice to be the Commencement speaker?? 
Yes — she’ll be inspiring No — she’s too low-profile 

Vote by 5 p.m. on Thursday at 
ndsmcobserver.com 


Wednesday, April 11, 2012 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 11 
Liquidity and flex points 
Sitting in the Mendoza basement on a Thursday, you might hear the following conversation: 
“Hey bro, I think I’m gonna invest in some liquid assets this weekend.” 
“Yeah man, whatcha think-Grace Concelman ing? Natty again?” Options and Futures 
“Nah bro, I’m gonna buy some Treasury bonds.” 

Liquid assets in the financial world are those that are easy to convert to cash and can be traded without impacting their price. The most liquid asset type is cash, followed by foreign currency, government bonds and many stocks because they all trade in large, established and fairly stable markets. Assets like real estate are very illiquid because it is difficult to trade them for cash and if you want to sell quickly you usually have to significantly lower your asking price. 
People value liquidity because having liq­uid assets means they can more easily meet immediate financial obligations. 
For example, take Domer, the typical Notre Dame student. Domer has four types of assets: U.S. dollars, Domer Dollars, flex points and dining hall meals. The liquidity of these assets ranges from very liquid to very illiquid. 
U.S. dollars are Domer’s most liquid as­sets. They can be used everywhere from Reckers to O’Rourke’s, and even beyond the Notre Dame bubble. Domer Dollars are less liquid than U.S. dollars because they are only accepted on campus. As anyone who has accidently handed their student ID card to the cashier at Chipotle knows, Domer Dollars aren’t very useful beyond the book­store or your dorm’s laundry machines. 
Flex points are slightly less liquid than Domer dollars. Since they’re meant to supplement Domer’s meal plan, flex points are only accepted at food service locations. Also, unlike Domer dollars, which can be converted to cash upon graduation, flex points have no cash value. At the end of the semester, unused flex points vanish, which explains the sudden demand for dry goods at the Huddle just as everyone is packing up to leave for the summer. 
Finally, Domer’s most illiquid assets are his dining hall meals. He can’t hand his ID card to the cashier at Waddick’s and say, “I didn’t have time to go to the dining hall this morning, so I’m going to use the meal I have for today’s breakfast to pay for my coffee and bagel sandwich.” He also can’t redeem his unused meals at the end of the semester. Dining hall meals are delicious, but Domer secretly thinks they’re kind of a pain. If illiquid dining hall meals are such a pain, why does Domer bother to buy them? He could just hold dollars and pay for every­thing he needed on campus without having to worry about utilizing his illiquid assets. 
The catch is this: The return on illiq­uid investments is generally higher than liquid investments because the investor is compensated for having to tie up his money. For Domer, buying a block of dining hall meals at the beginning of the semester is less expensive than if he would buy them individually with dollars or flex points. Domer chooses to forego the freedom of owning more-liquid U.S. dollars for the savings he gets by buying dining hall meals in advance. The lure of extra return on il­liquid assets can sometimes lead to liquidity crises. Say Domer invests all of his money in dining hall meals. If he needs a new toothbrush from the Huddle but all of his assets are tied up in meals, he experiences a liquidity crisis where he cannot meet his financial needs with his available assets. 
Liquidity is not the same as solvency. Solvency is the ability to meet financial obligations with any assets. It’s possible to be illiquid but still solvent if you have a lot of long-term assets, like if the Domer runs out of flex points but still has dining hall meals. You can’t, however, be insolvent and still liquid. If Domer also runs out of dining hall meals, he’s illiquid, insolvent and probably pretty hungry. 
Grace Concelman is a senior majoring in finance and philosophy. She can be reached at gconcelm@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Obama jeopardized non-partisan Supreme Court 
It’s no secret that the line separating the federal judiciary from the executive is blurry at best. When a partisan president is given the authority to nominate justices to the Supreme Court, the supposedly non­partisan nature of the Court is John Sandberg inevitably jeopar­dized. Washington Guest Columnist will never be able to take the politics completely out of the judiciary. However, the degree to which politics affects the judiciary certainly can be controlled. 
President Obama’s remarks this week show a careless and outright attempt to influence a ruling of the Court, which is cause for concern not only among oppo­nents of the health care law, but among all who hold proper respect for the separation of powers. 
The issue arose on Monday at a press conference being held with the Mexican president and Canadian prime minister. Asked about the possibility of the Supreme Court deciding that the individual man­date is unconstitutional, President Obama responded that he was “confident that the Supreme Court will uphold the law,” citing his own reasoning and the opinion “of legal experts across the ideological spectrum…” as his rationale. 
Had the President finished here and gone on to the next question, there would not have been a problem. He continued, though, saying how for years the biggest problem in the judiciary over the years has been judicial activism. He ultimately finished the lengthy response by criticiz­ing the idea that “an ‘unelected’ group of people would somehow overturn a duly constituted and passed law.” 
With oral arguments on the health care law all wrapped up, the only thing left is to wait for a decision to be handed down in June. It would have been wise for President Obama to pivot to the topic of international diplomacy that was at hand, or at the very least, give a brief answer and leave it at that. Warnings on judi­cial activism and the susceptibility of an “‘unelected’ group of people” to make the wrong decision were uncalled for. 
Students of American government at the most basic levels will be able to tell that judges are not elected for the very reason that it keeps them independent from the other branches of government, allowing them to do their duty without letting reelection prospects influence their judgments. The President’s use of the term “unelected” in a critical manner just does not make sense. President Obama clari­fied Tuesday that the Supreme Court has the ultimate say on our laws and “all of us have to respect it,” but it’s that extraor­dinary power which has led the Court to show restraint in the past. 
Again, the President’s remarks rein­forced how unnecessary it is for him to be meddling in this issue at all. Americans do not need to be reminded that the Supreme Court has the final say on our laws and that this is a remarkable power. Address­ing the Supreme Court’s decision on health care this week was a purely political move intended to sway the decision in his favor. 
On a wide range of issues in the past President Obama has made himself ap­pear as the “only adult in the room,” the most calculated voice in an environment full of screaming heads. This stems in part from his personality, but also from the nature of his office. However, his recent remarks on the Supreme Court’s handling of health care compromised this image. The adult in the room would have shown proper respect for the authority of the Supreme Court. The temptation to use his office to go public and try to affect the Court’s opinion, rather than let it do its job uninfluenced, shows how President Obama can resort to playing the same partisan games which he so often accuses his counterparts of doing. 
Many times I feel right-wing conserva­tive critics are unfair in their criticisms of the President. This is not one of those times. Such a clear attempted violation of the separation of powers cannot be toler­ated and it is right for critics to criticize him. 
In a federal government full of gray areas, it is indeed noteworthy when an ac­tor blatantly oversteps his boundaries. Yet this is exactly what President Obama did on Monday, and it has not gone unnoticed by Americans who appreciate the founda­tional principle of separation of powers. 
John Sandberg is a sophomore English major. He can be reached at jsandbe1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

GRC event just a bandage on a bullet wound 
In “Dating at Notre Dame: The Remix,” (April 3), Dr. Moss addresses how a hookup culture exists in place of a dating culture on campus, and he speaks to the efforts that the Gender Relations Center (GRC) has undertaken to initiate a shift to a culture of healthier relationships. 
However, while the GRC’s end goal is no­ble, and their efforts are to be commended, their plan of action that has been demon­strated seems naïve at best. For example, the GRC recently gave out coffee vouchers to encourage students to go on coffee dates. The idea behind this was to encourage a movement away from the hookup culture. 
However, much like haphazardly slap­ping a cheap plastic bandage on a bullet wound to the heart, GRC events seem to have not thoughtfully and objectively ad­dressed the real problem: questions of iden­tity and how those identities are formed by not only popular culture, but the Notre Dame image as well. 
My critique of the GRC might best be illustrated by a personal experience. Last semester, I attended a “speed dating” event sponsored by the GRC. I went only for the discussion panel, as I have been in a happy relationship for nearly two years. One panelist cited the rising number of younger people having sex, compared it to data from previous decades and used this to support an argument that popular culture is con­tributing to sex at a younger age. 
During the Q&A period that followed, I asked if the discrepancy in the data might be attributed to participant bias. Instead of answering the question, or even acknowl­edging that participant bias is always a concern in any survey data, the panelist responded with rhetoric that continued to uphold the argument, but was unrelated to the question. This response was lazy at best, and unethical at worst, as even the best data and methods will always disclose shortcomings. 
If the GRC wants to solve tough issues, they must also ask tough questions. This includes an objective critique of their framework of understanding the Notre Dame hookup culture, as informed by the idealized Notre Dame image. It seems that social problems at Notre Dame, such as an unhealthy hookup culture, tend to be blamed on greater trends in American culture. While popular culture does indeed influence decisions, I feel that the GRC is missing a very important opportunity to critique how Notre Dame’s image and students’ relationship with our Catholic branding might contribute to gender rela­tion problems at Notre Dame. 
I am not suggesting the GRC look to criticize the Catholic faith. Rather, the GRC should also objectively investigate if the pressure students feel from trying to up­hold Notre Dame’s pure and chaste Catholic image might negatively manifest through unhealthy activities such as “slut shaming” (we’ve all unfortunately have heard at least a St. Mary’s joke at some point in time) or even participating in the hookup culture. 
Such participation may be fueled by an unhealthy Madonna/Whore dichotomy that students are reacting to, and characteriz­ing each extreme in different settings. 
Certainly, the Catholic faith is a strong foundation for building relationships with one another. However, if the GRC would like to find a comprehensive solution to Notre Dame’s hookup culture, the GRC may also want to investigate and critique how Notre Dame’s image is affecting students, beyond the obvious and easy task of critiquing the effects of popular culture. The Pulitzer Prize winning playwright August Wilson once wrote, “Confront the dark parts of yourself, and work to banish them with illumination and forgiveness. Your will­ingness to wrestle with your demons will cause your angels to sing.” 
Melissa Jordan 
junior Ryan Hall April 4 



By BRIGID MANGANO 
Scene Writer 

As a proud Double Domer, I have had the opportunity to at­tend and participate in a wide variety of campus performanc­es and competitions, from the Keenan Revue and Glee Club concerts to the Holy Half Mara­thon and the Collegiate Jazz Festival. Time and again, the talent and originality of my fel­low students astounds me. This is especially true at the annu­al exhibition of BFA and MFA candidates’ theses at the Snite Museum of Art, one of only two events that I have not missed once over the past five years. 
This spring, the culminat­ing projects of eight seniors and five third-year graduate students are on display until May 20. Broaching topics as di­verse as childhood fitness, the romanticization of cyberspace and the under-regulation of the cosmetics industry, they promise to appeal to a broad audience. 
Children may gravitate to­wards “Stray,” a video game created by Amanda Carter that tells a heartwarming story about a bipedal sheep seeking to rescue his shepherd from a pack of wolves. Players must rely upon the skills of other members of the flock to reach the cave where the shepherd sits tethered. With its anti-bullying message and likable cast of characters, “Stray” is a welcome departure from the many violent video games on the market. 
Those who constantly expe­rience noise pollution will be intrigued by “Hush,” a hybrid device conceived by Ryan Ger­aghty. By combining sound-masking techniques and di­rectional speakers, the device drowns out unwanted or harm­ful noise. One of the strengths of the display is its interac­tive component; viewers who step on a carpet square will suddenly become aware of an overhead buzzing sound. 
New mothers may be drawn to Meghan Corbett’s “Koala Karrier” and Becca Huffer’s “PAC.” The former addresses the problem of how to safely transport an infant and offers a lightweight alternative to car seats that double as carriers. Eschewing plastic, Corbett cre­ated a wool-felt carrier which has a button tree design to add a nice aesthetic touch. “PAC,” short for the Personal Acces­sibility Cart, is a multifunc­tional walking aid that serves as everything from a stroller to a grocery cart. Presented as a lifelong companion, its rota­tional capacities and adjust-ability are impressive.  
Parents and grade school teachers will appreciate “TRAKS” by Amanda Jonovski, a program that embraces tech­nology in order to encourage physical exercise from a young age. (Editor’s note: Jonovski is the ad design manager at The Observer.) Students can earn points for the activities they log and challenge classmates to sports contests. By shifting the attention away from weight loss and customizing the appear­ance to reflect each school’s mascot, Jonovski transforms exercise into pure fun. 
Internet users will see op­portunity for self-reflection in “Neighborhoods” by Laura Mc-Ginn. In a series of four paint­ings, she depicts clusters of floating shapes that are intend­ed to recall computer graphics. Many vaguely resemble build­ings, and one cannot resist comparing a red-and-yellow checked shape to a Rubik’s cube. For McGinn, paint was the ideal medium to challenge contemporary attitudes to­wards cyberspace. 
Avid readers will pause be­fore “En Route” by Jackie Em­manuel, a sequence of six digi­tal paintings that accompany a chapter book written by the artist. The story’s protagonist is Lorenzo Ibycus, the son of a government official who must journey to his homeland to save his family’s reputation. In one illustration, a buxom blonde asks directions, while behind her a winding path leads to a precipitous island evocative of Mont Saint-Michel. Viewers will leave wishing they could open the novel and read. 
Philosophy majors and all those who muse about the na­ture of time and human exis­tence will enjoy “Light Paint­ing” by Nicholas Gunty and “The Temptation to Exist” by Jackson Zorn. In the former, Gunty explores light as a meta­phor for the organic and spiri­tual worlds. Using long-expo­sure photography, he tracks different light sources across a moving frame and recreates the images in seven oil paint­ings. One of these, “Entangle­ment,” is loosely reminiscent of orange octopus legs.  
In the latter, viewers encoun­ter nine graphite drawings of bone fragments, organs, insect casings, antlers and fur. These sundry components are blend­ed to produce bizarre-looking creatures, with the message that life always finds a way to flourish. The largest of the drawings calls to mind a fa­mous Georgia O’Keeffe paint­ing of a cow skull. 
Women for whom primp­ing is a sacred morning rit­ual should check out “Fierce Cosmetics” by Marie Yvonne Bourgeois. In a humorous but highly informative campaign, Bourgeois draws attention to the alarming levels of skin irri­tants and toxins that are found in many beauty products. Well-known slogans associated with Cover Girl and other big-name brands are turned on their heads, and Bourgeois’ process video shows exactly how she used lipstick, foundation, and mascara in her printmaking techniques. 
Nirvana fans will empathize with “Kill Yr. Idols” by Benja­min Funke, a project dedicated to the life and death of Kurt Cobain. Funke deliberately distorts and silences the mu­sic videos that Nirvana filmed during their contract with Gef­fen Records, as a way of sym­bolizing the perversion of their message by the music industry and the loss of Cobain’s voice. The muted sound is especially noticeable due to the loud hum of six simultaneous projectors. 
The final two projects both address the nature of recollec­tion, albeit through markedly different means. In “Youth­ful Days,” Jessica Zekus con­siders the way in which our minds remember significant childhood events. Her stag­gered clay sculptures portray four boys and three girls in multifarious poses; one raises her hand as though waving to a friend, while another leans on his knees like an outfielder awaiting a fly ball. Viewers will smile at the playful titles, such as “See You Later Alligator.” 
Memory is also foregrounded in “Re: Collections” by Chris­tine Hinz Lenzen, a labor-intensive project in which old photographs were doused in wine, wrapped in cheesecloth and dipped in wax. Many of these were sewn together to create “Tapestry,” a sprawling quilt hung over a wooden dry­ing rack. Others are bottled and arranged on shelves or scattered in a shallow trough. Viewers will find themselves searching for images that re­peat and squinting to make out the details in those that were soaked the longest in red wine. 
This year’s exhibition of MFA and BFA candidates’ theses cannot fail to please. Students and faculty should make time to view the work of some of the most creative minds on cam­pus. 
Contact Brigid Mangano at bmangano@nd.edu 



LISA  HOEYNCK | Observer Graphic 


Wednesday, April 11, 2012 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 13 

By BRENNA WILLIAMS 
Scene Writer 

I learned two lessons this week. The first: never start baking until you’re 100 percent cer­tain you have all of the ingredients that you need. The second: when life gives you copious amounts of peanut butter, create a new recipe. 
I set out this week to make rocky road brownies, thinking I had the walnuts the recipe called for hidden away in my pantry. Unfortunately, when I discovered that I was either wrong or our house elf had hidden them somewhere, the brownies were already in the oven and I had to think fast. I could either serve my co-workers and friends boring, plain box brownies or I could go ahead and get creative, using things I had to spruce up box brownies to make “semi-homemade” maven Sandra Lee proud. I had marshmallow fluff and peanut butter, which naturally led to this week’s creation: Fluffer-Nutter Brownies. 
If you’re not familiar with the Fluffer-Nutter sandwich, I can understand why. They were a thing of legend at my elementary school lunch table — no way would our mothers send any of us out of the house with something that sugary in our lunchboxes! The Fluffer-Nutter com­bines peanut butter with marshmallow fluff, in a perfectly sweet, perfectly gooey concoction that lends itself easily to the top of a brownie. They couldn’t be easier! Ingredients: 
1 box of brownie mix and the oil, egg, and water called for on the box 
(Tip: I used the low-fat Betty Crocker mix made for a 13x9 pan. You can also be an over­achiever and make brownies from scratch.) 
½ cup peanut butter 

(Tip: If you want some extra texture, go ahead and use crunchy peanut butter) 
½ cup marshmallow fluff 
¾ cup of chocolate chips 

¼ cup mini marshmallows (optional) Instructions: 
1. Preheat oven as instructed by the box. Mix together eggs, oil, water and mix as instruct­ed. Add chocolate chips to batter and mix well. 
(Tip: If you like fudgy brownies, use one less egg than instructed) 
2. Spread batter on the bottom of a lightly greased baking sheet and cook as directed. 
3. As soon as the brownies are done baking, switch the oven over to the broiler function on a low setting. Layer the fluff and peanut butter on the top of the brownies, taking care not to tear the top up too much. Don’t worry about fully spreading them. If adding optional marsh­mallows, sprinkle them on top. 
(Tip: Only you can know what your perfect peanut butter/fluff ratio is, so it’s up to you if you want to add more or less of either of them. There’s no such thing as too much of a good thing!) 
4. 
Place the pan back in the oven for 2-3 minutes, allowing the peanut butter and fluff to warm up and become more easily spreadable. 

5.
 Remove from oven and fully spread the toppings on top of the brownies with a knife or rubber spatula. Let the brownies cool for at least an hour – they need to be completely cooled for the toppings to stay in place. Cut into pieces and enjoy! 


(Tip: If you want to speed the cooling process up, place the brownies in the freezer for 45 minutes) 
Five steps, store-bought mix and a learning experience are the ingredients for a delicious throwback to your childhood. There was no way I was going to finish the peanut butter I had in my pantry before graduation, and this was a perfect way to keep from being wasteful. 
This proved to me that baking — that culinary art that you’re not supposed to improvise on — is not as cut-and-dry as the baking-wary might believe. Luckily, my experiment turned out to be edible. 
Contact Brenna Williams at bwillia9@nd.edu 


Despite my usual focus on clothes, this week I have decided to focus on something just as im­portant in style: grooming.  More specifically, the grooming of your chest hair. The Case for looking like Sean Fitzgerald Chewbacca: 
I remember Scene Writer when I grew up that the cool­est dudes ever had the greatest chest hair.  Who didn’t love Austin Powers, or dream of being the next Sean Connery or Magnum P.I.? But here’s the kicker — Chuck Norris had chest hair.  Therefore, chest hair is the greatest thing ever.  
The boy with chest hair no longer feels like a little kid; he has pro­gressed into manhood.  The acqui­sition of chest hair is the modern man’s proof that he is no longer a boy, but a man.  He is the man’s man. He cuts down trees with an ax in his spare time. He fights with his bare knuckles. He knows how to start a fire with two sticks. He could survive in the wild with a hatchet. He loves football. And everyone knows not to mess with his woman. 

Sophomore Brian Scope models the “Chewbacca” look. 
The Case against Chewbacca: 
But, becoming your inner Paul Bunyan can get a little out of control.  Imagine all of the things that get lost in there. At certain lengths, small little critters have been known to bury themselves in there for the harsh winters in South Bend. If this man unbuttons two buttons on his shirt, it starts to escape, causing some to mistake him for a South American drug lord. Despite being the man’s man, he has often been confused with mystical creatures such as Chew­bacca, bears and Bigfoot. He should be wary of his overwhelming hair, even if it could be used as a pillow. 

The Case for looking like the Aber­crombie & Fitch Model: 
Unfortunately, not all men have been blessed with the ability to grow a forest on their chest.  Here comes the A&F model. Ladies swoon to him and his washboard abs.  Every muscle is clearly de­fined.  He lacks a single hair except for the lightly gelled ones on his head.  He could be as dumb as an ox, he couldn’t survive a second in the wild, but he always gets the girl.  He relaxes by the beach and his job is to stand there and just look good.  He is a woman’s dream date. The Case against the A&F Model: 
But, he looks like a little boy.  Did he ever reach puberty?  Where was this man when I was growing up?  He seems to be the antithesis of the man’s man; he is the woman’s man.  He is a pretty boy who can’t do hard work.  Other than his large hairless chest and awe-inducing muscles, what else does he have to offer?  He spends his days removing miniscule amounts of hair from his body, he spends exorbitant amounts of time on styling what hair he has on his head and he probably isn’t even an ambi-turner. 
I don’t know which one is better or which one is worse.  I grew up seeing the man’s man as my hero.  But, where has he gone?  When was the last time anyone saw a male model with chest hair?  Someone, please start a Viewpoint war on this, because it would be hilarious. 
Contact Sean Fitzgerald at sfitzge3@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of the Observer. 
LISA  HOEYNCK | Observer Graphic 
SPORTS AUTHORITY 

Too early in the year to panic, baseball fans 
All around me, the sounds of spring ring loud and clear. The leaves rustle in the wind and birds sing cheerfully. The sweet sounds of baseball join in the seasonal refrain, adding to the song organ tunes, the crack of a bat and the roar of a crowd. 
But simultane­ously, in my head, voices scream, fire tears through the streets and alarms ring. Disaster has struck, panic is running rampant. 
After a long offseason and months of eager expectation, baseball season is back. And my Atlanta Braves kicked off the 2012 season by crumbling at the feet of the Mets three times and falling to the lowly Astros. 
The pitching was subpar, the offense was almost nonexistent and the star players disappoint­ed. On opening day at Citi Field, the Braves failed to tag Johan Santana in his first game since 2010 and fell 1-0. In the second game of series, R.A. Dickey controlled the Braves and Lucas Duda knocked two homeruns in the Mets’ 4-2 victory. Jonathon Niese took a no-hit bid into the seventh inning of game three and a late Atlanta rally wasn’t enough to steal the win as the visiting team fell, 7-5. 
The Braves began the season with their first 0-3 start since 2003 and now sit at 1-4 after committing four errors in their first game against the Astros. After their loss at Houston on Monday night, the Braves had racked up nine straight losses dating back to their late-season collapse of a year ago. 
And it is not just the Braves’ early-season failures that have me worried. In both of my fantasy baseball leagues (don’t frown upon me), my teams suf­fered thorough routs. My pitch­ing was disastrous, my offense was atrocious and my scores were generally embarrassing. 
I am not the only one whose faith was shaken by the open­ing weekend of the MLB, either. Both Yankees fans and Red Sox fans were left shaking their heads after 0-3 starts. The Pinstripes dropped three straight to division-foe Tampa Bay, an unwelcome sign for New Yorkers hoping to buy AL East Champions merchandise this fall. The Red Sox, meanwhile, blew two saves during an 0-3 start against the Detroit Tigers, inciting speculation about Daniel Bard’s return to the bullpen. 

In another disappointing start, Ozzie Guillen began his career at the helm of the Miami Marlins by making controversial remarks about Fidel Castro and making public his habit of drink­ing and sleeping at the hotel after games (“I don’t do any­thing else,” he said). 
So clearly, there is plenty for baseball fans to fret about, whether it be slow starts or controversial begin­nings. 
And yet, there is noth­ing for baseball fans to fret about. Four or five games into a 162-game season, nothing has been estab­lished. This is what I need to keep telling myself. 
The last times the Braves began the campaign 0-3, in 2003, they finished with 101 wins and won the NL East. More recently, in 2007, the Braves inaugurated the season with a three-game sweep of the Phillies, only to watch Philadelphia capture the division title at season’s end. Regardless of how ter­rible a team looks or how disappointing its results are in the season’s opening week, the sheer size of the base­ball season offers reason for hope. 
The Braves will be fine (I hope). Their talented pitch­ing staff will lead the way as the offense pieces together some semblance of consis­tency and productivity. While a playoff berth will be a tall order, Atlanta is certainly in the running. 
For the Red Sox and the Yankees, as well, the wins will start to pile up as they both join the Rays in a three-team battle for two playoff spots. 
As for Ozzie Guillen, I think we can pretty much accurately predict what the larger trend will be from the sample size already. If he manages to move past this rather large impediment, he will probably talk his way into the line of fire again quite soon. 
For the rest of us, at least, there is hope. 
Contact Joseph Monardo at jmonardo@nd.edu               
The views expressed in this Sports Authority column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
MLB 

Dodgers take home opener, 2-1 

Associated Press 

LOS ANGELES — The Pittsburgh Pirates faced four of the NL’s elite starting pitchers in their first four games of the season, yet still emerged with a split. 
That impressive result didn’t feel particularly comforting to the Pirates after Andre Ethier set off a celebration at Dodger Stadium at their expense. 
pened today, but I can’t wait to get the ball the next time, because I’m going to win that battle. I guess the good thing about being a reliever is that you can come back out tomorrow and redeem yourself and be a hero.” 
Pittsburgh didn’t get caught up in the party around the Dodgers’ home opener, either. Kevin Correia shut down Los Angeles’ of­fense after Matt Kemp’s RBI 
Ethier hit a tiebreak­ing homer off Jason Grilli with two outs in the eighth inning Tues­day, sending the Los An­geles Dodg­ers to a 2-1 victory on Dodger Sta­dium’s 50th an n iversar y. 
Pittsburgh opened a nine-game trip with just five hits against Clay­ton Kershaw and the Dodg­ers’ bullpen. 

“Everybody is excited about what’s going on right now and rightfully so ... The vibe in this stadium today, that’s an addicting feeling.” 
Andre Ethier Dodgers right fielder 
groundout in the first in­ning until the Pirates evened it in the sev­enth on Matt Hague’s run-scoring groundout . 
Correia yielded four hits and two walks over six innings in his sea­son debut for Pittsburgh after miss­ing the final six weeks of last sea­son with a strained 
After Grilli (0-1) yielded the decisive homer, Andrew McCutchen grounded into a game-ending double play. 
Yet the disappointment of a dramatic loss didn’t erase the satisfaction of another strong effort under diffi­cult circumstances for the Pirates — and their vet­eran setup man certainly wasn’t fazed by his failure. 
“I love the adversity,” Grilli said. “If I don’t, then I shouldn’t be doing this. But I relish it. I mean, I’m not happy about what hap-oblique, matching Ker­shaw’s seven-inning ef­fort for the Dodgers. 
“It’s a small sample, but we’ve been pitching great,” Pirates catcher Rod Barajas said. “But we’ve had some tough matchups: (Roy) Hal­laday, (Cliff) Lee, (Cole) Hamels, and then we get Kershaw, but we’re com­peting day in and day out. So no matter who’s on the mound, we’re going to bat­tle. Hopefully we come out on top more often than not.” 
Kenley Jansen (1-0) pitched the eighth, and Javy Guerra pitched the ninth for his third save. 
“This is the kind of game we’re going to have to play,” Pittsburgh manager Clint Hurdle said. “I don’t expect to see us get blown out, and I’m not so sure we’re going to blow out a lot of people, so right now there’s not much margin for error. There’s re­ally no safety net. You’ve got to earn victories up here, and they earned one today.” 
Exactly 50 years after Dodger Stadium opened, Ethier hit a solo shot before emerging from the dugout for a curtain call that didn’t seem out of place, even in early April. After two years of mediocrity on the field and increasingly bizarre de­velopments in the front of­fice of Southern California’s much-loved team, the Dodg­ers are off to a 4-1 start to their first season since re­solving Frank McCourt’s messy ownership tenure. 
“Everybody is excited about what’s going on right now, and rightfully so,” said Ethier, starting his seventh season with the Dodgers. “The vibe in this stadium to­day, that’s an addicting feel­ing. We had that for several years here, and then it went away, and part of that was how we were playing on the field. It felt good to look up and see that support again.” 
Kershaw allowed four hits and struck out seven, bounc­ing back from his first start last week in San Diego, which ended after three innings be­cause of an illness that lin­gered until recently. He failed to win at home for just the third time in 14 starts, but still hasn’t lost at Dodger Sta­dium since early last season. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The 
Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

FOR RENT ATTN: Faculty/Grad Students. PERSONAL WANTED Give the gift of FIRST SMILE and 1921 - The first live sports event on earn up to $60,000 as an EGG radio took place this day on KDKA DONOR Radio. The event was a boxing 
Spacious 2br,2-1/2 ba with: www.FirstSmileEggDonation.com match between Johnny Ray and Attn: Faculty/Grad Students. UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Summer Child Care Needed Johnny Dundee. Immac 3br with large rec room,  LR,DR,fam rm, 4-season rm, AC, Don’t go it alone. Notre Dame This Day in History: garage, walk to campus.  Sec Sys,  2-car gar, near campus, has many resources in place to Seeking female college student 1783- After receiving a copy of the 1947 - Jackie Robinson became $1200/mo + utilities  bsmt, fen. yrd + utility rm, no pets. assist you. If you or someone you to care for 8-year-old boy and provisional treaty on March 13, the the first black player in major­847-420-7589 love needs confidential support transport 16-year-old girl to/from U.S. Congress proclaimed a formal league history. He played in an 
or assistance, please call Sr. work weekdays during summer in end to hostilities with Great Britain. exhibition game for the Brooklyn 2Bedroom Furnished House $1500/mo + utilities. Sue Dunn at 1-7819. For more Mishawaka. Dodgers. Easy walk to ND information, visit ND’s website at:  Must have own car.  1898 - U.S. President William Nick: 574-309-3758                  Hours 7:30 a.m. to 6 p.m. McKinley asked Congress for a 1968 - U.S. President Johnson Email rmfopen@gmail.com 262-332-0015 http://pregnancysupport@nd.edu Call 574-274-3778. declaration of war with Spain. signed the 1968 Civil Rights Act. 
NCAA FOOTBALL 

Petrino loses job over controversy 
Associated Press 
FAYETTEVILLE, Ark. — Ar­kansas fired coach Bobby Petri-no on Tuesday and scathingly dressed him down for hiring his mistress and intentionally misleading his boss about their secret relationship that was laid bare by her presence at a motorcycle accident that ulti­mately cost him his job. 
Athletic director Jeff Long announced his decision at an evening news conference and laid out a stunning laundry list of misdeeds against the man he hired away from the Atlanta Falcons four years ago. 
They included ignoring mul­tiple chances over the past 10 days to come clean to Long about the relationship that had crossed the line from infidelity into workplace favoritism. 
“He made the decision, a con­scious decision, to mislead the public on Tuesday, and in do­ing so negatively and adversely affected the reputation of the University of Arkansas and our football program,” Long said, choking up at one point as he discussed telling players that their coach was gone. “In short, Coach Petrino engaged in a pattern of misleading and ma­nipulative behavior designed to deceive me and members of the athletic staff, both before and after the motorcycle accident.” 
The 51-year-old Petrino, a married father of four, main­tained an inappropriate rela­tionship with 25-year-old Jes­sica Dorrell for a “significant” amount of time and at one point had given her $20,000, Long said. 
Long would not disclose de­tails of the payment, or when the money changed hands, but said both parties confirmed the “gift.” Kevin Trainor, a spokes­man for Long, said the money came from Petrino, not univer­sity funds. 
Petrino issued a lengthy apol­ogy and said he was focused on trying to heal his family. 
“All I have been able to think about is the number of people I’ve let down by making selfish decisions,” he said. “I chose to engage in an improper relation­ship. I also made several poor decisions following the end of that relationship and in the aftermath of the accident. I ac­cept full responsibility for what has happened.” 
Dorrell, a former Razorbacks volleyball player, worked for the Razorbacks Foundation be­fore she was hired by Petrino on March 28, four days before their accident on a winding ru­ral road. Long said she was one of three finalists out of 159 ap­plicants and got the job after a time frame he said was shorter than usual. 
Petrino never disclosed his conflict of interest in hiring Dorrell or the payment and she had an unfair advantage over the other candidates, Long said. 
“Coach Petrino abused his authority when over the past few weeks he made a staff deci­sion and personal choices that benefited himself and jeopar­dized the integrity of the foot­ball program,” Long said. 
Petrino has built Arkansas into a Southeastern Confer­ence and national power over four seasons, including a 21-5 record the past two years. But Long made it clear that the suc­cess on the field was overshad­owed by repeated deceptive acts and that no one was more important than the program it­self. 

Long said Petrino was fired “with cause” — meaning he will not receive the $18 million buyout his contract called for — and there were no discussions about ways to keep Petrino at Arkansas. 
Long said he met with Petri-no on Tuesday morning to in­form him there were grounds for termination and that the coach was “concerned” about that. Long sent Petrino a letter Tuesday afternoon to formally notify him he had been fired. 
Long said he has not spoken with Petrino since sending the letter. 
“I chose to do it in writing because that’s the terms of his contract,” he said. 
Long declined comment when asked about Dorrell’s job status. 
She was “at one point” en­gaged to Josh Morgan, the athletic department’s director of swimming and diving op­erations, according to a person with knowledge of the situation who spoke only on condition of anonymity because the details have not been disclosed. The person said Morgan was still employed at the university. 
Petrino finishes his tenure at Arkansas with a 34-17 re­cord in four seasons, leading the Razorbacks to a No. 5 fi­nal ranking last season and a Cotton Bowl win over Kansas State. There was talk of Arkan­sas challenging the two pow­erhouses in the SEC West, na­tional champion Alabama and national runner-up LSU. 
And maybe the Hogs will. But they won’t do it with Petrino. 

NBA 

Celtics shoot by Heat behind Pierce, Rondo 

Associated Press 

MIAMI  — A week ago, the Bos­ton Celtics beat the Miami Heat with defense. This time, they did it with offense. 
Paul Pierce scored 27 points, Kevin Garnett added 24 points and nine rebounds, and the Celt­ics made their first eight shots of the fourth quarter to hold off the Heat 115-107 on Tuesday night. 
Rajon Rondo posted double-digit assists for the 18th straight game, extending the NBA’s lon­gest such streak in 20 years with an 18-point, 15-assist effort. Brandon Bass added 12 points and 10 rebounds, while Avery Bradley scored 11 for the Celtics, who shot a season-high 61 per­cent and survived two posses­sions where Miami could have tied the score in the final quar­ter. 
“We talk about it in fight­ing terms,” Celtics coach Doc Rivers said. “We told them to­day before the game, you’re in a boxing match, you expect to get hit. They’re going to hit you. They did and we withstood it. I thought that was important for our team.” 
LeBron James finished with 36 points, seven rebounds and seven assists for Miami, which got 20 from Dwyane Wade and 18 from Mario Chalmers. Chris Bosh finished with 13 on 5-for-13 shooting for Miami, which has gone 5-5 in its last 10 games. 
The Celtics beat Miami 91-72 in Boston on April 1, a game the Heat called “unacceptable” after establishing season-lows in scor­ing and shooting. 
This one won’t sit much better with the reigning Eastern Con­ference champions, who ousted the Celtics in five games from last year’s playoffs and could see them in the second round of the upcoming postseason. No team had shot better than 55 percent against the Heat this season, and Boston’s 115 points were two shy of matching a season-high against Miami. 
“We left Boston feeling awful at our performance,” James said. “I don’t feel as bad tonight. Those guys, they were locked in. Not only did they make their open shots, they made their contested shots. ... When you’ve got it going like that, just tip your hat off. We tip our hat off to them tonight. They won it.” 
Boston improved to 18-7 since the All-Star break, and dealt Mi­ami a blow in the race for the No. 1 seed in the East. The Heat fell 2 1/2 games behind Chicago, which played later Tuesday at home against the New York Knicks. 
“It took a while,” Rondo said, “but we’re peaking at the right time.” 
A layup by Wade got Miami within 108-103 with 2:22 left, before Garnett made a high-arc­ing jumper that dropped softly through the net, his 11th make in 14 shots. That pretty much de­scribed the night. Whenever Mi­ami got close, the Celtics found a way to hold them off. 
“It’s a game of runs,” Pierce said. “You have one of the best teams in the NBA at home. You know they’re going to make a run. That’s what makes them who they are. They know how to turn it on. We did a good job of holding their runs to a mini­mum.” 
Miami had two shots to tie ear­ly in the fourth after being down by as many as 18 earlier, before Garnett made jump shots on four straight possessions, the average length of those makes being 19 feet. 
A 10-0 run early in the first quarter gave Boston a quick lead 
— and that wasn’t even the Celt­ics’ best run of the opening pe­riod. Boston scored the last 11 of the first, the run actually becom­ing 13-0 when Garnett scored to open the second quarter, and Boston’s lead was 35-22. 
Everything the Celtics wanted, they got. Boston shot 61 percent in the first quarter, 62 percent in the second. Celtics coach Doc Rivers used eight players, all of them making multiple shots by halftime. Of them, the only one who failed to make at least half his shots was Bass, who more than made up for that with six first-half rebounds. 
ENGLISH PREMIER LEAGUE 
Carroll leads 10-man Liverpool over Rovers 

Associated Press 
BLACKBURN, England — Andy Carroll scored an inju­ry-time header to give 10-man Liverpool a 3-2 win at relega­tion-threatened Blackburn on Tuesday, but the Reds lost an­other goalkeeper to suspen­sion ahead of this weekend’s FA Cup semifinal. 
Liverpool looked headed for an easy victory after Maxi Ro­driguez scored twice to leave the visitors up 2-0 by the 16th minute. But the game changed completely when Liv­erpool goalkeeper Alexander Doni was given a straight red card for bringing down Junior Hoilett in the area after the Blackburn player pounced on a sloppy back pass from Jon Flanagan. 
While substitute goalkeeper Brad Jones stopped Ayegbeni Yakubu’s tame spot kick, the striker made up for it by scor­ing twice to draw Blackburn level by the 61st. Jones was lucky not to get sent off him­self when he pushed Yakubu over in the area for another penalty that led to the second goal. 
But Carroll’s leaping header in injury time gave Liverpool the win and left Blackburn mired in the relegation zone. 
Liverpool, however, was left with its own worries. 
With Pepe Reina already serving a suspension, Doni’s red card leaves Liverpool without its top two goalkeep­ers for Saturday’s FA Cup semifinal against crosstown rival Everton at Wembley. 
While Jones had a per­fect start to his first Premier League appearance with the club — saving Yakubu’s pen­alty with his first touch — the substitute was at fault for the equalizer. He first sent a poor clearance straight at Yakubu, and then failed to hold on to the ball after it bounced high up in the air and came down close to the goal line. 

Jones pushed the ball weakly straight out and then bundled Yakubu over as they both went for the loose ball. Jones was allowed to stay on the field, however, as referee Anthony Taylor settled for a yellow card on that occasion. 
That proved to be a key de­cision as Liverpool gradually took control of the game again and pushed for a winner. It came when Daniel Agger met a long ball into the area and headed it down toward Car­roll, who dove forward to push it high into the net. 
Liverpool had opened the scoring on a quick counter at­tack as Martin Skrtel’s long ball from well inside his own penalty area reached Craig Bellamy on the right and he charged forward before de­livering a cross for Rodriguez to convert with a close-range finish. 
Rovers barely had time to recover before the Argentine struck again. Jonjo Shelvey stole the ball from David Dunn and ran 50 yards to force Paul Robinson to parry his low shot into the path of Carroll. The striker’s effort was blocked by Bradley Orr into the path of Rodriguez, who smashed in a first-time volley with his weaker left foot. 
After Yakubu missed his first penalty, he made amends 11 minutes later by heading in Dunn’s free kick. 
MLB 

Ozzie suspended five games 
Associated Press 

MIAMI — A contrite Ozzie Guillen sat in the heart of Little Havana seeking for­giveness for what the Miami Marlins manager called the biggest mistake of his life ­saying he admired Fidel Cas­tro. 
This wasn’t some offhanded insult about a sports writer, the type of thing that got the outspoken Guillen in trouble in Chicago. This was personal to the fan base that the Mar­lins rely on so much that they built their new stadium in the middle of the city’s Cuban-American neighborhood. 
Castro is the sworn enemy of those fans. 
So after being suspended for five games Tuesday, the Marlins manager tried to quell the tempest. 
“I’m here on my knees to apologize,” Guillen said. 
“I’m very sorry about the problem, what happened. I will do everything in my pow­er to make it better ... When you make a mistake like this, you can’t sleep.” 
A chastened Guillen, who has a history of polarizing comments about gays and immigrants, among others, spoke without a script and made no disclaimers. He said he’ll do whatever he can to repair relations with Cuban-Americans angered by his praise of the Cuban dictator, remarks he said he didn’t mean. 
Guillen, who is Venezuelan, told Time magazine he loves Castro and respects the re­tired Cuban leader for staying in power so long. In response, at least two Miami politicians said Guillen should lose his job. Callers on Spanish-lan­guage radio in Miami agreed and 100 demonstrators pick­eted Marlins Park toting signs like “NO APOLOGIES FIRE HIM NOW.” 
“He is full with hypocrisy,” said Luis Martinez, who has lived in Miami since the late 1950s. “I don’t accept any kind of pardon from him. They should get him out.” 
The team didn’t consider firing Guillen or asking him to resign five games into his tenure, Marlins president Da­vid Samson said. 
Guillen was hired to help usher in a new baseball era for the Marlins, saddled in recent years with mediocre teams and worse attendance. The team was to rely on South Florida’s large Cuban-Ameri­can population to help rebuild its fan base with the $634 million ballpark that opened last week. 
At the hourlong news con­ference Tuesday morning, there was little evidence of Guillen’s roguish charm or quick wit, which have made him a favorite with fans and reporters since he became a major league manager in 2004. Speaking somberly, he took full responsibility for his comments, but said they were misinterpreted by Time’s re­porter. 
“It was a personal mistake of the thing I had in my mind and what I said,” Guillen said in Spanish. “What I wanted to say in Spanish, I said in Eng­lish in a wrong way.” 
Guillen said he doesn’t love or admire Castro. 
“I was saying I cannot be­lieve somebody who hurt so many people over the years is still alive,” he said. 
Time said Tuesday it stands by its story. 
Guillen said the uproar he created has left him sad, em­barrassed and feeling stu­pid. He said he accepted the team’s punishment. 
“When you’re a sportsman, you shouldn’t be involved with politics,” he said. 
“I’m going to be a Miami guy for the rest of my life. I want to walk in the street with my head up and feel not this bad, the way I feel now.” 
Cuban-born Atlanta Braves manager Fredi Gonzalez, a former manager of the Mar­lins, said he watched some of the news conference and could tell it was difficult for Guillen. 
“He came out and faced the music,” Gonzalez said. “It’s going to take awhile, but hopefully he can win those people back somehow.” 
Guillen has gotten in trou­ble before on issues ranging from sexual orientation to il­legal immigration. Just last week, he boasted about get­ting drunk after games. 
Those episodes quickly faded. But on South Florida’s scale of political incorrect­ness, praise for Castro is a home run, and it was unclear how long it would take for an­ger toward Guillen to subside. 
Baseball Commissioner Bud Selig said the remarks “have no place in our game” and were “offensive to an impor­tant part of the Miami com­munity and others through­out the world.” 

SMC SOFTBALL 

Belles sweep struggling Calvin in doubleheader 
By MATT UNGER 
Sports Writer 
A doubleheader sweep over Cal­vin on Thursday highlighted by a walk-off win vaulted Saint Mary’s back into contention in the MIAA. The Belles (15-7, 2-2 MIAA) took advantage of a struggling Cal­vin squad (5-13, 0-2) to win two games at home, 1-0 and 7-5. 
Game 1 featured a dominant pitching performance by Belles sophomore Callie Selner. She pitched seven shutout innings, al­lowing only four hits while strik­ing out three and walking none. 
“[Selner] threw really well and was very effective in working ahead on batters,” Belles coach Erin Sullivan said. “Her curve-ball was not working well, but she was smart in adjusting.” 
Selner had no margin for error, as Calvin sophomore pitcher Lina Avila matched her in silencing the Belles bats until the seventh. 
After the Belles put runners on first and second to start the sev­enth, junior shortstop Emily Sher­wood dropped a sacrifice bunt to advance them to second and third with just one out. Senior Kristen Nelson then drove a ball to deep right past a drawn-in outfield for a game-winning, walk-off double. 
“Nelson has been amazing re­cently as she has sparked our of­fense,” Sullivan said. “She fights off pitches and puts up strong at-bats.” 
Selner (7-4), with the win, dropped her ERA to a team-leading 
2.30 and finished her 11th complete game of the season in just 12 starts. 
The second game of the after­noon proved to be a back-and-forth, high-scoring affair. After Calvin took an early 1-0 lead in the first, Saint Mary’s answered in the top of the second with two runs. With two outs, Nelson laced an RBI triple to deep right field and then scored on senior center fielder Lauren Enayati’s single. 

The Belles then extended their lead to 4-1 in the top of the fourth on a RBI single by freshman out­fielder Victoria Connelly. Junior catcher Morgan Bedan, who went 3-for-4, followed with an RBI double to right field to plate the second run of the frame. 
However, Belles senior starter Angela Gillis ran into trouble in the bottom of the fourth as the Knights scored three to tie the game. After walking two straight batters with one out, the Knights scored twice on fielder’s choices. Their only hit of the inning was a single to center, which scored the game-tying run. 
The Belles again responded with a three-run fifth to seize control of the game. After opening the in­ning on singles by Gillis and fresh­man first baseman Jordie Wasser­man, the Belles decided to move the runners to second and third on a sacrifice bunt. Gillis then scored on a wild pitch, while Wasserman scored on Nelson’s second RBI of the game — a sacrifice fly. 
“It was nice to respond with big in­nings,” Sullivan said. “We were doing that early in the season, and we got our confidence back with this game.” 
The third run of the inning scored on an error, and the Belles would hold on to win, 7-5. Gillis evened her record at 2-2 while pitching all seven innings for the win. 
The Belles travel to Hope Col­lege today for a doubleheader starting at 3:30 p.m. 

Contact Matt Unger at munger3@nd.edu 
NBA 

Cuban talks Odom departure 

Associated Press 

DALLAS — Dallas Mav­ericks owner Mark Cuban had noticed Lamar Odom’s uninspired play numerous times before, and kept hop­ing things would change. 
It took one reply by Odom during a heated halftime exchange in his last game, when Cuban questioned the player’s commitment to the team and Odom told him to quit playing games, to real­ize it was time for the two sides to part ways. 
“Just his response to it. Ev­erybody goes through ups and downs. Every player does. We tried to put him in a position to succeed ... It didn’t work,” Cuban said Tuesday night, his first public comments since the team confirmed a day earlier that Odom was done in Dallas. 
Their halftime exchange came after Odom played an uninspired four minutes Sat­urday night at Memphis. 
“I just asked him, does he want to go for it or not. Is he in or is he out? I think he thought we were playing poker. I just didn’t get a commitment. And that was the end,” Cuban said. “This was a big game for us, and he wasn’t connecting to that. And if you’re not positive energy, you’re negative ener­gy.” 
When asked if that was the first time he noticed Odom having such a demeanor, Cu­ban responded, “No, but the first 17 times, I decided to try to help him and turn it into a positive.” 
That never happened. 

Odom’s averages of 6.6 points, 4.2 rebounds and 20.5 minutes in his underwhelming 50-game stint in Dallas were career lows. He was also often late for team activities such as practices and meetings. 
The Mavericks didn’t release him and instead said Odom would be listed inactive for their remaining nine games. That started with Tuesday night’s game against Sacra­mento. 
“He didn’t want to play. He decided to go elsewhere or do something else. Now we re­group and go forward,” Cu­ban said. “We kept on hoping things would turn out right. It just got to the point where there weren’t enough games in the season to try to find out.” 
The defending NBA cham­pion Mavericks were only one game ahead of ninth place in the Western Conference standings going into the game against the Kings. 
Dallas acquired the NBA’s reigning Sixth Man of the Year from the Los Angeles Lakers just before the lockout-short­ened season. It was a low-risk deal for the Mavericks, who gave up a first-round pick and the trade exception from a deal that sent Tyson Chandler to the New York Knicks. 
The Lakers seemed com­pelled to move the 6-foot-10 forward, who made $8.9 mil­lion this season, after trying to send him to New Orleans in a Chris Paul deal that was nixed by the league. There were also the personal issues for Odom, whose 24-year-old cousin was murdered last summer only days before the player was in­volved in a fatal car accident that killed a teen pedestrian after the car he was riding in as a passenger collided with a motorcycle. 
Cuban said the Mavericks knew about Odom’s fragile emotional state when they got him. 
“Yeah, but we thought we could fight through it,” Cuban said. “We knew that’s why he was available.” 
Cuban insisted that he failed in trying to make the situation work, and that he didn’t have to talk to anyone else to know the end had arrived. 
“If I’m going to be the guy who smiles with my hand on the trophy, I’ve got to be the guy who takes the responsibil­ity,” Cuban said. “It was just my initiative, just paying at­tention. ... I was working with him, tried to get him back on the horse. When I failed, it was my job to recognize it, and deal with it.” 
Odom, the husband and re­ality TV co-star of Khloe Kar­dashian, still has a year left on his four-year contract. Any team that has the 13-year vet­eran on its roster on June 29 must give him a $2.4 million buyout or be responsible for the full $8.2 million he would be due in 2012-13. 
“The way his contract is structured, it will hopefully create some opportunities for us,” Cuban said, acknowledg­ing he thinks Odom is trade-able. “Absolutely. It’s in his best interests to get his act together, and I’m sure he will. Lamar is still a talented basketball play­er. He just went through some issues this year. We thought we could work through them with him this year and we weren’t able to. Next.” 

CLUB SPORTS 

Men’s volleyball wins championship 
Women’s squad finishes as runner-up at IAAA nationals 
Special to the Observer 
Men’s Volleyball 
Having lost a year ago in the finals, the Notre Dame men’s volleyball team came into the season with one goal in mind: win the national champion­ship. And the Irish believed they had the talent and depth to make it a reality. After a dominant first two days, in which the Irish dispatched Cal State Sacramento 25-22, 25-21, Northern Arizona 25-18, 25-16, Rutgers 25-20, 25-19, UC-Davis 25-16, 25-18, and James Madi­son 25-18, 25-20, the Irish en­tered Saturday’s pool play as the No. 3 overall seed. 
The path to the champion­ship was littered with familiar foes, and the Irish started with a nailbiter against UW-Mil­waukee, dropping their first set of the weekend, but ultimately winning 25-20, 21-25, 15-9. After a long wait, Indiana was the next team to fall to the Irish, and in a thrilling three-set match, the Irish fought back to advance to the final four be­hind the strong play of middles Scott Canna and Steven Walsh, 22-25, 25-23, 15-9. 
No. 2 Illinois was waiting for Notre Dame in the final four, and looking for revenge after losing two matches to the Irish this season, both in tourna­ment finals. The Illlini brought a large contingent of student support, which played a role in the second set loss. But that support was no match for the big swings of Kevin Padden and Rob Bauer. The Irish defeated the Illini 25-19, 23-25, 15-12 to advance to the national cham­pionship for the second consec­utive year. 

Cal won its semifinal match in shocking fashion over UW-Oshkosh, after the Titans had 10 chances at match point, thus preventing a champion­ship rematch. The Golden Bears wouldn’t make it easy for the Irish, but behind the stel­lar play of National Player of the Year Bauer, and first-team All-American Liam Gallagher, Notre Dame won its first-ever national championship, defeat­ing Cal in straight sets, 25-23, 25-22. Brian Bucciarelli made a number of key digs in the match, and his counterpart for the front row, Tom John­son, had huge block after huge block to end and runs that Cal was making. The decisionmak­ing of setter and club president Josh Rehberg was a deciding factor in the Irish victory. 
Women’s Volleyball 

Notre Dame’s women’s vol­leyball club participated in the national club championships in Kansas City this weekend. Having been recognized only two months ago, the club has progressed rapidly and the results were evident on the court. 
The Irish competed in a 32-team draw in the DIAAA division. In Thursday’s open­ing round pool play, the team dropped a very close first match to Gonzaga, 17-25, 25-23, 15-12. The Irish re­bounded to defeat the College of New Jersey 25-21, 23-25, 17-15, and closed the round with a 25-18, 25-21 victory over TCU. 
Friday, the Irish advanced by defeating Wisconsin Stout 25-4, 25-21; SMU 25-17, 25-19; and Brown, 25-17, 23-25, 15­
11. The Irish advanced to Sat­urday’s championship round. 
Facing Creighton in the first match, the Irish won 25-17, 24-26, 15-10, advancing to the semifinals. Yale was a formi­dable opponent, but the Irish were once again victorious, 25-23, 16-25, 15-11. In the finals, the Irish faced Gonza­ga. The Zags proved to be too much on this day, 25-13, 25­22, as the Irish had to accept the runner-up trophy. 
Seniors Lauren Jepson and Kaitlyn Howard garnered first team all–tournament honors. More importantly, their lead­ership established the frame­work for future club play and set a standard of excellence. 
SMC GOLF 

Belles finish fourth 
Observer Staff Report 

At the Southwestern Invita­tional in Georgetown, Texas, Saint Mary’s competed against three nationally ranked teams among other competition while placing fourth overall. 
The Belles combined for a total score of 687, 20 strokes behind the winner, No. 10 Mary Hardin-Baylor. The Belles found themselves be­hind 11 strokes to the host, No. 19 Southwestern, after Monday’s competition. Mary Hardin-Baylor rallied past Southwestern on Tuesday af­ternoon, but the other schools, including Saint Mary’s, re­mained in their positions. 
Saint Mary’s put itself in contention after the first day of competition thanks to sophomore Paige Pollak’s low score of 81. Pollak shot the second-best score on the front nine for the entire day with a 38. Belles senior cap­tain Christine Brown followed closely behind Pollak with an 85, which was good enough to get her into 10th place going into the second day of compe­tition. Saint Mary’s sophomore Doyle O’Brien shot an 87 in the first round, giving her the third lowest score for the Belles after day one. 
O’Brien heated up on Tues­day, shooting a 79. O’Brien’s second round was the second lowest round score of the entire tournament. O’Brien’s strong performance gave her a com­bined score of 166 over two days, as she jumped up to 7th place overall on the individual leaderboard. 
Pollak came back on Tuesday to shoot a 90, which while not as strong as her first day, was still good enough to give her at a combined score of 171, putting her in 12th place overall. She shot an 88 on Tuesday, giving her a 173 for the tournament. Overall, the Belles shot a 342 on Tuesday, three strokes better than Monday’s performance. 
Saint Mary’s will get back into action over the weekend at the Illinois Wesleyan Spring Fling in Normal, Ill. This will be the last chance the Belles have to tune up their game before the NCAA qualifiers begin next Tuesday. Saint Mary’s will tee off Saturday morning at Iron­wood Golf Club. 


ND WOMEN’S TENNIS 

Ranked teams challenge Irish 
TRACK AND FIELD 

Impressive finishes abound in California 

By VICKY JACOBSEN 
Sports Writer 
The Irish lost control of a close match with Northwestern and fell to Baylor in front of rowdy crowd, but redeemed themselves Monday when they closed out a three-game stretch against top­25 opponents with a 6-1 victory over Texas A&M. 
“I think the win over Texas A&M was important for us in our momentum going forward,” sophomore Jennifer Kellner said. “Although we lost to Northwest­ern and Baylor, I think they are both teams we are very capable of beating and we hope to play them in the NCAA tournament.” 
No. 18 Notre Dame (15-7, 3-0 Big East) swept the doubles point to begin its April 4 home match against No. 14 Northwestern (13­7, 3-0 Big Ten) and won two of the first three individual decisions as sophomore Britney Sanders beat sophomore Veronica Corning, 6-1, 6-0, senior Shannon Mathews fell to junior Kate Turvy 6-3, 6-2, and senior Kristy Frilling beat sopho­more Belinda Niu 6-1, 6-4. 
But the Irish couldn’t close out their final three contests on the Courtney Tennis Center courts as sophomore Julie Sabacinski, junior Chrissie McGaffigan and Kellner all lost their individual matches, and the Wildcats went home with a 4-3 win. 
Although the Irish arrived in Waco, Texas, for their April 7 match ready to get back to win­ning, the No. 12 Bears (19-5, 3-1 Big 12) swept them in doubles, ending Notre Dame’s streak of 11 straight doubles wins. The match didn’t get much better during the individual matches, as Kell­ner picked up Notre Dame’s only point in the 6-1 loss when sopho­more Jordaan Sanford retired while trailing Kellner 6-1, 3-2. 

“We got to Baylor and had a tough match with them,” Mathews said. “We always do, and they always seem to have a really rowdy crowd when we play them at Baylor, which they did.” 
Mathews said that Notre Dame’s struggles, especially in doubles, were probably an aber­ration. 
“We definitely didn’t play up to our potential against Bay­lor,” Mathews said. “We really struggled with doubles, which is very uncharacteristic of us, and it’s something we don’t want to dwell on too much because we’ve been playing such great doubles throughout the season, so we’ll be able to bounce back.” 
But the Irish recovered Monday with a 6-1 win over No. 21 Tex­as A&M (13-3, 4-1 Big 12). After sweeping the doubles matches to take a 1-0 lead, the Irish won five individual matches, three of them by straight sets. Kellner de­feated senior Lauren Santacroce 6-1, 6-2, McGaffigan beat senior Sheri Olivier 6-2, 6-3, and Saba­cinski shut down freshman Ja­nine Erasmus 6-3, 6-4 for the match-clinching point. It took Sanders three sets to beat ju­nior Wen Sun, 2-6, 6-4, 7-5, and as the match had already been decided in Notre Dame’s favor, Mathews was able to claim vic­tory over No. 7 junior Cristina Sanchez-Quintanar, 3-6, 6-4, 1-0 (13-11) in a tiebreaker in­stead of playing a full third set. 
Sanchez-Quintanar is the highest-ranked player Mathews has beaten in an individual match during her Notre Dame career. 
“It was a really long, long match,” Mathews said of her contest with Sanchez-Quin­tanar. “I think our first game of the match, some people were already in their fifth game. We had really long points, and she’s a really good player and we had a really great match. It was a grueling one, that’s for sure.” 
Although the Irish were on the road for Easter, they didn’t miss the opportunity to celebrate. 
“For Easter, we went to mass and went to a special brunch that was a lot of fun,” Kellner said. “While we couldn’t be with our families on Easter, it was fun to spend it with the team.” 
The Irish will jump back into Big East action against South Florida at the Courtney Tennis Center at 3:30 p.m. Friday. 


Contact Vicky Jacobsen at vjacobse@nd.edu 
By BRIAN HARTNETT 
Sports Writer 

Notre Dame made the most of its West Coast trip over the weekend, as the Irish won two events and captured numer­ous top-three finishes at the Stanford Invitational in Palo Alto, Calif. 
“I think our team was re­ally focused and knew what they needed to do,” Irish coach Joe Piane said. “A lot of kids wanted to get qualified for our region meet and we got that done.” 
Freshman thrower Emily Morris brought home the sole Irish victory Friday by win­ning the women’s shot put with a throw of 14.71 meters. The Irish men’s 4x400-meter relay team of junior sprinter Brendan Dougherty, sopho­more sprinter Patrick Feeney, senior middle distance runner Mitchell Lorenz and freshman sprinter Chris Geisting cap­tured first place the following day with a time of 3:08.82, 26 seconds faster than runner-up Minnesota. 
Morris’s victory marked one of several accomplishments for the Irish field team at the invitational. Sophomore jump­er Logan Renwick turned in a pair of second-place perfor­mances, finishing as the run­ner-up in the men’s long jump and triple jump. Senior pole-vaulter Kevin Schipper con­tinued his string of impressive performances with a second-place finish in the men’s pole vault, while freshman thrower Dominick Padovano finished second in the men’s discus event. 
On the women’s side, Notre Dame took two of the top three spots in the discus, with ju­nior thrower Madeline Casa­nova taking second place and sophomore thrower Vivien Devaney finishing in third. Se­nior multi-event athlete Mad­die Buttinger placed third in the long jump with a person-al-best mark of 1.76 meters, while sophomore jumper Kelly Burke and sophomore thrower Amanda Chamblee turned in third-place finishes in the pole vault and javelin, respectively. 
Notre Dame also enjoyed a successful weekend on the track, receiving strong perfor­mances from indoor All-Amer­icans junior middle distance runner Jeremy Rae and senior middle distance runner Johna­than Shawel in their spring track debuts. Rae and Schawel kicked off their spring seasons by finishing second in their respective heats for the men’s 1500-meter event. Elsewhere, Geisting held off Feeney to win his heat in the men’s 400-meter event, while Dougherty record­ed a second-place finish in his own 400-meter heat. 
For the women, the Irish re­corded two-top finishes in the 400-meter hurdles, as fresh­man sprinter Kaila Barber placed second and sophomore sprinter Megan Yanik followed one spot behind in third. Sopho­more middle distance runner Kelly Curran took the top spot in her 800-meter heat, while sophomore sprinter Michelle Brown finished second overall in the 400-meter dash. 
Several performances at the invitational met NCAA region qualifying standards, allow­ing multiple Irish athletes the opportunity to compete at the NCAA East Regional in May. Piane said approximately 25 Notre Dame athletes have qual­ified for the regional meet thus far, with additional opportuni­ties to qualify still remaining on the schedule. 
Notre Dame will head to Lou­isville, Ky., next weekend to compete in the Louisville Bor­der Battle, an event that pits Louisville and Kentucky against Indiana and Notre Dame. De­spite the unique nature of the event, Piane said the goals for Notre Dame will remain the same. 
“It’s a different twist on a meet, and it should be a lot of fun,” Piane said. “We expect another weekend full of good performances and getting more kids qualified for our region meet.” 

Contact Brian Hartnett at bhartnet@nd.edu 



Purdue 
continued from page 24 
O’Donnell said Rutgers will be a challenge for the streak­ing Irish, who have won their last eight games by two runs or more. 
“They come out hard every time we play them,” O’Donnell said. “Right now Rutgers is a hot team and we can’t take them lightly. 
Miller said she isn’t relying on any specific player to step up and outperform the rest. 
Instead, she said the reason the Irish have been success­ful lately is due to the strong team atmosphere. 
“We all have been play­ing consistently well and taking turns coming up to clutch,” Miller said. “It’s great because if one of us is struggling, I know someone else is going to step up and help.” 
The Irish face Rutgers in a doubleheader Wednesday at 12 p.m. 
Contact Katie Heit at kheit@nd.edu 


Comeback 
continued from page 24 
ning the remaining three sin­gles matches to take the overall match. 
“I think [the win against SMU] translated into Texas A&M because we had a few guys come from behind again against Texas A&M,” Andrews said. “We got down 0-1 again, but we knew that we could come back from that deficit. Again, we just fought really hard and it was closer that time, but it was just a really good fight from the whole team.” 
Watt’s 6-3, 6-4 victory over No. 29 senior Alexis Klegou was the highlight of an impres­sive night for the Irish. Klegou is the highest ranked opponent Watt has defeated since he took down No. 7 Moritz Baumann of Wisconsin in 2010. 
With one regular season match left, the Irish have peaked at the right time. Since losing to South Florida on March 17, the Irish have won five straight matches — their longest winning streak of the season. 
“I think [these victories] were really important for our confidence,” Andrews said. “After the loss to South Florida, all of us were bit down, but we all knew that we were good enough to beat a team like [Texas A&M.] Just the fact that we went out and did it, I think is re­ally important for us mov­ing into the Big East and the NCAAs.” 
Before heading to the post­season, the Irish will face off against Louisville in their last regular season match Saturday at the Courtney Tennis Center. 


Contact Peter Steiner at psteiner@nd.edu 


MEN’S GOLF 

Irish finish 13th at Woodlands 
By CONOR KELLY 
Sports Writer 

With less than a month sepa­rating the Irish from postsea­son play, Notre Dame headed to Houston for its last road tour­nament of the regular season. In a 15-team field featuring six teams ranked in the top-25, the Irish took 13th place at the All-American Intercollegiate at the Woodlands Course, finishing in a tie with Lamar. No. 10 Arkan­sas won the event. 
“We’re obviously somewhat disappointed with the result,” Irish coach Jim Kubinski said. “We were hoping for a higher finish, but it’s hard to come down to Texas and beat these teams. Four of the top five squads were from Texas, and obviously the champion Arkan­sas is another Southern school. It was a very tough field.” 
Over the 54-hole tournament, Arkansas finished 23-below par, 46 strokes better than the Irish but just one in front of runner-up North Texas. Texas A&M, SMU and Baylor rounded out the top five. The Razorbacks 
Pitchers 
continued from page 24 

tie the game late. In the 10th, the Irish held a 4-3 advan­tage, but again let the lead slip away.  In the 11th inning, an error at first base brought a Seton Hall runner home for the 5-4 win. It was more of the same in the second game of the series, as the Pirates slipped by with a 3-2 victory in 11 innings, despite lights-out pitching by the Irish. Freshman right-hander Pat Connaughton started the se­ries finale Saturday, but was forced to leave after 1.1 in­nings due to a blister on his hand. Seton Hall sophomore right-handed pitcher Brian Gilbert kept all but four Irish batters from earning hits, throwing a complete-game shutout for a 2-0 win, extend­ing the Notre Dame losing streak to three games. 
Irish freshman right-hand­ed pitcher Matt Ternowchek lost his first game of the sea­son against the Spartans (20­10, 3-3 Big Ten) on Tuesday, allowing five runs in four in­nings. Chase said the fresh­man still gave Notre Dame a chance to win. 
“I thought Matt actual­ly threw really well today,” Chase said. “There were just a couple plays that didn’t go his way. We didn’t make the right defensive play behind him, and that set up Michigan State for a big inning. It wasn’t real­ly a matter of him struggling, I thought he really threw the ball well.” 
Michigan State started mak­ing contact early in the game and jumped out to a 2-0 lead at the end of the first. In the fifth inning, with the bases loaded for the Spartans, Michigan State junior outfielder Torsten Boss hit a three-run triple to extend the lead to 5-0. 
By the end of the fifth in­ning, the Irish were scoreless, courtesy of a strong perfor­mance by Spartans freshman right-handed pitcher Mick VanVossen’s 6.1 innings of shutout ball. However, Irish freshman reliever Scott Ker-placed five golfers in the top-15 and their four counting scores in the top-10, providing a level of consistency that Kubinski has yet to see from his own team. 
“We’re always talking about how we need to get four strong scores instead of just one or two,” Kubinski said. “We know [senior Max Scodro] is going to get his scores, but it’s about get­ting all of the complementary scores. I was actually encour­aged by our performance today in the sense that we had some other guys stepping up.” 
While Scodro posted the low score for the Irish on the tournament at two-over, he had competition in fellow se­nior Chris Walker and junior Paul McNamara, who finished one and two strokes behind Scodro respectively. Scodro helped his cause with a three-under third-round finish, but it was Walker who headlined the Irish effort for most of the tournament. Playing on his home course, the Woodlands, Texas native took a one-under mark into the final round be­fore a rough Tuesday knocked him behind Scodro. 
“I was encouraged by the fact that Chris and Paul were right up there with Max,” Kubinski said. “We know that [sopho­more Niall Platt] will play better than he did, and we know that [senior Tom Usher] certainly has the talent.” 
According to Kubinski, the main problem for the Irish has been a lack of precision on scor­ing shots — strokes taken from inside 100 yards. 
“If you look at other teams in the field, you’ll see that they’re killing us on scoring shots,” Ku­binski said. “We’re as good as anybody when it comes to strik­ing the ball. It’s the putts and short game that tends to hurt us.” 
The Irish will have one more tune-up before heading to the Big East championships in Or­lando, Fla., at the end of the month. Notre Dame will host the Battle at the Warren tour­nament at Warren Golf Course on April 22. 
Contact Conor Kelly at ckelly17@nd.edu 


rigan kept the Spartans’ of­fense in check late in the game. 
“I thought Scotty looked great today,” Chase said. “I was really impressed with him coming in and being able to throw the way he did in his first time out. It was really ex­citing to see him do that.” 
While a rally started in the seventh inning with consecu­tive Notre Dame singles, the Irish were only able to squeeze out two runs and the score re­mained at a four-run deficit. The Spartans scored two more runs to expand the lead to six, winning 8-2. 
Notre Dame will look to im­prove offensively and get back on the winning track when they return home Wednesday to Frank Eck Stadium to face Western Michigan. 
“I think that we like playing at home . we’re comfortable there,” Chase said.  “A little bit of it does have to do with the fact that we’re away and out of our comfort zone. But I really think it just comes down to playing better, and being more assertive and more aggressive, and trying to go out and take games on the road.” 
Notre Dame will face West­ern Michigan at home on Wednesday with the first pitch thrown at 5:35 p.m. 

Contact Brendan Bell at bbell2@nd.edu 




GRANT TOBIN/The Observer 
Freshman middle Caitlin Gargan tries to get past her opponent during Notre Dame’s 18-5 victory over Villanova at Arlotta Stadium on Saturday. 
Orange 
continued from page 24 

would not come any closer, as Syracuse sealed the win with three goals in the final five minutes. 
Junior goalie Ellie Hilling totaled ten saves for the Irish in a losing effort. As a team, the Irish totaled fewer shots than the Orange, 31-20, and lost the draw control battle, 18-9. 
“I think winning the draw controls ended up giving Syracuse the possession they needed to gain the mo­mentum they wanted and to generate the amount of looks they ultimately got on the cage,” Halfpenny said. “We both scored about 50 percent of our shots, but their amount of looks and time of possession was di­rectly related to the draw control.” 
Against Villanova (2-9, 0-3) on Saturday, the Irish scored three goals in the first five min­utes and added another to jump out to a 4-0 lead before the Wildcats scored their first goal nearly halfway through the pe­riod. The Irish responded with another three-straight goal out­burst before surrendering two scores to Villanova in the final minutes of the half. The Irish took a 7-3 lead into halftime. 
“I mean, that is something we have to fix — under two min­utes we shouldn’t be giving up goals,” Halfpenny said. “I think we need to play more solid de­fense, I think we have to dig in a little bit more, but … they both came on cards so we have to tighten that up under two min­utes … we don’t want to give away momentum like that.” 
Villanova notched the open­ing goal of the second half to pull within three. However, the Irish answered with an offen­sive explosion, outscoring the Wildcats 11-1 in the last 21 min­utes of play and registering the final seven goals of the game. 
“Once we got in motion, got the ball moving, I think we found a lot more success,” Half­penny said. 
Sophomore attack Lindsay Powell led the Irish with five goals, and sophomore attack Lauren Sullivan recorded a career-high four goals. With Hilling out due to illness, fresh­man goalkeeper Allie Murray collected nine saves and picked up her first career win in net for Notre Dame. 
“At late notice before the game, she got the call that she was going to step in there and start for us … She knows that her job is to be prepared,” Half­penny said. “She fights every day and I think that because she fights every day and works on her game, is why we saw this performance today. So I wasn’t surprised, but I am really, re­ally proud of her.” 
After ending their two-game losing streak, the Irish will re­take the field and continue their Big East campaign Saturday at Connecticut. 

Contact Joseph Monardo at jmonardo@nd.edu 
Defense 
continued from page 24 
offense.” 
The Irish did not have prob­lems generating opportunities, as the offense reeled off 37 shots. Sophomore attack Westy Hopkins scored twice in the first half and fellow sophomore attack Ryan Mix added another to give Notre Dame a 4-1 lead heading into halftime. 
Hopkins matched a career-high with his third goal of the day to start the third quarter and freshman attack Conor Doyle snuck a bounce shot into the back of the cage roughly six minutes later to give the Irish a 6-1 lead. 
Hopkins, Doyle and the rest of the Irish attack paced the of­fense throughout the game as Providence focused on denying Notre Dame’s midfield opportu­nities. The attack, led by Hop­kins’ play from behind the net, shouldered the load with seven of the nine goals. 
“I think [guys like Hopkins] are figuring out our offense,” Corrigan said. “There’s a yin and yang to the midfield and attack play – when teams try to take away one you hope you can execute on the other and vice versa – and [the Friars] were clearly focused on our midfield­ers and taking those guys out. They left our [attack] on an is­land and our guys were able to take advantage of that.” 
Notre Dame continued to cap­italize on its opportunities early in the fourth quarter, as Doyle and junior midfielder Ryan Foley added goals to make it an 8-1 game. With just over three minutes to go sophomore attack Alex Eaton ripped an unassist­ed goal into the back of the net to put the finishing touch on the win. 

Corrigan said Providence has had more opportunities to win this season than its record would otherwise indicate, and as a result the Irish needed to respect their opponent. 
“I think we respected [the Friars],” Corrigan said. “We re­spected the kind of game they were going to play … We didn’t get silly with our possessions and our turnovers trying to make good plays and we didn’t get undisciplined defensively and try to do things that we’re not built to do. So we stayed very much in character and within ourselves and yet we ex­ecuted at a high level.” 
The Irish will need to respect their upcoming competition as their final three regular sea­son games are against the top teams in the Big East. Heading into the final haul, Corrigan said the Irish need to stay focused on consistent improvement. 
“Last year at this time we were undefeated going into the final stretch and I thought we got a little bit protective, a little concerned with winning in­stead of improving every day,” Corrigan said. “If we can just stay focused on coming out ev­ery day and getting better then the games will take care of themselves.” 
Notre Dame looks to win its eighth game in a row when it faces off against Georgetown on Sunday at 1 p.m. in Washing­ton, D.C. 

Contact Mike Monaco at jmonaco@nd.edu 


WILL SHORTz 
EUgENIA LAST
CROSSWORD 
HOROSCOPE 



HENRy ARNOLD
JUMBLE

EXPND JON REPINE 
MIKE ARgIRION 





Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556

 Enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year


 Enclosed
 is $75 for one semester 


Name ____________________________________________________ Address __________________________________________________ City ____________________ State___________ Zip______________ 

Wednesday, April 11, 2012 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 24 
MEN’S LACROSSE 

Defense halts Providence 
By MIKE MONACO 
Sports Writer 

The last time the Irish gave up just one goal or fewer in a game, it was 1989. Twenty-three years later, No. 6 Notre Dame matched that mark Saturday with its sev­enth consecutive win, a 9-1 vic­tory over Providence on Satur­day at Arlotta Stadium. 
Sophomore midfielder Jim Marlatt scored his team-leading 13th goal of the season on a man-up shot just over five minutes into the game to get the scoring started, and Notre Dame (8-1, 3-0 Big East) never looked back in its rout of the Friars (1-9, 0-4). 
The consistently staunch Irish defense shut down the Provi­dence attack, as the Friars re­corded their first shot of the game with 4:52 remaining in the “Our defense was outstand­first quarter. Providence man-ing,” Irish coach Kevin Corrigan aged to net its lone goal when said. “[Providence] had a hard senior midfielder Pete Wujciak time beating us in individual scored with 11:57 to play in the matchups and sometimes when second quarter, but the Notre that happens your guys get a Dame defense shut out the Friars little sloppy off the ball, but the rest of the way. we didn’t do that. When they couldn’t get by us then they had to create plays with ball movement but our off-ball defense was very, very good as well so it became difficult for them to generate much 

see DEFENSE/page 22 
ND SOFTBALL 

Miller deals Purdue first home loss of season 
By KATIE HEIT 
Sports Writer 

Senior infielder Dani Miller led the Irish to a sound win over Purdue on Thursday, ending the Boilermakers’ seven-game home winning streak. 
Miller went 3-for-3 on Thursday, grabbing a home run, two RBIs and scoring two runs herself in Notre Dame’s (19-10) 8-6 victory. Despite the success, Miller said she is reluctant to take too much credit for the win. 
“It was a really good day for everyone overall,” Miller said. “I think that we just wouldn’t give up, and that’s why we won. Our game plan was to win every inning and we pret­ty much did that.” 
Junior pitcher Brittany O’Donnell said that the win, which was the first home loss for Purdue (23-10) this season, was primarily a team effort. 
“As a team we just go out and play hard every inning every game,” O’Donnell said. “It’s a great feeling when our hard work pays off with a win.” 
During Thursday’s game, eight of the nine Irish play­ers grabbed a hit. Sophomore pitcher Laura Winter pitched the first four innings before O’Donnell relieved her, striking out five Boilermakers in 2.2 in­nings. 
Next, the Irish will play two games against Big East oppo­nent Rutgers (14-18). O’Donnell said Notre Dame is stressing focus in the games to come. 
“We just have to stay focused and sharp offensively and de­fensively,” O’Donnell said, “especially after coming off a weekend with no games.” 
see PURDUE/page 20 
MEN’S TENNIS 

Irish topple two Texas squads over Easter break 
By PETER STEINER nent this season: No. 25 Texas to three sets. The Irish then travelled to and down the whole lineup, we Sports Writer A&M, 4-3. “But we ended up winning College Station, Texas, to face knew that we were better and While the Irish prevailed five [singles matches], so I off with Texas A&M (12-11) on we knew we could win those 
The Irish entered the Lone over the Mustangs (9-10) on thought that we all did a good Monday. Entering the match, matches and we did.” Star State last weekend with Saturday, the victory didn’t job of fighting really hard even the Irish were confident in their Similar to their day against four losses against teams come without a fight. though we maybe weren’t play-ability to take down the No. 25 SMU, the Irish started out ranked in the top-25. “Against SMU, we got down ing our best.” Aggies, Andrews said. poorly — dropping the doubles 
Just a few days later, the pretty early,” sophomore Greg Besides a three-set loss by “[The Aggies] are ranked point as well as two of the first Irish (17-7) left Texas brimming Andrews said. “We lost the senior Casey Watt at No. 1 sin-high and they are a good team, three singles matches.  But the with confidence after defeat-doubles point and then actu-gles, the Irish earned victories but we all definitely expected Irish came roaring back, win ing SMU, 5-2, and taking down ally lost four first sets and five in every singles match to defeat to win,” Andrews said. “We their first top-25 ranked oppo-of the matches ended up going the Mustangs, 5-2. looked at their lineup and up see COMEBACK/page 20 
ND WOMEN’S LACROSSE 
Team splits games during brief homestand 
By JOSEPH MONARDO 
Sports Writer 
Returning to Arlotta Sta­dium for a brief two-game homestand, No. 6 Notre Dame found itself on both ends of routs last week. The Irish struggled mightily in a 16-10 loss to No. 2 Syracuse on Thursday before cruising to a dominant 18-5 vic­tory over Villanova on Saturday. 
The Irish (9-2, 3-2 Big East) traded goals with the Orange (8-2, 3-0) early, as each team found the net twice in the first six minutes of the game. After the early goals, the Irish offense struggled to add to its total, suf­fering a 13-minute scoreless stretch while Syracuse went on a 4-0 run. After senior midfield­er Kate Newall broke the Irish scoring drought with a goal at the 9:37 mark, Notre Dame sur­rendered two more goals before senior Irish midfielder/defense Megan Sullivan found the net on a last-second attempt, cutting the deficit to 9-4 at halftime. 
Irish coach Christine Half­penny said the team’s scoring woes resulted mainly from sloppy play on the offensive end. 
“I think we had some errors that Syracuse didn’t even force us into,” Halfpenny said. “We were throwing the ball away and doing things we just don’t do. I think we just lacked some energy.” 
As the second half began, any momentum the Irish gained from Sullivan’s goal quickly reversed as the Orange reeled off four goals in a span of 2:28 to stretch their lead to nine. After the visiting team’s initial outburst, the Irish held the Orange scoreless for 23 minutes and scored four goals to cut the lead to 13-8 in the process. Notre Dame 
see ORANGE/page 22 
BASEBALL 

Losing streak stretches to four 
By BRENDAN BELL 
Sports Writer 

Notre Dame struggled of­fensively over the weekend against Seton Hall and Tues­day against Michigan State, as the team’s losing streak extended to four games. 
Prior to Tuesday’s game, Big East opponent Seton Hall swept the Irish (17-14, 4-5 Big East) in a three-game series over Easter weekend. With continuing offensive struggles, Irish senior cap­tain and infielder Tommy Chase said the team is at a critical junction. 
“I think we just need to keep grinding through this little slump that we’ve been in the past games, and re­ally make a decision on how we want the rest of the sea­son to go,” Chase said. “We can continue to play like we have been, or we can make a concerted effort to be more aggressive and try to make plays. It’s really a turning point right now in our sea­son, so hopefully we can get our minds right and turn it around.” 
One positive coming from the Notre Dame dugout was the pitching staff. The Irish arms were firing on all cyl­inders against the Pirates (16-14, 5-4 Big East) during Thursday and Friday’s games, maintaining no-hitters into the eighth and sixth innings, respectively. In the first game, the Irish took a 3-2 lead through 8.2 innings, but the Pirates managed to 

see PITCHERS/page 20 




