THE INDEPENDENT TO UNCOVER NEWSPAPER SERVING THE TRUTH NOTRE DAME AND AND REPORT SAINT MARY’S IT ACCURATELY 

VOLUME 46, ISSUE 1 | SATURDAY, AUGUST 18, 2012 | NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
Incoming freshmen shine in more than academics 

College welcomes 
ND freshmen 
intelligent, athletic 
boast well-
freshman class 
rounded resumes 

By JOHN CAMERON 
By JILLIAN BARWICK 
News Editor 
Saint Mary’s Editor 
While Notre Dame’s incom-
When the Class of 2016 ar­
ing Class of 2016 promises to 
rives at Saint Mary’s this week, 
be the most accomplished ever 
the incoming freshmen will be 
based on numbers alone, Don 
a part of one of the largest and 
Bishop, associate vice presi­
most unique classes in school 
dent for enrollment, said the 
history. 
new freshman class brings 
Director of Admission Kristin 
more to campus than top test 
McAndrew said the College is 
scores and GPAs. 
welcoming 418 freshmen to the 
“This year, 55 percent of en-
school this week. This number 
rolling students were ranked 
is slightly larger than the 396 
in the top one percent of 
students in the Class of 2015. 
their class, or by national test 
“This number exceeds the 
scores,” Bishop said. “But 
goal set by the college each 
just having the high numbers 
year, which is phenomenal,” 
wasn’t enough. We have a 
McAndrew said. “For our 
BRANDON KEELEAN | Observer Graphic 

see FRESHMEN PAGE 7 see SMC PAGE 9 


Campus welcomes new students 
By NICOLE MICHELS 
News Writer 
While freshman orientation staffs waited expectantly for the first cars to pull up in front of their dorms Friday morning, families of new students began to explore Notre Dame’s campus. 
Friday marked the first day of “Frosh-O,” a weekend packed with events meant to welcome fresh­men to their new “home under the dome.” 
Freshman Bernie Floeder of Shoreview, Minn., said he is excited to move into Fisher Hall and begin his life at Notre Dame. 
“Notre Dame was by and far the school that I was most interested in,” Floeder said.  “When I visited here, it seemed like this was the place — excellent academics, peo­ple ready to help you and a great campus.” 
Junior Sarah Fleming, Badin Hall’s freshman orientation com­missioner, said her staff is anxious to welcome the Class of 2016 to campus by easing them into life at Notre Dame. 
“Our staff is super excited to meet the new Badin Hall freshmen,” Fleming said. “We’ve been waiting for this since April. All summer our staff has been working … to coor­dinate things … we have our dorm all decorated and the music blaring outside.” 
Fleming said the weekend is structured so that the freshmen would first bond with their hall-mates and then with other class­mates around campus. 
“We planned it so that Friday events would be Badin only, so that the girls would build relationships with one another,” Fleming said. “Saturday and Sunday the events are with the rest of campus, but then Sunday after the final goodbyes to their parents we have a lot of events planned one after another because some girls might find it difficult to say goodbye to their guardians.” 
Freshman Andrew Petrisin, who hails from McKinney, Tex., said he decided to attend Notre Dame after a visit to campus last fall. 
“I came here for the Michigan State football game and imme­diately fell in love with the whole place,” Petrisin said.  “This was al­ways the No. 1 choice.” 
see MOVE-IN PAGE 8 


University renovates library 

ASHLEY DACY | The Observer 

The Notre Dame Facilities Design and Operations office renovated the Hesburgh Library this summer, focusing on the first-floor periodicals room, also known as “The Fishbowl.” 
By DAN BROMBACH 
News Writer 
With the 50th anniversa­ry of the Hesburgh Library less than a year away, Notre Dame officials decided it was time to give the campus landmark a much-needed facelift. 
Members of the Notre Dame Facilities Design and Operations office renovated the Library over the sum­mer, guided by input from the University Architect’s Office and a team of librar­ian planners. 
Head librarian Diane Parr Walker said these renovations aim to modernize the Library and make it a more welcoming facility. 
“As a place where students spend a great deal of time 
see LIBRARY PAGE 9 


FORBES TOP COLLEGE PAGE 3 NEW RECTORS PAGE 5 VIEWPOINT PAGE 12 SCENE PAGE 14 FOOTBALL PAGE 28 



ndsmcobserver.com 

P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
Allan Joseph 

Managing Editor Business Manager
 Megan Doyle Jeff Liptak 

Asst. Managing Editor: Andrew Owens 
Asst. Managing Editor: Sam Stryker News Editor: John Cameron News Editor: Kristen Durbin 

Viewpoint Editor: Meghan Thomassen Sports Editor: Chris Allen Scene Editor: Kevin Noonan Saint Mary’s Editor: Jillian Barwick Photo Editor: Suzanna Pratt Graphics Editor: Brandon Keelean Multimedia Editor: Sarah O’Connor Advertising Manager: Monica McCormack Ad Design Manager: Sara Hilstrom Controller: Peter Woo Systems Administrator: William Heineman 

Office Manager & General Info 
Ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ajoseph2@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 mdoyle11@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 aowens2@nd.edu sstryke1@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 

Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 

Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 


Scene Desk 

(574) 631-4540 Observer.Scene.Editor@gmail.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
jbarwi01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 


Policies 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper 
published in print and online by the students of the 
University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s 
College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is 
not governed by policies of the administration of either 
institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse 
advertisements based on content. 

The news is reported as accurately and objectively 
as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion 
of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, 
Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. 
Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of 
the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include 
contact information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed 
to Editor-in-Chief Allan Joseph. 

Post Office Information The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The Observer is published at: 024 South Dining Hall Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame and additional mailing offices POSTMASTER Send address corrections to: The Observer P.O. Box 779 024 South Dining hall Notre Dame, IN 46556-077 The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
What was the best part of your summer? 

Jordan Stumph 
2014 
Zahm 
“Serving in Uganda.” 
Brian Donlin 
2015 
O’Neill 
“Visiting New York.” 
Ryan McWilliams 
2013 
Off-campus 
“Turning 21.” 

Have a question you want answered? Email obsphoto@gmail.com 


JoHanna Manningham 
2014 
Walsh 
“Serving in Uganda.” 
Chris Damian 
2013 
Off-campus 
“Seeing family in Guam.” 
Joey Copp 
2015 
Knott 
“Having the whole family together for the first time in six months.” 


News Mel Flanagan, Dan  Sports Mike Monaco,  THE NEXT SEVEN DAYS:  
Brombach, Tori Roeck,  Brian Hartnett, Jack  
Nicole Michels  Hefferon, Conor Kelly  
Graphics Brandon Keelan  Scene Kevin Noonan  Sunday  Monday  Tuesday  Wednesday  Thursday  Friday  Saturday  
Photo Suzanna Pratt  Viewpoint Meghan Thomassen  Residence  Classes begin  Classes begin  CSC Info NIght  First Visit  Biathalon  Women’s  
Halls Open  All campus  All campus  Geddes Hall  Grotto, Basilica  Boat House  Soccer  
All campus  All day  All day  6 p.m.- 8:30  9 - 10 p.m.  10 a.m. - 12 p.m.  AlumniStadium  
Corrections  All day At 9 a.m. upper  Non-undergrads begin class.  Undergrads begin class.  p.m. Studentsexplore  Freshmen bond at ND sites.  RecSports Biathalon held  1 p.m. - 3 p.m. ND vs East  
The Observer regards itself as  classes move in.  CSC seminars.  at St. Joe’s  Carolina.  
a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so we can correct our error.  Frosh-O Mass Joyce Center 10 a.m. - 11 a.m. Freshmen andfamilies  Campus Ministry North Quad 1 p.m.. - 3 p.m. CampusMinistry hostsNorthQuad  Mass and Picnic Joyce Center 5:30 p.m. - 8 p.m. NDcelebrates  Hamlet DPA 7:30 p.m. - 9:30 p.m. Week-long Shakespeare  Movie on Quad North Quad 9:30 p.m. - 11 p.m. “The Lorax” is shown.  Lake. Men’s Soccer Alumni Stadium 7:30 - 9:30 p.m.  Moderni-TEA Snite Museum 2 - 4 p.m. Converseabout modernity in art  
celebrate Mass.  extravaganza.  returntocampus.  Festivalpresents.  ND vs Duke.  overtea.  



Notre Dame named to Forbes 2012 top college list 
stronger each year.” 
By KRISTEN DURBIN 

Bishop said the combina­tion of those three factors Members of the Notre Dame 
News Editor 

— faculty, financial aid and community have long been 
facilities — contribute to both aware of the University’s 
the University’s growing rep-continual growth and rise 
utation and its commitment to prominence as a national 
to providing students with research university, but now 
the best education possible. the financial world is taking 
“Not only are we very good note as well. 
at raising money, but we’re Earlier this month, busi­
very good at investing that ness magazine Forbes ranked 
money and getting a high-Notre Dame No. 12 on its 2012 
er return, which means we list of America’s top colleges 
can provide better facili­and universities. According 
ties, faculty and aid,” Bishop to Forbes.com, this holistic 
said. “When you have those ranking is based on informa­
three things going your way, tion gathered from five gen­
you’re going to keep making eral categories: postgraduate 
up ground on others as long success, student satisfaction, 
as you know where you’re debt, four-year graduation 
headed.” rate and competitive awards. Although national college 
Associate Vice President for rankings like those of Forbes Undergraduate Enrollment higher in that more realistic, particular ranking is more for Notre Dame because it are generally held in esteem Don Bishop said the Forbes outcomes-based approach.” thoughtful and robust, and places us in a more advan-by much of the American pub-ranking methodology uses Bishop said he believes when we discuss where Notre taged situation in conversa-lic, Bishop said the University “reality-based outcomes” Notre Dame fared well in Dame’s strengths lie, a lot of tions with students to talk strives to “be a better Notre to measure the quality of Forbes’s ranking due to a cor-attributes [Forbes] articu-about the benefits of the Dame” that holds true to its American colleges and respondence between the lates, we articulate.” University. Now you have an mission, rather than evolv­universities. values outlined in the rank-Because the list includes external source recognizing ing into a “generic” top 10 
“Forbes is a financial ex-ing methodology and those of both national research uni-that and placing a high value university. pert, so not surprisingly, they the University. versities and liberal arts col-on it, too.” “Notre Dame has a vision of tend to look at outcomes in “We tend to have the same leges, Notre Dame ranked One of those “Notre Dame where it’s headed in terms of what your costs were for going values that Forbes seems to eighth among its research benefits” acknowledged by mission … It is not driven by to a school, the productivity identify, such as the qual-university peers and No. 12 the Forbes ranking is the outside rankings. It’s driven of that school in graduation ity of undergraduate educa-overall. This ranking places University’s emphasis on fi-by the belief that it’s our re-and student satisfaction and tion, student access to faculty the University ahead of half nancial support for students sponsibility to get better ev­the actual success — not per-and the feeling that students the institutions in the Ivy and its impact on the pool of ery year in many different ception or prestige — five, 10, are getting attention and in-League as well. students applying to Notre ways,” he said. “More impor­20 years out after graduation,” spiration from that faculty,” “We think that’s a fair as-Dame, Bishop said. tantly, we value a sense of ob-Bishop said. “It is gratifying Bishop said. “We don’t intend sessment,” Bishop said. “This “We think financial sup-ligation and service to others. that Notre Dame rises even to overuse rankings, but this ranking is a very useful tool port is important in lower-We’re not here just to be No. 
ing debt, and improvements 1 for our own benefit, but the in our financial aid over the more successful we are, the last decade have moved Notre more we can serve others suc-Dame up,” he said. “We’re cessfully, and people believe now getting students to enroll that here.” that may not have enrolled Despite the high finan­10 years ago because of our cial costs of attending Notre more supportive financial Dame and Forbes’s focus on aid. That’s a strength that’s the economic value of a col-only going to get stronger.” lege education, Bishop said 
The increased financial he believes enrolling in the support for students in recent University proves to be a years has been facilitated by “good return on a very expen­the simultaneous growth of sive investment” in the long the University’s endowment, run. which Bishop said now ranks “Notre Dame has a very in the top 10 among private strong sense of mission and universities, compared with focus along with expanding its top-15 ranking 15 years resources that make us a bet-ago. ter value today than when we 
“We’re moving up in the charged much less some time success of the University due ago,” he said. “Yes, it’s more to the support provided by expensive, but it’s worth a lot alumni and the general pub-more.” lic,” Bishop said. “We also Overall, Bishop said the just completed a $2 billion Forbes ranking will further alumni donation campaign the University’s national last year, which was a historic reputation and attract high-accomplishment.” quality applicant pools in 
The growth of Notre Dame’s the future, but it should not endowment has also allowed take away from Notre Dame’s the University to invest more unique character. heavily in its faculty and cam-“[The Forbes ranking] im­pus facilities, Bishop said. proves the conversation, but 
“We have one of the top fac-it should not dominate the ulty cohorts in the country, conversation. It still needs to and Notre Dame continues be about the unique benefits to invest in a stronger fac-of Notre Dame,” Bishop said. ulty each year,” he said. “The “We’re No. 1 at who we are, so quality of the faculty and we need to get students who the access students have to care about that.” that faculty has been a ma­jor investment in the last 10 Contact Kristen Durbin at to 15 years that’s only getting kdurbin@nd.edu 


PAID ADVERTISEMENT 




Notre Dame welcomes new rectors to campus 
By TORI ROECK 
News Writer 
In some campus residence halls, freshmen and transfer students won’t be the only new residents this week. 
New rectors will welcome stu­dents in Breen-Phillips Hall, Farley formation of the whole person,” Russell said. 
Scott Opperman, rector of Zahm House and a former Notre Dame graduate student, said the inter­section of all these areas influ­enced his decision to apply to be a rector at the University. 
“I will try to integrate academics 
Scott Opperman 
Rector, Zahm House 

Stephan Johnson 
Rector, Stanford Hall 

Sr.Mary Catherine McNamara 
Rector, Breen-Phillips Hall 

Elizabeth Moriarty 
Rector, Farley Hall 

Noel Terranova 
Rector, Keenan Hall 

Hall, Keenan Hall, Stanford Hall and Zahm House as they transi­tion into their jobs as dorm leaders. 
Associate Vice President for Residential Life Heather Rakoczy Russell said rectors have four im­portant roles within their dorms: pastoral leader, chief administra­tor, community builder and uni­versity resource. Backgrounds in each of these areas are the criteria the University uses to hire new rec­tors, she said. 
“We’re looking for people who are trained in theology, ministry, education — specifically higher education — and that they have a sense of themselves and their work and mission in ministry, educa­tion, student development and and spirituality into residence life, and Notre Dame does that very well already,” Opperman said. “I believe in the Holy Cross charism and mission that the University of Notre Dame has … I love Notre Dame so much so it’s just a perfect fit for me.” 
Stephan Johnson, rector of Stanford Hall, said working with young people is one of the best parts of his job. 
“I feel really fortunate to be here, and I think it’s a tremendous calling to have an opportunity to affect so many of God’s great chil­dren,” Johnson said. “Every time I see them, they inspire me, and they give me personally a sense of hope about the world.” 
Sr. Mary Catherine McNamara, rector of Breen-Phillips Hall, is a Sister of the Incarnate Word and Blessed Sacrament, and she said in a statement that being a rector has great religious significance for her. 
“Simply put, it is a ‘God-thing,’” she said. “I believe God is inviting me to accept the challenge and 
embrace the opportunity to carry on the rich tradition of serving as Rector of Breen-Phillips Hall. It seems to be a natural next step on my journey of ministry.” 
Although previous ties to Notre Dame are not required, some rec­tors have a long history with the University. Elizabeth Moriarty, rector of Farley Hall, lived in Farley as an undergraduate and also re­ceived a master’s degree in divinity from the University. 
“I am humbled to be returning to Notre Dame, yet again, to be the next rector of Farley Hall, which I believe is the result of the divine intervention of my dear friend and confirmation sponsor, Sr. Jean Lenz,” she said in a statement. 
Lenz passed away in January. 
Noel Terranova, rector of Keenan Hall, is currently pursuing a Ph.D. in theology at Notre Dame. He said in a statement he hopes his faith will guide him to be a good leader in his dorm. 
“I feel it is a noble calling to guide young people through a transi­
tional period in their adult devel­opment that will have a deep and formative impact on how they live the rest of their lives,” Terranova said. “I pray that Spirit will guide me so that the men of Keenan will know me as a strong leader, with firm convictions and a gentle heart.” 
Opperman said he looks for­ward to promoting a welcoming culture in Zahm House and cel­ebrating the dorm’s 75th anniver­sary this year. 
“We’re going to strive to be the most inclusive and welcoming Notre Dame residential commu­nity,” Opperman said. “Another fundamental thing is we have to respect, care for and love ourselves and others, and we’re going to do that in an exceptional way.” 
Johnson said building commu­nity is also important for him in Stanford Hall, and he is working to institute a big brother program within the dorm. But his first goal is to emphasize service, he said. 
“My primary goal is that we 
become known all over campus as the hall that dedicates itself to serving others,” Johnson said. “One of the themes of our year is ‘Fend for Others.’ We’re going to get the guys out of the dorm and into some of the impoverished areas in our community and even chal­lenge them to go beyond that.” 
Russell said she is impressed with this year’s group of new rec­tors, and she is excited to see what they will accomplish. 
“I am delighted,” she said. “What all of these rectors share in com­mon is a deep connection to Notre Dame.” 
Contact Tori Roeck at vroeck@nd.edu 



THE OBSERVER | SATURDAY, AUGUST 18, 2012 | NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 

ND welcomes foreign faculty 
By MEGHAN THOMASSEN 
News Writer 
Members of the Class of 2016 boast a high percentage of in­ternational hometowns — as does the collection of new Notre Dame faculty members arriving this fall. 
The School of Architecture will welcome visiting professor Julio Cesar Perez Hernandez. A practicing Cuban architect, as well as the first and only Cuban Harvard University Loeb Fellow, Perez will teach a fifth-year studio section on the city of Havana, according to the School of Architecture’s Dean’s Office. 
“He is the author of a master plan for 21st-century Havana,” architecture professor Jorge Trelles said. 
Hernandez’s is the author of “Inside Havana” and “Inside Cuba,” and is currently writ­ing a book titled “The Magic Landscapes and Urban Design the Netherlands. 

Cremers taught at the Yale School of Management for 10 years. He has frequently been recognized for his academic accomplishments, with his most recent awards includ­ing Inquire Europe Research Grants in 2012 and 2010. 
Interdisciplinary artist Carmen-Helena Tellez, a na­tive of Venezuela, joins the Department of Music in the College of Arts and Letters. 
“Carmen-Helena is a re­nowned specialist in 20th- and 21st-century choral orches­tral sacred repertory, a major growth area for Notre Dame’s new program in sacred mu­sic,” Margot Fassler, co-di­rector of the Master of Sacred Music program, stated in a press release. 
Tellez also serves as artis­tic co-director of Aguava New Music Studio, a group of artists with which she has recorded and toured internationally. 
“Carmen-Helena is a renowned specialist in 20th- and 21st-century choral orchestral sacred repertory, a major growth area for Notre Dame’s new program in sacred music.” 
Margot Fassler 

co-director of the Master of Sacred Music program 
of Havana.” 
Anjan Chakravartty will join the University’s faculty from the University of Toronto, where he was director of the Institute for the History and Philosophy of Science and Technology. 
“My interests intersect beautifully with the work of my colleagues in the philoso­phy department — with its celebrated strength in meta­physics — and with the broad expertise of my colleagues in the History and Philosophy of Science graduate program in the [John J.] Reilly Center,” Chakravartty stated in a press release. 
Chakravartty will assume the role of professor in the Department of Philosophy and the John J. Reilly Center this fall. He also recently be­came editor of the philosophy and science journal, Studies in History and Philosophy of Science. 
The Mendoza College of Business is adding 15 new faculty members this fall, including finance professor Martijn Cremers, a native of 

In addition to the array of new international faculty members, a few familiar faces are returning to teach at Notre Dame. 
Lee Gettler, a member of the Class of 2005, is a biological anthropologist who attracted the University’s attention with his research on the connec­tion between fatherhood and changes in testosterone. 
“[His work] promises to en­liven the fields of biological anthropology, human repro­ductive ecology, and father­hood,” Susan Blum, professor and chair of the Department of Anthropology, stated in an Arts and Letters press release. 
Gettler will begin teaching this fall as an assistant re­search professor. He credited professors Meredith Chesson and Agustin Fuentes with in­fluencing his decision to be­come an anthropology major, and Professor James McKenna for giving him his first job in a lab. 
“Without that year I spent at Notre Dame working in Jim’s lab and having many, many members of the department provide me encouragement, I likely would not be pursuing my Ph.D. at this time,” Gettler stated in the press release. 
Gettler stated he has em­braced the “four-field” ap­proach to anthropology he learned at Notre Dame. 
“He is at the forefront of a new way of understanding the connection between human biology and behavior,” Blum stated. “It is a special treat to have him, and we are hon­ored by his decision to join our department.” 
Walter Clements, a South Bend native, will join the Mendoza College of Business’s Department of Finance this fall. He will serve as a full professional specialist while maintaining his position as managing partner at Orion Consulting Group. 
Clements began teach­ing two years ago at Indiana University, where the Executive MBA Class of 2012 honored him with the 2012 Leo Burke Outstanding Teacher of the Year Award. 
The College of Science is adding 12 new faculty mem­bers to their ranks, some of who specialize in breast can­cer research. 
“We made three cancer [research] hires, which is a big deal for us,” said Nicolle Hayley, executive administra­tor for the College of Science’s Dean’s Office. 
Laurie Littlepage, Jenifer R. Prosperi and Siyuan Zhang will join the faculty as assis­tant professors in the college this fall. 
“Littlepage, Prosperi and Zhang examine tumor pro­gression, metastasis and chemoresistance during breast cancer progression,” the College stated in a press release. 
The release stated these new faculty members will ad­vance breast cancer research at the Harper Cancer Research Institute with the Indiana University School of Medicine-South Bend. 
In the College of Engineering, senior adminis­trative assistant Judith Liudahl said the faculty has not made any significant hires, because the College welcomed so many new professors in 2011. 
“We will be having some ex­citing additions in 2013,” she said. 
Contact Meghan Thomassen at mthomass@nd.edu 
College opens Dept. of Global Studies 
By JILLIAN BARWICK 
Saint Mary’s Editor 
This fall semester brings the launch of a new depart­ment on the Saint Mary’s campus. The Department of Global Studies is ready for en­rollment to the college. 
Jill Vihtelic, chair of the de­partment of Global Studies and a professor of business, believes the new department will bring a greater sense of excitement about global studies programs. 
“The Global Studies program will act as a home for students who want to further their knowledge on global studies.” 
Jill Vihtelic 
chair of the department of 
Global Studies 
“The Global Studies pro­grams will act as a home for students who want to further their knowledge on global studies,” Vihtelic said. “This is where their global interests can flourish.” 
Global studies is an inter­disciplinary major in which students learn about the eco­nomic, historical, cultural, geographical, and political factors that influence global processes. 
“The major is built around a core of globally oriented social science courses which provide a foundation for up­per-level concentrations in which the student can take advantage of a wide array of curricula at Saint Mary’s and tailor her major to her inter­ests and future professional goals,” Vihtelic said. 
Since Saint Mary’s is gain­ing more international students every year, the de­partment expects the new programs to be more attrac­tive to these students who identify with global studies, Vihtelic said. 
“Saint Mary’s is continuing the growth of international students and this is a great opportunity for these stu­dents to come and study at a place that they can call their home,” Vihtelic said. 
Incoming faculty for the new department is also di­verse, Vihtelic said. 
“We have professors who are coming to Saint Mary’s from all over the globe to teach in our department be­cause global studies is al­ready attractive to them,” Vihtelic said. “This is very ex­citing for us and for them as well.” 
According to the program description, students who major or minor in global studies will be required to spend at least five weeks in a college-sponsored study abroad program. They must also have competence in at least one world language. 
Requiring the students to study abroad will increase the use of technology into each course for students in the ma­jor and minors, Vihtelic said. 
“We will be encouraging our students to tweet and blog more about their experi­ences at Saint Mary’s as well as their experiences abroad,” she said. “Students will also begin creating an E-portfolio which will contain every­thing they create from the courses they take. This is a great tool to have for meeting future employers.” 
The new department will spark a great interest for global studies to students who may want to explore new cultures, Vihtelic said. 
Vihtelic said the 
“We will be encouraging our students to tweet and blog more about their experiences at Saint Mary’s as well as their experiences abroad.” 
Jill Vihtelic 
chair of the department of 
Global Studies 
Department of Global Studies responds to global interests for students on campus. 
For more informa­tion on the Department of Global Studies, visit http:// w w w3.saintma r ys.edu/ departments/global-studies 
Contact Jillian Barwick at jbarwi01@saintmarys.edu 




Freshmen 
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1 
holistic admissions selection process.” 
Bishop said the University’s broader admissions evaluation process looks beyond the raw numbers, and focuses on de­termining whether applicants fit Notre Dame. 
“We look at high school per­formance, national test results, essays, letters — that’s the ho­listic process,” he said. “In the end, we feel we’ve shaped the best class possible for what the Notre Dame mission is.” 
This year’s admission rate was 23 percent, with a record 16,957 applicants, 3,947 admit­ted applicants and 2,015 esti­mated enrollees. The transfer class also faced tough com­petition, with the University admitting 167 of 509 appli­cants, and an estimated 140 enrolling. 
Bishop attributed the in­flux of applications to Notre Dame’s academic prominence and the University’s unique identity. 
“I think Notre Dame’s repu­tation continues to rise,” he said. “The beauty of the cam­pus, especially with all of the construction in the last 5 to 10 years — when people see it, it really is one of the great American campuses. Notre Dame is iconic, it’s the leading that the class is more global as Catholic university, and stu-well as more diverse within the dents who value that identity U.S., which we view as prob-are highly attracted.” ably one of the great success 

Despite the University’s ris-points,” Bishop said. ing reputation and admission This year’s class body boasts standards, Bishop stressed its five percent international stu­mission is more central than dents and 27 percent students 
“Notre Dame is iconic, it’s the leading Catholic university, and students who value that identity are highly attracted.” 
Don Bishop 

associate vice president for enrollment 
ever in the admissions process. 
“In the last five years, Notre Dame has gotten significantly more selective, but we’re more on mission,” he said. “We look more today at the other things we value [besides academ­ics] ... It’s not just a numbers game.” 
Numbers game or not, the Class of 2016’s test scores reached a new high for the University. The middle 50 per­cent scoring range for the SAT and ACT were 1380-1510 and 31-34, respectively. Although the incoming class boasts higher numbers than preced­ing classes, Bishop said scores are not the sole distinguishing factor. 
“The academic profile is similar to the last year or two. What’s different this year is of color from within the U.S. Bishop doesn’t attribute the greater diversity to a larger pool of diverse applicants or admits, but rather at the in­creasing likelihood that ethni­cally diverse or international students will choose to enroll at Notre Dame. 
While the overall class pro­file continues to become more varied, Bishop said a number of noteworthy individual stu­dents make the incoming class even more unique. 
“In this class we have a student who participated in the U.S. Women’s Open, we have an Olympian, we have a student who started up an Internet business, a student who founded a fundraising organization at age 12 and raised $50,000 for [Hurricane] Katrina,” Bishop said. “There are some individuals who’ve already distinguished them­selves on the outside [of the University].” 
Bishop said it is crucial for the University to continue to pursue an increasingly diverse student body. 
“You’re going to see that American top universities are broadening access, and Notre Dame needs to be on the forefront,” he said. “We are ambitiously seeking the top students from every back­ground. That’s why we meet full need.” 
Bishop said the generos­ity of alumni and the suc­cessful management of the 
“Notre Dame will invest $110 million of University funds in scholarships for the next four years.” 
Don Bishop 
associate vice president for 
enrollment 
University’s growing endow­ment have made it possible to expand accessibility for appli­cants with limited financial resources. 

“About half of our [incoming] students are on Notre Dame Scholarships,” Bishop said. “Notre Dame will invest $110 million of University funds in scholarships for their educa­tion over the next four years.” 
Bishop said his office’s long­term plans for the future cen­ter on the further expansion of its outreach to a more diverse and global pool of potential applicants. 
“We’re going to be doing even more in the future, more recruitment, more contact and follow-up with students,” he said. 
While the talent and aca­demic profile of incoming classes are likely to continue along this upward trajectory, Bishop said he believes his team has found the ideal class for the University at this point in time. 
“I wouldn’t trade this class for any other university’s,” he said. “The [academic] profile puts them in the top-15, may­be top-10, but I wouldn’t trade them for any of the others be­cause of all their attributes. They have attributes the other top universities would envy, so we’re fortunate those students view Notre Dame as a special place.” 
Contact John Cameron at jcamero2@nd.edu 



Transfer students join ND family 
By MEL FLANAGAN 
News Writer 
Sophomore transfer student Allie Gerspach felt her freshman year at the University of Miami was missing something. 
“I wanted to be at a school with more school spirit,” she said. “It wasn’t really a close-knit community.” 
The promise of Notre Dame’s lively spirit, along with its stellar academics, prompted Gerspach to apply to transfer. 
This year, Notre Dame wel­comes 141 transfer students, the largest class in recent years. While the majority of the trans­fer class consists of sophomores, a number of juniors will be arriv­ing as well. 
Office of Undergraduate 
Admissions Assistant Director Erin Camilleri, who oversees transfer admissions, said this year’s class comes from a variety of backgrounds. 
“They’re coming from top-tier research institutions, they’re coming from flagship state schools and they’re coming from small liberal arts schools,” she said. 
The students’ intended ma­jors are just as varied. Camilleri said the University admitted transfer students to the Colleges of Arts and Letters, Science, Engineering and the School of Architecture. 
Transfer students are not ad­mitted to Mendoza College of Business because the college is already overenrolled, Camilleri said. 
One challenge transfer stu­dents often face is finding hous­ing. If they apply for on-campus housing, transfer students are placed on a waitlist along with readmitted students and those who previously lived off campus and are trying to move back into a dorm. 
Jeffrey Shoup, director of Residence Life and Housing, said the office housed all 80 men on this year’s waitlist, but only 42 of the 79 women. 
“We typically have more males cancel their housing every year than female cancels,” he said. “We also changed a few rooms around in Morissey, Zahm and Dillon [residence halls]. We add­ed a few beds in hopes to make some more space.” 
Shoup said the University as­signs students lottery numbers to decide who will be given on-campus housing. Administrators also try to assist the students they are not able to provide housing for by directing them to a Facebook page and a resource site. 
“With the Facebook page they talk to each other about looking for roommates,” he said. “Then they use the resource page to figure out who to call to find dif­ferent apartments or complexes that are taking students.” 
Gerspach said she was nervous about finding housing before she found out she would be living in Welsh Family Hall this year. 
“I was told it was really rare that people would get on cam­pus as transfers,” she said. “But I lucked out, I got number three in the lottery.” 
Although she has cousins and a few friends who attend Notre Dame, Gerspach said she has mixed emotions about starting at a new school as a sophomore. 
“I’m excited definitely, but I’m nervous too,” she said. “It’s kind of starting all over again in a way, meeting new people and everything.” 
Contact Mel Flanagan at mflanag3@nd.edu 
Move-in 
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1 
Freshman Katie Kaes of Cincinnati, Ohio, said she was fa­miliar with the University before coming to campus, but she is excit­ed to make Notre Dame her home. 
“I’ve been around Notre Dame my whole life, and I’ve loved it my whole life,” Kaes said.  “When my sister got there I just learned more about it, and really wanted to go here … I’m so excited to meet my roommates and to get to know more about Notre Dame than what I’ve already experienced.” 
After visiting Notre Dame dur­ing Reilly Weekend, freshman Steven Doyle said he knew this was an amazing place. 
“All the people in Alumni Hall have been really welcoming,” Doyle said. “Everyone’s been really helpful here. I’m looking forward to having a great time.” 
Junior Pat Raycroft, freshman orientation commissioner for Zahm House, said he planned his 
ASHLEY DACY | The Observer 

Freshman Lexie Klaus moves into her new home, Farley Hall. Klaus is one of over 2,000 members of the Class of 2016 arriving this weekend. 
weekend in the same way. First, the staff would help their fresh­men build a sense of brotherhood, and then they would encourage new residents to connect to the rest of Notre Dame’s community. 
“The biggest thing we want our freshmen to take out of the week­end is brotherhood — that they have guys around them in their house that are willing to do any­thing for them,” Raycroft said. “We tried to strike a balance between interhall and intrahall stuff so that they would not only get a good orientation to Notre Dame, but a good orientation to Zahm.” 
Junior Maggie Wieland, Cavanaugh Hall freshman orien­tation co-commissioner, said the overall goal is to welcome the Class of 2016 to the Notre Dame family from the first moment they step onto campus. 
“All of the planning, all of the craziness — it’s all for them,” Wieland said.  “We want to make sure that they love it here as much as we do.” 
Contact Nicole Michels at          nmichels@nd.edu 




Library 
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1 
in intellectual pursuits, we wanted the library to offer inviting, inspiring and com­fortable spaces that will fos­ter intellectual engagement,” Walker said. 
In response to complaints of drab interior decora­tion, the renovation team focused on remodeling the first-floor periodicals room, more commonly known as “The Fishbowl.” The popular study area was repainted and carpeted, its furniture was replaced, new lighting was installed and its remaining periodicals were moved to a nearby reference room. 
The new first-floor design also features a “digital sand­box” area equipped with a Microsoft touch-screen surface table.  Walker said the Office of Information Technology hopes to use this area to determine which services and technologies students find helpful and to expand upon that informa­tion for future planning. 
Walker said plans are also underway to install a café in the former vending ma­chine area, also on the first floor.  Projected to open in November, the café will serve coffee, pastries, soups and sandwiches, and is intended to accommodate students studying in the library for long periods of time. 
“We’re anticipating the café will be a great service for people who are studying long hours in the Library to be able to get breakfast, lunch or a snack without having to leave the building,” Walker said. 
The design team also revi­talized the Library’s exterior courtyard near the reflect­ing pool by planting a vari­ety of trees and shrubs while bringing in benches and bis­tro tables for additional out­door seating.  Walker said the courtyard will be completed by early September. 
Walker said the renovation was initially set to be com­pleted before the end of the last school year, but was ul­timately delayed by furniture issues. 
“We were hoping to do the project really quickly and have it available by the mid­dle of the spring semester,” Walker said.  “What always happens with construction and renovation projects, though, is however much time you think they will take, you should go ahead and dou­ble or triple it.” 
Walker said new furni­ture was also ordered for the Library’s music and media area this summer after stu­dents complained the old tables were too small and inflexible to accommodate their equipment needs.  The furniture is expected to ar­rive before the academic year begins. 


Walker said student input was highly valued during the renovation process, so stu­dents can expect to have fu­ture opportunities to express their concerns and provide feedback. 
“I hope students will be ex­cited to see how many of their ideas we’ve included,” Walker said.  “We held many discus­sions and planning sessions with students last spring to gather input, and we incor­porated as many ideas as we could.” 
Although no additional projects are planned at the 
moment,  Walker  said  the  
Library  would  carry  this  
summer’s  momentum  into  

establishing a comprehensive interior renovation plan. 
Overall, Walker said she hopes to realize University President Emeritus Fr. Ted Hesburgh’s vision of the Library as Notre Dame’s aca­demic heart and a modern center of inspiration and higher learning. 
“Twenty-first century li­braries should offer a variety of spaces to foster and inspire intellectual engagement across disciplines,” Walker said.  “Many peer institutions have already renovated their libraries to offer these kinds of services.  I’d like to see us at Notre Dame do the same for our students and faculty.” 
Contact Dan Brombach at dbrombac@nd.edu 
SMC 
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1 
admission team, however, welcoming new students into our community is more than reaching that magic number. Gaining young women into a community that they will excel in is our main goal.” 
Several members of the Class of 2016 stand out as athletes on the national and international level. 
“[One freshman] was in the Michigan top five archers for 2010 and 2011 and was also in the top 10 in the U.S. for 2011,” McAndrew said. “Two stu­dents represented Team USA for synchronized skating and have competed internation­ally, and another student is ranked in the top 10 percent of the tri-athletes in her age group nationally.” 
our community. Many of our students come to Saint Mary’s with service already on their brains.” 
The Class of 2016 will include students from 32 states and give countries other than the United States. 
“We have incoming first years from China, Jordan, Myanmar, Nicaragua and Spain,” McAndrew said. “The interna­tional studies were very attract­ed to the attention Saint Mary’s gives to global education.” 
This international communi­ty will fit well with the College’s dedication to “global educa­tion,” McAndrew said. 
“More than half of Saint Mary’s students study abroad during the four years spent at the college,” McAndrew said. 
McAndrew said 97 members of the incoming class have at least one alumnae relation from the school, and 63 mem­bers are first-generation college students. 
For the admissions team, McAndrew said move-in day is an exciting way to welcome the incoming freshmen to Saint Mary’s. 
“The entire staff agrees that this is the most fun day for all of us,” McAndrew said. “We are thrilled to welcome our incom­ing students as they drive up the Avenue and begin their col­legiate career inside the halls of Saint Mary’s College.” 
Contact Jillian Barwick at jbarwi01@saintmarys.edu 
Another incoming freshman is a collaborator on an urban concept vehicle, McAndrew said. 
In overall academics, the Class of 2016 averaged a 3.75 GPA. McAndrew said the in­coming freshmen ranked in the top 19 percent of their high school classes, and they scored an average of 1960 on their SATs. 
But Saint Mary’s students are also active outside the class­room, McAndrew said. 
“Out of the incoming stu­dents, many have been in­volved with community service as well as religious services prior to admission at Saint Mary’s,” McAndrew said. “This stands out to the admissions team greatly. We are able to see the caliber of young women that apply to Saint Mary’s and see how well they will fit into 


PAID ADVERTISEMENT PAID ADVERTISEMENT THE OBSERVER | SATURDAY, AUGUST 18, 2012 | NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 




INSIDE COLUMN 

Bittersweet advice 

Allan Joseph 
Editor-in-Chief 

For the last few weeks, I’ve been doing ev­erything in my power to avoid writing this column.  Packing, eating, sleeping, writing, cleaning (okay, not cleaning), anything to avoid this moment. 
Why? 

Well, it means I have to officially accept my status as a senior. It means I have to face the fact I only have one year left here.It means I have to tell you the truth: I wish, more than anything, I could be a freshman and experi­ence four years of Notre Dame all over again. 
I can’t do that, obviously. But I can give you a little advice that I hope will make your time here just as great — or even better — than mine has been. 
First of all, have fun. Really, I mean it. Have a blast. These are a totally unique four years in your life. You have more freedom and fewer responsibilities in your first two years of college than you’ll ever have again. Take advantage of that. Go to parties. Soak in every last moment of a home football week­end, or maybe take an impromptu trip to an away game. Seize the precious weeks of nice weather and throw a Frisbee around on the quad. You’ll make the best friends in the world, and you won’t regret it. 
Second, take risks. Change your major — once, twice or five times. Find something you really enjoy, and spend four years study­ing that. Join a club you never would have ex­pected to join, or maybe one that has nothing to do with your career goals. That’s how I got involved with The Observer, and I don’t think I ever made a better decision. (Note to staff: please remind me of this in three months.) 
Third, take advantage of all the oppor­tunities Notre Dame has to offer you. From Center for Social Concerns seminars to unique social events like PigTostal, from the Career Center to interhall sports, this com­munity has a vast array of once-in-a-lifetime opportunities. Whether you study abroad in Australia or simply get to know your rector really well, you’ll have too many unforget­table experiences to count by the time you graduate. 
Fourth, eat at J.W. Chen’s. Other unforget­table South Bend culinary experiences in­clude Rocco’s, Bruno’s, Barnaby’s, Elia’s, El Pareiso, Uptown Kitchen and the ever-stal­wart Fiddler’s Hearth.  Your stomachs will thank me, I promise. 
Fifth and most importantly, never forget how blessed you are to be a part of the Notre Dame family. Soak up every moment. Thank your parents profusely. Recognize just how true — and timeless — the words of the Alma Mater are. 
If you do, my experience writing this column will make sense. In just a few all­too-short years, you’ll be the ones giving bit­tersweet advice to incoming freshmen. But I can promise you, without a doubt, that you too will tell them just how much your heart will forever love thee, Notre Dame. 
Contact Allan Joseph at ajoseph2@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


Sam Stryker 
Assistant Managing Editor 
So Class of 2016, you’ve arrived to the tropical resort paradise known as South Bend, Indiana. You’ve moved into your dorm, met your roommates and are about to embark on the greatest four-year journey of your life. Undoubtedly, friends, family and chance acquain­tances have thrown you way too much advice on how to approach your college experience — ask questions, don’t be shy, talk to your professors, be outgo­ing — and yes, most of this is true. But there is no uniform recipe for a trium­phant freshman year. Every one of you is different (despite it seeming like the admissions office recruited an army of North Face models) and it would be remiss to think there is some formula to “winning” freshman year. I tried to do all the things I was told to do — yet still, there were periods during my first year at Notre Dame that were the most emo­tionally draining times of my life. 
While there might not be a universal game plan that will indisputably yield straight A’s, a gaggle of friends and the avoidance of the Freshman 15, ap­proaching college with a certain men­tality is key. 
That’s where YOLO comes in. Much has been made of this ubiquitous phrase. While many toss it around with such regularity you would think their life depended on it (myself included) others scorn its usage (like my friends, who have placed me on a strict cap of five YOLO’s for every time we hang out.) 
For the uninitiated, YOLO stands for “You Only Live Once” and it perfectly epitomizes what freshman year is all about. YOLO’s immediate meaning urges one to live life to the fullest, other­wise one might suffer from FOMO (fear of missing out.) 
For instance, go ahead and go out on a weeknight. Hang out with your friends instead of studying for that test you know you’ll do fine on anyways. Don’t hold back, eat that cupcake in the dining hall (actually, hold off — the Freshman 15 is a real thing.) You do only live once, so do all those crazy things you want to do! 
But lost in the kitsch and obnoxious­ness of YOLO’s primary meaning is its true value to all of you members of the Class of 2016. Sure, you can say “YOLO” before you have that non-alcoholic drink you know is going to put you over the edge, or before you engage in a DFMO at your first dorm dance (I’ll let you figure that last acronym out for yourself.) But Notre Dame offers some of the most incredible opportunities to undergradu­ates of any university in the world. The thing is, you do only live once. On that note, You Only Notre Dame Once — YONDO, if you will — and it would be a terrible waste to cruise through four years of college without taking the University up on some of its offers. 

So in this Fighting Irish version of YOLO — YONDO — go out there, and do everything knowing you’ve only got one shot at college. Go on the Appalachia Seminar. Go to the Career Fair. Play a club sport. Write for the student newspa­per (If you can string a couple of nouns and verbs together cohesively, we’d love to have you.) Take interesting classes — I bet you didn’t know we have probably the best Medieval Studies program in the United States. Be passionate about something, anything. Basically, get off your bum and be active in the Notre Dame community. 
YOLO, YONDO — it doesn’t matter how you say it. You’ve only got one shot at college. Class of 2016, treat it as such. 
Contact Sam Stryker at sstryke1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
It’s about the people 


Andrew Owens 
Assistant Managing Editor 
Welcome home, Class of 2016. 
Enjoy every minute of Frosh-O, be­cause the three days will be over before you know it. Heck, your first three years will be over before you know it. You’re going to hear the words, “Enjoy every moment,” quite a bit, but it’s truly better advice than any dean can give you. 
Academics and football may have at­tracted you to Notre Dame, but it’s the people that will make you want to stay forever. You could have gone to other top-notch schools, but this University offers so much more than its academics and a football program that hasn’t been anything to write home about since be­fore many of you were born. 
It’s about the people. Take every op­portunity to embrace the new relation­ships. There’s a good chance you’ll encounter people this weekend who will one day be in your wedding. Your time on this campus only lasts four years, but it’s the friendships that last a lifetime. 
One of the best aspects of Notre Dame is its national reach. Your freshman roommates probably hail from other regions of the country than you. During the past three years, I’ve roomed with six different people from four different states, all different than my own. It’s a great way to learn about parts of the country of which you may be otherwise unfamiliar. 
Those who have visited campus even 100 times before stepping on campus as a Domer can’t fully grasp the experience, until now. Your college career will pro­vide opportunities you never could have imagined. My Notre Dame experience is different from my brother’s, whose is different than my sister’s, and I wouldn’t have it any other way. Like Lou Holtz once remarked about Notre Dame: “If you’ve been there, no explanation is nec­essary.  If you haven’t, none is adequate.” 
Toss aside your preconceived percep­tions of the dorm you now call home that wasn’t necessarily your top choice. Carroll Hall was at the bottom of my list a little over three years ago, but being placed there was the best thing that’s happened to me at Notre Dame. As I’ve learned, it’s not about the distance or the 106-year-old building that lacks air conditioning. 

It’s about the people. 
My last piece of advice is to remember your entire class begins on equal footing. Your high school accomplishments are irrelevant now, though don’t forget about those who helped you get to this point. With a blank slate, now is the time to pursue the opportunities you’ve always dreamt of and to become the person you want to be the rest of your life. Before you know it, you’ll be reading about the class of 2019 and how it managed to average a 37 on the ACT, even though it only goes up to 36. 
And you’ll be wondering where the time went while you were enjoying every moment and cultivating lifelong friendships. 
Contact Andrew Owens at aowens2@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“My basic principle is that you don’t make decisions because they are easy. You don’t make them because they are cheap. You don’t make them because they’re popular. You make them because they’re right.” 
Father Theodore Hesburgh, C.S.C. 
President Emeritus 
WEEKLY POLL 

Why did you decide to come to Notre Dame? 
•	 
For the academics 

•	 
For the athletics 

•	 
For the weather 


•	 
For the dining hall fare 


Vote by 5 p.m. Thursday at 
ndsmcobserver.com 



THE OBSERVER | SATURDAY, AUGUST 18, 2012 | NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
Get ready to fail 


neither am I. And that’s okay. 
Megan Doyle 

I discovered more about academics 
Managing Editor 

from bombing exams than from studying 
for them. That journalism professor is the 
To the Class of 2016, welcome. reason I will pursue a career in newspaper 
Get ready for failure. (No offense. reporting after graduation. I learned how Seriously, keep reading.) You are all high to ask for help and to be brave enough to school valedictorians and veterans of the acknowledge my shortcomings. My best honor roll. You blew your SATs and ACTs friends catch me when I wipe out, both out of the water. You won awards. literally and figuratively. 
Four years ago, I drove up to Notre I’m not saying you shouldn’t study, or Dame just like you did this weekend. I you should chop off your hair with reck­looked around at the glittering golden less abandon. I’m saying that you should dome and the neatly trimmed South get ready for failure, learn from it and Quad lawn, and all I saw was perfection. excel in spite of it. Get ready to walk into I looked around, and I thought I would the wrong classroom repeatedly. It’s al­need to be perfect to make a life for myself ways embarrassing — trust me. Get ready here. to seriously tank your first organic chem-
Then I bombed my first Calculus test. istry exam. You will do better on the next And I mean, really bombed. Then I slept one. Or you can become a business major, through my alarm clock and missed your choice. Get ready to drink too much class. Then my first journalism professor at your first college party. When the hang-told my entire class that one particular over goes away, laughing at yourself won’t sentence in my article was the worst he’d physically hurt your brain. Get ready to ever read. Then I fell for someone who lose your ID. Replace it at Card Services for was wrong for me. Then I used all my Flex a whopping $30. Get ready to experience Points with way too many weeks left in your first dining hall date and your first the semester. Then I wiped out on an icy college breakup. Life goes on. sidewalk. Then I thought short hair would Sometimes you have to screw up to suc­work for me. (Maybe the worst mistake ceed. So here’s to four years of failures. yet.) Then I walked into the wrong class-To the Class of 2016, welcome. room. As a junior. 
It’s been three years since I felt over-Contact Megan Doyle at whelmed by the perfection surrounding mdoyle11@nd.edu me on this campus. In those three years, The views expressed in this column are I realized my first impression was not those of the author and not necessarily correct. Notre Dame is not perfect, and those of The Observer. 
The next chapter 
For 170 consecutive years, the the Division of Student Affairs is avail-University of Notre Dame has opened able to support you through our resi­its doors to new students. Like genera-dential communities and a variety of tions who came before, you are em-student service departments. Rectors barking on a journey where you will and members of our hall staffs across have an opportunity to advance your 29 undergraduate halls and two gradu­knowledge, develop your leadership ate and family residences are dedicated skills, deepen your faith, learn from to building communities of faith that others and form lifelong friendships. are rooted in the Holy Cross tradition. 
Whether you are a first-year un-The professionals who serve dergraduate, transfer, professional or in Campus Ministry, the Career graduate student, we are delighted that Center, the Gender Relations Center, you have chosen to join our commu-Multicultural Student Programs and nity, and I extend a warm welcome to Services, the Student Activities Office, you as you begin this formative time in the Office of Housing, the Office of your life. Residence Life, the Office of Alcohol 
I hope that Notre Dame challenges and Drug Education, the University you in many ways. Your professors, Counseling Center and University your rectors and your classmates will Health Services are trained to provide encourage you to stretch yourself intel-specialized services and programming lectually and develop on a spiritual and that will complement your develop-personal level. Take these opportuni-ment. All of us are eager to smooth and ties to find a passion that matches your enhance the road that you will travel talents and allows you to lead a pur-during your time at Notre Dame, and poseful life.  Dare to be different, yet be I encourage you to seek our help along respectful and welcoming to all.  Have the way. I look forward to watching a wonderful time, without engaging in how your presence, energy and ideas behavior that would place you or oth-renew and enhance our University. You ers at risk. Hold yourself to high ideals. will lead Notre Dame in new directions Explore new things, while cherishing based on the paths that you pursue. the people and traditions that matter. May we all form a strong community Embrace Notre Dame’s distinctive mis-and write the next chapter of this be­sion and enrich your understanding of loved institution together. it through study and reflection. With best wishes and prayers for a 
Contribute your own talents to im-successful year, prove the lives of those around you. Much of your development at the Erin Hoffmann Harding University can and should occur on Vice president, Student Affairs your own. At the same time, know that Aug. 12, 2012 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Explore, nurture, grow 
Dear students, from those around you. Finally, in all that 
It is with warm enthusiasm that I wel-you do, take a few moments each day for come all new and returning students of personal reflection to refresh your spirit. the University of Notre Dame.  In particu-As a Catholic university, we are dedi­lar, I wish to congratulate and welcome cated to developing people who will be our first year and transfer students.  We prepared to make positive contributions are thankful that you are here and that to the Church and the world. We are you have chosen to share and develop your confident that you possess the talent and intellectual and spiritual gifts with our desire to make meaningful and lasting community.  We will strive to nurture your contributions. growth during your time as a student. Once again, welcome to Notre Dame. 
Make the most of your time here. Be May you soon come to feel at home on open to engaging new friends, those this campus, and to love it, as do so many who may have very similar or very dif-graduates before you. I hope to meet you ferent personal stories and perspectives. in person over the course of your time, and Embrace each classroom experience as throughout that time, I will keep you in my an opportunity to learn, hone your tal-prayers. ents and share your ideas. If you live in a In Notre Dame, residence hall, explore the multiple ways that you can contribute as a leader. When Fr. John I. Jenkins you face challenge, know that you are not President, University of Notre Dame alone and do not hesitate to seek support Aug. 16, 2012 
Welcome home 
Dear Class of 2016, big win. Light a candle at the Grotto. Sink 
Welcome home! We are so excited for your boat at the Fisher Regatta. Participate you to join us as the newest members of in the midnight snowball fight after the the Notre Dame family. As you embark on first snowfall.  Do every cliché Notre Dame this new journey in your life, we would like thing you can, because your time here at to share a few words based on our experi-Notre Dame will be over before you know it. ences these past few years. The next four In the coming year, if you find something years will be unforgettable. Be open to all that you aren’t happy with on campus, of the opportunities Notre Dame will offer come visit us in 203 Lafortune. We’ll do our you. Whether you are volunteering at the best to help you fix it. Notre Dame has a Robinson Community Learning Center unique ability to adapt and progress while down the street, or spending a semester in staying true to its fundamental traditions Uganda, Notre Dame will open your eyes to — don’t be afraid to lead this change. Like parts of the world you never knew existed. the coming Notre Dame winter, four years 
Find your passions and pursue them. may seem like they will last forever, but Meet people who have similar interests you’ll soon realize how quickly they pass. and ask them for advice. Your RAs, Hall Begin your tenure at Notre Dame right now, Presidents, club leaders and upperclassmen by fearlessly entering Frosh-O with an open down the hall will be more than happy to mind and heart. Welcome to the family. help you with whatever you need. Embrace In Notre Dame, every moment of your four years as a Notre Dame student. Introduce yourself to the Brett Rocheleau people sitting around you on the first day Student body president of class. 
Pull an all-nighter in the Hesburgh Katie Rose Library. Do pushups at a home football Student body vice president game and run through Stonehenge after a Aug. 14, 2012 
The Saint Mary’s way 
On behalf of the faculty and staff at Saint community service. This number demon­Mary’s College, I extend a warm welcome to strates the importance we place on giving the Class of 2016 and our transfer students. back and on experiential learning. One of As the 11th president of Saint Mary’s, and my aspirations for you is that you will ex-a proud alumna, I know how powerful this plore your place in the universe and your experience will be for you. obligation to contribute to the common 
You will spend the next four years in a good.  If this happens for you, then you, too, rigorous academic environment supported will have experienced the real Saint Mary’s. by an excellent faculty, close friends and The world needs women educated in a deeply caring staff.  As a Holy Cross in-the Saint Mary’s way. Our proud 167-year stitution, we place a special emphasis on tradition of educating women to make a the education of the whole person. Your difference in the world now includes you. It education does not end when you leave is your turn to make history at Saint Mary’s the classroom. Every activity in which you College.  I look forward to accompanying participate will enhance your collegiate you on this exciting journey. experience. Sincerely, 
I encourage you to participate in as many co-curricular activities as time and your Carol Ann Mooney academic schedule will permit. More than President, Saint Mary’s College 80 percent of our students participate in Aug. 10,  2012 

THE OBSERVER | SATURDAY, AUGUST 18, 2012 | NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
FROSH-O 

PLAYLIST 
Very soon you’ll walk into your very first dorm party, an experience you’re going to have to get used to quickly. Keep an ear out for these tracks; if last year is any indication, you’ll hear them at every one. 
“A Thousand Miles” Vanessa Carlton  
“Wagon Wheel” Old Crow Medicine Show  
“Rocky Top” Osborne Brothers  
“Party in the U.S.A.” Miley Cyrus  
“Call Me Maybe” Carly Rae Jepsen  
“Party Rock Anthem” LMFAO  
“Levels” Avicii  
“You Make Me Feel” Cobra Starship feat. Sabi  
“Don’t Stop Believing” Journey  
“Super Bass” Nicki Minaj  
“Moves Like Jagger” Maroon 5  
“Hero” Enrique Iglesias  




Listen to the playlist online at 
ndsmcobserver.com/scene 
BRANDON KEELEAN | Observer Grapic 



Keep an eye out this weekend for some of these highlights 

You meet someone with at least one Notre Dame alum parent 
Somebody tells you Shrek is based on Notre Dame 
Somebody tells you that whole thing about Shrek being based on Notre Dame was a lie 
You see at least one senior crying because they only have one year left 
You see someone completely embarrass themselves 
Someone calls Domerfest by any other name 
You see an upperclassman, who clearly does not belong at Domerfest, at Domerfest 
You run through Stonehenge 
You see a group of guys chanting and covered in body paint 
You figure out how much your books cost 
Someone sings a version of “Call Me Maybe,” personalized to his or her dorm, directly into your face 
You realize parietals isn’t the worst thing ever 
You are informed of the different dorm stereotypes, but don’t buy into them because you’re above such silliness 
You take in the beauty of the lakes 
Someone warns you not to walk on the steps of the main building. Don’t do it. There — you can cross this one off. 
You experience the overpowering silence of the Grotto 
You do something completely embarrassing, but love every second of it 
You realize that this place might just be home to the greatest four years of your life 





THE OBSERVER | SATURDAY, AUGUST 18, 2012 | NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 


Kevin Noonan 
Scene Editor 

Notre Dame is all about stereotypes. Don’t let anybody tell you any differently. 
Everybody here is smart, so get used to that. Everybody is good at something, even you (possible title for a future best selling self-help book, I’m calling dibs on it right here and now). Everybody here had to work hard to get here, and they have to work hard to stay here, 

Admissions: 36 ACT, 4.0 GPA, essay and a black North Face 
no matter what they might claim about never studying. 
Everyone here may have a different idea of what Notre Dame is and what it means to them, but there is a shared and unifying purpose, an ideal of greatness, that drives this University and all of its students, faculty and staff forward. 
And on Wednesdays, we wear pink. 
You’re a stereotype from the moment you walk on campus, a positive stereotype reflective of the high stan­dards of academic and personal excellence to which we 
are held. What does all of this have to do with fashion? 
The point is you’re already a stereotype here; you already fit in. You don’t have to carry that into your style. 
All of that said, there are some common themes on this cam­pus. Just remember that just be­cause everybody has one doesn’t mean you have to get one. 
Everybody has a North Face jacket. Every single person. I have one. Brian Kelly has one. Fr. Hesburgh has one. Mary wears one on the dome when it rains. 
That’s an exaggeration, of course. Don’t freak out if you don’t have one and don’t want to get one. It’s sort of an anti-status symbol. 
You see somebody wearing it and you think, judgmentally perhaps, “OMG, ev­erybody has one of those, lol,” and then you remember that you have one and you’re currently wearing it because it’s cold or raining or snowing here 90 percent of the time and you keep your mouth shut. 
Every girl has a pair of Uggs, a pair of gladiator sandals and a pair of those black things that pass for pants. Are they pants? Are they tights? Are they leggings? Should I find them attractive? Should I be repulsed by them? 
I don’t know. I don’t get it. They’re an unclassifiable species. All I know is, they’re about as common at Notre Dame as being from “just outside Chicago.” 
Uggs are Uggs. They are what they are. Wear them in public at your own risk. 
Gladiator sandals are the Leonardo DiCaprio of women’s fashion. They all look the same, and they’re almost always irritating to look at. On the rare occasion they do work well all I can think about is the other times they don’t, and no matter how much I rail against them they don’t go out of style. 
Which leads me to believe I may be in the wrong on this one, but either way, every girl has them. 
Every guy has a pair of Sperrys. They may be brown, blue, orange or green, but every guy has at least one pair. 
Sperrys present a number of fashion questions. When are they appropriate to wear? When are they not? What clothes do you wear with them? How beat up is too beat up be­fore you have to get a new pair? 
I don’t know; I don’t know the first thing about fashion. But I do know that everybody has a pair. 
Throw those together with a pair of khaki or pastel shorts and a semi-casual button down, and you’ve got the general party going style of just about every dude on campus. 



One other thing, for guys; don’t wear shorts pants with bowties or crabs or lobsters or some other stupid logo imprinted all over them. 
Or if you do, don’t act like the kind of person who would wear something like that. 
Those are the stereotypes of Notre Dame fashion that you’ll see on campus on a daily basis. But remember, you’re already the right kind of stereotype here. Let your style be you. 
Your style might be ratty gym shorts, wrinkled t-shirts and completely wrecked Sperry’s, and you can still ac­complish great things, like becoming the editor of the most fashionable section of the campus newspaper. 
Contact Kevin Noonan at knoonan2@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

BRANDON KEELEAN | Observer Graphic 


SPORTS AUTHORITY 

Hard Knocks shows pros are human too 

Matthew DeFranks 
Associate Sports Editor 
It was my first HBO show. Before “The Newsroom,” be­fore “Luck,” before “Boardwalk Empire,” I was watching “Hard Knocks.” 
watched when Antonio Cromartie tried to name all of his children. I watched as Carson Palmer praised an ath­letic trainer for his beautifully crafted Gatorade. So was it tough that the lockout a year ago robbed me of a season of “Hard Knocks”? Of course. 
But when the announcement came down that “Hard Knocks” would be following my home­town Miami Dolphins, every­thing was forgiven. The makeup gift was okay, I guess. 
At the time, the Dolphins were a far-below average team with a new coaching staff, no mar­ketable stars, a flimsy fan base and clueless celebrity owners. Despite all signs pointing to this year’s show being a dud, there was no chance that I wasn’t go­ing to watch religiously. “Hard Knocks” made Kansas City’s quarterback duel between Damon Huard and Brodie Croyle interesting, for God’s sake. 
So when the Dolphins signed social media star, class clown and, oh yeah, receiver Chad Johnson, it reassured that the eighth season of the show would not lack firepower. And firepow­er he gave. 
In the debut episode, Johnson made sounds that sounded like a perfect mix of birds chirping and hyenas howling — and not in a good way. He dropped pro­fanity after profanity in a press conference okay only for HBO to air in its entirety. We even found out that his first date with his wife was at a McDonald’s. 
Just days after the first episode aired, Johnson found himself in trouble — he had been arrested for domestic violence. The inci­dent (which included his newly­wed wife, a receipt for condoms and head butting) rocked the outspoken receiver. He was ar­rested, cut, dropped from a re­ality show and an endorsement deal in a matter of days. 
But all I could think about was how “Hard Knocks” was going to cover it. Would they have some super-secret information about it? Would Johnson try to issue a national plea? Would they tiptoe around a sensitive and legally unresolved topic? I had no idea how it would pan out. 
They decided to carve out the final 15 minutes of the second episode for the Johnson fiasco. They included news audio an­nouncing his arrest, video foot­age of Johnson in handcuffs and, most interestingly, the meet­ing between Dolphins coach Joe Philbin (who is a clone of Dr. Robert Doback from “Step Brothers”) and the now-dis­graced Johnson. 
And during the long, pain­ful, drawn-out meeting be­tween Philbin and Johnson, I felt something strange: sympathy. Johnson (who may or may not be innocent) was being crucified on premium television. His job was lost and reputation tarnished — all while America inched closer to the edge of its collective seat with a fistful of popcorn in both hands. 
Am I defending Johnson or his actions? Absolutely not. Do I think Johnson’s release was justified? Yes, given his streaky and outlandish behavior, di­minished performance and the needed emergence of long-term options at wide receiver, the Dolphins were well within their right to cut him loose. 
But no one should be subject to a televised firing, especially one in which the head coach dances around the subject and delays the announcement. 
Interestingly enough, “Hard Knocks” did exactly what it was planning to do: it made pro football players people. It made you feel like you could relate to them. 
It made you think that Ryan Tannehill’s dogs were just like yours, that David Garrard’s water sports skills were fit for Miami, that Matt Moore’s devo­tion to “The Bachelorette” was funny and not embarrassing. 
So when 10 p.m. rolls around next Tuesday after the first day of school and I sit down on the futon in front of an HBO-less television, I will stay away from Twitter and wait. I will wait to find out what Reggie Bush eats for breakfast, what the next rookie hazing will be or what Les Brown does at an alligator farm. 
It will be worth it. 
Contact Matthew DeFranks at mdefrank@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


MLB 

Owners approve Padres sale 
Associated Press 
DENVER — Major League Baseball owners approved the sale of the San Diego Padres on Thursday to a group that in­cludes the O’Malley family and pro golfer Phil Mickelson. 
Commissioner Bud Selig an­nounced the endorsement after the conclusion of the owners meetings in Denver. 
Under the deal, the group will buy the franchise from John Moores for around $800 mil­lion. The final closing of the sale will be on or before Aug. 31. 
The new ownership group includes Kevin and Brian O’Malley, the sons of former Los Angeles Dodgers owner Peter O’Malley. Peter and Tom Seidler — the nephews of Peter O’Malley — also will be in­volved in the deal. Two of the four are expected to move to San Diego. 
“This group knows what it takes to compete,” Selig said. “They’re very optimistic. I’m optimistic. I’ve gone over their projections, gone over every­thing. I think their projections are optimistic, but realistic. This is a good day for baseball. 
“I think Padres fans have a right to be very happy today — very happy.” 
Ron Fowler, chief executive of Liquid Investments, is set to become controlling owner and executive chairman, Peter Seidler said. He also gave a vote of confidence to CEO Tom Garfinkel and general manager Josh Byrnes. 
As for what name this new ownership group may operate under, Seidler smiled and said, “The Padres.” 
No, really. 
“Really, the ‘Padres Group,’” he said. “We want the attention 

FOR RENT 
Home For Rent: 2 BR home 10min walk to ND. Just remodelled with new windows, new carpet, new refrig., paint, etc. Very clean -- $675/mo + dep. Call 269-267-4008. 
Purdue game rental. Great location 
- half block from Eddy Street Commons. Sleeps 10+. email nd­
house@sbcglobal.net for photos/additional info. 
Grad Students and Faculty: Bungalow on the Brandywine Creek for rent. 
15 minutes north of campus. Fully furnished 2 BR/2 BA, Living room, large eat-in kitchen, washer/dryer. Yard and creek. 1 car garage. $800 
+ utilities or $920 includes all utili­ties, yard service and snow 
removal. Contact 574-210-7186 or sandyzbarton@gmail.com 
PERSONAL 
New Social Network hyPRcast ­much more than a social network, online tools, free website, high end graphics editor. invite code = info www.hsignup.com 
Born on this day: 
1976 - Bryan Volpenhein, American rower 
1977 -Régine Chassagne, Canadian musician Arcade Fire 
1978 -Andy Samberg, American comedian 
1980 -Esteban Cambiasso, Argentine footballer 
1980 -Athina Papayianni, Greek race walker 
1980 -Preeti Jhangiani, Indian actress 
1980 - Rob Nguyen, Australian rac­ing driver 
1980 - Jeremy Shockey, American 


and spotlight to be on a great product on the field. We’re going to be supportive and do every­thing we can to bring that down to San Diego. We’re a bunch of Padres up here.” 
The agreement with the new group came months after Jeff Moorad’s attempt to buy the team on a layaway plan col­lapsed. Moores’ deal with Moorad, who began his at­tempted purchase of the club in 2009, was valued at about $500 million. Moores’ divorce forced him to put the team on the mar­ket in 2009. 
Selig said it’s going to be dif­ficult to say farewell to Moores. 
“I saw him this morning and I got very emotional,” Selig said. “John did a lot of wonderful things for baseball. Very help­ful for me, during a time when things weren’t, frankly, as great as they are right now. I know it’s the right thing for him to do. Believe me, I like John Moores a lot. He did a lot for this sport — a lot.” 
Selig said he was amazed at the ease with which this deal got approved by the owners. 
“There’s always a little bit of a problem here or a problem there,” Selig said. “They were very cooperative. They came in and had all of their work done. It was just easy. There was no oth­er way to say it, it was just easy.” 
The price for this sale was inflated thanks to a deal with Fox and the recent sale of the Dodgers for $2 billion. 
San Diego fans hope a change in owners can turn around the Padres, who regularly have had one of baseball’s lowest payrolls and have largely struggled since reaching the 1998 World Series. The Padres are 52-67 this sea­son and sit in fourth place in the NL West. 
“We’re looking for a long, con­sistent ownership group here,” Fowler said. “As a San Diegan 
— I’ve been there for 30-plus years now — I think it’s great for baseball in San Diego, that the O’Malley family and the Seidler family are going to be the own­ers. I’m looking forward to hav­ing some fun over the next five to 10 years.” 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
football Tight End 
1981 - César Delgado, Argentine footballer 
1981 - Dimitris Salpigidis, Greek footballer 
1981 - Jonathan Schneck, American musician (Relient K) 
1983 -Kris Boyd, Scottish footballer 
1983 - Michael Montgomery, American football player 
1983 - Mica Penniman (Mika), Lebanese-born musician 
1983 - Daniel Keith Swain (Danny!), American record producer/hip-hop artist 
1984 -Robert Huth, German footballer 
1987 - Mika Boorem, American actress 
1992 - Frances Bean Cobain, daughter of Kurt Cobain & Courtney Love 
1992 - Riko Narumi, Japanese actress 
Welcome back! 



ND WOMEN’S GOLF 

Team adds two top freshmen 
By ISAAC LORTON 
Sports Writer 
Coming off a second-place fin­ish in the Big East tournament and a trip to the NCAA Regional qualifiers last season, No. 47 Notre Dame has improved its lineup and is expecting to per­form well this year. 
The Irish lineup will add two Nhim. 
“The new recruits are young, but they are experienced players,” Holt said. “They will add instant depth to the team.” 
Over the summer, the Irish kept busy by competing in numerous tournaments. 
Armstrong and recent Notre Dame graduate Becca Huffer competed with Weaver in the 

“The new recruits are young, but they are experienced players. They will add instant 
depth to the team.” 
Susan Holt Irish coach 
top-10 nationally ranked re­cruits in third-ranked Lindsey Weaver and ninth-ranked Talia Campbell, joined in the recruit­ing class by Katherine Guo. 
“Notre Dame is the only school in Division I to get two top-10 re­cruits,” Irish coach Susan Holt said. “We are extremely proud of that.” 
Weaver, Campbell and Guo will join Big East champion and Rookie of the Year sophomore Ashley Armstrong, sophomore Kelli Oride and junior Kristina 2012 U.S. Women’s Open in Wisconsin. Of the amateurs com­peting in the Open, Weaver and Armstrong finished 17th and 18th, respectively. 
Nhim and Armstrong played as a duo in the Pure Silk Team Collegiate Classic, where the pair took eighth overall. 
Katherine Guo and Kelli Oride both qualified for the Women’s Amateur Public Links, while Talia Campbell played in the Texas Women’s Amateur. 
“They will be ready to play when they come back to cam­pus,” Holt said. “Hopefully, we will hit a stride early and keep momentum going through the season. We have a competitive schedule ahead of us and we will never have a false sense of security.” 
In this group, Holt said the Irish has its strongest core group of players. 
“If you take our six starters, it is the best team we have had in program history,” Holt said. 
Holt has high hopes for this young Irish team. 
“As it is every year, one of our main goals is to win the Big East,” Holt said. “We have only qualified for nationals once, in 2011. This year, we want to win regionals and qualify for na­tionals again.” 
As for the chances of win­ning the NCAA championship, Holt said she has complete confidence in her young team. 
“We will try and position ourselves in a place to com­pete for the national champi­onship,” Holt said. “Do I think we can do that? Absolutely.” 
Contact Isaac Lorton at ilorton@nd.edu 
MEN’S GOLF 

Irish move forward without senior trio 


By CORY BERNARD 
Sports Writer 
It is easy to say the upcoming season will be a rebuilding one for the Irish. They concluded last year with the program’s low­est 54-hole tournament mark on their way to a sixth-place fin­ish at the 2012 NCAA Central Regional. Notre Dame also bid adieu to the talented senior trio of Max Scodro, Tom Usher and Chris Walker. 
Irish coach Jim Kubinski, however, is confident in the depth of his squad. 
“We have a number of guys who can do it,” Kubinski said. “There are seven, eight, nine guys who can step up. We have two freshmen and a transfer from [Arizona State], [sopho­more] David Lowe, who will compete right away. And then obviously the guys we have. We happened to have three really good seniors, but we have some good players returning as well.” 
Two of those returners, ju­nior Niall Platt and senior Paul McNamara III, were regular contributors throughout the season. Kubinski said Platt and McNamara will have to step up as leaders this fall. 
“I think that’s where there’s going to be a need,” he said. “It’s kind of a necessity for us, definitely that leadership role. On the course I don’t think it’s a huge thing but off the course be­ing able to step up into that new role. I think [Paul and Niall] are excited for it, and that’s great.” 
The new season also brings change to the Irish coaching staff. Notre Dame graduate Steve Colnitis will no longer be with the program. Former professional golfer Scott Gump will replace the former coach af­ter his seven-year tenure. 
Kubinski said Gump would be an invaluable part of the team this season. 
“Scott Gump was on the PGA tour for almost 20 years,” Kubinski said. “He was a real solid tour player, and now the only college coach in the coun­try that is a lifetime member of the PGA tour. There are some [coaches] out there that have played professionally but no coaches that were long-time players out there. He’s played a lot of golf. We are really, really excited to have Scott.” 
The Irish will also look to re­peat last year’s success in the classroom. On Aug. 1, the Golf Coaches Associate of America named Notre Dame to its 2012 All-Academic Team. Kubinski said the honor is indicative of the work ethic of his squad. 
“You look at some of these schools and their goal is a 3.0 [cumulative GPA],” he said. “We had almost a 3.5 last year, and one of the major factors was the guys working extremely hard in every facet. It’s really caught on the last few years with the guys. They really get used to operat­ing that way. Selfishly, it helps them with their golf game, but obviously it helps you with ev­erything in life. The guys really bought into it to try their hard­est in everything.” 
The new-look Irish kick off the fall season with the Tar Heel Intercollegiate at Finley Golf Course in Chapel Hill, N.C., on Sept. 15. 
Contact Cory Bernard at cbernard@nd.edu 


Powers 
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 28 
qualification].” 
After several tied games and overtime losses last season, the Irish are working to ensure they finish this season with more victories than last year’s nine, Powers said. 
“One big thing is to try and de­velop the killer instinct,” he said. “Our practices have a competi­tive atmosphere — we are trying to finish things off right, finish things off stronger.” 
Clark said he is confident his team is off to a promising start under the guidance of the co-captains Rose and Powers. 
“This is both of their final year at it, so they want to make this a success,” he said. “It’s important for them. They are two terrific young men, just if they can carry on just the way they’ve started here I think we can have two ter­rific captains. When you have good leadership, you are halfway towards a successful year.” 
The Irish will conclude exhibi­tion play when they host Xavier Monday at 7 p.m. 
Contact Joseph Monardo at jmonardo@nd.edu 



Captains 
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 28 
Mandy Laddish, the squad will be tested early with two high-profile tournaments. Just two weeks into its season, Notre Dame will host the adidas Invitational, facing off against No. 8 North Carolina and No. 17 Santa Clara. A week later, the Irish will travel across the country, taking on Washington and Portland in the Portland Invitational. 
“Those tournaments will be a great measuring stick for where we really are,” Waldrum said. “I think it’s important for these kids to get it thrown at them early in the year, so come play­off time they’ve already got that experience under their belt.” 
The early portion of the sched­ule may also serve to lend clar­ity to Notre Dame’s goalkeeping situation. The competition has been wide-open throughout the preseason, with all five Irish goalies in the hunt. And through the first few exhibition games, Waldrum said freshman Elyse Hight has been the most im­pressive, playing her way past the incumbent, senior Maddie Fox. 
“I’m not ready yet to have one and say she’s the starter for the year,” he said. “I think that Elyse is in the lead for that, but no one has clearly separated themselves from the others. The competi­tion is so tight that they’ve got to prove it every time they step out onto the field. They can’t afford to have any slip-ups.” 
Even with a team so full of questions, Notre Dame certain­ly has the talent to compete with any team in the country. The Irish are the Big East coaches’ choice to win the conference, and should figure to make a strong case for inclusion in the NCAA tournament once again. Waldrum said the team’s sights are set well beyond that. 
“The bar has been set here, and I think — fortunately or un­fortunately — that’s what the ex­pectation is,” Irish coach Randy Waldrum said. “I think we’ve got a chance to be really good at the end of the year. We expect to be back at the College Cup.” 
Contact Jack Hefferon at wheffero@nd.edu 



HOCKEY 

Irish hope to return to NCAAs 

By SAM GANS 
Sports Writer 
The Irish look to return to the NCAA tournament this season after struggling through an up-and-down 2011-12 campaign. 
Notre Dame began last sea­son ranked No. 1 in the coun­try after making the Frozen Four in 2010-2011. Despite roaring out to a 10-2-3 start, a 6-12 finish left the Irish out of the 16-team NCAA tourna­ment field and in eighth place in the 11-team CCHA. 
The Irish hope returning 10 of their top 13 scorers from a year ago will propel them into the national postsea­son. Leading that group are junior forwards T.J. Tynan and Anders Lee. Tynan, a first team all-CCHA selection last season, has been Notre Dame’s leader in points each of the last two years, while Lee topped the Irish in goals in both his freshman and sophomore seasons. 




In addition to the returning lettermen, Notre Dame will welcome an incoming class of five freshmen, including NHL draft picks Mario Lucia, Steven Fogarty and Thomas DiPauli. Irish coach Jeff Jackson, entering his eighth season behind the bench for Notre Dame, said he is cau­tiously optimistic about the raw but talented rookies. 
“You certainly hope that they’re going to make an impact, but they are fresh­men and the adjustment to college hockey always takes a little time,” Jackson said. “But I think we’ve got four talented forwards and hope­fully they’re going to be able to contribute and help our of­fensive depth, because I think that all four of them have shown the ability to be able to make plays and be a factor offensively.” 
The Irish lose defenseman and captain Sean Lorenz to graduation but return their six other top defensemen from a year ago, led by senior Sam Calabrese. 
Jackson said junior Steven Summerhays is in the driver’s seat for the starting goalten­der position. Summerhays split playing time much of last season with then-junior Mike Johnson, but established him­self as the No. 1 netminder for the Irish down the stretch. Summerhays started five of Notre Dame’s final six games, notching a .954 save percent­age with seven goals allowed and two shutouts. 
“I think the way Steven fin­ished the year, it’s going to be his job to lose, but I also have confidence that Mike Johnson can pressure him and work towards trying to get playing time and prove that he’s ca­pable, as well,” Jackson said. 
“If we have two guys who can play, it’s better for us, but based on the last six weeks of the season, I think Steven re­ally elevated his game and if he shows that he can play on a consistent basis, he’s going to obviously give us a lot more 
“But I think we’ve got four talented forwards and hopefully they’re going to be able to contribute and help our offensive depth, because I think that all four of them have shown the ability to be able to make plays and be a factor offensively.” 
Jeff Jackson
 Irish coach 
confidence back there and I think that that’s a huge com­ponent towards the success of our team.” 
The Irish will play their fi­nal season in the CCHA this year before the league dis­bands and the squad heads to the Hockey East conference in 2013-2014. The season’s mar­quee event will take place Feb. 17 when the Irish will face Miami in an outdoor game at Soldier Field in Chicago. 
“I’m sure it will be an excit­ing opportunity to play in that kind of a venue and in front of that kind of a crowd … it’s a league game, it’s in February and it’s in Chicago and it’s outdoors, so there’s all kinds of potential for different sce­narios coming up, consider­ing the weather potential,” Jackson said. 
The Irish open the season against Maine on Oct. 12 in Kansas City, Mo. 
Contact Sam Gans at sgans@nd.edu 


THE OBSERVER | SATURDAY, AUGUST 18, 2012 | NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 

MEN’S LACROSSE 

After Final Four defeat, Irish reload for another run 
Season-ending loss to eventual champion Loyola inspires team to improve offensive production 
By MATTHEW ROBISON 
Sports Writer 
For the second time in the last three years, Notre Dame fell on championship week­end after a run to the Final Four. The No. 4 seed Irish fell to eventual national champi­on and top-seeded Loyola 7-5 in the semifinal round May 26 in Foxborough, Mass. 
To get to the semifinals, the Irish (13-3, 6-0 Big East) had to go through Yale (11-5) and No. 5 seed Virginia. Led by first-team All-Americans junior goalie John Kemp and senior defenseman Kevin Randall, Notre Dame defeat­ed Yale 13-7. 
“The first game of the tour­nament went very well for us,” Irish coach Kevin Corrigan said. “I thought we played very well against a very good Yale team. It was a very good, very balanced Yale team. But I 
“In the next round against Loyola, we probably didn’t play our best, but our guys played really hard. The Loyola team played very well and very smart. They didn’t give us anything all day.” 
Kevin Corrigan 
Irish coach 
thought we played very well.” 
In the quarterfinals, Notre Dame faced the defending national champion Virginia (12-4) in Philadelphia. 
“The second round game in Philadelphia against Virginia was a great job by us,” Corrigan said. “We were up on them and then in a close game in the fourth quar­ter, a tie game when [junior midfielder] Ryan Foley gets knocked out of the game, our guys responded with a tre­mendous amount of poise and grit. We outscored them 5-1 from that point on. We played really smart, hard, passionate lacrosse in that game against [Virginia].” 
Behind three goals from se­nior midfielder Max Pfeifer, two from junior midfielder Steve Murphy and two from senior attack Sean Rogers, the Irish captured a 12-10 vic­tory to earn a spot in the Final Four. 
The Greyhounds (18-1) en­tered the match as the No. 1 team in the country, riding a streak of wins and a wave of momentum. 
“In the next round against Loyola, we probably didn’t play our best, but our guys played really hard,” Corrigan said. “The Loyola team played very well and very smart. They didn’t give us anything all day.” 
Loyola stifled Notre Dame’s offense by maintaining pos­session for the majority of the game and keeping the ball out of Notre Dame’s playmakers’ sticks. In the second half, the Irish had their chances, but could not capitalize. 
“We’ve got to score more than five goals to win at that point in the year at that level,” Corrigan said. “We just didn’t finish enough of our opportu­nities. Although I thought we didn’t play particularly well in the first half, we played well in the second half. We just didn’t finish well. That was enough to be the difference.” 
Freshman attack Westy Hopkins had two goals while three other Irish players scored one goal apiece. But the Greyhounds did them two better and clinched a 7-5 win, eventually going on to beat Maryland in the national championship. 
From the outset, Notre Dame’s goal was to win a national championship. But with some reflection, Corrigan said he now realizes that it was a successful year with plenty to take away. 
“On the whole, it’s difficult to lose at that point in the sea­son, I don’t care what’s going on or what happened before that,” Corrigan said. “With a little bit of perspective now, I thought it was a great season. Our guys played in a lot of close games and really played well. I thought they maxed out a little bit on what we were doing. I think we can get bet­ter. It’s a whole new year and a whole new team, but we have a lot of guys coming back.” 
Corrigan had nothing but praise for his departing se­niors, a group of players who was not only one of the most successful classes in Notre Dame history, but also was instrumental in establishing a strong culture. 
“We’re looking at one of the most successful classes we’re ever had at Notre Dame. They were part of two Final Four teams, four straight NCAA tournaments,” Corrigan said. “We’ll clearly miss them a lot. But I also think they did of bringing up our younger guys. Their leadership was very good. I thought the cul­ture of our team was very strong. They’ve been a large part of that. They did a god job of passing that down.” 



Notre Dame has now lost to returning players, a healthy the eventual national cham-culture and a balanced re-pion in the NCAA tournament cruiting class. in four of the last five years. “I think we’ve got a strong Corrigan said he is confident class coming in,” Corrigan about his team’s future be-said. “It’s a good, balanced cause of the strong corps of class. We’ve got guys that can help us at every position. I’m excited about that. As a group, I think this is going to be a very strong class for us.” 
Contact Matthew Robsion at mrobison@nd.edu 



ND VOLLEYBALL 

Returning corps drives experienced Irish squad 
By CONOR KELLY 
Sports Writer 
When the Irish returned to cam­pus on Aug. 8, Irish coach Debbie Brown found herself surrounded by a slew of determined return­ing players — including 12 of 14 from the 2011 squad that fell to Cincinnati in the Big East tourna­ment final last November. 
Though Brown lost two stal­warts in senior co-captains Frenchy Silva and Kirsten Dealy, she said she feels this year’s team, which has increased in size to 17 players (with four incoming fresh­men and the transfer of sopho­more libero Erin Klosterman from Saint Mary’s) has positioned itself well to continue their legacy. 
“It can be quite a blow when you lose players of their caliber,” Brown said. “But to see the ethic and im­provement of this year’s team, I think we should be fine.” 
One position for which the Irish will need to find an answer is at libero, the defensive specialist. Silva held down the spot for all four years of her tenure, collecting more than 1,000 career digs. Klosterman and freshman Taylor Morey will join sophomore Kathleen Severyn at the position. Just a week into practice, Brown said Morey has the early edge. 
“Taylor is a really talented and really studied passer,” Brown said. “Factor in her sparkplug attitude and natural intensity, and she’s the type of player who could be like a Frenchy [Silva] for us. She has a lot of potential for such a young player.” 
The other three members of Notre Dame’s No. 22-ranked freshman class  — setter Hannah Muzzonigro, middle blocker Annie Flynn and outside hitter Haley Bonneval — may find a slower them on the depth chart. The path to the starting lineup, for no team returns its statistical leaders other reason than the talent above in kills (sophomore Jeni Houser and junior tri-captain Andrea McHugh) and blocks (sophomore Toni Alugbue and senior Hilary Eppink), along with a mix of talent­ed returning starters that includes senior tri-captain Marie Roof, ju­nior setter Sammie Brown and ju­nior tri-captain Maggie Brindock. 



“There will be a lot of players stepping into more important competitive and leadership roles this season,” Brown said. “But I think that is also accompanied by tremendous progress from where they were last season. Just to look at where Jeni [Houser] and Toni [Alugbue] are now versus where they were as freshmen, it’s a phe­nomenal improvement, even for such strong players.” 
The Irish will be tested early in the season as they travel to Lincoln, Neb., on Aug. 24 when the team will open its season against defending national champion UCLA before taking on Saint Louis and Nebraska in a round-robin. 
“UCLA is going to be a huge challenge for us and a great way to start the season,” Brown said. “It’s the start of a very tough schedule, and we didn’t know they would be ranked number one and defend­ing national champions when we scheduled them, but we’re very ex­cited for it.” 
The Irish will host both the Shamrock Invitational and the Golden Dome Invitational, sched­uled on either side of a trip to Southern California for the USC Tournament, before getting into the teeth of the Big East sched­ule in late September. Traditional powers like Cincinnati, Louisville and Marquette await an Irish team that will hopefully have been gal­vanized by the rigor of its non-con­ference schedule. 
“The teams in our conference are getting stronger every year, and I think that our early sched­ule will really help us prepare for that,” Brown said. “But right now we’re coming along. Our captains are making sure everyone is taking care of themselves and working hard with positive attitudes.” 
The Irish open the season against UCLA on Aug. 24 in Lincoln, Neb., at the Nebraska Coliseum. 
Contact Conor Kelly at ckelly17@nd.edu 




FALL 2012 NOTRE DAME 
VARSITY ATHLETICS SCHEDULE 
Event Locations Football — Notre Dame Stadium, Men’s and Women’s Soccer — Alumni Stadium, Women’s Volleyball — Purcell Pavilion, Men’s and Women’s Golf — Warren Golf Course, Cross Country — Notre Dame Golf Course, Men’s and Women’s Tennis — Eck Tennis Pavillion 

August 


20 Men’s Soccer vs. Xavier 7 p.m.  21  22  23  24  25 Men’s Soccer vs. Duke 7:30 p.m.  26 Women’s Soccer vs. East Carolina 1 p.m.  

27  28  29  30  31 Volleyball vs. UAB 7 p.m.  Women’s Soccer vs. Santa Clara 7:30 p.m.  

September  1 Football vs. Navy (Dublin) 9 a.m. Volleyball vs. Buffalo 7 p.m.  2 Women’s Soccer vs. North Carolina 1:30 p.m. Volleyball vs. Eastern Kentucky 2 p.m.  

3  4  5  6  7  8  9  
Men’s Soccer vs.  Football vs. Purdue  Men’s Soccer vs.  
Oregon State 7:30 p.m.  3:30 p.m.  Akron 2:15 p.m.  

10 11 1213 
14 
Cross Country — National Catholic Championship 
3:30p.m. 
Women’s Soccer vs. Louisville 4 p.m. Volleyball vs. Xavier 
7 p.m. 
Men’s Soccer vs. Michigan State 
7 p.m. 

15 16 
Football @ Michigan Women’s Soccer vs. State Cincinnati 
8 p.m. 1 p.m. 
Volleyball vs. Loyola Volleyball vs. Kansas Marymount 
1 p.m. 1 p.m. 
17  18  19  20  21 Women’s Soccer vs. Pittsburgh 7:30 p.m.  22 Football vs. Michigan 7:30 p.m.  23 Women’s Soccer vs. Oakland 1 p.m.  

24 25 2627 282930 
Cross Country Volleyball vs. Volleyball vs. 
— Notre Dame Marquette Syracuse 
Invitational 2 p.m. 2 p.m. 2 p.m. 
October 

1  2  3 Men’s Soccer vs. Pittsburgh 7 p.m.  4  5 Men’s Tennis — Tom Fallon Invitational Women’s Soccer vs. Seton Hall 7:30 p.m.  

6 

Football vs. Miami (Chicago) 
7:30p.m. 

Men’s Tennis — Tom 
Fallon Invitational Men’s Soccer vs. Georgetown 
2 p.m. 

Volleyball vs. Connecticut 
2 p.m. 
7 
Men’s Tennis — Tom 
Fallon Invitational Women’s Soccer vs. Rutgers 
1 p.m. 
Volleyball vs. St. John’s 
2 p.m. 
Hockey vs. USA U-18s 
5:05p.m. 

8 Men’s Golf — Fighting Irish Gridiron Golf Classic  9 Men’s Golf — Fighting Irish Gridiron Golf Classic  10  11  12 Women’s Swimming — Dennis Stark Relays 5 p.m.  13 Football vs. Stanford 3:30 p.m.  14  


THE OBSERVER | SATURDAY, AUGUST 18, 2012 | NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 

MEN’S BASKETBALL 

Summer practice leads to big gains for Irish 
By MATTHEW DEFRANKS 
Assistant Sports Editor 

Despite new heightened wexpectations and a spiffy new court, the 2012-13 Irish will be all about continu­ity after an offseason that saw graduate student guard Scott Martin return for a sixth year and coach Mike Brey receive a 10-year con­tract extension. 
Notre Dame will bring back all five starters — in­cluding senior forward and Big East Most Improved Player Jack Cooley — from last year’s squad that bowed out to Xavier in the sec­ond round of the NCAA tournament. 
“Some coaches say ‘Good news, we have all five start­ers back but we only won seven games last year.’ We have all five starters back from a team that won 22 games,” Brey said. 
Junior guards Eric Atkins and Jerian Grant will anchor the backcourt after combin­ing to average more than 24 points and six assists per game. Sophomore forward Pat Connaughton will come back after a late-season surge that saw him start the final 15 games last year. 
Due to a change in NCAA rules that now allow coach­es two hours a week with the team, the Irish were able to practice seven times this summer. The recruit­ing period was also cut from 20 days to 12 days, which prevented burnout among the staff. Brey said the two changes made for a much-improved summer. 
“It was energizing for me,” Brey said. “When you get back from the road, you get to work with your team. I was able to teach this sum­mer, which is what they hired me to do.” 
The added time gave Brey and the coaching staff more opportunities to work with the heralded class of fresh­man — ranked 21st in the country by Rivals.com — comprised of Austin Burgett and four-star recruits Cameron Biedscheid and Zach Auguste. 
Brey said the freshmen added between eight and 11 pounds of good weight over the summer while preparing for the upcoming season. 
“All three of them picked it up quick,” Brey said. “I was very impressed with all three of them.” 
In addition to the three freshmen, Notre Dame will also add senior center Garrick Sherman and fresh­man forward Eric Katenda. Sherman sat out last sea­son after transferring from Michigan State, and Katenda practiced minimally with the team after losing vision his left eye during a pickup game accident. 
With the addition of five new bodies to the fray, Brey said he doesn’t have a set ro­tation number in mind. 
“Garrick Sherman, to me, is like a sixth starter with watching him in prac­tice and the experience he brings from his days at Michigan State,” Brey said. “[The five starters and Sherman] are going to play a lot of minutes. Then it’s a matter of [senior forward] Tom Knight, the freshmen, [senior guard] Joey Brooks. Who is going to speak up for some more minutes?” 
While the entire regular season schedule has not yet been released, a few mar­quee non-conference games stick out for the Irish, high­lighted by defending nation­al champion Kentucky’s trip to Purcell Pavilion on Nov. 29. 
Notre Dame will compete in the Coaches vs. Cancer Classic at the new home of the NBA’s Brooklyn Nets in mid-November, featuring St. 
“Some coaches say ‘Good news, we have all five starters back but we only won seven games last year.’ We have all five starters back from a team that won 22 games.” 
Mike Brey 
Irish  coach 

Joseph’s (Penn.), Brigham Young and Florida State. In December, the team will play Indiana in the Crossroads Classic in Indianapolis. 
Notre Dame will also play every Big East team, includ­ing home-and-home sets with Cincinnati, DePaul, Louisville and St. John’s. 
While heavy preseason expectations and rankings have been placed on the Irish, Brey said he has set a goal of his own. 
“I told our group after the Xavier loss ‘I want us to think about a Big East regu­lar season championship,’” Brey said. “We’ve been very close. We’ve been right there. It would be as big an achievement as anything in our basketball history.” 
The Irish will open their season in November. 
Contact Matthew Defranks at mdefrank@nd.edu 





ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 

Irish take positives from championship defeat 
Three new freshmen ready to impress in the wake of departing seniors as McGraw looks to postseason games 
By MATTHEW ROBISON 
Sports Writer 
Coming off its second straight appearance in the NCAA title game, Notre Dame realizes it has plenty to take away from last season as well as a lot to improve upon. 
The Irish fell 80-61 to Baylor and center Brittney Griner on April 3 in Denver. After beating Connecticut in a barn-burning semifinal when a last-second layup by departing senior guard Natalie Novosel sent the game into overtime, the Irish hit an undefeated juggernaut. But Irish coach Muffet McGraw, who signed a 10-year contract exten­sion this offseason, expressed nothing but pride in her team’s accomplishments. 
“It was another great season,” McGraw said. “It was just an un­believable performance by so many people to get us back to the Final Four and then to beat Connecticut in one of the best games, I think, ever in the Final Four.” 
The bitter taste of defeat never quite leaves a team’s tongue, es­pecially when it was so close to sweet moment of raising the na­tional championship trophy. But McGraw said Notre Dame will begin the upcoming season with a renewed attitude. 
“Coming off a great season, it’s tough to not win the last game,” McGraw said. “But Baylor was obviously an exceptional team, going undefeated. We lost a lot of people, some great players. So we will be trying to build it back and rely on some freshmen. Some players who didn’t have as big of a role last year will have to take on some bigger roles.” 
Notre Dame lost a strong corps of seniors in forward Devereaux Peters and guards Fraderica Miller, Natalie Novosel and Brittany Mallory. 
Peters was an intimidating inside presence, Notre Dame’s leading rebounder and post de­fender who was drafted No. 3 overall in the 2012 WNBA Draft by the Minnesota Lynx. Miller was a fierce defender with quick hands and great athleticism, while Mallory was a defensive specialist and knock-down 3-point shooter. 
Novosel, last year’s hero in the Final Four, scored 978 points in her career and was an offensive catalyst. Novosel went No. 8 in the draft to the Washington Mystics. The trio of Peters, Novosel and Mallory tied the school record by starting all 39 games last season. 
But the Irish bring in three strong players in a highly touted recruiting class. 
“I’m really excited about our class,” McGraw said. “They are just exactly what we needed.” 
The Irish have three new freshman guards on the roster: Hannah Huffman, Michaela Mabrey and Jewell Loyd. 
“[Huffman] is a very versatile player,” McGraw said. “She’s a guard. She will be able to post up and score and rebound and do a lot of things for us.” 


The Concord, Calif., native committed to Notre Dame the night before the national cham­pionship matchup, fulfilling a lifelong dream. Her father, Lon, played golf for the Irish and is a 1986 graduate. 
“Michaela Mabrey is a three-point shooter who can also quickly.” 


Diggins led the Irish last sea­son in points, assists and steals. Her defensive tenacity and light­ning-quick footwork make her a nightmare for opposing squads while also allowing her to get out in transition and push the tempo. 
“We’re going to play the same style we played last year — play a lot of up-tempo, hope to score a lot of points and play good de­fense,” McGraw said. 
When it comes to goals expec­tations for the 2012-13 season, play the point,” McGraw said. “She’s got really good basketball instincts.” 
Mabrey, the Gatorade Girls’ Basketball Player of the Year in 

“I think that Skylar is going to set the tone when she’s got the ball in her hands and get 
us in gear quickly.” 
Muffet McGraw Irish coach 
New Jersey, averaged 17 points, 
6.5 rebounds and 5.9 assists dur­ing her senior year. Loyd is the No. 3-ranked player in the 2012 class and the No. 1-ranked play­er at her position. She is a scoring guard and a tremendous athlete. 
“[Loyd] can do a lot of things,” McGraw said. “She’s definitely someone we’re going to count on to score, and also to rebound and contribute. All three of them, we’re expecting them to contribute as freshmen.” 
Although Notre Dame lost three key veterans, it returns its tone-setter — All-American se­nior guard Skylar Diggins. 
“We return [Diggins] and [senior guard] Kaila Turner as our captains,” McGraw said. “Certainly over the years, hav­ing had the experiences they’ve gotten here, we expect that they will set the tone early. I think that we can count on that. I think that Skylar is going to set the tone when she’s got the ball in her hands and get us in gear McGraw and the Irish keep it simple. 
“Our goal is the same every year — we want to get better ev­ery game,” she said. “We want to be playing our best basketball in March. That is really our goal. We’re going to keep it simple early because we have some new people. “ 
The Irish have a tough slate for the upcoming season, but it is all about preparing for postsea­son play. Notre Dame will face Connecticut twice in a home­and-home series in the Big East. Including postseason play, the Irish faced the Huskies four times in each of the past two seasons. Last year, the Irish took three of the four. 
“We’ll probably take a few lumps early on in the sched­ule because we do have a tough schedule,” McGraw said. “But we plan on being ready in March.” 
Contact Matthew Robison at mrobison@nd.edu 


THE OBSERVER | SATURDAY, AUGUST 18, 2012 | NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 

Kelly 
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 28 
football team,” Kelly said. “Really pleased with our team, proud of the way they’ve gone to work each day, and have really benefitted from the teaching.” 
Kelly said the need to prepare multiple quarterbacks has shifted 
“I mean on both sides of the line, we’re going to be able to physically handle ourselves in the trenches against anyone in the country.” 
Brian Kelly 
Irish coach 
the emphasis in camp from indi­vidual drills to team exercises. 
“As you know, trying to get a new quarterback ready has … made our practices more about 11-on-11 because that’s what we have to get ready for,” he said. “A lot of guys have gotten reps and work.” 
The Irish coaching staff entered fall camp with a four-way quar­terback race to decide, and with two weeks before the Emerald Isle Classic in Dublin, the decision has been narrowed to two inex­perienced but talented options. Rees’ suspension and freshman Gunner Kiel’s inexperience in Kelly’s system mean either Golson or Hendrix will take their first snap as a starting quarterback on Sept. 1. Hendrix saw spot duty as Rees’ backup and a change­of-pace option during the 2011 season, throwing for 249 yards and a touchdown while rushing for 162 yards and another touch­down. Golson spent 2011 on the scout team, running opposing offenses in practice. Kelly said his preference is to see either Golson or Hendrix step up and grab the starting spot to avoid having to play two signal-callers. 
“I’ve played two quarterbacks [in my career] only because I’ve had to play two quarterbacks,” he said. “I don’t think I want to have two quarterbacks. I’d rather have one guy make himself known to everybody that he’s the starter. You always love to have a No. 2 that can go right on in for you. But I wouldn’t subscribe to the fact that two is necessarily where we want to be. I’d like to have a single person.” 
Beyond the quarterback posi­tion, Kelly said he is impressed with his team’s strength on both sides of the ball at the line of scrimmage. The Irish return standout offensive linemen in senior Zack Martin, graduate stu­dent Braxston Cave and senior Chris Watt. Two top defensive ends in graduate student Kapron Lewis-Moore and sophomore Stephon Tuitt bolster the defen­sive line. 


“I think we’re really good up the Fielding a group of young and how successful we are,” he said.” middle, to use a baseball term,” inexperienced wide receivers and The Irish will begin their season Kelly said. “I mean on both sides cornerbacks, Kelly indicated a at Aviva Stadium in Ireland as they of the line, we’re going to be able need to see continued develop-take on Navy in Dublin on Sept. 1. to physically handle ourselves in ment of his perimeter skill players. the trenches against anyone in the “I think that development will Contact Chris Allen at country. That’s a good feeling.” go a long way toward determining callen10@nd.edu 




YOUR COMIC HERE | 


YOUR COMIC HERE | 


CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Cam Gigandet, 30; Steve Carell, 50; Angela 
Bassett, 54; Madonna, 54. Happy Birthday: Question your past and make alterations to ensure that what you do in the future is beneficial and geared toward reaching your goals. Change is upon you, and fighting the inevitable is a losing battle. Point yourself in a posi­tive direction and you will conquer any adversity you encounter along the way. Mind over matter. Your numbers are 6, 15, 23, 26, 31, 39, 43. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Network, share your interests and expand your friendships and business relationships. Take care of your health and avoid mak­ing decisions based on incomplete evidence. Time is on your side, so relax and focus on what’s best for you. 

TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Don’t make choices based on hearsay. It’s important to find out firsthand what is expected and what you can do to keep the peace. Schedule a meeting with someone you feel has the experience or knowledge you require. 


GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You’ll learn a lot from a friend or relative if you discuss your options. Alternative choices can be implemented simply, if you are open to trying something new. A work relationship will grow if you inspire one another to be more creative. 

CANCER (June 21-July 22): Don’t let the past hold you back. Take care of matters that will make you look bad if not addressed. A change of plan or direction will cause stress. Try to continue moving forward regardless of what someone else chooses to do. 


LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Finish what you start or you will send out a negative signal. Emotions may surface, but if you let your feelings deter you from reaching your goals, you will lose confidence and the support of individuals you need on your team. 


VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Deliver what you promise. It will be difficult to maintain a good reputation if you keep changing your mind. Your best efforts will develop by putting your experience and efficiency to work. Grant favors and win support. 


LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): Do your own thing and you’ll attract positive attention. A change in your relationships can be expected. Learn from your past mistakes and rekindle friendships you miss. Love may hold you back if you are stuck in a stagnant relationship. 


SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Being secretive will save you from loss. Focus your attention on personal changes that show your skills in an unusual way. Keeping up with the times while holding on to tradition and cultural beliefs will pay off. 


SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Take care of important matters before you move on to pleasurable pastimes. A financial gain will result if you are conscien­tious and industrious. You are overdue for a personal change that will ease stress and improve your romantic life. 

CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Keep a tight grip on your money. A partnership based on give-and-take can turn into a lifelong relationship. Don’t be afraid to use unusual tactics to get your way. Catching someone off guard will help you gain control. 


AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Put greater faith in a partnership. You stand to gain personally and professionally if you are easy to get along with. You can gain much from expanding your interests and respecting others. Sign contracts and deal with pending settlements. 

PISCES (Feb. 19- March 20): Keep on top of the way you feel and how you affect others. Love is highlighted, and special plans will be well-received. A change at work may lead to uncertainty, but the outcome will benefit you in the end. 


Birthday Baby: You have great staying power. You are intelligent, quick-witted and persistent. 

Make checks payable to and mail to:  The Observer  
P.O. Box 779  
Notre Dame, IN 46556 
 Enclosed is $130 for one academic year 
 Enclosed is $75 for one semester  
Name  


Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found the Observer an 
indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying  Address  
form and mail it today to receive the Observer in your home.  
City  State  Zip  


THE OBSERVER | SATURDAY, AUGUST 18, 2012 | NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
FOOTBALL 

Foreign affairs 
Team enters uncharted waters in Kelly’s third season 

By CHRIS ALLEN 
Sports Editor 
The beginning of Irish coach Brian Kelly’s third season in charge of Notre Dame will have a decidedly foreign feel. The first snap of the Irish opener against Navy on Sept. 1 will be taken in a foreign country by a quarter­back in a foreign position: Notre Dame starter. 
With junior Tommy Rees — the only quarterback on Notre Dame’s roster with starting ex­perience — suspended for the opener, the Irish will turn to a newcomer to start at the most important position on the field. 
While he chooses between ju­nior Andrew Hendrix and soph­omore Everett Golson to lead the offense, Kelly said during a Media Day press conference Thursday he is optimistic about his team based on the work the team has put in dur­ing fall practice. 
“We’ve been in camp so we’ve gotten a great look at our football team over the past couple of weeks and in my mind answered a lot of the questions that I had about our 
see KELLY PAGE 26 
MEN’S SOCCER 

Irish look to answer questions on defense 
By JOSEPH MONARDO 
Sports Writer 
Following a season filled with expectation that concluded in disappointment, the 2012 edi­tion of the Irish will look to veter­an captains for leadership after several key departures. 
Last year the Irish (9-4-4, 5-3­1 Big East) failed to qualify for the NCAA tournament for the first time in 11 years after they were ousted as the No. 4 seed in the first round of the conference tournament by fifth-seeded Villanova. Selected by the Big East coaches to finish second in the division this year, the Irish are poised to show significant improvement from last season’s campaign, co-captain senior midfielder Dillon Powers said. 
“I think the team made some strides over the spring,” he said. “I think there were some guys on the team who were really fed up with not getting the results we want. Some guys have grown up and become more competitive.” 
Powers will serve as a team captain for the second consecu­tive year and will partner with co-captain and fifth-year senior midfielder Michael Rose, who assumes captaincy duties for the first time. 
Notre Dame returns the team’s top six point scorers from last year, including 2011 points lead­er senior forward Ryan Finley, but faces significant questions on defense after the graduation of three seniors from the start­ing back line — Michael Knapp, Greg Klazura and Aaron Maund. Klazura and Maund joined for­mer Irish midfielder Brendan King as players selected in January’s Major League Soccer draft. 
The departure of three ten­ured defenders leaves senior defender Grant Van De Casteele as the only returning starter for the Irish defense, but senior de­fender Luke Mishu has also seen significant action coming off the bench. 
“Obviously we’ve got a lot of new faces in the defense,” Irish coach Bobby Clark said. 
“It’s a little challenge, an unknown.” 
With preseason play already underway, Notre Dame kicks off the regular season with an August 25 home matchup against Duke before meetings with Clemson, San Diego State, Oregon State and 2010 national champion Akron in the first two weeks of the season. 
“We have a phenomenal schedule, we play a lot of good teams,” Clark said. “I think we try to play teams from different regions. The trick is not just to play them, but to play them and beat them. That’s the trick if we really want it to give us an ad­vantage [in NCAA tournament 
see POWERS PAGE 18 
ND WOMEN’S SOCCER 

Young team hopes to continue winning tradition 
By JACK HEFFERON 
Sports Writer 
Even with a young and un­proven team, unresolved posi­tion battles, and an incredibly difficult schedule, the Irish will enter this season with the same expectation as ever — to be in the running for a national championship. 
After a first-round exit in the NCAA tournament last year, Notre Dame enters into this season with plenty of concerns, chief among them the team’s inexperience. 
Eighteen of the 25 players on the current roster were still in high school when Notre Dame beat Stanford for the program’s third national championship just 20 months ago. Twelve of those players are incoming freshmen, forming one of Notre Dame’s largest — and best — recruiting classes ever. Ranked as the No. 1 class in the country, there’s no question these freshmen are talented. 
As such a huge portion of the team, Irish coach Randy Waldrum expects them to come in and make an immediate impact. 
“We’re going to have to be playing some young players,” Waldrum said. “There’s no two ways about that. We’ve had six freshmen in the starting lineup so far in the preseason, so they’re going to gain their experience by playing.” 
And while the roster may be dominated by underclassmen, the team’s experienced players will determine how quickly the team can adjust and excel. Led by its captains, senior Jazmin Hall and juniors Elizabeth Tucker and 
see CAPTAINS PAGE 18 







