THE INDEPENDENT TO UNCOVER NEWSPAPER SERVING THE TRUTH NOTRE DAME AND AND REPORT SAINT MARY’S IT ACCURATELY 

VOLUME 46, ISSUE 8 | THURSDAY, AUGUST 30, 2012 | NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
 ‘A fresh look’ 
University President Fr. John Jenkins discusses non-discrimination clause, other issues for 2012-13 school year 
By MEGAN DOYLE 

Managing Editor 
Editor’s Note: This story is the first installment in a two-part se­ries on Jenkins’ voice in these on­going conversations in the Notre Dame community. This story is also the first of three similar series on the Notre Dame presidency to appear in coming weeks. 
God. Country. Notre Dame. 
For students here, those three words are a mantra, a proud refrain. 
For University President Fr. John Jenkins, those three words are his entire life. 
“As president of Notre Dame, I live in three worlds,” Jenkins said. “One is the world of higher education, one is the world of Catholicism and religion and the other is the world of our nation, the United States of America.” 
The upcoming year will be an especially poignant cross of those three worlds for Jenkins, who be­gan his presidency in 2005. 
The University, as one of the premier Catholic colleges in the nation, is challenging the contraception mandate in the Affordable Care Act as an over­step of the government’s rights against religious organizations. 
see JENKINS PAGE 7 




Irish band wakes up the echoes in Dublin 

By SAM STRYKER 
Assistant Managing Editor 
DUBLIN — Golden helmets. The Leprechaun. The “Notre Dame Victory March.” And of course, the Band of the Fighting Irish. 
These are the ingredients to the most classic of University recipes — a Notre Dame foot­ball weekend. And even though the season-opener for the Irish will be held in Dublin, expect the ingredients to be the same 
— including the presence of the band. 
On Wednesday, approxi­mately 165 students left campus on their way to Ireland for this weekend’s Emerald Isle Classic. Band director Ken Dye said this number does not represent the entire marching band. Students applied in the spring to travel on the trip, and this group earned their tickets to Ireland based on seniority and service. 
“The trip is a special oppor­tunity for our students to expe­rience a Notre Dame football game in a foreign country,” Dye said. “Many of our students have Irish heritage and have an appreciation for Ireland and her people.” 
Band members who made the trip to Ireland have been preparing for the event for months, Dye said. Participants had to prepare music over the summer so they would arrive on campus in “mid-season form,” and they have been practic­ing daily since Aug. 18 on top of their regular marching band obligations. 
“We have treated the Ireland Band as a separate band in ad­dition to our 2012 Marching Band,” he said. “The band staff has been working over a year to write Irish Band music and work through all the travel logistics.” 
see BAND PAGE 9 


Eddy Street stores diversify 
By MEL FLANAGAN 
News Writer 
Eddy Street Commons will enhance its options for stu­dents with two new additions this fall. GNC, a nutritional supplement distributor, will open in the complex tomor­row, and popular conve­
nience  store  7-Eleven  will  
open mid-October.  
Andrew  Hasbrook,  in- 

house leasing manager of Kite Realty, said many businesses 

vied to fill the open spots in Eddy Street Commons. 
“The landlord has worked with thousands of interested parties since the onset of the development and continues to do so, working to provide the best mix for the shop­ping center, on-site residents and office employees at Eddy Street, the community of South Bend and for the stu­dent body,” Hasbrook said. 
The realty chose GNC and 7-Eleven for their national recognition and the conve­nience they will offer nearby students and homeowners, Hasbrook said. 
“GNC will offer health and nutrition supplements that are very popular, especially to a younger demographic,” he said. “7-Eleven will pro­vide students, residents and office employees a conve­nience store within walking distance.” 
see EDDY PAGE 7 


ND grads take final vows 
By TORI ROECK 
News Writer 
On Saturday, three Notre Dame graduates professed fi­nal vows of poverty, chastity and obedience during their ordination as deacons in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart. 
Alumni Brian Ching, Mark DeMott and Jarrod Waugh have nearly completed the process of becoming Holy Cross priests and will be or­dained priests in April 2013. 
After this weekend’s ordina­tion, DeMott said the group gains new responsibilities from their profession. 
“Becoming a deacon is the 
see DEACONS PAGE 9 


HAUNTED ND PAGE 5 SAFETY SUMMIT PAGE 5 VIEWPOINT PAGE 9 SCENE PAGE 12 WAKING THE ECHOES PAGE 24 



ndsmcobserver.com 

P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
Allan Joseph 

Managing Editor  Business Manager
                  Megan Doyle  Jeff Liptak 

Asst. Managing Editor: Andrew Owens 
Asst. Managing Editor: Sam Stryker News Editor: John Cameron News Editor: Kristen Durbin 

Viewpoint Editor: Meghan Thomassen Sports Editor: Chris Allen Scene Editor: Kevin Noonan Saint Mary’s Editor: Jillian Barwick Photo Editor: Suzanna Pratt Graphics Editor: Brandon Keelean Multimedia Editor: Sarah O’Connor Advertising Manager: Monica McCormack Ad Design Manager: Sara Hilstrom Controller: Peter Woo Systems Administrator: William Heineman 

Office Manager & General Info 
Ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ajoseph2@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 mdoyle11@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 aowens2@nd.edu sstryke1@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 

Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 

Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 


Scene Desk 

(574) 631-4540 Observer.Scene.Editor@gmail.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
jbarwi01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 


Policies 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper 
published in print and online by the students of the 
University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s 
College.  Editorial content, including advertisements, is 
not governed by policies of the administration of either 
institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse 
advertisements based on content. 

The news is reported as accurately and objectively 
as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion 
of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, 
Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. 
Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of 
the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include 
contact information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed 
to Editor-in-Chief Allan Joseph. 

Post Office Information The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The Observer is published at: 024 South Dining Hall Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame and additional mailing offices POSTMASTER Send address corrections to: The Observer P.O. Box 779 024 South Dining hall Notre Dame, IN 46556-077 The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
News 
Kristen Durbin Nicole Michels Rebecca O’Neil 
Graphics 
Brandon Keelean 
Photo 
Mackenzie Sain 
Sports 

Andrew Gastelum Mike Monaco Laura Coletti 
Scene 

Maria Fernandez 
Viewpoint 

Caroline Lang 


Have a question you want answered? 
Email obsphoto@gmail.com 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
What would you do for a Klondike Bar? 

Amy Klopfenstein 
junior 
Ryan Hall 

“Pat my head and rub my tummy at the same time.” 
Brad Stalcup 
sophomore 
Fisher Hall 
“Eat at North Dining Hall.” 
Bridget Bruns 
freshman 
Lewis Hall 
“Climb a mountain.” 


Danielle Valcourt 
sophomore 
Welsh Family Hall 
“Run the Holy Half.” 
Johanna Blake 
freshman Welsh Family Hall 
“I would do five ‘I’m a star’ [jumps].” 
Lexi Klaus 
freshman 
Farley Hall 
“Climb four flights of stairs of Farley.” 

Want your event included here? 
Email obsnews@gmail.com 
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 
Thursday  Friday  Saturday  Sunday  Monday  
Cassatt Exhibit  Women’s Volleyball  Vigil Mass  Women’s Soccer  Labor Day  
Snite Museum  Joyce Center  Basilica of the Sacred  Alumni Stadium  Campus-wide  
10 a.m.-5 p.m.  7 p.m.-9 p.m.  Heart  1:30 p.m.-3:30 p.m.  Administrative offices  
Impressionist  ND vs. Alabama  5 p.m.-6 p.m.  ND vs. North Carolina  closed all day.  
paintings on display.  
Architecture Exhibit  Women’s Soccer  Women’s Volleyball  Women’s Volleyball  New Media: From the  
Bond Hall  Alumni Stadium  Joyce Center  Joyce Center  Middle Ages to the  
11 a.m.  7:30 p.m.-9:30 p.m.  7 p.m.-9 p.m.  2 p.m.-4 p.m.  Digital Age  
Sketches by Brian  ND vs. Santa Clara  ND vs. Buffalo  ND vs. Eastern  O’Shaughnessy Hall  
Kelly, ND ‘81  Kentucky  5 p.m.-7 p.m.  
“Hey Babe, What’s  
Your Sign?”  

Corrections 

An article in the Aug. 29 edition of The Observer accurately reported on an initiative to restructure Notre Dame’s budget. However, the headline, “Initiative to trim University budget,” was inaccurate. As the story explained, the budget was repurposed but not reduced. The Observer regrets this error. 


Senior studies local ecology 
By BRIDGET FEENEY 
Associate St. Mary’s Editor 
While many students in­terned with businesses to advance their careers or traveled to sunny beaches for vacation this summer, senior Allison Zandarski completed biological re­search and presented it at a conference in Alaska. 
Zandarski and Amy Gillan, assistant professor of teacher education, collaborated over the summer on research, experiments and investiga­tions as part of their Student Independent Study and Research (SISTAR) grant. Awarded in the spring, the grant pairs a faculty member and a student to work on a scholarly or creative project together. 
Zandarski said the SISTAR grant facilitated a great summer learning experi­ence that will prove valuable beyond her time at Saint Mary’s. 
“I learned that no mat­ter how crazy or impossible your dream seems you have to be faithful and diligent in order to achieve it,” she said. “Dr. Gillan has helped me to understand that no mat­ter the odds, you have to do what makes you happy or else you’re almost guaran­teed to be the opposite.” 
A biology major, Zandarski was awarded the grant to an­alyze and study the potential restoration of a freshwater lake near Saint Mary’s and document the pair’s collab­orative efforts and findings. 

“Allison studied a near­by lake from an ecological stance and I documented her work in order to create video-supported curricula to support a ‘flipped class­room’ model of science edu­cation,” said Gillan. 
The grant, which stipu­lates the recipients must spend eight weeks during the summer between the student’s junior and senior year researching a scholarly project, also gave Zandarski and Gillan the opportunity to travel in June when the pair flew to Alaska to pres­ent their research at the National Marine Educators Conference. 
Zandarski and Gillan said the trip to Alaska was the highlight of their SISTAR experience. 
“Traveling to Alaska was definitely my favorite part,” Zandarski said. “Dr. Gillan and I got to see a lot of the Alaskan countryside and do a lot of fun stuff like hiking, biking and climbing gla­ciers. It was so great and I got to learn a lot about ma­rine life and how we affect the environment.” 
Gillan said the trip was a 
PAID ADVERTISEMENT 

one-of-a-kind experience that strengthened her bond with Zandarski. 
“Our trip to Alaska to present our research at the National Marine Educators Conference in June was the icing on the cake,” she said. “We started out with a great working relationship that morphed into a friendship that will last a lifetime.” 
Despite their strong work­ing relationship and produc­tive trip to Alaska, Gillan and Zandarski both said the summer was not without its problems. 
“The physical work at the lake was by far the most challenging aspect,” said Gillan. “It was hot and dirty work — shoveling the lake muck, siphoning lake water with a cantankerous gas-powered pump and hauling the 12 horse troughs that we used for the microcosms.” 
But Zandarski said she refused to allow these set­backs to ruin her summer or negatively impact her work by maintaining a positive attitude. 
“My motto for the summer was ‘Just keep testing,’” she said. “Truly the way I over came the many discourage­ments was just by staying positive and organized.” 
Contact Bridget Feeney at bfeene01@saintmarys.edu 
Belles explore student clubs 

By CAILIN CROWE 
News Writer 
Saint Mary’s students took a break from studying to explore their extracurricu­lar options at the College’s annual Activities Night on Wednesday. 
Assistant director of stu­dent involvement Joy Usner said Activities Night allows clubs to recruit new and en­thusiastic members. 
“Activities Night is a way for our current student or­ganizations to advertise and recruit new members and get involved on campus,” Usner said. “It’s a really fun night for people to come out and see all of the different clubs they might not know about.” 
Junior Kat Sullivan, vice president of external affairs for the Student Government Association (SGA), communi­cated with campus club presi­dents and local organizations in the South Bend community to organize Activities Night. 
“A lot of my job is to make sure everything comes to­gether smoothly,” Sullivan said. “We have a great group of people here who work re­ally hard every year to put on this event.” 
Sullivan collaborat­ed with the Office of Student Involvement and Multicultural Services to con­tact the participating clubs and organizations, Stephanie Steward-Bridges, director of multicultural services and student programs, said. 
“We work with Kat Sullivan to help her put together Activities Night,” Bridges said. “She sends out the in­formation to reserve tables, and we assist her with giving [her] the list of recognized organizations on campus.” Attending Activities Night and learning about the wealth of extracurricular opportuni­ties available on campus is something of a rite of passage for students. Senior Danielle Smith said she still remem­bers her first hectic night at the event. 
“Activities Night was a bit overwhelming my first year because it was inside the Student Center and was kind of cramped,” Smith said. “I like it much better this year 
“Activities Night is a way for our current student organizations to advertise and recruit new members and get involved on campus.” 
Joy Usner 
Assistant director of student 
involvement 
because it’s outside with a DJ, and you can dance to the music as you sign up for your clubs.” 
The large number of clubs both excited and over­whelmed students. Freshman Natalie Hartman said she signed up for so many clubs she could not keep track of them all. 
“I know I signed up for Friends with Sisters, Dance Marathon and Environmental Club,”,she said. “The people here are so friendly that it’s easy to ask questions and get involved.” 
Freshman Kristin Linkowskieshe said she plans to join several athletic and outdoor clubs. 
“I signed up for intermural volleyball, ultimate Frisbee, camping, fishing, disc golf, outing, water ski team and about ten other clubs,” Linkowski said. 
Contact Cailin Crowe at ccrowe01@saintmarys.edu 


PAID ADVERTISEMENT 




Summit urges student caution 
By MADDIE DALY 
News Writer 
Students at Wednesday’s Student Safety Summit talk­ed with local and campus police officers about how to be safe both on and off campus. 
All seven officers at the summit, representatives from Notre Dame Security Police (NDSP) and the South Bend Police Department (SPBD), stressed the impor­tance of sticking with friends from the beginning of the night to the end. 
NDSP Deputy Chief Dave Chapman said walking alone is a recipe for crime, espe­cially at night. South Bend is not a bad place to live, he said, but every city has dangerous citizens against whom residents need to pro­tect themselves. 
“It’s just the perfect tar­get for some people in South Bend whose lifetime goal it is to rob someone,” Chapman said. 
On campus, Chapman said there has never been forced entry during a robbery in residence halls across cam­pus. Dorm robberies occur when students simply leave their doors open with valu­ables in sight, Chapman said. 
“The only way to prevent crime from happening on campus is for you guys to help each other,” he said. 

Students can be vigilant and avoid crime on campus by locking doors, walking in groups and using common sense, Chapman said. 
Sgt. Ally Taylor of the Indiana State Excise Police explained while most police officers cover a single town, city or county, her fellow of­ficers have jurisdiction over 12 counties. 
“Our goal is to look for criminal activity and minors in possession of alcohol,” Taylor said. 
Students at the Summit ex­pressed curiosity about the Excise Police, asking spe­cific questions about alcohol laws. For instance, a minor riding in a car with alcohol does not break any laws as long as he or she is not physi­cally touching or in posses­sion of it, Taylor said. 
Law enforcers also pay at­tention to some little-known state laws and encourage students to become familiar with them as well, no matter how unusual they may seem. St. Joseph County Deputy Prosecutor Eric Tamashasky said one “crazy Indiana state law” is one preventing peo­ple under age 21 from driv­ing a person older than 21 who has been drinking. 
But the No. 1 problem for authorities is when students talk back, claiming to know more about the law than the officers themselves. Chapman said most arrests carried out by police around campus occur due to rude and irreverent behavior to­ward the law enforcement officials. 
“Believe it or not, police do have discretion,” Chapman said. 
If respect is upheld on both ends, Taylor said students could maintain a mutually friendly relationship with authorities. 
“As long as you are re­spectful, you will get respect back,” she said. 
At the end of the dis­cussion, SBPD Capt. Scott Ruszkowski said students should be smart when con­sidering personal safety. 
“Common sense is going to be the No. 1 lifesaver you have,” he said. 
After thanking the officers and emphasizing the grow­ing relationship between the police force and Notre Dame’s student government, student body vice president Katie Rose concluded the summit with some advice for students. 
“We’re inviting our­selves into South Bend as guests,” she said. “Be good neighbors.” 
Contact Maddie Daly at   mdaly6@nd.edu 
PAID ADVERTISEMENT 


Notre Dame, ghost breeding ground 
By ANNA BOARINI 
News Writer 
Ghost stories, narratives of university legends roam­ing campus with unfinished business and student-spun tall tales all add mystique to 
university  campuses  across  
the United States.  
Matthew  Swayne,  author  

of the new book “America’s Haunted Universities: Ghosts that Roam Hallowed Halls,” became intrigued by such stories while researching a Halloween-themed news­paper piece. “The actual idea took shape … trying to find some material for a Halloween issue, I found some stories about a near­by university, Penn State,” he said. ““I was born on Halloween, so I suppose that has something to do with 
“I visited the Notre Dame campus a few years ago and it just had this historic, spiritual aura that I knew was going to make a fertile ground for haunted tales.” 
Matthew Swayne 
Author 
[writing the book].”Swayne said he was struck by the number of eerie stories he dug up while researching what would become his book, especially because people usually think of universities as havens of science and rea­son, not the supernatural. 
“Why are there so many ghost stories on campus? It fascinated me so much that I started collecting stories from other universities,” he said. “I also read a lot about the folklore and what role that plays into the creation and spread of ghost stories.” 
The University of Notre Dame and its host of ghost stories caught Swayne’s attention. 
“I visited the Notre Dame campus a few years ago and it just had that historic, spiritu­al aura that I knew was going to make fertile ground for haunted tales,” he said. 
Swayne said campus is very active in terms of folklore and myth but also in a super­natural sense, according to some students he met during his visits to Notre Dame. 
“There are some wild tales, spirits of Native Americans roaming around looking for their burial grounds,” he said. “There are ghost horses 
— a bit unusual for college campuses.” 
Two of Notre Dame’s most famous ghosts, “The Gipper” and University founder Fr. Edward Sorin, play central roles in both fact and legend as well as in the supernatural history of campus, Swayne said. 
“If I were taking a ghost tour on campus, I would want to see Washington Hall where George “The Gipper” Gipp has reportedly been seen … I’d also check out Main Building where Fr. Sorin is said to hang out,” he said. “On the creepier side, a few students have reported their interaction with the spirit world … a couple accounts of anomalous activity, like being pushed by an unseen hand or hearing odd sounds or voices when they were alone.” 
Swayne said he believes Notre Dame’s strong Catholic identity also contributes to the traditions of campus mythology. 
“One thing I found is that universities with an ex­tremely rich history and a well-developed sense of cul­ture have a rich supernatural legacy,” he said. “I also won­der whether the heightened sense of spirituality at Notre Dame doesn’t play a role in the University’s ghost lore.” 
While some students might find haunted tales at their college disconcerting, Swayne said such supernatu­ral legends set schools apart from the rest. 
“Overall it adds to what I call the aura of a school,” he said. “Only great schools have ghosts.” 
Contact Anna  Boarini at aboari01@saintmarys.edu 


PAID ADVERTISEMENT 




university, Notre Dame could also 
Eddy Jenkins 
become the target of high-public-
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1 CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1 

ity lawsuits related to the clause, Greg Hakanen, director of 
The beginning of the school Jenkins said. asset management and real 
year will be followed within “I don’t believe that step [of estate development for Notre 
months by a presidential election, including sexual orientation in Dame, said the University 
as well as state and local elections the non-discrimination clause] has no ability to influence 
around the nation. would achieve the goal of creat­the businesses chosen for 
2013 will see the implementa-ing an environment of welcome, Eddy Street Commons. 
tion of a new strategic plan for the of support,” Jenkins said. “I fear “As the developer of Eddy 
University, and administrators that it would tend to be divisive. Street Commons, Kite Realty 
and students continue to discuss So I am absolutely committed to Group is providing all of the 
the ways in which the school will try to create that environment, capital, doing all of the work 
— and will not —address sexual but I think there are other ways to and taking all of the risk,” 
orientation in its policies and do that.” Hakanen said. “As a result, 
ideals. Jenkins said the community Kite has – must have – full 
In an interview with The has made progress in past years by authority to lease and man-
Observer to begin the 2012-13 embracing the Spirit of Inclusion, age the property in a com-
school year, Jenkins addressed which states Notre Dame wel­mercially-viable manner.” 
these issues and others in depth. comes its LGBTQ community and While the University did 
As the leader in many conver-seeks to create an environment in not have input in the deci­
sations that will define this up-which “none are strangers and all sion, Hakanen said he is sat-
coming year, his words were may flourish.” The University has isfied with the choices Kite been in contact with Lori said. “It’ll also be good for 
soft-spoken but sincere. also established the Core Council Realty has made. Wick, director of marketing students that live there at 
“Any issue that’s controver-for Gay, Lesbian and Bisexual But Kite Realty did take for Kite Realty, about what the Foundry and on Eddy 
sial in the Catholic world or in Students, a group of administra­student preferences into businesses students would Street.” 
the university world becomes tors and students that advises the like to add to the Eddy Street Hasbrook said three emp­
more prominent at Notre Dame,” Vice President for Student Affairs development. ty storefronts remain at 
Jenkins said. “I believe that if we on LGBTQ needs. 
“I think it’s really 

“[We said] we would Eddy Street Commons — a don’t have controversies at a uni-“The non-discrimination 
convenient for 

like a convenience store,” 2,367-square-foet space 
versity, [we’re] failing. Universities clause, I know that’s an issue students that Rocheleau said. “Something between Old National 
are about vigorous discussion of that people are quite concerned live on campus, you can just get groceries Band and 7-Eleven, 2,895 
important issues.” about,” Jenkins said. “But I don’t from or little things students squar-feet between Urban 
One issue under heated debate believe that will achieve the end 
as well as off 

can’t get at the Huddle. It Outfitters and Brothe’s Bar among students and adminis-that is most important.” 
campus, like 

would provide that advan-and Grill and a 1,099-square­
trators in the past year has been Instead, Jenkins also empha­on Notre Dame tage for students that live on foet opening east of Brothe’s 
the issue of sexual orientation at sized the University’s discrimi-Avenue.” campus.” facing Napoleon Street. 
Notre Dame. Following public re-natory harassment policy, which Rocheleau said 7-Eleven “[There is] no news as to 
quests from students and faculty is designed to protect current 
Brett Rocheleau 

and GNC would benefit who will fill these spots at asking the University to improve students and employees from dis-
Student body president 

all students, regardless of this point, but Kite is eval­
inclusion of its lesbian, gay, bisex-crimination and harassment for where they live. uating several options for 
ual, transgender and questioning any reason. account while choosing “I think it’s really con-them currently,” Hasbrook 
(LGBTQ) community, the school “In our academic articles for new tenants for the com-venient for students that said. 
announced last spring it would faculty for promotion and tenure, plex. Student body presi-live on campus, as well as 
not add sexual orientation to its there’s a clause in there about dent Brett Rocheleau said off campus, like on Notre Contact Mel Flanagan at 
non-discrimination clause. the unacceptability of bias that student government had Dame Avenue,” Rocheleau mflanag3@nd.edu 
“At Notre Dame, we do not dis-includes same-sex orientation or criminate on the basis of sexual any other quality where people 
PAID ADVERTISEMENT 

orientation,” Jenkins said. “That’s feel they’ve received bias,” he said. a fundamental thing, but that’s “And just I want to say as president, not the only thing. The Spirit of we don’t tolerate discrimination. Inclusion, which was approved If people feel they are discrimi­by the Board of Fellows, higher nated against, use the hotline. Go than me, the highest level of the to the appropriate authority. Let University, says that not only don’t us know, and we’ll address it.” we discriminate, but we want to Developing a welcoming cul­be a place, an environment, where ture on campus needs to go be-people feel — of same-sex orienta-yond the administrative level, tion, anything else — feel respect-Jenkins said. ed, supported, fully involved in “I think so much of this is this community.” about climate, and it’s not what 
The clause primarily addresses I’m, what the president, is doing discrimination against prospec-in his office,” Jenkins said. “It’s tive students and employees in about what all of us are doing on areas such as admissions, em-campus. I think that’s extremely ployment, scholarships and ath-important, and that’s something letics. The current clause states we work on with hall staff, that’s the University “does not discrimi-something we work on with our nate on the basis of race, color, Student Affairs personnel. … We national or ethnic origin, sex, dis-just have to keep working on it.” ability, veteran status or age.” The Office of Student Affairs 
What the University includes and its newly-appointed Vice in the non-discrimination clause President Erin Hoffman Harding are “all and only” those categories are currently reviewing a propos­required by federal law, Jenkins al to create an official gay-straight said. Other schools that include alliance (GSA) at Notre Dame. sexual orientation in a similar AllianceND, currently campus’s policy usually do so because unofficial GSA, applied for official they are required by state or local club status in February. ordinance. “Are there better structures to 
“If Notre Dame voluntarily took achieve our ends?” Jenkins said. “I this on, our fear is that it would think it’s time for a fresh look.” be seen as a broader and stron­ger commitment with regard to Tomorrow: Jenkins on the same-sex orientation that may University’s lawsuit against the undermine our ability to live in Department of Health and Human accordance with the Catholic Services, the upcoming presidential teaching because we distinguish election and more. between orientation and action,” Jenkins said. Contact Megan Doyle at 
As a prominent Catholic mdoyle11@nd.edu 


PAID ADVERTISEMENT 




in Ireland, the band will be 
Band 
Deacons 
busy with rehearsals and per-
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1 
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1 

formances. In addition to the Dye said performing in game, the band will perform 
final step before becoming Dublin presented “unique mu-at Friday evening’s pep rally 
a priest,” DeMott said. “This sic and planning challenges.” at the O2 Arena in an event ti-
year, I will become comfort-In addition to researching songs tled “Notre Dame: A Welcome 
able assisting the priest at that are popular in both Ireland Home,” in what Dye called “one 
Mass and preaching homi­and the United States, he said of the performance centerpiec­
lies. I will also baptize new the band had to tailor their per-es of the weekend.” 
Christians and preside at formance to the size of Aviva “It has been rewarding to col-
weddings and funerals.” Stadium, which typically hosts laborate with Irish producers 
The ceremony, which is rugby matches. and directors to prepare the big 
available for viewing on “Aviva Stadium is wider show,” he said. 
YouTube, is similar to the sideline-to-sideline than most The band will also perform at 
typical Mass format, but American stadiums and pres-a tailgate in the Temple Bar area 
those being ordained play a ents staging challenges to reach of Dublin on Saturday, accord-
special role after the hom­most of the audience,” he said. ing to the Notre Dame Gameday 
ily, Ching said. Additionally, travel arrange-website. 
“Those who are about to ments and accommodations Building interest for these 
profess their final vows all Ireland events has been months 
line up at the center aisle in the making, and a recent trip 
of the Basilica and lay pros­
“It has been 

trate, lay full belly down 
to the country previewed the 
rewarding to 

on the floor,” Ching said. 
band for the Irish people. Over 
collaborate with 

“It’s a beautiful image of the Congregation of the DeMott also served as rec-Irish producers break in March, Dye said mem­the week of Notre Dame’s spring 
our abandonment to God Holy Cross through the vows tor of Keough Hall and is bers of the band participated 
because laying face down of poverty, chastity and currently a residence hall 
and directors to 

on the floor is a sign of utter obedience.” director at the University of in performances throughout 
prepare the big 

abandonment, of utter sub-DeMott said he has been Portland. 
Ireland, including marching 
show.” 

mission to God’s will.” preparing to take his final Ching, who joined Old Ken Dye and opening the late-night talk in the St. Patrick’s Day Parade 
The congregation then vows for many years, gaining College his sophomore year Band director show, “The Late Late Show with 
sings the Litany of the experience through assign-at Notre Dame, said the Craig Ferguson,” on national 
Saints, invoking them to ments at Saint Stanislaus “Notre Dame experience” tested the planning skills of the television. 
pray for those making their Parish and Saint Joseph was conducive to discerning band staff, Dye said. The band “The publicity from the ap­
profession, Ching said. High School in South Bend, the priesthood. had to charter an aircraft due pearances helped generate local 
“After that follows the ac-as well as the Holy Cross “Certainly the experience to Labor Day scheduling and enthusiasm and ticket sales for 
tual profession,” he said. Lakeview Secondary School of what we describe as the the influx of American visitors, all the events,” he said. 
“The provisional superior, in Jinja, Uganda. and instruments were shipped In addition to Ireland, Dye 
our boss, holds one end of “My relationships with 
“I became a priest 

the Book of the Gospels Holy Cross priests, brothers because of charter weight limits. China, Brazil and other parts ahead of schedule and stored said the band has visited 
because I want to 

and we grasp the other end and sisters in these places 
Band members will be housed of Europe in the past, typically of the Book of the Gospels helped me to learn what it 
serve Jesus Christ, 

in University College Dublin traveling and performing after and publicly profess, mak-means to be a Holy Cross 
and that means 

ing a public promise just religious — to live together dormitories and will eat meals Commencement weekend. 
constantly being 

like marriage is, to remain according to the vows of sites, Dye said. Contact Sam Stryker at            at performance and rehearsal 
in relationship 

true and faithful to our Lord poverty, chastity and obe­
and to the constitution of dience and to serve gen-Immediately upon arriving sstryke1@nd.edu 
with Him and 

erously, forming both the 
having His life 
PAID ADVERTISEMENT 

mind and the heart,” he said. 
exude through 

“Daily prayer and meeting regularly with a spiritual di­
me to the people 

rector was important in this 
of God... That’s 
process as well.” 
a daunting 

In addition to the formal 
challenge.” 

training he has received over the years, Ching said 
Brian Ching 

he spent more time in prayer 
Deacon 

and contemplation during the last few months before Notre Dame family, living in his profession of final vows a community of caring and to get ready for the event. committed Christians all 
“There’s a short-term moving together to what God preparation as the months is calling them to do, being grew closer and closer to be in that environment where a bit more deliberate and our faith is not something we spend some more time in try to hide but something we prayer giving thanks to God try to celebrate … had a deep for His gift of my vocation, impact,” Ching said. “It al­for His gift of Holy Cross, for lowed me to feel comfortable my brothers in Holy Cross,” to express to my friends, es-Ching said. pecially my college friends, 
DeMott said professing that this is something that his final vows in the Basilica God is calling me to.” was especially meaning-Ching said he is both ex­ful because his Notre Dame cited and nervous about be-education was “transforma-ing Christ’s representative tive” in his decision to dis-on Earth. cern the priesthood. “I don’t become a priest 
“Before college, I had nev-for my own glory, my own er attended Catholic school popularity,” he said. “I be-and had never studied the-come a priest because I want ology,” he said. “I developed to serve Jesus Christ, and a new appreciation for the that means constantly being Word of God, I learned about in a relationship with Him the Mass, and I began to un-and having His life exude derstand the connection be-through me to the people of tween theology and service God. … That’s a daunting to those in need. Outside the challenge.” classroom, I had the oppor­tunity to explore ministry Contact Tori Roeck at and service in the Church.” vroeck@nd.edu 



INSIDE COLUMN 

Big kids don’t cry 
Laura Coletti 
Sports Writer 

Just over one week ago, my younger brother moved into Stanford Hall and began his freshman year. He’s got his whole Notre Dame experience ahead of him. I couldn’t be more jealous of where he is at in life. 
Or so I thought. 

Reaching the last year of college has been nothing short of surreal. The first week and a half of this school year have been filled with exclamations of, “I can’t believe we’re seniors!” It is fun and excit­ing and confusing and daunting. But it is a good time for us. 
It’s easy to get caught up in nostalgia and memories of the last three years. I have a friend who graduated in May who constantly pointed out things that were the “last first” or the “last last.” “Laura, you don’t understand,” she said. “This is my last first home football game.” And I have to wonder if that friend spent too much time focusing on the sadness as­sociated with the end of her Notre Dame career approaching to live truly in the moment. Because, while I am certainly in no hurry to graduate, I am all for em­bracing this year for what it is instead of dwelling on what our lives soon won’t be. 
I’m not jealous of my freshman brother anymore because, in a sense, things are all new for us too. We are able to break out of the monotony and routine we may have found ourselves in our sophomore and junior years. We can take classes that actually interest us because our sched­ules are more flexible. We can strengthen friendships and meet new people be­cause we can legally socialize in the same places and because we are all back from studying abroad. We can do everything at Notre Dame we’ve always wanted to do but haven’t because, well, this is it — our last shot. We have a heightened sense of urgency. 
I was one of the few people from our class at the B1 Block Party last weekend, and I thought Boys Like Girls put on a good show. During their finale (“Love Drunk”) the lead singer stopped every­thing during the first chorus and said to the crowd, “I look out, and I see you all with your cameras and phones. You’re trying to capture the moment without really living in it. Do yourselves a favor and put the cameras away, and just rock out with us and enjoy the show.” 
I think the same should be applied to our senior year. Obviously there is a lot to consider in terms of post-graduation plans, and that’s important. But the em­phasis of this year shouldn’t be placed so much on what was, or on what will be, as it should be placed on what is, right now. 
Rock out, and enjoy the show. 

Time to do what you love 
Kate Barrett 
Faithpoint 

So Activities Night has come and gone, and you likely have a stack of cards, brochures, flyers, email addresses and cell numbers (and, if you’re lucky, a free Campus Ministry t-shirt) sitting on your desk, waiting for you to decide what to do with it all. Well, put on the shirt. Then pull your little recycling bin up next to your desk, grab the pile and ask yourself, “What do I love?” Try to weed out the little loves, like dessert or the next episode of “Breaking Bad.” Look at the vast array of choices be­fore you. What do you love enough to give it your time? 
As this new academic year begins, as you sit there with your pile of perhaps overwhelming opportunities for travel, for service, for prayer, for a sport, club or activ­ity you never dreamed you could try, spend a little time thinking about your time. How you spend it will go a long way toward determining who you will become, who you will hang around with, what you will choose to do and how generous you will be with your particular and unique talents and gifts. Each choice you make determines by default who you won’t hang around with, what you won’t choose to do and what people and places won’t receive the gifts of your talents and expertise. 
The thing is, when you first get here, you’re sort of on your first date with Notre Dame and everything about it. As you get deeper into this new relationship, you’ll discover what you’ll fall in love with and what you can simply overlook, what you’ll just tolerate and even what you need to avoid. If you’ve been here for a year or two or three, is it time to re-evaluate? To look hard at what you love, at whether you really love who you’re becoming? 
The further you head down this adult­hood road, the more your time will become your most precious commodity. How will you spend it? Or as a professor of mine used to say to us, “Every day, every moment in time is a gift from God. What are you doing with that gift?” 
Remember back when you were a fresh­man in high school and it seemed that your counselors and teachers just about imme­diately began to talk to you about college? It was almost as if they were trying to get you ready to leave as soon as you got there. Well, you did leave, and here you are. But here too, life after Notre Dame seems to lurk in the back corners of every choice you make, even though many of you have only been here for a week. Amazingly, you will leave here almost before you know it, but if you use well the gift of time that God has given each of us, you will make your priceless and distinct mark on Notre Dame, even as you leave becoming who God means you to be. 
During your time here you’ll be asked countless times, certainly by your parents, but by others too, “What will you do with your degree? What are you going to do when you graduate? What kinds of careers are you thinking about?” Hopefully you will hone in on the answers to those questions. But your career will only be part of who you become by the time you’re officially an alumnus. The good news is that what you discover here, what you come to find that you love and the ways you decide to spend the gift of your time will all help you discern what to do and who you’ll be when you leave. 
Over 600 years ago, St. Catherine of Siena said, “If you are what you should be, you will set the whole world on fire.” Here, now, you can find what you love and what will dare you to discover who you can become. 
Kate Barrett is the assistant director of undergraduate ministry in Campus Ministry. She can be reached at kbarrett@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
How polarized is America? 
Brian Kaneb 
Guest Columnist 

When Richard Mourdock ran against Sen. Dick Lugar in the Republican primary last year, he told CNN he thought bipar­tisanship should consist of “Democrats coming to the Republican point of view.” The blunt comment reflects an attitude that will clearly not help the gridlock in Washington, but it nonetheless gives us insight into the current political atmo­sphere. This controversial interview proved to be but a minor speed bump on the way towards the nomination for Mourdock, as he beat Sen. Dick Lugar by 21 percentage points just two months later. This raises an interesting question: Is the current political atmosphere really more polarized than the political atmospheres of previous national elections? I believe not. 
It appears as if the Founding Fathers faced more partisan challenges than we do in modern times. John Adams himself ad­mitted to a serious fear of the antigovern­ment rebellions of the 1790s and thought he may have to “order chests of arms from the war office” for defense. Partisanship was also at play in the election of 1800, as Adams actually hired a public relations advisor, James Callendar, who actively engaged in partisan banter. It is no wonder Thomas Jefferson declared the political atmosphere of that time to be split “two parties, which mutually accuse each other of perfidy and treason.” 
All this paled in comparison to the con­flicts leading up to the Civil War. You may remember the Kansas-Nebraska Act from your high school history class, which essen­tially nullified the Missouri Compromise by allowing the citizens of these two new states to vote on slavery. The results were disastrous, as thousands of people flooded into Kansas in particular to manipulate the elections and clashes resulted in dozens of deaths. This violence spilled into Congress as well. After Sen. Charles Sumner called Sen. Preston Brooks a “pimp” for support­ing slavery, Brooks burst onto the floor and nearly beat Sumner to death with a cane. The Antebellum Era was undoubtedly a unique period, but it nonetheless furthers the notion that we have faced more divided times. 
Even Franklin Roosevelt was no stranger to partisan attacks. Though he enjoyed enormous popular support, his political rivals grew increasingly radical as he pushed the New Deal. For example, Fr. Charles Coughlin, a former supporter, founded a radio program that consistently decried Roosevelt and reached up to an astounding 40 million viewers. He once called Roosevelt a “great betrayer and liar … who promised to drive the money changers from the temple” but “succeeded [only] in driving the farmers from their homesteads and the citizens from their homes in the cities.” 
What is my point? We have been through more difficult times. While we think of Congressman Joe Wilson yelling, “You lie!” at President Obama during his 2009 State of the Union Address as an unrivaled feat of partisanship, nothing is further from the truth. All that is left to do is elect politicians who are willing to focus on the real issues. 
Brian Kaneb is a junior studying political science. He can be reached at bkaneb1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY WEEKLY POLL 
“Life is a reciprocal exchange. To move forward, you have to give back.” 
Oprah Winfrey 
Talk show host 

What do you think of the new design? 
Tweet your response with #ViewpointPoll by 5 p.m. Thursday. 
Contact Laura Coletti at lcoletti@nd.edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


Pacem in Terris 
Nicole Simon 
Center for Social Concerns 

Everyone reading this article has helped someone in some way — maybe by volunteering at a homeless shelter, or maybe just by helping pick up those papers you saw someone drop. However you helped, you felt good about it. Sure, you might have felt somewhat frustrated, but you definitely weren’t thinking, “That was the wrong thing to do.” Why? Because it’s what we’re supposed to be doing. 
It’s like eating well and exercis­ing. You feel healthier and have more energy because you’re doing what’s good for your body. In the same way, if you periodically take that little bit of time to do a good deed, your soul will feel better. That’s not to say that you should forever do good out of a purely selfish motive, but I strongly believe the more you serve human­ity and the more relationships you build, the more you will come to love the people around you and genuinely long to do whatever you can for them. 
As a Catholic social tradition mi­nor, I am learning what Catholicism means in terms of society, social interactions and relationships. I am also learning how to incorporate those lessons into my own life. I am not the perfect Catholic, or even near perfect, but I make an effort to do what I can. 
This past summer, I traveled to northern Uganda through the International Summer Service Learning Program (ISSLP). My pri­mary goals were to become an active participant in the global community and to use my engineering skills to serve others. I managed to design a solar panel fixture for the commu­nity and help set up some internet ac­cess sites, but I gained so much more. I came back molded by the beautiful Acholi culture and immeasurable ex­periences. I learned helping is never one-way — we all learn from each other. And only by working together can we make any real change in the world. The Catholic Church teaches, “Through the exchange with others, mutual service and dialogue with his brethren, man develops his po­tential,” (“Catechism of the Catholic Church” 1879). It is an innate human characteristic to build relationships, to serve each other and to learn from each other. 
One of the great things about this university is that there are always opportunities to serve. The Center for Social Concerns is dedicated to mak­ing those opportunities such as the ISSLP available. This year the theme for the Center of Social Concerns is “Pacem in Terris: Raising Voices.” Pacem in Terris is an encyclical written by Pope John XXIII that pro­motes peace through Catholic Social Tradition, and this year marks the 50th anniversary of the document. It says we are all called to “establish with truth, justice, charity and lib­erty new methods of relationships in human society” (163). 
That doesn’t mean everyone needs to be the next Mother Teresa, it means do good with the talents you’ve been given. Every person has a specific role to play because each person has been given a unique set of gifts. Find something that feels right to you. Try tutoring, volunteer at Dismas House, vote in the upcom­ing election, pray for peace, attend Higgins Labor Studies Program events or participate in a Center for Social Concerns seminar. There are lots of opportunities. Respond to your calling. Listen to the words of Pacem in Terris: 
“We … conceive of it as our duty to devote all our thoughts and care and energy to further this common good of all mankind. … It is an order that is founded on truth, built upon jus­tice, nurtured and animated by char­ity and brought into effect under the auspices of freedom.” 
Nicole Simon is a junior with a major in mechanical engineering and a minor in Catholic Social Tradition. She is a student assistant in the Center for Social Concerns. She can be reached at nsimon@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
One Eucharist, many expressions 
Fr. Joe Corpora 
Guest Columnist 

Today I had the privilege of presid­ing and preaching at three Masses. All three Masses were attended by Notre Dame students. All three Masses had the same Sunday read­ings. All three Masses were here on campus. But the Masses were very different from one another in style, feel, spirit and song. 
The first Mass was the closing Mass for the annual Plunge. The Plunge is an overnight retreat for first year African-American stu­dents. The team, led by Judy Madden of Campus Ministry, is composed of many upper-class African-American students. The wonderful and spirited Voices of Faith choir led the singing at the Mass. The piano is central to African-American worship, and that choir can compete with any Gospel choir I have ever heard. The music just gets into your body. Without planning to, you just start clapping. 
The “Rejoice Mass” with the Voices of Faith choir is celebrated on the first Sunday of each month at 8 p.m. in the chapel in Coleman-Morse. It is always faith-filled and heartfelt and deeply spirited. 
The second Mass I celebrated was in Spanish. Still the Mass, but a very different flavor from the ear­lier Mass. The Coro Primavera de Nuestra Senora de Guadalupe led the music. The guitar, not the piano, dominated. During the Mass, I kept thinking any Latino person from either parish where I served as pas­tor — one in Phoenix and one in Portland — could have stopped in during the Mass and would have felt at home. They would have recog­nized the beat and the rhythm. They would have been tapping their foot, because language is at the core of how we understand and experience ourselves. The Mass in Spanish is celebrated each week in Dillon Hall at 1:30 p.m. 
And the third Mass I celebrated was the Sunday night Mass in Keenan Hall. Again the Mass, but a different flavor and style from the other two. The chapel was packed with Keenan residents and a few students from other halls. The music was done very well, with piano, vio­lin, guitar and flute, and the partici­pation was great. 
Liturgy is life. Life has many fla­vors and tastes and many ways to praise and worship God. It’s so im­portant students at Notre Dame are be able to praise and worship God in a style and flavor that feels at home to them. That was the best part of the day — praying with Notre Dame students who are at home at the Mass, but in different ways. I wish we could find ways for our students to experience the Mass in its various expressions and styles right here on Our Lady’s campus. 
As the Church in America con­tinues to undergo a demographic shift, perhaps like never before, every archdiocese and diocese in the country has an office for multi­cultural ministry. The United States Conference of Catholic Bishops (USCCB) has such an office. The Church recognizes and affirms that our praise and worship of God must be inculturated. 
I could not help but think of how rich Notre Dame is — in one day, three Masses with very different flavors and styles and music. Yet the same Eucharist. The same readings. The Gospel says, “To whom shall we go, Lord? You have the words of ever­lasting life.” Different cultures, dif­ferent languages, different music, yet it is the same Lord calling us, draw­ing us to Himself, embracing us and cherishing us and loving us. 
Fr. Joe Corpora, is the director of University-school partnerships at the Alliance for Catholic Education (ACE). He is also the coordinator of Latino Student Ministry. He is a priest-in­residence in Dillon Hall. He can be reached at corpora.2@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


sleeping into his workplace, where only a night watch-informally educate the rest of the student body on the
By MIKO MALABUTE 

Scene Writer man shows any sympathy towards him as he is shame-history of film. fully rejected by his own family and ridiculed by his “Every Tuesday night, you can come out, you can see 
Beginning Tuesday night, the DeBartolo Performing friends. Film critic Paul Rotha praised the film as able one of the great films in history,” Barron said. “We’re Arts Center and the Department of Film, Television to stylistically establish itself “as an independent me-excited to work with FTT to make this open to the pub-and Theatre (FTT) will screen “The Classic 100,” a se-dium of expression.” A live score will accompany the lic. If this works out, the hope is we continue this next ries of 100 important films, in chronological order to film screening with a piano performance by a student semester with History of Film II. I hope that we can showcase the silver screen history. in the music department. make the weekly series a regular event so students and 
Ted Barron, senior associate director at the DeBartolo Moviegoers will also appreciate other big name films other patrons can get a deeper sense of the richness of Performing Arts Center and film professor, said the se-to star in this history-of-films lineup, including as a film history, which I believe leads to a greater immer­ries is a hybrid of previous projects in the department. reissue of commercially successful 1937 French war sion in contemporary cinema culture,” he added. 
“[The Department of Film, Television and Theatre] film “La Grande Illusion,” directed by Jean Renoir. “La The Classic 100 series will premiere at the DeBartolo has offered courses in film history,” Barron said. “We Grande Illusion” — titled after the book of the same Performing Arts Center on Tuesday night at 8 p.m. have had this public exhibition program that included name written by British economist Norman Angell — Admission is free for all Notre Dame students. ‘The Classic 100’ series. So what we have done is that is the story of two French prisoners of war who find we have brought the two together with a course that is common ground with other prisoners and even with a Contact Miko Malabute at mmalabut@nd.edu focused on film history as an avenue to showcase some German guard. The film is generally regarded as one 
of the major films on ‘The Classic 100’ list.” of the masterpieces of French cinema, and was ranked 
Combining the class with the public series is a No. 35 on Empire Magazine’s “Top 100 Best Films of new partnership between the department and the World Cinema” in 2010. “La Grande Illusion” will be DeBartolo Performing Arts Center, Barron said. an exception to the regular Tuesday night screenings 
On Campus 

“It’s a new thing for us,” Barron said. “We’re excited for The Classic 100 film series, as it will be shown as a 
What: “The Classic 100” 
because it gives us a chance to have much more consis-Sunday matinee Nov. 11. tency, [allowing us] dedicated times [for classic films].” “When we selected The Classic 100, we consulted 
Where: DPAC 

All the films in the lineup of The Classic 100 consist of with a variety of sources including the American Film 
When: starting Tuesday 
many international films that have been noted for their Institute, the Toronto Film Festival and the Criterion 
How Much: Free with student ID
historical significance. The series will open its lineup of Collection,” Barron said. “We tried to represent a range films with “The Last Laugh (Der Ietzte Mann)” a 1924 of international cinema as well films made during dif-
Learn More: performingarts.nd.edu silent film directed by German director F.W. Murnau. ferent periods in film history.” 
The film is about a nameless doorman who is de-The series will be an effective way to accomplish the moted to a washroom attendant and is shamed into course material, Barron said, as well as an avenue to 

KEVIN NOONAN 
Scene Editor 

This summer, I came across the famous no-diet weight loss program “Eat This, Not That!” Not inspired enough to take up the whole stupid weight loss thing, of course, that stuff cramps my style (see: super-fly fabulous), but instead to start the Scene’s own version of a column full of self-impor­tant advice to try to prove that we know more than we do and make everyone else feel inferior for their lack of knowledge. 
And so, without further self-serving ado, the premier of “Watch This, Not That.” 
Watch This: “Justified” 

This modern-day Western cowboy ac­tion-drama stars Timothy Olyphant as a total kick-arse, bad-arse U.S. Marshall stuck in Hicktown, USA, aka Harlan County, Ky. The show finished its third season this April in typical bullets-flying, family drama, “are these guys good guys or bad guys” fashion leaving fans of the show salivating for the fourth season to tie up some of the loose ends. 
The show won’t pick back up until January, giving new fans plenty of time to catch up on the meth-infused, marijuana dealing, redneck-dumping-down-old-min­ing-shafts drama. 
I don’t care how you watch it; just watch it. 
Not That: “The Burn with Jeff Ross” 
I don’t have much room to talk when it comes to saying someone isn’t funny, espe­cially when that someone is famous and gets paid the big bucks as a professional comedi­an. But I’m just going to go out on a limb here and state my highly unimportant opinion 
— Jeff Ross isn’t funny. 

The Comedy Central roasts, which seem to have skyrocketed his fame to the always-esteemed level of “Comedy Central Gave That Dude a Show,” aren’t funny with al­most no exception, and he’s not funny in them. Yeah, he’s mean, and that’s cool, but mean doesn’t always translate into funny. 
Don’t watch it, or risk my passive aggres­sive disapproval. 
Watch This: “Key and Peele” 
On the other end of the Comedy Central spectrum is “Key and Peele,” one of the few successful and legitimately funny sketch shows following a long line of trash trotted out to put audiences to sleep since Dave Chappelle walked out on the network. 
Keegan-Michael Key and Jordan Peele, both former cast members of Fox’s “MADtv,” anchor the show, which follows a similar format to Chappelle’s, interspersing stand-up between sketches. The show took time to find its rhythm in its first season this past winter, but even in the early, hit-and­miss shows,thetwoshowedtheirunlimited potential and talent for inducing sidesplit­ting laughter. The two also show they’re not afraid to touch on uncomfortable issues and turn them inside out for laughs — a trait “Saturday Night Live” might want to look into. 
The second season is scheduled to start on Sept. 26, and most of last season can be found floating around the World Wide Web. 
I don’t care how you watch it; just watch it. 
Not That: Fantasy football specials 
“The League” is one of the funniest shows on television. It may be featured in the “Watch This” section of this article in the foreseeable future. The show satirizes in many ways a group of guys who takes their fantasy football way, way too seriously. In the show, Pete loses his wife over the game, Kevin uses his young daughter to try to score fantasy advice and Ruxin is just generally despicable. 
As funny as this show is, it’s a little scary to think clearly there are people who take fan­tasy football seriously enough for ESPN and other sports networks to run regular fantasy football advice specials. 
Let’s just keep it simple — don’t watch these specials. Don’t take fantasy football that seriously. Don’t be that guy. That guy sucks. I’m not trying to tell you how to spend your time, but really I am, and don’t spend it on these things. 
Don’t watch it, or risk my passive aggres­sive disapproval. 
Contact Kevin Noonan at knoonan2@nd.edu 
The views in this column are those of the au­thor and not necessarily those of the Observer. 
BRANDON KEELEAN | Observer Graphic 

THE OBSERVER | THURSDAY, AUGUST 30, 2012 | NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
WEEKEND EVENTS CALENDAR 
THURSDAY 

What: Student stand-up Where: Legends When: 10 p.m. How Much: Free with student ID 
Laugh and enjoy a relaxed Thursday night at Legends as you listen to some of the fun­niest students on campus come up with great jokes and come­dic stories. Come with a group of friends for a funny night guaranteed. 
FRIDAY 

What: Mike Super Illusionist Where: Washington Hall When: 9 p.m. How Much: Contact the Student Activities Office in LaFortune Student Center or at (574) 631-7308 for ticket information. 
Who doesn’t like magic? After last week’s performance, Mike Super Illusionist will perform once more on campus by popular demand. Don’t miss your last chance to check out all of his unbelievable magic and illusion tricks. 
SATURDAY 

What: Irish Game Night Where: Rolfs Sports Recreation Center When: 8-11 p.m. How Much: Free with student ID 
For one night only, you will be able to roller-skate around Rolfs to the beat of some of the greatest 80s music. What more can you ask for? Don’t miss this unique and super fun event. 
SUNDAY 

What: Women’s Soccer vs. North Carolina When: 1:30-3:30 p.m. Where: Alumni Stadium How Much: Visit und.com/tickets for ticket information. 
Come support and watch our wo­mens’ soccer team win Sunday as they play North Carolina in the Adidas Invitational. Go with a group of friends and lots of energy to cheer for our team. 

By LIZZY SCHROFF 
Scene Writer 

There is pretty much no other pump-up song out there that gets me more amped than Silversun Pickups’ “Panic Switch” from their album “Swoon.” And on the other end of the spectrum, one of my favorite chill songs, “Booksmart Devil,” is on their debut EP “Pikul.” Their newest album “Neck of the Woods” struck a balance somewhere in between when released this summer. 
Originally called A Couple of Couples, Silversun Pickups is an alternative indie rock band from Los Angeles, a sunny, lovely place where Joseph Gordon-Levitt falls in love with girls named after seasons. But I first listened to their album on a gray, cloudy day in South Bend with a rainstorm looming in the distance as I drove my car back to campus. No setting could have been more perfect. Their third full-length studio album captures an eerie, rather haunting note. 
The album’s first track, “Skin Graph,” begins quietly, building up to the distorted guitars and upbeat tempo characteristic of the Pickups’ sound. But the song ebbs and flows through the quiet moments and punchy, hard-hitting guitar riffs. 
The album continues with “Make Believe,” and singer Brian Aubert’s distinctive vocals ring against a simple guitar riff that builds until the sinister concluding harmony. 
The album’s single, “Bloody Mary (Nerve Endings)” is a definite highlight of “Neck of the Woods.” Apart from the distinctive ringing guitar line repeated throughout the song, the lyrics are chilling. “If we can stay here long enough/We can play with Bloody Mary/Say her name into the dark/Activate our nerve endings.” (Anybody else remember being dared as a kid to go into the bath­room and chant “Bloody Mary, Bloody Mary” towards the mirror, only to run out screaming at the slightest noise?) 
“Here We Are (Chaucer)” features a variety of instru­ments from electronic to acoustic and layers on har­monies to draw you into a melancholic atmosphere, evoking an almost Radiohead-esque style. 
But the album jumps right into the heart-pumping “Mean Spirits,” featuring the familiar strong bass of Nikki Monninger that is so prevalent in tracks like “Panic Switch.” This heavy bass is another highlight of a later track on the album “Dots and Dashes (Enough Already).” The song has a great second half (is it strange to say that?) with a steady pumping bridge and a mysti­fying, echoing ending. 
“Gun-Shy Sunshine” lingers between major and mi­nor notes, heavy bass and electronics. The final track, “Out of Breath,” is aptly named. With the quick guitar riff, heart-beat bass line and building drums, I can al­most picture myself running from the harrowing scene that produced the haunting mood of the previous tracks. 
Aubert’s unmistakable voice and reflective lyrics, as well as the other band members’ instrumentations, continue to impress. Keyboardist Joe Lester really set the mood for the album, and I am pleased the Pickups stayed true to their grungy, often hard-hitting and dis­torted, gloomy style. It took me a few listens to really get into, but all in all, “Neck of the Woods” is a great, atmo­spheric album that leaves me wondering — what did the Silversun Pickups encounter in this eerie “neck of the woods?” 
Contact Lizzy Schroff at eschro01@saintmarys.edu 
“Neck of the Woods” 
Silversun Pickups 
Label: Dangerbird Records 
Tracks: “Skin Graph,” “Here We Are (Chaucer),” “Out of Breath” 
If you like: The Smashing Pumpkins, Metric, The Temper Trap 

BRANDON KEELEAN | Observer Graphic 


SPORTS AUTHORITY MLB 
Baltimore Orioles: A little respect 

Matthew Robison 
Sports Writer 
When I cracked open ESPN The Magazine’s MLB preview issue in March, I cringed. I didn’t want to see what I was about to read, but I had to do it anyway. I immediately flipped to the AL East section to see how my hometown team, the Baltimore Orioles, was project­ed to finish. 
Of course I saw what I had expected when I read, “Worst Case Scenario: fifth place.” In a division with two titans in the Red Sox and the Yankees, and two other solid franchises in the Blue Jays and the Rays, it’s understandable. 
But slightly more surpris­ing was what I read under “Best Case Scenario.” The writers were bleak about the Orioles’ chances: “Fifth place. Seriously.” 
They went on to talk about how the Orioles’ lineup was 128 games into the season? Come on. In that same game, Orioles starter Chris Tillman made the White Sox batters look silly, allowing only one hit in seven innings of solid work. The bullpen then came in and shut it down immediately, al­lowing only one more hit. Was there any mention of how well the Orioles have played this season with a ragtag group of near-stars (see: Adam Jones, Nick Markakis) and aging sluggers (see: Jim Thome)? No, just a sorry explanation claiming Chicago played poorly in Baltimore and the Orioles won the lottery with the Nate McLouth trade and the Lew Ford pickup. 
Now, I haven’t quite jumped on the ever-growing band­wagon in Baltimore. My previ­ous Sports Authority column in April discussed how my interest in baseball would in­evitably wean as the Orioles sunk to their perennial position in the basement of the AL East, 

But I think the O’s deserve some credit. The amount they have done with so little this year is unreal. As of Wednesday afternoon, Baltimore was 14 games over 
.500.  
a collection of players too  which usually happens before  
young for the Big Leagues and  Memorial Day. On this date  
washed-up veterans who never  last season, they were 15 games  
lived up to their expectations.  below .500 and way out of the  
So the fact that the Orioles  race. So it’s simply what I’ve  
are currently in second place in  come to expect.  
the division and in contention  In that same column, I made  
for a wild card spot should be  some terrible predictions the  
a fantastic story. Rather, ESPN  Red Sox would slow rise back  
and all the major networks  to contention and Albert Pujols  
have just swept the Orioles  would be leading a triple crown  
under the rug and decided to  category by the end of July. I  
spend time covering whether  was sadly mistaken, but I’m  
or not Bobby Valentine will be  not upset about it. As a fan, this  
fired after just one season in  season’s has actually kept my  
Boston.  attention.  
They like to talk about how  So if I sound like I’m ranting  
stellar the Rays’ rotation is. It  about how the Orioles don’t get  
is — it’s phenomenal. They like  the respect they deserve, I apol­ 
to talk about the behemoth  ogize. I’m actually not upset  
Yankee lineup. Trust me, I hate  about the situation at all. I love  
watching Baltimore’s pitchers  watching underdogs. I like the  
facing Jeter, Teixeira and A-Rod.  movie “Rudy.” I thought it was  
But I think the O’s deserve  cool when the goofy-looking  
some credit. The amount  guys got all the girls at the end  
they have done with so little  of “Revenge of the Nerds.” I  
this year has been unreal.  loved watching the Rays make a  
As of Wednesday afternoon,  run to the World Series in 2008.  
Baltimore was 14 games over  Underdog stories make sports  
.500 and sat three-and-a-half  great.  
games away from catching the  So now I will sit back and  
Yankees for the division lead.  keep my mouth shut. I will  
Their run differential is abys­ allow the Orioles to float un­ 
mal, but they find a way to win  der the radar even more. And  
tight games.  hopefully, I will get to see them  
Tuesday night, I listened  make one of the most improba­ 
to a White Sox announcer on  ble postseason runs of all time.  
Comcast SportsNet talk about  
how the Orioles’ success this  Contact Matthew Robison at  
year has been due to “luck.”  mrobison@nd.edu  
Maybe if Baltimore had gotten  The views expressed in this  
out to a hot start and was lead- Sports Authority are those of the  
ing the division at the end of  author and not necessarily those  
April, one could say that. But  of The Observer.  

Utley considers third base 
Associated Press 

PHILADELPHIA — Ten years later, Chase Utley is considering the hot corner again. 
Utley, the Phillies’ five-time All-Star second baseman, took grounders at third base sever­al hours before Philadelphia played the New York Mets on Wednesday night. 
It’s uncertain whether he’ll do it in an actual game. 
“I figured I’d give it a try just to get back over there, get my feet wet, just get a feel for the position again,” Utley said. “It could be an option in the future. It’s way too early to have an opinion either way on how it’s going to go. I might take some more ground balls in the future. But I think if I’m able to play over there, it could create some more flex­ibility as far as the organiza­tion is concerned. It’s just something I wanted to give a try and I may do it again.” 
While the idea is still in the early stages, it created quite a buzz around a team that’s used to preparing for the post­season at this point instead of looking ahead to next year. 
Utley last played third base in 2002 at Triple-A. It didn’t go well. He made 28 errors in 123 games and moved back to second base the following season. 
“He struggled with the throwing part of that, in the first 40 games or something, he had something like 15 or 20 errors,” general manager Ruben Amaro Jr. said. “I guess he got much better toward the end. He improved quite a bit as the year went on. Who knows how it’s going to play out, or if it’s going to play out.” 

WANTED 

Math-Tutors Mathnasium seek­ing qualified math tutors. Experience working with children. 10-20hrs/ week. Resumes:granger@math­nasium.com 888-850-6284 
PERSONAL 

UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don’t go it alone. Notre Dame has many resources in place to assist you. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Ann Whitall at 1-0084 or Karen Kennedy at 1-5550. For more information, visit ND’s website at: http://pregnancysupport@nd.edu 

Manager Charlie Manuel said the possibility isn’t “real serious” right now. 
“He just went out there one day,” Manuel said. “We’ll see how it goes.” 
Some in the organization aren’t sure the 33-year-old Utley can make a smooth transition. 
A team official told The Associated Press, speaking on condition of anonym­ity, that he questions whether Utley has the “arm strength or athleticism” required to play third base and “doubts” he could do it as an everyday player. 
If Utley could play third, it would be a major boost for the Phillies. Placido Polanco isn’t coming back as a full-time starter next year and the market is thin at third base. Freddy Galvis filled in nicely the first two months this sea­son when Utley was on the disabled list, so he would be the starting second baseman. 
“He’s proved — at least for part of the season — he’s a guy that, at the very least de­fensively, is going to be very, very good,” Amaro said of Galvis. “What kind of player he’s going to be later on, who knows? Frankly, when Chase mentioned it to me, maybe it makes some sense to take some ground balls.” 
Amaro said he was surprised when Utley approached him with the idea a few days ago. 
“But it was very cool,” Amaro said. 
The transition from second to third might be especially tough for a veteran with bad knees. Utley missed the first 76 games this year because of a chronic problem in both knees and he sat out the first 46 games in 2011. 
Mets six-time All-Star David Wright doesn’t think it would be less taxing for Utley at third base. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit 
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds.  
The Gettysburg Address  far above our poor power to add or  
detract. The world will little note, nor  
“Four score and seven years ago  long remember what we say here, but  
our fathers brought forth on this con- it can never forget what they did here.  
tinent, a new nation, conceived in  
Liberty, and dedicated to the propo- It is for us the living, rather, to be  
sition that all men are created equal.  dedicated here to the unfinished  
work which they who fought here  
Now we are engaged in a great civil  have thus far so nobly advanced.  
war, testing whether that nation, or  
any nation so conceived and so dedi- It is rather for us to be here dedicated  
cated, can long endure. We are met  to the great task remaining before us  
on a great battle-field of that war.  -- that from these honored dead we  
take increased devotion to that cause  
We have come to dedicate a portion  for which they gave the last full mea­ 
of that field, as a final resting place for  sure of devotion -- that we here highly  
those who here gave their lives that  resolve that these dead shall not have  
that nation might live. It is altogether fit- died in vain -- that this nation, under  
ting and proper that we should do this.  God, shall have a new birth of free­ 
dom -- and that government of the  
But, in a larger sense, we can not  people, by the people, for the peo­ 
dedicate - we can not consecrate  ple, shall not perish from the earth.”  
- we can not hallow -- this ground.  
The brave men, living and dead, who  - Abraham Lincoln  
struggled here, have consecrated it,  November 19, 1863  



U.S. OPEN 

Wild card Burdette advances to third round 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK — Mallory Burdette opened the summer plotting how she would take pre-med courses to pursue her dream of studying psychiatry. 
A few unanticipated wins on the tennis court later, the 21-year-old American is rethink­ing her plans for her senior year at Stanford. 
At her first Grand Slam tour­nament, Burdette is into the third round. Her possible next opponent? Maria Sharapova. 
“To end up here at the U.S. Open was a huge surprise,” Burdette said after beating Lucie Hradecka 6-2, 6-4 in the second round Wednesday. “I never ex-enough points. But that wasn’t why she signed up. 
The 252nd-ranked Burdette was ambivalent about playing professionally after finishing her last college season, and these tournaments were a way to ex­perience the life of a pro athlete. She wasn’t sure how she would cope with the travel; she wasn’t sure how her body would hold up. 
Turns out, she enjoyed the grind just fine. Oh, and as a bo­nus: She clinched that wild card into the Open. 
“That wasn’t even on my ra­dar,” she said. “So it’s been a crazy ride.” 
Burdette easily could have faced a top-ranked player in 

“To end up here at the U.S. Open was a huge surprise. I never expected that at the beginning of the summer.” 
the third round at a Grand Slam event. 
The caliber of Burdette’s op­ponent could now change dra­matically. The third-seeded Sharapova, winner of the career Grand Slam, plays Wednesday night. If the two meet in the third round, it would most likely be in Arthur Ashe Stadium. Burdette’s matches so far have been on Courts 6 and 11. 
She has been in Ashe before 
— during the National Indoor Intercollegiate Championships at Flushing Meadows, players get a night tour. 
“I have only walked out on Ashe with nobody in the stadi­um,” Burdette said. 
Burdette remembers watch­ing Sharapova win her first Wimbledon title with coach Nick Saviano and discuss­ing how she could emulate her game. Burdette notices how the Russian star keeps to her rou­tines between points to stay fo­cused, and the young American has also done that well this summer to manage all this new­found pressure. 
In 2009, Sharapova played an­other young player from Georgia in the third round at Ashe — and lost to Melanie Oudin. 
“I might talk to Melanie a little bit, ask her a few questions just to get the inside scoop,” Burdette said, smiling. 
Burdette, whose two older sisters were also All-America 


Mallory Burdette Tennis player 
pected that at the beginning of the summer.” 
Burdette figured she lost her only chance to qualify for the Open when she squandered a lead in the NCAA singles final in May — the college champion gets an automatic bid. She was aware when she entered USTA Pro Circuit events that she could receive a wild card if she earned the first round, but she got a fa­vorable draw. She beat 308th­ranked Timea Bacsinszky of Switzerland, who got in on a pro­tected ranking, 6-4, 6-3 in her opener. 
Meanwhile, the 69th-ranked Hradecka, a Czech doubles specialist, upset 27th-seeded Anabel Medina Garrigues. Hradecka has never reached 
PAID ADVERTISEMENT 


tennis players for the Cardinal, won her first WTA match at the Stanford tournament last month. She always figured she might play some doubles profes­sionally. Until the last few weeks, she considered med school to be more likely in her immediate fu­ture than a pro singles career. 
A psychology major, Burdette wants to be a psychiatrist. She was looking into programs to complete her pre-med require­ments after she graduates. 
Now, those plans almost cer­tainly are on hold. 
“I think just maturity over the years,” Burdette said of what’s changed. “It doesn’t scare me 1978 U.S. Open as a player with a win over Virginia Wade. 
Burdette was leading team­mate Nicole Gibbs in the NCAA final 6-2, 4-1 in the second set but couldn’t close out the vic­tory. She was also up 5-2 in the second-set tiebreaker but went on to lose in three sets — seem­ingly costing her that U.S. Open bid. 
Burdette was supposed to play doubles with Gibbs at the Open 
— the two won the NCAA title together hours after facing off in singles — but Gibbs pulled out because of injury after losing her first-round singles match. They would have taken on the 

“It doesn’t scare me as much to play pro tennis and to be successful. Just managing myself better out there on the court with my emotions has been huge.” 
Mallory Burdette Tennis player 
as much to play pro tennis and to be successful. Just manag­ing myself better out there on the court with my emotions has been huge.” 
Burdette would earn at least $65,000 for her third-round run if she wasn’t trying to maintain her college eligibility. She joked that since “I have already checked the amateur box,” there’s no go­ing back. Players have switched status from amateur to pro mid-tournament in the past, but kid­ding aside, Burdette plans to play her senior season at Stanford. Her coach there, Lele Forood, reached the round of 16 at the Williams sisters on Wednesday. 
Burdette will have to settle for facing Sharapova in singles. The psychology major is fasci­nated by the champion’s mental resolve. 
“It’s hard out there sometimes. You get outside of yourself and you’re worrying about things you can’t control,” Burdette said. “That’s one of the things she does a very good job of. You can tell she’s in the zone every time she walks up to play a point. That’s amazing, and nobody’s perfect when it comes to their mental side. I think that’s very interesting.” 


THE OBSERVER | THURSDAY, AUGUST 30, 2012 | NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 

MLB 

Blanton, Ellis lead Dodgers over Rockies, 10-8 

Associated Press 
DENVER — Joe Blanton pitched effectively into the eighth inning for his first win with the Los Angeles Dodgers and A.J. Ellis hit his first ca­reer grand slam in a 10-8 win over the Colorado Rockies on Wednesday. 
Hanley Ramirez, another mid-season acquisition by the Dodgers, also homered in his second straight game to help the Dodgers overcome the absence of slugging center fielder Matt Kemp and withstand a late rally that saw Colorado score seven with a 7.71 ERA in four previ­ous starts since joining the Dodgers in an Aug. 3 trade with Philadelphia, struck out five and walked one in 7 1-3 innings. It was his first win since July 16 when he beat the Dodgers in one of his last starts for the Phillies. 
Drew Pomeranz (1-8) lost his fifth consecutive decision since his lone win of the season July 6 against Washington. He allowed six runs on six hits, walked none and struck out four. 
Pomeranz retired the first six batters he faced before running into trouble in the third, when the Dodgers sent nine batters to the plate and scored six runs. 
Juan Rivera and Ellis began the Dodgers’ big inning with successive singles and advanced on Blanton’s sacrifice. After Mark Ellis reached on first base­man Jordan Pacheco’s fielding error that also allowed Rivera to score, Shane Victorino followed with an RBI single and Adrian Gonzalez, part of the latest wave of newcomers included in the Dodgers’ blockbuster trade last week with the Boston Red Sox, chipped in with a two-run single. 
Ramirez capped the burst with his 22nd homer of the season and eighth homer in 32 games with the Dodgers since coming to Los Angeles from Miami. 
After Colorado got an RBI sin­gle from Tyler Colvin in the sev­enth for its first run, the Dodgers stretched their lead to 10-1, load­ing the bases against reliever Will Harris before A.J. Ellis con­nected for his 11th home run of the season. 
The Rockies sent 11 batters to the plate in their half of the eighth. 
Blanton retired the first batter he faced and gave up successive singles to Pacheco and Ramon Hernandez before being relieved by Shawn Tolleson, who gave up three run-scoring singles and a walk before being lifted for Randy Choate. 
Choate hit Tyler Colvin with a pitch, forcing in another run and bringing on reliever Ronald Belisario. The Rockies added three more runs in the inning on Josh Rutledge’s fielder’s choice, Carlos Gonzalez’s RBI single and an error by center fielder Victorino. 
Belisario got the final five outs for his first save since Sept. 29, 2010, which also was against Colorado. 


runs in the eighth inning. 
With his status characterized as day to day, Kemp sat out be­cause of a bone bruise on his left knee and sore jaw suffered in a collision with the center field wall the night before while try­ing to chase down a fly ball. 
Blanton (9-12), who was 0-3 
PAID ADVERTISEMENT 



MLB 

Sabathia falters as Yankees lose to Blue Jays, 8-5 
NCAA FOOTBALL 

Gators find inspiration in 2011 

Associated Press 
NEW YORK — CC Sabathia took the blame. Manager Joe Girardi spread it around. 
No matter whose mistakes cost the Yankees in their sixth loss in nine games, they need to straight­en things out: the quickly closing Baltimore Orioles are coming to the Bronx for three games start­ing Friday. 
Sabathia failed to hold two leads, and New York made three errors and went homerless at Yankee Stadium in consecu­tive games for the first time this season. It all added up to an 8-5 though they had six doubles for the first time since July 30, 2011. 
“Things like this happen every once in a while. You just have to shake it off,” Russell Martin said. “We’ve got to bring it against the Orioles this weekend, for sure. It’s a big one.” 
Yunel Esccobar had the big day for Toronto. The shortstop hit a two-run homer, three doubles and drove in five runs. He had a go-ahead RBI double in the third. His homer against Sabathia in the sixth gave the Blue Jays the lead again and his two-run double off Joba Chamberlain in the ninth helped secure Toronto’s first se­

“Things like this happen every once in a while. You just have to shake it off.” 
Russell Martin Yankees catcher 
loss to the Toronto Blue Jays on Wednesday. 
“We didn’t play well, that’s the bottom line,” Girardi said. “We had chances offensively: didn’t get it done. We had chances de­fensively: didn’t get it done.” 
The Yankees’ inability to win back-to-back games for the first time since beating Texas three in a row Aug. 13-15 has hurt them in the standings. New York’s lead in the AL East would dwindle to 2 1/2 half games if Baltimore wins later Wednesday. June 24 was the last time anyone was that close. 
The Yankees went 3 for 17 with runners in scoring position, even ries win since July 27-29. The five RBIs matched a career high for Escobar. 
“He feels like anything posi­tive that happens to the club is going to be welcome right now,” injured slugger Jose Bautista said, translating for Escobar. “He feels like winning a series on the road against a club like the Yankees that’s definitely a positive and he hopes it can help bring up team morale a little bit.” 
J.A. Happ (3-1) overcame a sea­son-high five walks, including an intentional pass of Derek Jeter to load the bases with one out in the fourth inning, for the Blue Jays’ second win in 10 games. 
Four Blue Jays relievers com­bined to hold New York to a run and four doubles over four in­nings. Brandon Lyon opened the eighth by giving up con­secutive doubles to pinch-hitter Raul Ibanez and Martin, whose grounder bounced high off third base to make it 6-5. 
Colby Rasmus, a late-game entrant, made a diving catch on Ichiro Suzuki’s sinking liner and Lyon struck out Eric Chavez and got Jeter, with the crowd chant­ing his name, to fly out to right. 
Casey Janssen pitched a per­fect ninth for his 17th save after blowing an opportunity in the ninth inning Monday night. 
Sabathia (13-4) was unde­feated over his last nine starts against Toronto — 8-0 with a 
2.48 ERA — since the beginning of his Cy Young Award season of 2007 with Cleveland. 
In his second outing since coming off the disabled list, the big lefty was hurt by third base­man Jayson Nix’s fielding error in the third inning that led to three unearned runs. Escobar’s eighth homer made it 5-4 and came after right fielder Andruw Jones made a diving catch on Adam Lind’s liner but lost the ball as he rolled over his glove. Jones tried to sell the catch by holding up the ball — flashing a sneaky grin — but the umpires weren’t buying it. 
“It’s definitely disappointing,” Sabathia said. “It’s all my fault, obviously.” 
Toronto added a run on a squeeze play in the eighth with Jeff Mathis batting and Escobar on third after he led off with his second double. 
Sabathia gave up at least five runs for the sixth time this year. He struck out eight in seven innings. 
“You also have to give them credit for good at-bats,” Sabathia said, “but I need to make better pitches.” 
Jones and Curtis Granderson drove in runs after Jeter led off the first with a single and Nick Swisher walked. Granderson added a two-run double in the third to give the Yankees a 4-3 lead after Happ walked two and threw a wild pitch. 
In the fourth he got himself in trouble again, starting off the inning by walking Nix and giv­ing up a double to Suzuki. With one out, Happ gave Jeter an in­tentional free pass with Swisher, batting .367 over his last 21 games, due up. 
Happ struck out Swisher and Robinson Cano. 
Happ pitched a quick fifth and was done for the day, having allowed four hits and four runs. He struck out six. It was Happ’s second win against the Yankees since coming over in a trade with Houston on July 20. 
Associated Press 
GAINESVILLE, Fla. — Those painful memories of last sea­son, haunting images of a 7-6 season, are still vivid at Florida. 
Coach Will Muschamp wants it that way. 
The 23rd-ranked Gators would like nothing more than to purge most of what hap­pened in 2011: four consecutive losses in October, a horrible showing against Furman and a bitter defeat to archrival Florida State. But they can’t. And Muschamp won’t let them. 
“You’ll always remember it,” tight end/fullback Trey Burton said. “Even when I’m 40, I’ll still remember my sopho­more year at the University of Florida. You’ve always got to keep that in the back of your mind and strive for it to not happen again. ... Last year was pretty embarrassing.” 
The Gators ended Muschamp’s first season with a team from the Football Championship Subdivision. Florida trailed 22-7 in the first quarter and didn’t put the Paladins away until the de­fense returned two intercep­tions for touchdowns in the final 13 minutes of the game. 
A week later, the Gators al­lowed the Seminoles to gain just 95 yards but lost 21-7 be­cause of costly turnovers and more inept offense. It capped a mind-boggling slide con­sidering Florida won national titles in 2006 and 2008, and played for the Southeastern Conference championship in 2009. 
“That’s definitely not what we came here for, last year, 7-6,” receiver Frankie Hammond said. “We want to get back on top. We came here to win. That’s the bottom line. That’s what we came here to do: win, win championships, get rings. That’s the standard at this uni­versity. We definitely have a 

“You never put the last season behind you. You’ve got to learn from it, move forward and let it motivate you.” 
Will Muschamp  
Florida head coach  
a victory against Ohio State  chip on our shoulder. We defi­ 
in the Gator Bowl, providing  nitely want to get those wins  
some solace while avoiding the  under our belt.”  
program’s first losing season  Muschamp called his team  
since 1979.  “soft” after the loss to Florida  
Players and coaches talked  State, an adjective that still  
about the importance of end- resonates with players nine  
ing on a high note, about need- months later.  
ing something positive to build  “We took that personally as a  
on during the offseason.  team,” right tackle Chaz Green  
Maybe so, but all those loss- said.  
es ended up being the driv- The Gators believe they will  
ing force during sweltering  be considerably better in all  
practices, lengthy meetings  phases during Year 2 of the  
and grueling weightlifting  Muschamp era.  
sessions.  Muschamp revamped the  
“You never put the last sea­ team’s weightlifting program  
son behind you,” Muschamp  by moving to an Olympic-style  
said. “You’ve got to learn from  program designed to increase  
it, move forward and let it mo- muscle strength, explosiveness  
tivate you. That’s what we’ve  and cardiovascular fitness. He  
done as a staff and as a team.  hired former Boise State offen­ 
I’m really pleased with where  sive coordinator Brent Pease  
the football team is at this  to replace Charlie Weis, and  
time.”  Pease installed a scheme that  
Muschamp will be happier if  includes motions and shifts,  
Florida gets 2012 off to a strong  and maybe a few more trick  
start Saturday against Bowling  plays.  
Green. But the Gators real- The results won’t truly be  
ize that early season success  known for several weeks, may- 
means little. They started 4-0  be even longer.  
last season — they didn’t allow  How the players remember  
a touchdown in the first two  the season might be an even  
games — before things turned.  better indicator.  
Following lopsided losses  “I think the year we had,  
to Alabama and LSU, Florida  there wasn’t much that needed  
dropped close games against  to be said,” Green said. “We  
Auburn and Georgia. They  came in, everybody was hun­ 
managed a combined 11  gry, everybody knew what we  
points in the second half of all  had to do. It wasn’t about talk- 
four October games and didn’t  ing, about pointing fingers.  
score a single point in any of  Everybody knew we didn’t  
those fourth quarters.  have a good year. We need to  
Things reached a low point  work to get back to where we  
in November against Furman,  can be, where we should be.”  


THE OBSERVER | THURSDAY, AUGUST 30, 2012 | NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 

MLB 

O’Malleys pledge to carry on legacy with Padres 
Associated Press 
SAN DIEGO — The third gen­eration of the O’Malley family took over the sad-sack San Diego Padres on Wednesday, promis­ing to run the club in the same first-class manner that Walter and Peter O’Malley once ran the Dodgers. 
The new ownership group includes Peter O’Malley’s sons, Kevin and Brian, and nephews Peter and Tom Seidler. It also in­cludes San Diego businessman Ron Fowler, the executive chair­man who has been designated as the team’s control person. 
“This is a special moment for us,” Kevin O’Malley said at a news conference to announce the closing of the $800 million deal and introduce the new own­ership group. “Our grandfather, Walter O’Malley, our father, Peter O’Malley, for close to 50 years ran a first-class baseball organiza­tion. We feel a great responsibil­ity being here today to carry on that legacy. We have high expec­tations for a first-class product on and off the field and we look for­ward to working with the team here to make it happen.” 
Phil Mickelson has said he’ll be involved in the group. Peter Seidler said that due to conflict­ing schedules and the closing of the deal, he hasn’t had a chance to sit down with the golfer to fi­nalize his involvement, but hopes to do so in the next few weeks. Seidler said there’s one spot left in the ownership group and it’s being held for Mickelson. 
Mickelson is “very interested in this and hopes to get the deal done,” the golfer’s spokesman, 
T.R. Reinman, said Wednesday. 
The O’Malley-Seidler-Fowler group takes over a Padres team that has largely struggled since being swept by the New York Yankees in the 1998 World Series. Many fans felt a sense of discon­nect with John Moores, who had owned the team since December 1994 and had to put it up for sale due to a difficult divorce. Jeff Moorad’s attempt to buy the team on a layaway plan fell apart earli­er this year, forcing Moores to put the team back on the market. 


Additionally, the Padres can’t be seen in 42 percent of the homes in San Diego County due to a squabble between Fox Sports San Diego, which is in the first year of a $1.2 billion. 20-year deal to broadcast the club, and Time Warner and AT&T U-verse. 
The late Walter O’Malley bought the Brooklyn Dodgers in 1950 and moved them to Los Angeles before the 1958 season. 
Peter O’Malley eventually took over for his father and all told un­der the family’s ownership, the Dodgers won six World Series and 13 NL championships before being sold in 1998. 
By comparison, the Padres have played in two World Series and lost both, in 1984 and 1998. Now in their 44th season, the Padres have had only 13 winning seasons. They’ve had 15 seasons of 90-plus losses, including five seasons of 100 or more losses. 
They’ve been better-known for their garish brown-and-yel­low uniforms in the 1970s and ‘80s, Roseanne Barr screeching through the national anthem before a home game in 1990 and the fire sale of 1993, when they dumped every star except Tony Gwynn. 
Among the other lowlights was the 1974 home opener, when new owner Ray Kroc, the McDonald’s co-founder, grabbed the PA mi­crophone and told the fans, “I have never seen such stupid ballplaying in my life.” On Fan Appreciation Night in 1988, club president Chub Feeney flipped off two fans carrying a “Scrub Chub” banner. Feeney resigned the next day. 
So here come the O’Malleys and Seidlers with their strong baseball pedigree. Additionally, Fowler’s involvement brings a lo­cal connection that runs much deeper than most previous own­ership groups. 
Fowler is a wealthy beer and li­quor distributor and civic leader who has lived in San Diego since 1974. 
“I think we’re very fortunate to have the O’Malley-Seidler fam­ily as the primary owners of the Padres,” Fowler said. “The repu­tation of the O’Malley family in Los Angeles has been fantastic over many years. The energy that I think the sons and nephews of the O’Malley family is going to bring here is going to be very spe­cial for this community.” 
Kevin O’Malley and Tom Seidler have moved to San Diego. Tom Seidler runs the Visalia Rawhide, a Single-A affiliate of the Arizona Diamondbacks. He said that team will remain in the family. 
“I’ve been really fortunate to go to work at a ballpark most of my life and have enjoyed and loved every minute of it,” Tom Seidler said. “To continue it here at Petco Park, one of the best ballparks in the country, is really special. Like Kevin said, we’ve had a great sense of responsibility to do the right things as owners to support the management team and the staff.” 
Peter Seidler said Peter O’Malley will serve as a “sound­ing board and patriarch.” 
Kevin O’Malley said his father had minor surgery last week and was at home recovering. 
Fowler said the new ownership group plans to “underpromise and overdeliver.” He refused to divulge what the player payroll will be next season, but said it would increase. 
He said the priorities are win­ning, fan experience and com­munity involvement. 
Fowler got emotional when he said that, as a 68-year-old, “I can’t believe how damn lucky I am.” 
While Moores became a pen-ny-pincher and Moorad was un­able to convince people he had enough money to buy the club, Fowler said there’s still money left over to try to improve the Padres, who began the day in fourth place in the NL West, 13 games behind the San Francisco Giants. 
“Is there sufficient money left over to improve the product? Yes,” he said. “This is an all-cash deal. We are not taking out any debt to do this. It’s all equity. We are not going to be undercapitalized.” 
Fowler said there are two rea­sons why this ownership group is different. 
“I’ve got probably a longer his­tory in San Diego than the other people,” Fowler said. “I think I understand what San Diego means to people. And I think the history of the O’Malley family is far different than anybody else. You look at these guys. These are young guys. They range in age from 51 down to mid-30s. They have been successful in their own right. From a business stand­point they’ve made their own money. It’s their own money in it. It’s not family money. I think they have baseball in their blood. It’s in their DNA. Once you do that, you have a sense of what needs to be done. I’m going to give it a hard run for a number of years. I think I understand this commu­nity and I think we can make a difference here. That’s why we’re all in.” 
Fowler declined to divulge spe­cific percentages other than to say that seven owners will control more than 80 percent of the team and be on an advisory board. The O’Malley-Seidler-Fowler group will control more than half of that group. 
Hall of Famer Don Sutton, who pitched for the Dodgers from 1966-80 and again in 1988, said he’s pleased there are O’Malleys back in baseball. 
“The family’s always been pas­sionate about the game of base­ball,” said Sutton, a broadcaster for the Atlanta Braves, who fin­ished a three-game series at San Diego on Wednesday. “They have treated the history of baseball with respect. The kids that you have here grew up in the game. They grew up working. I think they’ve done everything at the ballpark except rotator cuff sur­gery. You’re getting hard-work­ing, class people who will give it their all. I think the San Diego Padres just won the lottery.” 

PAID ADVERTISEMENT 



MLB 

2014 All-Star Game goes to Minnesota 
Associated Press 
MINNEAPOLIS  — The competi­tion among cities for baseball’s All-Star game has grown stiffer over the years, leading to some tough calls for Commissioner Bud Selig. 
Awarding the 2014 game to the Minnesota Twins and Target Field, it turns out, was one of the easier decisions Selig has made. 
“This is the right thing to do and this is the right place to do it,” Selig said Wednesday in making the of­ficial announcement. 
Selig has long been close with the Pohlad family, which has owned the Twins for decades, especially the late Carl Pohlad. The commis­sioner stood by his side while he fought for a new ballpark in the late 1990s, a bitter dispute that threat­ened the franchise’s future in the Twin Cities. 
Once the Twins finally won ap­proval to build Target Field, it was only a matter of time before Selig was going to bring the mid-sum­mer classic back to Minnesota. It will be the third time the Twins have hosted the game, following 1965 at Metropolitan Stadium and 1985 at the Metrodome. 
“Target Field is just spectacular,” Selig said. “Every time I’m here, I just can’t tell you how impressive this is. So this will be a great show­place for the 2014 All-Star game.” 
The play on the field has been anything but spectacular over the last two seasons. The Twins en­tered the game against Seattle on Wednesday night with an AL-worst record of 52-77, one year after losing 99 games. The lack of success following a period of six divi­sion titles in nine seasons has caused attendance to at the shiny, three-year-old ballpark to drop and a traditionally loyal fan base to start grumbling. 
“They’ve been as passionate and as loyal as any fans in base­ball,” Twins President Dave St. Peter said. “For what they’ve put up with on the field the last two years, they deserve an All-Star game and a lot more.” 
Selig said he hoped the news of the game coming to Minnesota will be a brief re­spite for fans who have endured the last two seasons, and said he had no doubt the franchise would bounce back. 
“As commissioner I get a chance to have a view of all 30 clubs, sometimes on a daily ba­sis,” he said. “This is one of those clubs that you never worry about. They always do the right thing in the right way.” 
With a core of Joe Mauer, Justin Morneau and Josh Willingham at or near their prime, the urgency is there to re­turn to the top of the AL Central. They’ll need to vastly upgrade their starting rotation to make that happen. 
“I suppose we could hope to go for a double in 2014 and have not only the All-Star game but the World Series,” Jim Pohlad said. “Actually it would be great if we could just be awarded the World Series, but we’ll do our best to win it.” 

PAID ADVERTISEMENT 

NCAA FOOTBALL 

Lacy succeeds backfield stars 

Associated Press 
TUSCALOOSA, Ala. — Alabama tailbacks aren’t real­ly expected to top 1,500 yards and get invited to New York for the Heisman Trophy cer­emony in their first season as full-time starters. 
It just seems that way. 
Eddie Lacy enters the season as the second-ranked Crimson Tide’s new front-runner in the backfield after performing well as a backup. Just like pre­decessors Mark Ingram (2009 Heisman Trophy winner, na­tional champion, first-round NFL draft pick) and Trent Richardson (2011 Heisman fi­nalist, national champion and first-round draft pick). 
Richardson in his first start. 
So far, so good. He has run for 1,071 yards and 13 touchdowns, while averag­ing 7.1 yards per carry, the past two seasons. The 6-foot, 220-pound Lacy even drew the nickname “Circle Button” from teammates for his spin move, a nod to video game controls. 
“He’s a big, tough running back,” Michigan linebacker Kenny Demens said. “He’s not just powerful, he’s elusive. He spins, jumps and jukes. He’s going to be a tough guy to get down.” 
Demens said Lacy is very similar in one respect to Ingram and Richardson. 
“He’s just like those guys,” 

“Of course, he rushes for a lot of yards, but he’s a very positive person. He brings a lot of people up in the huddle. ” 
Chance Warmack Alabama offensive lineman 
Lacy insists he and his fel­low Alabama tailbacks haven’t spent much time discussing trying to live up to those lofty standards going into Saturday night’s opener with No. 8 Michigan at Cowboys Stadium in Arlington, Texas. 
“We don’t talk about it much,” he said. “We basically just go out there and push each other to be the best we can be.” 
Lacy greeted most reporters’ questions this week with grins and similarly unrevealing an­swers. He’ll get to show a little more about his abilities as the successor to Ingram and Demens said. “He’s good.” 
Lacy’s counterpart, Fitzgerald Toussaint, is a question mark in this game for a different reason. Wolverines coach Brady Hoke wouldn’t say Wednesday if Toussaint will play in the opener, four days after he pleaded guilty to drunken driving. 
Lacy has dealt with nagging injuries. He sat out the spring after surgery for a toe injury that plagued him since Game 4 last season against Arkansas. He was somewhat limited as a precaution last week with an ankle injury. 
“Eddie looks good,” quarterback AJ McCarron said. “I don’t think his toe is bothering him at all. If it is, I can’t tell. He’s cutting fast. He looks light on his feet. He’s picking up blitzes really well. We’re going to need Eddie to play well on Saturday for us to be successful.” 
Lacy is coy on his health, ex­cept for saying the toe is “very good.” 
“I never put a percent on it,” he said, “but I rehab and prog­ress every day.” 
Ingram and Richardson averaged 1,573 yards and 19 touchdowns in their first seasons as fulltime start­ers. Before that, Glen Coffee gained 1,383 yards in 2008. All three were first-team All-SEC picks. 
Lacy has plenty of potential help to share the load. 
Freshman T.J. Yeldon was MVP of the spring game after enrolling in January. He and redshirt freshman Dee Hart are both former five-star pros­pects who haven’t gotten onto the field for a game yet. 
Lacy brings more than runs to the team, though. He also provides comic re­lief. Teammates describe him as one of the funniest Tide players. 
“People don’t realize that he brings a lot of energy to the of­fense, not only in his rushes but more so in his personal­ity,” Alabama guard Chance Warmack said. “Of course, he rushes for a lot of yards, but he’s a very positive person. He brings a lot of people up in the huddle. First and foremost, very athletic, tremendous running back. But his person­ality is amazing.” 


THE OBSERVER | THURSDAY, AUGUST 30, 2012 | NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 

WTA 

Clijsters loses in straight sets to end singles career 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK  — Kim Clijsters’ singles career ended where she wanted it to, just not the way she hoped. 
The four-time Grand Slam champion lost 7-6 (4), 7-6 (5) to 18-year-old Laura Robson of Britain in the second round of the 
U.S. Open on Wednesday, and will head into retirement after she finishes playing in doubles at Flushing Meadows. 
Clijsters walked away from the sport once before, in May 2007, then returned after a 2 1/2-year hiatus. But now 29 and a mother, the Belgian insisted this season that she means it this time, and decided the U.S. Open — and its hard courts that she conquered on the way to three championships 
— would be her final tournament. 
“It’s the place that has inspired me so much to do well and to do great things. It’s hard to explain sometimes why,” Clijsters said in an on-court interview, her face flushed and her eyes welling with tears. 
“This completely feels like the perfect place to retire,” Clijsters told the spectators at Arthur Ashe Stadium, many of whom rose to shower her with a standing ova­tion. “I just wish it wasn’t today.” 
The loss Wednesday ended Clijsters’ 22-match winning streak in New York, encompassing titles in 2005, 2009 and 2010, plus Monday’s first-round victory. 
She missed the hard-court ma­jor in 2004, 2006-08 and last year, thanks to a combination of inju­ries and the time she took off while starting a family. Her daughter, Jada, was born in February 2008. By August 2009, Clijsters was back on tour; unseeded and unranked, because she only played in two previous tournaments during her comeback, she won that year’s 
U.S. Open. 
“Since I retired the first time, it’s been a great adventure for my team and my family,” said Clijsters, who was 28-0 against players ranked outside the top 10 at the U.S. Open before Wednesday. “It’s all been worth it. But I do look forward to the next part of my life coming up.” 
Her previous defeat at Flushing Meadows came against Belgian rival Justine Henin on Sept. 6, 2003, in the tournament final. Robson was 9 at the time. 
This did have the feel, in some ways, of a changing of the guard. 
Clijsters finished with a ca­reer singles record of 523-127 (a winning percentage of .805) and 41 titles, including her last ma­jor trophy at the 2011 Australian Open. She spent a total of 20 weeks ranked No. 1, as recently as February 2011. 
Ranked 89th, and with only one prior victory over a top-25 player, Robson has been viewed 
— particularly back home in Britain — as an up-and-coming player whose smooth left-handed strokes would carry her far. 
But she had never produced the kind of grit and court-cover­ing athleticism that carried her past the 23rd-seeded Clijsters. And until now, Robson never had won more than one match in a Grand Slam tournament; her claim to fame had been team­ing for a silver medal in mixed doubles at the London Olympics with Andy Murray, who played his second-round U.S. Open match Wednesday night. 
Robson knows, though, how much Clijsters means to the game, not only as a superb player but as someone who by all accounts is universally liked — by fans, tennis officials and even opponents. 
“She’s always been someone that I’ve looked up to since I start­ed on the tour. She’s always been incredibly nice to be around,” Robson said. “I think we’re all go­ing to miss her.” 
When the contest ended with Clijsters sailing a backhand return long, allowing Robson to convert her third match point, they met at the net. Clijsters began to extend her arm for the customary hand­shake, and Robson pulled her in for a hug. 
“I want to thank Kim,” Robson told the crowd, “for being such a great role model to me for so many years.” 
Less than an hour later, Clijsters was hanging out in the players’ garden alongside the stadium. She shared a laugh with some friends, hugs from others, and paused to pose for a photograph alongside 14-time major champion Serena Williams, who was headed out after partnering sister Venus for a first-round victory in doubles. 
Clijsters was the only seeded woman who lost during the after­noon session of Day 3, when the winners included No. 1 Victoria Azarenka, defending champion Sam Stosur, 2011 Wimbledon champion Petra Kvitova and 2011 French Open champion Li Na. 
Joining Robson with a surprise victory was American wild-card entry Mallory Burdette, the NCAA runner-up who reached the third round in her Grand Slam debut by eliminating 69th-ranked Lucie Hradecka 6-2, 6-4. 
Until recently, Burdette planned to take premed courses as a senior at Stanford in pursuit of a career in psychiatry. 
“It’s been a crazy ride,” the 252nd-ranked Burdette said. 
Could get even wilder: She next faces four-time major champion Maria Sharapova, a 6-0, 6-1 win­ner Wednesday night over 78th­ranked Lourdes Dominguez Lino of Spain. 
Earlier on Ashe, the highest-ranked American man, John Isner, let out a big exhale of relief while waving to the crowd after getting past an argumentative Xavier Malisse 6-3, 7-6 (5), 5-7, 7-6 
(9) in the first round. 
“I know in the nitty-gritty times of a match, I always have that con­fidence and all those wins in my back pocket,” said Isner, who is 37­13 in tiebreakers this season. 
The 6-foot-9 Isner hit 20 aces and ended things with a service winner on his third match point. That came after Malisse pushed an easy backhand volley into the net, then grabbed the ball and shoved it in his mouth and chomped on it as though it were an apple. 
The 57th-ranked Malisse, a 2002 Wimbledon semifinalist, was louder and angrier during a few exchanges with the chair umpire and even members of the crowd, earning a warning for profanity. 
“Half of the crowd doesn’t understand what’s going on,” Malisse said. “They yell. We’re in New York. So you’re going to get more yells. That’s fine by me. ... 
(But) I’m going to say something back.” 
There were no such shenani­gans during Clijsters vs. Robson, simply plenty of terrific play. 
With her husband — Brian Lynch, an American who used to play professional basketball in Belgium — fidgeting from his front-row seat in the stands, Clijsters wound up getting the worse of lengthy exchanges. As big a forehand as Clijsters owns, Robson was out-hitting her, com­piling a 16-11 edge in winners off that wing. 
Clijsters went up a break in the second set, helped by a pair of double-faults by a slightly shaky Robson — nerves that were under­standable, given the setting and the significance of this match. But Robson got right back in it, playing gutsy, go-for-the-lines tennis, re­peatedly pounding the ball hard as can be, and seeing shots land right where she aimed. 
“I really enjoyed myself out there,” said Robson, who found herself singing along to the pop songs that blare over loudspeak­ers during changeovers. 
As you might expect from a teen, the youngest player ranked in the WTA’s top 100. 


Try as she might, Clijsters could not quite gain the upper hand, no matter how many times she yelled “Come on!” and raised a clenched fist after winning points. 
On one well-disguised drop shot by Robson, Clijsters raced forward and did her trademark splits through the doubles alley, stretching to get her racket on the ball. But her response landed in the net. 
“I just wasn’t good enough at the end of the match,” Clijsters acknowledged. 
She won’t get the chance to play another. 
“As a little girl, I got Christmas rackets under the tree and outfits of Steffi Graf and Monica Seles, and I would want to wear them to bed, I was so excited,” Clijsters said. “So for me to have been able to have been a part of women’s tennis, and on top of women’s tennis for so many years — you don’t think about it when you’re in it; you’re kind of on automatic pilot. ... Now that I think about it, it’s been a crazy rollercoaster at times, as well.” 

PAID ADVERTISEMENT 



Andrews 
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 24 
I played a minor pro tourna­ment. I played something called the ITA  (Intercollegiate Tennis Association) in Kalamazoo, Mich., which is a summer circuit for col­lege players, and another minor pro tournament in Illinois.” 
Andrews found success in a number of these competitions, with his top performances occur­ring in the Midwest ITA Summer Circuit in mid-July and the Futures Tournament during the week of Aug. 6. 
“I won the tournament in Kalamazoo, Michigan, the ITA Summer Circuit event,” Andrews said. “And I beat a pretty good player named [sophomore] Chris Diaz from Ohio State so I was pret­ty happy with my performance there. 
“I played in a Futures, which is a minor pro tournament in Edwardsville, Ill. Since I’m not a professional tennis player I have to go through a qualifying draw. And I qualified for the main draw, which is a minor pro tournament, so I was excited to get in there and be able to play with players like that.” 
In addition to his achievements in competition, Andrews and Irish coach Bobby Bayliss also recog­nize the results of his summer training program at Notre Dame. 
“He’s made big strides in his game,” Bayliss said. “His second serve is much improved as is his backhand. His willingness to come to the net and finish points at the net is significantly better than it was.” 


Andrews echoed his coach’s statements, explaining that he especially focused on the weak­nesses in his game. 
“I worked a lot on becoming a more well-rounded player,” Andrews said. “I struggled with my net game last year so I really worked on that this summer and also my backhand, which has al­ways been my weaker side.” 
While collegiate tennis players compete and train year-round, Andrews said the summertime is especially vital for improving one’s skills because of the lighter schedule. 
“I think [the summer] is one of the most important times of the year,” Andrews said. “There is re­ally no other time when you can really devote yourself to training for tennis like you can in summer. During the year you have school and other commitments that take up a lot of your time.” 
PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
 With the start of the fall se­mester, Andrews and his fellow teammates must transition to the fall season, which is com­posed mostly of individual tournaments. The ITA National Indoors is the biggest individu­al collegiate tennis tournament and although it is not held until February, Andrews has set it as the goal for his fall season. 
“My personal goals include the ITA National Indoors,” Andrews said. “You need to do really well in the All-American championships in Tulsa, Okla. or do really well in the regional championships, which I be­lieve are at Ohio State. I’d really like to qualify for the National Indoor Championships by do­ing well in one of those two, hopefully both.” 
Contact Peter Steiner at psteiner@nd.edu 
NFL 

Giants beat Patriots, 6-3 
Associated Press 
EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J. — Adewale Ojomo took another step toward making an NFL roster and helped the New York Giants and New England Patriots avoid a coach’s worst nightmare in the preseason finale — overtime. 
Ojomo’s sack and forced fum­ble set up a 32-yard field goal by Lawrence Tynes with 1:03 to play and the Giants defeated the Patriots 6-3 on Wednesday night in the final warmup for the regular season for the teams that met in the Super Bowl in early February. 
This one was hardly as inter­esting as the title game, but the Giants (2-2) once again scored late to win. Defensive tackle Marcus Thomas rumbled 12 yards with the fumble following Ojomo’s strip-sack against Brian Hoyer, giving New York the ball at the Patriots 17. 
It set up Tynes’ second field goal and it will force the coaching staff to once again think about. Ojomo, a rookie free agent out of Miami, who has caught their attention with a team-high four sacks. 
“The coaches have got to evalu­ate the film,” Ojomo said. “I think the (strip-sack) will work in my favor, but there’s a lot of different phases of the game they have to evaluate.” 
Ojomo plans to be confident heading into Friday’s final cut to the 54-man roster. 
“It would be a great honor to be a Giant,” Ojomo said. “They’re a first-class organization. Aside from the high taxes and high rent, it would be great to be a Giant. I’ll be confident Friday, I won’t be nervous. They have to make tough decisions, so you have to go out and do what you need to do to make it not so tough for them.” 
Steve Gostkowski kicked a 20-yard field goal in the second quarter for the Patriots (1-3), who rested almost every starter. 
“Everybody who played got an opportunity to show us what they could do,” New England coach Bill Belichick said. 
The Super Bowl champion Giants will kick off the NFL sea­son next Wednesday at home against Dallas. The Patriots will open on the road at Tennessee on Sept. 9. 
The Giants iced the game with 13 seconds to play on an intercep­tion by Laron Scott 
Eli Manning and the major­ity of the Giants’ starters played just over a quarter, with receiver Hakeem Nicks making his pre­season debut. New England rested their starters with only fullback Eric Kettani and defen­sive tackle Brandon Deaderick being the only starters on the depth-chart to play. 
“I wanted to open it up a little bit and I wanted to get my body back used to it,” said Nicks, who had one catch for 6 yards. “That’s what I needed.” 
.After collecting only four first downs and 69 total yards in the first half, the Giants took the second-half kickoff and went 64 yards in 13 plays with Tynes ty­ing the game with a 34-yard field goal. Andre Brown rushed nine times for 51 yards in what has to be a late bid to make the club. 
“I like how we came out in the second half and figured out how to win a football game,” coach Tom Coughlin said. “I didn’t like the way we started the game off.” 
The Patriots held a 3-0 halftime lead after 30 minutes that at best were boring. 
Manning and the first-team offense played into the second quarter and never got into New England territory. The closest New York got was its own 49 in the next to last play of the half. 
Manning was 4 of 8 for 29 yards in four series against the Patriots’ reserves, including three without making a first down. 
Gostkowski provided the only points of the half with a 20-yard field goal a little more than 6 min­utes into the second quarter. The 12-play, 51-yard drive was kept alive by a third-down facemask penalty against Giants lineback­er Spencer Paysinger as he tack­led Brandon Bolden well short of a first down at the Giants 36. 
If there was anything interest­ing in the first half it was the work of referee Don King and his crew on a day the NFL announced that it would open the regular sea­son next week with replacement officials. 
King took about 5 minutes and three announcements to the crowd at MetLife Stadium to ex­plain that there were two penal­ties against the Giants on a punt by New York’s Steve Weatherford. 
At first, King said it was a pen­alty on each team. He then cor­rected that to an illegal formation and a personal foul against the Giants, and then the officials had to meet for a couple of minutes to figure out how much yardage to access New York. They settled on five and Belichick came out to question the decision. 
The crowd got restless after third announcement. 
King also seemed to muff the Giants calling a running into the kicker penalty in the second quarter, roughly 7 seconds after Zoltan Mesko kicked the ball. 
Coughlin also questioned King early in the fourth quar­ter when the officials picked up a flag seemingly thrown for the Patriots having 12 men in the huddle before a 54-yard field goal by Tynes. 
King said New England called time out before the play. The Giants eventually decided to punt. 



because of time commitments, Denson accepted the head coaching job at Pope John Paul II High School in South Florida in 2010. 
One year later, he became the running backs’ coach at Bethune-Cookman University, where he remains today. He said his playing time at Notre Dame and in the NFL helps him coach the position. 
“It helps to be able to know that your coach knows what he’s talking about,” Denson said. “I don’t want to say it’s easy, but it’s natural. This is what I was created to do. I was created to mentor and help young men and spread the word through sports.” 
Denson, 35, lives in Daytona, Fla., and is married to his wife Elaine. The couple has four kids 
— Ashley, Autry III, Elijah and Asia. 
As he looks to the future, Denson said he has his eyes set on a college or NFL head-coach­ing job. 
“I don’t do anything to just be okay at it,” he said. “I don’t do anything to be good at it or even great. I want to be legendary at it, but not for me. It’s a platform for me to influence more young men and more people.” 
Contact Matthew DeFranks at mdefrank@nd.edu 


“I don’t do anything to be good at it or even great. I want to be legendary at it, but not for me. It’s a platform for me to influence more young men and more people.” 
Denson 
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 22 
Denson still does not know. 
“When we were practicing at Notre Dame [leading up to the game], I literally did not prac­tice,” Denson said in a phone interview. “Every time I was in practice, coach Holtz would kick me out. For the most part, 
Autry Denson Former Irish  running back 
I was out there but I was in the doghouse. 
“When he kicked me out of practice, he knew I was going to prepare even harder because I knew my opportunity would come, and when it did, I wanted to knock it out the park.” 
Former Irish running back Randy Kinder earned the start against Navy while Denson was relegated to the sideline for the first series. Denson took it from there. He racked up 123 yards and two touchdowns on just 16 carries in his first trip to Europe. 
Much like the current Irish, Denson said the trip overseas had just one objective — win. 
“When I’m there, it’s all busi­ness,” Denson said. “My mind­set is always on the task at hand. I wasn’t going to Ireland, I was going to beat Navy. I wasn’t there on vacation. I was there to play a game and dominate my opponent.” 
Denson finished his career with 4,448 yards, the most ever by an Irish back. 
“Everyone that was on that team, whether you’re a walk-on or not, we shared that record,” Denson said. “It’s not an indi­vidual achievement. It really is a team record. 
“If somebody breaks it, we’re 
doing pretty darn good. And I’m ready for us to get back to the dominating phase.” 
Denson graduated from Notre Dame in 1999. After his colle­giate career, Denson played four years in the National Football League (NFL) for three different teams, totaling just 212 yards on 62 attempts. For the Lauderhill, Fla., native, his stint with the and they were actually paying me now. That drive got a whole lot better.” 
After a short career in the Canadian Football League (CFL), Denson began life after football. He went into banking, working for Wachovia before spending six years at Merrill Lynch. 
While working at Merrill Lynch, Denson founded POISE, a foundation for young athletes that stands for Perseverance, Opportunity, Intelligence, Sacrifice and Effort. POISE gave young athletes the tools need­ed to be successful outside of sports, Denson said. 
In addition to athletic de­velopment, POISE offered aca­demic counseling, SAT and ACT prep work and Bible study. While working with POISE part time, Denson felt his calling changing. 
“I felt like God wanted me to do something more,” Denson said. “I started seeing what I didn’t like. If coaching is done correctly, the relationship the coach and a player has tran­

“I was created to mentor and help young men and spread the word through sports.” 
Autry Denson Former Irish running back 
hometown Miami Dolphins stood out. 
“I took the same drive to work that I took years before that [to high school],” Denson said. “The only difference was I was making a right instead of a left, scends sports … and I saw kids not have coaches that care for them.” 
Despite turning down previ­ous opportunities to coach for Urban Meyer at Florida and Charlie Weis at Notre Dame 
PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
SMC SOCCER 

Belles look to build off .500 season 
Belles will be sophomore goal-
Observer Staff Report 
keeper Chanler Rosenbaum 

Under the leadership of Rosenbaum, joined last season Belles coach Michael Joyce, by Natalie Warner, accounted Saint Mary’s finished last sea-for all the decisions in goal and son 10-10. This marked the first three of the team’s six shutouts. time the Belles outshined the Rosenbaum had a team-best 63 five-win summit since 2005. saves as a freshman. 
For the Belles, the biggest ac-The Belles will also bring complishment coming into this back defensemen sophomore season was reaching the .500 Kerry Green and junior Kerry mark, especially after finishing Puckett, who both saw min-the previous season at 3-16. utes in every game last season. 
The Belles defense was key in In nine of 10 games when winning many of their games, the Belles scored multiple holding its opposition to a goal goals, more than one person or less 12 times and allowing was recognized for scoring two goals or fewer on 17 differ-the goal. The Belles emerged ent occasions. with a win in each of those 10 
The Belles will return almost games when scoring at least all of their players from last year. two goals. The youth of the team last year The Belles will play host to was carried by the underclass-Bethel in their season opener men. Returning back for the Aug. 31 at 5 p.m. 





CROSSWORD | WILL SHORTZ 

YOUR COMIC HERE | 


YOUR COMIC HERE | 



Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
SUDOKU | THE MEPHAM GROUP 

HOROSCOPE | EUGENIA LAST 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Lauren Collins, 26; Lea Michele, 26; Carla Gugino, 41; Rebecca DeMornay, 53. 
Happy Birthday: A chance to get ahead is evident, but you will have to fight through obstacles. Don’t rely on anyone to do a job or to speak for you. Representation will be key to how far ahead you get, making it vital to depict exactly what you want to portray to those you must impress. Your numbers are 6, 8, 19, 26, 29, 40, 44. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Give a little and get a little back. Don’t be afraid to stand out or to take a unique approach. Personal changes will grab attention. Don’t limit the possibilities, but respect what others want as well. Diversity is the name of the game. 


TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Cut out any emotional manipulation. Talk straight and get business out of the way. Once you feel relatively secure that everything will unfold as planned professionally or financially, you will feel more at ease spending downtime with family. 


GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Reconnect with old friends. Attending a reunion or making the first move to reunite will lead to interesting changes in the way you go about getting what you want. Speak from the heart and you’ll get a good response. 


CANCER (June 21-July 22): Proceed with caution. Doing too much for someone may be detrimental to your relationship and to advancement. Make changes that benefit you first and foremost. Take care of matters pertaining to institutions, agen­cies or corporations. 


LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Emotions will mount and choices will have to be made. Don’t limit what you can do because of someone using unfair tactics to control what you can and cannot accomplish. You cannot buy love or own someone. Follow your dreams, not someone else’s. 

VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Keep everything you do within your budget. Time con­straints will occur if you take on too much or indulge when moderation is required. Love is on the rise, and doing something constructive with someone special will pay off. 


LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): Do your own thing and you’ll attract positive attention. A change in your relationships can be expected. Learn from your past mistakes and rekindle friendships you miss. Love may hold you back if you are stuck in a stagnant relationship. 


SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Keep working toward your set goals. Discussions will only lead to emotional battles that will stand in the way of your creativity. Take an unusual approach in the way you do things at home. Decorate to suit your needs. 



SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Look back and remember the good times you had with someone you found inspirational. Talks can lead to new opportunities and the revamping of something you’ve wanted to pursue for a long time. Take action and excel. 


CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Don’t let your guard down. Stay on top of situations involving friends and relatives. Expect someone to try to control your next move. Preparation, honesty and integrity will be key. A last-minute change of plans will work in your favor. 


AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Love is in the stars, and hooking up with someone from your past or establishing a better relationship with someone you are currently with will lead to a better understanding. Set new goals that will bring you closer together. 


PISCES (Feb. 19- March 20): Don’t reveal information you don’t want passed around. Relationships are in a high cycle, but if you are too open about your past, you may jeopardize your chance to get to know someone you want in your life at a personal or professional level. 

Birthday Baby: You are innovative, imaginative and quick to react. You are unique. 
JUMBLE | DAVID HOYT AND JEFF KNUREK 

Make checks payable to and mail to:  Enclosed is $130 for one academic year Enclosed is $75 for one semester  The Observer P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Name Address City  State  Zip  


THE OBSERVER | THURSDAY, AUGUST 30, 2012 | NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
WAKING THE ECHOES | AUTRY DENSON 
Denson driven by mentoring, coaching 
Former Irish running back still strives for excellence 

AP 

Former Irish running back Autry Denson cuts upfield against Vanderbilt  in Notre Dame’s 14-7 win Sept. 5, 1996 in Nashville, Tenn. Denson is the all-time Irish rushing leader with 4,448 yards. 
By MATTHEW DeFRANKS 
Associate Sports Editor 
Editor’s note: This is the first of a new Observer feature. The “Waking the Echoes” series intends to inform fans about some former players and will feature weekly stories profiling them and their lives since Notre Dame. 
Autry Denson loves com­petition. He loves it so much he’ll challenge you to a spelling contest with your own name — and promise to win. 
Denson’s competitive drive allowed him to play all four years with the Irish, break the all-time rushing record at Notre Dame and propel the Irish to a 54-27 win over Navy in Ireland in 1996. 

Leading up to that game 16 years ago, former Irish coach Lou Holtz held the player out of practice for reasons 
see DENSON PAGE 22 
MEN’S TENNIS 

Andrews improves during summer 

By PETER STEINER 
Sports Writer 

Junior Greg Andrews was not about to lose any of his momentum. 
After a breakout season in his sophomore year, Notre Dame’s top tennis player was determined to advance his game even fur­ther this summer. As evidenced by his tournament successes and coach’s words, he certainly ful­filled his goal. 
Andrews finished his spring season by competing in the NCAA singles championships, re­ceiving his bid as the top-ranked player in the Big East. After falling in the first round, which ended his spring season, the Richland, Mich. native soon began his sum­mer training in South Bend. 
“I took class at Notre Dame, which allowed me to train with the coaches everyday, mostly twice a day,” Andrews said. “I also played in four different events. 
see ANDREWS PAGE 21 
FOOTBALL 

Kelly addresses Montana’s criticism 
Observer Staff Report 
Former Irish quarterback and pro football Hall of Famer Joe Montana recently criticized Irish coach Brian Kelly after he chose sophomore Everett Golson as the team’s starting quarterback heading into the sea­son opener against Navy in Dublin. 
“Kelly can’t figure out what he wants,” Montana said in an ESPN. com chat. “Every one of the QBs that he has, he claims is the next star, but he doesn’t last long with them. He’s probably the least talented thrower they have, so maybe they’re looking to run the ball with him.” 
Montana’s son, Nate, played for the Irish two seasons ago and saw limited action. Kelly responded to Montana’s criticism during Wednesday’s press conference. 
“Well, Joe Montana is an icon,” Kelly said. “He’s entitled to his opin­ion about our football team. I think that’s all I’d say about that.” 
Pinkett says team needs ‘bad citizens’ 
Following the May suspensions of junior quarterback Tommy Rees and senior linebacker Carlo Calabrese and this week’s suspen­sions of senior running back Cierre Wood and junior defensive end Justin Utupo, former Irish running back Allen Pinkett said the penal­ized players give the team an edge. 
“I’ve always felt like to have a successful team you’ve got to have a few bad citizens on the team,” Pinkett said in a radio interview with WSCR-AM 670. “I think Notre Dame is growing because maybe they have some guys that are doing something worthy of a suspension which creates edge on the football team.” 
Pinkett currently does the color commentary for Irish football games on the radio. Later during the day, he stepped back from his controversial comments. 
“It’s clear that I chose my words poorly and that an apology is in order for these inappropriate com­ments. My words do not reflect the strong pride and passion I have for the Notre Dame football program,” Pinkett said. 
Notre Dame Director of Athletics Jack Swarbrick responded to Pinkett’s comments through a statement released by the school Wednesday. 
“Allen Pinkett’s suggestion that Notre Dame needs more ‘bad guys’ on its football team is nonsense,” Swarbrick said in the statement. “Of course, Allen does not speak for the University, but we could not dis­agree more with this observation.” 
Pinkett held the record for most career rushing yards before Autry Denson broke it. Pinkett ran for 4,131 yards and 49 touchdowns dur­ing his career that spanned from 1982-85. 






