
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


McCormick announces charity concert 
By SAM STRYKER 
News Editor 
Saint Patrick’s Day is com­monly perceived as a celebra­tion of all things Irish, a reason to drink Guinness and wear green. But student body presi­dent Pat McCormick wants to remind the world of the true meaning of the holiday — and in a big way. 
Looking to deliver on one of their major campaign goals — to bring a large charity con­cert to Notre Dame Stadium 
— McCormick said David Clark Cause (DCC), an internation­ally renowned events company, has worked with the University to create a proposal for a ma­jor social concerns experience. The event is tentatively titled “3.17,” in honor of Saint Pat­rick’s Day. 
Though the University first received a letter proposing to develop such an event from DCC in May, McCormick said a firm outline developed over winter break. 
“This has been [a result] of months and months of con­tact,” McCormick said. “We have submitted a proposal to the University and so far the response has been very posi­tive.” 
The concept of the event is centered on “reclaiming” Saint Patrick’s Day as a celebration of peace and reconciliation, and would be held in partner­ship with the Republic of Ire­land. 
“The Irish government has an interest in trying to direct attention to the day itself as not just a celebration of Ireland, but Saint Patrick and trying to draw out what that means,” McCormick said. 
To focus on the themes of peace and reconciliation, Mc­Cormick said the proposed 3.17 event would have three compo­nents. 
The centerpiece event would be what McCormick had prom­ised as a major aspect of his campaign platform, a large-scale charity concert. The 3.17 Global Peace Concert, broad­cast from Notre Dame and a venue in Dublin, Ireland. Mc­Cormick said renowned bands 


see CONCERT/page 6 


LISA HOEYNCK I The Observerr 


Abroad students return 
By NICOLE TOCZAUER 
News Writer 
Juniors who studied abroad in the fall left behind afternoon si­estas, weekend trips and sunny weather to return to a snowy se­mester at Notre Dame. For many of these students, a large aspect of the study abroad experience was learning outside the classroom. 
Junior Carl Brinker said when he arrived in Dublin, Ireland, the cultural divide was not as great as he expected. 
“There were definitely things to get used to — the accent, cars on the other side of the road, learning the bus system — but ultimately I had more in common with my Irish peers than I thought I would,” Brinker said. “We lis­tened to a lot of the same music, watched the same TV shows and spoke mostly the same language.” 


see ABROAD/page 5 

Fans enjoy bowl game despite loss to Florida State 
By DAN BROMBACH 
News Writer 
A day filled with excite­ment and warm weather was capped with stunning disap­pointment for Notre Dame fans as the Irish fell to Flori­da State, 18-14 in the Champs Sports Bowl in Orlando, Fla. on Dec. 29. 
Despite a sizeable pres­ence of Notre Dame fans, the proximity of the game to the Florida State campus in Tal­lahassee, Fla. gave the Semi­noles an advantage on the field, freshman Taylor Gillig, who attended the game, said. 
“It still felt like a Florida State home game at times,” Gillig said.  “Our team defi­nitely managed to take the FSU fans out of it early on, but as the momentum shifted in the second half they made it pretty obvious that we were outnumbered.” 
After the Irish took a 14-0 lead early in the third quar 
see REACTION/page  6 


Notre Dame early application pool remains competitive 

By ABI HOVERMAN 
News Writer 
For high school students hoping to walk Notre Dame’s campus as one of the Fighting Irish, the realization of their dreams continues to get more difficult. 
This year’s Early Action ap­plicant pool continued Notre Dame’s trend of increased academic and personal excel­lence, with 300 more prospec­tive students applying than the year before. 
Don Bishop, associate vice president for Undergraduate Enrollment, said the selection was even more competitive for the larger pool of 5,556 ap­plicants, who were notified of their status Dec. 15. The Uni­versity accepted and deferred a similar number to last year, and thus had to decline more prospective students a spot. 
Bishop credits the 6 percent increase in applications to the University’s more personal­ized and rigorous recruitment efforts, including a redesigned viewbook and brochure mate­rials, along with an updated website. He said Notre Dame focused on these efforts in re­sponse to a trend of top uni­versities increasingly courting potential students. 
“We have increased our in­teraction with interested stu­dents and their parents. The staff, faculty, students and alumni in local areas are more active. It’s been a team effort,” Bishop said. “Notre Dame’s in­crease of recruitment was not only something that we want­ed, but something that was necessary to make the admis­sions experience more person­al for the prospective 
see EARLY/page 5 

INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER Alternative winter breaks page 3 u Viewpoint page 8 u Best dressed at the Golden Globes page 10 u Swarbrick discusses athletic department page 20 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT’S YOUR FAVORITE THING ABOUT BEING BACK ON CAMPUS? 

www.ndsmcobserver.com P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 Editor-in-Chief Douglas Farmer Managing Editor Business Manager Sarah Mervosh Jeff Liptak Asst. Managing Editor: Adriana Pratt Asst. Managing Editor: Chris Masoud News Editor: Sam Stryker Viewpoint Editor: Meghan Thomassen Sports Editor: Allan Joseph Scene Editor: Maija Gustin Saint Mary’s Editor: Caitlin E. Housley Photo Editor: Pat Coveney Graphics Editor: Brandon Keelean Advertising Manager: Katherine Lukas Ad Design Manager: Amanda Jonovski Controller: Jason Taulman Systems Administrator: William Heineman Office Manager & General Info (574) 631-7471 Fax (574) 631-6927 Advertising (574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu Editor-in-Chief (574) 631-4542 dfarmer1@nd.edu Managing Editor (574) 631-4542 smervosh@nd.edu Assistant Managing Editors (574) 631-4541 apratt@nd.edu, cmasoud@nd.edu Business Office (574) 631-5313 News Desk (574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com Viewpoint Desk (574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com Sports Desk (574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com Scene Desk (574) 631-4540 mgustin@nd.edu Saint Mary’s Desk chousl01@saintmarys.edu Photo Desk (574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com Systems & Web Administrators (574) 631-8839 Policies The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College.  Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. Question regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Douglas Farmer. Post Office Information The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 and additional mailing offices 024 South Dining hall Notre Dame, IN 46556-077 The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved.  
TODAY’S STAFF News Sports Sam Stryker Sam Gans Anna Boarini Kelsey Manning Brooke Kovanda Mike Monaco Graphics Scene Lisa Hoeynck Mary Claire Photo O’Donnell Sarah O’Connor Viewpoint Meghan Thomassen  
CORRECTIONS The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so we can correct our error.  
HIGH 28 LOW 21 


Amity Wipson  Ariel Etienne  Ashley Lawrence  Cate Ryan  Max Wipson  Shannon Sullivan  
freshman  freshman  sophomore  senior  sophomore  sophomore  
Breen-Phillips  Pasquerilla East  Farley  Pasquerilla West  Knott  Cavanaugh  
“Having  “The snow.”  “Seeing friends  “The snow and  “Starting new  “Being with  
something  and squirrels.”  wet feet.”  classes.”  friends again.”  
productive to do  
again.”  

Have an idea for Question of the Day? Email obsphoto@gmail.com 


OFFBEAT 

Fly with golden booty named after Beyonce 
CANBERRA, Austra­lia — A newly discovered horse fly in Australia was so “bootylicious” with its golden-haired bum, there was only one name worthy of its beauty: Beyonce. 
Previously published re­sults from Bryan Lessard, a 24-year-old researcher at Australia’s Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organization, were recently announced on the species that had been sitting in a fly col­lection since it was cap­tured in 1981 — the same year pop diva Beyonce was born. 
He says he wanted to pay respect to the insect’s beauty by naming it Scap­tia (Plinthina) beyonceae. 
Lessard said Beyonce would be “in the nature history books forever” and that the fly now bearing her name is “pretty boo­tylicious” with its golden backside. 
Wis. man arrested for play­ing too much cowbell 
OSHKOSH, Wis. — Dem­onstrators calling for the recall of Wisconsin Gov. Scott Walker learned there really is such a thing as too much cowbell. 
Oshkosh police arrested a 26-year-old Appleton man on Thursday after he kept playing a cowbell and shaking it in an officer’s face when he and other protesters were told to be quiet. 
The Oshkosh Northwest­ern reports that when the officer tried to take the cowbell, the man pushed the officer. A 25-year-old Appleton woman then hit the officer in the back with her picket sign while the man was being handcuffed. 
Both were taken to the Winnebago County Jail after the incident. Police will recommend that the man be charged with dis­orderly conduct and resist­ing arrest and the woman be charged with disorderly conduct and battery to an officer. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 


IN BRIEF 
The Department of Physics will host Physics Colloqui­um with Dr. Nicholas Mi­chel from the University of Tennessee who will discuss the unification of structure and reaction models for the study of weakly bound and resonant systems.  It will be held in 118 Nieuwland Sci­ence Hall at 4 p.m. today. 
RecSports will be host­ing the Try a Trainer event at Rolfs Sports Recreation Center. Meet the RecSports Personal Training staff during their free drop-in session beginning 4:15 p.m. today. Experience each trainer to get an sense of their personality and unique training styles for five to ten minutes. 
The Snite Museum of Art will host the lecture “Rous­seau and Human Rights” as part of the lecture series: “Rousseau 2012 and Digni­ty: Are We Just Yet?.”  The speaker will be Christie Mc­Donald of Harvard Univer­sity. The event runs from 5 
p.m. to 6 p.m. today in the Annenberg Auditorium and is free and open to the pub­
lic.  A reception follows this event. 
The 2012 Notre Dame Student Film Festival will return Thursday for its 23rd year.  The festival screens films made in past years by undergraduates in film studies at Notre Dame.  It will be held in the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center and cost is $6 adult, $5 faculty/ staff, $4 senior, $3 student/ child. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, email detailed information about an event to obsnews.nd@gmail.com 


LOCAL WEATHER 
TODAY TONIGHT THURSDAY FRIDAY SATURDAY SUNDAY 









HIGH 22 LOW 12 
HIGH 25 LOW 24 
HIGH 40 LOW 31 

Students conduct research and serve over winter break 
By TORI ROECK 
News Writer 
While many Notre Dame students spent winter break catching up on rest and re­laxation, others traveled the world, performed service projects or furthered career ambitions. 
Senior Kiki Gelke spent a week in Poland on a grant from the Nanovic Institute of European Studies. 
While in Poland, Gelke said she conducted research for her capstone essay on Ca­tholicism in modern Poland, a requirement for her Euro­pean Studies minor. 
Gelke said she spent the first part of her trip staying at a convent outside Krakow, and then toured famous reli­gious landmarks in Krakow and Lubin, where she saw Poland’s religious influences on display. 
.Poland is the frontier be­tween the Catholicism of Western Europe and the 
Orthodox  faith  of  East­ 
ern  Europe..  Gelke  said.  
.These  influences  were  
very prevalent..  

Gelke said her favorite part of the trip was celebrat­ing the Feast of the Epiphany in Krakow. 
“In Poland, the Feast of the Epiphany is a huge reli­gious day,” Gelke said. “The dinner was incredible and filled with traditional Polish Christmas carols, the break­ing of the traditional oplatek bread with good wishes and blessings to all present in the year to come, and of course, traditional Polish food.” 
Senior Adam Cowden went to Botswana for 10 days to do research for his senior thesis with funding from the Center for Undergraduate Scholarly Engagement and the Glynn Family Honors Program. 
Cowden said his thesis topic explores the role of So­cial Security and welfare in­stitutions in family planning decisions. 
“I travelled there to con­duct interviews with indi­viduals about their attitudes toward social security and family planning and to col­lect data from various gov­ernment departments,” Cowden said. 
Cowden said the data he collected in Botswana pro­vided strong material for further developing his the­sis. 
“Now I have a lot to write about,” he said. 
Sophomore Brendan Mo­ran participated in Urban Plunge, a one-credit semi­nar sponsored by the Center for Social Concerns (CSC) in which students spend two days of their winter break exploring urban poverty in a major city, according to the CSC website. 
“While I was on my Urban Plunge, I was able to directly serve the impoverished com­munity of south Boston, re­flect on my experiences, and ask the important questions surrounding urban poverty,” Moran said. 
Moran said he and other Notre Dame students lived and volunteered at the non-profit organization My Brother’s Keeper, where they slept in a warehouse at night and delivered food and fur­niture directly to the needy during the day. 
“I had a great time on Ur-ban Plunge,” Moran said. “I was able to get out of my comfort zone and participate in a cause that I truly believe in. I met some amazing peo­ple along the way, and I feel that my experience revital­ized my morale and spirits, which in turn prepared me for another long semester.” 


Sophomore Caroline Ramsey did a one-day job shadow in New York City, sponsored by the Career Center, which pairs up Notre Dame students with alumni in appropriate fields. 
Through the program, an editor at a children’s book publishing company men­tored Ramsey. 
“She answered the ques­tions that I had and taught me a lot about the field of publishing,” Ramsey said. 
Ramsey said participat­ing in the program made her feel confident she wants to pursue a career in publish­ing. 
“I hadn’t realized that working as an editor could integrate my interest in writing and design,” she said. “It combines creativity and business in an exciting way.” 
Ramsey also said experi­encing office life firsthand was worthwhile. 
“Reading about a career or even talking to someone in that career is obviously very helpful,” she said. “Fully en­tering into an office and be­ing able to participate in the daily activities of that office is invaluable.” 
Contact Tori Roeck at troeck@nd.edu 



Peace activist speaks at College 
By REBECCA O’NEIL 
News Writer 
Even as the country an­nually celebrates Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr.’s namesake with a holiday, Americans are betraying the vision of King, Kroc Institute scholar and peace activist Rashied Omar said in a lecture at Saint Mary’s on Tuesday. 
King took a firm stand against racism, materialism and militarism, Omar said. 
“[He was] an American prophet. He was a patriot even if others could not see it,” Omar said. “He thought that if the U.S. changed it­self, it had a tremendous po­tential to spread good.” 
Omar said many of King’s hopes for the world have not been realized in the decades following his death. 
“If Martin Luther King was alive today, he would want us to be on the right side of the worldwide revolution of values,” he said. “It is time to stop thinking about who killed Martin, but who is killing Martin’s dream.” 
Omar said society of­ten places value in largely inconsequential matters, which is the opposite of what King preached. 

“We are a ‘thing-oriented’ society, but we need to be­come a ‘person-oriented’ so­ciety,” Omar said. 
Omar also said King’s dream of peace is ignored by the American government. 
“[King wanted] war money to put food in the wrinkled stomachs of God’s children,” he said. “[America] spends more on military than the next 12 countries combined. This is spiritual death.” 
Each year, the sitting pres­ident commemorates King, lays a wreath on his grave, and goes right back to war the next day, Omar said. 
“There is a street in every town named after him, but people’s actions today be­tray Martin’s vision, kill the dream,” he said. 
King recognized America needed a revival of spirit, Omar said. 
“He wanted to redeem the soul of America and have the country act as a responsible member of the world com­munity,” he said. 
Omar said King would rec­ognize many societal norms worthy of challenging. 
“Today we see legalized prejudices against many minorities, the Hispanic community and gays and lesbians,” he said. 
Omar noted modern prophets exist today, such as Nelson Mandela and Archbishop Desmond Tutu, who recognize points in so­ciety worthy of change. 
“[They are] the moral con­science of society, not only electing leaders but holding them accountable,” he said. “They challenged the injus­tice of the status quo.” 
When Barack Obama ran for president, he cam­paigned on a platform con­taining aspects of a modern prophet, Omar said. 
“[He highlighted] the move towards change, we needed hope,” he said. “When he came to power however, the movement re­tired.” 
Contact Rebecca O’Neil at roneil01@saintmarys.edu 
Abroad 
continued from page 1 
He said his living situation at the University College Dublin (UCD) deviated from the Notre Dame norm. Students lived in six-person coed apartments with in­ternational and Irish students. 
“I lived with a Canadian and four other Irish [students]. It was a lot of fun to experience a living situation that would never hap­pen at ND,” he said. “There were co-ed dorms and the apocalypse didn’t happen, fancy that.” 
Along with rooming, Brinker said classes challenged him in a different way than those he had taken at Notre Dame. He said classes at UCD consisted of large lectures with no tutorials. 
“While the material covered was similar to what would be taught at ND, grading was quite a bit harsher,” Brinker said. “What was perhaps the most challeng­ing was the fact that final ex­ams counted for nearly all of the course grade.” 
Junior Rachel Pilla, who stud­ied abroad in Rome, said her living situation and classes also differed from her previous semes­ters at Notre Dame. 
“You’d think [living with eight other girls] might get really crowded, but there was plenty of space and since we all got along really well we never had any liv-


Early 
continued from page 1 
applicants.” 
Bob Mundy, director of Ad­missions, said this increased attention to applicants led to a record number of prospec­tive students visiting campus in 2011. 
“This is the first year we’ve had 10,000 students visit the University,” Mundy said. 
Beyond the increased num­ber of applicants, Bishop said this year’s Early Action pool continued the trend of being intellectually qualified. 
“The quality of the pool is at least equal to any year we’ve ever had,” he said. “We con­tinue to have such a strong pool of applicants that it al­lows us to continue to value attributes along with academ­ic strength.” 
The Admissions Office also saw more international appli­cations than ever, with similar increases in European, Afri­can, Asian and Latin Ameri­can students, Bishop said. 
“We are seeing increases in each of the regions in the world. Notre Dame is inten­tionally increasing our global reach,” he said. 
Increased travel by admis­sions counselors, who work outside the U.S. 10 weeks each year, and the resources and momentum provided by the Office of Internationalization have encouraged this trend. 
Mundy said Notre Dame also has a tradition of national di­versity. 
“More of our students come from farther away to attend Notre Dame than any other top research university, with more than 80 percent of stu­dents coming from farther than a four-hour drive,” he said. 
Bishop said this year’s pool appears more diverse than previous years’. 
“We’re notably up in [ap­plications of] U.S. students of color,” he said. 
Two statistics that remained ing issues,” she said. Pilla said traveling on the weekends to other cities and countries was the best part about studying abroad. She said her favorite weekend trip was to Dublin, where she met up with Brinker. 
“We had a great tour of the Guinness Factory, went to Saint Patrick’s Cathedral, ate some hearty Irish dishes and, of course, went to all the best Irish pubs,” she said. 
Junior Patty Walsh said living in Fremantle, Australia, gave her a chance to step outside of her comfort zone. 
“I learned a lot about myself while abroad, and I feel like I matured a lot,” she said. “Anyone thinking about studying abroad absolutely should do so, but prob­ably needs to start saving up.” 
Brinker said he became more confident and independent while studying abroad. He said plan­ning ahead helped him make the most of his time there. 
“Don’t be afraid to take risks and wing it on occasion. Those are often the best, and occasion­ally terrifying, moments of study­ing abroad.” 
Pilla said as much as she en­joyed studying abroad, she is ex­cited to be studying in America again. 
“As much as I loved Rome, there really is no place like Notre Dame,” she said. 
Contact Nicole Toczauer at ntoczaue@nd.edu 
steady, however, were the number of applicants who were legacy students and the number of students taking college level courses in high school, Mundy said. 
“The legacy application pool is one of the most consistent figures. We are within 13 ap­plications of last year,” he said. 
With the increasing aca­demic quality of each pool, Bishop said high test scores and a high GPA do not guaran­tee applicants a spot at Notre Dame. He said intellectual cu­riosity, creativity, leadership, service and special talents valued by the University play an increasingly important role in admissions. 
“Half of the students in the top 1 percent of the nation in class performance or national testing will likely gain admis­sion, and half will not. A third of the applicants are high-ability students, but not in this top 1 percent,” Bishop said. 
“However, their personal at­tributes and intellectual drive are so exceptional that they gain a spot in the class.” 
Bishop said a student who demonstrates a special com­mitment and devotion over the high school years to an academic area in some form of research or hobbies would stand out to the Admissions committee. 
“In these cases, a student with a devotion to a specific intellectual field that has es­tablished a provable record of productive talent will gain attention [in admissions],” he said. 
The consideration of Early Action and regular applicants this spring goes beyond num­bers, Bishop said, as Notre Dame’s admissions process is much more personal than plugging statistics into an al­gorithm. 
“We spend 20,000 plus hours reading, debating and discussing applications,” Bishop said. 
Contact Abi Hoverman at ahoverma@nd.edu 

signed, the event could be sus-
Concert 
tainable, with the possibility of 
continued from page 1 
venue in Dublin, Ireland. Mc­Cormick said renowned bands from across the world would be invited to perform for a live streaming global broadcast. 
Prior to the concert, the Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies would host the 3.17 Global Summit on Peace & Res­olution. McCormick said dig­nitaries and celebrities would meet to discuss conflict resolu­tion and reconciliation on both a grass roots and global scale. 
“The idea would be [this event] would be a substantive dimension to the day itself,” he said. 
In addition to the planned summit, Notre Dame would host the 3.17 Peace Prize, celebrat­ing ordinary people who have become extraordinary through pursuit of peace. 
“The prizewinner would be potentially selected by living Nobel Laureates who would like to submit their votes for the three finalists,” McCormick said. 
McCormick said he is particu­larly excited about who the Uni­versity is working with on this event. DCC is a company solely dedicated to creating cause ini­tiatives for renowned organiza­tions, brands and individuals around the world. 
“What I think we are really excited about is this is an inter­nationally recognized consul­tant, and he has taken an inter­est in collaborating with Notre Dame on producing a signature human rights event,” McCor­mick said. 
Though the event has no firm date, McCormick said, as de­becoming a Notre Dame tradi­tion. He said in terms of plan­ning the first installment, the ball is now in the University’s court. 
“What’s most likely is ques­tions like the date or the artists that would attend would be de­cided by the University,” McCor­mick said. 
McCormick said he is partic­ularly excited for the event as he feels it displays a new form of student government he has hoped to achieve. 
“When we campaigned, this was in many ways at the heart of our idea of trying to find a way for students to chart a course for Notre Dame,” he said. “We felt students here wanted to not just have a student government that would provide only constit­uent services, but would also allow students to play a role in charting the course for the Notre Dame project and writing a new chapter in Notre Dame’s history.” 
McCormick also noted the fact that student government is the driving force behind the proposal is a significant achievement within the Univer­sity community. 
“Not only have we advocated for the event, but we have ob­tained the means for the Uni­versity to pursue the event,” he said. 
Though the event is pending approval, McCormick said ulti­mately it could benefit the en­tire University community. 
“We think it is a significant proposal and would be a sig­nificant opportunity for Notre Dame to pursue,” he said. 
Contact Sam Stryker at sstryker@nd.edu 
fans were pleased with the 
Reaction 

civility of the Florida State fans. continued from page 1 “For the most part, peo­
ple didn’t say anything to ter, Notre Dame fans could do us about being from Notre nothing, but watch as Florida Dame,” junior Caitlyn Kosci-State scored 18 unanswered elski said.  “After the Michi­points to win, turning the gan game, the atmosphere mood in the stands from one was way more tense.  People of enthusiasm to frustration. were screaming things at us. 
Gillig related the emotions It was scary.” in the stands to Michigan Despite a Notre Dame loss, loss earlier in the season. the bowl game was still an 
“In the second half, it overall positive experience started to look like the Mich-for many of those who at­igan game all over again,” tended. he said.  “It felt like we just “Even though the end of the 
didn’t  have  game  didn’t  
the drive to  go  as  we  
finish  the  had hoped it  
game.” J u s t i n Cullen, a senior man­ager for the football team, said  “The game definitely exposed our weaknesses, but it also showed how far along our defense has come ... that gives me hope for the future. ”  didn’t ruin things for us,” junior Ellen Carroll said.  “We still had a lot of fun.”  
w a t c h i n g  Cullen also  
from  the  Taylor Gillig  a c k now l ­ 
s i d e l i n e s  freshman  edged disap­ 
was an emo­ pointment  at  
tional  roll- the loss but  
ercoaster.  said he had  

“It was really exciting to fun attending the game. be down there when the “The team put up a good team made a big play like fight, and it would have been Zeke (Motta’s) fumble return nice to win but it was still for a touchdown, but things just fun to be a part of it all,” definitely got intense when Cullen said. things started not going so Despite the less than per-well,” he said. fect performance by the 
Despite the loss, the warm Irish, the bowl did manage weather was a welcome relief to motivate fans to a positive for many Notre Dame fans outlook for next season. who took advantage of the “The game definitely ex-Florida sun to tailgate and posed our weaknesses, but enjoy the other bowl game it also showed how far along festivities. our defense has come,” Gillig 
“It was definitely nice to get said.  “That gives me hope for a week of 70 degree weather the future.” when it was snowing back in South Bend,” Cullen said. Contact Dan Brombach at 
Following the game, many dbrambac@nd.edu 

Information Meetings 
Thursday, January 19 7:00pm in 120 DeBartolo Hall Tuesday, January 31 5:15pm in 119 DeBartolo Hall For more information, visit the Office of International Studies website at www.nd.edu/~ois. 

Wikipedia shuts down for 24 hours in protest 
Associated Press trative rights on the site to protest. Some likened the 
NEW YORK — Can the site’s decision to fighting world live without Wikipe-censorship with censorship. dia for a day? The planned One of the site’s own “five shutdown of one of the In-pillars” of conduct says that ternet’s most-visited sites is Wikipedia “is written from not sitting well with some a neutral point of view.” The of its volunteer editors, who site strives to “avoid advo­say the protest of anti-pira-cacy, and we character­cy legislation could threat-ize information and issues en the credibility of their rather than debate them.” work. Wikipedia founder Jimmy 
“My main concern is that Wales argues that the site it puts the organization in can maintain neutrality the role of advocacy, and in content even as it takes that’s a slippery slope,” said public positions on issues. editor Robert Lawton, a “The encyclopedia will al-Michigan computer consul-ways be neutral. The com­tant who would prefer that munity need not be, not the encyclopedia stick to when the encyclopedia is being a neutral repository threatened,” he tweeted. of knowledge. “Before we The Wikimedia Founda­know it, we’re blacked out tion, which administers the because we want to save the site, announced the black-whales.” out late Monday, after poll-
Wikipedia will shut down ing its community of vol-access to its English-lan-unteer contributors and guage site for 24 hours be-editors and getting respons­ginning at midnight Eastern es from 1,800 of them. The Standard Time on Tuesday. protest is aimed at the Stop Instead of encyclopedia ar-Online Piracy Act in the try and infringe on free-date articles, it’s particu-likely to pass is another ticles, visitors will see in-House and the Protect Intel-speech rights. larly concerned about a lack reason Lawton opposes the formation about the two lectual Property Act under Social news website Red-of exemptions in the bills blackout. congressional bills and de-consideration in the Senate. dit.com is shutting down for for sites where users might “I think there are far more tails about how to reach “If passed, this legislation 12 hours on Wednesday, but contribute copyrighted con-important things for the or-lawmakers. will harm the free and open most companies are stay-tent. Today, it has no obli-ganization to focus aside 
It is the first time the Eng-Internet and bring about ing up. Google Inc. said it gation under U.S. law except from legislation that isn’t lish site has been blacked new tools for censorship of will display its opposition to removing that content if a likely to pass anyway,” he out. Wikipedia’s Italian site international websites in-the bill on its home page in copyright holder complains. said. He’s been contributing came down once briefly in side the United States,” the some fashion. But under the House version to Wikipedia for eight years. protest to an Internet cen-foundation said. Dick Costollo, CEO of Twit-of the bill, it could be shut Danny Chia, another con­sorship bill put forward by Both bills are designed to ter, said he opposes the leg-down unless it polices its tributor to the site, said he the Berlusconi government. crack down on sales of pi-islation as well, but shutting own pages. had mixed feelings about The bill did not advance. rated American products down the service was out of The plans for the protest the blackout. The neutral-
The shutdown adds to a overseas, and they have the the question. were moving forward even ity applies to the content, growing body of critics who support of the film and mu-“Closing a global business though the bill’s prospects but a lot of people interpret are speaking out against the sic industry. Among the op-in reaction to single-issue appeared to be dimming. it as being about the site as legislation. But some editors ponents are many Internet national politics is foolish,” On Saturday, Rep. Darrell a whole, said the Los Altos, are so uneasy with the move companies such as Google, Costollo tweeted. Issa, a California Demo-Calif., software engineer. that they have blacked out Facebook, Yahoo, Twitter, Since Wikimedia depends crat, said the bill would not In an online discussion, their own user profile pages eBay and AOL. They say the on a small army of volun-move to the House floor for others raised the same or resigned their adminis-bills would hurt the indus-teers who create and up-a vote unless consensus is point about the blackout: 
reached. However, Lamar Appearances matter, and if Smith, a Texas Republican, the audience sees Wikipedia said work on the bill would taking a stand, it might not resume next month. believe the articles are ob-
The White House raised jective, either. concerns over the weekend, Wikipedia has seen a pledging to work with Con-small decline in participa­gress to battle piracy and tion, from a peak of 100,000 counterfeiting while defend-active editors a year ago to ing free expression, privacy about 90,000 now. Wikime­and innovation in the Inter-dia Foundation blames this net. The administration sig-mainly on outdated editing naled it might use its veto tools, and believes it can get power, if necessary. the number growing again 
That the bill seems un-with software upgrades. 






page 8 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com Wednesday, January 18, 2012 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Don’t want to miss a thing 
Yesterday, I saw a lot of Face­book statuses that amounted to, “Today is my last first day of a college semester,” etc. 
Well, yes­terday was my exactly that 
— my last first day of a college semester. There are going to be a lot of lasts this semester, but I refuse to make my final semester about my lasts. 

That saying, “Live every day like it’s your last” is something of a false statement. 
If today were my last day, I would go sky-diving, eat my weight in Chicago-style pizza and certainly not go to class. But, if I did that every day, where would I be? 
As much as I will miss college when it’s over, and as much as I’m going to enjoy this last semes­ter with my friends and fellow seniors, I don’t want it to be any different than any other semester at Notre Dame. 
There are certainly things I will do more of, and others I will do less of, but the beauty of this last semester is I get to keep doing ex­actly what I’ve been doing — be­ing a college, nay, a Notre Dame, student.  
If I spend every day thinking it’s my last something, I simply won’t be able to enjoy every­thing this semester will bring. I’d rather look at the positives than the negatives. Will I remember my last first day any more fondly come May just because I thought of it that way? 
That being said, my New Year’s resolution is to live up this last semester of college. While school, my thesis and finding a job will certainly keep my busy, this is the end of those bygone days of ease and irresponsibility that col­lege allows. Well, I don’t actually know if that is true at this school, but I suppose the real world will be harder regardless. 
So according to this resolution, I won’t miss a thing. And that’s how I’d like to see it. This isn’t my last semester so much as it is my ultimate (in many senses of the word) semester. 
I guess my argument is really just about semantics — call them your lasts if you really want to. But for me, in not doing that, I know that I’m going to enjoy my time here even more. Yes, it will come to an end in a few months, but rather than think about that, I’m just going to do college — the friends, the fun, even the work — in the best way I can. First, last or otherwise. 
Frankly, even though this is my last semester, I can’t wait to take it on. 
Contact Maija Gustin at      mgustin@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

Echoes of yesterday, today and 
Welcome back! It’s time to take a deep breath and start again: a new semester, a new year, perhaps a new major or a new roommate for some of you. And yet, aren’t you grateful for 
what’s not new —  
friends, profes- Kate Barrett  
sors, rectors,  
well-worn paths  Faithpoint  
to classes, the  
Rock and South  

Dining Hall? Both the familiar and the new add their particular flavors to the mix as each of us sorts out where and how we fit into the story of what Notre Dame has been and will be. 
While many of you were still away from campus, Notre Dame and the Congregation of Holy Cross all over the world celebrated the life of St. André Bessette on his feast day, Jan. 6. 
St. André would probably never have gotten into Notre Dame, had it ever occurred to him to apply. And yet his amazing life continues to echo today, at Notre Dame and wherever people learn of his abiding faith that God listened to his prayers with mercy and compas­sion. André prayed for hours each day, alone in his room at night and through­out the day, while the number of people who came to him and asked for his prayers grew. 
Do you ever say to family members or friends, as so many people asked of St. André, “Pray for me, please”?  In times of need, sorrow or fear, we pick up the phone, we turn to our roommate, we send an email, we ask for help. Put this together with our Christian belief that believers who have died now live in communion with God, and it makes sense we could also ask the dead (espe-
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
tomorrow 
cially those whom the Church recognizes as particularly holy) to pray for us as well. 
Community, for Christians, stretches not only across geography, but across time. We share our faith with believers around the world today, but also with people who lived, struggled and found joy hundreds or even thousands of years ago. And people who aren’t even born yet will become a part of our community hundreds of years from now. 
Twenty years ago next week, two young women from our Notre Dame community became members of the communion of saints. Meghan Beeler and Colleen Hipp, two freshmen swim­mers, were killed when the bus carry­ing the swim team home from a meet at Northwestern skidded off the Toll Road and flipped over into the ditch that sepa­rates eastbound from westbound traffic. 
Though they had only been at Notre Dame for a few months, they had already become a part of the community: in Lewis, in Walsh, on the team, in their classes — they had already changed the story of Notre Dame. They returned for the spring semester, as you have just done, probably relieved and glad what had seemed so new and unsettling just the August before now looked familiar and comfortable, looking forward to see­ing friends and roommates with whom they had already formed strong and pre­cious bonds. 
Though their deaths were unaccount­ably tragic and premature, Colleen and Meghan are still a part of the timeless community in which believers share the certainty that God listens to our prayers: prayers of sorrow, protest, lament and elation. 
When we ask another person — living or dead — to pray for us and our needs, or when we believe our prayers are part of a larger chorus of offerings to God, along with the prayers of St. André, De-clan Sullivan, Mara Fox, Meghan Beeler, Colleen Hipp or so many other members of the Notre Dame family who are no longer with us, we acknowledge our need for a community of faith. 
Eternal life with God will find us in the communion of saints, and we’re meant to remember that communion and establish it on earth. When we offer our prayers for the friend in the room next door, or plead in our prayers alongside the ancient saint who understands our modern doubts and fears, we must re­member we’re not mustering the troops to lobby God for a particular outcome. We need each other, and our lives on earth will look more like heaven, not be­cause God’s going to change the course of events for us, but because we’ve found God in our connections to one another. 
Perhaps if St. André were alive today, he would urge us to remember with care what real community means: the strengthening of our invisible bonds of shared life and death, the attempt to bring our lives on earth a little closer to the Kingdom of God, the joy and grati­tude found with others we will never find alone. Never underestimate the power of asking another person to pray for you, or of offering to do so for someone else. 
Kate Barrett is the director of the Emmaus Program in Campus Ministry. She can be reached at kbarrett@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“What’s the use of a good quotation if you can’t change it?” 
Doctor Who British television program 

WEEKLY POLL 
What was the best part of Winter Break? 
Torturing siblings Eating your weight in candy canes Making New Year’s Resolutions Breaking New Year’s Resolutions 
Vote by 5 p.m. Thursday at 
ndsmcobserver.com 


Wednesday, January 18, 2012 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 9 
Happy New Year 
It is a vast, uninterrupted expanse of white outside. The snow is falling, but the cold lake is still. 
My apartment is quiet, absent the ticking clock and my typing fingers. 
There are no cars moving Sukesh Shekar outside. 
I am sitting Guest Columnist alone in the cordiality of my couch, but I don’t feel lonely because my thoughts are keeping me company. 
I am happy. It’s a calming sensa­tion, one of serenity and satisfaction, but I have no one to share it with. Why would I? The clock reads 2:31 p.m. on a hoary Jan. 2 afternoon. South Bend is enshrined in 12 inches of snow, and I in it. 
Although this moment is a solitary instance in time, this year alone con­stitutes 31,622,400 seconds. In how many of those moments will I get to touch upon happiness again? 
Undoubtedly, there will be birthdays, parties brimming with laughter, new travels, sundresses to admire, gradua­tions and weddings to celebrate and a smattering of accomplishments: good grades, published papers and encour­aging research results. 
Thoreau says there is no more en­couraging fact than the unquestionable ability of a man to elevate himself by conscious endeavor. Nevertheless, to what end are these human endeavors? 
If one of David Eagleman’s alternate universes were true, in which the supreme arbiter were to reorder the events of this year, such that I live out each of my endeavors one at a time. 
I would receive my allotted 468 seconds of pure unadulterated joy all at once, I would hibernate for four months and attend class for eight days. I would study unremittingly for two weeks, eat non-stop for 10 days, expend three days writing papers, 16 days procrastinating, two and a half days showering, three days dancing, and 7.6 days on Facebook. 
I would go on dates for 41 hours and kiss for 61 minutes. 
I would tell bad jokes for eight hours and smile for 30. Seven hours would elapse standing in line for lunch, an­other 15 stopped at traffic lights, eight and a half hours shopping at the Gap, 13 days at the gym, 33 hours watch­ing ND football, another 54 tailgaiting, an entire day in a hangover, six days reading books, two months research­ing in lab, 27 hours brushing my teeth and perhaps a few moments imagining how wonderful life would be if I did not have to go through these events in order. 
If I could fashion my own attitude, would joy become more accessible in my quotidian life? 
There is a fable of a stonecutter who was unhappy because he under­took hard labor for meager wages. He thought he would be happy if he were king. How wonderful it would be to be king, a gold throne instead of this drudgery! 
He transformed into the king, but as he was being carried on his throne, the sun beamed in his eye. 
He said the sun is more powerful than the king and his star was born. He became lamp of the earth, in all places but one, where a cloud blocked his light. He thought the cloud has more clout than the sun and trans­formed into the cloud. When he was the cloud, the rain left him and nour­ished the earth. 
He said the rain was more powerful than the cloud, so he wished to be rain. He came down as rain, quenched the parched soil and turned into a river. 
The river came upon a stone that would not erode. He wanted to become the invincible stone and converted into it. When he was stone, a powerful stonecutter came along and cut him. He wished to be a stonecutter once again. 
His wish came true one last time and he was a stonecutter at long last, but this time he was happy. 
This year comprises 366 sunrises, 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Consider right to life in broader context 
Dear Editor, 

While I certainly do not disparage the upcoming “March for Life” or Father Jenkins’ and Notre Dame’s role within it, I do cringe at it being highlighted above efforts to end the other social and political wrongs being perpetrated through­out the world. 
Rather than focusing solely on abortion, why is my alma mater not also raising its collective and institutional voice with equal fervor and pitch to decry our society’s arrogant and brutal death penalties, the genocide being committed across the globe or the oft recurring tendency of the world community to discount the plight or the poor and downtrod­den? By publicly focusing almost solely on this one “right to life” issue, Catholicism and Notre Dame continue to climb into bed, and make an unholy alliance, with those on the far right of political and social philosophy whose other tenets run contrary to what used to be, at least, the Church’s core values of social justice. 
I hope we all pray for the sanctity of human life in its broader sense and not for just one “hot button” issue that feeds the beast of draconian social and political philosophy. 
Tim Slavin 
Class of ‘73 Morrison, IL Jan. 14 
UWIRE 

Obama succumbs to education lobby 
For-profit colleges often lure stu­dents, especially minorities, with promises of quick degrees and high paying jobs. 
However, in reality these students are often left with loads of debt, unprepared to enter the Minnesota Daily workplace. Editorial Board 
Mean­while, dur-Minnesota Daily ing the 2008 presidential campaign, one of the many promises President Barack Obama made was to reform the lobbying system to clean up the politics and close the revolv­ing door between public service and lobbying. 
However, after a slew of former officials — many on Obama’s team 
— were paid incredible amounts of money by the for-profit univer­sity industry to lobby against new regulations the administration had proposed, the restrictions that were eventually passed are much weaker than what was promised. 

Obama had promised to cut tens of billions of dollars in federal aid toward colleges whose graduated stu­dents weren’t earning enough money to pay back their loans — numbers which the Washington Post reports are “staggering.” 
In all, 16 percent of the schools were supposed to be affected by the tough regulations. 
Instead, a mere 5 percent are, and restrictions are not nearly as tough as they should be. 
Many of the officials that lobbied against the cuts were not exactly ob­scure figures. 
Obama’s former communications director, a major fund raising bun­dler and the brother of the man who ran Obama’s transition team were all involved in the lobbying process. 
For the Obama administration to retreat in the face of the industry is wrong and does a disservice to stu­dents and higher education itself. 
The president should be aiding stu­dents by ensuring the highest quality of education is provided, not making the problem worse. 
This article originally ran in the Dec. 14 edition of the Minnesota Daily, serving the University of Minnesota. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
13 full moons and one Sadie Hawkins day. I wonder how many sunrises will I wake up to greet. 
How many times will I laugh un­controllably with friends? How many times will I walk past a patch of daf­fodils, stop and take the time to smell them? 
The stone cutter became the artificer of his own happiness, perhaps we can too. 
Often, I have been duped into a farce of happiness only awaiting on the horizon. 
But the art of being happy is not a distant goal in the future; it is a state of mind in the present. 
Every human enterprise is directed toward happiness in some regard. We do not seek happiness for the sake of something else; however, we seek so much, without sufficient regard, for the sake of happiness. Utopian as it may seem, I wanted to wish you a happy New Year with the knowledge that the unequivocal opportunity for happiness exists in each moment that this year encompasses. Let happiness happen! 
Sukesh Shakar is a graduate student living off campus. He can be reached at sshekar@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Thank you, Andrew Plaska 
Andrew, 
We would like to thank you for pausing to sing the alma mater with the band and the students after the Champs Sports Bowl. 
We greatly appreciated your willing­ness to share with us and all those in attendance your pride in the University and its community. We would espe­cially like to thank you for encouraging other players to join you in the singing of the alma mater. 
To those players who joined you we would like to say thank you as well, your willingness to take a stand and show your respect for the current stu­dents, alumni and the University as a whole was very uplifting. 
Thank you, 
Bryan Williams 
junior Old College 
Dane Krzyskowski 
junior Keough Hall 
Kevin Kelly 
junior Morissey Hall 
Kevin McDermott 
junior Siegfried Hall 
Mark Sonnick 
junior Siegfried Hall 
Stephen Wandor 
junior Siegfried Hall 
Tim O’Brien 
junior Dillon Hall Jan. 11 



During one chic aperitif hour over New Year’s, while settling a lin­guistic tête-à-tête, this fashionista discovered that dear Mr. Dictionary defines new as “not existing before; made, introduced, or discovered re­cently or now for the first time.” As we descend upon our snow-covered campus, we return to our dorm rooms from holidays at home, with multiple suit­cases of winter clothes dragging 

oh so gracefully behind 

cut (dresses together, us. It occurs to me that 
pants, skirts, etc.) for Mr. Dictionary must have 
easy access. To go the known a chic young col-
extra mile, organize legiate woman intent on 
by color within these combining her Summer/ 
larger sections. Evening Fall wardrobe with her 
ensembles get their Winter/Spring items into 
own prized section of one minuscule wooden 
course. frame (masquerading as an adequate closet space) 
3. Over-the-door shoe 
when composing his defi­
racks 

nition. Shoe organization 
For indeed, during is key for your own this January fashion sanity. Invest in stack-merger we fashionistas able racks for boots, are engulfed with the and over the door ones “new:” dresses we forgot we owned, for pumps, keeping them crisp and that scarf that fell behind the bed in presentable. August, that favorite earring poten­tially lost forever found in 
4. Wooden pegs/metal 
that secret compartment 
hooks 
in the purse hiding under 

Purses were meant to the sink! Alongside these 
be hung on these con-pleasant “new” discoveries, 
traptions. Stuffed in a however, come the unpleas­
pile or in a container, ant ones: those coats are 
they fall to the bottom obstructing the view of my 
and drown. On pegs they dresses, I can cram the silk 
are easily visible and shirt next to that scratchy 
quickly become part of a wool sweater (can’t I?), 
grab-and-go system. where in heaven’s name are all my boots going to 
5. Moleskine’s style 
go?! The course of true 
carnet 
fashion devotion never did 

This cherry on the run smooth, but there are 
sundae allows you to Shakespearean organiza-catalog your entire tion tools at our disposal to wardrobe with special stiletto-ready the path. remembrance notes and way to that 8 a.m. lecture. The tops close securely and tightly, banish­ing any worry of pesky moths. These tops are themselves colorful, easily accenting your room’s color scheme. Easily stackable and impossible to break, they fit anywhere and come in multiple sizes (the smaller ones work wonders for gloves and scarves). Add some potpourri for an elegant effect. 


2. Hang clothes by design 
Decode your own dressing meth­odology. Ask yourself, do you usu­ally dress as a result of how you feel emotionally? Physically? Does it depend on the weather? I myself find that blustery, grey days bring out the inner colorful bright rebel in me. Analyze and then act accordingly. 
Hang your clothes by 
1. Clear, colorful plastic containers 

Instead of cramming all those T-shirts, and sweaters into those pitiful drawers underneath your closet, strut on over to Target and invest in this alternate storage op­tion. The see-through quality allows you to quickly identify the contents. Color-code the apparel within for quick wardrobe decisions on your thumbnail pics, all in a 
chic moleskine notebook. Finally, we can put those note-taking habits to proper use. With organiza­tion like this, it’s going to be one chic 2012. 
Contact Felicia Caponigri at fcaponig@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this col­umn are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
MARIA FERNANDEZ ton jewels. Scene Writer Blue was also in at the Golden Globes this year, and nominee One of my favorite 

Sofia Vergara and presenter things about awards 
Freida Pinto both wore it to season is watching 
perfection. some of Hollywood’s 
“The Modern Family” star greatest actresses 
showed off her curves in a teal walk down the Red 
strapless gown by Vera Wang. Carpet showing off 
She accessorized this mer-their elegant, sophis­
maid-shaped dress with Harry ticated and sometimes 
Winston jeweled cuffs. extravagant ensem-
Pinto went for a more con­bles. Their fashion 
servative but also elegant look choices for these spe­
with a teal strapless cial occasions often 

gown by Prada. She influence our style and fore-
paired the dress with shadow upcoming trends. If 
a woven gold Chopard Angelina rocked a long-sleeved 
necklace. sparkling emerald gown last year, why shouldn’t we? 
Lace and sequins 

This year’s Golden Globes 
everywhere 

were full of glamorous ac-
Another main fash­tresses with great dress and 
ion trend seen dur­jewelry choices. Here are some 
ing Sunday’s Golden of Sunday night’s best dressed 
Globes was the use and the two main trends they 
of lace and sequins. all followed. 
These details in gowns give an extra 

Color, color and more 

touch of sophistication and 
color 

glamour and certainly helped This year’s Golden 
some nominees and presenters Globe fashions were 
stand out that night. all about bold and 
Jessica Biel looked natural, vibrant colors. All 
yet elegant, in a white long-types of red and blue 
sleeved lace dress. It was a tones dominated on 
very romantic look that she the red carpet. Those 
modified by wearing her dark, who wore dark tones 
wavy hair down. looked perfect for 
Glee star Dianna Agron also winter, while those 
mastered the lace who chose lighter red 

trend with a bright and blue shades hinted at the 
red halter gown. It approach of spring. 
was full of very intri-One of the night’s best dressed 
cate embellishments was “The Help” star Emma 
that caught every-Stone. Her flowing burgundy 
one’s eyes. Lanvin gown with a plunging 
Finally, Sunday neckline paired with an embel­
night was definitely lished black belt looked amaz-
Claire Dane’s night. ing and elegant. She continues 
Not only did she win a to surprise and awe her fans 
Golden Globe for Best with her impeccable style. 
Actress in a Televi-Reese Witherspoon 

sion Series, but the also made a great 
“Homeland” star also choice by wearing a 
rocked a black and white J. red strapless heart-
Mendel gown. While the front shaped Zac Posen 
of the dress was very simple, dress to the awards. 
the cut-out back and the se-It was a simple yet so­
quined detailing made her phisticated dress that 
look like a winner. looked great in con-
Overall, this year’s Golden trast with her beach 
Globes were filled with gor­blonde waves. 
geous Hollywood stars styling Another award-
amazing gowns.  What truly winning actress that 
made some shine, though, selected a variant of were their daring choices of the daring red color color and detail. Let’s see what was Natalie Portman with a strap-fashions the Oscars will bring next. less fuchsia gown by Lanvin with a folded red detail. To complete the Contact Maria Fernandez at look she wore diamond Fred Leigh-mfernan5@nd.edu 
LISA HOEYNCK | Observer Graphic 


Wednesday, January 18, 2012 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 11 


NEIL MATHIESON 
Scene Writer 

Gone are the days of the tradition­al American families, if they were ever here to begin with. The visages of Rockwell’s wholesome American­ism that we find on postcards and calendars are nothing but illusive shadows. They are myth, a fantasy we hold as a standard. A bar we will always fall short of, some of us more painfully than others.  As Tolstoy wrote, “happy families are all alike; but every unhappy family is unhappy in its own way.” 
In director Alexander Payne’s (“Sideways”) “The Descendants,” we come upon a family in crisis. Matt King (George Clooney), an aristocrat of the Hawaiian Islands and promi­nent land owner, is an incompetent father of two. His wife lies uncon­scious in a hospital after a boating accident left her in a coma. Isolated, overwhelmed and scared, Matt King explains to his daughters Alexan­dra, 17, and Scottie, 10, that legally they must take their mother off life support and she will never wake up. However, Matt discovers his wife has been having an affair. Not only is she leaving him in death, but she has al­ready left him in spirit. He decides to track the adulterer down. Further­more, through lineage, Matt is the trustee of some of the most valuable land on O’ahu. The King clan is ready to sell, but Matt is starting to have second thoughts, unsure whether he is ready to let another part of his family go. 
“The Descendants” continues the wave of modern American films about dysfunctional families, follow­ing “Little Miss Sunshine,” “The Kids are Alright” and “Rachel Getting Married.” The film is a whimsical drama layered over heartfelt tragedy and poetic soulfulness that anchor it in truth and personal experience. The backdrop of Hawaii is not the Hawaii that one would expect. The beautiful vistas are accentuated with a grey and gloom that make the en­vironment reflect the bitter psyche of the soon-to-be-widowed Matt King. This paradise is no escape for him, but rather the harshest of realities. 
Clooney takes the helm of this cast and never steers them off course. He gives one of the year’s most moving performances as a father who is as equally afraid of his children as he is in love with them. His fear stems from his own inadequacy as a parent and the subversive effects his nur­turing will have on his daughters. Clooney’s ability to emote this relat­able anxiousness and uncertainty shines through with genuineness. He alleviates many of the films tougher moments while highlighting his deli­cate comic dexterity. However, his most impressive moments are often the quietest in which we watch a man struggle against life’s crippling sud­denness. We truly feel the weight he carries, and for that, Clooney should be applauded and recognized. 
Payne directs the film with a poi­gnant tenderness. He keeps the cam­era close to his characters focusing on the emotional warfare at play. He cuts away only to insert moments of everyday images and life that exfo­liate the travel brochure sheen of Hawaii in exchange for a more au­thentic and intimate window into the universe of the King family. Further­more, he scores the film with a series of melancholic ukulele ballads that set a wonderfully introspective mood and ground the film more firmly in Hawaiian culture. 
This is not to say “The Descen­dants” is all bleakness and despair. At its core, Payne’s film is really about redemption, forgiveness and familial love. Payne recognizes that being a parent is hard and raising a family is even harder. Kids are sav­vier than ever before, completely aware of the transgressions of inept­itude and hypocrisy that every par­ent will undoubtedly commit. But, as Matt King realizes, marriage and parenting are not an exact or even logical sciences; life’s spontaneity destroys all chances of that. Life is often chaos. But, often only amidst such a tempest of chaos and heart­ache do we really find our bearings. We discover ourselves, but more im­portantly those around us. 
Contact Neil Mathieson at nmathies@nd.edu 

“The Descendants” 
Directed by: Alexander Payne Starring: George Clooney, Shailene Woodley, Amara Miller 
LISA HOEYNCK | Observer Graphic 

SPORTS AUTHORITY 

Hot stove headlines in a winter of football 
Each winter, once college football’s bowl season finishes, I get restless for baseball season to start. 
Sure, the NFL playoffs are entertain­ing, but, for me, it can’t compete with base­ball or col­lege football. It doesn’t help that my Lions are always preparing for the NFL Draft come mid-Janu­ary. 
For those looking for a mid­winter baseball appetizer, here are some of the most compel­ling stories a month before pitchers and catchers report. 
A unique world champion 
Despite winning the World Series in dramatic fashion last October, the Cardinals enter 2012 after the franchise was shaken up like few champions before them. 
Legendary manager Tony LaRussa has retired and the ink has yet to dry on first base­man Albert Pujols’s mega-contract with the Angels. Their replacements? Mike Matheny is the new skipper and Lance Berkman, at age 36 on Open­ing Day, replaces Pujols at first base. 
One positive for the Red Birds, though, is the return of ace Adam Wainwright, who missed the entire 2011 season with an injury. 
As slim as the odds were that the Cardinals would win the World Series when they were 
10.5 games behind the Braves in late August, they are even slimmer that they will repeat. 
New park, new look 
The Florida Marlins — I mean, the Miami Marlins — are moving into their state-of-the­art ballpark, but that’s not the only makeover the team will experience in 2012. 
After eight seasons at the helm of the White Sox, a stint that included a 2005 World Series victory, controversial manager Ozzie Guillen is back in Miami, a perfect choice for a franchise desperate to attract fans to its new palace, the cost of which exceeded $500 mil­lion. 
Hiring Guillen was not the only splash the Marlins made during the offseason, as Miami nabbed shortstop Jose Reyes from the Mets, a rival in the NL East. Starting pitcher Mark Buehrle followed Guillen from the White Sox to South Beach and reliever Heath Bell was added to bolster the Mar­lins’ bullpen as well. 

While the Marlins hope to compete in 2012, they promise to entertain. I’m waiting for Las Vegas to come out with the over/under on the amount of Twitter bombs dropped by Guillen and outfielder Logan Morrison this summer. 
Battle Los Angeles 
Now that Frank McCourt, everyone’s favorite villain in Los Angeles, has agreed to sell the Dodgers, the once-proud franchise can finally move forward from a tumultu­ous stretch in which the team was known more for its off­the-field drama than on-field play. With a Cy Young winner in Clayton Kershaw and Matt Kemp earning a second-place finish in the NL MVP voting, that’s saying a lot. 
Just down the freeway, the Angels signed the aforemen­tioned Pujols to a 10-year, $240 million contract and landed pitcher C.J. Wilson for five years at a cost of $77.5 million. In other words, the team committed to $317.5 mil­lion for two players in one day. 
The Evil Empire strikes again 
For much of the offseason, the Yankees and Red Sox sat on their hands and watched teams like the Marlins and Angels land the game’s prized free agents. In a proverbial stare-off, the Yankees blinked first, signing former Dodger Hiroki Kuroda and trading for Michael Pineda to give a once-shaky rotation two immense upgrades. 
With Pineda and Kuroda joining C.C. Sabathia and Ivan Nova in the rotation, the Bronx Bombers are once again a favorite to reach the postseason for the 17th time in 18 years. 
Boston, it’s your move. 
As intriguing as a potential matchup of Harbaugh broth­ers in the Super Bowl would be, it’s time for the boys of summer to report to spring training. 
Contact Andrew Owens at aowens2@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
NFL 

Colts fire coach Jim Caldwell 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS — Jim Caldwell endured everything thrown at him during his first two seasons as the Colts’ coach 
— replacing a friend, constant criticism, even fighting through a huge rash of injuries. 
He couldn’t survive the loss of Peyton Manning. 
Caldwell became the Colts’ third high-profile dismissal in an offseason purge, getting fired Tuesday after producing the franchise’s worst record in two decades. 
“This is obviously a big tran­sitional time for us, and I know we’re excited moving forward and it’s hard when you say good­byes to some people,” team own­er Jim Irsay said. “But it’s part of the business.” 
In Indianapolis, it’s been any­thing but business as usual. 
The day after they finished 2-14 and locked up the No. 1 overall draft pick, Irsay fired team vice chairman Bill Po­lian, the architect of the Colts’ success, and his son, Chris, the hand-picked general manager. 
A nine-day search prompted Irsay to hire 39-year-old Ryan Grigson as the replacement last Wednesday. 
Since then, Irsay and his new GM have been meeting almost non-stop, debating what tack the team needed to take next — bringing in new assistants to fix the problems or making whole­sale changes? 
Things were so clouded Mon­day that Caldwell even met with former Rams coach Steve Spag­nuolo about possibly becoming the Colts’ new defensive coordi­nator. By Tuesday morning, the conventional wisdom in Indy and around league circles was that Caldwell would return. 
A few hours later, everything changed as suddenly as the Colts’ 2011 fortunes. Irsay said he informed Caldwell of the de­cision shortly before the team confirmed the move. The search for a new coach is to begin im­mediately though neither Irsay nor Grigson provided a timeline for the hiring. 
“We just came to the conclu­sion that this is best moving for­ward for the franchise,” Grigson said, referring to his first major decision in charge of an NFL team. “Mr. Irsay is the steward of this franchise and I’m here to help him wrap his head around these types of decisions. We’ve been in football our whole lives and a lot of it is about instincts.” 
It’s also about results, and Caldwell’s were mixed. 
After winning his first 14 games, an NFL record for a rookie head coach, and becom­ing only the fifth first-year coach to take his team to the Super Bowl, Caldwell did a masterful job guiding the injury-plagued Colts through a plague of injuries and back to the playoffs in 2010. 

But those successes all came with Manning, who led the Colts to a league-record 115 regular-season wins in the previous de­cade and a record-tying nine straight playoff appearances. 
This season, without the fran­chise quarterback behind center, the Colts lost their first 13 games before winning twice in five days. 
Among players and coaches, Caldwell was universally well-liked. The list included Manning, who won all four of his record-set­ting MVP Awards with Caldwell on Indy’s staff, as well as perenni­al Pro Bowl center Jeff Saturday. 
“I think coach Caldwell has done a very good job. He has got­ten the most out of his players, and we play hard for him each and every week,” Saturday said before the season finale. “We haven’t necessarily played well, we’ve made mistakes and done things, but they have, oftentimes, been things that we’ve talked about in coaching meetings.” 
Outsiders often saw it another way. 
Fans frequently complained about Caldwell’s game manage­ment, and some critics referred to Caldwell as a “puppet” of the Polians. 
Many never forgave Caldwell for pulling the plug on a perfect sea­son in a Game 15 loss to the Jets in 2009 and pointed to the midsea­son firing of defensive coordinator Larry Coyer and the long delay in replacing Curtis Painter with Dan Orlvosky at quarterback as deci­sions that should have come much earlier. 
Irsay and Grigson did not char­acterize Caldwell’s 1,099-day ten­ure the same way fans did, though it sounded as if they agreed with some points. 
“We want leadership. Leader­ship is important,” Grigson said when asked about the character­istics he sought in a new coach. “We want strong leadership, and we want someone who shares his vision in this new era of Colts foot­ball. We want the best man and the best leader and the man that gives us the best way to go.” 
Though it’s unclear who the Colts may target, the possibilities could include Green Bay offensive coordinator Joe Philbin, Eagles offensive coordinator Marty Mo­rhinweg and perhaps Spagnuolo. 
The last time Irsay presided over such a massive houseclean­ing was after the 1997 season when he replaced Bill Tobin with Bill Polian, coach Lindy Infante with Jim Mora and quarterback Jim Harbaugh with Manning. 
It could happen again. 
“This was a difficult decision,” Irsay said. “I wanted to make sure we took all the time we needed to make sure it was the right deci­sion. ... And just like 14 years, ago, it’s a big change for the franchise and at the same time, there’s play­ers, coaches, many people on the staff that will go into the new day and get on with the work of 2012.” 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The 
Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

FOR RENT PERSONAL A bad cause requires many words. A loan though old is not gift. A rumor goes in one ear and out Tell me who your friends are, so I 
many mouths. can tell you who you are. A broken hand works, but not a A man is not honest simply broken heart. because he never had a chance God gives the nuts, but he doesn’t What forgets is the axe, but the 
ROOM FOR RENT IN A NEW 3 UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don’t to steal. crack them. tree that has been axed will never BEDROOM TOWNHOUSE IN IVY go it alone. Notre Dame has many A close friend can become a close forget. QUAD, ADJACENT TO CAMPUS. resources in place to assist you. enemy. A monkey never thinks her baby’s He is not wise that is not wise for $700+UTILITIES. If you or someone you love needs ugly. himself. A loose tooth will not rest until it’s 
confidential support or assistance, A drowning man is not troubled pulled out. please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819 by rain. A penny saved is a penny gained. He makes his home where the or Ann Firth at 1-2685. For more living is best. All that’s well lasts short. information, visit ND’s website at: A forest is in an acorn. Measure thrice, cut once. 
SCORGAN@ND.EDU (908)268-The way it came is the way it will He who digs too deep for a fish, 9020  http://pregnancysupport@nd.edu A hungry man is an angry man. Who is curious gets old quickly. go. may come out with a snake. 
TENNIS 

Williams, Clijsters, Li advance in Australian Open 
Associated Press 
MELBOURNE, Australia — De­fending champion Kim Clijsters cruised into the third round of the Australian Open and then showed just how much support she has at Rod Laver Arena by getting the crowd to sing ‘Happy Birthday’ to her younger sister. 
Clijsters only needed 47 min­utes to beat Stephanie Foretz Ga-con of France 6-0, 6-1 on Wednes­day, conceding just 10 points in the first set and showing no signs of a hip problem that forced her to retire during a semifinal against Daniela Hantuchova at a warmup tournament two weeks ago. 
She will meet Hantuchova in the next round here, and has a potential rematch of the 2011 Australian Open final with Li Na in the fourth. 
Roger Federer, who has won four of his 16 Grand Slam titles in Australia, got a walkover into the third round when Andreas Beck of Germany withdrew from their scheduled Hisense Arena match due to a lower back injury. It de­prived Federer of a different view at Melbourne Park, where he has played every match in Rod Laver Arena since the third round of the 2004 Australian Open. He’ll meet either Ivo Karlovic of Croa­tia or Carlos Berlocq of Argentina in the next round. 
Eighth-ranked Mardy Fish be­came the first top 10 player on the men’s side to lose, falling 7-6 (4), 6-3, 7-6 (6) to Colombia’s Alejan­dro Falla. 
No. 7 Tomas Berdych advanced 6-1, 6-0, 7-6 (4) over Olivier Ro­chus of Belgium and Philipp Kohlschreiber of Germany was leading 6-0, 4-0 when Spain’s Pere Riba retired with an injured left foot. 
Taiwan’s Yen-hsun Lu beat French qualifier Florent Serra in straight sets and No. 30 Kevin Anderson of South Africa beat Sergiy Stakhovsky of Ukraine 3-6, 6-1, 7-6 (3), 6-3. 
Clijsters and No. 20 Hantucho­va, a 4-6, 6-4, 6-3 winner over Le­sia Tsurenko, have been playing each other for years. 
“When the injury happened, it happened against Daniela,” Clijsters said of the hip muscle spasms she had at the Brisbane International. “She’s been playing well this season so far. 
“We both go back a long way 
— we grew up playing under-14s together. Now almost 30 — still battling it out.” 
This was Clijsters best run at a major since the last Australian Open — she lost in the second round at the French Open and didn’t play Wimbledon and the 
U.S. Open. 
Li is also returning to form, go­ing further than she has a Grand Slam tournament since her breakthrough win at the French Open. She next plays No. 26 Ana­bel Medina Garrigues of Spain, who beat Olga Govortsova of Be­larus 6-1, 6-0. 
Li said she loved being back on Rod Laver Arena, where she burst onto the global tennis scene last year, while Clijsters still clearly feels at home on a court where she’s still known as “Aussie Kim” long after her relationship with Lleyton Hewitt ended. 
In a post-match TV interview, she asked presenter Rennae Stubbs a favor, saying her broth-er-in-law phoned her from Bel­gium to ask if she could convince the crowd to sing a birthday song for Elke, Clijsters’ younger sister. 
The crowd obliged, after Cli­jsters kicked it off. 
Li took longer for her second-round win, saying it was harder than the scoreline suggested. She also has fond memories of Mel­bourne 
Her form dipped after the French Open, with losses in the second round at Wimbledon and the first round at the U.S. Open, until she returned to Australia. 
Coming off a run to the final at last week’s Sydney International, Li was the first woman into the third round. 
Li, who will be 30 next month and is seeded No. 5 at Melbourne Park, said she had great memo­ries of the start of 2011. 


“I’m feeling always good to come back to Rod Laver Arena,” she said, reflecting on how her life had changed dramatically since last season started. “This year is much better than last year 
— more fans come to watch me play, not only from China but all over the world.” 
Li’s Chinese compatriot, 16th­seeded Peng Shuai, lost 6-2, 6-4 to Iveta Benesova of Czech Republic, while former No. 1-ranked Jelena Jankovic beat Chang Kai-chen of Taiwan 6-4, 6-2. 
Serena Williams advanced to the second round in a match that finished after midnight, her ankle holding up to its first test since she sprained it in Brisbane two weeks ago. The only thing that bugged her, despite the 11:32 p.m. start on Tuesday, were the insects in a 6-3, 6-2 win over Tamira Paszek. 
“I hate bugs more than you can imagine,” Williams said. “Like, they kept jumping on me. Yuck!” 
Between points, Williams picked up and moved or shooed away bugs that landed on court, and two that landed on her back. A big one gave her a fright, making her hop as she tried to stifle a screech. 
“I’m going to request not to play at night anymore because I hate bugs, except for the final. I heard it’s at night,” Williams said. “I’ll try to get used to them.” 
Two years after she won her last Australian Open title, Williams extended her winning streak to 15 matches at Melbourne Park in the season’s first major tournament. She won titles in 2009 and 2010 but missed the chance to defend her title last year amid a prolonged injury layoff. 
Williams was playing only her third match since losing the U.S. Open final to Sam Stosur last Sep­tember, so she admitted being “a wee bit tight.” Wimbledon champi­on Petra Kvitova and No. 4-ranked Maria Sharapova also advanced. 
Stosur didn’t make the second round, losing 7-6 (2), 6-3 to No. 59-ranked Sorana Cirstea, but fans hung around to watch an­other Aussie hope. Hewitt, a two-time major winner, gave the night session crowd something to cheer when he beat Cedrik-Marcel Stebe of Germany 7-5, 6-4, 3-6, 7-5, win­ning the last six games to over­come two service breaks in the last set. 




Jackson 
continued from page 20 
ference wins, the Irish were rid­ing high as they returned home to take on Western Michigan and return to CCHA play. The momen­tum appeared to carry into Friday’s matchup, as Notre Dame entered the third period with a 2-1 lead. But after a questionable call against the Irish, the Broncos evened the score on the powerplay, then scored the game winner just 14 seconds later. 
“We’re still a young team and we still have to find a way to emotion­ally respond to those situations,” Jackson said. “It was a tough call, first of all. It wasn’t a great call. Then we gave up a powerplay goal, and we didn’t respond well to it.” 
The Irish looked to salvage a se­ries split the next night at Western Michigan, but had a tough time finding the net. The team went just one for eight on the powerplay, and was unable to force through a strength goal. Junior goaltender Mike Johnson’s 19 saves weren’t enough, as the Broncos staunch defense propelled them to the 3-1 victory. 
“Yeah, [the struggles on the pow­erplay start to worry you], but we didn’t score playing five on five ei­ther,” Jackson said. “We’ve got to get a goal playing five on five. If you get one powerplay goal a night that’s not too bad, but you’ve got to score five on five too. Western Michigan has a great defense and great goaltending, and we just had a hard time penetrating that.” 
After getting swept in a confer­ence series for the first time since 2010, the Irish now sit in a tie for fifth place in the CCHA standings. 
As the playoffs draw near, ev­ery weekend brings a key confer­ence matchup with playoff seeding implications. With that in mind, Jackson and his squad are eager to right the ship when they host No. 10 Michigan this weekend. 
“Every game right now is essen­tial for us,” Jackson said. “We’ve got to get points. Our objective is to try and finish in the top of the stand­ings so that we get a bye in the first round of the playoffs and put ourselves in position to get back to Detroit. But we’ve got a lot of work to do.” 
The Irish host the Wolverines in the Compton Family Arena at 7:35 
p.m. on Friday. 
Contact Jack Hefferon at wheffero@nd.edu 


Brey 
continued from page 14 
missed some free throws and had some turnovers.” 
Contrary to the teams’ Feb. 11 meeting when the Irish made 27 free-throws, Notre Dame struggled mightily from the charity stripe, going 5-13 — four of which came from sophomore point guard Eric Atkins. 
Atkins led the Irish in scor­ing with 15 points on 4-14 shooting, but was left with the heavy burden of carrying an offensively inept Irish at­tack in the second half. 
Notre Dame got off to a good start shooting-wise in the first half, hitting 50 per­cent of its shots. The Irish took a one-point lead with 12 minutes left in the first half after knocking down seven straight shots, but the Scarlet Knights (11-8, 3-3) responded with an 18-8 run, taking an eight-point lead going into the break. 
The Irish missed a prime opportunity to capitalize on a Rutgers scoring drought, when they were down by eight with five minutes left in a back-and-forth second half. Notre Dame’s stringent man-to-man defense held the Scarlet Knights scoreless for the next 4:34, but the Irish could only muster four points in that time frame. 
“I thought defensively that we did a good enough job to win. It’s tough to win in this league when you’re scoring in the 50s,” Brey said.  “I felt we had good looks again to­night. Shooting 7-for-20 (from three-point range) is some­thing to build on.” 
The Irish never saw the lead in the second half, but narrowed Rutgers’ lead to four with just over a min­ute remaining before Rut­gers freshman guard Jerome Seagears hit four consecutive free-throws to seal the vic­tory for the Scarlet Knights, who are off to their best start since the 2003-04 season. 
Freshman guard Eli Carter led Rutgers in scoring with a steady 13-point effort, but the Scarlet Knight offense was able to exhibit a balanced at­tack with five players with at least nine points. 
The Rutgers bench out­scored the Irish bench 24-11, as Notre Dame’s bench con­sisted mostly of freshman forward Pat Connaughton’s seven points. 
“We’re still playing around with our lineup in an effort to try and help guys. I liked the way we looked in the sec­ond half tonight with Pat in there,” Brey said. “All nine of our guys have to be ready to play.” 
Junior forward Jack Cooley added nine points and nine rebounds, but wasn’t the same scoring threat he was in recent wins over Louis­ville and South Florida. The big man only attempted two shots in the entire first half. 
The Irish will look to re­store their confidence at home Saturday at 6 p.m., al­beit against undefeated No. 1 Syracuse. 
Contact Andrew Gastelum at agastel1@nd.edu 


Bayliss 
continued from page 20 
that’s more balanced than in the past,” Bayliss said. “I think the last two or three years, we’ve had trouble winning at the top and I think we have demonstrated at least so far that we’re capable of doing that this year.” 
Notre Dame also displaced singles depth, as seniors Sam Keeton and Niall Fitzgerald won their singles matches against the Redbirds, while sophomore Billy Pecor and junior Michael Moore defeated their opponents from Toledo. 
“One of the pluses was that we were able to get a number of dif­ferent players into the match and there’s still two or three more that have a lot of ability that didn’t get a chance to play, but we’re go­ing to try to continue to do that as we go forward,” Bayliss said. “I thought we played pretty well and I think one of the things that showed up was that our depth is more than sufficient.” 
Despite the success of the sea­son’s first two matches, Bayliss noted areas where the Irish could improve. 

“We need to demonstrate the ability to break serve better in doubles and we need to finish out matches when we have op­portunities,” he said. “There were several matches we won, but we were well up and allowed them to come close.” 
With an upcoming schedule that will continue to test the Irish, including matches this weekend against William & Mary and Il­linois, Bayliss knows he will get a chance to see just how strong this Notre Dame squad is. 
“We’ll go from two teams we beat somewhat comfortably this weekend [to] a pretty good Wil­liam & Mary team and an Illinois team that last year was in the top 10 most of the year and this year is at least a top 20 team,” Bayliss said. “And then we follow up the next weekend with Indiana — top 25 most of last year — and Ohio State, who’s No. 2 or 3 most of the year. So it doesn’t take us long to jump right into the fire and find out where we are.” 
The Irish square off against William & Mary at Eck Tennis Pavilion on Friday at 6 p.m. 
Contact Sam Gans at sgans@nd.edu 
ND WOMEN’S SWIMMING 
Irish falter in double dual meet 
Observer Staff Report 
Despite a two-week training trip to Hawaii in early Janu­ary, Notre Dame failed to earn a victory at a double dual meet in Ann Arbor on Saturday. The Irish fell to Michigan by a 180-115 margin and narrowly lost to Northwestern 156-144 in their first meet since the Ohio State Invitational in ear­ly December. 
Freshman swimmer Emma Reaney’s standout perfor­mance was one of the bright spots for the Irish. She placed first in four events, winning the 100- (1:01.10) and 200­yard (2:14.77) breaststroke events. Reaney also won the 400-yard Individual Medley with a time of 4:19.13 and helped lead the 400-yard free­style relay team to victory by swimming the final leg. 
Reaney’s efforts earned her the Big East Swimming and Diving Athlete of the Week award for a conference record third time this season. 
Notre Dame’s fifth and fi­nal event victory came from the diving team. Junior Jenny Chiang continued her strong season by winning the 1-me­ter diving event by two points over a Michigan diver and placing second in the 3-meter dive. 
Sophomore swimmer Sarah Dotzel gave a strong perfor­mance, placing second in the 100-yard backstroke. Senior swimmer Amy Prestinario and freshman swimmer Bridget Casey also finished second in the 100-yard freestyle and 200-yard backstroke, respec­tively. 
However, Notre Dame strug­gled in the 500-yard and 1000­yard freestyle events, as both Michigan and Northwestern claimed the top five finishes. 
The Irish will compete in their penultimate dual meet of the season Saturday when they host Michigan State at Rolf’s Aquatic Center at 2 p.m. 
SMC BASKETBALL 

Belles prepare for MIAA foe Calvin 

By PETER STEINER 
Sports Writer 
After compiling a 4-3 record over the break, the Belles are set to enter the final third of their sched­ule when they face off against un­defeated MIAA opponent Calvin tonight. 
Saint Mary’s (7-9) recently com­pleted the last of its nonconference schedule with a loss to No. 2 Chi­cago followed by two wins in the Otterbein Smokey Ballenger Clas­sic in Westerville, Ohio. 
Though the Belles held the ad­vantage over the Maroons going into halftime, the Maroons pulled away with 13-4 run late in the sec­ond half to win 70-60. 
Even though they lost by 10 points at home, Belles coach Jenn Henley says her team still gained something from the loss. 
“Chicago came in here ranked second in the country and we had them,” Henley said. “I think we proved to ourselves that we can play with anybody as long as we are playing as a team.” 
After an 11-day break, the Belles returned to action on Dec. 28 with a convincing 66-48 win over Case Western. They then followed up with second victory in Ohio, de­feating Bluffton 68-57. 
Henley said the Belles played some of their best basketball in these games. 
“I think we played really well in Ohio,” Henley said. “The kids were having fun playing. They were sharing the ball. They were attacking the basket. They were getting stops. We finally got to the point where we were back to our style of basketball.” 
While their nonconference schedule was finished, the Belles had four more conference games to play. On Jan. 4, the Belles trav­eled to Michigan to face off against Adrian. However, after shooting 
33.3 percent from the field com­pared to Adrian’s 53.8 percent, the Belles lost 62-52. 
Returning home to face Olivet, the Belles, led by senior forward Kelley Murphy and her 15 points, took down the Comets 67-54. Yet in their next home conference game, the Belles suffered another fourth quarter loss, this time to Albion. The game was tied 39-39 with 
10:40 remaining in the second half, but Albion went on a 20-1 run in the last six minutes of the game to win 72-52. 
In their final conference match, the Belles took down Kalamazoo 61-52. Led by 16 points from senior Patsy Mahoney, the Belles were able to get their first road win of the season. 
Henley said the biggest improve­ments the Belles need to make are on the defensive side of the ball. 
“We have to get more consistent with our defense without a doubt,” Henley said. “We have to do a bet­ter job on the boards and boxing teams out. We can’t give up as many offensive boards as we have been doing and then offensively we need to continue to attack the bas­ket and get to the free throw line.” 
The Belles will hope to improve in some of these aspects when they face Calvin tonight. Though Calvin is ranked first in the MIAA confer­ence, Henley says the Belles are accustomed to playing such tough competition in the MIAA. 
“It seems like in the past couple of years, if it’s not Calvin ranked in the top five, it’s Hope,” Henley said. “We are used to that. It’s nothing we are intimidated by. It’s normal for this league to have somebody ranked that high in conference. We are prepping again today to stop their inside game and take care of business.” 
The Belles play Calvin at home tonight at 7:30 p.m. 
Contact Peter Steiner at psteiner@nd.edu 



FENCING 

Irish athletes compete in Portland competition 
By MIKE MONACO                        
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame took to the mats in Portland, Ore., over the week­end, participating in the United States Fencing Association’s North American Cup. 
Since the event was not NCAA-sanctioned and the team was not together throughout winter break, the Irish did not send a full squad of fencers. The event was used as an opportunity for those with Olympic team aspira­tions to improve their individual standing on the international scale. 
Considering the scope of the North American Cup tourna­ments, Irish coach Janusz Bed­narski said he alters his expec­tations for individual fencers heading into these events. 
“They fenced pretty well as a whole,” Bednarski said. “The places that they finished in are pretty far from the standard that we have when we partici­pate in NCAA events, but you have to remember that [North American Cups] are interna­tional events.” 
Despite these tempered ex­pectations, the Irish had some top finishes in both the men’s and women’s divisions. Fresh­man Ashley Severson took sixth place in the women’s epee, while a quartet of foilists turned in strong performances. Fresh­man Madison Zeiss, sophomore Rachel Beck, senior Radmila Sarkisova and junior Grace Hartman came in 14th, 18th, 21st  and 30th, respectively, in the women’s foil. In the women’s sabre, junior Lian Osier finished 19th. 
In the men’s division, sopho­more foilist Nick Kubik finished in 26th place. Junior James Kaull and sophomore Michael Rossi came in 17th and 31st, respectively, in the epee.  Bed­narski was particularly pleased with those results. 
“More than 250 of the best fencers in all of North America competed in [the men’s epee],” Bednarski said. “These are good places for our young athletes.” 
In the men’s sabre, junior Ja­son Choy finished 12th, while sophomore Kevin Hassett came in 26th. 
In addition to these current Irish team members, Bednarski noted a group of fencers who took the year off from the Notre Dame program to fully pursue the Olympic team. 
“They performed well,” Bed­narski said. “We had some final­ists out of those who are trying to qualify [for the Olympics].” 
Participating in North Ameri­can Cup events provides such fencers with the opportunity to elevate their national team standing. Many members of this group did significantly improve their chances for Olympic quali­fication with top performances in Portland. Kelley Hurley, Lee Kiefer, and Race Imboden all won their respective divisions, while Courtney Hurley and Ge­rek Meinhardt turned in second place finishes. 
On the collegiate level, the men’s team kicked off its nation­al title defense with a 6-0 win at the Air Force Duals on Jan. 
7. The Irish defeated Cal Tech, UC San Diego, Swarthmore, Air Force, Stanford and Florida en route to their first win of the new campaign. 
The squad is back in ac­tion Saturday when it heads to Queens, N.Y. for the St. John’s Dual. 
Contact Mike Monaco at jmonaco@nd.edu 
SMC SWIMMING 

Saint Mary’s prepares for final third of season 
Observer Staff Report 
Over the long winter break, the Belles warmed up, as they headed down to Arizo­na for their annual training trip. 
The Belles traveled to Florida for the previous five years, but this year Belles coach Mark Benishek took the team to Arizona State University for a change of scenery. 
The main focus of the trip was to train for the Belles’ upcoming conference meets and included team condition­ing once in the morning and once in the evening, both in and out of the pool. But Saint Mary’s also managed to get in some competition. 
While in Arizona, the Belles competed in the Cit­rus Classic on Dec. 30. They took fourth place behind Di­vision II Gannon University (494), Division III Gustavus Adolphus College (491), and Division III University of Ot­tawa (388) and they defeated Division III Hamline Univer­sity (145). 
Leading the Belles was senior Audrey Dalrymple, who took first place in the 400-meter individual medley with a time of 5:02.24. Dal­rymple also took seventh in the 100-meter breaststroke with a time of 1:15.66. 
Another Belle who turned in a strong individual perfor­mance at the meet was senior Megan Price, who finished in sixth place in the 200-meter and the 500-meter freestyle with times of 2:06.65 and 5:43.72, respectively. 
Rounding out the individ­ual accolades was freshman Anna Nolan, who garnered an eighth place finish in the 100-meter backstroke with a time of 1:08.02. 
The Belles 400-meter free­style relay team, consisting of Sarah Thompson, Liz Palmer, Julianne Divine and Price, took fourth place. Their col­lective time was 4:07.97. 
The Belles will return to conference action against Olivet in Olivet, Mich. at 6 
p.m. Friday. 
TRACK AND FIELD 

Notre Dame excels at Open 
By BRIAN HARTNETT 
Sports Writer 

After a month-long break, Notre Dame opened 2012 with a strong showing as the Irish wracked up four first place finishes at the Bob Eubanks Open in Allendale, Mich. over the weekend. 
The meet, hosted by Grand Val­ley State, pitted the Irish against fellow Big East opponent South Florida, Michigan State and a variety of Division III schools, providing a strong test for Notre Dame in their first meet since Dec. 2. 
The men’s team led the charge for the Irish, turning in first place finishes in the 400-me­ter, 600-meter and 4x400-meter relay. Sophomore sprinter Pat­rick Feeny took first place in the 400-meter, narrowly edg­ing out junior sprinter Brendan Dougherty. Freshman sprinter Chris Geisting placed first in the 600-meter, while the team of se­nior sprinter Mitch Lorenz, Feeny, Dougherty and Geisting won the 4x400-meter relay. 
In a day filled with strong per­formances, Geisting’s showing in the 600-meter stood out. Com­peting in the 600-meter event for the first time in his career, Geist­ing finished the race in a time of 1:19.12, tying the meet’s record for the event. 
“This meet will be fantastic for [Geisting’s] confidence,” Irish coach Joe Piane said. “He’s been running very well, as he also has the best time in the Big East in the 400-meter, and I anticipate him having a terrific year.” 
On the women’s side, the Irish dominated the pentathlon, with Notre Dame runners taking the top four spots in the event. Senior Maddie Buttinger placed first in the race, followed by freshman Carly Loeffel in second, freshman Fiona Paladino in third and soph­omore Meghan Moore in fourth. Buttinger racked up a total of 3874 points in the multi-event competition. 
The women’s team also had top three finishers in several other events. Irish sprinters in particu­lar enjoyed success, as sophomore Michelle Brown placed third in the 400-meter, senior Natalie Gei­ger placed third in the 600-meter and the 4x400-meter relay team of Brown, Geiger and freshmen Amber Lalla and Kalia Barber placed second. Barber, who com­peted in three different events, also turned in a second place fin­ish in the long jump. 
Overall, Piane said he views the meet as a good start to what he hopes will be a solid 2012 for the team. 
“It was really the first meet out­side of what we did in December, so it was a good opportunity to get 40 or 45 people started,” Piane said. “We’re not exactly where we need to be yet, but it was a good start.” 

Piane did address his squad’s need for consistency as the season moves forward. 
“I would say that we need to work on our consistency,” Piane said. “We can have good perfor­mances, but if we’re not consis­tent across the board, we won’t get anywhere.” 
The Irish will stay in South Bend this weekend to host the Notre Dame Invitational, a meet that will include Big East oppo­nents South Florida and DePaul as well as Michigan State. 
“This weekend, we look for­ward to getting more people qual­ified for the Big East and improv­ing our rankings in the Big East,” Piane said. “It should be a very good meet against some tough teams.” 
The squad will be back in action at the Notre Dame Invitational at the Loftus Center on Saturday. 
Contact Brian Hartnett at bhartnet@nd.edu 


MEN’S SWIMMING 

Irish take down Northwestern, 157-143 
By JONATHAN WARREN 
Sports Writer 
After returning from a training trip in Puerto Rico at 4 a.m. Friday morning, the Irish wasted no time getting back to business, defeating Northwestern 157-143 Sat­urday for the second con­secutive season. The Irish (5-3) have now claimed two in a row over the Wildcats, who had previously won 10 straight beginning inw the 1990-91 season. 
“That win was very impor­tant for us,” Irish coach Tim Welsh said. “They are a team we’ve competed against for a while. After how hard we trained during break, it was a validation of our training.” 
Welsh said he is happy with the improvement he saw after the winter train­ing period, especially by the divers. 
“We had progress across the board and at all distanc­es,” Welsh said. “The divers dove stronger and more con­sistently than they had be­fore this season.” 
The diving team swept both the 1-meter and 3-me­ter events. Freshman Mi­chael Kreft won both events with scores of 322.5 and 
364.43 respectively. Junior Ryan Koter and freshman Nick Nemetz followed, trad­ing second and third places in the two events. 
“It is remarkable for two freshman in Kreft and Nemetz to come in and per­form that consistently,” Welsh said. “Ryan Koter is definitely someone who has improved and cleaned up all his dives in the last month.” 
Adding to the victory by the divers, junior Kevin Overholt won the 50-yard freestyle, 100-yard freestyle and participated in the win­ning 400-yard freestyle re­lay. 
“Kevin performed phenom­enally,” Welsh said. “He has had some shoulder injury is­sues, but gave us his most complete meet of the year Saturday.” 
Sophomore Frank Dyer continues to be a model of consistency for the Irish, taking first in the 500-yard freestyle and 200-yard free­style, while aiding the 400­yard freestyle relay team to a win as well. 
“Frank has been Mr. Con­sistency for us,” Welsh said. “He trains well, races well and continues to be a team player. He keeps making us proud, and we continue to have high hopes for him.” 
Welsh was especially im­pressed by his team’s per­formance considering the quick turnaround the team faced coming home from Puerto Rico, where the team was training over break. The Irish took first in the eight-team Copa Coqui tour­nament, behind first-place finishes by Dyer (100-yard freestyle), Overholt (50­yard freestyle), freshman Cameron Miller (100-yard breaststroke) and senior Pe­tar Petrovic (100-yard back­stroke). 
“We were tired when we got back,” Welsh said. “We definitely were not fully rested. It is a mark of a team that’s going to be good when they can perform well when conditions are not ideal.”
 The Irish look to notch their third victory in a row when Big Ten foe Michigan State comes to Rolf’s Aquatic Center on Saturday. 
Contact Jonathan Warren at jwarren3@nd.edu 


McGraw 
continued from page 20 
fense start to flow. We shot the ball well.” 
The No. 2 Irish sport a 15-game winning streak, complimented by a perfect record in the Big East. 
Notre Dame’s 76-point lead tied both the third largest margin of victory in program history and the largest in Big East play. 
“It is so easy to play with these girls because every­one wants the ball,” junior guard Skylar Diggins said. “We’ve got guards that can score and posts that will go to the basket. It’s them too, and I’m just finding them right now.” 
The Irish shot 69.4 per­cent from the field and 
52.9 percent from behind the three-point line. Notre Dame’s 48 baskets scored were not only a program high but also a Big East record for regular season play. 
“I thought it was their shooting that gave us the most trouble,” Pittsburgh coach Agnus Berenato said. “They didn’t miss to­night.” 
Achonwa, Diggins and six other Irish players left the court in double fig­ures, which ties the pro­gram record. 
“I was really pleased with the bench. [Fresh­man forward] Marki­sha [Wright] and [junior guard] Kaila Turner in particular played well, as did [freshman guard] Whitney Holloway,” Mc­Graw said. “I felt that ev­eryone that came in con­tributed in some way, and we kept the intensity up.” 
Notre Dame’s 33 assists against the Panthers be­came its new season high. The Irish had nine turn­overs. 
The Panthers (9-11) came to South Bend already fac­ing trouble in a few dif­ferent areas of the game. Their team is the youngest squad in Division I wom­en’s basketball, made up of freshmen and two red-shirted sophomores. 
The Panthers have yet to form a solid starting line­up, as they’ve sent six dif­ferent groups of five onto the court to start this sea­son. The Pittsburgh ros­ter is deeply hurting from freshman forward Cora McManus‘s shoulder inju­ry against DePaul, which allegedly ended her sea­son. 
Pittsburgh is still searching for a win in the Big East, though they came close in their last contest against DePaul, which they dropped 86-83 on Saturday. 
Diggins said it is im­portant to stay humble, regardless of the success they found against Pitts­burgh and with the season as a whole. 
“We have to keep the fo­cus up and try not to get too high,” Diggins said. “We take it one opponent at a time and just try to get better each day in prac­tice.” 
The Irish will return to action against Villanova at home at 1 p.m. Saturday. 
Contact Molly Sammon at msammon@nd.edu 

content across the University 
— not just athletics — man-
Swarbrick 
aging that digital content and 
continued from page 20 
tem considered inevitable. 
“I think there’s a likelihood that something about the for­mat of postseason will change in the next year,” Swarbrick said. “Some people … [ex­press] a view that a plus-one [is] inevitable. I don’t neces­sarily share that view. It may be, and that could be a result, but I think there are a host of things on a spectrum from sort of a return to a free-mar­ket approach where the bowls and schools and conferences do their own thing, to a plus-one. 
“There’s a spectrum of pos­sibilities from one end to the other.” 
The ‘ND Network’ grows 
In May, Swarbrick sug­gested to The Observer that Notre Dame had begun ex­ploring a new form of digi­tal network, distributed via the Internet instead of cable companies. Less than a year later, Swarbrick said signifi­cant progress had been made toward that goal. 
“[We’ve added] significant staffing to help begin to de­liver on that potential, we’ll be dedicating some space in the Joyce Center where the old varsity shop was … to that purpose, and we’re in discus­sions with Comcast-NBC about how to expand our capabili­ties,” Swarbrick said. “People have seen it manifested in the amount of digital program­ming that’s been produced in the past six months, espe­cially in this football season with the behind-the-scenes elements and the exclusive content that we’ve been able to produce.” 
As Notre Dame’s multime­dia reach grows, it seems more and more clear that Notre Dame is not trying to build anything resembling a traditional 24-hour cable net­work — and that there may not even be an official launch date. 
“You’ll never flip a switch and have a network,” Swarbrick said. “This is about producing a lot more digital distributing it broadly. 
“So it reflects a fundamental difference about Notre Dame. We don’t have a geographic area to serve. We have to serve a much broader area, so our approach has to be differ­ent than the Big Ten Network or the Longhorn Network. It’s fundamentally different in that it won’t be a network owned by us and distributed by third parties — it’ll be con­tent owned by us and distrib­uted by third parties.” 
Widespread success 
Though the football team finished the season with the same 8-5 record it produced in 2010, coach Brian Kelly received a two-year con­tract extension in January. A month before announcing that extension, Swarbrick said he was very pleased with the progress Kelly had made throughout two years on the job. 
“I’m thrilled with where the program is because what we were focused on when we made a transition were certain program elements: the foundational elements you have to have,” Swarbrick said. “We’ve been very good as the years have gone on in coach Kelly’s first two years in sort of building the season, and that reflects all of those things.” 
Swarbrick said that Notre Dame’s athletic success goes far beyond the football pro­gram, however. From wom­en’s basketball to hockey to cross country, the non-mar­quee sports have continued to succeed. 
“Those programs contin­ue to perform at such a high level,” Swarbrick said. “The quality of the student-athletes is great, so [I’m] very pleased with the fall … I could go on all day. I mean, we’ve really had a lot of good things going on.” 
Read more of The Observer’s end-of-semester interview with Jack Swarbrick at ndsmcobserver.com 
Contact Allan Joseph at ajoseph2@nd.edu 



WILL SHORTz 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 
CROSSWORD 




JOE MILLER and KELLy LyNCH 
HENRy ARNOLD 
JUMBLE
CLAMMY HANDSHAKE 
MIKE ARGIRION 






Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556

 Enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year


 Enclosed
 is $75 for one semester 


Name ____________________________________________________ Address __________________________________________________ City ____________________ State___________ Zip______________ 

Wednesday, January 18, 2012 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 20 
OBSERVER EXCLUSIVE 

Swarbrick pleased with conference realignment, athletic success 
By ALLAN JOSEPH 
Sports Editor 
While the fall semester of 2011 was notable for the first home night football game in 21 years, the beginning of a potentially historic women’s basketball season and the opening of the brand-new Compton Family Ice Arena, many Notre Dame fans will re­
member it most for one reason: 
c o n fer - 
e  n  c  e  See Also  
realign- 
m e n t .  Full transcript of The  
M  o s  t  Observer’s sit down  
relevant  with Swarbrick  
to Notre  
Da me ,  ndsmcobserver.com  
the  Big  

East seemed to be on the verge of collapsing before adding 
Houston, Central Florida and Southern Methodist Universi­ty in all sports and two more schools in football to ensure stability. 
Notre Dame Director of Athletics Jack Swarbrick told The Observer in a sitdown in­terview in December that not only was Notre Dame pleased with the moves, but that it ap­peared to be the last of major conference realignment. 
“With the Big East having solidified itself through these recent moves, I think among the BCS conferences it’ll be pretty stable,” Swarbrick said. “We’re really happy that the Big East, which has been a great home to us, was able to make the moves it made and has announced. 
“We think that’s good for 

ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 
Shooting spree  
ND’s 120 points set  
team’s home record  
By MOLLY SAMMON  
Sports Writer  
When Irish sophomore for­ 
ward Natalie Achonwa hit a  
three-pointer with 36 sec­ 
onds left on the clock Tues­ 
day, she wrapped up the  
scoring rally that was Notre  
Dame’s 120-44 win over  
Pittsburgh at the Purcell Pa­ 
vilion.  
Notre Dame’s 120 points  
broke the program’s record  
for most points scored at  
home and marked the first  
time the Irish (18-1) have ever  
scored over 100 points twice  
in the same season.  Notre  
Dame’s 120 points were just  
eight shy of the all-time re­ 
cord for most points scored  
in a Big East game.  
“It’s going to be hard for  
even me to find something to  
complain about,” Irish coach  
Muffet McGraw said. “It was  
a great night to see the of  KIRBY McKENNA/The Observer  
Irish freshman guard Whitney Holloway drives to the basket during Notre Dame’s 120-44 win over see McGRAW/page 17 Pittsburgh on Tuesday. The 120 points were the most the program has ever scored at home.  

MEN’S TENNIS 
Irish start year with two wins 
By SAM GANS 
Sports Writer 
The No. 28 Irish got their 2012 season off to a fast start with a pair of 7-0 victories Sun­day over Illinois State and To­ledo at the Eck Tennis Pavilion. 
Senior Casey Watt and soph­omore Greg Andrews each con­tributed to four match wins for Notre Dame (2-0) on the week­end to help propel the Irish past the Redbirds (1-1) and Rockets (2-2). The duo won two doubles matches together and each was victorious in both of their singles matches. Junior Blas Moros and sophomore Wyatt McCoy also won two singles matches Sunday. 
The strong play throughout the lineup was an encouraging sign to Irish coach Bobby Bayl­iss. 
“I think we put out a lineup 
see BAYLISS/page 15 
HOCKEY 

Notre Dame marred by recent inconsistent play 
By JACK HEFFERON 
Sports Writer 
The No. 3 Irish got back in action with some fireworks on New Year’s Eve in a win over Boston University, but after a home-and-home sweep at the hands of No. 11/10 Western Michigan, they found themselves with more work to do in 2012. 
Following its win over Ferris State on Dec. 10, Notre Dame (13­8-3, 8-5-3 CCHA) took a three-week break from competition while the team took final exams and enjoyed the holidays. They returned to the ice on New Year’s Eve to dismantle the Terriers, 5-2, and followed that performance up with a 2-1 victory in an exhibition against the Rus­sian Red Stars. 
A few days after that perfor­mance though, the entire program reeled at news of the passing of Charles “Lefty” Smith, the patri­arch of Notre Dame hockey. Smith, the program’s founder and first head coach, had retired just three days earlier after 44 years of in­volvement with Notre Dame athlet­ics. 
Despite the shock, the Irish trav­eled to Minnesota as scheduled lat­er in the week for a showdown with the top-five ranked Gophers. After the crowd of 10,242 observed a mo­ment of silence for the late Notre Dame coach, they saw the Irish turn in an inspired performance and hold on for a 4-3 win. 
“We were really excited obvious­ly after playing [Boston University] well at home and going to Minneso­ta and playing against a really good hockey team there,” Irish coach Jeff Jackson said. “I think we were playing really well coming out of that Minnesota game, and that was a huge step for us.” 
Following that trio of noncon 
see JACKSON/page 14 
the Big East and at this point we’re just focused on that is­sue — the Big East’s viability.” 
After a football season rife with controversy over the format of the postseason, Swarbrick suggested change was afoot regarding the Bowl Championship Series — but maybe not the expanded sys 
see SWARBRICK/page 18 
MEN’S BASKETBALL 

Rutgers loss continues road woes 
By ANDREW GASTELUM 
Sports Writer 
For the Irish, there really is no place like home.  Notre Dame (11-8, 3-3 Big East) once again struggled to find an offensive balance on the road in a 65-58 loss to Rut­gers, falling to 1-7 in games away from Purcell Pavilion. Notre Dame’s only road win came in a double-overtime thriller against Louisville on Jan. 7. 
“Rutgers made big shots at key times,” Irish coach Mike Brey said in a postgame in­terview with  und.com. “I loved how we battled, but they made plays when they had to. 
“They made the little plays to win and we made those same plays at Lou­isville. We couldn’t make enough of them tonight and 
see BREY/page 14 

PAT COVENEY/The Observer 
Sophomore guard Eric Atkins controls the ball during a 67-53 loss to Connecticut on Saturday. The Irish have lost two games in a row. 







