

The observer | FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 16, 2012 | ndsmcobserver.com 

THE 
Senior linebacker Manti Te’o finishes his Notre Dame journey just as he started it — guided by 
LOYAL faith, family and values 
SON 
T 
his saturday, for one last time, manti Te’o will make his way to the northwest corner of notre dame stadium after the coin toss. As he has done on each home football saturday, he will look up, gaze at his 8,500 classmates and exhort them to prepare for kickoff. At notre dame, the students not only feed off Te’o’s actions, but the star linebacker finds inspiration in his peers as well. “[my actions] are my way of giving back to the students,” Te’o said. “I think our success as a football team is a direct correlation with our relationship with the students. The more the students love the play­ers, the more support we’re going to get and the more support we feel, the better we’re going to play. “I definitely appreciate all the support we get from the students, and I feed off the energy and I know the players do too.” 
By ANDREW OWENS 
Assistant managing editor 
The swelling of mutual ad­miration between the student body and Te’o exists because the heisman candidate is one of them. he lived with them, learned with them and faced hardship with them. 
“It’s been amazing to see the influence he’s had on the stu­dent body and the tremendous amount of respect the student body has for him,” said senior Lee haruno, who attended Punahou high school with Te’o and has also lived in dillon hall during his time at notre dame. “It’s been kind of a recip­rocal thing that has grown the past four years where now he’s superman.” 
but Te’o, who will suit up for an Irish home game one final time saturday, found the path to suc­cess wasn’t always easy — or the one most traveled. 
When Te’o’s faith led him to commit to notre dame in the winter of 2009, he swapped sandcastles for snow shovels and left the only home he had ever known for northern Indiana. he said the transition tested his resolve. 
“I was homesick and I really missed my family,” Te’o said. “Freshman year I definitely couldn’t have called this place home. It was totally different.” 
he said he embraced notre dame his sophomore year and decided to make the most of his collegiate experience. 
“I could call this place home [sophomore year],” he said. “This year solidified the feeling of this place being my home and I’m definitely going to miss it.” 
his father, brian Te’o, noticed the change during christmas break of manti’s sophomore year in hawaii. 
“he came up to my wife (ottilia) and I, and said, ‘I have to get ready to go back home,’ and my wife and I are saying to each other, ‘You are home,” brian said. “That’s when he started to feel like notre dame was home. It was a place of comfort and notre dame has become physically, spiritually and emotionally, his home.” 
And never did the senior need more comfort than in september, when tragedy hit home, with manti 5,000 miles away from hawaii. 
on sept. 12, one heartbreak­ing phone call followed an­other merely six hours later. manti first learned his grand­mother, Annette santiago, had died of natural causes — and then learned his girlfriend, stanford student Lennay Kekua, had passed away after battling leukemia. 
ottilia’s first impulse was to catch the next flight to be with her son, but brian knew they wouldn’t reach manti until a day later, after what he called the “critical grieving time.” 
“I [called] manti, and of course he was distraught,” brian said. “but at the very same time as when he got a call from me, [Irish coach brian Kelly] was comfort­ing him and I got to listen to the entire conversation with coach Kelly. I was totally blown away. What he was doing was exactly what I would’ve done had I been there. 
“everything that had been said about him in the media went out the window for me. All I could see was the man that was com­forting my son.” 
brian Te’o said the notre dame community overwhelmed his family with the outpouring of support for manti in the follow­ing days and weeks. 
“I was so grateful that the notre dame family rallied behind manti and it reminded me how special notre dame is,” he said. “They did more than my wife or I could’ve ever done. We were so grateful that he was there and not anywhere else. It’s an incredible place.” 
In a time of hardship, manti leaned on notre dame for sup­port, but also on the foundation 
SARAH O’CONNOR | The Observer 
of values his parents had built in hawaii. 
Growing up, he wanted to change his name. his parents named him ‘manti,’ which de­rives from the book of mormon, but their eldest son didn’t like it. 



ndsmcobserver.com | FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 16, 2012 | The observer 


he disliked the spelling and the didn’t feel as challenged as he athletes or not. way it was easy to mispronounce. did at Punahou. “It was like having a normal 
“he was pretty much ridiculed “he said, ‘dad, I’m worried roommate, except that he was a as child and he came to me one that when I take the sATs, I’m not football player,” said Long Tran, year when he was 9 or 10 and all going to pass,’” brian recalled. “I manti’s roommate for fresh-in tears saying, ‘dad, I hate my told him, ‘What do you mean? man and sophomore years. “he name. People are teasing me,’” You’re getting a 4.0.’ he said, took his religion very seriously. I brian said. “We reassured him ‘dad, I need to get back.’” thought a football player would that everything was okay and chai reddy, manti’s defensive be partying [all the time], but he that, in joking, we said, ‘one coordinator at Punahou, said he didn’t do that. day people are going to appreci-sees parallels between the deci-“he helped me out a lot with ate who you are because of your sion to return to Punahou and real-life stuff. I was shy my fresh-name and your name is going manti’s surprising decision to man year, but he introduced me to be recognized all over the commit to notre dame. to all his friends. … he would country.’ “I think that’s one of the things pick me up when I was down … 
“We were just trying to make that stands out about him,” and had a very positive impact him feel better … but it looks like reddy said. “he doesn’t always on my college career.” it came true.” take the track that makes sense. manti said it was never an ob­
brian and ottilia emphasized Given how much he loved Usc ligation or an extra effort to be-hard work and the value of re-growing up, I think going there friend non-athletes. It’s simply membering his identity in manti, or bYU made sense. Going to who he is. but the message didn’t fully sink notre dame was sort of on the “I love to make friends,” he in until high school. periphery in the same way going said. “I love to include people. I 
manti attended Punahou to Punahou was something on don’t like people to feel excluded Junior school — an hour-and-a-the periphery. from anything and I have some half drive from the Te’o house-“There’s just this depth with friends that are still in dillon hold — but he missed his friends him that you don’t get with a who are seniors.” from his nearby elementary lot of 14-year-olds, 15-year-olds, Fr. Paul doyle, dillon hall rec-school. on top of that, every day even 20-year-olds. That’s one tor and football team chaplain, was a grind. manti would have of many things that stand out said in both roles he witnessed to wake up by 5:30 a.m. each about him.” manti making a difference in morning so brian could drive After transferring back to people’s lives. him to the bus stop by 6:30 a.m. Punahou high school his sopho-“he doesn’t even realize what After school, it was another 90 more year, brian said manti ap-an impact he had,” doyle said. minutes of traveling before he preciated the opportunity and “I know he helped some people reached home. learned his lesson the hard way. make good choices who might’ve 
“That went on for a while and There was a quiet understand-been inclined to be doing things finally he couldn’t take any more ing: no more early-morning they shouldn’t be doing, but of it,” brian said. “he just begged struggles to wake up or reach the manti was in the midst and they his mom and I to let him go back bus stop. It was a defining mo-didn’t go that way and they’re and be with his friends. We re-ment in manti’s maturation: The better for it.” lented and said, ‘You know what, best path is not necessarily the doyle recalled a moment this is an opportunity you will easy one. in the locker room after notre regret one day.’ he was think-dame’s overtime victory over ing like a typical eighth-grader stanford in october that exem­wanting to be back with his plified the senior captain’s grace friends.” When manti was placed in and humility. 
Four months into his time dillon hall leading up to his “We come in after the game at Kahuku high school, manti freshman year at notre dame, and the players are hugging each realized his mistake. he was he relished the opportunity to other,” doyle said. “manti’s over flourishing academically with a meet new people, regardless of there doing that too, and then 
4.0 grade-point average, but he whether they were scholarship he breaks away from the pack and thanks [University President experience for him.” finish [an academic] project, Fr. John Jenkins] for letting before manti made the de-even if it took him until 3 a.m. him come to school here and cision to return for his senior “That kind of stuff he never re-gives [director of Athletics Jack season, brian researched the ally applied himself fully. before swarbrick] a big hug. That kind possibility of manti declaring for he’d come home at 10:30 and of presence is noteworthy.” the nFL draft. When presented have a group project to do, but 
Although manti moved off-with the information, manti he’d say, ‘I’m too tired. I’m going campus for his senior year, he asked his father for advice. to sleep. now I’ll call him at 12:30 told doyle earlier this fall that he “At his age I was a dad with two [a.m.] and he’s still in the studio misses dorm life. kids, so I would’ve gone [to the working.” 
“[I miss] just seeing people nFL],” brian said. “but I looked manti said the realization around,” manti said. “seeing the him in the eye and said, ‘son, you of impending graduation and freshmen wide-eyed, not know-are not me, and you are not in my a farewell to notre dame has ing where to go and stepping out position. You’re a young man helped motivate him. of my room and seeing friends with your whole future ahead of “I try to embrace everything, running around. now that I live you.’ experience everything and not off-campus, it’s great because I “he looked at me and said, count my days and try to make have my own space and my own ‘dad, I want to stay. I want to my days count and live every day privacy, but it’s just different. experience my last year at notre like it’s my last,” he said. “I think, 
“There are pros and cons to dame.’ Given the presentation of as a young guy, you don’t under-each decision and it just so hap-a secure future for himself and stand that because you see you pened that the downside of liv-his family, he went deeper and have four years and you think it’s ing off-campus is that I don’t made a decision that was much such a long time and I can post-experience that camaraderie more fulfilling: to complete his pone things and lounge around. like I experienced it inside the goal and get a degree from notre “When you know you have less dorms.” dame.” than two months left, it puts a 
When manti told his father brian said manti, a design fire under your butt to stay in-about having some regrets, brian major, has fully immersed him-volved and try to experience as immediately flashed back to self in his academic and athletic much as you can because it’s go-when his son transferred away crafts this year in ways he hadn’t ing to be over.” from Punahou. always before. Kelly said manti’s example 
“he told me, ‘dad, sometimes “This year was a lot about permeates the program as young I wonder why I’m off-campus personal redemption for him,” players watch the star’s every because I spend as much time brian said. “he committed move. on campus anyway. I should’ve himself to the little things, like “I think it’s important manti just stayed in the dorms.’ It was saying prayers, going to church understood [the importance of another moment where I wanted meetings down the street in education],” he said. “hopefully to slap him in the head and say, mishawaka, attending all the he can be the guy that says, ‘I told you so,’” brian Te’o said. practices and film studies on “There was just so much more to time and going to the studio to see Te’o PAGE 4 




The observer | FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 16, 2012 | ndsmcobserver.com 




Te’o 
conTInUed From PAGe 3 
‘Look, you can be a great player. You can still lead your team and have a degree, and have a degree from a place like notre dame. … I think it’s a great case in point of a guy that understands and rec­ognizes the value of a life versus a career. 
“his life is set up because he’s got a degree from notre dame.” 
beyond the academics that drew him to the University, manti said his faith has deep­ened — even as a man of mormon faith at the world’s most famous catholic university. 
“People will be shocked to know it doesn’t matter what faith you belong to, the notre dame community does a tremen­dous job of helping everyone to build their faith, no matter what they believe in, whether it be catholicism or buddhism or whatever,” manti said. “It’s a very special place and has helped me to grow.” 
doyle said manti understands his beliefs so deeply and admires notre dame’s spiritual aspect so much that he dovetailed the two. 
“he has his way of growing spiritually as we hope all do at this age and place, but he cer­tainly took it seriously and not everybody is addressing those opportunities in his college years,” doyle said. “he has done a good job of that and was never about proselytizing or anything like that, nor did anyone try to dissuade him from what he believes. 
“I didn’t sense that it was a chore because all the props around here suggest that people take their faith seriously what­ever it is, so I don’t think he had any challenges to wrestle with.” 
Part of manti’s character de­velopment has manifested in his motivation to positively influ­ence children. micaela Kauhane can attest to that. 
When manti starred on the football field as a senior at Punahou, 9-year-old Kauhane was one of no. 5’s biggest fans. she asked him for his gloves, and manti made a promise that im­pacts both of them to this day. 
“It’s not like college where you get new gloves every week, so I said, ‘If you come to the state championship game, I will give you my gloves,’” manti said. 
Weeks later, Punahou won the state championship. As manti was walking off the field, he spot­ted Kauhane in a crowd of 25,000 and remembered his promise. 
“I ran up over there and gave micaela my gloves,” he said. “We have a close relationship to this day. she’s like my little sister and I try to drop some mcdonald’s off for her or something. … I just try to reach out and make sure she’s okay.” 
reddy said he has seen manti influence several young fans like Kauhane. 
“here’s this random fourth-grade girl manti made this friendship with,” he said. “They kept the communication on. The stories were of how big that was to her and there are countless other stories like that.” 
on saturday, manti will take the field through the notre dame stadium tunnel as a na­tional icon. It will be his 26th time through that storied tunnel, but it will also be his last. And the man who has grown with so many ways since the first time he took the field will have his par­ents by his side — and 40 other family members and friends from hawaii in the stands. 
“I’m not looking forward to that moment,” brian said. “I don’t want to let go of the memo­ries we’ve created and come to the conclusion that this is the last time. 
“I hope the cameras don’t fo­cus on me, because I guaran­tee I’m going to be crying like a baby.” 
manti’s Irish are 10-0 and pur­suing a national championship. he said his task is to avoid get­ting swept up by the senior day moment, lest his team pay the price. 
“I don’t know what it will feel like, honestly,” he said. “I know it’s going to be emotional … so I’m trying not to be too distracted.” 
but if he struggles to accom­plish that, another in an endless list of feats, all he has to do is look up at his brothers and sisters, 8,500 strong, and know that he’s among family. 
Contact Andrew Owens at aowens2@nd.edu 


MANTI TE’O CAREER HIGHLIGHTS 
»  2012 BEDNARIK (TOP  
DEFENSIVE PLAYER), BUTKUS  
(TOP LINEBACKER) AND  
MAXWELL (PLAYER OF THE  
YEAR)  SEMIFINALIST  
»  46 CAREER STARTS  
»  THIRD PLAYER IN NOTRE DAME  
HISTORY WITH 400 TACKLES  
»  3RD ON NOTRE DAME ALL-TIME  
TACKLES LIST (416)  
»  8.5 CAREER SACKS  
»  34 CAREER TACKLES FOR A  
LOSS  
»  SIX CAREER INTERCEPTIONS  
(ALL IN 2012)  
»  CAREER HIGH 21 TACKLES VS.  
STANFORD IN 2010  
»  4,278 MILES FROM LAIE,  
HAWAII, TO SOUTH BEND, IND.  
TACKLES  TOTAL  
2009  63  
2010  133  
2011  128  
2012  92 
 TOTAL  416  

SUZANNA PRATT | The Observer 

