the iNDepeNDeNt to uNcoveR NeWspapeR seRviNG the tRuth NotRe Dame aND aND RepoRt saiNt maRY’s it accuRatelY 

volume 46, issue 27 | WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 26, 2012 | NDsmcobseRveR.com 
Excise arrests skyrocket on electric gameday 
Police report 72 weekend arrests on 99 charges 

By MEGAN DOYLE 
managing editor 
as the indiana state excise police continue their intensified college enforcement (ice) ini­tiative in south bend, their of­ficers made more than 14 times as many arrests during the michigan game weekend than the first home football weekend against purdue. 
excise officers arrested 72 in­dividuals on 99 charges Friday and saturday, according to a press release issued by public information officer corporal travis thickstun this week. the officers arrested five peo­ple on nine charges during the home football game against purdue on sept. 8. 
on Friday, excise officers ar­rested 31 people on 46 charges, the release stated. those arrests included 18 adults who were furnishing alcohol to a minor. During tailgating around cam­pus saturday, officers arrested 
see eXcise PAGE 6 




Weather fails to put a damper on Irish victory 
By KRISTEN DURBIN 
News editor 
Notre Dame’s victory in its second home night game in 20 years capped a “hugely successful weekend” of fes­tivities celebrating the 125th year of Notre Dame football, said director of gameday op­erations mike seamon. 
“being the second year in a row with a night game, we saw noticeable improve­ments this year versus even last year’s game against usc,” seamon said. “as a campus, we’re getting used to having night games ev­ery season, and i think that showed between year one and year two.” 
the team’s undefeated re­cord and the prime rivalry matchup against regional opponent michigan drew an estimated 140,000 people to campus on game day, seamon said, and fans descended 
see Game PAGE 5 



speaker discusses empathy, violence 
Visiting pyschologist emphasizes importance of forgiveness among victims 
By CHRISTIAN MYERS 
News Writer 
pumla Gobodo-madikizela, psychologist and senior research professor at the university of the Free state in bloemfontein, south africa, spoke tuesday about her research on empathy and forgiveness in the wake of large-scale violence. held in the hesburgh center for international studies, the lec­ture titled “From south africa with love and Forgiveness: the Journey through violence and back,” was spon­sored by the Kroc institute for international peace studies. 
Gobodo-madikizela said that she was happy to have the opportunity to visit a place she had read about while in south africa. 
“it is a pleasure to be here at your university for the first time,” she said. 
Gobodo-madikizela said she has spent more than 10 years exploring the nature of forgiveness following trau­matic experiences, especial­ly the experience of south africans in the aftermath of apartheid. 
“increasingly, i’ve been in­terested in the internal psy­chological dynamics behind forgiveness,” she said. 
some victims reach out to perpetrators as a means of working through their trauma through forgiveness, 
see love PAGE 6 



5K race raises funds 

By SARAH SWIDERSKI 
News Writer 
saint mary’s college Dance marathon, a yearlong fundrais­ing project for Riley hospital for children, is hosting a 5-kilometer (5K) race tonight at 6:30 p.m. to raise money for the hospital and to promote the final dance mara­thon in march. 
While preregistration took place last week, people can still sign up anytime between 6 and 6:30 p.m. at the race start, which is located by the saint mary’s softball fields. 
see Ft5K PAGE 6 


eNeRGY WeeK PAGE 3 vieWpoiNt PAGE 9 sceNe PAGE 10 ND-michiGaN seRies suspeNDeD PAGE 20 




Have a question you want answered? 
Email obsphoto@gmail.com 



QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
ndsmcobserver.com 
p.o. box 779, Notre Dame, iN 46556 024 south Dining hall, Notre Dame, iN 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
allan Joseph 
Managing Editor  Business Manager 
megan Doyle  Jeff liptak 
Asst. Managing Editor: andrew owens 
Asst. Managing Editor: sam stryker News Editor: John cameron News Editor: Kristen Durbin 
Viewpoint Editor: meghan thomassen Sports Editor: chris allen Scene Editor: Kevin Noonan Saint Mary’s Editor: Jillian barwick Photo Editor: suzanna pratt Graphics Editor: brandon Keelean Multimedia Editor: sarah o’connor Advertising Manager: monica mccormack Ad Design Manager: sara hilstrom Controller: peter Woo Systems Administrator: William heineman 

Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ajoseph2@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 mdoyle11@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 aowens2@nd.edu sstryke1@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 

Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 

Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 

Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 observer.scene.editor@gmail.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
jbarwi01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 

Policies 
the observer is the independent, daily newspaper 
published in print and online by the students of the 
university of Notre Dame du lac and saint mary’s 
college.  editorial content, including advertisements, is 
not governed by policies of the administration of either 
institution. the observer reserves the right to refuse 
advertisements based on content. 
the news is reported as accurately and objectively 
as possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion 
of the majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, 
assistant managing editors and department editors. 
commentaries, letters and columns present the views of 
the authors and not necessarily those of the observer. 
viewpoint space is available to all readers. the free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include 
contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed 
to Editor-in-Chief Allan Joseph. 
post office information the observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. a subscription to the observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. the observer is published at: 024 south Dining hall Notre Dame, iN 46556-0779 periodical postage paid at Notre Dame and additional mailing offices postmasteR send address corrections to: the observer p.o. box 779 024 south Dining hall Notre Dame, iN 46556-077 the observer is a member of the associated press. all reproduction rights are reserved. 


If you could set up two people at Notre Dame, who would they be? 



Chelsea Pratt 
freshman 
mcGlinn 

“alison moore and Nate stone.” 

Kristi Rice 
sophomore 
Walsh 
“anna Goike and anthony Nguyen.” 

Pat Brosnan 
junior 
morrisey 
“tim Gancer and melissa Whelan.” 


Sarah Lattal 
junior 
Farley 

“Rachel Wright and luke shadley.” 

Sarah Ren 
sophomore 
pasquerilla West 

“sarah lattal and andrew pemberton.” 

Zac Plantz 
sophomore 
morrissey 

“tyler plantz and liz Garvin.” 



Want your event included here? 

News Sports 
Jillian barwick andrew Gastelum Email obsnews.nd@gmail.com 




THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 
bridget Feeney Joe Wirth sarah swiderski mike monaco 
Graphics Scene 

Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday 
Jaqueline o’Neill troy mathew 


Photo Viewpoint 

Postgraduate ND Theatre NOW ND Invitational Domer Run Sunday Mass 
sarah o’connor caroline lang 
Service Fair DeBartolo Performing Burke Golf Course Legends Basilica of the Sacred Joyce Center Arts Center 2 p.m. - 6 p.m. 9 a.m. - 10 a.m. Heart 5 p.m. - 8 p.m. 7:30 p.m. - 9 p.m. Men’s and women’s Register online for $15 10 a.m. - 11 a.m. or 11:45 


Corrections 

Speak to over 80 Tickets $10/$8/$5 cross country meet. through RecRegister. a.m. - 12:45 p.m. a sept. 25 article in the observer service program reps. titled “university invites candidates to campus” referenced indiana 
Red Mass Iron Sharpens Iron Beasts of the Great Communicator Volleyball 
gubernatorial candidate mike pence. 
Basilica Coleman-Morse Southern Wind Debate Series Joyce Center 
pence’s first name was spelled 

5:15 p.m. - 6:15 p.m. 10 p.m. - 11 p.m. DeBartolo Performing Washington Hall 2 p.m. - 4 p.m. 
incorrectly in the article. the observer 
Celebration for those Student-led worship, Arts Center 6 p.m. - 7:30 p.m. ND vs. Syracuse 
regrets this error. 

in the legal and accountability and 6:30 p.m. - 8 p.m. Final debate free and political arenas. fellowship.   Tickets $7/$5/$4 open to the public. 




Dorms compete to reduce waste during Energy Week 
By MADDIE DALY 
News Writer 
the Kill-a-Watt competition, the first dorm energy competi­tion of the year, has officially be­gun on campus for Notre Dame’s annual energy Week. 
Rachel Novick, who oversees the competition for the office of sustainability, said this week is held to encourage students across campus to reduce their energy consumption by hosting the events for the week. the com­petition began sunday and runs through saturday. 
“Dorms are judged by what percent they can reduce their electricity usage from the base­line, which is a typical week dur­ing the semester,” Novick said. 
Novick said certain dorms seem to be taking the compe­tition very seriously, namely howard hall, Fisher hall and carroll hall — the top three dorms as of tuesday. 
“there is a double prize for the winning dorm. they will re­ceive a chalk-talk with coach Jeff Jackson of Notre Dame men’s hockey for the whole dorm plus $1,500 worth of energy star ap­pliances from Ge,” Novick said. 
students can track their dorm’s progress online with Notre Dame’s energy dashboard, first put into use in the spring of 2011. this interactive site allows students to see real-time data, in­cluding comparisons with other dorms. the dashboard was de­signed with social media in mind and students can chat with each other about the competition. 

one feature of the website is similar to Facebook’s “like” sys­tem.  students can “commit” to certain habits that will reduce electricity use.  some of these 

“I am glad to see us focusing so much on waste reduction here on campus because we really do have the power to make a difference.” 
Caroline Fullman 
sophomore 

include using a desk lamp in­stead of an overhead light, using natural daylight as much as pos­sible and adjusting computer set­tings to reduce energy use during inactivity. 
the dashboard also allows stu­dents to view how much energy has been saved during the com­petition.  as of tuesday, the cam­pus has averted 21,128 pounds of carbon dioxide emissions and saved 15,091 kilowatt-hours of energy. 
paiD aDveRtisemeNt 

mcGlinn sophomore caroline Fullam said she sees the compe­tition as a great opportunity for the campus to come together and try to change negative behaviors. 
“i think it is a great idea to have energy Week to raise awareness. also, since it is a competition, Notre Dame students will really get into it,” Fullam said. “even though mcGlinn is third to last in the competition right now, we still have time to spread the word around the dorm and win.” 
this is the university’s sixth annual energy Week, which is co-sponsored by the student advisory board for the center for sustainable energy and GreeND. 
in addition to the dorm energy competition, events for the week include guest speakers from en­ergy companies, a tour of Notre Dame’s power plant, a faculty forum and a community energy Day tour.  the tour also offers the option to travel by bike instead of bus to emphasize the impor­tance of saving energy. 
“Notre Dame students have come together for so many great causes in the past,” Fullam said. “i am glad to see us focusing so much on waste reduction here on campus because we really do have the potential to make a difference.” 
Contact Maddie Daly at mdaly6@nd.edu 


lecture discusses vatican ii reforms 
By CAROLINE STICKELL 
News Writer 
members of the saint mary’s community heard author James carroll speak at the 2012 christian culture lecture on tuesday night. 
the christian culture lecture series, held in conjunction with the Department of humanistic studies, presents a preeminent figure in the humanities. the speaker explores an aspect of the christian dimension of Western culture. 
carroll, an award winning nonfiction and fiction writer, gave a lecture titled “the Reforming Dimension of christianity in Western culture and beyond.” 
carroll has written many notable books; among them are his memoir, “an american Requiem” and his novels, “the city below” and “secret Father,” both of which were named Notable books of the Year by the New York times. in the most cur­rent version of “vatican ii: the essential texts,” published ear­lier this month, carroll and pope benedict Xvi wrote introduc­tions to the text. 
in the lecture, carroll ad­dresses the need for reform that the second vatican council ad­dressed, as well as the role of vatican ii 50 years later. 
“We must reconcile the chal­lenge of bringing one’s tradition­al faith with all its treasures into the age of reason,” carroll said. 
carroll explored the reforma­tions brought out of vatican ii and the place the council holds in today’s world, not only for christians but for all people. 
“believers of all stripes have 


FT5K 
coNtiNueD FRom paGe 1 
Race-day registration costs $5. any students, faculty or staff from saint mary’s, Notre Dame and holy cross may participate. the event is also open to the public. 
senior amy tiberi, Dance marathon president, said the event was part of a growing tradition. 
“this will be our sixth year do­ing the 5K,” tiberi said. 
the Dance marathon fund­raiser at saint mary’s college be­gan eight years ago and the 5K has been a part of the fundraising efforts for a majority of the pro­gram’s existence. 
“[the 5K] used to be called trots for tots but we decided to call it Ft5K because it is for the kids,” Kate Kellogg, Dance marathon co-vice president, said. “[the name] really embodies our mission state­ment and what we stand for.” 
tiberi said about 90 people par­ticipated in last year’s race. there are currently 85 runners regis­tered, but she said she hopes that number will increase with race-day registration. 
a moral obligation to examine that ways that religion abets vio­lence and to change these ways,” carroll said. “the obligation to do this is universal.” 
carroll explored the way secu­lar culture can trivialize belief. he said the reforms in vatican ii were needed “to the core of the church.” 
carroll said vatican ii repre­sented a landmark shift in the church’s attitudes.
 “the church’s worldview changed and static scholasticism developed into active participa­tion and exploration of faith,” carroll said. “the doctrine was extensively developed and the church’s perspective of truth changed.” 
the 50th anniversary of vatican ii, carroll said, still marks a beginning and not an end. 
“the changes vatican ii brought to our church go deep into the christian imagina­tion. When there is resistance to vatican ii, this is good news because people understand how deep the changes to our faith go,” he said. 
carroll closed with a call for christians to follow the authentic and loving Jesus. 
“the first followers of Jesus did not follow doctrine, but disciple­ship. [the disciples] imitated Jesus more than worshipped him,” he said. 
“the key to the true meaning of christianity and the reform of christianity is through the imi­tation of Jesus. the capacity for transcendence lies in every hu­man person.” 
Contact Caroline Stickell at cstick01@saintmarys.edu 
“seeing people wearing the 5K t-shirt throughout campus really raises awareness. it’s just really cool to see campus get involved with Dance marathon,” Kellogg said. 
as an added incentive to par­ticipate, a gift card to a local busi­ness will be given to the top three female and male finishers of the race. 
“i planned this event last year and this year and now i am one of the vice presidents and it’s really cool to see directing and seeing the dynamics [of the 5K],” Kellogg said. 
tiberi said Dance marathon will host other events this fall to raise funds and awareness for Riley. 
“on Nov. 1, we are having a ben­efit concert on campus [and] in october we are having dancer reg­istration,” tiberi said. “i think it’s a great event to come out to because people are exercising and enjoy­ing the great weather .… people would be doing that anyways, so why not do both by supporting a good cause?” 


Contact Sarah Swiderski at sswide01@saintmarys.edu 



the obseRveR | WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 26, 2012 | NDsmcobseRveR.com 
Students intern at Cannes Film Festival 
By MEGHAN THOMASSEN 
News Writer 
a team of eight Notre Dame film, television and theatre students lived a filmmaker’s dream this summer when they documented the cannes international Film Festival as a part of the american pavilion’s internship program. 
Nicole timmerman, a senior film, television and theatre major, was one of the students accepted into the american pavilion’s program. she said after the group heard the news, erin moffit, one of the members, approached film, television and theatre profes­sor aaron magnan-park with the idea to produce a docu­mentary about the cannes experience. 
“it all started with erin moffit,” timmerman said. “erin went to professor magnan-park about the proj­ect and developed and pro­duced it. 
she said attending the pre­mieres was the highlight of her cannes experiences. 
“We got to sit in a theater with shia labeouf and tom hardy,” she said. “it was surreal.” 
collin erker, a senior film, television and theatre major and arts and letters pre-health major, said the research and fundraising involved helped him understand what inde­pendent filmmaking is like. 
“very few people actually get to go there due to financial constraints,” erker said. “We got to go and see the festival while creating a short docu­mentary we feel the university can be proud of.” 
the students went through the typical internship ex­perience at the american pavilion while they made their documentary. 
“they taught us how to get the most out of our cannes experiences. the key was net­working,” he said. “You have you to put up your very best ef­fort to meet different filmmak­ers and meet each other, since we’re all going into film.” 
erker said they worked 10­to 12-hour workdays on top of their regular internship activities. 
“We definitely had a higher workload a lot of the other in­terns, but we all managed to work it out,” he said. “We still got to go to films, dress up and go out. We really did get to ex­perience the city.” 
the group also celebrated erker’s birthday during the festival. 
“it was a lot of fun being able to put on a tuxedo, go on the red carpet and see a French film, go to a nice French din­ner and experience the cannes nightlife,” he said. “i got to ex­perience what the cannes fes­tival is all about, which is work hard, play hard. seeing celeb­rities was [also] a lot of fun. maybe one day i’ll be walking on the carpet in the same sort of fashion.” 
Zuri eshun, a junior film, theater and television major, said the group had to reach out to several organizations to get enough funding for the project. 
“Just that experience [of] pre­paring to go made you realize how much goes into produc­ing a film or a documentary,” eshun said. “it makes you want to do it … Finally hearing that you have enough to go makes it all worth it.” 
For eshun, one of her favor­ite memories came on erker’s birthday. 
“We were eating desserts, and even in the midst of every­thing that was going on, even with all the shooting we had to do and staying up late and going to premieres and log­ging footage it felt like it was 
paiD aDveRtisemeNt 
centered,” she said. “and it’s really hard to feel centered at cannes, it was nice to feel like a center point at which you can feel at home on the French Riviera.” 
producing the documentary made eshun more focused on her major and her career, she said. 
“When you’re stressing about editing something and it’s 5 a.m. and you haven’t got­ten anywhere, having done my own film, it kind of fuels the drive,” she said. “this is an ac­tual industry that you can be successful in if you work hard. You have to love what you do to be successful in these majors.” 
the team had a number of supporters at the university, including institute for scholarship in the liberal arts, the Nanovic institute, the center for undergraduate scholarly Research, the center for creative computing, the college of arts and letters, campus ministry and the Film, television and theatre department. 
“there were so many we can’t even keep track of them,” erker said. “We owe thanks to a lot of these organizations.” 
he said the film should be released soon on the american pavilion website and will be part of their programming for future interns. 
“the american pavilion will be traveling to multiple col­leges and universities across the us and will be showing the documentary to other film­makers,” he said. “it allows in­terns to see what the cannes experience is really like.” 
the project helped spread Notre Dame’s name in the filmmaking world. 
“We became known as that Notre Dame group,” he said. “[among] all these other stu­dents from typical film univer­sities, like usc and ucla, they said, ‘oh there’s a Notre Dame presence in the international film market?’” 
erker said the cannes expe­rience solidified his choice to enter into the entertainment industry. 
“i knew i wanted to be in film or television in some aspect, but [i] have been too afraid to take the jump,” he said. “but now that i’ve had this cannes experience i know people make it and get to have these great experiences in their life and i want to be a part of that.” 
Contact Meghan Thomassen at mthomass@nd.edu 




class project supports center for the homeless 

By ADAM LLORENS 
News Writer 
this semester for her proj­ect management class, se­nior caroline corbett and her group will market a partner­ship between st. michael’s laundry and the south bend center for the homeless to provide clothes to the im­poverished. this project will allow students to have real world experiences and also serve those who are in need. 
“professor angst presented our class different ideas that people have come to him with,” corbett said. “this was just one that we as a group were the most interested in.” 
corbett said st. michael’s and the center for the homeless already had the idea for collaboration and just needed assistance with promoting the campaign. 
to contribute, people can bring in clothes, towels and sheets to st. michael’s to be given to the center for the homeless. corbett said st. michael’s has agreed to wash dirty clothes and make slight alterations for donations if needed. 
along with three women — one from st. michael’s, the center for the homeless and the Notre Dame Development office — corbett and her group have made significant progress. 

“We’ve been working through all different kinds of marketing avenues, includ­ing scholastic, Debartolo performing arts center, dorm 
“There are all kinds of donation drives year round, but I hope this will be something that will be around a long time. Whenever you get your clothes cleaned by St. Michael’s, we want people to be reminded that they can donate and help out the homeless people at the shelter.” 
Caroline Corbett 
Senior 

donation boxes, martin’s supermarkets, the hammes bookstore and the university park mall,” corbett said. “We also want to get with local 
paiD aDveRtisemeNt 

parishes and siegfried hall’s Day of man.” 
the group’s goal is to mar­ket the donation campaign to students, faculty and south bend residents. 
“We also want this to be a sustainable program, not just a drive,” corbett said. “We’ve been working with student council to see if this can be a student-run project for years to come.” 
corbett said the group would like the campaign to be seasonal — meaning a push for cold weather gear during the winter and suits for fall and spring, which are peak job interview times. 
“there are all kinds of do­nation drives year round, but i hope this will be some­thing that will be around for a long time,” corbett said. “Whenever you get your clothes cleaned by st. michael’s, we want people to be reminded that they can donate and help out the homeless people at the shelter.” 
though the official cam­paign has not begun, stu­dents can begin to donate clothes at the st. michael’s Distribution center. 
Contact Adam Llorens at allorens@nd.edu 
Game 
coNtiNueD FRom paGe 1 
on campus in high numbers throughout the weekend. 
“We had record crowds at the band concert, and there were a lot of people tailgat­ing in parking lots and tak­ing in all the pageantry,” he said. “We knew the stadium was completely sold out, but a lot of people not attend­ing the game were still leav­ing campus when the game started after spending the day there.” 
seamon said the game’s crowd was one of the largest in Notre Dame history. total numbers were unavailable at press time, though atten­dance was tallied at Notre Dame stadium’s official ca­pacity of 80,795. Despite the challenges a mid-after­noon storm front presented, seamon said the game went off nearly without a hitch. 
“We were luckily able to dodge the lake-effect rain showers that popped up all around us saturday night during the game,” he said. “they never made it to campus, which was a huge blessing.” 
as for challenges specific to a night game, seamon said post-game traffic was more difficult to manage than at a normal afternoon game. 
“after typical home games with 3:30 [p.m.] kickoffs, people go to mass, eat din­ner, tailgate or go back to see their kids in their dorms. but getting done at 11:30 [p.m.] after a great game meant ev­eryone was incentivized to stay until the end and want­ed to leave at the same time,” he said. “it took a long time to clear the traffic, but we knew it would and we did it to the best of our ability.” 
aside from being a night game, this particular game held special meaning in the context of the ongoing cel­ebration of the 125th an­niversary of Notre Dame football, seamon said. Friday evening’s pep rally, featur­ing former irish coach ara parseghian, the 1977 na­tional championship team and espN commentator Dick vitale, was a highlight of the weekend’s festivities. 
“the pep rally was incred­ible and had a great posi­tive emotion. to be on such a historic site where Knute Rockne and his team used to practice way back in the day and for the team to come back there was really great,” seamon said. “having ara parseghian back and honor­ing him was very special, and people loved seeing him.” 
thousands of fans in at­tendance at the game also honored current Notre Dame linebacker and hawaii native manti te’o by wearing leis as a show of support in the wake of the deaths of his grand­mother and girlfriend. 
“everyone was surprised at the number of non-students wearing leis at the game to pay tribute to manti,” seamon said. “that was one of those special Notre Dame moments, so to witness that and be there to support one of our own is what being part of the Notre Dame family is all about.” 
in spite of the extend­ed game day, Notre Dame security police (NDsp) chief phil Johnson said his depart­ment did not arrest signifi­cantly more people than a traditional game day. 
NDsp arrested seven peo­ple outside the stadium on saturday, including three for liquor law violations, two for criminal trespass and two for public intoxication. inside the stadium, police arrested one person for pub­lic intoxication. 
though night games re­quire more collaboration on the part of everyone in­volved, seamon said the pay­off in showcasing the best of the university makes the hard work worth it. 
“[Night games] make lon­ger days for everyone, but it’s a labor of love,” he said. “Whether you are a police officer, concession stand worker or usher, people enjoy the game and take pride and ownership of their jobs on gameday.” 
Contact Kristen Durbin at kdurbin@nd.edu 



the obseRveR | WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 26, 2012 | NDsmcobseRveR.com 

Love 
coNtiNueD FRom paGe 1 
Gobodo-madikizela said. 
“We’ve witnessed and con­tinue to witness victims and children of victims who seek out perpetrators in order to forgive them,” she said. 
the willingness of victims to forgive their persecutors is counterintuitive, but Gobodo­madikizela said it does hap­pen and is very important to the victims, she said. 
“Nothing could be more real than an expression of forgive­ness from one of these people who have suffered atrocities,” she said. 
she said one of the most powerful means of reconcili­ation is public acknowledge­ment of the injustice by both parties. 
“i have become aware of the potential for public acknowl­edgement to restore the hu­manity of survivors,” she said. “survivors recover a sense of agency as they reclaim their voice.” 
Gobodo-madikizela said forgiveness helps the victims regain their dignity by revers­ing the dynamic of victim and perpetrator. 
“it’s a point of empower­ment for the victims, a turn­ing of the tables if you will. the victims have the power to give or not give the perpetra­tors what they want,” she said. 
Forgiveness, however, is not really about the victims healing, but rather a connec­tion with and empathy for the perpetrator of the crime, she said. 
“Forgiveness is not a self­ish thing. it’s a concern for others,” Gobodo-madikizela said. “perpetrators dehuman­ize themselves when they engage in these actions that dehumanize another. the importance of forgiveness is found in these situations of suffering and violence.” 
she said empathy, as a hu­man connection between victim and perpetrator, is im­portant to both parties. 
“empathy is the critical point. it is at the center of for­giveness on one side and re­morse on the other,” she said. 
Gobodo-madikizela said some of the victims she worked with, a group of moth­ers, experienced a physiologi­cal response to exchanging stories with the perpetrator. she said their empathy cor­responded to a bodily expe­rience of connectedness that centered on the womb. 
she said the women de­scribed the feeling with the word “inimba,” which very roughly translates to the um­bilical cord. 
this connection between bodily sensation and empathy reflects the interconnected­ness both within a person and between people. 


“‘inimba’ emerged as a cultural word in a cultur­al context, but i think it is more universal,” Gobodo­madikizela said. “‘inimba’ is a human concept. the ma­ternal body as a metaphor for a human embodiment of empathy.” 
she said her idea of “in­imba” is not gender-specific, but rather a means of under­standing the ability of hu­mans to recognize others as fellow humans. 
“the body, be it maternal or paternal, points us in the direction of the body as a site of forging human links across time and space,” she said. 
after the end of apartheid, Gobodo-madikizela said her work with the truth and Reconciliation commission brought victims and persecu­tors together to help her coun­try heal. 
she said south africa has come a long way in terms of reconciliation, but there are new problems facing the coun­try. the country is struggling economically and suffering from a lack of honest leader­ship and issues of race are reentering the national dis­course, Gobodo-madikizela added. she said new difficul­ties muso be addressed with a hopeful attitude. 
“the journey is not over yet. New challenges unfold in south africa, sometimes on a weekly basis,” Gobodo­madikizela said. “We must press on with hope. i’m talk­ing about the horizon of hope that came to fruition with the truth and Reconciliation commission.” 
Contact Christian Myers at cmyers8@nd.edu 
Excise 
coNtiNueD FRom paGe 1 
41 people on 53 charges. 
Notre Dame security police (NDsp) also reported eight ar­rests by its own officers on vari­ous charges on saturday. 
the majority of the individu­als charged by the excise police were minors for illegal con­sumption or possession of al­cohol, the release stated. eight of those 45 individuals charged were less than 18 years old. 
“excise officers also cited six minors for possession of false iD,” the release stated. “two people were arrested for public intoxication, two for resisting law enforcement and one on a drug-related charge.” 
other citations included ju­venile in possession of tobacco, disorderly conduct, false in­forming, false government iD and various traffic violations. 
student body president brett Rocheleau said students should be honest and respect­ful if approached by a police officer. 
“if anyone gets approached by a police officer, please be respectful and comply,” Rocheleau said. “i know there are some instances where people got tickets for refusing to cooperate or handing over a fake iD.” 
student government hosted a safety summit with local and state police officers at the be­ginning of the school year to inform students about how to interact with law enforcement. 
officers from the excise police were present at that summit. 
Rocheleau said he also sent emails to the student body to advise them on staying safe off campus and during game weekends. 
“From the different stories we heard about the ice pro­gram that they had enacted [at Notre Dame] and seeing that [indiana university] and [purdue university] had also been visited by excise police, i anticipated them coming to campus, which is why we tried to sort of warn the student body by sending out the emails to every student if they’re un­derage to watch out for the excise police, to make sure they’re being responsible and safe … [and] informing stu­dents that if they are underage they should not be consuming alcohol,” he said. 
the release from thickstun cited several instances of stu­dents who were uncooperative when dealing with excise of­ficers. thickstun could not be reached for further comment on the weekend’s arrests. 
“a male juvenile ran from officers as they were speak­ing with a group of people in the tailgate lots,” the release stated. “he was caught and found to have a [blood alcohol content] of .07 percent. he was cited and was released to his mother after she was cited for furnishing alcohol to a minor. 
“another male was ar­rested after giving a false pennsylvania driver’s license and other false information to officers. he had a [blood alco­hol content] of .16 percent and will face charges for illegal consumption, false informing and possession of false iD.” 
Rocheleau said excise of­ficers do not always book in­dividuals into jail when they make arrests. Rather, they is­sue drinking tickets and cita­tions, though they can issue multiple charges at one time for different offenses. 
“excise uses the word ‘arrest’ in terms of a ticket,” Rocheleau said. “While there could have been students incarcerated … a lot of it depends on the cir­cumstances and how the stu­dent has been interacting with police.” 
indiana state excise police, a division of the indiana alcohol and tobacco commission, added Notre Dame to their ice initiative this year. the new program targets college campuses to reduce underage drinking, and excise officers also have a presence at five other universities in the state, including butler university, indiana university and purdue university. 
Rocheleau said the excise officers will continue to have a presence in the south bend area, even during the upcom­ing bye weekend and away game weekends. 
“they are focused on li­quor stores as well as bars,” he said. “they want to make sure that no one underage is going into liquor stores and bars on non-football weekends.” 
While excise police have upped the number of arrests in the area and reported evasive student behavior during tail­gating, Rocheleau said he has heard of only positive interac­tions between students and south bend police Department and st. Joseph county police Department officers. he en­couraged any students with complaints about treatment from police to contact him directly. 
Rocheleau meets with rep­resentatives from those local law enforcement agencies and excise police three times each year. 
“their message is basically if you’re under the age of 21, you should not be consuming alco­hol, going into liquor stores or going into bars,” he said. 
Contact Megan Doyle at mdoyle11@nd.edu 

paiD aDveRtisemeNt 



Airline industry makes changes 
Associated Press 
WashiNGtoN — airline passengers can expect fewer carriers to choose from, fewer flights to smaller cities and more baggage and other fees as the industry continues to grapple with high fuel prices and a weak economy, according to a government report released tuesday. 
the airline industry is still in transition after a tumultu­ous decade in which bank­ruptcies and mergers cut the number of airlines accounting for the bulk of domestic flights in half, to just five: american, Delta, southwest, united and us airways, the report by the Department of transportation’s inspector general said. if us airways and american — which are in merger discus­sions — were to combine, that would drop to four. 
there are dozens of other airlines in the u.s., but collec­tively those smaller carriers ac­count for less than 15 percent of total passenger traffic. twelve years ago, there were ten ma­jor u.s. airlines accounting for 90 percent of domestic flights. but high fuel prices, the 2008 recession and a slow economic recovery have taken a toll, the report said. 
in 2000, fuel costs were just 10 percent of airline operating expenses. Fuel costs peaked at 40 percent of expenses in 2008, outdistancing payroll as the airlines’ biggest expense. last year, fuel accounted for 35 per­cent of expenses. 
less competition has enabled airlines to try to offset higher costs by eliminating less prof­itable flights to smaller cities, the report said. airlines cut the number of scheduled domestic flights by 14 percent between June 2007 and June 2012, the report said. as a result, flights have fewer empty seats and air­lines have been able to increase fares, especially on short-haul flights. 

last year, the industry at­tempted 22 fare increases, of which 11 were successful, the report said. airfare increases are considered successful if competitors also adopt an in­crease. if there’s not widespread matching by other airlines, the result is usually a withdrawal of the original increase. so far this year airlines have attempt­ed eight fare increases, four of which have been successful, the report said. 
since 2008, airlines have also supplemented their fares by charging a wide range of fees for services that in most cases used to be free. baggage fees alone contributed $2.7 billion in added revenue to airlines last year. besides fees for checked bags, at least two airlines — allegiant and spirit 
— now charge passengers for carry-on bags. 
as a result of these trends, the industry in general has become profitable again after years of red ink. and having fewer flights has resulted in a drop in flight delays and cancellations. 
“the good news is that the (carrier) consolidation and an­cillary fee revenue stream have stabilized the airline industry,” said Kevin mitchell, chair­man of the business travel coalition, which represents corporate travel managers. “the bad news is airlines can disregard consumers’ interests much more easily when there are fewer carriers.” 
paiD aDveRtisemeNt 

legislation allowing driverless cars passes 

AP 

California Governor Jerry Brown, center, hands his pen to Google co-founder Sergey Brin, right, after sign­ing a bill for driverless cars at Google headquaters as state senator Alex Padilla, left, looks on. 
Associated Press 
mouNtaiN vieW, calif. 
— Gov. Jerry brown rode to Google headquarters in a self-driven toyota prius before signing legislation tuesday that will pave the way for driv­erless cars in california. 
the bill by Democratic sen. alex padilla will establish safety and performance reg­ulations to test and operate autonomous vehicles on state roads and highways. 
“today we’re looking at sci­ence fiction becoming tomor­row’s reality — the self-driving car,” brown said. 
Google has been developing autonomous car technology and lobbying for the regula­tions. the company’s fleet of a dozen computer-controlled vehicles — mostly priuses equipped with self-driving technology — has logged more than 300,000 miles of self-driving without an acci­dent, according to Google. 
“i think the self-driving car can really dramatically im­prove the quality of life for everyone,” Google co-founder sergei brin said. 
the alliance of automobile manufacturers expressed con­cern that california is moving too quickly to embrace self-driving cars. 
“currently, autos are de­signed to be operated by people who carry the responsibility to maintain control and safely operate the vehicle,” the trade group said in a statement. “unfortunately this legislation lacks any provision protect­ing an automaker whose car is converted to an autonomous operation vehicle without the consent or even knowledge of that auto manufacturer.” 
autonomous cars, which could be sold commercially within the next decade, use computers, sensors and other technology to operate inde­pendently, but a human driv­er can override the autopilot function and take control of the vehicle at any time. 
With smartphone-wielding drivers more distracted than ever, backers say robotic ve­hicles have the potential to make roads significantly safer, noting that nearly all car ac­cidents are a result of human error. 
the legislation requires the california Department of motor vehicles to draft regula­tions for autonomous vehicles by Jan. 1, 2015. currently, state law doesn’t mention self-driv­ing cars because the technol­ogy is so new. 
the regulations would allow vehicles to operate autono­mously, but a licensed driver would still need to sit behind the wheel to serve as a backup operator in case of emergency. 

barnes & Noble plans for launch of Nook video 
Associated Press 
NeW YoRK  — barnes & Noble inc. says it will launch a video service this fall that lets users buy and watch movies and tv shows on their mobile devices and televisions. 
the New York-based com­pany says users of Nook video will be able to shop an exten­sive collection of movies and shows from major studios in­cluding hbo, sony pictures, viacom and Warner brothers. the move into video puts barnes & Noble more directly into competition with other online video providers, in­cluding amazon.com and apple inc. 
users will be able to down­load videos and view them on barnes & Noble’s Nook tab­lets and other devices with the Nook video app, which the company plans to launch soon. 
a company representative said in an emailed statement that prices for movies and shows have not been deter­mined but that they will be competitive with other leading services. there are no plans for an unlimited streaming service similar to Netflix inc. 
barnes & Noble, the largest traditional u.s. bookseller, is facing tough competition from online retailers such as amazon.com, which sells the Kindle tables and e-readers, as consumers increasingly move away from traditional books in favor of electronic books, and from DvDs to streaming video. 
that has prompted the com­pany to invest heavily it its Nook e-reader and e-books, with digital content playing a key role in its last quarters. 
last month, the company said its Nook unit — which in­cludes e-readers, digital con­tent and accessories — had basically flat revenue at $192 million in its fiscal first quar­ter. sales of digital content surged 46 percent. this con­tent includes digital books, 
digital  newsstand  and  the  
apps business.  
barnes  &  Noble  has  689  

stores in the u.s. the com­pany’s stock fell 3.7 percent to close at $12.26 tuesday, af­ter rising as high as $13.61 in morning trading. 

the obseRveR | WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 26, 2012 | NDsmcobseRveR.com 
Frivolity left and right

INSIDE COLUMN 

the lost department 

Laura Laws 
Graphics 

my figure drawing teacher gets coffee at starbucks in laFun every morning. one day he came to class and told us about his barista that particular day. she asked if he was a student. i’m guess­ing he laughed at that and said no, he taught drawing and painting. this girl, allegedly, was amazed and said some­thing to the effect of, “oh, cool! i didn’t know we had that!” and he responded, “umm, we have an art department.” at this she was all “Nuh uh! No we don’t!” Jason probably felt like responding “No, you’re right. i lied. i haven’t devoted a chunk of my life to the Notre Dame Department of art, art history and Design. i just come in everyday at 8 
a.m. to get coffee and then bum around campus, sleeping in the bushes and chasing squirrels. i just made up that art professor crap.” but being somewhat tactful, he said something like, “No re­ally. our building, Riley, it’s connected to Nieuwland.” to which she continued to look skeptical. 
as much as i laugh, this conversation also makes me a little sad. i think our department is severely under-appreci­ated here. all of the college of arts and letters is, but because the Department of art, art history and Design is my home, that is what i want to focus on. 
We do awesome things in the art department. i know people who can exactly replicate photographs using pencils and paint. i know people who can take physical reality and turn it on its head for the viewer. “anyone can draw a picture,” but not everyone can do what these people do — breathe life into paper or canvas or clay or wood or metal. only once you’ve really seen or experienced this could you understand. 
the design branch is arguably one of the most successful in the country. Graphic and industrial Design are the quickest growing majors in the college of arts and letters. We have one of the few industrial Design programs in the country. it pulls in tons of awards, na­tionally and internationally. 
the percentage of Notre Dame graph­ic designers who are hired after gradu­ation exceeds the numbers from other schools, including the art institutes. and remember all you business stu­dents: an important part of selling is the customer’s perception. and the de­sign of the company’s branding, pack­aging and product impacts perception on every level of consciousness. 
We work just as hard and long as you do and are just as successful. Never forget that there is another side to Notre Dame. i challenge you to check it out sometime. i bet you’ll be surprised by what you find. 
Contact Laura Laws at llaws@nd.edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
John Sandberg 
Fisherman’s musings 
last week was it. 

it was the final straw. the last nail in the coffin. the straw that broke the camel’s back. maybe it was the straw that put the final nail in the camel’s coffin. 
pick whatever cliché you want, but last week was it. 
last week i admitted this is never going to be the presidential election i had hoped for. 
instead, i conceded the 2012 campaign will remain what is has been all along: an embarrassing fight to November, eventu­ally ending with one mud-spattered candi­date left standing and thousands of writers, bloggers and tv personalities trying to catch their collective breath. 
mitt Romney’s now infamous remark that 47 percent of americans are “depen­dent on government, see themselves as victims (and) believe the government has a responsibility to care for them” was in­sensitive. it was belittling and inaccurate. it was regrettable and inexcusable. 
but i’d guess it’s not the first time some­thing insensitive and stupid was said inside a private fundraiser for either party’s big wigs, and i guarantee it won’t be the last. Romney was in the process of making a larger point about the strategy of his cam­paign: he is focused mainly on winning over the small percentage of independent voters who are trying to determine which candidate, Romney or president obama, is the better choice for president. 
i’m not okay with Romney demeaning millions of self-motivated americans, but in terms of electoral strategy, his approach is commonplace. No candidate aims to win 100 percent of the vote, despite what he or she says in public. 
if you’re in the mood to launch criti­cisms, aim for our electoral system, the nature of which encourages presidential candidates to focus on large swaths of the population seen as “winnable” while dis­regarding other significant portions of the population. 
so why did last week put me over the edge? 
because the race for the White house has been relegated to a ‘gotcha’ moment captured by a grainy video taken from a cell phone four months ago. 
because an online article detailing the disorganized nature of Romney’s cam­paign, founded almost entirely on un­named sources, can dominate the news cycle for days. 
because Wednesday’s New York times opinion section chose to publish an 800­word Romney screed, despite the fact it provided no fresh insight. it was a dumbed-down rehashing of the criticisms we’ve all heard for months. maureen Dowd’s piece, in which she managed to call Romney ‘stu­pid’ twice in the span of three sentences, could easily have been written by a well-spoken ninth grader instead of a pulitzer prize winner at the world’s most highly regarded newspaper. 
We deserve more accountability and more substance. 
Romney and president obama have each framed this election as a choice be­tween two candidates with fundamentally different philosophies. and yet, both can­didates have shown a shared tendency to play to the fears of americans rather than our desires for prosperity. 
president obama has not earned reelec­tion. this president, the one with the in­spiring story and all that charisma and the best intentions, has governed over three and a half years of increased spending, mounting debt and static unemployment. 
Republicans are struggling in an election they should be winning and a Democratic president appears closer to reelection, not because he has earned it, but because the Gop has effectively been framed as the worse of two options. 
Romney’s running mate, paul Ryan, has repeatedly said this is not a common elec­tion — that the choice we make for presi­dent in 2012 is much more significant than any choice in recent decades. 
then why does 2012 feel like politics as usual? 
i refuse to describe this year’s election as a choice between the lesser of two evils because neither Romney nor obama is evil. at each of their cores is a genuine desire for a better country. 
but both are too easily tempted to use the petty press for what it is good at: drag­ging nonsense into the spotlight under the guise of news, all to distract voters from the real issues at stake. 
uninspiring candidates, trivial press, and too many voters still trying to wade through a pool of doubt by the time November arrives. such is the embar­rassing reality of the 2012 presidential campaign. 
John Sandberg is a junior political science major from Littleton, Colo. He can be reached at jsandbe1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

QUOTE OF THE DAY WEEKLY POLL 
“always do right. this will gratify some people and astonish the rest.” 
Mark Twain 
U.S. author 

What did you do after Notre Dame demolished the Wolverines? 
tweet your response with #viewpointpoll by 5 p.m. thursday. 


the obseRveR | WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 26, 2012 | NDsmcobseRveR.com 
On office hours 
Christopher Damian 
idea of a university 

the role of the professor in student life has changed dramatically over the years. in his autobiography, Fr. hesburgh recalls attending a “beer keg party” with members of the Notre Dame veterans club. he re­corded, “Years later, when i implemented my opposition to keg parties by outlawing them on campus, i could tell students that i spoke from experience.” 
as president of Notre Dame, Fr. hesburgh knew the Notre Dame com­munity. professor Ralph mcinerny once wrote affectionately, “Fr. hesburgh would have put on sackcloth and ashes if he ran into a member of the faculty he didn’t know.” this was a different time, when the president was not just the face of the university. he was also its heart. 
Now, the president of Notre Dame can­not realistically know all of its faculty, and Notre Dame’s professors do not know all of their students (and some know hardly any.) the distance between professor and student increases with the size of the class­room and the demands of research. one could hardly imagine the campus scene were professors to don sackcloth and ashes upon running into students in their classes whom they did not know. 
shortly after beginning his teaching career at Notre Dame, Fr. hesburgh noted that he could hardly find time to write. “i was trying to write ‘God and the World of man’ at the time, but it was practically impossible to get anything done during normal hours. after dinner i had freshmen in and out of my office until lights went off at eleven.” 
this habit did not change after Fr. hesburgh’s promotion to president of the university. here, we find a professor is not struggling to find time for students. he is struggling to find time for his research — putting students first is the standard. it is here where we realize the creation of “office hours” does not indicate our professors are more available to us today. it indicates the opposite. one only “finds time” for things that are secondary in his life. 
Yet, these secondary things are the things that must be sacrificed as we aspire to be a “preeminent research university with a distinctive catholic character,” as our cur­rent president once put it. Research is to be our defining trait, and tensions arise in the limitations such a definition could create on university life. professors are limited in time they can spend with their students, but students are also limited in what they sense is appropriate to share with their professors. 
prior to this column, i never considered sharing this extracurricular work with my professors. it seems to be quite removed from the real work of the “research univer­sity.” Yet, this seems to be the most obvious thing to be done in any real university com­munity. Realizing that the intellectual life intersects with all aspects of human expe­rience, surely all students should want to discuss dorm life, relationships, newspaper columns, campus debates, summer plans, leisure books and club activities with their professors. if these things are worth be­ing done at the university, they are worthy of discussion and consideration with our professors. 
We find ourselves, however, caught in the divide created by the “preeminent research university.” We have deluded ourselves into thinking the thought and care neces­sary for a term paper is not the thought and care to be devoted to a viewpoint letter. We have allowed ourselves and our professors to believe they can only offer us insight into human Genetics and Foundations of theology. We fool ourselves into thinking saturday night does not affect monday morning. 
i lay some blame on administrators for a questionable vision and questionable standards. i lay some blame on professors for giving in to these standards, but i also lay some blame on students for not rejecting these standards. We must reject the frag­mented academicism of the “research uni­versity” and ask ourselves hard questions. 
if our professors are the intellectuals we aspire to imitate, surely we ought to ask them what they think about dorm life, re­lationships, newspaper columns, campus debates, summer plans, leisure books and club activities. surely we ought to ask them what they did in college and why. surely we ought to act in ways that would make them proud. if they are not the intellectuals we aspire to imitate, and these are not ques­tions we would wish to ask them and these are not they ways in which we want to act, perhaps we ought to reconsider why we are even here in the first place. 
Christopher Damian is a senior. He can be reached at cdamian1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
post-it note rainbows 
Scott Boyle 
the sincere seeker 

chances are you’ve looked at yourself in a mirror once or twice in your life. When i was younger, i used a mirror all the time. in grade school, i would check the mirror before i went to school, to see (much to the displeasure of my mom) if i had “drooped” my and-1 basketball shorts enough to look cool. in junior high, i would use it to check to see if my gelled hair had come out just right. but, to be quite honest, i worried less in high school. a quick glance in the mirror was more than enough to confirm that i was indeed wearing long pants and a collared shirt, required dress code at my local, all-male, Jesuit high school. 
but as i entered the last years of high school and began my undergraduate years in college, something changed. to me, the mirror became not an innocent check-in, but a reminder that i was different. i no longer rejoiced in my average height, goofy quirks and caring personality, but saw them as flaws. 
i remember the time i felt this especially acutely. i was out to eat with my brother and my aunt at a restaurant in my hometown of cincinnati. While we were waiting for our table, an older lady came up to my brother and said, “You’re beautiful, have you ever thought about being a model?” it sounds strange to re­count now and in the moment we were all taken aback. and my brother didn’t quite know how to respond. he was a bit embarrassed, and after he mumbled some words of thanks, she left. 
as she sauntered away, i wanted to wave to her and say, “You missed somebody!” Deep down, however, i could not help but wonder, “Was i not handsome? Why didn’t she say something to me?” 
i almost feel silly admitting her words (or lack there­of) bothered me, especially with something superficial like looks. but i felt pretty low in that moment. once again, i couldn’t help but feel i was different, that i was somehow flawed because my looks didn’t match my brother’s. in that situation, my dissatisfaction mani­fested itself most acutely. i wanted to be different! 
henri Nouwen once wrote, “if we had a firm faith in God’s unconditional love for us, it would no longer be necessary to be always on the lookout for ways of being admired by people, and we would need, even less, to obtain from people by force what God desires to give us so abundantly.” it’s taken me a long time to try to live into this truth. 
When i began this year in campus ministry, the dents and holes in the walls of my office in 303 como were well-worn reminders of previous intern commu­nities. admittedly, i am not much of a decorator, so i was at a loss for how i could give new life to the space. 
imagine my surprise when i arrived one day to find the previously empty wall space above my workspace filled with a large post-it Note rainbow. emma, claire and Joe (children of one of the campus ministry staff members) had taken it upon themselves to decorate. the piece had all the requisite elements of a rainbow: an arc shape, many different colors, and giant clouds framing it on either side. something about it was dif­ferent, however: numerous individually colored smiley faces. 
in this moment, i couldn’t help but feel the hand of God at work. after the Great Flood, God used the symbol of a rainbow as a covenant to remind Noah he would be with him and his ancestors for all time. and in this moment, i had my own rainbow, a reminder that no matter how i felt about myself, the face of God was there, always smiling and gazing at me with love. 
but it didn’t stop there. as the weeks have rolled by, people have continued to leave little notes, funny com­ments, or quotes. Nothing gets thrown away. each post-it goes on the wall; each finds a home in its own space in and along the rainbow. 
John paul ii wrote, “We are not the sum of our weak­nesses and our failures; we are the sum of the Father’s love for us and our real capacity to become the image of his son.” We are sent into the world to discover and proclaim this truth of the heavens and the stars, that we all are models, models fashioned lovingly by the hand of our Father. 
so, to emma, claire, Joe, carolyn, Rose, Jessica, Francis, Dan, Jordan, Katie, Renee, William, luke, Katherine and mary, thanks for being my models. thanks for building up my post-it note rainbow. 
Scott Boyle is a graduate of Notre Dame and intern in the Office of Campus Ministry. He can be reached at sboyle2@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Two to toga 
Dear sydni, 

so there’s this girl. We met in the most ridiculous way, and i’m still not sure i really believe it happened the way it did. turns out, our moms knew each other from way back when in their glory days. they saw each other by chance at athlete ori­entation. afterward, my mom told me about her meeting with an old acquaintance and about her daughter who also was running track here at Notre Dame. she told me where she lived and what she ran and i really didn’t care. i even asked, “Why are you telling me this?’ because it seemed like i would never really talk to this girl anyway. 
after another orientation i walked out of the Joyce center with some guy and we talked about the snoozefest we just sat through. being strapping young gentlemen, we decided to turn around and extend our conversation to the two girls walking behind us. upon talking to them, i discovered one of the girls was from the same state that i lived. i asked her what city she lived in, to which she replied with the same city my mother told me earlier. i decided to try my luck one more time and asked her, “You wouldn’t happen to be a really good runner would you?” her face lit up with excitement (or maybe it was to hide the fear she had of some random boy creepily know­ing about her life.) i explained to her how i “knew” her, and apologized for being such a stalker. she didn’t care and we just talked. 
through the first couple of weeks we saw each other at ob­scure times and talked a little bit but nothing major. then i had a rough night where everything seemed to be falling apart. i decided to turn to the nicest girl i have met here. so we went on a little walk. i figured out she was pretty much exactly like me and was going through the same exact things i was. and, al­though she won’t admit it, she had everything figured out a lot better than i did. it was just nice knowing someone kind was there for me. since then we have been becoming better friends, and we have a lot of fun hanging out together. With all that said, the Keough toga dance is this Friday, and i couldn’t think of anyone i would have more fun with than her. 
so sydni, would you go to the Keough toga dance with me? 
Your pal, 
Brent Swanberg 
freshman Keough hall sept. 25 


By KEVIN NOONAN 
scene editor 
AMC 

the winner of four straight emmys for best dra­ma coming into sunday night, “mad men”  seemed poised for another big night filled with hardware. Nope. Wrong. the series walked away with a whop­ping zero awards despite being tied for the most nominations at the show. 
it was just one shocker for the network (who also has a few shows in the “biggest losers” section of this spread) that was completely dead on arrival at the awards show. amc is often praised for compet­ing with the traditional kings of storytelling, hbo and showtime, but despite having 34 nominations, and heavy hitters like “mad men” and “breaking bad,” the cable network walked away with just one award. 
Tracy Morgan wasn’t actually passed out 
Noted prankster and funnyman host Jimmy Kimmel conspired with noted weird guy tracy morgan to start a rumor that morgan had passed out on stage, a story which spread like wildfire on the internet. the story seemed believable enough ¾ morgan’s character on “30 Rock” is a pretty weird guy, and in real life he’s just as erratic. the most surprising part about it was that it wasn’t true. 
Jon Stewart drops the F-bomb 
maybe this wasn’t that surprising, seeing as how the bleep is as regular a part of stewart’s show as politics, but it’s not every day you see a guy dropping the holy mother of swear words on national televi­sion. stewart has won emmys in the past, so it’s nice to see that he still gets fired up about it. 
Jon Cryer wins something 
You could probably also put “Jon cryer gets nom­inated for something” on this list. cryer walked away with the emmy for outstanding lead ac­tor in a comedy series, beating out a list of guys who, you know, are on funny shows. alec baldwin (“30 Rock”), louis c.K. (“louie”) and larry David (“curb Your enthusiasm”) were all also nominated for this award, so it’s surprising they lost. come on, emmys. “two and a half men”? Really? 
Contact Kevin Noonan at knoonan2@nd.edu 

By COURTNEY COX 
associate scene editor 

Guests at the emmys tend to joke that the event lacks the star power of the academy awards, but this year, what they were supposedly lacking in big names they made up for in style. 
this year it seemed that the old pros were out­shining the young scenesters who typically lead the way in terms of sartorial know-how. Nowhere was this more evident than in the brigade of mid­dle-aged women who stood out in citrus-hued frocks. 
it seemed this bright color was also a good-luck charm, because three of the biggest winners were all wearing some form of sunny gold. 
claire Danes was radiant in a lanvin column gown that showcased her growing baby bump. 

hbo’s new hit series “Girls.” Williams is the daugh­ter of “Nbc Nightly News” host brian Williams, but she was much bolder than the straight-laced newsman in her emerald peplum oscar de la Renta gown. the architectural bodice was perfect for Williams and she stood out as one of the most styl­ish rookies at this year’s festivities. 
however, Williams was not without competition. her fellow hbo star emilia clarke was the picture of old school beauty in head-to-toe chanel. her stark white dress with intricate purple embroidery was simple and looked like an updated version of 1950s elegance. 
tina Fey looked better than ever in a burgundy vivienne Westwood gown with a hint of baroque detailing at the neckline. she was stunning in a way that’s often unexpected from someone who plays a middle-aged woman most frequently seen 
Image courtesy of Style.com Image courtesy of Style.com 
Danes was honored as outstanding lead actress in in unflattering sweats. 
Jena Malone in J. Mendel Kristen Wiig in Balenciaga 
a drama for her role in “homeland.” Fey’s former partner in crime, amy poehler, another outstanding leading lady in gold was 

also looked stunning in a black, beaded stella Julianne moore, who took home the award for 
mccarntney dress. Fresh off the news of separa­her work in “Game change.” moore wore a long­
tion from Will arnett, poehler looked beautiful, sleeved Dior couture gown that had to be swelter-
happy and — dare i say — sexy. ing in the los angeles heat but looked beautiful on 
the most courageous award has to go to Jena television, which is the goal, of course. 
malone in J. mendel. she wore a raspberry dress Julie bowen from “modern Family” was yet an-
with a thigh-high slit and an intricate bodice that other golden girl in the best-dressed and outstand­
combined elements of weaving and drapery. her ing actress categories. she wore monique lhuillier 
metallic silver, ankle-strap shoes were the perfect and paired it with bold statement earrings and 
hardcore edge that the ensemble required. the loose, beachy hair. 
outfit was totally befitting of the young actress, one of the most underrated style stars at award 
who is currently filming the second installment of shows is Kristen Wiig — perhaps it’s because she 
the “hunger Games” franchise as the cold-blooded appears so naturally beautiful and effervescent in 
killer Johanna mason. comparison to the crazy characters she’s known 
these stars were just a few who exuded mov­for on “saturday Night live.” this year she didn’t 
ie-star glamour in a small-screen field, but they disappoint. she wore a blush-colored balenciaga 
kicked off awards season in a stylish, fashion-for­dress with a feminine handkerchief hemline and a 
ward way. 

delicate necklace and ring set from Fred leighton.  Image courtesy of Style.com  Image courtesy of Style.com  
one newcomer who outshone the rest was un- Julianne Moore in Dior  Allison Williams in Oscar de  Contact Courtney Cox at  
doubtedly allison Williams, who plays marnie on  Couture  la Renta  ccox3@nd.edu  

JACQUELINE O’NEILL | The Observer 


awards best comedy series and best supporting of its second season in september 2012, has only got-
By MARIA FERNANDEZ 

scene Writer actor. ten more popular. the drama follows the story of a 
again this year, the show took home four golden cia agent, who believes that a u.s. marine captured 
sunday night’s emmy awards were all about statues, for some of the same categories as in 2011. by al-Qaeda has become a terrorist and now threat­“modern Family” and “homeland.” the emmy-Julie bowen won the emmy for best supporting ac-ens the united states. favorite family comedy maintained its winning tress in a comedy series for her role as claire for the hit drama “mad men” had occupied the emmys’ streak with four golden statues, while hit drama second year in a row, and cast mate eric stonestreet best drama series category for four consecutive years “homeland” surprised ev­
and was expected to win eryone by taking home five 
again this year. however, awards. 
“homeland” surprised ev-What awards did these 
eryone by winning five two shows win? let’s go one 
golden statues for drama. by one. 
the show took home the since its premiere in 
emmys for writing in a 2009, “modern Family” has 
drama series, directing in become one of tv’s most 
a drama series, best actor popular and successful 
in a drama series (Damian comedies. it tells the story 
lewis), best actress in of Jay pritchett (ed o’Neill), 
a drama series (claire his second wife, his stepson, 
Danes) and outstanding his two children and their 
drama series. respective families. each 
Image courtesy of ABC 
Image courtesy of Showtime although “modern family’s storylines and inter-Family” and “homeland” actions are smart, witty and, most importantly, very won for best supporting actor in a comedy series for ran the show, there were other big winners worth funny. after three seasons and a new one coming up his role as cam. noting. “Game change,” a movie on John mccain’s in 2013, viewers have fallen in love with all the show’s “modern Family” also won emmys this year for di-2008 presidential campaign, won four emmys in the entertaining characters and can’t wait for more. rection in a comedy series and outstanding comedy miniseries/movie category. 
“modern Family” began its emmy reign in 2010, series, proving for the third year in a row that it’s the and it has all been uphill from there. last year, best sitcom in town. Contact Maria Fernandez at the show won a total of four emmys, including the “homeland” premiered in 2011 and, with the start mfernan5@nd.edu 

By CLAIRE STEPHENS 
scene Writer 

While it is supposedly “an honor just to be nomi­nated,” a handful of shows had a lot of nominations and came away with relatively little to show. they’re certainly not “losers” as shows, but these nominees had some big hype surrounding them only to be disappointed. 
“Boardwalk Empire” 12 nominations, four wins 
While winning one out of three isn’t too bad, the hbo show took a clear backseat to other shows. Rival network showtime made a splash by winning big with “homeland,” broadcast networks have started to prove themselves  in comedy and regular cable channels like amc and FX have started to gain some critical ac­claim in drama. all of this means hbo is finding itself amongst more, and tougher, competition for quality television. 
“Downton Abbey” 16 nominations, three wins 
this new show’s well-known win was maggie smith for best supporting actress, but “Downton abbey” re­ceived little else, despite having multiple nominees for some awards. 
“Breaking Bad” 13 nominations, one win 
the 2012 emmys were a big blow for amc, consid­ering the network’s ongoing battle with Dish Network, who dropped the network this summer. all season dur­ing new episodes of “breaking bad” and “the Walking Dead,” amc’s advertisements have been reminding viewers of how awful Dish is for dropping them, how great their shows are and how decorated the channel is with emmy awards. While those emmys of the past don’t go away, the lack of new wins for “breaking bad” is one point for Dish, especially considering fellow amc show “mad men” failed to pick up the slack. 
“Mad Men” 17 nominations, zero wins 
and the winner for biggest loser goes to “mad men,” with a whopping zero wins despite being tied for most nominations. it is certainly a highly acclaimed show that forced viewers to consider amc as a quality televi­sion heavyweight, but there’s new competition in town. “Downton abbey” and “boardwalk empire” are only a few years old and have a bright future ahead of them at the emmys. “mad men” seems to have been forgotten and overlooked in its fifth season, which ended in June. 
Contact Claire Stephens at cstephe4@nd.edu 
JACQUELINE O’NEILL | The Observer 


SPORTS AUTHORITY 

schiano needs to focus on winning 

Jack Hefferon 
sports Writer 
how about these replacement refs, am i right? 
after monday night’s fiasco, in which a series of missed calls on the final play handed seattle a ridiculous win over the packers, the National Football league (NFl) has deservedly been the target of jokes, criticisms and all-out attacks from almost every corner of sports media in america. many have even referred to the puzzling “touch­
it’s something schiano did consistently during his 11 years at Rutgers, and this week he used that record to defend his strategy. 
“it does work,” he said. “it caused fumbles several times at Rutgers.” 
that is correct, as this gim­mick, applied dozens of times over eleven years, resulted in three fumbles. all three were immediately recovered by the quarterback, giving us a grand total of zero turnovers and zero wins. 
one would hope that schiano 

There’s only one way to gain respect in the NFL, and that’s by winning. 
ception” as the worst call ever to decide a game on its last play. 
but that call wasn’t even the worst last-play decision of the weekend. 
No, that honor belongs to buccaneers rookie coach Greg schiano, who for the sec­ond straight week decided to have his defense charge into the offensive line during the purely ceremonial knee at the end of the game. this time the cowboys were ready for schiano’s antics, and as the bucs rushed more aggressively than they had all game, tony Romo wasn’t knocked backwards, as eli manning and the Giants were two weeks ago. 
schiano came under fire from the Giants and the media after that stunt, but defended his play call, saying, “there’s nothing illegal about it.” 
Well yes, that’s technically true, as even the most clueless replacement official could tell you. What it is, Greg schiano, is bush league. 
in hockey, it’s not techni­cally illegal to skate in and try to knock a puck out of a goal­tender’s glove before the whistle blows, but the nearest defense-man would put you on your backside anyway. 
and in baseball, it might not technically be illegal to bunt in order to break up a perfect game, or peek at the catcher to see where the next pitch is going. but get caught pulling one of those, and the next pitch will be thrown at your kidney. 
if the players know that these actions are legal, then why do they get angry at opponents when they happen? 
because, as Giants coach tom coughlin said, “You don’t do that at this level.” 
has more than this to offer the NFl, after his “revolutionary” late-game tactics at Rutgers led the scarlet Knights to an unin­spiring 68-67 record, including a 28-48 big east record and zero championships in a conference that barely deserves its bcs berth. 
the attack against the Giants occurred as time expired, with the bucs out of timeouts. there was no chance of winning. None. 
so for the man whose biggest professional accomplishment has been recruiting Ray Rice, the only possible explanation for this unnecessary bull-rush is that he is using it to build a name for himself in the profes­sional ranks. 
schiano thinks he’s building a tough guy rep, but all he looks like is that kid in pick-up bas­ketball who checks the ball off your knee and claims it’s a steal. there’s only one way to gain respect in the NFl, and that’s by winning. 
Guys like mike tomlin, sean payton and the harbaugh broth­ers know it. so does coughlin, who has two super bowl victo­ries, as compared to schiano’s lone NFl win. 
so what’s the moral of the story for schiano? Focus on the snaps that actually matter. act like you’ve been here before. and don’t make this crap what your team is known for this year. 
Do all that, and you’ll be the one that gets to take the knee for a change. 
Contact Jack Hefferon at wheffero@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


NFL 

Bills release Moorman 
Associated Press 

oRchaRD paRK, N.Y. — For the first time in over a decade, someone other than brian moorman will handle the buffalo bills’ punting duties. 
moorman, a buffalo fixture since signing as a free agent in the summer of 2001, was re­leased tuesday in a move that general manager buddy Nix deemed necessary in order to “upgrade at the position.” 
the bills signed shawn powell to replace moorman after the two had competed during training camp and the preseason. powell was ulti­mately released before the reg­ular season. 
“it is always a tough decision, especially a guy like brian who has been here for 12 years,” Nix said. “he had a great career with the bills and has been kind of a staple for this organization. but it was a decision we felt like we needed to make.” 
moorman is a two-time pro bowler, and he leaves with his name atop virtually all of the franchise’s all-time punting lists, including a record 43.9­yard career average and most punts inside the 20 (243). also, his 48.2-yard average in 2011 was a single-season franchise high, and his 84-yard punt at Green bay in 2002 was the lon­gest in bills’ history. 
moorman also played in ev­ery game for the bills since ar­riving in 2001, a streak that had reached 179 straight games. 
but the 36-year-old had struggled during the first three games this season, and his net average was a mere 32.7 yards thanks in large part to Jeremy Kerley’s 68-yard punt return for a touchdown in buffalo’s season-opening loss to the New 

FOR RENT 

IRISH CROSSING 4BDR/3.5BTH. Available ‘13/’14 year; ND alum owner. 281-635-2019 
Football Rental. Available BYU and Stanford. 1BR Varsity Club. Call 847-602-8170 
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
PERSONAL 

UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don’t go it alone. Notre Dame has many resources in place to assist you. If you or someone you love needs con­fidential support or assistance, please call Ann Whitall at 1-0084 or Karen Kennedy at 1-5550. For more informa­tion, visit ND’s website at: http://preg­nancysupport@nd.edu 
Birthdays on this day: 
1970 -Trevor Ruffin, NBA guard (Phila 76ers) 
1970 -Sheri Moon Zombie, American actress 
1971 -Elva Dryer, Durango Colorado, 1.5K/5K runner 
1972 - Shawn Stockman, [Slim], Phila Pa, rapper (Boyz II Men) 

York Jets. 

Running back Fred Jackson expressed shock on his twitter account about moorman’s re­lease, but tuesday’s move was surprising only because of its timing — three games into the season. 
moorman’s status on buffalo’s roster was already in jeopardy before the 2011 sea­son, but the bills elected to keep him because of his leadership and veteran experience on what was a young, patchwork special teams unit. the bills were al­ready looking ahead to eventu­ally replacing moorman with the addition of powell, who was among the team’s final cuts this year. 
off the field, moorman was highly involved in the buffalo community. through his puNt foundation, he visited local hos­pitals during the season and at­tended numerous community events during the offseason. 
“he and his wife, they do a lot of good things,” Nix said. “that makes it tougher.” 
a text message left for moorman was not returned, and his cell phone voice mail box was full. 
the 6-foot-4, 243-pound powell from Florida state, signed with the bills as an un­drafted free agent after april’s draft. he was the seminoles’ career leader with a 44.2 punt­ing average. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit 
1973 - David Richie, NFL nost tack­le (Denver Broncos-Super Bowl 32) 
1973 -Olga Vasdeki, Greek triple jumper 
1974 - Alison Davies, Australian rower (Olympics-96) 
1974 -Gary Hall Jr, US, 50m/100m/400m free relay (Oly­gold/2 silver-96) 
1974 - Martin Muursepp, NBA for­ward (Dallas Mavericks) 
1975 - Emma Härdelin, Swedish singer (Garmarna and Triakel) 
1975 - Jake Paltrow, American film director, brother of Gwyneth Paltrow 
1976 - Michael Ballack, German footballer 



NCAA FOOTBALL 

Wake looks for 13th straight win over Duke 
Associated Press 
WiNstoN-salem, N.c. — the result is the same every time Duke and Wake Forest play: the Demon Deacons al­ways find a way to win. 
it doesn’t matter how good — or how bad — both teams are. the last 12 matchups have gone to Wake Forest, the lon­gest winning streak against an atlantic coast conference op­ponent in school history. 
through the years, the Demon Deacons have differed only on how they get it done. 
they’ve blocked a field goal. they’ve thrown a late touch­down pass. they’ve forced a missed field goal at the buzzer. they’ve picked off a pass in the end zone in overtime. 
“i don’t know how there’s a streak going on because we’ve had so many games that have literally just been ... just crazy stuff,” coach Jim Grobe — who’s 11-0 against Duke — said tuesday. 
of course, Wake Forest (3­1, 1-1) wants to keep it rolling. For the blue Devils (3-1, 0-0), however, the situation is more pressing because their bru­tal october schedule means they probably have to beat the Demon Deacons if they’re go­ing to end the nation’s longest bowl drought. 
it’s “never fun to be on the bad end of a streak,” Duke coach David cutcliffe said. “i think that should motivate most people, naturally, but to do something about that, you’ve got to play well current­ly. We can’t do anything about the previous 12.” 
except, of course, to learn from them so they can keep it from happening again. 
Duke is certainly no stranger to long losing streaks — the blue Devils have lost 17 straight to Florida state and 11 in a row to virginia tech — but repeat­edly coming up short against a school that’s so close, both geographically and in terms of academic profile, is tougher to take. eight of Duke’s losses in the series have come by a touchdown or less. 
there’s even more in com­mon this year. both are 3-0 at home and their only losses came in lopsided fashion on the road against top-10 teams, with No. 8 stanford rout­ing Duke a week before No. 4 Florida state hammered the Demon Deacons. 


“With a team that just beats you and beats you and keeps beating you, but it’s been close, and you haven’t come out on top, it’s more motivation and fuel that you use to push you through that game and get a win,” Duke defensive end Dezmond Johnson said. 
maybe, but motivation doesn’t seem to be the main problem for the blue Devils. in a series that dates to 1889, Duke holds a 53-37-2 edge but hasn’t won since 1999. 
that’s because the Demon Deacons simply seem to always have someone who can make a play when it counts. 
like chip vaughn, who blocked Duke’s game-winning kick with his elbow to preserve a 14-13 win in 2006. 
or alphonso smith, who in­tercepted thad lewis’ pass in the end zone in ot two years later to seal a 33-30 win — after Duke’s Nick maggio missed a 41-yard field goal at the end of 
paiD aDveRtisemeNt 


regulation. 
or chris Givens, who last year turned a short pass from tanner price into a 66-yard catch-and-run score that was the difference in a 24-23 victory. 
“When we look at the streak, we say, ‘Well, you know, yeah, we beat them 12 times but out of those 12, what, 10 have been down to the last minute?’” Wake Forest nose guard Nikita Whitlock said. “’how can we change that? how can we get away from those last-minute wins?’ it’s less of looking at the wins and more of looking at how we won and trying to bet­ter those wins.” 



the obseRveR | WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 26, 2012 | NDsmcobseRveR.com 
GOLF 

Ryder Cup cranks pressure to new levels 
azinger was inserted into 
Associated Press 
the eighth match against 

meDiNah, ill. — the ulti-Niclas Fasth. mate team event in golf some-Gulp. times is decided by a single “You put a guy in that spot player. when you have incredible be-
Jim Furyk holds a unique lief in him, or he has it in him-spot in Ryder cup history as self,” azinger said. the only player to win and lose on that day, he wasn’t sure the decisive match. he knows either was true. europe was euphoria as well as dejec-one point away from winning tion. so when he talks about the cup, and Fasth had a 1-up the possibility of being in lead playing the 18th. azinger that position again sunday at was in the bunker, needing a medinah, he speaks in terms birdie to win, and he holed the of accepting the role, not rel-shot. ishing it. “one of the greatest shots 
and while everyone wants to i’ve ever hit,” he said. “if i be the star, it’s a good bet ev-miss, we lose.” ery player at medinah knows a short time later, it came what he means. down to Furyk and paul 
“i think everyone playing in mcGinley, who had pulled this tournament would love even on the previous hole with to be in that position,” Furyk a 12-foot birdie putt. Furyk said tuesday. “You just have to blasted out of the bunker to be able to accept the fact that about 3 feet for a certain par. sometimes it turns out good, mcGinley missed the green by ended in a tie. on the third Who wants the ball? side, the celebration could and sometimes it doesn’t.” a mile, and then hit a marvel-extra hole, when it was almost For every philip Watson, wait. Furyk shook hands with 
it’s not about having the ous pitch to about 8 feet. too dark to see, Woods had a there is a Jay haas. For every Jimenez and pulled him close. skill to hit the clutch shot. it’s he had to make the putt to 15-foot putt for par that broke hale irwin, there is a bernhard “before getting really ex-having the strength to cope halve the match and win the twice, and all he could see langer. cited, i wanted to go over and with failure. cup for europe. were 11 players in red shirts Furyk was on the other side shake his hand and talk to 
Furyk can handle the failure “it’s kind of an empty off to his right. he made it. els at valhalla four years ago when him a little bit about it,” Furyk when he only has to answer to feeling when you’re done had 6 feet left for par that he his match gave the americans said. “there’s nothing you can himself. and there’s nothing i could had to make for himself, his a rare win in the Ryder cup. say that can make anyone feel 
three months ago, he was do to affect the outcome teammates, an entire country. he was 2 up on miguel angel better, but i wanted to show tied for the lead at the u.s. at that point,” Furyk said. he made it, and the captains Jimenez when the spaniard him his due respect. because open when he hit a snap hook “Watching it go in, seeing opted to share the cup. missed a 15-foot putt on the he played so well during the off the tee on the par-5 16th at the place erupt and being on “that was one of the most 17th and conceded the match. week. olympic club that led to bo-the green, you feel respon-nerve-racking moments i’ve the americans began rushing “You don’t know how empty gey. he never made up that sible. even though it’s a team ever had in golf,” Woods said toward Furyk to celebrate. that feeling is until you sit in shot and wasted a wonderful event, even though i didn’t that day. having been on the other those shoes.” chance at winning his sec-lose my match, that half­
paiD aDveRtisemeNt 

ond major. equally devastat-point cost us the Ryder cup. ing was going to the 18th hole and that empty feeling stuck at Firestone, having led from with me. You feel respon­the opening round, and mak-sible. every guy on the team ing a double bogey to lose by will come up and put their one shot. he had to console arm around you and say, his 8-year-old son who was in ‘hey, man, it was all of us.’ tears. “but it’s a bad feeling.” 
it’s a different monster when Not for mcGinley, who dove you answer to 11 teammates. into the water left of the green 
Who wants the ball? in a delirious celebration. 
You can be adam vinatieri Graeme mcDowell and or scott Norwood. bobby hunter mahan were in the thomson or Ralph branca. final match at celtic manor 
“You wouldn’t wish to be in two years ago, never dream-that position, i don’t suppose,” ing — never really wanting — paul lawrie said. “but if you the Ryder cup to come down are, you would like to think to them until it did just that. that you could do what needed mcDowell was 1 up when he to be done. but you don’t know holed a 15-foot birdie putt on until you get there. i would the 16th hole, and then won imagine it’s pretty tough.” the match outright with a par. 
paul azinger probably mahan made it look worse would have passed on such when he flubbed a chip in an opportunity. but he didn’t front of the green, though he have a choice. probably would have had to 
he had played in enough chip in anyway. Ryder cups to know that when mahan was in tears. it was it’s close going to sunday, the tough for him to talk, and clincher is likely to be any-heart-wrenching for most to where from the seventh and even listen. 11th spot in the lineup of 12 the presidents cup doesn’t singles matches. azinger was have nearly the kind of pres-a captain’s pick for the 2001 sure as the Ryder cup, except team, only to have the Ryder for one late afternoon in south cup postponed a year by the africa when the burden was sept. 11 terrorist attacks. by almost too much for any one then, he was out of form. he player to shoulder — even a played poorly in the open-player like Woods. ing session with tiger Woods in a format that no longer ex-and didn’t play again until he ists, Woods and ernie els were had no choice. everyone plays sent out for a sudden-death singles. playoff when the matches 




SMC SOCCER | smc 7, albioN 0 
Belles offense explodes, demolishes Albion 
By MIKE MONACO 
sports Writer 
Not one. Not two. Not three. the belles netted seven goals as they dominated albion 7-0 on Wednesday. 
“We’re pretty excited about the win,” belles senior captain maddie meckes said. “it was nice to get a lot of people some playing time. it was a real team effort and it’s a good way to go into our up­coming game against calvin [on thursday]. they’re usually good so we have that confidence.” 
senior midfielder ashley morfin, sophomore midfielder hillary burton and freshman midfielder/forward maggie Wenzel each scored two goals to lead the belles’ offensive attack. 
“it was just good teamwork,” meckes said. “it was not like one person scored all the goals. it was really just a team effort. everybody was working hard. everyone wanted that goal for themselves and for the team.” 
saint mary’s (5-1-1, 3-1 miaa) got back in the win column af­ter losing to alma on saturday. meckes said it was important to play well to defeat a conference foe coming off the loss to alma. 
“it’s always tough to lose but we bounced back pretty well and we proved that today,” meckes said. “it was just something we knew we had to go out and get the win against one of the weaker teams in our conference. it was just some­thing we knew we needed to do and we went out and got it done.” 
Junior captain and midfielder mollie valencia got the scoring started early, when she buried a pass from freshman midfielder maggie mclaughlin in the back of the net just five minutes into the game. 
after two goals from morfin, the belles led 3-0 heading into halftime. 
in the second half, the saint mary’s offense was similarly dominant, as burton scored less than three minutes into the half and the belles never looked back, outshooting the britons (0-7-1, 0-3­
1) by the count of 32-4. 
the defense, which has al­lowed just four goals this season, shut down albion behind the joint effort of sophomore goalies chanler Rosenbaum, hannah bruggeman and Nicole papiernik. the shutout lowered saint mary’s goals-against average to 0.57. 
“[our defense] played well,” meckes said. “all three of our keepers played today, but they didn’t see much action. We did a good job of keeping it on [albion’s] half [of the field]. but we also pos­sessed in the back and did a good job holding the line and not really letting anything through.” 
the belles now have four shut­outs this season and only allowed one goal against conference pow­er adrian. meckes said the belles need to keep winning against some of the top competition in the miaa. 
“We still want to do well in the conference and keep look­ing toward making the confer­ence tournament,” meckes said. “We already beat adrian so we’re looking to take down some of the best teams like calvin and just keep fighting for wins and play­ing hard.” 


saint mary’s squares off with calvin on thursday in a home miaa matchup. 
Contact Mike Monaco at            jmonaco@nd.edu 
SMC VOLLEYBALL 

saint mary’s prepares for calvin contest 
conference rival calvin on our returners know what kind 
By AARON SANT-MILLER 

sports Writer Wednesday. of the team they are and the 
“it’s going to be a very tough talent they have.” 
after a tough five-set loss match,” belles coach toni For calvin (13-1, 6-0 miaa), to miaa rival alma, the Kuschel said. “they’re the No. that talent starts with senior belles host nationally ranked 2 team in the country. all of outside hitter lizzie Kamp, 
paiD aDveRtisemeNt 


who is off to a hot start this season. she has already earned player of the week awards twice, increasing her career total to four. Kamp leads calvin this year in kills with a total of 211, setting an average of 4.4 kills per set all while hitting 33 percent. 
“We’re facing one of the best hitters in the country in Kamp, which we know will be tough,” Kuschel said. “We’re facing one of the best setters in the country too. they are a 
“We’re going to bring the same level of intensity, as well as the same level of communication and effort, we brouught this weekend versus Alma into that match against Calvin.” 
Toni Kuschel 
Belles coach 
very tough defensive and of­fensive team.” 
Junior setter megan Rietema has also earned play­er of the week honors this fall, her sixth such career honor. Rietema leads calvin in as­sists with a sky-high total of 
493. on top of that impressive number, the 6-foot-2 junior also leads the team in blocks with 54. 
Despite the challenges calvin poses, the belles (8-6, 4-2) remain confident. 
“We’re going to go in and play our best volleyball, play our game,” Kuschel said. “We’re going to bring the same level of intensity, as well as the same level of communi­cation and effort, we brought this weekend versus alma into that match against calvin.” 
Following last week’s stel­lar showing, sophomore out­side hitter Kati schneider was named miaa player of the week. last week, schneider had a total of 59 kills, while also providing strong defen­sive help with 35 digs. this season, schneider leads the team with 173 kills. 
saint mary’s is tied for fourth in the miaa with a 4-2 conference record. For the belles, this has been a result of solid team play and the team stepping up to a high level of opposing play so far this season Kuschel said. 
“We’ve been playing very well; we’ve been winning and winning is good,” Kuschel said. “We’re getting a lot of opportunities to play great teams in our conference and we’re rising to our challenge.” 
on Wednesday, the belles look to continue this trend against the second-best team in the nation. 
“i feel good about how our team played this last week and i’m looking for more of that to come in this upcoming week,” Kuschel said. 
the belles host rival calvin college for their seventh miaa match at 7:00 p.m. 
Contact Aaron Sant-Miller at            asantmil@nd.edu 


the obseRveR | WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 26, 2012 | NDsmcobseRveR.com 

WOMEN’S INTERHALL FOOTBALL 
McGlinn improves to 3-1 in win over Ryan 
Welsh Family relies on defense to get by Pangborn; Badin gets first win of the season against Howard 
McGlinn 19, Ryan 7 
By MARY GREEN 
sports Writer 
under the bright lights of Riehle Field on monday night, mcGlinn senior quarterback emily Golden shone, as she led her team to a 19-7 victory over Ryan. 
though mcGlinn’s first drive concluded with an end-zone interception, the shamrocks (3-1) rebounded with Golden’s 38-yard rushing touchdown on the first play of its second drive, which gave it an early 6-0 lead. 
“[Golden] did awesome,” shamrocks sophomore receiver emma collis said. “her runs just really held us together.” 
the main contributor to the shamrocks’ offense, Golden ran for 123 yards and threw for 30 yards. collis rushed for 55 yards to round out the shamrocks’ dy­namic one-two punch. 
mcGlinn’s early lead was not secure for long, though. at the beginning of the second half, Ryan senior quarterback maya pillai ran the ball five times for 39 yards, capped by a 4-yard rushing touchdown that gave the Wildcats (2-1) a 7-6 advantage. 
“We never backed down when we got down, and we played hard until the very end,” pillai said. 
the shamrocks surged back, aided by rushing scores from Golden and collis and a cru­cial, late turnover-on-downs by the Ryan offense. the Wildcats made a final comeback attempt with one minute remaining, highlighted by junior receiver maddie swan’s 28-yard catch that put Ryan in the red zone., a mcGlinn defender batted down pillai’s final hail-mary heave, however, to close out the game for the shamrocks. 
“everyone just came out and played hard and played like a team today to get the win,” collis said. 
the shamrocks will take their 3-1 record into their oct. 7 matchup with Welsh Family, while Ryan will look to earn a win against pangborn on sunday. 
Contact  Mary Green at mgreen8@nd.edu 
Welsh Family 20, Pangborn 
By RICH HIDY 
sports Writer 
in a defensive duel monday night, Welsh Family held off pangborn to earn a 20-12 victory. 
Welsh Family (2-1) struck first, scoring on a touchdown pass by senior quarterback victoria moreno to take a 7-0 lead. 
pangborn (2-1) responded with a touchdown of its own, as a scramble by sophomore quar­terback caitlin Gargan made the score 7-6. 
Just before the half, senior receiver meredith angell made a spectacular touchdown catch, doing a split and then diving into the end zone, to give pangborn a 12-7 lead. 
the second half was a defen­sive struggle, as the teams trad­ed possessions. Welsh Family’s offense broke through midway through the half, as a touch­down pass by moreno put the Whirlwinds up 14-12. 
With pangborn driving late in the game, Welsh Family made an interception at the two- min­ute mark before sealing the deal with another touchdown to make its lead 20-12.. “We thrive on playing close games,” moreno said. they are more fun for us and our defense made a huge interception.” 
moreno said Welsh Family was pleased to defeat a strong opponent. 
“pangborn was one of the toughest opponents we faced but this was one of the first times both our offense and defense played fantastic,” moreno said. 
Despite the loss, angell said pangborn would keep a positive attitude. 
“i really think we played well today as a team,” angell said. “We just had a couple of off plays on both sides of the ball that held us back.” 
pangborn will look forward to a tough matchup with Ryan next week. 
“We need to just sharpen things up,” angell said. “We are playing Ryan and they have some tall receivers, so we need to stick with them on defense and have our corners make big plays.” 
pangborn will face Ryan on sunday while Welsh Family will look to continue its winning 
ways against pasquerilla east. 
Contact Rich Hidy at rhidy@nd.edu 
Badin 33, Howard 18 
By KYLE FOLEY 
sports Writer 
in tuesday’s battle for the pond, the bullfrogs emerged vic­torious, beating the Ducks 33-18 in an offensive shootout. 
Despite being shutout in its first two games, badin (1-2) came out with a revamped offense that picked apart the howard secondary. 
the bullfrogs set the offensive tone early, as senior quarterback carli Fernandez completed a 40-yard pass to senior receiver ashley okonta. Fernandez then found okonta on a 5-yard pass for the game’s first touchdown. 
okonta scored three more touchdowns in the first half, which was highlighted by an un­stoppable quarterback-option attack and Fernandez’s accuracy through the air. 
“We stuck to a couple plays we knew and ran them really well,” okonta said. “this improved our overall composure.” 
Junior defensive back Kelly harmon led the badin defense with an interception and multi­ple tackles at the line. her perfor­mance helped the bullfrogs hold firmly to a 26-6 lead at the half. 
starting the second half, the Ducks (1-2) came out of the hud­dle with an edge not seen in the first half. 
a quick interception set up a touchdown pass to fresh­man receiver ashley henry for her second score of the game. soon after, junior quarterback clare Robinson connected with sophomore receiver claire Kozlowski for another score. 
Despite the late rally from howard, another okonta touch­down gave badin the 33-18 lead and squashed Ducks’ comeback. 
Despite the loss, the Ducks were pleased with their bench players. 
“i like the depth of our team.” Robinson said, “We had a lot of new players trying out different positions, and we just have to work out the kinks.” 
howard looks to make these adjustments when it squares off against Walsh on sunday, while badin hopes to continue its offensive dominance against breen-phillips the same day. 
Contact Kyle Foley  at kfloey2@nd.edu 
Pasquerilla West 18, Walsh 12 
By KIT  LOUGHRAN 
sports Writer 
in a tough defensive show­down tuesday night, pasquerilla West pulled out a tight 18-12 vic­tory over Walsh. 
pasquerilla West (2-0) relied on a strong defensive unit, which kept the Walsh offense at bay. the Wild Women (1-2) fought right back, as they slowed the purple Weasel offense and pen­etrated their defense. 
With a total of five intercep­tions between the teams, de­fense dominated the game and opened up opportunities for both offenses. 
in the first half, pasquerilla West junior linebacker brianne toole ran an interception back for the purple Weasels’ second touchdown of the game. soon after, Walsh sophomore safety molly Johnson intercepted a pass intended for the end zone. 
“our defense came out strong,” pasquerilla West se­nior defensive lineman meghan schmitt said. 
players from both teams said they were impressed with the quality of the defenses in tuesday’s contest. 
“our defense was phenomenal as usual,” Walsh senior quarter­back Kat leach said. “they put a lot of pressure on our opponent and stayed tight on their girls.” 
although defense was the story of the game, leach said she was impressed with Walsh’s offense. 
“offense is coming together really well,” leach said. “We cleaned up our routes, and we had some great catches today.” 
late in the first half, leach connected with sophomore re­ceiver Kathleen hough in the end zone for the Wild Women’s first touchdown. 
leach found hough and soph­omore receiver maddie loper on several other passes, which helped the Wild Women move the ball. 
on the other side, sopho­more quarterback lauren vidal opened up the field for pasquerilla West with her rush­ing prowess, and connected on several key passes to her receivers. 
“our offense was really good,” schmitt said. “We connected on a lot of key passes.” 
pasquerilla West looks to re­main undefeated when it faces cavanaugh on sunday, while Walsh hopes to secure a win against howard the same day. 
Contact Kit Loughran at kloughr1@nd.edu 


paiD aDveRtisemeNt 


ND VOLLEYBALL 

Texas native finds good fit with Irish 

By JOE WIRTH 
sports Writer 
Notre Dame’s epic comeback sunday against louisville culmi­nated in a decisive kill by junior setter maggie brindock. the kill gave the irish their first win over a top-25 team since 2009 and an­nounced them as contenders for a big east championship. 
making strong statements is nothing new for brindock, as the junior from Rockwall, texas, is one of three team captains. she said she was humbled by how much her teammates and coach­es respected her leadership. 
“it is such an honor knowing all my teammates and coaches believe i can take on this job,” brindock said. “it is just a great honor knowing i can lead this team and have a big impact on them.” 
brindock grew up in a volley­ball household and credited her sister with cultivating her love of the sport 
“i started doing Ymca ball around the fourth grade,” brindock said. “my sister played volleyball collegiately at angelo state, which is a small Division ii school, so she had a lot of in­fluence. We were always com­peting in the backyard. We were always peppering and she was always teaching me a lot.” 
although she excelled at the sport at a young age, volleyball was not her first love. she partic­ipated in gymnastics at younger ages and did not play at high levels of volleyball until high school. 
“i did gymnastics all through middle school and high school and volleyball was kind of a late-blooming thing,” brindock said. “the first time i started playing competitively was as a freshman in high school.” 
her high school career was marked by tremendous achieve­ments on and off the court. she was a four-year letter winner in volleyball as well as an outstand­ing student. brindock was a three-time academic all-district representative and a member of the National honor society. 
this type of academic prow­ess, as well as her skills on the volleyball court, made her an ideal recruit for the irish. While brindock knew little about the school before she visited, she immediately fell in love when she arrived on campus. 
“i really knew nothing about Notre Dame coming from texas,” brindock said. “my dad was always the big person at the qualifiers. he would hand out my resume to all the teams and coaches and when he saw Notre Dame, he was like ‘oh, you have to go there,’ because we are catholic and that was a big deal. 
“i was looked at by colorado state and tulsa, but Notre Dame was just the special place. When i came to campus, the people here and the community just made it an automatic, easy decision.” 
brindock and the rest of the Notre Dame squad will next be in action saturday against marquette at 2 p.m. in the purcell pavilion. 
Contact Joe Wirth at jwirth@nd.edu 

paiD aDveRtisemeNt 
Clark 
coNtiNueD FRom paGe 20 
three-game winning streak, opened big ten play sunday with a 2-0 over ohio state. indiana’s last loss came sept. 7 against then-No. 4 akron in the mike berticelli memorial tournament at Notre Dame. the irish did not square off with the hoosiers in the tournament, but both teams played the same two oppo­nents: akron and oregon state. 
both teams defeated the beavers and, while the hoosiers fell 1-0 to the Zips, the irish bested akron 3-1 two days later. 
the teams also played two common opponents, clemson and san Diego state, at the adidas/iu credit union classic in bloomington, ind. clark said his team’s famil­iarity with indiana in general could be helpful heading into Wednesday’s match. 
“i think we know one an­other very well and we also play them every spring,” clark said. “We’ve watched them and they’ve watched us.” 
the irish, who have scored just two goals total in their last two games, will have to deal with indiana senior goalie luis soffner, who was named the big ten Defensive player of the Week on monday for the second time this season. clark said scoring goals will be of the utmost importance. 
“Road games are never easy to win but i think if you ask any coach in the world it comes down to scoring more goals,” clark said. “the hard­est thing in soccer is to score goals. We have people that can score goals. … it’s some­thing you work on every day in practice but it’s possibly the hardest thing in soccer to do.” 
the irish will be tasked with shutting down sopho­more forward eriq Zavaleta. the Westfield, ind., native was named to the hermann trophy Watch list in august and leads the hoosiers with seven goals. 
clark said the key to victory is simple: score more goals than the other team. and if the irish can do that against the hoosiers, they will do more than just garner brag­ging rights from their intra­state rival. 
“if you look at any soccer league, it’s much harder to win on the road,” clark said. “Winning on the road is a huge incentive for us because when it comes to making the Ncaa tournament that’s one of the things the committee looks for: big road wins. it’s really important for us to get a couple of those this year.” 
the irish square off with the hoosiers on Wednesday at 7 p.m. in bloomington, ind. 
Contact Mike Monaco at jmonaco@nd.edu 



the obseRveR | WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 26, 2012 | NDsmcobseRveR.com 


Swarbrick 
coNtiNueD FRom paGe 20 
each time a game is played,” Notre Dame senior associate athlet­ics director John heisler said in a statement. “We needed to avoid the automatic addition of addi­tional games until we can get a better understanding of our avail­able inventory in those years — an understanding that will develop as we implement our five-game scheduling commitment to the atlantic coast conference.” 
the text of swarbrick’s letter to 
Michigan 
coNtiNueD FRom paGe 20 
premier rivalry (those would be usc and ohio state, if you were wondering). 
but it’s sad nonetheless. these are two of the most storied pro­grams in the sport, and it’s not like recent history has taken a shine off the series — for the last four years, viewers across the country have been watch­brandon — delivered before kick-“While this move is a necessary off of the 2012 contest to comply precaution as we begin the pro-with the three-year notice neces-cess of meeting our new sched­sary to cancel the 2015 matchup uling commitment to the acc, 

“We needed to avoid the automatic addition of additional games until we can get a better understanding of our available inventory in those years.” 
John Heisler 

Notre Dame senior associate athletics director 
— was obtained by the associated please know that Notre Dame press through the Freedom of very much values its relation-information act. ship with michigan and we look 
swarbrick would have found a way to play two of the three tra­ditional big ten opponents every year on a rotating basis. but we don’t know what those contracts look like, and given swarbrick’s masterful leadership of irish athletics, this temporary pause is very probably the best-case scenario. 
it’s a sad move, and it’s an un­fortunate byproduct of the move to the acc. the conference change was a necessary move to 


It’s a sad move, and it’s an unfortunate byproduct of the move to the ACC. 
ing incredibly exciting contests in huge numbers. among acc schools, only Florida state can even approach the prestige the Wolverines have as a program, yet an annual matchup with the seminoles still wouldn’t replace the hole in the schedule. 
there’s something about the gold and winged helmets lin­ing up across from each other. there’s something about watch­ing the two winningest schools in college football history face off every year. When these are two schools whose football his­tories have been intertwined for over a century, there’s some­thing about the annual contest for the latest chapter in the his­tory books. 
and now, at least for a while, that’ll be gone. ideally, of course, preserve football independence, and if the irish have to sacri­fice an annual contest against michigan to stay independent, that’s a worthy tradeoff. of course, just because it’s the right move doesn’t mean it’s not sad. 
there’s talk the series could resume around 2020. i hope it does. the atmosphere, the im­portance and yes, the financial incentives are too great to put on the shelf forever. until the series is renewed, however, looking at the schedule after 2014 will al­ways be a little bit sad. 
Contact Allan Joseph at ajoseph2@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
forward to working with you to ensure that our great football ri­valry can continue,” swarbrick wrote. 
the rivalry between the irish and the Wolverines, one of the oldest in college football, dates back to 1887 when the irish played the Wolverines in the first game in Notre Dame program history. in total, the two schools have played 40 games over the years with michigan holding a 23-16-1 edge. though 2013 and 2014 will now be the final games for a considerable amount of time, brandon left the door open about the possibility of 
paiD aDveRtisemeNt 
the relationship continuing be­yond the 2020 season. 
“the ball is in their court be­cause they’ve triggered the three-game notice,” he said. “We’ll play them next year at michigan stadium for the last time in a while — it appears — and we’ll make our last scheduled trip to south bend in 2014. 
“there will likely be nothing on the board for five years after that. beyond that, i don’t know what will happen.” 
Contact Chris Allen at callen10@nd.edu 



CROSSWORD | Will shoRtZ 


HIGHLY PUNLIKELY | chRistopheR bRucKeR 
SUDOKU | the mepham GRoup 

Level: 
LOWER YOUR EXPECTATIONS | RaGo & patRicKcRoss 

SOLUTION TO TUESDAY’S PUZZLE 9/26/12 
Complete the grid so each row, column and 3-by-3 box (in bold borders) contains every digit, 1 to 9. For strategies on how to solve Sudoku, visit 
www.sudoku.org.uk 
© 2012 The Mepham Group. Distributed by Tribune Media Services. All rights reserved. 


HOROSCOPE | euGeNia last 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: catherine Zeta-Jones, 43; Will smith, 44; heather locklear, 51; michael Douglas, 68. 
Happy Birthday: take things one step at a time. Focus on the possibilities that exist away from home and the interest you can gather by sharing your thoughts and ideas with creative doers. socializing will result in meeting people who can offer you what you need to excel with your dreams, hopes and wishes. Romance is in the stars. Your numbers are 2, 14, 21, 28, 33, 42, 47. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Your work will be rewarding. Getting along with your colleagues and meeting new people will help you develop new prospects. Don’t feel you have to spend to impress. let your ideas buy you entry into conversations and future projects. 


TAURUS (April 20-May 20): ask, if you are uncertain about what’s expected of you. Don’t let an emotional situation interfere with what you are supposed to be working toward. use your past experience and colleagues to help you do a stellar job now. 



GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Don’t let anyone mislead you. Follow your instincts and grab hold of an opportunity that will help you advance socially, personally or professionally. love is on the rise, and enjoying the company of someone you share interests with will pay off. 

CANCER (June 21-July 22): Wager the pros and cons of any situation before you decide to take part. physical activity will be gratifying; however, mental pursuits are likely to challenge and defeat you. Know your boundaries and stick to what you know best. 


LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Don’t get annoyed with what others do or say. take action and make a difference. You will gain respect and admiration for your courage and no-nonsense approach to dealing with adversity. use brain over brawn and celebrate your victory. 


VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Keep your life simple. too much of anything will work against you. Focus on using your skills to the fullest in order to do as much of the work required on your own. a problem will develop if you get involved in a joint venture. 


LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): take a moment to make home improvements. the time spent researching your plans will pay off in terms of cost and efficiency. change can be good as long as it is structured properly. Romance will develop if you send the right signal. 


SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Don’t let emotions stand in your way. make changes at home that will help you explore new creative venues. You can save money if you use what you already have instead of buying something new. use common sense and you will excel. 


SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): stick to your game plan and you will show stamina, strength and consistency. Good luck is in your corner with regard to work and domestic deals. travel and romance will go hand in hand. a little romance will bring you high returns. 


CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): misinterpretation or a lack of understanding regard­ing information necessary to do what’s requested will hurt your reputation. ask questions, but do so diplomatically in order to avoid a negative response. Delays while traveling can be expected. 

AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): show your appreciation to those you deal with contractually, financially, legally or medically and you will receive extra attention. Greater opportunities and friendships will develop if you are social and sincere. 



PISCES (Feb. 19- March 20): Keep your life and your relationships simple and hon­est. take better care of your health and wellness. mishaps can turn out to be costly. Follow your intuition; it won’t lead you astray. 


Birthday Baby: You are sensitive and express your desires in a charming but forceful manner. 
JUMBLE | DaviD hoYt aND JeFF KNuReK 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by David L. Hoyt and Jeff Knurek 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square,to form four ordinary words. 
LUCEN  

 
 
 
 
 

©2012 Tribune Media Services, Inc.All Rights Reserved. 
PARGH  

 
 
 
 
 

IDARAF  

 
 
 
 
 
 

Find us on Facebook http://www.facebook.com/jumble 


KOTCEP  

 
 
 
 
 
 

A: A  
(Answers tomorrow)  
Yesterday’s  Jumbles: BLAZE GROUT TYCOON PEDDLE Answer: The decision to develop a trans-Atlantic telephone cable was this — A GOOD CALL  



make checks payable to and mail to: the observer 
p.o. box 779 
Notre Dame, iN 46556 


enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year 


enclosed
 is $75 for one semester


Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Name 

Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying 
address 

form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
city      state Zip 

the obseRveR | WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 26, 2012 | NDsmcobseRveR.com 
FOOTBALL 
Notre Dame suspends Michigan series 
By CHRIS ALLEN 
sports editor 
last saturday’s 13-6 irish vic­tory over michigan at Notre Dame stadium may end up being one of the last memories the rivalry generates for the foreseeable fu­ture. multiple sources reported tuesday that Notre Dame will cancel three scheduled games in the series, suspending the matchup for the 2015-2017 sea­sons. combined with a scheduled break in the 2018 and 2019 sea­sons, the move ensured that the 2014 meeting between the histor­ic rivals will be the last until 2020 at the earliest. 
in a letter delivered to michigan athletic Director David brandon shortly before kickoff of last weekend’s football game, Notre Dame Director of athletics Jack swarbrick declared his intention to cancel the three future contests to give Notre Dame scheduling flexibility under its new agree­ment with the acc. Notre Dame will play five football games per season against acc opponents once it joins the conference as a non-football member. 
“our contract with michigan has an automatic rollover provi­sion — with a year being added 
see sWaRbRicK PAGE 18 

End of a rivalry 

ALEX PARTAK | The Observer 

Irish senior running back Theo Riddick attempts to break a Michigan tackle during Notre Dame’s 13-6 win over the Wolverines on Saturday. 
Decision is a sad one for two storied programs 

Allan Joseph 
editor-in-chief 
it’s a sad day. 
the news that Notre Dame and michigan will suspend their annual series after 2014 is an unfortunate byproduct of Notre Dame’s move to the acc in the next two years. With the agreement to play five games each year against acc schools, something in the schedule had to give. it’s just sad that the michigan game was that something. 
the two teams bill it as the “oldest rivalry in college foot­ball,” and there’s some truth to that. but if you take a look closer, you begin to understand why Director of athletics Jack swarbrick canceled the series. saturday’s 13-6 irish victory was just the 40th meeting between the two teams. it’s a relatively re­cent series compared to the usc (83 meetings), michigan state (75), purdue (84), and Navy (86) matchups. it doesn’t have the recruiting benefits involved in a biennial trip to stanford, and it isn’t in the future acc like the pittsburgh or boston college se­ries. it’s not even either school’s 
see michiGaN PAGE 18 
MEN’S SOCCER 

No. 8 irish hit the road to battle No. 10 indiana 
By MIKE MONACO 
sports Writer 
hoosier state bragging rights will be on the line Wednesday when the No. 8 irish head south for an in-state matchup with No. 10 indiana. 
“We know one another,” irish coach bobby clark said. “there is a mutual respect. We’re also very conscious of in-state bragging rights. the mutual respect is there but we want to win.” 
Notre Dame (7-1, 0-1 big east) is in the midst of a three-game stretch against ranked opponents on the road. clark said these competitive match-ups in enemy territory have his team excited. 
“We’re ready,” clark said. “We’re excited, obviously. these games we’re playing right now, it doesn’t take too much to get excited about them. they’re all big games.” 
Notre Dame suffered its first loss of the season saturday when the irish fell to louisville in their big east opener, 2-1. senior forward Ryan Finley netted his team-leading sixth goal of the season to tie the game at 1-1 in the 63rd min­ute, but the cardinals stormed back and buried the eventual game-winner on a penalty kick in the 76th minute. clark said the irish need to stay comfort­able playing on the road to reestablish some of the mo­mentum they had during their season-opening seven-game winning streak. 
“When you play good teams 
— louisville is good and indiana is good — it’s all go­ing to come down to the little things,” clark said. “When you go on the road, you have to be able to handle everything and make yourself feel at home.” 
the hoosiers (6-1-1, 1-0 big ten), who are riding a 
see claRK PAGE 17 


SARAH O’CONNOR | The Observer 

Irish senior midfielder Dillon Powers tries to break away from a defender in Notre Dame’s 3-1 win over Akron on Sept. 9 at Alumni Stadium. 





