The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 46, issue 9 | FRIDAY, AUGUST 31, 2012 | ndsmcobserver.com 

Speaking up Convention draws 
Jenkins adds University  voice to debate on religious freedom, election 


national spotlight 
opportunity to refocus. 
By JOHN CAMERON 

news editor “without a doubt, the economy should be the main focus of this american eyes are trained 
on Tampa, Fla., today as the republican national convention comes to a close. The conven­tion, traditionally held several months before presidential elec­tions, marks the official nomina­tion of presidential candidate mitt romney and vice presidential candidate rep. paul ryan for the 
Mitt Romney 
republican presidential 


party’s ticket this fall. presidential election,” he said. sophomore matthew metzinger, “president [barack] obama has secretary for notre dame’s college failed to bring the country out 
republicans, said the convention was not only about finalizing the romney-ryan nomination, but also uniting party support. 
“national conventions are a 
great way to unite the party in 
the final two months leading up 
sun shone on an empty quad. of american democracy and to election day,” metzinger said. 

By MEGAN DOYLE 

managing editor 
but this summer, university political life. They filed a lawsuit “conventions allow the party to 
Paul Ryan 
republican vice-presidential 


Editor’s Note: This story is the second installment in a two-part series on Jenkins’ voice in these on­going conversations in the Notre Dame community. This series is also the first of three similar “From the Office of the President” series on the Notre Dame presidency to appear in coming weeks. 
The dorms were deserted. The president Fr. John Jenkins and his administration still showed up for work. 
They restructured the university budget and worked toward the school’s next 10-year strategic plan, which will be proposed in 2013. They planned events for this year’s Forum, dedicated in the midst of an elec­tion year to an open discussion against the federal government. 
For notre dame’s president, this work is about more than the day-to-day operations of a top university. it’s about being part of a conversation. 
“i think my deepest conviction is that we have to find a way to talk to one another in ways that 
see JenKins PAGE 5 
show the american people why their candidate should be presi­dent ... in a manner that covers the important issues.” 
The most important issue in this election should be the economy, metzinger said. while much of the recent media coverage of the race has focused on social programs and issues such as medicare, he said the convention was an of the economic pit in which we have become entrapped as he promised.” 
college democrats president and senior camille suarez said the party’s focus on economic issues was intended to incite anger rather than to facilitate positive dialogue. 
“The [gov. chris christie] and 
see rnc PAGE 5 


Dublin, South Bend buzz with pregame spirit 
Fans decked out in blue and gold flood Irish streets 
By SAM STRYKER 
assistant managing editor 
dublin — while Fighting irish fans may be looking forward to the kickoff of the notre dame’s football season saturday in the irish capital, the emerald isle classic is more than just a game — it is a display of the university on an international stage. 
John heisler, senior asso­ciate athletic director, said saturday’s game — and the events surrounding it — is a 
see Fans PAGE 4 

Local business, students plan to celebrate game 
By KRISTEN DURBIN 
news editor 
stateside football fans may not have traveled across the pond to see the football team take on the midshipmen this weekend, but they still plan to celebrate the emerald isle classic with irish gusto. 
while many students may elect to hold conventional game watches in their dorm rooms, common areas, apartments or houses, some will begin cel­ebrating the night before the 9 
see campus PAGE 3 


summer service PAGE 3 viewpoinT PAGE 6 scene PAGE 8 insider WITHIN men’s soccer PAGE 16 




ndsmcobserver.com 

p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
allan Joseph 

Managing Editor  Business Manager 
megan doyle  Jeff liptak 

Asst. Managing Editor: andrew owens 
Asst. Managing Editor: sam stryker News Editor: John cameron News Editor: Kristen durbin 

Viewpoint Editor: meghan Thomassen Sports Editor: chris allen Scene Editor: Kevin noonan Saint Mary’s Editor: Jillian barwick Photo Editor: suzanna pratt Graphics Editor: brandon Keelean Multimedia Editor: sarah o’connor Advertising Manager: monica mccormack Ad Design Manager: sara hilstrom Controller: peter woo Systems Administrator: william heineman 

Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ajoseph2@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 mdoyle11@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 aowens2@nd.edu sstryke1@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 

Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 

Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 


Scene Desk 

(574) 631-4540 observer.scene.editor@gmail.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
jbarwi01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 


Policies 

The observer is the independent, daily newspaper 
published in print and online by the students of the 
university of notre dame du lac and saint mary’s 
college.  editorial content, including advertisements, is 
not governed by policies of the administration of either 
institution. The observer reserves the right to refuse 
advertisements based on content. 

The news is reported as accurately and objectively 
as possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion 
of the majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, 
assistant managing editors and department editors. 
commentaries, letters and columns present the views of 
the authors and not necessarily those of The observer. 
viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include 
contact information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed 
to Editor-in-Chief Allan Joseph. 

post office information The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The observer is published at: 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-0779 periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices posTmasTer send address corrections to: The observer p.o. box 779 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-077 The observer is a member of the associated press. all reproduction rights are reserved. 




QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
How many kids will you have? 

Lizzy VanKula 
junior off campus 
“six.” 

Caroline Thomas 
junior howard hall 
“Three.” 


Ben Rosengren 
freshman Fisher hall 
“Three.” 
Have a question you want answered? Email obsphoto@gmail.com 

Allison Smith 
junior 
lyons hall 

“good question ... two or three.” 
Brendan Bacht 
junior 
dillon hall 
“uh ... two.” 
Eduardo Oronia 
sophomore 
stanford hall 

“Three ... boy-girl twins and then a girl.” 


Want your event included here? 

News Sports 
Tori roeck Jack hefferon Email obsnews@gmail.com 




THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 
ann marie Jakubowski Katie heit vicky Jacobsen 
Graphics sara shoemake Scene 

Friday Saturday Sunday Monday Tuesday 
Kevin noonan 
Photo mackenzie sain Viewpoint 

Women’s Volleyball Vigil Mass Women’s Soccer Labor Day Opera Notre Dame 
dan brombach 
Joyce Center Basilica of the Sacred Alumni Stadium Campus-wide Auditions 7 p.m.-9 p.m. Heart 1:30 p.m.-3:30 p.m. Administrative offices Washington Hall ND vs. Alabama 5 p.m.-6 p.m. ND vs. North Carolina closed all day. 5 p.m.-7 p.m. 


Corrections 

The observer regards itself as Women’s Soccer Women’s Volleyball Women’s Volleyball New Media: From the Forum Discussion a professional publication and 
Alumni Stadium Joyce Center Joyce Center Middle Ages to the DeBartolo Performing 
strives for the highest standards 
7:30p.m.-9:30 p.m. 7 p.m.-9 p.m. 2 p.m.-4 p.m. Digital Age Arts Center 
of journalism at all times. we do, 
ND vs. Santa Clara ND vs. Buffalo ND vs. Eastern O’Shaughnessy Hall 7 p.m.-8:30 p.m. 
however, recognize that we will make 
Kentucky 5 p.m.-7 p.m. “Conviction & 
mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 
“Hey Babe, What’s Compromise: Being 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
Your Sign?” a Person of Faith in a 
we can correct our error. 
Liberal Democracy.” 




Students devote summer to service 

By CHRIS BARNES 
news writer 
a number of notre dame students spent their summers not sitting by the pool but serv­ing around the country in the summer service learning program (sslp) through the center for social concerns (csc). 
The sslp program assigns students to “multiple agencies across the united states, reach­ing out in multiple ways to people in need,” according to the csc website. 
sophomore will raaf said he worked with the homeless during his sslp experience at the hesed house in aurora, ill. 
“during the day, [the other vol­unteers and i] moved the entire homeless shelter across the street to accommodate shelter renova­tions that were in progress,” raaf said. “at night, we spoke with the guests, served them food and prepared them for bed.” 
as he volunteered close to his hometown, raaf said the sslp experience was transformative for him. 
“i grew restless as a result of my sslp experience,” he said.  “after experiencing poverty in an area only 20 minutes from my home, my eyes were opened to the im­mediacy of poverty.” 
part of raaf’s work was to assist with programs for resident de­velopment at the hesed house, a resource center and shelter dedi­cated to ending homelessness, sponsored programs for resident development. 
“i participated in a morning running club three times a week [with the residents of the hesed house],” raaf said.  “The oppor­tunity to do so was a pleasant surprise that extended the sslp experience in an impactful way.” 
sophomore holly o’hara said she assisted women and children in a variety of ways through­out her two-month stint at the shalom house in harrisburg, pa. 
“i worked as a summer intern, so i worked on whatever the daily manager needed done on a specific day,” o’hara said.  “on one occasion, i painted a fence around the house, and on an­other day i escorted the children who were living in the house to the park to play.” 
o’hara said shared meals al­lowed her to cultivate relation­ships with the women she lived with at the shalom house. 
“every night [at the shalom house,] a different woman takes a turn in making dinner for ev­eryone living within the house­hold,” she said. “dinners were a great opportunity to get to know everyone.” 
o’hara said her time with the women and children at the shalom house shaped her future plans. 
“This school year i will ap­ply for the spring mission trip to appalachia and also try to volun­teer at the center for the homeless once a week,” she said.  “i am also planning on applying for an [international summer service learning program (isslp)] for next summer in nepal.” 
sophomore peter hall said in­teraction with volunteers and residents within the service loca­tion was a large part of his sslp experience at de la salle middle school in st. louis,imo. 
“i lived in an on-site house called the claver house, which housed a group of people who lived together and whose goal is to grow in their faith while they do work in the community,” he said.  “after sharing a house with seven people, i developed close friendships with everyone in the household.” 
hall said his volunteer experi­ence broadened his worldview. 
“i have much more awareness of the social problems within the united states after my work with middle school students in st. louis,” he said.  “it forced me out of my bubble.” 
hall said he would highly en­courage any notre dame student to apply for an sslp or isslp for next summer. 
“my sslp was a fantastic ex­perience, and i believe that any­one else at notre dame who is considering applying for the pro­gram definitely should,” he said. “it was one of the best experienc­es of my life.” 
Contact Chris Barnes at cbarnes4@nd.edu 


college hosts senior picnic 
By REBECCA O’NEIL 
news writer 

saint mary’s seniors gathered on the west lawn of opus hall on Thursday to celebrate the start of their last school year with a picnic that featured free food, games of cornhole and volleyball matches. 
senior sydnie corso said the event, sponsored by the senior class board, is a final laidback activity before the pressures of the school year set in. 
“[it’s] just a great way to kick off a year of hardcore study­ing,” corso said. “it has been a smooth transition from sum­mer and it’s good to be back. i wouldn’t want to be anywhere else right now.” 
senior nicole deroche said she is glad she set aside this time to rest before the school year becomes more stressful. 
“it feels good to just take it easy and relax in the sunshine with my friends,” deroche said. 
silvia cuevas, senior class president, said this event is just one of the many ways she in­tends to nurture the tight-knit bond among her class through student government-sponsored activities. 
“we want to encourage class participation at school func­tions,” cuevas said. “so many connections are made during 
Campus 
conTinued From page 1 
a.m. kickoff. 

senior emily hefferon said she and her friends plan to have a sleepover at her off-campus house and start the morning off with coffee and breakfast. 
“That way, no one has to wake up at 8:30 and drive,” she said. “we’ll all just be here.” 
hefferon said the football season opener’s overseas loca­tion has both pros and cons. 
“i’m sad that [the game] is not here, but it’s so cool that we have a game in dublin,” she said. “i’m just really excited about that. it would be much more disappointing if the first game were in oklahoma or something.” 
senior dave lawson said the game’s location holds a special significance for him. 
“i studied in dublin last summer as part of the first summer program to go there from notre dame, so i’m go­ing to have some of my dublin friends over to watch the game,” he said. 
while he reminisces about his semester in ireland, lawson said he decided to use the spe­cial circumstances of the game to promote southern Tide, an apparel company for which he serves as campus ambassador. 
on gameday, lawson said he plans to hold a private southern Tide event at his off-campus home as well as visit senior week, the week before commencement. i don’t want to wait that long this time.” 
cuevas said she has already started work on the annual dance marathon and began collaborating with the student diversity board to prepare more events for the year. 
“[The] school year’s definitely starting with a bang,” she said. “Two weeks in and i am fully immersed.” 
students were also able to sign up for senior dads week, a 
“I love being a senior, but I don’t want to leave SMC.” 
Bridgett Fey 
senior 

week when seniors invite their fathers to spend time with them on campus. 
corso said she wants to make the most of her last year at the college, especially through ex­tracurricular events. 
“my biggest worry is that i will not live my last year here to its fullest,” she said. “i’m literally joining every club.” 
senior bridgett Fey said she has mixed feelings about the beginning of the school year. 
“i love being a senior, but i don’t want to leave smc,” Fey 
some residence halls on cam­pus throughout the day. 
“as a college ambassador, you want to maintain the in­tegrity of southern Tide as a brand name by sharing it and sharing ideas with other stu­dents who are unfamiliar with the brand name,” he said. “That said, tailgating and pregames for football games would be a great way to promote brand awareness for southern Tide.” 
notre dame’s storied foot­ball tradition also creates a good environment for spread­ing the word about southern Tide through product give­aways and raffles, lawson said. 
“with a huge football pro­gram comes a lot of spectators, and the navy-notre dame ri­valry is a classic one,” he said. “it’s the first game of the sea­son, so i thought it would be an ideal opportunity to explain to people what southern Tide is.” 
students and members of the south bend community will also be able to celebrate in local pubs and restaurants like o’rourke’s public house. 
o’rourke’s manager andrew pankowski said his pub has been planning its saturday morning “Kegs and eggs” event for the past three months. 
“we knew this was going to be a big deal for a long time now, especially with every­thing going on with the game in ireland and with the rivalry with navy,” he said. 
The pub will open be­fore kickoff at 8 a.m. with an said. 
in the meantime, Fey said she is enjoying the “good food, good people, good times.” 
senior sarah huser said she also does not want to rush her senior year. 
“i speak for everybody when i say that every moment we have at saint mary’s right now is bit­tersweet because we know it’s the last,” huser said. “so we’re trying to take advantage of ev­ery moment we have. events like the senior picnic and ac­tivities night and the amazing things that make saint mary’s, saint mary’s are so much more special now because we know that they are not going to hap­pen again.” 
senior caila poythress said the senior picnic marks the be­ginning of the end of seniors’ careers at saint mary’s. 
“This afternoon was sort of a reflection of the saint mary’s community,” poythress said. “as we arrived we were all greet­ed by name by everyone we saw. we all know each other or are friends with friends. we are all always going to be looking out for each other. These are the friends we’ll have for the rest of our lives but it just won’t be the same.” 
Contact Rebecca O’Neil at roneil01@saintmarys.edu 
all-you-can-eat breakfast buf­fet featuring deep-fried pigs in a blanket, assorted breakfast food items and drink specials, pankowski said.  
pankowski said business at o’rourke’s fluctuates based on the relative success of the irish football team. 
“our entire year pretty much rotates around football sea­son,” he said. “it’s our bread and butter and it’s what really pays the bills. last year was really on and off during away games, so it really depends on what kind of season we’re hav­ing. if [the team is] doing really well, we have more people, es­pecially towards the beginning of the year.” 
o’rourke’s also recently began a partnership with the notre dame athletic department, so it now serves as an official gamewatch loca­tion for all notre dame away games, pankowski said. 
but win or lose, o’rourke’s always provides a lively envi­ronment for a gamewatch for irish fans, pankowski said. 
“we did some remodeling over the summer … that makes it family friendly for all ages, so you can be in here even if you’re not 21,” he said. “we’ll be celebrating all day just like any other football weekend. it’s usually a party here no matter how many people turn up for it.” 
Contact Kristen Durbin at kdurbin@nd.edu 




Fans 
conTinued From page 1 
celebration of notre dame for a new set of viewers. 
“overall, it’s a great oppor­tunity to showcase the entire university to a new audience,” he said. “[if you] see the list of events we released … you can see there’s much more involved than just a football game.” 
indeed, with a pep rally at the o2 arena, tailgate in the Temple bar district, mass at dublin castle and numerous other affiliated events, dublin is seemingly an extension of the university, if only for this weekend. 
university spokesman dennis brown said in a state­ment to The observer the foot­ball team has always been an 
“We are sponsoring educational, intellectual, faith and cultural events throughout the city as a means to share these important aspects of Notre Dame.” 
Dennis Brown 
University Spokesman 
important part of celebrating notre dame’s mission. 
“our football program pro­vides numerous positives to the university, including the overall high quality athletic entertainment, an esprit de corps on campus, and mil­lions of dollars in revenue that support our academic mission, and in particular fi­nancial aid,” he stated. “one other positive is the ability to use football as a way to intro­duce people to other aspects of notre dame.” 
brown stated notre dame’s recent pattern of “home­away–from-home” games is not merely about hosting athletic events around the country, but a series of oppor­tunities to expose important components of the university nationwide. 
while this saturday’s game may technically be a navy home game, brown stated the emerald isle classic is part of that trend — only now, the ex­posure is international. 
“we are sponsoring educa­tional, intellectual, faith and cultural events throughout the city as a means to share these important aspects of notre dame,” brown stated. “it’s es­pecially significant that this is in an international setting. 
“expanding notre dame’s presence globally is one of [university president] Fr. Jenkins’ highest priorities, and this week’s activities are one very important compo­nent of that ongoing effort.” 
This custom of travel and exposure is an inherent char­acteristic of the football team, brown stated. 
“Taking our team across the country, and now even around the world, is a long tradition at notre dame,” he stated. “in fact, before we were the Fighting irish, one of our nick­names was the ramblers, be­cause we traveled anywhere and everywhere. That’s one reason why notre dame be­came so well known.” 
playing navy is also a pro­gram tradition. saturday’s game marks the 86th install­ment of the notre dame-navy series, the longest continuous intersectional rivalry in col­lege football. while squaring off in ireland won’t be new to the teams — the two programs played a game in dublin in 1996 — this game further dis­plays the respect between the midshipmen and the Fighting irish. 
navy agreed to play one of its “home” games in a ten-game series with the irish in dublin, heisler said. This also allowed the naval academy the oppor­tunity to spread its message in ireland like notre dame is, navy associate athletic direc­tor scott strasemeier said. 
“it was a request from notre dame and one we honored due to our longtime relationship,” he said. “it also made sense as the navy brand is interna­tional in scope and gives us a chance to tell our story on an international stage.” 
The event was no small feat for navy to organize — it took three to four years to plan, and 1,000 midshipmen made 
“Expanding Notre Dame globally is one of [University President] Fr. Jenkins’ highest priorities, and this week’s activities are one very important component of that ongoing effort.” 
Dennis Brown 
University Spokesman 
the trip across the atlantic for saturday’s game. 
heisler said the football pro­gram at notre dame has also been preparing for the logis­tics of saturday’s event for sev­eral years. one of the biggest concerns for the team, he said, is “the seven-hour flight and five-hour time difference and the potential for those to af­fect our players this weekend and potentially in the weeks to come.” 
This marks the third inter­national game for the irish — there was a 1979 game against the university of miami in Japan and the previous game in ireland. according to heisler, fans may be travel­ing back to asia soon to cheer on the irish, as there have been discussions to play the stanford in beijing. 
Contact Sam Stryker at sstryke1@nd.edu 


paid adverTisemenT 
paid adverTisemenT 




he encouraged students to avoid 


Jenkins 
conTinued From page 1 
are respectful and reasoned. … if i care about anything, if i have a voice for anything, it’s to find a way to give the past disrespectful, dis­honest, acrimonious discussion [direction] toward constructive debate that is absolutely essential in a democracy,” Jenkins said. 
as the nation debates election issues and healthcare require­ments, Jenkins has spoken up on behalf of notre dame. 
“we have a distinctive and a unique role in american life, and not only catholic life but american life,” Jenkins said. 
after a summer of planning, Jenkins announced the topic for this year’s Forum — “a more perfect union,” a discussion of american democracy and the po­litical system. 
The Forum discussions can be a tool to avoid cynicism during an election season, Jenkins said. 
“temptations to check out” and in­stead add their voices to reasoned debate. 
“i think notre dame students tend to be a thoughtful group and people of conviction, maybe not firebrands on one or another is­sue, but i think they can provide a thoughtful voice,” Jenkins said. 
The first Forum event of the year will be held Tuesday. prominent leaders in the christian and Jewish faiths will discuss the role of faith in political life in a panel discussion titled, “conviction and compromise: being a person of Faith in a liberal democracy.” 
Jenkins, a member of the commission on presidential debate, said he hopes to see “rea­soned and respectful” debate develop both at notre dame and nationwide. 
“it’s been a wonderful experi­ence because it’s a committee composed of members, people from different political views,” he said. “it’s been tremendously in­spiring to see them deliberate and to try to put on a reasoned debate, a fruitful debate, in this country. 
“students, get involved. get in­volved in a way that makes our political dialogue in this country more constructive, reasoned, [one that] better serves the common good of the nation.” 
This summer, Jenkins also added notre dame’s voice to the ongoing conversation about the affordable care act when the university filed a lawsuit against the department of health and human services (hhs). The law­suit, filed in may, challenged the constitutionality of the mandate that requires religious organiza­tions to provide contraceptives as part of their minimum health in­surance policies. 
“The fundamental issue for us is not the provision of contracep­tives coverage,” Jenkins said. “The fundamental issue is the limit of the power of government against religious organizations in this country.” 
Jenkins said the university sent a public comment to the hhs in June to describe two or three al­ternatives to the current mandate. 
“because there are alternatives, i don’t think the government has a compelling interest to force reli­gious organizations,” Jenkins said. “That’s why we’re doing this law­suit, to retain this fundamental commitment to take all reason­able steps to allow all religious or­ganizations, religious institutions, the freedom to practice their reli­gion in ways they see fit.” 
The federal government has moved to dismiss the lawsuit, but Jenkins said he feels the university’s case will be success­ful as it moves slowly through the legal system. 
“i saw a few headlines after we filed, ‘catholic bishops, notre dame and 62 other institutions file lawsuit,’” Jenkins said. “That notre dame is picked out, and i don’t say this with arrogance, but it just shows i think people look to us for leadership on these issues. if i didn’t feel it was a fundamen­tal issue, an issue of the limits of government as against religious organizations, i wouldn’t have done this.” 
as the administration worked this summer, a new face joined the members of the main building. matt storin, former editor of The boston globe and former associ­
“I believe Notre Dame is poised at this time in its history to make some major advances in important areas.” 
Fr. John Jenkins 
University President 
ate vice president for news and information at the university, returned to notre dame in July to occupy a new position — chief communications executive. 
“i’ve heard this again and again, notre dame is a hidden jewel,” Jenkins said. “[new faculty are] so impressed and surprised by the quality of our education and the quality of our research. That’s good news on one hand, but it’s bad news. it shouldn’t be a 


RNC 
conTinued From page 1 
ryan speeches definitely reorient­ed the focus back to the economy,” suarez said. “From the speeches i’ve heard, it appears that the main goal of the convention is to make the public upset with the state of the economy and vote for the romney­ryan ticket in november.” 
metzinger said both presiden­tial nominee mitt romney and ryan successfully framed the dia­logue on economic issues at the convention. 
“ryan’s speech illustrated, with certainty, that he and mitt romney have the business experience and financial knowledge to bring the united states out of this economic mess,” metzinger said. “ryan’s speech focused on the necessity of job creation, especially for college students, who he said are ‘ready to use their gifts and get moving in life.’” 
suarez said ryan’s speech was somewhat of a success, but she claimed his statements were not all factual. 
“i think ryan’s speech served as a successful introduction speech. ... we all have a better idea of who paul ryan is,” she said. 
ryan wasn’t the only conven­tion speaker who made an impact. party members such as christie, sen. marco rubio of Fla., gov. nikki haley of s.c. and mayor mia love of sarasota springs, utah, all ap­pealed to a broader constituency, surprise. … people just don’t know how good we are, and that’s our failure to tell the story of notre dame.” 
Jenkins said storin will be responsible for helping the university’s communications reach a wider audience to attract new faculty to the school and pro­mote notre dame research. 
“so how do we get that message out, how do we engage with the media, how do we tell our story?” Jenkins said. “matt’s job is to kind of coordinate this and give us a compound strategy so we can be effective.” 
storin will also help guide the communications office during controversial moments for notre dame in the media, Jenkins said. 
“i’m not trying to make us con­troversy-free,” Jenkins said. “but we do want to communicate ef­fectively in the midst of contro­versies what we’re doing and why we’re doing it, so that is a very im­portant part of matt storin’s job and our job here at notre dame.” 
in the year ahead, Jenkins’ of­fice will continue to be busy. in 2013, the president will propo­sea new strategic plan for all col­leges and departments at the university. The plan is rewritten every 10 years. 
Jenkins said the university is stronger “in just about every mea­sure” than when the last strategic plan took effect 10 years ago. 
“i believe notre dame is poised at this time in its history to make some major advances in impor­tant areas. … we can’t be compla­cent, but we’re in a solid position.” 
Contact Megan Doyle at mdoyle11@nd.edu 


metzinger said. 
“The selection of speakers for this year’s convention illustrates the gop’s desire to reach out to a younger, more diverse demograph­ic,” he said. “many of the speakers are up-and-coming members of the republican party. by choosing these speakers, along with party veterans ... the republican party is proving itself as a united political party that can, and will, work for all people.” 
metzinger said a notre dame grad’s speech offered a credible tes­tament to romney’s viability as a candidate. 
“i also thought former secretary of state condoleezza rice, an nd alumna, delivered a power­ful speech in which she showed that mitt romney will be a more-than-capable commander in chief in terms of national security and world relations, issues that are not receiving the coverage they prob­ably deserve,” he said. 
metzinger said the convention leaves the gop well positioned for november. 
“i definitely think this convention will have a positive impact on the republicans‘ chances of winning the white house this november, and many other congressional elec­tions, too,” he said. “This great party has a wealth of innovative thinkers and strong leaders, many of whom have spoken at this convention.” 
Contact John Cameron at jcamero2@nd.edu 


INSIDE COLUMN 

somebody hire me 

Kevin Noonan 
scene editor 

somebody hire me. no joke. open request. hit me up. 
This career fair thing next week has me a little worked up. i don’t get worked up very often about pretty much anything. but right now, color me worked up. 
i look around at my friends in finance or accounting or engineering. They’ve got ideas. They’ve got résumés full of career-specific experience and talents. They’ve got drive and motivation to talk to this guy from this company or firm about this internship program. and if that guy doesn’t seem fired up about it, they’ve got 50 more places to go. 
i talk to my arts and letters friends, and even though it’s a much more wordy conver­sation full of lofty language and big words, they seem pretty all right with grad school, law school or, with the ambitious ones, a real job. 
well, i’ve got a suit. i’ve got a résumé that screams, “This kid has no clue what he’s doing with his life.” my résumé includes how many box tops i collected in my dorm last year. so when i don’t get hired, at least the guy crushing my application into little balls and throwing them into his basketball hoop-themed trash can in the corner of his slightly above average office knows i’m a better per­son than he is. 
what i don’t have is any clue under the heavens of almighty god what i should be shaping my future towards. 
yeah, i’m a marketing major. but do i want to do marketing? i have no idea. maybe. maybe i want to be an astronaut or a cowboy or a fireman. 
i work for The observer, and i’ll probably get a journalism minor here. it would be cool to work for a newspaper, i guess. you know what else would be cool? operating a tele­graph. being a chimney sweep. working as a deck hand on the Titanic. do you get what i’m saying here? 
everybody says i’m fine. it’s a process. nobody knew when they were your age. you’ll figure it out. with a degree from notre dame, you can probably do anything you want. don’t worry about it. it’ll be fine. 
well that sounds all good and well, but gee whiz guys, there’s a career fair next week. who am i going to talk to? what tables am i going to stop at? can these people see just by looking at me that i’m not qualified to do anything except ramble on in newspaper columns that nobody reads? and i’m not even qualified to do that, i just do it and no­body here has the heart to tell me to stop. 
i’m worked up, guys. real worked up. and i know i’m not the only one. holla if you feel like you’ve been down the same road. 
all i know is that i would feel a lot better about all of this if somebody would just hire me. 
so seriously. somebody hire me. 
Contact Kevin Noonan at knoonan2@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
What Would Hesburgh Do? 

EDITORIAL 
when the men of Zahm house took on “The hesburgh challenge” in honor of the dorm’s 75th anniversary on sunday, they did not mean the infamous library drinking game. instead, they smoked cigars with Fr. hesburgh by the reflecting pool to celebrate their agreement to continue his legacy of tolerance, inclusiveness and service. 
Zahm house is a hall of many traditions: ignats the moose, the spring carnival and a rivalry with the neighboring Keenan hall Knights, to name a few. but as part of their pledge, the residents promised to eliminate one tradition in particular: the dorm’s self-mocking chant, “ole, ole, ole, Zahm’s gay, Zahm’s gay,” in solidarity with and out of respect for all sexual orientations. each resident also promised to participate in at least one house- or university-sponsored service event. 
in an iconic photograph that hangs just inside the front doors of the laFortune student center, hesburgh clasps arms with martin luther King Jr. at a rally for civil rights. he opened the university’s admissions pool to women during his presidency, expanded the university’s service opportunities and was one of the visionaries behind the peace corps. hesburgh’s presence on our campus has long been a reminder of his beliefs in inclusivity and his support of a united community both at notre dame and in the world. 
when Zahm inducted hesburgh as an honorary fellow and member of the dorm, he commended the residents for their brav­ery in standing up for what they think. The members of Zahm house, including one member of this editorial board, took the hesburgh challenge, and they now ask the rest of campus to fol­low their lead in maintaining an attitude of acceptance. 
For freshmen, this may call into question the slew of dorm ri­valries that defined much of orientation week: Zahm vs. Keenan, alumni vs. dillon, pasquerilla east vs. pasquerilla west. although competition can be healthy, sometimes rivalry gets out of hand. as seen at dillon hall pep rallies in the past, “school spirit” cheers can quickly turn into derogatory slurs against rival dorms. in addition, the continued use of stereotypes like “bp pig,” “the out­casts of carroll” and “hotel ryan” in casual conversation makes it difficult for notre dame students to attest to their “inclusivity.” 
This year, Frosh-o activities focused less on serenades and the pesky “ring by spring,” but many upperclassmen protested the change, saying the awkward experience of domerfest is a part of the notre dame tradition. 
but what makes a true notre dame tradition? nothing about yodeling Taylor swift tunes to a terrified fellow freshman can be found inscribed on the main building. nowhere on the football field are there instructions on how to tear down your rival dorm. Traditions are what we make them to be. The legacy we leave behind is entirely up to us. 
as intramural sports ramp up and the quest for “hall of the year” begins, notre dame’s 29 residence halls have an opportu­nity. every year the dorms compete for “hall of the year” through excellence in six categories: academic, liturgical, athletic, multi­cultural, social and environmental. each of us exhibits skill in at least one, if not all, of these fields, and can undoubtedly find some way to bring home pride to our dorms and store up memories of struggle, success and failure. 
hesburgh wants to leave a legacy of tolerance and unity, but he also emphasized dorm identity. he described Zahm house as “outstanding,” with a character of “zeitgeist” and “a kind of dar­ing.” Just as Zahm donates all proceeds from its pizza parlor and hosts the spring carnival for local michiana children, various charitable signature events across campus give each dorm a dis­tinct — and usually fun — way to serve. 
Keenan hall has muddy sunday. cavanaugh has the dance-a-thon. Fisher has its eponymous regatta. pasquerilla east has silent night, silent auction. each event draws hall residents under a common banner and invites the entire notre dame community to join in inclusion and service. 
For freshmen, this attitude is particularly important, especially as they test the waters outside their dorm identities and start in­vesting themselves as individuals in the clubs and organizations they signed up for at activities night.The notre dame community shouldn’t have to neutralize all dorm traditions to excel, to make memories, to develop real relationships. residence halls can retain their quirks and rituals, and even their rivalries, while still maintaining a spirit of inclusion. 
so ask yourself: what would hesburgh do? Follow the Zahmbies’ lead, and take the real hesburgh challenge. Just as Zahm adopted hesburgh himself into its hall community, so should the rest of the dorms incorporate his mantra of inclusion into their daily lives. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
cultural vs. universal worship 
Fr. corpora, your recent column “one eucharist, many expressions” (aug. 30) was an insightful look at just three of the liturgical tradi­tions we have here at notre dame. This variety is beneficial in that, among all these traditions, there will surely be one or another that will fit the individual spirituality of most. even still, i struggle with the drawbacks of this variety, which your article subtly hit upon: we have african masses, spanish masses and ever-amorphous dorm masses. 
one of the best developments of the 20th century was the growing idea of a universal human family, free from distinctions of race. is not encouraging masses of certain groups of people reversing that? while it is a fairy tale notion to suggest we radically strip down cultur­al-linguistic barriers in our liturgies and have masses only in latin again, there admittedly was something neat in the idea that everyone could worship “una voce,” side by side, in a family in which there is “neither greek nor Jew.” (3 galatians 28) 
regression to latin being distasteful to most, it would seem that we will have to reflect on more contemporary ways to stress our undi­vided brotherhood in christ. respectfully, 
Dale Parker senior Morrissey Manor Aug. 30 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“i am still determined to be cheerful and happy, in whatever situation i may be; for i have also learned from experience that the greater part of our happiness or misery depends upon our dispositions, and not upon our circumstances.” 
Martha Washington Wife of George Washington 



A message from ‘Gangnam Style’ 
Austin Lagomarsino 
The Toolbox 

it is probably a reasonable assumption that each of you reading this has seen the newest south Korean pop hit “gangnam style” by psy. if you have not, immediately put your tray away, leave the dining hall, head back to your dorm and look it up on youTube. For those still reading without proper context, the song was released in america in late July.  since then, it has racked up an astounding 75 million hits on youTube. with a catchy beat and fantastic accompanying dance moves, the song is being hailed as the first south Korean hit to make it in america. 
For those unfamiliar with the song (and accompanying video), it follows psy around seoul as he searches for a girlfriend who has class but isn’t afraid to let her hair down when the time is right. The style he is looking for reflects the life­style of people in the gangnam province of seoul, the ritzy, upscale section of the capital, hence the title . For reference, seven percent of all the wealth in south Korea is located in this 15-square-mile area. Throughout the video, psy dances around a number of locations in seoul, becoming involved in several dance battles before finding the kind of girl he is looking for. but within the video, masked by high energy dancing and comic relief, lies a deeper commentary no one would expect out of such a silly song and dance number. 
The atlantic was the first publication to note the socio-economic commen­tary played out in the music video in its article “gangnam style, dissected: The subversive message within south Korea’s music video sensation.” Throughout the video, psy constantly sings about the actions of the men and women from the gangnam province: how they drink ex­pensive coffee, live lavish lifestyles and go to only the classiest of places. however, in his video, he is in the sauna not with busi­nessmen, but with gangsters. his party bus is actually full of old tourists and disco balls. he even meets the girl of his dreams, not in a dance club or ballroom, but on the subway. when he is shown on the beach with girls, it turns out that he is simply at a children’s playground in a beach chair. 
This mockery of the gangnam lifestyle serves to show that it is overrated; while many south Koreans dream of living a life of excess, psy points out wealth isn’t all that will make you happy. after all, he does get the girl in the end. This is contrasted with american music videos, where the singer is often at parties and in expensive clothes, surrounded by beauti­ful women as cash falls down from the ceiling. 
The culture surrounding music itself was also parodied. The atlantic noted psy also makes subtle jokes about the music industry. one scene involves him parad­ing down a hallway with two models as trash blows in their faces, clearly a parody of the classic red carpet and confetti scene of the rich and famous. These events always occur while psy is dressed to the nines, wearing a fashionable outfit, a suit or even a tuxedo. 
while K-pop (Korean pop music) is ap­parently not big on social commentary, psy likely drew from his exposure to american culture during his schooling in the united states. For years, music has been used to express what the artist can­not put into words and has long provided social, political and economic commen­tary. in recent times, however, artists that produce songs wrought with commentary never take themselves too seriously. psy certainly doesn’t. look at macklemore, for example. macklemore writes songs with powerful messages like the growing effect of consumerism (“wings”), drug use, (“otherside”), crime (“soldiers”) and even politics (“The bush song”), and then comes out with songs like “and we danced” and “Thrift shop.” These songs are wildly entertaining and also expose a different audience to his deeper songs. These artists continue to create moving messages and call attention to many is­sues not seen in the mainstream news by the general public. 
perhaps this is exactly what the public needs, powerful messages delivered in such a way that they stick. while a poster or article will influence you for as long as you read it, a song you play a dozen times a week will be more likely to stay with you. and, as long as psy keeps dancing his way to a better tomorrow, he’s going to have quite a few supporters along the way. 
Austin Lagomarsino is a junior aerospace engineering major. He can be reached at alagomar@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
UWIRE 

race should not be ignored in politics 
The Oracle Editorial Board 
The oracle 
u.s. politics are raceophobic. 

as talk show host chris matthews chas­tised former mass. gov. mitt romney for his racially undertoned birther jokes and ariz. gov. Jan brewer said president barack obama has played the “race card” by touting the fact that he is the first black president, according to politico, the debate that has quietly crept into the republican national convention (rnc) begs the question: is there a place for race in politics? 
in a postmodern world where all are on a level playing field, there is no need for race to be involved in politics. 
but the fact remains that we are not in a postmodern world. we are in a world where wounds of racial intolerance and bigotry are still displayed daily, and not all are on a level playing field — instead, systemic socioeco­nomic inequality prevails and remains an issue across the u.s. 
as recently as wednesday, the news of boorish rnc attendees thrown out for throw­ing peanuts at a black cnn journalist and saying, “this is how we feed animals,” broke. 
according to a report from the state of black america, black americans are still twice as likely to be unemployed, three times more likely to live in poverty and six times more likely to be arrested than white americans. 
clearly, ignoring race does not erase the deep roots of racism that remain woven into a society that prides itself on diversity and acceptance. 
if race cannot be ignored in society, then perhaps it should stop being swept under political carpets. 
but that does not mean that parties must parade their minority members to prove acceptance. 
nor should leaders whose roots stem from minority communities, like barack obama, born to a white mother and Kenyan father, or los angeles mayor antonio villaraigosa, whose grandfather immigrated to the 
u.s. almost 100 years ago, bear the sole responsibility for drawing attention to issues of racial inequity. 
rather, while the race of political candi­dates may bear little significance to their po­litical standpoints or qualifications, the fear of discussing race in politics needs to quickly dissolve for progress to be made in society. 
politicians should be spearheading the dialogue that will bring the u.s. to a society where race can be ignored. 
This article originally ran in the Aug. 30 version of The Oracle, serving the University of Southern Florida. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL  CARTOON 



By ALLAN JOSEPH and SAM STRYKER 
editor-in-chief and assistant managing editor 
IN 
dublin — greetings from dublin, or as the locals call it, baile Átha cliath. saturday marks the emerald isle classic, the kickoff of the 
Fighting irish football season. but before notre dame squares off against navy, you have a city to explore. Take advantage of the fact this game is in a european metropolis. you don’t need the luck of the irish to plan out 
36 Hours 
your escapades through the capital of ireland — we’ve done all the re­search on how to do dublin right, and mapped out your journey from top to bottom. we know where to grab the perfect pint, capture a great view of the city, chow down on some scrumptious nosh, soak in some medieval history, stroll and shop to your heart’s content, experience the 
Ireland{
}supreme drinking culture of the city and socialize with the friendly peo­ple of ireland. so check out our perfectly planned itinerary to experience dublin as a true irishman would. 
Christ Church Cathedral and St. Patrick’s Cathedral 
you’re a notre dame student, so oF course you have to make it to the two most venerable churches in all of dublin. what the yankees and the red sox are to baseball, these two medieval structures are to irish church­es — bitter rivals. a two-cathedral city is unprecedented, and the dispute between these two structures goes back centuries. st. patrick’s cathedral (the largest church in ireland) is the national cathedral of ireland, while christ church cathedral is the cathedral of the diocese of dublin. while christ church may be beat on size, it has st. patrick’s on age — the latter “only” was erected in 1191, and the former was completed in 1030 — mak­ing it nearly a millennium-old structure. let’s just call this one a draw, and enjoy the soaring medieval architecture of each. 

Queen of Tarts 
dublin is a city known for its drinking, not eating — that’s what hap­pen when you produce guinness, whiskey and cider for libations and black pudding (don’t ask) for nosh. but if you search for the hidden gems, dublin delivers. Queen of Tarts is one of these diamonds in the rough. From jolting coffee to scrumptious sandwiches to knock-your-socks-off desserts, the Queen serves up some of the finest goodies in town to line your stomach before you sample the city’s hallmark potent potables. Try one of the sand­wiches on fresh-baked bread for lunch, and it should be against the law to skip dessert here. From rustic apple tart to chocolate fudge cake, the Queen will satisfy even the most discerning sweet tooth. naturally, this is ireland, so some of the desserts are boozy — we loved the bailey’s cheesecake. 

Trinity College and the Book of Kells 
want to be “so college” in dublin? Then head to Trinity college, the pre­eminent institution of higher learning in dublin. established in 1592 as a protestant university, Trinity college boasts Jonathan swift, bram stoker, oscar wilde and three presidents of ireland as its alumni. and while its bookstore certainly cannot match notre dame’s, the pristine grounds of the college will surely wow you. For all you medieval history buffs, be sure to check out the book of Kells, housed at the college. one of the preeminent works of medieval art, this manuscript dates to around 800 a.d. bonus movie trivia: Trinity college’s old library was used as the Jedi archives in the second “star wars” prequel. 
SARA SHOEMAKE | Observer Graphic SARAH O'CONNOR | The Observer 










Grafton Street and St. Stephen’s Green 
shop ‘til you drop on dublin’s trendiest (and most touristy) stretch of real estate. of course, you are going to want to bring some souvenirs home, thus a trip to grafton street is in order — and the street is named after an il­legitimate son of King charles ii of england, so you know it has to be fun. be sure to check out the buskers, or street performers, who display their talents along the street. at the south end of grafton is st. stephen’s green, one of dublin’s many public parks. a stroll through the green is the perfect way to slow things down and savor your trip to the emerald isle. 
Old Jameson Distillery 
it might not be quite as popular as the guinness storehouse, but the old Jameson distillery is still worth some of your time and taste buds. you’ll get a guided tour through the history and process of distilling the world-famous irish whiskey. as every good tour does, this one ends in a compli­mentary drink — and if you’re lucky, a mini-course in comparative whiskey tasting. The distillery also holds a restaurant and a gift shop, so it’s a great place to grab a meal and buy souvenirs for your friends back in the states. 
Guinness Storehouse 
The guinness storehouse at st. James’ gate is the most popular tourist attraction in ireland, and for good reason. it’s a massive facility dedicated to the craft of brewing ireland’s most famous export, and it’s incredibly in­formative. The storehouse is quite an impressive structure and an enjoy­able visit (with a surprisingly affordable gift shop), but the crown jewel is the gravity bar at the top of the facility: a glass-encased bar where you can grab a complimentary pint — but the 360-degree view of dublin is even better than that. it’s a totally breathtaking experience. plus, how could you go travel all that way and not visit? 
Walk along the River Liffey, with a stop at O’Brien’s Ferryman Inn 
The river liffey runs through the heart of dublin and is a great walk with some beautiful sights. That starts almost exactly in the center of the city with the customs house, a majestic domed building right on the north bank of the river. The south bank provides a great vantage point for pho­tography (perhaps even a selfie or two), and a walk east takes you through some stunning architecture, including the harp-inspired samuel beckett bridge and the modern dublin convention center. rest your feet at the o’briens Ferryman inn for a great atmosphere and view of the river — and a pint, or two. 
Temple Bar 
every visitor to dublin should make it a point to spend some time in the Temple bar district. The site of notre dame’s massive tailgate party before saturday’s game, the area is perhaps the best-known district of the irish capital. it’s completely walkable, and the locals are friendly as always. you’ll find plenty of shops, but nothing will capture your attention like the many welcoming pubs in the area. every establishment looks like it’s been around forever, and they’ll all be happy to welcome you in, serve you a pint and get you some food. 
Aviva Stadium 
Two-year-old aviva stadium is the center of the whole experience, as it’s the location of the sold-out clash between notre dame and navy. nearly 52,000 spectators (the vast majority of them americans) will watch the teams play in a beautiful facility covered in glass panels that make the stadi­um a gem of modern architecture. built to replace the old lansdowne road rugby stadium, aviva is smaller than the much-older croke park (capacity: 82,000), but is undeniably dublin’s prime venue. how do you know? lady gaga is playing a show there in two weeks. 

Multimedia Editor Sarah O’Connor contributed to this report. 

SPORTS AUTHORITY 

it’s time for bryce harper to grow up 

Matthew DeFranks 
associate sports editor 
what did you do before your 20th birthday? were you on the cover of sports illustrated? were you the top overall pick in the major league baseball (mlb) draft? were you deemed the next big thing in baseball? 
no? good. whew, i thought i was the only one that hadn’t accomplished those because all i did before my 20th birth­day was, well, a whole lot of nothing. 
but 19-year-old outfielder bryce harper has graced a magazine cover, has selected for that first spot and has been anointed as the next chosen one. For such a young age, harper has received an unreal amount of criticism not for his play but for his reactions. 
in early may, shortly after his mlb debut, harper flashed his seemingly limitless po­tential. after phillies pitcher cole hamels plunked harper square in the back, harper did not lose his cool. instead, he advanced to third base on a single and then stole home for his first big league stolen base. 
harper could have unrav­eled into a swirling vortex of immaturity and stupidity that night but responded with his play instead. he let hamels take the brunt of the criticism that night. he played it smartly simply by playing hard. 
but where has that harper gone? 
That harper must still be wherever bryce left his batting average. harper has a respect­able 14 home runs in his rookie season, but has hit only .250 while striking out nearly a quarter of the time. once a lock for the national league rookie of the year, harper has slipped into mediocrity. 
granted, he is still a teenager in his first season and playing on the best team in baseball, but his numbers have been lackluster. his potential has not shined through yet like angels outfielder mike Trout’s has, but harper’s limit is still yet to be found. 
now, he just can’t let his at­titude overshadow his clearly apparent talent. 
in may, harper threw a bat at a wall in frustration. he broke the bat, it cut his head and he needed 10 stiches to cover up the wound. later in the season, marlins manager ozzie guillen questioned the amount of pine tar on harper’s bat. in his next at bat, harper pointed the bat at the outspo­ken miami coach in a motion that basically said, “hey look, i’m right, and you’re wrong.” 
even earlier this month, he slammed his bat on the ground at home plate, break­ing it into pieces. and now he can add his first ejection to his now impressive tantrum resume. 
on wednesday night, it was the best of times, and it was the worst of times for harper. he swatted two home runs out of cavernous marlins park (one of them traveled an estimated 425 feet) but also was ejected for the first time in his career. 
after that, all that anyone wanted to talk about was his ejection. Forget his two mam­moth dingers, let’s talk about his outburst where he spiked his helmet on the ground af­ter grounding into a double play. First base umpire c.b. bucknor, known as a notori­ously bad umpire by players, took offense to the helmet slam and tossed harper from the game. 
whether harper deserved to get thrown out could be debat­ed, but the fact that he allowed the debate to happen is con­cerning, especially given his testy history. did bucknor toss the teen because of his fiery reputation? would an older, respected veteran been treated the same way? probably not, but that is only harper’s fault. 
being young and immature is one thing. being young, tal­ented, stupid, immature and underperforming is an entirely different thing. 
once angry outbursts be­come the norm for harper, his reputation will be tarnished at the very least. 
so what has bryce harper done before his 20th birthday? That’s a clown question, bro. 
Contact  Matthew DeFranks at mdefrank@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of  The Observer. 


US OPEN 

Roddick to retire after Open 

Associated Press 

new yorK — This u.s. open finally got its first shockers. 
after three days of the top play­ers not only winning but win­ning decisively, the biggest news Thursday came off the court, with andy roddick announcing his impending retirement. 
on the court, fifth-seeded Jo­wilfried Tsonga was upset by martin Klizan of slovakia in the second round. The 52nd-ranked Klizan won 6-4, 1-6, 6-1, 6-3. 
before Tsonga’s loss, top-five seeds on the men’s and women’s sides had played 14 matches — and won all 14 in straight sets. 
roddick called a news confer­ence Thursday evening to say that he’ll call it a career after his last match at this tournament, which he won in 2003. 
“i don’t know that i’m healthy enough or committed enough to go another year,” he said on his 30th birthday, a day before facing bernard Tomic in the sec­ond round. “i’ve always wanted to, in a perfect world, finish at 

FOR RENT 

Math-Tutors Mathnasium seeking qualified math tutors. Experience working with children. 10-20hrs/week. Resumes:granger@mathnasium.com 888-850-6284 
PERSONAL 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? 

Don’t go it alone. Notre Dame has many resources in place to assist you. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Ann Whitall at 1-0084 or Karen Kennedy at 1-5550. For more information, visit ND’s web­site at: http://pregnancysupport@ nd.edu 
this event.” 

Tsonga was the runner-up at the 2008 australian open and a semi­finalist at wimbledon this year. he had reached at least the third round in 18 straight grand slam trips. 
“Today i was not in a good shape,” he said. “i didn’t play good tennis. it seemed like i couldn’t hit the ball enough hard to put my opponent out of position. i don’t really know why it was like this today, but some­times it’s happen with me.” 
The 23-year-old Klizan had failed to make it past the second round in three previous grand slam appearances. he had nev­er defeated an opponent ranked better than no. 49. 
“i had no pressure,” Klizan said. “if i lose, then i lose. i lose with [a] good player. but i won and i’m very happy. it means for me more that i beat finally a guy from top 10.” 
This year’s open has generat­ed plenty of drama in one area: comebacks from two sets down. american mardy Fish rallied to beat nikolay davydenko 4-6, 6-7 (4), 6-2, 6-1, 6-2, the 10th time in this tournament a man had won after losing the first two sets — already an open record. 
The 30-year-old Fish, seeded 23rd, missed two months this season because of an acceler­ated heartbeat but showed few signs of fatigue in playing nearly 3 1/2 hours. 
and after Tsonga lost, an­other top-five seed was at least pushed beyond a straight-sets finish. second-seeded agnieszka radwanska was down a set and a break to 39th-ranked carla suarez navarro. Then she won 11 straight games for a 4-6, 6-3, 6-0 victory. 
serena williams beat old nemesis maria Jose martinez sanchez 6-2, 6-4. seeded fourth, williams overcame six double-faults and 24 unforced errors 
— she had 32 winners to five for martinez sanchez. 
in the 2009 French open third round, williams hit a ball she was sure went off martinez sanchez’s arm, then said the spaniard cheated by not ac­knowledging it. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit 
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
PSY – Gangnam Style English Lyrics 
Oppa is Gangnam style Gangnam style 

A girl who is warm and humanle during the day A classy girl who know how to enjoy the freedom of a cup of coffee A girl whose heart gets hotter when night comes A girl with that kind of twist 
I’m a guy A guy who is as warm as you during the day A guy who one-shots his coffee before it even cools down A guy whose heart bursts when night comes That kind of guy 
Beautiful, loveable Yes you, hey, yes you, hey Beautiful, loveable Yes you, hey, yes you, hey Now let’s go until the end A girl who looks quiet but plays when she plays A girl who puts her hair down when the right time comes A girl who covers herself but is more sexy than a girl who bares it all A sensable girl like that 
I’m a guy A guy who seems calm but plays when he plays A guy who goes completely crazy when the right time comes A guy who has bulging ideas rather than muscles That kind of guy 
Beautiful, loveable Yes you, hey, yes you, hey Beautiful, loveable Yes you, hey, yes you, hey Now let’s go until the end 



SMC SOCCER 

coach says belles primed to exceed past success 
By MATT STEWART 
sports writer 
saint mary’s will begin its season tonight against nearby rival bethel college. Following their first 10-win season in six years, the belles have high expectations head­ing into the 2012 campaign. 
belles coach mike Joyce stressed the team hopes to raise the bar even higher this year. 
“we’re hoping to improve upon last year,” Joyce said. “we finished sixth in our conference and would like to team must place in the top four in their conference, and with 18 returning players, Joyce’s squad has all the tal­ent to reach their goal. 
seniors midfielder ashley morfin, defender meaghan daly, and midfielder and team captain maddie meckes will lead the belles on the pitch this season as they try to surpass last season’s success. 
Joyce noted the team’s leadership does not end with the seniors. 
“all of the returning play­ers show a lot of leadership 

“We’re hoping to improve upon last year. We finished sixth in our conference and would like to move higher. All the teams we’re chasing are very good.” 
Mike Joyce 
Belles coach 

move higher.  all the teams in various ways,” Joyce said. we are chasing are very good.” “They all put a lot of time 
Joyce emphasized the and effort into the team, have team’s goal of making the good attitudes and go about miaa playoffs. To do so, the things the right way. it is nice that you aren’t relying on one person to guide the other 29, but have a collection of peo­ple all on the same page.” 
with few practices prior to their first game tonight, the team will need that co­hesiveness as the season be­gins. The team only had four days of practice before school started, so it was essential to make every practice count. 
as season play begins to­night, those practices will be key to the team’s success. Joyce said the practices be­fore school were short but effective. 
“we haven’t made too many changes with what we do,” Joyce said. “we’re just trying to get as much done as we can in a small window of time.” 
The belles’ journey to the playoffs begins at home to­night against bethel at 5 p.m. saint mary’s will conclude its opening weekend with a sunday trip to illinois Tech, with kickoff at 11 a.m. 
Contact Matt Stewart at mstewar5@nd.edu 


SMC CROSS COUNTRY 

Hokum Karem poses unique challenges 
a unique season-opening chal-bauters said the unique format mentality with quality running.” the u.s. Track & Field and cross 
By BRIAN HARTNETT 

sports writer lenge for the belles. The event of the hokum Karem allows her bauters has not yet determined country coaches association’s features a mix of division ii and team to return to competition in her team pairings for saturday’s preseason poll. bauters said the saint mary’s will look to division iii squads in a relay-style a fun, low-stress environment. meet, but she said she would try unprecedented ranking has en-defend its preseason top-10 race for teams of two. in the race, “one of the benefits, i feel, of to pair team members recording ergized the team and heightened regional ranking, the first in pro-each team member completes a [the hokum Karem] is the oppor-similar times for the distance. its expectations as it looks to 
gram history, when it travels to one-mile loop before handing off tunity for the girls to get a racing after recording a third-place compete in the miaa. 
crawfordsville, ind., on saturday the baton to her teammate, who experience without much pres-finish in the hokum Karem last “we have a wonderful, talented to open its season at the wabash runs the same loop and returns sure,” bauters said. “it is a really year, saint mary’s will come into group of women on the team this hokum Karem. the baton, a process that contin-fun event that the team looks for-this year’s meet as one of the fa-year, and i think [the ranking] The hokum Karem, which is ues until the team runs six miles. ward to at this point, and it allows vorites. The belles are ranked has just heightened our aware-hosted by wabash college, poses belles head coach Jackie them to get back into the racing 10th in the great lakes region in ness of what is possible to achieve this season as a group,” bauters 
paid adverTisemenT 

said. “i would definitely love to see that ranking hold as long as possible.” 
in order to defend their rank­ing, the belles will rely on a core group of six seniors, led by 2010 all-miaa honoree Julia Kenney, and seek contributions from a large incoming class of five fresh­man runners. bauters said she is looking forward to seeing the team’s mix of experience and youth, and she expects to see a variety of different names scor­ing points for the belles. 
“we have a great mix of new team members and veterans who came back ready to train hard,” bauters said. “i think there is go­ing to be a lot of changes in our scoring members throughout the season, as we possess the depth we were lacking last year. it’s go­ing to be a fun season.” 
saint mary’s will open its season at the wabash hokum Karem in crawfordsville, ind., on saturday at 10:30 a.m. 
Contact Brian Hartnett at bhartnet@nd.edu 


The observer | FRIDAY, AUGUST 31, 2012 | ndsmcobserver.com 

ND CROSS COUNTRY 

Piane expresses confidence in Irish experience 
By JOE WIRTH 
sports writer 
The irish may not be send­ing their entire squad to the crusaders’ home turf in valparaiso today, but the team expects the meet to set a positive tone for the season. 
even though the start of every season is filled with unknowns, men’s coach Joe piane said he is confident his team can begin 
“The expectations are always to do well,” piane said. “we are only sending eight guys [to the crusader invitational], but this really is a meet we expect to win.” 
The men’s competition is a 6-kilometer event and provides an opportunity to give younger runners, especially freshmen, a taste of collegiate competition. 
For the men’s team, freshmen John riely and Josh o’brien will 

“Honestly, the freshmen are probably  not ready. They have only been here for a couple of weeks, and I do not expect them to be 100 percent comfortable until midseason. Senior leadership plays a big part in making them more comfortable.” 
Joe Piane Irish coach  
the year on the right foot. The team will open its season at the crusader invitation for the 10th consecutive season.  be making their collegiate debut, while sophomores Kevin byrne and Johnny Fuller will be com­peting in their inaugural meet  

for the irish. 
Freshmen Jessica balko, sydni meunier and abbey murphy, along with sophomore Karen lesiewicz, will be making their debuts for the women’s team. 
“honestly, the freshmen are probably not ready,” piane said. “They have only been here for a couple of weeks, and i do not ex­pect them to be 100 percent com­fortable until midseason. senior leadership plays a big part in making them more comfortable. 
“our biggest meets of the year, and the meets we really concen­trate on, are the big east [meets] and the ncaa [meets]. so as long as our younger runners are ready by then, we will be in good shape.” 

The irish will also be joined at the meet by men’s and women’s teams from purdue, purdue calumet and valparaiso. 25 for the first time since 2005. 
expectations are high for both teams have their sights on the irish this year as both the a big east championship and men’s and women’s teams are potentially more. Their journey ranked in the preseason top begins 6 p.m. begins Friday at 6 

SMC GOLF 

Freshmen belles shine in advance of first match 
By BRENDAN BELL 
sports writer 
after a successful spring season, saint mary’s will look to carry its momentum into the new school year and a new fall golf season. 
belles coach mark hamilton said he is optimis­tic about the team’s future, thanks in part to a strong set said. “she is a special talent, tournament, but his team is and we expect great scores prepared. from her.” “i have a feeling the rain 

another new belles golfer suits will get a workout with is transfer student and ju-anderson being in the path nior Justine bresnahan. 
“Justine has played well and is a great addition to our team,” hamilton said. “amanda graham and sammie averill, freshmen, are also in this weekend’s 


“In our preseason scrimmage last week versus Bethel and Holy Cross, the entire team performed very well, and I look for that to carry into this week and beyond.” 
Mark Hamilton Belles coach 
of new golfers for the belles. 
“with four first-year play­ers in our top five, you would think it would be hard to forecast the outcome be­cause of the adjustments we have made in the first couple of weeks,” hamilton said. 
“however, in our preseason scrimmage last week ver­sus bethel and holy cross, the entire team performed very well, and i look for that to carry into this week and beyond.” 
among the first year golf­ers is freshman claire boyle, whom hamilton sees as someone that can make an instant impact for saint mar y’s. 
“boyle has led our team in every round we have played this fall,” hamilton top five. They are very solid players with bright f utures.” 
saint mary’s has three freshmen in the top five this weekend, which is a strong sign for the future and potential of the team. The belles are preparing for 
the  anderson  invitational  
in  anderson,  ind.,  this  
saturday.  

The team has no experi­ence playing on this course, but hamilton said he be­lieves the belles will be able to shoot low rounds. 
“i have not seen the course so i’m not sure what to expect,” hamilton said. “Traditionally, it tends to yield lower scores.” 
hamilton said the predic­tion for rainy weather may have an implication on the of the remnants of the hur­ricane,” hamilton said. 
regardless of the weather, the belles will start the sea­son in anderson on saturday, 
paid adverTisemenT 
p.m. at valparaiso university in valparaiso, ind. 
Contact Joe Wirth at jwirth@nd.edu 
with play concluding on sunday. 
Contact Brendan Bell at bbell2@nd.edu 



MEN’S TENNIS 

Exhibition fosters true Irish competition 
considered an exhibition 
By MEGAN FINNERAN 

sports writer match, we will have a chance 
to go up against world-class 

For one sport this weekend, tennis players that we other-the term irish will not apply wise might never have had a strictly to the notre dame chance to play against.” side. Joining the football among these elite athletes team and fans from across are dublin native barry King, the country, the men’s tennis who graduated from notre team also will travel to ireland dame in 2007 after winning in preparation for their own 90 singles matches through-season opener. out his career, and wicklow 
in today’s exhibition match-native niall Fitzgerald, notre es, notre dame will face the dame’s team captain last men of the ireland davis cup year. Their teammates in-Team, a unique matchup for a clude conor niland, who college lineup. played world no. 2 novak 
“This is essentially a col-djokovic at the u.s. open last lection of their country’s best year, and aTp players James players,” senior blas moros mcgee and sam barry. This said. “even though it is only squad will certainly challenge 
paid adverTisemenT 

the college-aged men of notre dame, who graduated their no. 1 singles player casey watt. however, the players said facing a more experi­enced team is not putting a damper on the mindset of the athletes. 
“we have all been look­ing forward to this trip since we heard it might be a pos­sibility last year,” moros said. “we could not be more excited about this unique opportunity.” 
in addition to the time change adjustment, notre dame will also find a change of scenery across the atlantic. The Fitzwilliam lawn Tennis club, often called the wimbledon of ireland, uses an artificial lawn surface not present in college tennis. while this alternative ground will definitely impact the ball movement and the pace of the game, the irish are ready to take this change with a posi­tive attitude too. 
“with the match being played on a different surface, people might assume that it doesn’t matter much how we do, yet i know this is a great way to kickoff our fall season,” junior billy pecor said. “we can learn a lot from this trip.” 
last year, the irish went 21­9, finishing third in the big east and advancing to the second round of the ncaa Tournament. This weekend marks the first match for the new team competing togeth­er, which includes five fresh­men. Junior greg andrews will pave the way in the no. 1 singles spot, moving up from no. 2 last year. 


“This can potentially be a tremendous confidence booster for all of the guys 
SMC VOLLEYBALL 
and a great opportunity for the returning players to fur­ther strengthen ties with the freshmen,” pecor said. 
notre dame will compete today at 2 p.m. in dublin. competition will begin with singles and continue with doubles. 
Contact Megan Finneran at mfinnera@nd.edu 


Belles face off in weekend games 
By NICK BOYLE 
sports writer 
saint mary’s young team will kick off its 2012 season in chicago this weekend, when they travel to the north park Tournament. 
The belles will play four games over the weekend. The tournament will begin with matches against iu-northwest and howard payne on Friday night, then finish against north park and Kenyon on saturday. 
“i know that we will be fac­ing some solid competitive programs this weekend,” belles coach Toni Kuschel said. “however, a lot of them have graduated some great players, so we will have to scout out some of the competition when we arrive on Friday.” 
with a squad featuring a core group of returning players as well a strong group of incom­ing freshmen, Kuschel said she hopes her team will use the weekend to prepare for the up­coming conference season. 
“i will be looking for our team to play to the best of our ability,” Kuschel said. “we start confrence play next Tuesday, and it will be so important to find our starting line up, as well as start the year off well.” 
Though the tournament will not count towards the belles’ conference standings, Kuschel said she still wants her team to take the games seriously. 
“it is important that we go into the tournament focused and ready to improve each time we step out onto the court together,” Kuschel said. “we want to play well and figure out what we need to improve on.” 
with 14 of their 15 players ei­ther freshmen or sophomores, the belles will look to use the weekend to gain experience. 
“we are such a young team so all of our matches this sea­son will be great opportunities to improve as a team,” Kuschel said. “we need to be focused on what we need to do to im­prove ourselves.” 
Contact Nick Boyle at nboyle1@nd.edu 



Clark 
conTinued From page 16 
against clemson at 11:30 
a.m. sunday. 
notre dame has only a brief history with both squads. The irish have played the aztecs (0-0-0) just once, back in 1987. This will be the third meeting for the irish against the Tigers (1-0-1), with the last match in 2005. 
despite limited knowledge of both opponents, clark said he is confident his team’s style of play can be a catalyst for success. 
“san diego state’s the first one, and we’ve just got to be ready ourselves and not wor­ry too much where they are,” clark said. “we don’t know too much about them, but we didn’t know too much about any of our other opponents we’ve played in preseason. i think the main thing is go­ing to come up to what we do. The nice thing about the way we play, we don’t change our system very much depending on opponents. we pretty well try to go to the field and play our own game.” 

san diego state and clemson both had .500 or better records last season. clark said the opponents — of region, spend the money and the classic in general and come in and play these 
“We play teams who are prepared to come 
in from out of region, spend the money 
and come in and play these games.” 

Bobby Clark Irish coach 
— represent notre dame’s commitment to a challeng­ing schedule. 
“we play teams who are prepared to come in from out 
Eppink 
conTinued From page 16 
is really nice because that’s where the matches are actual­ly played,” eppink said. “we’ve been getting used to the floor and our surroundings.” 
notre dame will return to their home floor against alabama-birmingham at 7 
“We’ve been doing routine practices, and we’ve been practicing in the arena, which is really nice because that’s where the matches are actually played.” 
Hillary Eppink 
senior middle blocker 
p.m. Friday. The team will continue play against buffalo at 7 p.m. on saturday and will conclude the invitational on sunday against eastern Kentucky at 2 p.m. 
Contact Laura Coletti at lcoletti@nd.edu 
games,” clark said. “They’re quality games, and they’re tests. They tell you where you are a little bit before your con­ference begins. we always just look for the best games. … i’m a great believer if you’ve only got 17 regular season games and three scrimmages, how many quality experiences can we get for our players?” 
notre dame begins play in the adidas/iu credit union classic at 5 p.m. tonight against san diego state and continues sunday against clemson. 
Contact Sam Gans at sgans@nd.edu 

Powerhouse 
conTinued From page 16 
position.” 

north carolina, mean­while, is a historical pow­erhouse, having won 20 of the last 32 ncaa championships. The irish have won three in the past 17 years, including a win over carolina in 1995. 
with so much rivalry and history between the irish and Tar heels — in addition to high stakes and packed stadiums — waldrum said matchups between the two teams are always too close to call. 
“i don’t expect them to change anything that they’ve done for the last 15 years that we’ve played 
“It’s such a storied rivalry. If you look at the history of women’s college soccer, the powers over the past 20 years have been North Carolina and Notre Dame. You can pretty much throw everything out the window when we play them.” 
Randy Waldrum 
Irish coach 

them,” he said. “it’s such a storied rivalry. if you look at the history of women’s college soccer, the powers over the past 20 years have been north carolina and notre dame. you can pretty much throw everything out the window when we play them.” 
regardless of how they perform up against the stiff competition, the irish will 
“These are the kinds of teams we’re going to face in November come NCAA tournament time.” 
Randy Waldrum 
Irish coach 
gain a lot of experience and learn plenty about them­selves from their two gut-check games this weekend. and more than any other reason, that’s why the team packs so much pressure in the early season. 
“These are the kinds of teams were going to face in november come ncaa tournament time,” waldrum said. “so it’s go­ing to be a great learning tool for us, because these teams are going to be good enough to really expose us. it’s going to give us an op­portunity to find out the areas we need to get much better in, quickly.” 
The irish will begin the adidas invitational against santa clara at 7:30 p.m. Friday, and will conclude against north carolina on sunday at 1:30 p.m. both games will take place at alumni stadium. 
Contact Jack Hefferon at wheffero@nd.edu 


paid adverTisemenT 




CROSSWORD | will shorTZ 

HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 
YOUR COMIC HERE | 

SUDOKU | The mepham group 
JUMBLE | david hoyT and JeFF KnureK 

YOUR COMIC HERE | 







make checks payable to and mail to: The observer 
p.o. box 779 
notre dame, in 46556 


enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year 


enclosed
 is $75 for one semester


Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
name 

Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying 
address 

form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
city      state Zip 

The observer | FRIDAY, AUGUST 31, 2012 | ndsmcobserver.com 
ND VOLLEYBALL ND WOMEN’S SOCCER 
irish look for luck at shamrock 
By LAURA COLETTI 
sports writer 
after a challenging open­ing weekend on the road, the irish are ready for their purcell pavilion home opener this weekend as they host the shamrock invitational. 
alabama-birmingham, buffalo and eastern Kentucky will all compete during the weekend as part of the an­nual three-day round-robin tournament. 
notre dame (1-2) faced two top-5 opponents last week­end in nebraska and ucla. although the irish dropped both of these decisions, they managed to sweep saint louis, their third opponent of the weekend, 3-0. senior middle blocker hilary eppink said last weekend’s experi­ence will hopefully carry over to strong performances this weekend. 
“we went 1-2 [last weekend] and played some really tough teams, but i think it was good for us because we learned things and played some out­side competition,” eppink said. “it was a great experi­ence, and we’re going to use that moving forward. we had a good week of practices, and that’s also going to carry into this weekend. Just knowing that we’re a good team, stay­ing together, and communi­cating, we’ll take that moving forward.” 

some irish performanc­es last weekend stood out enough to earn individual ac­colades. sophomore opposite side hitter Jeni houser was named to the big east weekly honor roll for her efforts. she tallied 37 kills on .308 hitting for the weekend. Freshman libero Taylor morey was named big east Freshman of the week when she collected 50 digs over the weekend in her first collegiate matches. 
her 29-dig performance against ucla put her in 15th place in school history for a single match. 
“i think it’s really great for our team to be recognized in the big east,” eppink said. “our goal is to win the big east regular season title as well as the big east Tournament. [houser and moray] are both outstanding players, and be­ing recognized this week gets notre dame’s name out there and lets other teams know that we mean business.” 
The irish are looking to take their second straight shamrock invitational. last season saw notre dame sweep eastern michigan, idaho and butler for a com­bined score of 9-3 on the weekend. 
“we’ve been doing routine practices, and we’ve been practicing in the arena which 
see eppinK PAGE 14 
MEN’S SOCCER 

Squad looks to tournament despite injury 

By SAM GANS 
sports writer 
The irish opened their season with a 1-0 win last saturday over duke, but it did not come without a price. 
senior midfielder adam mena left the game in the first half with what is likely a torn acl, irish coach bobby clark said.  The injury oc­curred just weeks after se­nior midfielder and captain michael rose tore his acl during the preseason. 
while clark expressed sadness over the injuries, he also noted his squad had dealt with similar circum­stances in the recent past. 
“There are no excuses here,” clark said. “it’s been an amazing spell of acls — this is our fifth in the last 16 months — which is quite incredible, so we’ve had to deal with it before. so it’s not like this is the first time we’re dealing with this. 
“you hate to say this, but you’ve got to move on, as far as the team is concerned and i think that also everybody knows that they’re playing for these two guys as well, because these two guys … these are two terrific kids i loved to coach, and i’m just so sad for them.” 

The no. 15 irish (1-0-0) be­gin to move on this weekend when the team travels south to bloomington, ind., for the adidas/iu credit union classic. notre dame will play two matches in three days, beginning with a con­test at 5 p.m. this evening against san diego state. The irish will conclude the tournament with a match 
see clarK PAGE 14 

Thrown into the fire 
Freshmen face top-ranked competition 

By JACK HEFFERON 
sports writer 

Two big games. Two na­tionally ranked opponents. Two packed grandstands. 
with a pair of high-profile, high pressure games against no. 14/19 north carolina and no. 25/21 santa clara on tap, irish coach randy waldrum can only hope his young team won’t be see­ing double when they host the adidas invitational this weekend. 
The Tar heels (1-1-1) and broncos (2-1-0) are both familiar opponents for the irish, as the squad let re­sults slip away against both last year. notre dame con­trolled most of the game but settled for a 1-1 draw at santa clara, and the team lost a 2-1 heartbreaker in overtime to north carolina. 
one year removed from those near misses, waldrum said he believes his team has learned to focus and close out tight games. 
“i hope we’ve seen and learned that we have to focus for 90 minutes, be­cause we lost that game against carolina very late,” he said. “we lost a mark, and a player sprung in free, and we lost what could have been at least a tie against a good team. santa clara was the same story. “hopefully we’ve learned that lesson, and that’s why we play these teams, so we can improve in those areas before confer­ence play.” 
and while exacting some revenge against their two weekend opponents would be nice, a positive perfor­mance over the weekend could provide several more important benefits to this year’s squad. 
while two victories would add a couple of impres­sive bullet points to notre dame’s ncaa résumé, waldrum said he wants to see his 12 freshmen contin­ue to improve — win, lose or draw. 
“we’re such a young team, and we want our young players playing in these big games early so that when the playoffs come, they’ve already been in those types of games,” he said. 
The irish will have to play three disciplined hours of soccer to challenge their op­ponents, as both teams are extremely talented. santa clara will present a familiar scheme to the irish with a gameplan is nearly identi­cal to notre dame’s. 
“our systems are simi­lar, we have a lot of the same types of players and we recruit against them quite a bit,” waldrum said. “They’ve got a couple kids that can cause problems for us, and they’re going to be really solid at every 
see powerhouse PAGE 14 






