
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


Single ticket creates unique circumstance 
By SAM STRYKER 
News Editor 
Last night’s midnight deadline for any potential write in candidates for the stu dent body presidential election came and went with no approved candidates step ping forward. As a result, juniors Brett Ro cheleau and Katie Rose will run unopposed 
— something unprecedented in student government records. 
Students will be presented with the option of voting for Rocheleau and Rose or abstaining when ballots open at 8 a.m. Wednes day. An abstention sig nifies a presence, not a vote, according to the Judicial Council. 
Rocheleau said though other members of stu dent government may have had interest in running, they all agreed on the goal to continue the course of this year’s administration. 
Rocheleau currently serves as student body vice president with stu dent body president Pat McCormick, who de clined to comment for 

see ELECTION/page 4 


Rocheleau, Rose outline goals 
Pair focuses on five tasks, aims to advance current administration’s vision 
nomics and Political Science major with a minor in Inter­national Development Stud­ies. Rocheleau is the current student body vice president and Rose serves as senator for Pasquerilla East and director of the student government De­partment of Gender Issues. 
In Their Words 
Rocheleau and Rose, who are running on a platform they call “Advancing the Vi­sion,” have a to-do list of five items in their plan of action. The list entails: 
• Improving the constitu­ent service capacity of Notre Dame, both on and off cam­pus. Rocheleau and Rose want to continue the trend of addressing the wants and needs of the student body, saying it will be the primary focus of 
their administration. 
• Increasing safe­ty for all students by raising awareness about issues and ad­dressing them effectively. 
Rocheleau and Rose want to install better lighting on campus and increase blue light phones off campus. They 

PAT COVENEY/The Observer BRANDON KEELEAN/The Observer 
plan to work with Notre Dame Security Police and the De­partment of Campus Technol­ogy to develop a mobile safety app for smart phones. 
• Deepen relations with the neighboring community of South Bend. Rocheleau and Rose want to attract a spe­cialty grocery store to Eddy Street Commons, such as Whole Foods or Trader Joe’s. They also want to continue past administrations’ work with the Robinson Learning Center and Communiversity Day. 
• Modernize Notre Dame to make it a 21st Century Catholic university. The ticket wants to focus their efforts on making dorm life more eco­logically friendly, updating school policies to reflect cur­rent Church teachings, and providing a forum for students to discuss the modernization of Notre Dame Stadium. 
• Connecting the Notre Dame campus to the global community. Rocheleau and Rose want to continue the work started under this year’s administration, partnering with David Clark Causes to bring a large-scale social jus­
see PLATFORM/page 3 



Send a message, demand a choice 
In this unusual election with just one unopposed ticket, The Observer’s annual task of interviewing candidates and endorsing one ticket seemed futile. 
In fact, so does this election. 

Without opposing candidacies or even accepted write-in ballots, current student body vice president Brett Rocheleau and vice presidential hope­
ful Katie Rose will win Wednesday’s election sim­ply by voting themselves. So why interview the pair and write the annual en­dorsement editorial? 
Because as the student 


body, we deserve a choice. 

While we may not have a choice between tickets, we do have a choice to abstain. The majority of The Observer’s Editorial Board agreed not to endorse the Rocheleau-Rose ticket and instead encourages the student body to abstain in Wednesday’s election. Make no mistake, abstaining is an active decision. It still requires opening the ballot and re­cording your presence. 
It is quite possible Rocheleau and Rose are indeed the best candidates. But how can the student body know this without comparing their plans and ideas to those of another candidate? 
While choosing to check “abstain” will not change the course of the election, a large cohort of “abstain” votes would serve as a needed wake-up call to student govern­ment. 
It would send the message that the student body will not accept a ticket simply because it is the only ticket. 
It would send the message that Rocheleau and Rose still need to be held accountable to their constituents. 
It would send the message that as the student body, we deserve a choice. 
Rocheleau and Rose said several people within student government expressed interest in running for president or vice president, but all agreed on a unified vision for student government in the next year. Rocheleau and Rose were cho­sen to represent that vision. 
Just like that, the decision was made for the student body, not by the student body. Even if the majority of the student body is behind the vision student government sets out to achieve, students should get the opportunity to vote for whom they think will best represent and promote that vision. 
Furthermore, it is hard to believe such unanimous agree­ment about student government’s approach and priorities exists amongst all members. If, however, agreement truly is pervasive, this suggests a herd-like mentality not conducive to innovation and forward progress. If disagreement exists, what is going on behind the scenes to suppress the opposi­tion? Either way, these questions point to a potentially dis­turbing backdrop from which the president and vice presi­dent hopefuls will enter office. 
And yet, whether we like it or not, Rocheleau and Rose will represent the student body come April 1, with the goal of advancing the vision of the current administration. Their platform is detailed and structured, however, some ideas are more feasible and beneficial than others. 
The platform includes some practical initiatives that will better the daily lives of the student body. For example, the pair wants to put printers in every building on campus and make residence halls “greener” by installing hydration sta­tions and efficient hand dryers. These ideas are good and can likely be accomplished. 
However, some larger scale ideas are both impractical and ineffective. 
The pair wants to bring a specialty grocery store — such as Trader Joe’s or Whole Foods Market — to Eddy Street Commons to improve relations with the South Bend com­munity. 
But students and residents will not be able to form mean­ingful, long-term relationships simply by shopping at the same store. Furthermore, students already know the resi­dents who would shop at an expensive grocery store — pro­fessors and students’ parents. We need to reach out to the community as a whole and move beyond the wealth dispar­ity that is perceived to exist between Notre Dame students and South Bend as a whole. 
Rocheleau and Rose’s campaign also includes goals past student government administrations have attempted. Add­ing sexual orientation to the University’s non-discrimination clause and setting up Domer Dollars off campus are worthy causes, but why will this ticket succeed where previous ad­ministrations have tried and failed? 
The Observer’s Editorial Board can see merit in Roche­leau and Rose’s ideas, and Rocheleau’s connections from his current term as vice president will be helpful in facilitating many of these initiatives. However, their platform is far from perfect. 
Rocheleau and Rose are the only candidates for student body president and vice president. But are they the best can­didates? 
Without competition, we can’t know. That is why we, the members of The Observer’s Editorial Board, cannot endorse Brett Rocheleau and Katie Rose for Notre Dame’s student body president and vice president. 
Instead, come Wednesday’s election, we endorse abstaining. 
Send a message. 

Choose to demand a choice. 
INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER SMC renovates Le Mans Hall page 3 u Viewpoint page 6 u Super Bowl highs and lows page 8 u Women’s basketball to play Syracuse page 16 
page 2 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u DAY-TO-DAY Tuesday, February 7, 2012 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT WAS YOUR FAVORITE SUPER BOWL COMMERCIAL? 

www.ndsmcobserver.com 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
Douglas Farmer 

Managing Editor Business Manager 
Sarah Mervosh Jeff Liptak 
Asst. Managing Editor: Adriana Pratt Asst. Managing Editor: Chris Masoud News Editor: Sam Stryker Viewpoint Editor: Meghan Thomassen Sports Editor: Allan Joseph Scene Editor: Maija Gustin Saint Mary’s Editor: Caitlin E. Housley Photo Editor: Pat Coveney Graphics Editor: Brandon Keelean Advertising Manager: Katherine Lukas Ad Design Manager: Amanda Jonovski Controller: Jason Taulman Systems Administrator: William Heineman 
Office Manager & General Info 
(574) 631-7471 
Fax 
(574) 631-6927 
Advertising 

(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 

Editor-in-Chief 

(574) 631-4542 dfarmer1@nd.edu 
Managing Editor 

(574) 631-4542 smervosh@nd.edu 
Assistant Managing Editors 

(574)631-4541 apratt@nd.edu, cmasoud@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 


News Desk 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
Viewpoint Desk 

(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 
Sports Desk 

(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 

Scene Desk 

(574) 631-4540 mgustin@nd.edu 
Saint Mary’s Desk 
chousl01@saintmarys.edu 


Photo Desk 

(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 


Policies 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College.  Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion 
of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of 
The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The 
free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Douglas Farmer. 

Post Office Information 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 and additional mailing offices 024 South Dining hall Notre Dame, IN 46556-077 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
Anastasia Hansen  Ben Hubeny  Carl Brinker  Conor Hawes  Jon Repine  Kirsten Groody  
sophomore Lewis  junior Dillon  junior Knott  junior Dillon  senior Alumni  junior Welsh Family  
“The OK Go & Chevy Sonic  “I didn’t watch.”  “Hyundai Cheetah Chase”  “The Ferris Bueller  “Oikos Greek Yogurt”  “The Here Weego dog”  
music video”  Honda CR-V  
commercial”  




Have an idea for Question of the Day? Email obsphoto@gmail.com 


TODAY’S STAFF 
News 
Sara Felsenstein Marisa Iati Adam Llorens 

Graphics 
Lisa Hoeynck 

Photo 
Tom La 


Sports 

Kelsey Manning Matthew Robison Walker Carey 

Scene 

Maija Gustin 

Viewpoint 
Ren Brauweiler 


LOCAL WEATHER 
OFFBEAT 
Montana man fined for insti­gating police chase 
BUTTE, Mont. — A Butte man who told officers he in­stigated a police chase be­cause he always wanted to try it, found out it’ll cost him a $1,000 fine to go with his tire damage. 
The Montana Standard in Butte reports 55-year­old John C. Hughes pleaded guilty Thursday in City Court to reckless driving while eluding a peace officer. 
The chase began in the pre-dawn hours Thursday when officers reported a man followed a patrol car for sev­en blocks before pulling his SUV around and taking off at speeds of up to 70 mph. Offi­cers say Hughes was travel­ing faster than 100 mph on the interstate before officers laid out a spike strip to flatten his tires. 

When asked why he started the chase, Hughes said, “I just always wanted to do that,” ac­cording to the police report. 
Chicago college offers class on Occupy movement 
CHICAGO — A Chicago col­lege is offering a class on the Occupy movement. 
Thirty-two undergradu­ate students are enrolled at Roosevelt University’s “Oc­cupy Everywhere” class. It’s a three-credit political sci­ence course that looks at the movement that started last summer near New York City’s Wall Street and spread na­tionwide. 
The Chicago Sun-Times reports students’ assign­ments include reading the movement’s newspaper and attending Occupy Chicago’s general assembly meetings held near Roosevelt’s down­town campus. 
Leaders from the Chicago movement may present guest lectures. 
Professor Jeff Edwards studies social movements. He says the Occupy move­ment has been unfolding be­fore students and the class is a good opportunity for them. He says they are read­ing a range of analysis on the movement concerned with corporate greed and the divi­sion of wealth. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 


IN BRIEF 
Eduardo Posada Carbo will give a lecture titled “Church, Elections and Democratization in Co­lombia, 1830-1930” today at 12:30 p.m. in Room C103 of the Hesburgh Center. 
Dr. Abdolrahim Gavahi will give a lecture titled “Men of God — Symbols of Love and Compassion: The story of Ismael Du­labi, a Contemporary Muslim Religious Healer” today at 4:30 p.m. at McK­enna Hall. The lecture is free and open to the pub­lic. 
Have dinner with the Notre Dame baseball team today at 6 p.m. at Club Naimoli inside the Joyce Center. Tickets can be purchased at UND.com. Dinner will be provided by Famous Dave’s. 
Purchase Valentine’s Day flowers from the Pas­querilla West Flower Sale today from 7 to 10 p.m. at the LaFortune Student Center. The cost is $1 per flower. All proceeds ben­efit the Fr. Jim Karaffa Business Academy for Women. 
Dalia Landau and Khader Al-Kalak will give a presentation titled “Open House: The Story of A Grassroots Model for Promoting Reconciliation in Israel/Palestine” today at 7:30 p.m. at the McK­enna Hall auditorium. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, email detailed information about an event to obsnews.nd@gmail.com 

TODAY TONIGHT WEDNESDAY THURSDAY FRIDAY SATURDAY 












CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
HIGH 32 LOW 26 

HIGH 35 LOW 25 
HIGH 38 LOW 23 

HIGH 24 LOW 15 
HIGH 22 LOW 21 

Tuesday, February 7, 2012 The Observer u NEWS ndsmcobserver.com | page 3 

CAMPUS LIFE COUNCIL 



Group discusses campus safety, GLBTQ club 
By NICOLE TOCZAUER 
News Writer 
Members of Campus Life Coun­cil (CLC) discussed updates in campus safety and the proposed GLBTQ student group during their meeting Monday. 
Student body vice president Brett Rocheleau said NDSP Of­ficer Keri Kei Shibata and Uni­versity police have expanded the crime-tracking devices available to students. 
Shibata said NDSP has sub­scribed to CrimeReports.com, a website the community can use to access up to date information on local crimes. Shibata said stu­dents could also create their own accounts on the website to re­ceive email updates. 
“It’s important for us to be aware of what’s going on around us. Not only by paying attention, looking and listening, but by knowing what types of crimes to look out for,” she said. “This is a user-friendly way for students to know about the info collected by police agencies.” 
Shibata said the South Bend Po­lice Department is in the process of working with CrimeReports, as well. She said NDSP would sug­gest a subscription to the Misha­waka Police Department. 
Student body president Pat Mc­Cormick said he and Rocheleau would continue discussions with local law enforcement today. 
McCormick said the other goal of the meeting was to wrap up discussion on the proposed GLBTQ support group before Senate meets on Wednesday. 
Sophomore Tom Lienhoop, a representative from the Core Council for Gay and Lesbian, Bi­sexual and Questioning Students, argued that students on campus need a peer GLBTQ group. 
“AllianceND unofficially exists on campus and has been denied recognition at least 15 times,” he said. “This creates a nega­tive stigma on campus that de­ters LGBT students because they don’t feel comfortable.” 
Lienhoop said the hostile per­ception causes prospective stu­dents to choose other colleges and for some students to transfer out of Notre Dame. 
“We’re losing excellent stu­dents and diversity to other uni­versities,” he said. “(LGBTQ stu­dents) feel [excluded] and that they have a poor quality of life on campus.” 
An official Gay Straight Alli­ance (GSA) group would allow for more student engagement, as well as give sovereignty to the gay community, he said. 
“Core only has eight members,” Lienhoop said. “Alliance could have an open membership.” 


Lienhoop said AllianceND would adhere to Church teaching through acts of service and by promoting human dignity. 
“AllianceND is committed to service in the South Bend com­munity and has already part­nered with local groups,” Lien-hoop said. “It could partner with local high schools to offer positive role models there as well.” 
He said Core and AllianceND 

College renovates Le Mans Hall 
By KAITLYN RABACH 
News Writer 
After several pipes broke in Le Mans Hall over win­ter break, Saint Mary’s Col­lege has decided to accelerate renovation plans  originally intended to begin after the spring semester. 
During winter break, a small leak in the Le Mans attic caused a flood in a resident’s room and the Financial Aid Office. Pipe replacements in Le Mans began at the end of Janu­ary and will continue through­out the spring semester. 
Bill Hambling, director of Facilities at Saint Mary’s, said the new pipes will not only have a longer life history but will save the College time and money. 
“The pipes are from the ear­ly 1900s and are getting pretty old,” Hambling said. “What we are trying to do with these repairs is replace the pipes with new … plastic pipes that will ease both the repair and overall maintenance of pipes throughout the building.” 

The project was originally planned to commence this summer, but Hambling said one of the reasons they be­gan the repairs earlier was to complete renovations before students returned for the fall semester. 
“With all the other renova­tions taking place this sum­mer and with the different summer activities happening around campus, we needed to get a jumpstart on the Le Mans renovations,” Hambling said. “This is a very aggressive project of high magnitude and needed to be pushed up.” 
Hambling said students have been notified that construction will take place in the public bathrooms daily from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. 
“Emails have been sent out to all students regarding the renovations and when cer­tain bathrooms will be un­available,” Hambling said. “There are also floor plans and schedules of when certain bathrooms will be unavailable posted throughout all halls of Le Mans.” 
Hambling said students have been cooperative with the project so far, and that it is important to remember that these renovations will im­prove accommodations for all residents. 
“Student cooperation is nev­er a problem,” he said. “These renovations are to take care of old issues to make it more habitable for all students.” 
Contact Kaitlyn Rabach at                    krabac01@saintmarys.edu 

City evicts Occupy demonstrators 
Associated Press 
PORTLAND, Maine — A tent city that’s among the longest-lived Occupy protest encamp­ments is coming down as part of a new wave of eviction orders against demonstrators aligned with the movement in communi­ties including Miami, Washing­ton and Pittsburgh. 
Occupy Maine demonstra­tors removed several large tents over the weekend, and the city on Monday gave them additional time to remove the rest. 
Demonstrators who estab­lished the encampment just two weeks after the Occupy Wall Street encampment set up shop in New York City vowed to con­tinue their work to call attention to corporate excess and econom­ic inequality. 

“Just because the occupation is changing form doesn’t mean it’s going away,” Heather Curtis, one of the campers, said Monday before she started hauling away her belongings from snow-cov­ered Lincoln Park. 
The encampments that were the heart of the movement are becoming scarcer. On Monday, a judge issued what appeared to be the final notice for Occupy Pittsburgh to leave. Over the past week, police began removing demonstrators in Miami; Austin, Texas; and Washington, D.C. 
The voices are still making themselves heard, though. 
On Monday, about 20 dem­onstrators disrupted a legisla­tive budget hearing in Albany, N.Y., shouting that millionaires should be taxed more. Albany’s camp was busted up in Decem­ber. 
Occupy Maine, which already has office space elsewhere in Portland, plans to continue get­ting its message out through other means, as well. 
“You can only fight for so 
long and you realize at the end 
that it’s a new beginning,” said Deese Hamilton, one of the four named plaintiffs in a law­suit aiming to keep protesters in Lincoln Park. Hamilton was homeless before joining with the Occupy protesters. 
The campers were supposed to be out by Monday morning, and they dismantled four to five communal tents over the weekend. But 16 tents remained Monday morning, and the city granted the group’s request for more time, giving them until Friday to finish the cleanup. 
could work together to further the Spirit of Inclusion at Notre Dame. 
“As a member of Core, I can attest they would serve unique spheres at Notre Dame,” Lien-hoop said. “They would improve student life, alleviate the bad rep­utation ND has in this area and help the community.” 
McCormick said that when a student articulates a need, stu­dent government has the respon­sibility to look into that need. It 
Platform 
continued from page 1 
tice event to the University. 
In Our Words 
• Best Idea: Rocheleau and Rose want to push for the inclusion of a non-discrimi­nation clause and the estab­lishment of a gay-straight alliance on campus. Public opinion and Church teaching on such issues have dramati­cally shifted in the past few years. 
• Worst Idea: The ticket plans to attract a high-end grocery store to Eddy Street Commons as an avenue to interact with locals. Such an idea is misguided, however, as stores like Trader Joe’s are too expensive for many residents and students. Their plan to address community relations was weak in gen­eral, as Rocheleau and Rose identified the relations as an issue and then outlined a plan to stay the course, say­ing much of what is currently being done is working. 
• Most Feasible Idea: Con­tinuing the role of constitu­ency services in student gov­ernment. A lot has been done in this area through the work of this year’s administration. There is no reason Rocheleau and Rose cannot do the same, especially if they set it as a priority of their term. 
• Least Feasible Idea: Mod-
is a serious priority for student government when a student feels discriminated against, he said. 
“The fact is that a GSA or peer-to-peer group would meet a de­fined need … From a student gov­ernment point, then, we have to advocate,” he said. 
McCormick said Senate would vote on the resolution on Wednes­day. 
Contact Nicole Toczauer at                     ntoczaue@nd.edu 
ernizing Notre Dame Stadium 
may seem like a nice idea on paper, but the thought that a student forum will change how things have always been done seems far-fetched. While changes have been made in the game day experience this year, these initiatives were not student led. 
• Notable Quote: “Notre Dame student government should not only be about mer­its of consequence, but merits of convenience.” –Rocheleau 
Bottom Line 
Rocheleau and Rose say their years of experience within student government is a strength of their ticket, and will provide for a smoother than usual transition period between administrations. While their primary goal of promoting constituent ser­vices is both achievable and commendable, it is nothing revolutionary, as it has been the priority of this year’s ad­ministration. At times, both Rocheleau and Rose seemed naïve about the goals they want to achieve — they iden­tify student-community re­lations as an issue and then say the current method of addressing that area is work­ing. They also have somewhat lofty goals in terms of campus safety and modernization. Rocheleau and Rose certainly have the experience to do the job. Only time will tell if they can achieve what they set out to do. 


Tuesday, February 7, 2012 The Observer u NEWS ndsmcobserver.com | page 4 
spective or change.” different things you see, but 
Though the Rocheleau-there is nothing drastic that 
Election 

Rose ticket was the only of-needs to be changed,” he said. continued from page 1 ficial petition to be approved, Rocheleau said he does 
Rocheleau said they did not not believe the student body this story. know this when they formed is apathetic to what student 
“Coming into this election, a ticket. government does, nor do they there were a lot of different “We went about this think-perceive it as meaningless. candidates inside student ing it was going to be like last “I think they perceive government that were very in-year,” he said. “We knew this [student government] to be terested in running, but this whole process of being com-strong,” he said. “I think they time, there weren’t different petitive is what makes stu-see what we have been work-visions,” Rocheleau said. “So dent government thrive.” ing on in the past year and instead of having four tick-Rocheleau said he faced they want more of the same. ets basically saying the same competition in last year’s I think they are happy with thing, we de-student body what we are doing.” cided to stay presidential Noe said as a student, he unified as ele c t io n s , believes the showing in this student gov-which fea-year’s election displays Notre ernment and “Coming into this tured five Dame students understand push togeth-election, there were a lot tickets. He what has been achieved this er.” of different candidates said he and year in student government. 
Other po-inside student government Rose wanted “I think it speaks to the fact tential can-that were very interested to bring a that students are generally didates were similar spirit in support of and in favor of 
in running, but this 
u l t i m at el y to this year’s what we have done this year,” 
time, there weren’t 
more inter-elections. he said. 
different visions.” 
ested in ad-“I would Sophomore Cait Ogren, vice d r e s s i n g hate for that president of elections with specific con-Brett Rocheleau to be lost in the Judicial Council, said this cerns, Roche-student body vice president this year’s year’s situation is unusual, leau said. c a m p a i g n , but the Judicial Council ad­
“With us and that is vertised the election to the running, they why we’re student body in the same way saw that they going about as in previous years. could really focus on the is-it as if it was extremely com-“In past years, we did the sues they truly have at heart,” petitive,” he said. “We want to same where there was an he said. hear the voices of the student information session for all 
Senior Ben Noe, director of body.” people interested before internal affairs for student Though he may be the only Christmas break and after government, agreed to speak candidate running for stu-Christmas break,” she said. “I for this story based on his dent body president, Roche-hold office hours every week perspective as a Notre Dame leau said he where peo­student, rather than as some-is open to the ple can ask one within student govern-opinion of the questions, ment. He said he sees a vari-student body. the petitions ety of potential explanations “It’s not just were avail-as to the lack of competition two people “I’m not sure this is able … It was this year. running un-going to become a trend the same 
“Speaking as a student, not opposed. It’s in future years.” protocol, as a person in student govern-a vast major-just a unique ment, there are several rea-ity of student year.” 
Ben Noe

sons why there could be only government, Ogren said 
director of internal affairs 

ticket right now,” Noe said. “It of differ-the fact that just may be a non-competitive ent sectors,” student government both candi­year, people may be really ac-he said. “We dates come cepting of continuing the vi-have people from inside sion Pat laid out … and this not a part of student gov-transferred into Brett and student gov-ernment is Katie’s campaign.” ernment on not unusual. 
Rocheleau said he believes our team; we have a lot of “Usually most candidates Notre Dame students support people who are a part of stu-are involved in student gov-the work the administration dent government on our team ernment in some aspect, so has done this year. … We’re bringing different I wouldn’t say there is any­
“They saw what we did in perspectives as well.” thing particularly unique,” the past year, and they want-Looking forward to the next she said. ed to see more of the same vi-year, Rocheleau said he be-Though only one ticket was sion,” he said. “They decided lieves little change needs to ultimately approved, Ogren they wanted to keep student be made to how student gov-said there seemed to be inter-government and the vision ernment is currently run. est from the student body in where it was, and didn’t want “Obviously, every year the election. However, the Ju­to bring in a different per-when you look at it, there are dicial Council is not able to identify potential candidates until their petitions for ap­proval are turned in. 
“There were various indi­viduals who attended each individual information ses­sion,” she said. “At the in­formation sessions, we don’t have any indication of wheth­er those people are running themselves, whether they are getting information for future years, or information for oth­er people, so we can never re­ally know who is intending to run until petitions come in.” 
Though the same protocol is used every election for notify­ing the student body, Ogren said every year yields differ­ent results. 
“It completely depends on the year, the students, the interest, it’s just beyond our control,” she said. “We never know what we’re going to get until petitions come rolling in.” 


Ultimately, Noe said he believes the circumstances of this year’s election are unique. 
“I’m not sure this is going to become a trend in future years,” he said. 
The faculty adviser for Ju­dicial Council declined to comment, and the direc­tor of student activities for programming could not be reached by press time. 
Contact Sam Stryker at                  sstryke1@nd.edu 


Tuesday, February 7, 2012 The Observer u NEWS ndsmcobserver.com | page 5 


Man accused of killing homeless faces new charges 
Associated Press 
SANTA ANA, Calif. — A for­mer Marine already accused of killing four homeless men was charged Monday with two new counts of murder in the stab­bing deaths of his high school friend’s mother and older brother. 
Itzcoatl Ocampo, 23, was charged in the killing of 53-year-old Raquel Estrada and her son, 34-year-old Juan Herrera, in the family’s rented home on a quiet Yorba Linda cul-de-sac in October. 
Charges were dropped against Estrada’s son Eder Herrera, a former schoolmate of Ocampo, who was freed af­ter more than three months in jail. 
Orange County District At­torney Tony Rackauckas said authorities found DNA evi­dence linking Ocampo to the murders of Estrada and Juan Herrera on an item of cloth­ing found during a search of his family’s home last month, when Ocampo was charged with the homeless murders. 
“The homeless people killed were all easy victims but he clearly wasn’t limited to that,” Rackauckas told reporters. “He’s just a monstrous serial killer.” 
The slender, bearded Ocam­po appeared briefly in court Monday in an orange jail jump­suit and agreed to postpone his arraignment until March 
16. He will also be arraigned on charges of murdering four homeless men in a killing spree in December and January in the county known as the home of Disneyland. 
The killings led police to fan out and urge people to seek shelter indoors. 
Ocampo’s attorney Randall Longwith said the new mur­der charges didn’t fit with the previous allegations against his client, who was mainly con­cerned on Monday with being allowed to visit with his fam­ily. His younger brother and sister sobbed after seeing him shackled in a caged area of the courtroom. 
“I’m shocked as to these charges,” said Longwith, who declined to comment on the de­tails until he had reviewed the evidence. 
Estrada and her son were stabbed to death in their home in October, and Her­rera, 24, was arrested shortly afterward. Police found large amounts of blood smeared in­side the house and a black ski mask, black hat, wallet and sunglasses on the kitchen ta­ble, according to a copy of the search warrant affidavit. 
Police seized numerous items from the home, includ­ing multiple cell phones and a notebook containing sorrowful writings from Herrera’s room, court papers showed. 
Authorities deemed Her­rera’s behavior suspicious that night because he was driving around with a friend but did not want to stop and check on his family when police swarmed the small street after the murders, prosecutors said. In addition, authorities said a video surveillance tape from a drug store near the spot where a 911 call was made from a pay phone, reporting loud noises 


Senate develops online security plan 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON — A develop­ing Senate plan that would bol­ster the government’s ability to regulate the computer security of companies that run critical industries is drawing strong opposition from businesses that say it goes too far and security experts who believe it should have even more teeth. 
Legislation set to come out in the days ahead is intended to ensure that computer systems running power plants and other essential parts of the country’s infrastructure are protected from hackers, terrorists or oth­er criminals. The Department of Homeland Security, with input from businesses, would select which companies to regulate; the agency would have the pow­er to require better computer security, according to officials who described the bill. They spoke on condition of anonym­ity because lawmakers have not finalized all the details. 
Those are the most conten­tious parts of legislation de­signed to boost cybersecurity against the constant attacks that target U.S. government, corporate and personal com­puter networks and accounts. Authorities are increasingly worried that cybercriminals are trying to take over systems that control the inner workings of water, electrical, nuclear or other power plants. 
That was the case with the Stuxnet computer worm, which targeted Iran’s nuclear pro­gram in 2010, infecting laptops at the Bushehr nuclear power plant. 
As much as 85 percent of America’s critical infrastruc­ture is owned and operated by private companies 
The emerging proposal isn’t sitting well with those who be­lieve it gives Homeland Security too much power and those who think it’s too watered down to achieve real security improve­ments. 

One issue under debate is how the bill narrowly limits the industries that would be subject to regulation. 
Summaries of the bill re­fer to companies with systems “whose disruption could result in the interruption of life-sus­taining services, catastrophic economic damage or severe degradation of national secu­rity capabilities.” 
Critics suggest that such lim­its may make it too difficult for the government to regulate those who need it. 
There are sharp disagree­ments over whether Homeland Security is the right depart­ment to enforce the rules and whether it can handle the new responsibilities. U.S. officials familiar with the debate said the department would move gradually, taking on higher pri­ority industries first. 
“The debate taking place in Congress is not whether the government should pro­tect the American people from catastrophic harms caused by cyberattacks on critical infra­structure, but which entity can do that most effectively,” said Jacob Olcott, a senior cyberse­curity expert at Good Harbor Consulting. 
Under the legislation, Home­land Security would not regu­late industries that are under the authority of an agency, such as the Nuclear Regulatory Com­mission, with jurisdiction al­ready over cyber issues. 
“Where the market has worked, and systems are ap­propriately secure, we don’t interfere,” said Sen. Joe Lieber­man, I-Conn., chairman of the Senate Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Commit­tee. “But where the market has failed, and critical systems are insecure, the government has a responsibility to step in.” 
The bill, written largely by the Senate Commerce, Science and Transportation Commit­tee and the Senate homeland panel, is also notable for what it does not include: a provision that would give the president authority to shut down Inter­net traffic to compromised Web sites during a national emer­gency. This ‘”kill switch” idea was discussed in early drafts, but drew outrage from corpo­rate leaders, privacy advocates and Internet purists who be­lieve cyberspace should remain an untouched digital universe. 
While the Senate is pulling together one major piece of cybersecurity legislation, the House has several bills that deal with various aspects of the issue. 
A bill from a House Homeland Security subcommittee doesn’t go as far as the Senate’s in set­ting the government’s role. Still, it would require DHS to develop cybersecurity standards and work with industry to meet them. 
“We know voluntary guide­lines simply have not worked,” said Rep. Jim Langevin, D-R.I. “For the industries upon which we most rely, government has a role to work with the pri­vate sector on setting security guidelines and ensuring they are followed.” 
Stewart Baker, a former as­sistant secretary at Homeland Security, said the government must get involved to force com­panies to take cybersecurity more seriously. 
coming from the home, showed a person who resembled Her­rera and wore similar-looking shoes. 
Rackauckas said Herrera is still considered to be suspi­cious, but the newly discovered DNA evidence changed the way authorities viewed the case and they no longer felt they had suf­ficient evidence to detain him. 
Herrera’s attorney Huy Nguyen declined to comment on the details of the case, cit­ing the ongoing investigation. He declined to say whether his client was cooperating with in­vestigators. 


Walmart launches new ‘healthy’ icon 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK — You may like the food you buy, but is it “Great for You”? 
Wal-Mart Stores Inc. plans to help its customers figure that out by adding a new green icon that reads “Great for You” to packaging of some of its house-brand foods. 
The green and white seal, which shows the stylized out­line of a human figure with its arms spread toward the sky, is part of a multiyear campaign the world’s largest retailer is undertaking to promote healthier products and fight childhood obesity. 
Food makers and sellers have come under scrutiny in the past for adding nutritional seals to the fronts of packages. The Food and Drug Administration said in 2009 that some compa­nies used them misleadingly. 
The FDA is developing stan­dards for what health claims can be made on food packages, but Wal-Mart says its custom­ers want the information now. 
Wal-Mart’s new seal, which echoes the name of one of its key house brands, Great Value, won’t impart any actual nu­tritional information when it starts appearing this spring. But the company says the seal will be affixed to in-house products with lower levels of fat, sugar and artificial addi­tives. 
The seal also will appear on signs near bins of fruits and vegetables and on some of Wal­Mart’s in-house products un­der the Marketside brand. The company said 20 to 25 percent of its Great Value-brand foods meet the criteria for the new seal, though it didn’t say how many products will carry it. 
“It helps customers see very, very quickly what healthier choices are for them,” Andrea Thomas, senior vice president of sustainability for Wal-Mart Stores, said Monday in a con­ference call with reporters. 
The criteria will be outlined at www.walmartgreatforyou. com and allow all-natural foods, as well as foods without added sugar or too much fat, including fresh fruits and veg­etables and items such as whole wheat pasta and low-fat dairy products. 
Foods that have too many ar­tificial additives, or too much fat, don’t make the cut, Wal-Mart said. Regular pasta, white rice and yogurt with added sugar will not carry the seal. 
Nutritional guidelines always have gray areas. Eggs were de­bated because of worries over their high cholesterol, for ex­ample, but Thomas said they earned the seal because they are a low-cost source of pro­tein. 
The FDA in 2009 said it would develop its own standards for health claims on food package fronts, but it has yet to do so. The agency said then that the proliferation of different labels created by different food com­panies could confuse consum­ers. 
Wal-Mart officials say they consulted with the FDA as it developed the “Great For You” seal and would comply with whatever standards the agency eventually sets. But custom­ers are looking for information now, they say. 


page 6 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com Tuesday, February 7, 2012 
INSIDE COLUMN 

From actress to inspiration 
While lounging around my friends’ house the other night, we decided to check Netflix’s Instant Queue out of pure bore­dom. We had just watched “A Clockwork Orange” and needed something slightly less vexing or cere­bral as an endnote to a lazy movie night. 
Much to our de­light, we landed on “The Wonder Years.” If any of you haven’t had the pleasure of watching this fine blast to the past, I Alexandra suggest you log onto Kilpatrick Netflix immediately and watch an epi-Scene Writer sode. It’s the perfect mixture of fictional adolescent trials and tribulations and a realistic retrospective on the Vietnam War era. 

The show features protagonist Kevin Arnold, a teenager growing up in the nameless American suburbs during the war, along with his family, his nerdy yet endearing friend Paul Pfeiffer and his friend-turned-love interest Winnie Cooper. 
While watching an episode in which Kevin and Winnie get into a quarrel, my friends and I began discussing where the actors are now. We were all impressed by the fact that Danica McKellar, who portrayed Winnie, had since become a mathematician and published three New York Times bestsellers pandered to ado­lescent girls about the merits of succeed­ing in math. 
Focused on her math career, McKellar studied mathematics at UCLA and gradu­ated with highest honors in 1998. During her undergrad years, she coauthored a scientific paper with Professor Lincoln Chayes and fellow colleague Brandy Winn, which resulted in the “Chayes-McKellar-Winn theorem.” 
I’m sure most of you have heard of a Bacon Number. As in the game Six De­grees of Kevin Bacon? Similar to the “six degrees of separation” concept, this game rests on the assumption that any Holly­wood actor can be linked to actor Kevin Bacon in six steps or fewer. 
But have you heard of an Erds-Bacon number? Probably not. That’s because McKellar is one of the few people with the number, which combines a Bacon num­ber with an Erds number (the degrees of collaboration on mathematical papers be­tween a person and prolific modern math paper writer Paul Erds). Among other celebrities with the esoteric number are Carl Sagan, Stephen Hawking and Natalie Portman, who authored a psychology paper during her time at Harvard. 
In a world filled with mindless reality TV stars and child actors-turned-drug­addicts, I find it more than refreshing that some child stars grow up to live well-adjusted lives. Not to belittle McKellar’s acting career by any means. 
In fact, McKellar still acts on the side and has recently appeared in episodes of “How I Met Your Mother” and “The Big Bang Theory,” as a Cal Tech graduate student no less. If nothing else, McKel­lar is simply proof that not all child stars grow up to become meth addicts or spontaneously shave their heads in times of distress. But even more so, she’s an accomplished writer, mathematician and actress, an excellent role model to young women and someone who should be acknowledged more so than the countless reality TV stars of the world. 
Contact Alexandra Kilpatrick at      akilpatr@nd.edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

Why runners are more funner 
As anyone who has seen the “Race for Rabies” episode of “The Office” can attest, runners are a funny bunch. Through SSLP, I spent my last sum­mer living in Utah, an active commu­nity of ski bums, mountain bikers, Carolyn Green white-water rafters and yes, Holy Half runners. At one Marathon point during the summer, I recall seeing an entire fam­ily — mother, father, son and daugh­ter — all in running clothes and all in matching FiveFinger shoes. Granted, I was in a Wal-Mart at the time, but still 
— in no other sport do people willingly wear shoes that make them appear to have gorilla feet. 
Whether a competitive racer or a recreational jogger, you are guaran­teed to find something that interests you in the world of running. For ex­ample, the “Runyon 5K” in New York, N.Y., features a course entirely inside Yankee Stadium, winding up and down aisles, ramps and stairs and circling around the baseball diamond. The “Man vs. Horse Marathon” in Llanwr­tyd Wells, Wales (yeah, I don’t know how to pronounce that, either) pits man against beast in a 22-mile race over rough terrain. In 27 years, man has beaten horse only two times, but over 500 runners still attempt the contest every year. 
Two North Carolina undergrads dreamed up a dare that became the annual “Krispy Kreme Challenge,” where runners have one hour to run two miles, consume a box of Krispy Kreme donuts, then run the two miles back to the start. The “Freeze Yer Gizzard” run takes place in one of the coldest cities in America — surpris­ingly, not South Bend, but International Falls, Minn. Held in mid-January, the 

EDITORIAL CARTOON 

race typically falls on one of the coldest days of the year with temperatures dip­ping into the low negative 50s. Hun­dreds of people run the “Impossible 5K” each year in Woodstock, Cal. … or do they? The race begins at 1:50 a.m., ensuring that participants are running at the exact moment Daylight Savings Time begins. A runner can complete the course in 25 minutes, finishing at 
1:15 AM, making this the only race in the world where runners can have negative finishing times. 
Though the Holy Half Marathon doesn’t feature Speedo-clad Santas, humans pursuing costumed zombies or leaps over live electrical wires (all real races), it is still plenty of fun. Holy Half Marathons in the years past have featured race bags filled with gummy bears, mile-markers decorated with Holy Cows, runners dressed as Clifford the Big Red Dog and even a marriage proposal. There are plenty of new fea­tures adding to the spirit of this year’s race, as well. 
We are hoping to have all dorms sponsor either an aid or entertainment station, so get together with your room­mates, hall council and dorm commis­sioners to decide if you will be passing out Gatorade or performing to Gaga. The most supportive dorm will win the coveted Holy Half Spirit Award, a noteworthy title for all dorms vying for Hall of the Year. 
The Holy Half 2012 also introduces the “Holy Half Heroes” program. Run­ners ask for sponsorships from family and friends to run the race, and enter these donations online. All runners who raise $50 will receive a limited edition “Holy Half Heroes” t-shirt, and every $10 above $50 gives a runner another chance to enter a drawing for fabulous prizes from elite athletes and famed Notre Dame football coaches. 
See the “Holy Half Heroes” section under the donation page of the holyhalf.nd.edu website, and keep an eye on the Holy Half Facebook and Twitter for more details. 
Training for the Holy Half can be fun, too. Most runners are looking for a buddy, so ask around to find a train­ing partner for those lovely long runs. The half marathon training plan on the Holy Half website includes ways to shake up your routine, such as fast-finishers or cruise-intervals. A fartlek run, meaning “speed play” in Swedish (although, when I ran fartleks dur­ing high school cross country, my dad would say the name sounded more like something the dog would do) encourage you to change up your pace and run fast for as long (or short) as you like. 
Finally, I present a list of the top 10 songs to listen to while running, as suggested by fans of the Holy Half Facebook page: 
1.
 “Good Feeling” by Flo Rida 

2.
 “International Love” by Pitbull 

3.
 “And We Danced” by Macklemore 

4.
 “Levels” by Avicii 

5.
 “Lose Yourself” by Eminem 

6.
 “I Believe in a Thing Called Love” by The Darkness 

7.
 “I Won’t Back Down” by Tom Petty 

8.
 “Who’s that Chick?” by Rihanna and David Guetta 

9.
 “We’ll Be Alright” by Travie McCoy 

10.
 “Beat It” by Michael Jackson 


There’s just something about gra­tuitously bad hip-hop and classic rock that makes you run faster. Happy run­ning! 
Carolyn Green is the student director of the Holy Half Marathon. She can be reached at cgreen9@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“I am not afraid of storms, for I am learning how to sail my ship.” 
Louisa May Alcott 
U.S. writer 



WEEKLY POLL 

Which was the best Super Bowl commercial? 
Pepsi — King’s Court Audi — Vampire Party Budweiser — Prohibition Volkswagen — Dog Strikes Back 
Vote by 5 p.m. Thursday at 
ndsmcobserver.com 


Tuesday, February 7, 2012 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 7 
Taking the fifth 
The way I see it, barring divine inspiration or outright plagiarism, you can’t write anything good if your heart isn’t in it. And as the posters the College of Arts and Letters puts up in O’Shaugnessy Hall suggest, the Col-Arnav Dutt lege would like un­dergrads to sum-Guest mon up as much Columnist heart (or pray for as much inspiration) as they need to produce exceptional senior theses. So do institutions like the Kellog and Na­novic Institutes, which provide fund­ing to undergrad thesis writers, or the Center for Undergraduate Scholarly Engagement (CUSE), which helps un­dergrad researchers find funding. 
As undergrads, we inevitably face the overwhelming question: “To thesis, or not to thesis?” To all of those who are deciding: If it makes a difference, it sure looks like the growing contribu­tors to thesis culture at Notre Dame want you to do it and are willing to help. Of course, that won’t help you if you don’t know what to write about in the first place. 
Don’t get me wrong — undergradu­ate thesis writers appreciate the fund­ing, the workshops, the advising that this school provides. And the results reflect this, I think. I consider myself fortunate to be a student at a school that so actively promotes undergradu­ate research. But these resources address problems thesis-writers face after deciding to write about a specific topic. What of those who are conflicted as to the topic they should research? Or those who aren’t sure they want to write a thesis at all? 
The point of thesis culture is for stu­dents to identify areas of study about which they are passionate, and to then channel their passion, a whole lot of effort and whatever other resources they have at their disposal into a thesis paper or some other final project. The trouble is, it isn’t easy for most stu­dents to identify what they are pas­sionate about, or as is often the case, a single area of study they are passion­ate about. Most students have enough trouble picking a major and sticking with it. 
My experience here, and that of my friends, suggests the five-course status quo here makes it very tough to really immerse oneself in the experience of a given class. There is rarely a limit to what may be done or learned in a given class here, and Notre Dame is full of students whose curiosity doesn’t evaporate with the assurance of a high 

Changing lives with Teach For America 
On my first day as a teacher at Audubon Middle School in Los Angeles, I real­ized that my career trajectory had forever been altered. The career in law I had imagined as an undergrad at Notre Dame was capsized by Xavier, one of my 190 seventh-grade English students who single-handedly changed my understanding of a meaningful career. 
Xavier arrived on the first day wearing a tie and walked Scott Baier right up to me and shook my hand. He seemed very eager to participate in class, and when asked to read, he was the first to Guest raise his hand. When he required a lot of help from classmates Columnist and was struggling with basic vowel sounds, I realized we needed to evaluate his reading skills. Xavier’s reading assessment revealed that as a seventh grader he was reading at a first grade level. 
Xavier’s story is all too common among students growing up in low-income com­munities. Often, when kids growing up in poverty enter kindergarten, they are al­ready academically behind their wealthier peers. This gap in educational opportu­nity only widens over time. By the fourth grade, they are three grade levels behind and half won’t graduate from high school. Only one in 10 will attend college and for those lacking a college degree, many doors are firmly shut. 
While Xavier was a joy to have in the classroom, he simply didn’t have the skills necessary to be successful in middle school. For years, he had been promoted from grade to grade because he showed up to school every day, endeared himself to teachers and administrators, and his homework was graded for completion rather than mastery. In fact, his aunt — his caregiver — was surprised and saddened to learn that Xavier couldn’t read. Because he had always earned Bs, she assumed he was doing just fine in school. I knew that Xavier was capable of so much — he just needed the right support to get back on track. 
At first, Xavier was mad that I had discovered his secret, but after some negotia­tion, he was attending Saturday tutoring sessions and making incredible progress. By the end of the year he had grown four grade levels in just one year, reading at a fifth grade level. By the end of the next year, he was ready to enter ninth grade reading on grade-level. 
Kids like Xavier can’t wait. They only get one shot at a good education. That’s why I joined Teach For America a year out of Notre Dame. After my initial two-year commitment, I taught for another two years and then spent several years working at education nonprofits and in school administration. About three and a half years ago, I had the opportunity to return to Teach For America, this time as the executive director of our St. Louis region. Leading a corps of nearly 200 teachers and a network of close to 350 alumni in the area, I’m able to utilize the 
leadership skills I built at Notre Dame and in the classroom. I can think of nothing more impactful a recent college graduate can undertake 
than shaping the lives and building the brains of some amazing and deserving students. For too long, a kid’s zip code has defined his destiny.  But we know that 
with an all-hands-on-deck approach, educational inequity is a solvable problem. 
Knowing that we can close the achievement gap for students like Xavier, I simply can’t walk away from this work. As you think about the role you will play in the broader world upon graduation, I hope you will consider joining me in these ef­forts. Teach For America’s final application deadline is approaching on Feb. 10 so I urge you to visit www.teachforamerica.org to learn more or start your application. 
Scott Baier is a Notre Dame alumnus and the executive director of Teach for America in St. Louis. He can be reached at scott.baier@teachforamerica.org 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
grade. What I’ve observed is that in or­der to avoid having to choose between their academic interests and other goods like sleep, their grade point averages, extracurricular reading, clubs, sports and what have you, many students will single out one of their five classes and ignore it. That, or they’ll just drop one. Take four courses, or “blow off” one or more out of five, and you are suddenly are able to give the remaining ones the time and effort they deserve. 
And teachers and classes here certainly deserve students who are willing and able to give them a great deal of attention and time. I think the University means to allow students to develop their academic interests in this way — by being exposed to new ideas and being given the rare opportunity to lose themselves in them. This is a lot more likely to happen when students don’t have to split their time five ways. 
I think the most attractive alterna­tive to our academic schedule is the “4-1-4” system in use at MIT, Williams, Johns Hopkins and Maryland. This academic calendar consists of two four month-long semesters split by winter break and a one month “minimester” in January. Students take four courses during each semester, and can take up to two classes in January. Like us, they can take 9-10 classes every academic year, but they never take more than four at a time. They are also free to confine one of their majors to January, or to break up their usual curriculum with a month of wildly esoteric elective courses. From what I’ve heard, it’s a blast. 
This is not to say Notre Dame stu­dents can’t handle five courses at once. Notre Dame students produce some really special senior essays every year, all course-juggling aside. I encourage everyone to pick up a copy of The Jour­nal of Undergraduate Research and see what I mean first-hand. But I think we’d all rather students did better work rather than more work. Why ask Notre Dame students to balance more academic pursuits than their friends at Northwestern, Chicago, MIT, Caltech, Williams, Hopkins, Princeton and so on? If we are committed to promot­ing not only thesis culture, but also academic interest as a whole at Notre Dame, that fifth course has got to go. 
Arnav Dutt is a junior. He can be reached at adutt1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Government must respect University’s autonomy 
I read with interest the letter published on Feb. 2 by sophomore Evan Graham (“Protecting the right to choose”) regarding the University’s desire to not provide coverage for contraception in its health plans. Evan, yours is a well-constructed and well-thought-out defense of contraception. Only two problems with it: It entirely leaves God out of the equation and it leaves the teaching of the Roman Catholic Church out of it. You see, the University’s employees and students already have “freedom of choice” — they can choose not to work for Notre Dame and they can choose not to attend Notre Dame. But you are advocating taking away any freedom of choice on the part of the University. You, sir, would prefer that the University be forced by the heavy hand of government to fund an act which the Church teaches is gravely sin­ful. Would you support a law that forced Islamic or Jewish institutions to serve pork? I think not. This is no different. Our government must respect the autonomy of religious and affiliated institutions to make these decisions in the light of faith and conscience.
 Edward Knauf 
alumnus Class of 1981 Feb. 6 


EDITORIAL CARTOON 


page 8 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com Tuesday, February 7, 2012 

Gaga, Britney and Beyoncé better watch their backs, because the Queen of Pop chose this Sunday’s Super Bowl halftime show to announce she is back to reclaim her throne. 
Ostensibly, the Su­per Bowl is all about football, but let’s be real. Sunday centered on three things: food, commercials and the halftime show. More often than not, the halftime show lands somewhere in for­gettable to disaster territory, but not this year. Madonna was the perfect choice of performer, appealing to all ages since she always seems hip and relevant despite more than three decades in the business. 
Madonna hit all the right notes with her performance — spectacle, choreography and a slew of fabulous supporting perfor­mance artists. Her songs made you want 
to get up and dance despite all that pizza 
and guacamole you just ate. 
The Queen of Pop entered the field as only true pop royalty could, carried by a procession of Roman soldiers. She imme­diately launched into “Vogue,” complete with leather-clad backup dancers and a gigantic light-up stage that mimicked the 
cover of a magazine, literally bringing the 
lyrics to life. Her next song “Music” featured cho-reography that almost made you forget Madonna is 53. She is still ready to per­form in front of a live audience of over 100 million Americans. Admittedly, Madonna did nearly fall during this portion of the set, but she caught herself. 


Just when you thought Madonna was going to carry the half time show on her back, frat boy party staples LMFAO showed up to mix in some of their hits. They provided a boost of energy midway through the performance and their pres­ence led to some of the more awkward choreography of the night. Madonna launched into a weird workout routine, but hey, she’s got to keep her figure some­how. 
Next up for viewers was Madonna’s new single “Gimme All Your Luvin’,” off her upcoming “MDNA” album, set to be re­leased later this year. Madonna was able to pull off a peppy cheerleader costume change thanks to the deadly duo of Nicki Minaj and M.I.A. 
Minaj killed it as per usual, launch­ing into a rapid-fire rap verse that was over before you knew it. M.I.A. provided a needed test for the censors, dropping an expletive and giving the middle finger to all of America (but keeping her breasts to herself). 
After kicking her two supporting acts (whose combined age is roughly the same as her own) off the stage, Madonna brought the jovial Cee Lo and an entire marching band on stage. They performed a few verses of “Express Yourself” before launching into her closing number of “Like A Prayer,” complete with a full gos­pel choir. At the end of the song, Madonna disappeared beneath the stage in a cloud of smoke. It was an uplifting end to a sassy, spunky and ultimately fun perfor­mance. 
Madonna’s strong selection of songs from her catalog was bolstered by the vi­sual spectacle of the show. Modern circus whizzes Cirque du Soleil were collabora­tors for the performance, and it clearly showed in the set design, backup dancers and choreography. In fact, the light-up stage nearly stole the show, seemingly pulling the turf off and transforming into a magazine cover and giant boom box. 
You have to give it to Madonna — even after three decades in the business, she still put on a high-energy show that obvi­ously required a fair amount of prepara­tion. Minaj even described rehearsals as “grueling.” Madonna clearly knew that with an upcoming album and tour, she had one shot to remind America who the Queen of Pop really is. 
Lady Gaga, Katy Perry, Britney Spears and Rihanna may have battled for the top spot of the charts the past year, but Ma­donna let the whole world know Sunday that 2012 is hers. 
Contact Sam Stryker at sstryke1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

The American television-viewing public is lucky that some exciting football was played Sunday evening. Otherwise, the night would have been a total bust. 
This year’s Super Bowl was the most watched event in tele­vision history, beating out last year’s NFL Patrick championship game, McManus with 111.3 million viewers. And those Scene Writer viewers were engaged, breaking the English language record for tweets per second, with 12,223 toward the end of the game. 
The Super Bowl is the last vestige of an America in which television-watching was a communal activity. Devoid of myriad en­tertainment alternatives, the old America laughed and cried at the same television moments, which could later be discussed with coworkers and friends. 
Today, the Super Bowl is the last outlet by which advertisers can reach such a large percentage of the public. And for that reason, a grand tradition of innova­tive and often hilarious commercials has developed around the event, which in turn makes it all the more palatable to those segments of the population not normally inclined toward sporting events. 
Included amongst the great (or at least culturally resonant) ads of the past are Terry Tate: Office Linebacker, Coca-Cola’s Mean Joe Green, Macintosh’s 1984 and Budweiser’s Wassup commercials. 
But this year’s crop of commercials to entertain spectators in-between downs was not fantastic. As “Mad Men” charac­ter Donald Draper said, “Advertising is based on one thing: happiness.” And a lot of Sunday’s ads failed to make me happy. 
The funniest commercial was undoubt­edly the spot in which a dog, having killed a cat, bribes a man to keep quiet about it. Animals behaving unethically? That’s hilarious. 
The best use of a dog in a commercial, though, goes to Volkswagen for their com­mercial in which a dog exercises so it can fit through the doggy door and chase a Volkswagen. The only thing cuter (though not funnier, obviously) than a dog with questionable morals is a motivated dog bent on self-improvement. 
The worst use of a dog belongs to Bud Light, for their commercial featuring a dog trained to bring Bud Light to lazy partygoers. The poor canine seemed aw­fully overworked. There was also a Skech­ers commercial with a dog — advertisers must think we really like dogs. 

The most-awesome-commercial-of-the­night award belongs to the Chrysler com­mercial narrated by Clint Eastwood. The ad has since caught flack from various right-wing people who took umbrage with it on some vaguely political ground, but Clint Eastwood was talking “America.” What else do you need? 
The most comforting series of commer­cials involved the Coca-Cola polar bears. It wasn’t abundantly clear what they were doing or why they should make me want Coke, but animated polar bears are cool and I sort of wanted Coke afterwards. 
The most ill-advised commercial was certainly the Audi ad in which the headlights killed a bunch of vampires at a party, along with the vampire driver. Sure, it was killing vampires, but why even invite the association? 
The award for commercial with most cartoon characters goes to the MetLife commercial with all those cartoon char­acters. It was nice to see Jabberjaw again after all these years. 
A rather interesting, almost surreal commercial involved Toyota rethink­ing the Camry, and along the way, other things like couches and the DMV. One of the best car com­mercials was the Chevy Sonic spot in which the car sky­dives and makes a music video with OK Go. I’d like to drive that sort of car. 
There weren’t many standout mo­ments during the ad breaks of this year’s Super Bowl. A lot of ads relied on sex appeal, like Go Daddy’s commer­cials, two separate commercials with Adriana Lima and a Fiat ad. Many more used celebrities, with appearances by Jerry Seinfeld, Matthew Broderick, Elton John, David Beckham, Ricky Gervais, Will Arnett, Donald Trump, Deion Sand­ers and Regis Philbin. However, none of them seemed terribly exciting, including the anticipated-until-it-was-leaked Ferris Bueller-inspired Honda commercial. 

Maybe next year’s class of commercials will provide moments of hilarity or spawn catchphrases. Or maybe it won’t, but that’s alright, they’re only commercials. 
Contact Patrick McManus at pmcman1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LISA HOEYNCK | Observer Graphic 


Tuesday, February 7, 2012 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 9 

Wading through the excessive amount of horrible 
.lms on Instant Net.ix can be daunting for any sub­
scriber. To ease the process, Scene has graciously 
provided a list of the best Net.ix has to offer. 
1. “Labyrinth” 

David Bowie never looked so good. In this .80s fantasy movie you've likely never seen, Bowie stars as the Goblin King of a giant labyrinth created by master “Muppets”-man 
Jim Henson. Sarah (Jennifer Connelly), charged with the task of babysitting her insufferable little brother Toby, accidentally wishes him into the captivity of the Goblin King. She only has 13 hours to navigate the labyrinth and rescue her brother. It 
sounds cheesy (it was the .80s, so it was), but Henson's pup­
pet mastery extends to the many creatures of the Labyrinth. 
Plus, Bowie is the best-singing villain outside a Disney movie, 
ever. 

2. “Blue Mountain State” 
This TV show from Spike is not for the easily offended. The 
series is about a .ctional university, Blue Mountain State, 
and its football team, the Mountain Goats. Every college 
stereotype is present, from the dumb jocks to the wild party­
ing to the hazing of fraternities. The humor can verge on lewd 
sometimes, but it's not bad enough to turn you off from the 
whole show. The Goats may be a little dimwitted, but they are amusing and sometimes loveable. Check out all three seasons 
of this show on Net.ix Instant. 
3. “White Chicks” 
Although it aired in theaters in 2004, “White Chicks” is one of those forever-quotable comedies that never gets old. Shawn and Marlon Wayans star as Kevin and Marcus Cope­land, two FBI agents who undergo drastic transformations to protect hotel heiresses from a kidnapping plot. The two broth­ers disguise themselves as the female socialites and, through­out their undercover mission, are faced with crazy mishaps and laughable situations. From awkward dates to shopping with girlfriends, Kevin and Marcus are willing to do anything to get the approval of their mistrusting boss and to save the Wilson sisters. An afternoon watching “White Chicks” will certainly be a very entertaining one. 
4. “Jackie Brown” 
Though it is probably Quentin Tarantino's least discussed .lm, his third directorial effort, “Jackie Brown,” is a worth­while entry in the Tarantino collection. Coming on the heels of “Reservoir Dogs” and “Pulp Fiction,” the .lm maintains the same distinct feel as those two modern classics, though it is based on the novel “Rum Punch” by Elmore Leonard. Pam Grier stars alongside Samuel L. Jackson and Robert De Niro. 
5. “The Wonder Years” 
This coming of age retrospective is now on Net.ix Instant. As a now 30-something protagonist, an earnest Kevin tells the story of his hey-day growing up in the suburbs in the late .60s and early .70s. “The Wonder Years” features every­thing a classic coming of age tale should, from Kevin's .rst pimple to his .rst crush. It also addresses political and histori­cal issues, giving viewers a realistic look at what it was like to grow up during the Vietnam War era. 

By NEIL MATHIESON 
Scene Writer 

The wilderness is a paradox for man. From a photograph or plane window, its visceral beauty is calming. Its stillness is reassuring. But for those that must sur­vive in it, or despite it, its character is a more fatalistic one. 
In “The Grey,” Liam Neeson (“Schindler’s List”) plays Ottway, a secu­rity guard for an oil company in Alaska. He spends his days alone with only his rifle for companionship protecting the men from vicious Arctic wolves. Once-married Ottway has escaped society to try and find serenity at the end of the earth. 
However, still haunted by his past, Ottway has become a depressed recluse. Much like his surroundings, he is cold and desolate. Enveloped by this cloud of indifference, he begins to question whether life is still worth living. After his plane crashes in the middle of nowhere, Ottway must use his wits and expertise to lead a group of survivors. He must bring them through not only the bitter Arctic landscape, but a pack of unusu­ally savage wolves that are hunting them as well. 
At age 60, Neeson’s resurgence as an action star is a peculiar one. Ever since “Taken,” audiences have largely em­braced his new persona. Neeson’s rug­ged masculine features coupled with that firm baritone Irish accent give him an incredibly affirming nature. He gains our trust immediately and, therefore, our fondness. This natural likability al­lows for the action that follows to become ever more meaningful. 
In “The Grey,” Neeson does a wonderful job allowing for his God-given demeanor to take the lead. He expresses his char­acter exquisitely with longing looks and a simple furrowing of the brow. Like an odd mixture of Jimmy Stewart and Clint Eastwood, Neeson blends vulnerability with a fierce toughness. 
“The Grey” is a film with rampant 
schizophrenia. It can’t ever seem to make 
up its mind on what personality it wants to have. One’s initial reaction would be that it is an action-adventure movie. On some level this is correct. It is full of gor­geous cinematography of the wondrous Alaskan setting. 
But the emphasis on the wolves that at­tack the men, like demons in the night, is more prominent than the journey itself. The wolves provide plenty of startling moments and you find yourself solely waiting for the next one. This makes “The Grey” more reminiscent of an ani­mal attack film like “Jaws” or “Cujo.” 
However, there is another element to “The Grey” one would not expect. The film painstakingly attempts to develop a heartbreaking sentimentality to it. Poetic narration by Neeson throughout the film is a testament to this. As Ottway deals with his own suicidal struggles, he begins to reflect on motivations for both living and dying. He is not the only one, though, because as the men to come to terms with the rampant death that sur­rounds them, they also begin such philo­sophical deliberations. The conclusions are sometimes sharp, but largely over­shadowed by the violent wolf attacks that take up most of the viewer’s focus. 
Other than Neeson, the other charac­ters are forgettable and serve more as wolf bait than anything else. Another issue is that anyone who has ridden a plane knows that when it crashes, there is a GPS on board that allows him or her to immediately pinpoint its whereabouts. So the decision of the men to simply march south in search of rescue rather than staying with the wreckage was tough to swallow. 
Joe Carnahan does stupendous work, however, giving the film its own feel and visual style. The filming of the plane crash was tremendous, executed with hair-raising brilliance. “The Grey” radi­ates its own gritty exterior, aggressively catching one’s attention in its web. 
But, once the journey is over and the story is told, one feels satisfied but un­moved. The movie hits all its marks, but “The Grey’s” inability to mature any of its many thematic styles effectively hin­ders it. 
Contact Neil Mathieson at nmathies@nd.edu 

“The Grey” 

Produced by: Liddell Entertainment and Scott Free Productions Directed by: Joe Carnahan Starring: Liam Neeson, Dermot Mulroney, Dallas Roberts and Joe Anderson 
LISA HOEYNCK | Observer Graphic 

page 10 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u CLASSIFIEDS Tuesday, February 7, 2012 

SPORTS AUTHORITY 

If I ruled the world of sports for one week 
For this week, I’ve been grant­ed the position of Dictator of Sports, free to cut and change whatever I please and right the wrongs that plague the sports world. Sports Dictat or sounds a lit­tle harsh to me though. I want a ti­tle with the same power, but with more grace, like Prince Fielder rounding the bases. 
I’ll settle on High Chancellor of Sports, which has a nice, regal, Eng­lish sound to it. And speaking of England, we’ll start there: FOX’s Super Bowl Sunday coverage be­gan at 10 a.m. with a high-profile soccer match from the English Premiership between Chelsea and Manchester United. The two elite teams poured in six goals in front of a sizable TV audience for an exciting 3-3 tie. As High Chancellor, I decree that this be­come a weekly tradition. 
The 10 a.m. timeslot (4 p.m. across the pond) could be the EPL’s version of Monday Night Football, with a featured match-up showcasing its product around the world. 
This would also limit the over­done NFL pregame shows to one hour, cutting out the blowhard hype, opinions and gimmicks that haunt my constituents’ Sun­day mornings. We just witnessed this hype machine at its worst, where the flimsy Pro Bowl is the only event breaking up two full weeks of repetitive guesswork and hot air before the Super Bowl. 
Football is not a sport that supports an all-star game, and I, your Fearless Leader, am send­ing the Pro Bowl to Siberia. Instead, the league’s premier players will be invited to the Su­per Bowl host city for a week of skills competitions and bragging rights. 
Combine Day will feature Devin Hester, Chris Johnson and the NFL’s fastest in a winner­take-all 40-yard dash. The Bench Press and Wonderlic test titles would also be fought for in front of a live audience downtown (I’ve got No. 1 seed Ryan Fitzpatrick covering the spread against No. 16 Vince Young in the Wonderlic. Did I mention sports gambling is legal now, too?). 
Other days would feature the AFC/NFC 3-on-3 basketball game, 7-on-7 football tourna-

Jack Hefferon 
Sports Writer 
ment and an O-line vs. D-line hot dog eating contest, to boot. These events would spice up the coverage of the week, and would be another attraction for the Super Bowl host. Plus, it gives the league’s all-stars an excuse to come party with A-list celebrities, leading to more athlete/Kardashian weddings (I give the people what they want). 
Attending to the other sports, I’d move the three-point line in college and the NBA back two more feet, so that it’s not the near-automatic shot it is now. Also, I’d introduce a new NBA rule that sets travelling at three steps, as opposed to the current five. 
The NHL’s current alignment makes no sense at all, as Win­nipeg, Washington, D.C. and Tampa Bay currently play in the same five-team division. I’m sending the Jets to the Northwest, Colorado to the Pa­cific, Dallas to the Central and Nashville to the Southeast. This will cut down on travel, make much more sense and create an incredibly fun Canada/Min­nesota division. 
Last week, then-Sports King Douglas Farmer introduced a “Cigar Rule”, which decreed that any “sport” that could be played while smoking a cigar is not actually a sport. I’m adding an addendum, which demotes to a lower tier any “sport” that can be played while chewing gum or packing a lip full of to­bacco. Baseball, I’m looking at you. 
Lastly, a few quick fixes: the BCS gets a plus-one playoff, with the national semifinals falling on Jan. 1. NASCAR’s 10-race playoff system shall in­clude a road course (Infineon) and a short track (Bristol), re­warding an all-around driver. 
Finally, season ticket holders of any team will lock in ticket prices for as long as they buy their tickets, retroactive im­mediately. So, if your family has been at every Notre Dame football home game since 1960, you’re guaranteed your same season tickets at $25 apiece. 
Well, my term is up, but it’s been an honor and a privilege to serve you. 
God bless you, and God bless the world of sports. 
Contact Jack Hefferon at wheffero@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
NFL 

Coughlin plans to return in 2012 
Associated Press 

INDIANAPOLIS — Tom Coughlin is looking forward to the parade and a couple weeks off to reflect on the Giants’ second champion­ship in five seasons. Then he will begin preparations for defending the title. 
The 65-year-old coach sees no reason to retire now. 
“I mean, it’s what I do,” Coughlin said Monday morn­ing, hours after New York beat the New England Patri­ots 21-17 in the Super Bowl. “So the alternative I’ve never really given it a whole lot of consideration. (Just coach) as long as I can.” 
Coughlin could be around for a while following his sec­ond title as a head coach. He signed a contract extension in July that runs through next season, but it looks as the Giants could revisit that deal following the franchise’s fourth Super Bowl win. 
It’s obvious he still wants to coach. 
“I don’t fish, I don’t golf,” he said. “My wife keeps tell­ing me, ‘You better have something to do, buddy boy. If you think you’re going to hang around here, you’re crazy.’” 
Giants chief executive John Mara said it’s safe to say the team wants Coughlin to re­turn. 
“He might be 65, but he’s got the energy of somebody quite younger than that,” he said. 
The Giants packed up early Monday morning and board­ed busses around 11 a.m. for a trip to the airport and the flight back to New Jersey. Several players saluted the crowd as they departed the aircraft at Newark Liberty International Airport, and some used video recorders to capture the scene. Cough­lin also had a big smile as he waved to the crowd. 
The big parade up the Can­yon of Heroes in lower Man­hattan is scheduled for Tues­day. 
“If you’re any kind of his­torian, and you do have any recollection of this parade, the ‘Parade of Champions’ if you will, the ‘Canyon of Heroes’ -I remember John Mara looking at me and say­ing, ‘You don’t want to miss this now,” Coughlin said of a conversion with Mara in 2008 after their first title win over the Patriots. 
“It’s the same thing I would convey to all of our players, you don’t want to miss this,” Coughlin added. “Heart­warming doesn’t quite cover this, what you go through and what your feelings are. When you are looking down the side streets, and there’s people forever down those side streets, and they’re all there because they are tak­ing ownership of their team.” 

Before he skipped town with the rest of the team, quarterback Eli Manning got the keys to the car he won for his second Super Bowl MVP award. 
Manning, who led a game-winning 88-yard drive that culminated in Ahmad Brad­shaw’s uncontested touch­down run with 57 seconds to play, spent the evening with family and friends. Like most Giants, he had little sleep. 
Coughlin quipped he had 15 minutes of rest. 
Manning said his brother, Peyton, congratulated him on his performance and the title. They also talked foot­ball, with Peyton asking Eli if he saw the middle line­backer on his touchdown pass to Victor Cruz. 
Eli said no. 

Peyton, whose future with the Colts was a hot topic in Indianapolis during Super Bowl week, also defended his little brother, Eli said, referring to the 38-yard pass to Mario Manningham on the final Giants drive. 
Manningham made a ter­rific catch between two de­fenders and managed to get his feet down in one of the game’s biggest plays. 
Many associated the im­portance of the catch with the one David Tyree made against his helmet in New York’s winning drive four years ago. 
It wasn’t as good, but it helped just as much. 
“He (Peyton) talked about the throw to Manningham,” Eli said. “He was mad, he said everybody was talking about how great of a catch it was. He said it was a pret­ty good throw, also. It’s a brother looking out for me. He was proud of me and hap­py for me.” 
Eli Manning didn’t want to hear anything about brag­ging rights over his brother with two championships. 
“This isn’t about bragging rights,” Eli said. “This is a lot bigger. This is about a team, an organization be­ing named world champions, and that was the ultimate goal. That’s the only thing that’s important, is the team finding a way to get a vic­tory. That’s the only thing I care about and Peyton and I both know that’s what the goal is every year. It’s not about anything else.” 
Mara said everyone in the organization enjoyed them­selves after the game. 
“One thing that struck me just watching our guys all week was they have great camaraderie,” Mara said. “Everybody got along really well, and just great spirit. Really unlike any other team that I’ve been around. It really was a special group.” 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The 
Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

Seinfeld Quotes: “No, no, I don’t think I’m special. “People on dates shouldn’t even “Well, it all sounds pretty 

FOR RENT PERSONAL 
My mother always said I’m not be allowed out in public.” - Jerry glamorous, but it’s business as “Maybe I could be like, an special.” -George Costanza Seinfeld usual at Kramerica.” - Cosmo announcer. Like a color man. You Kramer know how I always make those “Just because a hospital gets a “Oh, by the way, tomorrow night WALK TO CAMPUS UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don’t interesting comments during the grant to study DNA doesn’t mean Paul O’Neill has to catch a fly ball “You can stuff your sorries in a Great Specials! go it alone. Notre Dame has many game.” - George Costanza they are creating a race of mutant in his hat.” - Cosmo Kramer sack, mister!” - George Costanza resources in place to assist you. 
pigmen.” - Jerry Seinfeld Studio, 1, 2, 3 Bedrooms. If you or someone you love needs 
confidential support or assistance, 
“Bookman? The library “All names sound strange the Townhomes available. please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819 investigator’s name is actually “The sea was angry that day, my first time you hear ‘em. What, you “Kramer, listen to me. I’m never or Ann Firth at 1-2685. For more Bookman? That’s amazing. That’s friends, like an old man trying telling me people loved the name gonna have a child. If I lose this (574) 272-8124. information, visit ND’s website at: like an ice cream man named to send back soup at a deli!” - Blanche the first time they heard ‘Frogger’ high score, that’s it for ‘Cone.’” - Cosmo Kramer George Costanza it?” - George Costanza me.” - George Costanza www.clovervillageapartments.com http://pregnancysupport@nd.edu 

page 12 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u SPORTS Tuesday, February 7, 2012 
pointing 2-4 outcome. 
Clubs 
Senior Josh Rehberg and ju­
continued from page 13 
In the second round, the Irish fell to Purdue, 21-18. Fresh­man Casey Leary and Smith lost the men’s doubles 6-3, while freshman Liz Quinn and Devoe dropped the women’s doubles 6-2. Junior Stefan Hogle defeat­ed his opponent 6-0 but Wanzek suffered a tough 6-1 loss in wom­en’s singles. The Irish ended on a strong note though, as freshmen Elle Harding and Matt Hing won the mixed doubles 6-3. 
The Irish prevailed in their final match, 30-8 over Bowl­ing Green. Hogle and Kielb swept the men’s doubles, win­ning 6-0, and Harding and Lis took women’s doubles 6-2. Hing played men’s singles, securing his match at 6-0, and Rush won the women’s singles 6-3. To fin­ish up the win Neils and Quinn took home mixed doubles with a 6-0 victory. The final tally was 30-8, as Notre Dame dominated Bowling Green. 
Men’s Volleyball 
For a team with hopes of gar­nering a national championship, it was a difficult season open­ing tournament for No. 2 Notre Dame, who suffered a disap­nior Jim Waclawik led the squad throughout the weekend. How­ever, the Irish suffered losses to No. 22 UW-Milwaukee — 31-29, 25-23 — No. 14 Northern Illinois 
—
 25-20, 25-21 — Illinois State 

—
 25-15, 25-33 — and No. 1 UW-Oshkosh — 25-19, 20-25, 15-13. 


The Irish rebounded though with wins over Iowa State — 25­16, 25-22 — and Ball State — 26­24, 23-25, 15-4. 
Bowling 
The Irish traveled to Cincin­nati this weekend for the Fourth Annual American Heartland Conference Tournament. The team bowled particularly well this weekend, showing steady improvement as the freshmen mature and the veterans contin­ue to put up solid numbers un­der the coaching of Dan Dews Sr. 
The team finished 18 out of 36 (10th out of 21 “A” Teams) and took down a few scholarship teams in head-to-head play. Mi­chael Murray averaged 189 for the tournament on a very dif­ficult pattern (field average was 
172.8) to finish 25th in total pin fall. 
The Irish head to Indianapo­lis in two weeks for the Hoo­sier Classic, the largest bowling tournament in the Midwest. 
NBA 

Love suspended next two games for stomp 

Associated Press 
MINNEAPOLIS — Kevin Love’s frustration with physical play and officiating have been appar­ent early and often this season. 
Emotion got the best of him on Saturday night against the Rockets, and now he and the Minnesota Timberwolves have to pay the price: Love, his team’s leading scorer and rebounder, was suspended for two games by the NBA for “driving his foot into the upper body and face of the Rockets’ Luis Scola as Scola was lying on the floor.” 
The play happened in the third quarter of Saturday’s vic­tory over the Rockets after the two tangled while going for a rebound. As Love went to step over Scola, who a week earlier had thrown a ball off Love’s groin while trying to save it from going out of bounds, he looked down at the Rockets for­ward and stepped on him as he headed back up the court. 
It marked the second time last week Love delivered a hard foul after not getting a call on the other end. He raked Pacers for­ward Danny Granger across the chest on Wednesday, touching off a small skirmish in a loss to Indiana. 
Love apologized to Scola both after the game and in a state­ment issued by the team on Monday following the suspen­sion, and said he has to do a bet­ter job handling his emotions. 
“I don’t want to be known for that,” Love said after practice. “I want to be known as a stand-up guy who happened to make a mistake with a size 19 shoe and just move on. So everybody knows there were no ill inten­tions there.” 
He will miss Tuesday’s game against Sacramento and Wednesday’s game at Memphis as the Timberwolves (12-12) look to climb above .500 for the first time this season. 
Love is averaging 25.0 points and 13.7 rebounds per game and leads the NBA with 39.4 minutes per game. The All-Star forward was contrite on Monday, saying he thought the suspension from NBA executive vice president of basketball operations Stu Jack­son “was warranted.” 


Tuesday, February 7, 2012 The Observer u SPORTS ndsmcobserver.com | page 13 

CLUB SPORTS 

Irish club teams compete across country over weekend 
Women’s ice hockey sweeps; No. 7 women’s water polo captures three wins; tennis splits 
Special to The Observer 
Women’s Ice Hockey 
The Irish got their two-game series against Northwestern off to an impressive start by besting the Wildcats 9-1 on Saturday. Sophomore Maddie Schneeman started the Irish off with an un­assisted goal early in the first period. Sophomore Meaghan 


Ayers tipped in a second off of ize on their lead with the sup-Tori White put the puck in the 
a shot from freshman Suzanne port of a large home crowd in net to make it 7-0. But with only 
Fitzpatrick. Senior Brinya Bjork the second period. Freshman eight seconds left in the period, 
served a two-minute penalty, Megan Covington scored on a Northwestern caught the Irish 
but the Irish had no problem on backhand shot from a pass from off guard, scoring its only goal of 
the penalty kill. Sophomore Kay-sophomore Kate Bowie early in the game. 
la Maple made it 3-0 with two period. Bowie, celebrating her It didn’t take long for fresh-
minutes left in the period with birthday, then scored back-to-man Kelsey Osinski to respond 
help from juniors Mara Catlaw back goals, the first assisted with a goal assisted by Catlaw 
and Veronica Ryan. by Maple and Schneeman, the and Fitzpatrick in the third pe-The Irish continued to capital-second unassisted. Freshman riod. The Irish scored once more on the power play with an un­assisted goal from Schneeman. Although senior goalie Elissa Cmunt did not see much action, she was able to help keep the team focused. Notre Dame came out on top with a final score of 9-1. 
On Sunday, the Irish contin­ued to dominate Northwestern, coming out on top with a score of 8-1. Osinski scored the first goal of the game off of an assist from senior Kristin Hepburn. Ayers netted her second goal of the series, unassisted, only five minutes into the game. Coving­ton scored number three for the Irish off of an assist from fresh­man Mary Salvi. Catlaw finished up the scoring in the first period with an assist by Bjork. 
White scored an unassisted goal to start off the second pe­riod, and Hepburn quickly fol­lowed up with a goal off a pass from White. Two minutes later, Northwestern was able to slip past the Irish defensemen and netted its only goal of the game. The Irish responded before the period ended with a goal from Salvi off an impressive assist by Bjork. 
Covington scored the only goal in the third period, assist­ed by Bjork and Salvi. Defense-men Ryan, sophomore Caroline Thomas and freshman Kaleigh McLaughlin were able to keep the tempo up despite playing with a three-man rotation af­ter Catlaw was injured. Cmunt helped the Irish out in the net and had her second outstanding performance of the weekend. The Irish defeated the Wildcats again, with a final score of 8-1. 
The Irish look forward to a busy next weekend, when they will take on the University of Wisconsin-Madison Badgers. 


Women’s Water Polo 
No. 7 Notre Dame opened its 2012 season with a solid 3-1 re­cord after the Michigan State In­vitational this weekend. 
The Irish began the Michigan State Invitational on Saturday playing against No. 2 Michigan. With three goals from senior Maisie O’Malley and a goal each from seniors Erin Gibson and Kasia Ahern, the Irish started strong, finishing the first half only down 7-5. 
In the second half, however, the Irish struggled to keep up their momentum. Michigan scored several goals off Irish ejections, and Notre Dame was not able to respond offensively, finishing the game with a 16-5 loss. 
The Irish bounced back in their second game of the tour­nament against Ohio State. The first half was strong offensively, with senior Erin Gibson scoring four goals and 
freshman Kathleen Schiaven­
za tallying two to contribute to 
a 9-2 lead. 
The Irish maintained their lead in the second half and fin­ished the game with a 13-6 win. Showcasing their depth, Notre Dame’s 13 goals were scored by nine different players. Along with Gibson and Schiavenza, O’Malley, senior Colleen Middle­ton, juniors Adi Austgen and Victoria Anglin, sophomores Anastasia Hansen and Rachael Glenister and freshman Ellen Dowling each contributed a goal. 
The Irish then played their third game of the tournament Saturday against Michigan State 
B. After a scoreless first quar­ter, the Irish picked up their of­fensive play with Ahern scoring three goals and O’Malley scoring two. Middleton and Anglin also contributed a goal each. Senior goalkeeper Kelly Gibson and set-defender Middleton anchored the defense to secure a 7-4 vic­tory over the Spartans. 
In its last game of the tourna­ment, the squad played Eastern Michigan University. Utilizing their speed and counter-attack opportunities, the Irish got off to a quick lead in the first half with a score of 8-0. The Irish were led offensively by Erin 
Gibson with three goals and O’Malley, Middleton and Alex Whelan each scored two. Senior Alissa Ott, sophomores Anasta­sia Hansen, Rachael Glenister, Schiavenza and Dowling each added a goal as well. With nine players scoring and three dif­ferent goalies taking turns in the net, the Irish finished with a 14-1 victory that was a true team effort. 
Tennis 
Notre Dame split four match­es this weekend, dropping the opening pair to Western Michi­gan and Purdue then rallying to defeat Bowling Green and Grand Valley. 
Against Western Michi­gan, freshman Drew Neils and sophomore Shane Hannon lost the men’s doubles set 6-1, and freshman Christine Rush and junior Claire Lis lost the wom­en’s doubles set 6-2. Freshman Ed Kielb won men’s singles 6-2 and sophomore Elena Devoe lost the women’s singles 6-1. Junior Anna Wanzek and senior Matt Smith won mixed doubles 6-3, as the club lost 23-16. 
see CLUBS/page 12 

page 14 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u SPORTS Tuesday, February 7, 2012 
you can relate with [Jackson] there if I do want to jump in 
Calabrese 

a little more,” he said. “He’s a the rush or whatnot. He helps tough coach and he does give me out a little with the defen­continued from page 16 you confidence when it’s need-sive aspect, and I can take more 
ed. Throughout my time here, risks.” man, it was tough not playing as I’ve gotten older, he’s given As one of the more tenured much, but we have really good me a little more leeway and he’s members of the Irish roster, Ca-groups of guys, especially the not as strict with some aspects labrese will help lead the Irish guys in my class and the seniors of my game as he was when I got in a crucial home-and-home now that were sophomores then. here. series with No. 6/5 Ferris State, 
“They really helped me in giv-“Defense is still really impor-the CCHA leaders. In a series ing me confidence to come back tant to him so we try and take that will go a long way toward and play back, and I could still care of the defensive end of determining who will hang a be a part of the team when I was things and let offense take care regular season CCHA champi­out.” of itself.” onship banner, Calabrese said 
With the injury behind him, As a player with the reputa-the key will be discipline. Calabrese took to the ice last tion of a defender who can con-“You’ve got to be really disci­season and led all Irish de-tribute on the offensive end, plined here at the end of the sea­fensemen in points with 18 as Calabrese has been paired fre-son,” he said. “Teams are play-the team went on a run to the quently with reigning CCHA De-ing their best hockey. You’ve got Frozen Four. This season, Ca-fensive Defenseman of the Year to stay out of the box and play labrese has tallied 15 points and senior captain Sean Lorenz smart hockey. It’s going to be with a handful of series to play. on the blue line. Calabrese said important for us to take advan-He again leads all Notre Dame the pairing has given him more tage of special teams and play defensemen in both assists and confidence to contribute to the Ferris State tough.” points. offensive attack. Calabrese and the rest of the 
Calabrese said he has grown “Sean’s a great guy to play Irish will hit the rink Friday at more comfortable with the pro-with,” he said. “I definitely like 7:05 p.m. at Compton Family Ice gram of Irish coach Jeff Jackson being out there with him be-Arena. from season-to-season. cause it gives me a little confi­
“You know, as you move dence to know that there’s such Contact Chris Allen at through here and you mature, a great defensive player back callen10@nd.edu  
[Talmadge and Andrews] won both its matches this week-
Bayliss 

end. I thought [Andrews] real­ly adjusted well to the change, continued from page 16 as he played some of his best 
doubles tennis I have seen doubles because that point is him play.”  so vital for momentum.” Bayliss said he is not sure 
These improvements might if the changes will stick long be a result of significant lineup term, but as of right now he is changes Bayliss made prior to content with the lineup. last weekend’s matches. The “Our new combinations Irish coach said the lineup look to be fairly solid at least changes showed promise. for the short-term,” Bayliss 
“We switched around our said. “We will have to see No. 1 and No. 2 teams by hav-how things go in the next ing senior Casey Watt play few matches, but I liked how with senior Niall Fitzgerald at things went with them this No. 1 and junior Spencer Tal-past weekend.”  madge play with sophomore The Irish return to the court Greg Andrews at No. 2,” Bayl-tonight against Northwestern iss said. “[Watt and Fitzger-in Evanston, Ill. at 6:30 p.m. ald] won on Friday night and played a pretty good match in Contact Walker Carey at defeat on Sunday. The pair of wcarey@nd.edu 
freshman year, he faced a steep other teams. In the pool, it’s 
Overholt 

learning curve. important to train hard and do “Once I got to college, I real-what the coaches ask of you. I’m continued from page 16 ized there was an adjustment sure they’ll do phenomenally at 
period,” Overholt said. “There Big East.” a progression. The nine-time was a huge learning curve, and With another regular season high school All-American was I struggled my freshman year.” behind him and visions of per-tabbed as the No. 24 recruit in Since then, Overholt has sonal best times ahead, Overholt the country coming into college. steadily improved, achieving said his aspirations do not end Swimming for Neuqua Valley personal best times in each of at the conference championship High School, he broke Olympian his last two seasons. Now as a meet. Matt Grevers state record in the junior he assumes a leadership “We all expect to go our fastest 100-meter freestyle. role on the team to help guide at the Big East Championships,” 
“I got a letter from Matt say-the 16 freshmen that face the Overholt said. “Hopefully from ing, ‘Congratulations, and I can’t same learning curve this year. there, I can go to nationals.” wait to see what you’re going “I think it’s really important The four-day conference to do in the future,’” Overholt with such a huge freshman class championship meet begins Feb. said. “That has been my favorite to set an example in and out of 15 in Pittsburgh. swimming memory.” the pool,” Overholt said. “Out of 
Yet when the talented swim-the pool, I’m thinking about how Contact Jonathan Warren at mer arrived on campus his I conduct myself and act around jwarren3@nd.edu 



Syracuse 
continued from page 16 
Big East Player of the Week; she’s a very good player. I think we’re going to have to mix up who guards her and try different people on different sides because she likes both sides.” 
Notre Dame (23-1, 10-0 Big East) holds a 24-2 all-time record against Syracuse, and has won the previous 12 meetings. However, in 2001 Syracuse recorded an 84-79 victory over the Irish in the quarterfinals of the Big East tournament. In their match-up last season, the then-No.8 ranked Irish bested the Or­ange 71-48 at Purcell Pavil­ion. 
Despite playing on the road to maintain their Big East this time around, McGraw standings, with Notre Dame said her team is relatively leading the conference and unaffected by negative envi-Syracuse in tenth place. Mc­ronments. Graw said the 
“I think game will be every team a battle. plays better “It’s a big at home, but “I think every team plays game for we have re-better at home, but we Syracuse, be-ally played have played really well cause they’re well in hos-fighting for 
in hostile environments.” 
tile envi-position,” she ronments,” said. “And so 
Muffet McGraw 
she said. are we, so I 
Irish coach 
“I think think it’s an we don’t imp ortant let things game for both bother us. I teams.” think that’s because we’re a The Irish tip off against very mature team, we have the Orange tonight at the good leadership, and I don’t Carrier Dome at 7 p.m. think they let anything both­er them.” Contact Kelsey Manning at 
Both teams are fighting kmannin3@nd.edu 

Tuesday, February 7, 2012 The Observer u TODAY ndsmcobserver.com | page 15 
WILL SHORTz 
HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 
CROSSWORD 



JUMBLE DAVID L. HOyT JEFF KNUREK 
EXPND JON REPINE 




Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556

 Enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year


 Enclosed
 is $75 for one semester 


Name ____________________________________________________ Address __________________________________________________ City ____________________ State___________ Zip______________ 

Tuesday, February 7, 2012 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 16 

WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 

Hitting the road 

No. 2 Irish travel to take on nation’s second-best rebounding team in Syracuse 
By KELSEY MANNING 
Sports Writer 
As No. 2 Notre Dame takes on Syracuse tonight, the fo­cus will be on one aspect of the game the Irish have struggled with all season — rebounding. 
The Orange (15-9, 4-6 Big East) are tied with No. 1 Bay­lor — the team that handed Notre Dame its first and only loss this season — for second in the NCAA in re­bounds per game with 47.7. They also lead the Big East in both rebounds per game and offensive boards per game with 21.3, and boast four of the top 20 rebound­ers in the league. 
Irish coach Muffet McGraw said she is concerned about Syracuse’s proficiency on the boards, especially after her team recorded just 31 total rebounds in its 90-70 victory over DePaul on Sun­day. 
“We’re really worried about [rebounding] because we did not rebound well in the last game against DePaul and rebounding has not been one of our strengths, so that is number one on our list of keys for the game,” she said. “That is something we really need to concentrate on.” 
Meanwhile, the Orange are coming off a two-game winning streak, topping Providence and South Flor­ida. Senior forward Iasia Hemingway recorded back-to-back 24-point perfor­mances in the two contests, which earned her Big East Player of the Week. McGraw said she will experiment with different defensive ap­proaches to face the versa­tile forward. 
“I think we’re going to put a couple of different people on her, try a couple differ­ent looks,” she said. “She is 
see SYRACUSE/page 14 


MEN’S TENNIS 

Notre Dame to face unique challenge against Wildcats 
By WALKER CAREY have to be sharp at every posi-tournament appearance since comes a big factor in the Big better on both Friday and Sun-Sports Writer tion because there will be a test 2005. Ten.” day,” he said. “We were able at every spot.” “[Northwestern] has a re-The Irish split a pair of away to win four of the six doubles The Irish return to action at Bayliss said he attributes ally good coach in Arvid Swan,” matches this past weekend, win-matches on the weekend, which Northwestern tonight for what much of the Wildcats’ success-Bayliss said. “[Swan] was a very ning at Wake Forest on Friday was pretty encouraging. It was Irish coach Bobby Bayliss antici-es to their head coach, Arvid good player at Michigan in the and losing at Duke on Sunday. also encouraging to see that we pates will be a unique challenge. Swan, who is in his fifth season late nineties and has done a re-Despite the split, Bayliss said he fought hard and played pretty
 “[Northwestern] is a really at Northwestern (5-0). Swan has markable job in turning around believes his squad made a solid well in the matches we did lose. good team in a very competi-had a noticeable effect on the the program at Northwestern. improvement in at least one area We need to keep improving our tive conference,” Bayliss said. program, and in 2009 leading I believe this could be the year of the game — doubles play. “Its lineup is very balanced. We the Wildcats to their first NCAA that [Northwestern] really be-“Our doubles play was much see BAYLISS/page 14 

MEN’S SWIMMING 

Overholt leads Irish into Big East trials 
By JONATHAN WARREN 
Sports Writer 
With the Big East Champion­ship less than two weeks away, junior Kevin Overholt said this time of year brings back fond memories of last year’s champi­onships. 
“Being able to get college best times in the 50-yard, 100-yard and 200-yard freestyles at last year’s Big East Championship has been one of my favorite col­lege moments,” Overholt said. “It led me to be more motivated this year.” 
Having two years of experi­ence under his belt, Overholt said he hopes he will be valu­able to a team that includes 21 underclassmen. 
“Having done it twice already, it’s going to help me be cool un­der pressure, especially in the relays,” Overholt said. “I’m hop­ing last season’s experience will help me achieve personal best times again so I can help the team win a Big East Champion­ship.” 
Getting into a position to swim personal best times again this year has not been easy for Over­holt, though he has managed to improve in spite of a shoulder injury. 
“This season has been pretty difficult,” Overholt said. “I’ve had to struggle with tendonitis in my shoulder. To be able to get a personal best in the [50-yard, 100-yard and 200-yard free­style] this season has been re­ally great. I’m definitely looking forward to getting even better times.” 
Overholt said his college swimming career has been 
see OVERHOLT/page 14 


HOCKEY 

Calabrese battles injury, adversity 
By CHRIS ALLEN 
Sports Writer 
Calabrese, a name typi­cally associated with Notre Dame football, is quickly be­coming an Irish hockey sta­ple thanks to junior defense-man Sam Calabrese, who is enjoying a breakout season. 
It has not always been easy for the Illinois native, who suffered a massive setback early in his career. In Oc­tober of his freshman year, seeing action in just his third college game, Calabrese suf­fered a debilitating leg in­jury against Miami (OH) and missed the remainder of the slate. The defenseman said he relied on his teammates to get him through the in­jury. 
“I have great teammates here,” Calabrese said. “When I broke my ankle as a fresh-
see CALABRESE/page 14 


SARAH O’CONNOR/The Observer 

Irish junior defenseman Sam Calabrese clears the puck in a 3-2 loss to Bowling Green on Saturday in the Compton Family Ice Arena. 



