
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


HHS: ND insurance must include contraception 
Ruling requires religiously affiliated institutions to provide women’s preventative services; University to ‘evaluate’ options 
By SARAH MERVOSH ing which University President granted, and under the new law, organizations of all faiths in an which he sent in September, he Managing Editor Fr. John Jen-Notre Dame will be required to untenable position,” Jenkins described the “impossible” posi­
kins wrote 

cover the full range of recom-said in a statement. “This un-tion the law would create for the The Department of Health to HHS Sec-
mended women’s preventative necessary intervention by the University. and Human Services (HHS) an-retary Kath-
services, including all FDA ap-government into religion disre-“This would compel Notre nounced Friday that religiously leen Sebelius 
proved forms of birth control, in gards our nation’s commitment Dame to either pay for contracep­affiliated institutions, such as asking that 
its health insurance package. to the rights of conscience and tion and sterilization in violation Notre Dame, will not be exempt Notre Dame 
However, in a concession, Se-the longstanding work of re-of the Church’s moral teaching, from a new law that requires be exempt 
belius said religious affiliated ligious groups to help build a or to discontinue our employee employers to provide contra-from the re-
non-profits will have an addi-more compassionate society and and student health care plans in ceptive services as part of their quirement on 
tional year — until August 2013 vibrant democracy.” violation of the Church’s social minimum health insurance the basis that 
— to comply with the law. The new law will likely force teaching,” he wrote. packages. it violates the “I am deeply disappointed in Notre Dame to choose between University Spokesman Dennis 
The decision comes after an University’s conscience clause. a decision by the administration its social and moral teachings. interim ruling in August, follow-Jenkins’ request was not that will place many religious In Jenkins’ letter to Sebelius, see HEALTH/page 4 



Professors analyze defense plan response 
of war in Iraq and Afghani­stan, the American fiscal cri­sis and a growing threat from China and Iran. 
“Yes, our military will be leaner, but the world must know the United States is going to maintain our military supe­riority with armed forces that are agile, flexible and ready for the full range of contingen­cies and threats,” Obama said. 
Political Science Professor Michael Desch said although Republican candidates will try to use the budget cuts as evi­dence that Obama is “soft” on defense, their case lacks sub­stance. 
“This Democratic president hardly seems skittish about using force,” he said. 
see OBAMA/page 4 


By NICOLE TOCZAUER 
News Writer 
In light of President Obama’s recent announcement of a new national defense strategy, Notre Dame political science professors said Republicans will attack the president’s de­cision because it is an election year — even if some argu­ments lack validity. 
At the beginning of the month, Obama announced a new national defense strategy that will focus on the creation of agile military units in Asia, the Pacific and the Middle East. 
In a statement released by the White House, Obama said the reduction in the Pentagon budget stemmed from a com­bination of the end of a decade 

Former ND administrator dies at 81 
Observer Staff Report 
Sr. Jean Lenz, former assis­tant vice president for student affairs, died Saturday at a re­tirement home in Joliet, Ill., af­ter a long illness. She was 81. 
An alumna of Notre Dame, Lenz worked as an administra­tor, rector and adjunct profes­sor for the University. 
University President Emeri­tus Fr. Theodore Hesburgh de­scribed Lenz as a “friend, selor 


see LENZ/page 4 
Students storm court after win over Syracuse 
By SAM STRYKER 
News Editor 
The Notre Dame men’s basket­ball team shocked top-ranked Syracuse 67-58 Saturday night at the Purcell Pavilion, causing the student section to storm the court and creating lasting memories for those in attendance. 
Senior Christina Kuklinski said winning against the previously undefeated Orange at home was a sports moment she was excited to have witnessed. 
“It was the defining moment of sports in my four years at Notre Dame,” she said. “I have been a student season ticket holder for the last four years, and I have never seen anything like that.” 
The victory marked the sixth home victory for the Irish over a No. 1-ranked team in the pro­gram’s history, and junior Roscoe Anderson said he appreciated the historical significance of cheering on the Irish as they defeated an­other powerhouse team. 
“It was really exciting,” he said. “I had a blast to be there for such a huge event and to be part of the history of defeating number ones in the Joyce Center. It was a big deal.” 
Anderson said the highly charged game atmosphere was building up even before the Irish tipped off with the Orange. 
“My friends and I got there an hour before the game to get seats,” he said. “Everyone was re­ally excited. To beat them without ever having given up the lead was 
see UPSET/page 3 

SPIN-A-THON FOR BREAST CANCER 

INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER Circle K hosts service kickoff page 3 u Viewpoint page 8 u Midseason television  page 10 u Men’s basketball defeats No. 1 Syracuse page 20 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT IS YOUR FAVORITE WINTER ACTIVITY? 

www.ndsmcobserver.com P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 Editor-in-Chief Douglas Farmer Managing Editor Business Manager Sarah Mervosh Jeff Liptak Asst. Managing Editor: Adriana Pratt Asst. Managing Editor: Chris Masoud News Editor: Sam Stryker Viewpoint Editor: Meghan Thomassen Sports Editor: Allan Joseph Scene Editor: Maija Gustin Saint Mary’s Editor: Caitlin E. Housley Photo Editor: Pat Coveney Graphics Editor: Brandon Keelean Advertising Manager: Katherine Lukas Ad Design Manager: Amanda Jonovski Controller: Jason Taulman Systems Administrator: William Heineman Office Manager & General Info (574) 631-7471 Fax (574) 631-6927 Advertising (574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu Editor-in-Chief (574) 631-4542 dfarmer1@nd.edu Managing Editor (574) 631-4542 smervosh@nd.edu Assistant Managing Editors (574) 631-4541 apratt@nd.edu, cmasoud@nd.edu Business Office (574) 631-5313 News Desk (574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com Viewpoint Desk (574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com Sports Desk (574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com Scene Desk (574) 631-4540 mgustin@nd.edu Saint Mary’s Desk chousl01@saintmarys.edu Photo Desk (574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com Systems & Web Administrators (574) 631-8839 Policies The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College.  Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Douglas Farmer. Post Office Information The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 and additional mailing offices 024 South Dining hall Notre Dame, IN 46556-077 The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved.  
TODAY’S STAFF News Sports Caitlin Housley Kelsey Manning Anna Boarini Katie Heit Dan Brombach Jonathan Warren Graphics Scene Laura Laws Maria Fernandez Photo Viewpoint Pat Coveney Meghan Thomassen  
CORRECTIONS The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so we can correct our error.  
HIGH 49 LOW 33 



Chukwueneka Okor  Elizabeth Soret  Grace Girardot  Luke Derrick  Mary-Ester Gardine  Trina Uwineza  
sophomore Stanford  sophomore Lyons  freshman Howard  junior Keough  freshman Walsh  freshman Lyons  
“Playing football in the snow.”  “Pretending I’m in a prairie on the quad like Laura Ingalls Wilder.”  “Sledding and making snowmen.”  “Walking in the woods.”  “I don’t have one — I’m from South Carolina!”  “Staying inside and keeping warm.”  

Have an idea for Question of the Day? Email obsphoto@gmail.com 


OFFBEAT 
Utah school rejects using ‘cougars’ as mascot 
SALT LAKE CITY — A Utah school district has de­cided against using “Cou­gars” as a mascot for a new high school in part because of the negative connotation of the word in popular cul­ture. 
Canyons School District Superintendent David S. Doty says the selection of “Chargers” as mascot was driven by the desire for originality, despite a poll of some future students that showed 26 percent in favor of using the cougar. 
At least three Utah schools, including Brigham Young University, use cou­gar as a mascot. 

Doty says public com­ments reflect a desire to be different, but he also notes that some see the word cougar as carrying a “neg­ative double entendre.” 
The term cougar in pop­ular culture can refer to women in their 40s who have sex with younger men. 
Mexico City man rode skateboard to rob banks 
MEXICO CITY — Mexico City police say they have arrested a would-be ban­dit who rode his skate­board to bank robbery at­tempts. 
Police say Sergio Ledes­ma and his skateboard have been turned over to prosecutors after he al­legedly attempted to rob two banks by whispering threats to tellers. 
Police say the teller at the first bank simply act­ed as if he hadn’t heard Ledesma, who then skat­ed off to a second bank. 
The second teller told police Ledesma appeared to whisper a threat. So the teller set off a si­lent alarm, and counted out the money while the would-be robber waited patiently. 
Police said Friday Ledesma was still waiting when they arrived and ar­rested him. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
IN BRIEF 
Auditions to read for Junior Parents Weekend will be held today in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart at 4 p.m. 
The Notre Dame Alum­ni Association will host a Sanctity for Life Prayer tonight at 4 p.m. in the Log Chapel as a way of being in solidarity with members of the ND com­munity attending the 39th annual March for Life in Washington D.C.  A simple prayer at the Log Chapel will be followed by a walk to the Grotto to pray the prayers for life submitted by the extended ND fam­ily. 
Women’s Basketball will host Tennessee to­night at 7 p.m. in the Pur­cell Pavillion at the Joyce Center. 
There will be a Mass for students returning from abroad at 9 p.m. tonight in the Coleman-Morse Chapel. The Mass will be followed by desserts. 
Tomorrow is the last day to register for all classes. 
A workshop titled “Us­ing Mendeley” will be held at 4 p.m. tomorrow in Room 247 of the Hes-burgh Library. The work­shop will teach how to use Mendeley to organize and generate bibliographies. Refreshments will be pro­vided. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, email detailed information about an event to obsnews.nd@gmail.com 

LOCAL WEATHER 

TODAY TONIGHT TUESDAY WEDNESDAY THURSDAY FRIDAY 










HIGH 33 LOW 24 
HIGH 37 LOW 32 

HIGH 39 LOW 31 
HIGH 39 LOW 31 

Circle K hosts extravaganza 



By MARISA IATI 
News Writer 
Notre Dame students gath­ered to learn about service opportunities and to kick back as they kick started the new semester with the Notre Dame Circle K’s Ser­vice Extravaganza in the LaFortune Student Center ballroom Sunday. 
The group started with full force as students wrote letters to soldiers, tied the remaining blankets from the Aidan Project in December, crafted dog 
toys for the Humane Soci­ety and made hats for the  “We just want to get as many people involved in as much service as possible.”  Worker, a ho me l e s s s he l t er and drop- 
Center for the  in center.  
Homeless and local hospi­tals.  Alyssa Casill Circle K president  “ T h e other new p r o j e c t  
Senior  Jes- that we’re  
sica  Choi,  doing  is  

publicity officer for Notre with Corvilla, which is a Dame Circle K, said the Ser-home in South Bend for peo­vice Extravaganza is a way ple with disabilities,” Casill to spread the word about said. “That’s going to be Circle K. more of a monthly project. 
“We hope to expand our They have different events membership and show ev-for people living in the eryone the joys of doing ser-homes there. In two weeks, vice,” Choi said. they’re doing a snowball 
The president of Notre softball tournament, so Dame Circle K, Alyssa we’re going to go there and Casill, said approximately 100 students serve in the club each year. The group is part of Circle K Internation­al and organizes 12 weekly projects as well as others throughout the semester. 
“We do pretty much any kind of service you can think of,” Casill said. “[The projects] range from going to Saint Mary’s Convent to the Humane Society.” 
This semester, Notre Dame Circle K will begin cook­ing and serving dinner at the South Bend Cath olic 
help out with that.” 
Since one of Circle K In­ternational’s main tenants is fellowship, Casill said Notre Dame Circle K will host more events that al­low members to get to know each other this semester. 
“We just want to get as many people involved in as much service as possible,” she said. 
Sophomore Andy McAsey said he participates in the Logan Center Bowling proj­ect through Notre Dame Circle K. 
“We have fun bowling with people with different disabilities,” McAsey said. 
Sophomore Caitlin O’Connell said she attended the Service Extravaganza to learn how to become in­volved in Notre Dame Circle K’s service projects. 
“I’ve been to the Center for the Homeless one time, and I really liked it,” she said. “And I had a little ex­tra time this semester.” 
Students interested in be­coming involved with Notre Dame Circle K can attend meetings Sundays at 7 p.m. in the Notre Dame Room in LaFortune. 
Contact Marisa Iati at miati@nd.edu 
Upset 
continued from page 1 
huge.” 
The basketball team’s tradition of knocking off No. 1 teams is a testament to the loud game atmo­sphere courtesy of the Purcell Pa­vilion fans, Anderson said. 
“I think we bring a strong home court advantage,” he said. “It was really loud. Coach [Mike] Brey said it was as good an atmo­sphere as he’d seen in his years at Notre Dame. A lot of credit goes to the players, but I think [the fans] helped contribute.” 
Kuklinski agreed and said it seemed like the players on the court thrived on the fans’ passion. 
“I don’t know what it was like being on the court, but I would have to imagine that having thou­sands of people screaming so in­tently has got to be beneficial to the athletes,” she said. 
Anderson said storming the court following the victory was one of the most memorable mo­ments he has experienced as a Notre Dame student. 
“It was really amazing, one of those priceless moments,” he said. “It was really crazy and hec­tic, but really exciting at the same time.” 
Junior Margaret Bellon said even though she was sitting in the upper part of the student section, she felt the energy. 
“Even in the last row, you couldn’t hear the person next to you talking because everyone was cheering so loud,” she said. 
Bellon said the atmosphere peaked right as the Irish were about to close out the victory and fans prepared to storm. 
“Two minutes before the game ended, people came up to us and said we’re going to storm the court and we should move down,” she said. “Everyone was getting really excited and the energy was building up.” 
While she was excited to attend the game, Bellon was skeptical that the Irish could pull off the win. 
“I watched a couple of [Notre Dame’s] games over break and they played well in a few, but in a couple of games, they played horribly,” she said. “I remember talking with someone before the game and saying I wasn’t sure I should go because I thought it was going to be a blowout.” 
But Bellon said this win held her attention throughout the en­tire game, unlike her experiences during Notre Dame football sea­son. 
“Sometimes there are boring drives [in football], so [the game] is usually exciting for just a little bit,” she said. “[But the basket­ball game] was exciting the entire time because it was moving so fast and Notre Dame was playing really well.” 
Of all the games she has attend­ed as a student, Bellon said this was the one she will remember most. 
“I never have been to a game that was as big of an upset as this one,” she said. “It was really cool. Being there made me proud to be a Notre Dame fan.” 
Contact Sam Stryker at sstryke1@nd.edu 


Health 
continued from page 1 
Brown said the University has not made a decision on how it will move forward in terms of complying with the law. 
“We’re going to evaluate,” Brown said. “We’re going to review our options.” 
If Notre Dame continues to provide health insurance but does not comply with the law when it takes effect in August 2013, the University would be fined $100 a day per person per infraction, law professor Carter Snead told The Ob­server in September. The Uni­versity’s current health insur­ance plan does not cover oral contraceptives or contracep­tive devices unless a physician requests them based on medi­cal needs or for purposes other than contraception, according to its 2011 Medical, Dental and Vision Plan. 
The new law will not require Notre Dame to provide con­traceptives on campus as part of its health services at Saint Liam Hall. 
Sebelius said the decision 
came  after careful  consider­ 
ation.  
“I  believe  this  proposal  

strikes the appropriate bal­ance between respecting reli­gious freedom and increasing access to important preventive services,” she said in a press release. “The [Obama] admin­istration remains fully com­mitted to its partnerships with faith-based organizations, which promote healthy com­munities and serve the com­mon good.” 
Jenkins said the University will strive for national dia­logue on the issue. 
“We call for a national dia­logue among religious groups, government and the American people to reaffirm our coun­try’s historic respect for free­dom of conscience and defense of religious liberty,” he said. 
Contact Sarah Mervosh at smervosh@nd.edu 
Lenz 
continued from page 1 
and almost-confessor.” 
“The time students spend with her exposes them to good­ness, fun and deep beauty,” he said. “Her teaching brings them face to face with the Christ in whom she deeply believes.” 
A Chicago native and a Fran­ciscan sister of the Congrega­tion of the Third Order of St. Francis of Mary Immaculate, Lenz earned her master’s de­gree from Notre Dame in 1967. 
Obama 
continued from page 1 
Desch cited the way Obama waged the drone war against al-Qaeda with vigor, doubled-down the U.S. commitment in Afghanistan and backed NATO’s air support for the successful anti-Qaddafi uprising in Libya. 
“Most importantly, he put the big coon-skin on the side of the barn that Washington failed to do with the daring Navy SEAL strike against Osama bin Ladin in Pakistan,” he said. 
These security credentials made it difficult for Republican opponents to challenge Obama on these grounds, Desch said. 
Political Science Professor 
Peri Arnold said Republican candidates will vehemently op­pose any action Obama takes her life of service, “Loyal Daugh­ters and Sons,” in 2002. In 2007, her name was added to the Wall of Honor in Notre Dame’s Main Building. 
Visitation will be held Wednes­day from 2 to 7 p.m. at Our Lady of the Angels Retirement Home in Joliet, Ill., followed by a fu­neral Mass at 7 p.m. Burial will be Thursday at 9 a.m. in Resur­rection Cemetary in Romeoville, Ill. 
University President Fr. John Jenkins will preside over a Mass of Remembrance for Lenz, which will be held Feb. 6 at 5:15 p.m. at the Basilica of the Sacred Heart. 
She was one of the first women rectors to serve on campus fol­lowing the University’s transi­tion to coeducation in 1972. 
Lenz served as rector of Far­ley Hall from 1973 to 1983, when she was appointed rector and chaplain of the London Pro­gram. In 1984, she was appoint­ed vice president for student af­fairs and served intermittently as an adjunct professor of the­ology. 
In 1998, she received an hon­orary degree from the Universi­ty of Portland for her service as a mentor to students. She pub­lished an anecdotal account of 
because it is an election year, even if some decisions are the result of a Republican-majority Congress. 
“Keep in mind that the cur­rent level of cuts, just under five billion dollars, come from a congressional legislation. In other words, Congress voted on this. [There are] members who vote, but then during the cam­paign year, scream,” Arnold said. “[Obama] could stand in and double the defense budget. Republicans would attack that too.” 
If the Obama administration presented the defense strategy aggressively, it would win the symbolic tug of war. Still, while the military budget reduction raised an important argument, ultimately voters will choose based on improvement in the economy, Arnold said. 
“I’m not so sure how impor­tant defense will be in the elec­tion. In public opinion, based on polling, the thing on the mind of most Americans is the econo­my,” Arnold said. “If he can gain support on those grounds, the defense issue will fade into the background.” 
Although Obama has the in­cumbent advantage and an ef­fective campaign team, Arnold said the focus of Obama’s plat­form would have to address the economy and unemployment rates. 
“It’s not that the economy is a dummy variable that is good or bad, but it’s improvement that helps the incumbent,” he said. “If over the next seven or eight months [the unemployment rate] goes below eight percent, that will help a lot.” 
Contact Nicole Toczauer at ntoczauer@nd.edu 



Gingrich claims win in South Carolina 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON — Newt Gin­grich worked to capitalize Sunday on his upset victory in South Carolina’s Republican presidential primary, while Mitt Romney moved quickly to cut his losses before the next contest with a promise to re­lease his income tax returns within 48 hours. 
Gingrich said in a round of television interviews that his win, both unexpected and un­expectedly large, showed he was the Republican best able to go toe to toe with President Barack Obama in the fall. “I think virtually everybody who looks at the campaign knows I represent the largest amount of change of any candidate, and I think that’s why they see me as representing their interest and their concerns, not represent­ing Wall Street or representing the politicians of Washington,” he said. 
Romney argued that point, but not another, agreeing in a television interview that he had made a mistake by refusing to release his tax returns before the South Carolina vote. “If it was a distraction, we want to get back to the real issues in the campaign -- leadership, character and vision for Amer­ica, how to get jobs in America, and how to rein in the exces­sive scale of the federal govern­ment,” he said. 
The former Massachusetts governor, who made millions in business, said he will make his 2010 return and an estimate for 2011 available online on Tues­day. 
The decision marked a con­cession, as if one were needed, that Romney had stumbled on his way through South Caro­lina, a state where he led hand­somely in the polls several days before the primary. 
Florida votes next, on Jan. 31, a 50-delegate contest in one of the most expensive campaign states in the country, and one that Romney can ill afford to lose. 
The former governor was an easy winner in the New Hamp­shire primary earlier in the month. Before that, he was a close runner-up behind former Pennsylvania Sen. Rick Santo-rum in Iowa caucuses where the vote count was so confused that he was originally an­nounced the victor. 
Despite his loss on Saturday, Romney remains the contender with the largest and best-fund­ed organization. “Three states in now, we got 47 more to go,” he said, adding he was looking forward to the rest. 
For all the political momen­tum gained in South Carolina, 

Rep. Giffords resigns Congressional  seat 

Gingrich made it immediately obvious that he is short on funds. He urged supporters via Tweet Saturday night to donate money, and then announced the name of his campaign web­site while making a nationally televised victory speech. 
With their comments, both Romney and Gingrich indi­cated the race was a two-way competition, likely to go into the spring if not longer. 
Santorum had other ideas. 
“We’re going to Florida and beyond,” he said. As he did in a pair of debates in South Carolina, he criticized both Gingrich — calling him a “very high-risk candidate” — and Romney, whom he called a moderate ill-suited to appeal to conservative voters. 
Texas Rep. Ron Paul, the fourth contender, has already said he will skip Florida and focus on Nevada and other caucus states. 
Associated Press 
PHOENIX — In part, the short video has the feel of a campaign ad: the strains of soft music, the iconic snapshots of rugged Arizona desert, the candidate earnestly engaged with her constituents. 
Interspersed with the slick montage of photos and sound, though, is a video close-up of Rep. Gabrielle Giffords gazing directly at the camera, offering not a campaign promise but a goodbye, a thank-you message to her supporters in a voice that is both firm and halting. 
“I have more work to do on my recovery,” the congresswoman says at the end of the two-min­ute-long “A Message from Gab­by,” appearing to strain with all of her will to communicate. “So to do what’s best for Arizona, I will step down this week.” 
Arizonans had to know in their hearts that this day was coming. 
A bullet to the brain, from point-blank range, is a nearly impossible obstacle to over­come, even for a congresswom­an known for pluckiness and fight. Giffords seemed to accept that reality in the video an­nouncing her resignation from Congress, which also included a promise to return one day to her mission to help Arizonans. 
The clip, posted to YouTube and on her Facebook page, pastes together 13 sentences into a fluid announcement. Gif­fords wears a bright red jacket eerily similar to the one she was wearing a year ago when she was nearly assassinated. She looks straight into the cam­era, almost begging the viewer to listen. 
But the video also includes images of the 41-year-old struggling at rehab and walk­ing along a leafy street with husband Mark Kelly with an obvious limp. And Giffords ac­knowledges that, at least for now, she isn’t up to taking on a re-election challenge. 
The announcement comes just over a year after a gun­man opened fire at Jan. 8, 2011, meeting with constituents in front of a Tucson grocery store. Six people were killed, and Gif­fords and 12 others wounded. 
At the time, the Democrat had just eked out a razor-thin victory against a tea party candidate in her conservative-leaning district. She won a third term with less than 1 per­cent margin. 
Many in Arizona believed she would be handed an easy victo­ry if she chose to seek another term this year. Giffords elected not to try. 
“A lot has happened over the past year. We cannot change that,” she said. 
For days after the shooting, it was touch and go. A huge memorial grew in front of the Tucson hospital where she was fighting for her life. 
Then, almost miraculously, just two weeks after she was shot, she was whisked off in a jet to a rehabilitation hospi­tal in her astronaut husband’s hometown of Houston. 
Months of rehab began, with Giffords struggling to learn how to walk and talk again. Just over four months after she was shot, she flew to Florida to watch Kelly, an astronaut, pilot the nation’s next-to-last space shuttle mission. 
But she remained out of view. 
Slowly, in carefully choreo­graphed bits, she began to emerge. The first photos in June. Her surprise August ap­pearance in Congress to vote to raise the federal debt limit. The first halting TV shots, just a few words at a time, then a more complex recording released in November. 
Sunday’s recording was slightly more elaborate, but it was not a campaign Q&A or an appearance before a tough in­terviewer. 
She’s clearly not yet ready for another run for Congress. But she said in Sunday’s video that she’s not done yet. 
“I’m getting better. Every day my spirit is high. I will return, and we will work together for Arizona and this great coun­try,” she said. 

Midwest states suffer through winter storms 
Associated Press 
MINNEAPOLIS — Freez­ing drizzle and rain made roads slick Sunday as a win­ter weather system moved across portions of the Upper Midwest, and the precipita­tion was expected to begin changing over into snow that could continue into Monday. 
The National Weather Ser­vice issued warnings about freezing drizzle and rain for parts of Illinois, Iowa and Minnesota and Wisconsin on Sunday, and a fog advisory was out in south-central Wisconsin. 
The advisories could be expanded later Sunday, the weather service said. The precipitation was coming from a low pressure system expected to track east across Nebraska and Iowa and deepen as it moved northeast across Wisconsin, it said. 
Snow was expected Sunday in Nebraska and the Dakotas with a few inches falling in parts before midnight, the weather service said. 
In other states, the change­over from rain to snow was expected to start Sunday evening and move from west to east, continuing into Mon­day morning. One to two inches of snow were possible by Monday in the Twin Cities area of Minnesota and parts of central Wisconsin, the weather service said. 
In southeastern Minne­sota, Rochester police re­sponded to more than 70 crashes on slick roadways Sunday morning, Lt. Mike Sadauskis said. 



Radical Islamists attack Nigerian cities 
Assocaited Press 
KANO, Nigeria — People in this north Nigeria city once wore surgical masks to block the dust swirling through its sprawling neighborhoods, but swarming children hawked the masks for pennies apiece Sunday to block the stench of death at a hospital overflow­ing with the dead following a coordinated attack by a radi­cal Islamist sect. 
The Nigerian Red Cross now estimates more than 150 people died in Friday’s attack in Kano, which saw at least two suicide bombers from the sect known as Boko Haram detonate explosive-laden cars. The scope of the attack, apparently planned to free sect members held by authorities here, left even President Goodluck Jonathan speechless as he toured what remained of a regional police headquarters Sunday. 
“The federal government will not rest until we arrest the perpetrators of this act,” Jonathan said earlier. “They are not spirits, they are not ghosts.” 
However, unrest continued across Nigeria as unknown assailants in the northern state of Bauchi killed at least 11 people overnight Saturday in attacks that saw at least two churches bombed, a sign how far insecurity has pene­trated Africa’s most populous nation. 
Friday’s attacks by Boko Haram hit police stations, im­migration offices and the lo­cal headquarters of Nigeria’s secret police in Kano, a city of more than 9 million people that remains an important political and religious center in the country’s Muslim north. The assault left corpses lying in the streets across the city, many wearing police or other security agency uniforms. 
On Sunday, soldiers wear­ing bulky bulletproof vests stood guard at intersections and roundabouts, with bayo­neted Kalashnikov rifles at the ready. Some made those disobeying traffic directions do sit-ups or in one case, re­peatedly raise a bicycle over their head. 
Signs of the carnage still re­mained. Police officers wear­ing surgical masks escorted a corpse wrapped in a white burial shroud out of Murtala Muhammed Specialist Hos­pital, the city’s biggest. Hos­pital officials there declined to comment Sunday, but the smell of the overflowing mor­tuary hung in the air. 
An internal Red Cross re­port seen Sunday by an As­sociated Press reporter said that hospital alone has ac­cepted more than 150 dead bodies from the attacks. That death toll could rise further as officials continue to collect bodies. 
At least four foreigners were wounded in the attack, the report showed. Among the dead was Indian citizen Kev­alkumar Rajput, 23, the Press Trust of India news agency reported. 


Jonathan arrived to the city late Sunday afternoon, travel­ing quickly by a motorcade to meet with the state governor and the Emir of Kano, an im­portant Islamic figure in the country. His motorcade later rushed to what used to be the regional command head­quarters for the Nigeria po­lice, with an armed person­nel carrier trailing behind, a soldier manning the heavy machine gun atop it. 
The Christian president, wearing a Muslim prayer cap and a black kaftan, looked stunned as he stood near where the suicide car bomber detonated his explosives. Offi­cers there said guards on duty shot the tires of the speeding car, forcing it to stop before it reached the lobby of the headquarters. 
However, it didn’t matter in the end as the powerful explosives in the car shred­ded the cement building, tore away its roof and blew out its windows. Blood stained the yellow paint near a second-story window, just under­neath a 10-foot (3-meter)-tall tree uprooted and tossed atop the building by the blast. 

“Whether you are a police­man or not a policeman, when you see this kind of thing, definitely you’ll be worried,” said Aminu Ringim, a se­nior police officer. “You’ll be touched.” 
U.N. Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon also condemned the multiple attacks Sunday. 
“The secretary-general is appalled at the frequency and intensity of recent attacks in Nigeria, which demonstrate a wanton and unacceptable disregard for human life,” a statement from his office read. He also expressed “his hope for swift and transpar­ent investigations into these incidents that lead to bring­ing the perpetrators to jus­tice.” 
A Boko Haram spokesman using the nom de guerre Abul-Qaqa claimed responsi­bility for the attacks in a mes­sage to journalists Friday. He said the attack came because the state government refused to release Boko Haram mem­bers held by the police. 

U.S. begins talks with insurgents 
Associated Press 
ISLAMABAD — Anxious to accelerate peace moves, top-level U.S. officials have held talks with a representative of an insurgent movement led by a former Afghan prime min­ister who has been branded a terrorist by Washington, a relative of the rebel leader says. 
Dr. Ghairat Baheer, a rep­resentative and son-in-law of longtime Afghan warlord Gulbuddin Hekmatyar (Gul-bu-DEEN HEK-mah-tyar), told The Associated Press this week that he had met sepa­rately with David Petraeus, former commander of NATO forces in Afghanistan who is now CIA director, and had face-to-face discussions ear­lier this month with U.S. Am­bassador Ryan Crocker and 
U.S. Marine Gen. John Allen, currently the top commander in the country. 
Baheer, who was released in 2008 after six years in U.S. detention at Bagram Air Field in Afghanistan, described his talks with U.S. officials as nascent and exploratory. Yet, Baheer says the discussions show that the U.S. knows that in addition to getting the blessing of Taliban chief Mullah Mohammad Omar — a bitter rival of Hekmatyar even though both are fight­ing international troops — any peace deal would have to be supported by Hekmatyar, who has thousands of fighters and followers primarily in the north and east. 
Hizb-i-Islami, which means Islamic party, has had ties to al-Qaida but in 2010 floated a 15-point peace plan during informal meetings with the Afghan government in Kabul. At the time, however, U.S. offi­cials refused to see the party’s delegation. 
“Hizb-i-Islami is a real­ity that no one can ignore,” Baheer said during an in­terview last week at his spa­cious home in a posh suburb of Pakistan’s capital, Islam­abad. “For a while, the United States and the Kabul govern­ment tried not to give so much importance to Hizb-i-Islami, but now they have come to the conclusion that they can­not make it without Hizb-i-Islami.” 
In Washington, National Se­curity Council spokeswoman Caitlin Hayden would not con­firm that such meetings took place but said the U.S. was maintaining “a range of con­tacts in support of an Afghan-led reconciliation process.” 
A U.S. official, speaking on condition of anonymity to dis­cuss the high-level meetings, said Petraeus last met with Baheer in July 2011 when he was still commanding NATO forces in Afghanistan. Petrae­us took over as CIA director in September. 
On Saturday, Afghan Presi­dent Hamid Karzai said he also had met recently with Hizb-i-Islami representatives. Baheer said he attended those meetings but added that the party considers the Afghan government corrupt and lack­ing legitimacy. 


page 8 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com Monday, January 23, 2012 
INSIDE COLUMN 
What’s in a name? 
What’s in a name? Well, in essence, everything. 
In my efforts to find an interesting read over break, I stumbled upon Dale Carnegie’s 1936 hit, “How to Win Friends and Influ­ence People,” and it has become my ultimate commu­nication studies geek book. 
One of Carn­egie’s “rules for how to make people like you,” is still stuck in my head — “Re­member that a man’s name is to him the sweet­est and most important sound in any language.” 
It’s so true. A name is such a power­ful thing. 
It is our most personal possession, and it could possibly be our oldest possession. It was given to us at birth, and it becomes a part of our personal­ity. 
It’s so powerful that our friends may even say, “You look like a Pat,” or “You’re such a Courtney.” And, it’s so personal that if someone calls us the wrong name, we’re caught off guard, or even offended (depending on the situation). 
A name has the power to instantly turn any situation into a serious one. Just think about growing up. You knew things were serious when your name was tacked on the end of a command. Suddenly a simple, “Clean your room” (which could have been a general comment to all siblings) turns into a personalized message. “Clean your room, Caitlin” — there’s no get­ting out of that one. 
In relationships, using a name can also show someone you care. It’s easy to just fall into a groove of saying or sending generic messages. But, using a name shows the other that they deserve more than a generic message. Saying, “thank you” becomes some­thing completely different when you say, “Thank you, Ross.” 
Names are also the ultimate ice­breaker. When you meet a person for the first time, what’s the first thing you do? You introduce yourself, and you expect the other to tell you his name. 
Regardless of whether you have anything in common with the other, you know you can always rely on your name to start the conversation. And, for some, a name is the coveted key to finding someone on Facebook. 
Yet, I feel as though names aren’t given enough credit. I understand, we all have them, so why bother giving them the time of day? But, it is such a simple way to show someone respect and honor. It’s a great way to make a first impression at a job interview, and it could even spread some smiles. 
I love hearing my name. I even se­cretly love when my first name is used in textbooks or articles. Don’t lie … I know there are readers out there who smiled because I used their names in this article, regardless of whether I know them or not. 
Names are so cool, so let’s take the time to really learn them. 
Hi. I’m Caitlin. 
Contact Caitlin Housley at      chousl01@saintmarys.edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


Old electronics contribute to city toxicity 
Welcome back! Another semester means it’s time for the GreenMan to “spring” some new sustainability is­sues and initiatives into light. 
I am sure many Domers were on Santa’s nice list Shelly Fuhrman this year, and I have Ask the GreenMan no doubt many of us are back at school with new iPhones, iPads, laptops, Kindles, PlayStations and the like, leaving our old gadgets in a world that’s a twisted version of Toy Story 3 — on a truck or a ship to an unknown place. 
But just because these items are no longer directly impacting our own lives does not mean they are not hav­ing a negative effect on other peo­ple’s lives and, like the “System of a Down” song, are contributing to the toxicity of cities around the world. 
According to the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), electronic waste, or e-waste, is the fastest-growing section of the municipal waste stream. Technology upgrades, everchanging media formats, declin­ing prices and planned obsolescence are the driving forces contributing to this problem. 
More often than not these out­dated, barely operational, electronic products are exported to develop­ing countries like India, Pakistan, Nigeria and parts of China, where people here use unsafe methods to take them apart to harvest and resell the metal pieces. 
But why is this a problem, you say? Well, components like microchips, circuit boards, disk drives, CRT mon­itors and TVs contain toxins like bro­minated flame-retardants, and heavy metals such as lead, mercury and cadmium, all of which are known to cause serious health issues. 
Circuit boards and covered wires are often burned over open flame to melt away plastic coatings and gain access to the valuable copper under­neath, but doing so releases poison­ous fumes. Big screen televisions can contain anywhere from four to eight pounds of lead, and when humans are exposed to even minute concentrations of lead, it can have disastrous effects on the heart, kidneys, bones, brain, reproductive and nervous systems. 

And the majority of people affected are children and young adults, labor­ing in an effort to contribute to family funds. 
So we know how components of our antiquated electronics can be harm­ful, but what is the magnitude of scale on which these events occur? Is it re­ally a big deal? The U.S. discards be­tween 300 and 400 million electronic items every year, and guess what? 
Only 15 percent of these items are recycled. We’re only talking about the U.S. here, so think about how this number skyrockets when other devel­oped nations are included and you’ll see it’s not a big deal — it’s a huge deal. 
Although e-waste comprises only 2 percent of what is taken to landfills, it equates to 70 percent of overall toxic waste, which not only harms people, but does major damage on the environment as well. Guiyu, China is known as the e-waste capital of the world and receives approximately one million tons of discarded electronics annually. 
Here, the landscape is an electronic graveyard consisting of mountains of burnt circuit boards, piles of ash, plastics and rivers polluted with acids and other chemicals. How much do these components really effect the environment, you ask? 
One study found the dust located ad­jacent to e-waste sites contained 371 times more lead and 155 times more copper than dust collected from non e-waste sites located only 18.6 miles away. 
So how can we prevent our dino­saur-tech toys from contributing to our own extinction? For starters, be sure that you properly recycle your old electronic devices. 
On campus, there are battery buck­ets located in every dorm, usually next to the recycling bins, for you to place old batteries or cell phones. Special bins also exist for CFL light bulbs, which should be disposed of properly since they contain toxic mercury and phosphor. 
In addition, plastic mailer envelopes for empty toner and ink cartridges are in the dorms — just slip the envelope in campus mail and they’ll recycle it for you! 
For colleges and departments, the NDSurplus program is designed to reduce waste and reallocate techno­logical assets no longer being used by a particular department on campus. University cell phones, PDAs, comput­ers and other items are eligible. More information can be found at surplus. nd.edu 
Outside of the ND bubble, many manufacturers, like Apple and Dell, and distributors such as Office De­pot have recycling programs in place for products like ink cartridges, cell phones and computers. Websites like gazelle.com will pay the shipping costs for you to send them your old electron­ics. 
The company first tries to reuse your old gadgets, and those that can­not be reused are responsibly re­cycled. A quick security tip: be sure to wipe all of your personal data from these devices prior to recycling. Before your semester gets too hectic, make a “Spring Semester Resolution” to prop­erly discard and recycle your unused electronics. 
The dangers are apparent, and you’re now aware of the resources available to you to limit these dangers, so take advantages of the opportuni­ties you have to make a difference. 
Email your predicaments to The GreenMan at askthegreenman@gmail.com and let him answer you with a sustainable twist. The GreenMan will be here every other week to provide you with insights you never knew you were missing out on until now. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

The wrong website
 This is in response to “Mathieson must go #1” by Peter Vogel (Jan. 20). He cited a few dating services as evidence to people finding good matches successfully. However, I’m pretty sure Ashley Madison is a website for people who are in a relationship already and are looking to cheat. So if your article was satire, bravo, it was hilarious. 
Also, it is awesome you all are talking about marriage and not married. I’m not discounting your view, but I’m interest­ed to see how it changes when/if you do get married. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“Always be nice to those younger than you, because they are the ones who will be writing about you.” 
Cyril Connolly English literary critic and writer 


Robert McKeon 
Class of 2010 Ambridge, PA Jan. 22 
WEEKLY POLL 
Where will you watch Super Bowl 2012? 
With my roommates O’Rourke’s Brothers Indianapolis 

Vote by 5 p.m. on Thursday at 
ndscmobserver.com 


Monday, January 23, 2012 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 9 
Spiritual coasting 
We have all experienced spiritual highs, times when we feel so close to God and are confident in his love and plan for us, and spiritual lows, when we experience doubt, frustration and even anger when we don’t under-Dee Tian stand God’s ways. 
Some people Confessions are fair-weather of a Christian Christians. Party Girl 
Some are, what I like to call, storm-weather Christian. Many Christians find it easy to love God, praise him and be thankful when everything is going well in their lives. However, when they encounter hardship or injustice, it becomes difficult to love God. Other Christians love God most in their suffering, leaning on God for support during their pain. Then, when things clear up, they push God aside and focus their energy on friends, family, work and so forth. 
I believe I belong to this latter group. 
When all’s well, I pray, go to Church, and read my Bible. But there’s no desperate need for God in my life. I don’t frantically crave His love or cling to him for support. To me, this is a problem. I want to insanely love God whether I’m on top of the world or when I’ve hit rock bottom. 
The best weekend I have had at Notre Dame (including my 21st birth­day and all home football games) was when I attended the Notre Dame En­counter retreat. NDE’s theme of “Mak­ing God Known, Loved and Served” really hit close to home for me. 
It was a chance to speak with fellow students who struggled with simi­lar issues, hear inspiring stories of students overcoming challenges and suffering and really examine my faith and relationship with God. 
I left the retreat with a sense of calm, feeling at peace with myself and the world. Yet, I also left with this incredible high, a bliss in feeling so close to God. 
Unfortunately, I think I’ve been spir­itually coasting for a while now, cruis­ing at a “spiritual middle” altitude, a sort of complacency that’s difficult to escape from. 

I ask myself, how do I reach a spiri­tual high again? I mean, I follow most of the rules good Christians should (Of course, as a college student, it’s difficult to stay away from the sins of excessive consumption of fatty food, cheap alcohol and the danger of ex­tremes). 
However, following rules may lead to religion, but not to faith. As one of my favorite songs by Jason Gray goes: “It’s gotta be more like falling in love, than something to believe in; more like losing my heart, than giving my allegiance.” 
Many of us were raised thinking that if we believed in God, and lived more or less moral lives, we would be okay. But shouldn’t we ask more of ourselves? Many of us want to have a personal, close relationship with God. But we don’t know how to do this. Our Heavenly Father must be a priority in our lives. If we examine our to-do lists and planners, we often see what our priorities are: study for an exam, work on this paper, go to the gym, have din­ner with friends, spend time with the boyfriend. Where is God in all of this? 
In order for God to be omnipresent in our lives, we have to make room for him. But this may require a complete shift in paradigm and lifestyle. How can I love God when I’m taking shots at Fever? How can I love God if I skip Mass because I have too much home­work? 
I should be willing and ready to give up excessive drinking and partying in order to live a more holy, Christian life. But I don’t think I am. And that speaks volumes. Are you? 
Dee Tian is a senior marketing major with minors in philosophy and anthropology. She can be reached at ytian1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

Follow Leprechaun Legion, unify “The Shirt” color 
What a sight at the basketball game on Saturday, as a national television audi­ence watched as our sea of green shirts helped cheer on the Irish basketball team to a an amazing victory against No. 1 ranked Syracuse, and then rushed the court at game’s end! 
For years I have failed in my efforts to have the administration “listen to the lead of the Leprechaun Legion,” and make the color of “The Shirt” a permanent Kelly green. 
I travel to many of the road football games (two years ago I attended all 12 regular season games), and on virtually every occasion all fans in the opposing team’s stadium wear a uniform team primary color. Never is this more obvious than at a football game in Ann Arbor. 
Yet at Notre Dame home football games, primarily because we change the color of “The Shirt” every season, fans can be seen wearing navy blue, powder blue, dark green, Kelly green, gold, yellow (intended to be gold) and even a shade of tan (also no doubt intended to be gold)! 
We refuse to follow the lead of the Leprechaun Legion, and stick with Kelly green T-shirts every year, so that the “non-student” fans can figure out what color to wear to home games. 
As a primary result of this “annual color change” policy of The Shirt, fans have absolutely no idea what color Notre Dame jackets, sweatshirts, coats and shirts to wear from year to year. Other than by looking towards the student section, it is virtually impossible looking into the stands to tell that one is even at a Notre Dame game. 
No doubt this makes Notre Dame Stadium a less intimidating place to play for the opposition, which also no doubt has at least partially contributed to the team’s mediocre home record over the past 15 seasons, since Coach Holtz re­signed. 
There was an outstanding blog on the herloyalsons.com website over the week­end, wherein the author articulated all of the reasons favoring a consistent and 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

uniform shirt color at home football games. Those who are interested in learning more can check out this website. 
The author of the blog succinctly points out that, although helping the less fortunate is definitely a noble goal of The Shirt Committee, the problem is that it has seemingly become The Shirt Committee’s sole goal. The apparent view is that “we need to change the color of the Shirt every year, so that more people will purchase it.” 
The problem with this narrowly-focused reasoning is that it fails to recognize that a primary purpose of The Shirt should also be to support the football team, as the Leprechaun Legion does for the Notre Dame basketball team, by keeping the color of the shirt Kelly green, season after season. 
The moderators of The Shirt Committee must recognize that, if the Univer­sity can take the lead by having the students wear a consistent shade of green at home football games, alumni and fans will eventually follow this lead, and purchase green shirts, sweatshirts, jackets and coats to wear also, resulting in a “sea of green” in the stands, even for the colder October and November games. 
If the moderators sincerely feel they need to keep their income level the same, here is an idea: place the same “Shirt” lettering and design on green sweatshirts, jackets and coats, which they can then sell to students, fans and alumni to wear at the colder weather games. 
Who knows, The Shirt Committee may even end up netting more money if they proceed down this path, thus killing two birds (and maybe even a wolverine or Trojan) with one stone. 
Thank you. 
Jim Blase 
Class of 1981 St. Louis, MO Jan. 19 





SCENE STAFF REPORT identity. “Pretty Little Liars” is based on Matthew and Mary to the power struggles Christmas festivities of the early episodes, Sara Shepard’s book series, which details between Lady Grantham and Mrs. Craw-the series returned with the controver­the unusual harassment of four teenage ley, set against the backdrop of war. sial episode, “Little Bo Bleep,” involving 
It’s been a long winter, and while spring girls following the murder of their best adorable Lilly (Aubry Anderson-Emmons) isn’t peeking around the corner just yet, friend. Throughout the series, the identity Parenthood 
swearing like a sailor. But your days will look a little brighter thanks of the seemingly omniscient “A” has been a “Parenthood” is the best little show on “Modern Family” to the return 
central mystery — one that ABC Fam-TV that no one seems still shone, even of your favor-ily promises to solve to be watch-through the con­ite TV shows. before the season is ing. The sec-troversy. The sec-From new over. ond half of its ond half of the shows to re-third season is seasons promis­turning favor-Smash as heartwarm-es to bring more ites, January One of the most an-ing, hilarious, laughs at the and February ticipated shows to air poignant and expense of the spell a whole this year, “Smash” charming as highly competi­new television follows the produc-ever. New jobs, tive, almost landscape . tion a new Broadway new relationships dysfunctional Check out musical, and with and new possibili-families. Scene’s guide creator/writer/ND ties on the hori­to what’s alumna Theresa Re-zon all spell major chang-Psych worth watch-beck’s Broadway expe-es for the Braveman claim, who seem The fall season ended with quite a cliff­ing when the riences informing her poised as ever to take them on as a family. hanger. Shawn bought an engagement snow starts script, it is also one of ring for his girlfriend Juliet, and though falling and the best. American Idol Gossip Girl he didn’t pop the question, Gus discov­you just can’t runner -upKatharine After leaving us shocked and wondering ered the hidden ring. When the show re-bear to leave your room. McPhee 
and if Chuck, Blair and her baby had sur-turns Feb. 29, will the commitment-phobic 
Broadway star Megan Hilty vived a mysterious Shawn take their relationship to the next Once Upon a Time play starry-eyed hopefuls car acci-level? Either way, “Psych” will still bring 
Of the several fairy tale-inspired televi-vying for the role of Marilyn dent, Gos-back all the laughs when it returns with sion shows that have sprung up this sea-Monroe in a show written by sip Girl is new guest stars like The Miz and Wayne son, “Once Upon a Time” is the most cre-a popular Broadway writer back with Brady, and the return of William Shatner ative. The writers, who previously worked played by Debra Messing. a whole lot as Juliet’s father. Just remember to keep for a little show called “Lost,” intertwine “Smash” combines all of of drama. looking for the pineapples. old tales and give them new life with de-the things that made “Glee” It has been tailed backstories, making the fairy tale popular when it first pre-a couple of Archer world far more interesting than its real 
m i e r e d , 
months after The funniest animated show on televi­world parallel. With b u t the accident. sion today, “Archer,” returned Jan. 19 for a stand out perfor-with a Chuck and its third season. Described by its creator mance by Robert grown-Blair are fully as “James Bond meets ‘Arrested Develop-Carlyle as the ever-u p recuperated ment,’” the show revolves around Sterling creepy Mr. Gold/ e d g e , from their in-Archer, a spy and womanizer, and his dys-R u m pl e s t i lt s k i n , juries but they functional cast of coworkers. The show “Once Upon A Time” Broadway-haven’t spoken airs Thursday nights on FX at 11 p.m. is something unique, caliber original songs since. So, why Don’t watch it with your parents. something entertain-and the mega-watt star is she now deter-mined to marry ing and something power that makes this Prince Louis having previously confessed Justified more worthy of your show shine above the her love to Chuck? Blair did not want to Timothy Olyphant returned Jan. 19 as time than anything rest. lose the person she loves the most and Deputy U.S. Marshall Rayland Givens in else in the Sunday made a vow to marry Louis in exchange one of television’s most underrated shows, night line up. Parks and Recreation for Chuck’s health and recuperation. Will “Justified.” Deputy Givens delivers justice 
Everyone’s favorite Chuck fight for Blair and convince her not in the style of a 19th century gunman, be-The Vampire Diaries parks department is to marry Louis? We’ll have to keep watch-cause in Hickville, USA, where the show 
If you still consider back! Leslie Knope ing… is set (actually Lexington, KY., and sur­“The Vampire Diaries” is in the midst of her rounding areas), that seems to be about in the same league as run for city council-Revenge where the general development of Twilight, stop it. Now. In man and after some This riveting drama on the society seems to have its 3rd season, the CW’s lackluster attempts ABC still has lots progressed. “Justified” Vampire Diaries has had to gain support from of twists left in airs Tuesday nights on FX an incredible season her constituents, she its first season. at 10 p.m. of twists and turns and seems on the right The show follows fantastic story lines that have made track thanks to the aid of her ex-politician Amanda Clarke, almost every episode seem like it should be boyfriend and now campaign manager, who has switched 30 Rock the season finale. “The Vampire Diaries” Ben. Ron Swanson, Tom, Andy, April and identities with 30 Rock is back. Af­has a soap opera’s ability to bring people the whole Pawnee Parks Department crew her friend Emily ter a long hiatus, due back from the dead and just enough teen-are as lively as ever and 2012 has already Thorne, in order to to creator/star Tina aged sass to remind 
you that started a string of great cameos thanks to exact revenge on the Fey’s pregnancy, the you are, after all, a star turn by Paul Rudd. people who wrongly show returns in NBC’s watching a show on accused her father Thursday night line-the CW. It’s got some-Downton Abbey and put him in jail up at 8 p.m. Rejoin thing for everyone, This British sen-years ago, especial-the zany world of Liz even if you don’t like sation, which be-ly the queen of the Lemon’s show-within­vampire stories. If came a surprise hit Hamptons Victoria a-show, and get ready that’s the case, you on this side of the Grayson. Her plans for a season that can always mute Atlantic when PBS are ruthless and un-deals with Kim Jong-Il’s the TV and just aired the first series remorseful, including d at -death, star Tracy Morgan’s real life rants stare at Ian Somer-last year, is back with ing Victoria’s son Daniel to get to her. Em-and a new boyfriend for Liz. halder for 42 min-a dramatic second se-ily almost had a change of heart when she utes. You’ll thank ries. World War I has realized how many other innocent people Unsupervised us. broken out and every-she could hurt, but her plans are back on Unsupervised is a new animated series 
one at Downton Abbey, track. Do not miss a minute of the rest of on Thursdays at 10:30 p.m. on FX, fol-Pretty Little Liars from the aristocratic this season. lowing Archer. Masterminded by David 
The Pretty family who call it home Hornsby, who is best known for the role Little Liars are to the maids and ser-Modern Family of Cricket on It’s Always Sunny in Phila­back! ABC Fam-vants who wait on them, The zany sitcom about the Pritchett and delphia, the show follows two adolescents ily’s hit drama made its winter are feeling the major Dunphy families is back with all the laughs run amok. Featuring the vocals talents of premiere on Jan. 2, to a fan base eagerly changes that war brings. Expect even of the first half of the season. After the Justin Long and Kristen Bell, this show anticipating the Season 2 reveal of A’s more drama, from the will-they-won’t-they dude ranch, punkin chunkin and express has great potential. 

Monday, January 23, 2012 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 11 

MARIA FERNANDEZ 
Scene Writer 
Name: Valerie Mejias
 Spotted: South Dinning Hall 
Camel and brown tones are so in right now and Valerie combines them perfectly in this casual chic look. Her fur vest and brown moccasins are comfortable and warm for these cold winter days, yet very fashionable. Valerie also chose simple and matching accessories to complete her outfit. Her light brown belt and gold watch are key to this relaxed ensemble. 
Contact Maria Fernandez at mfernan5@nd.edu 

that dominate the landscape, none of these homes have electricity, making it nearly impossible to find one’s way through the slum at night. 
Piles of rubbish are also a recur­ring theme in Michaël Zumstein’s photographs of Lagos, Nigeria. The caption for one photograph — “Laundry on a clothesline at a home in Jakonde” — belies the scene of ut­ter devastation and filth it depicts. The tiny hut is built on a raised plat­form, presumably to avoid traipsing through the dirty water and bags of trash floating below. Two women stand behind a blanket hung to dry, and one cannot help but wonder how they got there in the first place, since neither steps nor ladders are visible. 
The final series of photographs in the exhibition are black-and-white portraits of the Roma, a minority group in Macedonia that faces dis­crimination and lower living stan­dards than the rest of society. One of the most striking images is of a kneeling 17-year old boy named Subihan Nazirov, whose short-sleeve T-shirt ironically reads “RESPECT” in capital letters. Subihan was beat­en for 24 hours straight by police­men because he was not carrying identification papers at a checkpoint. Perhaps this is how he acquired the scar above his left eyebrow. 
All of the photographs speak of a life of incredible hardship. Christie McDonald, a professor of French and Comparative Literature at Harvard University who delivered a lecture about Jean-Jacques Rousseau’s leg­acy prior to the opening reception of DIGNITY, acknowledged that we sometimes experience “a sense of helplessness” and “a desire to look away from harsh realities” when faced with testimonies like those in DIGNITY. She posed difficult ques­tions, such as: “If human rights are self-evident, how is it that not every­one recognizes them?” 
Although there is certainly no easy answer, DIGNITY helps raise awareness about the plight of the poor around the globe, and it tells the stories of people who have been silenced. Students and faculty alike should make a point to go see this tremendous exhibition, which will be on display through March 11.   
Contact Brigid Mangano at            bmangano@nd.edu 

BRIGID MANGANO 
Scene Writer 
Most art exhibitions tell a story of some kind, whether or not view­ers are aware of it. Sometimes the organizers concentrate on the stylis­tic evolution of a single artist, while other times they draw connections between multiple artists working at a particular historical moment. DIGNITY, an exhibition of 52 photo­graphs that recently opened at the Snite Museum of Art, tells a chilling story of human rights violations and extreme poverty. 
The photos were taken by five dif­ferent photojournalists who traveled to Mexico, India, Egypt, Nigeria and Macedonia, respectively, to capture scenes of daily life for a larger ex­hibition commissioned by Amnesty International France. The exhibition was adapted for an English audience and brought to Notre Dame thanks to the efforts of Julia Douthwaite, a professor in the Department of Ro­mance Languages and Literatures. 
One of the first images that visi­tors see upon entering the gallery is a large-scale photograph by Guil­laume Herbaut of a man with his fin­gers interlocked and his hands be­hind his neck. He stands alone in a bare room, with his eyes downcast. Without reading the accompanying label, one might think that the man is fatigued from a hard day’s labor, but he is actually demonstrating the position that Mexican soldiers forced him to maintain before beating him in 2003. According to the exhibition catalogue, the man was a human rights defender in the El Charco community, and was found dead in 2009. 
Johann Rousselot’s photographs of Eastern India focus on the forced evictions of indigenous popula­tions in mineral-rich areas and the struggles of neighboring villages to maintain control of their lands. In one photograph, a woman wear­ing only a skirt and a shawl around her shoulders balances several pots and pans atop her head, making her body seem unusually elongated. Her stride is undeniably graceful, and the dirt path where she walks bare­foot is clean and free of garbage, in stark contrast to many of the other photos in the exhibition. However, the caption for the photograph is ominous. The young woman is a res­ident of Kucheipadar, a village en­gaged in an ongoing battle over pro­posed mining projects that threaten the livelihoods of its inhabitants. 
The lack of trash in Rousselot’s photo is all the more blatant when compared to Philippe Brault’s snap­shot of the shantytown Ezbet El-Haggana, in Northern Egypt. High-voltage cables tower over a cluster of brick buildings situated so closely together that it appears as though one could walk from roof to roof 
— that is, if they were not covered with clothes, crates, chairs, tires and other debris. Despite the power lines 
SPORTS AUTHORITY 
Death of Joe Paterno brings mixed emotions 
“RIP, Joe Pa. Your legacy will never be forgotten,” one tweet said. 
“In case anyone forgot: Paterno harbored a predator. Remember the victims today,” read a Facebook status. 
“You don’t have to speak ill of the dead. But you don’t necessar­ily have to speak nicely of them, either,” another tweet said in an attempt to strike a middle ground. 
While social media rarely provides us with an oppor­tunity for serious reflection, the Internet’s reaction to the news of former Penn State coach Joe Paterno’s death on Sunday struck at a difficult conflict: how to best cel­ebrate, mourn and remember a man who for decades was seen as a paragon of moral conduct in a difficult world — until he was unceremoniously fired in the midst of the worst scandal in the history of col­lege athletics. 
Many will choose to re­member Paterno for the years of service he gave the Penn State community. It is precisely because was responsi-



The Brooklyn of all of his good work, ble for a large native spent however, that Paterno’s part of Penn 62 consecu-downfall is so painful. It State’s growth 
tive years at reminds us that even the as a univer-Penn State, sity over six 
best of us make mistakes. 
a legendary figure whose career was far bigger than the incident that brought it to an end. 
Others will not be able to see past the ignominious end to Paterno’s career. While we will never know what exactly Paterno knew and what he was told, many will see his actions as inexcusable, for he certainly did not aggressively investi­gate Jerry Sandusky when the assistant coach was accused of systematically molesting young boys. Paterno’s image of old-fashioned, clean-cut values seems nothing more than a cruel facade, a veneer over a man who was too caught up in his own cult of personality to think he could do any wrong. To these, Paterno’s name will forever be linked with a hor­rifying series of events that far outweigh any of his ac­complishments on or off the football field. 
Both of these viewpoints are too extreme. The one is too generous to Paterno, viewing the Sandusky scandal as noth­ing more than a speed bump; the other is too harsh, discard­ing decades of Paterno’s good deeds on account of one event. We should not forget the impact Paterno had on Penn State, as it’s pretty clear that he was a longtime force for good in State College. The fiery coach served as an ambassador for the 
university as 
a whole and 
in many ways 
46 of which as head coach. In that time, Paterno single-hand­edly built the Nittany Lions’ proud football tradition, overseeing Beaver Stadium’s growth from a 46,000-seat to a 106,000-seat behemoth and collecting more wins than any other coach in history in the process. 
Off the field, though, Pa­terno was a father figure in the State College community, donating huge sums of money to Penn State and serving as a role model and mentor to hundreds of players along the way. Penn State was long ad­mired for “winning the right way,” and many cited Paterno as the driving force behind that ethos. 
To those, Paterno will be decades. 
It is pre­
cisely because 
of all of his 
good work, however, that Paterno’s down­fall is so painful. It reminds us that even the best of us make mistakes, and that sometimes those mistakes can be just as painful and horrible as they were honest. 
So as we mourn Joe Paterno, yes, we celebrate his legacy. Yes, we remember the victims of the sexual-abuse crisis. But most of all, we mourn the mistakes he made. 
Contact Allan Joseph at ajoseph2@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority column are those of the author and not necssarily those of The Observer. 
MEN’S TENNIS 

Irish split contests over weekend 
By WALKER CAREY 
Sports Writer 
The Irish split its pair of matches over the week­end, sweeping William and Mary 7-0 Friday night be­fore falling to Illinois on Sunday in Champaign, Ill. Irish coach Bobby Bayliss said he was pleased with his squad’s performance in Friday’s victory. 
“Friday night, our guys went out and got the job done,” Bayliss said. “It was pleasing to see that we did not take William and Mary for granted. Our singles play was solid and our doubles play was strong against a team that is known for pretty strong doubles play.” 
Notre Dame’s trip to Illi­nois on Sunday represent­ed the squad’s first road match of the year. The Irish had a chance for an upset over No. 17 Illinois, but failed to take advantage of the opportunity. 
“Losing the early doubles point was crucial,” Bayliss said. “Losing at No. 2 doubles is pretty much what put the match in the advantage of [Il­linois]. We failed to take ad­vantage of the opportunity there and it cost us dearly. We needed to be aggressive there and it just did not happen.” 
While the Irish were sharp in their victory over William and Mary, Bayliss said his squad’s quality of play fell significantly on Sunday. 
“We made a lot of mis­takes all afternoon,” Bayliss said. “There were some areas where we need to make some adjustments and improve­ments. We were not too great fundamentally and it’s hard to win when the fundamen­tals are not there.” Despite losing to Illinois, there were a few Irish players who turned in outstanding performances. Sophomore Greg Andrews upset senior Roy Kalmanov­ich, the 24th ranked player nationally, at second singles, 6-2, 6-3. 
“It was a great win for him,” Bayliss said. “I was very im­pressed with the performance he turned in. He played a great match.” 
Bayliss also commended junior Blas Moros and sopho­more Billy Pecor. “Moros was able to give us a strong victory at No. 6 singles,” Bayliss said. “He played well and had con­trol the entire match. Pecor beat Stephen Hoh at No. 3 sin­gles, which was quite impres­sive, as Hoh is a really good player who has beat us before. It was a great win for Pecor and it is definitely something he should be able to build on.” The Irish will look to get back on the winning track this coming weekend when they travel to Columbus, Ohio to take on Indiana on Friday and either Ohio State or Cornell on Saturday. 
Contact Walker Carey at wcarey@nd.edu 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The 
Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

Do you have ‘It Girl’ by Jason That’s how much you mean to me oh oh They don’t get another shot cause Til I make you mine, mine PERSONAL Derulo? You could be my it girl Let me play it loud you’re…love drunk You’ve got that something, 
Baby you’re the shhh girl Let me play it loud like…oh oh Like a TV show playing reruns something Ive been looking under rocks and Lovin’ you could be a crime Let me play it loud You could be my it girl I wanna be with girl breaking locks Crazy how we fit girl You’re my biggest hit girl You’re my greatest hit girl 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don’t Just tryna find ya This it girl You can’t help but turn them heads Let me play it loud Let me play it Just say this is it girl… go it alone. Notre Dame has many I’ve been like a manic insomniac Give me 25 to life Knockin’ them dead loud like…oh oh oh oh Let me play resources in place to assist you. 5 steps behind you I just wanna rock all night long Dropping like flies around you it loudLet me play it loud like…oh Hey baby… If you or someone you love needs Tell them other girls, they can hit And put you in the middle of my If I get your body close not letting oh oh oh Don’t you know you’re my it girl confidential support or assistance, the exit spotlight go Can’t seem to stop you from… You could be my it girl please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819 Check please… You could be my it girl Hoping you’re about to tell them running, running Baby you’re the shhh girl or Ann Firth at 1-2685. For more Cause I finally found the girl of… You’re my biggest hit girl other guys they can lose your Through my, through my mind, Lovin’ you could be a crime information, visit ND’s website at: my dreams Let me play it loud number mind Crazy how we fit girl http://pregnancysupport@nd.edu Much more than a Grammy award Let me play it loud like…oh oh You’re done! Just keep it coming, coming This it girl 
TRACK AND FIELD 

Irish dominate across the board against Big East rivals 
By BRIAN HARTNETT 
Sports Writer 
The Irish marked their re­turn home with a strong show­ing, winning six events at the Notre Dame Invitational on Saturday. 
Notre Dame faced tough competition in the home meet, featuring Big East opponents South Florida and DePaul as well as local competitors Michigan State and Western Michigan. 
In a day filled with top fin­ishes by Irish competitors, freshman Chris Geisting’s performance stood out, as the sprinter turned in a record-breaking performance in the 500-meter to add another ac­colade to his stellar season. Competing in the 500-meter event for the first time in his career, Geisting finished the race with a time of 1:01.89, breaking both the school re­cord and the Meyo Track re­cord in the event. 
In addition to Geisting’s victory, the men’s team also took first place in three other events on the day. Junior mid­dle-distance runner Jeremy Rae, competing in his first race of the season, placed first in the 1000-meter event. Junior middle-distance runner J.P. Malette won the 3000-meter event, while the team of junior sprinter Brendan Dougherty, senior sprinter Mitch Lorenz, sophomore sprinter Patrick Feeny and Geisting earned the top spot in the 4x400-meter relay. 
On the women’s side, the Irish notched two first-place finishes. Sophomore middle-distance runner Kelly Curran took first in the 1000-meter, while sophomore jumper Kelly Burke finished first in the pole vault. 
Irish coach Joe Piane also cited strong performances from freshman Kaila Bar­ber, who placed second in the 60-meter hurdles, senior Mad­die Buttinger, who claimed third in the high jump and sophomore middle-distance runner Alexa Aragon, who placed second and achieved a personal record in the mile event. In addition, the 4x400 meter relay team of senior Natalie Geiger, sophomore Mi­chelle Brown, Buttinger and Barber turned in a second place performance. 
“On the whole, I thought we had a pretty successful meet,” Piane said. “Everything that we do now is in preparation for the Big East Championships, and I would say that we’re right on pace to have some good performances there.” 
The meet proved to be ben­eficial to Irish runners with aspirations of the Big East Championships, as the team added to its list of Big East qualifying performances. Thirty of the performances from the meet hit Big East qualifying standards, adding to the 60 qualifying perfor­mances already met by the team in prior meets. 
Piane now looks to the Irish’s competition in Bloom­ington Relays this weekend. He said the relays will be a tough proving ground for Irish runners looking to be compet­itive in the Big East. 
“It will be one of those meets where we will place people in a position that will help them get to the Big East and run well there,” Piane said. “I ex­pect that we will have great performances, as we normally do. 
“It’s a very nice facility down there and there’s always some good competition.” 


Notre Dame will travel to Bloomington, Ind. on Friday to compete in the Bloomington Relays. 
Contact Brian Hartnett at bhartnet@nd.edu 
SMC BASKETBALL 

Saint Mary’s secures second season victory over Scots 
By PETER STEINER Even after making the roughly in the first half they took their first as the Belles started the and six lead changes in the Sports Writer three and a half hour trip to Art first lead of the game. Yet with half on a 6-0 run. But also like game. Smith Arena, the Belles (8-10, eight points from senior forward the first half, the Scots reduced Belles coach Jenn Henley said 
Utilizing a fast start and a 4-5 MIAA) came out hot against Jessica Centa in the last nine the Belles’ lead to one point by her team recognized how impor­strong finish, the Belles defeated the Scots (4-14, 2-7), scoring the minutes of the first half, it was the 11:35 mark. In the end, an tant this second round of confer-Alma 69-61 Saturday night to first four field goals of the game. the Belles who held the 34-29 11-0 run by the Belles in the last ence games is for their postsea­earn their second MIAA confer-The Scots rebounded quickly, advantage at halftime. five minutes put the game away son hopes, especially given the ence road victory of the season. however, and with the 9:40 left The second half mirrored the and moved Saint Mary’s one win new playoff format. 
closer to reaching .500 in con-“The MIAA has gone to a four­ference play. team playoff system instead of 
Even though Alma outshot where the top eight teams get Saint Mary’s from the field — 39 in,” Henley said. “Now it’s only percent compared to 36.1 per-the top four that get into the con-cent — free throws ultimately ference tournament so we defi­proved to be the difference nitely need to align ourselves in as the Belles’ scored 13 more terms of our standings to be one points from the line. In fact, sev-of those top four teams to make en of the Belles’ 11 points to end the tournament. That’s certainly the second half came off free on the minds of everyone on this throws. team.” 
Senior forward Kelley Mur-With only seven conference phy led the Belles with 18 points games to play, the Belles’ 4-5 while sophomore guard Shan-MIAA record puts them in sole lynn Bias added a career high possession of fourth place. 15 points and four steals. Saint Mary’s will face off 
Unlike their first matchup, in against Trine at home Wednes­which Saint Mary’s won 72-50 day at 7:30 p.m. and did not trail once, the sec­ond contest proved to be much Contact Peter Steiner at more competitive with six ties psteiner@nd.edu 



time season series 20-1. 
Peters 
“This game was hard to 
continued from page 20 
We’ve been trying to do that every game this year, and we finally got it, so we were all pretty excited about that,” Peters said. “After that, ev­eryone was excited and ready for the game. 
“I’m just 
play before Tennessee,” Mc­Graw said. “We learned nothing; we’re not going to use anything we did today against Tennessee, and cer­tainly offensively it’s going to be a lot different look. It re­ally was a bad game to have two days before Tennessee. We’re go­ing to have to switch 
looking  for  “I think that loss is in  gears.”  
the ball a lot more, and post up a lot more. I’m really post­ing up, and they’re giv­ing me the ball.” While the Wildcats (12­ the front of their minds, and the win is in the front of ours. We’ve got to prepare for them like every other team and not make it too special, but understand that they are a good team that is capable of beating us. ”  Despite the over whelm­ing dispar­ity in favor of Tennessee in wins and c h a mp i on -ships, Notre Dame earned its first ever win over the  
7, 2-4) hardly posed a chal­lenge during  Skylar Diggins junior guard  Lady Volun­teers in the q u a r t e rf i - 
the  contest,  nals  of  the  
the game did  NCAA  tour- 
prevent  the  nament  last  

Irish from preparing for its season. Irish junior guard second top-10 opponent in Skylar Diggins scored a three weeks: No. 9 Tennes-game-high 24 points, leading see. the Irish to the Final Four in 
Led by the all-time win-the 73-59 victory. ningest coach in NCAA bas-“We understand that ketball history, Pat Summitt, they’re going to be after us,” the Volunteers (14-4, 5-1 Diggins said. “I think that SEC) hold a lead on the all-loss is in the front of their minds, and the win is in the that they are a good team night at 7 p.m. at the Purcell front of ours. We’ve got to that is capable of beating Pavilion. prepare for them like every us.” other team, and not make it Notre Dame takes the Contact Chris Masoud at too special, but understand court against Tennessee to-cmasoud@nd.edu 


FENCING 

Irish struggle at St. Johns and NYU, claim few victories 
By MATTHEW ROBISON “It’s a big contrast from pics — some of the young-team-oriented, Kaull said. A ence.” Sports Writer last year when we just kind er fencers were forced to fencer’s results not only im-Next weekend, the Irish 
of rolled through,” Kaull prove their mettle early on, pact his own performance will stay on campus as they 
The No. 4 Irish men and No. said. “[The weekend’s re-a challenge and stand-host the Notre Dame Duals. 3 women hit an early season sults were] a bit low, but it’s they seemed ings, but The women will compete bump as they emerged with not discouraging.” prepared for, contribute Saturday and the men will just 12 total Last week Kaull said. to wheth-compete Sunday. wins from in practice, “A lot of peo-er or not This week, the focus will both the St. Irish coach ple have had the team be on mental preparation 
“As long as you go out 
John’s Dual Janusz Bed-to step up nat-wins the and adjustments, Kaull said. 
and fight and put forth 
and NYU Du-narski noted urally,” Kaull match. For “I think that we just kind 
an effort, no one can 
als. “We always expect to great co-said. “We did the under-of want to fine tune more of 
ask anything more of 
On Satur-operation do a good job classmen, the mental things. You can’t 
win everything ... There’s 

day at the between making sure you ... We made our though, it’s really change a lot physically 
been a big fight from 

St. John’s the vet-[the younger effort and we just hope all about in one week, “Kaull said. “So 
some of the other teams. 

Dual, both eran mem-fencers] were that they can learn effort. you just kind of want to focus 
We kind of had to grind 

the men and bers of the ready and from this experience.” “As long on the things you can control 
a lot of our victories.” 

women came squad and mentally pre-as you go on the spot, like being more out 2-3. The the younger pared for the out and aggressive in this situation 
James Kaull 
men beat No. James Kaull fencers. With stresses of fight and and being less aggressive in 
junior epee 
3 Harvard junior epee four of those college fenc-put forth an this situation. You just hope and No. 6 St. veterans not ing. It’s a lot effort, no that you can go out there and John’s, but in action for different.” one can ask execute.” fell to No. 1 Notre Dame As opposed a n y t h i n g Notre Dame will be back in Penn State, at the begin-to fencing more of action Saturday at home in No. 5 Ohio ning of the i n d i v i du -you,” Kaull the Notre Dame Duals. State and Co-season — ally in competitions before said. “We made our effort lumbia. The women claimed they were qualifying for the the collegiate level, fencing and we just hope that they Contact Matthew Robison at victories against No. 7 Har-2012 London Summer Olym-in the NCAA is much more can learn from this experi-mrobison@nd.edu vard and Columbia, but fell to No. 1 Penn State, No. 5 Ohio State and No. 6 St. John’s. 
Sunday brought much of the same for the men, as they beat NYU, Yale and North Carolina but lost to Columbia, Ohio State and St. John’s. The women fared better, with wins over NYU, St. John’s, Yale, Northwest­ern and Ohio State, and just one loss to Columbia. 
Junior epee James Kaull said the weekend was tough, but not a complete disap­pointment. 
“We always expect to win everything,” Kaull said. “There’s been a big fight from some of the other teams. We kind of had to grind out a lot of our victories.” 
Last season, the Irish coasted through the regular season en route to a national championship, so the strug­gles are a bit unfamiliar for the Irish, Kaull said. 


SMC SWIMMING AND DIVING 

Belles suffer pair of losses despite good performances 
By MIKE MONACO Benishek commended Dal-Sports Writer rymple’s individual efforts, 
noting her natural talent and 
The Belles came away emp-leadership. ty-handed from Grand Rapids, “She’s definitely one of the Mich., where they swam in a stronger pillars on the team,” dual meet against Alma Col-Benishek said. “When it comes lege and Calvin College. down to holding some of the 
Saint Mary’s lost to Calvin by top times, she’s very steady. a score of 121-84, and lost to She has lots of natural tal-Alma 129-107. ent and leadership skills as 
Despite the tallies in the well. For the individual med-loss column, ley, she’s tal-Belles coach ented in that Mark Ben-she has mas­ishek said he tered all four 
was satisfied “We had some great times strokes.” with some across the board from Senior Me-solid indi-the entire team ... There gan Price, vidual perfor-were a lot of time drops who turned mances from and some big swims.” in a pair of 
his swim-second place mers. finishes, also 
Mark Benishek 
“We had led the Belles. 
Belles coach 
some great Price finished times across the 1,000­the board yard freestyle from the en-in 11:07.41, tire team,” an improve-Benishek said. “There were a ment of over 20 seconds. lot of time drops and some big Price’s other second place per-swims.” formance came in the 500 free, Senior Audrey Dalrymple which she finished in 5:27.36. had some of those big swims, Between Dalrymple and as she continued her strong Price, along with fellow senior swimming by earning two Katie Donovan, the Belles have first-place finishes. Dalrymple a reliable core of upperclass­won the 200-yard individual men leaders. Donovan record-medley in 2:15.97 and the 100-ed a third place finish in the yard breaststroke in 1:10.43. 200-yard freestyle and a fifth In both events, Dalrymple place finish in the 100-yard shaved seconds off her time backstroke. Together, the trio from Tuesday’s meet against of Donovan, Dalrymple and Olivet College. Price forms the backbone of 
the team, Benishek said. 
“[Dalrymple and Price] are definitely two of the leaders of the team and Katie Donovan is as well,” Benishek said. “For all three of the seniors, they definitely show a lot of leader­ship in the pool and out of the pool as well and set a great ex­ample for the rest of the team.” 
Benishek said he was also impressed with junior Kristyn Gerbeth’s performance, as she finished second for the Belles in the 100-yard butterfly with a time of 1:03.71. 
“[Gerbeth] did great in the butterfly,” Benishek said. “She hasn’t gone that fast since maybe the first or second week of the season. It’s great to see some of those times come down after the training trip we went on a few weeks ago.” 
The Belles traveled to Ari­zona over winter break for a training trip, and are reap­ing the ben­efits of their 


times even triple practices [in a day]. We’ve seen a lot of gains in the swimmers and their bodies are gaining more strength from that training. 

hard work, That’s how we 
“We’re looking for our 
Benishek build towards 
swimmings to swim up 
said. the end of the 
to their potential.” 
“We’ve re-season.” ally put our-Just one selves in a Mark Benishek meet remains great posi-Belles coach before Saint tion,” Ben-Mary’s heads ishek said. to Holland, “On the train-Mich., for the ing trip, we MIAA Cham­truly had a pionships, great trip strength-wise. We which begin Feb. 15. The had double practices or some-Belles, who face Albion College on Feb. 4 in the last home meet of the season, are hoping to finish the season with a strong effort. 
“We’re looking for our swim­mers to swim up to their po­tential,” Benishek said. “This is our first time seeing Albion and we always want to fin­ish on a high note. Hopefully we can finish with a win, es­pecially with it being Senior Night.” 
The Belles are back in the water Feb. 4 to close out the regular season against Albion College at the Rolfs Aquatic Center. 
Contact Mike Monaco at jmonaco@nd.edu 


50 percent from both the field and three-point range during the game. Notre Dame entered the game shooting 43 percent and 32 percent, respectively, in those catego­ries. 
“I felt that we’re a better shooting team than what our numbers said,” Brey said. “When you’re making some shots like that, it gets you be­lieving a little bit more.” 
The Irish survived a span of 7:18 in the second half in which they failed to score. Syracuse used a 9-0 run to cut the Notre Dame lead to 8, capped by a bizarre play in which Irish sophomore guard Jerian Grant scored in the wrong basket. The Or­ange never got closer than seven points the rest of the way, and they never led in the game. 
After the game, Notre Dame’s packed student sec­tion rushed the court to cel­ebrate the upset win. Min­utes before the game ended, the aisles in the Leprechaun Legion were filled with stu­dents waiting to run onto the court. 
“I thought all the work was over, and then they rushed the court,” Cooley said. “That was more tiring than half the game. The fans were phe­nomenal.” 
A night prior to the game, Brey and the Irish coaching staff showed a video of the past Irish upsets over No. 1 squads to the current team. The win marked the sixth straight win over a No. 1 team at Purcell Pavilion. 


“To be part of that history of beating [No. 1 teams], I’m very, very proud of that,” Brey said. “But I’m more proud of our guys. This is a great memory for them. But getting 10 league wins and an NCAA bid is a better memory.” 
Notre Dame returns to ac­tion Wednesday when it trav­els to Seton Hall for a match-up with the Pirates at 8 p.m. 
Contact Matthew DeFranks at mdefrank@nd.edu 
Crushed 
continued from page 20 
strong to start the second half, but the Irish withstood their 13-3 run that spanned halftime, responding with seven unanswered points of their own. 
“I was a little concerned about our psyche [at half­time],” Brey said. “[Syracuse sophomore guard Dion] 
Waiters “I thought all the work 
hit the two 
was done, and then they 
threes and 
rushed the court ... That 
they sped 
was more tiring than 
us up a lit-
half the game. The fans 
tle bit. We 
didn’t get a were phenomenal.” good shot at the end of Jack Cooley half. There 
junior forward 
was a calm­ness about us.” 
The Irish, 
whose  of­ 
fense  calls  
for  a  slower  tempo,  con­ 

trolled the pace of the game and allowed just 18 points in the paint to the Orange. 
“I thought our poise was great, even when they put some pressure on us and we made some mistakes,” Brey said. “We really controlled the tempo, which was a key. 
By ANDREW CARDOZA 
Sports Writer 
The Irish started the second half of their season off with a bang Saturday, winning all 16 events en route to a 218­82 vic­tory over To see them in the 50s scor­ing wise was great to see.” 
Cooley benefitted from the slower pace and Syracuse’s less physical zone defense to record his fifth double-dou­ble of the year in 35 minutes of play. 
“[Cooley] was just a beast on the front line, which he’s done before,” Brey said. 
“Some of those plays where he ripped out loose balls and 
“We now know we can 
Michigan 
State. beat great teams like Sopho -Michigan State. We more competed at a very high swim-level and it gives us a mer Kel-big boost going into Big ly Ryan East play within the 
turned in 
next couple of weeks.” 
a stand­out per-
Jenny Chiang 
formance for the junior diver 
Irish (4­5), plac­ing first in three events — the 50-yard freestyle (23.64), 100-yard backstroke (56.08) and 200-yard backstroke (2:02:60). Ryan jumped out to an early lead in the 200-yard back­stroke and paced 
herself to earn the 
“Even though diving is an 
first place finish. 
individual sport, knowing 
The sophomore 
that you have the support 
also helped lead 
of your teammates is 
the 400-yard free­
style relay team to big for confidence. We victory by swim-have gotten closer with ming the final leg. team chemistry.” 
Notre Dame’s 16th and final vic-Jenny Chiang 
junior diver 
tory came from the diving team. Junior Jenny Chi­ang continued her strong season by winning the 3-me­ter diving event with a tally of 342.83 and placing second in the 1-me­ter diving event with 287.40 
got second shots made his teammates believe even more. Our crowd loved it; it got our crowd juiced.” 
The Orange took the court without soph­omore cen­ter Fab Melo, who did not travel with the team due to academic reasons. The Irish held Syr­acuse under 60 points for 
the first time this season, with the Orange shooting 34 percent for the game. 
Syracuse senior forward Kris Joseph led the Orange with 12 points. Senior guard Scoop Jardine has held to just two points on 0-for-5 shooting. 
The Irish, meanwhile, shot 
ND WOMEN’S SWIMMING AND DIVING 

Irish sweep Michigan State for conference victory 
points. 
“We got a lot of big perfor­mances from our underclass­men,” Chiang said. “They were very confident and it brings a lot of confidence to 
the younger part of the team. They overcame the pressure and had one of the best meets of the sea­son.” 
Several under­classmen stood out, particularly freshman Emma Reaney, who had another stel­lar meet for the Irish. Reaney took first in the 200-yard free­style and 100­yard butterfly, and contributed to a victory in the 400-yard free­
style relay. She has been a key asset for the Irish this year, as she was named Big East 
Swi m-ming and Diving Athlete of the Week three times this sea­son — a confer­ence re­cord. 
Chi­ang said this meet will be a major building block 
for the second half of the sea­son, especially with the team entering conference play next weekend. 
“This meet brings a lot of momentum,” Chiang said. “We now know we can beat great teams like Michigan State. We competed at a very high level and it gives us a big boost going into Big East play within the next couple of weeks.” 
With Big East play fast ap­proaching, the team will draw on its experience dur­ing training trips in Hawaii and Puerto Rico over winter break, which Chiang said brought the Irish together. 
“The training trip made the whole team closer,” Chiang said. “Even though diving is an individual sport, know­ing that you have the support of your teammates is big for confidence. We have gotten closer with team chemistry.” 
Notre Dame continues its home stand this weekend when it hosts the Shamrock Invitational on Friday and Saturday. 
Contact Andrew Cardoza at acardoza@nd.edu 


to get into a flow. Games like 
that can be a lot harder. You’ve 
got to stay mentally engaged.” continued from page 20 Irish coach Jeff Jackson was 
proud not just of the victory, but 
“It’s fun playing with T.J. of the performance as well. Tynan,” Calabrese said. “I saw “It’s an important win as far him with the puck and I saw my as our team goes, let alone the winger sleeping a bit there. I got hype and rivalry stuff,” Jack-behind him and T.J. put it in a son said. “It’s more important perfect spot. I just had to send we play well and I thought it towards the net and luckily it we played well for most of the went in.” game.” 
Calabrese and Tynan both Summerhays was awarded added to their point totals on the start in Saturday’s con-Notre Dame’s second goal with test after his standout perfor-
Tynan 
9:41 remaining in the sec-mance Friday. While he once ond period. again played Once again, strongly, he a crashing was only the defenseman second-best 
— 
this time goaltender in senior captain “It’s an important win the rematch. Sean Lorenz as far as our team goes, Hunwick 

—
 put a goal let alone the hype and stopped 38 


on the board. rivalry stuff. It’s more shots for the The Wol-Wolverines 
important we play well 
verines pulled on Saturday, 
and I thought we played 
within one including 16 
well for most of the game. 
4:30 into the saves in the third period second pe­when fresh-Jeff Jackson riod. Despite man forward Irish coach numerous Alex Guptill chances, the deflected a Irish could slapshot by sneak just one senior defen-by him, when seman Greg freshman Pateryn past Irish sophomore right wing Austin Wurthrich netminder Steven Summerhays. converted a one-timer off a But that was as close as Michi-cross-ice pass from sophomore gan would get as Irish senior forward Anders Lee early in the captain and right wing Billy second period. Maday iced the game with an “[Hunwick] saw the puck empty-net goal with 25 seconds well this weekend,” Lee said. remaining. “We tried to get in his face and 
Summerhays was the star of we probably didn’t do a good the game for Notre Dame, fin-enough job of that. But he’s a ishing with 30 saves on 31 shots. good goaltender and he was Though the sophomore played able to see around our screens well individually, he gave much and find it.” credit to his defenders. The Wolverines raced out to 
“The guys did a good job a 2-0 lead with two first period blocking shots and letting me power play goals. Michigan’s receive pucks and it makes my first goal bore a striking resem­job a lot easier,” Summerhays blance to its only goal on Friday, said. “It wasn’t the easiest game as Guptill again deflected a Pa-


teryn slapshot into the net. With hit” Jan. 13 against Western just 23 seconds remaining in the Michigan. The Irish appealed 
period, Michi­ the  suspen­ 
gan  junior  sion,  allow- 
forward  A.J.  ing  Sheahan  
Treais  scored  to play Friday  
on a wrist shot from the faceoff circle past Summer-hays. The two goals would  “The guys did a good job blocking shots and letting me receive pucks and it makes me job a lot easier.  ”  night. But the decision was upheld, forc­ing Sheahan out of Satur­day’s game, to  
be all the Wol­ Jackson’s  dis­ 
verines would need. The Irish  Steven Summerhays sophomore netminder  taste. “It was more about the pro- 
were  notably  cess. It wasn’t  
without  one  so much about  
of  their  top  the  call,”  
penalty  kill- Jackson  said.  

ers Saturday in junior center “A 20-year old kid — I hope they Riley Sheahan. Sheahan was take a hard look at the official controversially suspended for that was involved and give him one game by the CCHA for what the same kind of a suspension.” the league deemed an “illegal The Saturday loss dropped the Irish to sixth in the CCHA standings at 30 points. However, Notre Dame is only five points behind conference-leader Ohio State in the standings and has played two fewer games. Michi­gan State, No. 8 in the confer­ence, trails the Buckeyes by just six points. 
“It will go to the last night and you may have four teams competing for first place and four teams competing for fifth place,” Jackson said. “That’s the way our league is right now. You’ve got eight teams in the top-20 in the country. Things don’t get easy around here.” 
The Irish now travel across the continent for a crucial CCHA series at Alaska on Friday and Saturday. 
Contact Sam Gans at sgans@nd.edu 
Defining 
continued from page 20 
Absolutely not. 
Irish coach Mike Brey made smart moves, starting fresh­man guard Pat Connaughton and preparing his team to break Syracuse’s press. But does it mean the Irish are good enough to beat any team on any given night? Of course not. 
Notre Dame had one chance to beat Syracuse last night 
— every bounce had to go its way. And on this particular Saturday night, every bounce did. 
Even at their worst, when sophomore guard Jerian Grant’s inbounds pass hit anyone who thinks this vic­tory means Notre Dame is a good basketball team is way off base. 


The Irish can win at home, and on some nights they can beat good teams. They utilize the burn quite well, which is a testament to how well Brey gets the most out of his play­ers in down years. And the team certainly shows signs of promise for the future. But a win over Syracuse does not mean this will be a successful year. 
The Irish have a long way to go. They are not a good shoot­ing team, despite their perfor­mance against Syracuse. They have improved on defense, but good offensive teams will get to them eventually. And worst of all, their scoring options are limited, which was pain­fully obvious in their loss to Connecticut. 
It was a great night, but it was not a defining night. Notre Dame is on the right track, but it is certainly not there yet. The Irish show signs of future success, but are not ready to make a run in the Big East, let alone in the NCAA tournament. 
The win over Syracuse will help the Irish earn a bid in March, but they still have a long way to go. 
Saturday’s game is a good representative of this season as a whole — always in doubt. 
Contact Eric Prister at eprister@nd.edu
   The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
off the rim and in, scoring a basket for Syracuse, fortunes quickly turned back in favor of the Irish. Junior forward Jack Cooley took a fast break pass and threw down a two-handed dunk that landed him on SportsCenter’s top plays. 
When Notre Dame was about to be called for a shot-clock violation, it drew a foul. Missed shots were goalten­ded and scores from Syracuse were called off for offensive fouls. Every break fell Notre Dame’s way, and that is why they were able to knock off such an impressive foe. 
The win over Syracuse is good for Notre Dame’s resume moving forward, and if they end up 9-9 in the conference it could propel the team into the NCAA tournament. But 

ND WOMEN’S TENNIS 

Senior captains lead young team to three-victory weekend 
By VICKY JACOBSEN 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame enjoyed a nearly perfect opening weekend, sweep­ing Cincinnati and Indiana Univer­sity-Purdue University Fort Wayne (IPFW) 7-0 and earning a 6-1 win over Missouri in a span of 30 hours. 
“The girls played really well this weekend. It was great — everyone got to play doubles or singles yes­terday and today and everyone played really well,” Irish assistant coach Kelcy Tefft said. “I liked the intensity and I’m excited for a good season.” 
The No. 20 Irish (3-0) began their Saturday afternoon sweep of the Bearcats (0-2) by winning each of the three doubles slots, earn­ing the point awarded to the team that wins the majority of doubles match-ups. 
Seniors Kristy Frilling and Shan­non Mathews, the fifth-ranked pairing nationally, seemed in con­trol against junior Jasmine Lee and sophomore Ashleigh Witte, racking up a 7-1 lead, but lost the next two games before winning the third to claim an 8-3 victory. 
Irish sophomore Britney Sanders and freshman Katherine White, ranked 25th nationally, easily dis­patched senior Safiyya Ismail and sophomore Sierra Sullivan with an 8-1 win. Sophomores Julie Saba­cinski and JoHanna Manningham appeared to be on the same path, as they won their first six games. But the Bearcats — now playing for pride as the other two Irish pairs had already secured the point from the doubles slots — rallied, win­ning four of the next five games in their most impressive display of the afternoon before the Irish took the next game and the victory. 
Notre Dame did not drop a set in any of the six singles matches against Cincinnati. Frilling defeat­ed Lee, Cincinnati’s top player 6-0, 6-2, and three of the Irish lost just one game: Sanders and McGaffi­gan defeated Ismail and Sullivan, respectively, both with a score of 6-0, 6-1, while White took down sophomore Carly Wilson 6-1, 6-0. Sophomore Jennifer Kellner beat Bearcat sophomore Ashleigh Witte 6-2, 6-3, and although Mathews trailed 2-3 in the first set against freshman Kristina Georgieva, she won 10 straight games on her way to a 6-3, 6-0 victory. 
The dual match wins were firsts for both White and Sanders. 
“It was great to see Katherine, our freshman, and Britney, since this is her first dual season out in action,” Tefft said. “They both played really well this year and I think they’re going to help us out a lot.” 
The Irish continued their dou­bles dominance against Missouri on Sunday morning. Frilling and Mathews beat senior Nina Pantic and sophomore Rachel Stuhlmann 8-1, while both Sanders and White and Kellner and McGaffigan beat their opponents (senior Jamie Mera and freshman Alex Clark and juniors Maria Christensen and Annemijn Koenen, respectively) 8-1. 
Although Frilling fell to Pantic (6-3, 6-1) in the only Irish loss of the weekend, Mathews and Kellner dispatched their opponents easily. Sabacinski needed a tie-breaker, but defeated Koenen 6-4, 7-6 (7-5). McGaffigan beat Mera 7-5, 4-6, 6-4 and Sanders overcame Stuhlmann 3-6, 6-3, 7-5 in two of the closest matches of the weekend. 
The Irish showed no sign of fa­tigue in their final matches as they quickly buried the Mastodons. Sanders and White beat senior Alex Forsyth and junior Anita Henestrosa 8-1, Kellner and Mc-Gaffigan defeated seniors Raquel Vescovi and Frederique Sunstrum 8-0, and Manningham and Sa­bacinski sent sophomore Alyssa Tucker and freshman Marcy Huck home with an 8-2 loss. 
The Irish won each of their six singles matches without giving up a set; Sabacinski lost just one game to Sunstum while Frilling and Manningham did not drop a single game. 
Tefft attributed the team’s suc­cess to hard work between the fall and spring seasons. 
“Three matches in two days is al­ways difficult, just because you’re 
MEN’S SWIMMING AND DIVING 

Irish defeat MSU for second straight win against Big Ten opponents 
By MEGAN FINNERAN 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame was victori­ous in this weekend’s dual meet against Michigan State, granting the Irish their sec­ond consecutive win against a Big Ten team. Notre Dame easily took down the Spar­tans, 174­121, at the Rolfs Aquatic Center on Saturday to McEldrew in the 1,650-atypical events, to be able to yard freestyle with a time sweep the top three spots in of 15:44.39, Overholt in the multiple events shows us how 200-yard freestyle in 1:40.90 deep we really are.” and the 100-yard freestyle in 45.95, Miller in the 100-yard breaststroke in 56.82 and the 200-yard breaststroke in 2:01.10, Dyer in the 50­yard freestyle in 20.69 and 
freshman Matthew De-Blasio in the 500-yard freestyle in 
improve its overall re­cord to 6-3. D e s p i t e six individ­ual wins for Notre Dame  “We have a bit of history with MSU so to come out and control the meet as well as we did only indicates good things to come at Big East.”  4:36.09. Diving saw a successful day as well with sweeps on both the 1 -me t er  
in  its  last  and  3-me- 
meeting with  Chris Johnson  ter  events.  
the Spar­tans in 2011,  junior  F r e s h m a n Nick Nemetz  

Michigan State took the edge with a 155.5-144.5 win. This time, the Irish came out with both more individual wins and the overall victory. 
“It was great to come out with this much energy af­ter a difficult training trip,” junior Chris Johnson said. “We have a bit of history with MSU so to come out and control the meet as well as we did only indicates good things to come at Big East.” 
The afternoon kicked off with a lead in the 200-yard medley relay, in which senior Petar Petrovic, freshman Cameron Miller, sophomore Frank Dyer and junior Kev­in Overholt won the event in 
1:31.04. Strong finishes like this one continued through­out the day. 
Individual first place fin­ishes on the swimming side included freshman Jimmy 
took first place on both the 1-me­ter board, with a score of 353.85, and the 3-me­ter board, with a score of 
354.23. In both events fresh­man Michael Kreft, fresh­man Ted Wagner and senior Sean Rademaker rounded out the Irish effort with sec­ond, third and fourth place finishes. 
It was not only the first-place finishes, but also the ones that followed seconds behind to edge out Spartan swimmers that sealed the win for the Irish. In the 50­yard freestyle, the Irish took first, second and third place when Johnson and freshman Zach Stephens touched in right after Dyer at 21.18 and 
21.36 seconds, respectively. 
“Going 1-2-3 in some events was awesome to see,” Johnson said. “Even though some people were swimming playing doubles and singles, but the girls did well with their condition­ing over Christmas break and over the last two weeks,” Tefft said. “I think they’re in pretty good shape.” 


The Irish will return to action at Yale at 2 p.m. Saturday as part of National Team Indoor Regional Qualifying. 
Contact Vicky Jacobsen at vjacobse@nd.edu 
The Irish will look to carry this victory to next weekend, when they will play host for the Shamrock Invitational on 
Friday and Saturday. 
Contact Megan Finneran at mfinnera@nd.edu 


WILL SHORTz 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 
CROSSWORD 



LEE HAGGENJOS and ALEx GRISWOLD 
THE LONDON EXPRESS 


KELLY LYNCH and JOE MILLER 
CLAMMY HANDSHAKE 



HENRY ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 
Unscramble these four Jumbles,one letter to each square,to form four ordinary words. 


WROBN  

©2012 Tribune Media Services, Inc.All Rights Reserved. 
TURYL PHENAP  
 

Find us on Facebook http://www.facebook.com/jumble 

PRAILS  

Answer here: 


(Answers tomorrow) Jumbles: AGENT THIRD SPRING INCOMESaturday’s 
Answer: The customer got this after seeing the newomelette on the menu — “EGGCITED” 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 

Make checks payable to and mail to:  The Observer P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
 Enclosed is $130 for one academic ye ar 
 Enclosed is $75 for one semester  

Name ____________________________________________________ Address __________________________________________________ City ____________________ State___________ Zip______________ 

Monday, January 23, 2012 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 20 
MEN’S BASKETBALL 

Orange crushed 

Notre Dame shocks fans and experts alike with a 67-58 victory over No. 1 Syracuse 
By MATTHEW DeFRANKS 
Sports Writer 
Call Kelly Tripucka. Call Adrian Dantley. Call Digger Phelps. 
The echoes have awoken. 
Behind junior forward Jack Cooley’s 17 points and 10 rebounds, Notre Dame topped No. 1 Syracuse 67­58 Saturday night, its first win over the highest ranked team in the land since 1987. 
“It’s a great win. We’re good enough to beat the No. 1 team in the country,” Cooley said. “We just have to play like it the rest of the season.” 
Notre Dame (12-8, 4-3 Big East) connected on eight of 16 attempts from three-point range in the game, neutral­izing Syracuse’s trademark 2-3 zone defense. The Irish also outrebounded the Or­ange (20-1, 7-1) 38 to 25, assisted by freshman guard Pat Connaughton’s seven boards. 
“I’m really proud of our group on the backboard,” Irish coach Mike Brey said. “We had our guards re­bounding tonight. They did not help us on the boards at Rutgers and we really ad­dressed that over the last couple days of practice.” 
Notre Dame opened the game by hitting its first four shots en route to 12-3 spurt over the span of 10 minutes. The Irish shot 54 percent from the field in the first half, allowing them to even­tually open up an 18-point lead. The hot shooting, cou­pled with Syracuse’s poor start, helped the Irish jump out to a 35-23 lead at half­time. 

The Orange came out 
see CRUSHED/page 16 
One great game does not a season make 
It was never in any doubt, but it was always in doubt. 
When Notre Dame started the game on an 11-2 run over Syracuse, the game was in doubt. 
When the Irish took a 35-23 lead into halfti me and had dominated Syracuse in every as­pect of the game, there was doubt. 
Even as Notre Dame clung to a nine-point lead with 65 seconds remaining in the game, doubt held on as well. 
Saturday’s 67-58 win over No. 1 Syracuse, Notre Dame’s first win over a top-ranked opponent since 1987, was a great win. But it was not a team-defining win. 
The Irish shot 50 per­cent from three-point range against Syracuse, 17 percent higher than their season av­erage. 
They have, on average, been outrebounded this season, but had 13 more rebounds than the No. 1 team in the country. 
The win over Syracuse was a great memory for the se­niors, both on the team and off. It was exciting for the fans who rushed the court, and it gave Notre Dame a fea­tured place on SportsCenter. But does it mean the Irish will win the rest of their games? 
see DEFINING/page 17 

ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 
Peters takes the lead in a crushing Wildcat defeat 
By CHRIS MASOUD 
Assistant Managing Editor 
No. 2 Notre Dame poured it on early (four seconds into the game) and often (26 field goals throughout the contest), cruising to a 76-43 home victory over Villanova two days before a critical matchup against Tennessee. 
Irish senior forward De­vereaux Peters tallied 19 points — 17 of which came in the first half — and six re­bounds, as four Notre Dame players finished in double-digit scoring. 
“I was so pleased with Devereaux Peters tonight,” Irish coach Muffet McGraw said. “What a game. She got out of the gate and really did everything we hoped she would do, and then some. 
She was able to exploit the mismatch inside, use her athletic ability to out-jump people. She has phenomenal athletic ability, and when you play a team like this she can exploit some things.” 
That athletic ability was on full display from the first play of the contest. 
Peters won the tip, sprint­ed into the frontcourt and caught a pass on the run before laying it in the hoop and picking up a foul, all in four seconds. She hit the free throw to complete the traditional three-point play and give the Irish (19-1, 7-0 Big East) a lead they main­tained for the remaining 39 minutes and 56 seconds. 
“The tip play was huge. 
see PETERS/page 14 
HOCKEY 

Irish split against tough rivals 
By SAM GANS 
Sports Writer 
A pair of evenly-matched teams in front of two hot goaltenders played to a split this weekend as No. 6 Notre Dame defeated No. 10 Mich­igan 3-1 on Friday before falling to the Wolverines 2-1 Saturday. 
The Irish (14-9-4, 9-6-3­0 CCHA) got off to a quick start against the Wolver­ines (15-9-4, 9-7-4-1) in the first game when junior de­fenseman Sam Calabrese opened the scoring at the 
15:39 mark of the first pe­riod. Calabrese pinched in toward the net from near the blueline and received a pass from behind the net from sophomore center T.J. Tynan before putting the puck past Michigan senior goaltender Shawn Hunwick. 
see TYNAN/page 17 









