
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


Taco Bell, Pizza Hut to replace Sbarro in fall 
By KRISTEN DURBIN 
News Editor 
When students return to campus for the fall 2012 se­mester, they will have two new fast-food dining options to choose from in the Huddle Food Court in LaFortune Stu­dent Center. 
On Monday, Food Services announced its plans to open Taco Bell and Pizza Hut fran­chise concepts in the current location of Sbarro this fall. The addition of the restau­rants will be the first fran­chise change in the Huddle since 2003, Food Services di­rector David Prentkowski said. 
“It’s been 10 years since Sbarro went in, so it’s time for a change. I’m excited for it,” he said. 
Prentkowski said the deci­sion to replace Sbarro has been deliberated for the past three years due to the ap­proaching expiration of the franchise’s contract and its decline in business. 
“Over the last few years, we saw Sbarro’s business decline, and the overall student satis­faction with and preference for Sbarro as a brand declined as well according to surveys, so we took the upcoming expi­ration of the franchise agree­ment as a good opportunity to take a look at our alterna­tives,” Prentkowski said. 
Jim LaBella, the general manager of the Huddle, said 


see SBARRO/page 3 



Professor speaks on miracles in “Last Lecture” series 
By CHRISTIAN MYERS Education (ACE) co-founder ing the audience whether or into three lessons he learned lieve not just God, but all good News Writer and Fisher resident Fr. Tim not they believe in miracles. through important experienc-things come in threes,” he Scully. “Do you believe in mira-es in his life. He explained the said. 
Notre Dame, and Fisher Hall Scully spoke Tuesday night cles?” Scully said. “I think division was based on his be-The first lesson came as a in particular, would not be the in the Coleman-Morse Center miracles happen all the time. lief that all good things come result of his work with local same without political science lounge as part of the “Last The very fabric of life is made in threes. prisoners while a sopho professor, Kellogg Institute Lecture”  series. up of miracles.” “I’m an intense and un­fellow, Alliance for Catholic He began his lecture by ask-The lecture was divided apologetic Trinitarian. I be-see LECTURE/page 6 
Lecture discusses “Mormon moment” 
By ANNA BOARINI 
News Writer 
Tuesday evening, Dr. Bruce Porter, an elder in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (LDS) gave a lecture arguing there is currently a “Mormon moment.” Por­ter is a member of the Quo­rum of 70, an LDS governing body, and titled his lecture “The Latter-Day Saints come marching in: Mormonism abroad and at home in the 21st century.”
 “Right now, there is ex­traordinary media attention given to Mormons both home and abroad,” he said. “There are three reasons for this; the candidacy of Mitt Rom­ney, the Broadway hit musi­cal “The Book of Mormon,” which is a parody of the re­ligion … and our own media campaign, ‘I am a Mormon’ intended to dispel stereo­types.” 
The sheer growth of the church and the rising promi­nence of Latter-day Saints in a wide variety of fields also contribute to the added at­tention, Porter said. 
To begin his talk, Porter explained some of the LDS hi­erarchy and central beliefs. He dispelled a common myth about the church’s founder, Joseph Smith. 
“We recognize him [Joseph Smith] as a fallible mortal and do not in any sense wor­ship him,” he said. 
Porter said despite the ex­plosion of growth in the LDS church, Mormons are still very connected. 
“Our policies and curricu­lum originate from church 


Two professors named Guggenheim Fellows 
By ANN MARIE JAKUBOWSKI 
News Writer 
In early April, 181 U.S. scholars, artists and scien­tists were named 2012 Gug­genheim Fellows, includ­ing two Notre Dame faculty members. Both professors Margot Fassler and Olivia Remie Constable are faculty in the Medieval Studies pro­gram. 
According to the John Si­mon Guggenheim Memorial Foundation’s website, the award is commonly thought of as a “midcareer” award for candidates who demon­strate notable prior achieve­ment as well as exceptional promise for the future. Re­cipients this year were se­lected from a pool of almost 3,000 applicants. 
Constable, director of Notre Dame’s Medieval In­stitute, said her work is cen­tered on the interactions between Christians and Muslims in southern Europe between the 12th and 16th centuries. 
“Next year, I will be writ­ing a book on Christian perceptions of Muslims liv­ing under Christian rule in southern Europe in a pe­riod when Christians had con­quered large ar­eas that had once been un­der Mus­lim con­t rol,” Constable said. 
The re­search it­self will focus on the rela­tionships between the Constable Christians and Muslims, she said. 

“I am looking at how this relationship worked, and at 
see FELLOWS/page 6 


headquarters … it helps en­sure the church remains one unified body,” he said. “We are a close-knit people, we feel strong bonds to other saints across the world. There exists a global Mor­mon village.” 
After explaining some as­pects of the church, Porter discussed Mormons and poli­tics. 
see LDS/page 5 

INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER BAVO talk discusses sexual violence page 3 u Viewpoint page 8 u Style with Sean page 10 u Spotlight on men’s lacrosse page 20 
page 2 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u DAY-TO-DAY Wednesday, April 25, 2012 

www.ndsmcobserver.com 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
Allan Joseph 


Managing Editor Business Manager 
Megan Doyle Jeff Liptak 

Asst. Managing Editor: Andrew Owens 
Asst. Managing Editor: Sam Stryker News Editor: Kristen Durbin News Editor: John Cameron 

Viewpoint Editor: Meghan Thomassen Sports Editor: Chris Allen Scene Editor: Kevin Noonan Saint Mary’s Editor: Jillian Barwick Photo Editor: Suzanna Pratt Multimedia Editor: Sarah O’Connor Graphics Editor: Brandon Keelean Advertising Manager: Katherine Lukas Ad Design Manager: Amanda Jonovski Controller: Jason Taulman Systems Administrator: William Heineman 
Office Manager & General Info 
(574) 631-7471 
Fax 
(574) 631-6927 
Advertising 

(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
Editor-in-Chief 

(574) 631-4542 dfarmer1@nd.edu 
Managing Editor 

(574) 631-4542 smervosh@nd.edu 
Assistant Managing Editors 

(574)631-4541 apratt@nd.edu, cmasoud@nd.edu 
Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 
News Desk 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
Viewpoint Desk 

(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 
Sports Desk 

(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
Scene Desk 

(574) 631-4540 mgustin@nd.edu 
Saint Mary’s Desk 
chousl01@saintmarys.edu 
Photo Desk 

(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 
Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 
Policies 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College.  Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Allan Joseph. 
Post Office Information 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one 
academic year; $75 for one semester.  
The Observer is published at:  POSTMASTER  
024 South Dining Hall  Send address corrections to:  
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779  The Observer  
Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame  P.O. Box 779  
and additional mailing offices  024 South Dining hall  
Notre Dame, IN 46556-077  

The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
TODAY’S STAFF 
News 
Anna Boarini Bridget Feeney Ann Marie Jakubowski 
Graphics 
Lisa Hoeynck 
Photo 
Sarah O’Connor 
Sports 

Andrew Gastelum Conor Kelly Ernst Cleofe 
Scene 

Mary Claire O’Donnell 
Viewpoint 

Meghan Thomassen 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: DID YOU GET REFUNDED FROM PIGTOSTAL? 

Drew Williams  Alicia Danto  Peter Kristiansen  Joseph Whalen  Kimberly Kirk  Conor Montijo  
junior  senior  sophomore  sophomore  sophomore  freshman  
Stanford  Howard  Keenan  Duncan  Breen-Phillips  Stanford  
“Me? No.”  “No, but the  “I thought  “No, still  “Nope.”  “I got these cool  
senior tailgate  AnTostal was  waiting...”  shuttershades!”  
was fun!”  free!”  



Have an idea for Question of the Day? Email obsphoto@gmail.com 


OFFBEAT 
Bears interrupt weather report at Pa. TV station 
SCRANTON, Pa. — A mama bear and three of her cubs were caught on camera at a northeastern Pennsyl­vania television station sec­onds before a live weather report was about to begin. 
It happened during the 11 
p.m. newscast Monday at WNEP-TV in Scranton. The station has a landscaped outdoor area it calls “the backyard” with trees and a water fountain for its weath­er segments. 
Meteorologist Kurt Aaron said he heard something behind him and when he turned around, a black bear was 10 feet away. He said he ran inside and did his report 


LOCAL WEATHER 

from indoors while a camera continued to show the bear family exploring. 
“Beautiful Bulldog” wins contest 
DES MOINES, Iowa — Ty­son, a beloved English bull­dog, doesn’t bite ears like his namesake, boxer Mike Ty­son. But he does share a title: champion. 
The two-year-old pup with a fetching face and a winning personality was crowned the winner of this year’s “Beauti­ful Bulldog” pageant Monday in Des Moines, Iowa. 
Tyson beat out 49 other pups for the honor Monday in the tongue-in-cheek contest, now in its 33rd year. Appli­cations were submitted for more than 100 dogs, and the field was whittled down to 50 by a lottery. 
But none of the pups could touch Tyson, who Tyler and Chelsea Motter chose to en­ter over his brother, Chubbs, because of his face and per­sonality. 
Tyson’s first few moments as the champion were rough. He fell face-first off his throne - about a three-foot drop - and then refused to eat his celebratory doggie cake. 
“He’s a lover. He loves ev­erybody. He loves to play,” Chelsea Motter said. “He’s happy all the time.” 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 


IN BRIEF 
The Notre Dame women’s softball team is playing a doubleheader against Seton Hall today from 2 to 6 p.m. in Melissa Cook Stadium. Student tickets cost $5. 
Dr. David Kofke of the University at Buffalo will deliver a lecture titled “Big Properties from Small Sim­ulations” at 3 p.m. today in 136 DeBartolo Hall as part of the Center for Research Computing’s seminar series. 
Sanford Budick, profes­sor of English at The He­brew University in Jerusa­lem, will deliver a lecture titled “How Kant, Follow­ing Milton, Achieved Actual Experience” today at 5 p.m. in McKenna Hall with a re­ception to follow. 
The Notre Dame men’s baseball team takes on Central Michigan today at 
5:35 p.m. at the Frank Eck Baseball Stadium. Tickets cost $5. 
A dinner and discus­sion on “Homelessness and Human Dignity in South Bend” will take place to­night at 6:30 p.m. in the Geddes Hall Coffeehouse. The event is free and open to all students and faculty, and a catered dinner will be served. 
Halftime, a co-ed student acapella group, will present their spring concert tonight at 7 p.m. in the Mainstage Auditorium of Washington Hall. Student tickets cost $3. 
To submit information to be included in this sec­tion of The Observer, e­mail detailed informa­tion about an event to obsnews.nd@gmail.com 

TODAY TONIGHT THURSDAY FRIDAY SATURDAY SUNDAY 










CORRECTIONS 

In the April 24 issue of The Observer, the restrictions on SAGA’s programming were misconstrued in the article “SMC group supports AllianceND.” It is untrue that SAGA is not allowed to hold events on the Saint Mary’s campus when the Board of Trustees is in town. In the April 23 issue of The Observer, the wrong stats were reported in the article titled: “Irish win fifth straight title”. Correct results can be found online at ndsmcobserver.com/sports. The Observer regrets these errors. 


Wednesday, April 25, 2012 The Observer u NEWS ndsmcobserver.com | page 3 
BAVO hosts sexual violence talk 
By CHRISTIN KLOSKI 
News Writer 
The Belles Against Violence Office (BAVO) hosted Dr. Gail Stern, who presented an in­teractive lecture called “Beat the Blame Game” on Tuesday night. According to a College press release, the presenta­tion helps the audience bet­ter recognize forms of sexual violence and discover ways to promote a violence-free community. 
Stern said humor can be used when dealing with a se­rious topic. 
“Irrelevant humor is what helps take a new perspective on a serious topic,” Stern said. “However, it is not good to make fun of rape victims.” 
Stern said rape victims face blame from outsiders and are often treated as though they were acting like criminals. 
“The victim should not be blamed in any case,” she said.  
Human judgment of vic­tims comes from the 
happen to bad people,” she said. “When we hear a victim’s story we always try to work it out how we would have done it.” 
Part of the presenta­tion consisted of the audi­ence coming up with a list of names for sexually active men and women. 

“The list for women is al­ways longer than for those of men,” Stern said. “Words feel more like a punch for wom­en, while for men, the names seem positive.” 
Stern said the names for sexually active women have always been demeaning. 
“These names show the de­huma n­ization of a person,” 
“When a stranger attacks, 

S t e r n men, but es-said. we are clear to fight back. pecially for “They are But when it is someone we women, she shown as know attacking, we feel said. 
obje cts guilty of fighting back.” “We are without told not to asking for dress pro-
Dr. Gail Stern 

consent.” vocative, 
Catharsis Productions 
S o m e don’t ever be 

of the names even lead to blaming the victim, she said. 
“People say it is not rape because the victim was slut 
just world “The just-world hypothesis hypothesis, says good things happen to Stern said. good people, and bad things 
“The just-

happen to bad people. When 
world hy­

we hear a victim’s story we 
pot hesi s 

always try to work it out 
says good 

how we would have done it.” 
things hap­pen to good people, and Dr. Gail Stern 
bad things Catharsis Productions 
or a bad per­son or that the victim was trying to get away from some­thing, wants revenge or wants atten­tion,” Stern said. 
Stern said a claim of rape should always be 

taken seriously. 
“90 percent of reported cases of rape are not false, and over 80 percent of the victims are raped by some­one that they know,” Stern said. 
Many cases of rape are by someone the victim knows, so fighting back can be con­fusing, she said. 
“When a stranger attacks, we are clear to fight back,” Stern said. “But when it is someone we know attack­ing, we feel guilty of fighting back.” 
Trying to reduce the risk of rape compared to prevent­
ing rape is 
a confusing 
matter for 
alone with a 
man, be ex­
plicit about your sexual limits, and don’t drink alcohol,” Stern said. “We must see the difference between rape prevention and risk reduction.” 
Stern said rape is an act of power, and rapists just do not care who their victim is. 
“Rape is not wrong because it’s a crime; it’s a crime be­cause it is wrong,” she said. 
One way woman can help both reduce their risk and prevent rape is to watch out for each other, Stern said. 
“The challenge for women should be this,” she said. “We should see everyone as our sister. We need to watch out for them and care for them when we see them in trouble.” 
Contact Christin Kloski at cklosk01@nd.edu 
Sbarro 
continued from page 1 
the decision to bring Taco Bell and Pizza Hut to Notre Dame was finalized on Fri­day after being under seri­ous consideration since last September. 
“It was a pretty long pro­cess, but we did come to a unanimous decision with al­most all parties involved to replace Sbarro with Taco Bell and Pizza Hut,” LaBella said. “They are run by the same parent company, so they do combination stores, and we wanted 
“When we add Taco Bell, we won’t need the Buen Pr­ovecho burrito stand in the Huddle,” he said. “Our goal is to eventually convert that area to a Panda Express sometime in the fall semes­ter.” 
Prentkowski said Taco Bell and Pizza Hut will likely be ready for operation close to the start of the 2012-2013 school year, barring any complications due to con­struction, timing and legal or contractual matters. 
“We’re in the beginning stages right now. We’re look­ing at the physical renova­tion, train­ing for staff and manag­
to have both “My senior year will be ers and the Taco Bell forever changed. Taco legal aspect and a pizza Bell is my life. It is an of franchise 
option for agreements 
incredible improvement. 
students.” and con­
[I] couldn’t have asked for 
Prent-tracts,” he 
anything better to replace 
kowski said said. “A lot of 
[Sbarro] than Taco Bell.” 
Food Ser-things have vices worked to come to-with Student Rachel Pilla gether to Government junior make it all 
and the Of­fice of Stu­dent Affairs to determine brand concepts that would work well based on student preference, patterns of usage and the physical space of the current Sbarro location. 
“In our undergraduate and graduate student focus groups, we asked questions in surveys about brand pref­erences and combinations, and there was nothing but support for our decision to go this particular direction,” he said. “We were pleasantly surprised that the combined Taco Bell and Pizza Hut con­cept would fit, and the com­pany was very excited about working with us to put it in place … They scaled their operation to make it work with our needs.” 
LaBella said the original list of possible franchise op­tions was extensive, but it was narrowed down to in­clude Moe’s Southwestern Grill, Qdoba Mexican Grill and Papa John’s Pizza, in addition to the chosen Taco Bell/Pizza Hut combination. 
“Some of the options just weren’t possible due to fran­chise issues or existing con­tracts with local units,” he said. “Qdoba wasn’t possible because they needed more space for a big kitchen.” 
The final decision was made to accommodate the survey-based student prefer­ences for Mexican, Asian and pizza concepts in the Huddle, Prentkowski said. 
work, but I 
don’t see any 
barrier to 
getting this done in a reasonable amount of time.” 
Student response to the announced changes has been generally favorable, espe­cially in relation to Taco Bell’s arrival on campus. 
Junior Rachel Pilla said the addition of Taco Bell would be exciting. 
“My senior year will be for­ever changed. Taco Bell is my life,” she said. “It is an incredible improvement. [I] couldn’t have asked for any­thing better to replace [Sbar­ro] than Taco Bell.” 
Sophomore Patrick Jung, a former Taco Bell employee, said he welcomes the fran­chise to campus. 
“I’m extremely excited for there to be a Taco Bell … I personally worked at a Taco Bell back home and love the food there,” he said. “I think they’ll get a ton of business, especially at night … I will spend almost all of my Flex Points there.” 
Despite its health draw­backs, junior Emily Hefferon said Taco Bell will be a good fit for the Notre Dame stu­dent body. 
“Obviously, there’s healthi­er options out there, but this is college,” she said. “As far as popularity and affordabil­ity for our age group, this was an excellent choice.” 
Contact Kristen Durbin at kdurbin@nd.edu 




page 4 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u NEWS Wednesday, April 25, 2012 
New iPad app brings Shakespeare to the 21st century 
By MEGHAN THOMASSEN scholarly writing. Various schol-less, to use a Silicon Valley term. News Writer ars and performers have contrib-It’s moving us away from all the 
uted granular comments for key many layers of information you 

William Shakespeare may have passages throughout the play, he have to navigate by making it died centuries ago, but thanks in said. simple and user-friendly. That’s part to Notre Dame, his works “Rather than a lecture or an the vision,” he said. live on in modern formats. essay, we asked brilliant scholars Visconsi said he observed an 
Associate professor of English to riff [comment] on the text for increased movement from texts Elliott Visconsi and his colleague, no more than 500 words. Shake-to tablets as universities become Katherine Rowe, a professor at speare is our proof of concept. more social institutions. Bryn Mawr College, designed an We built a software framework “The days of course manage-app bringing Shakespeare’s plays that could be used in different ment systems such as Blackboard to the 21st century. disciplines,” he said. are numbered,” he said. “My 
The Tempest, an app for the Visconsi said the interpretative sense is that these new technolo­iPad released April 11, was en-commentary is entirely custom-gies are making it easier for fac­gineered at Notre Dame’s Center izable according to user reading ulty to reach students … we were for Research Computing. levels. trying to be a part of the cutting 
Visconsi said the idea for the “Everyone can get the stuff edge by creating [these tools] as app emerged from his interac-they want and need. As a reader faculty members.” tions with the iPad as a platform you get more sophisticated, and The app also includes audio for teaching and research. you can choose content that is recordings of the text, Visconsi 
“The way that the tablet works, more exciting … you can get stuff said. The Actors from the London the way that it makes manipulat-that really resonates with you,” Stage’s recent visit to campus last ing text possible, allows social he said. September prompted Visconsi interaction in away that a laptop Visconsi said he felt many dif-and the Luminary Project team does not. It seemed to be an op-ferent texts could benefit from to choose The Tempest for their portunity for students and facul-the software framework. app. ty and the general public to inter-“We can put in the New Testa-“This is my favorite part of the act [with the text] in new ways,” ment or the Notre Dame football app. We reached an arrangement he said. guide or ‘Don Quixote,’” he said. to commission a performance 
Visconsi said the app reflects “We’re not just presenting the from them and put it into the app how people learn and read today, same content on a screen, we are … it was a lucky circumstance,” and how reading has become providing an experience in a so-Visconsi said. more of a social activity than a cial ecosystem [through] custom-Visconsi said users can also solitary one. izable multimedia.”Visconsi said find illustrations, videos and 
“The iPad makes it super easy the project team tested an early podcasts from the Folger Shake­
— [you can] make all those tools version of the app last year with speare Library, the largest col-quiet, [it’s] customizable and it Notre Dame graduate students lection of Shakespearean mate-feels like a book,” he said. “You and a later edition with English rial in the world. read it, you throw it around, it’s professor Jesse Lander’s English “We approached Folgers with portable and you don’t need a class last fall. He said the class the idea of a commercial licens­wireless connection all the time used a note-sharing Facebook ing arrangement. They were ea-to read.” The app is not a replace-group so they could see how the ger to support that, and we’re tive responses about the app, and ware framework. ment for printed books, Visconsi students were using the app. hoping to continue [with] a long that users should stay alert for “We are building well beyond said, but rather a fundamentally Visconsi said his partner, Kath-term arrangement,” he said. updates soon to be announced. Shakespeare … Shakespeare is different technology. erine Rowe, also tested the app The app also allows users to “We are exceeding expecta-just the beginning. It’s been a 
“There are things we can do with her students at Bryn Mawr. collect and share thoughts in the tions. We have some very excit-very exciting trip. Notre Dame with this platform that you could “She joined in the project in app’s sticky note function. The ing technical developments soon has been very supportive,” he never do in print. You can’t take July after we had done most of notes are captured according to to be released that will add to said. the printed book and have it play the heavy development and also user-designated “workshops” or the functionality, but [they] are The app currently costs $9.99 audio for you and write in the used it with her students,” he file folders. Users can also down-under wraps at the moment,” he on iTunes, a special discount margins. You can’t ask a ques-said. “It was very well-received.” load lecturer commentaries to said. from $13.99 in honor of Shake­tion to your friend in the United Visconsi said social networks like accompany the script. Visconso said dozens of schol-speare’s birthday on April 23. Kingdom and have them respond Facebook have been underuti-“This is possible with the iPad ars worldwide have volunteered The app is compatible with the to it. You can’t constantly [keep it] lized due to the extra amount of … you can get your hands on the to participate in new editions of iPad with iOS 5.0 or later. updated,” he said. effort it takes to post and com-text,” Visconsi said. The Tempest, as well as other 
Visconsi said the app has also ment about the content. So far, Visconsi said the proj-plays and humanitarian texts Contact Meghan Thomassen at helped generate a new type of “The app makes it friction-ect team has received very posi-that could be applied to the soft-mthomass@nd.edu 


Saint Mary’s students redesign Barbies for class assignment 
By MEAGHAN DALY 
News Writer 
Students in Terri Russ’ Fe­male Beauty class outgrew playing with Barbies years ago. However, a recent project allowed them to dust off their the semester, Russ and her old toys and look at Barbie in students discussed Barbie a whole new light. as a cultural icon and form 
On Tuesday, some thirty of beauty discourse. As part students took turns present-of that discussion, Russ gave ing their modified Barbie doll her students an assignment: to classmates. Throughout modify Barbie in order to more accurately represent an aspect of the range of female beauty. 


Senior Michelle Marshall modified her Barbie to be more masculine. 
“My Barbie goes against the expectations of females in today’s society by being masculine and very athleti­cally inclined,” Marshall said. “I learned through this class that society shapes our views and expectations of gender and sex. I felt encouraged to defy the odds against society’s expectations to fulfill my own dreams and inspirations.” 
The Barbies represented some of society’s images of beauty in a variety of ways. Senior Danae Jimenez chose to discuss dress size and its implication. 
“Real Curves Barbie is a size 14 and she is confident in who she is and what she does,” Jimenez said. 
Mattel, the manufacturer of Barbie, says Barbie allows for females to create their own feminine image. 
“Barbie lets you be any­thing you want to be,” Barbie. com says. Russ, however, dis­agrees. 
“Even though Mattel says Barbie can be anything, something as simple as a Bar­bie can have greater ramifi­cations [on consumers],” Russ said. 
A theme throughout the presentations was the idea Barbie represents is not ap­plicable to everyone. 
Call Me Maybe Barbie is in­secure and wears short, tight clothes. 
“She is able to represent actual struggles that college girls face. These Barbies put a funny spin on something that really is important,” Di­lan Yuksel said. 
All of the Barbie modifi­cations play on the various pressures or effects of soci­ety for women. The collection included Real Curves Barbie, Teenager Barbie, Aging Bar­bie, Long-term Relationship Barbie, Jersey Chaser Barbie, Calorie Counting Barbie, and many more. 
The Barbies will be pre­sented at the BOLD Beauty Conference, to be held Tues­day, May 1, 2012. This confer­ence will allow participants to discuss and learn about beauty related issues facing women today through student and faculty presentations. Barbies on Parade will be dis­played in the Student Center Lounge from 11 a.m. to 7 p.m. 
Contact Meaghan Daly at mdaly01@saintmarys.edu 


page 6 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u NEWS Wednesday, April 25, 2012 
Lecture 
continued from page 1 
more at Notre Dame. Scully explained after hearing the stories of poverty and broken families from these prison­ers, he reevaluated his own upbringing in suburban Il­linois. 
He said the lesson he took away was that life is a gift — and it is meant to be given away in service to others. 
“Life is little else than gift after gift after gift,” Scully said. “Life is a gift to be giv­en away,” 
The death of Scully’s fa­ther taught him a second im­portant lesson. He said his father’s death made the fact he would also die more real; this led him to evaluate how he was living his life. 
“If it’s true that I will die, how do I want to live?” Scul­ly said. 
The University of Chicago Law School and a legal ca­reer were Scully’s dream, he said. This did not change until his senior year at Notre Dame and after he had been accepted to his dream school. 
Scully said he realized he was looking in the wrong place one night during his senior year when he felt com­pelled to attend daily Mass at Morrissey Hall. It was af­ter this experience that he realized his heart’s deepest desire and God’s will were directing him toward the priesthood. 
He said the miracle of re­ceiving the Eucharist daily inspired this change of di­rection, even though he had not been one to attend daily Mass prior to his experience that night. 
“If I’m going to Mass every day, I might as well become a priest,” Scully said. “For me, since then, the Eucharist has become a beautiful sustain­ing miracle in my life.” 
Scully said the second les­son he came away with was to pursue the life he desired in his heart without compro­mising and without fearing failure. He said there is al­ways an opportunity to learn from failure. 
“Don’t be afraid to take risks and fail, because fail­ure is the stuff of wisdom,” Scully said. 
After his theological stud­ies, Scully was sent to San­tiago, Chile with the Con­gregation of Holy Cross. He said when working in Chile he came across a saying cap­turing his second lesson of learning from mistakes and recognizing one’s mortality. 
“In Chile there’s a won­derful saying, ‘We all die at least twice in life. Pray that your first death comes early teaching at the University. 


“I’ve fallen in love with teaching,” Scully said. “How could you not fall in love with being a teacher?” 
Contact Christian Myers at cmyers8@nd.edu 
Fellows 
continued from page 1 
Christian understandings of what was needed for Muslim neighbors to remain Mus­lim,” Constable said. “This includes studying Chris­tian attitudes toward Mus­lim dress, whether Muslims could continue the call to prayer and have public reli­gious processions, etc.” 
Constable said her work focuses on the shifts in at­titudes and the increasing discord between the Chris­tian and Muslim communi­ties during this time. 
“At first, in the century or so after the [Christian] conquests, none of these aspects of Muslim life pre­sented a major problem for the Christians … over time, however, the continuation of these distinctive Muslim ways of life and religious practice became an increas­ing problem for Christians,” she said. “Eventually, in Spain, the Christian admin­istration decided that it was no longer possible for Mus­lims and Christians to live together, and all Muslims were expelled from the Ibe­rian Peninsula. I’m studying how and why this change in attitude took place.” 
Fassler’s work is also in the 12th century, centering on the figure of Hildegard of Bingen, a prominent Catho­lic nun who is in the process of being named one of the four female Doctors of the Church. 

“Hildegard of Bingen was a brilliant theologian, but unlike any other theologian ever, she was also a compos­er, author, artist and monas­tic reformer,” Fassler said. “I’m especially interested in her enormous treatise titled ‘Scivias’ and its depiction of the 12th-century view of the cosmos.” 
Fassler said the “cosmic egg” structure of Hilde­gard’s painting of the uni­verse is remarkably similar to Aristotle’s earlier secular visions and even bears some resemblance to the modern scientific images of Big Bang expansion digitally created by scientists like George Smoot. 
“With the money from the Guggenheim Fellowship, I should be able to complete a book about Hildegard’s treatise as well as a digital model of her cosmic vision complete with music she composed,” Fassler said. 
She said she plans to proj­ect the model in the Notre Dame Digital Visualization Theater located in the Jor­dan Hall of Science. 
“With the model, I can show the layers of the paint­ing and zoom in on different aspects as we go through,” Fassler said. “It will be in­credible to go through her vision with her music, see-enough that you can learn from it,’” Scully said. 
Scully’s third and final les­son was that relationships are of the utmost importance in life.“Nothing else matters but the quality of your re­lationships with God, with 
ing the cosmos as she de­scribed them.” 
Fassler said among her favorite parts of the work is the many fields of inquiry it draws upon. 
“Study of the cosmos blends the sciences and the humanities,” Fassler said. “This project involves phys­ics, astronomy, history of science, theology, music, drama, and the visual arts.” 
Constable and Fassler said they find it remarkable that two colleagues at Notre Dame received the fellow­ship in the same year. 
“I think that it is testimo­ny to the strength of Medi­eval Studies at Notre Dame, and to the strength of our medievalist faculty, that we both won a Guggenheim fel­lowship in the same year,” Constable said. “We really have some amazing schol­ars working on the Middle Ages at Notre Dame who are doing innovative and fasci­nating work in many differ­ent fields.” Fassler sais the support of the Notre Dame academic community as a major factor for her success. “I owe it all to the wonderful people who wrote for me [for the fellowship] and supported me,” Fassler said. “I love the way that Notre Dame truly encourages its faculty to be entrepreneurial.” 
Contact Ann Marie Jakubowski at ajakubow1@nd.edu 
each other and with your­selves,” Scully said. 
Scully learned this lesson through living in Fisher Hall, where he connected with Fr. Richard Warner, superior general of the Congregation of Holy Cross, and through 
LDS 
continued from page 1 
Porter said the 12th ar­ticle of faith says Mormons believe in being subject to kings, presidents and rulers and honoring and sustain­ing the law. 
“We believe the law and government holds men ac­countable,” he said. 
The LDS church renounc­es war and proclaims 
“We believe the defense
peace, accord-icy. ing to what Je-of family and country “In this sus said to the is justified, but war campaig n prophet Joseph is a necessary evil like others, Smith, said and a last resort. If the church Porter. all people believed has taken no 
“We believe position,” he
in Christ, the world 
the defense said. “We’ve
would be at peace.” 
of family and done noth­country is jus-ing whatso-
Dr. Bruce Porter
tified, but war ever to sup-is a necessary LDS elder port Mitt said, it is an issue of what is moral or not moral. 
“Many of the stances we have taken on political is­sues are conservative — like abortion or same-gender marriage,” he said. “On the other hand, our stance on illegal immigration is seen as fairly liberal.” 
Porter said even though Republican presidential candidate Mitt Romney is a Mormon, the church has not and will not endorsed him, due to church pol-
evil and a last resort,” he said. “If all people believed in Christ, the world would be at peace.” 
Porter said unlike many believe, the LDS church does not endorse political candidates or policies. 
“We believe in the separa­tion of denominational in­fluence in politics, religion should not have undue in­fluence in politics,” he said. 
While the church has sometimes taken a stance on prominent issues, Porter Romney.” 
With the increase in media atten­tion on the faith this prima­ry season, Porter said the church has used it to pro­mote the church in a posi­tive light. 
“We have sought diligent­ly to correct misconceptions about our beliefs … dispel stereotypes and misinfor­mation about the church,” he said. 
Contact Anna Boarini at aboari01@saintmarys.edu 


Wednesday, April 25, 2012 The Observer u NEWS ndsmcobserver.com | page 7 
Romney triumphs at primaries, promises “better America” 
Associated Press the nominee, and I’m going to Americans out there looking support the nominee,” the for-for work or trying to find a job 
WASHINGTON — Mitt Rom-mer Pennsylvania senator said that pays enough to cover the ney laid claim to the fiercely on CNN. He added he intended bills and make the mortgage,” contested Republican presi-to meet on Wednesday with the the president said. dential nomination Tuesday winner’s aides. “We still have too many night with a fistful of primary Romney, speaking to cheer-folks in the middle class that triumphs, then urged all who ing supporters, in New Hamp-are searching for that secu­struggle in a shaky U.S. econ-shire, said, “The last few years rity that started slipping away omy to “hold on a little longer, have been the best Barack years before the recession hit.” a better America begins to-Obama can do, but it’s not the Six months before the elec­night.” best America can do.” tion, opinion polls show the 
Eager to turn the political He delivered his remarks to economy to be the top issue page to the general election, a national television audience by far in the race. The same Romney accused President as well from the state where surveys point toward a close Barack Obama of “false prom-he won his first primary of the contest, with several suggest­ises and weak leadership.” He campaign and one of about a ing a modest advantage for the declared, “Everywhere I go, dozen states expected to be incumbent. Americans are tired of being battlegrounds in the sum-Obama won the presidency tired, and many of those who mer and fall campaign for the in 2008 in the midst of the are fortunate enough to have White House. worst recession since the a job are working harder for Obama campaigned during Great Depression, and since less.” the day in two others — North then economic growth has re-
The former Massachusetts Carolina and Colorado — mak-bounded slowly and jobless-governor spoke as he swept ing the case that, however ness has receded gradually, primaries in Connecticut, slowly, the economy is growing although housing prices con-Rhode Island, Delaware, Penn-stronger. tinue to drop in many areas of sylvania and New York, the “Our businesses have added the country. first since Rick Santorum con-more than 4 million jobs over In an indication that Romney ceded the nomination. the past two years, but we all was treating the moment Tues-Already, he and aides are the primary campaign. 
“Mitt Romney is going to be know there’s still too many day night as something of an working to depict Romney and Santorum offered no en-opening of the general election Republicans as pursuing new dorsement in a televised ap­campaign, his speech seemed tax breaks for the wealthy pearance during the evening aimed at the millions of vot-while seeking to cut programs but said he expected to meet ers — non-conservatives and that benefit millions of victims with Romney in the future, others — who have yet to pay of the recession as well as oth-adding he would sit down with close attention to the race for er lower-income Americans. the former governor’s aides on the White House. The president campaigned Wednesday. 
He blended biographical de-on two college campuses dur-In his remarks, Romney tails, an attack on Obama and ing the day, pitching his pro-spoke dismissively of Obama’s the promise of a better future, posal to prevent a scheduled tenure in office. leaving behind his struggle to increase in the interest rate on “Government is at the cen­reassure conservative voters new student loans. ter of his vision. It dispenses who have been reluctant to Romney, freed of serious pri-the benefits, borrows what it swing behind his candidacy. mary competition, announced cannot take and consumes a 
“As I look around at the mil-his own general support for greater and greater share of lions of Americans without the proposal, even though it the economy,” he said. work, the graduates who can’t appears a GOP-drafted budget He added that if the presi­get a job, the soldiers who re-in the House envisioned no ef-dent’s hard-won health care turn home to an unemploy-fort to change the pending in-law is fully installed, “govern­ment line, it breaks my heart,” crease. ment will continue to control he said. “This does not have Determined to make up for half the economy, and we will to be. It is the result of failed lost time, Romney has recently have effectively ceased to be a leadership and of a faulty vi-accelerated his fundraising, free enterprise society.” sion.” announced the beginning of By contrast, he said, “I see 
Obama, unchallenged for the a process to search for a vice an America with a growing Democratic nomination, has a presidential running mate and middle class, with rising stan­head start in organizing, fun-begun reaping endorsements dards of living. I see children draising and other elements of from party officials who de-even more successful than the campaign. clined to do so in the heat of their parents.” 



Mad cow disease discovered for first time since 2006 
Associated Press cows a year for the fatal brain cause a fatal human brain dis-disease. ease in people who eat tainted WASHINGTON — The first new No meat from the cow was beef. The World Health Organiza­case of mad cow disease in the bound for the food supply, said tion has said that tests show that 
U.S. since 2006 has been discov-John Clifford, the department’s humans cannot be infected by ered in a dairy cow in California, chief veterinary officer. drinking milk from BSE-infected but health authorities said Tues-“There is really no cause for animals. day the animal never was a threat alarm here with regard to this In the wake of a massive out-to the nation’s food supply. animal,” Clifford told reporters at break in Britain that peaked in 
The infected cow, the fourth a hastily convened news confer-1993, the U.S. intensified precau­
ever discovered in the U.S., was ence. tions to keep BSE out of U.S. cat-
found as part of an Agriculture Mad cow disease, or bovine tle and the food supply. In other 
Department surveillance pro-spongiform encephalopathy countries, the infection’s spread 
gram that tests about 40,000 (BSE), is fatal to cows and can was blamed on farmers adding recycled meat and bone meal from infected cows into cattle feed, so a key U.S. step has been to ban feed containing such ma­terial. Clifford said the California cow is what scientists call an atypi­cal case of BSE, meaning that it didn’t get the disease from eating infected cattle feed, which is im­portant. That means it’s “just a random mutation that can happen every is found at a rate of one case per all the science about how this dis-once in a great while in an ani-1 million people worldwide, ac-ease develops and is transmitted.” mal,” said Bruce Akey, director cording to the Centers for Disease Questions remain about wheth­of the New York State Veterinary Control and Prevention. er the incident will prompt the Diagnostic Laboratory at Cornell “It’s not unreasonable to think USDA to change how it tests for University. “Random mutations that something similar could oc-the disease. But Mike Doyle, di­go on in nature all the time.” cur in cattle,” said Terry Lehen-rector of the University of Geor-
The atypical form of BSE that is bauer, director of the School of gia’s Center for Food Safety, said caused by protein mutation also Veterinary Medicine Research the testing system worked be-occurs in humans. Called clas-Centers at the University of Cali-cause it caught what is a really sic Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease, it fornia, Davis. “We just don’t know rare event. 




page 8 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com Wednesday, April 25, 2012 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Draft frenzy out of control 
We are one day away from the return of Mel Kiper Jr. and his tub of hair gel, or, in other words, the annual television spectacle known as the NFL Draft. 
Thankfully, this weekend ends almost Matt Unger three months of endless hype and Sports Writer build-up to the draft, which unfortunately grows larger every year. 
In 1936, the draft began in a Phila­delphia hotel without any media cover­age as teams picked from 90 names written in chalk on a blackboard. It wasn’t until 1980 that the draft was even televised by a fledgling ESPN. 
More recently in 2010, the draft was spread over three days so that the first round could air in primetime on Thursday night. Two networks, ESPN and NFL Network, now provide wall-to-wall coverage. 
But the most frustrating part of the draft is the hype leading up to it, from the draft combine to multiple mock drafts (Kiper just released his fourth). Such mock drafts will likely be wrong beyond the first few picks as teams make trades to mess up the projected order. 
Also on ESPN, it is hard not to run into Jon Gruden’s “QB Camp” in which he interviews potential quarterback draftees. Last year, he grilled Cam Newton on his lack of football knowl­edge before the rookie had a breakout season with Carolina. 
In addition, ESPN analysts debate trivial items such as prospects’ height, 40-yard dash time and percentage of body fat. The star of these athletic traits this year has been Ryan Tan­nehill. 
However, it is sometimes impossible for experts, fans and even NFL scouts and general managers to project a player’s success in a league where the average career spans three and a half years. 
Too many factors such as injuries, desire to succeed, coaching environ­ment, etc. play into whether or not a player is successful. This makes end­less draft speculation worthless. 
As a Cleveland Browns fan, I knew firsthand that first round picks Tim Couch, Courtney Brown, Kellen Win­slow Jr. and even Brady Quinn were all thought to be star NFL players when drafted. However, one of the above factors, which Kiper and crew could not have predicted, resulted in those players failing to meet the hype. 
Unfortunately, the draft has served as the most hopeful point of the Browns season for me (four straight losing seasons coupled with one playoff appearance since 1994 will do that). Following the draft, the Browns will inevitably lose their first regular sea­son game as they have done 12 out of the past 13 years. Discussion of next year’s draft will soon commence by early December with the team in the basement of the AFC North. 
So, when I tune in to find the Browns pick Alabama running back Trent Richardson at No. 4, I will immediately tune out the talking ESPN heads (at least until the Browns’ No. 22 pick). Instead, I will wait for the real season in September to tell if Richardson and other picks are successes or failures. 
Contact Matt Unger at      munger3@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Catholic compassion, not condemnation 
The Doctrinal Assessment of the Leadership Conference of Women Religious (LCWR), while devoting one sentence to acknowledging “the great contribution of Women Religious to the Church in the United States,” Alex Coccia condemned LCWR for having, Shard of Glass “a prevalence of certain radical feminist themes incompatible with the Catholic faith in some of the programs and presentations sponsored by the LCWR … Moreover, some commentar­ies on ‘patriarchy’ distort the way in which Jesus has structured sacramen­tal life in the Church.” The statement came as a great surprise to the sisters involved in and with LCWR. In addition to surprise, many religious and lay­persons in the U.S. are outraged by the Vatican’s unexpected and unreason­able appointment of Cardinal Sartain to oversee the group.  
Former LCWR president Benedictine Sr. Joan Chittister said that the Vati­can’s response is an attempt to control people’s thinking, which would “make a mockery of the search for God, of the whole notion of keeping eyes on the signs of the times and of providing the people with the best possible spiritual guidance and presence you can give.” Unfortunately, the spiritual guidance that has been emanating from the Church and its hierarchy as of late to help people with their search for God has resulted in the decrease of prac­ticing American Catholics. Whether it is the Vatican excommunicating the mother of a nine-year-old girl who had had an abortion after being raped by her step-father, or Monsignor William Lynn or Reverend James Brennan regarding their involvement in a cleri-
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

cal sex-abuse scandal in Philadelphia. Whether it is the clear lack of under­standing from Archbishop Dolan with respect to the plight for homeless LGBT youth in New York, or Bishop Daniel Jenky likening President Obama with Hitler and Stalin, or the Vatican rep­rimanding the Leadership Conference of Women Religious for supposedly promoting radical feminist themes and being silent on the issue of abortion. The Church and its male hierarchy have fallen very hard from grace in the public eye. 
What has certainly become clear from the outpour of critiques of the Church is the dichotomy that exists in the American Catholic Church between preaching and practice. The Church must consider the image it creates for itself in the United States and recog­nize that there does exist a point at which the words that are preached must be in line with the actions that are practiced. For the Church to gain a positive presence in the United States, there is a need for a renewed catholic vision that focuses on the teachings and actions of Jesus Christ. Condem­nation of the work of American nuns does not resonate well with this vision. 
However, condemnation should not be the means the Vatican uses to attract more people to the Church. Catholic means universal, a truth that should not be applied only to scripture and doctrine, but to behavior that models that of Christ. The moments that force people out of the Universal Church are all teachable moments, but only if the Church is willing to use them as such. Such condemnation removes focus from the good work that the Church does in cities, towns and villages across the world. Such condemnation hides from many what should be the reasons to feel a sense of belonging to the Catholic Church — the grass roots and structural focus on social justice from a myriad of Catholic groups, like Catholic Relief Services, the work by other groups to create interfaith dialogue in some of the most war-torn regions of the world, or the efforts of some to educate others to enter the world with a commitment to serving others as the driving force of professionalism, among many. The negative images of the Church and its hierarchy damage can hinder the image of the work that others, like the sisters of LCWR, are doing in com­munities to help the oppressed and promote the dignity of individuals. 
Sister Simone Campbell, who was reprimanded in the Vatican’s recent re­port, said in an NPR interview, “What we do as Women Religious is, we minister to people everywhere who are suffering, who are being discriminated against, and we don’t ask to see a bap­tismal certificate. We serve everyone we find, in keeping with the Gospel of Jesus.” The faithful need the visible leaders who exemplify that faith and that Gospel teaching. They have those leaders in the sisters.  The beauty of the Church is and should be its ability to reach the poor and vulnerable and to speak a language of love to all peo­ple. However, the hierarchy must set the same example as the sisters, and exercising condemnation of those who are compassionate rather than show­ing compassion itself is most certainly not the right way to go about it.  
Alex Coccia is a sophomore. He can be contacted at acoccia@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“You can discover more about a person in an hour of play than in a year of conversation.” 
Plato Greek author and philosopher 


WEEKLY POLL 
How do you deal with finals-week stress? 
Coffee breaks Naps Pick-up basketball A visit to the Grotto 
Vote by 5 p.m. on Thursday at 
ndsmcobserver.com 


Wednesday, April 25, 2012 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 9 
UWIRE 

Facebook users should be wary of company’s data mining 
Some people are surprised that Facebook and most other popular social media services are provided for abso­lutely no cost to any of its 800,000,000 users. 
Facebook is quite Doug Walp satisfied with the current arrangement. The Daily Because today we are Athenaeum living in a modern age in which information has become one of the most valuable commodities of all, enabling companies like Facebook, which deal in the trafficking and ar­chiving of this information, to become incomprehensibly successful. 
In fact, Facebook was able to gener­ate $3.2 billion in revenue in 2011 by selling this data, which many people consider to contain somewhat personal information, wholesale to other com­panies and advertisers. This way, the countless corporations can more easily tap into their targeted consumer (you) and your marketable interests. 
It seems somewhat harmless, ini­tially. 
But every day, millions of Facebook and other social media users share personal, sometimes intimate informa­tion with friends or family that could eventually come back to haunt them. 
Lori Andrews from the New York Times even reported some people have had to defend themselves against data mined online in both criminal and child custody cases, and this information is often lumped into unfounded groups that can be established with only the slightest correlation. 
For instance, searching Facebook groups for a controversial topic for research or other practical purposes could result in government agents tak­ing notice of the wrong people for the wrong reasons. 
Many will merely claim if you want to maintain your privacy, don’t ever post any of your personal information online — admittedly pretty simple and effective advice. But does that mean a guarantee of privacy online is simply a myth? 
That, in order to be safe, we’ll have to absolutely abstain from digital commu­nications? That’s a notion our society simply shouldn’t be willing to accept. 
It’s also somewhat ironic that while a majority of our society’s population is in an uproar over the government’s attempts to impede upon our collective online privacy, Facebook has been sell­ing our private information to the high­est bidder for years without too many people considering the repercussions. 
Most of these same people have never even been aware Facebook has never necessarily been a safe haven for their personal information, but it’s also be­come apparent Facebook’s information sharing has become much more wide­spread and complicated than a majority 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

What Jenky actually said 
I have no difficulty recognizing the fact that history books and newspapers show us that a great number of foolish and even evil men have held the office of Catholic bishop. And following St. Paul’s example, when these men speak fool­ishly or evilly, they should be opposed because of the condemnation their words deserve (see Galatians 2:11). 
I feel no need to defend a statement merely because the man who made it is a Catholic bishop. 
However, I feel the faculty members who signed the letter asking for Bishop Daniel Jenky’s resignation from Notre Dame’s Board of Fellows show the very “ignorance of history” and “absence of judgment” of which they accuse Jenky. 
Those who take the time to read Jenky’s actual statements (and seeing as we live in the age of Google, that is not too difficult of a task to accomplish) would see that he was not in any way comparing the actions of President Obama or any other current American political figure to the genocidal activities of the Nazi and Soviet regimes. 
He spoke about ways the current administration has sought to restrict reli­gious freedom in the United States. He compared this to the efforts of a num­ber of political leaders throughout history to restrict the political, social and cultural influence of Christianity. He made a very narrow argument about how there are similarities between particular policies of this administration and the particular policies of a number of regimes that history now views negatively. 
I understand that there are those who would disagree with the arguments that Jenky is making. But I would hope that individuals who possess the intel­ligence necessary to teach at this great university would have the intellectual integrity to respond to the argument that Jenky actually made. 
I would hope that they would not feel the need to distort his argument in or­der to fight against an inflammatory and offensive straw man argument that he never put forward. 
Ryan Larson 
law student off campus April 24 


of its everyday users could have ever imagined. 
For example, most users have been aware for some time that potential employers constantly scan social net­works for information about prospective hires — but it’s also reported that the Internal Revenue Service, United States immigration and others are constantly scanning Facebook’s enormous data archives to track down its eluders. 
It’s certainly not a bad thing that criminals are being brought to justice through these means, but it’s also some­what unnerving to realize how it seems we’re constantly moving ever closer to the infamous “Big Brother” society. 
Because although Facebook creator Mark Zuckerberg claims he created the revolutionary social media giant in or­der to “accomplish a social mission” in his ultimate quest to “make the world a more open place,” that could all change in less than a month. 
That’s not to say Zuckerberg will no longer try to accomplish the macro-connectivity philosophy that’s made the Harvard prodigy one of the youngest billionaires in history. 
But once Facebook officially becomes a publicly traded company on the stock market, Zuckerberg’s No. 1 priority will unarguably be pumping up his share prices for his investors. 
The most logical way for Zuckerberg to do that is to generate even more rev­enue through shipping out unfathom­able amounts of this invaluable data in a process coined “data aggregation.” 
With the literal nonexistence of legis­lation pertaining to data mining regula­tion, loose correlations being made within the data collection along with the vast, seemingly unending potential of the information market presents some possible problems. 
It’s not a series of problems that’s completely unique to Facebook, either, as fellow columnist Casey Hoffman pointed out in her Feb. 28 piece. Google is currently the largest trafficker and archivist of information, bringing in an estimated $36.5 billion — more than 11 times what Facebook pulled in the same year. 
But as I mentioned, Facebook is about to cross the threshold into the territory of a publicly traded company. 
This means not only will they see even more wild potential for growth, but ultimately, the almighty dollar, rather than common sense, will control the direction of Facebook and its ever-increasing data mining and trafficking. 
This column originally ran in the April 24 edition of The Daily Athenaeum, serving West Virginia University. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

The Regatta’s history 
During that fateful winter of 1842, when a group of Holy Cross missionar­ies arrived at the land upon which they would found a university that fos­tered Catholic tradition and academic excellence, Fr. Sorin looked out across the frozen tundra that is now St. Mary’s Lake and said to himself, “Man, this would be a great spot for a regatta.” 
While this bit of history remained obscure for over a century, Fred Fisher decided to accept the responsibility of honoring Fr. Sorin’s request and estab­lished the Fisher Regatta, an annual boat race. It is a nautical event bigger than the Spanish Armada and more epic than Odysseus’ famed naval journey. When the Queen of England attends the Henley Royal Regatta, all she can think about is how she would much rather be desperately trying to keep a makeshift boat afloat on St. Mary’s Lake in front of thousands of spectators. 
The Regatta, which is on Saturday, April 28 at 1 p.m., pits teams of stu­dents against one another as they use their creativity and resourcefulness to build boats out of any material they can find and compete to be the first one to cross the finish line. Teams are not allowed to use pre-made materials used for boats, which results in them coming up with some incredibly unique designs with hilarious consequences. 
Aedan Cannon 
freshman Fisher Hall April 24 




Last week I donated my hair to Pantene’s Beautiful Lengths so tone lucky cancer patient will someday be able to have a full head of red hair. Going from 
8.5 inches to basically 0 is Sean Fitzgerald not only scary, but hard to Scene Writer get used to. However, I can already tell the difference. Based on my experience, here are the pros and cons of long hair vs. a shaved head. 
Pros of Long Hair 

You Can Head Bang like a Pro: 
Have you ever gone to a concert and just felt like headbanging, but it just didn’t feel quite right? It’s because you don’t have hair smacking you in the face on the downbang and then hair flying up on the upbang. Proper head-banging technique requires long hair. It was also a requirement to be a rock god in the ‘80s. The ‘80s really wouldn’t have been the same without all that hair flying around. 
Girls Wanting to Play With It: Yes, this truly does happen. The sheer num­
ber of times girls asked to French braid my hair was a little scary. It’s like they think it’s their own little play toy that they mix and match into pretty shapes and colors. Warning: Do not take up anyone’s offer to put your hair into corn­rows. 
You Might Look Better: 
You’re an average Joe. Your hair has been short forev­er. You will never know if long hair 

might actually make you look better. It has something to do with your face shape (round, diamond, square, cylindrical, Magnum, dreamy, etc.), but that’s not my area of expertise. All I know is that you might actually like it. If you don’t, you can always go back. 







Cons of Long Hair 
High Maintenance: Remem­ber when your parents said you could get a dog, but you had to take care of it? Well this is the exact same thing. If you can put up with it, you might reap the rewards. If not, you might look like a bum. 
The Your-Mom-is-Going-to­Try-to-Cut-it-Off-Herself Dilem­ma: All Moms are programmed to make sure that their child does not do anything crazy. She also wants you to look like a “good boy.” She doesn’t want her son to turn into a “rebel.” If you grow out your hair, she will try to cut it off. It’s in her nature. 
Pros of a Shaved Head 
Manly: Almost the univer­sal sign of a man is a man with short hair. Soldiers have shaved heads, Bruce Willis is 

After bald or maybe you just want to look like Mr. Clean. Either way, short hair exhibits manliness. 
Easy and Simple: If you have short hair all you have to do is jump in the shower, put in some shampoo and rinse. After 3 to 4 weeks, you just shave it again. The sheer amount of money saved on haircuts might be worth it. 
Cons of a Shaved Head 
Same Old Same Old: 
It’s kind of boring. If you have had it short forever, isn’t it time to branch out a bit? 

Shapely Noggin: In order to pull off the true shaved head look without looking like a deformed alien, you need a nice shapely head.  You can’t afford to have any bumps or asymmetrical fea­tures.  However, if you’ve got any crazy scars (like myself), you can show them off. 

Contact Sean Fitzgerald at sfitzge3@nd.edu The views in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LISA HOEYNCK | Observer Graphic 


Wednesday, April 25, 2012 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 11 


By MAIJA GUSTIN 
Senior Scene Writer 

As part of AnTostal 2012, the Student Union Board will sponsor a screening of five favorite ‘90s Nicktoons tonight at 8 
p.m. The Third Eye Blind concert and the continuing popularity of Fruit Roll-Ups as a topic of conversation prove that Notre Dame students still love the ‘90s, and Nickelodeon’s cartoons remain one of the best parts of the decade. 
In case you’ve forgotten just why you loved being a kid in the ‘90s, Scene is here to remind you about some of your favorite childhood shows. 
“Rugrats” 

Long before Stewie Griffin became the most quotable baby in town, the precocious tots on “Rugrats” were hav­ing adven­tures we could only dream of. From finding an Indi ana Jones-like cave in the backyard to defeat­ing “The Meanie of Hanukkah,” the “Rugrats” taught us to ask questions, protect our friends and explore the world. Tommy was the brav­est kid in town, Chuckie an unexpected hero and Phil and Lil determined though sometimes clueless — and they were all still in diapers. Let’s also not forget the great debt Sue Sylvester of “Glee” owes to Angelica Pickles. 
“CatDog” 

Conjoined half-dog, half-cat twins Cat and Dog were outcasts in their own city, but their optimism and friendship gave us a model for staying true to oneself even in the face of adversity. Cat and Dog were often in complete opposition 
— with Dog wanting to chase cars and Cat wanting to sit at home and read — but their brotherhood never wavers for long. Fiercely loyal, “CatDog” proved that some bonds can withstand any re­sistance. 
“The Amanda Show” 

The star of “She’s the Man,” “What a Girl Wants” and a recent mugshot got her start on Nickelodeon. Amanda Bynes’s success as a cast member of Nickelodeon sketch comedy show “All That” propelled her to starring in a self-titled comedy show, “The Amanda Show.” In it, Bynes stars as a host of quirky characters in recurring sketch­es, lampooning everything from girls’ bathrooms to “Dawson’s Creek.” “The Amanda Show” launched the careers of fellow Nick stars Drake Bell and Josh Peck as well as current “Saturday Night Live” cast member Taran Killam, who many remember fondly as Spalding on “Moody’s Point.” 
“Hey Arnold!” 
Arnold, otherwise known as “football head,” was a wise-beyond ­his-years fou rth ­grader deal­ing with growing up in a hyb rid city remi­niscent of many of our own. “Hey Ar­nold” dealt with topics ranging 
from heat waves to bullying, social out­casts to imprisoned wild animals, al­ways providing lessons for children and their parents alike. The endlessly funny show also taught many that sometimes, kids are mean because they like you — and that even kids can enjoy jazz. 
“Rocko’s Modern Life” 
One of the first in a new string of “edgy” cartoons on Nickelodeon, “Rocko’s Modern Life” was only the network’s fourth original show, and remains one of the most beloved. Fol­lowing the antics of Australian ex-pat wallaby Rocko, his cow of a best friend Heffer, a phobic turtle named Filburt and loyal dog Spunky, “Rocko’s Mod­ern Life” again aimed to enchant both kids and their parents. Dealing with the problems of everyday life, the anima­tion was delightful and the stories both comedic and poignant. 
Contact Maija Gustin at                          mgustin@nd.edu 

By MARIA FERNANDEZ 
Scene Writer 

After much excitement and anticipa­tion from “The Notebook” fans, “The Lucky One,” the latest film adap­tation of one of Nicholas Sparks’ romantic novels, unfortunately disappoints. 
Starring Zac Efron as U.S. Marine sergeant Logan, the movie is a story of love amidst tragic events and cir­cumstances. 
The plot be­gins to unfold when Logan finds a photo of a woman in the ground while at war in Iraq. The photo saves him from various en­emy raids and he is, therefore, de­termined to find the woman in the picture and thank her. 
Coming back from war, Logan discov­ers the woman on the picture is Beth (Taylor Schilling) and manages to get a job at the dog kennel she runs with her grandmother (Blythe Danner). 
Beth has a lot of family turmoil. She lost her parents at a young age, is mourning the recent death of her broth­er at war, has a seven-year-old son Ben (Riley Thomas Stewart) and has to deal with an abusive ex-husband Keith (Jay 
R. Ferguson). However, not knowing what he was hiding, Beth finds comfort in Logan’s arms and they quickly fall in love. 
Drama begins when Keith brings to Beth’s attention that Logan is hiding the picture she had given to her brother before he left for war. Nevertheless, in the end, Keith dies tragically and Beth quickly forgives Logan, inviting him to stay with her and Ben and become part of their family. 
Overall, “The Lucky One” displays great images and scenes. It is set in a small town with a beautiful natural set­ting and atmosphere. However, the film lacks dialogue among characters. 
Logan and Beth’s conversations are far from what a regular exchange be­tween two people that are getting to 
know each other would look like. They 
are filled with profound stares and si­
lence. The movie’s plot and character de­
velopment takes place fast — too fast. At first, Beth de­spises Logan, but the next day they are all over each other. Also, af­ter discovering Logan’s secret, Beth tells him she doesn’t want to see him ever again. Yet, two days later, the movie concludes with a happy ending. In general, “The Lucky One” is far more en­tertaining than some other Nich­olas Sparks’ ad­aptations such as “Dear John.” However, it will never be “The Notebook.” It is a good movie to relax, disconnect from your studies and 
watch the super good-looking Zac Efron 
take care of dogs and play with Ben, 
but it does not promise much more than 
that. 
Contact Maria Fernandez at                     mfernan5@nd.edu 











page 12 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u CLASSIFIEDS Wednesday, April 25, 2012 
SPORTS AUTHORITY 

Attempting to Peace together the aftermath 
Lakers forward Metta World Peace bounded down the lane, used two sweeping steps to slide between defenders, rose up and threw down a dunk in the sec­ond quarter of Sunday’s game against the Thunder. 
It was a good play but not a great one. On a SportsCen­ter-inspired ranking system, it was closer to “dunk you very much” than “ri­dunk-ulous.” 
But that didn’t stop the player formerly known as Ron Artest from celebrating. The former rap star embarked on a shameless display of self-promotion that turned into a damning display of self-depreciation. 
Halfway through a Tarzan­esque chest pounding, Metta took exception to Oklahoma City guard James Harden enter­ing his realm. The oft-troubled Laker reared back and deliv­ered a solid elbow to the side of Harden’s head. As Harden collapsed into the purple paint, World Peace strutted off with a scowl. That’s weird to say. 
But it is so un-weird at the same time. The same man who played a central role in the Malice at the Palace in 2004 has once again caused a ruckus. He changed his name, he left the heartland for the West Coast and he expanded his facial hair, but he once again played the role of villain on the court Sunday. At least this time he refrained from climbing into the stands. 
Basically, what it comes down to is one question: how dare he? How dare Metta World Peace clobber an opponent between plays, in front of thousands of fans and in full sight of all the players and referees — especial­ly given his history? Especially given the fact that he took on the name “World Peace”? The pseudonym is assuredly among the worst advertising attempts in history.  
“Thanks for trying, Ron, but I’m not sure it’s helping much,” world peace might be saying right about now. 
How dare he act as though the elbow was inadvertent? How dare he insult James Harden, the Oklahoma City Thunder, the NBA, its officials and its fans like that?  We all saw what hap­pened. Via Twitter and postgame interviews, Metta World Peace attempted to express both concern for Harden and regret for his excessive celebration, all the while insisting that the contact was incidental. 

Does he not understand what he has done? He could have knocked out James Harden’s teeth, “Cause you would look pretty ugly with no teeth.” That has nothing to do with your question, but that was definite­ly on my mind. 
So who/what is Ron Artest/ Metta World Peace? Is he really a villain? A joker? A defensive stopper? Just a normal human being? 
Normality seems unlikely at this point. Anyone doubting this point should consult the Internet about Ron Artest’s philosophy on teeth (no, that wasn’t a typo two paragraphs ago). 
But in all seriousness, the former Pacer has once again put the NBA’s reputation in jeopardy by interrupting an official contest with his entirely unprofessional actions. While he left the NBA with a figura­tive black eye, he inflicted a more literal wound on a fellow player. He put James Harden’s health at risk and left the Thunder with roster uncertainty as they head into the playoffs. He embarrassed his own team and complicated its already-suffering playoff prospects. 
For a player whose antics, both on the court and off, have invoked laughter, disbe­lief, appreciation, shock and disappointment, the most recent infraction is a severely unfortunate event.  How is basketball’s fan base supposed to take Metta World Peace seriously? How is the NBA sup­posed to trust him to represent its brand?  At this point, can the 12-year veteran even trust himself to not snap when the emotions of a game accumu­late? 
Perhaps, with the swing of his elbow, Metta World Peace was taking an inspired but errant shot at the devil that has clung to his shoulder for the past several years. Unfor­tunately for all of us, the New York native will have to swing a lot harder (and preferably not when anyone’s cranium is within swinging range) to rid himself of that demon. 
Contact Joseph Monardo at jmonardo@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
PGA TOUR 

Watson finds change after Masters 

Associated Press 
Masters champion Bubba Watson returned home from a media tour in New York two weeks ago and hung his green jacket in the closet. 
He hasn’t seen it since. 
Life has been moving at a faster pace than Watson imag­ined since he hooked that sand wedge off the pine straw, around the trees and onto the 10th green at Augusta National to win a sudden-death playoff over Louis Oosthuizen and cap­ture his first major. 
He and his wife, Angie, ad­opted a month-old boy named Caleb just two weeks before the Masters. His first act as Masters champion was to cradle the boy the next morning and feed him from the bottle, before leaving the next day for his media tour. 
As for changing diapers? That’s coming along at a slightly slower pace. 
“Not that I have a count, but it’s only five I’ve changed,” Wat­son said. “And they’ve been easy to change.” 
So much has changed in one month. A new father. A major champion. And two weeks af­ter trying to let it all soak in, it’s time for Watson to get back to work. He is defending his title this week in New Orleans at the Zurich Classic. 
If not for the responsibility he feels to defend, Watson would much rather be home. 
“We figured out we’ve had him for a month, and I’ve been home, I think at the most, nine days, maybe eight days,” Wat­son said. “So it’s not enough, not a lot. So it’s hard leaving him. It was hard leaving today, but that’s the change. That’s the excitement of waking up every morning, no matter how tired you are, no mat­ter how red your eyes are, just seeing him pretty much do noth­ing — just lay there.” 
The win at Augusta isn’t a dis­tant memory by any stretch. 
It will live in Masters’ lore, just like so many other shots before it — the 6-iron that Phil Mickel­son hit between a pair of Georgia pines on the 13th hole in 2010, Tiger Woods’ chip-in that made a U-turn on the 16th green and paused at the lip of the cup before falling for birdie in 2005. 
Watson might have been the last guy to realize how close his shot was to the flag. 
“I was expecting front of the green, maybe center of the green at best, because you never expect it to be that close,” he said. “But it came off and I couldn’t see it. I ran to the fairway and I heard them roar, and I said, ‘Where is it?’ ... So I saw it, and I go, ‘Whew, I’m pretty good.’ That’s how it all went down.” 
His win was popular for sev­eral reasons, not the least of which was a guy named Bubba whose approach to golf is similar to so many regular folk. His late father taught him how to grip a golf club and the fundamentals of the swing, and Watson took it from there. He has never had a teacher, preferring to figure it out by himself. He was groomed on public courses and would much rather play golf than beat balls on the practice range or stare into a video to figure out his swing. 
Five years ago, the Masters champion was Zach Johnson, who described himself as a “nor­mal guy” from Cedar Rapids, Iowa. 
“I’m just Bubba from Bagdad, Florida,” Watson said. “Small town, play golf because I love the game of golf. I play golf because it’s fun. ... Everybody can see that my swing is homegrown. That means everybody has a chance to do it. Hard work, dedication, practice and the drive to do it, and not worry about what other people say.” 
There have been changes typi­cal of any newfound stardom. 
Watson said a radio station called him about 40 times the morning after he won the Mas­ters. The first job for Watson’s agent, Jens Beck, was to change the cell phone number of him and his wife. And while the last two weeks have been mostly about his new family, it didn’t take long to realize he gets to play the Masters the rest of his career, with a few extra privileges as the champion. 
“I think there’s a new rule where I can take a guest, play Sunday before the Masters,” he said. “My wife said that she will be glad to play Sunday before the Masters next year. That’s when I realized that every year I get to take a guest. I’ll have a bunch of new friends. My cell phone num­ber will be changed many times.” 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The 
Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
FOR SALE 
Newly renovated home. Close to campus - good location. 
2+ BR, 1BA. Lots of character. Large fenced yard. Attached garage. 
Call 574-286-8993 

PERSONAL 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? 
Don’t go it alone. Notre Dame has many resources in place to assist you. If you or someone you 
love needs confidential support 
or assistance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819. For more information, visit ND’s website at: http://pregnancysupport@nd.edu 
WANTED 
Dance teacher wanted for 2012-13 school year. Beginning levels, children, teens. 
Openings for ballet, modern, tap, jazz. Early evenings. 
Call 574-247-1590 

Days of Summer From “A Very Potter  Sequel” 
RON: We got these days of summer to, remind us of each other! 
HERMIONE: The time we have to spend apart, Will keep us in each others hearts! 
HARRY: I’m hoping that the good old days are something that I will dream 
about at night. 
DRACO: Don’t matter if it’s soon or later, I know that it’s gonna be alright! 
ALL: I don’t wanna see you go, But it’s not forever, Not forever! 
Even if it was you know, That I would never let it get me down! 
You’re the part of me, That makes me better, Wherever I go! 
So I will try, Not to cry, No one needs to say goodbye! 
I don’t wanna see you go, But it’s not forever, Not forever! 
Even if it was you know, YOLO! 

Wednesday, April 25, 2012 The Observer u SPORTS ndsmcobserver.com | page 13 
NFL 

Saints interim coach responds to wiretapping probe 
Associated Press 
NEW ORLEANS — While state police and the FBI started a wiretapping probe into the Saints and general manager Mickey Loomis, assistant head coach Joe Vitt called allegations that Loomis had his Superdome booth wired so he could lis­ten to opposing coaches “lu­dicrous.” 
“It’s absolutely ludicrous. It’s impossible,” Vitt said Tuesday. “I’ve never heard of it before. That’s some­thing from ‘Star Wars.’ When I first heard some­thing about it being a wire­tap, I thought they were talking about Sammy ‘the Bull’ Gravano or something. I didn’t even know what they were talking about.” 
“... And then to associate Mickey with that? That’s ir­responsible. It’s a shame.” 
Vitt met with reporters for the first time since being appointed to serve in head coach Sean Payton’s place during Payton’s season-long suspension in connection with the NFL’s bounty inves­tigation of New Orleans. Vitt himself will have to serve a six-game suspension for his role in the cash-for-big-hits system the Saints ran from 2009-11, and Loomis will be out for eight games. 
The bounty probe is unre­lated to the investigation a joint Louisiana state police and FBI task force opened after being made aware of anonymous allegations from an ESPN report that Loomis was able eavesdrop on opposing coaches’ radio communications from 2002 to 2004. 
State police Col. Mike Edmonson confirmed the joint effort Tuesday after discussing the matter with Dave Welker, special agent in charge at the FBI’s New Orleans field office. 
“I thought that was an ex­cellent opportunity to share resources to see if federal or state wiretapping laws were in fact broken,” Ed­monson said by phone from are reviewing legal re-Baton Rouge. “It’s impor-course following the report tant for the public to know by ESPN, which could not these are alle-verify the gations at this system point. We will was used. 
“I’ve never heard of it 
thoroughly, Vitt said 
before. That’s something 
expeditiously, he has 
from ‘Star Wars.’ When 
but fairly look worked 
into whether I first heard something with Loo­any laws have about it being a wiretap, I mis 17 been broken. thought they were talking years in If they have, about Sammy ‘the Bull’ the NFL, we’ll sit down Gravano or something. dating to with the dis-their ear-
I didn’t even know what 
trict attorney ly days in 
they were talking about.” 
in that area to the league determine how together 
Joe Vitt 
to proceed.” in Seattle, 
Loomis and Saints assistant head coach and that the Saints have one of the called the al-rea son s legations “1000 percent he joined the Saints in 2006 false,” and have said they was because he under-stands Loomis’ core beliefs. 


“Anybody that ever wants to question Mickey’s integ­rity on something like this. I mean, this is juvenile,” Vitt said. “This is so bad, what’s been reported, and it’s irresponsible. It really is. ... I just know it’s not true. I know what Mickey’s meant in my life and I know what he’s meant in the lives of a lot of people around this league and you can’t get anybody to find fault with Mickey Loomis. That’s just the truth.” 
The alleged actions would violate NFL rules, if not state and federal laws. 
Edmonson said he is aware that statutes of limi­tations — six years under state wiretapping laws — may hinder prosecution but added, “Let’s find out if any laws have been broken first, and that’s what we’re doing right now. It’s up to us to find out facts and get with the district attorney, who will then decide” if the time to prosecute has passed. 
The statute of limitations for federal wiretapping crimes is generally five years. 
“Where these allegations take us, we’ll certainly go there,” Edmonson said. “Out of fairness to the peo­ple involved, let’s find out if any of these allegations are factual.” 
Under Louisiana law, the only law enforcement agen­cy in Louisiana that can in­vestigate wiretapping vio­lations is the state police. 
Loomis explained his use of an earpiece and described his game-day setup in the Superdome booth in an emailed state­ment on Monday afternoon. He said he has a monitor in his booth that provides the league-issued stats, a small TV with the network broadcast and an earpiece to listen to the local radio broadcast. 
“To think I am sitting in there listening and actual­ly ... doing something with the offensive and defensive play calls of the opposing teams makes this story and the unnamed sources that provided the false informa­tion that much more less credible,” Loomis’ state­ment said. “It just didn’t happen.” 
Washington Redskins defensive coordinator Jim Haslett was the Saints’ head coach from 2000 through 2005. In a com­ment the Saints forwarded to the AP by email, Haslett denied knowledge of any system that would have al­lowed for eavesdropping on opponents. 


page 14 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u SPORTS Wednesday, April 25, 2012 
NHL 

Rangers prepare for Game 7 test 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK – Just as finish­ing with the Eastern Confer­ence’s best regular-season doesn’t mean anything once the playoffs start, the New York Rangers are well aware that no one will remember their elim­ination-avoiding victory in Ot­tawa if they don’t finish off the Senators at home in Game 7. 
With a two-day break before the deciding game in the back­and-forth, first-round series, the top-seeded Rangers took the day off Tuesday after stay­ing alive with a stirring 3-2 comeback victory on Monday. 
The contentious matchup will be decided on Thursday night. 
History has swung a bit back in the Rangers’ favor. The Broadway Blueshirts are 3-0 in Game 7s played at home, including a pair in 1994 when they advanced to the finals with a double-overtime win over New Jersey, and the Stanley Cup clincher against Vancouver that ended 54 years of waiting for a championship. 
The Rangers are more than happy to have parallels to the special season of 1994. That Eastern Conference finals win over New Jersey 18 years ago marked the only time New York rallied to win a series in which it trailed 3-2 — the same defi­cit the Rangers are looking to erase against the Senators. 
It has also been that long since the Rangers had a Game 7 in Madison Square Garden. 
“Our thought is to win it,” Rangers coach John Tortorella said Tuesday during a confer­ence call. “As far as there not being a Game 7 at Madison Square since 1994, it doesn’t affect anything we do. We’re going into a Game 7 with an opportunity to win the hockey game. That’s all we’re con­cerned about.” 
The Rangers are 3-5 overall in Game 7, but their wins have all come in the past four they have played. New York lost in the final game of its first-round series against Washington in 2009 — the Rangers’ most re­cent Game 7. 

Ottawa is 0-4 in Game 7s, but the Senators have had success in New York this season. They are 4-1 at Madison Square Gar­den, including 2-1 in this series. 
“I think it’s good for us. We’ve been better on the road,” Sena­tors captain Daniel Alfredsson told The Canadian Press on Tuesday. “We obviously know that they’re going to come (out hard). I think that they played a more aggressive game than we did (Monday). I think we got up early and we were a little bit passive.” 
Ottawa jumped out to a 1-0 lead in the first period of Game 6, and seemed poised to keep the Rangers off the board for the second straight game until New York got its power play go­ing in the second period. The Rangers used it to score two of their three goals in a span of 
10:24 of the middle frame. 
The Rangers had gone 145 minutes, 27 seconds over three games without scoring against goalie Craig Anderson before breaking through. 
“It doesn’t surprise me,” Tortorella said of the Rangers’ resilience. “Our team has re­sponded all year long. A lot of our game throughout this se­ries has been very good. We just have not found a way to make a big offensive play at a key time. (Monday) night in the second period, we did. This group of guys has just gone about their business. That’s the way we’ll approach Game 7.” 
The Senators complained about a questionable goalie interference call against Nick Foligno that gave the Rangers a 5-on-3 advantage that led to New York’s second goal. 
The Rangers had disputes of their own, starting with a roughing penalty to Mike Rupp in the first period that cre­ated the power play that pro­duced the Senators’ first goal. The bigger gripe for New York came in the last minute when Ottawa scored to make it 3-2. The Rangers believe the goal shouldn’t have counted be­cause goalie Henrik Lundqvist was interfered with, and they contended that prime agitator Chris Neil kicked the puck into the net. 
Lundqvist still fumed after the game and made remarks that could land him in trouble with the NHL. 
“It’s an absolute joke,” Lun­dqvist said after his 25-save performance. “When it’s such an obvious play, goalie interfer­ence and a kick, and they still call it a goal? It scares me that someone can call that. It’s just unbelievable. It still upsets me, because we have this game, and then they get a chance. 
“Someone wants them back in the game, obviously, because there’s no other explanation.” 
For at least the third time in this physical series, the NHL is looking into an act that could result in further punishment. 
Rangers rookie Carl Hagelin returned Monday from a three-game suspension for his elbow to Alfredsson’s head in Game 2. Neil avoided supplemental dis­cipline for his Game 5 hit that gave 6-foot-7 New York forward Brian Boyle a concussion that forced him to miss Game 6, and now the league is believed to be reviewing replays to see wheth­er Ottawa’s Milan Michalek kicked defenseman Dan Girardi twice when the Senators scored their final goal. 
Tortorella, who has been fined $50,000 this season for critical remarks directed at the league and officiating, declined to comment Tuesday on any of the disputed calls. 
If Michalek is forced to sit out Game 7, the Senators will have to scramble to form a new top line around leading scorer Ja­son Spezza. 
NBA 

World Peace banned seven games 
from Sunday’s game against Oklahoma City for throwing an elbow that struck Harden in the back of the head, giving him a concussion. 
World Peace will miss the season finale on Thursday at Sacramento, then the next six games for which he is eligible. The playoffs open Saturday. 
Commissioner David Stern alluded to the former Ron Art­est’s history of on-court al­tercations in announcing the penalty in a statement. 
Artest got an 86-game ban in 2004 for jumping into the stands at the Palace of Au­burn Hills, outside Detroit, to fight fans. 
“The concussion suffered by James Harden demonstrates the danger posed by violent acts of this kind, particularly when they are directed at the head area,” Stern said in a statement. “We remain com­mitted to taking necessary measures to protect the safe­ty of NBA players, including the imposition of appropriate penalties for players with a history of on-court alterca­tions.” 
UEFA CHAMPIONS LEAGUE 
Chelsea eliminates Barcelona in upset 

Associated Press 
BARCELONA, Spain — Lionel Messi walked off the Camp Nou pitch in tears, as one of the most dominant eras in European club soccer came to a crashing halt. 
He wasn’t the only one shaking his head in disbelief. 
Despite going a man and two goals down in the first half, Chel­sea pulled off one of the unlike­liest comebacks in Champions League history Tuesday, earning a 2-2 draw against Barcelona. That sent the London club into the final 3-2 on aggregate and elimi­nated the defending champion. 
For the second time in two weeks, Chelsea withstood a never-ending onslaught from the Span­ish powerhouse and displayed ruthless efficiency when rare opportunities finally presented themselves. 
“It’s a historical night for the club. I believe we deserve to be in the final,” said Chelsea’s inter­im manager Roberto Di Matteo, whose team will face either Bay­ern Munich or Real Madrid in the May 19 final at Munich’s Allianz Arena. “We had a difficult season, but we seem to always get some­thing special out when we need to. That’s part of the DNA of these players.” 
For Barcelona, the result could mark the end of one of the most successful spells in club soccer. The team was looking for a third Champions League title in four seasons, and this loss came right on the heels of a 2-1 defeat to Real Madrid that all but ended its hopes of a fourth straight league crown. 
With coach Pep Guardiola yet to decide whether to stay at the club, it means his reign could end with­out a major crown this year - al­though the Copa del Rey is still up for grabs as a consolation. 
“It hurts to lose this way be­cause we were better and we gave it our all,” said Barcelona midfielder Cesc Fabregas. “We needed the perfect game, but we weren’t perfect because we lacked goals.” 
Despite coming into the sec­ond leg with a 1-0 lead, Chelsea’s hopes looked all but over after go­ing down 2-0 and having captain John Terry sent off for a needless foul in the first half. 
But Ramires’ stunning lob right before halftime gave the advan­tage back to the Blues on away goals, and Barca never found a way to recover after the break. After Messi blasted a penalty kick against the crossbar and hit the post with another shot, substi­tute Fernando Torres scored in injury time to make it 3-2 on ag­gregate and ensure that Chelsea advanced. 
While Chelsea’s players cele­brated, Messi trudged off the field with his head buried in his shirt. 
“We’re here because of this kid,” Guardiola said. “I have no doubt he’s going through a bad moment. That’s the sad thing about this sport is that these things exist.” 
For Chelsea, this was the crowning achievement in a re­markable and improbable turn­around led by di Matteo, who has also guided the team into the FA Cup final after manager Andre Villas-Boas was fired in March. 
Chelsea won the first leg 1-0 at Stamford Bridge last week after Didier Drogba scored with the hosts’ only shot on target amid a series of wasted chances by Bar­celona. 
It is Chelsea’s first Champions League final since losing to Man­chester United in a penalty kicks shootout in 2008, and gives own­er Roman Abramovich another chance to finally capture the elu­sive title in Europe’s premier club competition. 
Sergio Busquets and Andres In­iesta put Barcelona up 2-0 by the 44th minute as the Spanish club again dominated possession from the start — owning 73 percent for the game. In between those goals, Terry was given a straight red card for putting his knee into the back of Alexis Sanchez, mak­ing a Chelsea rally look even more unlikely. 
“I feel as I let them down, I’ve apologized to them,” said Terry, who will be suspended from the final alongside another three Chelsea players. “Looking at the replay, it does look like a red card.” 


Associated Press 
EL SEGUNDO, Calif. — Los Angeles Lakers forward Metta World Peace was suspended seven games by the NBA on Tuesday for elbowing James Harden, meaning he could miss at least six playoff games. World Peace was ejected 

Wednesday, April 25, 2012 The Observer u SPORTS ndsmcobserver.com | page 15 
NHL 

Devils force Game 7 with win 

Associated Press 
NEWARK, N.J. — The New Jersey Devils are still alive in the Stanley Cup chase because of a player who spent most of the season off the ice working his way back from an Achilles tendon injury. 
Travis Zajac scored at 5:39 of overtime and the Devils avoided elimination and sent yet an­other Eastern Conference first-round series to a seventh game with a 3-2 victory over the Flor­ida Panthers on Tuesday night. 
“It’s fun to be back competing and playing at this time of year,” said Zajac whose season was limited to 15 regular-season games because of an Achilles injury in August that required surgery. 
“When you have a setback, you never know what’s going to happen. As I went through the process again, I felt better and better. It was just about being patient. I knew I would be back at some time in the new year. I was able to get a few games in and prepare for the playoffs.” 
The Devils will be playing in a Game 7 in Florida on Thurs­day because Zajac scored his biggest goal of the season on a counterattack against Panthers goalie Scott Clemmensen. 
Zajac cleared the puck from in front of a harried Martin Bro­deur and started a rush up the ice. Zach Parise took his cross-ice pass and gave the puck to Ilya Kovalchuk, who found Za­jac skating down the left wing for a shot along the ice into the net. 
“Kovy gets the puck at the far blue line and draws a couple of guys to him,” Zajac said. “He made a really nice play to me and I just wanted to get a quick shot on net. I was lucky to beat Clemmer there.” 
It sparked a wild celebra­tion in the corner and sent both teams packing for a trip to Flor­ida. 


“It’s been a frustrating year for him,” Parise said of Zajac, who had played in 401 straight games before his injury. “It’s got to be rewarding and satisfy­ing for him to get that one. He’s played really well for us in the series. He’s a good guy to play with. He makes my job easier. He makes Kovy’s job easier.” 
Clemmensen was outstand­ing, making 39 saves in an emergency start for the injured Jose Theodore. 
“I think he missed it, the shot,” Clemmensen said of Za­jac’s last shot. “My D also may have gotten a stick on it. I don’t think he was shooting where he wanted to, but went under the pad. I thought he was trying to shoot it high.” 
Steve Bernier and Kovalchuk also scored and Martin Brodeur made 14 saves for New Jersey, which squandered a two-goal lead before forcing a deciding game. 
“They are fun to be part of,” Brodeur said of playing in Game 7s. “When you’re a kid you al­ways go out and say “this is Game 7 for all the marbles”. It brings back good memories be­cause of that. You don’t need to be nervous. You need to em­brace the situation and make the best out of it.” 
Kris Versteeg and Sean Ber­genheim tallied for Florida, which was looking for its first series win since 1996. 
“We’re fine,” Panthers coach Kevin Dineen said. “We’re going back home. This is where we are. It comes down to one game. Obviously you go to overtime and you’d like to put things to bed, but that’s the nature of it. It will make for a very exciting game on Thursday.” 
Two other series in the con­ference are also headed to Game 7s. Washington will be at second-seeded Boston on Wednesday and Ottawa will be at the top-seeded Rangers on Thursday. 
The Devils outshot Florida 42-16 in a game played before a sellout crowd. 
Despite being outshot 29-10 in the opening 40 minutes, the Panthers rallied from a 2-0 defi­cit and entered the third period tied at 2-all. 
The remarkable aspect was that the Panthers took only four shots in the second period and tallied on the two of the first three. 
Versteeg cut the deficit to 2-1 at 7:05 of the period. Stephen Weiss centered the puck from along the left sideboards and Versteeg’s shot hit off the skate of Devils forward Alexei Poni­karovsky and into the open side of the net. Brodeur never had a chance. 
The tying goal came at 12:49 after the referees ignored a slash by Bergenheim that knocked Kovalchuk to the ice. It led to a 4-on-2 rush. 
Brodeur made the initial stop on a shot from the between the circles by Tyson Strachan, but Bergenheim came late and tucked the rebound into an open net with teammate Marcel Goc hanging on the crossbar. 
Kovalchuk gave the Devils a 2-0 lead earlier in the period, slam-dunking a pass from Zajac into the net with four seconds left on a power play. It was his third goal of the series. 
The Devils had a big territo­rial advantage in the final 10 minutes of the first period and it finally paid off when Bernier beat Clemmensen with a bad-angle shot at 16:37 of the period. 
MLB 
Indians hand Royals 12th straight loss 

Associated Press 
CLEVELAND — Derek Lowe allowed one run over six innings and the Cleve­land Indians handed the Kansas City Royals their 12th straight loss, 4-3 on Tuesday night. 
The Royals have been out­scored 73-44 during the streak, which ties for third-longest in team history. They also lost 12 in a row in 1997 and 2008. Kansas City lost 13 straight in 2006 and had a team-record 19 consecu­tive losses in 2005. 
Cleveland built upon a recently completed 7-2 trip by returning to Progressive Field and earning their sec­ond home win in six games. 
Lowe (3-1) gave up eight hits and struck out five. Chris Perez got his seventh save, allowing a ninth-in­ning run. 
Jack Hannahan had a two-run double in Cleveland’s three-run fifth against Jon­athan Sanchez (1-1). 
Beforehand, the Royals continued to try anything to get out of their funk. On Monday, they vented frus­trations in a closed-door pregame meeting in which voices were raised in an­ger. Before opening a three-game series in Cleveland, players gathered around a clubhouse television to play a baseball video game. 
That didn’t help, either. 
Sanchez hit Indians lead-off batter Jason Kipnis in the hand with his fifth pitch. Kipnis eventually scored on a sacrifice fly by Carlos San­tana to put Cleveland ahead 1-0. 
On April 14, Sanchez hit Shin-Soo Choo with a pitch. Indians starter Jeanmar Gomez retaliated the next inning by plunking the Roy­als’ Mike Moustakas, lead­ing to a brief bench-clearing scuffle. Gomez drew a five-game suspension and was suspended along with Han­nahan and manager Manny Acta. 
A year ago with San Fran­cisco, Sanchez broke Choo’s left thumb with a pitch. The Royals acquired him in a trade for outfielder Melky Cabrera in November. 
Sanchez walked the bases loaded in the second, but got Kipnis on a first-pitch pop-out, followed by a double-play grounder by Asdrubal Cabrera. 
The left-hander also load­ed the bases with walks in the fifth. One run scored on a sacrifice fly by Shelley Duncan. Hannahan followed with a double to right-center to make it 4-1 and finish Sanchez. 
Sanchez walked seven over 4 2-3 innings, allowing four runs and four hits. He threw 115 pitches, only 56 for strikes. 
Mitch Maier had an RBI single for Kansas City in the fourth and doubled home a run in the eighth. Overall, the Royals went 4 for 13 with runners in scoring position. The Royals are 13 for 73 (.178) in that situation over their last eight games. 
Kansas City closed to 4-3 in the ninth. Chris Getz dou­bled and later scored on a groundout by Billy Butler. 

page 16 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u SPORTS Wednesday, April 25, 2012 

Armstrong 
continued from page 20 
what we came for. It would have been nice to have that too but I guess this is awe­some. Maybe it will hit me in a few days. I feel okay.” 
With a team score of 910, the Irish finished one stroke behind South Florida. 
“It is incredibly disap­pointing the way it hap­pened,” Irish coach Susan Holt said. “We just didn’t get it done. I can’t think of a worse way to lose: to be so close and come up one shot short.” 
Senior Becca Huffer and sophomore Kristina Nhim were right behind Arm­strong in fifth and sixth place with total scores of 226 and 228 respectively. 
Going into the final round, the Bulls were up six strokes and were barely able to hold off the surging Irish. Holt said the second round con­tributed to coming up short in the final round. 
“We didn’t finish well and we lost five shots in the last two holes,” Holt said. “We could have gone in one down 
Aoki 
continued from page 20 
ries. A Cincinnati pitcher plunked sophomore first baseman Trey Mancini on the wrist early in Notre Dame’s 10-9 win over the Bearcats (13-27, 2-13) on April 13, but Mancini returned to the line­up for the Georgetown series. 
“With Trey it’ll be something that we’ll continue to manage and keep our eye on,” Aoki said. “It’s better, but it’s not perfectly better, so we’ll limit his reps in practice and whatnot. But he’ll be able to play.” 
The wrist injury did not slow Mancini last weekend, when he went 6-for-12, scoring four runs, picking up four RBIs and earning Big East Player of the Week hon­ors. 
Central Michigan (17-24, 7-8 MAC) will start freshman right-hander Jordan Foley, who was drafted by the Yankees in the 26th round of the 2011 MLB Draft, but decided to forgo the minor leagues in order to join the Chippewas. 
but instead we started the third round six down.” 
Holt said the final round consisted of sloppy and careless play. 
“We had four putts and three putts and that should not happen,” Holt said. “We gave [USF] every opportuni­ty to stay in it and they took advantage of it.” 
In coming up short, Notre Dame missed out on an au­tomatic bid to the NCAA championship. Now, the Irish must wait for a call from the NCAA about if they will be competing in the tournament. 
“We hope we will make the NCAA tournament,” Holt said. “I feel like we’re closer to be­ing in than out but we certainly did this to ourselves. There wouldn’t be any anticipation if we had got it done. We will keep practicing this week and wait for our call for the tourna­ment on Monday from the se­lection committee.” 
If the Irish make the NCAA championship, they will com­pete at the Vanderbilt Legends golf course in Franklin, Tenn., on May 23.   
Contact Isaac Lorton at ilorton @nd.edu 
Foley enters the game with a 3-0 record and a 7.52 ERA. 
The Chippewas also have sev­eral hitters who could give Notre Dame trouble. Junior infielder Jordan Dean is hitting .377 with six home runs and 31 RBIs, while senior first baseman Nate Theunissen has 37 RBIs on the season and ranks in the top five in program history in six separate offensive categories. 
Central Michigan is coming off two conference losses to Kent State, but Aoki said the Chippe­was will challenge the Irish. 
“It’s just a good regional game against a team that’s usually a really good team out of the Mid-American Conference,” Aoki said. “We just have to play well all around. We’ve won five of our last six, so it would be nice to make it six of our last seven and give us a little momentum heading into an important weekend.” 
Ternowchek will throw the first pitch against Central Michigan at Frank Eck Stadium at 5:35 p.m. Wednesday. 
Contact Vicky Jacobsen at vjacobse@nd.edu 
SMC SOFTBALL 

Saint Mary’s to take on Manchester 
By NICK BOYLE 
Sports Writer 

Saint Mary’s will try to con­tinue its winning ways when the Belles travel to Manchester today for a non-conference dou­bleheader. 
After a string of six straight conference games, a non-con­ference opponent will offer a change of pace for the Belles (24-10, 9-5 MIAA).
 “These games will be nice as there’s not a lot of pressure to win,” Belles coach Erin Sullivan said. “The way we’ve been play­ing has been good, but we still need to iron out some problems. The games will give us a good chance to prepare for the rest of our season … we’re very excited to play.” 
Although it is not a conference game, Sullivan said her team must still come out and perform well. 
“It’s just one of those things 
Ganeff 
continued from page 17 

Ganeff said while Michigan State (11-34) is typically a tough competitor, the Irish (27-13) were able to shut the Spartans’ bats down early. 
“They came out and were taking hacks offensively,” Ganeff said. “They were try­ing to put things together, but we really just got them out once we scored those six runs. They were always play­ing catch-up after that.” 
Overall, the Irish clocked I always talk about [with the team],” Sullivan said. “If we’re the better team, we should win. We need to get ahead early, or come back quickly if we get down. We shouldn’t have to count on late-inning rallies for our runs.” 
After a slew of conference games, Saint Mary’s had five days off since its last game. Sul­livan said her team remains confident, even after the long break. 
“I think we’re pretty confident right now,” Sullivan said. “We were excited to have time off, but now we’re antsy to get back on the field. We are excited to get back out there and keep up our good run we have going.” 
Though today’s games are Sullivan’s main focus, she knows her team will also be looking forward to Saturday, when her team has a chance at clinching a spot in the MIAA tournament. 
“We need to win one on Sat­urday,” Sullivan said. “We need to play fundamental softball, put the ball in play and be disci­plined. It will be our seniors’ last home game, there will be many high emotions, we need to keep our composure and poise.” 
Senior pitcher Angela Gillis has been a player the team can look to keep that poise and com­posure, Sullivan said. 
“Gillis has been epitome of composure for us this season,” Sullivan said. “She has ice in her veins, you look at her and she has a great quiet confidence. She really keeps the team level. Along with Gillis, all of our se­niors need to step up. Our three captains need [to] come out and play well down the home stretch.” 
Saint Mary’s will visit Man­chester today, with first pitch scheduled for 3:30 p.m. 
Contact Nick Boyle at nboyle1@nd.edu 
eight hits and only committed that’s when they beat [you]. one error. Defensively, we can’t afford to Notre Dame will look to give them any kind of wiggle 
conti nue its win­
“Defensively, we can’t 
ning streak Wednesday afford to give them with a dou-any wiggle room.” 
bleheader against Se-Kris Ganeff ton Hall (20­
Irish assistant coach 
25). “They ’re a middle-
room.” 
The Irish will take on Seton Hall at home Wednesday at 12 p.m., followed by a second game at 2 p.m. Both games 
of-the-pack team in the Big take place in Melissa Cook East,” Ganeff said. “They’re Stadium. one of those programs that if you go in with the attitude Contact Katie Heit at that you’re going to beat them, kheit@nd.edu 


Wednesday, April 25, 2012 The Observer u SPORTS ndsmcobserver.com | page 17 
ND SOFTBALL 
NBA 
Durant leads Thunder to win over Sacramento 


Associated Press 
OKLAHOMA CITY — Kevin Durant scored 32 points, re­serve Daequan Cook had all 19 of his points in the fourth quarter and the Oklahoma City Thunder beat the Sacramento Kings 118-110 on Tuesday night to win their first game since top bench player James Harden took an elbow to the head. 
Durant extended his lead in a tight NBA scoring race with the Los Angeles Lakers’ Kobe Bryant despite sitting out the entire fourth quarter in a close game. Durant is averaging 
27.97 points per game to Bry­ant’s 27.86 with each having one game left. 
Cook filled Harden’s void, scoring Oklahoma City’s first 14 points of the final period to put the Thunder ahead for the first time since the first quar­ter. 
DeMarcus Cousins, who was allowed to play only after his 

Irish hope to extend streak at home 13th technical foul was re­scinded earlier in the day, led 
By KATIE HEIT 
Sports Writer 
After a 7-1 victory over Michigan State on Tuesday, the Irish will look to extend their six-game home winning streak with a doubleheader against Seton Hall on Wednesday. 
The Irish bats came out of the gate early, scoring all seven of their runs in the first three innings. In the six-run third inning, senior infielder Dani Miller and sophomore outfielder Lauren Stuhr each hit two-run home runs to con­tribute to the stellar inning. 

“There were so many people who did a really good job,” assistant coach Kris Ganeff said. “I feel like we dominated them. We scored six runs and got them on their heels. There were so many contributors and we just kept having good at bats. We were making things happen all game.” 
Miller set a record with her home run. It was the 10th of the season for the senior, mak­ing her the first player in Notre Dame history to hit double-digit home runs in all four of her years in an Irish uniform. 
Other top performers in­cluded junior pitcher Brittany O’Donnell and freshman in­fielder Jenna Simon. O’Donnell threw a complete game and notched six strikeouts, while Simon hit an RBI triple in the third inning. 
see GANEFF/page 16 
Sunday when he was elbowed in the back of the head by the Lakers’ Metta World Peace, for­merly Ron Artest, and didn’t pass league-mandated tests that would have allowed him to return and play. The team has him listed as day-to-day and it’s unknown if he’ll be ready in time for the start of the playoffs this weekend. 
The NBA suspended World Peace seven games for elbow­ing Harden. 
The Kings were without lead­ing scorer Marcus Thornton for the third straight game with a left quad contusion, and re­serve Terrence Williams was out sick. 
Travis Outlaw moved into the starting lineup and scored a season-high 20 points — only his fourth game in double fig­ures this season. Jason Thomp­son scored 22, Tyreke Evans had 18 and Isaiah Thomas 11 as all five Sacramento starters hit double figures. 
It still wasn’t enough down the stretch. 
Royal Ivey put Oklahoma City ahead to stay with a long jump­er from the left side with 3 min­utes left, and Cook’s 3-pointer in transition extended the lead to 114-107 with 44.9 seconds left. Cole Aldrich hit all four of his free throws to close it out. 
Sacramento made 18 of its 22 shots (82 percent) in the first quarter to get out to a 40­35 lead after Isaiah Thomas’ buzzer-beating 3-pointer. It was the most points allowed by Oklahoma City in any quarter this season. 
Sacramento with 32 points. 
With the Thunder locked into the No. 2 seed in the Western Conference playoffs, coach Scott Brooks held his start­ers out in the fourth quarter even though it was a four-point game after three. 
Cook wiped away that defi­cit immediately with a jumper and a 3-pointer, and ably filled Harden’s usual role as the big scorer off the bench. Harden averages 16.8 points, best among NBA reserves. 
Harden suffered a concussion 


SMC TENNIS 
Belles fall to Hornets 
By ISAAC LORTON 
Sports Writer 
Saint Mary’s started strong in its home match against Ka­lamazoo, winning all three doubles matches. The Belles’ (10-8, 3-4 MIAA) lead, though, was not enough to hold off the Hornets (6-14, 6-2), who took all of the singles matches. 
“We played some really in­spired doubles,” Belles coach Dale Campbell said. “It is the best doubles we have played this year. We were just outdone in singles.” 
Freshmen Shannon Elliot and Jackie Kjolhede took their matches to three sets at the No. 3 and No. 4 spots, respectively. Elliot won the first set 6-2, be­fore losing the next two sets 6-2, 6-1. Kjolhede lost the first set 6-1, but rallied and took the second set 6-4, before losing a close third set, 6-4. 
“We almost had a few of those single matches,” Campbell said. “They just had more firepower in singles than we did.” 
The story of the young Saint Mary’s team this year has been solid doubles play, with a strug­gling singles play. 
“I think our play in doubles is a good sign for the future,” Campbell said. “It is harder to learn the principles and tactics of doubles and I think we have them down pretty well. In sin­gles, we need to keep working and work on all of our shots. With doubles you can hide some mistakes, but once you get one­on-one, you can’t hide weak­nesses in singles. However, this is a young team, with a lot of freshman who are playing and they will get better with time and come along in singles.” 
With this loss, it is impossible for the Belles, sitting in sixth place, to make the MIAA play­offs. 
“It was a tough loss and defi­nitely disappointing,” Campbell said. “This does not mean the season is over, though, for us.” 
The Belles have two remain­ing matches and Campbell said this is the time to keep learning and training for next year, and to possibly give non-starters some playing time. 
“I think we will finish off the season strong and contin­ue to grow as a team,” Camp­bell said. “We might get some players in there who haven’t got much time this year and rotate things around. We will continue to play hard and who knows, we could upset Hope in our next match.” 
The Belles look to take down Hope, who is undefeated in the MIAA with a record of 7-0, at home Saturday at 1 p.m. 
Contact Isaac Lorton at ilorton@nd.edu 

page 18 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u SPORTS Wednesday, April 25, 2012 
Bookstore 
continued from page 20 
year, and we are happy to contribute to such a good cause.” 
The team consists of Quinn and Curley, as well as six other students with managerial positions. Ad­ditionally, 44 students have been able to get involved in the program as com­missioners. While Quinn has been around the pro­gram a great deal during his time at Notre Dame, he said this year’s competition has stood out thanks to its strong competition in the earlier rounds. 
“It has been really com­petitive and this is the first time I have seen this many upsets,” Quinn said. “We actually had five of the 


top 15 ranked “I think it is one of Notre try to make teams upset. Dame’s best traditions. our de-The top 32 It brings together many fense our is this week, different segments of offe nse. and I’m ex-Making op-
the population and 
pecting even portunities 
the faculty. I think 
more upsets to score 
it’s one thing that the 
to take place offensively 
whole campus can 
then.” helps, but 
get involved in.” 
The most our key to notable up-winning is sets so far John Rompf good de­
have been Bookstore participant fense.” 
the defeats of the No. 1 and No. 3 seeds, which has opened up the field of competition to un­ranked competitors.  One team that is trying to avoid an upset is the current No. 2 seed and defending cham­pion Saturday in America. Third-year law student and returning team member John Rompf said his team is looking to make another push towards the champi­onship with a new group of players. 
“I am the only one who was on the team last year, so it is a completely differ­ent group of guys,” Rompf said. “Being in school to­gether over the year was an opportunity for us to bond before the tournament.” 
The team consists of two first-year, one second-year and two third-year law stu­dents.  Not only is there a broad range of ages on the team, but the team also 
Kemp 
continued from page 20 
Led by senior defenseman Kevin Randall, the Irish have bought into the sys­tem developed by Corrigan and assistant coach Gerry Byrne. Randall displays the epitome of the style of play Corrigan and Byrne expect out of their players. 
“[Randall’s] ability to re­main disciplined and stay focused throughout the possession and the game, I think, is unique,” Corrigan said. “But it’s also exem­plary for the way we want to play.” 
On the sideline, Corrigan relies on Byrne to be focused on the defense 100 percent of the game, as well as being the instructor in practice. 
“He’s a terrific teacher,” Corrigan said. “He’s a great motivator. He’s done a ter­rific job since the day he ar­rived here.” 
The Intercollegiate Men’s Lacrosse Coaches Associa­members is former Corner­stone University basketball player Bryan Pasciak. 
consists  of  players  from  
different  basketball  back­ 
grounds.  Among the other  

Rompf said playing out­side and in a tournament that requires a team to play multiple games changes the dynamic of the playing style and the tournament as a whole. 
“We really have two guys who are extremely skilled indoors who have to adjust a little bit to the outdoor courts,” Rompf said. “Also you can’t take as many risks outdoors, obviously. You have to match [the] other team’s physicality.” 
Rompf said one constant in the tournament that proves to be successful is strong defense. 
“We just want to make 
smart 
plays and 
Similar to Quinn, Rompf said the competition this year is at a higher level than usual. 
“There are a lot of very good teams and it seems that this year more than any year I can remember it is a great competition,” Rompf said. 
After playing as an under­graduate as well, Rompf is now in his seventh appear­ance and said the event is a unique opportunity for the Notre Dame community to come together. 
“I think it is one of Notre Dame’s best traditions,” Rompf said. “It brings to­gether many different seg­ments of the population and the faculty. I think it’s one thing that the whole campus can get involved in.” 
The round of 16 will take place Wednesday afternoon. 
Contact Brendan Bell at bbell2@nd.edu 
tion honored Byrne’s leader­ship at the end of last season with the National Assistant Coach of the Year award. 
Because of its strong focus on team defense, Notre Dame has developed a culture that has spread throughout the team. It is a system passed down from class to class, and it is here to stay. 
“Now we’ve got a thing in place where our older guys help teach our younger guys,” Corrigan said. “We have disciples of the way we want to do things in our guys. When you have that, you have guys being sup­portive and instructed by their teammates as well as your coaches.” 
Notre Dame’s defense will be put to the test Saturday when the Irish square off against Big East rival No. 17 Syracuse (7-6, 2-3), with a chance to go undefeated in the Big East regular season. The game starts at 5:30 p.m. in Arlotta Stadium and will be aired on ESPNU. 
Contact Matthew Robison at mrobison@nd.edu 
Halfpenny 
continued from page 20 

about what just happened,” Halfpenny said. “Did we have the opportunity to look at that? Yeah, sure. That’s going to have zero bearing about what’s go­ing to happen on Wednesday night.” 
More pressing concerns for the Irish include stopping Northwestern’s prolific offense, a unit averaging more than 14 goals per game. The Wildcats are led by senior attack Shan­non Smith, who has 48 goals on the season and is the reign­ing Tewaaraton award win­ner, and junior midfielder/at­tack Erin Fitzgerald, who has totaled 37 goals and 44 points this season. Halfpenny said the Irish will look to limit the Wild­cat offense, putting an empha­sis on stopping Smith. 
“We’re going to have to con­tain their offense that averages some of the most points in the country right now as well as clearly containing Shannon Smith,” Halfpenny said. “It’s not how to stop Northwestern. It’s going to be how do you con­tain and limit their offense.” 
Notre Dame will look for a continued strong effort from its defense, particularly from its junior goalie Ellie Hilling. Hilling earned a spot on the Big East weekly honor roll on Monday after tying her career high with 16 saves against Georgetown and notching 13 saves against Vanderbilt. Se­nior defense Megan Sullivan also found her name on the list after totaling a combined three goals, four ground balls and three caused turnovers against Vanderbilt and Georgetown. 
The Irish will also look to ig­nite some offensive firepower against a tough Northwestern defense allowing close to seven goals per game. The Wildcats feature senior goalie Brianne LoManto, who leads all Di­vision I goalkeepers with a goals-against average of 6.92. Halfpenny said the offensive gameplan for the Irish will re­volve around quick and con­stant ball movement. 
“Our offense has to do a good job of moving the ball,” Half­penny said. “They run an out­standing defense, and they’re incredibly athletic. The key to that is ball movement and at­tacking them in their own style.” 
The Irish offense will be powered by senior attack Mag­gie Tamasitis, who ranks sec­ond nationally with 50 assists. Tamasitis is currently tied for the Notre Dame school record for most consecutive games with a point at 51 games, a mark she shares with 2008 alum Caitlin McKinney. 
Halfpenny said Tamasitis will play a major role in the of­fense’s flow, but she mentioned the Irish will need contributions from more unheralded team members to defeat the Wildcats. 
“Obviously, Maggie Tamasitis has been a key to our success, and we’ve continued to have the ball go through her hands as much as possible,” Halfpenny said. “When you’re playing a team as athletic as Northwest­ern, it’s not just your No. 1 and No. 2 kids showing up — it’s all of them. The beauty of that is that’s how we’ve been playing all year long.” 
The Irish will look to pull off the upset of the top-ranked Wildcats when they face off to­night at 8 p.m. 
Contact Brian Hartnett at bhartnet@nd.edu 


Wednesday, April 25, 2012 The Observer u TODAY ndsmcobserver.com | page 19 
WILL SHORTz 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 
CROSSWORD 



DAVID HOyT 

KELLy LyNCH and JOE MILLER 
JUMBLE

THE CLAMMY HANDSHAKE 
JEFF KNUREK 






Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556

 Enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year


 Enclosed
 is $75 for one semester 


Name ____________________________________________________ Address __________________________________________________ City ____________________ State___________ Zip______________ 

Wednesday, April 25, 2012 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 20 
MEN’S LACROSSE 

Leading from the back 

By MATTHEW ROBISON 
Sports Writer 
For many lacrosse teams, one defender’s lapse in cov­erage usually results in an uncontested shot on the goaltender. When teams play No. 3 Notre Dame, that is not the case. 
“Defensively, our philoso­phy is that we want to play a supportive kind of defense in a style where it’s very hard for any one guy to cost us a goal,” Irish coach Kevin Cor­rigan said. “If everyone is doing their job and everyone understands their role and is fundamentally sound, then it takes a couple guys to cost us a goal.” 
Corrigan has instilled a defensive system that makes teams beat two or three play­ers before getting a shot on one of the best goaltenders in the country. 
“[Opponents] are going to have to make a couple guys make a mistake,” Corrigan said. “Then they’re going to have to beat our goalie too.” 
The Irish (10-1, 5-0 Big East) lead the nation in goals allowed per game at 5.73, and junior goaltender John Kemp leads the country in save percentage at .656. So even when opponents do fool a number of defenders and get the ball to the cage, Kemp is there as the last line of defense. 
“John’s been outstanding,” Corrigan said. “He’s played great. He’s very comfortable with our defense and with the things that we give up. He just makes unbelievable stops at various times.” 
Beyond Kemp’s position­ing, reflexes and ability to read shots out of the stick, Corrigan said his goalkeep­er’s most important attri­bute is his calming presence. 
“Mostly, I think it’s just that his demeanor is perfect for his position,” Corrigan said. “He never gets too ex­cited with things, good or bad. He just kind of moves to the next play and keeps an even keel. So it doesn’t matter whether we’re up or down, or what’s going on. John’s always the same back there. That keeps our de­fense on an even keel.” 
see KEMP/page 18 
BASEBALL 
Ternowchek gets ball for Western Michigan 
By VICKY JACOBSEN 
Sports Writer 
The Irish seek to keep the heat turned up as they take on Cen­tral Michigan on Wednesday in a mid-week matchup. 
Although the Irish (22-16, 9-6 Big East) went through a rough patch in early April, they head into the contest on a hot streak after sweeping Georgetown (18­21, 5-10) on the road last week­end and taking two of three from Cincinnati the weekend before that. 
“I think they’ll feel better about 
themselves, and they should,” 
Irish coach Mik Aoki said. “We 
made some mistakes here and 
there that we need to talk about, 
obviously, but overall I think our 
guys played pretty well. They did 
a good job.” 
Freshman right-hander Matt 
Ternowchek will get the start 
for the second time this season. 
Ternowchek has a 3.15 ERA and 
a 3-1 record in 14 appearances 
this year. 
Aoki said his managing deci­
sions will not be limited by inju 
see AOKI/page 16 
ND WOMEN’S GOLF 
Armstrong captures Big East championship 
By ISAAC LORTON 
Sports Writer 
After 54 holes of golf and three playoff holes, fresh­man Ashley Armstrong came out on top of her sud­den-death playoff with Lou­isville freshman Emily Haas as the Big East champion. 
The third round ended with Armstrong and Haas tied with an overall score of 223. In the first playoff hole, Armstrong had a bad first drive, but was able to come back and match Haas’ bogey. The second playoff hole ended with both play­ers ringscoring par before Armstrong nabbed the tour­nament title with a birdie on the third playoff hole. As a team however, Notre Dame fell just short of consecutive Big East titles. Armstrong had mixed feelings about the tournament victory. 
“It hasn’t really hit yet,” Armstrong said. “Obviously I would have rather had the team win because that’s 
see ARMSTRONG/page 16 
WOMEN’S LACROSSE 

Irish to face top-ranked Wildcats on the road 
By BRIAN HARTNETT 
Sports Writer 
In the last week, Notre Dame has added two notable victories to its resume, defeating then-No. 18 Vanderbilt on April 18 and then-No. 12 Georgetown on Sat­urday. 
Its reward for these wins will be a midweek visit to Evanston, Ill., to take on No. 1 Northwest­ern. 
The Irish (12-2, 5-2 Big East) come into the contest riding a four-game winning streak, where they have outscored their opponents 53-31. In addition to their offensive prowess, the Irish have been bolstered by a strong defensive unit, which held Georgetown to a season-low out­put of six goals. 
Irish coach Christine Halfpen­ny said she believes the matchup with Northwestern (14-1, 4-1 ALC) comes at an opportune time for the Irish. 
“We feel like the timing is good,” Halfpenny said. “We’re coming off two great games that built some confidence.” 
Confidence will be crucial for the Irish heading into their showdown with the Wildcats, a team they have not defeated since April 26, 2003. Since then, the Wildcats have reeled off 11 consecutive wins against the Irish, including three in the NCAA tournament, and have captured six national champi­onships. 
This year’s Wildcats look to be as strong as their predeces­sors, as they have held the top-ranked spot the entire season. The Wildcats started the sea­son with 14 consecutive wins, but come into the game fresh off their first defeat, an 8-7 loss to No. 3 Florida on Saturday. Halfpenny said Northwestern’s loss had no effect on her team’s preparation for the game. 
“We’re not really concerned 
see HALFPENNY/page 18 

BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL 
Tournament enters round of 16 
By BRENDAN BELL 
Sports Writer 
Now in its 40th year run­ning, Bookstore Basketball has proven the test of time. As co-president of Bookstore Basketball, Garrett Quinn said the tournament has con­tinued to have high partici­pation in recent years due to its ability to attract all types of players. 
“It has been pretty con­sistent in the last few years, and we have been around the 700-team range,” Quinn said. “I know we have always had a good tournament with steady involvement, whether people are looking to have fun or take it seriously, it ap­peals to everyone.” 
The program’s missions span beyond Notre Dame’s campus as the tournament’s proceeds go directly to the Jumpball organization, which is a program in Ja­maica that provides youths a positive atmosphere to learn basketball. 
“It is a summer camp for kids there, and gets them in-there. Co-president Bobby volved in sports.” Quinn said Curley went down this past “Every year we send two of our commissioners down see BOOKSTORE/page 18 







