The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s  
Volume 45: Issue 135  Friday, may 18, 2012  Ndsmcobserver.com  


page 2 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u NEWS Friday, May 18, 2012 
“What Though the Odds” 
Alumna Haley Scott DeMaria prepares to address graduates on facing the unexpected
www.ndsmcobserver.com P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 Editor-in-Chief Allan Joseph Managing Editor Business Manager Megan Doyle Jeff Liptak Asst. Managing Editor: Andrew Owens Asst. Managing Editor: Sam Stryker News Editor: Kristen Durbin News Editor: John Cameron Viewpoint Editor: Meghan Thomassen Sports Editor: Chris Allen Scene Editor: Kevin Noonan Saint Mary’s Editor: Jillian Barwick Photo Editor: Suzanna Pratt Graphics Editor: Brandon Keelean Multimedia Editor: Sarah O’Connor Advertising Manager: Katherine Lukas Ad Design Manager: Amanda Jonovski Controller: Jason Taulman Systems Administrator: William Heineman Office Manager & General Info (574) 631-7471 Fax (574) 631-6927 Advertising (574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu Editor-in-Chief 2 dfarmer1(574) 631-4542 ajoseph2@nd.edu Managing Editor 2 smervosh(574) 631-4542 mdoyle11@nd.edu Assistant Managing Editors ) 6 -41 apratt@nd.edu, cmasoud nd.edu(574) 631-4541 aowens2@nd.edu, sstryke1@nd.edu Business Office (574) 631-5313 News Desk (574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com Viewpoint Desk (574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com Sports Desk (574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com Scene Desk (574 31-4540 mgusti .edu(574) 631-4540 knoonan2@nd.edu Saint Mary’s Desk chousl01@ ar dujbarwick@saintmarys.edu Photo Desk (574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com Systems & Web Administrators (574) 631-8839 Policies The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Allan Joseph. Post Office Information The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 and additional mailing offices 024 South Dining hall Notre Dame, IN 46556-077 The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved.  
TODAY’S STAFF News Sports Kristen Durbin Chris AllenJohn Cameron Andrew GastelumJillian Barwick Matthew DeFranksMarisa Iati Anna Boarini SceneNicole Toczauer Mel Flanagan Kevin Noonan GraphicsViewpoint Brandon Keelean Meghan Thomassen Photo Sarah O’Connor Grant Tobin Mackenzie Sain  
CORRECTIONS The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so we can correct our error.  


By SAM STRYKER 
Assistant Managing Editor 
When Haley Scott DeMaria received a call earlier this year from University Presi­dent Fr. John Jenkins, she had some idea about what their conversation would entail. 
But the last thing she ex­pected was for Jenkins to ask her to give this year’s Commencement address. 
“We had conversations in the past months about dif­ferent things, so when I got the phone call there were 10 other items I thought the conversation would be about,” she said. “If I put commencement speaker on there, it would probably be about [number] 998. 
“[I was] stunned, really. I was surprised. Once the shock wore off, I was very honored.” 
DeMaria, a member of the Class of 1995, suffered a broken back and was para­lyzed when the bus carrying her and the rest of the Irish women’s swim team slid off the Indiana Toll Road and rolled over 20 years ago. Doctors told DeMaria she might never walk again, but she beat the odds, regaining the ability to walk and re­turning to swim for the Irish the following year. 
DeMaria said she hopes she can give a special speech to this year’s graduating class because, like them, she once walked the campus as a student. 
“I think one of the unique things about having an [alumna] speak is I under­stand many of the things they are experiencing be­cause I have been there,” she said. “The main thing I would like to get across is what it means to be a Notre Dame graduate – what it has meant in my life and what it will mean in their lives in ways they have no idea.” 
One of the main concepts DeMaria said she wants to convey in her address is to be prepared for the unex­pected in life. 
“I think one of the main ideas, and really one of the main themes of how I live my life, is that understand­ing that you can plan, and you can be prepared, and you can know exactly what your life is going to be and chances are, that’s not what is going to happen,” she said. “And then that is okay. How do you go through life hav­ing a great game plan or life plan, but also knowing life doesn’t always turn out the way that you think it will.” 

DeMaria said Notre Dame graduates are fortunate be­cause the University pre­pares students well for life after college. 
“Not in a doomsday way, but so many of the tools that we have here as a Notre Dame student will apply to ways in life that we don’t even know,” she said. 
DeMaria, who gives talks up to five or six times a month, said this speech will be “different” and “bigger” than any she has ever given. However, she still plans to draw on her personal expe­riences to communicate the core message of her address. 
“Many of the talks that I give are about my story and what we experienced as a university, as a swim team, my personal journey — cer­tainly physically and the faith aspect of it,” she said. “There will be some of that. I know that’s certainly one of the reasons I was asked to speak.” 

However, DeMaria said she recognizes this speech is different due to her audi­ence. 
“But graduation is not about me, it’s about the graduates,” she said. “So I’ll take what I’ve learned and certainly share some of that, but really use it to ap­ply in a meaningful way to the graduates.” 
In speaking to people dur­ing the past weeks leading up to her address, DeMaria said she has distinguished two types of commence­ment speakers — those who are remembered for their name, and those who are remembered for the speech they give. She said she hopes to fall into the latter category. 
“I’d rather leave the grad­uates with two or three or four key words or messages that they hear, they listen, they remember. They may not totally get it now, but at some point in their lives they will,” she said. “That’s my goal.” 
Reflecting on this no­tion, DeMaria said her own class expected to have a “big-name” commencement speaker, as it was the 150th graduating class of the Uni­versity. But students were initially disappointed with the selection of a relatively unknown speaker. 
“We ended up with the first African-American female provost at a major research university,” she said. “It was an interesting choice at the time, but it was Condoleeza Rice. It’s been good for me to understand everybody’s dif­ferent perspectives.” 
Ultimately, DeMaria said she is excited to return to the University once again to serve in a new role. 
“I truly look forward to addressing the class,” she said. 
Contact Sam Stryker at sstryke1@nd.edu 

BRANDON KEELEAN | Observer Graphic 
Friday, May 18, 2012 The Observer u NEWS ndsmcobserver.com | page 3 



Seniors react to choice of 2012 Commencement speaker 
By KRISTEN DURBIN thinks Notre Dame could have ex-flected in the selection of DeMaria News Editor plored other options in filling the to join the ranks of recent Notre 
role of commencement speaker. Dame commencement speak-
When Notre Dame admin-“I fully acknowledge the tre-ers as President Barack Obama, istrators took more time than mendous strength that she dis-news anchor Brian Williams and usual to announce the 2012 played in her emotional and former U.S. Secretary of Defense Commencement speaker, senior physical recovery from an event Robert Gates. Jeremy Lamb said he hoped the worse than most of us can imag-“The fact that the 2012 Com-delay meant his class would be ine,” he said. “However, I feel that, mencement speaker will prob-addressed by a prominent orator. if it were the University’s desire ably be the least notable of the 
“While in my head I sort of to select an individual who has last couple decades, in a group knew [the delay] probably meant overcome unimaginable personal consisting of presidents, CEOs, the University was having some tragedies or obstacles, there were archbishops and national media trouble finding someone to agree other options.” figures, didn’t really sit well with to fulfill this role, I couldn’t help As classmates of deceased stu-me,” Lamb said. “Our University but hope that maybe, just maybe, dents Samuel Marx, Declan Sulli-should be able to attract some the delay was due to the Univer-van and Xavier Murphy, the grad-prominent individuals to speak, sity going after a really ‘big fish,’ uating seniors have dealt with whether their prominence be due so to speak,” Lamb said. significant personal losses during to commercial success, political 
But when the University an-its time at Notre Dame. In this re-prowess or simply social fame.” nounced 1995 alumna Haley spect, Lamb said, DeMaria was “Certainly, [DeMaria] is char-Scott DeMaria would deliver the an “appropriate” choice to speak acteristic of the Notre Dame spir­2012 Commencement address, at Commencement. it,” Heid said. “But at the same Lamb said his initial reaction to “Our class, more than most oth-time, it is not fair that previous the news was “one of confusion.” ers, has had a great amount of ex-classes have had presidents, car­

“When [I] first learned of her perience with tragedy and loss,” dinals and governors, and we get selection, I did a quick Google Lamb said. “However, I think our somebody that nobody has ever search,” he said. “As petty as this class has done an outstanding job heard of … As a prominent uni-may sound, I was disheartened a of dealing with our own losses versity, we deserve prominent bit by the fact that my commence-and growing from them. In other speakers.” ment speaker did not even have a words, I think maybe the primary For senior Nneka Ekechukwu, Wikipedia page.” lesson that Ms. DeMaria has to DeMaria’s lack of widespread rec-er that a university has or should merits discussion. 
Senior John Heid said De-offer is one which our class has ognition will not take away from have,” Ekechukwu said. “I mean absolutely no disre­Maria’s relative obscurity also in-learned on its own.” the significance of her remarks at The primary role of a com-spect to Ms. DeMaria. I think fluenced his initial reaction to the Lamb said he thinks the Uni-Commencement. mencement speaker does not nec-she has had to go through a lot announcement. versity chose DeMaria as the “I’m looking forward to our essarily have to be providing ad-and has emerged as a success­
“When I first heard, I did not speaker to reinforce the Notre speaker and the message she has vice to new graduates, Lamb said. ful and strong woman,” Lamb even know who it was until I read Dame community overall instead for us,” Ekechukwu said. “While “Many believe that the purpose said. “I think this year’s choice of the little blurb about it on the of focusing specifically on the she is obviously not of the same of a commencement speaker is to commencement speaker is fairly Notre Dame website,” Heid said. members of the Class of 2012. caliber as having the President, offer advice and insight into how unique, and therefore deserves “I was not happy with the choice.” “I respect the fact that she is an for example, she is someone that the ‘real world’ works,” he said. an equally unique discussion.” 
A member of the Irish women’s alumna, but is that necessary?” has experienced a lot and is sure “However, my personal opinion is Although his original opinion swimming team, DeMaria suf-Lamb said. “Is that going to make to have a lot of insight and advice that the commencement speaker of DeMaria as a commencement fered a broken back and was par-her any more relatable for us? It for all of us that are soon to be should serve primarily to please speaker has not changed, Heid alyzed when her team’s bus slid just seems as though maybe the new alumni of this University.” the graduating class, to excite said the end result matters most off the Indiana Toll Road during a University is trying to take a day Ekechukwu said the selection and entertain them. It is in this in this situation. snowstorm in 1992. After doctors that should be 100 percent about of DeMaria challenges the ex-capacity that I think the Univer-“If she delivers a good speech, told her she might not walk again, us as a class and turning it into pectation of inviting household sity may have been able to find I will be satisfied,” he said. DeMaria made an astounding re-something that really just points names as commencement speak-someone better suited.” “Whether or not she will is an covery, even returning to swim back to the University as a whole.” ers. Despite any disappointment in open question.” for the Irish the following year. Both Lamb and Heid said the “I think her selection as our the selection of a relatively un-
Despite the inspirational power University’s reputation as a wide-speaker is showing everyone that known speaker, Lamb said the Contact Kristen Durbin at of DeMaria’s story, Lamb said he ly renowned institution is not re-there is not one set type of speak-2012 Commencement address kdurbin@nd.edu 



page 4 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u NEWS Friday, May 18, 2012 

Gone but not forgotten 
Deceased members of the Class of 2012 leave their mark on their classmates, future students at Notre Dame 
By MARISA IATI 
Associate News Editor 
Although three members of the Class of 2012 will not walk at com­mencement, their legacies contin­ue to shape Notre Dame’s campus. 
Sam Marx, a resident of Duncan Hall, passed away from cancer July 29, 2009, following his fresh­man year. 
Senior Tighe Beach, a friend of Marx, said he was inspired by Marx’s positive outlook on life. 
“Sam dared to be happy,” he said.  “He dared to revel in the beauty of life, despite the poor hand that life dealt him. He was truly a renaissance man. In his short time at the University, Sam changed the lives of those around him forever.” 
During the academic year fol­lowing Marx’s death, senior Mike Oliver organized Duncan residents to participate in The Bald and the Beautiful event in Marx’s honor. 
“He was battling cancer for a number of years, so my sopho­more year, I decided that we re­ally needed to get Duncan involved and bring that awareness to the cause,” Oliver said. “A lot of the current sophomores that knew Sam decided to shave their heads.” 
Since the first year when 45 residents participated in the event, Oliver said Duncan Hall has con­tinued to be involved. 
Oliver said approximately 80 men from Duncan participated in the 2012 event and raised more than $8,000 for the St. Baldrick’s Foundation. 
“This year especially, a lot of the people we asked to shave their heads didn’t know Sam,” Oliver said. “It was just really neat to see his life go on and live on through the event.” 
Former Duncan rector Fr. Thomas Eckert said Duncan’s participation in The Bald and the Beautiful is a testament to Marx’s impact on the hall. 
“Each year the Duncan High­landers turn out in huge num­bers to shave their heads, raising thousands of dollars for children’s cancer research,” Eckert said. “Because we had the opportunity to know Sam and the whole Marx family, Highlanders for genera­tions to come will do their part in fighting cancer. “ 
Senior Luke Mansour said spending time with Marx was al­ways a source of comfort during Mansour’s difficult transition to college. 
“The things I learned from him in a few months were as valuable as the education I’ve received at Notre Dame,” Mansour said. “He truly loved life and did more in his years than many do in a lifetime … The time I spent with him here will always be one of the high­lights of my life.” 
After Declan Sullivan died in a scissor lift accident Oct. 27, 2010, Notre Dame and the Indiana De­partment of Labor launched a campaign to promote aerial lift safety. 
The UpRight! Campaign pro­vides safety information for those who work with aerial lifts at uni­versities, colleges and high schools around the country. 
The campaign originated after Notre Dame reached a settlement with the Indiana Department of Labor in July 2011. Developing a nationwide education program about scissor lift safety was a com­ponent of the settlement. 
Declan’s father, Barry Sullivan, said he was pleased the Univer­sity began the initiative. He said he created a video message for the campaign’s website encouraging people to take lift safety seriously. 
“We’re just very pleased with the way that the University has treated us and everything that they’ve done for us since Declan died,” Barry said. 
The University also installed a remote video system in March 2011 for its football practice fields, eliminating the need for elevated scissor lifts to film practices. 
Shortly after Sullivan’s death, current senior Marc Anthony Rosa said describing his friend was an “impossible task.” (Editor’s note: Rosa is a columnist for The Ob­server’s Viewpoint section.) 
“He’s an unbelievably unique soul that, when you meet him, he’s completely addicting to be around,” he said. “He’s nonstop energy. He’s like no one else you’ve ever met. Although he may not be here, his soul [will not] leave this campus and the people who’ve known him.” 
The senior class overwhelm­ingly supported honoring Declan’s memory through the Class of 2012 Senior Legacy Fund, senior fund co-chair Sylvia Banda said. The fund will benefit the Declan Drumm Sullivan Memorial Fund. et presence, but one where every 



“Donations to the Senior Legacy time you saw him he had a great will assist students who are not big smile on his face that I think only in financial need, but who sort of spoke volumes of how much also have demonstrated the traits he loved Notre Dame, and loved that made Declan original, wheth-Zahm and loved the people that he er through a particular interest in was with,” Colonna said. “His posi­filmmaking, service to underpriv-tive energy and his love of life and ileged youth, creative writing or his strong faith, those were ways other passions,” Banda said. “The that he contributed most to all of response to this fund has been our lives.” wonderful.” A few weeks after Murphy’s 
Before senior week, approxi-death, Zahm organized its “Raise mately 600 donors contributed an X for X” campaign, asking stu­more than $30,000 to the Senior dents to make an “X” with their Legacy Fund, Banda said. arms during the football broad-
Barry Sullivan said he and his cast. Colonna said the hall began family were the initiative touched De-when Murphy clan’s class-was in the hos-mates chose to pital so he could commemorate “[Declan is] an see the student his memory. unbelievably unique body show its 
Fifth-year soul that when you meet support for him student and him, he’s completely on television. former Zahm After Mur­
addicting to be around.” 
House resident phy’s death, Xavier Murphy Colonna said he 
Marc Anthony Rosa 
passed away af-and Murphy’s ter a short battle friends decided 
senior 
with leukemia to expand upon Oct. 11, 2011. the campaign. 
Zahm rector Zahm recruited Corry Colonna five co-sponsors said although Murphy was quiet, to promote the program, Colonna he was involved in most of the said. hall’s activities, especially its ath-“It was amazing to me when, not letic teams. Murphy was lived an only the student body section, but active faith life and participated in everyone in the entire stadium, Zahm’s religious liturgies, he said. stood up and raised their arms in 
“It was a quiet leadership, a qui-tribute to Xavier,” he said. “I think that was a real beautiful moment of prayer ... And his parents said more than once how much he would have loved all of that.” 
Senior Daniel Duffey, a friend of Murphy’s, said the “X” Zahm resi­dents usually raise to distinguish themselves from the rest of the student body meant much more the day of the campaign. 
“The joining of the entire Notre Dame nation to ‘Raise an X for X’ showed that we were not only members of Zahm, Fisher, or Dil­lon, Lyons, [Breen-Phillips] or Cavanaugh, but loyal sons and daughters of Notre Dame paying tribute to one of our own,” he said. 
Colonna said Zahm sold T-shirts and bandannas as part of the cam­paign. He said $5,000 of the money raised went to a scholarship fund in honor of Murphy organized by his high school, Guerin Catholic in Anderson, Ind. Zahm also donated more than $2,000 to the American Cancer Society’s Relay for Life and the Murphy family, Colonna said. 
“Raise an X for X” showed what Xavier meant to Zahm and Notre Dame, Duffy said. 
“Because of the profound impact he had on our community, Zahm will never forget Xavier Murphy,” he said. “And from now on, when­ever we raise an ‘X’ in Notre Dame Stadium, I know Xavier’s raising one right back at us from heaven.” 
Contact Marisa Iati at miati@nd.edu 




Graduating students celebrate Senior Week traditions 
By ANNA BOARINI 
News Writer 
For one class-free week, se­niors have the opportunity to stay on campus and celebrate their four years at Notre Dame with their friends. 
Senior class president Anne Huntington said Senior Week is a perfect way for seniors to have fun and spend a great week together. 
“The way we saw Senior Week and what we wanted to do was to get as many mem­bers of the Class of 2012 to­gether to celebrate our four years of friendship, fun and studying,” she said. “It is a way for us to try and hit on all the different aspects of our time here together one last time.” 
Some Senior Week traditions are carried over from year to year, but this year’s schedule of events has changed slightly, Huntington said. 
This year, the kick-off bar­beque was moved off campus to the College Football Hall of Fame, she said. 
“We thought a change of venue would be cool and since the College Football Hall of Fame is leaving, and we’re all leaving, we thought we would rent out the space and check it out,” she said. 
On Tuesday night, the Senior Class Council hosted ‘Margar­itaville’ at Legends nightclub on campus. 
Huntington said previous Class Councils have planned trips to Cedar Point and the Indiana Dunes. However, these trips have not been well-attended due to weather and costs, so they were removed from the Senior Week sched­ule this year, she said. 
“We were trying to cut costs and thinking about what was best for 2,000 people and not the 350 that could go,” she said. 
Despite these changes, Hun­tington said most traditions continued, including Monday’s Commencement Ball. Senior Class Council estimated there were more than 1,500 attend­ees at the ball, Huntington said. 
“[The Commencement Ball] is a really fun night where your classmates show up at a dance, all dressed up and have a really good time,” she said. 
Senior Ryan Geraghty at­tended the Commencement ball and said it exceeded his expectations. 
“The ball was surprisingly fun,” he said. “It wasn’t all fancy and too high-strung … I got to see all my friends and people who I haven’t seen since Frosh-O.” 
The senior class also tra­ditionally attends a Chicago Cubs game each year, and that tradition continued this year, Huntington said. She said the trip would be expanded upon, offering seniors time to en­joy the city outside of Wrigley Field. 
On campus, seniors had the chance to get a behind-the­scenes look at some famed lo­cations they could not access as undergraduates, Hunting­ton said. 
“We offer seniors a chance to see places on campus … like the tunnels, the 14th floor of the library, the stadium press box and locker rooms,” she said. 
Huntington said the final traditional Senior Week event is the seniors’ last visit to the Grotto and Basilica. 
“This is always the Thurs­day night before Commence­ment,” she said. “It’s time for the class to come together one last time to pray and reflect before Commencement.” 
Huntington said the last Grotto trip can be a very emo­tional experience for graduat­ing seniors. 
“It’s usually the kicker. If you haven’t cried yet, you’re going to cry there,” she said. “I cried last year and I wasn’t even graduating.” 
Contact Anna Boarini at aboarini@nd.edu 




FOUR YEARS IN REVIEW 
Friday, May 18, 2012 The top Observer news stories from the 2008–2012 academic years ndsmcobserver.com | page 5 
Obama speaks at Commencement 

After months of controversy, President Barack Obama delivered the University’s 164th Commencement Address, asking graduates to seek common ground on abor­tion and other divisive issues facing the country. 
Obama acknowledged the controversy surrounding his visit to campus and noted the irreconcilable differences in the abor­tion debate. 
“Your class has come of age at a moment of great consequence for our nation and the world — a rare inflection point in history where the size and scope of the challeng­es before us require that we remake our 

May 17, 2009 
world to renew its promise; that we align our deepest values and commitments to the demands of a new age,” he told the Class of 2009. 
University President Fr. John Jenkins in­vited Obama to speak at Commencement and receive an honorary degree in March of 2009 — a decision that sparked protests from students, alumni and groups unaffili­ated with the University. 
The student group ND Response, formed days after Jenkins’ announcement, staged demonstrations and submitted a petition to Jenkins criticizing his decision. 
Yet a count by The Observer in April showed that out of 345 Letters to the Editor authored by students, 74 percent were in favor of the invitation and 29 were against Jenkins’s decision. 
In an interview with The Observer, Jen­kins said he was “honored” when Obama accepted the University’s invitation. 
“Presidents from both parties have come to Notre Dame for decades to speak to graduates about our nation and our world,” Jenkins said. “They’ve given important ad­dresses on international affairs, human rights, service, and we’re delighted that President Obama is continuing that tradi­tion.” 


University, College lose five students in four years 
The Class of 2012 saw the Oct. 27, 2010, after the scissor Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s lift from which he was filming communities lose five students football practice fell. Sullivan, over its four years on campus. a Fisher Hall resident, was a 
Following his freshman student videographer for the 
year at Notre Dame, Sam Marx football team. Friends re-
passed away after a battle membered him as fun-loving 
with leukemia. Fellow Dun-and outgoing. 
can Hall residents commemo-Sophomore Sean Valero died 
rated Marx’s life and passing in April 2011. Friends  from 
by participating in The Bald Keenan Hall described Valero 
and the Beautiful campaign to as easygoing and a dedicated 
benefit cancer research. student. 
Elizabeth “Lizzy” Seeberg Fifth-year student and for-passed away Sept. 10, 2010. mer Zahm House resident Friends said Seeberg, a first Xavier Murphy died after a year student at Saint Mary’s, short battle with leukemia always had a smile on her in Oct. 2011. Zahm residents face. honored him with their “Raise 
Junior Declan Sullivan died an X for X” campaign. 







page 6 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u THE YEAR IN REVIEW Friday, May 18, 2012 

Jenkins requests healthcare exemption; fifth-year student dies; community remembers Declan Sullivan; 


The Year 
Observer Staff Report 
University modifies sexual assault policy 
The University adopted a new sexual as­sault policy in July as a result of a nation­wide change in Title IX procedure and a De­partment of Education investigation at Notre Dame. 
The Office of Civil Rights circulated a “Dear Colleague” letter in April that called for all colleges to more strongly implement Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972, which prohibits sexual discrimination at institutions that receive federal funds. 
Associate Vice President for Residential Life Heather Russell became the Universi­ty’s Deputy Title IX coordinator. In that role, she is the main point of contact for all sexual assault investigations. 
With the changes recommended by the “Dear Colleague” letter and the Depart­ment of Education, the new policy is more condensed and structured. Russell said the new system encourages reporting of sexual assault. 
“When we’re doing this right … the num­ber of people reporting is going to go way up,” she said. “I don’t think that’s because there is anything new under the sun. I be­lieve it’s because we are actually creating a system that people think works and a cul­ture of reporting, and some people who have been silent in the past will come forward.” 
Remembering 9/11, 10 years later 
Throughout the week of the 10th anni­versary of the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks on the World Trade Center and Pentagon, the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s communi­ties commemorated those affected by the events. In addition, the University held an outdoor Mass on South Quad, where cele­brant and University President Emeritus Fr. Edward “Monk” Malloy estimated between 8,000 and 10,000 were in attendance. Saint Mary’s honored victims of the attack with a candlelight vigil that night. 
The Kroc Institute for Peace Studies hosted a panel focused on Middle Eastern relations and peacebuilding in the post-9/11 world the Friday before the anniversary of the attacks.  St. Mary’s fine arts students and faculty later remembered victims with an exhibition of music, dance and poetry. 
Jenkins requests HHS exemption 
University President Fr. John Jenkins wrote an open letter to the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) on Sept. 28 requesting that Notre Dame be exempt from the condition of the recent healthcare act requiring employers to provide contra­ceptive services in their minimum health insurance packages. 
Under the law that was to take effect in August 2012, only religious employers would be exempt from providing services that contradict their conscience. Houses of worship, such as churches, would have been exempt, but religious universities like Notre Dame would not. 
In his letter, Jenkins asked HHS Secretary Kathleen Sebelius to change the definition of religious employers to include Catholic universities. 
“I am writing to urge you to broaden the proposed definition of ‘religious employer’ to ensure conscience protections that will al­low this university to continue its work as ‘a Catholic academic community of higher learning’ — words taken directly from our mission statement,” Jenkins wrote in his open letter. 
Jenkins said as it stood, the mandate would put the University in an “impossible position.” 
“This would compel Notre Dame to ei­ther pay for contraception and sterilization in violation of the Church’s moral teaching, or to discontinue our employee and student health care plans in violation of the Church’s social teaching,” he wrote. 
2011-2012 Forum focuses on education 
The 2011-2012 Notre Dame Forum, titled “Reimagining School: To Nurture the Soul of a Nation,” brought together American edu­cational leaders in a year-long discussion of the challenges and questions that shape the national debate about K-12 education. 
The first of several Forum events took place Sept. 26, when former Florida Gov. Jeb Bush gave an interactive address titled “The Architect: Radical Education Reform for the 21st Century.” 
A Sept. 28 panel discussion titled “The Conversation: Developing the Schools Our Children Deserve” featured four prominent voices of K-12 education reform: Bishop Ger­ald Kicanas of the Diocese of Tucson and chair of Catholic Relief Services; Wendy Kopp, founder and CEO of Teach for Amer­ica; Juan Rangel, CEO of Chicago’s United Neighborhood Organization and Randi We­ingarten, president of the American Federa­tion of Teachers. 
On Nov. 18, New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie spoke about the legal issues relating to edu­cation, including charter schools, the educa­tion gap and the effect of the current state and local fiscal crisis on public education. 
New York University professor Diane Ravitch, a distinguished education histo­rian, spoke April 10 about the current state of American public education. 
Fifth-year student dies of cancer 
Xavier Murphy, a fifth-year student and resident of Zahm House, died Oct. 11 after a short battle with leukemia. He was 22. 
Murphy, originally from Anderson, Ind., graduated with a degree in political science with the Class of 2011, but he remained on campus in the fall to take a class and intern with the football team. 

The Notre Dame community honored Murphy at the Oct. 29 football game against Navy by making an “X” with their arms as part of Zahm’s “Raise an X for X” campaign. 
Zahm House sold T-shirts and bandanas as part of the campaign. The hall donated $5,000 of the money raised to a scholarship fund in honor of Murphy organized by his high school. The dorm also donated more than $2,000 to the American Cancer Soci­ety’s Relay for Life and the Murphy family. 
Senior Daniel Duffey, a resident assistant in Zahm and a friend of Murphy, said “Raise an X for X” showed what Xavier meant to Zahm and Notre Dame. 
“Because of the profound impact he had on our community, Zahm will never forget Xavier Murphy,” he said. “And from now on, whenever we raise an ‘X’ in Notre Dame Stadium, I know Xavier’s raising one right back at us from heaven.” 
One year later, community remembers Sullivan 
A year after his death, the University commemorated student Declan Sullivan in several ways. Sullivan died in a scissor lift accident Oct. 27, 2010, while filming a Notre Dame football practice. He was 20. 
In August 2011, Notre Dame and the In­diana Department of Labor launched a campaign to promote aerial lift safety. The UpRight! Campaign provides safety infor­mation for those who work with aerial lifts at universities, colleges and high schools across the country. 
The campaign originated after Notre Dame reached a settlement with the Indiana Department of Labor in July 2011. Terms of the settlement included the development of a nationwide education program about scis­sor lift safety. 
Declan’s father, Barry Sullivan, said he was pleased the University began the initia­tive. He taped a video message for the cam­paign’s website encouraging people to take lift safety seriously. 
The senior class chose to honor Sullivan through the Class of 2012 Senior Legacy Fund. The fund will benefit the Declan Drumm Sullivan Memorial Fund, which as­sists students who are in financial need and share some of Sullivan’s interests, such as creative writing, service to underprivileged youth and filmmaking. 
Prior to Senior Week, approximately 600 donors contributed more than $30,000 to the Senior Legacy Fund, senior co-chair Syl­via Banda said. 
HHS announces compromise 
The Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) announced Jan. 20 that re­ligiously affiliated institutions would be ex­empt from a new law requiring employers to provide contraceptive services as part of 

2011u 
their minimum health insurance packages. The ruling, however, is unclear regard­ing self-insured institutions such as Notre Dame. 
The decision came following an interim ruling in August 2011. 
On Feb. 10, President Barack Obama an­nounced a modification to the HHS man­date, where insurance companies, and not religiously-affiliated institutions, will be responsible for providing contraceptive ser­vices. Notre Dame is self-insured but works with Meritain, a third-party administrator, to process the University’s claims and pro­vide administrative services, according to University Spokesman Dennis Brown. 
Jenkins said the accommodation was a “welcome step” by the Obama administra­tion. 
“The widespread concerns expressed by Catholics and people from other faiths have led today to a welcome step toward recog­nizing the freedom of religious institutions to abide by the principles that define their respective missions,” he said in a  Feb. 10 statement. “We applaud the willingness of the administration to work with religious organizations to find a solution acceptable to all parties.” 
ND responds to incidents of discrimination 
Within one week in February, both the Black Student Association and the African Students Association had fried chicken parts placed in their mailboxes in the LaFortune Student Center. The student body was in­formed of the incidents in a Feb. 24 email. 
The subsequently formed “Call to Action” committees formulated a plan intended to correct a campus culture in which discrimi­nation can persist. 
Members of the Notre Dame community also met in a March 5 town hall meeting to discuss the incidents and to address the need to foster a more inclusive University community. 
Senior Brittany Suggs, former chair of the Black Student Association, said there was an increase in reporting instances of discrimination and an increase in faculty members’ availability in assisting students with reporting after the town hall meeting. 
Student government will implement pro­grams to inform community members about diversity issues in the fall, student body president Brett Rocheleau said. 
Vice President for Student Affairs Fr. Tom Doyle said the Office of Student Affairs will emphasize training the residence halls’ Freshman Orientation staffs in racial sensi­tivity. The University will also focus on en­forcing hiring practices that build this sense of community, Doyle said. 
Businessweek ranks Mendoza No. 1 for third year 
The Mendoza College of Business pulled a 


Friday, May 18, 2012 The Observer u THE YEAR IN REVIEW ndsmcobserver.com | page 7 
“Call to Action” issued on discrimination; Jenky homily sparks debate; Doyle replaced; ND considers LGBTQ issues 



in Review 
u2012 
hat trick when Bloomberg Businessweek magazine named it the top undergraduate business school in the nation for the third consecutive year March 20. 
Robert Huang, interim dean of Mendoza, said the spirit of Notre Dame is the “secret sauce” that leads to the continued success of the program. 
“It’s the spirit that faculty has for help­ing students, the spirit of career services and student services at the University level and ways they go out of their way to help students, the spirit of Mendoza students to work hard and the spirit of alumni and friends of Notre Dame for the College,” Huang said. 
Huang said the college will use its No. 1 ranking to show that Mendoza will con­tinue to do the “right thing” and put its stu­dents’ best interests first. 
“Being No. 1 is a responsibility because we are in the limelight,” he said. “It’s an opportunity to show the world who we are and what we stand for, which is that you can be good professionally and academi­cally while being true to your values and traditions at the same time.” 
Rocheleau, Rose win single-ticket race 
Juniors Brett Rocheleau and Katie Rose won the Feb. 8 election for student body president and vice president, respectively, in the first single-ticket election in recorded student government history. 
The pair won the election unopposed with 
57.3 percent of the 2,382 votes cast, vice president of elections for the Judicial Coun­cil Caitlin Ogren said. Forty-two percent of voters abstained from voting for the Roche-leau-Rose ticket. 
Rocheleau said his administration hopes to advocate for the student body in matters of consequence and convenience. 
“We want to hear the pulse of the students as well as act on it,” he said. “We want to hear what drives them, what’s really impor­tant to them, and we want to advocate on those issues.” 
The Rocheleau-Rose platform included goals of improving the constituent service capacity of Notre Dame, increasing safety for all students, deepening relations with the city of South Bend, modernizing the Uni­versity and connecting with the global com­munity. 
Parsons, Casey win office 
Juniors Maureen Parsons and Meghan Casey were elected March 2 to represent the Saint Mary’s student body as president and vice president, respectively, for the 2012­2013 academic year. 
Parsons and Casey, who beat juniors Taylor Hans and Betsy Hudson in the stu­dent body election, said they plan to create a mentor program for first-year students to improve their transition into the College and unify students of all class years. 
The pair also aims to work with College administration to develop a master calen­dar for Saint Mary’s that can be used by stu­dents, faculty and staff. 
Admissions more competitive than ever 
Notre Dame accepted fewer students for the Class of 2016, as an unprecedented number of admitted applicants chose to attend the University last year. 
The rise in exceptional applicants and fall of available spots led to increased se­lectivity in the admissions process, Don Bishop, associate vice president for under­graduate enrollment, said. 
A total of 16,952 high school seniors ap­plied this year, and 3,850 were admitted for an acceptance rate of 22.7 percent. Last year, a total of 16,520 students applied, and the University accepted 4,019 for an acceptance rate of 24 percent. Two years ago, 29 percent of students were accepted. 
The University waitlisted 2,500 appli­cants last year, but none were accepted due to the high number of admitted ap­plicants who chose to attend Notre Dame, Bishop said. 
The median ACT score of accepted stu­dents for the Class of 2016 was 33, and the median SAT score of 1460 increased by 17 points over the Class of 2015, Bishop said. 
Due to the excellent qualifications of legacy applicants, 24 percent of students admitted for the Class of 2016 were legacy, Bishop said. 
Community responds to Jenky homily 
In April, at least 143 Notre Dame profes­sors and faculty signed a letter addressed to University President Fr. John Jenkins and Richard Notebaert, University Fel­low and chair of the Board of Trustees, requesting Bishop Daniel Jenky of the Diocese of Peoria, Ill., to renounce contro­versial statements he made in an April 14 homily, or to resign from the University’s Board of Fellows, of which he is a member. 
The letter also requested the University issue a statement distancing Notre Dame from Jenky’s “incendiary statement.” 
In his homily, Jenky criticized President Barack Obama’s health care policy and its impact on the Catholic Church. Jenky com­pared the impact of such policy to other historical challenges the Church has faced, citing the regimes of Adolf Hitler and Jo­seph Stalin as examples. 
Professors and faculty received an email statement signed by Jenkins and Note­baert in response to the letter. The state­ment thanked the professors and faculty for the letter, but declined to comment on Jenky’s homily. 
Pro-life activist Randall Terry visited Notre Dame’s campus to host a press con­ference and deliver a letter to Jenkins. He and 13 other cosigners called on the pro­fessors and faculty who submitted the let­ter to Jenkins and Notebaert to repent or “have the decency to resign.” 

Doyle replaced at Student Affairs 
Fr. Thomas Doyle will be replaced as vice president for Student Affairs after serving for only two years, the University announced May 1. 
Erin Hoffman Harding, vice president for strategic planning, will take over for Doyle on Aug. 1. University President Fr. John Jenkins made the decision to replace Doyle, University Spokesman Dennis Brown said. 
“Erin brings with her to this new posi­tion a wide range of extraordinary skills that will serve the University well,” Jen­kins said in a press release. “I am likewise grateful to Tom Doyle for his excellent lead­ership and service over the past two years.” 
Doyle will serve as a faculty fellow in the Institute for Educational Initiatives, a pas­toral minister and an adviser to the Office of Human Resources. Doyle said he has en­joyed his years as head of Student Affairs, especially the opportunity to form relation­ships with students and their families. 
“It allows me to say to the cynics of the world that there’s hope,” Doyle said. “You get a chance to see students at their very best — and sometimes when you see them at their very worst, it’s the portal through which they’re going to become their very best.” 
University maintains clause wording 
Amidst the mounting call for lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender and questioning (LGBTQ) equality at Notre Dame, the Uni­versity chose not to add sexual orientation to its nondiscrimination clause April 25. 
University Spokesman Dennis Brown said it was “a collective decision” to main­tain the current wording of the nondiscrim­ination clause, though University President Fr. John Jenkins ultimately made the call. 
Brown emphasized Notre Dame does not discriminate or tolerate harassment on the basis of any personal characteristic, in­cluding sexual orientation. 
“We think it is important for our faculty and staff and students to not only feel just comfortable here, but to know that if the need were to arise, that they have access to a full range of remedies, including legal remedies, if they were wronged in any way because of sexual orientation,” he said. 
Sexual orientation is currently part of the University’s discriminatory harassment policy, which protects current students and employees experiencing harassment. 
Including sexual orientation in the non­discrimination clause would protect pro­spective students and employees in areas such as admissions, employment, scholar­ships and athletics. 
GSA decision postponed 
In the wake of increased student activism fueled by the Progressive Student Alliance’s 4 to 5 Movement, Notre Dame announced May 1 it would continue to consider approv­ing a gay-straight alliance (GSA) as an of­ficial student club, deferring a decision until the fall. 
The deferral marks the first time an appli­cation for a student club addressing lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender and questioning (LGBTQ) issues was not denied. 
In an email to the co-presidents of Alli­anceND, the unofficial GSA that applied for club status, Director of Student Activities for Programming Peggy Hnatusko said the ad­ministration would consider the club’s ap­proval in the context of existing resources and Catholic teaching. 
“The University intends to review the breadth of structures and services cur­rently provided to LGBTQ students and their allies by the University in the hopes of mak­ing the best decisions possible to support our students and the University community, all within the context of Catholic teaching,” she stated in the email. “I will review Alli­anceND’s application in the course of those discussions.” 
University Spokesman Dennis Brown said University leaders will come together this summer to review the existing structures and services for LGBTQ students and their allies. 
Rees arrested on four misdemeanor counts 
Junior quarterback Tommy Rees and senior linebacker Carlo Calabrese were arrested at an off-campus party on North Notre Dame Avenue during the early morn­ing hours of May 3. 
Rees, who started 12 games in 2011, was charged with four misdemeanors: illegal consumption of alcohol by a minor, battery and two counts of resisting law enforce­ment. 
Calabrese was charged with a misde­meanor count of disorderly conduct for his actions following Rees’ apprehension, which included alleged threats of the linebacker saying “My people are going to get you,” to law enforcement. Prosecutors later charged Calabrese with a misdemeanor count of in­timidation. 
Rees, 19, recorded a .11 blood-alcohol content when he was booked at St. Joseph County Jail, according to the police report. 
Initially, Rees was charged with a felony count of battery to a police officer, but prose­cutors ultimately decided to drop the charge to a misdemeanor, aiding the quarterback not only legally, but also in his disciplinary case with the Office of Residence Life and Housing. 
Rees had not yet appeared in court at the time this publication went to print. 


page 8 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u NEWS Friday, May 18, 2012 

University, College honor Class of 2012 valedictorians 
Two graduating Saint Mary’s College seniors share top spot 


By JILLIAN BARWICK 
Saint Mary’s Editor 
Two valedictorians will leave a unique legacy at the College when they ad­dress the Saint Mary’s Class of 2012 at Saturday’s Com­mencement ceremony. 
Seniors Annie Bulger and Krystal Holtcamp were named co-valedictorians for the Class of 2012. Both students earned perfect 4.0 grade point averages during their time at the College. 
Bulger, a mathematics ma­jor from Minneapolis, Minn., who graduated in December 2011, said she is grateful for the opportunity to represent Saint Mary’s and the rest of her department. 
“This is such an honor to be co-valedictorian with Krystal,” Bulger said. “I am really glad to be able to represent the math depart­
ment at Saint Mary’s. I love my fellow math majors and all of the professors in our depart­ment.” 
Holtcamp, a biology major with a concen­tration in molecu lar and cellu­lar biology from Mentor, Ohio, said 
experiences 
“In my time here, I 
they have 
have been blessed with 
had at Saint 
so many experiences 
Mary’s. 
that I will remember “I chose for the rest of my life.” to come to Saint Mary’s Krystal Holtcamp in large part 
because of 
co-valedictorian 
she was “completely sur­prised” when she heard the news. 
“The day I found out I was going to be co-valedictorian with Annie was a very inter­esting one,” Holtcamp said. “I had just completed my senior comprehensive and had learned that I had been accepted to Butler Universi­ty’s physician assistant pro­gram. Hearing about being 
co-valedictorian  was  just  
fantastic.”  
Since  Bulger  completed  

her time at Saint Mary’s in December, she has worked a full-time job at One:Ten Communications in South Bend, where she builds web­sites for the company. 
“During the summer fol­lowing my sophomore year, I was granted a Summer Ex­periential Learning Grant with One:Ten Communica­tions through the Career Crossings Office,” Bulger said. “I greatly enjoyed the chance to learn more about computer programming and technology from my fellow employees at One:Ten, and I was fortunate to be able to continue working after I graduated as a full-time employee.” 
Holtcamp will begin the University of Toledo’s physi­cian assistant program af­ter graduation. 
“It is a 28-month program where I will receive my Master’s degree,” Holtcamp said. “After that, I hope to be able to head closer to home in Cleveland and work at the Cleveland Clinic. I am really open to anything though.” 
Both Bulger and Holtcamp said they are excited and ready to head off into the next chap­ters of their lives, but will miss the 
what I saw in the pro­fe s sors,” Bulger said. “I saw that 
they were at Saint Mary’s because they were passion­ate about their students and passionate about doing all that they could to enable their students to learn.” 
Holtcamp said she could not choose just one part of her time at the College she would miss the most. 
“In my time here, I have been blessed with so many experiences that I will re­member for the rest of my life,” Holtcamp said. “Each of these experiences comes from different parts of my Saint Mary’s education, in­cluding the encouraging professors that have helped me academically, the minis­tries that have expanded my faith, the powerful, influen­tial body that Saint Mary’s women represent and the friends and family that have been with me through ev­erything.” 
Above all, Bulger said she hopes her classmates re­member to take the time to talk with people and to ap­preciate the daily interac­tions they have with others. 
“While doing missionary work between my sopho­more and junior year of col­lege, I spent a great deal of time just talking to the peo­ple in the neighborhood and hearing about what they had to say,” Bulger said. “It really taught me that I do not want to miss out on the depth people have and the interactions I come across.” 
Holtcamp said her speech will focus on relishing the day her fellow graduates will share as classmates during commencement Sat­urday. 
“Getting rid of the worries we have for the future and the regrets we have from our past is what counts,” Holtcamp said. “Looking at the moment we are in now as graduates of Saint Mary’s College is an amazing ac­complishment in itself.” 
Contact Jill Barwick at jbar01@saintmarys.edu 




O’Brien builds foundation on research 

By JOHN CAMERON 
News Editor 
For 2012 valedictorian Michael O’Brien, the sense of community and core val­ues during his class’s time at the University will be the foundation of a positive outlook of the “real world” he and his peers soon face. 
“I think [in my ad­dress] I’m maybe a bit more real­istic about what’s next for us, about the realities of the world out­side of Notre Dame, which, as we’ve seen, is pretty filled with divisiveness,” he said. 
O’Brien, a political sci­ence major from St. Charles, Ill., is attuned to the social and political state of the world, as he has been work­ing hard on research on interna­

“[Notre Dame offers] good opportunities to balance your life,” he said. “Foot­ball on Saturdays, research projects, different courses, even finding things to do in South Bend.” 
O’Brien said he found re­cluse from the rigors of his academics in extracurricu­lar activities and leader­ship roles around campus, including serving as presi­dent of College Democrats. 
“[College Democrats is] something I got involved with early by working with the Obama campaign fresh­man year,” he said. “The other thing I really enjoyed was being vice president of service for Circle K. It was really gratifying ... and we had a great variety of stu­dents that worked togeth­er.” 
O’Brien, who recently earned a full-tuition Ru­benstein Scholarship to the University of Chicago Law School, said he attributes his academic achievements to his pursuit of his in­terests, not just what was 
practical  or  
easy.  
“It’s  just  

tional lations to be lished re­set pub­ this  “[Notre Dame offers] good opportunities to balance your life.”  about being really pas­sionate about what I do,”  
summer. “ T h  i  s  Michael O’Brien  he said. “I don’t think I  
summer  I’ll  valedictorian  would  have  
be  working  been  success- 
with [politi­ ful if I came in  
cal  science  and did busi­ 

professor] Sebastian Ro-ness or chemistry because sato on an article that will I don’t feel the same draw be published by the Nobel to those things. My work ex-Institute, which is pretty cited me, and that’s an im­cool,” O’Brien said. “Then portant part of doing well.” we’ll try to publish it in a For underclassmen and 
U.S. journal of internation-members of the incoming 
al relations.” freshman class, O’Brien O’Brien said he consid-suggests a similar approach 
ers this and other re­search op­portunities 
“Look for new things in 
he has taken 
your  interdisciplinary 
adva nt age 
requirements, sciences, 
of at Notre 
Dame to be philosophy and theology the most re-to see what catches warding part your interest.” of his Uni­versity expe-
Michael O’Brien 
rience. 
valedictorian 
“In terms of academ­ics, [my most valuable ex-to academics and college in general. 
“I’d say they should take serious­ly the many different op­portunities Notre Dame gives you and to try your hand at all of them,” he said, “Look for new things in 
perience] was writing a se­nior thesis,” he said. “It was a long, extended project that forces you to pick up skills in research and argu­mentation on your own.” 
Between his dedication to his research projects and maintaining a 4.0 grade point average, O’Brien said finding balance was a pri­ority throughout his colle­giate career. 
your interdisciplinary re­quirements, sciences, phi­losophy and theology to see what catches your interest. Also, take advantage of the different research and ser­vice opportunities Notre Dame has ... just to seek balance in your life. And have fun.” 

Contact John Cameron at jcamero2@nd.edu 



page 10 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u NEWS Friday, May 18, 2012 




Graduating seniors set to enter into service work 
By NICOLE TOCZAUER 
News Writer 
While many graduates pre­pare to enter the traditional work force, roughly 10 percent of the class of 2012 are set to pursue service work after graduation. Graduating senior Annie Boyle is one such student looking to make the leap into something different. 
Boyle said her experiences at Notre Dame helped her decide to volunteer after graduation. 
“I have committed to a year with the Jesuit Volunteer Corps (JVC) in the Northwest. I’ll be working at a Catholic Charities organization in Spokane, Wash.,” she said. “My Summer Service Learning Program (SSLP) had perhaps the greatest influence on my decision to commit to post-grad service.” 
Boyle’s SSLP took her to a camp for children and teens with physi­cal disabilities for eight weeks. She said the atmosphere at Notre Dame and the opportunity to in­teract with service-oriented indi­viduals was also influential. 
“The kids that I met during my SSLP exhibited more positive en­ergy than most individuals that I know. Each had a great capacity for finding joy in life’s everyday activities, despite the physical challenges that these activities often posed,” Boyle said. “They became my own little role models for living in gratitude.” 
Boyle said she looks forward to the sense of community in the JVC. 
“I’m looking forward to meet­ing and learning from people with different life experiences than my own,” she said. “I’ll be living with five to six other volun­teers.” 
Boyle said her work with the JVC will help her prepare for oth­er challenges and positions in life as she continues to be engaged with social issues. 
“I think that a year, or more, of full-time service allows grads not only to deepen their aware­ness of social issues and work to­ward positive change, but also to achieve a better understanding of their personal strengths and val­ues,” she said. 
Erica Michelle Severson, a 2011 graduate who works as a patient navigator for breast can­cer patients with the Redeemer Ministry Corps, said her choice to enter volunteer service gave her time to discern a future career in medicine, dentistry or other al­lied health fields. 
“Professional school is a very large commitment, so before I put a large amount of time and mon­ey into it, I wanted to be sure of the profession I chose,” she said. “Doing service is also a fabulous way to learn more about yourself in an environment you normally wouldn’t be exposed to.” 
Severson said the mission of Redeemer Ministry Corps is to “Care, Comfort and Heal.” Volun­teers serve in ministries through­out the Holy Redeemer Health System and the local community, she said. 
Spending the summer after her sophomore year in an Summer Service Learning Project (SSLP) at Matthew 25, a free medical and dental clinic in Indiana, helped her with the decision, she said.
 “I felt honored to help serve so many patients and provide them with comfort during their suffer­ing,” she said. “The experience allowed me to witness the trials of those who are uninsured and develop a greater understanding of poverty.” 
Severson said she plans to return to school for a masters program before pursuing dental school.
 “After my experience working in a health system, I want to coor­dinate positive changes in health­care,” she said. “I would love to found a non-profit organization or work for one in the future.” 
She said graduates entering volunteer service should be pa­tient and flexible, especially as their job tasks change through­out the year. 
“Every action you perform might not be the most valuable or significant contribution, but it is necessary to perform to the work you’re doing,” Severson said. “Re­member this year is a learning experience.”
 Many seniors who are par­ticipating in service work after graduation discerned their path of volunteerism with the help of the Center for Social Concerns (CSC). 


Michael Hebbeler, director of Student Leadership and Senior Transitions at the CSC, said the Senior Transitions Program is designed to assist students who hope to integrate social concerns into their postgraduate careers. 
“The CSC is committed to helping students discern their vocation, whether it’s through seminar immersions, summer service-learning programs, theo­logical reflection, the study of Catholic Social Teaching or local volunteer service,” he said. 
Hebbeler said a special com­mencement ceremony will be held in honor of students entering volunteer service on May 19 in the Leighton Concert Hall of the DeBartolo Performing Arts Cen­ter. Speakers will include Univer­sity President Fr. John Jenkins, Bill Lies, CSC executive director and Katie Bergin, a 1994 gradu­ate who volunteered with the Holy Cross in Chile. 
Hebbeler said students enter­ing post-graduate service work should be open to where the ex­perience may take them. 
“Recognize that the great­est challenges and sorrows just might lead to the greatest growth, to celebrate the joys, and to trust,” he said. 
 Contact Nicole Toczauer at ntoczaue@nd.edu 



University to award 11 honorary degrees at Commencement 
By KRISTEN DURBIN gree in 1991 and immediately written extensively on the liturgy vice to the University includes a at Portland, Tyson led a major ex-News Editor joined CRS. and on Church issues, including tenure as president of the Notre pansion of its campus, endowed 
The University will also award pastoral statements on the death Dame Alumni Association and a teaching chairs and funding, in-
Notre Dame will award 10 hon-mathematician Luis Caffarelli penalty, euthanasia and physi-member of the College of Engi-cluding a tripling of the univer­orary degrees at this year’s com-an honorary doctor of science cian-assisted suicide. neering Advisory Council. He is sity’s endowment. mencement ceremony, in addition degree. A leader in the field of Notre Dame will award alum-also the benefactor of O’Neill Hall James Wagner, president of to the honorary degree given to partial differential equations and nus Kevin Hasson an honorary and was elected to the Board of Emory University, will be hon-commencement speaker Haley their applications, he has taught doctor of laws degree. A lead-Trustees in 2001. ored with a doctor of engineer-Scott DeMaria. at the universities of Minnesota, ing legal advocate of religious Fr. David Tyson will receive ing degree.  An award-winning 
DeMaria, a former Irish swim-Chicago, and Texas and New York freedom, Hasson is founder and an honorary doctor of laws de-teacher, prolific author and ad-mer who made a remarkable re-University and Princeton Uni-president of the Becket Fund for gree. A member of the Board of vocate of liberal education, Wag­covery from injuries sustained versity. He currently serves as a Religious Liberty, a nonpartisan Trustees and former president of ner has taught engineering at in a team bus accident, will re-professor of mathematics at the public-interest law firm that rep-the University of Portland, Tyson his alma mater, Johns Hopkins ceive an honorary doctor of laws University of Texas at Austin. His resents people of all faiths, from currently serves as the provin-University, and Case Western degree. Other recipients will be work has made significant scien-Anglicans to Zoroastrians. As a cial superior of the United States Reserve University, where he honored with degrees in science, tific contributions in the areas of Notre Dame undergraduate, Has-Province of the Congregation of served as a dean, provost and law and engineering. homogenization, nonlinear ellip-son majored in economics and the Holy Cross, a position he has interim president for five years. 
Dick Ebersol, a longtime tele-tic equations and free boundary theology, and he received both a held since 2003. A Notre Dame He became Emory’s president in vision producer for NBC, will re-problems. Caffarelli received the master’s degree in theology and alumnus, Tyson has served in 2003 and continues to engage in ceive an honorary doctor of laws American Mathematical Society’s a law degree from the Univer-several roles at the University, scholarship on the relationship degree. His career credits range Leroy P. Steele Prize for Lifetime sity. He served in the Justice De-including admissions counselor, between ethics, science and the from “Saturday Night Live” to Achievement in 2009. partment and advised the White assistant rector, business pro-role of the university. the Olympics, including eight of Former Dean of the Mendoza House on church-state relations fessor, executive assistant to the the top 10 most-watched televi-College of Business Carolyn Woo and constitutional issues under president and vice president for Contact Kristen Durbin at sion events in U.S. history. Eb-will receive an honorary doctor of then-Deputy Assistant Attorney student affairs. During his tenure kdurbin@nd.edu ersol was also instrumental in laws degree. After leaving her po-General Samuel Alito. He is the acquiring the rights to televise sition as dean in 2011, Woo is now author of several works on reli-Notre Dame home football games president and CEO of Catholic Re-gious liberty, including a book on NBC. He temporarily dropped lief Services. In 1981, she joined titled “The Right to be Wrong: out of Yale in 1967 to become the faculty at her alma mater, Ending the Culture War over Re­television’s first-ever Olympics Purdue University, where she lat-ligion in America.” researcher, and he has worked to er served as director of the Kran-Muhtar Kent, chairman and make NBC the home of the Games nert School of Management and CEO of The Coca-Cola Company, since 1992. For 22 years, Ebersol associate executive vice president will receive an honorary doctor also led the network’s coverage of for academic affairs. She began of laws degree. Born in New York professional baseball, basketball her tenure as Mendoza’s dean in and educated in Turkey and Lon-and football, including several 1997 and became a leader in in-don, Kent began his tenure at Co-Super Bowls. tegrating Catholic faith and busi-ca-Cola in 1978 as a truck driver. 
Jude Banatte, head of pro-ness excellence, a relationship He rose through the company’s gramming for Catholic Relief Ser-solidified by Mendoza’s focus on management ranks in Central vices (CRS) in Haiti, will receive ethics and its top ranking among Asia and Europe until 1999, when an honorary doctor of science de-undergraduate business schools he became president and CEO of gree. Banatte gained internation-for the past three years. the Istanbul-based Efes Beverage al recognition for his leadership Archbishop Wilton Gregory will Group. He rejoined Coca-Cola af­in the response to Haiti’s 2010 be honored with a doctor of laws ter six years with Efes and was earthquake. In the aftermath of degree. The leader of the Archdi-named CEO in July 2008. the quake, Banatte visited hospi-ocese of Atlanta, Gregory served Notre Dame alumnus Joseph tals, assessed medical needs and as president of the U.S. Confer-O’Neill will be honored with a helped search for survivors and ence of Catholic Bishops during doctor of laws degree. A member medical supplies. He has also led his tenure as bishop of Belleville, of the Board of Trustees, O’Neill CRS initiatives to provide tem-Ill., in 2001, making him the first is the managing partner of porary shelter for quake victims African-American ever to head O’Neill Properties, a Texas oil and and traveled as an advocate for an episcopal conference. Pope gas production company founded the country’s needs. A Haitian John Paul II appointed him arch-by his father, also a Notre Dame native, he earned a medical de-bishop of Atlanta in 2004. He has alumnus and Trustee. His ser­


Friday, May 18, 2012 The Observer u NEWS ndsmcobserver.com | page 11 

SMC class gift breaks record 


By CAILIN CROWE 
News Writer 
The Saint Mary’s Class Gift Campaign broke records this year by raising $14,311.68, the largest student gift in the Col­lege’s history, campaign advi­sor Amy Dardinger said. 
This year, 207 seniors, 
51.1 percent of the Class of 2012, contributed to the gift, Dardinger said, and students can continue donating until May 31. 
Senior Jessica Gagnon, co-chair of the Senior Class Gift Committee, said donating to the Class Gift Campaign pro­vides Saint Mary’s students with an opportunity to show their support and gratitude to the College. 
“It shows your dedication to Saint Mary’s, and is a way to thank your school for four great years,” she said. “Making a donation to the 2012 class gift is a great way to give back and allow future Belles to have the same opportunities as you.” 
Earlier in the year, the Class of 2012 voted to have their class gift contribute to either a scholarship fund or a donation to the Angela Athletic Facility, Dardinger said. 
“A scholarship would be great, because a lot of our students are scholarship re­cipients, and this would give students the opportunity to give back and help current stu­dents,” she said. “[Donating to] Angela would also be fantastic, because the building is in need of renovations and every little bit helps.” 
Tribute gifts comprise a sig­nificant portion of the Class Gift Campaign, Dardinger said. These contributions allow stu­dents to donate money to their class gift in honor of someone who has played an important role in their Saint Mary’s ca­reer. 
“Tribute gifts were a great motivating tool this year, be­cause people wanted to honor those who meant a lot to their Saint Mary’s experience,” Dardinger said. “This year, 33 students chose to make a trib­ute in honor, memory or thanks for the support of someone spe­cial.” 
Gagnon said promoting do­nations of class-themed gifts of $20.12 each helped break the class gift fundraising record. 
“The Class of 2012 has done an extraordinary job of fun­draising, and they’ve really rallied over the last couple of months to make a significant gift to the College,” Gagnon said. “Getting more girls to do­nate $20.12 was a big improve­ment compared to years past, when students would only do­nate a couple dollars or spare change.” 
Parent support has also con­tributed to the senior class’s fundraising efforts, Dardinger said. 
“We also ask parents to hon­or their daughters by making a gift to the Class of 2012, and we had a fantastic response this year,” she said. 
The 2012 class gift will leave a strong legacy at the College, Dardinger said. 
“Class Gift Campaign is im­portant because it helps set up the future of the College,” she said. “This current senior class will represent 2.5 percent of all alumnae when they gradu­ate, so they have a lot of pow­er to influence what happens to Saint Mary’s in the future. Their class gift is the first gift current seniors are going to give to the College and one that they will remember forever.” 
Contact Cailin Crowe at ccrowe01@saintmarys.edu 




University awards 2012 Laetare Medal 
By KRISTEN DURBIN 
News Editor 
Ken Hackett, former president of Catholic Relief Services (CRS), will receive the 2012 Laetare Medal during the 2012 Commencement Ceremony. 
The Medal, established at Notre Dame in 1883, is the oldest and most prestigious honor given to American Catholics. It is awarded annually to a Catholic “whose ge­nius has ennobled the arts and sci­ences, illustrated the ideals of the Church and enriched the heritage of humanity,” according to a Uni­versity press release. 
University President Fr. John Jen­kins praised Hackett’s compassion and strong commitment to world­wide outreach throughout his ten­ure at CRS. 
“Ken Hackett has responded to a Gospel imperative with his entire career,” Jenkins said in the press release. “His direction of the Catho­lic Church’s outreach to the hungry, thirsty, naked, sick and unsheltered of the world has blended adminis­trative acumen with genuine com­passion in a unique and exemplary way.” 
After serving CRS in various capacities since 1972, including a stint as its regional director for Af­rica and in several posts throughout Africa and Asia, Hackett was ap­pointed president of CRS in 1993, according to the press release. He held the position for 18 years until his retirement in December. Hack­ett was succeeded by Carolyn Woo, former dean of the Mendoza College of Business. 
Hackett, a native of West Rox­bury, Mass., became interested in international service when he en­rolled in the Peace Corps following his graduation from Boston College in 1968 because he said “it seemed like an interesting thing to do.” 
Hackett’s experiences living in a Catholic mission and working in an agricultural cooperative project in rural Ghana demonstrated the “ac­tual impact of American food aid on the health and well-being of very poor kids in a very isolated part of a West African country,” he said in the press release. 
After completing his Peace Corps assignment, he continued his com­mitment to service by beginning his CRS career in Sierra Leone, where he administered both a maternal and child health program and a na­tionwide leprosy control program. 
While serving as CRS regional di­rector for Africa, Hackett addressed the agency’s response to the Ethio­pian famine of 1984-85 and super­vised CRS operations in East Africa during the Somalian crisis of the 1990s, according to the press re­lease. 
During his tenure as the agency’s sixth president, Hackett oversaw the redoubling of CRS efforts to en­gage the American Catholic com­munity in worldwide service work by reaching out to Catholic organi­zations, dioceses, parishes, and col­leges and universities throughout the country. CRS also incorporated lay people into its board of directors under Hackett’s supervision. 
The organization, one of the world’s most effective and efficient in global relief and development, now operates in more than 100 countries with a staff of nearly 5,000, accord­ing to the press release. 
In addition to his service as CRS president, Hackett also served as the North America president of Car­itas Internationalis, the coalition of humanitarian agencies of the Cath­olic Church. He continues to serve as an adviser to the U.S. Conference of Catholic Bishops and as a board member of the Vatican Pontifical Commission Cor Unum. 
Hackett was awarded an honor­ary degree from Notre Dame in 2007. He also holds honorary de­grees from Boston College, Cabrini College, University of Great Falls, College of Notre Dame of Maryland, Mount St. Mary’s University, New York Medical College, Siena College, University of San Diego, Santa Clara University, Villanova University and Walsh University. 
The Laetare Medal is named in celebration of Laetare Sunday, the fourth Sunday in Lent and the day Notre Dame announces its recipient each year. 
The 2011 Medal was jointly awarded to Sr. Joan McConnon and Sr. Mary Scullion, founders of Project H.O.M.E. Previous recipients include President John F. Kennedy, Catholic Worker founder Dorothy Day, Cardinal Joseph Bernardin and jazz composer Dave Brubeck. 
Contact Kristen Durbin at         kdurbin@nd.edu 



Graduating seniors look to explore call to religious vocations 
By TORI ROECK 
News Writer 
After a long discernment pro­cess, several graduating seniors will explore the call to religious vocations after their time at Notre Dame. 
Fr. Jim Gallagher, director of the Office of Vocations, said some students will enter the Congrega­tion of Holy Cross, while others will join diocesan seminaries in their hometowns or different reli­gious communities. 
“The call isn’t ever going to be a solid sense of ‘Yes, this what I’m going to do for the rest of my life,’” Gallagher said. “It’s more a sense of, ‘I think there’s some­thing there, and I want to go and give at least a year or so to figur­ing it out.’” 
Senior Chris Brennan said he has been discerning whether God is calling him to the priesthood since high school, prompting him to join Old College his freshman year. 
Brennan said his time in Old College cemented his desire to be­come a Holy Cross priest. 
“It’s the community, the com­munity support and the familial bonds that you make,” he said. “My best friends are in Holy Cross, and we’re as close as brothers.” 
Living in Old College while still being a normal Notre Dame stu­dent helped in the discernment process, Brennan said. 
“Being able to have the struc­tured prayer life in college while still taking classes with other stu­dents was a great balance,” he said. 
Brennan, who lived in Moreau Seminary his senior year, said he will travel to Colorado Springs, Colo., for his novitiate year in the fall. 
“I’m looking forward to growing in my spiritual life but also grow­ing in self-knowledge and humil­ity,” he said. “To have that time to be on a mountain and hike and be in the beauty of nature is a very unique opportunity. It’s a gift.” 
Although Brennan said he is ex­cited to pursue religious life, he is nervous about being asked to give spiritual advice. 
“It’s scary … [to face] your own unworthiness,” he said. “You’re going to be telling people to do something that you yourself struggle with, and constantly be­ing aware of your own sinfulness while still having to try to help others through that, even though you may know that they’re holier and better people than you are yourself.” 
Despite his anxieties, Brennan said he is confident in pursuing a religious vocation. 
“I look forward to being happy, being hopefully a joyful priest that inspires other people to love Christ,” he said. 
Senior Laura Thelen said she is returning to her hometown of Ann Arbor, Mich., to enter a semi-cloistered Dominican convent. 
As a biochemistry major, Thel­en said she wrestled with the de­cision to go to medical school or become a nun. 
“I did the whole MCAT thing and almost applied to medical school,” Thelen said. “I decided I just didn’t feel confident enough about that … Deep inside, I don’t know how to explain it, but I really feel like God wanted me to explore [religious life]. Not that I think I’ll be there forever, but that this is where I think He wants me to be for next year.” 
Thelen said the Dominican community she is joining is young and active, and most of the nuns teach high school. 
“My community is really young and really fun and really crazy,” she said. “They play sports all the time … and they were on ‘Oprah.’” 
Joining the convent will be a formative experience, Thelen said. 
“I’m really excited to get deeper into prayer,” she said. “I really want to do what I feel called to. 
… There’s something that keeps pulling my heart onward.” 
Thelen said she is most nervous to be separated from her family and friends. 
“It’s scary to lose family and friends. I’ll still see them, of course, but a lot less,” she said. “It’s scary being separated from the real world.” 
Gallagher said he advises those seniors entering religious life not to expect to discern their calling quickly. 
“My advice is not to get too wrapped up in figuring out too quickly if this is what they’re sup­posed to be doing,” Gallagher said, “Enter into the year and let the rhythm of religious life help them develop their sense of self, their relationship with the Lord, and through that they’ll gain a better sense of whether this is something that they’re called to do.” 
Contact Tori Roeck at                troeck@nd.edu 



2008 


In an unusual move by the network, the pilot episode of the series was aired on its own, with the rest of the series to follow in September. The cov­er of “Don’t Stop Believing” featured in the episode became a hit and sold over 150,000 copies in the first week and when the rest of the series fol­lowed it came with week after week of delicious pop covers and dream guest spots. 
By KEVIN NOONAN and COURTNEY COX 
Scene Editor and Associate Scene Editor 
Freshman move-in and orientation for the class of 2012 began on August 22, 2008. It was a different world back then. 
Lady Gaga’s debut album, “The Fame,” hit the stores just three days earlier, to disappointing early sales. George W. Bush sat in the oval office. Britney Spears was too crazy to be good anymore, and Charlie Sheen was just a wacky former 80s star on a television show that nobody really liked. 
Robert Pattinson was the kid who died in the fourth Harry Potter movie, and people hated vampire movies only because of the “Underworld” series. Larry King and Oprah both had television shows, and the Kar­dashians only had one. 
Nobody had ever heard of Justin Bieber, Katy Perry, Ke$ha, Nicki Minaj, an iPad, In­stagram, Pinterest or “Angry Birds.” 
A lot can change in the span of four short years, and the last four did not disappoint. 
Taylor Swift was in the middle of ac­cepting the MTV Video Music Award for Best Female Video when Kanye West pulled a classic Kanye West. He climbed on stage, grabbed the mi­crophone from Swift and uttered the now immortal words. His rant ran out of steam fast and ended awkwardly, showing once again he’s not that great in live performances. 
BRANDON KEELAN | Observer Graphic 


Friday, May 18, 2012 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 13 


and Courtney Cox at 

Have fun in the real world. 
knoonan2@nd.edu and ccox3@nd.edu 


INSIDE COLUMN 
Diploma? Don’t need it 
For the last 12 years, whenever I walked down the stairs at home, I passed a Notre Dame diploma. In 2003, that one increased to two, and eventually a third was added. 
I always had trouble believing I would complete the set of four. I’m still not en­tirely convinced. 
But even if I have failed at that task, today is here nonethe­less, and as is said, how quickly does today turn into yester­day. Once today is yesterday, we will no longer be part of the elite group known as Notre Dame undergradu­ates. Instead, we will be part of the much larger population of Notre Dame alumni. 
Supposedly, Notre Dame alums are an illustrious bunch. For years, we have heard about the networking, the clubs and the Alumni Association itself. By Sunday after­noon, we will be a part of it all. 
In that respect, as we scatter around the country and the globe, we will still have common ties. But do we not have those anyways? To draw an extreme example, if I don’t receive a diploma this weekend, would that truly separate me from my 2,000 class­mates? Sure, I wouldn’t be in the football ticket lottery and my class ring would be even more obnoxious than it was originally, but are these the things we came to Notre Dame for? We came for a thorough, well-rounded education. The University-required classes assured the well-rounded factor, and each of our majors was plenty thorough. 
We came for good times. Finny’s, Kildare’s and Brothers treated us well. As did the Bahamas, the Dominican Republic and Costa Rica. Let’s forget not about the lovely weather, the dining hall holidays and, sincerely, the marshmallow fight. We came for faith. Dorm masses have laid a founda­tion. Campus-wide masses have brought us together, both in celebration and in sorrow. The Grotto has welcomed us at all hours. Our faith has developed, even when we did not realize it. 
We came for football. Well, this is awk­ward. Maybe we didn’t win as many games as we wanted, but we did have sprinklers and snowballs, a rain delay and a night game. We came for friends. And we leave better in that regard than we could have ever imagined. We’ve found best men and maids of honor. We’ve found roommates who may as well be brothers or sisters. We’ve found classmates and co-workers who hold those titles in name only — they are so much more. 
So, with apologies to the Alumni Asso­ciation and all the good it does, joining my brothers as alums does not thrill me much. Rather, I’ll remember my undergraduate days. I did not come to Notre Dame for a di­ploma. I came to Notre Dame for knowledge and know-how, faith and football and, most importantly, life-long friends. 
And I got them. Thank you to my 2,000 classmates, not to mention predecessors, professors and Observer staffers, for helping me along the way. Oh, and don’t worry Mom. I am getting a diploma tomorrow, and yes, you can hang it with the others. 
Douglas Farmer is graduating with a degree from the Program of Liberal Studies and a minor in Journalism, Ethics and Democracy. He’ll now intern with the Pittsburgh Post-Gazette, and if anyone has ideas for him after that, send them to dfarmer1@nd.edu. That account should be active for a little longer, right? 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


Moments of Notre Dame 
My Notre Dame experience, not unlike life itself, can be summed up by a series of individual moments. 
The first moment comes on a Saturday afternoon in December. Around noon. I know the time be­cause I had already been waiting for hours. 
When the mail clanked through the slot, I bolted to the door, grabbed the pile and clambered up the stairs. In utter disbelief, I read my Notre Dame acceptance packet: “Welcome home.” 
It was the first and only time in my life that I have cried of happiness. 
I can still remember this moment per­fectly. The moment my childhood obsession became a reality, the moment I started to fall in love with Notre Dame. 
Eight months later, I arrived on campus wearing the rose-colored glasses that characterize the honeymoon phase of any new relationship. I pinched myself when walking past the Dome on the way to class. The Notre Dame monogrammed waffles in the dining hall were the best thing I’d ever tasted and certainly were not going to make me gain the Freshman 15. And by my first football game in the student section … forget about it, I was officially in love. 
I coasted through the rest of fresh­man year and made it through my first 


Clichés we love 
Going into college four years ago, people tried to prepare me with a series of clichés. “These will be the best four years of life. The people you meet will change your life. Football Saturday is like nothing you’ve ever seen before. You will remember that late-night walk you took with your best friend more than that test you didn’t study for enough. You will grow up and find yourself. These four years will fly by.” 
As it turns out, most of these clichés are correct. And while we never want our life to be a cliché, college might just be meant to be that way. Clichés are based on a fre­quency of expression, after all. 
Like that last one — these four years will fly by. Notre Dame has only been four out of 22 years of my life. But I feel like I’ve been here forever. 
Frosh-O seems a lifetime ago, but I still reminisce with my Dome Dance date about walking to the JACC together. And I will always remember meeting my best friends at the Keenan freshman dance. 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“The very essence of leadership is that you have to have vision. You can’t blow an uncertain trumpet.” 
Rev. Theodore Hesburgh, C.S.C. Notre Dame President Emeritus 

“long-distance” summer. But I soon found the honeymoon phase fading until there were moments I felt disillusioned with my beloved Notre Dame. 
I discovered a Notre Dame that main­tained appearances to the outside world while ignoring the needs of its family. I discovered a Notre Dame that was a slave to Catholic doctrine instead of thinking for itself and leading by example. I discovered a Notre Dame that had inconsistent policies with inconsistent consequences. 
Did these bureaucratic failings define the university I had fallen in love with? 
Ultimately, I only needed one moment to answer that question. I found it when I was covering the memorial Mass for our class­mate, Declan Sullivan, for The Observer. 
Shortly after Communion, I slipped out the side door to find at least a thousand students — most of whom had never met Declan — huddled together on that chilly, autumn night. 
In that moment, the sea of flickering candles seemed to go on forever. In that moment, strangers became family. In that moment, I swear I could feel Declan smil­ing. 
Words fail to do it justice. It was the single most moving moment of my life. And it was also the moment I realized that it is the people — not the Catholic Church, the administration or even the University president — that truly define Notre Dame. 
Since then, there have been many smaller moments that have allowed me to fall deeper in love with Notre Dame, flaws and all. 
The nights when the Grotto absorbed my anxiety and grief, and gave me its 
My time at Notre Dame has been a blur, but I feel like I’ve never known anything else. I struggled to master the words to every football cheer and now I can do them in my sleep — and have, I’m sure. 
These four years under the Dome will amount to only a small percentage of my life, but Notre Dame will always be my home. I will remember the challenges and the triumphs, football wins and football losses, mozzarella sticks in the dining hall and steak sandwiches at Pole 13, late nights studying in the library and late nights working away at The Observer, finding a whole new world as a freshman on campus and finding a whole new world studying abroad in London, Muddy Sunday, first Feve, never winning at trivia, Thursday Jersday and Kamen 11. 
And it’s all been because of you, Notre Dame. Thank you to my friends who’ve made even a night at Sbarro fun, to my classmates and professors who have given me the best education in the world, to my Observer family and my London family, to tailgate friends, Finny’s friends, football friends, Pangborn friends, Cavanaugh friends, DPAC friends, library friends and to every friend who has made these four years so great. To my family. 
This weekend really is that time of lasts we’ve been fearing, but as I look towards it, serenity in exchange. When I was in a bad mood and someone held the door open for me going into LaFun. Late nights in The Observer office when we were all delirious, but Deb’s candy made it okay. The sup­port of my rector when I lost faith in the administration. The magic of singing the alma mater. 

Most of all, I have loved the countless moments I’ve spent with my friends here. Those moments spent laughing, dancing, “hoping,” making up nicknames for people we don’t know, seeing how loudly we can talk before Christina hears, eating, eating and more eating. The precious moments that helped a motley crew come together to make the perfect family. 
Come Sunday, I’ll add one last moment to the list — the moment I receive my Notre Dame diploma. And in that moment, I expect I’ll have only one thought: 
Faithfully and unequivocally, love thee Notre Dame. 
Sarah Mervosh is graduating with a degree in Arabic, Psychology and Journalism, Ethics and Democracy. She would like to thank her parents for giving her the gift of a college education, Jeff for taking her to her first Notre Dame game and her grandparents for regularly send­ing cards with cute animals on them. She would also like to thank her business major friends in advance for remembering her when she is a poor journalist and needs beer money. Sarah can be reached at sarahmervosh@gmail.com 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
I am just as excited as I am sad. I may be blubbering like a small child come gradu­ation Sunday, but I feel ready for the next step in life, and that is the greatest gift Notre Dame could have ever given me. 
Life may never feel this safe and, well, not easy, but simple and easy to navigate again. But these four years, inside and outside the classroom, have been the best preparation in the world. 
I graduate Sunday with my peers, who I know will change the world in profound ways, because they are a miraculous group of people. We may always wish we could re­live our college years, but we are all ready for even more. To you, the class of 2012. It’s been real. And hey, after graduation, why don’t you call me maybe. 
Maija Gustin is graduating with a degree in English and Film, Television and The­atre. She would like to thank her family for love, support and at least attempting to understand her crazy career choices. She dedicates her degree to the memory of Rebecca Ruehrdanz-Gustin, whose spirit has led her in her every success and which she will always carry with her. Maija can be reached at mgustin@alumni.nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“Win or lose, do it fairly.” 
Knute Rockne American football coach 


Friday, May 18, 2012 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 15 
Now it’s time to turn 
“To everything, turn, turn, turn, There is a season, turn, turn, turn, And a time for every purpose, under Heaven.” 
The Byrds’ song, inspired by Ecclesi­astes, captures the many dimensions and emotions of our ever-changing lives. The moment that gi­ant, regal envelope came in the mail with our names stenciled in gold — or a phone call from the admis­sions office said we got off the waitlist, as in my case — our lives set on a new course. 
From spring to summer, summer to fall, our realities shifted in 2008. We fell from the top of the high school food chain to the bottom of the Domer pecking order. Our egos, surrounded by the best of the best, got a much-needed reality-check. 
Four years later, we emerge more confident in our abilities, wiser than we thought we would be and still wildly inexperienced in the realities of the world. A mix of excitement and anxiety flutter in our stomachs as graduation edges ever closer. 
Our season as Notre Dame students is coming to a close, and of course it’s sad. Of course we’re going to miss the people we lived with, studied with, par­tied with and crushed on from afar. 

Those moments we embarrassed our­selves and the ones in which we exceed­ed our own expectations have equally shaped our character and ambitions. 
We couldn’t see it while we were in it, but looking back it’s obvious there was a plan all along. The “Turn! Turn! Turn!” lyrics provide a perfect frame to recount those moments that brought us to these final days as Domer under­grads. 
A time to laugh: If Facebook serves one purpose, it’s to ensure we ruin our chances of employment by providing an Internet record of our hilarious under­graduate moments. Themed parties, spring breaks, dorm dances and nu­merous nights on the town set the stage for some of the most random entertain­ment we’ve provided and witnessed. 
A time to weep: Notre Dame football. But next year will definitely be better! 
A time to build up: I’ve never met a more service-oriented group of indi­viduals than those at Notre Dame. From tutoring to building homes to shaving our heads in solidarity with cancer vic­tims, our class went above and beyond in the realm of helping others. By build­ing up other communities, we strength­ened the bonds of our own. 
A time to break down: Too. Much. Work. We all had those moments when a precarious dash up Main Build­ing’s steps no longer scared us, as we became more and more certain we couldn’t conquer not only Hesburgh’s, but Notre Dame’s challenges. Despite our doubts, we did. And here we are. Don’t forget just how successful you can be. 

A time to dance: From Frosh-O to dirty dorm rooms to the Finny’s stage, if one thread pirouettes through our four years at Notre Dame, it’s dancing. Sweet to sassy to sloppy, we’ve tested our moves and certainly left indelible impressions on our peers. Whether or not that’s a good thing, it was undeni­ably fun. 
A time to mourn: Over the past few years, we tragically and unexpectedly lost irreplaceable members of our com­munity. Declan Sullivan, Xavier Murphy and others prematurely passed and left holes we’re still not sure how to fill. We learned lessons about life and death before we wanted to, but now under­stand the preciousness and fragility of the days we’ve been blessed with. 
A time to gain: Memories. As a quote inked on former Editor-in-Chief Doug­las Farmer’s desk says, “We just don’t recognize the greatest moments of our lives as they are happening.” We know the thrills of anticipation and the longing of looking back, but while we’re gaining the moments we’ll fondly recall, we lose ourselves in them. And that’s the beauty of living and the beauty of college. 
A time to lose: The Freshmen 15. Or the Senior 16. We can no longer blame “college” for the sometimes less-than­stellar health choices we make, but we can certainly blame our future careers. Cheers to the working world! 
Life is a question mark right now, a path we can’t see two steps beyond where we stand. It’s half the appeal, half the battle. We know, though, that the fullness of the experiences we claim our own has prepared us to test those uncertain waters. 
We’ll definitely mess up, that’s for sure. But there will also be success and (hopefully) lots of it. May the next season of our lives be as diverse and wonderful as the one that’s ending. 
This was our season. 
Now it’s time to turn, turn, turn. 
And find our purpose under Heaven. 
Adriana Pratt is from Carmel, Ind., but is excited to start her post-grad life as a journalist in New York City. Many thanks in advance to any friends, fam­ily and homeless people who offer her a place to stay on their couch/floor/bench. She feels truly blessed to have met so many fabulous people over the past four years and can’t thank them enough for all the help and guidance they’ll be forced to provide in the future. She can be reached at apratt@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

The ‘break-the-ice’ college experience 
Writing the final words of my career as a student writer should probably be a bit harder than this. Reflecting on four years of friend­ships, accomplishments, failures and laughs should take at least a full day of sitting in my room, before composing an eloquent fare­well worthy of the independent news­paper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s. 
Thankfully, the good people at Hallmark do a better job than I ever could putting together cliché goodbyes. 
So instead of a farewell column to The Observer, I’m opting for a fare­well to columns. 
The first column I ever wrote ap­peared in the Sept. 16, 2009 issue of The Observer. For 474 words, I ripped the Career Fair as a four-hour track race dressed up as a networking event to give employers and students a sense of entitlement. After attend­ing the Career Fair four consecutive years, I can say that’s largely untrue. 


But in my first foray in column  The Observer as a pastime instead of  ments with people who endured the  
writing, I wanted to get my name out  the opportunity to take on a unique  same journey as you did. Sure, I had  
there for something edgy. Like much  responsibility unlike any other of- to let this particular moment soak in  
of my first two years at The Observer,  fered at Notre Dame.  longer than the others, but writing  
I figured sacrificing integrity for  But I wouldn’t have changed the  in a McDonald’s tollway oasis before  
a sensational topic would pay divi­ trajectory of my career path from  uploading pictures on a smart phone  
dends. Needless to say it didn’t work,  layout artist to assistant managing  tethering the Internet while driving  
and I remained a low-level sports  editor in the slightest.  at 2 a.m. is something my colleagues  
writer with a peeve against people  My public humbling and private  and I won’t forget anytime soon.  
finding jobs.  disciplining were essential to my  That, and proofreading a 24-page  
The turning point came exactly one  development at The Observer and  paper at 3 a.m. in the basement of a  
year later when I reached rock bot- Notre Dame. Taking the raw person  cafeteria.  
tom after writing a piece titled “Sec­ who thought he was more talented  And although I’m relegated to re­ 
tion 32.” What started as an attempt  than he really was and turning him  living memories through a farewell  
to call out the student section during  into a writer, student and leader  to columns, which has inevitably  
football games turned into a per- who actually turned out better than  turned into a farewell column, The  
ceived endorsement of violence in the  he thought possible has been The  Observer will be for me what it has  
stands and a personal PR disaster.  Observer’s greatest contribution on  been to privileged editors before and  
After more than a few calls for my  my life.  will be to naïve ones in the future  
resignation and some serious damage  For that, I thank all the editor-in­ — the break-the-ice college experi­ 
control from my editors, I finally put  chiefs, managing editors, assistant  ence you never run out of words to  
my head down and prioritized The  managing editors and sports editors  describe.  
Observer in my life.  who suffered through my growing  
During those first two-and-a-half  pains so that I might at least see the  Chris Masoud will be graduating  
years, I most certainly set the record  potential I could reach.  with a degree in Finance and Econom­ 
for the “Can you please stop by the  That brings me to perhaps my  ics and will begin working at Center- 
office to talk?” unofficial disciplin­ favorite column, the championship  view Partners in July. He will miss  
ary meetings.  column following the 2010 women’s  the smell of freshly-printed newspa- 
I pushed my editors to the brink  soccer team victory over Stanford in  pers in the morning and poking fun  
with my writing, downright disre­ the NCAA College Cup. In addition  at Dodgers fans. He can be reached at  
spected them in conversation and re- to providing my profile picture for  cmasoud@nd.edu  
ally showed no desire to improve. As  the next 17 months, the experience  The views expressed in this column  
a business major without an inkling  was everything I now miss in my  are those of the author and not  
for a career in journalism, I mistook  post-Observer life — sharing mo- necessarily those of The Observer.  

consideration of what he has to say about his belief or 
FR. THEODORE HESBURGH 

unbelief, his certainty or uncertainty; where differences 
“ Notre Dame can and must be a crossroads where all the of culture and religion and conviction can co-exist with vital intellectual currents of our time meet in dialogue, friendship, civility, hospitality, respect and love; a place where the great issues of the Church and the world today where the endless conversation is harbored and not are plumbed to their depths, where every sincere inquirer foreclosed.” is welcomed and listened to and respected by a serious  —From “The Endless Conversation” video, 1975 

You can always come back home 
Well, folks, there’s nothing like a final column to remind you that graduation is quickly approaching. 
This is my last time to write as a student of Saint Mary’s. 
So, I want to dedicate this final column to the Belles of Saint Mary’s Class of 2012. 
Before I dive into the sen­timental stuff, I must say thank you to all the Belles who made my job as Saint Mary’s Editor fantastic. 
Due to your amazing ac­complishments and your drive to make Saint Mary’s an even better community, you became the newswor­thy events I so frantically searched for every week. I am so grateful that you shared your stories with me. 
Now, if you’re like me, you’ve been crying at every little thing that reminds you of the dreaded “G” word, but I’ve found a song that comforts me every time I’m feeling sad to leave — Jason Mraz’s “93 Million Miles.” Go ahead, play it. 
“Just know, that wherever you go, no you’re never alone, you will always get back home.” 
I remember the first time I called Saint Mary’s home. It was an extremely strange feeling. 
Until that moment, I had never called any­thing home other than the place where my family was. 
Calling a college “home” was ridiculous to me. I’d only be spending four years here. How could one place suddenly transform into “home” in that short amount of time? 
Then, I drove down The Avenue before my senior year, and that all changed. 
The people of Saint Mary’s have encour­aged me to grow these past four years, they have pushed me to succeed in all the ways possible and they have led me to discover the person I want to be. 
Here, I have deepened my relationship with my own family, my friends and with God. Sure sounds like home to me. 
“Sometimes it may seem dark, but the ab-sence of the light is a necessary part.” 

Now, after four years of finding a home here, we’re told we have to leave. Yet, people are strangely excited to see us go. 
They have watched us grow and are now eager to see what we accomplish. Everyone is congratulating us, but the fear of leaving this place we know and the people we love hinders our celebration. 
It’s a new, unknown chapter, but one that shows us just how much Saint Mary’s and the relationships we have formed here mean to us. 
“People get ready, get ready, ‘cause here it comes. It’s a light, a beautiful light, over the horizon into our eyes …” 
But, have confidence knowing that the education you have received here has pre­pared you for anything you may have to face in life. 
It may seem terrifying now, but know that you are strong, amazing women who are ca­pable of doing amazing things and bringing beautiful light to anything you do. 
So, when your name is called, walk across that stage proud — proud of yourself and your accomplishments these past four years, proud of your fellow Belles and proud that you have earned an education that has pre­pared you for this next step. 
Most importantly, be proud and excited that once you receive that diploma, you be­come a member of a family that will always stand behind you and support you. 
“Just know, you’re never alone, you can always come back home.” 
Belles of 2012 … congratulations. You hon­estly and truly rock. 
Caitlin Housley is graduating with a degree in Communications with a concentration in Mass Communication and minors in Public Relations, Advertising and Public Communi­cation. 
She would like to thank her parents for everything they’ve done for her, her Saint Mary’s sisters and Jimmy John’s (of course). She encourages everyone to let a smile be your nametag always. She can be reached at chousl01@saintmarys.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
What have I learned? 
Unless something rather miraculous hap­pens between now and Sunday morning when I walk across the portable stage in Notre Dame Stadium, chances are I will not have a full-time job waiting for me after I graduate. 
If someone had told me that would be the case when I applied to schools as a high school senior, my seventeen-year-old self would have taken that as an indictment of Notre Dame. 
But now, on the eve of graduation from this Uni­versity, I am keenly aware of how much Notre Dame has given me during my four years here. 
No matter what happens next in my life, I am confident that I will suc­ceed because of what I have learned at this place. What have I learned? 
Always big cup it. 
Lose sleep. 
Agreement isn’t always a good thing. 
Quarter dogs are always worth it. 
Hesburgh Library becomes a Ultimate Fighting Championship octagon during finals week. 
Lunch is optional. 
Sports beside football are cool, too. 
The Digital Visualization Theater is the coolest thing ever. 

If you take a foreign language, constantly study vocabulary. 
Your job will never be as cool as Matt Cashore’s. 
The Observer exists solely to publish Ques­tion of the Day. 
Study abroad, but don’t dwell on it when you come back. 
3 a.m. is an acceptable time to start a pa­per. 
Marshmallows are impossible to get out of clothes. 
Work and play should mix — often. 
I may not have full-time employment, but I do have some of the greatest people I’ve ever met by my side. 
I’ve graduated from the University of Notre Dame and getting to this point has been the best journey of my life. Wherever I go next, I will always be a man of Notre Dame and I will never forget the alma mater — I couldn’t wish for anything more than that. 
After graduation, Pat will be moving to Den­ver, Colo. in search of employment. “Go west, young man,” they said. (Right? They said that, right?) He’s pretty handy with a camera, so if you need someone … just sayin’. He can be reached at pcoveney@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 



Friday, May 18, 2012 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 17 
LETTERS FROM PAST ISSUES 

Four Years in Review 
Obama speaking 
I am Roman-Catholic, pro-life and middle-upper-class citizen with strong leanings toward the Republican Party. Oh, and one more thing: I am ecstatic that the President of the United States is coming to speak at my graduation Com­mencement. 
Within hours of the big announcement on Friday, I was receiving infuriating emails from my fellow pro-lifers calling for the immediate repeal of President Obama’s invitation to Notre Dame. “We must stand against evil,” said one message. “He supports gay marriage, which is an affront to the fam­ily,” read another. “He should not be given this opportunity to confuse our youth.” One message went so far as to compare Obama with history’s most hated villain. 
The email read: “The German people supported Hitler because he was dynamic and promised jobs and food. There is more to a man than his charisma.” There is also more to a man than his views on the single issue of abortion. Such rash and radical comments not only fail to promote the end of abortion, they undermine the entire pro-life movement. 
In an emergency press release issued by the Pro-Life Ac­tion League, national director and Notre Dame alumnus Joe Scheidler made the following statements: “Over the first two months of his administration, Barack Obama has established himself as the most pro-abortion president in U.S. history. My alma mater should not be providing a platform for this president. Father Jenkins cannot expect pro-life Catholics to stand back and allow the most pro-abortion president in U.S. history to make a mockery of Notre Dame’s Catholic identity.” 
As a pro-lifer myself, I understand where Scheidler is coming from; I, too, am concerned for the pro-life movement under the Obama administration. I simply cannot agree, however, with the idea that Notre Dame, one of the finest academic institutions in the nation, should deny the Presi­dent of the United States a platform to speak solely because of his views on abortion, nor is his speech supposed to play a pivotal part in the formation of our Catholic identity. 
It is our responsibility, not our Commencement speaker’s, to continue to cultivate our Catholic identity and apply it beyond graduation. The role of a Commencement speaker is to welcome college graduates into the real world, arm them with knowledge of complex and evolving issues and inspire them to be passionate and influential citizens of a global community. I  simply cannot think of anyone more qualified to do these things than the leader of the free world, President Barack Obama. 
Thus, to my fellow pro-lifers: let us battle the president on each and every issue pertinent to life, but let us not under­mine our intelligence and our patriotism by forsaking other important issues in the reckless pursuit of one. The world will not stop turning for the abortion issue to be resolved. We as Catholics are therefore called to be dynamic citizens who take a multi-dimensional approach to making our world a better place. This means listening and learning from influen­tial world leaders such as Barack Obama. 
To disinvite the President of the United States based on a single issues, even one as important as abortion, would be a disgrace both to our Catholic identity and to this great Catho­lic University . 
Mark Weber 
senior off campus March 21, 2009 

The hook-up culture 
Dear six guys I’ve hooked up with this semester, Thank you for the hook-up. It was ... decent. From my experience, it was a typical freshman year hook-up. 
Some of you shamelessly lead me on, while with oth­ers it just sort of happened. Obviously, I wanted it too because I definitely didn’t stop you. In fact I love to kiss boys, my roommates and I refer to it as “my hobby.” 
Yes, the hook-up itself was fine, but afterwards we’ve run into a problem. The problem is the dining hall, at parties, the quad and in class. It’s the way that you look at me, with that awkward stare that makes me want to scream, “Yes we did hookup once and, no, we haven’t talked since then!” Other times we see each other and you quickly dart your eyes to avoid eye contact or suddenly become enthralled in conversa­tion with the nearest object. To be fair, I think I may have gotten a “hey” from one or two of you before (it’s been a while though, so forgive me if my memory isn’t perfect). 
What about my number — did you ask for it just as a matter of course? Is it your way of saying,”Thanks for the hook-up, can I have your number so that I can delay your realization that we are never going to speak again?” Well it worked, I gave every one of you my number and haven’t heard from most of you since. How many of you would actually call me if you needed someone to go grab lunch with? Or if you needed help studying for a class that we both have? How many of you haven’t deleted it, or are just now realizing that I must be that mysterious “Melissa” entry in your contact list? 
Don’t blame me for not calling you. A broken phone can attest to the fact that I’ve lost most of your num­bers. I doubt you would answer even if I could call you. 
I’m a good person and an even better friend. But obvi­ously, since we hooked-up, it would be too much to ask that we ever consider friendship as an option. Ignoring each other, apparently, is the only choice that we have. 
Of course, I don’t render myself blameless. Our hook-up was the most convenient form of instant gratification that we could find. I realize that and I admit to being just as guilty as you are. But next time I smile at you on the quad, or say, “hi” to you in class, can you pretend that you haven’t gone both deaf and blind since that night that we met at that party? 
Although I doubt that you are willing to do that, I am sure of one thing: You six guys are where I draw the line. This weekend, and all weekends until I graduate, I refuse to add to this list. I won’t hook-up with any more random boys. Not because the act itself wasn’t enjoyable, but because this campus isn’t that big and I can’t afford to have any more boys refusing to look me in the eye when I walk down South Quad. At Notre Dame, I am looking to make friends (not boyfriends, fiancees or husbands) and hook-ups obvi­ously lead to anything but friendship. I can find a new hobby, hopefully something that really does make me happy, but I will not hook-up. I’ll see you at the dining hall. 
Sincerely, Melissa. 
P.S. Don’t worry about our kiss under the arch — unless we move to Utah, it’s unlikely that all six of you will find yourselves married to me. 
Melissa Buddie 
freshman Lyons Hall Nov. 13, 2008 

Time to act on GLBTQ issues 
As a recent alumnus and member of the 2006-07 Student Senate, it is disheartening to witness the ac­tions — or, rather, inaction on the part of this admin­istration — taking place on Our Lady’s campus. 
The Student Senate passed a resolution in March, 2007 requesting the University add “sexual orienta­tion” to its non-discrimination clause. While I do not personally identify as GLBTQ, I remember strongly supporting the Social Concerns committee chair dur­ing Senate proceedings. I was shocked such wording did not already exist. And I remember being a part of the 25-1-1 majority that voted to pass the resolution. 
This publication, The Observer, reported at the time that both the Student Senate and Faculty Senate had passed similar language in 1998. Two Holy Cross schools, King’s College in Pennsylvania and Holy Cross College in Indiana, already included the lan­guage at the time. I recall students on campus having civilized and intelligent debate regarding the issue. 
Yet, three years later, we have not progressed. Students, faculty and alumni continue to support measures to be more inclusive with regard to our GLBTQ brothers and sisters, but nothing is done. It is not news that the administration can be selectively deaf regarding student issues, but 12 years of repeti­tive voices and increasing volume must have an effect. 
Notre Dame, it is time to act. Alumni, students and faculty have done all they can. Now, it is up to this administration to stop dismissing the issue and step up to the plate. Take bold steps to live your “Spirit of Inclusion” in word and deed. Include “sexual orienta­tion” in the University’s non-discrimination clause. Allow the Student Union Board to recognize groups of gay students on campus as legitimate student groups. And if you won’t, you at least owe 12 years of the Notre Dame community an explanation of your reasoning. Refusing to address the issue — hoping that ignoring it will make it go away — will not cut it any longer. 
Chris Beesley 
alumnus Class of 2008 Jan. 29, 2010 

Thank you Declan Sullivan 
I have, from time to time, lost faith in my Notre Dame community. I have loved this school for my entire life, so take the former statement as all the more profound. I have felt that our campus is divided against itself in 80 differ­ent ways. I have felt that our campus is at war with itself. I have felt that the people on this campus care more about the lack of success that plagues our football team than they do about issues of humanity that affect the world every day. I feel that we are slowly slipping away from the ideals that Notre Dame was built upon, survived on, and currently promotes as the true spirit of our student body. 
Two hours ago all of that changed. Two hours ago, the memorial service for Declan Sullivan commenced. As the entire campus knows, the student body flooded the Basili­ca, overflowed into the LaFortune Ballroom and even had to listen outside. Others, like myself, watched the memorial service from the live feed online. For an hour, the entire campus stood still as we all came together to celebrate the life of Declan Sullivan, and to help his family and friends begin the mourning process. 
I never had the privilege to meet Declan, but I have spent the last several hours thanking God for this soul that could be so inspiring. For though I never met this man, he restored my faith in this University. Though I never knew him, I found myself crying through his service as if I had known him my entire life. I found my heart was aching for his family, and as I scanned the faces in the crowd that filled the Basilica, I knew that the entire group felt the same way. I felt the power of the entire student body spreading their prayers over his family, his friends and his dorm mates. 

For the first time in a long time, I felt this community united. On this day we didn’t belong to a race. We had no political standing. We were not gay or straight. We were not A-students or the “C’s get degrees” crowd. We weren’t pro-life or pro-choice. We weren’t pro-Brian Kelly or anti-Brian Kelly. We just were. For a brief moment, we were un­divided. We were the Notre Dame community that I so long to be a part of. I challenge the student body to remain that way in honor of the man who had a soul so strong to call us back to who we are. Remember that we must support one another, not tear each other down as we are so often tempted to do. Remember that we are united through all, and that our minor disagreements should never be allowed to prevent us from standing together as one community. And when one of our community falls, remember that they are always one of our own. We feel the pain of a family’s loss because we have indeed lost a family member. 
Remember Declan Sullivan, whose influence is so strong that an entire community of 8,000-plus people came to­gether to celebrate his life. For this, he is truly the embodi­ment of the Notre Dame spirit. 
To his family: thank you for sharing such an amazing person with the Notre Dame family. My prayers and the prayers of the entire community are with you. 
To Declan: Thank you. Thank you for restoring my faith in my Notre Dame family. Thank you for reminding us of who we are. 
For at the end of the day, we are but one simple thing. We are ND — united in the memory of one of our faithfully fallen. 
Jim Ropa 
sophomore Siegfried Hall Oct. 29, 2010 

page 18 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u NEWS Friday, May 18, 2012 
ROTC seniors prepare for service 
By NICOLE MICHELS 
News Writer 
The men and women in Notre Dame’s ROTC battalions will serve more than clients and bosses in their future work. They will be serving their country. 
Notre Dame has three ROTC battalions: Army, Navy and Air Force. Each senior is commis­sioned upon graduation and en­ters their branch of the military as an officer. 
Mary Coyne, one of the 32 se­niors graduating from the Naval ROTC battalion, said she are excit­ed to begin training for a special­ized career path in the U.S. Navy. 
Coyne said she is one of the first girls ever chosen to enter the submarine branch and will begin training in October. 
“I think this is one of the first years that they have ever looked at ROTC girls [for submarines],” Coyne said. “I know it’s going to be really hard, and I know that there are going to be people who don’t think I should even be there because I’m a girl … but the only thing that I can do is to prove that I can do my job, respectfully.” 
Senior Kevin Brainard, a gradu­ate of the Naval ROTC program, said he is preparing for a future as a pilot in the Marine Corps. 
“I’m a specialized case, because I’m going in with a flight contract,” Brainard said. “I know I’m going to fly something, but I don’t know exactly what yet.” 
Brainard, a psychology major, will move to Quantico, Va., imme­diately after graduation to enter The Basic School. The Basic School provides newly commissioned offi­cers with the professional knowl­edge and leadership education to prepare them for duty as a compa­ny grade officer, according to the school’s website. 
“In my case, I’m going to be a pi­lot in the Marine Corps, but should I for whatever reason find myself commanding a ground unit, I’m going to be able to do that as well, thanks to training at [The Basic School],” Brainard said. 
Seniors Jane McNaughton and Trevor Waliszewski are two of the 17 cadets in Notre Dame’s Army ROTC battalion who will be com­missioned as officers after gradu­ation. 
McNaughton, who will graduate from Saint Mary’s with a degree in social work, said she eventually will enter the military intelligence branch of the Navy, but will first 
SMC honors alumnae at Commencement Day 
By BRIDGET FEENEY 
Associate Saint Mary’s Editor 
Commencement Day at Saint Mary’s is more than just a day to celebrate the Class of 2012. It is also a day when the school honors former Saint Mary’s women and people who have made significant contributions to the College. 
At this year’s Commence­ment address, Kathleen Flynn Fox, a 1974 alumna, will be presented with an honorary doctor of humanities degree. Susan Fitzgerald Rice, a 1961 alumna, will receive the Presi­dent’s Medal. 
College President Carol Ann Mooney said she looks forward to welcoming these alumnae to campus, as well as Mellody Hobson, president of Ariel In­vestments, LLC, who will de­liver the Commencement Ad­dress. 
“All three are outstanding examples of women whose lives and accomplishments will inspire our graduates and their families,” Mooney said. 
Fox said she is honored to be in the presence of this year’s graduates. 
“These graduates and their classmates embody what I find so important about the special education that all of the stu­dents receive here,” Fox said. “They have an unbelievable en­thusiasm for life, they are kind, and their sense of charity and justice will motivate others to create a more compassionate and just society.” 
Fox is a successful business­woman and avid volunteer who dedicated more than 30 years of her life to serving those in need. She comes from a large family with a long history of graduates from Saint Mary’s and Notre Dame. 
“My parents instilled in us a sense of responsibility for not just each other, but our com­munity as a whole,” Fox said. “We are privileged. Privilege is not an entitlement, but rather a mandate to live a life that mat­ters.” 
Because there were times when she was unsure if she could return each semester due to finances, Fox took advantage of her time as a student and now gives back to others who do not have the same opportu­nities. Fox has promoted chil­dren’s literacy and supported programs that assist those in poverty, as well as families who do not speak English. 
Susan Fitzgerald Rice, a 1961 alumna, will receive the Presi­dent’s Medal, which is rarely presented and is exclusive to those who have exceptionally contributed to the College and society. 
“The award thrills and touches me greatly,” Rice said. “It was unexpected and a great surprise to be recognized by Carol Mooney, whose leader­ship is visionary and inspira­tional.” 
Rice said the medal is a rare-ly-bestowed formal recognition by the president of the College. When Mooney informed Rice she wanted to present her with this honor, Rice said she was surprised and awestruck. 
As a member of the Saint Mary’s College Board of Trust­ees for nine years, Rice has continued to influence the Col­lege after graduation. 
In 2006, she and her hus­band, Donald B. Rice, a 1961 alumnus of Notre Dame, re-es­tablished the annual Christian Culture Lecture, which had not occurred for 25 years. 
“By re-instituting the Lec­ture, Don and I were able to as­sist with the continuation of the tradition of faith and learning provided to Saint Mary’s wom­en,” Rice said. 
Saint Mary’s professor Bruno Schlesinger founded the lec­ture series in 1957, one year after introducing the Christian Culture major, now called Hu­manistic Studies. 
Rice said the Humanistic Studies program and Christian Culture Lecture embody the College’s liberal arts tradition. 
In addition to the President’s Medal, Rice also received the Distinguished Alumna Award in 1986 from the Alumnae As­sociation and was named a Shannon Executive Scholar in 1998. 
Contact Bridget Feeney at bfeene01@saintmarys.edu 


serve a three-year stint with the Navy’s Chemical Corps. 
“Military intelligence loans me out, you could say, to the Chemical Corps,” she said. “There, I will be responsible for chemical weapons, nuclear and biological weapons ... For the first three years, I will be working in that branch, and then I will go back to being a military intelligence officer.” 
The chance to have variety in her assigned duties makes her chosen branch all the more attrac­tive, McNaughton said. 
“With the Chemical Corps, there is so much variety in what officers can be assigned to do,” she said. “I can do a whole variety of things: a battalion staff position, which means working with planning and training operations for a few com­panies, or a chemical company position, which would mean that I would be assigned to my own pla­toon.” 
Waliszewski said he is pursuing a career as a Judge Advocacy Gen­eral (JAG) lawyer. 
“I’m on a pretty unique track,” Waliszewski said. “I’m getting an educational delay and then head­ing off to law school, where I will commission as a JAG lawyer.” 
Waliszewski said he will con­front a broad range of legal issues with the military. 
“It’s a legal firm, plus all of the military benefits,” Wasliszewski said. “It’s a really exciting and challenging career, because you are not being pigeonholed to one specialty within the law, and every year you’re probably going to have a new assignment and be chal­lenged in a new way.” 
Seniors Scott Lyle and Shayler Piersen will graduate with 18 Air Force ROTC cadets who will be commissioned after graduation. 
Lyle, who will graduate with a degree in aerospace engineering, said he is headed to Loughlin Air Force Base in Texas at the begin­ning of 2013 but will work a tem­porary job until then. 
“On Jan. 11 [2013], I will acti­vate, pack up everything, go to Loughlin Air Force Base in Texas for several months and then even­tually go to training in Pueblo, Colo. for a few weeks of training,” Lyle said. “Then I’ll go back to Loughlin to start undergraduate pilot training.” 
Piersen, a political science and history major, said he will enter the military intelligence branch of the Air Force upon graduation. He said he will begin seven months of training challenges, culminating in a series of examinations span­ning three days. 
“A lot of intelligence training is learning to handle all of these dif­ferent varieties of information . learning how to analyze types of pictures, intercept communica­tions and work with satellites,” he said. 
Piersen said Notre Dame pre­pares its ROTC cadets particularly well for careers in the military, because the University inspires a deeper understanding of the same sense of service that inspired the cadets to enlist. 
“Notre Dame’s focus is on its mission in service, and that’s why we enter the military . we want to serve our country,” Piersen said. “Notre Dame instills that higher understanding of service and by facilitating that understanding of why we are serving our coun­try, we are allowed to do that in a much better way.” 
Contact Nicole Michels at                 nmichels@nd.edu 

College students welcome Hobson as commencement speaker 
By BRIDGET FEENEY 
Associate Saint Mary’s Editor 
The Saint Mary’s Class of 2012 will welcome Mellody Hobson as their commencement speaker Saturday. 
Hobson, a 1991 graduate of Princeton University’s Woodrow Wilson School of International Relations and Public Policy, will receive an honorary doctor of hu­manities degree from the College. She currently serves as president of the Chicago-based money man­agement firm Ariel Investments and as chair of the board of trust­ees for the firm’s mutual funds. 
Hobson is an expert on financial literacy and investor education and is a regular contributor to ABC’s “Good Morning America.” She is also on the board of direc­tors of Estée Lauder Companies, Inc., DreamWorks Animation SKG, Inc., Groupon and Starbucks Corp. 
Senior Kate Park said she thinks Hobson’s wealth of experi­ence will provide for a meaningful address. 
“Based on her history and ca­reer, I think she can be a very informative speaker for the Class of 2012,” she said. “She seems to have many worldly experiences, as well as [success] in the busi­ness world. Therefore, she can give many of us Belles helpful tips on how to become successful after Saint Mary’s.” 
Senior Allie Courtney said she is looking forward to Hobson’s com­mencement address. 
“I am very excited about this year’s commencement speaker,” she said. “Mellody Hobson is an incredibly accomplished woman and an exemplary role model to all of us. Her work and accomplish­ments are very impressive, and I can’t wait to hear her speak.” 
Senior Catherine Swanson said she expects Hobson’s speech to be engaging and memorable due to her many interesting life experi­ences. 
“I’m really looking forward to hearing about her experiences and how she got to where she is today,” she said. “She will have a lot of interesting things to say and I am grateful for the chance to lis­ten to her.” 
Park said Hobson’s success as a woman in business will inspire the Class of 2012. 
“I am looking forward to be­ing with my fellow Saint Mary’s sisters and enjoying our last mo­ments together as we listen to a woman who embodies all that we embody: a Saint Mary’s edu­cation,” she said. “I am hoping we will be inspired from the ad­dress.” 
Courtney said Hobson’s broad expertise will be a valuable con­tribution to her final moments as a Saint Mary’s student. 
“I think she is very relevant to our class,” she said. “Our class truly appreciates the community at Saint Mary’s and how we have grown as strong, confident and empowered women because of it. Her example as a truly successful woman is inspiring to us.” 
Commencement will be held Saturday at 12 p.m. on LeMans Green. 
Contact Bridget Feeney at bfeene01@saintmarys.edu 


Friday, May 18, 2012 The Observer u NEWS ndsmcobserver.com | page 19 
University Food Services prepares for Commencement 
By CHRISTIAN MYERS Wenzel said Food Services News Writer will serve approximately 30,000 
meals at roughly 125 to 150 total 
Commencement weekend is a commencement events from Fri-time of celebration for graduating day through Sunday. students and their families, and Campus retail locations, in-good food is a must for any gath-cluding Legends, Reckers and the ering of family and friends. Huddle Mart, will be open, and if 
Executive Chef Donald Miller sales from these locations are in-said Food Services personnel rec-cluded, the total number of meals ognize the important role their is expected to reach 40,000, Wen-work serves in the overall celebra-zel said. tion of commencement weekend. Miller said preparation for 

“We understand this is very commencement is very similar important to the parents and stu-each year, and changes are pri­dents,” Miller said. “It’s not just marily based on lessons learned ules and flow charts. ing, but she expects to enjoy the the size of each event will vary. about cooking good food. We do in previous years. Preparation for the large meals weekend due to positive reactions Dinner on Saturday night will everything we can to make the “We learn over the years to re-occurs over the course of the en-from parents and family mem-be the largest of the five ticketed weekend successful and memo-fine it and work out the bumps in tire week, Miller said. Beginning bers of the graduates. meals of the weekend, Wenzel rable.” the road,” Miller said. Monday, the kitchens prepare “It’s great because the parents said, and an 80-foot by 220-foot 
Commencement weekend is Nevertheless, Miller said the different elements of each menu and family are always so happy,” tent will accommodate overflow busier than a typical weekend weekend’s success requires long throughout the week. Wenzel said. seating outside South Dining Hall. or even a football weekend, Lisa hours and a great deal of coordi-Wenzel said the food is pre-Approximately 200 students The Saturday dinner features Wenzel, assistant director for ca-nation. pared in the kitchens of the Food will work with Food Services as the commencement cake, a large tering and special events, said. “The weekend has to be well-Services Support Facility, North catering staff during commence-cake made up of separate smaller 
Wenzel said commencement choreographed, because a lot of Dining Hall and South Dining ment events, Wenzel said. They cakes. Each family receives one of weekend requires the most meals work from a lot of people comes Hall. Miller said this requires co-are paid for their work hours and the individual cakes, Wenzel said. of any weekend, though Junior together in an organized fashion,” ordination between kitchens, but receive room and board for the Wenzel sais there is only a Parents Weekend and the Alumni he said. “We try to distribute the spreads out the work and reduces week prior to commencement. small window for lunch between Reunion Weekend are compa-workload because it is one of the the amount of food each kitchen Wenzel said Food Services is the University-wide commence­rable. busiest times of the year, and it has to prepare. partnering with the Notre Dame ment in the morning and the cer-
Freshman Orientation also re-takes everything we’ve got to ex-Miller said his individual role Conference Center to sell tickets emonies of each college Sunday, quires a significant contribution ecute this gracefully.” has changed this year because his for five meals: lunch on Friday, so Food Services will prepare from Food Services, Miller said. Miller said the menus are daughter is a graduating senior. lunch and dinner on Saturday 3,000 to 4,000 boxed lunches for 
“It’s our biggest challenge of the prepared and food taste-tested “I’m more of a guest this year and breakfast and brunch on those who don’t have time for the year … We get to be a big part of months in advance. Food Services than a chef, though I’ll be back Sunday. Dining Hall brunch on Sunday. the first impression and the last personnel meet a few weeks prior and forth,” Miller said. Miller said the main concern impression for the University,” to commencement to review the Wenzel said her role for the Friday is that each college will be Contact Christian Myers at Miller said. plans and create cooking sched-weekend is mainly troubleshoot-holding a catered event, though cmyers8@nd.edu 

Five hall rectors leaving Notre Dame at end of academic year 
By BRANDON KEELEAN sity] board of trustees.” as a special moment during his became an important part of her rector is the opportunity to walk News Writer Etheridge said she remembers tenure on campus. He said he Notre Dame experience. with people on an important part 
Sept. 11, 2001, as a particularly remembers his residents coming “By our front door, we have of their life’s journey,” Colonna 
Residents of Farley Hall are memorable day in Farley’s his-together, praying and wanting to a table and a couple of chairs. said. used to knocking on rector Sr. tory due to the strong sense of give blood in order to help relief People often end up starting con-During Colonna’s first year as Carrine Etheridge’s door to ask community fostered between res-efforts. versations there,” Kellogg said. rector the men of Zahm recreated for advice and to walk Ether-idents and across campus. “What stands out about that “Notre Dame students are so in-the “Here Come the Irish” banner idge’s dog, Farley. But after 19 “We had women here in the day is the Notre Dame communi-telligent and so interesting, and that hangs on the front façade years as rector of Farley Hall, dorm who didn’t know whether ty coming together to support one for me, it’s really fun to talk to so of the hall during football week-Etheridge will take Farley the dog their parents were safe or not,” another and to pray for each other many bright people who have so ends. from her namesake hall when she said. “That was really scary. and for the world,” Gaughan said. many ideas and enthusiasms.” “We rented out the Stepan Cen­she returns to Virginia to be I think the plane struck at 9 or Above all, Gaughan said men-Serving as a rector in a Notre ter, and probably 60 to 70 guys closer to her 91-year-old mother. 9:30 in the morning, and I think it toring students has been the most Dame residence hall has rein-were involved from helping to lay
        In addition to Etheridge, the rec-was like [by] 2 o’clock or 3 o’clock fulfilling aspect of his role as rec-forced the true meaning of Holy it out and paint it to figure out tors of Breen-Philips Hall, Keen-we had a full orchestra, we had tor. Cross and Catholic teaching, Kel-how to hang it up,” Colonna said. an Hall, Stanford Hall and Zahm 10,000 chairs up. We had a couple “I have always found and felt logg said. Colonna said the most chal-House will leave Notre Dame at hundred priests. It was amazing.” such an amazing privilege to be “For me, being a rector has re-lenging aspects of his position are the end of the academic year. Etheridge said the most im-invited to walk with people in their ally brought home the Holy Cross itseround-the-clock responsibili­
 Reflecting on her time in Far-portant lesson she has learned at lives,” he said. “That’s such a hum-charism of hospitality,” she said. ties and having to be prepared at ley, Etheridge said she val-Notre Dame is what it means to bling and awesome privilege.” “I’ve learned that hospitality of a moment’s notice for anything. ues not only the character and be a member of the Notre Dame  Gaughan, who completed his spirit is the most important thing, One such experience occurred history of her hall, but also family. Doctor of Ministry in preaching because if you show people that when a Zahm resident’s mother the accomplishments of the “Every year I tell [graduating in 2009, said he plans to turn his you are ready to listen to them, was involved in a car accident in women who have lived there. seniors], you never really leave dissertation into a book when and that you care about them, the middle of the night. 
“They come in as little high Notre Dame,” she said. “It’s so he leaves his position as rector. that can really change people’s “I had to wake [the student] school girls, but they leave as true. Sooner or later, everybody  “I’m hoping to have a little sab-lives and it can change your life up and talk to him about it, and young women who are ready to gets back.” batical time, but then to return to too, because you learn from other actually then went with him to do amazing things,” Etheridge Fr. Tom Gaughan became rec-this ministry, hopefully in resi-people.” the hospital,” Colonna said. “You said. “[They] fly jet planes and do tor of Stanford Hall in 1992 after dence in a hall,” Gaughan said. Zahm rector Corry Colonna want to be there for your stu­research. We’ve got people who serving as an assistant rector  Rachel Kellogg has served as has led the hall since 2007, and dents, but it’s also hard to find work in Congress. We’ve got peo-in Sorin College for five years. rector of Breen-Phillips Hall since he said his relationship with his some balance in your own life.” ple who are doctors now. We’ve  Like Etheridge, Gaughan said 2005. During that time, she said, residents has been the most re-got women in the law. We’ve got seeing the Notre Dame commu-her conversations with students warding part of his job. Contact Brandon Keelean at one who’s been on the [Univer-nity unite on Sept. 11 stands out in the early hours of the morning “The best part about being a bkeelean@nd.edu 
College celebrates students, faculty at Honors Convocation 
By BRIDGET FEENEY 
Associate Saint Mary’s Editor 
Three Saint Mary’s College professors and one student earned awards of distinction at the College’s annual Honors Convocation on May 6. 
Junior Carla Leal was pre­sented with the St. Catherine Medal, an award celebrating the patron saint of scholars, namely female scholars. The College awards the honor each year to a sophomore or junior who has demonstrated a strong commit­ment to scholarship and per­sonal excellence through con­tributions to Saint Mary’s, civic organizations and the commu­nity in the spirit of Christian leadership. 
Nominated by peers, profes­sors and faculty from Saint Mary’s, Leal earned the medal for her 1,200 hours of service and volunteer work to the South Bend community, according to a press release from the College. 
Two awards honored three professors for their work in var­ious departments and organiza­tions on campus based on nomi­nations from students, faculty and staff at Saint Mary’s. 
Susan Vance, professor of business law and accounting, and Joseph Incandela, associate dean of faculty and professor of religious studies, were both presented with the Spes Unica Award. 
Established to recognize a faculty member for exceptional service to Saint Mary’s, the Spes Unica Award acknowledges the contributions of honorees to the College in the areas of service, creative activities and scholar­ship and teaching. 
The College honored Vance for her more than 30 years of dedication to Saint Mary’s. Saint Mary’s also recognized Vance forrfounding the Women’s En­trepreneurship Initiative (WEI), a program designed by the col­lege to mentor, prepare and as­sist community women in their business endeavors. 
Incandela also received the Spes Unica award for his work and dedication to his depart­ment  including the development of the Sophia Program in Liber­al Learning, a new general edu­cation program at Saint Mary’s that will begin this fall. William Svelmoe, professor and chair of the Department of History, re­ceived the Maria Pieta Award in recognition of his engaging les­sons and memorable class dis­cussions 
Established in 1976 in honor of a former Saint Mary’s teacher and administrator, The Maria Pieta Award is given to a pro­fessor who has demonstrated exemplary teaching ability in courses for first-year students and sophomores. 
Contact Bridget Feeney at bfeene01@saintmarys.edu 



page 22 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u NEWS Friday, May 18, 2012 
Graduates compete in job market, enter work force 
By ANN MARIE JAKUBOWSKI 
News Writer 
As their collegiate careers wind down, members of the Class of 2012 have set sights on their professional futures. A ma­jority will enter the work force with the strength of a Notre Dame degree backing them up, as statistics show University graduates fare well in job place­ment. 
Kevin Monahan, associate di­rector at the Career Center, said he expects this year’s placement statistics to compare well to last year’s strong numbers. 
“For the class of 2011 last year, 85 percent left Notre Dame with definite plans: military careers, graduate school, post-graduate service or full-time employ­ment,” he said. “Within three months of graduation, that num­ber was in the upper 90s [per­cent.]” 
A Notre Dame degree carries great value, according to Mona­han, who cited positive feedback from recruiters at Epic, a medi­cal technology company located in Madison, Wisc., which re­cruited 36 graduating seniors this year. 
Monahan said the nature of certain sectors of the job market where positions become avail­able and are filled rapidly leads to fluctuations in employment opportunities. 
“It really depends on the indus­try,” he said. “Certain industries hire on the ‘just-in-time’ market, like advertising, film, television and communications — they hire when they have need.” 
While some companies recruit well in advance of graduation, opportunities with those who use this type of hiring schedule are more difficult to anticipate. 
“If an advertising agency has an opening, they interview you today and ask you to start next week,” he said. 
Monahan said alumni net­working is important in the job hunt, stressing these connec­tions can lead to unexpected op­portunities. 
“Because of the tight time frames, networking is very im­portant,” he said. “You want people to be able to alert you to potential job openings.” 
The Notre Dame alumni net­work is especially helpful with “just-in-time” hiring industries, he said. Monahan cited the Chi­cago-based advertising agency Abelson Taylor as an example. 
“They have hired about 10 Notre Dame alumni in the past year, and each one has been through networking and refer­rals,” he said. “They rarely post any openings on their website, because [recruiting is] all done by alumni recommending other alumni.” 
Regardless of how graduates find job opportunities, Monahan said he is confident members of the class of 2012 will succeed in finding employment. 
“It’s still a challenging job market for graduating seniors,” Monahan said. “But with the re­sources available to our students through employer relationships, Career Center counseling and alumni networking, we are con-fident that all of graduates will be successful in their chosen ca­reers.” 

Monahan said the Career Cen­ter continues to offer its services to seniors after graduation. 
“We will continue to work with students and young alumni in their job search,” he said. “I want to encourage the gradu­ates, that, if they’re still seeking employment, please reach out to the Career Center. We’d love to help each person build a game plan for their job search.” 
Contact Ann Marie Jakubowski at           ajakubo1@nd.edu 


Friday, May 18, 2012 The Observer u NEWS ndsmcobserver.com | page 23 
Alumnae Association names ‘Outstanding Senior’ 
By MEAGHAN DALY 
News Writer 
Saint Mary’s senior Anabel Castañeda received this year’s Outstanding Senior Award at the Alumnae-Senior Cham­pagne Brunch on Monday. 
A political science and com­munication studies double ma­jor, Castañeda was recognized for her involvement in the Stu­dent Government Association (SGA), her studies abroad and her service as the president of the Political Science Club. 
Selected by the College’s Alumnae Association Board of Directors, the Outstanding Se­nior Award recipient is nomi­nated by peers, faculty and staff and exemplifies the values and spirit of Saint Mary’s. 
According to a College press release, Castañeda carries out the beliefs of her faith in daily living and is distinguished by scholarship, leadership and outstanding dedication to Saint Mary’s, evident through her participation in curricular and extracurricular activities. 
“Everyone here is outstand­ing, that’s what makes Saint Mary’s unique,” Castañeda said. “Receiving this award is a great way for me to look back at my time at Saint Mary’s and know I left a piece of me be­hind.” 
Castañeda’s award citation notes that her beauty is shown through her everyday interac­tions, including encouraging words, a hug, a smile or lending a hand to others, according to the release. 
Castañeda’s peers nominated her for her commitment to en­hancing the Saint Mary’s expe­rience. 
“She is committed to mak­ing Saint Mary’s the very best for all students. She actively recruits prospective students, hosting them overnight and giving them a wonderful expe­rience. It is clear that she holds the College close to her heart,” a student nominator said. 
Since her first year on cam­pus, Castañeda has served in several leadership roles, includ­ing her positions as interna­tional commissioner for Student Government Association and as president and treasurer of Al-Zahra, a club that celebrates North African and Middle East­ern traditions. Castañeda also earned an Intercultural Lead­ership Certificate through the Center for Women’s Intercultur­al Leadership. 
“When they describe the award as the heart of Saint Mary’s, it’s a lot of pressure,” Castañeda said. ”It’s incredible to be honored with this award, especially considering they only choose one senior per year.” spiration. I’d love to be presi-Mary’s, Castañeda will return 


Castañeda said her Saint dent of the College one day,” to the country after graduation Mary’s experience and future Castañeda said. “I love that she for a three-month internship at goals were influenced by the is a Belle and a strong part of the U.S. Embassy this summer. work of College President Carol the College like us.” Ann Mooney. After studying abroad in Ire-Contact at Meaghan Daly at 
“President Mooney is my in-land during her time at Saint mdaly01@saintmarys.edu 
Inn at Saint Mary’s hosts student photography contest 
By JILLIAN BARWICK even after they graduate from by the Inn, and their work will Saint Mary’s Editor the College on Saturday. decorate the walls of its guest 
Seniors Julie McGrail, Eliza-rooms. 
Photography by three Saint beth Munger and Guadalupe The Inn at Saint Mary’s was Mary’s seniors will decorate the Quintana are the winners of renovating 11 guest rooms last walls of the Inn at Saint Mary’s a photography contest hosted fall when one of its owners de­cided to replace the existing photos with new images, general manager Kim Kudelka said. The contest opened in December. 

The owners of The Inn selected the three students’ photographs from over 150 photos submit­ted to the contest. The Inn an­nounced the contest winners in March. 
“At The Inn, we felt that we needed to get back our strong relationship with the College,” Kim Kudelka said. “I have been working here for 10 years, and we all thought it was time to re­build the relationship. This pho­to contest was a great way for us to begin.” 
The new photos capture scenes from the College campus, she said. 
“The old photos were pretty conservative and dated,” Kudel­ka said. “The ones that we have chosen bring light to the new rooms, and add more of the Saint Mary’s charm to each room.” 
Munger said she had already taken pictures of campus when she received the email about en­tering the photo contest. 
“My dad takes pictures, and I was given a big, profession­al camera for my high school graduation, so I also really enjoy taking pictures,” Munger said. “When I received the email, I already knew which pictures I wanted to send in.” 
Munger’s chosen photo, titled “Reflection on Lake Marian,” depicts Haggar Hall reflected on the lake on the Saint Mary’s campus. During a walk from Notre Dame to Saint Mary’s campus, Quintana said she de­cided to take a snapshot of the trees lining the Avenue. 
“I just happened to have my camera, a small digital one, and saw a perfect picture to capture of the fall leaves and trees,” Quintana said. “My photo is ti­tled, ‘A Belle’s Walk Home.’” 
McGrail said she had a folder of photos taken on a walk from Saint Mary’s to Notre Dame last spring. 
“I sent in about five different pictures, and two of them were chosen to be displayed,” McGrail said. “They are titled ‘Spring at Lake Marian’ and ‘Spring at the Grotto.’” 
The seniors said they were all equally surprised to find out they won the contest. 
“I was excited because the Inn is so pretty and so many peo­ple stay there when they are in town,” Munger said. 
Quintana said she was sur­prised the Inn chose her photo out of from 150 submissions. 
“This was really nice because I am a senior and it is something that I can leave behind at Saint Mary’s,” Quintana said. 
The Inn honored the winners in April for their achievement. 
“There was a reception held at The Inn for each of the win­ners where we were able to see our photos blown up, framed and hanging up in the renovated rooms,” McGrail said. “There is a suite that holds all of the pho­tos that won the contest. It was really amazing to see our work hanging up at The Inn.” 
So far, the Inn has received tremendous feedback on the new rooms with the new photo­graphs, Kudelka said. 
“We plan on holding another contest for more photos to be displayed in more renovated rooms,” Kudelka said. “We really want the relationship between The Inn and the College to get back to the way it was.” 
As they prepare for Com­mencement on Saturday, the three seniors said they were glad to leave a lasting mark on Saint Mary’s. 
“This contest was such a great way to have a student’s perspec­tive of their home they have lived in for the past four years,” Mc-Grail said. “It is truly a wonder­ful collaboration.” 
Contact Jillian Barwick at jbarwi01@saintmarys.edu 



Friday, May 18, 2012 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 25 
OBSERVER EXCLUSIVE 

Swarbrick discusses four-team playoff in college football 
By CHRIS ALLEN 
Sports Editor 
Since its inception in 1998, the Bowl Championship Series (BCS) has been the subject of much scrutiny. The long-await­ed news of its demise came out of a late-April meeting be­tween Notre Dame Director of Athletics Jack Swarbrick and 11 conference commissioners. Swarbrick spoke with The Ob­server about the future of the proposed four-team playoff sys­tem as well as a host of other topics in Notre Dame athletics May 3. 
Swarbrick said while there is agreement on the four-team model, many other consider­ations have yet to be settled upon. 
“The good news is there is strong consensus around a four-team model, still to be resolved is the issue of when and where the semifinals are played,” he said. “You have different mod­els, you have independent sites, you have bowl sites and you have home campus sites. 
“The last piece other than selection that’s really impor­tant to resolve here is to come to a consensus on that issue of where the semifinals are played. It’s accepted that the national championship game will be at an independent site.” 
Though the exact process of selecting the four teams to com­pete in a playoff will be decided at a future meeting, Swarbrick said he has pushed to ensure the importance of regular-sea­son football is preserved. 
“I was real pleased that there seemed to be unanimity among everyone involved in the discus­sion that we want to make sure selection rewards strength of schedule,” he said. “That helps protect regular-season football, encouraging good teams to play each other, outside of the con­ference games they have. That issue has to be resolved.” 
Given Notre Dame’s unique position as a football indepen­dent without a conference tie-in, Swarbrick has had to en­sure that the new system allows Notre Dame to stay relevant and compete for titles. He said he is pleased the proposed system fits with Notre Dame’s strategic goals. 
“The two things that we focus on are having an opportunity to win a national championship: Is there anything about the system that will limit us or put as at a disadvantage? I’m op­timistic that it won’t,” he said. “The other is: Does it allow us to maintain our independence? I’m optimistic that it will.” 
see SWARBRICK/page 30 
OUTSTANDING SENIOR ATHLETES 

Setting the standard 

Irish senior defenseman Sean Lorenz passes the puck during Notre Dame’s 3-2 loss to Bowling Green on Feb. 4. Lorenz led the Irish as a captain last year. 
Lorenz assumes captaincy as Irish open Compton 
By CHRIS ALLEN 
Sports Editor 
The temptation is strong for the de­fenseman to move forward and get some glory. Screaming slap shots from the op­posing blue line. The thrilling point po­sition on the power play. Rising points and assists totals. Irish senior defense-man and captain Sean Lorenz will have none of it. He is a defenseman, first and foremost. 
The imposing blue-liner from Little­ton, Colo., found success at Notre Dame embracing the concept of defending, shunning the roles of flashier defense-men to do what his position is most fun­damentally about: keeping the opposing team out of the net and off the score­board. The role was not initially a fit, Lorenz said. 
“It’s been a challenging transition. Before I came over to this program I was put into a role of defensive defenseman, and I was told if I wanted to succeed in hockey, this was the role I was going to have to take on,” he said. “The coaches really, really pushed me in that direc­tion. It’s been a great experience and I’ve definitely learned a lot. It’s tough at times because you don’t always get the recognition of the point and all that, but I think the coaches recognize that.” 
The journey to the position as Notre Dame’s anchor on defense was not an easy one for Lorenz. He entered the pro­gram in the fall of 2008 out of the U.S. National Development Program and initially found himself on the fringes of Notre Dame’s top-six defensive rotation. 
see LORENZ/page 29 


GRANT TOBIN/The Observer 

Irish senior forward Melissa Henderson battles for a header during Notre Dame’s 1-0 loss to Illinois in November. Henderson scored 70 goals in her career. 
Henderson earns All-American honors, breaks records 
By MEGAN GOLDEN 
Sports Writer 

Driven by her deep faith and com­petitive spirit, Irish senior forward Me­lissa Henderson discovered her role as silent assassin at Notre Dame, where she emerged as an immediate threat and carried the program to its third national title. 
Henderson started 86 games and scored 70 goals during her four-year Irish career, earning her place in the record book with a program-high 24 match-winning goals scored. 
Irish coach Randy Waldrum said Henderson will go down in Irish his­tory alongside the likes of former Notre Dame standouts Jenny Streiffer, Carrie Dew and Kerri Hanks. 
“She’s been blessed with some God-given abilities with her speed, physi­cal strength, and her athleticism. If she had the skills she has but not those other qualities, she wouldn’t be the player she is,” he said. “She’s earned a lot of that with the time she’s put in to develop.” 
Henderson is a four-time all-Big East selection and was named the 2010 Big East most outstanding offensive player. Following her senior season, she was named the first runner-up to the Her­mann Trophy and awarded third-team All-America honors. 
Characteristically shying away from the limelight, Henderson said her faith motivates her to be her best. 
“I don’t even really see myself as good,” she said. “I set goals, and I 
see WALDRUM/page 30 


ndsmcobserver.com | page 26 The Observer u SPORTS Friday, May 18, 2012 
FOOTBALL 

Turnovers, quarterback controversy mar lackluster season 
By ANDREW OWENS things in practice, I can see Assistant Managing Editor those things in the development of our players, but that chance 
The Irish had plenty of mo-to be a good team is everything mentum heading into the 2011 that you just mentioned: It’s season, but Notre Dame’s BCS those turnovers, it’s the little aspirations were quickly thrown detail things. And until we can to the wayside after consecutive clean up those detail things, we losses led off a disappointing 8-5 can’t be a good team.” season. The next week, Notre Dame’s 
After earning the starting turnover issues were far from position in fall practice, senior solved — the Irish committed quarterback Dayne Crist was three turnovers — but No. 15 pulled at halftime of the season-Michigan State’s miscues proved opening 23-20 loss to South Flor-to be more costly in the 31-13 ida with the Irish down 16-0. His Irish win on Sept. 17, their first replacement, sophomore quar-of the season. terback Tommy Rees, mounted “[It was a] much needed victo­a comeback attempt and never ry for our kids today,” Kelly said. relinquished the starting spot “We obviously felt like coming but was plagued throughout the into this ball game we hadn’t season with the turnover bug lacked any confidence in our that doomed Irish coach Brian ability to win football games. Kelly’s second squad at Notre We just had to find a way to win, Dame and that was the theme this 
“You can’t start winning until week. By any means, just find a you stop losing, and the things way to win the football game … that we did today out there obvi-We needed big plays at times of ously go to the heart of how you the game. Obviously last week, lose football games,” Kelly said you know, a lot of the talk was after Notre Dame’s five-turnover the secondary.” performance. “You lose football Notre Dame benefited from games because you turn the ball big plays by its secondary — the over.” maligned unit that was torched 

Seven days later, Notre Dame the previous week by Michigan just happened.’ It was like a sult. over Maryland at FedEx Field in turned the ball over five times quarterback Denard Robinson dream come true. I thought I With two weeks to prepare, Landover, Md., on Nov. 12 and a again, and it lost again. — in the victory, including an was dreaming. It was a great Kelly said the loss was especial-sloppy 16-14 senior day victory 
In the first-ever night game at 82-yard interception return by feeling to get the points on the ly frustrating. He entered the over Boston College on Nov. 19. Michigan Stadium, the Irish sur-senior cornerback Robert Blan-board and to know the special game 7-1 in games immediately Senior day quickly became rendered a 24-7 fourth-quarter ton that sealed the Irish win. teams unit put some points on following a bye week as an FBS bittersweet for the Irish despite lead to Michigan and lost in a Irish freshman kick returner the board.” coach. Notre Dame finished 4-0 the win, as senior running back wild 35-31 affair. The defeat George Atkinson sparked the Notre Dame catapulted its suc-in 2010 following its bye week. Jonas Gray suffered a torn ACL marked the second consecutive team with an 89-yard kickoff cess against Michigan State into “You know, I’m going to fall on and was lost for the remainder fourth-quarter comeback win return for a touchdown toward a four-game winning streak, historic nine out of 10 times,” he of the season. Gray rushed for for Michigan over Notre Dame. the end of the first quarter that with victories over the Spartans, said. “I know what I’m doing on 791 yards and 12 touchdowns in 
After two weeks, more than put Notre Dame ahead 14-3. a 15-12 win at Pittsburgh on a bye week. I’ve had great suc-a breakout senior campaign at 1,000 total yards and 10 turn-The touchdown marked the first Sept. 24, a 38-10 victory at Pur-cess. I know what it looks like. an astounding rate of 6.9 yards overs, Notre Dame was reeling such score by an Irish freshman due on Oct. 1 and a 59-33 offen-And for us to come out and be per carry. at 0-2. since Raghib Ismail returned sive outburst against Air Force less than what we should be, I’m The Irish showed just how 
Kelly said it was frustrating to a kickoff for a touchdown as a on Oct. 8. not happy about it.” much separation there was be-see his squad commit so many rookie in 1988. Notre Dame’s 59 points in the With 3:22 remaining in the tween them and college foot-miscues after entering the 2011 “It feels great,” Atkinson said win over Air Force were the second quarter and the Trojans ball’s elite when they lost 28-14 campaign with such high expec-after the win. “[Ismail] is a great most points scored since Lou leading 17-0, Atkinson returned at Stanford in the season finale tations. returner. I’d like to see some Holtz’s last home game as head a 96-yard kickoff for a touch-Nov. 26. The loss dropped Notre 
“I think when we came out film and see how he does things coach Nov. 23, 1996, when the down to propel the Irish into the Dame to 8-4 on the season and of preseason camp, we felt like and pick up some pointers and Irish defeated Rutgers 62-0. game. sent them to Orlando, Fla., for we had the chance to be a good stuff. I was on the sideline [af-Rees’ performance against the The stadium’s electricity was the Champs Sports Bowl instead team,” he said. “I can see those ter scoring] and I was like ‘What Falcons was arguably his best of deflated in an instant in the of a prized BCS bid. 

the season, as he completed 23-third quarter when Crist was “[I’m] disappointed that we of-32 passes for 261 yards and unable to handle a snap at the didn’t come here and get a vic­three touchdowns. USC 1-yard line. The ball rolled tory,” Kelly said after the loss 
“[Rees is] growing as he goes back to the 20, where it was to top quarterback prospect here,” Kelly said. “He’s 8-1 as a picked up by Trojans safety Andrew Luck and the Cardinal. starter and he continues to grow Jawanza Starling and returned “We didn’t come here to get sec-and develop, and we are seeing for a touchdown. Crist had driv-ond prize. We came here to get a that maturity. He got flushed out en the Irish down the field after win. Nobody in that locker room of the pocket a couple of times, Rees left the game with a hyper-is happy with the outcome. We threw the ball away, made some extended knee. got off to a slow start and bat-very good decisions in pres-The following Thursday, tled against it, kept playing, kept sure situations when something Kelly made some controversial competing. To me, the score­wasn’t there. He’s just develop-comments regarding players board showed 28-14 and that’s ing, maturing.” he brought to Notre Dame and not good enough, but I love the 
Rees and the rest of the squad those recruited by his predeces-heart of our team.” seemed to be on a positive tra-sor, Charlie Weis. After another turnover-rid­jectory with a 4-2 record enter-“You can see the players that I dled second-half collapse in an ing its biggest test of the sea-recruited here,” Kelly said. “You 18-14 loss to Florida State in son at that point — a date with know who they are. We’ve had the Champs Sports Bowl, Notre archrival USC. The Irish were one class of recruiting, kids that Dame finished 8-5 for the sec-hoping to turn the page in the I’ve had my hand on. The other ond consecutive season, lead-rivalry by winning their second guys here are coming along, but ing to questions regarding the consecutive game in the series it’s a process. It can’t happen direction of the program and, behind the backdrop of Notre overnight. They’re getting there. specifically, the quarterback po-Dame Stadium’s first night game They’re making good progress.” sition. since 1990. Although a few players voiced “[The turnover issues] started 
The script was set, but it was their displeasure with Kelly’s in South Florida,” Kelly said. the performance that was lack-comments over social media, “And it continued to shoot itself ing in a 31-17 defeat to the Tro-come Saturday the team looked throughout the entire year. We jans. and sounded united in a 56-14 know what we need to do. We’ve 
“[It was] disappointing we blowout win over Navy. already talked about it, and the could not play better football in “Everybody said what they players that are going to be back what I considered a great en-needed to say [at a team meet-for the 2012 football season will vironment, [the] stadium was ing], got it out in the air and fig-be committed to getting that end electric, the fans were terrific,” ured it out,” Irish fifth-year cap-done.” Kelly said. “It’s the kind of envi-tain and safety Harrison Smith Two of those returning players ronment we want to create here. said. “Obviously, we showed it’s include linebacker Manti Te’o We just have to play better foot-not something that’s going to and tight end Tyler Eifert, who ball.” split us up. If anything, it’s going both passed up the NFL Draft to 
The turnover problems that to bring us together.” return to Notre Dame to face a plagued Notre Dame in the first The Navy win began Notre daunting 2012 schedule in Kel­two losses returned at the wrong Dame’s second four-game win-ly’s third season with the Irish. time for the Irish, as the team ning streak of the season, which committed three turnovers and included a 24-17 win at Wake Contact Andrew Owens at fell to 4-3 on the season as a re-Forest on Nov. 5, a 45-21 win aowens2@nd.edu 



Friday, May 18, 2012 The Observer u SPORTS ndsmcobserver.com | page 27 
MEN’S BASKETBALL 

Notre Dame makes surprising run to NCAA tournament 
By ANDREW GASTELUM starting with the emergence of Associate Sports Editor junior forward Jack Cooley. “When I was sick and watch-
When graduate student for-ing the Maryland game, I got ward and Irish co-captain Tim pretty upset with how the sea-Abromaitis tore his ACL in prac-son had been going so far,” Cool­tice on Nov. 25, hopes for the ey said in February. “I was re-Irish season dwindled. Notre ally disappointed in myself and Dame had already lost key piec-how I had been playing. I made es to the surprising 2010-2011 sure that I made changes and team that earned a No. 2 seed that was the point where it re­in the NCAA tournament and ally started.” then the undisputed leader of Cooley immediately made the young 2011-2012 squad was a massive impact, scoring 44 lost. points and grabbing 23 re-
But Irish coach Mike Brey bounds in Notre Dame’s two-said his group was prepared game homestand in wins over all along to fill the void of Abro-Maine and Dartmouth on Dec. maitis. The young and untested 8 and 10, respectively. Notre Irish went on to post a 22-12 re-Dame then responded with a cord including a 13-5 mark in win over Pittsburgh to open Big Big East play and exceeded all East play. preseason expectations with a Following a lethargic 71-55 group of new contributors. loss at Cincinnati on Jan. 4, the 
“We get sharp kids here and Irish went into the KFC Yum! we had better players than ev-Center in Louisville, Ky., and eryone [thought] when Abro won a 67-65 double-overtime went down,” he said. “It was thriller behind the heroics of like Abro and these other guys sophomore point guard Eric At-and rightfully so. Tim had an kins against a future Final Four unbelievable career and played team in the Cardinals. [for] USA Basketball, but we For every big win came an-had some other guys here that other big loss in the early going, were pretty good waiting in the continuing a wave of inconsis­wings, ready to play.” tency for a young squad going 

The preseason All-Big East through growing pains. First Team forward missed The Irish continued their er-the first four games of the sea-ratic play, dropping two in a son due to an NCAA eligibility row to Connecticut and Rutgers, violation, but the team knew it which put the Irish record at could rely on Abromaitis when 11-8 overall and 3-3 in the Big he came back. But Abromaitis East. played in only two games — “I didn’t overreact to that be-losses to No. 21 Missouri and cause, coming from where we Georgia in the CBE Classic — came from, we were 3-3 and before the season-ending injury still trying to figure it out but we came less than one month into were still 3-3,” Brey said. “We the season. weren’t 1-4. You’re .500 going sy. The 67-58 upset victory was Connaughton. pion Louisville in the semifinals 
Without their star, the Irish into the Syracuse game and I’ve the eighth win in program his-Cooley led the Irish with four for the second straight season. struggled to keep up with their always said 9-9 in our league tory over a No. 1 team, buoyed straight double-double perfor-On Selection Sunday, the Irish packed, post-Thanksgiving gets you right in. So 3-3 as we’re by 54.5-percent shooting from mances in their next four wins were paired with Xavier in the schedule. Those struggles began still trying to figure it out wasn’t the field in the first half as the against West Virginia, DePaul, precarious seven- vs. 10-seed on the road Nov. 30 in Spokane, the worst. Then we had the Irish led by as much as 18. The Rutgers and Villanova, which matchup and suffered another Wash., where No. 19 Gonzaga Syracuse opportunity presented win sparked a program-record, vaulted the Irish into the top-25 quick exit from the NCAA tour-blew out the Irish, 73-53. Next that counted more than one win nine-game Big East winning of the national rankings for the nament in a 67-63 loss to the up came a disappointing 78-71 in a lot of ways.” streak, which the Irish rode all first time. Musketeers (23-13, 10-6 At-loss to Maryland at the Verizon The Irish welcomed unde-the way to an NCAA tournament Brey’s team broke the school lantic-10). With a chance to tie Center in Washington D.C., in feated No. 1 Syracuse to Purcell berth. record in the game following late in the game, Atkins went which the Irish shot an abysmal Pavilion on Jan. 21, and sent “Winning at Louisville then, Cooley’s streak, a 71-44 rout of to the free-throw line, but the 
36.7 percent from the field. the Orange home with a blem-on the road, gave us even more West Virginia on Feb. 22 be-tying shot was called off after But things began to gradually ish on their record while Irish confidence to say ‘Maybe we got hind 20 points from sophomore Grant was called for a lane vio­
change after the Maryland loss, fans stormed the court in ecsta-a shot at getting an NCAA bid.’ guard Jerian Grant. lation after running in from the And then beating Syracuse was But the Irish winning streak 3-point line. the ultimate confidence-giver came to an abrupt halt at Madi-“When you’re up 10 and you for us to get on that run,” Brey son Square Garden in a 61-58 can’t finish, that’s really frus­said. “It’s a great memory and I loss to St. John’s. The Irish tried trating,” Brey said. “I think we have a big wall where I have the to come back from another large had some really key turnovers. team picture. I’m going to put a deficit, but couldn’t get past I think our guards actually big picture of the students rush-4-for-31 shooting from beyond played as young as they were in ing the court at the end. It’s a the 3-point line. Notre Dame fol-that game … I’d like that to be a great memory.” lowed this with a 59-41 loss at real learning experience for our 

The Irish had their first test Georgetown on Feb. 27, before a group moving forward because after the Syracuse win on Jan. senior day victory against Prov-it was really disappointing for 29 in Hartford, Conn., against idence on March 2 righted the us because you had the thing in Jim Calhoun and No. 24 Con-ship before the Big East tourna-hand.” necticut. Notre Dame controlled ment. Since their exit from the NCAA the tempo of the game with its Preceding the conference tournament, the Irish have had trademark burn offense and ex-tournament, Cooley was named a busy offseason. Sophomore acted revenge against the Hus-to the All-Big East second team guard Alex Dragicevich an­kies, stunning the afternoon and rewarded with the Big East nounced his transfer to Boston crowd with a 50-48 win. Most Improved Player award. College, while two recruits in 
“This group, after where they Meanwhile, Grant made the Big the Rivals.com Top 150 commit-were in November and Decem-East All-Rookie Team. ted to Notre Dame. Meanwhile, ber, they really focused,” Brey “Once we got into league play, the NCAA denied Abromaitis his said. “They get that one and then [Atkins and Grant] played above request for a sixth year while we go to Connecticut that week, their experience level and re-granting senior forward Scott I said ‘Now if you get this one, ally believed,” Brey said.  “I Martin’s request. Brey said his you’re really showing signs.’ think what’s great for both of team will enter the upcoming And then they just kept getting those guys is it drives them re-season with high expectations them. I think it was a collective ally to be better and play older following the surprising season understanding and motivation after the way it ended for them. with his inexperienced team. of smart guys.” I think it’s great. They really “I’m loving [the high expecta-
The Irish returned home to had good years but the way it tions]. I’m loving them. I think face a hot No. 15 Marquette ended kind of keeps a little chip it’s great,” Brey said. “It’s great team on a seven-game confer-on their shoulder and I love that territory for us to be in, to have ence winning streak, and easily for them.” it on us and have to deliver. I disposed of the Golden Eagles The No. 23 Irish entered the think it keeps the coaches sharp on national television with a Big East tournament with a and motivated. It keeps the play­76-59 blowout win. The Irish double-bye as the No. 3 seed, ers sharp.” sunk 11 3-pointers and benefit-but barely squeezed by South ted from a career-high 23 points Florida in their opening game Contact Andrew Gastelum at from freshman forward Pat before falling to eventual cham-agastel1@nd.edu 




Friday, May 18, 2012 The Observer u SPORTS ndsmcobserver.com | page 29 
Lorenz 
continued from page 25 
He leaves in the spring of 2012 having served as Notre Dame’s unquestioned leader. Along the way he collected a CCHA De­fensive Defenseman of the Year award for the 2010-11 season, scored nine goals and notched a plus/minus rating of plus-25 in his career. Irish coach Jeff Jackson said Lorenz was a suc­cess in the Notre Dame pro­gram. 
“He really persevered be­cause in his first year, he had to play a role of a fifth or sixth defenseman,” Jackson said. “We had such great defense-men ahead of him that he had to take a secondary role. If he hadn’t handled that as well as he did, I’m not sure if he would have been able to move into a top four [defensemen] position. He’s one of our top defensemen over the past few years and certainly winning the CCHA Defenseman of the Year last year gave him a lot of confi­dence. 
“He was always a good citi­zen. He did a good job as a captain for us. He did things the right way. He was a great student. He was the total pack­age. I’m very proud of Sean and what he accomplished here.” 
Part of the reason Lorenz had to pay his dues behind older players was the quality depth at the blue line early in his career. Lorenz said players like former Irish defensemen Kyle Lawson and All-American Ian Cole developed him on and off the ice. 
“Kyle was a big part of my de­velopment as a player here. He was my roommate on the road for two seasons, and he really kind of took me under his wing and that was definitely the big­gest influence I had,” he said. “Ian Cole is another big guy in terms of that stuff, I kind of knew him before I got to Notre Dame and he was big in terms of teaching me.” 
In his junior year, Lorenz fi­nally moved into a top defense position in the Joyce Center’s final season. He took the op­portunity and positioned him­self among the country’s elite defensive defensemen, teaming with then-captain Joe Lavin and then-freshman defense-man Stephen Johns to form intimidating blue-line tandems on an Irish team that compet­ed for the CCHA title until the season’s final day. The Irish en­joyed an unexpected run to the Frozen Four as a No. 3 seed in the Northeast Regional before falling to Minnesota-Duluth in the national semifinal in Saint Paul, Minn. Lorenz said play­ing on the national stage was a top highlight of his career. 
“It was kind of all a big blur, but a great experience overall,” he said. “To have the opportu­nity to go up to Minnesota and skate on the rink I was drafted to with the Minnesota Wild, to play on that kind of stage, was an incredible experience. I think the coolest part is that only four teams get to do that, knowing not that many people get to experience it, was great. That group of guys was one of the closest group of guys I’ve been a part of.” 
Coming off the unexpected run to the Frozen Four and moving into Compton Family Ice Arena, Lorenz was named co-captain of a 2011-12 Notre Dame team heading into the season as a preseason No. 1 se­lection. The Irish disappointed with a 19-18-3 record and a 12­13-3-0 CCHA mark, but Lorenz said the opportunity to serve as captain in Compton’s first season was a personal honor. 
“To know that the likes of [former captains] Ryan Thang, Mark van Guilder and Erik Condra, people like Joe Lavin, guys who are just great play­ers and great people, and then to have a guy like [Irish co-captain and senior forward] Billy Maday next to me, it was a great honor,” he said. “Work­ing with Billy was a great ex­perience because he always knew what he was doing and he was very confident with handling certain situations, and I learned a lot from him. It was a great experience for me and for Billy too.” 
Though he was scarcely found on the stat sheet, Lo­renz’s career was one defined by defense. He carried that mentality after leaving the program and joined the Hous­ton Aeros of the AHL, hoping one day to skate the blue line in the same arena where he once led Notre Dame onto the ice for the Frozen Four at col­lege hockey’s pinnacle. Even in graduation, Lorenz defends his future alma mater’s position as a major player in the future of college hockey. 
“It’s definitely an exciting time for Notre Dame hock­ey. Moving into Hockey East brings on a whole different style of hockey, and having a new building that brings with it a new level of expectations,” he said. “Especially playing against Boston College and some of the teams that people know, it will be a little bit dif­ferent than playing someone like Bowling Green or Ferris State, who the average hockey fan maybe doesn’t know quite as much about. 
“Then to have the new build­ing to bring people in, it will be great for the future. Notre Dame hockey has definitely grown since I’ve been here. I think in the future you’ll hear about Notre Dame being one of the powerhouses of college hockey.” 
Contact Chris Allen at callen10@nd.edu 
MEN’S LACROSSE 
Notre Dame tops Yale, prepares for Virginia 


By SAM GANS 
Sports Writer 
The 2012 season continued the successful run the Irish have embarked on in recent years, marking the seventh consecutive NCAA tournament appearance for Notre Dame and the third season in a row the Irish advanced to the NCAA quarterfinals. And the year’s not even over yet. 
After defeating Yale 13-7 in the first round of the NCAA tournament last Sunday, the No. 4 seed Irish (12-2) will face No. 5 seed Virginia (12-3) this Sunday for the chance to play in their second Final Four in three seasons. 
The success the Irish have ex­perienced up to this point can be largely attributed to the play of the defensive unit, in partic­ular senior defenseman Kevin Randall and junior goalie John Kemp.  Randall was named the Big East’s Defensive Player of the Year. Kemp, who recorded 12 saves in the win over the Bulldogs (11-5), is ranked first in the nation in save percent­age and leads the country’s top-ranked scoring defense, which allows just 5.92 goals per game. 
“[Defense has] been some­thing we’ve been good at for a while and certainly John is a huge piece of that puzzle,” Irish coach Kevin Corrigan said. “We play really sound, fundamen­tal, smart defense so we don’t make a ton of mistakes but we make mistakes. And when we make them, they still have to beat John.” 
Though Notre Dame’s season is not yet complete, there have already been some first-time accomplishments achieved. The Irish notched their first ever victory over historical power Syracuse with an 8-6 win in Arlotta Stadium on April 28. Notre Dame fell in the Big East semifinals to St. John’s on May 3, but the Irish did take home their first-ever Big East regu­lar season championship since joining the league in 2010 with an undefeated regular season record in conference play. 
While the defense has re­ceived most of the spotlight, the offense also displayed its balance as the season has pro­gressed.  After a slow offensive start to the year, including a 4-3 overtime loss to Penn State in the season’s second game, the Irish found greater offen­sive variety in the second half of the 2012 campaign. 
Sophomore midfielder Jim Marlatt and senior attack Sean Rogers, who both were named to the 2012 All-Big East first team, have emerged as the top two offensive threats, but they have received quite a bit of help. In seven of the last nine games, at least seven different players have scored goals, and overall, 20 different Irish play­ers have found the back of the net this season. 
“When we lost at the end of last year, we talked about the identity of our team being a lit­tle bit more of no stars but a lot of guys that can make plays and a lot of guys that can contrib­ute,” Corrigan said. “If we play the right way, [balanced scor­ing] will happen.” 
The play of the Irish defense and ability for the offense to continue its balanced scoring will likely be what determines if Notre Dame gets past the Cavaliers. Virginia is led by senior attack Steele Stanwick, who won the 2011 Tewaaraton Trophy as the most outstanding player in college lacrosse. 
“I’ve watched them very ca­sually, in all honesty,” Corrigan said. “It wasn’t a team we had on our schedule so I’ve seen them play on TV a couple of times and I did watch [Sunday’s win over Princeton] with a little bit of interest. 
“They’re an athletic team with a lot of excellent skill play­ers and you’ve got to survive the middle of the field against Virginia. They can’t run rough­shod through the middle of the field or you’re going to be in trouble.” 
The Irish and Cavaliers square off Sunday at noon in the NCAA quarterfinals from Philadelphia. The game will be televised on ESPNU. 
Contact Sam Gans at sgans@nd.edu 

page 30 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u SPORTS Friday, May 18, 2012 
Waldrum 
continued from page 25 
prayed about it. I’ve always wanted to try to use my abili­ties to glorify God because ev­erything I’ve been through and being able to play this sport is all to Him.” 
Despite Henderson’s 20 starts and 17 goals as a fresh­man, Waldrum said she strug­gled to understand her role as a scoring threat. With the at­tention focused on former Irish forwards Hanks and Brittany Bock, Henderson flew under the radar early in her career. 
“We were trying at that point to get her to realize, ‘No, Mel, it’s you, too. You have to carry some of the load’. Almost tell­ing her she needs to be more selfish in her play,” Waldrum said. “She really seemed to get that her junior year, the year we won the championship.” 
In 2010, Henderson led Notre Dame to its fifth consecutive trip to the College Cup and its third national title in program history. She finished the 2010 NCAA tournament with three goals and four assists, includ­ing an assist in the national championship that gave the Irish a 1-0 win over previously-unbeaten Stanford. 
“When we won the national championship, I was in tears. It was definitely the proudest moment of my life,” Henderson said. “When the whistle blew, I just got down on my knees and prayed and thanked God for this opportunity because it was just surreal, and there’s no bet­ter person than Jesus to thank for the opportunity.” 
A natural competitor, Hen­derson was named co-captain her senior year alongside Notre Dame senior defender Jessica Schuveiller and senior mid­fielder Courtney Barg. The three co-captains had played on the same club team through­out high school and hail from Dallas, Waldrum’s hometown. 
Schuveiller said fans and teammates looked up to Hen­derson as a role model on and off the field. 
“I think Melissa sometimes doesn’t even know the power she has as a player and as a person. I don’t think she real­izes how much people look up to her,” she said. “People re­spect her ability and [her] as a person. Anytime she does something or makes a play, it’ll change the game because other people will be impacted by it.” 
Despite her humility, Hen­derson said she has taken ad­vantage of her stage and has done her best to live out her faith for others to witness. She could be seen praying with her head in her shirt as she walked on the field prior to each game. 
Henderson said she was able to maintain a positive outlook throughout her senior season, when the Irish finished 10-8-3. 
“At the end of the day, we didn’t win back-to-back nation­al championships, but I got to be coached by some of the best coaches in the country. I got to play with some of the best girls in the country. I got to meet people that I’ll know the rest of my life,” Henderson said. “You’re sad to end on a note like that soccer-wise, but if you look at it as a whole life aspect, I think it was a win for me.” 
Henderson said she joked with Waldrum about how she wished she would have been injured one year in order to be eligible for a fifth year at Notre Dame. 
“For me, I need to move on to my new chapter, and it doesn’t involve being with the coaches and players I’ve been with for the past four years,” Hender­son said. “I’m not ready, but that’s what I think is special in a way. I don’t know what’s ahead of me, and I’m just going to take it as God puts it in front of me. It’s just going to open up a lot more excitement.” 
Just days after Henderson was drafted second overall to the Sky Blue FC in the Wom­en’s Professional Soccer draft, league officials were forced to suspend the 2012 season due to legal matters. Henderson will spend the summer as a mem­ber of the Boston Breakers, a team affiliated with the WPS. 
Waldrum said he has high expectations for Henderson’s future, predicting a profes­sional career similar to those of Abby Wambach and Mia Hamm. 

Swarbrick 
continued from page 25 
Year-in-review 
Though Notre Dame’s varsity athletic programs have failed to capture a national champion­ship in the 2011-12 season as this commencement issue goes to print, the year saw many Notre Dame athletes and teams enjoy success. Swarbrick said he was pleased with the prog­ress made by the Irish teams in athletic competition. 
“I feel very good [about this year]. It’s interesting, last year when we were talking, we were coming off a couple of national championships in women’s soc­cer and fencing,” he said. “You always like to have those, but in some ways, the depth and the breadth of the performance this year has been even better, from an event championship at the NCAA track and field, some­thing we haven’t done, which was really cool, the distance medley, having an All-Amer­ican swimmer in the men’s swimming competition. 
“Across the board, I’m really pleased that you see highlights almost everywhere you look. We still want to win champion­ships, that’s still the goal, we fo­cused on that, but when you look at the competitive performance, the classes we have coming in and the academic performance of the student-athletes, I think it’s been a very good year.” 
For the second athletic year in a row, Notre Dame’s wom­en’s basketball team and head coach Muffet McGraw galva­nized the campus with a run to the national championship game. Though McGraw’s bunch fell short of the title again, Swarbrick said the success of the team and All-American ju­nior point guard Skylar Diggins elevates the entire athletic com­munity at Notre Dame. 
“Our student-athletes are in such proximity to each other, it’s a relatively small university and our facilities are located to­gether, and any time you see a team go to the final game con­secutive years, you say to your­self ‘We can do that. If they can, we can,’” Swarbrick said. “You watch those athletes work and know that’s the standard you have to meet … the great thing about the women’s success is that it’s featured a transcendent player from the local communi­ty. That’s a special aspect of it. The program that already had a strong community relation­ship, Skylar’s success has only heightened it with her remark­able abilities and prominence.” 
The new barn 
Though the Irish hockey team did not match the Frozen Four run of 2010-11 with this year’s underwhelming campaign, the program did enjoy the open­ing of state-of-the-art hockey-specific arena Compton Family Ice Arena. Players, coaches and fans in the community praised the new facility, which opened in the fall and features a regu­lation sheet of ice and Olympic-size ice. Swarbrick said the community involvement engen­dered by the facility was a key aspect of Compton’s first sea­son. 
“From a hockey perspective, the coaches like it, the players like it and it works well, I’m hopeful that it produces more of a home-ice advantage in the future, and I’m certain it will because we have a great pro­gram,” he said. “On the com­munity side of it, which was the motivating factor behind having a lone facility with two sheets of ice, it’s exceeded expectation. 
“With learn-to-skate pro­grams, youth hockey and rec­
“The challenge is still there from me,” he said. “I think she should continue to follow that dream because she’s got enough talent to lead us for an­other decade in the World Cup.” 
Henderson said she is excited for her professional career to commence, and she is ready to experience all that God has planned in her life. 
“I’m more excited than ever 
reational skating, the numbers have been through the roof, and it’s been what we’ve wanted. It’s been a magnet to bring the community to the campus other than on a Notre Dame varsity event basis, and have them feel a sense of ownership in part of the campus; it’s their home ice too for all those programs.” 
New media 
The Irish hockey and men’s lacrosse programs were fea­tured in special documenta­ries aired by the NBC Sports Network this year. Swarbrick said the athletic department is working to increase exposure to all Notre Dame sports across a variety of media. 
“[The Notre Dame Network] will never be a channel on your cable station, that’s not the model for the Notre Dame Net-just to even play this summer. If soccer’s not it, it’s not it,” she said. “I’m just excited for where He wants me to go in life. I’m not going to plan anything, and I’m tired of trying to plan ahead. I’m just going to let Him make the footsteps for me, and I’m just going to go after it.” 
Contact Megan Golden at mgolde01@saintmarys.edu 
work. It will never be the Long­horn Network or the Big Ten Network,” he said. “What it will be is Notre Dame-branded con­tent distributed over a number of methods of distribution. 
“We had almost 100 percent increase in the number of live games we streamed this year, we had incredibly well done special programs on the open­ing of Compton and inside our men’s lacrosse program that aired on the NBC Sports Net­work this year, we had some hockey games from Compton on the NBC Sports Network. That’s our model: more programming, produced by us and distributed over a number of means. In that sense, it was a great year for the network.” 
Contact Chris Allen at callen10@nd.edu 


Friday, May 18, 2012 The Observer u SPORTS ndsmcobserver.com | page 31 
MEN’S TENNIS 

Trio continues to compete for Irish in postseason 
By PETER STEINER 
Sports Writer 
While the Irish found a great deal of success this season, the team also experienced some heartbreaking losses against top-ranked teams and in the Big East and NCAA championships. 
After finishing their spring regular season with an 18-7 re­cord, the Irish lost a long, gruel­ing match to South Florida in the semifinals of the Big East cham­pionship. Heading into the match, Notre Dame (21-9, 3-1) had won seven straight, but the Bulls took down the Irish 4-3 for the second time in the spring season. The Irish quickly rebounded against St. John’s in their next match to take home third place in the Big East tournament. 
“Our biggest team goal was to win the Big East championship, and that was pretty heartbreaking when we fell a bit short of that,” sophomore Greg Andrews said. 
The Irish also notched key wins against top-ranked opponents. Away 4-3 victories against No. 22 Michigan and No. 34 Texas A&M highlighted the team’s season. 
“Beating Michigan on the road [is one highlight],” Irish coach Bobby Bayliss said. “That’s a tough place to win, and it was a good match. 
“Beating Texas A&M at Texas A&M is also a significant achieve­ment. They don’t lose at home very often.” 
While these close wins head­lined Notre Dame’s accomplish­ments, narrow losses to top-20 ranked teams were some of the team’s biggest disappointments. The Irish faced off against then-No. 17 Illinois on Jan. 22, and al­though Andrews took down No. 24 senior Roy Kalmanovich, the Irish left Champaign, Ill., with a close 4-3 defeat. Three weeks later, the Irish were spurned by No. 6 Ken­tucky in another narrow 4-3 loss. 
“We had a real opportunity to beat Illinois in Champaign and lost a really close, long 4-3 match,” Bayliss said. “Against Kentucky … we did the same thing.” 
Andrews and seniors Niall Fitzgerald and Casey Watt led the Irish this season, as all three finished with winning records at their respective singles posi­tions. At No. 1 doubles, Watt and Fitzgerald have been selected to compete in the NCAA doubles championship beginning May 24. Meanwhile, Andrews emerged this season as a premiere singles player, being named the Big East Player of the Year with a 34-8 overall record. The sophomore will represent Notre Dame in the NCAA singles championship start­ing May 23. 
“[One highlight of this season is] seeing the maturity of Niall Fitzgerald, who has become a real go-to guy for us and has won a lot of important matches, a lot in three sets, which used to give him difficult times,” Bayliss said. “See­ing Casey Watt [having] a winning record at No. 1 singles and devel­op that way is rewarding. Maybe most of all, seeing Greg Andrews become a premiere, national-level player who has beaten guys who are top-20 in the country is also very rewarding.” 
After defeating No. 40 Vander­bilt in the first round of the NCAAs, the Irish finished their team sea­son with a loss to No. 5 Ohio State in the second round of NCAA re­gionals. Andrews and the doubles team of Fitzgerald and Watt will compete in the NCAA individual championship beginning May 23 in Athens, Ga. 
Contact Peter Steiner at psteiner@nd.edu 
ND WOMEN’S TENNIS 

ND claims Big East title, falls in second round of NCAAs 
By KELSEY MANNING losses coming in close 4-3 deci-Among those teams were No. Sports Writer sions, before closing out the sea-18 Vanderbilt, No. 16 Georgia son 15-4. In that second stretch, Tech, No. 14 Northwestern, No. 13 After a 21-8 season in which the Notre Dame rattled off 11 straight North Carolina and No. 3 Duke. Irish claimed their fifth-straight doubles points. Irish coach Jay Much of that success in the dou-Big East title, No. 20 Notre Dame Louderback said doubles play was bles arena can be attributed to the ultimately met disappointment at a strong point of the season. senior co-captains Kristy Frilling the hands of No. 12 Northwestern, “Our doubles was very, very and Shannon Mathews, who were falling in the second round of the good this year,” Louderback ranked No. 1 in the country in late 
NCAA tournament. said. “We won the doubles point March. The Irish started off the spring against some of the top teams in “[Mathews] and I have worked 

season 5-3, with two of those three the county.” really hard this year in both doubles and singles, and we just wanted that work ethic to trans­late into success for the team,” Frilling said. “We won the dou­bles point the majority of our matches, and I think a lot of that comes from the fact that we had three solid doubles teams.” not capitalize on opportunities was a very disappointing finish.” Though Frilling and Mathews like those. Despite the finish, the Irish led the charge in the top doubles “We didn’t capitalize on many achieved much this season, both spot, Louderback said oftentimes of our opportunities throughout as a team and individually. As the the team did not capitalize after the season, so that was disap-No. 1 seed in the Big East tourna­winning the doubles point. pointing at times,” the senior said. ment, the Irish took the title for “We worked very hard on the “But this team has worked really the fifth-straight year, improving doubles and our doubles has done hard this year, both on court and their record in the Big East finals well but we lost a lot of matches with each other.” to an impressive 12-5. Frilling was this year after winning the dou-One of the major disappoint-named Most Outstanding Per­bles point, which is very disap-ments came in the team’s 4-2 former in the tournament after pointing,” he said. “There were loss to Northwestern (20-8) in the going a perfect 3-0 in the finals. quite a few disappointing things NCAA tournament Saturday, said For the regular season, Mathews from this team, and that was an-Louderback. was named Big East Player of the other one. I don’t even want to “To finish like we did was very, Year, accompanying Louderback, count how many matches we lost very disappointing,” Louderback who was named Big East Coach of by not being able to win three sin-said. “We were in complete con-the Year. gles matches.” trol of the match, [and] we had Additionally, Mathews was Of Notre Dame’s eight losses kids that didn’t get the job done. named an All-American for the this season, the team captured Our seniors did very well, but no first time, while Frilling became the doubles point in five of those one gave them any help. They the first Notre Dame player to be matches. Frilling echoed her were the only two that got points named an All-American all four coach, saying the team often did for us against Northwestern. It years. Mathews will compete in the NCAA singles championship, while she and Frilling will team up in the doubles championship, beginning May 23 and 24 respec­tively. “They’ve got a shot of doing really well in the individual and doubles tournaments,” Louder-back said. As for the year to come, Louder-back said the future is a bit uncer­tain for Notre Dame with the loss of its two top players. “Right now I don’t know,” he said. “We’re going to have to have some kids step up and play because our seniors — our top two — are graduating. We’ve got a couple of freshmen coming in that are good solid players but we’re going to have to have kids that are returning step up and be able to play higher than they did this year. It’s just a matter of them being able to do it. It’s just such a disappointing finish, to have kids do well and then just let it slip.” 

Contact Kelsey Manning at kmannin3@nd.edu 



FOUR YEARS IN REVIEW 
The top Observer sports stories from the 2008–2012 academic years 
ndsmcobserver.com | page 32 Friday, May 18, 2012 
Weis fired after five seasons, Kelly hired 



December 1, 2009; December 12, 2009 
After leading Notre Dame to the extension through 2015. pewas to a Mid-American Con-most losses in a three-year span Nonetheless, two home losses ference in 2006. Kelly began his in program history, Charlie Weis to Navy and consecutive Senior head coaching career at Division was fired on Nov. 30, 2009, and Day defeats to Syracuse and Con-II Grand Valley State, tallying a a mere 11 days later, director of necticut spelled the end of the 118-35-2 record over 13 seasons. athletics Jack Swarbrick named Weis’ time leading his alma ma-Kelly brought Bob Diaco, de-Brian Kelly as the 29th football ter. fensive coordinator, and Charley coach in Notre Dame history. A secretive coaching search re-Molnar, offensive coordinator 
Weis held the reigns to the foot-sulted in the hiring of Kelly, fresh and quarterbacks coach, along ball program for five years, ac-off an undefeated regular season with him from Cincinnati to lead cumulating an overall record of at Cincinnati in his third year his coaching staff and reunited 35-27. After going 9-3 in his first with the Bearcats. with Chuck Martin, now defen­season and earning an appear-Previously, Kelly was the head sive backs coach, who took over ance in the Fiesta Bowl, Weis coach at Central Michigan for as head coach at Grand Valley was granted a 10-year contract three seasons, leading the Chip-State when Kelly left. 

Friday, May 18, 2012 The Observer u SPORTS page 33 | ndsmcobserver.com 
ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 

Irish reach championship game for second straight year 
By JOSEPH MONARDO “I think … it was key to our West Virginia.” 
Sports Writer season because it just, really, On Feb. 12, more than two gave us great confidence to and a half months after the Having reached the NCAA beat a ranked team on the road streak began, the Irish fell on championship game after a and to just know how poorly their home floor to the Moun­spectacular season, the Irish we played in the first half and taineers (24-10, 11-5 Big East), were on the verge of a win then to come back and play so 65-63. Irish junior guard Sky-that would have meant every-well,” Irish coach Muffet Mc-lar Diggins racked up 32 points thing to the program. It would Graw said. in the game and Irish gradu­have been the second national Novosel’s heroics began ate student forward Devereaux championship in program his-what would turn into a 21-Peters added 17 rebounds and tory, revenge for 2011’s title-game winning streak for the six blocks, but West Virgin-game loss to Texas A&M and Irish. During the second-lon-ia junior center Aysa Bussie a fitting conclusion for one of gest winning-streak in pro-notched 22 points and eight the best graduating classes in gram history, the Irish defeat-rebounds to lead the visiting 
school history. ed seven teams ranked in the team to victory. Instead, the No. 4 Irish (35-top 18, including four ranked After their first loss in 22 
4, 15-1 Big East) ended their in the top eight. Notre Dame games, the Irish concluded 
season on the wrong end of the blew out in-state rival No. 12 their regular season with four 
sport’s biggest night for the Purdue in West Lafayette, Ind., straight wins and secured the 
second straight year, falling to before handing No. 7 Kentucky first Big East regular-season 
Baylor 80-61 in the title game. a 92-83 loss, downing No. 2 title in school history with a After jumping into the na-Connecticut in overtime, dis-72-59 road victory over Con­
tional spotlight with last year’s posing of No. 18 Georgetown, necticut in the finale. 
run to the tournament’s final thrashing No. 7 Tennessee and “[The regular season title] 
round — a path that took them beating No. 13 Rutgers by 30 meant a lot because there were 
straight through top-seeds points. so many ranked teams in the 
Connecticut and Tennessee — During the streak the Irish conference this year,” McGraw 
the Irish opened the 2011-2012 held an average margin of said. “We had eight teams in 
season ranked second nation-victory of 32.3 points, but Mc-the [national] tournament and 
ally behind only No. 1 Baylor Graw said she knew her team to go through the league and 
(40-0, 18-0 Big 12). Hardly a was headed toward a loss. win as many games as we did 
week into the season, the na-“I think what happens when really was a remarkable ac­
tion’s top two teams had a you get on a win streak — and complishment for us.” 
chance to face off in the Pre-not everybody is fortunate As the top seeds in the con-
season WNIT Championship enough to [win] 21 in a row — ference tournament, the Irish 
in what would be a preview of but you get to a point where earned a rematch with the 
the season’s finale. Led by ju-there is almost a pressure Mountaineers in the Big East 
nior center Brittney Griner’s of winning every game,” she tournament semifinals. Notre 
32 points, 14 rebounds and six said. “You are trying to keep Dame avenged its loss from 
blocks, the Lady Bears took the the streak alive rather than several weeks earlier with a 

contest, 94-81, in Waco, Texas. just playing the game and hav-73-45 win and moved on to the Connecticut, the Irish entered cut the deficit to three just five Following the early-season ing fun, so I think it changed conference title game to face the NCAA tournament as a No. minutes into the second half. loss to Baylor the Irish man-our mental state a little bit. I the Huskies. The Irish were 1 seed and hosted opening-However, the Irish were un­aged to capture a tournament think we were a little not as unable to add their first ever round wins over Liberty and able to keep pace with Baylor title of their own at the Junka-relaxed going into games and Big East tournament title to California in Purcell Pavilion. in the second half as Brittney roo Jam in the Bahamas. Irish we started to shoot poorly and the season’s haul and instead Notre Dame easily moved past Griner finished with 26 points, senior guard Natalie Novosel we weren’t defending quite as finished as league runner-up St. Bonaventure and Maryland 13 rebounds and five blocks. hit a buzzer-beater in Notre well and we just kind of knew for the sixth time following in the next two rounds before Peters rode the bench for the Dame’s 56-54 win against No. that we were in for a letdown UConn’s 63-54 victory. facing off with conference Irish for much of the game, 8 Duke in the title game. and then it happened against Despite the late stumble to rival Connecticut — for the playing only 15 minutes due fourth time of the season — in to foul trouble, and Novosel the Final Four in Denver. scored only five points on 0-11 “It’s been a great rivalry. shooting. Diggins paced the It’s been a bit bitter at times, Irish with 20 points in the los-

I think where neither one of us ing effort. 
wants to lose,” McGraw said of Despite the disappointing 
her team’s encounters with the championship-game loss to the 
Huskies. “Certainly, the first Lady Bears, the Irish consider 
year for us to win the Big East their season to be a success. 
regular season outright, which “It was a great season, and I 
you would think we would think Baylor was the best team 
have done that before, and in the country going through 
Geno often says it’s tougher to the season undefeated,” Mc­
win the Big East than to win Graw said. “We wish we would 
the national title, and he might have played better and made 
be right about that … They just some shots and felt better 
have such a great program, so about our game and hang in 
when we do beat them, it defi-there, but it certainly doesn’t 
nitely means a lot to us.” take away from the success 
The Irish were able to win and the great things they ac-
their fourth game against Con-complished all season long.” 
necticut in five meetings with With the departures of Pe­
an 83-75 overtime win, but not ters, Novosel (both of whom 
before allowing Connecticut went in the first round of the 
junior center Stefanie Dolson WNBA draft in April), Mallory 
to dominate the paint early and senior guard Fraderica 
as she scored 12 first-half Miller, the Irish will rely heav­
points. The Irish entered half-ily on Diggins and sophomore 
time down three and carried a guard Kayla McBride as the 
modest lead throughout most only two returning starters 
of the second half, but nearly next season, McGraw said. 
lost their chance at returning “Next year we have a lot of 
to the championship game. holes to fill, with three start-
Up 65-59 with under three ers lost plus Fraderica Miller 
minutes remaining, the Irish who came off the bench to give 
failed to score as Connecticut us great minutes on the de­
put in seven-straight points to fensive side,” McGraw said. “I 
take a two-point lead with only think [defense] is what we are 
seconds remaining. Novosel’s going to miss the most. The 
put-back layup with 4.6 sec-best defender in the Big East in 
onds remaining sent the game Devereaux Peters, the team’s 
into overtime, where the Irish best defender on the perimeter 
ran away with the contest be-in Brittany Mallory and Frad­
hind Irish graduate student erica Miller, who was probably 
guard Brittany Mallory’s pair our next best defender, so our 
of 3-pointers. defense is going to have a lot 
In the title game, the Irish of shoes to fill. We really are struggled early and trailed going to look to the returning by as much as 14, but pulled players and then of course the to within six by halftime and incoming freshmen.” 



page 34 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u SPORTS Friday, May 18, 2012 
Notre Dame: 
Cross country teams both finish in top-25 of country; men’s track and field wins two Big East titles; men’s golf 
Observer Staff Report 
Cross Country 
Both the men’s and women’s squads concluded the season in Terre Haute, Ind., at the NCAA championships in November, where the men pulled off a 24th-place finish and the wom­en claimed the 22nd spot in the nation. 
“I think last season was the start of a new really strong era of cross country here at Notre Dame,” Irish junior Jessica Ry­dberg said. 
Irish men’s coach Joe Piane said the old cliché of judging a team by its finish and not its start proved to be true with the squad. 
“I think that we performed well,” Piane said. “We got to the national championship, which is always a goal.” 
Both team’s abilities to make a mark on the national stage is something that cannot go over­looked, Piane said. 
“Now, just to get to the NCAAs you have to be among the top­10 percent of all of the Division I teams in the country, so that’s an accomplishment in itself,” Piane said. 
Despite the strong perfor­mance and strong finish, to some extent, some felt like there was a certain untapped poten­tial. 
“I think the guys would tell you … that we could have run a little bit better,” Piane said. “But, I think we realize that this was great motivation for next year to do even better.” 
Irish junior Jeremy Rae echoed Piane’s sentiment. 
“We still improved in our per­formance from two years ago, but we still want to do a lot bet­ter than that,” Irish junior Jer­emy Rae said. “We need to do a whole lot better than that.” 
Of Notre Dame’s top five fin­ishers at the NCAA champion­ships, one only was a senior. Rae said the team has a lot of room for improvement. 
“Overall, we were a pretty young team, and I think we’re bringing everybody back with the exception of one person,” Rae said. “So it was kind of a rebuilding year. We should be whole a lot better, just looking at how our team will be next year.” 
Rydberg said the young wom­en’s squad made great strides in 2011. 
“I think we made a lot of very good improvements over the season,” Rydberg said. “We had a very young team and we took a lot of steps in the right direc­tion, so I think there are a lot of things we can improve on.” 
After a strong finish, the Irish are carrying momentum into the 2012 season after a success­ful 2011 provided crucial expe­rience for a young group. 
Track and Field 
In a season marked by excit­ing contributions from newcom­ers, improved performances from veterans and remarkable consistency, Notre Dame assert­ed itself as an elite contender on the national level. 
Behind the leadership of vet­eran coach Joe Piane and his staff, which was named Big East Men’s Coaching Staff of the Year, the Irish men’s team earned both Big East champi­onships, winning the indoor edition by 28 points in Febru­ary and capturing the outdoor championships by 53 points in early May. 
In addition to the in-confer­ence success, the Irish made a splash on the national scene in early March when the distance medley relay team of senior Johnathan Shawel, freshman Chris Giesting, senior Randall Babb and junior Jeremy Rae earned a victory at the NCAA Indoor Track and Field champi­onships, marking Notre Dame’s first indoor title since 1972. 
“Last year, we took fourth at nationals, and this year we won [the distance medley relay],” Rae said. “I don’t think we were that much better of a team, but we were a bit more experienced going into it and knew what to expect, which I think helped a lot. I think it was a combination of things, but, most importantly, it was more experience.” 
Rae and Giesting both set per­sonal records this season, with the former running the fourth fastest time nationally in the 1,500-meter event and the lat­ter breaking the school record in the 400-meter run en route to being named the Big East Men’s Most Outstanding Track Performer at the outdoor cham­pionships. Senior pole vaulter Kevin Schipper also earned ac­colades for finishing fourth at the indoor championships and capturing both the indoor and outdoor conference titles in the event. 
On the women’s side, the Irish saw vast improvement as the team earned a fourth-place finish at the Big East indoor championships and a runner-up finish at the outdoor cham­pionships. 
Junior Rebecca Tracy said the team’s improvement over last year’s 10th-place finish in the outdoor championships came as a result of greater team unity. 
“I think in the past year, we’ve done a much better job of com­ing together as a team,” Tracy said. “Before, we didn’t nec­essarily know who was doing what, but, this year, we’ve done a really great job of keeping up with how everyone’s doing in events other than our own. 
Tracy helped lead the Irish at the Big East champion­ships, capturing the title in the 1,500-meter event at the out­door championships and an­choring the team’s successful 4x800-meter relay squad to a second-place finish. 
Senior multi-event athlete Maddie Buttinger closed out her successful Irish career in grand fashion, breaking the school re­cord in the pentathlon en route to finishing third in the NCAA indoor championships. 
Rae, Tracy and several other Irish team members hope to put the final touches on a strong season when they compete in the NCAA East Preliminary championships, which will be held May 24-26 in Jacksonville, Fla. 
Men’s Golf 
In a season that saw members of the Irish golf program gar­ner impressive individual ac­colades, the team has a chance to advance to the NCAA cham­pionships, a feat no Irish squad has ever achieved. 
After a fall and spring season of competition and a Big East championship, the Irish, led by Big East Coach of the Year Jim Kubinski and Player of the Year senior Max Scodro, head to Ann Arbor, Mich., from May 17 to the 19 for the NCAA regional tour­nament. Kubinski attributed the team’s success to its gruel­ing schedule in the middle of the season. 
“We started the season well, but we got into a stretch where we really didn’t play our best golf at the end of the fall and beginning of the spring sea­son,” Kubinski said.  “We really took our lumps in March, but playing in the best tournaments in the Southeast was really key for us.” 
After finishing 12th, 16th and 13th respectively in March at the Schenkel Invitational in Statesboro, Ga., Linger Longer Invitational in Statesboro, Ga. and All American Intercolle­giate in Houston  Kubinski said his team’s psyche could have suffered. 
“I give all the credit to the guys for keeping their heads up during the rough stretches when we were really struggling to put up four solid scores,” Ku­binski said. “Golf is a game of confidence and momentum, and I think we’re trending in the right direction.” 
Kubinski’s optimism heading into the NCAA regional tourna­ment is a result of the team’s improved play over the past month, highlighted by victories in the Battle at the Warren at Notre Dame and the Big East championship in Orlando, Fla. The Irish beat out second-place Louisville by 16 strokes in a convincing victory for their sec­ond-straight conference cham­pionship. 
Of course, it also does not hurt to have the two-time Big East Golfer of the Year. Scodro dis­played impressive consistency over the fall and spring seasons, at one point placing in the top 25 in seven consecutive tourna­ments, a feat Kubinski said sets him apart from the rest of the Irish squad. 
“I’m amazed at Max’s consis­tency of good play,” Kubinski said. “Golf is an up-and-down game, but Max has been consis­tently this good for two years. We’re happy to have him now, but we’ll be watching him on TV in a couple years.” 
Scodro will headline the Irish lineup, as Notre Dame will com­pete against a field that features top-10 teams Oregon and South­ern California at the NCAA re­gionals.  The Irish need a fifth-place finish in the field of 13 to move on to the NCAA champi­onships. 
“We’re peaking at the right time,” Kubinski said. “We’re go­ing to do something we haven’t done before.” 
Women’s Golf 
Last season, the Irish placed fifth in the NCAA central region tournament and, for the first time, went to the NCAA tourna­ment where they finished 22nd overall. This year, under the leadership of Irish coach Susan Holt, Notre Dame ended the reg­ular season ranked 49th in the nation and took second place in the Big East tournament. 
Holt said the Big East tourna­ment ended in heartbreaking fashion for her squad. 
“It was definitely disappoint­ing losing by one stroke in the Big East tournament,” Holt said. “But we still made it to the re­gional tournament and we are playing well so far.” 
Holt compared the season and her team’s journey to that of an­other Irish squad. 
“We are a lot like the women’s basketball team,” Holt said. “We did not win the Big East tournament but we now have a shot at going to the NCAA tour­nament.” 
Senior captain Becca Huffer became the third golfer in pro­gram history to be named to the All-Big East team all four years of her collegiate career. For her career, she has averaged a round score of 75.17 strokes and this season has an average of 
75.27 strokes. 
“I have been coaching [at Notre Dame] for six years now and Becca has been an integral part of the team,” Holt said. “She was my first actual recruit here. She came to a northern school not known for golf and has performed very well since then. After Becca, our recruits have only got better and better.” 
Along with Huffer, sophomore Kristina Nhim was also named to the All-Big East team, her second selection to the squad. In her career, she has averaged 
76.59 strokes per round. 
Freshman Ashley Armstrong has made significant contribu­tions to the Irish in her rookie year, as she was honored as Big East Freshman of the Year and was also named to the All-Big East team. In the Big East tour­nament, Armstrong placed first after 72 holes and three playoff holes with a total score of 216. This season, Armstrong aver­aged 75.58 strokes per round. 
“Ashley is a fierce competitor who always has a shot to win,” Holt said. “She has performed extremely well for her first year and you can never count her out.” 
After one round, Notre Dame was in fourth place in the cen­tral region tournament at the Ohio State Scarlet Course in Co­lumbus, Ohio and looked poised to head back to the champion­ship, but the Irish struggled across the next two rounds and finished 15th, ending their sea­son short of capturing an NCAA tournament berth. 
Men’s Swimming 
This season contained a string of awards for the Irish, but for seven swimmers, it meant more than just plaques and trophies. The squad collected its fifth Big East Conference team title, Big East Coach of the Year for both swimming and diving and sent two swimmers to the NCAA championships for the first time in program history. 
Junior Bill Bass and sopho­more Frank Dyer extended the swimming season into the NCAA championships, earning a 28th-place finish for Notre Dame. Bass also earned the Most Outstanding Swimmer award at the Big East champi­onships. 
On the diving end, freshman Nick Nemetz carried the team to the NCAA championships, finishing 12th in the one-meter event. 
Irish swimming coach Tim Welsh and diving coach Caim­ing Xie continued the accolades for the squad, both earning Big East Coach of the Year awards for their respective sports. 
At Notre Dame’s end-of-year 
O.S.C.A.R.S. awards ceremo 


Friday, May 18, 2012 The Observer u SPORTS ndsmcobserver.com | page 35 
Year in Review 

advances to NCAA championships; men’s swimming claims conference title; fencing finishes third in NCAA 
ny, Dyer was named the Notre Dame Monogram Club MVP for swimming and diving and seniors Kevin Rahill and Jona­than Whitcomb received the Notre Dame Club of St. Joseph Valley Rockne Student-Athlete Award. 
The team will now bid fare­well to seven seniors. Ryan Belecanech, Conor Evans, Pe­tar Petrovic, Sean Rademaker, Rahill, Marshall Sherman and Whitcomb have spent the last four years together and now prepare to go their separate ways. 
The seniors look back on this season and the ones before it with fond thoughts. They re­member the finest moments of their Notre Dame career, espe­cially the conference champion­ships from this year and their freshmen year. 
Outside the championship memories, Rahill said the se­niors will miss the moments building up to the big wins. 
“I am going to miss the strong connections I have built with my teammates,” Rahill said. “To be in a team environment of daily competition, as well as motiva­tion, is something I will most likely never experience again.” 
When asked what advice they would give to incoming fresh­men on the team, the answer was an easy one. 
“Have fun every day and enjoy your time here because it does go by quickly,” Sherman said. 
Women’s Swimming 
For Notre Dame, this past season was full of personal growth and success in the pool. The six-month period of com­petition was capped up with top-five finishes in all its invita­tional meets. Irish coach Brian Barnes knows this season was one to remember for all its suc­cesses and hard work behind it. 
“There was so many high­lights and great things to take away from this wonderful sea­son,” Barnes said. “I am proud on how our girls performed all season. We brought the hard work from practice to the meets and [it] showed.” 
The Irish (5-5) concluded their season with a 22nd place finish at the NCAA champion­ships, the highest the Irish have finished in the last 11 years. The Irish finished second in both swimming and diving at the Big East championships and produced two All-Americans; freshman Emma Reaney and sophomore Kelly Ryan. 
“My favorite memory was this season was just seeing us putting girls on the podium at meets,” Barnes said. “You put so much time into the year and you gain so much out of it.” 
Reaney came into the NCAA championships seeded 10th in the 200-yard individual med­ley, improved by one slot in the morning session, and finished just 0.16 seconds out of eighth place, an automatic All-Ameri­ca scroll. She became the first Irish swimmer to earn All-America honors since Saman­tha Maxwell in 2010. She is also the first Irish freshman to earn those accolades since Katie Carroll in 2004. 
“From this season, I have learned that you never know for sure what your limits really are,” Reaney said. “Just when you think you’ve gone the fast­est time you ever could, if you keep working hard, there’s no saying how much time you can shave off.” 
Reaney also lowered the Irish 200-yard individual medley re­cord from 2:00.09 to 1:55.67 with her NCAA effort. She was three-time Big East Swimmer of the Week, the 2011-2012 MVP and a four-time Big East cham­pion in the 400-yard freestyle relay, 200-yard individual med­ley, and 100-yard breaststroke, as well as the Big East cham­pionships record-holder in the 200-yard individual medley. 
“I need to make sure to keep pushing myself and not let­ting myself be satisfied with anything,” Reaney said. “Next season can be better as long as push myself to its highest poten­tial.” 
Barnes said Reaney taking five seconds off the school re­cord in the 200-yard individual medley was an amazing part of the season. 
“She worked so hard this season to get where she is at,” Barnes said. “Taking five sec­onds off the record is an out­standing accomplishment and it was just fascinating to watch and be a part of.” 
Junior diver Jenny Chiang qualified for the NCAA champi­onships for the first time in her collegiate career and placed first for the third consecutive year on the three-meter board at the Big East championships. 
“I think my favorite memory from this season would prob­ably have to be watching my teammates perform at our Big East conference champion­ship,” Chiang said. “Since our team was mostly compromised of freshmen, it was awesome to see them not only compete in their first big conference meet, but also do incredibly well.” 
Barnes knows if this season was any indicator, next year will be even better and hope­fully yield even stronger results. 
“This year’s team was a lit­tle different in that we has an incredible, determined team spirit,” Barnes said. “We have a young team and I am enthusias­tic and encouraged for an excit­ing future.” 
Fencing 
Despite losing its top four fencers to Olympic training and trials, Notre Dame still cap­tured a third-place finish at the NCAA championships and sec­ond place at the Big East tour­nament. 
“It was a very strong and good performance, taking into con­sideration that we did not have our top fencers competing with the team,” Irish coach Janusz Bednarski said. 
The Irish were without foil competitors Gerek Meinhardt and Ariel DeSmet and epee com­petitors Ewa Nelip and Court­ney Hurley. All of them took the year off from collegiate fencing to pursue a spot in the 2012 Olympics in London. Meinhardt and Hurley have both qualified for the Games. 
As a result, several fencers had to assume the role of lead­ers that was vacated by gradu­ating seniors and athletes pur­suing Olympic dreams. Notre Dame quickly developed a strong culture and turned that into the key to its success. 
“We had a lot of freshmen who were strong, and we had of course several seniors who were leading our team,” Bed­narski said. “That’s one of the reasons that the season went very well. There were great re­lations between upperclassmen and freshmen.” 
The transition from club fenc­ing and amateur fencing to col­legiate fencing can be a tough one, Bednarski said. But the strong group of upperclassmen leaders on the team made it a smooth one for this year’s un­derclassmen. 
“Freshmen usually seem very lost when they are coming here,” Bednarski said. “Usually it’s an individual sport. So if someone is coming, it’s a rival. Rivalry is one thing that is very common in fencing.” 
But Notre Dame was able to take intrasquad competition and turn it into a force for im­provement and for camarade­rie, he said. 
“Often in a team competi­tion, you have a friendship, you have better relations,” Bednar­ski said. “Upperclassmen did a great job helping the freshmen get to a level which would they would not have been able to get to. It was not easy. Rivalry be­tween each other can be a good thing if it is done in a friendly way.” 
The Irish won the 2011 na­tional championship and want­ed nothing more than to de­fend their crown and repeat as champions. But, the combina­tion of the relative youth of this year’s squad, the loss of the top competitors and the strength of this year’s field made the pur­suit of that goal an insurmount­able obstacle. 
Last year Hurley, Meinhardt and DeSmet were all NCAA gold medalists. This year, se­nior foil Enzo Castellani made first-team All-American. In the final NCAA standings, Notre Dame finished one point behind Princeton and 22 points behind Ohio State to finish third in the national tournament. 
Another obstacle Notre Dame had to conquer was an ab­normal practicing surface. Its strips were actually shorter than those used in competition, which made preparing to face the stiffest competition in the nation even more difficult. 
“Fortunately, we are moving to the bigger space,” Bednarski said. “Our mats previously were too short. We were practicing in a very hard environment, as well as without the comfort of lockers. Like for basketball, it would be like playing on a half court, or with baskets lower than usual.” 
If the performance of this year’s young squad is any in­dicator, the Irish have a strong chance of returning to the med­al stand next season. 
“[In the future] the practices will be in the same environment that [the fencers] will be in dur­ing the competitions,” Bednar­ski said. “This will help to speed up the process of improvement. In addition, we will also have a very good team of coaches who will be working together. I be­lieve the fencing will be a very strong program in the coming years.” 
Rowing 
The Irish capped off a suc­cessful season with their ninth consecutive Big East champion­ship. The team has since been selected for the NCAA champi­onships. 
From the start of the season, the Irish have competed at a high level against tough teams. But as the season went along and competition became stiffer, Notre Dame responded with constant improvement. 
“Over the course of the sea­son, we’ve made progress and I think we’ve evolved,” Irish coach Martin Stone said. “I think we’ve been getting faster as we have gone through the season.” 
To open the season, Notre Dame headed to the Oak Ridge Invitational and competed against ranked teams Louis­ville, Tennessee and No. 1 Vir­ginia. The Irish won ten races in the regatta and set the pace for the season. 
“Overall, I think the team had a great start to the season,” junior Abby Meyers said. “We raced well against some tough competition and individual boats gained a lot of valuable experience racing together.” 
Like the beginning of the sea­son, Notre Dame finished out the season by dominating two regattas. First, the Irish closed out the regular season by win­ning every race in the Big East Invitational. The team even won every Grand Final races for the varsity eight, varsity four, and second varsity eight. 
“The Big East Invite was a good measure and it gave us some confidence because we did well,” Stone said. 
The Irish then opened their postseason with their ninth consecutive Big East champion­ship. The team won five out of six Grand Final races, includ­ing the second varsity eight and varsity eight races. 
“My favorite part of the year was definitely this past week­end winning first place in the Varsity Eight at Big East cham­pionships,” Meyers said. “That win took a lot of hard work and preparation starting back in September and through finals week. I just remember shouting ‘Champions!’ at some point be­fore crossing the finish line. It was such a great feeling.” 
The team earned a 14-point victory over Syracuse that cata­pulted Stone and the coaching staff to be named as the Big East Coaching Staff of the Year. Sophomore Olivia Kascits, ju­nior Stephanie O’Neill, and se­nior Morgan Kelley were named to the first team All-Big East, while sophomore Courtney Ga­berino and freshmen Erin Box­berger and Ailish Sheehan were named to the second team. 
“Winning the Big East cham­pionships this year was a blast. It was such a great moment for our whole team,” Meyers said. “We’ve worked really hard this year, and for that work to pay off was a great experience” 
On Tuesday, Notre Dame learned they were selected to compete in the NCAA champi­onships, which will be held May 25 to 27 in West Windsor, N.J. 
“Getting a chance to compete at the NCAA championships would be unreal. It would be such a great opportunity for this year’s team to show the rest of the rowing world just how fast we are,” Meyers said. “My teammates and I would love the opportunity to rep­resent the University of Notre Dame proudly at such a presti­gious event.” 


page 36 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u CLASSIFIEDS Friday, May 18, 2012 
HOCKEY 

Preseason No. 1 Irish miss out on NCAA tournament 
By MATTHEW DeFRANKS 
Associate Sports Editor 
The Irish had everything during the 2011-12 season 
— a new arena, a conference change, a new television deal, a preseason No. 1 ranking — except an NCAA tournament bid. 
A year after advancing to the Frozen Four, Notre Dame (19-18-3, 12-13-3-0 CCHA) failed to live up to lofty pre­season expectations in a lackluster year highlighted by the opening of the Comp­ton Family Ice Arena. 
The Irish returned sopho­more center T.J. Tynan and sophomore left wing Anders Lee to a squad that also had its top two goaltenders back for another year. Notre Dame, because of the wealth of play­ers returning, was tabbed as the preseason No. 1 team in the country. Irish coach Jeff Jackson said the added bur­den could have contributed to the overall performance. 
“The pressure they put on themselves certainly caused some issues from goaltend­ing to goal-scoring,” Jackson said. 
Notre Dame played just two regular season games in its old home — the Joyce Center 
— before moving to the new Compton Family Ice Arena. The Irish beat RPI 5-2 in the inaugural game at the facility behind Lee’s hat trick as a ca­pacity crowd of 5,022 packed the arena. 
“It was incredible,” Jackson said. “The amenities are one thing but the overall crowd in this building is great.” 
The Irish won their first five New York Rangers rookie Chris Kreider. 
“It just shows you the level of talent they had on their team,” Jackson said. “There’s a lot of great players in Bos­ton College hockey and once they get the opportunity to show what they’re capable of, they’re great. Kreider was a tremendous player when he played against us and had a great career. 
“It’s an indication of the level of college hockey but it also shows the talent level of Boston College.” 
While the Irish were able to beat elite teams like Bos­ton College, Boston Universi­ty and Minnesota, they were unable to capture weekend sweeps of CCHA bottom-feeders Alaska and Bowling Green. 
In a decisive two-week stretch in February, Notre Dame dropped five games in a row by a combined score of 21-4. The Irish dropped out of the top-16 teams in the Pair-Wise rankings (that decide the NCAA tournament field) and made the rest of the sea­son an uphill battle. 
“We had a lot of different issues going on, some of it was goaltending, some of it was goal-scoring,” Jackson said. “I think that’s when the pressure of the expectations got to us. 
“When we had a little ad­versity, we eventually got it but we had two or three game we could have won and those were the same games we were winning earlier in the year. We just have to focus on 
consistency 
if we’re going 
to be a great 
program.” 
After dis-
games in the new build­ing, capped by an exhil­arating 3-2 overtime win over then­ “I have high expectations for us every year and next year will be no different [...] We have the talent to be a very good hockey team.”  posing of f o r mer -N o . 1 Ohio State in the first round of the CCHA play­offs with a  
No. 3 Boston  t w o -g a m e  
College high- Jeff Jackson  sweep,  the  
lighted by a goal from  Irish coach  Irish headed to Ann Ar- 
Irish  sopho­ bor, Mich., to  
more  right  take on the  
wing  Bryan  Wol v er i ne s  
Rust  with  in the second  
just 1.1 sec- round.  Mich­ 

onds remaining in the game. igan and Notre Dame split 
The victory over the Eagles the season series when the held a special meaning for two teams played at Comp-many people in attendance ton Family Ice Arena in late as well. Dubbed the “Dedica-January. tion Game,” many donors that In the first game, Irish made Compton Family Ice sophomore goaltender Ste-Arena possible were in the ven Summerhays — who took building. the starting job from junior 
Boston College went on to goaltender Mike Johnson late win the national champion-in the season — stopped 40 ship in April, led by current Michigan shots during Notre Dame’s 2-1 double-overtime defeat. Summerhays saved 14 shots in the first overtime alone. Jackson said a differ­ent outcome in that game could have shifted their en­tire season. 


“You never know,” Jackson said. “He played really well and their goaltender played really well too. It was a battle of goaltending. There were plenty of goal-scoring chanc­es. One shot was probably the difference between our sea­son being a good one or a bad one.” 
The next night, the Irish could not rebound from the loss and dropped a 3-1 deci­sion, ending their season. 
Jackson said, despite the disappointing finish, one positive was the play of Sum­merhays. 
“Based on the finish he had, he finished as our No. 1 guy so as long as he has a great summer, he’ll start as our No. 1 guy,” Jackson said. “We certainly know we have a [No.] 1A in Mike Johnson.” 
While the Irish again return their top two netminders, they lose three key contribu­tors in senior defenseman Sean Lorenz, senior center Billy Maday and junior center Riley Sheahan. Lorenz will graduate this May and has al­ready signed a deal with the Houston Aeros, an affiliate of the Minnesota Wild. Sheahan decided to forgo his senior season and sign a contract with the Detroit Red Wings. 
Jackson said replacing the trio next year will be diffi­cult. 
“You don’t replace them, you have to hope some young­er guys step up and fill roles,” Jackson said. “We’ve got a number of sophomores all with the potential to move forward and hopefully have a really consistent and healthy year out of [sophomore left wing] Jeff Costello and [ju­nior left wing] Nick Larson.” 
Even before the first puck was dropped, the Irish made news by announcing their in­tentions to move to Hockey East in 2013-14 after spend­ing 13 years in the Central Collegiate Hockey Associa­tion (CCHA). Due to the con­ference switch, the Irish will now have more games tele­vised on the NBC Sports Net­work. 
The Irish will join peren­nial powers Boston College and Boston University after spending one more season in the CCHA. Irish coach Jeff Jackson said he hopes the fi­nal season is a good one for the CCHA. 
“Hopefully, it’s a celebra­tion of a great conference,” Jackson said. “A lot of great players, great coaches have been part of this conference for the last I don’t know how many years. It’s kind of sad to see it happen.” 
Last year, the CCHA placed five teams in the 16-team NCAA tournament field and Jackson said next season should be more of the same. 
“I think, just like this past year, the conference will be as strong as it’s ever been, maybe even stronger than this past year,” Jackson said. “It’s a real tribute to the schools in this conference.” 
Next year, the Irish will welcome in a highly-touted freshman class to comple­ment their talented roster.
 “I have high expectations for us every year and next year will be no different,” Jackson said. “We need to improve our game. I think we need to be better defensively and get better in transition. We need to do the little things like getting pucks to the net. We need to keep the game simple and just focus on the details. We have the talent to be a very good hockey team.” 
Contact Matthew DeFranks at mdefrank@nd.edu 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The 
Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
PERSONAL 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don’t go it alone. Notre Dame has many resources in place to assist you. If you or someone you 
love needs confidential support 
or assistance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819. For more information, visit ND’s website at: http://pregnancysupport@nd.edu 
For all your outdoor services call Green Thumb Landscaping, Inc. At 574-309-8517.Excellent References, Fully Insured, and Reasonable Rates. 
THE ROAD NOT TAKEN 
BY ROBERT FROST Two roads diverged in a yellow wood, 
And sorry I could not travel both 
And be one traveler, long I stood 
And looked down one as far as I could 
To where it bent in the undergrowth; 

Then took the other, as just as fair, 
And having perhaps the better claim 
Because it was grassy and wanted wear, 
Though as for that the passing there 
Had worn them really about the same, 
And both that morning equally lay 
In leaves no step had trodden black. 
Oh, I marked the first for another 
day! 
Yet knowing how way leads on to way 
I doubted if I should ever come back. 
I shall be telling this with a sigh 
Somewhere ages and ages hence: 
Two roads diverged in a wood, and I, 
I took the one less traveled by, And that has made all the difference. 

Friday, May 18, 2012 The Observer u SPORTS ndsmcobserver.com | page 37 
WOMEN’S LACROSSE 
Halfpenny leads team to NCAAs 
By JACK HEFFERON games.” Sports Writer The Irish then hit a wall 
in their schedule, facing off Change to believe in. against their two toughest Big Whether in offense, defense East foes in a span of three 
or attitude, change was made days. A 17-11 loss to Loyola in every facet of the program was followed by a 16-10 loss to during Irish coach Christine Syracuse, and suddenly Notre Halfpenny’s first season at Dame’s momentum was halt-Notre Dame. Notre Dame (13-ed. 5, 6-2 Big East) quickly bought However, Halfpenny said into its new coach’s system, that the team used the losses, 
and the team  learning how  
returned  to  to play win- 
the NCAA tou r na ment for the first time in two years as a re­sult. W h e n  “To come up just short just gets you more motivated. We’re looking forward to more improvement. Hopefully we’ll have a little bit  ning lacrosse in the pro­cess. “It was d e f i n i t e l y tough, be­cause I think  
H a l f p en ny arrived on  more understanding of the system.”  that showed us that next  
campus  last  level of com- 
summer, she had only a  Christine Halfpenny Irish coach  petition,” she said. “I think  

few months to implement her high-motion offense, aggressive de­fense and positive energy with the team. Her players began to grasp the system as the fall wore into spring and squeezed out a 17-14 win in their opener against Stanford. 
The team continued to im­prove one game at a time and jumped out to No. 6 ranking with an 8-0 start to the sea­son — its best start in nearly a decade. 
“We just allowed our hard work to take care of the big picture,” Halfpenny said. “We found ourselves, and it was like, ‘Wow, we’re 3-0 out of no­where,’ then ‘Oh, all the sud­den we’re 5-0.’ So that was re­ally neat, to find ourselves and be in that position after eight that showed 
us that if you 
meet some adversity in the middle of a game that you have to move on to the next play … We learned a lot of lessons from those games, and I think they helped us grow as a program.” 
The team bounced back from those defeats, gritting their way to a number of tight victories behind their senior leaders. Senior attack Maggie Tamasitis was the pivot of the team’s new offense, breaking multiple team and conference records through her passing acumen and offensive vision. Senior midfielders Megan Sul­livan and Kate Newall and se­nior defender Jordy Shoemak­er helped shore up the Irish defensively, allowing just 8.3 goals per game in their last six regular season games – losing only to No. 1 Northwestern, 17­7, in that span. The final note to the season was a resound­ing one, as the Irish drubbed Cincinnati 22-2 on Senior Day. 
“We were able to respond to those conference losses right out of the gate, and then to culminate the season against Cincinnati on Senior Day was something really special,” Halfpenny said. “Seeing ev­ery single senior out there and knowing that they were a part of such a big change and a new era and have paved the way for the future, that was fantastic.” 
The postseason was not as kind to the Irish, as they lost once again to Loyola in the conference tournament before bowing out to Northwestern in the NCAAs. However, the team played both elite opponents much tighter in their second matchup, losing by just two to Loyola, while keeping North­western within three goals until the final seconds. 
That progress, combined with the team’s returning tal­ent and incoming freshmen, has Halfpenny excited for next season. 
“To come up just short just gets you more motivated,” she said. “We’re looking forward to more improvement. Hope­fully we’ll have a little bit more understanding of the system. 
“We have some great players coming back, plus ten experi­enced freshmen ready to move in in August. We’re definitely looking forward to some more exciting games and another strong push in May in 2013.” 
Contact Jack Hefferon at wheffero@nd.edu 
ND VOLLEYBALL 
Irish miss tournament, finish fourth in Big East 


By CONOR KELLY 
Sports Writer 
Debbie Brown considers earn­ing a berth in the NCAA tour­nament the benchmark of her team’s success, so despite a sec-ond-place finish in the Big East tournament, the Irish coach has to consider the 2011 season a disappointment. 
“Every year we expect to make the NCAA tournament, and we’re obviously disap­pointed that we failed to do so,” Brown said of her team that fin­ished fourth in the Big East with an 8-6 record. “I think we were very good in some areas, but we ultimately [fell] short of our own lofty expectations.” 
The Irish were hampered by a sluggish early and middle portion of the season in which the team lost three in a row to Cincinnati, Louisville and Pitts­burgh in September and Octo­ber. 
Despite a three-game win­ning streak to end the year that catapulted the Irish into fourth place, the slow start meant the team needed a conference championship to move on to NCAA tournament. 
And they almost got it. 
The Irish moved past Syra­cuse 3-1 before upsetting Louis­ville by the same score. Facing top-ranked and 12-2 Cincinnati, Notre Dame fell 3-0, not losing a set by more than four points and taking the Bearcats to overtime in the final set. 
“We really got better as the season went on. At the end of the season we weren’t making all the unforced errors we were at the beginning,” Brown said. “We really dug ourselves a hole with our play in the middle of the year, but I was happy with our little run through the Big East.” 
To pilot such a young group — the team consisted of only two seniors and a pair of juniors — Brown relied on the steady play and leadership of senior cap­tains Kristen Dealy and Frenchy Silva. The Southern Californian duo finished impressive careers with productive senior seasons, both eclipsing 1,000 digs over four years while Dealy recorded more than 1,000 kills. 
“It was the type of deal where we couldn’t afford not to have them on the court,” Brown said. “Their game was phenomenal the entire year. Their experience was key, and on and off the court they did a fantastic job of lead­ing the team.” 
Dealy underwent shoulder surgery in the spring, and put in gutsy performance after gutsy performance as she gained strength in her hitting arm throughout the year. 
“Kristen is one of the most versatile players in the country,” Brown said. “It’s very rare to have a player record both 1,000 digs and 1,000 kills in a season. That mix of offense and defense is very special. Even when her shoulder wasn’t 100 percent, she found ways to make an impact and her hitting got much more powerful as the season went on.” 
Under the leadership of Silva and Dealy, Brown saw the de­velopment and maturation of a talented freshman class, high­lighted by right side hitters Toni Alugbue and Jeni Houser. Hous­er led the team with 320 kills, and Algubue finished first on the squad with 98 blocks. 
The 12 returning players, combined with the incoming freshmen class, have Brown ex­cited about 2012. 
“We’re really optimistic again for the coming year,” Brown said. “Individually and as a team we’ve made big strides, and we’re really excited about the freshmen next year. We always set our goals high.” 
Contact Conor Kelly at ckelly17@nd.edu 

page 38 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u SPORTS Friday, May 18, 2012 
MEN’S SOCCER 
Irish stumble late, miss NCAA tourney 

By JOSEPH MONARDO     
Sports Writer 
They spent time ranked in the top-10 nationally, they posted six shutouts, they sent three players to Major League Soccer and they played some of the best soccer Irish coach Bobby Clark said he has seen in his 11 years at Notre Dame. But the 2011 installment of the Irish, despite all its talent and sometimes spectacular play, failed to qualify for the NCAA tournament after los­ing in the first round of the Big East tournament. 
“At the end of the day, [the ac­colades] matter,” Clark said. “You don’t get a lot of points in soccer for style. It’s not gymnastics. You’ve got to win your games, and at the end of the day we didn’t do enough of that.” 
The No. 9 Irish (9-5-4, 5-3-1 Big East) opened the season with a scoreless draw at home with No. 15 Indiana before picking up one win, one loss and one tie in their next three games. Then the Irish, sitting at 1-2-1 on the season, embarked on a four-game winning streak in which they captured every decision with a one-goal advantage. In the final game of the streak the Irish earned their most high-profile win of the season with a 1-0 defeat of No. 3 Louisville at Notre Dame. 
“It was a good win, but to be hon­est with you, I hate to say it, but I think we felt we should be able to take on any team at Alumni Sta­dium,” Clark said. “Louisville is a very good team, and we played so many good teams on our schedule. It was a good win, but I don’t think we were completely surprised by it.” 
After climbing back into top-10 with the defeat of the Cardinals, the Irish endured a four-game winless streak in which they fell to St. John’s in double-overtime and played Northwestern and No. 1 Connecticut to ties in back-to-back double-overtime games before dropping a decision to Marquette. 
The Irish were able to record victories in four of their final five contests and earn a No. 4 seed in the conference tournament, but the inability to consistently win close games ultimately defined Notre Dame’s season. The Irish failed to advance in the Big East tourna­ment, falling 1-0 to Villanova, and found themselves outside of the field of 48 for the NCAA tourna­ment. 
“It was a disappointing finish, a funny way to [end] the season, even though we finished 20th in the final rankings … Somehow, we weren’t able to deliver when it counted,” Clark said. “We played well, but we didn’t deliver. There were a lot of games … We somehow found ways to lose.” 
Still, despite the disappointing fi­nal result, Clark said he thinks this year’s team would have performed well in the national tournament had they qualified. 
“We played very well — it was no question one of the best playing teams I have ever had the pleasure of coaching at Notre Dame, they maybe played the best soccer,” he said. 
“I was really proud of last year’s team because they played some su­perb soccer. But at the same time I felt sorry for the boys because I felt that had this team gone into the tournament, we could have done some serious damage.” 
Having lost a host of starters to graduation, including MLS-bound former Irish defenders Aaron Maund and Greg Klazura and midfielder Brendan King, the Irish have plenty of holes to fill as they try to return to the NCAA tourna­ment. Several spring exhibition games, including a 1-0 loss to the Mexico U-20 National team, pro­vided an early glimpse of hope for the Irish. 
“I always say, if you are a good team — and we were a good team 
— you are always going to be grad­uating good players,” Clark said. “I think we looked promising in the spring, but we will find that out in the fall.” 
Contact Joseph Monardo at                jmonardo@nd.edu 

ND WOMEN’S SOCCER 
National title defense falls short 
By MEGAN GOLDEN 
Sports Writer 

Just one year after winning the program’s third national championship, Notre Dame struggled through a season marred by frustration as the ball never seemed to bounce in its favor. 
The Irish (10-8-3, 6-3-2 Big East) opened the season ranked as the top team in the country, but early losses quickly altered Notre Dame’s hopeful season. 
“It’s one of disappoint­ment in terms of how we fin­ished and how we competed throughout the year,” Irish coach Randy Waldrum said. “By our standards, we’ve been so good we’ve always gone into every season think­ing, ‘If we don’t make it to the College Cup Final Four, we’ve had a disappointing year.’” 
Within the first week of the season, the Irish competed in the Carolina Classic in Cha­pel Hill, N.C., on Aug. 26-28 and fell to both No. 3 North Carolina and No. 10 Duke. Notre Dame was outscored 5-2 that weekend but still be­lieved it was one of the coun­try’s best teams. 
The Irish picked up two wins at home before travel­ing to the West Coast Sept. 9 with a 3-2 record. Notre Dame lost 2-1 to No. 2 Stan­ford, blowing a 1-0 lead in the last 10 minutes of the game. The Irish ended the weekend road trip with a 1-1 tie at No. 17 Santa Clara. 
“You’re still optimistic be­cause you’re playing the top teams in the country, but it just seemed to kind of snow­ball from there,” Waldrum said. 
Notre Dame’s senior lead­ership in forward Melissa Henderson, midfielder Court­ney Barg and defender Jes­sica Schuveiller struggled to keep the team motivated, Waldrum said. 
Barg had injured her foot just four games into the season, Henderson attempt­ed to lead by example and Schuveiller — naturally the “voice” of this team — even-tually lost reach of her team­mates as the team’s losses piled up, Waldrum said. 

“She was trying to make sure players were taking care of classwork and not be­ing at places they shouldn’t be and doing the things you need to have a committed team,” he said. “Late in the year, she got to a point where she was like, ‘I’ve done all I can. I feel like I’m now not a leader but just a nagging mother.’” 
Schuveiller said it was dif­ficult for the team to match the intensity level of their op­ponents. 
“The season consisted of frustration, and we were just not figuring out why we weren’t producing,” she said. “Anytime you win a national championship, coming in next year you have a target on your back, and you get ev­eryone’s best game.” 
While Notre Dame qualifed for the Big East tournament and the NCAA tournament, it endured a first-round exit following a 1-0 loss to Illinois in the NCAA tournament that was difficult to swallow for a senior class that had ap­peared in three Final Fours in as many years. 
“It’s hard looking back on it,” Schuveiller said. “With five minutes left it kind of sunk in that this might be my final game.” 
Waldrum said his team has learned from the season’s challenges. 
“You can’t take for granted that just because we put on the shirt that says ‘Irish’ that we’re going to win,” Wal­drum said. “We’ve seen some steps in the right direction this spring. I think we’ll be back to where you’re used to seeing us this year.” 
Contact Megan Golden at mgolde01@saintmarys.edu 


Friday, May 18, 2012 The Observer u SPORTS ndsmcobserver.com | page 39 
Saint Mary’s: Year in Review 
Soccer reaches double-digit win total; Volleyball improve on 2010 marks; Golf wins MIAA title 
Observer Staff Report 
Soccer 
Under the direction of Belles coach Michael Joyce, Saint Mary’s finished 10-10, marking the first time they eclipsed the five-win pla­teau for the first time since 2005. The season was highlighted by a win over Hope on Nov. 1. 
Joyce said the most successful result of the season was reaching the .500 mark, especially after fin­ishing 2010 at 3-16. 
“Working your way up to being a successful program is not easy,” Joyce said. “Turning losses into wins is not easy, so to come out and improve like we did was fantastic.” 
The season started off in stellar fashion, as the Belles snatched five straight wins, their best start to a season since 1992, and grabbed the Defiance Classic title. The Belles hit a rough patch after that, winning only two of their next 11 games, but they rallied toward the conclusion of the season and man­aged to finish strong. 
Joyce, wrapping up his second season as Belles head coach, said that even their losses were hard fought, giving him hope for 2012 competition. 
Volleyball 
For Saint Mary’s, numbers don’t tell the whole story of its 2011 cam­paign. 
Balanced contributions from veterans and a strong freshman class helped the Belles (8-17, 6-10 MIAA) stay competitive in the MIAA. Freshman outside hitter Kati Schneider, junior outside hit­ter Stephanie Bodien and junior middle hitter Allison Zandarski each finished the season averaging more than two kills per set. Defen­sively, the team’s lone senior, libero Meghann Rose, led the way with more than four digs per set. 
Rose, who captained the team with Brink, was an integral part of the Belles’ achievements in 2011. 
“Meg Rose was the only senior we had this year,” Belles coach Toni Kuschel said. “She made the all-conference team and was very vital to this year’s success. She leaves very big shoes to fill as a four-year starting libero.” 
The Belles faced some tough competition in the fall, and started their home campaign against con­ference foe and No. 1-ranked Cal­vin, the defending national cham­pions. Although Saint Mary’s was swept 3-0 in that game, its gritty play proved it was going to be a tough competitor against any team it faced. 
“We always feel that everyone in our conference is so strong,” Kus­chel said. “If we want to continue to climb in the conference standings, it’s going to take a lot of hard work and commitment from our team this summer.” 
The Belles made a significant impact on the MIAA conference this past fall, as they improved from 2010 to 2011 in several cat­egories. They increased their total kills, attack percentage, kills per set, assists, aces and digs. 
Golf 
It was a tale of two seasons for Saint Mary’s, as the Belles en­hanced their roster between the fall and spring semesters and won the MIAA  championship, and ad­vanced to the NCAA tournament. 
“Our goal coming in was a con­ference championship and in the fall we failed to do that, but in the spring came back and responded well,” Belles coach Mark Hamil­ton said. “We played hard with the players we had in the fall and we came relatively close, but in the spring we realigned our goals and our next step was to finish to close to the top of the standings in the conference.” 
In the fall season, the Belles placed third in the MIAA tourna­ment behind Olivet and Hope. Saint Mary’s senior captain Natalie Ma­tuszak earned first-team MIAA recognition with a score of 82 in the final round of the conference tournament.  Hamilton said Ma­tuszak, along with fellow senior captain Christine Brown, brought invaluable experience to the team this year. 
“They have been here forever, and they have seen a lot and been in a lot of golf tournaments,” Ham­ilton said. “They have been in the NCAA championships four consec­utive years and I don’t think that many other people have done that.” 
After the third-place conference finish in the fall, the Belles looked to build off their performance and win the conference tournament. After a number of strong tune-up contests, the Belles traveled to play in the three-day MIAA tourna­ment. 
Low scores from sophomores Doyle O’Brien and Paige Pollak gave Saint Mary’s a large enough cushion to win the MIAA tourna­ment and earn a spot in the NCAA championship at the Zollner Golf Course in Angola, Ind. The Belles fell short of their goal with a 15th­place finish, but did end the tour­nament with a cumulative score of 1,304, the best four-day score in Saint Mary’s history. 
Basketball 
In a season filled with ups and downs, Saint Mary’s ultimately ac­complished the goal it set for itself at the beginning of the season. The Belles overcame much adversity, leading to a fourth-place MIAA finish, which was good enough to earn a berth in the conference tournament. 
“Looking back on the season, I am very proud of what this team accomplished,” Belles coach Jen­nifer Henley said. “We played our toughest schedule in over six years, facing several top-25 teams.” 
Saint Mary’s struggled early in the season, falling to 3-7 after its first 10 games. But gradually, the Belles were able to turn their sea­son around, winning consecutive conference games against Kalam­azoo, Alma and Trine to bring their conference record back to 5-5. 
After a long season of twists and turns, the Belles were able to move their overall record over .500 with a 68-43 home win over Alma. This put Saint Mary’s record at 12-11 (8-6 MIAA) and clinched a playoff spot for the Belles. 
“Towards the end of the season, we were playing our best basket­ball and we accomplished one of our goals and made it to the MIAA tournament,” Henley said. 
Saint Mary’s was led this season by its core group of seniors. Seniors forward Jessica Centa, forward Kelley Murphy and guard Patsy Mahoney all earned All-MIAA honors for the Belles, while senior guards Maggie Ronan and Katie Sullivan also played large roles in the team’s success. 
“It will be sad to say goodbye to my five seniors,” Henley said. “They have certainly laid the foun­dation for our program and pushed it to a new level over the past four years. I will miss them all.” 
The Belles ended their season with a loss to top-ranked Calvin in the MIAA tournament. The team finished with an even 13-13 record overall, while going 9-7 in confer­ence play. 
Softball 
While the Belles did not achieve the end goal of an MIAA tour­nament title, the journey to that point was one of the more memo­rable ones in program history. The Belles tied a school-record with 27 regular-season wins and earned a dramatic senior day win against Alma to qualify for the MIAA tour­nament. 
“We had three main goals enter­ing the season,” Belles coach Erin Sullivan said. “First, we wanted to win more than 20 games. Second, we strove to qualify for the MIAA tournament [with a top four fin­ish in the conference]. Finally, we sought to become a balanced and cohesive team.” 
The Belles lacked one standout offensive player but compensated with depth. Seven players finished the campaign with averages above .300, led by senior Kristen Nelson who batted .369. 
“I’ve never had a team that was as dependent on each other as this one,” Sullivan said. “Someone new each game stepped up and carried us.” 
The Belles started with a 9-1 trip to Florida before Saint Mary’s closed its campaign by winning five of their last six MIAA games to finish 10-6 in conference and 27­11 overall. No win, however, was more dramatic than the walk-off 2-1 victory against Alma on Senior Day. 
“We’ve never had so many se­niors, and they totally understood our team culture,” Sullivan said. “We won because we had fun to­gether and fed off of each other’s positive energy.” 
Swimming 
Despite being undermanned throughout the season, the Belles exhibited great perseverance and determination as they pushed through a grueling MIAA slate during the 2011-2012 season. 
The Belles struggled early, but they finally broke through with their first victory in their fourth meet of the season against Defi­ance. The victory marked the first win in a dual meet for Saint Mary’s since the 2008-2009 season. 
Senior captain Audrey Dal­rymple, who was named to the 2012 All-MIAA team, said she was proud of the team’s effort and at­titude during the season. 
“We had an incredibly small team this year with only 10 girls and no divers,” Dalrymple said. “Due to our small numbers, we chose to highlight individual goals and push, not only ourselves, but each other in order to achieve them.” 
Saint Mary’s did not win as many meets in Belles coach Mark Ben­ishek’s second year as he would have hoped, but he was also very proud of the team’s attitude and credited the strong senior leader­ship for keeping everyone on the same page. 
“Our senior leadership has been a strong point all year. Katie Don­ovan, Megan Price and Audrey Dalrymple all had strong perfor­mances,” Benishek said. “Their se­nior leadership has been great and they have backed it up with strong swims. We know we can always count on them for motivation.” 
The Belles finished sixth in the MIAA championships at the end of the year. 
Cross Country 
Despite not attaining all of the success the team had hoped for this year, Belles coach Jackie Bauters said Saint Mary’s took many posi­tives from the season that runners can build on for the future. 
“Unfortunately we did not hit our goals this year,” Bauters said. “We were really hoping to finish in the top four of the conference and we fell short of that goal. It was a good learning year for the team.” 
Bauters said the team took its challenges in stride and helped produce strong performances. 
“I feel like experiencing such a large setback as a team could crush some teams,” Bauters said. “While it was a challenge, we re­focused on goals and individually had some great personal records.” 
Some of those positives came in the MIAA championship, where senior captain Joanne Almond ran the fastest time of the season for Saint Mary’s. 
“I was really happy with our per­formance at championships this year, I feel like we ran very well as a team,” Bauters said. “One of our biggest [personal records] of the season came with Joanne running a 22:58 at the regional meet. I was really excited for her. She struggled with some injuries throughout the season and spent a lot of time in the pool, so it was great to see her end on such a high note.” 
Almond, along with junior cap­tain Sarah Copi, brought experi­ence to the table and provided sta­bility throughout the season. 
Overall, Bauters said this year’s squad has shown great promise for the upcoming fall season.
 “Joanne is coming back to help as an assistant coach for the team, which will be invaluable to me,” Bauters said. “We have a wonder­ful group of freshmen coming in who will be able to contribute to the team right away.” 
Bauters said offseason training will be the key to achieving suc­cess. 
“If they come back from summer conditioned and ready to lead, we are going to have a fantastic team,” Bauters said. “Next season is going to be great.  I can feel it.” 
Tennis 
With the mixture of youth and doubles-play cohesiveness, Saint Mary’s grew and developed as the team finished fifth in the MIAA. Of the top six players for the Belles (11-9, 3-5 MIAA), four were fresh­man and two were sophomores. 
“Overall, I think we had a good year,” Belles coach Dale Campbell said. “For a young team, it was a decent year and we improved and learned a lot. For most of the girls, it was their first time playing at the collegiate level and going through a conference schedule.” 
Although the squad was young, the Belles accomplished one of their goals of obtaining an over­all winning record, but fell short of their goal of earning a winning conference record. 
“It was good to have a winning record, but conference is what re­ally matters,” Campbell said. 
The Belles did not make the MIAA tournament, as only the top four conference finishers face-off for the chance to go on to the NCAA Division III tournament. Campbell said there were positive aspects that came from this season despite the finish. 
“We played great in doubles,” Campbell said. “It is harder to ac­complish consistent, solid doubles play, but we did just that this sea­son.” 
Saint Mary’s went 36-24 overall in doubles and in conference had a record of 16-8. 
The Belles were not as success­ful in singles though, going 56-64 overall and 17-31 in conference play. 
Campbell said he is not worried about singles for next year. 
“We did not do as well in singles, but we will continue to improve,” Campbell said. “We have a young team who will become better at in­dividual match ups.” 
Sophomore co-captain and No.1 singles and doubles player Mary Catherine Faller was a key con­tributor to the success of the young Belles team. 
Overall in singles, Faller went 10-9 and went 4-4 in conference. 
With Faller and several other young players returning, the Belles hope the foundation has been laid for a successful 2013 spring sea­son. 



Friday, May 18, 2012 The Observer u SPORTS ndsmcobserver.com | page 41 
ND SOFTBALL 
Irish reach NCAA tournament 
By MIKE MONACO 
Sports Writer 
On March 16 the Irish lost 7-2 to Washington in the final game of the Judi Garman Clas­sic in Fullerton, Calif. The loss dropped Notre Dame’s record to 11-10 — a far cry from the squad’s 46-11 mark in 2011. 
But after playing their first 21 games on the road, the Irish (38-14, 16-3 Big East) returned home to the friendly confines of Melissa Cook Stadium on March 27 to take on Western Michigan. Notre Dame won that game 5-3, and went on to win 24 of its next 27 games to close out the regular season before making a Big East postsea­son run that ended with a loss in the Big East championship game. 
“In the first part of the season we really couldn’t get it togeth­er,” Irish senior captain and center fielder Alexa Maldonado said. “We had good team chem­istry but we just couldn’t make it click. But finally it clicked and we were able to feed off of each other and the get job done. We had each other’s backs.” 
After returning to South Bend, the Irish won nine games in a row to improve their re­cord to 20-11 before running into trouble in Big East play. The team lost three of its next four contests, including two in extra innings. Maldonado said those extra-inning losses were instrumental in the success of the Irish moving forward. 
“We felt like we should have won those [three] games,” Mal­donado said. “It was kind of a reality check to keep us on the road to improvement and con­sistency. We needed to come out with energy and sometimes we took it for granted that we were going to win.” 
The Irish reeled off 15 con­secutive wins, the longest win­ning streak for Notre Dame since 2005, to head into post­season play. 
Sophomore pitcher Laura Winter took the win in 11 of those games and was the ace of the staff throughout the season. The right-hander compiled a 25-8 record with a 1.84 ERA, 23 complete games, 249 strikeouts and a mere 19 walks to place her second in the NCAA with just .61 walks per game. For her effort, Winter was awarded the 2012 Big East Pitcher of the Year award. 
“[Winter] is extremely impor­tant and she will be for the next two years as well,” Maldonado said. “Our team feeds off her fire and energy so when she comes out fired up and ready to go everyone else feeds off that. She’s a very intimidating pitch­er and she’s very important to the success of the team.” 
Winter also threw her second career no-hitter — and the first in the history of Melissa Cook Stadium — April 21 against DePaul. The San Diego na­tive had a perfect game intact into the fifth inning before De-Paul senior outfielder Katelyn Braget earned a walk. Winter, however, set down the next 13 Blue Demons to complete the historic feat. 
The Irish defense comple­mented Winter and junior pitcher Brittany O’Donnell with steady fielding. The squad fin­ished fifth in the Big East with 
a .965 fielding percentage and 
committed only 46 errors. In the batter’s box, the team was versatile with a solid mix of power hitters and table-set­ters, Maldonado said. 
“We have the girls that can get on base with the short and then the power hitters that can drive them in,” Maldonado said. “It goes back to team chemistry; if we get on base we know [the power hitters] will drive us in.” 
Junior catcher Amy Buntin and senior first baseman Dani Miller were those power hitters that formed the heart of the Notre Dame order. Buntin led the team with a .358 batting av­erage and 53 hits, while Miller finished first on the squad with 16 home runs, 54 RBI, a .754 slugging percentage and 107 total bases in the regular sea­son. 
Maldonado and junior right fielder Kelsey Thornton set the table for Buntin and Miller. Maldonado led the Irish with a .429 on-base percentage and 39 runs scored. Thornton turned in a .324 average and was the runaway team leader with 17 steals. 
With the regular season in the books, the Irish hosted the Big East championship at Me­lissa Cook Stadium, winning their first two games over Rut­gers and St. John’s before fall­ing 4-3 to Louisville in the title game in front of the second-largest crowd in stadium his­tory. 
With a strong showing in the regular season and Big East tournament behind them, the Irish now look for a potential berth in the NCAA tournament, with regional play beginning May 18. 
Contact Mike Monaco at jmonaco@nd.edu 
BASEBALL 
Notre Dame clinches spot in Big East tourney 


By VICKY JACOBSEN 
Sports Writer 
This season’s Irish team has been a model of inconsistency. They beat then-No. 11 LSU on the road — but lost to Western Michigan. They opened the sea­son by winning five of six and added a five-game winning streak in late March — then went on four and five-game los­ing slides. 
But Sunday’s 2-1 win over Rutgers moved Notre Dame (27­23, 13-11 Big East) into sixth place in the conference and se­cured a spot for the Irish in the Big East tournament. 
Junior catcher Joe Hudson said he is confident in Notre Dame’s Big East chances, de­spite worrying streaks of un­derachieving. 
“In the greater scheme of things, we’re in a position right now where we can still accomplish our goals that we started at the beginning of the year,” Hudson said. “I believe that we’re a pretty good tour­nament team. We’ve got some pretty good pitching, and if we can just get the timely hitting down, we’re a good tourna­ment team.” 
Although second-year Irish coach Mik Aoki said he is pleased overall with the team’s performance, he said inconsis­tent play has been a source of frustration. 
“Over a whole season you’re not going to play at your ideal best for 56 games,” Aoki said. “But I think that when we’ve been bad, we’ve been really bad, and when we’ve been good, we’ve been really good.” 
Hudson said the 7-1 victory over No. 3 LSU (38-11, 16-8 SEC) on March 11 remains a great source of confidence for the team. 
“We went into their stadium on a night that there’s a sold-out crowd, and we took it to them,” Hudson said. “We beat them 7-1, [a] convincing win. And that game showed us how good we could possibly be when we’re playing our game, and it’s nice to have that game in our back pocket, because we can draw on that and remem­ber, ‘Hey, guys, we are good if we can just put the pieces of the puzzle together.’” 
Senior outfielder Alex Rob­inson agreed the trip to Baton Rouge, La., was one of the best moments of the season. 
“The LSU win was unbeliev­able,” Robinson said. “Alex Box Stadium, several million-dollar stadium, great fans, really a great atmosphere. We came in there and really took it to them and came out on top.” 
Aoki said one of the exciting developments from the season was watching players thrive as they took on new roles with the team. 
“Take [senior right-handed pitcher] Will Hudgins for ex­ample. I think a lot of people have always looked at him as a reliever, and clearly he’s proven himself to be a really, really good starter,” Aoki said. “And I think a lot of people might have labeled Joe Hudson to be just a really good catch-and-throw guy who was not that great a hitter, and I think he’s certain­ly proven a lot of those people wrong. 
“I think there [are] a lot of dif­ferent stories like that. I don’t know that necessarily that any of them are surprises, because I think that all of them are real­ly pretty talented kids, and I’m happy to see that they’re play­ing to their capabilities.” 
Robinson, who is hitting .325 in 37 games played, is another one of those “good stories.” 
“I didn’t play much my first three years, but really got an opportunity to play this year,” Robinson said. “And as your last year, you always hope for the best, hope to make it to the College World Series and win it all, and honestly I think we’ve got a good chance to make a run in the tournament. I feel really good with the team we have.” 
Hudson praised the way se­nior leadership has guided the team through the ups and downs of the season. 
“We have two great captains, [senior infielder] Tommy Chase and Will Hudgins, and the guys in the clubhouse really trust those guys and they really re­spect their place in the team as captains,” Hudson said. “They set a great example for us as captains all year, so they’ve re­ally made our team better that way.” 
Although the close losses have been disappointing, Aoki said they highlight how easily the Irish could improve. 
“When you boil it all down, I think that we could very eas­ily be sitting atop the Big East right now had we gotten a handful of more timely hits, or made a handful of more timely pitches,” Aoki said. “I think I’m optimistic, looking at these last games in the Big East, and I’m optimistic as we look ahead into future years.” 
The Irish will take on Con­necticut in their last conference series of the season before the Big East tournament in Clear­water, Fla. begins May 23. First pitch will be thrown out in Storrs, Conn., at 3 p.m. on Fri­day. 
Contact Vicky Jacobsen at vjacobse@nd.edu 

“Act justly, love tenderly, and walk humbly with your God.” —micah 6:8 The University of Notre Dame Center for Social Concerns wishes to honor the following graduates of the Class of 2012 who have committed a year or more to full-time postgraduate service. Our thoughts and prayers are with you as you go forth. Margaret Adams Derek Escalante Christina Konkey Stephanie Perez Christine Affleck Susan Esquivel Thomas Kostielney Katie Petrik Ruby Amezquita Thomas Everett Andrew Kwasnieski Nhu Phan Kenenna Amuzie Joshua Foster Stephen LaBrecque Sarah Philbin  Carly Anderson Emily Franz Lauren Lamore Casey Quinlan Christopher Antonacci Nicholas Galasso Audrey Lawless Kevin Rahill Brian Argus Carolyn Garcia Luke Lennon Lauren Rasch Mary Atwood Kathryn Gerbich Ashley Logsdon James Redden Natalie Baldasare Kacey Gergely Ella Lozon Melissa Regan Daniel Barrera Erin Gibson Maria Lynch Samantha Reich Marilyn Blasingame Kelly Gibson Anne Maddens Gabrielle Rex Natasha Bergstedt Patrick Gill Kevin Mader Molly Sammon Anne Boyle Phil Gonzalez Jacob Mangum Roman Sanchez Scott Boyle Emily Gorman Kristin Mannion Catie Santos de la Rosa Nicholas Brandt David Grau Allison Marchesani Brittany Scherer Christopher Brennan Caitlan Greubel Tania Mathurin Maria Serakos Shannon Brown Jason G’Sell Mary McAllister Stephen Sheridan Nick Burley Erin Hallagan Philip McAndrews Mary Siguler Cassandra Nicole Rachel Hamilton Patrick McCormick Rebecca Sinclair Burnham Garza Erika Hansen Regan McGann Connor Skelly Michael Byrnes Tyler Harmsen Mary McKenna Mitch Speer Katharine Callaghan Matthew Hawk Kevin McKenzie Tati Spragins Elizabeth Chaten John Heid Michael McLane Veronica Stafford Christina Chavarin Erik Helgesen Michaela McManus Allison Steiner Shannon Chisholm Carolyn Henderson Maureen McQuilkin Rocky Stroud Matthew Cirillo Brianna Hohman Emma Mean Graham Sullivan Kelsey Clemson Stephanie House Kelly Meyer Sara Teising Jennifer Coe Anne Huntington Amanda Meza Laura Thelen Kelly Colas David Hurley Helen Miller Curtis Tripp Ricky Connell Danny Jackson Laura Miller Dominique Tunzi Rosabelle Conover Trevor Jackson Dina Montemarano Kaitlyn Uhl Ryan Costello Alexandra Karamol Jaime Montes Monica VanBladel Christina Coughlin Sheila Keefe Siomha Moore Joseph VanderZee Jessica Cozart Katelyn Kelliher Stephanie Mueth Erica Vesnaver Kelly Davis Brian Kennedy Katherine Murdza Allison Vos Kevin De La Montaigne Sarah Kennedy Laura Nash Veronica Vos Michael D’Netto Tomas Kenney Thomas Neuner Kyla Wargel Andrea Drayton Katherine Klee Kyle Obendorf Gregory Woods Tara Duffy Karyn Knecht Mary Claire O’Donnell Chris Wynkoop Andrew Dupont Daniel Kong Stephanie Pedicini Joshua Zielinski … and many more. Center for Social Concerns  

Friday, May 18, 2012 The Observer u TODAY ndsmcobserver.com | page 43 
EugENiA LAST 

WiLL SHOrTz 
HOROSCOPE 
CROSSWORD 



DAviD HOyT 

ObSErvEr STAFF 
JUMBLE 
TEN YEARS LATER... 
JEFF KNurEK 




Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 

Make checks payable to The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556

 Enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year


 Enclosed
 is $75 for one semester 


Name ____________________________________________________ Address __________________________________________________ City ____________________ State___________ Zip______________ 






