THE INDEPENDENT TO UNCOvER NEWSPAPER SERvING THE TRUTH NOTRE DAME AND AND REPORT SAINT MARy’S IT ACCURATELy 

vOLUME 46, ISSUE 58 | MONDAY, NOVEMBER 19, 2012 | NDSMCObSERvER.COM 
Seniors celebrate final victory at home 
Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s student enjoy blowout victory over Deacons 
celebrations were the perfect preservation of the unde-taking it all in. It was a spe-friends,” she said. “We had 
By BRIDGET FEENEY 

Associate Saint Mary’s Editor culmination to her four years feated record were key com-cial moment and I know I’ll so much fun and enjoyed it a 
in the student section as a ponents to the weekend’s joy, remember it forever.” lot.” 
For a quarter of the stu-Notre Dame fan. Malm said one of the best Saint Mary’s senior Claire Saint Mary’s senior Megan dent body, Saturday’s football “I had so much fun in the parts of the game came after Priestly joined Malm and the Lynch also spent her Saturday victory against Wake Forest stands on Saturday,” she said. the final whistle when she other seniors in rushing the in the student section cheer-represented more than an un-“The atmosphere was incred-and other seniors spilled onto field after the game. She also ing on the Irish for one final defeated season at home. It ible and it was so great to get the field. said it was a special way to time. She said her final game also marked the senior’s last to spend it with all of my class-“Going on the field was by celebrate her time as a stu-was enjoyable, if also surreal. game in the student section mates. I couldn’t have asked far one of the highlights of my dent fan. “It didn’t hit me that it was of Notre Dame Stadium. for a better way to spend my four years in the student sec-“It was a great end to the the last game until I was 
Saint Mary’s senior Maria last game as a student.” tion,” she said. “I had so much four years I’ve spent going Malm said this weekend’s While the Irish victory and fun taking pictures and just to the games with all of my see SENIORS PAGE 4 


Observer Staff Report 
Notre Dame Security Police (NDSP) is investigating a re­port of aggravated assault that occurred on campus over the weekend, according to an email alert sent to students Saturday. 
The assault occurred out­side a North Quad residence hall at approximately 6 p.m. on Saturday, police reported. 
“A male visitor to campus reported being pushed to the ground and then struck repeat­edly in the face after a verbal argument,” the email stated. 


Assault reported on campus 
The crime alert reported the suspect to be a student-aged white male with blond-ish-brown hair and a height of about 6 feet 2 inches tall. Anyone with information about this assault is encouraged to contact NDSP. 
“Reduce the opportunity for crime by planning ahead for your safety and looking out for your friends,” the email stated. 
To report a crime in progress, suspicious activity or another emergency, dial 911 from any campus phone or 574-631-5555 from a cell phone. 


Forum explores implications of gridlock 
By CAROLYN HUTYRA 
News Writer 
As part of the 2012 Notre Dame Law Review Symposium, former Maine Representative Thomas Allen delivered the keynote address entitled, “The American Congress: Legal Implications of Gridlock” on Nov. 16 in the Eck Hall of Law. 
The lecture, part of the year­long Forum titled “A More Perfect Union: The Future of America’s Democracy”, focused on the current state of U.S. poli­tics with its unwavering convic­tions and lack of compromise. 
“We’re asking here at Notre Dame whether our political system has the capacity to deal with the threats and the oppor­tunities that our country faces,” Law School dean Nell Jessup Newton said. “How can we promote productive discourse, innovative thinking, and effec­tive action?” 
Allen sought to answer this question by providing his perspective of Congress and the roles of Democrats and Republicans within public office. 
“What I’ve been trying to do is figure out what it is that is separating the parties,” Allen said. 
He discussed the constant campaigning, the efforts to­ward redistricting and the parties, which he said are now selecting their voters instead of having voters select them. Allen said people’s ideas and values are bundled into worldviews, and the former is grounded in individualism and the latter in community. 
Allen said partisanship and discourse between the two par­ties is an issue. 
“What I experienced here was this tremendous conflict in the way we viewed each other and that was a problem,” he said. “Congress today is deeply di­vided because to each side the opinions of the other make no sense.” 
Allen said this conflict is less 
see FORUM PAGE 4 



WE COME HOME PAGE 3 vIEWPOINT PAGE 7 SCENE PAGE 8 NOTRE DAME 38, WAkE FOREST 0 WITHIN 




ndsmcobserver.com 

P.O. box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
Allan Joseph 

Managing Editor  Business Manager
                  Megan Doyle  Jeff Liptak 
Asst. Managing Editor: Andrew Owens 
Asst. Managing Editor: Sam Stryker News Editor: John Cameron News Editor: kristen Durbin 

Viewpoint Editor: Meghan Thomassen Sports Editor: Chris Allen Scene Editor: kevin Noonan Saint Mary’s Editor: Jillian barwick Photo Editor: Suzanna Pratt Graphics Editor: brandon keelean Multimedia Editor: Sarah O’Connor Advertising Manager: Monica McCormack Ad Design Manager: Sara Hilstrom Controller: Peter Woo Systems Administrator: William Heineman 

Office Manager & General Info 
Ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ajoseph2@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 mdoyle11@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 aowens2@nd.edu sstryke1@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 

Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 

Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 


Scene Desk 

(574) 631-4540 Observer.Scene.Editor@gmail.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
jbarwi01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 


Policies 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper 
published in print and online by the students of the 
University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s 
College.  Editorial content, including advertisements, is 
not governed by policies of the administration of either 
institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse 
advertisements based on content. 

The news is reported as accurately and objectively 
as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion 
of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, 
Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. 
Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of 
the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include 
contact information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed 
to Editor-in-Chief Allan Joseph. 

Post Office Information The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The Observer is published at: 024 South Dining Hall Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame and additional mailing offices POSTMASTER Send address corrections to: The Observer P.O. box 779 024 South Dining hall Notre Dame, IN 46556-077 The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 




QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
Where and when do you usually study? 


Jeffrey Wang 
sophomore 
Alumni Hall 

“At CoMo during the afternoon.” 

Tim Brazelton 
junior 
Carroll Hall 

“Three a.m. on the first floor of Carroll.” 

Margaret Zhao 
freshman 
Farley Hall 

“I prefer to study the material as I’m taking the exam.” 

Have a question you want answered? Email obsphoto@gmail.com 



Michael Dinh 
freshman 
Carroll Hall 

“In LaFun at around 4 a.m.” 

Kerry Hunt 
junior 
Lewis Hall 

“I study mostly at night at ACE or the basement of Lewis.” 

Will Raaf 
sophomore 
Carroll Hall 

“The Carroll Hall of Carroll Hall.” 



Want your event included here? 

News Sports 
Mel Flanagan Joseph Monardo Email obsnews.nd@gmail.com 




THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 
Christian Myers vicky Jacobsen Carolyn Hutyra Isaac Lorton 
Graphics Scene 

Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday . Friday 
Steph Wulz Courtney Cox 
Photo Viewpoint 

“Mary and the Women’s Basketball Men’s Basketball Thanksgiving Dinner Men’s Hockey 
Suzanna Pratt Amber Galik 

Season of Advent” Purcell Pavilion at the Joyce Center North Dining Hall Compton Family Ice Geddes Hall Joyce Center 12:30 p.m.-1:30 p.m. 12 p.m.-3:30 p.m. Arena 5 p.m.-6 p.m. 7 p.m.-9 p.m. ND vs. George New items on buffet 7:35 p.m. 
Corrections 

Speaker Brian Daley. ND vs. Mercer Washington menu. ND vs. North Dakota. 
In a Nov. 6 article titled “Pittsburgh game draws massive 
crowds,” the information on arrests by the Indiana 
State Excise Police was incorrectly reported. Those 
Fundraiser Night Film: “His Girl Friday” 
arrests occurred Nov. 2, not during the Nov. 3 football 
Between the Buns DeBartolo Performing 
Thanksgiving Break 

game against Pittsburgh. In a Nov. 14 article titled 
All day. Arts Center 
“Alumnus wins renowned prize,” Dr. Jim O’Connell was 
15 percent of sales 8 p.m.-9:35 p.m. 
misidentified as a 1970 graduate of Notre Dame. He is a 
toward Dance Marathon. Free with student ID. 
1972 alumnus. The Observer regrets these errors. 


Students to help rebuild in Sandy aftermath 
We Come Home campaign coordinates the efforts of various campuses with relief organizations 
“Our slogan is, ‘We left to be-
By TORI ROECK 

News Writer gin building our lives. We’re back to begin rebuilding our home,’” 
Hundreds of thousands of col-Geary said. lege students, including many Flatley said students can fill from Notre Dame, will return out an application on the We home to New york and New Jersey Come Home website to volunteer for winter break to face the dev-either two or five days of service astation wrought by Hurricane to relief efforts. Sandy. “People fill out the application, 
While many of these students they select what periods of the felt helpless as the storm passed ones listed they’re available for through their hometowns, senior and which area they’d be avail-Catherine Flatley, who hails from able to work for based on differ-New vernon, N.J., started the pro-ent counties we have listed,” she gram We Come Home as a way said. “Then they will be put in for them to contribute to relief contact with organizations in efforts. that area that need volunteers.” 
“[We Come Home is] a cam-Students can participate in a paign to mobilize college stu-variety of different tasks based dents from New york and New on what the organizations need “I was just thinking about how N.y., said We Come Home is a contribution to relief efforts Jersey to get involved with Sandy help with, Geary said. a bunch of my friends from New means for students making a dif-through We Come Home. cleanup over winter break,” “The destruction is so wide-Jersey could get involved with ference in their hometowns. “It certainly is a sacrifice … but Flatley said. “We’re trying to work spread that there are many, many Sandy cleanup over break, and “People tend to band together if a lot of people do this, hopeful-with relief organizations that things people could get involved it occurred to me that there are based on where they’re from, and ly it will have a huge effect,” she are already in the area fulfilling with,” she said. “If people have hundreds of thousands of col-people are proud to be from New said. whatever needs they have.” preferences, they can put down lege students that have time off,” york or New Jersey,” she said. “I To sign up to volunteer, visit 
We Come Home has campus any special skills they have on she said. “Rarely do you have that think this is a way to come to-www.wecomehome.com or ambassadors at schools across the application on the website.” many young individuals that re-gether again and say not only email werecominghome@gmail. the country spreading informa-Flatley said she got the idea ally have the capacity to make a that you’re from there, but you’re com. tion about how to get involved, to form We Come Home from difference that are available and actually working to rebuild it.” senior Notre Dame ambassador talking to her friends from New have significant time off.” Flatley said she hopes college Contact Tori Roeck at brianna Geary said. Jersey about the storm. Geary, a native of New Rochelle, students can make a significant vroeck@nd.edu 


Professor wins Spitz prize for philosophy book 
Paul Weithman
philosophy professor 
Weithman said he was sur-
By CHRISTIAN MYERS 

News Writer prised to receive the award 
because his book is focused 

Philosophy professor Paul on a historical figure rather Weithman recently received than on contributing to lib-the 2012 David and Elaine eral or democratic theory. Spitz Prize for his 2010 book, “The committee must have “Why Political Liberalism? thought I succeeded in using On John Rawls’ Political Rawls’ work to get at the big Turn”. theoretical questions of the 
The Spitz Prize is issued by discipline, and it’s very grati­the International Conference fying that they thought that,” for the Study of Political he said. 

According to the CSTP web­site, Weithman’s book “pro­
vides careful and rigorous 
exegesis of Rawls’ work as a 
way of drilling deeply into 
some of the central questions 
in modern political theory.” 
Weithman said he owes 

much of his understanding Thought (CSTP) and was first of Rawls’ work to a course he awarded in 1988. According teaches each year that covers to the Conference’s website, Rawls’ theories. the prize is awarded to the “The book is about John best book in liberal or demo-Rawls; I teach his work to cratic theory published two PPE [Philosophy, Politics years prior. and Economics Minor] stu-
Past recipients of the prize dents every fall in the Justice include Joseph Raz, Martha Seminar, and I’m quite sure Nussbaum, Sheldon Wolin that I would not understand and John Rawls. it to the extent I do were it 
Weithman said that see-not for the annual exercise ing names like Rawls and Raz of teaching it,” he said. “We on the list of past recipients University professors often made him feel a bit out of his say that teaching and re-league. search go hand-in-hand and 
“I feel like some guy who each enhances the other. wins a golf tournament and This is one case in which they gets his name put on the same really did.” trophy as Jack Nicklaus,” he Weithman said he admires said. “It’s a great honor that, Rawls and his book “A Theory of the eligible books, mine of Justice,” which is a famous was the one they wanted to work of political and moral pick out.” philosophy. 
“John Rawls was, I think, great thinker’s work, and also will come to the attention of the greatest political philoso-because I thought that un-more people, and many more pher of the 20th century,” he derstanding those changes people will pick it up and said. “[‘A Theory of Justice’] would shed light on some of read it, is just hard to know,” really is a great work of po-the deep issues political phi-he said. “I know philosophy litical philosophy and it is losophy confronts,” he said. books aren’t best-sellers. I truly a theory. It’s a big and “I wrote the book to work don’t expect to see it on the systematic theory for modern through and understand kiosks at airports, though it liberal democracies.” those changes.” would be nice.” 
Fifteen years after pub-Politics has always been an Ultimately, Weithman lishing “A Theory of Justice,” area of interest for Weithman said he wrote the book be-Weithman said Rawls began and he enjoys keeping up cause it furthered his own to publish a series of papers with current political events, learning and progress as an 
he said. academic. 
“I’ve always been some-“I think the books profes­
“I think the 
thing of a political junkie,” sors write, like the research 
books professors Weithman said. “I love fol-projects graduate and under­
write, like the lowing politics and reading graduate students do, are un­
about it. I’m now experienc-dertaken for what we learn by 
research projects 
ing a painful withdrawal af-doing them,” he said. “When 
graduate and 
ter the election with so much we can’t possibly read all 
undergraduate less to read about and so that’s worth reading, we have 
students do, are much less news to follow.” to be satisfied with the prog-
Weithman said that he was ress we ourselves have made 
undertaken for 
drawn to the field of politi-in undertaking projects like 
what we learn by 
cal philosophy as a means these.” 
doing them.” of bringing his love of phi-Weithman is not currently 
Paul Weithman losophy and love of politics working on another book, but 
philosophy professor together while a Notre Dame he said he might begin work-
undergraduate. ing on one in the future. 
“I realized when I came to “I’m working on a couple of that took his work in a dif-see the deep philosophical papers right now and maybe ferent direction. This new questions politics raises that one of them will provide the direction eventually re-pursuing them seems natu-seed for a book project, but I sulted in the book “Political ral,” he said. “I just wish I had can’t see that far ahead right Liberalism,” he said. more answers.” now. I hope one of them will,” 
Weithman wrote his book He does not know if win-he said. “I admire people who as a means of understanding ning the Spitz Prize will lead finish a book project and the changes Rawls made in more people to read his book, immediately know of sev­his theories between the two Weithman said, but he values eral more they want to write. books, he said. the recognition either way. When I finished this one, I 
“I wanted to understand the “It’s tremendously gratify-felt like I’d written every-changes Rawls made in his ing to have a book singled out thing I know.” own theory, both because of from the many good ones as the intrinsic interest and val-worthy of recognition with Contact Christian Myers at ue of coming to understand a the Spitz Prize, but whether it cmyers8@nd.edu 


THE ObSERvER | MONDAY, NOVEMBER 19, 2012 | NDSMCObSERvER.COM 

Belles honor fellow students 
By JILLIAN BARWICK 
Saint Mary’s Editor 
Saint Mary’s students have a chance to honor fellow belles who are using their ed­ucation to make a difference through the belles Honoring belles Award. 
Student body vice president Meghan Casey said she hopes students will take the time to recognize those students who stand out through the award. 
“At the beginning of the year, the Student Government Association (SGA) held a re­treat the week before class­es began,” Casey said. “We thought that it would be a good idea to use the idea of the Women Honoring Women event that happens in the spring semester and do a ‘student honoring student’ dinner.” 
According to the applica­tion, the nominees should be women who are influential both in and out of the class­room and who empower other Saint Mary’s College students 
Seniors 
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1 
walking into the Stadium,” she said. “It was sad think­ing that I would never be able to attend a game as a student again, but it was extra spe­cial to walk into the last game with the same best friends that I walked into my first home game with freshman year.” 
Notre Dame senior Ellie Griep said she thought Saturday’s game marked the end of a fantastic senior season. 
“This is the perfect senior season,” she said. “No. 1 is the pinnacle and we will all ride out on that high.” 
Griep said cheering on the Irish this year was a different experience than past seasons. 
“I have never cared about football as a sport before, and still am not interested in any other team or league, but there isn’t anything I wouldn’t give to see Notre Dame at the bCS National Championship,” she said. 
In addition to beating Wake Forest and maintaining an undefeated season at home, Malm said she was also excit­ed about other results in the college football world. 
“Going to bed Saturday night with the news both Oregon and kansas State lost was the perfect ending to the day’s festivities,” she said. “I to pursue a life of intellectual vigor, aesthetic appreciation, religious sensibility and so­cial responsibility. 
“Students will be able to be among other students who people nominated because they embody what they be­lieve a Saint Mary’s woman is,” Casey said. 
The nomination form asks about the nominees’ back­ground information, which includes their majors, their involvement on and off cam­pus, their academic accolades and other achievements. 
The form also asks for a de­scription of how the nominee represents the College, their impact on campus and their impact on the world. 
“Fifteen honorees will be chosen from among the nom­inees and will be honored at a reception on Monday, Nov. 26,” Casey said. “If your nom­inee is chosen to be honored, you will be invited to speak for a few moments on her behalf.” 
The reception for the nominees and nominators will be held at 6:30 p.m. in the Stapleton Lounge in LeMans Hall. One honoree will be chosen at the reception as the belle of the year. 
“I am hoping that Student Academic Council contin­ues this dinner because it is necessary to recognize those who go the extra mile as a student here at Saint Mary’s,” Casey said. “While this is the first year we are having the belles Honoring belles award, I think it would be a great way to inspire students at the College to encourage their fellow belles to push harder at making a differ­ence for our school and the world.” 
The deadline for the nomi­nations is Tuesday, Nov. 20 at 12 p.m. 
For more information or to nominate a belle, contact Meghan Casey at mcasey01@ saintmarys.edu. 
Contact Jillian Barwick at jbarwi01@saintmarys.edu 
Forum 
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1 
about the role of government than it is about the enduring tension in American politics and culture between individ­ualism and community. 
“[They] are two parts of the American psyche, part of our culture, part of our politics, and what has happened for a variety of reasons is that our American psyche has been split down the middle and 
“Interest group politics is now often overwhelmed by world view politics, a widening hardening conflict between those who believe the mission of government is to enhance the common good and those who believe that government inevitably infringes on personal liberty.” 
Thomas Allen 
former Maine congressman 
these two parts of who we are are at war with each other,” he said. 
Individualism and commu­nity should not be separat­ed, Allen said, and he hopes Congress can find a way to work back to the system of the 1970s. 
“Republicans and Democrats differed but could collaborate on those issues which simply couldn’t be dealt with through any other way but with some sort of gov­ernment action,” he said. 
Allen said interest group politics is still a present-day factor, but now it is fueled by unprecedented amounts of campaign money. It is over­laid and often dominated by what he referred to as world­view politics, a class of values much deeper than the compe­tition among interest groups in Washington. 
“Interest group politics is now often overwhelmed by world view politics, a widen­ing hardening conflict be­tween those who believe the mission of government is to enhance the common good and those who believe that government inevitably in­fringes on personal liberty,” Allen said. 
This conflict causes the po­litical system to get stuck, he said. He highlighted terms such as ideologically polar­ized, internally unified, ve­hemently oppositional and politically strategic as as­pects of the political system that cause difficulty in allow­ing majorities to work their will. 
“This is compounded by the asymmetric polarization of the parties,” Allen said. 
With a seemingly constant gridlock between the politi­cal parties in office, Allen said a smoothly functioning gov­ernmental system appears unlikely. 
Contact Carolyn Hutyra at chutyra@nd.edu 

PAID ADvERTISEMENT 



can’t believe the season Notre Dame has had, and I feel so blessed I was here to experi­ence it all.” 
Notre Dame senior Eddie Hjerpe agreed the season has been a perfect culmination of the past four years and quoted the football team from popu­lar television show “Friday Night Lights” on their quest for a state championship. 
“One team, one dream. … We’re going to state,” he said. “[I] could not have asked for a better year to be a senior at Notre Dame.” 
Contact Bridget Feeney at bfeene01@saintmarys.edu 




Hostess to go bankrupt 

Associated Press 
DETROIT — Twinkie lovers, relax. 
The tasty cream-filled gold­en spongecakes are likely to survive, even though their maker will be sold in bank­ruptcy court. 
Hostess brands Inc., baker of Wonder bread as well as Twinkies, Ding Dongs and Ho Ho’s, will be in a New york bankruptcy courtroom Monday to start the process of selling itself. 
The company, weighed down by debt, management turmoil, rising labor costs and the changing tastes of America, decided on Friday that it no longer could make it through a conventional Chapter 11 bankruptcy restructuring. Instead, it’s asking the court for permission to sell assets and go out of business. 
but with high brand recog­nition and $2.5 billion in reve­nue per year, other companies are interested in bidding for at least pieces of Hostess. Twinkies alone have brought in $68 million in revenue so far this year, which would look good to another snack-maker. 
“There’s a huge amount of goodwill with the com­mercial brand name,” said John Pottow, a University of Michigan Law School profes­sor who specializes in bank­ruptcy. “It’s quite conceivable that they can sell the name and recipe for Twinkies to a company that wants to make them.” 
Hostess has said it’s received inquiries about buying parts of the company. but spokes­man Lance Ignon would not comment on analysts’ reports that Thomasville, Ga.-based Flowers Foods Inc. and pri­vate equity food investment firm Metropoulos & Co. are likely suitors. Metropoulos owns Pabst brewing Co., while Flowers Foods makes Nature’s Own bread, Tastykake treats and other baked goods. Messages were left for spokes­men for both companies on Sunday. 
“We think there’s a lot of value in the brands, and we’ll certainly be trying to maxi­mize value, both of the brands and the physical assets,” Ignon said Sunday. He said it’s pos­sible some of Hostess’ bakeries will never return to operation because the industry has too much bakery capacity. 
Little will be decided at Monday afternoon’s hear­ing before bankruptcy Judge Robert Drain, Pottow said. The judge eventually will appoint a company that specializes in liquidation to sell the assets, and the sale probably will take six months to a year to com­plete, Pottow said. 
Irving, Texas-based Hostess filed for Chapter 11 bank­ruptcy protection in January for the second time in less 

PAID ADvERTISEMENT 

than a decade. Its predecessor company, Interstate bakeries, sought bankruptcy protection in 2004 and changed its name to Hostess after emerging in 2009. 
The company said it was saddled with costs related to its unionized workforce. The company had been contrib­uting $100 million a year in pension costs for workers; the new contract offer would’ve slashed that to $25 million a year, in addition to wage cuts and a 17 percent reduction in health benefits. 
Management missteps were another problem. Hostess came under fire this spring af­ter it was revealed that nearly a dozen executives received pay hikes of up to 80 percent last year even as the company was struggling. 
Then last week thousands of members of the bakery, Confectionery, Tobacco Workers and Grain Millers International Union went on strike after rejecting the com­pany’s latest contract offer. The bakers union represents about 30 percent of the com­pany’s workforce. 
by that time, the company had reached a contract agree­ment with its largest union, the International brotherhood of Teamsters, which this week urged the bakery union to hold a secret ballot on whether to continue striking. Although many bakery workers decided to cross picket lines this week, Hostess said it wasn’t enough to keep operations at normal levels. 
The company filed a motion to liquidate Friday. The shut­tering means the loss of about 18,500 jobs. Hostess said em­ployees at its 33 factories were sent home and operations sus­pended. Its roughly 500 bakery outlet stores will stay open for several days to sell remaining products. 
News of the decision caused a run on Hostess snacks at many stores around the coun­try, and the snacks started appearing on the Internet at inflated prices. 
Leaders console Sandy victims 

Associated Press 
NEW yORk — For New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie, leadership often came with an empathetic hug. For New york Gov. Andrew Cuomo, it came with an angry tirade at utilities slow to restore power. For New york City Mayor Michael bloomberg, it came with cool, businesslike assurance. 
Experts in leadership and disaster response interviewed by The Associated Press gave all three chief executives high marks for their performance so far in Superstorm Sandy, a disas­ter that left more than 100 people dead and presented perhaps the biggest crisis-management test yet for three Northeastern politi­cians who have all been rumored to hold presidential ambitions. 
“Throughout the country, what the American people seek is a kind of authenticity in their public leaders, and these three guys have demonstrated that authenticity throughout this crisis,” said Syracuse University political science professor Robert McClure. 
Most of those interviewed said Christie stood out for being the most outspoken and ahead of the curve, whether he was ordering gas rationing nearly a week be­fore anyone else, putting his GOP credentials on the line to praise the Obama administration’s re­sponse or using a televised brief­ing to comfort children with a simple: “Don’t be scared.” 
He got so much attention that he even poked a bit of fun at him­self with a cameo over the week­end on “Saturday Night Live,” where he appeared in the famil­iar blue fleece jacket that he has worn while touring the state fol­lowing the storm. 
All three men took firm com­mand before Sandy arrived. Cuomo closed New york City’s subways and tunnels hours be­fore there was a threat of flooding and strategically “pre-positioned resources” days before, a move the federal transportation secre­tary later praised. Christie struck a get-tough note in ordering people to clear out along the coast, barking, “Don’t be stupid” on Twitter. bloomberg calmly or­dered an evacuation of the city’s low-lying areas. 
And their leadership contin­ued after the storm had passed. 
Douglas brinkley, a Rice University historian who wrote an award-winning book on 2005’s Hurricane katrina and has also written about Presidents Ronald Reagan, Jimmy Carter, Theodore Roosevelt and Gerald Ford, said the first rule in a disas­ter is to rush rescue and relief to the victims to keep the death toll down. 
“While Sandy has been tragic, with the amount of rescues that have taken place and the amount of life-saving that has gone down, it has helped keep the death toll not commensurate to the dam­age,” he said. “In Hurricane katrina, you lost 2,000 people. And a lot of them died because nobody got to them for a week.” 
Not everything went perfectly. Many of Sandy’s victims have complained that the power out­ages went on for too long, that the gas station lines were infuriat­ing, and that temporary housing against November’s cold seemed to be an afterthought. 
At times, the crisis threw all three men off balance: bloomberg reversed himself in the face of a huge backlash and canceled the New york City Marathon, Christie picked a fight with the Atlantic City mayor for sending people to city shelters instead of evacuating them, and Cuomo’s attacks on utilities thud­ded when he took on the Long Island Power Authority, a state utility over which he has some control. 
Christie provided the defin­ing moment for a country torn by gridlock and partisanship, boarding a helicopter with President barack Obama for a tour of the battered Jersey shore. On the first full day after Sandy, six days before the presidential election, the Republican Christie talked up Obama like an old bowling buddy. 

A poor argument 


INSIDE COLUMN 
No. 1 

Rebecca O’Neil 
News Writer 

It’s roughly four hours after this col­umn was due. Ten hours after I woke up. Sixteen hours after I went to bed. Twenty-four hours after Notre Dame discovered that it was ranked number one in college football for the first time since the year I was born, 1993. 
The night started after a solid win against Wake Forest. I raced back to Stanford Hall, took an hour-long nap to mitigate what I thought was temporary hunger, but finally downed a chicken and bacon sub. We started watching the baylor vs. kansas State game and the Stanford vs. Oregon game. I was told who to cheer for and why and did so accordingly. After admiring the HD quality of the Tv set for ten minutes, I began meandering around the inter-web and zoning out. Typical. 
A short while later — not really, it just felt like it — people began accu­mulating in the room. As the games’ clocks wound down, people began sitting upright from their nearly hori­zontal positions. Finally they finished and I looked around to anyone who would make eye contact asking, “Does this mean what I think it means?” with a hopeful expression. Someone an­swered out loud “Stanford and baylor just won, we’re —” and he was cut off. Stanford Hall’s fourth floor had erupt­ed with the loudest, deepest cheers I have ever heard. 
We raced out of the room to witness at least 35 guys moshing their way about each other. Social restraints were lifted and clothes were optional. They exhausted the “We’re number one!” chant for about five minutes un­til someone suggested we move down a floor. The crowd grew in volume and numbers as we went down. Finally, at the bottom floor there was nowhere left to go. People began running out­side, I thought mob mentality had tak­en over and people disappeared into the blackness of the night. 
Only after I had run into the dark­ness myself did I notice the throngs of people surrounding Stonehenge. Shirtless men surrounded me, Zahm’s first-floor playlist featured Mariah Carey Christmas carols and a half-naked boy ran by with a floatie around his torso. I started to tear up; I’m tear­ing up now as I recollect the goose­bump-inducing sensation of pure joy. I raced to the fountain, my feet still kill­ing me from the four hours of standing and screamed with the rest of them. Fireworks were lit, emitting more cheers from the students drunk with mostly exuberance. Then and there the night became something I will never forget. 
And no, this is not a crazy reality Tv show. It’s real life. WE’RE NO. 1! 
Contact Rebecca O’Neil at roneil1@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Adam Newman 
Scientia Potentia Est 

Poverty is one explanation common­ly used — most notably by NyU histo­rian Diane Ravitch, who spoke at Notre Dame Law School last year — for the plight of American education. Ravitch is a “traditionalist,” someone who be­lieves that focusing on socioeconomic factors such as poverty through anti­poverty programs are the best ways to improve student outcomes. 
On the other side of the debate are “reformers.” Reformers believe that the best way to improve student outcomes is to provide students with effective teachers and schools, regardless of their background. They choose not to focus on factors such as poverty because they cannot control or measure them. 
Reformers back up their argument with mounting evidence of the impor­tance of good teachers. Research con­ducted by Eric Hanushek, a Stanford economist, suggests that if every low-income student had a quality teacher in the top 15 percent four years in a row, the achievement gap between low-income students and their peers would be virtually eliminated. A recent study by Harvard and Columbia economists followed one million children in an ur­ban school system from fourth grade to adulthood. It found students assigned to highly effective teachers were more likely to attend college, attend higher ranked colleges, earn higher salaries, live in better neighborhoods and save more for retirement. 
Traditionalists, on the other hand, often note the performance differ­ence between affluent students and non-affluent students to show pov­erty is the most important factor in a 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
child’s education. but comparisons of America’s affluent students to the average student in other countries sug­gest disturbing conclusions. A study conducted by Hanushek, Paul Peterson of Harvard and Ludger Woessman of the University of Munich compared American students who have at least one college-educated parent to average students in other developed (OECD) countries. Using data from the highly respected Program for International Student Assessment (PISA), only 44 percent of American students with at least one college-educated parent were proficient in math, placing us 17th amongst average students in developed countries. 
Another study conducted by Arkansas education professor Jay Greene examined how average students in affluent American cities compared to average students in other OECD countries. The results were shocking: Even average students from wealthy areas do not compete well against aver­age students from other industrialized countries. Most notably, an average student from beverly Hills, Calif., was in the 53rd percentile; from Palo Alto, Calif., the 56th percentile; from Naperville, Ill., the 67th percentile; and from Gross Point, Mich., the 56th percentile. These results weaken the traditionalists’ “poverty” argument, because poor American students are not only the only ones not doing well relative to international competitors — affluent students are not performing well either. This suggests that American education is failing all students, not just poor ones. 
As traditionalists blame poverty for the poor performance of American education, many schools with high levels of poor students produce jaw-dropping results. My favorite story is Harlem Success Academy in New york. During the 2009-10 school year, 94 percent of the school was proficient in math and 86 percent was proficient in reading. Its local competitor, PS 149, spent more per student, had smaller class sizes and, most importantly, had the same percentage of students on free and reduced price lunch (70 percent) — but only 34 percent of the students was proficient in math and 29 percent in reading. Harlem Success uses a lottery for admission, meaning that it does not “cherry-pick” smart students. Harlem Success Academy is just one of many schools where the leadership does not accept poverty as a barrier to producing remarkable outcomes. 
Poverty may limit opportunity, but it has been used by the education estab­lishment to lower the expectations of what schools and teachers can achieve while preventing accountability and reform for far too long. This has cre­ated an ineffective American education system that has failed both poor and affluent students. Even as this injus­tice exists, traditionalists like Diane Ratvich will continue to use any other excuse. This may have worked before. but as Americans see competitiveness decline, joblessness and wages stagnate and the American Dream begin to fade, traditionalists will fall into obscurity because of the simple truth that one does not need a Ph.D to understand there is no better anti-poverty tool than a high quality education. 
Adam Newman is a senior political science major. He can be reached at anewman3@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 



QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“The best of us must sometimes eat our words.” 
J.K. Rowling British author 




Every child has a story 
Geraldine Mukumbi 
Student International business Council 

The belief in the power of com­merce is the driving force behind the activities of the Student International business Council (SIbC). One of the five divisions of the SIbC, Global Development, has projects that are geared toward the developmental as­pect of business.
 One of these projects is the Robinson Community Learning Center (RCLC) marketing group. They believe that while there is a tendency to link global development with some foreign, far­away place, it actually begins with the local community. They established an initiative in partnership with an orga­nization very close to the Notre Dame campus, the Robinson Community Learning Center (RCLC). 
The RCLC is a partnership between the residents of the South bend north­east neighborhood and the University of Notre Dame. It was started in 2001 in a bid to foster a relationship between the residents of South bend and the University. The center provides literacy programs, skills training and adult programs for the community with the assistance of volunteers, some of whom are Notre Dame students. 
Senior Ming Archbold, the current project leader of the RCLC Marketing group, started this initiative during his sophomore year in 2010. He was in­spired by the need to collect and share stories from young children in the local community. 
With a team of Notre Dame students and the help of members of the RCLC staff such as velshonna Luckey, this group facilitated the creation of stories by a group of children aged 7-11. The group of 20 students created an envi­ronment where the children learned to voice their thoughts and work in teams. The process was not without tears, however, as each child wanted to be the leader and have his/her own ideas and illustrations included in the final draft. 
This semester, the RCLC marketing group focused on an aspect that chal­lenged their creativity. The current team, with members from as close as South bend and as far as Zimbabwe, worked together in a bid to edit the stories while maintaining the integrity of the children’s ideas and staying true to their voices. 
The hard work has paid off in that what started out as an idea has grown to become a children’s book entitled “Every Child Has A Story.” This book is in the process of being published though CreateSpace, Amazon’s online publishing platform. 
This achievement marks the begin­ning of the next phase of the project. In the coming weeks, the book will be­come available to the public in digital and print form and the team will start executing its marketing strategy. The goal is to promote the book and ulti­mately increase its profitability. 
What distinguishes “Every Child Has A Story” from other children’s books is that it is perfectly imperfect. It was crafted and illustrated by young minds that refuse to conform to the rules of what a typical children’s book should look like. 
The project itself is ambitious and innovative, merging two seemingly unrelated concepts: Marketing and literature. This creates an environment where creativity is essential and the challenges are numerous, but learning and growth is inevitable. 
When “Every Child Has A Story” makes it to the shelves of bookstores and becomes available to Notre Dame and the South bend community as a whole, I encourage you to buy it for a young loved one. It contains perspec­tives on life masquerading as stories about heroes, homework and Notre Dame football. 
buy it for yourself as a reminder that even in this cutthroat world of business, commercial models can be used for good — all proceeds from the sale of the book will go directly to the Robinson Community Learning Center. 
Geraldine Mukumbi can be reached at gmukumbi@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

Losing my student Ziqi Zhang 
Alice Yang 
Guest Columnist 

I have not yet enjoyed the fall breeze or the beauty of autumn’s colors. both of these things seemed to be out of reach and are now gone. This year’s fall break was very significant for me, because my Chinese student Ziqi Zhang has left this world due to a traffic accident. A very young and beautiful life is gone. She was only 19, young and energetic. She should still be here looking forward to a bright future. What a tragedy! What pain! On October 13th, the Saturday before her accident, Ziqi wore her favor­ite green coat in support of the Notre Dame Fighting Irish at her first and last Notre Dame football game. Ziqi could never have imagined that on October 20th, the Saturday after the accident, Notre Dame Stadium, with a capacity of 80,000, would be filled with football fans all standing to take part in a moment of silence in her memory. 
Saint Mary’s vice-presidents and my colleagues of the Center for Women’s Intercultural Leadership worked all weekend to prepare the official letters, which had to be translated before being sent via email and fax. It was night and day non-stop work. The school lead­ers decided to host the Sunday Mass in Regina Chapel in memory of Ziqi. Father John summarized Ziqi’s life at Saint Mary’s: 
“Lots of people have had things to say about her in various groups the last few days. I’ve heard comments about her intelligence, her creativity and her great smile. I’ve heard of quiet acts of kind­ness she showered upon other people. I’ve heard how adventurous she was, about her first encounter with horse-rid­ing, as the horse galloped along. I would have thought that the horse walking would be enough of a first experience! I’ve heard about her trying out for teams in sports she’d never played before. I’ve heard her described as an excellent stu­dent, a budding scientist, fascinated by nano-technology, as well as a talented musician. I’ve mostly heard her de­scribed as somebody who was very easy to like, to love and who very much liked and loved others.” 
The memorial service for Ziqi on Tuesday was touching. Hundreds of peo­ple came to Regina Chapel. Ziqi’s room­mate, classmates, friends and professors all talked of their experiences with her. We laughed because of the interesting things she did in the past. We were sad and had tears because of the sorrow of losing her. She had only been in the United States for about a year. She strug­gled when she had to decide whether she should go back home or stay for a research project last summer, but in the end she decided to stay. She had just bought an international air ticket to visit her home only a few days before the car accident. She shared the exciting news with her classmates and friends and even left a message on Facebook telling everyone that finally she would be able to go home for a visit. This situation gave many of us great sorrow. After coming overseas to study at a place where she longed to go, she could now never go back home. 
I received her family’s letter to the school on Tuesday morning and we read it at the memorial service at noon that day. This letter touched all people who understand English or Chinese. The let­ter read: 
“Thank you very much for your let­ter. We were very touched by it. We are witnessing the gracious generosity that offers timely help in that wonderfully civilized country of the United States of America, which was my daughter’s dream land. We felt honored to have sent her there to study — a place filled with hope, kindness and friendship. With gratitude and esteem to you, we accept your kind offer to help us. Though we are old, and having lost our precious daughter, we felt the warmth through your actions, and we felt that it had been worthwhile for our daughter to have studied there. She was our pride and joy. She longed for this wonderful country of America and we wished she could have completed her studies, learned the sci­ences and civilization so that she could have played a worthy role in the better­ment of the entire human race.” 
Ziqi’s life was short, but she had built a beautiful bridge. She came to America from China to study abroad and pursue dual degrees of Saint Mary’s College and the University of Notre Dame. Most of her life in the United States was spent on the way back and forth between the two institutions. Her life also ended on the road between the two. 
May she rest in peace in Heaven! 
Alice Yang is a professor of Chinese and the Assistant Director for Global Education at Saint Mary’s College. She can be reached at syang@saintmarys.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 



By MEGHAN THOMASSEN 
Scene Writer 

Montgomery Gentry played Compton Hockey Arena on Oct. 16 at Notre Dame’s Ice Country Music Fest, with Eden’s Edge and Florida Georgia Line opening the night. With a promising lineup and an enthusiastically dressed audience, it seemed like Compton was in for a mem­orable evening. 
Eden’s Edge started with an atten­tion grabbing a capella cover of “We Are young,” by the band Fun. Their lead singer, Hannah blaylock, belted out some classics and a few of the band’s most popular songs, such as “Amen,” “Too Good to be True” and “Swingin’ Door.” 
Their style combines Taylor Swift’s angsty pop twist on country with a dark­er, more sophisticated resonance simi­lar to Lady Antebellum. blaylock did a commendable job of trying to amp up the crowd for the entire night, but some­times came off sounding more like a self-promoting MC than a lead vocalist. 
Unfortunately, the older audience didn’t know the words to the rest of their songs, and the band’s talented lead singer spent the rest of her time on stage without too many memorable moments. Even though their vivacious and heart­felt opening was well-performed, the audience was more excited for the fol­lowing opener, Florida Georgia Line. 
Florida Georgia Line, which was argu­ably more popular than the band they were supposed to be opening for, en­joyed a generous welcome. Their recent hit single, “Cruise,” from their album “Here’s the to Good Times” currently sits at the No. 2 spot on the U.S. Country charts. 
Tyler Hubbard and brian kelley were a force on stage and worked the crowd with a showmanship and expertise, dropping down into the audience and dancing through the aisles. The duo engaged the audience with great stage antics and more recognizable songs. Favorites included “Summer Jam” and “Get your Shine On”. Their grungy, sweet southern-boy sound was definite­ly the highlight of the night. 
Montgomery Gentry rode out the rest of the night with their hits “Hell yeah” and  “Something to be Proud Of” and their most recent record, “Where I Come From”. Eddie Montgomery and Troy Gentry, who put out their first album in 1999, were energetic and electric, twirling their microphones around and jumping with the crowd. 
Their rock-and-roll inspired songs were loud and brassy, but echoed a southern gentility with their virtuosic voices. One of their more sentimental, slower singles, “My Town” reflected strong family values despite their bold reputations. 
A small portion of Notre Dame’s coun­try aficionados showed up in their hoe­down finest, ready to dance and croon the night away. The majority of the crowd, however, were not students, and spent the rejoinder of the evening seated passively in the bleachers. 
Long gaps in between sets and oppres­sive lighting in the seats made it hard to get into a groove. One bright spot in the otherwise unappreciative crowd were the occasional pairs of line-dancers and swing-dancers that made their own fun on the concourse. The concertgoers were spread throughout the cavernous facil­ity, which is supposed to hold 5,000, mak­ing the event seem under-attended and unappreciated. 
Furthermore, the ushers prevented those stuck in cheaper seats to fill in the obviously empty pit below. Concerts are supposed to be an immersive, interactive experience — especially at country con­certs, where everyone knows the words and line dances, even if they don’t know how. An ice rink might work as a concert venue if every seat was sold out, but the terrible acoustics combined with the vast discrepancy in seating alienated half the audience from the bands’ performances before they had a chance to strum a chord. 
Overall, the concert was toe-tapping and laid-back — probably too laid back considering the caliber of the musicians. The potential for a rock-and-roll night of country was there, but the odd crowd and inappropriate facility left the night feeling lackluster. 
Contact Meghan Thomassen at mthomass@nd.edu 


STEPH WULZ | The Observer Photos: OE KENESEY | The Observer 

By KEVIN NOONAN 
Scene Editor 

Last Friday, hypnotist Tom DeLuca visited Notre Dame’s campus for a night of mystifying performance. Scene Editor Kevin Noonan had the chance to talk with him before the show. 
Kevin Noonan: What do you do? What does a professional hypnotist do? 
Tom DeLuca: What I’m doing tonight, and what I’ve been doing for most of my career, is go around to businesses and universities, that’s about 95 percent of what I do are corporations, associations and universities, and I put on these big, interactive performances where I take volunteers from the audience and I hyp­notize people. These kinds of shows are basically fun and hopefully creative, de­pends on who I get up there. It’s peachy, I don’t make people bark like a dog or anything, it’s not a fair or a vegas lounge act. I think it’s at little higher level. but it’s still silly, it’s still goofy and hopefully it’ll be good. 
KN: How did you get into this? 
TD: I got into this when I was in col­lege, I had a professor who was a clinical psychologist and he trained me to hyp­notize people in his clinic. I actually put myself through graduate school by hyp­notizing people to like lose weight and quit smoking and stuff like that. When I was doing that I started doing a show at the Sheraton Inn in the town that I lived in on Wednesday nights and it really got to be popular. People would see it and ask me to come to their college, and then I started traveling and then it got really big, and I’ve been doing it ever since. 
KN: What did you get your master’s de­gree in? 
TD: Psychology. 

KN: So this comes out of psychology study, sort of? 
TD: yes and no. A guy trained me to hypnotize people. I took courses in college that interested me, but I didn’t take like hypnosis courses or anything like that. It was all like experiential one­on-one stuff. I hypnotize a lot of people for different things. Ninety-five percent lose weight and quit smoking and the commercial venue to make money, but I saw tons of different reactions and got really good experience doing it. 
KN: So you do mostly businesses and colleges, do you have a preference for one of the two? 
TD: It depends. I like doing the col­leges, and I like coming here because the kids are smart and that makes the show creative. I give them the suggestion but they go with it. Some colleges I really enjoy doing it. I’d say two-thirds I really enjoy doing it. It depends on how many people are at the venue. If you have a couple hundred people it’ll be fun, if you only have 50 people it won’t be as good because there’ll be a hollowness to the room, and it also inhibits the audience on a psychological level from getting involved. but we generally have good crowds here, so hopefully it’ll be good. 
KN: Do you see a difference when you hypnotize corporate people versus college kids? 
TD: Oh God yes, night and day. First of all you’re not going to have twenty peo­ple raising their hands going “Pick me! Pick Me!” like I’m assuming I’m going to have tonight, at colleges I don’t have any problem getting volunteer to come up on stage. In a corporate setting they’re in suits and jackets, their bosses are there, their coworkers are there, they’re in their 30s, 40s, 50s, 60s and so they’re a lot more reserved. ‘What’s this guy going to make me do? What am I going to say about the company? What if I’m going to quit my job next week and it comes out?’ It’s that kind of thing, so you have to really se­duce them to get them up there. It’s a lot harder, but they pay more. They’re both exciting, I think that’s why I do it, and I know it and I really take it seriously. I also do it because it’s hard, it’s a chal­lenge, so I have to get myself really fo­cused and really up for every show. To do a good show for these folks, I have to sustain for an hour and a half. I can’t just hypnotize someone and then the show is over. It’s got to build. 
KN: So what are you doing when you hypnotize people? What happens to people? 
TD: What happens basically is you go bypass the critical facility and put suggestions directly into the imagi­nation and subconscious. you’re ba­sically putting a suggestion directly into the subconscious, and they’re not analyzing it. It’s real to them. There are levels to it, there’s light, medium and deep, and for this you want medium or deep because the suggestions are so weird. The light stage most people won’t do it. The medium or deep lev­els suggestions are more of a reality to them, and the real deep levels what­ever you tell them, they’ll see it or do it. They hallucinate. 
KN: So do you wave a gold watch? 
TD: No. There’s a lot going on. voice, cadence, reaction to them as they ob­serve how I’m doing things. I’m react­ing to a lot of things, the way they sit, just the way they perceive the sugges­tions. Some people will take it right away, some people will more slide into it, so I have to adjust to that. It’s a very tiring show by the way. 
KN: What are some of your favorite suggestions for people? 
TD: I have one I do here normally where I make somebody think that fruit have feelings and he’s the friend of fruit. I bring out an apple and take a bite and they’re like, ‘Ahh! Don’t eat that!’ That’s a good one. you can never tell. If you get the right person it’s really fun, if you get the wrong person it’s not so much fun. I’m just judging the whole time I’m up there which suggestion is going to work best with each person. That’s a big part of it. I do one where I tell one person, usually a male because they get really tense, although some­times a woman, any time I say the word ‘blue’ you’re going to think this whole show was a fake and a scam. but any time I snap my fingers twice you’re go­ing to think it was great. So I say ‘blue’ and they get up on the microphone and they’re like, ‘This show [stinks]. you stink, what a rip-off.’ And I snap my fingers and it’s, ‘I love you.’ That’s a really good one that I’ve been doing for a long time. Sometimes I make a wom­an think she’s the fun police and that the audience is having too much fun. I do one that I do here because these kids are really, really smart, and I hope I’m not overselling this. 
KN: No, I think you’re all right telling Notre Dame kids we’re smart, go ahead. 
TD: yeah I believe it. I make one of the kids Notre Dame’s top cheerleader, so every time I say a word it’s fun to see what happens. 
KN: Do you have any good stories from your career that stand out in your memory? 
TD: I’m sure I have a lot of stories. Here’s the deal, for me it’s not just a matter of hypnotizing people and making them do silly stuff. It’s seeing who they are, that’s the magic of it. It’s seeing a person reveal who they are. you see how their inner imagination works. you see their personality. Even if they’re not conscious of it and a lot of people aren’t really conscious of it, you see how they identify. Those are the little cool things that I think make it a good show. At least that’s what I see, there’s always like one or two that are just cool as hell. 
Contact Kevin Noonan at knoonan2@nd.edu 
STEPH WULZ | The Observer 


SPORTS AUTHORITY 

Stats won’t end MVP debate 

Vicky Jacobsen 
Sports Writer 
I know that most of us are currently wrapped up in the excitement of football season, but those of you who still re­member that sport called base­ball will probably be aware of last Thursday’s announcement that buster Posey of the San Francisco Giants and Miguel Cabrera of the Detroit Tigers show us the light, right? 
but here’s the shocker: Players who lead traditional statistical categories tend to look impressive in terms of advanced metrics. Team Trout’s favorite argument in favor of the rookie was his 10.7 wins above replacement, a figure calculated by the magi­cal number cruncher in the press box that decided the Angels would have won nearly 11 fewer games with an average 

As far as I’m concerned, the biggest news to come out of this year’s voting was the fact that not a single vote went to a Red Sox player, which was a first in the history of the MVP award. 
had been named the 2012 National League and American League MvPs, respectively. 
As far as I’m concerned, the biggest news to come out of this year’s voting was the fact that not a single vote went to a Red Sox player, which was a first in the history of the MvP award. When you consider that the award has been around since 1911, this is an embar­rassment of historical propor­tions. (Not as embarrassing as the team’s 93-loss season itself, but pretty close.) 
but the segment of the baseball-following population that isn’t made up of hopelessly myopic boston fans seems to think that the most important part of this story is the victory of Cabrera, the king of the tri­ple crown and traditional stats, over Los Angeles Angels’ rookie of the year Mike Trout, the favored son of the sabermetrics crowd. 
I wish I had a convincing argument for why Cabrera or Trout was clearly the best player in the American League, but in reality I’m not sure who I would have voted for. If I’m going to be completely honest with myself, I think I would’ve voted for Cabrera simply because Trout is barely old enough to drink legally and has plenty more chances to put to­gether an MvP-caliber season (and yes, I do realize that kind of logic is the reason why the baseball Writers Association of America doesn’t give voting privileges to random college kids). 
Now, if you read a baseball blog or watched “Moneyball” at any point last summer, you would think the “old guard” statistics — batting average, RbIs and wins — were devices of the baseball devils created to lead scouts down the path of darkness and despair that ends in signing Alex Rodriguez to a 10-year deal. Thank good­ness we have OPS+ and WAR to Triple-A call up in the outfield. but Cabrera’s 6.9 WAR is noth­ing to sneeze at. Trout’s OPS+ just barely outpaced that of the Tigers’ slugger (171 to 165), while their on-base percent­ages were nearly identical (.399 for Trout, .393 for Cabrera). Trout scored 20 more runs, but Cabrera knocked in 56 more. And let’s not forget that Cabrera was the first player to lead the league in homers, hits and batting average in 45 years. 
My (not so-)expert analysis? both had pretty darn good seasons. you could pretend that you favor one or the other based on the box score in the newspaper or the sabermetrics, but let’s get real: most of us watch the game, decide wheth­er we prefer the home run-masher or the dashing rookie, and then find the stat line we want to bolster our argument. 
And lest you think that ad­vanced metrics and a holistic approach to MvP voting is a new idea, let’s take a look at the 1941 AL MvP race: Ted Williams hit 37 homeruns, had 120 RbI, a .553 on-base percentage and .735 slugging percentage, not to mention a .406 batting average. you know what he didn’t have? The MvP award. That went to yankee Joe DiMaggio. (He had a pretty good season, too, with a nice little hitting streak in the middle.) 
We have the same funda­mental problem 70 years later, and probably will 70 years from now: There are a lot of valid ways to evaluate a player, and they won’t always give us one favorite. 
So congratulations to Miguel Cabrera. As for Mike Trout, the kid has plenty more chances. 
Contact Vicky Jacobsen at vjacobsen@nd.edu
    The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
ND VOLLEYBALL | USF 3, ND 1 
Irish fall to bulls in first round of big East tourney 

By CONOR KELLY 
Sports Writer 
Coming off a winning regu­lar season and holding the third seed in the big East tour­nament, Notre Dame hoped and expected to survive past the tournament’s first-round matchup with South Florida, but the bulls had something else in mind Friday at the Al McGuire Center at Marquette. 
behind 18 kills from senior J’beria Davis, the bulls (18-13, 7-8 big East) cruised past the Irish for the 3-1 (25-17, 18-25, 25-23, 25-19) upset, ending Notre Dame’s hopes for a big East tournament title and put­ting its chance at an at-large bid to the NCAA tournament into jeopardy. 
The bulls jumped on top of the Irish (20-8, 13-2) early, tak­ing an easy win in the match’s first game, but the Irish ap­peared to get the match back under control in the second game, winning 25-18. As it was the whole night, however, Notre Dame never got into a rhythm and the bulls capitalized on 

FOR SALE 
2 Bedroom 1 Bath home. 1.5 miles from campus. Off SR23 on Ponsha. Priced mid 80’s. john1552@att.net 
WANTED 
WINTER BREAK WORK Great Pay winterbreakwork.com 
each Irish misstep. 
“USF certainly played fan­tastically,” Irish coach Debbie brown said. “We expected them to play at a high level, but I think that was certainly the best we’ve ever seen them play. It felt like every one of their shots was finding open court and that they were able to get a hand on everything we sent over the net.” 
Having escaped deficits nu­merous times during their 11­game big East winning streak during the middle part of the season, the Irish were confi­dent that they could overcome the early deficit, but Davis and the bulls proved too much. 
“We knew going in that she was a very good player,” brown said of Davis, who hit .467 on the match. “We’ve faced other great hitters for other teams throughout the year have con­tained them much better, how­ever. It was really a matter of execution.” 
Execution was the issue of the night for the Irish, brown said, especially on defense, as Notre Dame allowed the bulls to hit .292 on the match. In addition to Davis, big East Freshman of the year Erin Fairs recorded 12 kills for the bulls while fellow freshman Ciara brown had 11. 
Despite a huge match from Irish junior Andie Olsen, who recorded 14 kills, South Florida bottled up the Irish attack, lim­iting sophomore outside hitter Toni Alugbue to just six kills. 
The loss, Notre Dame’s first ever in volleyball to South Florida, marked the first time the Irish failed to win a game in the big East tournament, a disappointment for a team that finished with an impressive regular season. 
The Irish will have one more chance to make an impres­sion on the NCAA selection committee when they travel to Ohio on Friday to take on the bobcats in a final tune-up before postseason play contin­ues. The NCAA selection show will be Sunday, Nov. 25 at 4 p.m. 
Contact Conor Kelly at ckelly17@nd.edu 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
Congratulations to Keenan interhall 
PERSONAL 
football for beating those slippery Otters 20-18. 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don’t go it alone. Notre Dame has many resources in place to assist you. A random fact: If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, If you have 3 quarters, 4 dimes, and please call Ann Whitall at 1-0084 or 4 pennies, you have $1.19. You also Karen Kennedy at 1-5550. For more have the largest amount of money information, visit ND’s website at: in coins without being able to make http://pregnancysupport@nd.edu change for a dollar. 



ND WOMEN’S SWIMMING AND DIVING | kANSAS WOMEN’S CLASSIC 
ND CROSS COUNTRY | NCAA CHAMPIONSHIPS 

Irish finish first in Kansas 
Men and women 
By KATIE HEIT 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame proved itself to be top competition over the weekend with a first-place finish at the kansas Women’s Classic in Topeka, kan. 
Irish sophomore Emma Reaney, a kansas native, said she was proud of her team’s effort against the competi­tive field. 
“We won by a large mar­gin, even while swimming a ridiculous amount of events in a very short time-span,” Reaney said, “I’m proud of my team for being so tough.” 
After day one the Irish were sitting in second place, trail­ing the Jayhawks 266-257. Sophomore Emma Reaney was one of the Notre Dame leaders, taking the top spot in 
the 200-yard individual medley and participating in two Irish first-place relays. 
by day two, Notre Dame had taken the lead with 667.5 points, leading kansas by 80 points. Reaney continued her dominant streak with a vic­tory in the 400-yard IM and the 100-yard breaststroke. Senior captain kim Holden claimed wins in the 100-yard butterfly and the 100-yard backstroke. The Irish also claimed victory in the 200­yard medley relay and the second-place finish in the 800 free relay. 

On day three, Holden and Reaney placed first and second, respectively, in the 200-meter backstroke. Reaney also claimed victory with a first-place in the 200­yard backstroke. Irish sopho­more bridget Casey grabbed her first individual victory of the weekend, taking first place in the 200-yard but­terfly. While Casey finished 

“I think we needed a meet like this to prove to ourselves just how tough we really are ... Even before the last relay, when we all thought our legs were about to fall off, we were still joking around and dancing behind the blocks.” 
Emma Reaney 
sophomore swimmer 

first in the event, Holden finished only a few seconds behind her and claimed the third spot for the Irish. 
Notre Dame closed out the weekend with a victory in the 400-yard medley relay, 
PAID ADvERTISEMENT 

securing the Irish victory. Reaney said the Irish ex-
run at NCAAs 

celled due to their toughness throughout the competition. 
“I think we needed a meet like this to prove to ourselves just how tough we really are,” Reaney said. “Even before the last relay, when we all thought our legs were about to fall off, we were still joking around and dancing behind the blocks.” 
Other top performanc­es from the Irish included freshman Catherine Galletti, who finished in the top 8 in four individual events, in­cluding third in the 100-yard freestyle, and swam on three winning relay teams. Irish junior kelly Ryan was part of two winning relays, finished third in the 200-yard back­stroke and fourth in the 100­yard backstroke. 
Notre Dame finished with 

976.5  points,  while  host  
kansas  took  second  with  
853.5.  

The Irish will take the holi­day weekend off before re­turning Nov. 30, when the diving team heads to the Hawkeye Invitational in Iowa City, Iowa, and the swim team makes its way to Columbus, Ohio, to compete in the Ohio State Invitational. 
Contact Katie Heit at kheit@nd.edu 

By JOE WIRTH 
Sports Writer 
The Irish wrapped up their 2012 campaign Saturday when the men’s and women’s teams competed in the 2012 NCAA championship meet in Louisville, ky. 
The men’s team finished in 28th place with a total of 591 points, while the women’s team placed 15th with 394 points and recorded its best finish at the NCAA championships since 2005. 
between the two teams, the Irish had 13 total runners com­peting. On the men’s side, junior Martin Grady set the pace, as he finished in 52nd place with a time of 30:20 for the 10-kilometer race. 
Senior Rebecca Tracy, sopho­more Gabby Gonzales and junior Alexa Aragon led the women. Each finished in the top 100 and within a second of each other. 
Women’s coach Tim Connelly said he was proud of the way his team competed and thought the results were a testament to how the team competed and worked all year. 
“A top-15 finish is nothing to scoff at,” Connelly said. “We ran well and the results show that. Of course, there is never going to be a perfect race, but we really com­peted hard out there.” 
Another notable finish on the men’s side was senior J.P. Malette, who finished in 117th place with a time of 30:53. Junior Walter Schafer was the third runner for the Irish to cross the finish line with a time of 31:02, which earned him 136th place. 
Connelly said despite the strong showing on the women’s side, he felt there were missed opportunities which could have snuck the team into the top-10. 
“The four ran as well as they could,” Connelly said. “We fin­ished 22nd last year so it is good to see improvement, but you always wonder, ‘What if?’ We had to shut down [sophomore] Hannah Eckstein and [fresh­man] Molly Seidel was ham­pered by a sinus infection, so she was not able to be at her best.” 
Oregon won the women’s meet while Iowa State senior betsy Saina took home the individual crown. 
Oklahoma State won the men’s meet for the third time in four years and Texas Tech junior kennedy kithuka won the indi­vidual race with a time of 28:31. 
Looking back on the year, Connelly said it was nice to see his runners grow and improve from August workouts. 
“I’m proud of the way they learned to compete,” Connelly said. “They put themselves in a position to be challenged and they responded well.” 
This meet marks the end of the cross country season, but the indoor track and field season be­gins Dec. 7 with the blue & Gold Invitational at the Loftus Sports Center. 
Contact Joe Wirth at jwirth@nd.edu 




MEN’S BASKETBALL | ND 70, ST. JOSEPH’S 79; ND 78, byU 68 
Irish rally to win Saturday after loss Friday 
By MIKE MONACO 
Sports Writer 
After surrendering an eight-point lead in the final minutes of regulation and losing to Saint Joseph’s in overtime Friday, the No. 20 Irish overcame a seven-point deficit early in the second half and defeated byU 78-68 on Saturday in the consolation game of the Coaches vs. Cancer Classic at the barclays Center in brooklyn, N.y. 
“I am very proud of our team because we invested a lot of energy last night and had our hearts broken,” Irish coach Mike brey said after defeating byU. “We were moping around a little bit today, rightfully so, and I thought by pregame meal we had our heads up. 
“I’m impressed with our ma­turity because we were in a battle and were down seven in the second half, and to find a way to get out of here with a win, I’m proud of our group. Even though we didn’t go 4-0 in this, we went 3-1, I think we found out some more about our team.” 
After trailing by seven, Notre Dame (3-1) drilled four 3-point­ers and went on a 16-2 run to take a 58-51 lead with just un­der nine minutes to play. The Cougars (2-2) cut the lead to 63-61 with 4:28 remaining, but junior captain and point guard Eric Atkins quickly poured in five points to bump the lead back up to seven. From there, the Irish closed out the game by making 10 of 12 free throws. 
Atkins was 5-for-10 from the field, including 3-for-4 from 3-point range, and finished with a season-high 16 points. The point guard said the differ­ence between his performances Friday and Saturday was his composure scoring buckets down the stretch. 
“being poised mentally, yes­terday when I missed shots I got frustrated and that messed my whole game up,” Atkins said. “I talked to Coach brey and the guys, and they told me to just keep my confidence and my poise. It’s definitely tough, but the guys on the bench and the coaches just keep telling me to have confidence in myself and stay ready.” 
Fellow junior guard Jerian Grant, who averaged just 8.7 points in the first three games, scored 19 points, including 17 in the second half. 
“We just stayed poised and Jerian did a great job of attack­ing off the ball screen,” Atkins said. “I think [Grant] really got everyone involved and he got himself going driving to the hoop. So I just think we stayed poised and kept doing what we do.” 
Senior forward Jack Cooley was his usual dominant self down low, as he finished with 19 points and 13 rebounds. 
but while it was Cooley who had his way in the post Saturday, Saint Joseph’s (2-1) rode a physi­cal frontline to a 79-70 overtime victory Friday in the semifinals. 
Notre Dame led 66-58 with 
4:01 left in regulation, but the Hawks closed out the game with an 8-0 run to force over­time as the Irish fell cold shoot­ing. In the extra session, Saint Joseph’s scored the first five points and went on to outscore Notre Dame 13-4 in overtime. 
“We had good looks but we just couldn’t knock them down in a timely manner at the end of the game,” Atkins said. “They did a great job defending us the whole game.” 
Saint Joseph’s was fueled by its physical big men. Hawks ju­nior forward Ronald Roberts, Jr., led the charge with 21 points and 16 rebounds and junior forwards C.J. Aiken and Halil kanacevic combined for 26 points and 15 rebounds. 
“They have a few more men than us,” brey said. “They were more men than us tonight and that’s why they won. They play at their pace. They know who they are. They are a really good team.” 
Hawks coach Phil Martelli said the overtime battle didn’t feel like an early-season non-conference tilt. 
“That was a November game?” Martelli said. “Sure seemed like more than that.” 

Saint Joseph’s fell to Florida State 73-66 in the champion­ship game Saturday. 
The Irish return to campus to take on George Washington on Wednesday at Purcell Pavilion. 
Contact Mike Monaco at jmonaco@nd.edu 
HOCKEY | ND 4, MICHIGAN 1 

Notre Dame sweeps Michigan at Yost Arena 
the third. decision to put him on the ice when  
For Jackson, it was critical for the he finished a centering pass from  
team to come out strong and weath­junior defenseman Stephen Johns  
er the storm early against a strong to put the Irish up 3-1 in the third.  
team in a hostile environment. “He certainly showed on Friday  
“I think it was important that we night that he is going to be a con­ 
“We came out f lying in their building  
and were able to grind it out and get  
our legs underneath us.”  
Jeff Jackson  
Irish coach  
held the fort early on when they had tributor for us offensively,” Jackson  
chances to score and Steven made said. “He’s still learning the system  
a big save or they missed the net,” and other things. He hasn’t been  
Jackson said. “We came out flying on the ice with us for the first six  
in their building and were able to weeks. He did real well for his first  
grind it out and get our legs under-weekend of collegiate hockey.”  
JULIE HERDER | The Observer neath us.” As he has all year, Summerhays  
Irish junior center David Gerths dodges a check and makes a pass during  the 3-1 loss to Boston College on The Irish have became a better proved to be the backstop for the  
Nov. 9. This weekend marked the first time Notre Dame has swept Michigan at Yost Arena in 34 years. team with the addition of Lucia, Irish, making 28 saves on 29 shots  
who returned on Thursday night to keep Notre Dame in the game.  
By CONOR KELLY Sports Writer  on Thursday, the win pushed the Irish to 5-1 in the CCHA (8-3 over- Russo opened the scoring on the powerplay in the first period,  from a broken leg that has kept The Irish will face North Dakota him out of the lineup for the first at home on Friday at the Compton  
all). Notre Dame continued to excel  putting a screened wrist shot past  six weeks of the season. Though Family Ice Arena.  
Notre Dame completed its first  on the road, now undefeated away  Wolverine netminder Steve Racine  he played only ten minutes in each  
sweep of Michigan at yost Arena  from Compton Family Ice Arena.  off a pass from junior defenseman  game, recording his first collegiate Contact Conor Kelly at  
on the strength of a 4-1 win over the  “We’ve played great on the road,  Stephen Johns. Though Michigan  action, he rewarded Jackson’s ckelly17@nd.edu  
Wolverines on Friday night, netting  and we need to bring that back into  tied the game in the second, junior  
third period goals from freshman  the home environment,” Jackson  goaltender Steven Summerhays  PAID ADvERTISEMENT  
Mario Lucia, junior forward Jeff  said. “I’m sure it gives our team  turned aside all 14 shots in the  
Costello and sophomore Robbie  confidence to know that we can  third, and Costello found the net  
Russo, who also recorded a first  go into a place like yost and win.  late in the third off of a feed from ju­ 
period goal to put the Irish on top  This year there’s no question in my  nior forward bryan Rust to take the  
ahead.  mind they’ve shown signs of being  lead for the Irish. Goals from Lucia  
Coming on the heels of a 3-1 win  a great team.”  and Russo finished the scoring in  



WOMEN’S SOCCER | ND 2, WAkE 1; ND 2, FLORIDA 0 
Notre Dame advances to quarterfinals 

By BRIAN HARTNETT 
Sports Writer 
After being known as the “baby Irish” for much of the season, Notre Dame may want to adopt the nick­name “comeback kids”. 
The Irish rallied from a halftime deficit for the second straight week to beat No. 10 Wake Forest 2-1 on Friday and then shut out No. 8 Florida 2-0 on Sunday at Pressly Stadium in Gainesville, Fla., to ad­vance to the quarterfinal round of the NCAA Championships. 
Notre Dame (16-5-2, 8-1-1 big East) fell behind early in Friday’s second round matchup with Wake Forest (14-6-3, 6-3-1 ACC) after Demon Deacons senior midfielder kristen Meier chipped a shot past Irish freshman goalkeeper Elyse Hight in the 43rd minute. 
Irish coach Randy Waldrum said the halftime deficit left him with an important decision to make. 
“At halftime, I had to decide if it was better to wait until 10 or 20 minutes left in the game and then try to push forward or just try to tie the score right after halftime at the risk of opening ourselves up defen­sively,” he said. “When we got in at halftime, we just talked as a team and said, ‘Let’s go for this and let’s make this change now.’” 
Waldrum’s halftime decision to move freshman midfielder Cari Roccaro to the forward position soon paid off as Roccaro scored in the 59th minute off a corner kick by freshman defender brittany von Rueden. Freshman forward Crystal Thomas provided the eventual game-winner 11 minutes later, scoring from 12 yards out off a pass from junior midfielder Mandy Laddish. 
Waldrum said the team’s recent resiliency is simply a mark of its continuing maturity. 
“I think it’s just a matter of a team that has been gaining some more experience and getting more con­fident in what they do,” he said. “I think we just have the mental­ity of ‘Let’s go for it, lay it out there and see what happens with it.’ Sometimes those moves work for you, and sometimes they don’t, but, fortunately, that was a really good move for us on Friday.” 
The script was flipped when Notre Dame met the Gators (19­5-1, 11-2-0 SEC) in third round tournament action at their home stadium Sunday, as Irish junior forward Rebecca Twining scored on a header off a von Rueden cor­ner kick in the 20th minute to give Notre Dame the early lead. Florida threatened on several opportuni­ties in the first half, but the Irish defense and Hight, who had four saves in the shutout, held them scoreless. 
“Florida was really good with keeping the ball, but I thought we were really patient in our overall team defending,” Waldrum said. “We didn’t get caught and try to chase the ball too much. I think we set in and defended real well and took advantage of that.” 
Notre Dame added to its lead in the 71st minute when sophomore forward Lauren bohaboy inter­cepted a Florida pass and drove home a shot from 12 yards out. 
Notre Dame became the first team to score two goals against Florida since kentucky did it Sept. 
14. Waldrum said he was proud of his team’s ability to execute on of­fense over the weekend. 
“I think the key is that a couple of those kids have started to step it up,” Waldrum said. “We got great performances today out of [freshman forward Anna Maria] Gilbertson and Twining. Our play­ers are playing really well at the right time, and we just need to keep it going.” 
With the win, Notre Dame will return to Florida on Friday to face No. 7 Florida State. The Irish and Seminoles (19-3-0, 8-2-0 ACC) have much recent history in the NCAA Championships, as the two teams met in four consecutive tourna­ments from 2006 to 2009. 
Florida State is paced by senior forward Tiffany McCarty, who leads the team with 15 goals, and junior goalkeeper kelsey Wys, who holds a 0.67 goals against average. 
Notre Dame will battle Florida State on Friday at 7 p.m. at the Seminole Soccer Complex in Tallahassee, Fla. 
Contact Brian Hartnett at bhartnet@nd.edu 

WOMEN’S BASKETBALL  | ND 94, UMASS 50 
Irish trump Massuchusettes for big win 
the offense to be really uncomfort-By MATTHEW ROBISON Sports Writer able,” Irish coach Muffet McGraw  I think that it’s my job to put pressure on the point guard and make her  
said. “That’s kind of our goal.”  give it up. We were kind of making  
Junior guard kayla Mcbride The Minutewomen (1-3) shot just  other people bring the ball up. That  
led Notre Dame’s 94-50 rout of 40 percent from the field, and Notre  triggers our transition.”  
Massachusetts on Sunday at Purcell Dame’s pressure never allowed  Notre Dame (2-0) got production  
Pavilion with 18 points and five Massachusetts to get into an offen­ from all three of its post players in its  
steals. Ten different Irish players sive rhythm.  home opener. Junior forward Natalie  
scored in the blowout and No. 7 Senior guard Skylar Diggins  Achonwa had eight points, eight re- 
Notre Dame forced 34 turnovers echoed her coach’s emphasis on the  bounds and four assists.  
with 21 steals. high-pressure defense.  “[Achonwa] shot the ball well, she  
“We’ve really been working hard at “We try to get up and make the of- rebounded well,” McGraw said. “I  
double-teaming, running at the ball fense uncomfortable,” Diggins said.  thought she was a really big presence  
and trying to make our defense get “It starts with the full-court pressure.  for us inside.”  
Sophomore forward Markisha  
PAID ADvERTISEMENT  Wright was perfect from the field,  
shooting 4-for-4 with nine points  
and four assists.  
“She’s still trying to find her oppor- 
tunities,” McGraw said. “We’re trying  
to look for her a little bit more. I was LILY KANG | The Observer  
really happy with her game.” Irish senior guard Skylar Diggins goes up for a contested layup during  
Junior forward Ariel braker added Notre Dame’s 88-28 win over Edinboro on Nov. 1.  
seven points in just 13 minutes off  
the bench.  but Diggins said she was glad to be can score and that can shoot the  
“Ariel braker really gave us a shot  reunited with her former teammate. ball,” Diggins said. “It’s just a matter  
of energy off the bench,” McGraw  “I hadn’t seen her in a while, so it of finding the open person. I think  
said. “I thought she worked really  was good seeing her,” Diggins said. sometimes we overpass a little bit,  
hard. She battled inside, got a couple  “I’d never played against her before.” try to think too much for each other. I  
of blocks and a couple of good passes  Notre Dame shot 55 percent from like that we’re sharing the ball.”  
too.”  the field, but the Irish struggled from The Irish donned the same  
After a 17-0 run in the first half,  behind the arc, shooting just 21 golden uniforms with camouflage  
Notre Dame jumped out to a 33-9  percent. accents they wore for the Carrier  
lead and led 53-19 at the half.  “I think we’re a really good shoot-Classic against Ohio State on Nov. 9  
Notre Dame effectively shut down  ing team and I expect us to shoot in Charleston, S.C. Notre Dame also  
Massachusetts’ best player, senior  that well every game,” McGraw honored veterans in attendance  
center Jasmine Watson, who aver- said. “I think we’re a much better during a pregame ceremony and at  
aged 18.5 points, nine rebounds, and  3-point shooting team today than we halftime.  
four blocks per game coming into  showed today.” Sophomore guard Madison Cable  
the game. Watson is a South bend  Diggins finished with 15 points did not play because of a sore foot.  
native and was a high school team- and seven assists, freshman guard The Irish will play Mercer on  
mate of Diggins at Washington High  Jewell Loyd had 13 points and Tuesday night at 7 p.m. at Purcell  
School. The Irish held Watson to just  freshman guard Michaela Mabrey Pavilion.  
eight points and eight rebounds. She  chipped in 10 points.  
fouled out with 7:25 remaining in the  “Like last year’s team, we’ve got a Contact Matthew Robison at  
game, spoiling her homecoming.  lot of weapons, a lot of people who mrobison@nd.edu  


THE ObSERvER | MONDAY, NOVEMBER 19, 2012 | NDSMCObSERvER.COM 

two incompletions from the six-
McGlinn Besler 
yard line, Leach connected with 
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 16 CONTINUED FROM PAGE 16 

an open Fisher for a touchdown, That goal-line stop opened the which decreased Walsh’s deficit to floodgates for celebration from one point. 
been working on set pieces the McGlinn sideline, and the both sidelines anxiously await-
a lot so it was nice to be re-team finished the game in a vic-ed the ensuing extra-point at-
warded for that.” tory formation. Shamrocks senior tempt, the determining factor 
At the other end of the quarterback and captain Emily between overtime and a McGlinn 
pitch, the Notre Dame de-Golden said she finally felt her victory. 
fense allowed just eight shots team’s hard work pay off at the end “I thought for sure it was go­
— just two of which were on of the game. ing to overtime,” Golden said. “I 
goal — and three corner kicks “We worked so hard for this, mean, I have all the faith in the 
en route to its ninth shut-and the season obviously couldn’t world in our defense and they got 
out of the year. Clark lauded have ended any better,” Golden the stop and saved the day for us as 
sophomore midfielder Nick said. “All the tough games and they’ve done all season long, but I 
besler for his performance the long practices and sacrificing was sweating bullets.” 
in front of senior goalkeeper some studying sometimes were The official ruling of an incom-
Will Walsh and the back four. just to get out here and get this, so plete pass froze the score at 13-12, 
“I think the man that has it means a lot.” and the Shamrocks closed out a 
been doing a lot of work for us After a scoreless first quarter, hard-fought victory. The win was 
recently is Nick besler,” Clark McGlinn jumped out to a 6-0 lead especially special for the McGlinn 
said. “Nick besler I thought he on a three-yard touchdown pass seniors, including Golden, who 
was the man of the [big East] from Golden to freshman receiver accumulated 357 yards of total of-
tournament last weekend in Grace Maginn to close the first fense in the game. 
Philadelphia. He allows these half. The Shamrocks added seven “This was the most amazing 
other guys to get involved in more points on their first drive season.” she said. “I’m sad it’s over, 
the attack because he just of the second half with a 12-yard but we couldn’t have gone out on a 
bolts up any counterattacks touchdown pass from Golden to bigger high.” 
and I thought he was very Maginn. On the other sideline, Walsh 
good again today.” Walsh responded on its next was disappointed with the finish 
A physical game turned drive, putting six points on the but prepared to contend again 
ugly down the stretch when board with a fourth-down, 13-in 2013. Leach, who piled up 112 yard rushing touchdown by yards of offense, said the Wild 
“I think the 

Leach. Two sacks in the following Women have officially returned to 
man that has 

series forced the Shamrocks to the interhall title picture. punt with two-and-a-half min-“We just proved that Walsh 
been doing a 

utes remaining, which gave Walsh isn’t an up-and-comer,” she said. 
lot of work for 

one final possession to keep their “They’ve been here to play the en-
us recently is 

title’s hopes alive. tire season, and they’ve been so 
Nick Besler ... 

Three short passes from Leach phenomenal…it’s something that to sophomore receiver Maggie I will always look back on fondly as 
I thought he 

Fisher, along with a 19-yard com-being a part of my senior year.” 
was the man of 
pletion to sophomore receiver 
the [Big East] 

kathleen Hough, drove the Wild Contact Mary Green at 
tournament 

Women down the field.. After mgreen8@nd.edu 
last weekend in Philadelphia. He allows these 

Keenan yurek to cut the deficit to and the third touchdown touchdown. 
other guys to get 

CONTINUED FROM PAGE 16 20-12. The touchdown came brought the Otters with-keenan looked like it 
after Sorin sophomore in two points of keenan. was going to dominate 
involved in the Otters in the first half and Andrew kuhn intercepted a Sorin lined up for the two-the second half as well attack because he held a commanding 20-0 keenan pass. The intercep-point conversion, but the when it opened the third 
just bolts up any 

lead early in the third quar-tion sparked considerable knights’ defense smoth-quarter with a quick drive 
counterattacks 

ter. Sorin woke up on its energy on the Sorin side-ered the run inches from that ended with a 39-yard first possession of the third lines and the field. the goal line and effective-touchdown pass to junior and I thought he period, however, and pro-Late in the fourth quar-ly ended the game. receiver John Garry. was very good ceeded to score 18 unan-ter Spinelli threw another “It’s hard to have the On the next possession, 
again today.” 

swered points. The Otters’ touchdown, this one a 38-game come down to two-Sorin started to turn the 
Bobby Clark 

first scoring drive was ex-yard toss to yurek. After point conversions like game around, but keenan 
Irish coach 

ecuted in three crisp plays. adjusting their run-orient-that,” Spinelli said. “but managed to pull through, 
Sorin senior quarterback ed offense to keenan’s de-Sorin football is about hav-something McDonough Ted Spinelli moved the fense, the Otters seemed to ing fun. It’s about mini-said the knights had done Irish junior defender Luke ball down the field with a have everything going in mizing the opponents’ big all season. Mishu and Spartan senior 31-yard pass and another their favor. plays, and we didn’t do that “The key was a team ef-midfielder Nick Wilson were 21-yard pass that set up “We came out with the in the first half, and the ex-fort,” McDonough said. engaged in an altercation the touchdown. Spinelli run, but then we knew tra points mattered.” “We battled through ad-in front of the Notre Dame then tossed the ball to se-they were going to stack keenan certainly made versity all year, and young goal after Walsh snatched nior running back Ryan the box,” Spinelli said. “It the big plays, especially in guys had to step up. We a cross out of the air. Mishu Robinson for the score that opened up some vertical the first half. McDonough need all 25 of our guys. you and Wilson both received red started the momentum possibilities, and we fig-threw a six-yard touchdown take away one, and we don’t cards at the 72:43 mark. shift. ured we had nothing to pass to senior receiver make it to the Stadium, we Less than five minutes 
Sorin continued to be ag-lose since we were down 20 Alex Green on the knights’ don’t win this game.” later, Michigan State sopho­gressive and Spinelli threw points. So why not throw it first possession. Senior re-more midfielder Fatai Alashe an 18-yard touchdown pass down the field? ” ceiver Trevor yerrick later Contact Samantha Zuba at was whistled for his second to freshman receiver Jake The adjustment worked ran for a second first-half szuba@nd.edu yellow card when he took 
out besler with a slide tackle. Alashe was also ejected with a red card. 


Notre Dame advances to play No. 16 seed Indiana in the third round. The Irish downed the Hoosiers (12-5-3) 1-0 on Sept. 26 in bloomington, Ind. 
Notre Dame will take on the Hoosiers on Sunday at Alumni Stadium. 
Contact Mike Monaco at jmonaco@nd.edu 




CROSSWORD | WILL SHORTZ 


HIGHLY PUNLIKELY | CHRISTOPHER bRUCkER 

LOWER YOUR EXPECTATIONS | LENNy RAGO &                                                                      PATRICk CROSS 


Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
SUDOKU | THE MEPHAM GROUP 

HOROSCOPE | EUGENIA LAST 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Allyson Felix, 27; Denny Hamlin, 32; Chloe Sevigny, 38; Owen Wilson, 44. 
Happy Birthday: Reconsider what your strategy has been in the past and make the necessary alterations. you need to upgrade in whatever way is necessary to meet with popular demands. Once you show how progressive you can be, you will get the respect and results you are looking for. your numbers are 7, 15, 19, 22, 26, 34, 40. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Proceed with caution. Impulsive action will be your downfall. Protect your health, wealth and professional reputation. Listen to com­plaints, find solutions and you will bypass some of the negativity around you. Love will improve your life. 

TAURUS (April 20-May 20): keep an open mind and listen to what others have to contribute. you mustn’t allow your emotions to take over, causing you to make a stubborn mistake that will hurt an important relationship you have with someone. Avoid unsafe places and situations. 

GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Take a creative approach to something you enjoy doing and you will find a way to market a service that will bring in some extra cash. Don’t let a work-related problem cause you upset when you should be enjoying social activities. 

CANCER (June 21-July 22): Try doing something unique or visiting a destination you’ve never been before. Time spent with people looking for a similar experience will lead to lasting friendships. Repackage and present what you have to offer. 

LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Review your relationships with friends, relatives and your peers. you may have to back up and reconsider a pending problem. Have the cour­age to take responsibility for whatever you may have done wrong, and also point out the mistakes made by others as well. 

VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): be a leader. Don’t shy away from delegating who should be doing what. your ability to understand what will and what won’t work will be respected and admired by the people around you. Travel and communication are highlighted. 

LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): If someone you live with or must deal with is ranting or giving you a hard time, back away and do your own thing. you are best to visit someone you find less stressful or sign up for an event that brings you pleasure. 

SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Don’t wait to see what others do. Step up, be a leader and enjoy the rewards you get for taking the initiative to develop and present what you have to offer. your dedication coupled with your skills will lead to victory. 


SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Don’t be too eager to share your plans. Someone will take advantage of your generosity and good nature if you are too giving. Make changes at home that will make your life less stressful and more comfortable. Focus on love. 

CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Plan your upcoming week in order to make the most of your skills and any growing opportunity. A serious look at your personal papers and plans will help you mastermind the best way to increase your assets and decrease your liabilities.  

AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Not everyone will be respectful of your privacy. you have to pick and choose the personal information you share with others. Put greater emphasis on you, your home, your loved ones and what you can do to protect what you cherish.  

PISCES (Feb. 19- March 20): Talk will help you drum up interest in what you want to pursue. Developing a skill or talent and incorporating it in a trendy or popular way will bring fabulous results as long as you do not let excessiveness cut into your profits. 

Birthday Baby: you are determined, persistent and productive. you are relentless and courageous. 
JUMBLE | DAvID HOyT AND JEFF kNUREk 

Make checks payable to and mail to:  Enclosed is $130 for one academic year Enclosed is $75 for one semester  The Observer P.O. box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Name Address City  State  Zip  



INTERHALL FOOTBALL | kEENAN 20, SORIN 18; MCGLINN 13, WALSH 12 
keenan and McGlinn win with goal-line stands 

Shamrocks repeat 
Knights hold off 
as interhall 
Otters’ comeback 
champions 
attempt 
BY SAMANTHA ZUBA 
By MARY GREEN 
Sports Writer 
Sports Writer 
No. 2 keenan closed the 
The women’s interhall cham­
book on its undefeated 
pionship between No. 2 McGlinn 
season and won the Men’s 
and No. 4 Walsh on Sunday at 
Interhall football champi-
Notre Dame Stadium came down 
onship with a 20-18 victory 
to a final play. Needing one point to 
over No. 1 Sorin on Sunday 
tie it up and force overtime, Walsh 
at Notre Dame Stadium. 
(6-3) could not make the conver-
The knights (6-0-1) hand­
sion, and McGlinn (8-1) took home 
ed the Otters (6-1) a heart-
the trophy for the second consecu­
breaking loss that came 
tive year with a 13-12 victory. 
down to two-point conver­
both sides anxiously watched 
sions. Each team scored 
the decisive play unfold as Walsh 
three touchdowns, but 
senior quarterback and captain 
keenan stopped all three of 
kat Leach threw to sophomore re­
Sorin’s conversion attempts 
ceiver kathleen brown on the goal 
to hang on for the win. 
line. Although brown caught the 
“It’s hard to put into 
pass, officials ruled it incomplete 
words,” keenan senior 
because brown was down before 
quarterback Andrew 
she made the catch. The Wild 
McDonough said. “For the 
Women’s captain vehemently ar­
seniors, it’s our last game 
gued the call, but it stood. 
in pads. And to get to play 
“Obviously, it was a tough call at 
that game in Notre Dame 
the end and I disagreed, but I re-
Stadium, to end with a win 
spect all the refs,” Leach said. “[It 
and be undefeated is amaz­
was a] tough one to take, but I was 
ing. It’s hard to find words.” 
unbelievably proud [of Walsh] at 
The knights shut out the 
the end.” 
SARAH O”CONNOR | The Observer 

The Keenan defense, left, lines up as Sorin prepares to snap the ball during Sunday’s championship game 
see kEENAN PAGE 14 see McGLINN PAGE 14 
in Notre Dame Stadium. The Knights defeated the Otters, 20-18. 
MEN’S SOCCER | ND 3, MICHIGAN STATE 0 
Substitutes sink Spartans in second round 
By MIKE MONACO 
Sports Writer 
After 20 minutes of unevent­ful soccer, senior forward Ryan Finley and junior forward Harry Shipp checked into the game and jolted the No. 1 Irish to a 3-0 victory over Michigan State in the second round of the NCAA tournament on Sunday at Alumni Stadium. 
Playing in tandem with se­nior midfielder Dillon Powers, Finley and Shipp scored two first-half goals and Notre Dame (17-3-1), the top overall seed, rolled to the win in its first tournament game after re­ceiving a first-round bye. 
“It was very good,” Irish coach bobby Clark said of his team’s performance. “I thought we opened the game well and I thought in the second half of the first half we were very, very good. … Overall it was a good performance. Anytime you win in the [NCAA tourna­ment], you’re very happy.” 
Powers, who is second on the team with 19 points, was credited with the assists on the goals by Finley and Shipp. 
The goal by Finley, the big East Offensive Player of the year, gave him 21 goals and 46 points for the season. Shipp is tied for third on the team with 17 points. 
“I think we have a good feeling for where each other is going to be when we have the ball,” Shipp said. “I think Dillon is getting a lot better at making runs in behind, and I think I’m getting a lot better at making runs in behind be­cause that’s what Finley is best at. So I think to add a second and third dimension besides just him running really helps.” 
After subbing into the game at the 20:03 mark, the forwards quickly charged the Irish of­fense. Powers found Shipp near the top of the box at 32:53 and Shipp blasted home a right-footed shot into the bottom left corner of the net. Shipp said it was important to jump out to a lead against the Spartans (12-10-1). 
“It’s huge because I think a team like Michigan State, es­pecially where they are good at sitting back and playing de­fense, once you get that first goal, they have to come out Shipp broke the scoring ice, and that how it was easy to get Finley doubled Notre Dame’s two more [goals] because they advantage when he headed have to go on the attack,” Shipp home a corner kick swung in said. by Powers. 
Roughly 10 minutes after “Dillon put in another good ball and Grant ran across and dummied it and I was able to just get a head on it and redi­rect it in,” Finley said. “We’ve 

see bESLER PAGE 14 




