
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


Student allegedly assaulted 
Observer Staff Report 
A male Notre Dame student allegedly assaulted a Saint Mary’s student in a taxi early Saturday morning, according to a South Bend Police report. 
The taxi was already carry­ing several passengers when it picked up the 21-year-old white suspect. The driver told police she picked up the suspect be­cause she felt bad he was walk­ing without a coat. 
She said the suspect sat in the front passenger seat and did not say anything until he suddenly shouted at the other passengers in the cab, turned around and began hitting the victim in the neck. 
The Observer is withholding the identity of the Saint Mary’s student because she is the vic­tim of a crime, and is not nam­ing the Notre Dame student be­cause he has not been charged with a crime.  
The incident occurred around 
2:30 a.m. Saturday near State Road 23 and the 700 block of North St. Peter Street. 
The victim, a 19-year-old fe­male, said she was keeping to herself and talking to friends in the back of the cab when the suspect suddenly turned around and began assaulting her. 
She told police she was scared and did not know what to do be­cause she had never seen the suspect before and had never been in a similar situation. The driver came to her aid by pull­ing the suspect away from her. 
Immediately after the as­sault began, the driver said she stopped the cab, pushed the suspect out the door, called 911 and began following the man, keeping police updated on the situation as she drove. 
Police said the victim was vis­ibly shaken and had redness around her neck, but she said she had no pain and refused medical treatment. The police then transported the victim back to the Saint Mary’s cam­pus. 
Police performed a portable breath test on the suspect and recorded a blood alcohol con­tent (BAC) of .30, which is above the legal limit of .08. 
Due to the suspect’s high level of intoxication, police de­cided not to arrest him at that time and elected to forward the charges of assault, battery and public intoxication to the pros­ecutor’s office. The suspect was 

see CRIME/page 4 


Alum advances dialogue 
Superintendent talks about work in educational reform 

By NICOLE MICHELS 
News Writer 
A Notre Dame graduate who now works as Michi­gan’s Superintendent of Public Instruction spoke Tuesday about education reform and the progress he has encouraged during his tenure. 
Michael Flanagan’s talk “Education Reform-Mon­gering: A Practitioner’s Perspective” in Carole Sandner Hall was the lat­est event in the Notre Dame Forum 2011-12: Reimagin­ing School. 
Flanagan said the most pressing challenge for to­day’s educators is address­ing the needs of the urban and poor.  Sharing his ex­perience of growing up in a working class family on Long Island, N.Y., he said education plays a critical role in realizing one’s po­tential. 
“I think there’s a certain point that when you see oth­er people believe in you, it changes your whole trajec­tory,” Flanagan said. 

Flanagan said his critical point was when he had to adapt to his new environ­ment after his family moved from Brooklyn to Long Is­land.  
Flanagan said when a teacher informed him he would be placed in the “89er” program, he as­sumed it meant he was go­ing to “be put on the short bus” because he was a trou­blemaker.  However, he 

see FORUM/page 5 


Ceili team dances to victory 
By AUBREY BUTTS 
News Writer 
For the second time in club history, the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Irish Dance Team danced its way to victory at the All-Ireland Dance Championship in Dublin as the team captured the championship trophy Feb. 17. 
The team previously first won the All-Ireland compe­tition in 2010. 
Sophomore Connor Reider, the team’s coach, said going beyond simple participation to win the competition was significant. 
“So many teams from across the world come to All-Irelands that it is basically the world championships,” he said. “It puts Notre Dame on the map.” 

The Ceili team consists of Photo courtesy of Mary Mitchell 
Senior Colleen Gerth, left, and sophomores Grace Dearduff, Con-see DANCE/page 5 nor Reider and Cathy Cichon pose with their championship trophy. 

Week calls attention to disorders 
By DAN BROMBACH 
News Writer 
Eating disorders, such as bulimia and anorexia, are increasingly common in the United States, but they re­main a highly stigmatized topic many feel uncomfort­able addressing. 
National Eating Disorder Awareness Week, which takes place this week, hopes to change this trend. The event attempts to foster recognition of eating disor­ders not as choices but as serious, life-threatening ill­nesses, according to a press release on the event’s web­site. 
As coordinator of Eating Disorder Services at Notre Dame, staff clinician Val­erie Staples said many stu­dents struggle with how they eat and how they view their bodies. 
“Eating concerns and body image concerns are very prevalent on this cam­pus,” she said.  “Last year, of students who came here to the counseling center, 
9.8 percent reported eating concerns.” 
Staples said the frequency of disordered eating among Notre Dame students can be attributed to the Univer­sity’s intensely competitive atmosphere. 
“We have a culture on our campus of ‘always do better, always improve,’” she said.  “This reinforces people thinking about how they look in comparison to somebody else, about how much they eat and exercise in comparison to somebody else.” 
Staples also said society and media play a role in creating pressures leading to eating disorders. 
“It’s hard to pick up a magazine or watch any sort of a commercial nowadays that isn’t encouraging us to lose weight or to re-shape our bodies in some way, say­ing that we’ll be more happy or successful if we do,” she said.  “While making physi­cal improvements isn’t a bad thing, at what point do we need to appreciate other qualities in ourselves?” 
Staples said eating dis­orders are underreported at Notre Dame not only be­cause many students are 
see DISORDERS/page 5 

INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER Saint Mary’s College hosts film festival page 3 u Viewpoint page 6 u The Best of Dance Dare page 8 u Bengal Bouts semifinals page 16 
page 2 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u DAY-TO-DAY Wednesday, February 29, 2012 


QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHO ARE YOU GOING TO BID ON DURING THE BP MEAL AUCTION THURSDAY? 

www.ndsmcobserver.com 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
Douglas Farmer 
Managing Editor Business Manager 
Sarah Mervosh Jeff Liptak 
Asst. Managing Editor: Adriana Pratt Asst. Managing Editor: Chris Masoud News Editor: Sam Stryker Viewpoint Editor: Meghan Thomassen Sports Editor: Allan Joseph Scene Editor: Maija Gustin Saint Mary’s Editor: Caitlin E. Housley Photo Editor: Pat Coveney Graphics Editor: Brandon Keelean Advertising Manager: Katherine Lukas Ad Design Manager: Amanda Jonovski Controller: Jason Taulman Systems Administrator: William Heineman 
Office Manager & General Info 
(574) 631-7471 
Fax 
(574) 631-6927 
Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 dfarmer1@nd.edu 
Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 smervosh@nd.edu 
Assistant Managing Editors 
(574)631-4541 apratt@nd.edu, cmasoud@nd.edu 
Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 
News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 
Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 mgustin@nd.edu 
Saint Mary’s Desk 
chousl01@saintmarys.edu 
Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 
Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 
Policies 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College.  Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Douglas Farmer. 
Post Office Information 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 and additional mailing offices 024 South Dining hall 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-077 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

Jack Yusko  Michelle Mowry  Sammy Bungum  Kery Plymale  Kevin McMannis  Valerie Williams  
sophomore Dillon  sophomore Pasquerilla East  sophomore Keough  junior Badin  freshman Duncan  freshman Pangborn  
“Rachael the Rector.”  “Professor McKenna.”  “Ackermann if he brings  “Coach Kelly.”  “Pom Squad.”  “Fr. Hesburgh.”  
his finance  
textbook.”  

Have an idea for Question of the Day? Email obsphoto@gmail.com 


TODAY’S STAFF 
News 
Sam Stryker Anna Boarini Ann Marie Jakubowski 
Graphics 
Lisa Hoeynck 
Photo 
Sarah O’Connor 
Sports 
Sam Gans Joe Wirth Peter Steiner 
Scene 
Mary Claire O’Donnell 
Viewpoint 
Ren Brauweiler 
OFFBEAT 
Chimpanzees get pregnant despite vasectomies 
NEW ORLEANS, La. — After two unexpected preg­nancies at a sanctuary for retired research chimpan­zees, other females have been put on birth control and the males are getting another round of vasecto­mies. 
The first recent pregnan­cy at the Chimp Haven Inc. facility near Shreveport in northwest Louisiana was discovered on Valentine’s Day when a worker noticed Flora, a 29-year-old chimp, was carrying a newborn. 
The birth was definitely a surprise. Every male gets a vasectomy before being sent to Chimp Haven be­cause there’s a surplus of 
LOCAL WEATHER 
captive chimpanzees. 

“All the males in the group have been vasecto­mized. Two of them have been vasectomized twice,” Brent said. 
The females are now on birth control until the males can be operated on again, Brent said. 
It will take at least a month to determine who fathered Flora’s baby, a fe­male. 
The baby hasn’t been named. The sanctuary is holding a naming contest through March. 
Neighbors hear faint barking, find dog in cistern 
WAYNESBURG, Pa. — Four days of faint barking fi­nally led neighbors to a dog trapped in an unused cis­tern under a house in south­western Pennsylvania. 
The dog apparently pushed through the lat­tice under a porch and fell through some rotted boards into the cistern be­low. Police say the home’s owner had lived there more than 20 years and didn’t even know there was an unused cistern under his front porch. 
Officials believe the bea­gle mix might have been chasing a squirrel or rab­bit before falling 10 feet into stagnant water. They say the dog appeared un­hurt. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
IN BRIEF 
An event called Green Summit V: The Future of Transportation will be held today at Stepan Center from 11 a.m. to 1 p.m. New mod­els of sustainable fuel cars will be shown, and lunch will be served. Register on-line at green.nd.edu 
The student health and wellness fair titled “How the Health Are You?” will be held from 3 to 7 p.m. today at Rolfs Sports Recreation Center. Free giveaways and raffle prizes will be offered. 
A physics colloquium on “Quantifying Quantum Dy­namics in Slow Collisions of Atomic Nuclei: Formation of New Elements” will be given from 4 to 5 p.m. today in 118 Nieuwland. 
Student Affairs is now ac­cepting nominations for the Denny Moore Award for Excellence in Journalism, named after the University’s late Associate Vice President for Public Affairs. Candi­dates must be seniors and may be nominated by facul­ty, staff, or fellow students. The deadline is Friday. 
An International Festi­val will be held from 6 to 8 
p.m. tonight in LaFortune Student Center. The event is free and presented by the ISSA. 
A performance of An­tígona Furiosa will be giv­en at 7:30 p.m. tonight in the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. Student tick­ets are $7. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, email detailed information about an event to obsnews.nd@gmail.com 

TODAY TONIGHT THURSDAY FRIDAY SATURDAY SUNDAY 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so we 



can correct our error. 

LOW 32 LOW 32 LOW 37 LOW 34 LOW 29 LOW 24 



Wednesday, February 29, 2012 The Observer u NEWS ndsmcobserver.com | page 3 


Film festival celebrates 30th anniversary of  justice education 
By JILLIAN BARWICK 
News Writer 
This week, Saint Mary’s Justice Education Program looks to harness the power of the moving image to cele­brate the department’s 30th anniversary. 
In honor of the event, the department is hosting the Leadership and Social Change Film Festival from this today and Thursday. 
Jan Pilarski, director of the Justice Education Pro­gram, said she organized the festival with the help of the Center for Women’s In­tercultural Leadership to draw attention to everyday people who strive for righ­teousness. 
“The whole idea behind this film festival is to high­light ordinary people who have developed their lead­ership by doing extraordi­nary things in their coun­tries for social justice,” she said. 
Pilarski the motive be­hind the event is to draw at­tention to these exceptional goals achieved by regular people. 
“Our goal is to have peo­ple realize that skills and issues are certainly what is going on,” she said. “What’s exciting is seeing people stretch themselves to re­alize that these issues are happening.” 
The film shown Tuesday night, “Pray the Devil Back to Hell,” is the story of 2011 Nobel Peace Prize winner, Leymah Gbowee, as well as other courageous women’s rights activists in Liberia. 
“This film is only 3 years old, so it is fairly new,” Pi­larski said. “We are excited to include this film because of Gbowee winning the No­bel Peace Prize. Her accom­plishment highlights how lessons of work carries over in many ways.” 
Today’s film, “Taking Root: The Vision of Wangari Maathai,” is a dramatic sto­ry of a Kenyan Nobel Peace Prize winner whose simple act of planting trees grew into a national movement to protect the environment and human rights and de­fend democracy. 
“The issues of land and environmental destruc­tion are very prominent in this film,” Pilarski said. “Maathai not only built strength in herself, but she built a movement. This film highlights the importance of how to make change. 
“Maathai became a cata­lyst with her movement for continued action in Ke­nya including the poor and women of the country. Her act of standing up to people in power for taking land from the poor began with a simple act of planting trees.” 
Thursday, the department wraps up the film festival with a showing of “A Small Act,” a Sundance-featured film about a Holocaust sur­vivor and the Kenyan stu­dent whose education she supports. The film demon­strates how individual ac­tions can create a ripple effect to make a difference and support change, Pilar­ski said. 


“This film has a lot of potential to show how in­dividuals can create some­thing bigger than they ever imagined,” she said. “Much of change is built on rela­tionships and partnerships. 
“‘A Small Act’ shows each of us in our own way have the potential to make a dif­ference through the con­nections we make.” 
Playing films that show­case leadership skills and the power of everyday peo­ple ultimately conveys to students the message of the Justice Education depart­ment, Pilarski said. 
“The Leadership and So­cial Change Film Festival truly hits the mark on our departments 30th anni­versary theme,” she said. “The films are meant as ex­amples of justice education in college, community and around the globe.” 
Contact Jillian Barwick at jbarwi01@saintmarys.edu 


International Festival Week celebrates culture 
By LISA SLOMKA 
News Writer 
Notre Dame students don’t need to use their passports to experience foreign cultures this week, as they can soak in global traditions and customs during International Festival Week. 
McKenna Pencak, assistant director for education and out­reach for International Student Services and Activities (ISSA), said the Festival features a va­riety of cultures from around the world. The events began last Saturday and continues through this Sunday. 
“Basically it’s just a week to celebrate international stu­dents and the international stu­dent community, as well as the entire Notre Dame community and everyone that has different backgrounds and cultural heri­tages,” she said. 
Pencak said International Festival Week began as a cul­tural celebration and perfor­mance and is now a celebration of the University’s international community. 
“We have over 900 interna­tional students from about 90 countries, and this is a week to celebrate a variety of cultural heritages as well as our mul­ticultural students,” she said. “Also, it’s great because it’s not only ISSA, it’s a collaboration with other departments and organizations on campus. We work to make sure everyone is included and that as many countries and cultures are rep­resented as possible.” 
The week’s primary event, the International Festival, has been held for over 40 years and originally was the event’s only activity, Pencak said. The Fes­tival, which will be held today from 6 to 8 p.m. in the LaFor­tune Student Center Ballroom, will feature performances from students and campus cultural organizations, as well as inter­national desserts. 
Pencak said the performanc­es will include a Bollywood dance, a Chinese song and a Japanese tea ceremony. There also will be activity tables and a question and answer session. 
The Week also features an In­ternational Children’s Festival, Pencak said. 
“That is basically a children’s version of the International Festival, and it’s free, and we work with University Village, the married student housing,” she said. “We’re going to be doing international arts and crafts.” 
Fischer O’Hara Grace Gradu­ate Residences are usually ac­tive in International Festival Week because of the Univer­sity’s high number of interna­tional graduate students, Pen­cak said. 
“They are hosting a great event with [associate profes­sor of painting and drawing] Fr. Martin Nguyen on Friday,” she said. “There’s going to be dinner and dessert and then everyone’s going to go to Holy Cross annex to tour Fr. Martin Nguyen’s [art] studio.” 
Pencak said overall student participation for the Interna­tional Festival Week is typically high. 
“It’s really fun because it’s a way for international and na­tional students to get together and celebrate different cultures and celebrate where they’re from,” she said. “It’s really neat to see everyone participating and talking about his or her home countries and cultures and cultural heritages.” 
Contact Lisa Slomka at lslomka@nd.edu 

page 4 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u NEWS Wednesday, February 29, 2012 
Advisory council hopes to bridge arts, academics 

By MICHAEL RODIO 
News Writer 
Seniors Ryan Belock and Hal Melia are hoping to bridge the gap between the University’s artistic and academic departments with the creation of a new student-run advisory council, Arts@ND. 
“There exists a communication and collaboration gap between departments, DPAC (DeBartolo Performing Arts Center), stu­dent groups and non-arts ma­jors,” Belock said.  “We are now brainstorming ways to fix that together.  We’ve adopted a mis­sion to ‘create, celebrate and col­laborate.’” 
Belock said he first imagined Arts@ND during his freshman year, when he realized the pro­gramming department at DPAC and the music, art, art history, design, and Film, Television & Theatre (FTT) departments were independently trying to increase attention to arts on campus. 
Belock said he learned the University’s 2008 Strategic Plan for the Arts envisioned an Arts Advisory Council in support of the University’s “Decade of the Arts.” He found campus leaders, especially students, supported creating an advisory committee to serve academic and extra-cur­ricular arts groups. 
“I feel students need to be part of those conversations,” Be-lock said. “I wanted to get peers, professors and professionals on campus working these issues out together, not just in their isolated circles, but finding ways to proac­tively collaborate and create.” 
At the start of the school year, Belock said he and Melia worked with student body president Pat McCormick to create a student-driven force for supporting arts on campus. McCormick advocat­ed for enhancing campus arts in his campaign platform. 
Belock said he and Melia hosted the first meeting of the Arts at Notre Dame Student Ad­visory Group in November to brainstorm how the organiza­tion could work. Small groups of professors, staff members and students developed potential ini­tiatives, Belock said. 
“The largest takeaway from the first meeting was that we have a lot of creative talent across many majors, not just arts majors, that can solve the most pressing is­sues for student activities arts groups, ensembles, classes and professional programming on campus,” he said. 
Belock said the meeting also helped introduce students from across the academic spectrum. 
“This was the first time some FTT students met art, art history and design students,” he said.  “It was also the first time some had been in the Regis Philbin Studio Theater [in DPAC].” 
Belock said he and Melia host­ed the second meeting of Arts@ ND, titled “WE ‘ART’ ND,” in February. The meeting used the slogan “create, celebrate and col­laborate.” 
Belock said the group hosted the meeting in Riley Hall of Art and Design to set a standard that arts have several “bases” on campus that need to be fully integrated into thoughts and col­laboration. 
At the meeting, he said Direc­tor of Bands Ken Dye presented examples of collaborative work in the arts, including projects by rock bands OK Go and U2. Be-lock said students recommended opening a café in Riley Hall, im­proving the “Arts” section of the University website, creating a publication to cover campus arts and instituting a College of Fine Arts. 
“We are narrowing down and voting on short-term projects to pursue this spring that will make a noticeable impact on the ‘aura of the arts’ at Notre Dame,” he said. 
Belock said Arts@ND’s prima­ry progress has been the oppor­tunity to encourage conversation between students and faculty. 
“They all share three things in common. They love Notre Dame, they love the arts, and they want to make them both better here,” he said. 
Contact Michael Rodio at mrodio@nd.edu 
Forum 
continued from page 1 

said it turned out to be the opposite — a program for talented eighth graders who would be given ninth grade work. 
“It taught me a lesson that so much of this [education] is about expectations that you have for every child, and that almost without exception they can reach great heights if we believe in them,” Flana­gan said. 
While it is important to be­lieve all kids can learn, Fla­nagan said change cannot be conceptualized until we begin to act on an individual level. 
“You have to be careful to design reforms that don’t make you feel good about all [the children, and in the pro­cess] forget to reach down to every child,” he said. 
Even after 30 years as a local, regional and state su­perintendent, Flanagan said he continues to act on the les­son he learned early on in his career when he examined a particular district: the need to improve the quality of edu­cation is more important than what people want to hear. 
“Overall, they were high achieving, but they didn’t look at individual schools,” he said. “I said that I bet we’re just like everyone else, that we’re losing women in sci­ence by high school.” 
When he brought his find­ings to public attention, the reactions were far from posi­tive, he said. 
“The headline the next day didn’t help me: ‘New superin­tendent comes to town, girls test scores go down,’” Flana­gan said. “That and the reac-
Crime 
continued from page 1 

and public intoxication to the prosecutor’s office. The suspect was not taken into custody and has not been charged with any crime yet. 
Police said the suspect’s speech was unintelligible, and he could not answer questions clearly or tell officers where he lived or where he was coming from. The report stated the sus­pect became more talkative in the backseat of the squad car, apologizing and asking to explain himself. 

tion taught me a real lesson that you have to be willing to realize that change is easier said than done, that you have to confront the status quo.” 
Flanagan said one of his most recent pushes for re­form has been to raise the “cut scores,” or the cut-off score that students have to attain on standardized tests to be considered at grade lev­el, which encourages greater achievement in Michigan schools. 
“All we did was raise the bar, and even though fewer kids could jump over that bar, we saw that they all ended up jumping higher than they did before,” he said. 
Flanagan said his other goals include providing free ACT testing to all Michigan due to Catholicism’s clearly defined positions on these contentious issues. 
“Unlike some religions, we have a social teaching, that for example, takes a position in regards to parent choice. All parents should have the opportunity to choose a de­cent school for their kids,” Scully said.  “Because this tradition has this teaching, it implies a certain stake in the ground in debates.” 
Surprisingly, Flanagan said the economic downturn in Michigan helped them to en­act these reforms. 
“We wouldn’t get some of these reforms and innovations if we had enough money where we could just keep throwing money [at problems,]” Flana­gan said.  “[It’s not] that mon­

st udents, improv­ing reading “I’m very concerned proficiency with determining what’s levels, es-right for the kids, and I tablish-know that some of this ing tenure process is painful for the 
procedures 

adults involved ... I know 
that protect 

that’s part of the job.” 
teachers and require 

Michael Flanagan 
achieve ­

ment and Michigan Superintendent developing of Public Instruction ways to ad­dress the 
ey makes no difference, but … you almost have to use it as an excuse to revamp the whole sys­tem.” 
Scully said Flanagan’s speech con­tinued the Forum’s fo­cus on broad development 

varied needs of Michigan’s children. 
The Notre Dame graduate said at times, critics have tar­geted his Catholic faith. 
“I’m very concerned with determining what’s right for the kids, and I know that some of this process is pain­ful for the adults involved,” Flanagan said.  “I know that’s part of the job.” 
Fr. Tim Scully, director of the Institute for Educational Initiatives at the Center for Social Concerns, said this is 
Police said they trans­ported the suspect to Notre Dame Security Police (NDSP), where they confirmed he is a student at Notre Dame living in an off-campus apartment. 
The officers then took the suspect home and later sent in education reform. 
“I think Mike Flanagan is an example of a leader who has entered into a really con­tended field and has made a difference because of his deep empathy,” Scully said. “We hope that the people here today will leave asking ques­tions, and at a Catholic uni­versity these questions are exactly the kind of questions that we ought to be raising.” 
Contact Nicole Michels at nmichels@nd.edu 
additional officers to the apartment to perform a wel­fare check on the suspect due to his high BAC. 
University Spokesman Den­nis Brown declined to com­ment because the suspect has not been charged. 



Wednesday, February 29, 2012 The Observer u NEWS ndsmcobserver.com | page 5 
Disorders 
continued from page 1 
afraid or embarrassed to ask for help, but also be­cause many don’t realize they have a problem. 
“For many individuals, they simply don’t recognize that what they’re doing is destructive and unhealthy,” Staples said. “Weight loss is considered a good thing, and so they think ‘the more the better.’” 
Recognizing many of the primary misconceptions surrounding eating dis­orders, Staples said there is harm in labeling eating disorders as a woman’s problem. 
“Certainly there are a greater percentage of wom­en who are affected by eat­ing disorders, but it would be a very narrow perspec­tive to think about this as only a women’s issue,” she said.  “If we look at eating disorders this way, we con­tinue to make it more chal­lenging for men to recog­nize its impact in their lives and to seek treatment.” 
Staples said if you know somebody struggling with an eating disorder, the most important step in helping them is simply say­ing something to them. 
“It’s very important that you let the person know that you’re concerned,” she said.  “It may not necessar­ily be an easy conversation to have, but until the per­son recognizes that their problem is affecting other people they may continue to be comfortable with it.” 

Ultimately, Staples said all members of the Notre Dame community have a responsibility to change the atmosphere on campus by taking the eating strug­gles of others into consid­eration in language and actions. 
“As a community we should be mindful of our language in terms of how much we talk about weight, calories, exercise,” she said.  “We all have a responsibility to make changes in our culture in that way.” 
Contact Dan Brombach at dbrombac@nd.edu 
Dance 
continued from page 1 
eight girls from Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s. The time de­voted to practice and prepara­tion for the competition, along with the small group size, fos­ters friendships and team uni­ty, Saint Mary’s senior Mary Mitchell said. 
“We all became so close with one another. Spending every single night practicing for two hours, having team brunches and living together for the week in Dublin, you get to know each other inside and out,” she said. “We’re a quirky bunch.” 
Participating specifically in the Club Ceili division involved learning two traditional Ceili numbers from a designated set of choices. Reider said per­forming the same numbers as the other teams meant they had to perfect their routines. 
“Every single person needs to be doing the exact same ac­tion at the same time,” he said. “You have to make sure your toes are pointed, your legs are the exact same length out and your lines are perfectly straight.” 
This precision applied not only to the dance routines, but to costumes as well, Mitchell said. 
“All the wigs were chosen ac­cording to what looked best for the entire team, and they were cut to exactly the same length,” Mitchell said. “The style and cut had to be identical. Judges will take points off your pre­sentation if they don’t feel you look like a cohesive group.” 
Arriving on Feb. 15, the team had a busy schedule of sight seeing, practice, watching other performances and danc­ing for the current group of Notre Dame students studying abroad in Dublin, Reider said. 
When the team finally per­formed on Friday, senior Col­leen Gerth said their second routine may have been the team’s best performance ever. 
“We were all pretty anxious beforehand, but you have to be focused and think about what you are doing,” she said. “We were more excited the second time, and after we finished that last step, we could tell we had put our whole heart and soul into it.” 
With five seniors on the team, the All-Ireland competi­tion represented the last time many of the girls would have the opportunity to dance com­petitively. However, Gerth said the trophy ceremony brought immense satisfaction. 
“The cup is engraved each year with the name of the team who wins,” she said. “I was on the team two years ago, and I had never seen the cup with our name on it. That was re­ally exciting to see and to know that our name would be on there again.” 
Aubrey Butts at abutts@nd.edu 


Romney wins Michigan Republican primary 
Associated Press 
NOVI, Mich.  — Mitt Romney eked out a narrow victory in Michigan’s GOP primary Tues­day, barely avoiding an embar­rassing loss in his home state after acknowledging he had made mistakes along the way. 
Romney had a more convinc­ing win in Arizona, but then Rick Santorum and fellow rivals Newt Gingrich and Ron Paul hardly contested the state. 
In his Michigan victory speech, Romney didn’t mention Santorum, who courted socially conservative voters and came close to defeating him. Instead, Romney kept his focus on Presi­dent Barack Obama and a core economic message, saying he’ll bring “more jobs, less debt and smaller government.” 
At times Romney made his path to the double wins more difficult. The multimillionaire former CEO acknowledged ear­lier Tuesday that his own re­peated, if accidental, references to his wealth had hurt his cam­paign. 
“I’m very pleased with the campaign, its organization. The candidate sometimes makes some mistakes and so I’m trying to do better and work harder and make sure that we get our message across,” he told report­ers during his first news confer­ence in nearly three weeks. 
Romney has stumbled at times in speaking about his per­sonal fortune, estimated as high as $250 million, while trying to connect with average Ameri­cans during tough economic times. He has made an offhand reference to owning “a couple of Cadillacs” and has said he is “not concerned about the very poor.” Referring to insurance companies, he has said, “I like being able to fire people who provide services to me.” 
On Sunday, while in Florida for the Daytona 500, he re­marked that he doesn’t follow NASCAR as closely as some but has “some great friends that are NASCAR team owners.” 
When a reporter asked Tues­day whether comments that have drawn attention to his wealth have hurt his campaign, Romney gave a one-word an­swer: “Yes.” Then he said: “Next question.” 
Romney took personal re­sponsibility for setbacks in his campaign since Feb. 7 when he lost contests in Colorado, Mis­souri and Minnesota to Santo-rum. He said he has struggled with the conservative Republi­can voters backing Santorum in Michigan’s primary because he’s unwilling to make the “in­cendiary” comments he said they want to hear and say “out­rageous things” like his oppo­nents. 
“It’s very easy to excite the base with incendiary com­ments. We’ve seen throughout the campaign that if you’re willing to say really outrageous things that are really accusa­tive and attacking of President Obama, you’re going to jump up in the polls,” he said. “I’m not willing to light my hair on fire to try and get support. I am what I am.” 
Romney accused Santorum of trying to “kidnap the primary process” by urging Democrats to come to the polls in Michigan’s primary — it’s open to people willing to declare themselves Republicans for the purposes of voting — and vote against him. 
In an automated phone call, Santorum’s campaign urged Michigan Democrats to vote against Romney because he op­posed the government bailout of the auto industry. 


page 6 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com Wednesday, February 29, 2012 
INSIDE COLUMN 


Leap Day babies, unite 
Today is a cause for four times the celebration. 
We Leapers have been underappreciat­ed our entire lives. From being deterred from numerous forms and applications because of our un­recognized birthday to taking the brunt of juvenile jokes, we’ve truly heard it all. 
“You only have a birthday every four years? That must be awful!” 
“You only get presents every four years? That’s ter­rible!” 
“Why do you celebrate your half-birth­day on Aug. 29? That makes no sense!” 
Yes, we’ve heard them all, but if you’ll excuse us, we wouldn’t have it any other way. You see, we’re special. 
Not the “grandparents call me special because of my unfortunate birthday” kind of special, nor the “friends make fun of me because they get to celebrate their birthdays every year” kind of spe­cial. 
No, Leap Day babies are perhaps some of the most special people who have ever walked the face of the earth. And here’s why: 
You have a one in 1,461 chance of be­ing born on our day. 
Our birthday is the result of reform by Pope Gregory XIII. How many of the other 364 can claim a pope lobbied for them? 
According to an old Irish legend, St. Bridget once made a deal with St. Patrick to allow women to propose to men on this sacred day. How many of the other 364 have a tradition similar to that? 
Pope Paul III and, perhaps more im­portantly, Ja Rule celebrate their birth­days today. 
Leap Day may not always be there for him when he calls, but our birthday is always on time (credit to those of us who get this song reference; hip-hop just isn’t the same today!) 
Which, come to think of it, means Ja Rule celebrates the big number nine today! 
Lil Wayne may be the self-proclaimed best rapper alive (fellow Detroiters: We know Eminem would disagree), but Ja Rule takes the cake for being the young­est rapper to ever sell 30 million records worldwide. 
But in all seriousness, today is un­doubtedly the most unique calendar day, and the lucky few who claim today as their date of birth are some of the most unique people you might know. 
It’s certainly next to impossible not to have an absolutely vibrant personality when you claim Leap Day. In fact, in­forming friends and acquaintances of my birthday is generally followed by, “Wow Llorens, you would be born on Leap Day.” 
I’m sure fellow Leapers know where this comes from and I’m not sure if we know exactly what you mean by it, but we’ll take it. 
So, I’d like to wish to wish myself (of course) on my fifth birthday, along with Ja Rule and Leapers across this great world of ours, a very happy birthday! 
And if there is some birthday boy or girl who has a home under the Dome, let’s relish all today has to offer together. 

Contact Adam Llorens at      allorens@nd.edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


Words with friends 
We are exactly one week into the season of Lent this year, and you may be feeling worn out already. The initial charms of striving to challenge yourself with your fasting and prayer perhaps even now feel tedious, and you Kate Barrett face heading into midterms next week Faithpoint without caffeine or desserts or alcohol; or you are realizing that with two papers and a project due, it’s just not as easy as you thought to close your computer and get to Mass or to Stations of the Cross. 
So this might be the perfect time to pray a prayer I found recently. It’s fairly short, especially printed here in tiny newspaper font, so you could even cut it out and carry it with you. 
Beloved, you know my impatience You know how quickly I tire of all resolutions; how impatient I am about lack of progress; 
how tired I become the moment the work I have started begins to run smoothly; 
how distant green grass looks to me! O Jesus, help me to be patient, to plod and not always be snatching 
at stars. Teach me to plod daily through small irritations, discouragements, knowing it is for you. Amen. 
Catherine de Hueck Doherty (1896­1985) wrote this prayer. Doherty was a fascinating woman who, though not as well-known as Dorothy Day, shared many of her passions about serving the poor through creating communities of Christian love, meeting not only their material needs but their spiritual needs 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

as well. When you read about her tre­mendously eventful life, you can hardly imagine that Catherine Doherty ever felt she “plodded” through even a single day, but her prayer reveals otherwise. Her cause for sainthood is underway, and yet this very holy, active and determined woman regularly felt — as we all do at times — impatient, tired, irritated and discouraged. 
It’s worth considering the value of staying the course, of hanging in there, of fighting the fatigue that can some­times come with Lent, with midterms or with life during a South Bend winter, no matter how mild. This Sunday’s gospel, as happens on the second Sunday of Lent each year, leads us up the mountain with Jesus and his three dearest apostles to a decidedly spectacular experience. Peter, James and John see Jesus transfigured, his clothes “dazzling white;” they see Mo­ses and the great prophet Elijah standing with Jesus; they hear the Lord tell them to listen to his beloved son. Peter imme­diately reacts the way any of us might: he starts making plans to stay, to make this triumphant, glorious moment last as long as possible. No plodding impatience here; no tiresome irritations on the mountain­top in the presence of the glory of God! 
Probably much to the apostles’ dismay, however, they left the wonder of the Transfiguration and came down the mountain, where their ordinary daily routine continued. They had to get back to the “plodding” of everyday life; they had thrown their lot in with this Jesus, who attracted ever more controversy and conflict even as he performed miracles and transformed the hearts of many who had known nothing but rejection and scorn all their lives. 
As Christians, we have thrown our lot in with Jesus too, for those times when we experience the “high” of an exhila­rating faith experience as well as for the ordinary days of Lent when we fight against the inertia that calls out to us to be slackers, to loosen our determination and discipline, to allow the bar we’ve set to drop to a level that doesn’t require much of us. 
The author and speaker Matthew Kelly offers an excellent antidote to the days when we feel we’re “plodding.” It’s extremely portable — even more so than the prayer above — which makes it a handy option for Spring Break. Pray some words with friends — the people who spoke to Jesus Christ during his years of ministry. If you feel the heavi­ness of just trying to get through the day, picture Jesus walking alongside you and pray, “I will be your follower wherever you go,” as one of Jesus’ disciples said to him while they walked to Jerusalem (Luke 9:57). If you find yourself troubled by doubts, pray the words the father of the possessed boy cried out to Jesus: “I do believe! Help my lack of trust” (Mark 9:24). Some days our faith will bring us such fullness of heart that we can cry out, like Peter, “Lord, you know that I love you!” (John 21:17) Simple prayers like these, prayed throughout the day, keep us connected to God and can bring solace, wisdom and guidance to our hearts. 
Whether weighed down or light­hearted, may we keep striving this Lent and always to pray to Jesus, as Peter did, “You are the Messiah.” 
Kate Barrett is the director of the Em­maus Program in Campus Ministry. She can be reached at kbarrett@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“Victory attained by violence is tantamount to a defeat, for it is momentary.” 
Mahatma Gandhi Indian spiritual leader 


WEEKLY POLL 
What was the best part of the Oscars? 
The dresses The speeches Betting on the winners Billy Crystal 

Vote by 5 p.m. Thursday at 
ndsmcobserver.com 


Wednesday, February 29, 2012 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 7 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Notre Dame and the Catholic conscience 
Dear Fr. Jenkins, 
As a recent Notre Dame graduate of the Program of Liberal Studies and Pre-Med, I feel I have a unique voice in the intersection of the humanities and science. Catholic citizens have a special call to preserve the dignity of life de­spite our culture of death. Government interference on these sorts of issues ought to be prevented at all costs. Our very freedom as religious citizens is at stake. It cannot be tolerated sim­ply because the unique mission of the Church is to spread the good news of Jesus Christ. 
The Founding Fathers carefully con­structed this country such that reli­gious freedom and responsible govern­ment could coexist. Like Aristotle and others in the Western tradition, they held rationality above all other virtues and encouraged individual liberty and responsibility in the citizenry along with good education. The implica­tions of our current poor education system are grave — poverty, illiteracy and apathy concerning public affairs and the state abound, resulting in a stunted national dialogue in which angry screaming suffices for public discourse. This is no environment in which to encourage honest discussion of things like justice, freedom and virtue. 
This is where the HHS Mandate enters the conversation. I am not a naysayer. I do think that, despite these unfortunate circumstances I laid out above, we ought to strive to be good citizens. Notre Dame is a pillar of sta­bility in a university culture that sup­presses anything other than secular liberalism. This will not change. From what I understand, you, Fr. Jenkins, have often been caught in between the factions of these fierce culture wars, inviting President Obama to be com­mencement speaker in 2009 yet waver­ing on GLBTQ representation in student groups over the years. 
These situations must be difficult and I cannot relate to what you have gone and continue to go through. I applaud your forbearance in express­ing your concern with “a number of unclear and unresolved issues” in your official statement regarding the mandate. However, now is the time to assert yourself as a prominent figure amongst American Catholics. Now is the time to respectfully yet firmly tell our President that he makes a grave mistake by impinging egregiously on religious freedom — the founding creed of our country — with this HHS Mandate. 

Too much blog space has been devot­ed to covering this issue, so I will not go into the arguments for or against it. I only urge you to take great caution in the decision that faces you now. You are a representative of the Catholic Church, indeed one of the most influen­tial figures in our day and age. That is a heavy weight to bear. The American Catholic Church depends on your sup­port. The lives of the unborn depend on it. Our very faith as it plays out in these modern times depends on it. 
As renowned apologist G.K. Chester­ton once wrote, “Christianity has not been tried and found wanting. It has been found difficult and left untried.” Will you be lauded for your decision to oppose this mandate? Probably not. Will you be respected for your forbear­ance in reasserting the authority of the Church on moral issues that stem from the doctrine itself? I believe yes. Despite the acerbic liberal secular rejection of any theological arguments explaining human nature and how we ought to live, we can prevail. The only way to do this, however, is to remain believing in the world but not of it, following only the light of Christ and trying to beckon others into it. 
Notre Dame is a shining beacon of faith, hope and love. Take away how she represents the Church and you take away the very spirit of Our Lady. You take away what She represents. You take away the tradition and genera­tions of graduates who are proud to be part of the Fighting Irish nation. 
Please, Fr. Jenkins, listen to us. We are not against you. We want to help you. We want you to show the same charity and virtue in this decision that Christ shows to us at every moment of every day. And who are we, limited mortals as we are, to deny the call to Christ? 
(To read this letter online, please visit dearfrjenkins.tumblr.com) 
Octavia Ratiu 
alumna Class of 2011 Feb. 24 
Single girl swag 
I am writing in response to the column “Dating and relating” (Feb. 26) by David Moss. As a student who is enrolled at Saint Mary’s and at Notre Dame, this article is particularly appealing to me. First of all, to all Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s women, this stigma between us has got to end. We are all adults and we have all worked endlessly to be where we want to be. This so called “rivalry” between us is old and is too similar to high school (coming from an all­girl’s high school myself).  Notre Dame ladies, where is this pressure from Saint Mary’s students coming from? You have all worked so hard through high school to come to your dream college and to earn a degree that is second to none. There are thousands of people out there who would have killed to have your spot. Think of those who were accepted but could not afford to come to Notre Dame at all.  Please don’t take the gift you all have for granted. 
Also, don’t for an instant second-guess yourself from going to Notre Dame just because the “social dating scene” is a little dry or that the boys seem uninterested in you. We are all in our 20s! This is the time to live! Let the boys be; let them be bros with their bros. Soon they’re going to have to say goodbye to all of that anyway if you want a man to rake in all the dough for you (my apologizes, gentlemen). For the single ladies out there, go ahead and get your single girl swag on, get dressed up and have a fun night on the town, regardless if a boy pays attention or not! In response to the men “mooing” at you for getting fro-yo, I say you moo right back. To the girls judging you for what you have on your plate, toss your left-overs right to them. Notre Dame is your home, and your home is the last place where you should feel judged. 
Hillary Shesterkin 
freshman LeMans Hall Feb. 28 



A Lenten proposal for all 
In the aftermath of an undeniably ignorant act of racial hate, we as a campus must reflect on the efforts we make to ensure all students are treated with equality and respect.  With that thought in mind, I ask this: Are we truly trying our best to be accepting of diversity by only adhering to our Catholic students’ points of view?  While I have the utmost respect for Catholic tradition and I fully understand its place in our beloved institution, I believe that there are changes that must be made to foster a more accepting environment for all students to enjoy. 
After years of Catholic school, my understanding of Lent is that it is a time to make sacrifices to remind us of those that Jesus made for us. Its purpose, therefore, would be to make us stronger by consciously and willingly giving up things we believe ourselves to be dependent upon. I pose this question to any Catholic student opposed to the dining hall serving meat on Fridays during Lent: How hard is it to make a sacrifice when the choice is already made for you? Yes, this is a Catholic institution, but where in Christian doctrine is it wrong to serve meat on a Friday in Lent? Without even questioning the doctrine itself, Catholic students must consider the difficulty of the sacrifices they are really making. 
Here is what I propose: The dining hall should serve meat on Fridays during Lent in a small section set aside by itself. Simply serving the meat does absolutely nothing to infringe on the ideals of Catholic students, but goes leaps and bounds in showing the University’s acceptance of other students’ beliefs.  The dining hall staff can remind forgetful (yet dedicated) Catholic students that they shouldn’t eat meat so that they have a truly conscious decision to make their own sacrifices (which in my opinion makes it all the more meaningful). 
If we are as committed to equality as we’d like to believe, this is the perfect opportunity to right an injustice af­fecting all students and actually do something about it. 
Chuck Kohaut 
sophomore Alumni Hall Feb. 27 

EDITORIAL CARTOON 



page 8 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com Wednesday, February 29, 2012 


By MEGHAN THOMASSEN 
Viewpoint Editor 
There’s nothing a Notre Dame student loves more than a challenge. Here’s one to add to your bucket list, right below the Hesburgh Challenge and Ring by Spring — the Dance Dare. Notre Dame has 29 residence halls, so this trial requires stamina and strategy. Here’s a quick how-to guide for the ladies and gentlemen who want an excuse to dress up, strut their stuff or just check off another dance from their list. 
Rules of the Dance Dare 
1.
 You must attend at least one dance hosted by every residence hall on campus. 

2.
 Guys must also go to male dorm events. Girls, same deal. 

3.
 Getting an invitation and going to an event is not the same thing. You must attend and participate. You must dance. 

4.
 All dances must be completed before graduation. 


Last-Minute Low Down 
While a month seems like enough time to locate a date, you have to make your move soon. Girls like to have their dresses — and dates — secured long before the week of the Pangborn Formal, March 24. So drop a few not-so­subtle hints to your honey. If you don’t know anyone in Pangborn, start going to the Rock instead of Rolfs, or Reckers instead of LaFortune. The proximity factor is key. Once you have a target in sight, just lay it on thick. At this point in the game, it’s either go big or go home. 
The same goes for the Lewis Crush, March 30. The sweetest girls on cam­pus also have one of the coolest traditions. During their Crush Week, which includes a race fundraiser for breast-cancer awareness, the Lewis Chicks serenade their chosen dates for this Hawaiian-themed dance — and they get a can of Orange Crush. What more could a date ask for? It’s ladies’ choice for this one, so also make sure to sign up for the Chicken Run that week … and win. 
As for the Keenan Dome Dance, March 31, who wouldn’t want to dance the night away under our beloved Golden Dome? The Keenan boys get classy in the Main Building, so scout out your date quickly. Go to North Dining Hall and make sure to eat on Keenan side, and talk up how much you loved the Keenan Revue. You’ll score even more points if you follow up on the friends you made during Muddy Sunday last year, another one of Keenan’s signature events. 
Plan Ahead Pointers 
The Alumni Wake Dance, April 21, is a night nobody forgets … or is it re­members? The dance is part of Alumni Hall’s Wake Week, in which members celebrate a something like a traditional Irish wake in the Oak Room of South Dining Hall. This night will be filled with strange and unusual rituals that you can only see to believe. This being said, Alumni Dawgs are known for their dorm pride, so it wouldn’t hurt to show your support at the upcoming inter-hall ice hockey playoffs. 
Finally, the St. Edward’s Yacht dance is the capstone of all Notre Dame dances. On the last day of classes, the men of St. Edward’s get to whisk their dates away on a evening cruise. The lucky few get to dance against the back­drop of Chicago’s night skyline — on a boat, no less. This is a no brainer. Lie, cheat or steal if necessary. Even if you need to stand outside your Stedsman’s window holding a boombox over your head, blasting “I’m On a Boat,” you will go to this dance. 
That’s all I have, ladies and gentlemen. Only the truly talented will be able to complete the Dance Dare, but with Spring Break on the horizon, you’ve only got so much time to secure your invites. But remember, all’s fair in love and war. Tick tock. 

MARIA FERNANDEZ/The Observer 

By MARIA FERNANDEZ 
Scene Writer 
Spotted: Cristiana Barrios Where: Eddy Street Commons 
Not sure what to wear for a night out with friends? Cristiana is wearing the perfect outfit for the occasion. Her red silk top and black skinny jeans paired with black and gold accessories make her look simply so­phisticated. Her leather pumps and side purse perfectly complement the ensemble. Cristiana looks effortlessly chic and comfortable in this outfit. 
Contact Maria Fernandez at mfernan5@nd.edu 
Contact Meghan Thomassen at mthomass@nd.edu 
LISA HOEYNCK | Observer Graphic 


Wednesday, February 29, 2012 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 9 



By BRENNA WILLIAMS 
Scene Writer 
Some of the best things in life are season­al, and one of the most welcomed seasonal treats are Girl Scout cookies. Luckily for the Girl Scout cookie enthusiasts in all of us, this week’s recipes (yes, multiple!) can help satiate your cravings year-round. 
I baked homemade versions of Samoas and Tagalongs, otherwise known as Caramel deLites and Peanut Butter Patties. 
Samoas (sorry Midwesterners) are short­bread cookies topped with a caramel and coconut mixture, dipped in chocolate on the bottom, and drizzled with chocolate on top. Tagalongs are also shortbread based, topped with a peanut butter cream, and finished with a chocolate coating. If your favorite Girl Scout cookie is the Trefoil shortbread, you’re in luck — the shortbread used for the other two cookies is a knockoff of the Trefoil recipe. 
Below are the recipes along with easy tips and substitutions. The number of servings depends on how large you decide to make your cookies. The Samoa and Taglong in­gredients will each cover half of the cookies made in the Trefoils recipe, so double the measurements if you only want to make one kind. 
Trefoil Shortbread 
Ingredients: -1 cup butter, room temperature -1/2 cup sugar 
Tip: Substitute Splenda for sugar. 
- 2 cups all purpose flour 
Tip: Use wheat flour. 
-
 1/4 teaspoon baking powder 

-
 1/2 teaspoon salt 

-
 1/2 teaspoon vanilla extract 

-
 2 tablespoons milk 


Tip: Use skim milk. 
Instructions: 
1.
 With a mixer or by hand, combine butter and sugar. Once they are well mixed, slowly incorporate the flour, baking powder and salt. Add the milk and vanilla. 

2.
 Wrap the dough in plastic wrap or store in Tupperware. If you’re going to make the Samoas and Tagalongs, separate into halves for even batches. 

3.
 Refrigerate for an hour or until firm. 

4.
 Preheat oven to 350 degrees. While it’s heating, tear off pieces of dough, flatten them into a cookie shapes, and place on an ungreased cookie sheet.


 Tip: If you have cookie cutters, you can
       instead roll out the dough on a lightly
       floured surface and cut them out. 
5. Bake for 10-12 minutes and cool thor­oughly. 
Samoas 
Ingredients: 
-
 1.5 cups shredded unsweetened coconut, toasted 

-
 8-oz soft caramels 


Tip: Use sugar-free caramels. 
-
 1/4 tsp salt 

-
 2 tbsp milk 


Tip: Again, you can use skim. 
- 4 oz. dark chocolate chips 
Tip: You can use milk or bittersweet
       chocolate as well. 
Instructions: 
1.
 Keep the oven at 350 after baking the cookies. Spread the coconut on a baking sheet and toast for 10-15 minutes, mixing frequently. 

2.
 While the coconut is toasting, place the caramels, milk and salt in a microwaveable bowl and heat for one minute at a time, stir­ring in between, until smooth. 


Tip: You can also do this over medium
       heat on the stove 
3. Mix the coconut into the caramel mixture and spread on top of the Trefoils. 
Tip: I understand baking from scratch       is hard on campus, so bake some sugar       cookies from the Huddle if you need to. 
4. Microwave the chocolate chips in 30 second bursts, stirring in between, until melted. 
 Tip: You can also melt it on the stove by       creating a double boiler, which is done       by putting a pan with the chocolate on       top of a pot of boiling water. 
5. Dip the bottoms of the cookies in the chocolate, laying them out on wax paper afterward. Drizzle the remaining chocolate over the cookies. 
Tip: The best way to do this is to put the       chocolate in a plastic bag and snip off a       corner to create a piping bag. 
Tagalongs 
Ingredients: 
- 3/4 cup creamy peanut butter    Tip: As long as it’s creamy, you can use       natural peanut butter or almond butter       if you’re peanut-free. 
-
 1/4 cup confectioners’ sugar 

-
 1/4 tsp vanilla extract 

-
 8-oz chocolate chips 


Tip: Milk chocolate is suggested, but
 you can use your favorite! 
Instructions: 
1. In a microwavable bowl, mix the pow­dered sugar into the peanut butter and microwave in 30-second increments until creamy. Add the vanilla. 
Tip: You can also do this on the stove
       over low heat. 
2. Using a spoon or a makeshift-piping bag from Step 5 in the Samoas recipe, pile the peanut butter mixture onto the Trefoils. 
Tip: Again, sugar cookies from the
       Huddle are acceptable. 
3. Using melted chocolate from Step 4 in the Samoas recipe, cover the cookies in choco­late and place on wax paper to cool. 
With these recipes, you’re well on your 
way to earning your “Love and Admiration 
of Your Friends” badge. 


Contact Brenna Williams at bwillia9@nd.edu 

By SAM STRYKER 
News Editor 
In case the rock you live under doesn’t have Wi-Fi, allow me to let you in on a Notre Dame secret — campus has been infected with the YouTube sensation “Call Me Maybe,” the sugar-sweet pop confection sung by Canadian Idol contestant Carly Rae Je­pson. 
Granted, this isn’t actually a secret. The song established a ubiquitous presence over campus the past few days. “Call Me Maybe” has become such a big deal on campus I’d wager Fr. Jen­kins is dancing to it in his office as you read this. 
What is so impressive is how swiftly “Call Me Maybe” has achieved omnipresence. I heard it for the first time Thursday night. By Friday, the song played within five minutes of my ar­rival at Finni’s. Over the course of the night, it played multiple times, so much that the DJ apparently had to stop taking re­quests for the song. Even at Saturday’s hockey game, Notre Dame students could not resist holding up “Call Me Maybe” signs. 
What makes this song so special that it has infected campus at a viral rate? 
The answer is first and foremost the song’s lyrics. A mild-man­nered Canadian, Jepson seems to offer a perspective relatable to the Notre Dame experience. She just wants her love interest to call her, maybe. In the land of dining hall dates, dorm parties and parietals, this unassuming desire is quite relatable. 
Jepson’s lyrical dexterity does not stop there. Throughout the song, she croons “Hey I just met you/and this is crazy” and “And all the other boys/try to chase me” as reasons for giving out her number. In the land of the Grotto and the Golden Dome, students want musical purity, not the heathen entertainment of Lady Gaga and Britney Spears. Since Taylor Swift hasn’t released a new al­bum in a while, Carly Rae was kind enough to fill the void — and Notre Dame students acted accordingly. 
But more than just the lyrical virtuosity of the Canadian lass is at work here. Jepson has not one, but two music videos to com­plement her magnum opus. The first is a standard love song mu­sic video. Jepson tries to capture the attention of her stud of a next-door neighbor. She washes her car seductively, sings music in her garage, watches him mow the lawn and imagines herself on the cover of a cheesy romance novel with him. 
All of this would seem like a run of the mill love story. But there is a catch. Just as our girl Carly Rae is about to give her number to her man, he turns around and give his number to her guitar player — her male guitar player. Poor Carly Rae never saw it coming. 
Here at Notre Dame, students are used to success — in the classroom, on the playing field and in our extracurricular ac­tivities. Romance, however, seems to be another story. Just like Carly Rae, the one time we pluck up enough courage to go after someone, we get rejected, in sometimes unexpected ways. 
The second video, in which Jepson does not appear, seems to rectify all the rejection embodied in the first video. It features Justin Bieber, Selena Gomez, Ashley Tisdale and their friends, and was made with a webcam. In the video, the bevy of teen idols dances around a house playfully to the song. 
For every romantic rejection on campus, there are many more stories of friendship and fun nights out with friends, perhaps ex­plaining why this version of the song has twice as many views as Carly Rae’s original. After all, isn’t the bond you make with your peers the defining trait of the Notre Dame experience? No matter the ups and downs you may experience in pursuit of a Ring by Spring, your friends are always there for a late night dance ses­sion (even if they are not A-listers like the Biebs). 
So there you have it. In the vein of “Party in the USA,” Notre Dame has once again been struck by pop culture lightning. Ex­pect to hear “Call Me Maybe” at every dorm party, study session and night out from here until commencement. You may as well embrace it — maybe. 

Contact Sam Stryker at sstryke1@nd.edu 
LISA HOEYNCK | Observer Graphic 

page 10 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u CLASSIFIEDS Wednesday, February 29, 2012 
SPORTS AUTHORITY 
No need to watch any sports on TV this week 
Really, America? 
I know it’s been more than three weeks since football of­ficially ended and the Jeremy Lin craze has slowed down. Right now, you’re waiting for the NBA Playoffs or Major League Baseball to get rolling. 
But that doesn’t mean you have to stoop to the level of watching the NFL Combine, NBA All-Star Game or, even worse, NASCAR. 
It’s like you’ve been dumped by the love of your life and, rather than simply waiting to find some­one else you can connect with, you settle for the first girl or guy you pass on the street. 
It’s like TCU prematurely mak­ing the jump from the Mountain West Conference to the Big East instead of waiting for the entire conference realignment scenario to unfold. Sure, they ended up in a much better conference (the Big 12), but it cost the school $5 mil­lion to make the move. 
While I’d prefer to 

Andrew Owens 
Associate Sports Editor 
yards from his knees (that’s a little over one-and-a-half 40­yard dashes for you Combine fans out there). 
Now on to the NBA All-Star Game. Unless TNT had Shaquille O’Neal and Charles Barkley participate in a halftime food-eating contest, you wasted your time if you watched it. It’s hard enough to watch an entire NBA regular-season game, but try watch­ing the All-Star Game for 10 minutes. If you think profes­sional basketball players don’t care in a regular game, you’ll be amazed by the apathy dis­played in the matchup of the game’s best players. 
Lastly, NASCAR. It both­ers me to even mention it in a Sports Authority column because, well, NASCAR is not a sport. At its best, it’s a bunch of racecars making left-hand turns over and over and over again. At its worst, it’s a min­iature Demolition Derby, as Juan Pablo Montoya found out Monday night. 
I know the thirst for all-things-sports in America is at an all-time high, but that doesn’t mean it’s acceptable to watch anything ESPN or any other channel throws on the 
tube. 
Fortu­
nately, 
America, 
Associated Press 
MIAMI — Insisting he meant no harm, Dwyane Wade re­vealed Tuesday that he has apologized to Los Angeles Lak­ers guard Kobe Bryant multiple times for a blood-drawing, nose-breaking foul during the All-Star game. 
The first of those apologies, Wade said, came during the game when he saw Bryant’s face had been bloodied. Wade also said he sent the Lakers’ star a message after the game in Or­lando, Fla. on Sunday night. 
Wade said critics who ques­tioned why he never offered an apology for the play — the likes of which seemed to be some­thing not typical in an All-Star game setting — simply made in­correct assumptions. 
“I don’t care what I’m por­trayed as,” Wade said after Mi­ami’s first practice following the league’s All-Star break. “It’s unfortunate, obviously. I don’t want to ever hurt anybody in this game, especially on a freak play like that. It’s unfortunate. I send my apologies. But it’s not intentional. If it’s something I did intentionally, it’d be a differ­ent story.” 
A week ago, the Heat could make jokes about how they were out of the NBA spotlight, bumped by the meteoric rise of Jeremy Lin in New York. 
Now it’s a different story. 
Two plays seem to be generat­ing the most attention from the All-Star game — Wade’s hard foul against Bryant and LeBron James’ ill-advised pass at the end of what became a three-point loss for the Eastern Con­ference. 
“It’s an All-Star game. I mean, come on,” said Heat coach Erik Spoelstra, who couldn’t an­swer a question about what he thought of James’ play in the fi­nal seconds because he said he didn’t watch the game or see any replays of it since. “It’s a con­tinuation of the theater of the absurd. I don’t even know if it’s going to motivate me to actually even look at it. I haven’t seen it. 
“There’s nothing we can do about it, about the extreme ex­aggeration about everything that happens with our team,” Spoelstra continued. “All we can focus on is us. And at the end of the season, hopefully it ends the right way, and that’ll ultimately be the only way we can shut peo­ple up.” 
The Heat enter the second half of the season tied with Okla­homa City for the league’s best record at 27-7. Miami starts a three-game road trip Thursday night in Portland, followed by a game at Utah — and then, in a nationally televised game that probably got a whole lot more in­teresting, at the Lakers on Sun­day afternoon. 
Bryant stayed in after the Wade hit, and the Lakers said Tuesday that he also got a con­cussion in the All-Star Game. Bryant is listed as day-to-day by the Lakers, who play host to Minnesota on Wednesday night. 
“D-Wade didn’t, at all, go for a hard foul,” James said. “He went to wrap his arms up and accidentally hit him in the nose. ... He meant to foul him but he didn’t mean to hard-foul him like that.” 
Wade acknowledged that he did try to foul Bryant, and said he did so to stop the clock so he could approach a nearby referee to complain about fouls that he felt were committed against him and went uncalled. 
So not long after a Pro Bowl that was deemed by NFL fans and even Commissioner Roger Goodell as lacking any real sense of competition, the NBA’s version of a star-studded exhibition got too fiery down the stretch by some standards. 
“Hey, what do you want?” Heat forward Chris Bosh said. “It was all about the game. It came down to the last possession. It was all for the fans. That’s what they want. You get competitors out there, it may go a certain particular way for a limited amount a time, but after a while guys, they’re really going to get after it. And those make the best 


watch the If you think professional the calen-NBA All-Star basketball players don’t dar is about Game over care in a regular game, to turn to 
the Oscars March, and 
you’ll be amazed by 
or whichever that means 
the apathy displayed 
over-hyped it’s almost 
in the matchup of the 
awards show time to fill 
game’s best players. 
it was that out a brack­
caused me to avoid the Twit­terverse on Sunday night, but that doesn’t mean I’m going to watch it. 
Let’s start with the NFL Com­bine. If you watch this for more than 30 minutes in one setting, you’re that guy in the relationship who can’t let go and keeps the sweatshirt she left in your apart­ment because the smell reminds you of her. Seriously, let it go. 
What’s entertaining about watching 21- and 22-year-olds run a 40-yard dash, or seeing how high their vertical is, or sit­ting on the edge of your seat to see which quarterback has the best chemistry with receivers he’s unfamiliar with and plays he’s never run? 
The answer is nothing. It’s the most overrated and meaningless event of the year on the sports calendar. Ask the Raiders how important it was that JaMarcus Russell could throw a football 65 et and start 
rooting for 
the newest 
George Ma­
son, VCU or Butler to become the feel-good Cinderella story of college sports, something the NCAA could really use right now. 
So, hang in there during the final week before the Big East tournament kicks off a great month of basketball next week. I know life is rough without football, but resist the urge to stay in your pajamas all day watching the Combine, listening to Adele and gorging on an endless supply of Ben & Jerry’s ice cream. 
Contact Andrew Owens at aowens2@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
NBA 

Wade apologizes to Bryant 
games. 
At the end, James found him­self in the spotlight. 
The East trailed by two points when James got the ball with about five seconds left near midcourt. Guarded by Bryant, James dribbled right, then tried slinging a one-handed diagonal pass back to his left. The pass was stolen by Blake Griffin, who made one free throw to close the scoring in the West’s 152-149 win. 
It was reported Sunday that Bryant told James to shoot the ball in that situation, and James said afterwards he let his team down. But it didn’t end there. 
That play has been questioned since. 
“Is that something new?” James asked, rhetorically on Tuesday. 
Wade apparently was ready to put the All-Star game behind him and said he was done dis­cussing the issue after Tuesday. However, it’s almost certain to come up again when the Heat head out to face Bryant and the Lakers over the weekend. 
“When I saw the blood in his nose, I was like, ‘Obviously, I wasn’t trying to do that, man,’” Wade said. “I don’t know if any­body wants me to get down on my knees in front of the world and do it. I don’t have to do that. ... I send my apologies to Kobe and I move on from it.” 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The 
Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
FOR RENT 
WALK TO CAMPUS Great Specials! Studio, 1, 2, 3 Bedroom Townhomes available. (574) 272-8124. www. clovervillageapartments.com 
FURNISHED REMODELED RANCH 10 minute walk 2 bedroom 574-309-3758 rmfopen@gmail.com 
WANTED 
Artist needed for children’s book/ program 
Contact mkarle@alumni.nd.edu for more information. 
PERSONAL 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don’t go it alone. Notre Dame has many resources in place to assist you. If you or someone you love needs 
confidential support or assistance, 
please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819. For more information, visit ND’s website at: http:// pregnancysupport@nd.edu 

On This Day in History 
45 BC - The first Leap Day is 
recognized by proclamation of Julius Caesar. Under the old Roman calendar, the last day of February was the last day of the year. 
1692 - Sarah Goode and Tituba are accused of witchcraft in Salem, Massachusetts, sparking the hysteria that started the Salem Witch Trials. 
1868 - British Prime Minister 
Benjamin Disreali forms his first 
cabinet. 

1940 - Hattie McDaniel is first 
African American to win an Academy Award–best supporting actress–for her performance in Gone With The Wind. 
1952 - The first pedestrian “Walk/ 
Don’t Walk” signs are installed at 44th Street and Broadway at Times Square. 
1964 - President Lyndon B. Johnson reveals U.S. secretly developed the Lockheed A-11 jet 
fighter. 
1968 - The Beatles win a Grammy Award for their eigth studio album Sergeant Pepper’s Lonely Heart Club Band. 
2012 - Cristin Shaughnessy, Lauren Jepson and Juan Carlos Mejia Munne dominated jeopardy at Brothers, ranking nationally. 

Wednesday, February 29, 2012 The Observer u SPORTS ndsmcobserver.com | page 11 
Punches 
Dear took control of the fight in Chris “Not Brian” Salvi def. Brian the final round, continuing to dis­continued from page 12 Tower play strong defense techniques Senior Chris Salvi got off to a fast while also wearing Paape down forth a strong defensive effort. start on his way to a victory over with a flurry of low body shots and 
Grasberger almost broke through senior Brian Tower in the final few headshots toward the end of the early in the final round, pushing 188-pound bout. match. Skelly against the ropes and knock-In the matchup, Tower began the Dear’s strong third round ef­ing him back with a series of upper fight on the early attack, but Salvi fort helped give him the victory by body shots and headshots. Skelly was able to evade many of his early unanimous decision. maintained his poise and compo-punches. Salvi mixed in an array of sure to rebound and threw a series body shots, hitting Tower particu-Brian “Caesar” Salat def. Chris of strong hooks to end the round. larly hard with one lower body shot “Stubbs” Sarkis 
Skelly took the bout by unani-that forced a temporary stoppage of Junior Brian Salat outlasted ju­mous decision. the bout. Tower made a strong re-nior Chris Sarkis in a match that left covery effort toward the end of the both fighters exhausted and Salat 
188 lbs. round, landing a few body shots on the victor by unanimous decision. 
Salvi before the end of the round. The two juniors came out swing-Adrian “Yo Adrian” Moreno def. The second round was fully dom-ing to start the bout with Sarkis Frank “The Tank” Conway inated by Salvi, as he landed an ear-connecting on the first solid flurry 
A back-and-forth fight ended ly uppercut on Tower’s face that left of punches near the ropes. Salat with senior Adrian Moreno earning Tower sprawling on the ground. Af-fought back and landed his own fair a unanimous decision victory over ter a brief stoppage, Tower tried to share of blows near the ropes, uti­senior Frank Conway. go on the attack, but Salvi stopped lizing left-right combinations. The 

The first round was marked by a him in his tracks with a quick up-round concluded with both boxers quick tempo, as both boxers came per body shot that knocked Tower exchanging shots to the head and Nate Arnold was able to use a ing quickness and agility. Ellixson out throwing a wild array of punch-down for the second time. the body. combination of elusiveness and knocked down Yi, who quickly got es. Conway was aggressive on the The referee then decided to end The second stanza began with power to defeat fellow law student up and resumed the fight. Ellixson attack, assailing Moreno with a the fight in the second round, giving Salat going on an aggressive attack John Rompf by unanimous decision. landed a flurry of left-right combi­flurry of body shots at one point. Salvi the victory. that featured the use of jabs and Arnold came out of the gates ag-nations that had Yi attempting to Moreno displayed a nice recovery, hooks with uppercuts dispersed gressively, leaning into his opponent counter off his back foot. knocking Conway down with a 204 lbs. throughout. Sarkis stood strong and throwing forceful jabs. Rompf Ellixson attempted to open the hard body shot and later moving though and landed a few punches counteredwith a monster hook that round with repeated jabs, but Yi him onto the ropes. Bart “The Buv’nor” Dear def. Reid with his powerful right hook. The Arnold eluded. Rompf tried to work showed an exceptional dodging 
The second round saw each “The Captain” Paape back-and-forth action persisted as both hooks and jabs against Ar-ability. boxer land several punches, as they Senior Bart Dear established Salat got Sarkis up against the ropes nold, but Arnold was able to ward After ducking many of Ellixson’s continued to attack each other with control late over junior Reid Paape and landed strong shots. Salat then off the blows and get Rompf onto efforts, Yi countered with some intensity. Moreno moved Conway to to win and advance to the champi-went back to the uppercut and con-the ropes. The two heavyweights jabs of his own. Ellixson then got the ropes with a series of power-onship fight. nected with a few of them to close out then slowed down and threw jabs his opponent on the ropes, but ful body shots early in the round, Neither fighter showed a clear ad-the round strongly against Sarkis. before one final even-sided out-Yi deflected the majority of the but Conway responded with a jab vantage in the first round, as both Sarkis opened the final frame by burst concluded the first round. punches and managed to connect to Moreno’s head that left Moreno fighters landed punches. Paape landing solid punches in what was The second frame began with with some jabs to conclude the sec-bleeding and forced the first stop-used his height advantage to throw otherwise a slow start to the last third Arnold landing a few quick jabs. ond frame. page of the bout. early headshots, but Dear rebound-of the fight. The slow pace continued, Rompf was momentarily flat-footed The final stanza began in excit-
Moreno made a strong case for ed to land a variety of upper and as each fighter would throw a punch and Arnold capitalized by connect-ing fashion, with both boxers com-victory in the final round, hitting lower body shots. and retreat, waiting for the other to ing on a big right hook. The next pletely letting loose in the corner, Conway with a series of demonstra-Paape came out on the attack become vulnerable. Sarkis landed a segment of the round was unevent-exchanging jabs and hooks with tive punches. Conway came on the in the second round, throwing the few combinations before Salat con-ful, with the two boxers regaining one another. The crowd got into it attack early in the round, but More-majority of punches and remaining nected on an uppercut. Both fighters their energy. As the clock wound after the back-and-forth action and no moved him back with an intense aggressive throughout. Dear largely were absolutely spent by the final bell down on the middle round, Arnold the excitement palpably built in the right hook to Conway’s face. More-fended off most of Paape’s punches, and Salat nabbed the win by unani-went after Rompf with jabs to the night’s final round. no landed a few more headshots to showing a unique ability to an-mous decision. body. Yi ducked many of Ellixson’s conclude the round. ticipate his opponent’s moves. Dear Arnold opened up the final punches and returned fire by 
As a result of Moreno’s efforts landed a few punches of his own as Heavyweights round like he did the start of the throwing various combinations. in the third round, the senior was the round progressed, hitting Paape fight, coming after Rompf aggres-With the clock running out and awarded the victory by unanimous with several upper body shots just Nate “Catdome” Arnold def. John sively with speed and quick hands. both boxers emptying their respec­decision. before the bell rang. Rompf Rompf, however, fought back and tive tanks, Yi landed some good 
landed a good left-right combo to punches to conclude the fight and the head. Arnold was not to be de-got the win by split decision. nied, though, and kept up the pace for the duration of the fight earn-Contact Isaac Lorton at ing him the win by unanimous de-ilorton@nd.edu cision. 

Contact Mike Monaco at Daniel Yi def. Brian Ellixson jmonaco@nd.edu 
Sophomore Daniel Yi used his quickness and agility to defeat Contact Brian Hartnett at law student Brian Ellixson in the bhartnett@nd.edu night’s final contest. 
The final match of the evening Contact Ernst Cleofe at started with both boxers display-ecleofe@nd.edu 




page 12 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u SPORTS Wednesday, February 29, 2012 
Griess had a longer arm reach to get inside of Spittler’s reach
McOsker 
than Choe, but Choe was able to and with a jab brought blood to 
get inside the reach and coun-Spittler’s nose. The round ended continued from page 13 ter with extremely fast punches. with Alberdi gaining more con-
In the latter half of the round, trol with very strong jabs. This closed out the round with a series Griess seemed to keep Choe at put Spittler against the ropes of holds. a distance, but Choe got a solid where Alberdi threw a few 
The first two rounds proved to jab to Griess’ head in right be-hooks. be enough for McOsker to earn fore the bell rung. The end of the second round the unanimous victory. With the momentum of the did not seem to deter Spittler, 
punch at the end of the round, as he came out swinging in the 158 lbs. Choe landed a solid one-two third round. Both traded blows, 
combo to start the second but Alberdi gained the momen-Greg Cunningham def. Sean round. Choe was then able to tum with a long series of jabs “Dark Side of the Moon” Mul-force Griess back against the halfway through the round. len ropes twice. Once against the There were a few short breaks 
Seniors Greg Cunningham ropes, Choe released a series of in the last round due to blood and Sean Mullen took turns short quick body strikes. When from Spittler’s nose but the trading punches, but Cunning-Griess moved his arms down fighters continued on. After one ham’s strong jabs ultimately left to block his body, Choe struck of these short intermissions, Al-him with a victory. quickly with a blow to the head. berdi threw a strong right up-

The first round began with Griess countered well and fin-percut that hit home. Alberdi aggressive starts from both ished off the second round earned the unanimous victory. continued to exchange punches the face. Salvi knocked Garrity Cunningham and Mullen. It was strong. until the final bell sounded. down with a left hook to the hard to tell who had the upper The third round started much Jake Joe def. Jeff “Little Bear” In a split decision, Joe was head and, after a brief stoppage, hand at the start of the bout, but the same as the second. Choe Ulrich awarded the victory. put Garrity on the ground again as the round pressed on, Cun-landed a powerful right jab and Junior Jake Joe edged out a with a headshot. ningham seemed to gain con-backed Griess into the corner, close victory over junior Jeff Ul-180 lbs. At this point in the third trol. where he continued to throw rich by split decision. round, the referee ended the 
Cunningham backed Mul-fast punches. Griess seemed The first round saw both Brian “Not Chris” Salvi def. fight and gave Salvi the victory. len up against the ropes twice to tire this round and started fighters establish periods of Joe “Send in the Troll” Garrity with a flurry of punches early throwing bigger punches. Choe dominance. After both boxers A powerful effort by Brian Sal-Connor “The Skellator” Skelly in the second round. He landed quickly dodged many of these traded jabs to begin the round, vi sent the law student into the def. Nick “The Lancaster Di-a solid left jab halfway through and returned with body shots, Joe went after Ulrich with a championship past senior Joe saster” Grasberger the round, and with this punch which were then followed by flurry of high body shots, knock-Garrity. Connor Skelly used a quick forced Mullen against the ropes calculated head shots. Choe ing him against the ropes. Ulrich In a matchup of Chicago na-start to help earn a unanimous for a third time. Mullen, how-controlled the third round and rebounded quickly, countering tives, Garrity displayed great decision over Nick Grasberger. ever, not wanting to be counted was awarded a unanimous de-Joe’s attack by landing a series aggressiveness in the first In this matchup of senior fight-out, finished the second round cision. of low punches and driving Joe round, throwing the majority of ers, Skelly took early control of strongly. into the corner of the ring. punches and moving Salvi onto the fight, using his lanky frame 
He came out with a point to Alex “El Gatito Loco” Oloriz In the second round, both box-the ropes at one point. Salvi was and long reach to hit Grasberger prove in the third round, start-def. Dallas Bunsa ers increased the intensity, at-able to evade the majority of with a series of high jabs. Gras­ing strong and landing a solid The Manor mayhem began, tacking each other with a wild Garrity’s punches, though, and berger made an attempt to go on string of punches. This was not as juniors Alex Oloriz and Dal-series of punches throughout countered with a few well-timed the attack, but Skelly countered enough, though, as Cunning-las Bunsa came out seeing who the round. Joe rendered Ulrich shots of his own. with a series of high body shots ham got out three strong right could be the best 165-pound defenseless with a series of con-Salvi took control of the tempo and forced Grasberger on his jabs, causing Mullen to stum-fighter from Morrissey. The an-sistent body shots for a good in the second round of the fight, heels for the remainder of the ble. As Mullen seemed to tire, swer: Oloriz. portion of the round, but Ulrich managing to get on the attack round. Cunningham backed him twice Oloriz began with a ton of recovered to land a few low body at different points. Salvi used The second round saw the more against the ropes and fin-energy and Bunsa was busy shots of his own. a strong series of both left and two fighters engage in a defen­ished the bout in control. The preventing Oloriz from getting Although both fighters showed right hooks to push Garrity back, sive struggle, with few punches decision went unanimously to inside his longer reach. Bunsa fatigue in the third round, they driving Garrity into the ropes at landing. Skelly continued to at-Cunningham. landed a solid one-two combo continued to wear each other one point. Garrity continued to tack Grasberger with quick jabs, 
to end the round. down with punches. Joe went on throw several punches, but Salvi but Grasberger fended him off. Joey Kim def. Danny Leicht Bunsa rolled his left ankle at the attack early, landing a se-largely fended them off. Skelly continued to block most of 
With initial patience and ul-the second round and the fight ries of uppercuts to Ulrich’s face. The final round of the fight be-Grasberger’s punches, putting timate aggression, junior Joey had to be briefly stopped. On re-Ulrich countered with a flurry longed to Salvi, as he attacked Kim defeated junior Danny turning, Bunsa’s ankle soreness of body shots, and both boxers Garrity with a series of jabs to see PUNCHES/page 11 Leicht. caused a big problem because 
Kim started the fight test-of Oloriz’s quickness. Bunsa ing his reach against Leicht. landed a string of punches, but Leicht, staying low, tried to get Oloriz countered with a heavy inside the long reach of Kim onslaught of punches, back-and beat him with body shots. ing Bunsa across the ring and Leicht packed a lot of energy in into the ropes. As Bunsa was this tactic but Kim kept him at against the ropes, Oloriz landed a distance with strong punches. a huge right hook. At the end of the round, under a The ankle continued to be torrent of body blows, Kim was a problem for Bunsa, as he backed up against the ropes, seemed to be on defense for but ended the round with a solid much of the third round. Oloriz punch on Leicht. seemed to sense the slowness 
Kim began the second round of Bunsa and started throw-as patiently as he began the ing more punches. Oloriz be-first, waiting for an opportuni-gan to land more and more ty. Partway through the round, strikes. With two uppercuts af-Leicht took a hit and tried to ter a string of blows, Bunsa was counter, but Kim dodged the at-dazed against the ropes and tack and Leicht, losing his bal-had to be counted back in. Ol­ance, dropped to a knee. After oriz did not wane in his intensi­this slip, Kim seemed to gain ty and ended the match strong, control of the fight. He landed earning himself the unanimous a very strong string of punches, decision. causing Leicht to back up into the ropes. With another series 171 lbs. of blows and Leicht against the ropes again, Kim started Ryan “Dirty” Alberdi def. Pat-throwing hooks. He landed sol-rick Spittler idly enough to cause the ref to Junior Ryan Alberdi’s aggres­stop the action. sion led him to a sure victory 
The third round started with over senior Patrick Spittler. Kim landing a hard right upper-The fight commenced with cut, causing Leicht to fall back. Alberdi trading blows early on Kim took control completely with Spittler. Partway through, and had Leicht on the defensive. Alberdi attempted to land a Once more Leicht fell back-hook, but lost his balance and wards and was checked by the fell to a knee. This did not faze ref. Leicht continued, but Kim Alberdi, who ducked under a did not relinquish control, giv-hook thrown by Spittler and ing Kim the unanimous victory. landed a resonating uppercut. 
Spittler came back however, 165 lbs. ending the round strong with a 
string of jabs. Inoh “Lights Out” Choe def. Alberdi came out strong in Dan Griess the second round and backed 
Senior Inoh Choe got off to Spittler against the ropes. Spit-a quick start, landing solid tler ducked out of it and used punches on sophomore Dan his long arm reach to throw a Griess and coming out victori-few solid jabs and hooks. Al­ous in the end. berdi countered well, was able 



Wednesday, February 29, 2012 The Observer u SPORTS ndsmcobserver.com | page 13 
The fight started slowly with 
Seim 
both boxers getting a feel for each 
Bayliss 
other’s styles as they exchanged continued from page 16 punches. Late in the round, Pe­
continued from page 16 
terson landed a few solid punch-cornered Lucisano twice and es to pull ahead. 

“Our doubles play has made landed long combinations, end-Garvin came back in the next 
some pretty solid improvements,” ing the fight. round with a swing in momen-
Bayliss said. “We really struggled Seim won in a split decision tum. By controlling the middle 
in doubles the last time we played due in part to his success in close of the ring, Garvin forced Pe­
them. We lost all three matches and quarters. The win sets up a re-terson to move around. But be-
did not play particularly well in any match of last year’s final with cause of the movement, Peterson 
of the three. Our pairings are much Lally. more easily found weak spots in 
more comfortable playing together Garvin’s defense and took control 
than they had been then and that 142 lbs. of the match. 
has translated to more successful Early in the third round, Pe­
play.” Nick “Bronco” Bortolotti def. terson continued to control the 
Notre Dame was on the winning Nick Rowek match’s pace. Garvin responded 
end of its last four matches and Senior Nick Bortolotti won me-by becoming more aggressive 
Bayliss said this has helped his team thodically in his match against and closing in on Peterson. Even-
acquire a higher level of confidence. junior Nick Rowek. As the match tually, Peterson used quicker 
“I feel like we have become a progressed, Bortolotti improved punches in the close quarters. 
much more confident team,” Bayliss and adjusted to Rowek’s fighting Peterson’s overall control of the 
said. “Winning has helped our con-style. match gave him the unanimous 
fidence. I have always thought that In the early round, Borto-decision. 
we have had a pretty good team and lotti used quick combinations to 
now, I think our guys are starting to break down Rowek’s guard and 148 lbs. The first round was a toss-and Butterflies” Somers 
think the same way.” back away. Rowek struggled to up, as Power landed a few solid Because freshman Keegan 
While the Irish have played in get close to Bortolotti, turning Ben “Danger Zone” Eichler punches but Ortenzio also landed Somers suffered from a concus-
Bloomington before, this trip will the match into a defensive battle def. Casey “The Man Beast” a few strikes of his own. sion, the fight was scratched and 
be a bit different due to alterations for Rowek. Allare Power came out strong in the junior Sunoh Choe came out vic-
Indiana made to its facility. Bortolotti landed longer com-Early success led to a quick vic-second round. Ortenzio, how-torious. 
“[Indiana] resurfaced its court binations in the second round tory for sophomore Ben Eichler ever, used Power’s momentum 
last summer, so the court is going to as he started to move around over junior Casey Allare. Eichler to dodge away and back Power Garrity “Biscuit” McOsker 
be different than the one it used to Rowek’s guard more success-came out swinging and it paid off up against the ropes. Ortenzio def. Joel “Hashtag” Hlavaty 
have,” Bayliss said. “I would imag­fully. After Rowek landed a few in a one round fight. then gave Power a powerful right Freshman Garrity McOsker 
ine it will be a bit slower than the counters, Bortolotti unleashed Eichler’s early combinations jab, causing him to bounce off was confident and aggressive in 
old court there. Every facility has its huge punches close to the end of caught Allare off guard. Follow-the ropes. Toward the end of the his win against sophomore Joel 
own intricacies and Indiana is no the round. ing a first referee pause, Eichler round, Ortenzio snuck in three Hlavaty. 
different. Its lights are a bit dimmer In the third round, Rowek used changed gears and unloaded solid jabs, causing Power to McOsker combined his aggres­
than ours and the seating area is re-his reach to finally get to Bor-huge punches with the intent of stumble and have the ref check siveness with accurate punches 
ally close to the court.” tolotti. But Bortolotti ended the finishing the fight early. After the him out. throughout the round. Hlavaty 
Besides notching the victory, fight with two long series as he referee paused the fight three The third round continued had success late in the first round 
Bayliss has some other goals for the backed Rowek into the corner. times, he stopped the match and with Power throwing a lot of with counters, but not enough. 
match. The last series forced the referee gave Eichler the win by technical punches, but Ortenzio defend-In the second round, McOsker 
“I would really like to see our en-to end the bout in the third round knockout in the first round. ed and dodged the majority of landed hard punches and his 
tire lineup play some very good ten-in Bortolotti’s favor. them and landed his own. Power aggressiveness pushed Hlavaty 
nis,” he said. “Balance is key for us, Kevin “The Commissioner” seemed to tire with Ortenzio’s to the ropes. McOsker’s pure 
so seeing our entire lineup play well Will “The Thrill” Peterson de. Ortenzio def. Ryan “Ho-Cro constant movement and dodg-strength was difficult to keep up 
would be ideal. I would also like to Jackie “The Forgetful House-Heart” Power ing, which allowed Ortenzio to with, as Hlavaty’s guard started 
see us continue our improvement in cat” Garvin Seniors Kevin Ortenzio and land multiple punches before the to break down. 
doubles, as that point is always so Will Peterson was victorious Ryan Power began their fight round ended. The victory was The third round started with 
critical.” against Jackie Garvin, as the throwing lots of punches with unanimously given to Ortenzio. both boxers landing big hooks. 
First serve between the Irish and battle between the two sopho-little emphasis on defense. Power Hlavaty and McOsker exchanged 
Hoosiers is scheduled for 2 p.m. to-more fighters highlighted their started to land a few, but Orten-154 lbs. turns, but as the fight progressed 
day. similar fighting styles. The vic-zio was quick to dodge and coun-and the fighters grew tired, they tory puts Peterson into the finals ter well, ultimately leaving with Sunoh “What is this? I don’t” 
Contact Walker Carey at                        


wcarey@nd.edu 

for the second year in a row. a victory. Choe def. Keegan “Unicorns see McOSKER/page 12 like Matt Schipper guided him 
Garnham 

three years ago. The situations are not identical, though, Garnham continued from page 16 said, because while Kevin chal­lenged Matt immediately, the new­“It’s more consistent from when est installment in the Schipper dy­he came in [as a freshman],” nasty still has plenty of work to do. Garnham said. “He jumped 17 feet “It is different because with Matt once as a freshman, after that it and Kevin it was always a compe­has been pretty much a consistent tition — with David and Kevin, it’s jump.” not there yet,” Garnham said. “It is 
Early in his collegiate career, not that competitive because Da-Schipper benefited from the help vid is a good jumper, but he is not of his older brother Matt Schip-where Kevin is. But he will be, he per, who won pole vaulting titles is definitely that good.” for the Irish in the Big East indoor Having recently finished eighth championships of 2008 and 2009 in the Big East indoor champion-and the Big East outdoor cham-ships, David Schipper will attempt pionships of 2009. In the 2009 to keep next year’s Big East title in Big East indoor championships, his family. A fair amount of pres-Matt Schipper cleared a height of sure accompanies the task, as the 5.35-meters to deny his younger Schipper brothers have claimed brother the title. the last four conference indoor 
“I like [having brothers on the titles and last three outdoor titles. team], it’s good,” Garnham said. “Normally, people step up — just “They know each other, they are like when my brother Matt left, I comfortable with each other, they stepped up and I think [David] will can tell each other if one is mess-do the same,” Kevin Schipper said. ing up … [When] Matt was a ju-Before he hands over the reins to nior and Kevin was a freshman [in his younger brother, Kevin Schip­2009], Kevin was a better jumper per will attempt to take gold in his than Matt, but Matt had a lifetime sixth consecutive Big East title at best indoor [jump to capture the the conference outdoor champion-title] … after that it was Kevin all ship in May. the time.” “If I do that, I think that would 
Although Kevin Schipper would be pretty close to the most Big East surpass his brother the following Championships anybody has won, year, the senior owes part of his and that is something I would like success to his brother’s guidance, to do,” he said. “Also, just estab­he said. lishing that dominance, that Notre 
“He gave me a lot of really good Dame is a powerhouse in pole advice when it came to certain as-vaulting in the Big East is some­pects of the event,” Kevin Schipper thing that means a lot.” said. “It’s a really mental event and The Schipper brothers and the you have to keep your mind right.” rest of the Irish will host the Alex 
Now Kevin Schipper has the Wilson Invitation March 2-3. opportunity to guide his younger brother David Schipper, a fresh-Contact Joseph Monardo at man pole vaulter at Notre Dame, jmonardo@nd.edu 



page 14 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u SPORTS Wednesday, February 29, 2012 
Chase 
continued from page 16 

for the last four years,” Chase said. “It’s definitely the best decision I ever made.” 
Now that Chase has lived his childhood fantasy as a middle in­fielder for the Irish, he and his teammates are helping South Bend elementary students develop their own goals through the “Dream Team” project. 
“Generally, we go with our teammates, and we work 
come on the Notre Dame cam­pus, and just to be able to see what it means to be at Notre Dame puts a picture to what their dreams can be,” Chase said. “It was really successful and we really had a great time.” Chase also played a large role in organizing the baseball team’s “Adopt a Family” effort, which ultimately raised nearly a thousand dollars to aid a lo­cal family, and helped recruit 24 student athletes who joined him on a fall break trip to aid in the clean-up of Tuscaloosa, Ala., which was heavily 


with third and “We talk about having damaged by a fourth grade dreams and having goals tornado last classrooms and working really hard April. and go in once to attain those goals.” But between a week for five organizing a weeks, and new service 
Tommy Chase 

we essentially project, help-
senior co-captain 

have a little ing his as-
curriculum each week,” Chase said. “We talk about having dreams and having goals and working really hard to attain those goals. 
“I think it’s very important, be­cause a lot of these kids come from families where they don’t necessar­ily have two parents and the sup­port isn’t necessarily there, so hav­ing Notre Dame athletes and people they look up to coming in and telling them that they can do whatever they want is really special, and it’s really an honor to be able to do that.” 
Chase and his teammates fol­lowed up the “Dream Team” project by inviting third grade classes from McKinley and Perley Elementary Schools to visit Notre Dame on con­secutive Friday nights earlier this semester, giving the kids an oppor­tunity to skate at the new Compton Family Ice Arena one week watch a hockey game from the student sec­tion the next. 
“That was about bringing kids from South Bend to Notre Dame, be­cause some of these kids will never signed third 
grade student 
prepare for 
the state-wide standardized test or attending a Notre Dame Christian Ath­letes meeting, Chase is also busy fulfilling captaincy re­sponsibilities with senior pitch­er Will Hudgins. 
“We run most of the meet­ings, we facilitate meetings [with] the sports psychologist on campus, we make all the little decisions, including what we wear on the road, curfews on the road, and who’s respon­sible for carrying what bag on the road,” Chase said. “We have to keep the focus on our goal at hand and constantly built rela­tionships with our other team­mates and just try to be the best model of leadership that we can be.” 
Chase and the rest of the Irish travel to San Marcos, Texas to take on Texas State on Friday. 


Contact Vicky Jacobsen at vjacobse@nd.edu 
Kemp 
continued from page 16 
fore his collegiate career. 
“I’ve been watching John since he was a freshman in high school, and it seems like each year he gets a little bit better,” Corrigan said. “At first, it was all about him saving the ball and learning how to play that part of the position. Since he’s been at Notre Dame, he’s been learning some of the other things: leader­ship on that side of the field, clearing the ball and team defense.” 
During Kemp’s freshman year, he played behind Rod­gers and learned the ins­and-outs of the goaltender position at the collegiate level. 
“[Rodgers] is a very vocal person and leader on and 
in the country and taught me on that as­pect as well.” 
Beyond Kemp’s ability to keep the ball out of the net with his body and stick, his presence on the defensive end of the field is just as important to Notre Dame’s success, Cor­rigan said. 
“He’s got a very steady, calming influence on that whole [defensive] end of the field,” Corrigan said. “It starts with confidence, and then reliability and trust­tion when the Nittany Lions shocked them in Arlotta Sta­dium. The last two years, the Irish have come up empty in the postseason. A deep run in 2010 left Notre Dame one goal away from a national champi­onship after an overtime loss to Duke. The Blue Devils then knocked off the Irish in 2011 in the national quarterfinals. 
This year, the Irish are as hungry as ever, and Kemp and Notre Dame have a re­newed focus after the early loss. 
“Having had Duke stop us from reaching our goal the past two years has made us realize how hard we need to work and focus week in and week out,” Kemp said. 
Notre Dame’s next chal­lenge in its pursuit of a na­tional championship is No. 18 Drexel on Saturday. Face-off is scheduled for 1 p.m. in Philadelphia. 


Contact Matthew Robison at mrobison@nd.edu 
worthiness that everyone there feels with him in the 
off the field,” Kemp said. “So I was able to learn a lot 

of leadership “He’s got a very steady, capabilities calming influence on that a goalie that whole [defensive] needs. On top end of the field.” of that, he was one of the 
Kevin Corrigan 
best goalies 

Irish coach 
cage and the way he handles hi mself. It can be a volatile thing and emoti on-ally [dan­gerous] if you allow it to be. He makes it easy on ever yone else.” 
But Corrigan said Kemp’s best attribute is that he his ability to react effectively to every shot thrown his way. 
“That’s job number one in that position, to keep the ball out of the back of the net,” Corrigan said. “I think he does that better than anyone out there.” 
Despite the early upset over Duke, the Irish found them­selves in the opposite posi­


Wednesday, February 29, 2012 The Observer u TODAY ndsmcobserver.com | page 15 
WILL SHORTz 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 
CROSSWORD 



HENRy ARNOLD 

LEE HAGGENJOS and ALEx GRISWOLD 
THE LONDON EXPRESS 
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 





Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 

Make checks payable to The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556

 Enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year


 Enclosed
 is $75 for one semester 


Name ____________________________________________________ Address __________________________________________________ City ____________________ State___________ Zip______________ 

Wednesday. February 29, 2011 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 16 
BENGAL BOUTS 
Final Countdown 
Intense semifinal action sets stage for Saturday’s finals 
MEN’S LACROSSE 

Kemp’s leadership, talent spark defense 

ERNST CLEOFE, ISAAC LORTON, BRIAN HARTNETT, MIKE MONACO 
Sports Writers 
133 lbs. 
Jack “Rico Suave” Lally def. Joe “Sweet Cheeks” Decker 
In the first match of the night, junior Jack Lally showed his smooth technical style, landing himself in the finals after defeat­ing fellow junior Joe Decker. 
In the first round, Lally used his quickness and agility to find the holes in Decker’s defense. Decker was opportunistic early on in the match. After biding his time, he started using quick combinations to try to catch Lal­ly. Lally moved more in response, leading to an uncharacteristic slip late in the first round. 
Lally started to take full con­trol of the match in the second round with his dominating foot­work. He combined accuracy with movement, creating angles to help his attack. 
The third round started off with another fall, as Decker’s ag­gressiveness caused Lally to trip while backing away. Decker at­tempted to make up lost ground by closing in on an evasive Lally. But as the round went on, Deck­er tired out and Lally closed the match with a solid showing late in the round. 
Lally’s smart fighting gave him the unanimous decision. 
‘Tough as” Niels Seim def. Tony “Lucky” Lucisano 
Junior Niels Seim pulled out a slim victory against junior Tony Lucisano. The entire fight was a tight matchup, with neither fight­er gaining a clear advantage. 
Seim started the fight by tak­ing advantage of his small size. Despite Lucisano’s presumed size advantage, Seim went un­der his opponent’s reach to get to him. Seim’s quickness in the close quarters was key to his early advantage. 
In between rounds, Lucisano adjusted his body to stay away from Seim’s jabs. The adjustment helped keep Seim at a distance. 
In the final round, Lucisano at­tempted to be the aggressor. Af­ter catching Seim off guard early in the round, Lucisano started to let his guard down and allowed 
see SEIM/page 13 By JOSEPH MONARDO 
Sports Writer 
With five Big East pole vault­ing titles and counting, senior Kevin Schipper is on a quest to continue his family’s dominance in the event and solidify himself as one of the most accomplished athletes in conference history. 
Schipper captured his third consecutive Big East indoor title on Feb. 18, winning the pole vault with a jump of 5.25-meters and helping the Irish to their second conference indoor title in three years. For the Leo, Ind., native, the three-peat represents an im­portant milestone. 
“It’s big because consistency in this event is something that is hard to achieve, and for me, it’s been pretty consistent and that is what you look for,” Schipper said. 
In his freshman season three years ago, Schipper showed promising talent by finishing second in the Big East indoor competition and fourth in the Big East outdoor competition, but has greatly improved his consistency over the past three years, Irish assistant coach Jim Garnham said. 
see GARNHAM/page 13 
BASEBALL 
Chase fulfills dream by playing for Irish 
By VICKY JACOBSEN 
Sports Writer 
Irish senior co-captain Tommy Chase never need­ed to be sold on Notre Dame — he spent most of his high school years try­ing to show off his skills for the Notre Dame coach­es. 
“I was always a huge Notre Dame fan, so I kind of came out and recruit­ed myself,” Chase said. “I came out to the camps and they saw me and they wanted to have me on the team, but they were a lit­tle short on scholarship money, so they said that I could come and play as a walk-on, so I didn’t have a scholarsh ip.” 
Chase’s plans for his Notre Dame career prob­ably didn’t include the knee surgery that wiped out his sophomore season or a coaching change be­fore his junior year, but even as a walk-on without a scholarship, he knew he made the right choice. 
“It’s just been an abso­lute dream being here 
see CHASE/page 14 By MATTHEW ROBISON 
Sports Writer 
The No. 9 Irish have al­ready encountered a degree of adversity early in the season, but one thing Notre Dame has been able to count on up to this point is a consis­tent performance from junior goaltender John Kemp. 
In the first two games of the season, Kemp captured career highs in saves in both games. 
Against then-No. 3 Duke on Feb. 18, Kemp made 14 saves and led the Irish to a 7-3 victory. This Sunday, Kemp eclipsed his career high again with 18 stops in a 4-3 overtime loss to No. 13 Penn State. 
But Kemp credits much of 
his success to the defense 
surrounding him. 
“I can attribute that to my 
defense being able to let me 
see the types of shots I like 
to see,” Kemp said. “Gener­
ally, we like to give up shots 
from the outside and low-an­
gle shots, giving me a better 
opportunity to save the ball. 
Thankfully, I’ve been able 
to stop a lot of the shots I’ve 
seen these past two weeks.” 
Irish coach Kevin Corrigan 
has watched Kemp develop 
at Notre Dame (1-1) over the 
last three years, one of them 
under the tutelage of then 
fifth-year senior Scott Rodg­
ers and the other two as the 
starter. But Corrigan started 
watching Kemp play long be 
see KEMP/page 14 

MEN’S TRACK AND FIELD 
Schipper’s success continues family legacy 
MEN’S TENNIS 

ND battles in-state rival Hoosiers 
By WALKER CAREY 
Sports Writer 

The No. 29 Irish hit the road today to take on No. 26 Indiana in Bloom­ington, Ind. The Irish are looking for a rebound performance against the same Hoosiers squad that topped them 6-1 on Jan. 28. 
“[Indiana] got a pretty good win against our guys the last time we played,” Irish coach Bobby Bayliss said. “While I think we played a little bit better than the 6-1 score indi­cates, Indiana still made some shots that we did not and took advantage of some of the mistakes that we made.” 
Bayliss said the Irish (11-4) made some upgrades since the last time they battled the Hoosiers (6-3). 
see BAYLISS/page 13 






