The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 46, issue 55 | WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 14, 2012 | ndsmcobserver.com 
alumnus wins renowned prize 
By CHRISTIAN MYERS 
news writer 
notre dame’s service eth­ic doesn’t end at graduation. Just ask 1972 alumnus dr. Jim o’connell. 
o’connell, founder and presi­dent of the boston health care for the homeless program (bhchp) and an associate professor at harvard medical school, was awarded the 2012 albert schweitzer prize for humanitarianism. 
according to the albert schweitzer foundation’s web­site, past winners of the prize include presidents Jimmy carter and george h.w. bush. 
The renown and numerous accomplishments of the prize’s namesake, albert schweitzer, 
see priZe PAGE 6 


Celebrating Catholic faith 
Campus Ministry encourages deepened relationship with God 

By TORI ROECK 
news writer 
in an apostolic letter titled “porta fidei,” pope benedict Xvi declared the year following oct. 11, 2012, as a “year of faith.” The date marks the 50th anniversary of the second vatican council and the 20th anniversary of the new catechism. 
notre dame’s office of campus ministry is cel­ebrating the year of faith by encouraging students to make small efforts to reflect on their catholic identity and their relation­ship to the lord, campus ministry program manager Katharine barrett said. 

“part of the year of faith is to learn more about who we are as catholics, so there’s sort of a learning piece of it,” barrett said. “The main part is to deepen our relationship with god, so it’s more personal and spiritual.” 
To guide students through this reflection, campus ministry will post monthly themes online so students can incorporate those sug­gestions into their year of faith journey, barrett said. 
“our natural tendency for a lot of things at notre dame is to plan big events ... in 
JACQUELINE O’NEILL | The Observer 
thinking about it more, we thought if you think about any developing relation­ship with a person, it typi­cally becomes stronger and deeper over the long term of doing lots of little things to­gether,” she said. “your best friends are the ones you do normal stuff with all the time. we wanted in the year of faith to mimic that type of relationship through lots of little things.” 
The theme for november is “sacred places.” barrett said she encourages stu­dents to seek out sacred places on campus where 
see faiTh PAGE 7 


graduate student passes away 
By MEGAN DOYLE 
managing editor 
a first-year master’s degree student passed away unexpect­edly at his off-campus resi­dence, where he was found early Tuesday morning, according to a university press release. 
graduate student michael Thigpen, 23, will be remembered during today’s daily mass at 5:15 
p.m. in the basilica of the sacred heart. Thigpen was a native of monument, colo. 
dr. Joseph bock, director of the global health program, first spoke with Thigpen when he was an undergraduate at the university of colorado last year and interested in entering the one-year master’s program at notre dame. 
see Thigpen PAGE 6 



lecture explores church teachings 
By ANNA BOARINI 
news writer 
as a part of the “Theology on fire” series, saint mary’s wel­comed phillip m. sutton, an as­sociate member of the catholic medical association, to speak at the lecture “The church and same-sex attraction” on Tuesday night in the student center lounge. sutton is a 1973 graduate of the university of notre dame. 
Judy fean, director of campus ministry, reminded the audience before the lecture about the topic of discussion. 
“The presentation is solely about the catholic church’s mag­isterial teaching about the sub­ject of homosexuality,” she said. “The origins of homosexuality, the issue of therapies and the political issues about same-sex marriage is not part of this pre­sentation tonight.” 
sutton said he became inter­ested in the church’s view on ho­mosexuality through his interest in fatherhood. 
“i began writing about fa­therhood, and fatherlessness. sometimes the issue of not hav­ing a dad, or sometimes it is the issue of having too much of one kind of dad,” he said. “i became aware of a lot of writings in this area of what we would call same-sex attraction.” 
sutton said the church teach­es that love is the fundamental and innate vocation of every hu­man being. 
see lecTure PAGE 5 



Simulation educates campus 
By SARAH SWIDERSKI 
news writer 
on Tuesday afternoon, saint mary’s students had the chance to participate in a simulation that showed what it is like to get behind the wheel drunk or while texting. 
The student government association (sga) and women’s health center co-sponsored “arrive alive” to promote safe driv­ing. The event brought in uniTe, a group that promotes safe driving by encouraging students to drive sober and put the phone down. 
student body president maureen parsons participated in the simulation and said she was surprised at how hands-on it was. 
“i wasn’t expecting to have to use the steering, gas, and brakes. i was only expecting the goggles,” she said. 
The simulation included a mazda 6 suv with front wheels placed on optic sensors that feed 


Photo Courtesy of Kat Sullivan 

Students wait in line to participate in “Arrive Alive,” a simulation designed to educate people about the dangers of distracted driving. 
data into a computer, according to griffith said. uniTe representative Jan griffith. The participants wore the gog-
The steering wheel and pedals gles when driving the car and they featured sensors as well “basically turning the car into a controller,” see simulaTion PAGE 6 

news PAGE 4 viewpoinT PAGE 10 scene PAGE 12 fooTball PAGE 24 





ndsmcobserver.com 

p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
allan Joseph 

Managing Editor  Business Manager 
megan doyle  Jeff liptak 

Asst. Managing Editor: andrew owens 
Asst. Managing Editor: sam stryker News Editor: John cameron News Editor: Kristen durbin 

Viewpoint Editor: meghan Thomassen Sports Editor: chris allen Scene Editor: Kevin noonan Saint Mary’s Editor: Jillian barwick Photo Editor: suzanna pratt Graphics Editor: brandon Keelean Multimedia Editor: sarah o’connor Advertising Manager: monica mccormack Ad Design Manager: sara hilstrom Controller: peter woo Systems Administrator: william heineman 

Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ajoseph2@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 mdoyle11@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 aowens2@nd.edu sstryke1@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 

Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 

Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 

Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 observer.scene.editor@gmail.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
jbarwi01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 

Policies 
The observer is the independent, daily newspaper 
published in print and online by the students of the 
university of notre dame du lac and saint mary’s 
college.  editorial content, including advertisements, is 
not governed by policies of the administration of either 
institution. The observer reserves the right to refuse 
advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively 
as possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion 
of the majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, 
assistant managing editors and department editors. 
commentaries, letters and columns present the views of 
the authors and not necessarily those of The observer. 
viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include 
contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed 
to Editor-in-Chief Allan Joseph. 
post office information The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through friday except during exam and vacation periods. a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The observer is published at: 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-0779 periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices posTmasTer send address corrections to: The observer p.o. box 779 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-077 The observer is a member of the associated press. all reproduction rights are reserved. 




QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
What’s getting you through this week? 


Callie Brown 
senior 
holy cross 

“going home to san francisco and la for the usc game.” 

Allie Schultz 
sophomore 
holy cross 
“i’m going to cali for Thanksgiving!” 


Chanler Rosenbaum 
sophomore 
holy cross 

“spending time with my nieces and black friday shopping with my sisters.” 

Have a question you want answered? Email obsphoto@gmail.com 



Tess Siver 
sophomore 
holy cross 

“going home to 70 degree weather in arizona with my family.” 

Lauren Ozmanski 
sophomore 
holy cross 

“going home to chicago for the oz family Turkey bowl.” 

Clare Durant 
freshman 
mccandless 

“going to a farm in wisconsin.” 



Want your event included here? 

News Sports 
Jillian barwick Joseph monardo Email obsnews.nd@gmail.com 




THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 
bridget feeney Joe wirth sarah swiderski cory bernard 

Graphics Scene 

Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday 
Jacqueline o’neill Troy mathews 
Photo Viewpoint 

“Man as the “An Irish Perspective: “The World’s Need “What’s So Funny Women’s Basketball 
suzanna pratt caroline lang 
Primary Way for the Doing Business in a for Strong American About a Joke” Purcell Pavilion University” Global Economy” Leadership” Snite Museum of Art 2 p.m. - 4 p.m. Carole Sandner Hall Mendoza College Geddes Hall 12 p.m.-1 p.m. ND vs. Massachusetts 
Corrections 

12:30p.m.-1:30 p.m. 5 p.m.-6:15 p.m. 2 p.m.-4 p.m. Part of the Saturday 
from a nov. 13 article, “university Lunch and lecture. Speaker Mary Hanafin. Speaker John Keane. Scholar Series. unveils paris program,” the new study abroad program at the université 
“Re-Personalizing Notre Dame Fall Concert: Notre Roller Skates and Concert: ‘A Movie 
paris diderot in paris, france, will 
Medicine” Symphony Orchestra Dame Glee Club Sonic Spectacular’ 
be the second study abroad option in 
Jordan Hall DeBartolo Performing DeBartolo Performing LaFortune Student DeBartolo Performing 
that city, along with the social science 
7 p.m.-8 p.m. Arts Center Arts Center Center Arts Center 
program at institut d’etudes politique. 
Lecture on reinforcing 8 p.m.-9:30 p.m. 8 p.m.-9 p.m. 10 p.m.-11:30 p.m. 3 p.m. - 4:30 p.m. 
The article incorrectly identified program as the university’s first in the pathos in medicine. Concert tickets $3-$6. Tickets $5-$10. Indoor skating. Free but ticketed. french capital. The observer regrets this error. 

ndsmcobserver.com | WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 14, 2012 | The observer 


Senior designs, sells bags for children’s hospital 
By MADELINE MILES 
news writer 
senior Kate Kellogg, vice president of saint mary’s dance marathon, first intro­duced her custom-designed canvas tote to campus in the fall of 2011. 
“when i was in high school, i would choose colors and fab­ric to create my own bag to bring to school,” Kellogg ex­plained. “my mom’s business, the Queen and i designs, had talented sewers that would put together exactly what i was envisioning.” 
last year, when Kellogg con­structed her own vision of a saint mary’s bag for students to haul their books around campus, she thought of incor­porating dance marathon. 
“i decided to mass-produce the bag that i had wanted for my own personal use and sell it through dance marathon,” Kellogg said. “i thought it would be a great way for busi­ness and to raise awareness and donations for dance marathon.” 
Kellogg’s mother Jan said she and her company are very supportive of the saint mary’s dance marathon totes. 
“i have loved working with Kate on her bag designs,” Jan said. “it’s fun to have a moth­er-daughter project and to see her ideas produced as a product.” 
The popular navy canvas 
totes  with  a  white  imprint­ 
ed  french  cross have been  
extremely  popular  around  
campus.  

This year Kate engineered a new canvas tote for dance marathon with a black and tan block pattern, but still im­printed with a white french cross that is a signature of the college. 
Kate said dance marathon has multiple fundraisers throughout the year in order to reach the final goal of $88,000. 
Throughout the rest of this week, dance marathon will be selling Kate’s custom-designed totes with 30 percent of the proceeds benefitting riley children’s hospital. 
along with the sale of the canvas totes, dance marathon is also hosting a giveback night at between the buns on november 19, where 15 percent of all purchases will 

criticism at notre dame, in 
addition to writing a weekly 
column for the south bend Tribune and contributing to 
Photo courtesy of Kate Kellogg 
Pictured above is one of the bags Dance Marathon is selling as part of a fundraiser for Riley Children’s Hospital. Senior Kate Kellogg designed the bag along with the help of her mother, Jan. 
“it’s great to be doing some­thing that i love and that ex­presses my creativity,” she said, “while also knowing do­nations will be going to a great cause.” 
Contact Madeline Miles at mmiles01@saintmarys.edu 
go towards  riley  children’s  
hospital.  
Kate  said  she  has  enjoyed  

her involvement in dance marathon and riley children’s hospital and urges all of the notre dame, saint mary’s and holy cross communities to participate. 

alumni recognized by south bend community 
bend alumni association’s community, including jour-former notre dame alumni colwell currently teach-
By ANN MARIE JAKUBOWSKI 

news writer 26th annual community hall nalism professor and south association director charles es advanced reporting and of fame banquet. bend Tribune reporter Jack persuasion commentary and 
four people with notre The banquet, held at the colwell, former notre dame 
dame connections will be century center, will recog-football player and nfl 
honored tonight at the south nize nine members of the chaplain anthony Johnson, 

paid adverTisemenT 

lennon, and women’s Task force founder Joan lennon. 
according to the south bend alumni association’s website, the hall of fame’s primary goal is “to publicly recognize indi­viduals whose achievements and services have distin­guished both themselves and the south bend community.” 
The requirements for eli­gibility hold that candidates must have “resided or worked in the south bend community for ten or more years” and that they “must have notable per­sonal achievements and/or made notable contributions at the local, state, national, or in­ternational level.” 
colwell, a professor in notre dame’s Journalism, ethics and democracy program, said that he was “surprised and hon­ored” by the nomination. 
“personally, i think it’s a high honor, especially when i look at the names of the people who have been inducted over the years, like [university presi­dent emeritus] fr. [Theodore] hesburgh and Knute rockne,” colwell said. “it’s a very distin­guished group of people who have served the south bend area, and i’m really honored to be included.” 
the howey politics blog. 
“i started as a police reporter for the Tribune and then did general assignments before covering politics,” colwell said. “i began writing a col­umn which is political in na­ture, but concerns itself more with community issues and problems and not just hard­core politics.” 
colwell said the award hon­ors his profession beyond his individual contributions. 
“i accept induction as an honor for the right kind of journalism, the journalism of colleagues i worked with for so long at the south bend Tribune,” colwell said. 
Johnson played on the 1988 national championship tea, and led the team in scoring with 35 touchdowns during his four years at notre dame. he went on to play professionally and now serves as the team chaplain for the Jacksonville Jaguars. 
charles and Joan lennon worked with the notre dame alumni association during charles lennon’s time as di­rector and both volunteered extensively in the commu­nity at organizations includ­ing the city’s redevelopment department and the women’s Task force of st. Joseph regional medical center. 
Contact Ann Marie Jakubowski at ajakubo1@nd.edu 


The observer | WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 14, 2012 | ndsmcobserver.com 

Members enjoy benefits of Minnesota Club 
By KATIE McCARTY 
news writer 
annie plachta, a sopho­more and co-vice president of the minnesota club at notre dame, has a hard time decid­ing what her favorite thing is about her home state. 
she can start, however, with the strong minnesota presence on campus at notre dame. The minnesota club is one of only four state clubs on campus and has roughly 250 to 300 members. 
“The club puts on a lot of really great events,” plachta said. “we work with the minnesota alumni club ev­ery august to put together the freshman send-off, so pretty much everyone that attends that is already in the club.” 
This year’s freshman class from minnesota is the larg­est in history. 81 freshmen came to campus this august from the state. “we just put on fun events, and try to have an event every month or so,” plachta said. 
The club puts on the an­nual “flannel formal” in the early spring semester ev­ery year, collaborating with the Texas club to host the event. other events planned include a minnesota night at the compton family ice arena, in which the club will attend a hockey game. 
“The club is all about spreading ‘minnesota nice,’” plachta said. “during finals week we organize goody bags for our members. we fill the bags with frappuccino cou­pons and candy bars, for ex­ample, and deliver them door to door.” 
The club hosted an event last Thursday called the northern lights 5K run. runners were given glow sticks and completed the run completely in the dark. The proceeds went to orphanages and promoted education for children in africa, a cause advocated by another club officer. 
“we had about 50 people come out, which was great considering it was the first year we have had the event,” plachta said. “we are hoping it will grow over the next few years.” 
another perk of being a part of the minnesota club includes a strong connection to the minnesota alumni club. The alumni and cam­pus clubs “have a really good connection,” palchta said. 



“They provide a bus home for fall, Thanksgiving, christmas, and spring breaks, and they also spon­sor tailgates for us. anyone is allowed to come,” she said. 
in addition to connecting to students during their four years here, the minnesota alumni club also provides a unique opportunity to mem­bers through the go irish program. This program is 
paid adverTisemenT 
designed to help members connect with jobs and in­ternships. members submit an application to one source and their application cir­culates to various offices around the Twin cities area. 
“The program is a great resource for our members,” plachta said. “The best part of the club is meeting oth­er minnesotans. we have a special bond and love put­ting on events that make minnesotans feel almost like they are back home.” 
as for club membership, plachta said that it is open to anyone who wants to join as well as anyone who wants to celebrate their love for minnesota. 
“you don’t necessarily have to be from minnesota,” she said. 
Contact Kate McCarty at kmccar16@nd.edu 


ndsmcobserver.com | WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 14, 2012 | The observer 


Simulation 
conTinued from page 1 
altered the driver’s vision as they navigated the computerized roads. 
in addition to the simulation it­self, participants were asked to take a survey before and after concern­ing their distracted driving hab­its. griffith said that students are drawn to the simulation because it helps educate them and increase awareness of distracted driving behaviors. 
“because [the simulation] is set up like a video game it gets people to participate and educated…the results of the survey show that as well,” he said. 
Josh hull, a uniTe representa­tive also at the simulation, added that participants are inclined to stop texting and driving after tak­ing part in the testing. 
“you find a majority of people [who participate], 83 percent said it would cause them to be less likely to drive distracted,” hull said. 
meghan casey, student body vice president, said the simulation was harder than it looked. 
“i was really terrible. [The simu­lation] was really difficult,” casey said. “i didn’t even get far enough to realize how much it was affect­ing me.” 
casey, along with the other par­ticipants, received a mock citation upon completing the demonstra­tion that listed the driving infrac­tions she committed during the experiment. 
when texting while driving dur­ing the simulation, casey was cited for speeding, swerving, failing to stop and collision. she fared even worse in the mock drunk driving segment where she swerved, failed to stop, and committed vehicu­lar manslaughter by hitting two pedestrians. 
“receiving the citations and in­fractions that occurred during the simulation showed that [driving] under influence or being a distract­ed driver can cause a lot of destruc­tion on the road,” casey said. 
parsons said that she thought the experience of the simulation was eye-opening. 
“The texting and driving [ex­perience] was really difficult. it’s interesting. The car is really good at simulating situations you could potentially be in,” she said. 
The computer program used to run the simulation takes into ac­count delayed reaction time. even if a participant thinks they are brak­ing quickly enough the computer slows down the reaction time, imi­tating drunk driving. 
The simulation also allowed stu­dents to try texting while driving. 
Junior Jarusha lang said that be­fore the simulation she would text at stoplights but now realizes that even texting then is dangerous. 
“i will never pick up the phone [now],” she said. 
“The average text takes 4.6 sec­onds to read and reply,” hull said. “you go a whole football field before you look up.” 
hull also said that uniTe is cur­rently developing an app for smart phones that will lock the phone 

Lecture 
conTinued from page 1 
“we need to start here, be­cause if same-sex attraction is about anything, it is about find­ing ways to love ones’ self and others,” he said. “and every hu­man being, not just catholics, not just christians, not just reli­gious people, people of good will, we seek the truth, but every per­son is called to love.” 
The main challenge of the church today is in all areas of morality, sutton said. 
“The challenge is to show that the call to chastity for instance is in fact a call to be blessed,” he said. “we are blessed if we do this. … we are called to some­thing, not just to do something.” 
in the discussion surround­ing the church’s teachings on homosexuality, sutton laid out the catechism of the catholic church’s offenses against the when the person is driving over 15 miles per hour. he said that the app is able to do this by using gps. he said that the app will be free at events but will also be available for purchase at a low cost. 
until the app comes out, uniTe will pass out key chains with par­ticipants’ pictures on the back to 
explain where in the natural law it says homosexuality is intrinsi­cally ordered?” gifforddasked. 
sutton said he could not an­swer the question simply, but would try. 
“a natural-law person would ask what is the purpose of hu­man sexuality, what is its goals,” he said. “a desire is something that would be contrary, to want to do something that would be always considered the wrong thing to do is a wrong desire be­cause it would never be right to do it.” 
freshman hannah brinkman asked how many times the bible mentioned homosexuality is wrong, compared to how many times living without fear or the unconditional love of god is mentioned. 
“why do you think this is such an important thing to address as compared to the goodness that the bible teaches?” she asked. 
remind them to drive safely. 
for parsons, however, that won’t be a problem. 
“i will not be texting and driving or drinking and driving any time soon,” she said. 
Contact Sarah Swiderski at sswide01@saintmarys.edu 
sutton said his answer did not just mention same-sex attrac­tion, but all people who are living chastely. 
“going back to talking about the church being an ‘equal-op­portunity annoyer’, it should be because i want the best for not only my children, but my spiri­tual children as well,” he said. “by experience, all unchaste behavior, of any sort, is harmful ultimately to those participating in it.” 
finally, senior london lamar asked about if the church would modernizesits views, specifi­cally about women’s rights or homosexuality. 
“given we are moving towards a more pro-choice society, with women more independent and able to make more choices for themselves, a lot of [the offenses ox the sixth commandment] seemed like a very old-school way of thinking,” she said. “has the church made any moves to kind of be more accepting of this turn in the generations? not just women, but people, period?” 
sutton said what the church is doing is trying to understand how to better communicate their tradition to an audience for who technology has made things possible. 
“in other words, the church has always taught, for instanc…, birth control,…would be wrong,” he said. “in the last 50 years, now technology makes it possible things that were really unthink­able before.” 
sutton said what he thought she was asking was if because these technologies are available, the church would come around. 
“my answer is no, the church will not,” he said. “my first thought is a quote from ‘Jurassic park’. ‘The problem here is you were so concerned about what you could do, that you didn’t stop to think about what you should do.’” 
Contact Anna Boarini at aboari01@saintmarys.edu 
sixth commandment. 
“homosexuality is men­tioned after a number of other offenses against chastity,” he said. “masturbation, fornica­tion, pornography, and prostitu­tion and rape … and then after that it mentions offenses against fertility.” 
sutton said in context, the church should be an “equal-op­portunity annoyer”. 
“when it comes to chastity … the church has something to challenge everybody with not just persons of same-sex at­traction,” he said. “i believe the church has done to little in chal­lenging all of us.” 
sutton said the catholic church makes a distinction be­tween a homosexuality tendency or feeling and an actual homo­sexual act. 
“To feel or desire something is one thing, but to actually act that way is another thing,” he said. 
Quoting the 1975 declaration [an official statement from the magesterium of the catholic church] sutton said homosexual acts are intrinsically disordered. 
“They are contrary to natural law, they close the sexual act of the gift of life. … under no cir­cumstances could they be ap­proved,” he said. “These acts are intrinsically disordered.” 
sutton said other acts that are intrinsically disordered include suicide. 
“in other words, under no cir­cumstances would this act be ac­ceptable,” he said. 
after sutton finished with his presentation, there was a ques­tion-and-answer for the audi­ence to engage with the speaker. 
senior francesca gifford asked about natural law. 
“you mentioned natural law as being a part of the church’ss de­lineation of why homosexuality is essentially wrong. could you 


paid adverTisemenT The observer | WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 14, 2012 | ndsmcobserver.com 


Thigpen 
conTinued from page 1 
notre dame. 
bock remembered Thigpen as “a wonderful young man who was interested in helping people.” 
“he was somebody who really had a bright future. … he was interested in health in kind of a global sense, certainly he was in­terested in clinical practice in go­ing to medical school,” bock said. “That was his intent. he was also interested in the humanitarian side of global health.” 
bock met Thigpen for the first time shortly before he began to study at notre dame this year. The colorado native was working on a cd of christian rock music with bock’s son. 
“he was a very talented musi­cian,” bock said. “he played in different cities. he stopped by to visit [notre dame] on his way to somewhere out east where he was going to be doing a concert even before the program started.” 
bock spent time with Thigpen and other members of the pro­gram at his family’s home along the st. Joseph river in south bend, where he once offered the students a chance to go out on the water in kayaks. he remembered Thigpen as happy to be on the water outdoors. 
“he went out on the river in a double kayak and he loved it,” bock said. 
Thigpen has been deeply moved by the summer shoot­ings at a movie theater in aurora, colo., and was planning to turn his master’s research project into an assessment of youth violence in the south bend area with bock. 
“he was full of life,” bock said. “his eyes sparkled. it’s just tragic.” 
associate vice president of student affairs erin hoffman harding informed the notre dame community of Thigpen’s loss Tuesday afternoon in an email. university president fr. John Jenkins also released a statement expressing his sympa­thy and asking students, faculty and staff to remember Thigpen in their thoughts. 
“our deepest condolences are with michael’s family, friends and colleagues,” Jenkins said. “my prayers are with them dur­ing this difficult time.” 
The university counseling center and campus ministry are available to offer their support to the notre dame community dur­ing this time. 
Contact Megan Doyle at mdoyle11@nd.edu 

years and counting. The bhchp teams go to the life.” and looks like charity and there 
Prize 

The most rewarding part of homeless people they care for The bhchp is one of 19 pi-needs to be consistency — that 
conTinued from page 6 

his work with bhchp is hear-rather than just maintaining a lot programs started with funds means employees rather than vol­
“To get this award was re-ing his patients’ personal stories, presence in hospitals because from the robert wood Johnson unteers,” he said. ally nice. i really admire what o’connell said. many of their patients cannot foundation and the pew o’connell, who studied philos­schweitzer did and what he stood “you have the opportunity to come to them, o’connell said. charitable Trust, and is now fund-ophy and theology at cambridge for, and it is thrilling to receive hear their stories and the stories “if we wait for people to come to ed by the human resources and after his four years at notre dame an award named in his honor,” are really mind-blowing; they’ve us, the pressures of homelessness services administration’s bureau and did not begin medical school o’connell said. “i especially like overcome serious obstacles. you — especially finding their next of primary health. at harvard until the age of 30, said his idea that rather than what we also get to see the courage with meal — will prevent them from at-There are now 230 health care students unsure of their future write, we should be remembered which they face adversity,” he said. tending to their health.” for the homeless programs around plans should not worry that they by what we do; we should let how “it’s a privilege to work with this as president of the bhchp, the u.s., including programs in will miss out on a bright future. we live be our argument.” population.” o’connell works on development, the virgin islands and puerto “you have to listen to your heart 
he did not know he was being o’connell said he also relishes strategic planning and advocates rico, which are based from the 19 and be patient; it took me a while considered for the award until he the demands the job places on his for public policies on behalf of the pilot programs. to figure out what i wanted to do,” was contacted and told he had medical knowledge and abilities. program, he said. o’connell said o’connell said that since health he said. won, o’connell said. “from a non-moral perspective, he was formerly the program’s di-care for the homeless programs o’connell also said students 
“The nomination was unsolicit-i’ve enjoyed how challenging the rector, but for the past 15 years has have spread to nearly every major interested in public health should ed and they only notified me after medicine is. many of my patients allowed a new director to run day-city in the u.s., the focus is shifting look to the needs of south bend they had made the decision. i had have unbelievably complicated to-day operations while he serves to adapting each program to its and other nearby communities. no idea it was happening prior to medical problems that take inge-as president and directly treats respective city and incorporating “look in the shadows of our ivo­that,” o’connell said. nuity, skill and creativity to treat,” homeless patients as a physician. it into the established health care ry towers and you’ll find people in 
o’connell also received notre he said. o’connell said he enjoys his systems. need of your help. you don’t have dame’s dr. Thomas a. dooley The most difficult aspect of his current role within the bhchp, “The challenge now is being to look far afield to find a place award in 2003. he said the two work is recognizing the limits of especially since he can continue creative and becoming part of the where you can do some good,” physicians he most admires his ability to help, o’connell said. to actively practice medicine. mainstream health care system o’connell said. are Tom dooley and albert “you learn early on you’re only “i have kind of the ideal life, and in the city. one of the first things i schweitzer. a doctor, you don’t have the power i get paid for it,” o’connell said. “i learned from homeless advocates Contact Christan Myers at 
“Tom dooley and albert to create social change and eradi-love being a doctor; it’s a fulfilling is that it won’t work if it’s separate cmyers8@nd.edu schweitzer were legends while i cate poverty,” he said. “most of us 
paid adverTisemenT 

was growing up. i also remember who enter this kind of work think reading schweitzer’s ‘The Quest we can change things quickly; of the historical Jesus’ while at learning i wasn’t able to change school,” he said. the world overnight was difficult.” 
o’connell said his undergradu-The bhchp is the largest free-ate experience at notre dame did standing health care program in much to shape his interest in so-the country devoted to caring for cial justice. homeless individuals, o’connell 
“i was blessed to be at notre said. o’connell said this involved dame during tumultuous times a great deal of growth since he 
— i was there from 1966 to 1970 founded it in 1985. … i cherished my days at notre “i’ve been with the program dame during these times be-since the beginning when there cause, even though it felt like the were only six or seven of us. now world was falling apart around us, we have 350 employees, including the atmosphere at notre dame 17 doctors, 40 nurse practitioners taught me to be reflective and to and physician’s assistants, more value social justice,” he said. “my than 60 nurses, and a large sup-time at notre dame instilled a de-port staff,” he said. sire to find out where i belong and The bhchp operates daily clin­how i could help people.” ics at the boston medical center 
o’connell received the award and massachusetts general for his work with bpchp, a pro-hospital, o’connell said. in addi­gram that he helped found in 1985 tion, the program has opened its and has worked for ever since. own 140 bed step-down hospital 
o’connell said he was train-for patients who are too sick to ing to become an oncologist at return to shelters but do not need massachusetts general hospital intensive care. o’connell said when the hospital’s chief of medi-many of these patients are receiv­cine suggested he oversee the cre-ing treatment for chronic diseases, ation of a new health care program recovering from surgery, or receiv­for boston’s homeless population, ing end of life care. which had funding but needed a he said the program also sends full-time doctor. teams of doctors, nurses, and 
“i am the founder entirely by nurse practitioners to various serendipity,” he said. “i got de-homeless shelters around the city. railed from my path by the advice o’connell heads a team that cares of the chief of medicine and an-for homeless patients who remain other doctor, Tom durant.” outside of shelters. 
o’connell said he originally “my clinical life is spent going intended to work for one year es-out into the streets to care for the tablishing the bhchp, but instead homeless population outside of remained with the program for 27 shelters,” he said. 



ndsmcobserver.com | WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 14, 2012 | The observer 


Faith 
conTinued from page 1 
most students have never been, such as the chapel in moreau seminary, or to revis­it old ones, such as the grotto. 
“i remember finding the grotto for the first time as a freshman — i sort of stum­bled upon it by accident and was just stunned by its beau­ty, and by the fact that such a place was tucked away right here at notre dame,” barrett said. “i hope everyone can find a place here which moves them that much and which becomes a beloved spot, a place they can return again and again for prayer, wheth­er in grief, joy, confusion or praise.” 
students can also augment their year of faith experi­ences by reading more in the catechism and vatican ii documents, barrett said. 
“The documents of vatican ii and the catechism receive special recognition because they guide the faithful world­wide,” she said. “on campus ministry’s year of faith web­site we will highlight ways to use these two resources to find out more about the theme of each month.” 
while individuals can fol­low the year of faith by keep­ing up with the themes posted on the campus ministry web­site, some dorm commission­ers are trying to incorporate more members of their halls into these activities, barrett said. 
“campus ministry com­missioners are working with us to create activities within the halls that will support and coincide with the year of faith themes and ideas,” she said. “for example, sev­eral halls already do grotto walks together, and others will be trying them for the first time.” 
barrett said another way to better live out the year of faith is to share it with friends. 
“if you find something on-line that you like, why not ask a friend to join you in that ac­tivity?” she said. “sometimes we feel uncomfortable asking our friends to join us in a spir­itual activity, but you never know who just needs to be asked — it’s worth being bold and taking a chance.! you never know, for instance, who would love to go walk the stations of the cross around st. Joe lake with you — just try asking.” 
To learn more about the year of faith, visit http:// ca mpusmin ist r y.nd.edu/ about/year-of-faith/. 
Contact Tori Roeck at vroeck@nd.edu 

head of u.s. africa command demoted 
retired army gen. david garrett, added that, “while 
Associated Press 

petraeus resigned as cia di-general ward is not perfect 
washingTon — defense rector because of an extra-he has always been guided secretary leon panetta has marital affair and marine by his faith in god and the demoted the former head of gen. John allen is being belief that there is no great­
u.s. 
africa command who investigated for potentially er honor as a patriot than was accused of spending improper communications to lead those who choose thousands of dollars on lav-with a woman. to serve our nation in the ish travel and other unau-according to the of-armed forces.” thorized expenses, a senior ficial, panetta reviewed retiring as a three­

u.s.
 official said Tuesday. the ward matter and con-star will cost ward about 


panetta stripped gen. cluded that the wrongdo-$30,000 a year in retirement william “Kip” ward of a star, ing found by the defense pay — giving him close to which means that he will department inspector $208,802 a year rather than now retire as a three-star general, in a report released the $236,650 he would get as lieutenant general despite earlier this year, demanded a four-star. arguments from the chair-accountability. army gen. martin man of the Joint chiefs of in a statement issued dempsey, chairman of the staff against the demotion. Tuesday, a spokesman for Joint chiefs of staff, urged ward also has been ordered ward said the general “has panetta to allow ward, the to repay the government never been motivated by former head of u.s. africa $82,000. personal gain and fulfilled command, to retire at his 
The official spoke on con-each and every mission as-full four-star general rank, dition of anonymity because signed to him and served according to defense offi­the person wasn’t autho-his country and the men and cials. other military leaders rized to discuss a personnel women assigned to his com-had noted that the demo-ward defended the bermuda investigators would have to matter. mands with distinction.” tion would cost ward a lot of layover, saying that it came conclude that he also had 
The demotion comes as The spokesman, chris money. up on short notice, which is problems before moving to 
The inspector general’s re-why his security team had africa command, and offi­port found that ward used to stay there longer. The re-cials said that does not ap­military vehicles to shuttle port found records showing pear to be the case. his wife on shopping trips that the layover had been The investigation dragged and to a spa and billed the planned for at least four on for so long that that ward government for a refueling days in advance. was temporarily dropped stop overnight in bermuda, a common theme run-to two-star general status. where the couple stayed in ning through the report was under military guidelines, if a $750 suite. The report de-ward’s insistence that his a full general is not serving tailed lengthy stays at lavish wife travel with him at gov-in a four-star command or hotels for ward, his wife and ernment cost, even though office for more than 60 days, his staff members, and the it was often not authorized he or she is automatically use of five-vehicle motor-and she performed few of-reduced to two-star rank. cades when he traveled to ficial duties. it said he also ward would not be able to washington. routinely stayed in high-recoup any back pay for the 
it also said ward and his priced suites in luxury ho-time at the two-star rank, wife, Joyce, accepted din-tels rather than in standard even though he is being re­ner and broadway show rooms or less expensive tired at the three-star level. tickets from a government locales. major general, or two-star, contractor during a trip The allegations, coming is the highest rank to which during which he went back-after a 17-month investiga-an officer can be promoted stage to meet actor denzel tion, have delayed ward’s by regular military action. washington. The couple planned april 2011 retire-becoming a three-star — and several staff members ment. and they were an em-lieutenant general — or a also spent two nights at the barrassing end note to his four-star general requires waldorf astoria hotel. career, since he had claimed a presidential nomina­
other charges were that a place in history as the mil-tion and confirmation by ward often extended his itary’s first commander of congress. it, therefore, is overseas trips — particu-africa command. not considered permanent larly those to the u.s. — for panetta’s options regard-and lasts only as long as the personal reasons, resulting ing ward were limited by person is serving in a job of in “exponential” increases complex laws and military that rank. in costs. guidelines. he had only one That technical demotion 
although the report in-real choice: allow ward to is not uncommon as gener­cluded responses from ward retire as a four-star or de-als move from job to job and to a number of the allega-mote him and force him to unexpected delays occur. tions, investigators often retire as a three-star lieu-it would not have affected found records and state-tenant general. ward’s ability to retire as ments that contradicted his in order for ward to be a four-star, if he had been explanations. at one point, demoted to two-star rank, cleared of the charges. 





The observer | WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 14, 2012 | ndsmcobserver.com 

paid adverTisemenT 

Cause of explosion remains unknown 

Associated Press 
indianapolis — investigators in the indianapolis explosion that killed two people and deci­mated a neighborhood be­lieve natural gas was involved and are looking at appliances as they search for a cause, a state official said Tuesday. 
indianapolis homeland security director gary coons made the announcement after the national Transportation safety board said investiga­tors had found no leaks in the gas main or pipes leading into the house that exploded. The explosion saturday leveled two homes and left dozens more uninhabitable. 
coons said his “investiga­tors believe natural gas is involved” and were “recov­ering the appliances from destroyed homes to help de­termine the cause.” 
“based on the nTsb state­ment, our focus is on the houses and appliances,” coons said in a statement. 
The blast showed some signs that aren’t typical of a natural gas explosion caused by an appliance, experts said, but it still could have been tied to a faulty furnace — if conditions were right. 
an owner of the house be­lieved to be at the center of the explosion has said the home’s furnace had been having problems. but experts said that doesn’t mean home­owners should be worried that their furnaces are about to explode. 
John erickson, vice presi­dent of the american public gas association, said it would take a far more serious mal­function than just a pilot light going out. 
The natural gas lines inside the house would be under the oversight of the utility or the state, said nTsb spokesman Keith holloway. 
citizens energy spokes­woman sarah holsapple said the utility had found no leaks in its underground facilities in the neighborhood. 
The indiana utility regulatory commission had no comment Tuesday. 
richard schreiber, a foren­sic mechanical engineer with intertek aim in sunnyvale, calif., said it’s usually imme­diately evident whether the blast was caused by natural gas. 
schreiber said that with ex­plosions involving solids such as dynamite, the center of the blast is tightly concentrated, creating a crater. explosions caused by flammable gas are typically spread out over a wide area, such as through­out the interior of a building filled with leaking gas, he said. 
“if the investigators don’t find a crater, that pretty much means it was something other than a solid phase explosion,” he said, meaning it’s likely to be a gas explosion. 
but he also said such inves­tigations can still take time. 
more than a dozen home ex­plosions linked to natural gas have occurred in the last two years. many involved a single home, though more devastat­ing blasts tied to pipelines — including a 2011 explosion in allentown, pa., that killed five people and a blast in 2010 in san bruno, calif., that killed eight people and destroyed 38 homes — have been reported. a gas leak in a colorado home last month sparked an explo­sion that sent five people to a hospital and damaged several homes. 
erickson said more gas blasts are caused by applianc­es than by pipelines, but even those are rare. Technological advances such as micropro­cessors and the switch from pilot lights to electronic ig­nition have made appliances safer, he said. gas companies have been required since 1970 to add a chemical that smells like rotten eggs to the odor­less gas to make leaks easier to detect. 




The observer | WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 14, 2012 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Quotation remarks


INSIDE COLUMN 

food for thought 
Maria Fernandez 
scene writer 

after two weeks of intense studying 
— you can definitely sense around campus Thanksgiving break is just around the corner — i finally feel i have a couple of days to get my life back on track. and, when i say “life” i mean organize my room, clean my kitchen and apartment common area, catch up on some of my favorite shows and cook. 
yes, cook. 

for the past weeks, my diet has con­sisted of strawberry nutrigrain bars, easy mac bowls, lots of coffee and the occasional subway, burger King or Taco bell quick meal at lafun. i haven’t had the time just to sit down and cook something i really want to eat. 
so, as i was walking back home from my 2 p.m. class on Tuesday, knowing i had nothing to hand in or prepare for today, i decided i would endeavor into cooking a healthy, de­licious, instagram picture-worthy meal. i would relax, unwind and fi­nally stop my crazy and hectic eating habits — for a day or two at least. 
once home, i placed all of the groceries i had in my fridge in the kitchen counter. Just looking at them made me want to start mixing differ­ent ingredients right at the moment. however, before making an unappe­tizing mess — i seriously lack knowl­edge and creativity in the kitchen — i decided to consult with my loyal and super-chic friend, the londoner. 
“who’s the londoner?” you might ask. a guilty blog-addict, the londoner is one of the many websites i follow on a daily basis. it’s the blog of a british marketing consultant in her twenty-somethings named rose. in it she posts about fashion, travel, things to do in london and, of course, food. 
rose has the best recipes. They are easy to make, mouth-watering plates that will definitely impress your family, friends and even your­self. from creative versions of the traditional hamburger to her most popular “slutty brownies,” you will find all kinds of delicious ideas in the londoner. 
so, if you just finished the most of your schoolwork due before Thanksgiving like me or will in a couple of days or so, take a peek at the londonder’s recipes and let them inspire you. 
i’m still debating between her “avocado spaghetti” or her “spicy lemon chicken wrap”. 
decisions, decisions… 
Contact Maria Fernandez at mfernan5@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Scott Boyle 
campus ministry 

i really love quotes. i have word docu­ments, moleskines, onenote presenta­tions and numerous iphone notes full of them. i first fell in love with quotes in high school when, as i asked numerous theological and philosophical questions of myself and my faith, my mentor, mr. yeazell, countered with ideas from just about everyone — from dr. seuss to the pope. These short little nuggets of wisdom helped me see difficult concepts in mean­ingful ways. and since then, i have made it a point to have them ready just in case i can help others to see, too. not only are they words of wisdom for me, but mantras to live by, words that guide how i act in and think about the world. 
i still remember the first quote i ever memorized: “do not delay gratitude.” it is a quote i try to remember intentionally every year, especially around this time at Thanksgiving. but there is one thank you that, for one reason or another, has gotten delayed. it is a thank you i have been meaning to say, but never quite had the right words. now, five years later, the words have finally come. 
This thank you begins with a bit of back story. my first two years of high school were some of the most difficult and miser­able of my life. i became consumed with a strong drive to study and succeed, a drive only exacerbated by the competitive en­vironment at my high school. This drive eventually consumed all of my thoughts and desires, so much so that activities like theater, a source of joy during childhood and junior high, simply became nothing more than a means to an end, a line-item on a resume i thought would be my gold­en ticket to the college — and future — of my dreams. 
but the toxicity of my desires began to weigh on my heart. Two years of intense work had indeed resulted in a point in­crease on my gpa, but a few points’ de­crease in my relationships and family life. i had relatively few friends, rarely hung out with people on the weekends and did not go to a single dance. i began to realize what i really longed for was not the secu­rity and assurance of the college of my dreams, but the security and assurance of knowing i was loved. but i had closed my­self off from this love for so long that i no longer knew where to turn to find it again. 
everything changed during the fall of my junior year. after the closing night of our fall show, i saw an unfamiliar screen name and message pop onto my aim window out of the blue. The message came from a girl named allison, who, unbeknownst to me, had happened to see the production because her boyfriend was in the show. she had liked my perfor­mance and wanted to introduce herself. little did i know her simple hello would blossom into a friendship that would change my life. 
although i did not quite see it fully at the time, allison showed me a way back to discover my true heart. 
she gave me opportunities to love — she invited me to do things alongside her friends who, coincidentally, were people i had been acting with all along. her care broke through the ambition which had closed me off from others. her attention opened my heart in ways i never thought possible. 
muhammad ali once wrote, “friendship is the hardest thing in the world to explain. it’s not something you learn in school. but if you haven’t learned the meaning of friendship, you really haven’t learned anything.” i thought peo­ple would only respect me if i did well and succeeded in class. but i realized allison didn’t care about how much i could achieve. she wanted to know me, deeply and truly. and i came to realize that i wanted to know people in that way too. 
c.s. lewis wrote, “what does not sat­isfy us when we find it was not the thing we were desiring.” all along, i had been searching for my happiness in what i could achieve, not how much i could love or open myself to the unconditional love of others. allison taught me friendship is a form of love, a love so powerful it can break through a stolid and focused heart. and that’s something i never could learn from a book. 
Kate dicamillo once wrote, “if you have no intention of loving or being loved, the whole journey is pointless.” i thought i had my whole journey planned out, but allison’s friendship showed me another way. her love was a reminder that perhaps my destination does not lie here, but in god, who satisfies all desires. 
Scott Boyle is a graduate of Notre Dame and intern in the Office of Campus Ministry. He can be reached at sboyle2@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

EDITORIAL CARTOON 

QUOTE OF THE DAY  WEEKLY POLL  
“i think of a hero as someone who understands the degree of responsibility that comes with his freedom.”  what’s your favorite part of Thanksgiving?  
Bob Dylan U.S. singer & songwriter  Tweet your response with #ViewpointPoll by 5 p.m. Thursday  



The observer | WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 14, 2012 | ndsmcobserver.com 

Reduce the deficit, win millions 
John Sandberg 
fisherman’s musings 

The late great film producer cecil b. demille said, “creativity is a drug i cannot live without.” 
in that case, someone ought to hook congress up with cecil’s prescription, because for all of the brains and charisma in washington, there’s strikingly little creativity when it comes to fixing the cur­rent debt crisis. 
with the fiscal cliff on the horizon, republicans and democrats just can’t agree on a plan to reduce the federal defi­cit. we all want washington to “get things done,” but the prospects of that happen­ing appear to be dimmed after this status quo election — same republican house, same democratic senate, same president. 
we could wait and see which package of combined spending cuts and tax in­creases our elected officials are likely to negotiate in the coming months. instead, i propose it’s time to get creative and di­verge from their hackneyed talking points. 
one idea: goodbye spending cuts versus tax increases, hello national lottery. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

It’s the county’s call 
editor: 

pedestrian safety has always been a top priority for the university of notre dame.  in recent months university planners have worked with st. Joseph county officials to assess the cross-walk at Twyckenham road and vaness street (“students petition for light,” nov. 12.) 
The university will continue to discuss possible solutions with the county, but while we are committed to improving pedestrian safety at that intersection, the county has the ultimate authority in deciding how best to proceed. 
Dennis Brown 
university spokesman nov. 13 
in consultation with my brain trust (who prefers to go unnamed) i’ve devised this system to increase revenue and put a dent in the deficit. 
it’s hard to say exactly how many people play the lottery every week, but we do know this: lots of people play, and they will keep on playing. 
u.s. lottery sales totaled $58 billion in 2010. more than half of all americans have bought a ticket in the last year. all this de­spite the fact the chances of winning the powerball are roughly one in 175.2 million and many americans are still struggling in a down economy. 
so why do americans keep playing the lotto? 
“when times are tough, and we are continually struggling to get in command of our financial lives, a little fantasy goes a long way to feeling better,” explains behavioral psychologist dr. stephen goldbart. “for most americans, believ­ing in the american dream … is a fantasy fraught with anxiety and confusion … so try a little lottery ticket, put aside what you really need to do to get your life on track, and be part of something bigger than your problems.” 
americans are more than willing to give their hard-earned money to the gov­ernment, as long as there is some chance of them striking it rich by doing so — even if that chance is smaller than dying of a bee sting. 
Though it varies from state to state, the basics of any lottery are simple: you buy a ticket and are entered into the drawing to win the jackpot. The government takes a portion of the money that you spent on the ticket and uses it for various pro­grams like education or state parks. The rest of the ticket money goes towards the jackpot. 
instead of operating on a state-by-state basis, why not institute a national lottery with an exponentially bigger jackpot and exponentially more participants? 
if we take the numbers from 2010, the $58 billion in revenue from tickets could be cut in half, with $29 billion going to­wards the jackpot and $29 billion going straight to paying down the debt. with the proper marketing public enthusiasm will surely increase — think regis philbin once again asking americans, ‘who wants to be a millionaire?’ increased enthusi­asm translates to more tickets and more revenue. it’s easy to imagine the total annual revenue increasing to something close to, say, $80 billion. 
That means $40 billion towards the debt. do that for 10 years — that’s $400 billion closer to balancing america’s checkbook. 
granted, $400 billion isn’t a cure-all for a government that spends by the trillions. The point is thinking outside the box (or in congress’s case, the rotunda) provides more solutions than legislative stalemates. with a handful more ideas like this, crazy as they may seem, the fiscal crisis might not be so daunting after all. 
i started this column with a quote, so i suppose i’ll end it with one too. it would serve congress well to listen to the wise words of dr. seuss: 
“Think left and think right and think low and think high. oh, the thinks you can think up if only you try!” 
John Sandberg is a junior political science major from Littleton, Colo. He can be reached at jsandbe1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
UWIRE 

secession not a reality 
Editorial Board 
The oracle 

elections are supposed to be that com­ponent of democracy built in to give citi­zens a chance to have their voices heard in governance. 
but clearly some don’t quite under­stand that, as they expressed their dis­satisfaction with the election in a unique way. 
Twenty-one states, including some that have duplicates, have filed petitions with the white house to “peacefully … with­draw from the united states of america and create its own new government.” 
some states, like Texas, whose peti­tion had 51,069 signatures at the time of print, cited the federal government’s “neglect to reform domestic and foreign spending” and “blatant abuse” of citi­zens’ rights as reasons to secede. Texas, petitioners stated, does after all have the 15th-largest economy in the world. 
florida, which eventually went democrat in the election, had more than 15,000 signatures on its petition and stated the “federal government has not led our citizens justly and with honor.” even solidly blue states such as new york and new Jersey have their own petitions. 
The white house website states peti­tions that reach 25,000 signatures will be addressed, but it has also addressed past petitions with fewer signatures, such as one requesting the president’s honey ale recipe. 
The real issue is not whether or not these states actually succeed with their desires to secede, for as yahoo columnist mike Krumboltz said, the likelihood of the government granting states permis­sion to secede is “on par with winning the lottery while getting hit by a me­teor while seeing bigfoot while finding gluten-free pizza that tastes like the real thing.” 
what these noble citizens who took to the internet and very spiritedly utilized their first amendment rights to petition haven’t quite realized is that they already had their chance to make a difference with their opinions — nov. 6, at the polls. The people of the u.s. spoke, and the ma­jority elected barack obama as president. 
if it’s obama they don’t like, dissenters will have their chance in four years to voice their preference again. This is the way the system of democracy has worked in this country since its inception. 
The petitions filed are basically peti­tions against democracy and mark the heightened levels of partisanship and non-cooperation that deeply divides the nation. 
what has yet to be specified is what form of government the “country” of Texas or florida would have to look for­ward to upon secession. clearly, it can’t be democracy, because the next time a candidate with a less-than-100-percent approval rating comes to office, a new country would have to be formed — and that would be a bit exhausting. 
but if not for democracy, would the people have a right to petition this way? 
This column originally ran in the Nov. 13 edition of the The Oracle, serving the University of South Florida. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


The observer | WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 14, 2012 | ndsmcobserver.com 

and hungry students in the morning — and made fresh 
By CLAIRE STEPHENS 

to order. if you’re not in the mood for a sandwich, there are a couple of soup options daily, as well as a combi­if you go wandering down the grand spiral staircase 
scene writer 

nation deal for half a sandwich and a soup. for snacks, of the mendoza college of business, adorned with lights 
there are chips and a good selection of candy. and christmas garland, you’ll eventually find café commons, hidden away in the hallways of the base-
Who goes there 

ment. it’s a perfect place to get a quick bite, and students 
you’ll mostly see business students, including mba and faculty alike come here to enjoy the trendy new fur-
students, frequenting café commons, as well as niture and calm atmosphere. 
mendoza faculty members. it’s a good place for a quick lunch or snack to go, but also has a cozy and comfortable 
What they’re known for 

sitting area. There are enough tables for big groups, and The sandwich bar gives you all the customization of 
also bar style seats for a meeting with a professor or for subway without having to make the trek to lafortune. 
working on your homework. from 11 a.m. to 2 p.m., sandwiches or wraps can be made with your choice of meat, cheese, bread, vegetables and 
What you didn’t know they had 

wet salad. for a healthier option, carrots and celery can 
There is a pretty impressive selection of drinks, con-replace pretzels and chips. for something a little dif­
sidering the size of the quaint café. different flavors and ferent, the café has specials, including a barbeque beef 
varieties of milks, juices, energy drinks, vitamin waters, sandwich, meatball sub or quesadilla. 
fuse and soft drinks are available. There are also a hand­ful of different coffee and tea options, including flavors 
What else is in stock 

like dark magic and rain forest nut. before 11 a.m., breakfast sandwiches on bagels or croissants are sold — a staple of campus cafes for groggy 
Contact Claire Stephens at cstephe4@nd.edu 





Kevin Noonan 
scene editor 

“The hobbit,” a children’s fantasy book following a diminutive adventurer and an enigmatic wizard as they battle dragons, trolls and magic, hit the shelves in 1937. in 1950, four english children stumbled through a ward­robe and into a land of lions and legends in “The lion, the witch and the wardrobe.” 
in between, frank leahy led the notre dame football team to four ap national championships. 
in 1986, brian Jacques published the first in his se­ries of novels featuring the mischief and adventures of a monastery run by mice, otters and other critters in “redwall.” 
in 1988, lou holtz and rocket ismail led the irish to their 11th and final national championship to date. 
in 1998, “harry potter and the sorcerer’s stone” hit the 
u.s. irish football went 9-3. The irish went 10-3 in 2002 and 9-3 again in 2005, and it appeared the program was on the cusp of a full-fledged comeback to its former days of glory. 
in 2005, stephanie meyer released the first in her four-part young adult fantasy fiction series, “Twilight.” The irish put up a valiant fight, pulling together a 10-3 season in 2006, but lapsed back into what could best be described, as rick reilly would later put it, irrelevance. 
a lesser man with more to do with his time would cry, “coincidence, you fool!” but i, in my infinite wisdom, disagree. 
i see a string, thin though it may be, that threads its way through history and ties notre dame football and the “Twilight” series together inextricably. 
both draw inspiration from a deeply rooted history in their respective fields. notre dame wears its tradition proudly on its sleeve; Twilight does the same in a literary sense, a technique that i believe english professors call “not being original.” 
both, in recent history, are known for languishing in mediocrity, especially magnified the shadow cast by that former greatness. notre dame hasn’t made a sus­tained case for national dominance since lou holtz left. The knee-jerk reaction to stephanie meyer’s work is to label it junk, but it actually received generally positive reception when the books were first released. it was the movies that sank the series into a standing joke. we’ll get to that later. 
both draw criticism and vitriol, both reasoned and irrational, like almost no other in their field. but, at the same time, both have a fan following, both reasoned and irrational, unmatched by any rival. 
Try telling a well-read socialite your favorite book is “breaking dawn” or a michigan alumnus that notre dame is the greatest program in college football history and the look of disgust will likely be remarkably similar. on the flip side, try telling a 13-year-old girl what you re­ally think about robert pattinson’s acting, or try writing an espn column about notre dame’s irrelevance, and the backlash will be shrill and severe. 
The first of the “Twilight” films was released in 2008 (notre dame went 6-6), followed by sequels in the fol­lowing three years, in which the irish went 6-6, 8-5 and 8-5. granted, the movies were worse than the team, but “new moon” had as good of a chance at winning a bcs national championship as any of those irish teams. 
but this year, as we all know, the irish are 10-0. They’re ranked third in the country in every major poll. They’re two wins and a loss from oregon or Kansas state from a shot at a national championship. manti Te’o deserves a seat at the heisman Trohy presentation, if not the award itself. This is the most successful notre dame team since holtz’s era. 
so how does “Twilight” fit in, since obviously it must? well, this weekend, the final installment in the “Twilight” moneymaking machine, “The Twilight saga: breaking dawn — part ii,” hits theaters and — take a seat before you read on, Twilight haters — it’s garnering highly positive early reviews. 
That’s right. one day before notre dame takes on wake forest for a chance to be 11-0, a “Twilight” movie will open with a better-than-good chance to be the most successful of all the “Twilight” films, both commercially and critically. 
but, don’t jump the gun, you say. These are just early reviews, you say. The movie still has its biggest challeng­es ahead of it, you say. 
oh, were you finished? well, allow me to retort. 
The same could be said for notre dame football. “college gameday” researcher chris fallica says, of the games left for the three remaining undefeated teams, notre dame’s game versus usc on nov. 24 is the great­est uncertainty; he puts the game at 50-50. 
i’m not saying the comparison is perfect — it’s not. although i could delve a little deeper, starting with how Te’o could’ve easily played Taylor lautner’s part without anyone noticing or caring. but i won’t. 
The connections are there, though. i’m not just mak­ing this stuff up (all right, maybe a little, but still). all i’m saying is, in addition to rooting for baylor against Kansas state and ucla against usc this weekend, per­haps irish fans should consider going to see “Twilight” this weekend, too. it might just get them to a national championship. 
Contact Kevin Noonan at knoonan2@nd.edu 
JACQUELINE O’NEILL | The Observer 

The observer | WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 14, 2012 | ndsmcobserver.com 


on the first season of “The X factor.” 
their third studio album, “express non-Sam Stryker unfortunately, something went wrong 
stop.” of the acts on this list, alphabeat assistant managing editor and chezza, as she is affectionately 
is probably the least well-known, so known in the united Kingdom, was un­
jump on the danish bandwagon before ceremoniously dumped from the show 
it gets full. i bet your mother told you that it is never a bad idea to before it even made it to air. no mat-try new things. when it comes to female pop stars, i’m ter, because this girl has talent. Think 
Robyn 

going to tell you the same. with lana del rey’s release of her as the british version of britney 
sweden is so hot right now (meta­of “paradise,” her third ep, music fans get to enjoy an spears — gorgeous, edgy, a Tv star (she 
phorically speaking, that is — the alternative to the regular rotation of female pop stars. also hosted the british version of “The 
country is probably buried under three even i will admit there is more to life than lady gaga X factor”) and a one-woman dance-
feet of snow and enjoying two hours and Ke$ha. in fact, it’s pretty easy to find some inno-jam factory. she also is a press sweet-
of daily sunshine.) from “The girl vative pop songstresses who will treat your earlobes to heart and frequent paparazzi target 
with the dragon Tattoo” to swedish their delightful sonic confections. and let’s face it, you’re in the u.K., having survived a messy 
house mafia to iKea to h&m, this pretty basic if you aren’t making an effort to move be-breakup with chelsea star ashley cole. scandinavian nation is playing a big yond what’s playing on the radio.  whether you want to originally a member of the all-female group girls aloud, role in american popular culture. robyn is part of this hit the dance floor or satiate your sadness on the couch cheryl has busted out with a solo career of her own, re-swedish invasion, though amazingly enough she has with a pint of ben & Jerry’s and a rom-com, there is a leasing such hits as “fight for This love” and “promise been releasing music since the late 1990s. you may have pop star out there to suit any one of 
This.” my personal favorite chezza heard some of her hits such as “call your girlfriend” or your moods. here’s a list of the top 
jam is “call my name,” currently “dancing on my own,” but this scandinavian pixie has female pop stars that you should 
the most-played song on my iTunes a deep catalog of catchy tracks. she may not be quite as be listening to but probably aren’t 
at 370 plays and counting, off her up-tempo as some of the other artists on this list, but her already. 
recently released album, “a million songs build and grip you. in a way, they mean something lights.” produced by hit-master ex-more to the listener than just any other song, and that 
Lana Del Rey 

traordinaire calvin harris, i guar-is a skill that cannot be taught. robyn performed last The Kristen stewart of the music 
antee if “call my name” can’t get december on “saturday night live” and has opened for industry, del rey has been releas­
you up and dancing, then nothing Katy perry and coldplay. be sure to check out her “body ing music for several years now, 
will. my biggest wish is that cheryl Talk” series of three mini-albums, released in 2010. but she really burst onto the music 
becomes a club fever mainstay, scene earlier this year. you may al-but i’m not holding out for that any Marina and the Diamonds ready know her for two reasons: first, there is her criti-time soon. additionally, fans of girls aloud can look now here is something you probably thought you nev­cally lambasted performance on “saturday night live” forward to some new music, as the group recently an-er thought you would see: a welsh pop singer-songwrit­in January. second is the release of her album “born to nounced a new single and a reunion tour to occur next er. born marina diamandis, marina and the diamonds’ die,” one of the best-selling albums of the year. del rey year in honor of the band’s 10-year anniversary. most recent album “electra heart” went to the top of the (real name: lizzy grant) is sort of like what notre dame charts in the united Kingdom, but she hasn’t enjoyed the is to the rest of college football — you either really, re-Alphabeat same success stateside. however, clear some space on ally love her or think her act is manufactured, kitschy Technically not a female star vocalist per se, alphabeat your iTunes because this girl can sing. be sure to check trash. either way, she’s talented and has a voice that is a danish pop group fronted by singer stine bramsen out tracks “how to be a heartbreaker,” “primadonna” can be best described as melancholy and pain-driven, (a girl, for those who are 
and “homewrecker” off her latest but in a strangely addicting way. normally i like my pop not familiar with danish 
album. if you can’t tell from her music up-tempo and fun, but del rey’s self-described first names). Their style is 
song titles, marina is sassy and “hollywood sadcore” style actually makes feeling the mainly retro 1980s and 90s 
empowering and provides some blues enjoyable, if that is possible. with del rey, feel-retro pop and is flirty, in-
great jams to dance to like a wild ing sad is fun. her public image matches her “gangster fectious and fun. listening 
thing. like chezza, her music nancy sinatra” retro music style, as del rey is a fashion to alphabeat makes you 
is guaranteed to get you off the icon, serving as a model for h&m. ever the lightning rod feel like you’re in an epi­
couch and to bust some serious of controversy, del rey’s latest music video for the song sode of “miami beach” 
moves and like del rey, marina “ride” has been criticized for being pro-prostitution. at some hot nightclub on 
also has a fantastic sense of style ignore the hullabaloo and check out her music. i prom-south beach in the ‘80s. 
that only adds to her pop-star ise you won’t regret it. you may feel cool listen-
persona. also, a note of interest: ing to them, but they have 
“the diamonds” part of her stage Cheryl Cole some substance to their act name does not refer to her back-
yes, yes, yes. adele may be the power vocalist darling as well — this is no gimmicky group. one can hear the ing band but rather her fans. you’ll want to become a of the u.K., but cheryl cole takes the title of pop-whiz talent seeping from the group’s music, especially with diamond as soon as you can. sweetheart and it’s a surprise she hasn’t made it big in bramsen’s soaring vocals. be sure to check out “hole in the states. if you like to dance, cheryl is your girl. cole my heart,” “The spell” and “boyfriend.” The band has Contact Sam Stryker at sstryke1@nd.edu very nearly broke on to the american music scene when also done a nasty cover/mashup of lady gaga’s “bad The views expressed in this column are those of the she was hired by simon cowell to be one of the judges romance” and “Telephone.” The group  just released author and not necessarily those of the Observer. 




JACQUELINE O’NEILL | The Observer 


SPORTS AUTHORITY 

fight garners more attention than race 

Jack Hefferon 
sports writer 
Johnny football. ben roethlisberger. mike d’antoni. 
There were plenty of big stories across the wide world of sports this week­end, blowing up espn and the Twitterverse alike. so when i heard from multiple friends and saw highlights on sunday’s sportscenter about, of all things, nascar ¬— well, i was more surprised than a hooked catfish. 
but sure enough, the cult racing circuit garnered a relative plateful of coverage dedicated to the advocare 500 in phoenix, the penul­timate race of nascar’s 10-event “playoffs” — the chase for the cup. 
The reason for the atten­tion though was far from the race itself. 
it was instead centered on a late-race scuffle be­tween clint bowyer, who was competing for his first-ever championship, and Jeff gordon, who intentionally crashed bowyer to knock him out of contention. upon re­turning to the pits, bowyer’s crew jumped gordon, and soon a full-out brawl had broken out, with tires and haymakers flying every­where. bowyer was late to the party, but made a full sprint from his car to gordon’s hauler, where he charged gordon and sparked more shoving still. 
if you haven’t seen it, the sheer inanity of it warrants a trip to youTube. it was fun to watch, fun to talk about, and the rough-and-tumble, boys-will-be-boys epitome of the sport’s appeal to fans nationwide. 
unfortunately for nascar though, it also represents its biggest obstacle to growth. 
because of all the hoopla over the punches thrown off the track, barely a word made it in edgewise about the heavyweight showdown that’s been going down on it. 
Jimmy Johnson, winner of five of the last six sprint cup championships, has been heralded as one of the great­est drivers ever to grace the nation’s banked curves. but he has also been accused of taking much of the intrigue and interest out of the sport 
— his campaigns too domi­nant, his personality too polished. 
Throughout the chase though, he’s been neck­and-neck with a hotshot young driver who is far from a household name: brad Keselowski. and Keselowski is exactly the type of star nascar needs. 
after paying his dues and excelling over seven years in the nationwide series — the aaa minor league of stock car racing — Keselowski broke into the sprint cup under the tutelage of fan-favorite dale earnhardt, Jr. at 28-years-old, he is immense­ly talented but also undeni­ably reckless on the track, something that has made him enemies among other drivers but endeared him to the circuit’s rabid fan base. 
Keselowski also knows how to utilize the media. he often spouts off in expletive-filled post-race interviews — which is par for the course — but also leads all nascar-only drivers in Twitter followers, mostly thanks to his tweets during the daytona 500 this year. (he keeps his phone in his pocket when he races and only writes during stoppages. but still pretty dang cool, nonetheless.) 
he’s a driver for this gener­ation, and he’s in the middle of a transcendent breakout season. after wrestling with Johnson for the past nine races, Keselowski now sits comfortably 20 points ahead going into the season’s fi­nal contest at homestead in miami, and can win the cup there with a finish of 15th or higher. 
but because many fans, and most certainly the na­tion, care more about the spectacle than the sport, it might not matter. 
after sunday’s dustup be­tween gordon and bowyer, espn posted a poll on wheth­er or not fighting was good for nascar. all 50 states said yes. 
and in the sport’s role of entertainment, it most cer­tainly is an awesome thing to watch. people prefer talk­ing about crashes to talking about chassis. hard punches to high passes.  left hooks to left turns. 
but because this fighting is the sport’s main appeal na­tionally, the racing itself gets buried. 
if Keselowski wins this weekend, it could be a huge win for racing and nascar, as well. 
but unless he wrestles danica patrick in the infield after the race, it probably won’t matter. 
Contact Jack Hefferon at wheffero@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer, 
NCAA FOOTBALL 
Stanford prepares for Oregon 
Associated Press 
sTanford, calif. — stanford coach david shaw often references oregon if his players get complacent in prac­tice. Trainers bark out the re­sults of the last two matchups to them in the weight room. during offseason workouts, the defensive huddle would some­times break with the chant: “beat the ducks.” 
it’s no secret who stanford is after. 
for the past two years, the cardinal have been the pac-12’s second-best team. all along they’ve been chasing the same program, and — like everybody else in the conference — have been unable to keep pace. 
Just how far stanford is from unseating oregon depends on who you ask. 
las vegas bookies believe it’s 21½ points. cardinal lineback­er chase Thomas called the difference between the teams “a second half.” shaw said “the gap is as big as the score the last two years,” with stanford losing by an average of 22 points. 
The one true measuring stick for how close — or far — the teams really are now will come saturday night, when no. 14 stanford (8-2, 6-1) faces top-ranked oregon (10-0, 7-0) at ear-piercing autzen stadium with the league’s north division lead at stake. 
“This is pretty much our pac-12 championship game,” Thomas said. 
in everything but name, it has been the past the two seasons. 
stanford lost 53-30 at home last november in a game oregon never trailed — nor was seriously challenged. Two years ago, the ducks rallied from a 21-3 deficit in the first quarter 

WANTED 
PART TIME WORK $14.25 base­appt earnparttime.com 
PERSONAL 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? 
Don’t go it alone. 
Notre Dame has many re­sources in place to assist you. 
If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Ann Whitall at 1-0084 or Karen Kennedy at 1-5550. 
For more information, visit ND’s web­site at: http://pregnancysupport@ nd.edu 
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
Famous People born on this day 
1954 – Condoleezza Rice, American educator, diplomat and 66th United States Secretary of State 
1966 – Curt Schilling, American baseball player 
1972 – Josh Duhamel, American actor 
1970 – David Wesley, American basketball player 
1972 – Aaron Taylor, American foot­ball player 
1978 – Xavier Nady, American baseball player 
1973 – Lawyer Milloy, American football player 

to blow past the cardinal 52-31 in eugene. 
both losses cost stanford the league title and a spot in the bcs national championship game. 
“They do this thing where they play close for a half and then they just take off,” stanford senior defensive tack­le Terrence stephens said. “it’s going to take our best game to win.” 
even that might not be enough. 
after stanford squeaked by oregon state 27-23 last week to set up the division showdown with oregon, shaw spared the coachspeak during his post-game news conference about his team’s chances against the ducks, saying “it’s going to take our best game and not their best game for us to pull this off.” 
shaw meant no disrespect to his players nor was he trying to overpraise the competition. instead, it’s a matter of reality. 
The fact stanford is even in this position is somewhat sur­prising. along with losing no. 1 overall draft pick andrew luck, three others were selected in the top 42 picks — right guard david decastro, tight end coby fleener and left tackle Jonathan martin — and both starting safeties, cornerbacks and wide receivers also departed. 
Josh nunes struggled to live up to luck’s gargantuan bench­marks, starting the first eight games until redshirt freshman Kevin hogan replaced him last week. hogan, a dual-threat quarterback who has shown flashes of luck-like ability, will start again. 
The offense is carried by stepfan Taylor — who is 202 yards shy of darrin nelson’s school record of 4,033 career yards rushing — and the de­fense is led by a front seven leading the nation in several categories. 
even with all the cardinal have endured, including an overtime loss at third-ranked notre dame and a collapse at washington, they are still es­sentially in the same place they were a year ago: with a shot to overtake oregon for league supremacy. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit 
1982 – Kyle Orton, American foot­ball player 
1978 – Bobby Allen, American ice hockey player 
1964 – Patrick Warburton, American actor 
1954 – Yanni, Greek musician & composer 
1980 – Brock Pierce, American actor 
1951 – Alec John Such, American musician (Bon Jovi) 
1989 – The Ready Set, American singer-songwriter 
1991 - Nick Lupica, Wannabe Frat boy 


ndsmcobserver.com | WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 14, 2012 | The observer 


NFL 

Johnson questions bills’ play call 
Associated Press 
orchard parK, n.y. — Two days later, receiver stevie Johnson still can’t get over how the buffalo bills botched their final play in a loss to the new england patriots last weekend. 
on Tuesday, Johnson second-guessed why a more experi­enced receiver wasn’t targeted on a play that ended with quar­terback ryan fitzpatrick throwing an interception into the end zone to seal a 37-31 loss. and Johnson also came to 
T.J. graham’s defense, saying the rookie receiver shouldn’t be faulted for running the wrong route because he had never at­tempted it in practice. 
“i don’t think it was the wrong play. but just the whole thing leading up to it,” Johnson said, noting that he, receiver donald Jones and tight end scott chandler were more fa­miliar at running the route. 
“we had people in positions where maybe they shouldn’t have been. so who knows what would’ve happened if it was donald, me or scott there. so it’s no blame on T.J. at all, be­cause he’s never run that route in practice or in a game.” 
The play in question oc­curred with 28 seconds left and after the bills marched 65 yards to the patriots 15 with a chance to pull out a comeback victo­ry, and end an 11-game losing streak at foxborough, mass. 
faking to his left, fitzpatrick turned to his right and threw a pass intercepted by devin mccourty in the end zone. graham was the intended re­ceiver, but made the mistake of running behind mccourty rather than in front of him. 
rather than looking ahead to hosting afc east rival miami (4-5) on Thursday night, the bills (3-6) are still stuck on the recent past. 
Johnson was particularly frustrated after the loss to new england, because the bills squandered an opportunity to turn around their season. 
“we talk a lot about turning the corner,” Johnson said. “you look at it on paper, and all that’s great. but we’re still getting losses.” 
coach chan gailey, on monday, took the blame for what happened against new england by saying he should’ve called a different play. 
gailey added mccourty po­sitioned himself in such a way that forced graham to make a decision whether to go in front or behind him. and, gailey added that graham wasn’t the first option on the play. 
graham took the blame for what happened immediately following the game and again on Tuesday, when informed of Johnson’s comments. 
“That’s fine. i appreciate that,” graham said. “but it was my fault. somebody’s got to take the blame for it.” 
graham added that he had indeed practiced the play, but not since training camp. 
Johnson raised his concerns after being asked why the bills have had difficulty making plays in the clutch. 
after saying he didn’t know, Johnson then said: “you’ve got to go to the players that give you the best chance at winning the game. and if we don’t make it, then we don’t make it.” 

paid adverTisemenT 

MLB 
Baker signs with Cubs after Tommy John surgery 
Associated Press 
chicago — scott baker wants to establish that he can still be an effective pitcher after having elbow surgery, and he’ll get his chance with the chicago cubs. 
The 31-year-old righty agreed Tuesday to a one-year deal that guarantees him $5.5 million next season. he could earn an additional $1.5 million in per­formance bonuses. 
“i have every intention of be­ing a competitive pitcher next year right away,” he said. 
baker became a free agent after the Twins declined their $9.25 million option last month. with the cubs, he gets a $150,000 bonus for reaching 145 innings and an additional $150,000 for every five innings he pitches after that up to 190. 
baker was 63-48 with a 4.15 era with minnesota from 2005­
11. he underwent Tommy John ligament replacement surgery april 17 and missed last season after being limited to 23 ap­pearances (21 starts) in 2011, but he thinks he’ll be ready for the start of spring training. 
several teams had shown in­terest, including the Twins, but the cubs made it clear they were serious about him. The move fills one of the openings cre­ated by the departure of Justin germano and Jason berken. 
baker wasn’t able to throw bullpen sessions for teams be­cause his program had him tak­ing time off, but he expects to epstein said. “it was described by our medical staff as an ide­al Tommy John rehab so far. everything has gone perfectly so far, and he’s really attacked it in an ideal manner.” 
he said baker will probably limited to about five or six in­nings per start early in the sea­son “if things go perfectly” and added: “we’re going to use good judgment every step of the way.” 
he described baker as “an underrated” pitcher with “a very consistent track record 

“There are no certainties on rehabs, but we spent quite a bit of time on the medical and on [Baker’s] rehab. ... It was described by our medical staff as an ideal Tommy John rehab so far. Everything has gone perfectly so far, and he’s really attacked it in an ideal manner.” 
Theo Epstein 
Cubs president of baseball operations 
resume throwing in about mid-of success” and said the cubs to-late december. he thinks might want to sign him to an he’ll be ready for the start of extension. spring training, although he it’s not the first time under wasn’t making any guarantees. epstein that the cubs have tak­but so far, the rehabilitation has en a chance on a pitcher coming gone about as well as possible. off Tommy John surgery. 
“There are no certainties on They signed manny corpas rehabs, but we spent quite a to a one-year non-guaranteed bit of time on the medical and deal last winter and acquired on his rehab,” cubs president prospect arodys vizcaino from of baseball operations Theo atlanta in the deal that sent paul maholm to the braves last July. The cubs had also gambled on maholm by signing him from pittsburgh last January after he had to shut it down because of a left shoulder strain, and he was 9-6 with a 3.74 era they traded him. 
“you’d love to sign pitchers who are 100 percent healthy and have never been hurt, but those animals don’t really exist. They’re certainly hard to find,” epstein said. “The medical as­sessment on every pitcher is very important and if you have to sign a pitcher who’s coming off of surgery, Tommy John is the one you want him to come off because it’s a very predict­able rehab with a very strong success rate, upward of 95 per­cent and even above if you look at more recent information.” 
baker doesn’t think he’ll have to change his approach because of the injury, although he’s an­ticipating a few bumps along the way. 
“i’m going to promise 20 wins and 200 innings,” he said. “i think you have to be a realist and you have to realize there are going to be speed bumps along the way, but in saying that, i think you’re able to com­bat those speed bumps and re­ally kind of get to the bottom of the problem or the situation in the first place and kind of allow yourself to work through those things.” 



The observer | WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 14, 2012 | ndsmcobserver.com 

NCAA FOOTBALL 

hoosiers loss taints bowl hopes 
Associated Press 
bloomingTon, ind. — indiana’s hopes of playing for a big Ten championship came to an end in a humiliating 62­14 loss to wisconsin over the weekend. 
indiana could have gained control of the leaders division race with a win at home. even though things have been better for indiana this year, the hoosiers ended up getting the kind of beating they’ve traditionally received from the badgers. 
now, after all that talk about playing in the big Ten title game, if the hoosiers don’t recover quickly, they won’t even make it to postsea­son play. indiana (4-6, 2-4 big Ten) needs to win saturday at penn state and the follow­ing week at purdue to become bowl eligible. 
of course, last season a bowl game wasn’t even a thought. now that the hoosiers have had some success with two big Ten wins this season a year after losing every con­ference game, coach Kevin wilson says it is important for the program to continue to take positive steps. 
he said the matchup with penn state (6-4, 4-2) provides a great opportunity. 
“would love to see these men come back and respond to our standard,” wilson said. “They’ve set the standard. well, we’ve set it, they’ve embraced it. would love to see these guys come back and have the week we need to have. if we’re going to im­prove, this is the week to see what we’ve got.” 
first, the hoosiers need to learn from the loss to wisconsin. The badgers blud­geoned the hoosiers for 564 yards rushing on 64 attempts. wisconsin’s ground game was so dominant that the badgers passed just seven times. of those 564 yards rushing, more than 400 were gained on 14 rushing attempts that the indiana coaching staff calls “explosion plays.” 
on offense, the hoosiers fell well short of the big numbers they had put up throughout big Ten play, finishing with just 294 total yards. 
“i do think we pressed a lit­tle bit,” offensive coordinator Kevin Johns said. “i think as a quarterback, you can squeeze it a little too tight, want it a little too bad, receivers just one-arming. it’s just a little bit of a young team that prob­ably didn’t play their best when we needed them to play their best.” 
wilson said indiana’s 25­for-47 passing isn’t good enough because they missed a lot of the short passes they use to substitute for a run­ning game. Johns said the hoosiers were close on a number of plays, but they need to be sharper. 
“The scoreboard looks worse, but if we get those plays back, we probably make those plays nine out of 10 times,” he said. “so moving forward, we need to get that execution back, that preci­sion with where we’re put­ting the football, receivers running the routes, running backs keying the right guys, sitting in the right holes. we were sloppy saturday and we need to clean that up this week.” 
saturday’s game at penn state will be a test. The nittany lions, depleted af­ter ncaa penalties following the Jerry sandusky scandal, have had a surprisingly suc­cessful season. They likely will be hungry after blowing a 14-point lead in a 32-23 loss at nebraska. penn state has played inspired football all season under new coach bill o’brien, despite being banned from postseason play. 
The hoosiers already have a road win in the conference, a 31-17 win at illinois on oct. 
27. now, wilson wants to see indiana beat a traditional power in front of a big crowd. 
“if you’re going to be a win­ning program, you’ve got to learn to win on the road and if you’re going to win in the big Ten, you’ve got to learn to win in challenging road envi­ronments, big crowds that are loud,” he said. 
NFL 
Tannehill will keep job 
Associated Press 
davie, fla. — ryan Tannehill’s best play of late was a tackle, which for a quarterback is not good. 
Tannehill’s teammates were still laughing Tuesday about his touchdown-sav­ing, open-field stop of line­backer Zach brown, which was the best moment for the miami dolphins in their 37-3 loss to Tennessee. 
“ryan showed some speed,” tight end anthony fasano said. “he wrapped his arms around him and kind of twisted him down. it was impressive. maybe we should get him on some spe­cial teams.” 
That won’t happen. Tannehill will keep con­centrating on quarterback­ing, especially this week as the dolphins (4-5) prepare to play Thursday night at buffalo (3-6). 
The rookie hopes to re­bound from his worst per­formance since the season opener. Tannehill threw three interceptions sunday against the Titans, includ­ing one returned for a score and another that forced him to corral brown with miami trailing 34-3. 
“i shouldn’t be making the tackle; that’s my fault to be­gin with,” he said, flashing a sheepish grin. “at that point there was a lot of adrenaline and anger built up, so it’s not too hard.” 
The drubbing was the worst endured by Tannehill as a quarterback since high school. his losses at Texas a&m all came in close games. 
not that Tannehill was the lone culprit. a collective meltdown resulted in the dolphins’ worst home loss since 1968, which made them glad they must wait only until Thursday for an­other game. 
“it’s a good thing for us,” Tannehill said. “we can spin it into a positive. we had a tough game and we have to bounce back quickly. we can’t sit around and mope.” 
dolphins coaches are opti­mistic Tannehill will resume making the steady progress he had showed. his passer rating of 98.3 in october ranked seventh in the nfl, and he had a streak of 107 throws without an inter­ception before the flurry of turnovers against the Titans. 
“he is doing amazingly well for a rookie,” bills coach chan gailey said. “he is still learning and growing as a quarterback, but he has done a good job thus far.” 
Tannehill is well aware there’s room for more growth. he ranks last among 



paid adverTisemenT 
all starters in the league with five touchdown passes, trail­ing even Tennessee backup matt hasselbeck. Tannehill is 29th in passer rating, and he’s still learning how costly turnovers can be. 
all nine of Tannehill’s in­terceptions have come in defeats. in the four games they’ve won, he hasn’t had a single pass picked off. 
“you have to learn from your mistakes, but you can’t dwell on them,” he said. “you’ve got to look forward.” 
in assessing the intercep­tions against Tennessee, Tannehill said there was no common thread. all came on third down and none came against a blitz, but the Titans’ coverage was differ­ent each time. 
one ball was tipped. one was thrown into tight cov­erage. The last came during garbage time. 
afterward, teammate reggie bush offered words of encouragement. 



ndsmcobserver.com | WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 14, 2012 | The observer 
SOCCER 

Solo assaulted on day before wedding 

Associated Press 
seaTTle — former seahawks tight end Jerramy stevens was arrested on sus­picion of assaulting u.s. women’s soccer team goal­keeper hope solo a day before their planned wedding day, according to police and court records. 
a Kirkland municipal court judge released stevens after a court appearance Tuesday, saying there was no evidence connecting stevens to any as­sault, according to news re­ports. he was arrested early monday for fourth-degree domestic violence assault but wasn’t charged. 
solo appeared in the court­
room Tuesday afternoon, but 
left without saying anything 

paid adverTisemenT 

to reporters, according to King-Tv. 
a call to a number listed for stevens in court documents rang unanswered. a mes­sage left at a listed number for solo was not immediately returned. 
stevens, 33, and solo, 31, applied for a marriage license Thursday, according to King county records. 
The two, who have been in a relationship for two months, were set to get mar­ried Tuesday and argued over whether to live in washington or florida after their mar­riage, according to court documents. 
police in the seattle suburb of Kirkland responded to a disturbance at a home around 
3:45 a.m. monday involving a physical altercation between eight people during a party, said Kirkland police lt. mike murray. 
he said officers contacted several people in the home who appeared intoxicated and didn’t cooperate with po­lice, but determined based on information and observations that there was probable cause to arrest stevens for investi­gation of fourth-degree as­sault. murray didn’t identify the alleged victim, but court records show it was solo, who received a cut to her elbow. 
court documents show that solo’s 36-year-old brother, marcus, called 911, and that he and solo told officers there was a party and blamed the disturbance on two to three unknown men who were at the party. marcus solo told police he used a stun gun on one of the men, who left the party before police arrived, according to court records. 
according to court docu­ments, a police officer found stevens, “who appeared to be hiding,” lying between the bed and the wall in an up­stairs bedroom. stevens told officers he was sleeping on the floor and didn’t hear the fight. The officer saw signs of a fight, and dried blood on stevens’ shirt. 
The officer noted in his af­fidavit for probable cause for arrest that he arrested stevens based on his admis­sion that he argued with hope solo, the injury to her elbow, signs of a fight in the bedroom where stevens was found and blood on stevens’ shirt. 
one 32-year-old woman was taken to the hospital for treatment of a hip injury, and another man suffered multi­ple bumps, scrapes and con­tusions, murray said. 
“if officers find that an as­sault may have taken place, then we have to make an ar­rest on who we determine is the primary aggressor,” murray said. 
stevens was selected with the no. 28 pick of the 2002 draft by the seahawks after a stellar career on the field at washington. but he also was involved in incidents away from football that included reckless driving charges for crashing into a nursing home. 
he was mostly a first-round bust with the seahawks, ex­cept for the 2005 season when he started a career-high 12 games and had 45 receptions as the seahawks won the nfc championship. 
his run-ins with the law weren’t done when he left col­lege. stevens was arrested on reckless driving charges in 2003 in a seattle suburb and in 2007 when he was charged with driving under the influ­ence in scottsdale, ariz. 


The observer | WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 14, 2012 | ndsmcobserver.com 

NCAA FOOTBALL 

Ferentz keeps team focused on Michigan 
Associated Press 
iowa ciTy, iowa — iowa isn’t giving up on Kirk ferentz despite a third straight season of dimin­ishing results. 
The hawkeyes simply have to hope that the well-respected coach who has twice revived the program has another turn­around in him. 
iowa (4-6, 2-4 big Ten) is on course for its worst season since 2000, when it went 3-9. 
The hawkeyes have lost four games in a row and will need to beat michigan and nebraska to qualify for a bowl game. 
The frustration is growing for many fans who have seen the hawkeyes struggle to compete in the big Ten despite a sched­ule that, compared with other seasons, hasn’t been nearly as taxing. getting rid of ferentz is an unlikely option, not with a buyout of some $20 million, and athletic director gary barta has publicly supported the coach he gave a 10-year extension before the 2010 season. 
on Tuesday, ferentz tried his best to keep his focus on saturday’s trip to michigan (7-3, 5-1). The future will have to wait. 
“we’ve lost four straight games, and we’re 4-6 right now, and that’s where we’re at. That’s what i’m worried about right now,” ferentz said. “really the only thing i can worry about right now or be concerned with is beating michigan.” 
iowa’s problems are, in many ways, a bad mix of talent and luck. 
The hawkeyes have fallen a bit short in each area. 
purdue outgained the hawkeyes 490 yards to 264 last week in a 27-24 win that snapped its five-game losing streak. if it weren’t for three fumbles and 10 penalties, the boilermakers likely would have cruised to a much easier win. 
iowa couldn’t run the ball, couldn’t throw all that well and its defense couldn’t do enough to make up for the woes on offense. 
“The key is -- because every­body is good at pointing out what’s wrong. but the key is to try to find solutions that are work­able and realistic and short-term and long-term,” ferentz said. “That’s been the approach, and we’ll just go from there.” 
it could be argued that the hawkeyes are also among the na­tion’s unluckiest teams. after all, they’ve played in six games de­cided by three points or less and lost four of them. 
but in all those defeats, iowa can point to specific mistakes that hurt. 
late interceptions from strug­gling senior quarterback James vandenberg played big roles in losses against iowa state and indiana. central michigan and purdue each drove down the field in under a minute — at Kinnick stadium, no less — to set up game-winning field goals. 
“if you’re hanging around wait­ing for luck, you probably should get in a different profession or do something else,” ferentz said. 
injuries haven’t helped either. 
The loss of tackle brandon scherff and guard andrew donnal in the first half of an ugly defeat to penn state has hurt a lot more than many thought. That and the absence of running back mark weisman, who isn’t ex­pected to play against michigan because of a leg injury, and full­back brad rogers has rendered iowa’s running game nearly nonexistent. 
The hawkeyes rushed for just 74 yards on 31 carries against purdue — which entered play as the worst rushing defense in the big Ten. 
The upside of having a relative­ly light class of impact seniors is that the hawkeyes will bring back a ton of starters in 2013. many ap­pear to have a chance to be strong big Ten players. 
ferentz also has a history of re­viving the hawkeyes. They won a share of the big Ten title in 2002 and, after finishing 6-6 in 2007, won the orange bowl following the 2009 season. 

but for now, all ferentz and the hawkeyes can really do is try to keep the distractions caused by their poor play to a minimum. 
“all you can do is you try to be as smart as you can, as prepared as you can and all that,” ferentz said. “but you also have to know you’re not going to be perfect, and it’s the same as being a player. They’re not going to be perfect out there.” 
NFL 

bills prepare for homestretch of schedule 
The team announced this week losing, the bills have had dif-final three homes games — all in buffalo this late in the season. 
Associated Press 

it still has more than 15,000 tick-ficulty selling out home games in december — were blacked out “it’s not been optimal. it’s a 
orchard parK, n.y. — The ets unsold for its game against in december since hall of fame on local television because they proven fact that in december buffalo bills are finally home af-Jacksonville on dec. 2. and there quarterback Jim Kelly was lead-failed to sell out. in buffalo, it’s difficult to at­ter spending much of the first 10 are still more than 10,000 tickets ing the team to four consecutive The bitter cold and harsh con-tain sellout status at our facil­weeks of the season playing on available for its games against st. afc titles in the early 1990s. ditions have been blamed for the ity,” bills ceo russ brandon said. the road. and center eric wood louis on dec. 9 and season finale buffalo sold out only about 55 poor turnouts. “december games are a chal­wonders if anyone will bother against the new york Jets. percent of its games in the 1990s. it’s a concern that’s led the bills lenge. but competitively, there’s showing up unless they start The bills’ record will play a fac-and the figures haven’t been and u.s. sen. charles schumer to no place we’d rather play mean-playing better. tor, as will recent history. much better since. That was in-question why the nfl would con-ingful games than at home in 
“i’ve said it before, i don’t whether they’re winning or dicative last year, when the bills tinue scheduling so many games front of our fans.” blame them,” wood said, noting 
paid adverTisemenT 
that money’s tight and winter’s coming. 
“it’s tough on people to put their hard-earned money out there, and we realize that. and to sit in the cold is not fun. so we really need to take care of business these next few games, hopefully get back to .500 here and make these last games inter­esting where we do make it our advantage.” 
if they intend to make any type of a run and re-energize their fan base, it has to begin Thursday night, when buffalo (3-6) hosts afc east rival miami (4-5). 
it’s a game that kicks off a clos­ing stretch in which buffalo will play five of its final seven at home 
— including the team’s annual “home” game at Toronto, where the bills will face seattle on dec. 16. 
how much support the bills get remains a concern. 
The game against miami is a sellout. but there are questions whether they can sell out their three remaining games at ralph wilson stadium 



ndsmcobserver.com | WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 14, 2012 | The observer 


FENCING 

coach continues winning tradition 
By AARON SANT-MILLER 
sports writer 
currently in his 10th year at notre dame, irish coach Janusz bednarski has claimed three ncaa championships, in 2003, 2005 and 2011. after winning his third championship, bednarski became just the fourth notre dame head coach in any sport to accomplish such a feat. according to bednarski, his experience in the sport contributes greatly to his success. 
“each coach brings some items that are not in possession of oth­ers,” he said. “i am bringing my ex­perience because i have so many years in this sport. i have been an olympic coach in poland. i have seen all the stages in an athlete’s development. i have knowledge of the physiology and of other as­pects of the study. There is no col­lege for coaches. rarely is there a higher education in sports, so ex­perience is crucial.” 
in his time at notre dame, bednarski has taken young, tal­ented fencers and groomed them into national champions. yet, irish recruits tend to have certain traits that help with this process, he said. 
“we are looking for and get­ting those who are driven. They want to be better,” bednarski said. “They call us the fighting irish. They are fighting for something to achieve and they want to be proud of it. it’s not only the way to get it, but it’s the way that they show ev­erybody that we want to win.” 
still, that doesn’t mean coach­ing here has been free of challeng­es, bednarski said. 
“on our team, they are trying to blend high-class sport with high-class academic level,” bednarski said. “it’s a lot of additional work because there is a fight for time. as a coach, it’s hard to organize life and to organize the structure of practice to satisfy and achieve the goals that are set by the kids com­ing here.” 
The result of these combined demands, bednarski said, can add a great deal of pressure. 
“There is the inside pressure in the institution and the student population for us to be good at sports and our other strengths,” bednarski said. “i need to ask my­self if i did everything i could to win. if we don’t, i don’t feel very well. in other schools, they can do something different as an excuse. for us, there is no excuse. it is a big pressure.” 
yet, despite the challenges, notre dame is a great place for him, bednarski said. 
“i am very happy with the situa­tion. The institution is a model for those people,” bednarski said. “it’s also located in a beautiful cam­pus where it’s pleasurable to walk from one place to another. it’s not a boring or totally quiet atmo­sphere. you see all kinds of action, sometimes good or sometimes bad. you feel like life is going. The institution is filled with positives.” 
Through his first nine years of coaching at notre dame, bednarski has achieved a win­ning percentage of .946, with a combined men’s and women’s record of 487-28. This year, with a roster filled with olympians and national fencing stars, bednarski looks to chase more wins and an­other national title, all while soak­ing in all that is good about notre dame. 
Contact Aaron Sant-Miller at asantmil@nd.edu 
ND VOLLEYBALL 
Olsen leads without stats 
By JOE WIRTH 
sports writer 
irish junior middle block­er andie olsen is one of the most powerful middle block­ers in the big east. although she may not have the gaudy numbers of some of her team­mates, her play and leader­ship on and off the court have made her one of the driving forces behind the team’s suc­cess this year. 
olsen began playing vol­leyball in elementary school, and she credits her sister with helping her reach her current level. 
“i started playing in the third grade and my sister started playing for the school team when i was younger and i would just pass balls to her off the back wall to her as high as i could and i just got hooked from there. we were very competitive with each other growing up,” olsen said. 
olsen knew she was talent­ed from a young age, but that belief was not truly validated until she reached high school and began excelling against older girls. 
“i always thought i was pret­ty good,” she said. “i probably thought i was better than i was at the time, but i think my freshman year of high school was when i knew i was good.” 
“i made the varsity team that year and that was a real affirmation because my high school had a really strong vol­leyball program and they had only ever picked a freshman one time before so i was one of the only freshmen to have ever made the team, so that was very special.” 
growing up in california, olsen was aware of notre dame’s prowess academically 


paid adverTisemenT 

and athletically. once the although she is a standout 
irish began recruiting her, she on the court for the irish, vol-
said she could not say no. leyball was not olsen’s first “i had received a gener-love. she pursued music when 
al letter from notre dame she was younger and remains 
and i had written them back a talented singer today. 
and began emailing coach “i have been singing lon­
brown,” olsen said. “They in-ger than i have been play­
vited me here and i came out ing volleyball,” olsen said. “i 
to visit and immediately fell got into music at a young age 
in love and there was really no and i have been singing ever 
other place after that.” since and i play a little guitar too. it is always something i keep in my back pocket. it is my go-to whenever i am sad or anything like that, but it is not like i am going to be going to any american idol tryouts anytime soon.” The irish begin the big east championship against south florida in milwaukee, wis., on friday as the third seed. notre dame made winning the conference championship a goal at the beginning of the year, and olsen said the team is motivated and prepared to return from milwaukee as champions. “i really just want to win,” olsen said. “i think our en­tire team is set on winning and taking it one match at a time and playing each point as hard as we can, and we are just really, really hungry for a big east championship. we are getting mentally prepared and are very excited for this weekend.” 
Contact Joe Wirth at jwirth@nd.edu 



Deacons terms of success, you got to win at home.” 
conTinued from page 24 

before notre dame topped from every formation,” Kelly oklahoma on oct. 27, the said. “we have to do a great job sooners had lost just four of making sure that we protect home games since 1999. Kelly 
“Well, one of our goals, a tangible goal for 
us, was to protect our home field. ... We 
felt, I felt, I think everyone in the program 
felt that if you want to take that next 
step in terms of success, you got to win at 

keep doing that.” practice after suffering a head injury. Russell and Nix to play “he passed a number of his 
freshman cornerback tests, his acsm test, which is Keivarae russell, who missed the software test for the last the end of the boston college hurdle for any concussions,” game, has been cleared to Kelly said. 
Junior nose guard louis nix will not miss any time fol­lowing his ejection late in the fourth quarter last saturday. 
Contact Matthew DeFranks at mdefrank@nd.edu 
home.” 
Brian Kelly Irish coach 
our quarterback, find ways to get after them on the offensive line and running the football.” 
Perfect at home 
with a win, the irish can fin­ish undefeated at home for the first time in 14 years. 
“well, one of our goals, a tan­gible goal for us, was to protect our home field,” Kelly said. “we felt, i felt, i think everybody in the program felt that if you want to take that next step in 
Thomas 
conTinued from page 24 
it in the back of the net is a lot dif­ferent than it is at the club level. i’ve learned a lot from my coach­es and my teammates on how to be a better teammate and be more productive on the field.” 
when Thomas joined the irish, notre dame lacked veteran lead­ership, especially compared to past irish squads. however, Thomas quickly found a mentor in junior midfielder elizabeth Tucker. 
“elizabeth Tucker is a great role model on the team and for the team,” Thomas said. “she’s a great leader. and she shows by example how to act and play both on and off the field. she can al­ways get us all on the same page.” 
in addition to becoming an elite scoring threat in the future, Thomas hopes she can develop into a player her teammates can look to for guidance, just like Tucker. 
“i want to be a leader on the team that steps up and is dan­gerous and makes plays happen and scores goals for my team,” Thomas said. “i want to be some­one that they can depend on both on and off the field.” 
Thomas and the other fresh­men are in the midst of experi­encing something none of them have before: ncaa postseason play. after being knocked out of the big east tournament in the semifinal round by marquette, said the irish aspire to attain that reputation. 
“we want to have that kind of legacy,” he said. “we want to build that kind of dominance at home. The first step is winning all your games at home, which hasn’t happened in a long time. 
“if you can stay in one place long enough you’ve got to a chance to do that. i think we’ve won 18 out of our last 20 regu­lar season games. we’re toward that direction. now just need to 



notre dame rebounded with a 3-1 victory over wisconsin­milwaukee in the first round of the ncaa tournament friday in alumni stadium. 
“we are taking it one game at a time,” Thomas said. “it’s a chal­lenge. but we’re trying to focus on the next game. it’s totally new to a lot of us. but you have to win to move on. so we’re going in with that mindset. we’re looking forward to a long season ahead of us.” 
unseeded notre dame will face its next challenge friday in a match-up with no. 3 seed wake forest in the second round of the ncaa tournament in gainesville, fla. The game be­gins at 4:30 p.m. 
Contact Matthew Robison at mrobison@nd.edu 
paid adverTisemenT 

paid adverTisemenT paid adverTisemenT The observer | WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 14, 2012 | ndsmcobserver.com 






Achonwa 
conTinued from page 24 
for the event – gave the team a good idea of the cramped quarters naval personnel live in while on the ship. 
“actually our locker room was pretty funny,” achonwa said. “we literally had a little white board the size of coach’s hand, and it was pretty cool, just to see what they go through and how they stay in those con­ditions for months at a time for this country.” 
braker said she preferred the part of the tour that took place above deck. 
“i think the coolest thing was the flight deck, where they had all the planes and [where the] planes used to land,” braker said. “i think that’s really cool. and we got to play on part of it, too.” 
The trip to the uss yorktown, which is docked in charleston, s.c., was just one in a series of interesting trips the irish have made in recent years. last year, the team traveled to the bahamas for the Junkaroo Jam over Thanksgiving break, where they beat usc and duke. 
“That was a vacation; that was an awesome experience,” braker said. “i’d never been to a tropical place like that before, so it was cool, enjoying the nice island weather.” 
achonwa said she was glad that her coaches made sure their athletes saw the sights outside of the gym. 
“our coaching staff — they’re great about allowing us to do other things and making sure that we’re enjoying our time as students and athletes, and as young adults as well,” achonwa said. “so we got to do some jet-skiing, we got to do some swim­ming with the dolphins, we got 
paid adverTisemenT 
to do some stuff outside of bas­ketball as well as [playing in] a great basketball tournament.” 
although the bahamas serve as a tropical paradise for tour­ists, braker said many resi­dents struggle with poverty. The junior said the hospitality and enthusiasm of the island­ers left an impression on her. 
“it’s a different environ­ment down there, it was cool to play in their gyms and see all the kids that were there that were excited to have us play, even though they probably don’t even know much about notre dame or any of the other schools,” braker said. “They were excited just to have us there.” 
braker said the irish have tentative plans to travel over­seas again this summer, prob­ably in europe. until then, they will be sticking to good, old-fashioned indoor courts. braker, for one, should be fine with that. 
The irish will take on massachusetts in their home opener at the purcell pavilion at 2 p.m. sunday. 
Contact Vicky Jacobsen at vjacobse@nd.edu 



ndsmcobserver.com | WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 14, 2012 | The observer 


CROSSWORD | will shorTZ 


HIGHLY PUNLIKELY | chrisTopher brucKer 

LOWER YOUR EXPECTATIONS | lenny rago &  paTricKcross 


Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
SUDOKU | The mepham group 

HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 
Happy Birthday: consider what you want to share with others. being secretive will add to your appeal. explore exotic destinations, unusual pastimes or people that interest you. what you learn now will help you build a better future. adaptability will be your ticket to freedom. don’t limit what you can accomplish. your numbers are 3, 15, 21, 26, 33, 45, 48. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): instigate what you want to see happen. waiting for help is a waste of time. a moneymaking opportunity is apparent if you partner with an old friend or associate. Traveling to conduct a face-to-face meeting will broaden your chance for success. 

TAURUS (April 20-May 20): check out foreign markets and educational or job op­portunities. Take a serious look at your current status and the people influencing your life. speak up, show determination and prepare to put your plans into motion. use your imagination. 

GEMINI (May 21-June 20): you’ll have good ideas and solutions that will put you in the spotlight. greater professional opportunities are apparent if you share your interest in reform and getting more for less. someone from your past will play a role in a decision you make. 

CANCER (June 21-July 22): don’t let change cloud your vision. do your best to be creative and social with people who come from different backgrounds. you will learn a lot if you are receptive to new concepts. a creative venture will enhance your life. 

LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): don’t shirk your responsibilities, or you will face criticism. once you have your chores out of the way, you will be able to experience interest­ing encounters with people who can make you more aware of the possibilities that exist. engage in the action. 

VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): getting out with friends or attending a community event will lead to greater knowledge and insight into future trends. don’t let the people you live with or are close to interrupt your plans. arguments will not lead to solutions. 

LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): you may be confused with regard to how you earn a living. get back to basics, and consider new ways to implement old skills. don’t be shy -- share your thoughts and you will get interesting and helpful feedback. opportunity knocks. 

SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): openness will be the ticket to making the best decision. The information you receive will allow you to see where others stand. gravitate toward those offering dedication, courage and loyalty. strive for perfec­tion. 

SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): you may feel like chatting and sharing your ideas, but don’t be too quick. someone is likely to lead you astray or take advantage of your openness. Keep what you are doing a secret until you are well on your way to completion 

CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): follow your instincts. focus on your goals. preparation and observation will lead to victory. don’t let someone else’s change of plans slow you down or disrupt your day. stick to the truth and don’t hesitate to dismantle the competition’s plan. 

AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): avoid people who tend to upset you. you have more options than you realize. concentrate on your finances, important paperwork and getting your life in order. greater opportunities will develop once you achieve greater stability. 

PISCES (Feb. 19- March 20):Tie up loose ends. Take care of financial, medical and legal matters that might stand in your way if left unattended. dealing with institutions, government agencies or hospitals will lead to unusual but favorable solutions to any problem you face. 

Birthday Baby: you are unpredictable and persistent. you take action and stand by your word. 
JUMBLE | david hoyT and Jeff KnureK 

make checks payable to and mail to: enclosed is $130 for one academic year enclosed is $75 for one semester  The observer p.o. box 779 notre dame, in 46556  
name address city       state  Zip  



The observer | WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 14, 2012 | ndsmcobserver.com 
FOOTBALL 

Dealing with the Deacons 
Looking to close out perfect home season, No. 3 Notre Dame welcomes Wake Forest on Saturday 
By MATTHEW DeFRANKS 
associate sports editor 
after dispatching boston college, no. 3 notre dame will face its third and final acc foe of the season when it welcomes wake forest on saturday. 
last season, the irish (10-0) pulled out a 24-17 win over the deacons (5-5, 3-5 acc) in the first-ever meeting between the schools. notre dame had to overcome a 17-10 halftime defi­cit to beat wake forest. 
deacons redshirt junior re­ceiver michael campanaro led wake forest with six recep­tions for 74 yards in last year’s matchup and has 65 catches and 618 yards in 2012. Junior quarterback Tanner price has 1,965 yards through the air and 12 touchdowns while red-shirt junior running back Josh harris leads wake forest with 607 rushing yards. 
irish coach brian Kelly said notre dame is aware of wake forest’s key players on offense. 
“campanaro on offense gave us fits last year,” Kelly said. “Tanner price is very elusive in the pocket, can make plays, extend plays. harris is the vet­eran running back.” 
The secondary is the strength of the deacons’ de­fense, starring redshirt senior chibuikem okoro and redshirt sophomore Kevin Johnson. The pair has combined for four interceptions and 16 pass breakups. 
Kelly said the irish may shade away from okoro, who has 29 career pass breakups, in the passing game. 
“it’ll be part of our game plan to attack a particular side,” Kelly said. “but there is go­ing to be opportunities where you’re going to have to throw the ball against those guys and going to have to make plays.” 
Kelly also said the irish will need to be prepared for a va­riety of pressures from wake forest. The deacons have 68 tackles for loss this season, in­cluding 8.5 by redshirt junior Justin Jackson, who has four sacks. 
“you’re going to get blitzed 
see deacons PAGE 20 

ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 

irish play in most unique setting yet 
By VICKY JACOBSEN 
sports writer 
irish junior forward ariel braker said she doesn’t play much outdoor basketball — and not even a game on an aircraft carrier could convince this michigan native that she should spend more time on the hardtop. 
“i play an indoor sport for a reason, and i saw that out on the aircraft carrier,” braker said, referring to the wind and other elements the no. 6/7 irish (1-0) dealt with on the deck of the uss yorktown during friday’s 57-51 win over no. 19/21 ohio state (0-1) in the carrier classic in mount pleasant, s.c. “i love playing outside, but i’m glad we play indoors.” 
braker might not have en­joyed the exposure to the el­ements, but she said she did enjoy the game’s unique cheer­ing section. 
“we didn’t have a lot of fans there and they didn’t have a lot of fans there, it was mostly navy [personnel],” braker said. 
“it was just nice for us to go back and give all our profits back to the army and the navy, so i thought that was really cool.” 
irish junior forward natalie achonwa said she was just hap­py notre dame’s first road trip of the season gave the irish the opportunity to thank veterans, including former irish bas­ketball player danielle green, who lost her arm in iraq in 2004 and attended the game. 
“it was great to be able to do that for them, and give back to them, because they’ve given so much,” achonwa said. “but also just the environment was pretty cool — playing out­side, there were definitely some elements and definitely some distractions, but it was a great atmosphere and a great environment.” 
both players said they en­joyed the opportunity to ex­plore the carrier. notre dame’s makeshift locker room — sleeping quarters co-opted 
see achonwa PAGE 22 
ND WOMEN’S SOCCER 
Freshman Thomas leads front line into tournament 
By MATTHEW ROBISON 
sports writer 
in just her first season in an irish uniform, freshman for­ward crystal Thomas has al­ready made quite a splash, garnering two big east acco­lades in the process. at the big east awards banquet nov. 1, the conference named Thomas to the big east all-rookie team and second-team all-conference. 
“i was just very honored by it and thankful to my teammates and my coaches for helping me get there,” Thomas said. “it was a pleasant surprise.” 
with a young squad nick­named the “baby irish” by irish coach randy waldrum, Thomas and the other 11 freshmen on the team were forced to take big roles quickly. Thomas quickly found her niche on the front line, and she said her teammates have improved and grown into their respective roles, as well. 
waldrum has stressed play­ing complete games. early in the year, notre dame (14-5-2, 8-1-1 big east) had trouble perform­ing at a high level for the entire match. but Thomas said the irish are improving in that area. 
“The team has grown this sea­son in that we know how to put two halves together,” Thomas said. “we’re learning how to fin­ish out games, how to hang on to the lead, or come from behind and win the game.” 
individually, Thomas has developed into a complete of­fensive player this season, notching a team-high 18 points on eight goals and two assists. 

“i think i’ve grown as a player in learning how to work with my teammates,” Thomas said. “finishing the ball and putting 
see Thomas PAGE 20 




