
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


University awards medal 
By KRISTEN DURBIN 
News Editor 
Ken Hackett, former presi­dent of Catholic Relief Services (CRS), will receive the 2012 La­etare Medal during the May 20 Commencement Ceremony, the University announced Sunday. 
The Medal, established at Notre Dame in 1883, is the old­est and most prestigious honor given to American Catholics. It is awarded annually to a Catho­lic “whose genius has ennobled the arts and sciences, illus­trated the ideals of the Church and enriched the heritage of humanity,” according to a Uni­versity press release. 
University President Fr. John Jenkins praised Hackett’s com­passion and strong commitment to worldwide outreach through­out his tenure at CRS. 
“Ken Hackett has responded to a Gospel imperative with his entire career,” Jenkins said in the press release. “His direc­tion of the Catholic Church’s outreach to the hungry, thirsty, naked, sick and unsheltered of the world has blended admin­istrative acumen with genuine compassion in a unique and ex­emplary way.” 
After serving CRS in various capacities since 1972, including a stint as its regional director for Africa and in several posts throughout Africa and Asia, Hackett was appointed presi­dent of CRS in 1993, according to the press release. He held the position for 18 years until his retirement in December. Hack­ett was succeeded by Carolyn Woo, former dean of the Men­doza College of Business. 
Hackett, a native of West Rox­bury, Mass., became interested in international service when he enrolled in the Peace Corps following his graduation from Boston College in 1968 because he said “it seemed like an inter­esting thing to do.” 
Hackett’s experiences living in a Catholic mission and work­ing in an agricultural coopera­tive project in rural Ghana dem­onstrated the “actual impact of American food aid on the health and well-being of very poor kids in a very isolated part of a West African country,” he said in the press release. 
After completing his Peace Corps assignment, he contin­ued his commitment to service by beginning his CRS career in Sierra Leone, where he admin-

see AWARD/page 6 


Hesburgh made Irish citizen 
University president emeritus granted citizenship on St. Patrick’s Day 

By SAM STRYKER 
Assistant Managing Editor 
Already a major date on Notre Dame calendars, this year’s St. Patrick’s Day had additional significance for the University. Enda Kenny, Taoiseach (prime minister) of Ireland, visited campus Saturday evening to present an Irish passport to Univer­sity President Emeritus Fr. Theodore Hesburgh. 
At a dinner celebration on the 14th floor of the Hes-burgh Library, Kenny said he was proud to present the honor to Hesburgh. The award recognizes the presi­dent emeritus as an Irish citizen. 
“It’s a particular privilege, and a very special privilege, to meet Fr. Hesburgh here,” Kenny said. “He’s an ex­traordinary man. I am very privileged indeed, on behalf of all the people of Ireland, to shake [his] hand.” 

Chairman emeritus of the Board of Trustees Donald Keough introduced Hes-burgh and said doing so for such an important figure in the Notre Dame community is almost “unnecessary.” 
“It’s like introducing the Golden Dome. It’s impossi­ble,” he said. “He’s the soul of this place.” 
Hesburgh set out with an “impossible” vision to cre­

see HESBURGH/page 6 


Library considers renovations 
By SARA FELSENSTEIN 
Senior News Writer 
Fifty years ago, in 1962 , the cornerstone of the Hes-burgh Library was laid. 
When the towering, 14-sto­ry structure opened in 1963, it was the largest college library in the world and a forward-looking model for research and study. 
But Diane Parr Walker, Edward H. Arnold university librarian, said the library is now in a transition stage. Stacks are overflowing. Up­per floors lack proper study space. Changes to services and space allocation, she said, are crucial for the li­brary to fulfill its 21st cen­tury needs. 
“A 19th century library re­ally was about books, much of the 20th century was about that as well, but a 21st century library is going to be about the mix of digital and physical formats, [about hav­ing] a lot of services and cre­ating spaces that foster and 
LAUREN KALINOSKI | Observer Graphics 


see LIBRARY/page 5 


Rapper to perform at  St.Mary’s 
By MEAGHAN DALY 
News Writer 
Members of the Saint Mary’s community will raise the roof Thursday evening when rap­per Sammy Adams makes his much-awaited debut at SMC Tostal in the O’Laughlin Audi­torium. 
Coming off a March 16 per­formance at the Gramercy Theatre in New York City, Ad­ams will perform some of his favorite songs from his EP “Boston’s Boy” and his mix-tapes “Party Records” and “Into the Wild.” 
“It is sort of like there’s a song for everyone,” Adams said. “Our concerts are all about you guys. It’s my work­space. It’s my job to put on a good show. We’ve been work­ing so hard on this next album and we’re all dying to get back on tour, so it’s going to be re­ally fun.” 
Since garnering national attention with his song “I Hate College,” Adams has graduated from Trinity Col­lege in Connecticut, released three mixtapes, collaborated with several artists and per­formed on “Conan” with Conan O’Brien. 
“I wrote the second verse of ‘I Hate College’ in class, the first one I wrote on a piece of scrap paper,” Adams said. “My best friend stole [the rough draft] off my computer and went and played it at a frat and it wasn’t even mixed or done yet, but everyone loved it.” 
A mostly self-produced art­ist, Adams landed at the top of iTunes’ hip-hop digital al­bums chart in 2010, outselling Lil’ Wayne and DJ Khaled with “Boston’s Boy.” 
Adams said his music is re­latable and edgy because it is inspired by personal experi­ences. 
“It is my life. The journey, what we’ve been through, the places we’ve been, the people we’ve met, the stuff we’ve done,” he said. “It all sort of goes hand in hand. My writing is one hundred percent influ­enced by everything that hap­pens on a daily basis.” 
Although music has been important to Adams since he was a child, he said he did not start producing his own songs until college. 
“It’s pretty terrifying,” Ad­ams said. “I was an indepen­
see ADAMS/page 3 

INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER United Nations expert discusses refugees page 3 u Viewpoint page 8 u Baking with Brenna page 10 u Men’s basketball loses to Xavier page 16 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT WAS YOUR FAVORITE PART OF SPRING BREAK? 

www.ndsmcobserver.com P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 Editor-in-Chief Allan Joseph Managing Editor Business Manager Megan Doyle Jeff Liptak Asst. Managing Editor: Andrew Owens Asst. Managing Editor: Sam Stryker News Editor: Kristen Durbin Viewpoint Editor: Meghan Thomassen Sports Editor: Chris Allen Scene Editor: Kevin Noonan Saint Mary’s Editor: Jill Barwick Photo Editor: Pat Coveney Graphics Editor: Suzanna Pratt Advertising Manager: Katherine Lukas Ad Design Manager: Amanda Jonovski Controller: Jason Taulman Systems Administrator: William Heineman Office Manager & General Info (574) 631-7471 Fax (574) 631-6927 Advertising (574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu Editor-in-Chief (574) 631-4542 ajoseph2@nd.edu Managing Editor (574) 631-4542 mdoyle11@nd.edu Assistant Managing Editors (574) 631-4541 aowens2@nd.edu, sstryke1@nd.edu Business Office (574) 631-5313 News Desk (574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com Viewpoint Desk (574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com Sports Desk (574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com Scene Desk (574) 631-4540 observer.scene.editor@gmail.com Saint Mary’s Desk chousl01@saintmarys.edu Photo Desk (574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com Systems & Web Administrators (574) 631-8839 Policies The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College.  Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Allan Joseph. Post Office Information The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 and additional mailing offices 024 South Dining hall Notre Dame, IN 46556-077 The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved.  
TODAY’S STAFF News Sports Marisa Iati Andrew Gastelum Christian Myers Katie Heit Adam Llorens Peter Steiner Graphics Scene Lauren Kalinoski Maija Gustin Photo Viewpoint Ashley Dacy Ren Brauweiler  
CORRECTIONS The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so we can correct our error.  
HIGH 85 LOW 62 


Bethany Young  Paige Burke  Katherine Herman  Mary Tomasik  Vickie Jankoski  Andrew Bartolini  
sophomore  sophomore  sophomore  sophomore  junior  junior  
Pasquerilla East  Pasquerilla East  Pasquerilla East  Farley  Welsh Family  Keough  
“Meeting my  “Relaxing.”  “Ted Drewes ice  “Riding my new  “Seeing my  “Seeing ‘Project  
baby cousin for  cream.”  Schwin 10-speed  dogs.”  X.’”  
the first time.”  bike.”  

Have an idea for Question of the Day? Email obsphoto@gmail.com 


OFFBEAT 
Mass. court summons 9-year-old to jury duty 
YARMOUTH, Mass. — Like many people who get summoned to jury duty, Ja­cob Clark didn’t want to go. 
But unlike most people, he had a legitimate excuse 
— he’s 9 years old. 
“I was like, ‘What’s a jury duty?’” Jacob told the Cape Cod Times in response to his summons to appear in Orleans District Court in Massachusetts on April 18. 
His grandmother told him it was a good excuse to miss a day of school. 
His dad called the jury commission office to find out what happened. It turns out that someone apparent­ly had typed 1982 for the Yarmouth third-grader’s birth year instead of 2002. 

The mistake was quickly corrected. 
Massachusetts Jury Com­missioner Pamela Wood says a child gets called for jury duty once or twice a year. 
Mass. zoo’s cats benefit from Boston power loss 
MENDON, Mass. — The transformer fire that knocked out power to thou­sands of homes and busi­nesses in Boston turned about to be a stroke of deli­cious luck for the big cats at a Massachusetts zoo. 
The Capital Grille do­nated 2,500 pounds of steak worth $20,000 to the Southwick’s Zoo in Mendon after the restaurant lost power on Tuesday and the prime cuts of meat were no longer fit for human con­sumption even though they were kept in a refrigerated truck. 
The zoo’s two Bengal ti­gers, an African lion and a leopard dined like kings on Thursday. And there are enough leftovers to feed the cats for weeks to come. 
Zoo owner Betsey Brewer tells The Telegram & Ga­zette she was surprised and delighted by the out­of-the-blue offer. 
About 21,000 customers lost power after the fire. Almost all customers were back online by Friday. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
IN BRIEF 
Stephen Redding, profes­sor of economics at Princ­eton University, will deliver a lecture today from 12:30 to 2:00 p.m. entitled “Trade and Inequality: From Theory to Estimation” in Room C103 of the Hesburgh Center. 
Take 15 minutes out of your day to help PADS research with their final steps of devel­oping a test for counterfeit drugs. Participants will re­ceive a candy bar for their as­sistance. The event will take place today, tomorrow and Thursday from 3:30 to 6:30 
p.m. in the lobby of Hesburgh Library. 
There will be a Physics Col­loquium entitled “Manipu­lating Tc in Fe-based super­conductors through doping and interlayer coupling” to­day from 4 to 5 p.m. at Nieu­wland Science Hall. 
The Notre Dame baseball team will host Eastern Mich­igan in their home opener to­day at 5:35 p.m. Admission is free for students. 
The Notre Dame women’s basketball team will play California  in their NCAA Tournament second round game tonight at 7:20 p.m in­side Purcell Pavilion. Tickets are $11 for students and can be purchased at UND.com or at the Murnane Family Ath­letics Ticket Office. 
Vu Tran, author of nu­merous short stories will be reading from his work on Wednesday at 7:30 p.m. inside the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, email detailed information about an event to obsnews.nd@gmail.com. 
LOCAL WEATHER 

TODAY TONIGHT WEDNESDAY THURSDAY FRIDAY SATURDAY 











HIGH 86 LOW 60 
HIGH 80 LOW 60 

HIGH 72 LOW 54 
HIGH 67 LOW 51 

CAMPUS LIFE COUNCIL 

Group seeks location for bike shop 
United Nations authority addresses refugee crises 

By NICOLE TOCZAUER 
News Writer 
In the first meeting af­ter spring break, Campus Life Council (CLC) members discussed the possibility of reopening the Notre Dame Bike Shop. 
Student body chief of staff Claire Sokas said the Bike Shop was displaced when part of the Art, Art History & Design Department moved to the Old Security Building, where the shop was previ­ously housed. Student ad­vocates are trying to find a new space to work from, she said. 
“It has no place to func­tion, so it doesn’t exist right now,” Sokas said. “They’re looking into a lot of options, but no one has stepped for­ward to offer a place.” 

Student body president Pat McCormick said mechan­ics at the shop repaired ap­proximately 331 bikes in the 2010-2011 school year. 
Sister Carrine Etheridge, rector of Farley Hall, said the Bike Shop offered an im­portant service to students on campus. 
“The campus has expand­ed so much, you almost need a bicycle,” she said. “And if you’re a freshman with no car, where else do you go if your bike breaks?” 
Members of CLC also dis­cussed other ways to aid stu­dents in on-campus travel. 
Etheridge said an auction for old bikes would be help­ful for students. 
McCormick said Student Senate would discuss a res­olution calling for the Uni­versity to take definitive actions to make space for a bike shop before the fall se­mester. 
“It will continue in a sus­tainable way, using sal­vaged parts and student me­chanics,” McCormick said. “I’d also like to introduce a resolution expressing Cam­pus Life Council stakehold­ers’ support to see if we can engage some other partners on campus as we move for­ward.” 
Contact Nicole Toczauer at ntoczaue@nd.edu 


By TORI ROECK 
News Writer 
In his Monday address, “The Responsibility to Solve,” United Nations Deputy High Commis­sioner for Refugees (UNHCR) T. Alexander Aleinikoff said the international community must go beyond basic protection and assume responsibility for find­ing long-term solutions to major refugee crises. 
“The way we think about inter­national protection [of refugees] is that it should be a bridge to a solution, not the ending of the effort made by the international community,” Aleinikoff said. 
The UNHCR is most concerned with protracted refugee situa­tions, in which 25,000 or more people of one nationality have been exiled from their home country for at least five years, Aleinikoff said. 
Aleinikoff said there are 29 of these situations around the world today. 
“In east Sudan that borders Ethiopia and Eritrea, there are between 50,000 and 100,000 refugees, some of whom have been there for 40 years,” he said. “Sixty percent of the population there has been born [to refugee parents].” 
Aleinikoff said the Dadaab refugee camp in Kenya, the larg­est of its kind, also has an un­fortunate amount of long-term residents. 
“The saddest fact that I have learned in the time I’ve been at UNHCR comes out of Dadaab,” he said. “There are now 10,000 children in Dadaab who were born to refugees, who were born in Dadaab. That cannot be the way the world ought to face and think about refugee situations.” 
Although refugee camps are meant to be temporary reme­dies, Aleinikoff said the UNHCR seeks three types of “durable so­lutions” for refugees: returning them to their countries of origin, resettlement in a third coun­try or local integration into the country in which they have been granted asylum. 
“The cause of protracted refu­gee situations … is because the usual solutions don’t work,” he said. 
Aleinikoff said the interna­tional community must focus more on getting refugees out of camps and giving them roots. 
“There is a bias in the way American refugee scholars … have thought about refugee pro­tection, that if we just get people safe and don’t return them to persecution, that’s enough,” he said. “[But] the end of the refu­gee problem is people being re­attached to a community. That’s the initial harm they suffered in being refugees.” 
Without this re-attachment, Aleinikoff said the effects on refugees are “calamitous.” Refu­gees lack adequate health care and proper education, face phys­ical safety risks and suffer grave psychological effects, he said. 
But Aleinikoff said even though countries should be concerned about upholding refugees’ hu­man rights, talk of individual rights does not motivate nations to step in and fix the problem. 
“What I would suggest here is to find a rhetoric, or a moral fulcrum that moves the interna­tional community into action,” he said. 
Aleinikoff said this “moral ful­crum” would be a responsibility among all countries to share the burden of refugee crises. 
“A principle implicit in the refugee regime is one of interna­tional burden-sharing,” he said. “I’m suggesting a principle that members of the international community owe the other mem­bers of the international commu­nity.” 
Aleinikoff said currently de­veloped countries have an upper hand over undeveloped nations when it comes to handling refu­gee crises. 
“Most refugees end up in de­veloping countries paid for by developed countries,” he said. “In some ways, that’s the bar­gain, and it’s not always a hap­py bargain because sometimes developed countries use those kinds of funds as a way to keep refugees out of developed coun­tries.” 
More progress can be made in combating refugee crises if countries work together to pro­vide long-term solutions for refu­gees based on a shared responsi­bility, Aleinikoff said. 
“If we go into thinking now that there is a responsibility to solve these situations, lots of things become possible and lots of things get on the table,” he said. “We discover that people remain refugees not because they have to but because there isn’t the political will to not let them be refugees anymore.” 
Contact Tori Roeck at vroeck@nd.edu 
Adams 
continued from page 1 
dent kid trying to make a wave in such a big industry.” 
Adams said he loves electron­ic music and the idea of the DJ as “the new rock star.” 
“Being in college and loving that type of music and going to shows, there is a live aspect to the show,” he said. “It’s a big ex­periment to find all the ingre­dients that wouldn’t normally make up their own genre of music. 
“There’s really no feeling in the world like seeing kids lined up five hours early for your show or just seeing the excite­ment on people’s faces when you come out on stage. It’s really an amazing feeling that makes you want to make better music and makes you want to satisfy your fans.” 
Junior Student Activities Board secretary Elizabeth Kraig said she hopes Adams’ concert will bring a good vibe to campus. 
“It is a great way to get ev­eryone excited for spring,” she said. “Plus, it’s an inexpensive event with a great performer.” 
Doors open at 7:30 p.m. The opener will perform at 8 p.m. and Adams will go on stage at 9 p.m. 
Tickets are $7 for students and can be purchased at the O’Laughlin Auditorium or by calling (574) 284-4626. Limit is one ticket per student ID and students may call or visit the box office with up to five student IDs. 
Contact Meaghan Daly at mdaly01@saintmarys.edu 


SMC recognizes communication dept. 
By JILLIAN BARWICK 
Saint Mary’s Editor 
The Saint Mary’s Communica­tion Studies, Dance and Theater Department kicked off a week-long celebration to recognize students’ and professors’ contri­butions to the department and community yesterday. 
Senior Alexandra Davin, president of the Saint Mary’s chapter of Lambda Pi Eta, the National Communication Stud­ies Honor Society, planned the majority of this year’s “Comm Week” events. 
“Every department has a des­ignated week at Saint Mary’s to promote their department,” Davin said. “Myself, as well as many Communication students and professors, helped organize the events being held for Comm Week this year.” 
Students decorated the Com­munication Department hallway with streamers, posters and bal­loons Sunday night to thank the professors for their work and to promote the Week. 
“Yesterday morning, we hosted a department breakfast where the students and profes­sors were able to grab a free ba­gel, doughnut and some orange juice to kick off the week,” Da­vin said. “It was a great way to get the students and professors together to begin the celebra­tions.” 
In a Monday evening panel titled “What Can You Do with a Communication Major?,” two alumnae discussed their career paths after graduating from Saint Mary’s with degrees in Communication Studies. 
“Current Saint Mary’s seniors explained past internships as Communication Studies majors and talked about their future plans for after graduation this May,” Davin said. “We planned this panel in the hopes that it would demonstrate a wide range of career paths available to students who pursue a Com­munication degree.” 

Michael Kramer, associate professor of Communication Studies, will give a lecture titled “Political Communication in GOP Primary,” today at 6 p.m. in Spes Unica Hall. 
“Kramer plans to use inter­active media examples to fur­ther his lecture,” Davin said. “We have also alerted the Po­litical Studies Department of this event, as it applies to their coursework as well.” 
Colleen Fitzpatrick, assistant professor of communication studies, will host a resume and portfolio workshop Wednesday from 3 to 4:30 p.m. in Madeleva Hall. 

“This is a great opportunity for students to organize and en­hance their portfolios for use in a professional setting,” Davin said. “Many students are searching for summer internships or full-time jobs, and Professor Fitz­patrick hopes to better prepare students for interviews.” 
Terri Russ, assistant professor of communication studies, will open her Female Beauty class to any students that are interested in learning about body and gen­ders issues. The class is held Thursday from 11 to 12:15 p.m. in Moreau Hall. 
“We are really trying to pro­mote Communication Week this year in hopes to raise more inter­est in the growing department,” Davin said. “We hope people en­joy the events this year.” 
Contact Jillian Barwick at jbarwi01@saintmarys.edu 


Library 
continued from page 1 
encourage intellectual activity using both digital and physical collections,” she said. 
Walker, who began her posi­tion as university librarian in July, served as deputy univer­sity librarian at the University of Virginia before coming to Notre Dame. 
She spent the past few months getting to know campus and lis­tening to the various concerns of faculty and students. Walker said her vision for the library is threefold: to increase physical and digital collections, expand expertise services and create more comfortable and inspiring study spaces. 
“We have no intention of get­ting rid of the books,” Walker said. 
A few projects, including a li­brary café and renovation of the first floor current periodicals area, are now in the planning stages. But the library lacks funding to launch a full-scale renovation. 
“The University has a policy of not building or renovating until most of the money is in hand,” Walker said. 
The library announced plans for Phase Two of the renovation in the spring of 2009, and con­struction on the first and second floors was targeted to begin in the summer of 2011. 
Phase One, renovation of the lower level, was completed in 2002. 
“The planning for that renova­tion of the first two floors of the Hesburgh Library really got go­ing just about the time the econ­omy collapsed,” she said. “And so while we had donors pledg­ing funds, in many cases they haven’t been able yet to make good on those pledges.” 
Faculty and staff started a pe­tition in the summer of 2009, ar­guing the proposed Phase Two renovation would be insufficient and the entire library system, not just the two main floors, needed restructuring. 
Those renovation plans were shelved in 2010, Walker said. She said the library is now “step­ping back” to develop a program plan for the entire building, but will not begin speaking to archi­tects again until more funding comes through. 
Walker said several initiatives would be completed indepen­dently of the longer-term reno­vation. 
In time for graduation, the current periodicals area on the first floor will be renovated with new study spaces and technolo­gies from the Office of Informa­tion Technologies (OIT). The room will have new carpeting, beanbag chairs, study booths, soft seating, 
reading tables, and if funding comes through, a video wall for group presentations. 
“We’re going to see what we can do to enliven the space,” Walker said. “It’s a space that doesn’t seem to be particularly well-used, but it’s very, very vis­ible.” 
By next fall, the library will have new listening and viewing equipment in the music and me­dia area on the second floor. 
Walker said these spaces will be conducive both to individual and collaborative work. 
“I’m also hoping that this will help with fundraising when we can show prospective donors the kinds of things that we envision for the building,” she said. 
Walker discussed the possibil­ity of a café, which could open as early as the fall of 2013 in what is currently the vending room space in the library’s concourse. 
“We’re talking with Food Ser­vices now about the possibility of converting the vending room space … into an actual café, so they’re thinking that they’ll be­gin talking with franchises that might be interested,” Walker said. “This summer, Facilities [Operations] plans to renew the pavers on the terrace in front, so we’re also talking about what might be done to change the landscaping, allow for … some outside seating there, and a doorway [where] you could get out to the terrace from a café.” 
Library shelving is almost en­tirely full, Walker said, both in the main and branch libraries. She said she is speaking with the Office of the Provost to identify a space for remote shelving close to campus. 
“We can deliver things that are there as we now deliver around the campus, so that we don’t have to use all of the floor space in the library for stacks,” she said. 
For the future longer-term renovation, Walker said she imagines the first floor as a “hub of activity” and the second floor as more focused, housing print collections, group study rooms and expertise for music, media and art. 
The upper floors, Walker said, could be imagined as “oases of contemplation” that serve the needs of book-based work but are not crowded with stacks. 
She said the biggest challenge the library will face in becom­ing a 21st century library will be balancing competing needs of faculty and students. 
“Students tell me that the most important thing about the libraries is space, faculty and graduate students tell me that the most important thing is col­lections and services. It will be important to strike the right bal­ance,” she said. 
Walker said she hopes small­er-scale projects the library is taking on now will encourage greater support of the renova­tion. 
“I’m hoping that we can gen­erate a lot of excitement around the idea that a great way to cele­brate the 50th anniversary would be to actually kick off a thorough renovation,” she said. 
Contact Sara Felsenstein at sfelsens@nd.edu 



Hesburgh 
continued from page 1 
ate the “greatest Catholic university in the world” when he became president, Keough said, a mission that continues to this day. 
“He meant it,” Keough said. “He started this place on a journey, and it never ended.” 
Hesburgh said much of the progress of the University could be at­tributed to the many lay peo­ple, young 
ship of so many lay­men,” he said. “It’s the lay­men and the dedication they have for [Notre Dame] that make this place possible.” 
Hesburgh, whose grandfa­ther was born in Ireland and immigrated to the United States as an infant, said he recognized the relationship between Ireland and Notre Dame has been an especially significant one throughout the University’s history. 
“It’s a link at the heart of all that we are, and I think it’s at the heart of all that we aspire to be,” he said. 
Hesburgh said the Univer­sity was honored to host such a major Irish political figure on the holiday. 
“To be here with us on this Feast of Saint Patrick, it’s the kind of miracle we get used to at Notre Dame,” he said. 
In welcoming the Taoise­ach to campus, University President Fr. John Jenkins said Notre Dame has always possessed a strong Irish presence, stretching back to the founders and ranging from University presidents to the student body. He said this 
and old, 

“Somebody said to me 
who have 

before I left, ‘When you
shared this 

go there, remember you 
vision. 

are in the center of the 
“The Church 

soul of what it means would be to be Irish-American.” nothing to­day without Edna Kenny the leader-
Irish Taoiseach 
is embodied in the name “Fighti ng Irish,” which 
origi 
nally possessed derogatory meaning. 

“The name ‘Figh ting Irish’ was 

origi 
nally intended as a slur in the 1930s to in­dicate a Uni­versity of rowdy, un­ruly drunken Irishmen, ” he said. “But 


the University embraced that name, and transformed it to represent a real resil­ience.” 
Now, regardless of ethnic­ity, all members of the Uni­versity community are part of this heritage, Jenkins said. 
“Today, at Notre Dame, we’re of Asian, African, Eu­ropean and Latino ancestry, but we’re all Fighting Irish and very proud of that,” he said. 
Hesburgh said the evening offered an opportunity to celebrate this spirit. 
“It’s an evening that we can all be Irish for a while, even though we may be half or a quarter something else,” he said. 
This spirit applies to the people of Ireland as well, Kenny said. 
“I am thrilled about this ‘Fighting Irish’ concept, for we have no fear for the fu­ture so long as we respect where it is that we came from,” he said. 
Kenny said he knew be­fore coming to Notre Dame the importance of the Uni­versity in Irish-American heritage. 
“Somebody said to me before I left, ‘When you go there, remember you are in the center of the soul of what it means to be Irish-American,’” he said. 
After taking part in Chi­cago’s Saint Patrick’s Day Parade earlier in the day, Kenny said he recognized how important the spirit of his nation is to many people in the United States. 
“Everyone wants to be Irish,” he said. 
The Taoiseach is also set to visit New York City and the White House in his trip to America. 
As the Notre Dame football team prepares to square off against Navy at Dublin on Sept. 1, Kenny said he is ex­cited for Notre Dame to re­ciprocate his visit. 
“We look with great ex­citement to the flights in­coming from the west into Dublin in September when Notre Dame comes to de­stroy Navy,” he said. 
Contact Sam Stryker at sstryke1@nd.edu 
Award 
continued from page 1 
istered both a maternal and child health program and a nationwide leprosy control pro­gram. 
While serving as CRS region­al director for Africa, Hackett addressed the agency’s re­sponse to the Ethiopian famine of 1984-85 and supervised CRS operations in East Africa dur­ing the Somalian crisis of the 1990s, according to the press release. 
During his tenure as the agency’s sixth president, Hack­ett oversaw the redoubling of CRS efforts to engage the American Catholic community in worldwide service work by reaching out to Catholic orga­nizations, dioceses, parishes, and colleges and universities throughout the country. CRS also incorporated lay people into its board of directors un­der Hackett’s supervision. 
The organization, one of the world’s most effective and effi­cient in global relief and devel­opment, now operates in more than 100 countries with a staff of nearly 5,000, according to the press release. 
In addition to his service as CRS president, Hackett also served as the North America president of Caritas Internatio­nalis, the coalition of humani­tarian agencies of the Catholic Church. He continues to serve as an adviser to the U.S. Con­ference of Catholic Bishops and as a board member of the Vati­can Pontifical Commission Cor Unum. 
Hackett was awarded an honorary degree from Notre Dame in 2007. He also holds honorary degrees from Boston College, Cabrini College, Uni­versity of Great Falls, College of Notre Dame of Maryland, Mount St. Mary’s University, New York Medical College, Si­ena College, University of San Diego, Santa Clara University, Villanova University and Walsh University. 
The Laetare Medal is named in celebration of Laetare Sun­day, the fourth Sunday in Lent and the day Notre Dame an­nounces its recipient each year. 
The 2011 Medal was jointly awarded to Sr. Joan McConnon and Sr. Mary Scullion, founders of Project H.O.M.E. Previous re­cipients include President John 
F. Kennedy, Catholic Worker founder Dorothy Day, Cardi­nal Joseph Bernardin and jazz composer Dave Brubeck. 
Contact Kristen Durbin at kdurbin@nd.edu 

Musician champions International Jazz Day 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK — Ambassador Herbie Hancock believes what the world needs is a little jazz diplomacy. 
The renowned jazz pianist’s first major initiative since be­ing named a UNESCO Goodwill Ambassador last July is to es­tablish International Jazz Day to be held on April 30 of every year. That date coincides with the last day of what has been celebrated as Jazz Apprecia­tion Month in the U.S. 
This year’s inaugural event — organized by the U.N. Edu­cational, Scientific and Cul­tural Organization in part­nership with the Thelonious Monk Institute of Jazz, which Hancock chairs — will include star-studded concerts in Paris, New Orleans and New York as well as jazz-related events in several dozen countries from Algeria to Uruguay. 
Hancock said he had little dif­ficulty lining up support for his proposal from the 195-member 
U.N. cultural organization “be­cause so many countries have been affected in crucial ways over the years by the presence of jazz.” 
“Jazz has been the voice of freedom for so many countries over the past half century,” Hancock said in a telephone interview ahead of Tuesday’s official announcement of Inter­national Jazz Day. 
“This is really about the in­ternational diplomatic aspect of jazz and how it has through­out a major part of its history been a major force in bringing people of various countries and cultures together.” 
UNESCO Director-General Irina Bokova endorsed the ini­tiative. In a statement, she said International Jazz Day is in­tended to bring together people all over the world “to celebrate and learn more about the art of jazz, its roots and its impact, and to highlight its important role as a means of communi­cation that transcends differ­ences.” 
The official kick-off will be on April 27 with an all-day pro­gram at UNESCO Headquar­ters in Paris that will include master classes, roundtable dis­cussions and improvisational workshops. An evening concert will feature Hancock, Dee Dee Bridgewater, South Africa’s Hugh Masekela and Brazil’s Tania Maria, among others. 
Hancock will begin the April 30 celebrations with a sunrise concert at New Orleans’ Congo Square, the birthplace of jazz, which comes right after the first weekend of the city’s Jazz and Heritage Festival. 
The concert will present lo­cal jazz luminaries Terence Blanchard, Ellis Marsalis, Dr. Michael White, Kermit Ruffins and the Treme Brass Brand. Hancock plans to perform his funky standard “Watermelon Man” with high school students from around the world via an Internet link. 
He then will fly to New York for a sunset all-star jazz con­cert for the international diplo­matic corps at the U.N. General Assembly Hall to be hosted by Morgan Freeman, Robert De-Niro, Michael Douglas and Quincy Jones. The concert will be streamed live via the U.N. and UNESCO websites. 
Its lineup already includes Hancock, Bridgewater, Wyn-ton Marsalis, Wayne Shorter, Christian McBride, Esperanza Spalding, Jack DeJohnette, Derek Trucks, Susan Tedeschi and Jimmy Heath. The Ameri­cans will be joined by an in­ternational cast of musicians spanning different genres, including Richard Bona (Cam­eroon), Hiromi Uehara (Ja­pan), Zakir Hussain (India), Angelique Kidjo (Benin), Lang Lang (China), and Romero Lubambo (Brazil). 




Bison relocated in Montana 

Associated Press 
BILLINGS, Mont. — Sixty-four bison from Yellowstone National Park were being shipped almost 500 miles to northeast Montana’s Fort Peck Reservation on Monday, under a long-stalled relocation initia­tive meant to repopulate parts of the West with the iconic ani­mals. 
The transfer — anticipated for months — came in the mid­dle of a snowstorm and with no prior public announcement, as state and tribal officials sought to avoid a courtroom battle with opponents worried about bison competing with cattle for grazing space. 
Montana Gov. Brian Sch­weitzer described the move as a major step in efforts to re­store Yellowstone’s genetical­ly-pure bison across a larger landscape. 

“This is where we’re going to establish the beachhead of genetically pure bison that will be available as their numbers grow to go to other reserva­tions and other public lands all across the West,” Schweitzer said. 
Tribal and state officials signed an agreement Friday allowing the transfer to take place, said Robert Magnan with the Fort Peck Fish and Game Department. 
Caught off guard were land­owners and property rights groups that opposed the relo­cation. They filed a request for a temporary restraining order Monday afternoon to halt the move. 
Helena attorney Cory Swan­son said moving the animals without public notice following years of controversy amounted to a “sneak attack.” 
After state district Judge John McKeon in Glasgow did not rule on the request by the close of business Monday, Swanson said he would return Tuesday with a request for the animals to be ordered back to the Yellowstone area. 
For the Assiniboine and Sioux tribes of Fort Peck, tribal leaders said the relocation of­fers a chance to revive their connection with an animal that historically provided food, clothing and shelter for their ancestors. 


Apple uses cash surplus to reward stockholders 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK — Apple is fi­nally acknowledging that it has more money than it needs. But don’t expect it to cut prices on iPhones and iPads. Instead, the company said on Monday that it will reward its shareholders with a dividend and a stock buy­back program. 
Apple, the world’s most valu­able publicly traded company, sits on $97.6 billion in cash and securities. 
The company has stockpiled the cash through a combination of great ideas and prudence. Apple spends money, to be sure, building data centers, buying parts for its products and pur­suing ambitious projects such as a new 2.8-million-square­foot headquarters that has been likened to a spaceship. It also invests in the research and de­velopment of new technology and negotiates an occasional acquisition. 
But Apple simply hasn’t man­aged to spend its earnings fast­er than people are lining up to buy its iPads, iPhones and other gadgets. 
The decision to return some of that money to investors is a clear signal that Apple is taking a different approach in the post-Jobs era. 
Former CEO Steve Jobs resist­ed calls to issue dividends for years. He argued that the mon­ey was better used to give Apple maneuvering room to acquire other companies, for instance. Apple did pay a quarterly divi­dend between 1987 and 1995, but Jobs was not involved with the company at the time. 
Jobs died in October after a long fight with cancer. 
Since then, pressure had been mounting on new CEO Tim Cook. Apple’s ever-growing pile of cash was earning a paltry amount of interest and the fact that it was sitting there unused could have left the company open to charges of mismanage­ment and possible shareholder lawsuits. 
On Monday, Cook said that, with as much cash as Apple has on hand, a dividend won’t re­strain the company’s options. 
“These decisions will not close any doors for us,” he told ana­lysts and reporters on a confer­ence call. 
Indeed, Apple can afford it. The dividend, which should placate shareholders, will cost about $10 billion the first year. Apple generated $31 billion in cash in the fiscal year that end­ed in September and analysts expect it to add another $70 bil­lion to $85 billion this year. 
Apple said it will pay a quar­terly dividend of $2.65 per share, starting in its fiscal fourth quar­ter, which begins July 1. 
The dividend works out to $10.60 annually, or 1.8 percent of the current stock price. Al­though Microsoft Corp., pays 
2.5 percent of its stock price in dividends, and Hewlett-Packard Co. pays 2 percent, analyst Tavis McCourt at Morgan Keegan said Apple’s dividend is relatively generous for a large technology company. 
Energy and phone companies often pay dividends worth more than 5 percent of their stock price. 
In absolute terms, Apple will pay one of the richest dividends in the U.S. The roughly $10 bil­lion it will spend in its first year, places it just below companies including AT&T Inc. and Veri­zon Communications Inc., which are among the biggest spenders because they use dividends as their main way to attract inves­tors. 
Exxon Mobil Corp., the world’s second largest company by mar­ket capitalization, pays about $9 billion in dividends annually. 
The dividend opens up owner­ship of Apple shares to a wider range of stock mutual funds, potentially boosting the stock price in the long term. Many “value-oriented” stock funds are not allowed to buy stocks that don’t pay dividends. 
Apple said the $10 billion share buyback program will be­gin next fiscal year, which starts Sept. 30, and runs for three years. 
Investors had been expecting the announcement, driving Ap­ple’s stock up 37 percent since January, when management first hinted in that a dividend was in the works. 
Buybacks are a popular alter­native to dividends, since they reduce the number of shares outstanding. That means every remaining investor owns a larg­er share of the company. 
Apple’s stock hit a new high Monday before closing at $601.10, up $15.53. Since Steve Jobs’ death on Oct. 5, Apple’s stock is up nearly 60 percent. The company is worth $553 bil­lion. 
McCourt raised his price tar­get on Apple’s stock to $800 on Monday, becoming the first Wall Street analyst to do so. A dozen have price targets in the $700 range. He had been expecting the dividend, he said, and the main reason for the higher price target is the company’s tremen­dous profit growth. 
The dividend and buyback an­nouncement comes three days after the launch of Apple’s latest iPad tablet in the U.S. and nine other countries. Cook said sales the first few days set a record, but he gave no details. 
Cook said the company also considered splitting its stock and continues to look at that option. Stock splits increase the number of shares while re­ducing their value, potentially making it easier for small inves­tors to buy them. But Cook said “there’s very little support” for the idea that stock splits can help the stock overall. 
Cook suggested that the divi­dend could have been larger if 
U.S. tax laws were different. 
Cook said that as Apple ana­lyzed how much it could give out to shareholders, it looked solely at the cash it has in the U.S. Like many big exporters, Apple has much of its cash overseas — some $64 billion, specifically. 
Apple is reluctant to bring back overseas profits. In addi­tion to being taxed in their re­spective countries, those profits would be subject to the 35 per­cent U.S. corporate tax rate. 
“Current tax laws provide a considerable economic disin­centive to U.S. companies that might otherwise repatriate a substantial amount of foreign cash,” Chief Financial Officer Peter Oppenheimer said. 
Cook said Apple looked at how much domestic cash it had, then set aside enough for planned in­vestments and unforeseen out­lays. What was left over would be given out to shareholders, he said. 


page 8 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com Tuesday, March 20, 2012 
INSIDE COLUMN 
The 

challenges of 
the weekly 
laundry day 
People make fun of me a lot for my wardrobe. I did a quick inven­tory; I own something like six t-shirts. Four of them rep my beloved Kansas City Royals and the other two display my af­fection for Kansas Kevin Noonan University bas­ketball. To match Scene Editor them, I have three pairs of basketball shorts. Aside from a handful of dressier clothes for special occasions, this is pretty much all I’ve got. 
It’s pretty simple. But that’s how I like it. Not because it suits my style so much (I view myself as more of the Ryan Gosling casual, oh-I-just­rolled-out-of-bed-in-this-three­piece-suit-it’s-not-a-big-deal type of look someday) but instead because it suits my budget. I have proudly not spent more than $50 total on all of my regular wardrobe. 
While this wouldn’t do me any favors in a frat (50 dollars? That’s like, the cover charge at Vineyard Vines, right bro?), I find it to be a pretty manageable style at Notre Dame. 
The problem comes when I have to do the oh-so-dreaded weekly laundry. Heading to the laundry room is like going to a football game with your credit card in your pocket — you’re not coming back with any money. 
This really grinds my gears be­cause, on campus, we already pay for room and board and (for most) a meal plan. This is supposed to cover our basic living needs. We have a bed in which to sleep, bath­rooms and showers to keep up our hygiene, a dining hall from which to get our meals and Flex Points to compensate the dining hall (don’t even get me started on Flex Points). 
But when it comes to laundry, we’re on our own. And the laundry machines have a big “Notre Dame Food Services” logo stamped on their sides, so I’m paying these un­necessary fees to the same place I already paid to cover my food costs. 
And the fact is that on a tight budget, the first place I’m going to cut my costs is laundry. That’s a real health risk for which the Uni­versity should provide. Just ask the guys a couple years ago that had to evacuate their room because of MRSA. 
I present a simple solution to this problem that would enable me to do my laundry whenever I want. I know that I don’t use all my meals every week (I’m sure I’m not the only one.) 
Why not just let me use one of my dining hall swipes on a load of laundry and one on a drier cycle? That would be an easy, efficient way to avoid the budgetary catas­trophe that is laundry. 
Also, to any kids who sit next to me in class: I do my laundry, I’m just trying to make a point. I also shower regularly. Don’t freak out. 
Contact Kevin Noonan at      knoonan2@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
A large group of people can be a tremendous source of money and encouragement. At least, that is what internet startup Kickstarter is trying to prove. Described as a way to fund creative projects, Kickstarter is an Blake J. Graham online hub for people who have Erudite really ambi-Techno-Lust tious ideas, but very little financial backing. Users of the site post descriptions of their projects alongside short videos as a means to pitch their idea. They set a target monetary goal and a time limit to reach it and they’re off. People who visit the site can fund projects in exchange for tiered give­backs from the creators. But here’s the catch: If the project reaches the goal in the allotted time, the creator gets the money. If not, nobody spends a dime. 
The “crowdfunding” platform launched in 2008 (originally as Kick­startr — the internet has an affinity for recklessly abandoning vowels) promising creative individuals a way to get their projects off the ground without losing ownership in them. Unlike other avenues of fundraising, the project creator gives up no eq­uity or share in the project. Instead 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“The first principle is that you must not fool yourself — and you are the easiest person to fool.” 
Richard Feynman 
U.S.physicist 


Kickstart it 
they give away offers related to a specific project. Donate $50 to help the production of a musician’s album and you might get a signed copy of the vinyl LP with your name on the packaging as a benefactor. The tiers are up to the project creator himself and in many cases definitely worth more than the donation. 
While the site has been growing for quite some time, it has only been in the last couple months that they have featured some break-out hits. On Feb. 9, the project for an iPhone dock called the Elevation Dock was the first to be pledged a million dol­lars. Later on the same day, a project for a computer game development firm called Double Fine Productions also broke the million-dollar mark. The amazing thing: Double Fine had been listed less than 24 hours. When the project term for Double Fine eventually closed, it had over three million dollars pledged. At the cur­rent rate of growth, Kickstarter is looking to pull in over $150 million in funding for creative projects in the year 2012. 
That’s $150 million of the average internet user’s hard-earned cash. 
And the people receiving the money? Also just regular users of the internet. There’s really no promise that a creator will be able to pull through and complete their project just because they have the cash. Or if their first album will be good. Or their book on experimental cooking useful. There’s just a whole lot of faith in the abilities of those who are willing to share their ideas online. And the community of crowd-funders love it. People interact, discuss and share excitement around specific projects. When people ask me where I got a t-shirt and I tell them Kick-starter, they get excited because they know their idea could come off the ground as well. 

Only 44 percent of the ideas end up getting funded, but most of those ideas wouldn’t even have been shared in the first place. Kickstarter is full of optimistic people who believe they can make a difference to improve the world or simply have a story they need to share. Every time I talk to someone who has been kickstarted and I see those funding figures go up, I believe them. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
WEEKLY POLL 
What are you giving up for Lent? 
Huddle candy Facebook stalking Super Smash Brothers Naps 

Vote by 5 p.m. Wednesday at 
ndsmcobserver.com 


Tuesday, March 20, 2012 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 9 
UWIRE 

Eulogy for a dear childhood friend 
A piece of my childhood died last week. 
I used to spend hours pecking furi­ously at the keyboard, chimes ring­ing back and forth as hours raced by while I com­municated with Adam Arinder my friends in an amazing new way The Daily — over the Inter-Reveille net. 
AOL Instant Messenger became a gateway for a new enterprise of com­munication. 
It was texting before texting. It was social networking before social networking. It was revolutionary for its time. 
Last week, The New York Times reported AOL would be closing the doors to its West Coast offices, no­tifying roughly 40 employees they would be out of a job by the end of the month. 
These 40 employees worked on our beloved AIM. 
More employees will be cut over the coming weeks, unnamed executives told The New York Times. 
While this news isn’t exactly sur­prising, it still hurts to know some­thing I used so often as a wee lad will cease to exist in the upcoming months. 
Although the firing of these em­ployees won’t end AIM immediately, it does usher the end of updates and patches, which will eventually lead to the demise of the messaging applica­tion. 
While some may scoff at my dismay for the termination of the once-great instant messenger, if you think about it, AIM influenced much of the way we use the Internet today. 
Back before texting and smart­phones ruled the world, online instant messengers were the only way to quickly communicate with another person beside picking up the phone. 
AIM users could also customize their font size, color and background, giving them the first opportunity to have their own online persona. People were finally able to freely express who they were on the Internet. 

AIM also led to sites like My Buddy Profile, where users were able to cus­tomize a profile with activities, likes/ dislikes, quotes and anything else they wanted people to check out. 
Sound familiar? 
I’m not saying Mark Zuckerberg got the idea to create Facebook directly from AOL, but shortly after My Buddy Profile arose, Friendster became big. After Friendster there was MySpace. 
And we all know that after MySpace died, Facebook took over our lives. 
Unfortunately for AOL, AIM wasn’t able to evolve with the times and quickly became irrelevant. AIM has become nothing but a memory to for­mer users. 
Texting was the leading cause of the downfall. Why sit on a computer all day waiting for someone to sign on when a quick text could do the same thing? 
Also, other services such as Face­book chat and Gchat over Google’s Gmail provided the same type of ser­vice to a much broader band of users. 
Before it goes away forever, I en­courage everyone to sign into your AIM profile one last time. See if you can remember who all those crazy screennames belonged to and all the fun times you had chatting with them in 24-point Comic Sans font. 
Hell, if someone is actually online, send them an IM and see what hap­pens. 
While certainly outdated in this day and age, it’s sad to see something once so popular and widely used become discarded as nothing but a piece of technological history. 
As you sign onto Facebook or send someone a text message, remember that none of this would be possible without the existence of AOL Instant Messenger. 
Rest in Peace, AIM. 
This article first ran in the March 19 edition of The Daily Reveille, the daily publication serving Louisiana State University. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 


#LoveThee NotreDame 
March 7, Stanford Hall and Alumni competed for the men’s interhall hockey championship. Compton Arena was filled with 300 guys from Stanford Hall and Alumni. Vuvuzelas were blaring and Frosh-O chants were roaring. Heated shot after shot was fired at the Alumni defense, but each time the agile Alumni goalie snatched up the puck. Alumni had two quick break­away goals and things weren’t looking great for the Griffins. However, with continued determination, belief and maybe a little bit of karma, Stanford was able to come back from being down 2-0 with only four minutes left in the game to win 3-2 in overtime. For a more de­tailed account of the game, ask any Stanford Griffinite. 
But I’m not writing to gloat. In fact, I want to thank Alumni and their fans for creating such an electric at­mosphere. ESPN probably won’t be showing highlights of this game in the morning and I’m sure this game won’t be mentioned in the all-time greatest games of Notre Dame history. 
Tonight, though, will be another great night that will make my time here at Notre Dame priceless. I think a common misconception among students is that “making the most of the Notre Dame experience” entails getting decent grades during the week so that you can party until you drop on the weekends. But in reality, how many times in my life can I watch some of my closest friends, driven by nothing more than passion, pride and a love for the game, compete for a championship title? And all the while surrounded by fellow Stanford Griffins? These moments, the ones that we don’t read in the Notre Dame brochure, are the ones that I believe make my time at Notre Dame so memorable. 
And as I went to try and cram for my physio test in the morning (still with a pounding headache from the game), I knew I made another great decision in my col­legiate career. Congratulations to my boy Drew Vech­ell and the rest of the Stanford Hall Men’s Ice Hockey Championship Team! #LoveTheeNotreDame 
Matthew Almario 
junior Stanford Hall March 7 


UWIRE 

20 years of texting has changed the English language for the better 
“Lawl,” “jay kay,” “roffle” and “gee tee eff oh.” Sound familiar? 
It’s odd you’d have heard them at all, for each of these terms originated in print and for print’s sake. 
In fact, it makes almost no logical sense that we Clayton should actually pronounce Crockett any of these terms aloud, for each of them was in-The Daily vented to save energy for Reveille our fingers rather than our tongues. 
But, as the overwhelming majority of Eng­lish communication takes place in type, the language’s evolution is occurring at increas­ingly rapid rates. And it didn’t start with the computer or the cell phone. 
Languages are like species: They adapt to their environments, consume one another and, in time, evolve. 
So we must consider the environment in which the language resides: texts, tweets, websites, etc. In the case of progressing tech­nology, it’s a matter of form meeting function. 
As new technology arises, we need words to describe the previously unthinkable or unknown. An interesting application of this would be the origin of the word “cliché.” 
A French term, the word originated with the use of the printing press. Typically, words existed on printing stamps and would be ar­ranged to print the text of a page. 
However, certain phrases would be so com­mon that one could simply make a plate with the series of words rather than rearranging the words repeatedly. 
These common terms came to be known as “clichés,” named after the sound of the press as it stamped the phrase. 
In the case of texting, we notice the same progressions taking place today more rapidly than ever before. 
Consider the jump from texting on a phone with number pads rather than a QWERTY keyboard on a touchscreen. 
Texts were quick, shorthand messages rampant with abbreviations due to the inef­ficiency of typing on keypads. This difficulty gave rise to most of the cell-phone slang that exists today, like the “lol’s” and “jk’s.” 
With touchscreens and QWERTY keyboards, most of these are no longer necessary, and so the evolution of language continues. 
What bothers me are the complaints re­garding this progression. 
I still recall high school English teachers lamenting the use of “impact” or “gift” as verbs. “Text” has met the same end. 
But complaining about the rapid change of language is akin to every generation of adults complaining about the youth these days. When they complain about the unruli­ness and lack of manners, what they’re really noting is their disconnect from a changing culture. 
I find the evolution beautiful. It’s a sign of our progress as a species and world culture. 
Just like biological evolution, we can count on the most efficient words and phrases to win out. 
For instance, we use German words like “dopplegänger” and “poltergeist” because English lacked terms to describe these con­cepts. 
Fortunately for us, English dominates the electronic sphere. While we may complain about the use of terms like “noob” or “pwn,” non-English speakers have to deal with the fact that the vast majority of all Internet con­tent is in English. 
So, as technology advances, odds are all of the new language required to describe it will be in English, and even more interestingly, we can use technology as a barometer for how the evolution will take place. 
Generally speaking, Moore’s Law predicts technology will double in efficiency every two years, marking an exponential increase. 
Today’s generation of texters, posters and tweeters is only the beginning. 
Globalization, as has been said time and again, is inevitable, and undoubtedly a world language is on the way. What we may not have considered is the fact that this world language will be codified on the Internet. 
So next time someone criticizes Internet lingo as detrimental to the English language, know that linguistic evolution is inevitable. 
We should embrace it as such. 
This article first ran in the March 13 edition of The Daily Reveille, the daily publication serving Louisiana State University. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


Warm Weather Edition 
.e weather outside is unseasonbly warm and there are many ways to enjoy the Notre Dame campus when it is this nice out. Whether you have all the time in the world to lounge on the quad or if you’re sadly stuck inside writing a paper, this week’s Scene Selects will make sure you enjoy these ÿrst days of spring either way. 
By BRENNA WILLIAMS 
Scene Writer 

The Oreo celebrated its 100th birthday before spring break, and it’s about time it gets a little facelift. Since I started writing this column, I have been asking my friends about easy recipes they love. Several suggested I try Oreo-stuffed cookies, which sounded intriguing and delicious. I decided to try them using Double-Stuffed Oreos, adding another layer of stuffing. This week, try making the “Triple-Stuffed Cookie”: Double Stuffed Oreos inside a homemade chocolate chip cookie. 
As usual, I understand it is hard to make things from scratch in the dorms, so you can use Break-n-Bake chocolate chip cookies from the Huddle and start at Step 4 be­low. If you use the Break-n-Bake cookies, you can also find the Oreos in the Huddle, making this a super simple on-campus treat. As usual, I’ve given my tips and substi­tutions to make it even easier. 
Ingredients: 

-
 2 sticks softened butter 


-
 3/4 cup packed light brown sugar 


Tip: Use the Splenda blend of brown sugar. 
- 1 cup granulated sugar 

Tip: Use Splenda or another sugar substitute. 
- 2 large eggs 
Tip: Use egg whites. 
-
 1 tbsp vanilla extract - 3 1/2 cups flour 

-
 1 tsp salt 

-
 1 tsp baking soda 

-
 10 oz bag chocolate chips 



Tip: Use your favorite kind of chocolate. 
- 12 Oreo cookies, cut in half 

Tip: This recipe can be made with your favorite kind of Oreo: mint, regular, birthday, whatever! Also, take care when cutting since the cookie can easily crumble. 
Directions: 

1.
 Preheat oven to 350 degrees. 


2.
 Mix butter, sugars, eggs, and vanilla. 


Tip: This can be done by hand or with a mixer. 
3.
 In a separate bowl mix the flour, salt and baking soda.  Add the dry ingredients to wet ingredients along with chocolate chips until combined. 

4.
 Take a piece of the dough, flatten it into a circle in your hand, and place one of the Oreo halves in the middle. 

5.
 Do the same thing, covering the top of the Oreo. Seal the edges of the cookie dough together. 

6.
 Place on a baking sheet and bake cookies 9-13 minutes or until golden brown. 


Tip: Put the dough in the refrigerator between batches. If it’s cooler, it’ll spread less during baking. 
Serving suggestion: Cut the baked cookies in half because, even using half of an Oreo, the cookies are huge. Your friends will thank you for sparing them the sugar coma and your batch will go twice as far. 
This recipe will make 24 monster cookies or 48 reasonably-sized snacks. Happy birthday, Oreo! It’s better to celebrate late than never. 

berry, orange-mango or chocolate. 



Contact Brenna Williams at bwillia9@nd.edu 



sports or di˜erent games a.er the meal. 
Hit the links 
your Mulligan rules before you tee o˜. 
BRENNA WILLIAMS/The Observer 
LAUREN KALINOSKI  | Observer 


Tuesday, March 20, 2012 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 11 


Wading through the excessive amount of horrible 
.lms on Net.ix Watch Instantly can be daunting for 
any subscriber. To ease the process, Scene has gra­
ciously provided a list of the best Net.ix has to offer. 
1. “Best Food Ever” 
This six-episode miniseries on TLC went across the country 
to .nd the best places with the best food ever in six different 
categories sandwiches, bakeries, food carts, diners, cheese and barbeque. Instead of falling into the cliché trap of hav­ing a celebrity chef taste all the food, the show instead opts to simply let the chefs and customers display the food in all its glory, allowing for maximum airtime for the unbelievable feats of culinary excellence. Plus, John Goodman narrates the show, and if any person in the history of food looked and sounded 
like they knew where to get a good meal, it's John Goodman. 
2. “South Park” 
When Matt Stone and Trey Parker made their “Spirit of 
Christmas” short .lms in the early 1990s, they probably had 
no idea the cultural phenomenon the crude comedies would 
eventually become. But now, 20 years after “Jesus vs. Frosty,” the two men helm one of the funniest and most in.uential 
animated series in television history, and almost every episode 
can be found on Net.ix Watch Instantly. How many times can 
Kenny die and it still be funny? At least one more. 
3. “The Larry Sanders Show” 
Gary Shandling starred in two sitcoms that helped bring the genre into the modern era, the second being the critically-acclaimed HBO series “The Larry Sanders Show”. Shandling stars as late-night talk show host Larry Sanders, and the series follows the events leading up to each night's broadcast. Also starring Jeffrey Tambor as sidekick Hank “Hey Now” Kingsley and Rip Torn as the show's bombastic producer, “The Larry Sanders Show” is a great comedy for a sophisticated audi­ence. 
4. “Kissing Jessica Stein” 
With the return of “Mad Men” this weekend, Jon Hamm 
is already the talk of the town. With the success of his long­
time partner Jennifer Westfeldt's new indie .lm “Friends with Kids,” in which Hamm also stars, she should be too. If your 
interest has been piqued by the unique comedy of “Friends,” 
check out Westfeldt's feature writing debut, “Kissing Jessica Stein.” The .lm follows the unconventional story of two young, straight women who decide to try to .nd love with each other 
with uproarious results. The script is razor-sharp, equally hilari­ous and charming, presenting the truths of real-world relation­ships not often seen on screen. 
5. “Life in a Day” 
This remarkable documentary is truly collaborative in every sense of the word. A mass call went out for home videos taken on July 24, 2010 via YouTube. These clips were then painstak­ingly edited together to present as true a vision of life from the exciting to the everyday as possible. 4,500 hours of footage from 80,000 submissions from 192 different countries were whittled down into this 94-minute .lm. While “Life in a Day” is absolutely a traditional documentary, its unique embrace of new digital technology is a game-changer for the medium of .lm. 
LAUREN KALINOSKI  | Observer Graphic 

SPORTS AUTHORITY 

Hope for Marlins lies in new ballpark, roster 
The hope is that it works. 
Although, for the last 10 years, hoping is just about all the formerly Florida, now Miami Mar­lins have been doing. They hoped they could land Manny Ramirez and Albert Pujols. They hoped staying mediocre could draw a crowd. They hoped the Braves, Mets and Phillies would all fall at some point. 
And now, they are hoping a new uniform, a new name, a new manager, a new lineup, a new pitching staff and a gor­geous new ballpark can finally produce a winning team and an adoring audience. 
The Marlins have hovered around .500 recently, neither seriously posing a threat to make the playoffs nor bottom­ing out in the cellar. And star shortstop, er, third baseman Hanley Ramirez has a lot to do about it. 
The one-time National League batting champion struggled a year ago, hitting just .243 — over 60 points lower than his career aver­age — while driving in only 45 runs. 
And so came change. Enter Jose Reyes. 
The addition of Reyes, the oft-injured yet electric and exciting shortstop, forced Ramirez to move to third base and ensured one of the speedi­est and talented left infields in recent memory. Reyes was even viewed as a consolation prize after Miami failed to land Pujols. 
The top third of the Marlins lineup now looks like this: Reyes, Emilio Bonifacio and Ramirez. Each one of them has the ability to wreak havoc on the base paths. Not to mention they are protected by sluggers Logan Morrison and Giancarlo (formerly Mike) Stanton. 
Maybe their bats still can’t compete with Atlanta’s or Phil­adelphia’s pitching but they are much closer than before with just one addition. 
And then the arms began to arrive. Enter Mark Buehrle, Heath Bell and Carlos Zam­brano. 

Buehrle was added to solidify an already decent rotation anchored by flame-throwing right-hander Josh Johnson and the steady Ricky Nolasco. The longtime White Sox lefty should fit in nicely into the Marlins staff — even if his 14-million dollar salary is not worth it. 
Bell, an All-Star closer with San Diego, is supposed to add depth to Miami’s bullpen that ranked in the top 10 in Major League Baseball in most cat­egories. While that was with stud reliever Leo Nunez (now known by his real name Juan Carlos Oviedo), the rest of the middle-relief and set-up men should be just fine with Bell at the back end. 
The always frugal and never free-wheeling Marlins were suddenly a big-time spender in the league. There are now six Marlins on the roster making over seven million dollars . four are new additions. 
Zambrano’s success with the Marlins hinges on just how well fellow Latin spark-plug manager Ozzie Guillen can control him. 
Guillen fits in with Miami. Guillen fits in with the Mar­lins. Or so it seems. 
His loud firecracker of a personality and Hispanic background are perfect for the South Florida city home to LeBron James and Dwyane Wade. His colorful style plays right into the glitzy, glamor­ous nature of Miami. 
And so does the Marlins’ new ballpark. 
On the outside, it is majes­tic, white and silver sur­rounded by palm trees and the unique Little Havana community. A simple drive around the new park leaves you gawking at the size of the new retractable roof while almost veering onto the other side of the road (but for real, this happened). 
So will it work? 
I can only hope. 
Contact Matthew DeFranks at mdefrank@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Club 
continued from page 13 
to counter the three more goals UC Davis scored and the Irish finished the game with a 9-5 loss. 
The University of Notre Dame fought back after their loss to Davis against Chico State on Sunday. In a close game, the Irish secured a win over Chico State, 8-7. Se­nior Maisie O’Malley led the offense with four goals and five ejections drawn. Erin Gibson and Rachael Glenis­ter added two each as well for the Irish. 
In their last game of the tournament, the Irish played a close game against No. 9 Berkeley. Despite early goals from Rachael Glenis­ter and Kasia Ahern, Berke­ley scored four goals of their own to open a lead of 4-2. Freshmen Kathleen Schia­venza scored two goals and Maisie O’Malley scored one in the second quarter to de­crease Cal Berkeley’s lead by one to make the score 6-5 at the half. Despite two more goals from O’Malley, and one each from Ahern and Gibson, Berkeley pulled ahead fur­ther in the second half and the Irish lost 12-9. 
Ultimate (women) 
The Notre Dame Women’s Ultimate Club traveled to Tallahassee, Fla. and States­boro, Ga. for two of the spring’s premier Ultimate Frisbee tournaments: Tally Classic and College South­erns. 
At Tally Classic, Notre Dame A, led by senior cap­tains Victoria Hadlock and Ashley Satterlee, came out strong in their second tour­nament of the season, fin­ishing second overall. The team opened up pool play on Saturday with commanding wins against Florida State B, Florida B, Winona State and Rhode Island, allowing their opponents to score only four points all day. 
Notre Dame A then start­ed off Sunday by shutting out Auburn 13-0. Next in the semifinal matchup, ju­niors Kelsey Taylor and Al­lie Hawkins broke Edin­boro’s zone defense to win the game 13-4 to head to the championship game against host Florida State. After falling behind early, Notre Dame kept up in the second half, but in the end fell 6-12, clutching second place in the tournament. 
Notre Dame A then com­peted with 23 other teams at their toughest tournament yet this year, finishing sixth at College Southerns in Geor­gia.  Although they came out slow on Saturday morning, Notre Dame A utilized their patience and accurate throws to beat Virginia Tech 13-6. Carrying this energy into their next two games, Notre Dame destroyed Florida B, Florida State B and Cincinnati, allow­ing five points over the course of the three games. However, the team was unable to carry that energy into its last pool play game against the future tournament champions, Tufts, as they lost 13-3. 
In the championship brack­et Sunday, Notre Dame A lost a hard-fought game to Ohio State, the tournament runner-ups. However, the team was able to rally its energy to win against Florida, 10-7. 
The Notre Dame B team, lead by junior captains Dev­lin Lynch and Elizabeth Vil­lafuerte, also came out strong in Tallahassee. Although they lost their opening games against Edinboro and future tournament champions, Flori­da State, the B team continued to develop their skills against both man and zone defense. They finished pool play, fall­ing to LSU and Alabama, 5-13 and 4-13. 
At College Southerns, Notre Dame B faced a tough pool on Saturday, falling to top teams such as Dartmouth and Flori­da. However, the team saw its first win Sunday with a com­manding 13-8 win against Florida State B, avenging their previous loss to them. 
Ultimate (men) 
Both the Notre Dame Men’s Ultimate A and B Teams trav­elled south over mid-semester break to compete in two tour­naments with resounding suc­cess for both squads. The A team finished 5th in both the Tally Classic in Tallahassee, Fla., and College Southerns in Statesboro, Ga., with a com­bined 10-3 record between the two events. The B Team fin­ished 7th in Division 2 at Tally Classic and T-33 at Southerns with a combined 8-5 record. In both tournaments, Notre Dame A delivered strong per­formances in pool play, win­ning both of their pools. 
The only loss either Sat­urday came at the hands of Western Michigan at Tally af­ter the pool had been clinched. The team was challenged in nearly all of their games, how­ever as only the first game of the trip, a 13-5 win over Wes­leyan was the only blowout. Strong Saturday performances came from sophomore Conor Hanney whose defense against top seed Florida State helped earn Notre Dame the victory. 
At Southerns, bracket play began with a quarterfinal loss at the hands of Texas A&M. Notre Dame followed with strong wins over Wesleyan and Georgia Southern to take fifth. After pool play at South­erns, Notre Dame faced a dif­ficult crossover game against rival Indiana. Eager to estab­lish regional dominance, the Irish played what was prob­ably their finest game of the trip with a 15-11 win over IU with Notre Dame scoring the last five points of the game. 
Sunday began with a win over Princeton in which se­niors James Denue and Thomas Kenealy, alongside juniors Zack Woodruff, Jona­than Koch and Dan Bolivar all played exceptionally well to create another four point run late in the second half to seal a win. The trip ended with a 15-9 loss at the hands of even­tual champion Ohio State in the quarterfinals. 
The B team had their best tournament of the year at Southerns, compiling a 5-2 re­cord on the weekend. Captains Jordan Lange and Andrew Romero led the team strongly all weekend. After finishing 3rd in their pool, bracket play began with a game against hated rival Southern Polytech­nic State University. The Irish took command early and won 15-10 with strong performanc­es by seniors Justin Cullen and Alex Clark and freshman Pe­ter Hall and Steven Zurawski. Notre Dame B concluded their trip with another win over St. Olaf’s B to finish the trip. Both teams will return to ac­tion in two weeks at the Chi­cago Invite in Naperville, Ill., against some of the Midwest’s top competition. 
Men’s Rugby 
“Leaps and bounds” were the words used by Coach O’Leary after the game against Life University on Saturday, won by the Irish, 80-7. 
Against a very good Life squad, under the lights, and in front of a large crowd of rugby enthusiasts in Charlotte, N.C., the Irish showed they had all the fight in them. Possession was fairly one-sided, and al­though the tackling was there for the Irish, it eventually gave way to the pressure of the Life attack. 
Their next test will be against a tough Texas A&M squad down in College Station, Tex. 
The team will be prepar­ing all week this week during their spring break. The team has decided to stay in South Bend to focus on the basics and to work on the game plan for the Aggies. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The 
Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

FOR SALE  FOR RENT  
2002 Audi A4 1.8T quattro. Excellent condition. 85,000 mi. $8,000. 574-273-8683  House for rent. 3BR $600 per bedroom. Utilities included. 506 No ND Ave. Call 574-272-2940  
Faculty or Grad Students Only. Immac 3br with large rec room, garage, walk to campus. $1200/mo + utilities 847-420-7589  

WANTED  PERSONAL  If you used Yaz/Yazmin/Ocella birth control pills or a NuvaRing Vaginal Ring Contraceptive between 2001  A Baby is a Blessing: Adoption We’re both educators who value learning, family and our happy 8  
and the present and developed  yr marriage. We’ll give your child  
blood clots, suffered a stroke, heart  a happy home, a stay-at-home  
SUMMER CAMP POSITIONS: Make  UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don’t  attack or required gall bladder  mom and a large, devoted Catholic  
a difference in the life of a child!  go it alone. Notre Dame has many  removal, you may be entitled  family (9 cousins and growing!). We  
Summer therapy camp for children  resources in place to assist you.  to compensation. Call Attorney  very much look forward to talking  
with physical disabilities. Located  If you or someone you love needs  Charles Johnson, 1-800-535-5727.  to you. Call Kim & Robert (855)  
on the shores of Lake Superior in  confidential support orassistance,  788-2810.  
Big Bay, MI. Positions available for  please call Sr. Sue Dunn at  
Counselors, Waterfront, Instructors  1-7819. For more information,  
for Nature/Arts & Crafts/Recreation,  visit ND’s website at: http://  
Nurses, Therapists, Food Service,  pregnancysupport@nd.edu  
and Auxiliary. Must be enthusiastic,  
responsible, and love children. June  
10 through August 5. $1800 plus  
room & board, and the experience  
of a lifetime provided. Download  
application: www.baycliff.org. For  
more information call or e-mail: (906)  
345-9314 or baycliff@baycliff.org.  
Email baycliff@baycliff.org  

CLUB SPORTS 



Equestrian team sweeps regionals, finishes season third 
Small cycling team outperforms Division II opponents, women’s water polo goes to sudden death against Wheaton 
Special to The Observer 
This past weekend the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Eques­trian Team travelled to Madison, Wis., for the final show of the sea­son and the regional finals.  The open fences riders kicked off the day with a clean sweep of all three classes, with Katie Sylva, Katie Walsh and Amy Giordano claim­ing first place in their respective classes, and Mia Genereux com­ing in a very strong second place in her section. 
In the intermediate fences classes, senior riders Tori Scheid and Sarah Lusher put in qual­ity trips to earn third and fourth places. Senior Christine Martin garnered the fifth place honors in the first section of novice fences, with fellow senior Amanda Leon earning fourth place in the second section with a strong round.  The Irish had another strong showing in the open flat class with Sylva and Walsh each earning second, Scheid and Giordano placing fifth and Genereux earning sixth. 
Intermediate flat riders Stepha­nie Nearhos and Mo McQuillian showed expert form on their way to earning third and first places, respectively. Junior Patty Walsh put in an excellent ride in novice flat to finish up with third place and Caitlin Harris rode to the second place honors. In the walk trot canter classes, Rebecca Bul­lis and Shannon Noonan showed great form to each earn fourth place in their sections to wrap up the day. 
Both Sylva and Walsh advanced to the four person ride off for high point rider, and Walsh ended up reserve high point rider for the day. The team placed third over­all behind UW-Madison and UW-Lacrosse, with Genereux, Walsh and Nearhos qualifying for re­gionals the next day. 
On Sunday at the regional fi­nals, the Irish started off the day with a strong showing in the open fences.  Genereux claimed first place honors, with Walsh follow­ing right behind in second place. In the novice fences class both Scheid and Lusher executed solid trips against tough competition. In the intermediate flat class, Scheid and Nearhos displayed excellent technique to earn re­spective sixth and second places. Finally, in the walk trot canter class, Harris showed great form and earned the second place hon­ors to finish out the weekend. 
The team finished third over­all for the season with Walsh and Genereux earning the high-point and reserve high-point rider sea­son honors. Genereux, Harris, Nearhos and Walsh will continue on to zone finals in Marion, Ind. 
Cycling 
For St. Patrick’s Day weekend the Notre Dame Cycling Team traveled to the emerald pastures of St. Charles, Mo., for their second race weekend of the road-racing season. Lindenwood University hosted the inaugural MWCCC/ NCCCC Challenge where riders from both the Midwest Collegiate Cycling Conference and the North Central Collegiate Cycling Confer­ence competed. 
Saturday started early with the Men’s Category B Team Time Trial. The Notre Dame team con­sisted of Joshua Corcoran, David Pratt, John Pratt and Andrew O’Donnell.  The 13-mile “lollipop” course started out flat and fast but soon unveiled its bitter side as the riders were faced with a twisty Category 5 climb. The climb proved challenging, but the team was able to successfully navigate the course to a victory with a time of 30:29 besting the next team by 0:45. 
The road race started later that morning, with the course follow­ing a 20-mile loop which consisted of two major climbs. Carolyn Mc-Cann bested the hills and rolled to a commendable 17th place in the Women’s C field. The field of 50-plus men tackled two laps of the course, which saw a finish­ing group of seven riders break away from the rest of the field. In his first race of the season Corco­ran finished 18th with teammate Pratt following a close 24th. With dark clouds rolling into the area the Men’s A and B races started. Less than two miles into the race lightning began to strike and of­ficials called the race. 
Sunday started with the Men’s C criterium. Again, Joshua Corco­ran and David Pratt contested with a large field of 46 riders.. Pratt finished a career best 11th with Corcoran on his tail at 13th. McCann again took it to the wom­en’s field. McCann was able to put in a tremendous effort to claw back into the lead group and hold on for 17th. With fresh legs from an abridged road race Pratt and Andrew O’Donnell were poised to put a good effort in the Men’s B criterium. With 22 minutes to go, O’Donnell launched from the pack and started his solo attack. Pratt executed perfect team tac­tics as he allowed only a small chase group of four riders off the front in pursuit of O’Donnell. With his teammate up the road Pratt was able to hang in the front of the main pack and even launched his own attack with less than two kilometers to go. The field was unresponsive as he cruised to a solo second place. Douglas Ansel represented Notre Dame in the Men’s A criterium. Ansel made it into a lead group of 10 riders that formed with 20 minutes to go in the 60-minute race. Realiz­ing that the break would not stay away, Ansel wisely returned to the field to conserve his energy, which he used to finish 18th in a field loaded with firepower. 
As the team loaded their ve­hicles for the long drive back to South Bend they were summoned to the officiating tent There they were promptly informed that small team of only six riders scored more points than any oth­er Division II team that weekend and were presented with the first ever MWCCC/NCCCC Challenge Division II Trophy. 
Women’s Water Polo 
After a comeback that re­sulted in overtime and sudden death, the Irish lost to Wheaton College 11-10. Trailing 8-6 after the third quarter, junior Victoria Anglin spearheaded a comeback by scoring three goals in the fourth quarter. Tied at 9-9, the Irish went into an overtime of two three-min­ute quarters. Wheaton scored the first goal of overtime, but senior Maisie O’Malley responded with her fourth goal of the game to keep the Irish tied. 
Overtime ended with a score 
Gumpf 
continued from page 15 
ry, as the Irish bats were held in check. Notre Dame beat Iowa 2-0 before falling 2-1 to No. 17 Michigan. 
Winter went the distance against Iowa (10-13) and finished with a two-hit shutout. The soph­omore, who has six complete games and a 2.22 ERA, had a perfect game through three and two-thirds innings before giving up a single. 
“[Winter] has been our go-to pitcher this whole year,” Gumpf said. “I think she just keeps get­ting better and better … She’s definitely composed. She does a nice job of keeping us in ball games and that’s all we expect from our pitchers — to keep us in games and give us a chance – and Laura has done a great job of putting us in that position.” 
With Winter on top of her game, her battery-mate, junior catcher Amy Buntin, provided all the necessary offense. Buntin drove in two runs with a single up the middle in the third inning and the Irish held on for the win. 
Against Michigan (17-9), Bun-tin drove a single to right field to drive in a run and give the Irish a 1-0 lead in the first inning. 
The Wolverines tied the game in the bottom of the second and the score remained knotted at one until the final frame as O’Donnell kept the Michigan of­fense at bay. The right-hander forced nine groundouts while scattering seven hits. 
The Wolverines managed to break through in the bottom of of 10-10, so the game proceeded with sudden death, where Whea­ton scored on a quick shot outside of 5-meters off of a foul to win the game 11-10. 
The University of Notre Dame began their Cali­fornia competition with a strong 10-2 win against Cal Tech. The Irish saw scoring from many players. Erin Gibson, Adi Austgen, and Ellen Dowling added 2 goals each and Maisie O’Malley, Kasia Ahern, and Rachael Glenister each added one. 
Notre Dame began the Foothill College Invita­tional with a 12-1 victory over Dartmouth. Seniors Erin Gib­son and Maisie O’Malley scored four and three goals respectively while Rachael Glenister, Colleen Middleton, Ellen Dowl­ing, Kasia Ahern and Vic­toria Anglin each added one. On the other side of the pool, Gibson, Middleton, and Ahern helped protect the net defensively with four steals each. 
In their second game of the tournament, the No. 11 Irish faced the No. 6 UC Davis “A” team. Af­ter the first quarter, the Irish trailed 1-0. Adapting offensively, Maisie O’Malley, Kasia Ahern and Victoria Anglin each scored in the second quarter to take the lead 3-2 at the half. In the third quarter, sophomore Rachael Glenister added one goal, but UC Davis scored four of their own to take the lead 5-4 go­ing into the fourth quar­ter. Freshman Kathleen Schiavenza tallied a goal in the fourth  quarter, but  it  wasn’t  enough 


see CLUB/page 12 
the seventh as sophomore in­fielder Taylor Hasselbach ripped a walk-off single for the win. 
The Irish were back on the field Friday against No. 3 Wash­ington. The Huskies (26-1) held a 1-0 lead after three innings but opened things up with three runs in each of the next two frames. 
Notre Dame did manage to score twice in the sixth inning after hits from Buntin and se­nior infielder Dani Miller were complemented by Washington miscues, but it was too late. 
The Irish were scheduled to take on No. 5 Arizona State on Saturday morning, but the game was cancelled due to severe rain. 
The Irish did learn from go­ing up against top competition in Michigan and Washington, and Gumpf said she hopes to use that experience moving forward. 
“I think it’s crazy if we don’t take something from every game we play,” Gumpf said. We took something beneficial from all eight games we had over spring break. I believe the Michigan and Washington games make us a better team. We got to face their pitching and their hitters, which is great because it shows us our weaknesses and what we need to work on.” 
Earlier during spring break, Notre Dame beat Oregon State and Loyola Marymount and lost to Charleston Southern and UNLV at the Long Beach State Invite. 
The Irish are back in action Saturday when they travel to Washington, D.C. to open up Big East play against Georgetown. 

Contact Mike Monaco at jmonaco@nd.edu 


BASEBALL 

Home opener provides freshman pitcher first start 
By BRENDAN BELL 
Sports Writer 
Transitioning from the hard­wood to the baseball diamond, freshman right-handed pitcher Pat Connaughton will take the mound for the first time in his Notre Dame baseball career Tuesday against Eastern Michi­gan.  It will also be the home opener for the Irish (10-7), after coming off a spring break trip where the team traveled to Baton Rouge, La., and San Antonio. 
“We’re excited for him to get out there,” senior captain and shortstop Tommy Chase said. “I haven’t seen Pat throw, but he’s been in the bullpen once a week getting ready.  He has a pitch count that is somewhat low be­cause he hasn’t been throwing a whole lot, but hopefully he can get his feet wet, have some suc­cess and we can build off that. ” 
Notre Dame will be carry­ing momentum from its spring trip, where it compiled a 5-3 re­cord. The Irish started the trip by splitting a two-game series against Michigan. In the first game on March 10, senior right-handed pitcher Will Hudgins threw a gem, going eight score­less innings while striking out 11 batters.  In the seventh inning, sophomore first baseman Trey Mancini blasted a two-run shot to left field, which was all the Irish needed to win. Notre Dame fell to Michigan (9-11on March 11, but rebounded with a 7-1 win against No. 11 LSU later in the day. 
“I think it was a successful trip and the win against LSU was a big boost for our confidence,” Chase said. “It helped us know that we can compete with some of the best in the country. We have a great chance to do some special things. We realize our goal is to win the Big East and then go to Regionals.” 
Hudgins continued his domi­nance on the mound in his next performance later in the week against Kansas on Friday, going 
7.2 scoreless innings and improv­ing his record to 3-1 for the year. Hudgins has now gone 17 innings without allowing a run. 
“Will has been phenomenal and he deserves every bit of the success he’s having,” Chase said. “ He is such a great example and is a huge leader on and off the field. He is and will continue to be the backbone of the rotation because he has a great work ethic.” 
After the win, Notre Dame reached the championship of the Irish Baseball Classic, but fell in back-to-back games against Indi­ana State. The first game went to ten innings before Indiana State (16-4) rallied to win 6-4 on Sat­urday. In the second matchup the Sycamores held the Irish to only one run in a 6-1 victory Sun­day.  Despite the final two games, there were many signs of great potential. 
“We realized during the trip that we have a lot of work to do, but that we also have a great amount of talent,” Chase said. “Our entire staff looked strong and (sophomore right-hander) Sean Fitzgerald pitched really well against LSU.” 
Now the team will look to maintain momentum when they come back to Frank Eck Stadium on Tuesday and face Eastern Michigan (6-12).  The Irish have accumulated a 13-4-1 record in opening games at Frank Eck Sta­dium, and will look to add to the win column come Tuesday. 
“We’re so excited to get back home especially as we have great weather to play in,” Chase said. “It is great to come in and estab­lish our home field as a place to be reckoned with.” 
Among the highlights of Tues­day’s game is the debut for freshman dual-sport athlete Pat Connaughton. With the NCAA basketball tournament over, the highly recruited pitcher is ready to get back on the mound. Con­naughton is ranked No. 29 in the freshmen class by Baseball America, and the No. 4 prospect in the entire Big East conference. 
“He has a ton of talent and a ton of upside and he will be an instrumental part of our team,” Chase said. 
Between a home opener and a rookie sensation’s first start, 


SMC TENNIS 

Belles start season with an strong performance in Orlando 
By ISAAC LORTON 
Sports Writer 
The Belles not only got some extra sun on their trip to Orlando, but also gained some valuable ex­perience in match play. Although its match against St. Francis was cancelled due to rain, Saint Mary’s (6-2) went 4-1 in its match­es against teams from across the country. 
On Monday the Belles took com­plete control, defeating Wisconsin Lutheran 9-0 in straight sets in singles match­es and in dou­bles won 8-3, 8-6 and 8-1 re­


spectively. 

“For a young team coming 
The Belles Elliot earning 
off a decisive loss the 
tested their en-the only win at 
durance March girls did extremely well.” No. 2 doubles. 13 as they “[St. Law-competed in a Dale Campbell rence] really doubleheader. dominated us,” 
Belles coach 
and claiming the victory for Saint laxation and rest as well. Mary’s. “This trip also built team 
“Tuesday tested our resilience,” chemistry and we had some fun,” Campbell said. “A double header Campbell said. “We went to Sea is a lot to handle and our young team proved themselves. As for the St. Bonaventure [match], it was a huge win. Shannon came through when we needed her. We have lost to them the past two years and really wanted a win this time.” 
After a day of rest, the Belles got back to work with another set of doubleheaders. They lost to St. Lawrence 8-1 early in the day, with freshman Kay­le Sexton and 
Building on a strong start, the Belles swept their next opponent, Howard Payne, in straight sets in singles and 8-5, 8-3 and 8-1 in doubles.
 “It was good to get out to a strong start,” Saint Mary’s coach Dale Campbell said. “It built up our confidence and gave us mo­mentum.” 
The second match against St. Bonaventure on Tuesday proved to be more of a struggle for the Belles. They started well by win­ning all three doubles matches, but had trouble in their singles matches. Saint Mary’s only won two of the six singles matche 
— but that was all it needed. At the No. 5 spot, freshman Audrey Kiefer won her match 6-3, 6-0, leaving the outcome up to fresh­man Shannon Elliot. Playing in the No. 3 spot, Elliot won the first set 6-3, but dropped the second set 6-2. Elliot eventually came out on top, winning the third set 6-4 Campbell said. 
“They had 
great ground 
strokes up and 
down the line­up. They showed us what we can do and we can learn from how they played.” 
The Belles responded with a 7-2 win over Illinois Wesleyan later on Thursday. 
“It was promising to see us bounce back like that,” Campbell said. “For a young team coming off a decisive loss the girls did ex­tremely well.” 
Over the week, Campbell mixed up the lineup, giving non-starters match experience and said he liked what he saw. 
“We moved some players around and let them get some match playing time,” Campbell said. “As of now there will be no lineup changes moving forward, but at practice we are going to start letting players challenge for a spot to start.” 
Campbell said the trip was not only great for training, but for re-there is a lot of excitement sur­rounding the upcoming game. 
“It is always an honor to go out to the field, and its an incredible feeling being able to play at Notre Dame,” Chase said. 
Notre Dame will face Eastern Michigan at Frank Eck Stadium Tuesday with first pitch at 5:35 p.m. 
Contact Brendan Bell at bbell2@nd.edu 
World one day and the beach an­other on our days off.” 
The Belles will have to focus af­ter their return home, as they will take on undefeated Indiana Wes­leyan at 4 p.m. today. 


Contact Isaac Lorton at ilorton@nd.edu 

MEN’S TENNIS 

Notre Dame drops match against Big East opponent 
By PETER STEINER 
Sports Writer 
Playing outdoors in the hot, humid Florida weather, the Irish suffered a narrow defeat in Sat­urday’s match at the hands of Big East opponent South Florida, 4-3. 
After dropping the doubles point, the Irish (12-7) were not able to win four of the six singles matches needed to take home the overall victory. 
The Irish entered the match with high expectations, but en­countered challenges — both mental and physical — that pre­vented them from playing at their highest level, Irish coach Bobby Bayliss said. 
“In a couple of cases, I don’t think our guys responded well to some adversity — a little bit of a hostile crowd and a tough situa­tion,” Bayliss said. “For us going down to Tampa, it was about 88 degrees in the match with some humidity and we hadn’t faced a lot of that obviously. 
“I think that put us in a situa­tion where we really had to focus and concentrate and I think that a couple of our guys just came up a little bit short in that department on that day.  We certainly went into the match expecting to win or to have a good chance to win.” 
The day started out poorly for the Irish when both the No. 1 and No. 2 doubles teams fell 8-5 to the Bulls (5-11).  According to Bayliss, the Irish have played well in dou­bles lately and the early 1-0 deficit was yet another obstacle. 
“In my mind, losing the doubles point was pretty big,” Bayliss said. “We’ve done much better in dou­bles than South Florida had up to that point. I think we went in ex­pecting to win the doubles point and to be in a 1-0 position starting the singles.” 
Despite the struggles, senior Casey Watt continued his strong play at No. 1 singles with a straight set victory (7-5, 6-3) over South Florida senior Wael Kilani. The victory gives Watt his fifth win in his last six matches. 
“I thought Casey Watt played a great match,” Bayliss said. “He really gave a great effort and I thought he hit enough big shots and played within himself to wear Kilani out. I thought Casey deserved a lot of credit for that match.” 
The Irish also received victo­ries from sophomore Billy Pecor and senior Niall Fitzgerald at No. 4 and No. 5 singles, respec­tively.  But three-set losses from sophomore Greg Andrews at No. 2 singles and senior Sam Keeton at No. 3 singles proved to be Notre Dame’s undoing. 
“In all the matches that we lost, I believe we were capable of win­ning,” Bayliss said. “Certainly there were disappointments.  I think if played that match again with the same people, and we may run into them again in the Big East tournament, I would expect to win some close ones we lost.” Tennis Pavilion. 


The Irish will take the upcom­ing weekend off before they face Contact Peter Steiner at Ball State on Mar. 31 at the Eck psteiner@nd.edu 
WOMEN’S LACROSSE 

Irish sweep spring break roadtrip, defeat ranked competition 
By JOSEPH MONARDO Fighting Irish played the part of Sports Writer battle-tested road warriors. No. 7 Notre Dame captured a 14-11 road In their first three true road win at Boston University on March games of the season — all com-10 before defeating Yale on March ing in a week-long stretch — the 13, 15-9, and No. 16 Cornell on 

Saturday in Florida, 17-13. 
Senior attacker Maggie Tama­sitis kicked off the spring break road swing at BU (3-4) with ca-reer-high marks in goals (five) and total points (nine) in a game. Tamasitis’ four assists in the game launched her into the top spot on the program’s all-time assists list with 107, surpassing the previous record of 106 set by attacker Gina Scioscia in 2010. 
“It goes without being said that she is such an integral part of our team, but the beauty is that every­one around her makes her look so good,” Irish coach Christine Halfpenny said. “When she puts the ball in other players’ sticks they finish for her … It is a credit to Maggie, it is a credit to how re­silient she is in a game and it is a credit to the teammates around her that make her look so good.” 
After jumping out to an 8-0 lead on Boston, the Irish carried a 10-4 advantage into halftime before finding themselves clinging to a 13-11 lead with under four min­utes remaining. Sophomore mid­field/attacker Lindsay Powell then completed her hat trick with 1:04 left to play to secure the win for Notre Dame. 
The Irish had a quick turn­around for their next game, travel-ling down the East Coast to Delray Beach, Fla., for a Tuesday match-up against Yale (2-3). Notre Dame showed no weariness though, and scored the first 10 goals of the game before entering the break up 10-2. Junior midfielder Jenny Granger scored the game’s first two goals and assisted on the third and sophomore attacker Lauren Sullivan recorded the first three goals of her career for a hat trick. Freshman goalkeeper Allie Murray received playing time in relief of junior goalkeeper Ellie Hilling for the first time this sea­son in Notre Dame’s 15-9 win. 
For their third and final road contest of the week, the Irish faced off with No. 16 Cornell (5-1) at the Disney Wide World of Sports Com­plex in Orlando, Fla. Nine Irish players scored in the game and junior attacker Jaimie Morrison, senior midfielder/defense Megan Sullivan and Powell all recorded hat tricks. Notre Dame battled to a 12-6 halftime lead before the Big Red outscored the Irish 7-5 in the second half. Hilling recorded double-digit saves for the third time this season in Notre Dame’s 17-13 win. 
In the three games against Bos­ton, Yale and Cornell, the Irish accumulated a first-half scoring margin of plus-20, but suffered a second-half scoring deficit of mi­nus-seven. Halfpenny attributes her team’s struggles in the second half to an inability to win the ball-control battle. 
“[The draw control] is an area that we have just not quite figured out,” she said. “We are working through about four consistent op­tions that we have there on the draw.  If you look at the draw count in the second half, the draw count has been indicative of what the score is. We have to do a bet­ter job of possessing the ball off of the draw so that we give ourselves an opportunity to match the first half.” 
For the season, the Irish are minus-one in draw controls in the first half and minus-16 in draw controls in the second half. This disparity corresponds to a goal differential of plus-32 in the first half of all games and only plus-three in the second half of all games. 
Still, Halfpenny said she has seen improvement in her team’s ability to win the draw control. 
“We come away with realistic excitement about where we are at this point in the season, but also a realistic understanding that there is still a lot to improve,” she said. “We still have 10 more games to go and hopefully we will continue to focus on one game on a time to ensure that we have more oppor­tunities than just the 10 that are in our regular season.” 


Contact Joseph Monardo at jmonardo@nd.edu 
ND SOFTBALL 

Gumpf proud of strong road split 
By MIKE MONACO 
Sports Writer 
The Irish closed out a nine-game West Coast road trip with a 2-2 split at the Judi Garman Classic in Fullerton, Calif. 
Notre Dame (11-10) got off to a hot start against Cal State Ful­lerton on Wednesday. The of­fense exploded with 12 runs in the first three innings, including five home runs from five differ­ent players. The Irish carried that momentum to a 16-0 victory in five innings. The offensive out­burst represented the most runs scored by the Irish since 2009. 
“I think we had some mo­mentum coming off the [March 13th] game against Loyola Mary-mount,” Irish coach Deanna Gumpf said. “Our team did a great job finishing strong in that game and it gave us the momen­tum against Cal State Fullerton. We jumped on them early and kept attacking.” 
The Irish pitching was also on top of its game, as the trio of sophomore Laura Winter and juniors Brittany O’Donnell and Jackie Bowe combined for the two-hit shutout. Gumpf said she was especially pleased with the performance of her pitchers con­sidering the nature of the game. 
“When you come out that fast offensively it’s tough to stay fo­cused,” Gumpf said. “Our pitch­ing staff continued to let our of­fense take control of the game and it paid off. It was nice to get all three pitchers in and get them some good innings.” 
Thursday was a different sto 
see GUMPF/page 13 

“That was the beginning of 
Jackson 
the little losing streak we had,” 
Grant 

Jackson said. “I think it was continued from page 20 how that loss came into play. 
continued from page 20 

My frustration level peaked out Lee scored the lone goal for at that point too by criticizing 
hurts to lose on a call like Notre Dame as Michigan red-the officiating.” 
that — I mean, we didn’t lose shirt senior goaltender Shaun After that game, the Irish 
on that call, but it hurts to Hunwick stopped 37 Irish shots. finished the season 4-9, drop-
end the game like that.” Wolverines junior forward ping from No. 3 in the nation to 
Ten seconds before the Chris Brown scored the game-No. 18. 
controversial call, Grant at-winner for Michigan when he “I think we hit the low at the 
tempted a deep 3-pointer snuck a quick wrist shot past wrong time,” Irish senior de­
out of a timeout. Xavier se-Summerhays to give his team a fenseman Sean Lorenz said. 
nior guard Tu Holloway had 1-0 series lead. “We peaked for big games and 
given the Musketeers (23-12, On Saturday night, Notre then we bottomed out at inop­
10-6 Atlantic 10) a one-point Dame fell behind 3-0 before portune times and that was at 
lead with 22 seconds left off Irish freshman forward Peter the end of the season.” 
a running floater over Irish Schneider scored to cut the The Irish return a strong 
junior forward Jack Cooley. Michigan lead to two. core of sophomores next sea-
After a Notre Dame timeout, Hunwick notched 25 saves in son, led by Lee, Summerhays 
Grant received the inbounds the series-clinching win for the and center T.J. Tynan. Jackson 
pass from senior forward Wolverines while Summerhays also praised Mario Lucia, Ste-
Scott Martin, went around a had 22. Summerhays started ven Fogarty, Thomas DiPauli, 
Cooley screen and heaved the five of the final six games for Andy Ryan and Sam Herr as in-
ball toward the rim looking the Irish and could have so-coming freshmen able to make 
for a two-point Irish lead. lidified a starting position next an immediate impact. 
“[The play] was just use a season. “The talent level is strong 
ball screen, but they were in “Steve Summerhays made a and should be even better with 
the zone,” Grant said. “I see big statement about wanting to the incoming freshman next 
Tu Holloway just sitting be-be the No. 1 guy here,” Jackson year,” Jackson said. “There 
hind it, and it was an open said. “I think that that’s one of was some positives at the end 
look. And usually I knock it the things that became more of the year.” 
down, so I took it.” evident in the second half of Next year will mark the final 
Indeed, Grant does usually the season. It’s always a com-season for Notre Dame in the 
knock the shot down, fin-petition but Steven made a big CCHA. The Irish will move to 
ishing the game 3-of-6 from step.” Hockey East in 2013. 
deep on his way to 11 points The Irish started the season “Our conference is going to 
with seven assists in 40 min-hot, including an 11-game un-be just as tough or tougher next 
utes. Cooley led the Irish beaten streak and a win over year by the looks of it,” Jackson 
(22-12, 13-7 Big East) with of-15 shooting. All-American. No. 1 Boston College. After en-said. “But that’s what makes it 
19 points on 8-of-8 shooting “You were waiting for it to “After a while it becomes during a brief four-game losing fun and yet challenging.” 
along with seven rebounds. happen,” Irish coach Mike just another big game,” Hol­streak, Notre Dame rebounded Jackson declined to comment 
“Really, just Jerian and Brey said. “He’s so good in loway said. “I would say that to notch big wins against two on the status of junior center 
Eric getting me the ball end-game situations … So it helped me out a lot being a top-five opponents in Boston Riley Sheahan, who may sign 
when they saw mismatches you know it’s coming, you’re senior in college playing over, University and Minnesota. with the Detroit Red Wings, the 
and them just making great just hoping you can weather I believe, 100-something bas­“When it’s all said and done, team who drafted him. 
passes when I’m open,” Cool-it. ketball games. I know what I I’m sure we will have a vic-Lorenz said he was hopeful 
ey said of his 100 percent “I thought overall we did a had to do at that time and I tory over whoever the national to sign a deal with the Houston 
shooting. “Their penetration pretty good job on him and was just ready for the oppor­champion is,” Jackson said. Aeros, a minor league affiliate 
is what got me all the open challenged some stuff and tunity. Luckily the shot went “There was always that ray of of the Minnesota Wild, which 
looks. I was just making took some charges. But he’s in.” hope that we were turning the will allow him to finish his 
dump-off layups.” a great guard. And he loves Holloway and Xavier ad-corner. They kind of led me on a degree at Notre Dame in the 
A Holloway layup with those end game moments, vanced to the Sweet 16 with little bit. They teased all of us.” spring and play hockey at the 
3:43 remaining gave Xavier and he’s done it time and a victory over Lehigh on Sun-Jackson said the turning same time. 
its first lead since the 5:30 time again.” day. point in the season was Notre 
mark in the first half. His Holloway’s runner to give Dame’s 3-2 loss to Western Contact Matthew DeFranks at 
clutch baskets contributed to Xavier its decisive lead hard-Contact Douglas Farmer at Michigan on Jan. 13. mdefrank@nd.edu 
a game-high 25 points on 10-ly seemed to faze the former dfarmer1@nd.edu 
a great shot and I thought to-
Rogers 
day we were a little more pa­

tient and a little more willing continued from page 20 to wait for the best opportunity 
to come along.” offense had its most success The Irish twice opened up in regulation up to this point leads of four goals, leading 5-1 in the season against the Pio-and 8-4 on separate occasions. neers, it was a transition op-But Denver freshman mid­portunity that led to the win-fielder Wes Berg tied the game ning tally. at eight with 8:50 remaining. 
“We got a ground ball and as Though Irish sophomore mid-we came up with the ground fielder Jim Marlatt quickly an-ball, [we] put ourselves in a swered with his second goal little bit of an unsettled, tran-of the game to put the Irish sition situation,” Irish coach ahead, Denver sophomore mid-Kevin Corrigan said. “For all fielder Jeremy Noble scored the the good things that we had final goal of regulation with done playing offense out of our 6:17 left to once again knot the settled offense ¾ we got some score. great opportunities late in the Despite allowing Denver to game ¾ from it, we didn’t cash come back and force overtime, on those, but we did on this un-Corrigan was impressed by the settled play.” tenacity of his squad to end the 
Notre Dame’s defense, which game on top. entered the contest as the No. 1 “It really is something that’s scoring defense in the country not an easy thing to do, just in at just 4.25 goals-allowed per terms of the emotional swings game, allowed more than dou-of a game like that,” Corrigan ble its season average against said. “But our guys, they’ve Denver. But the Irish offense been very mentally tough this also put up its season high in year and more than anything goals in a game, surpassing the else, we’ve just kind of hung seven scored against Duke in in there and stayed focused on their season opener. making the next play all year. 
Corrigan believes a large We made an awful lot of those part of Notre Dame’s offensive plays on the defensive end up success was better patience until today and it was great to and shot selection. see our offense come through 
“I think we were a little more and bolster our defense a little patient and that allowed us to bit today.” get better shots. [Earlier in the The Irish are next in action season] we struggled shooting in a rare mid-week game at the ball but I don’t think we re-Ohio State on Wednesday. Fa-ally played that bad of offense,” ceoff against the Buckeyes is he said. “But I do think we scheduled for 4 p.m. maybe have been settling for a good shot, an average shot, in-Contact Sam Gans at stead of really working to get sgans@nd.edu 


TRACK AND FIELD 

Irish end season with strong indoor championships 
By LAURA COLETTI 
Sports Writer 
The Irish couldn’t have asked much more from the six athletes who competed at the Indoor Na­tional Championships on March 9 and 10. 
The men’s distance medley re­lay team took home the national title. The team of senior Randall Babb, junior Jeremy Rae, senior Johnathan Shawel and fresh­man Chris Geisting ran a time of 9:35.48 to 
secure  the  
victory.  
Rae,  the  

team’s anchor, hind the leader when I got it, this year I was less than a sec­ond behind.” 
This championship perfor­mance gives Rae and the rest of the team a good starting point for the spring outdoor season. 
“I think it gives all of us a lot of confidence going into the outdoor season,” he said. “It for sure should give John [Shawel] a lot of confidence because he did really well, he ran 3:56 in the mile, and Chris [Geisting] 
ran the fast­
est  split  of  
anybody  in  
the  race.  He  

should make 

said the team­mates met the high expec­tations they had for them­selves.  “On paper I knew that I could [perform well] but getting the marks I was capable of was really big for me.”  outdoor [na­tionals] indi­vidually. “It was Ran­dy’s first time at the nation­ 
“Last year we were fourth in the  Maddie Buttinger senior  als, and it’s a new experi­ence and he  
relay and we  did  a  really  
figured  that  o u t s t a n din g  
we  could  do  job. I’m really  
a little better  looking  for- 
than that,” he  ward to it too.  

said. “We were ranked fourth It gives me confidence for my in­going in so we knew worst case dividual races knowing that I’ve scenario we’d finish fourth. The beaten these guys before.” top seeded team was less than a On the heels of the champi­second ahead of us so we were onship performance was a big pretty confident going into it.” day for senior Maddie Buttinger, 
Making the jump from a as she placed third in the pen­fourth-place finish to first place tathlon and broke the school re­in a year’s time took improve-cord. The All-American’s score ment from everyone on the of 4,269 was her personal best team, Rae said. and was 200 points more than 
“Overall we ran a little bet-Alyissa Hassan’s 2008 record ter as a group, that’s really all as well as a 261-point improve-it took,” Rae said. “For me per-ment from her performance at sonally, [my teammates] gave the Big East championships. me the stick in the last leg in a “My goal was to break the really great position. Last year school record, which was 60 I was three or four seconds be-points better than my personal best,” Buttinger said. “I knew that if I was able to do that, that I should place pretty well. My goal was to get top three, but I also really wanted to break the school record.” 

After getting a slow start in the 60-meter hurdles, she re­bounded and took top-three finishes in all remaining events, including two more personal re­cords in the long jump and shot put. 
“I knew going into the race that a lot of the other girls’ main events are hurdles, and that it’s one of my weaker events,” she said. “I mentally prepared my­self to expect [to not place well]. For me personally it was a good race. I knew I had one of my strongest events after the hur­dles so I’d make up places and spots there.” 
Buttinger’s finish to her in­door season gives her momen­tum for the upcoming outdoor season. 
“On paper I knew I could [per­form well] but getting the marks I was capable of was really big for me,” Buttinger said. “It will be good for [the outdoor season too], hopefully I can keep the momentum going. My goals for this year had been all along to get top three in the nation for indoor and outdoor. [Doing well in indoor] sets me up a lot better [for outdoor], I have more con­fidence in myself to know that I can do it.” 
Senior pole vaulter Kevin Schipper was also named an All-American as he placed fourth. The senior reached a personal best of 5.45 meters. 
The Irish will begin their out­door season this weekend at the Texas Relays at the University of Texas in Austin. 


Contact Laura Coletti at lcoletti@nd.edu 


MEN’S SWIMMING AND DIVING 
Divers compete at Zone Diving championships 
By JONATHAN WARREN 
Sports Writer 
After taking a trip to Bloom­ington, Ind., for the Zone Div­ing championships, the season came to a close for Irish divers March 9. 
Notre Dame left with a 12th place finish in the 1-meter from freshman Nick Nemetz in the field of 49.  Freshman Michael Kreft took 30th, and junior Ryan Koter came in one spot behind, while freshman Ted Wagner came in 38th. 
“It’s a pretty intimidating meet because the best divers from all the Division I schools from the states around us are there,” Kot­er said. “A lot of them we have seen throughout the season, but there some others we don’t see normally. It’s definitely another level of competition.” 
Koter scored 32nd in the 3-meter, while Kreft and Wag­ner took 23rd and 44th, respec­tively. Nemetz, who placed 19th in the 3-meter, said he could also feel his nerves getting to him. 
“I wasn’t feeling too great,” Nemetz said. “I was a little ner­vous. There were a lot of great divers there, and I wasn’t used to diving with all those great divers.” 
For Koter, the meet was about shaking off his performance at the Big East championships. 
“I had a rough Big East meet, so I was just looking to be more relaxed and have a little more fun,” Koter said. “I was really relaxed at the meet so I accom­plished that goal, but I know I can dive better.” 
The team will now continue to practice in the offseason to stay in shape and prepare for next season. 
“I think our goals as a team are to try and get stronger and learn some new dives in the off­season, to try to work on some skills we haven’t had time to work on during the year,” Koter said. “Were looking to condition so we can build muscles and stay fit and ready.” 
With three freshmen diving at the Zone championships, the team will look to build on the experience it gained this season. 
“I think the team did really well this season,” Koter said. “Its remarkable what we did with such a young team. It just shows how great the future is going to be now that everyone has a year of experience. It’s only going to get better from me.” 


Contact Jonathan Warren at jwarren3@nd.edu 

Rebound 
continued from page 20 
boxing out.” 
Notre Dame’s ability to crash the boards will be tested once more against No. 8-seeded Cali­fornia, which ranks third in the nation with a plus-13.2 rebound­ing margin. The Golden Bears (25-9, 13-5 Pac-12) defeated Iowa, 84-74, to advance to the Round of 32 for the fourth time in the pro­gram’s history. 
Tuesday’s matchup will be a clash of offensive philosophies. Led by 6’3” junior center Talia Caldwell and 6’2” sophomore forward Gennifer Brandon, Cali­fornia runs its offense inside-out, while Notre Dame employs Mc­Graw’s signature four-guard at­tack. 
Despite Cal’s disadvantage on the perimeter, Golden Bears coach Lindsay Gottlieb believes California’s size advantage will cause an equally disruptive mis­match for Notre Dame in the frontcourt. 
“As much as I can sit here and say, ‘We don’t matchup with their four guards,’ I’m sure they’re say­ing, ‘We have to be able to defend two post players,’” Gotlieb said. “I think at this point in the year you don’t go away from your identity, and our identity is that we’re very physical inside … We’re predicat­ed on a type of play-through-the­paint idea, and so we’re going to try to make that a factor.” 
McGraw said she may adjust her lineup during the contest to account for Cal’s size in the post by using two forwards in Peters and sophomore Natalie Achonwa. 
“It’s going to be difficult. Ei­ther way it’s going to be a chal­lenge, even if we go with two bigs,” she said. “They are just a great rebounding team — I think a better rebounding team than Liberty. It’s scary watching them rebound, so I think we got to get everybody in there to help. I don’t think we’re going to be able to rely on just one person. We’ll probably try both ways.” 
California earned a No. 8 seed in the tournament by finishing second in the Pac-12 and success­fully navigating a difficult non-conference schedule. The Golden Bears are also familiar playing in hostile environments against first-rate competition, falling at No. 2 Stanford 74-71 in an over­time loss Jan. 28. 
“They’re a dangerous team for sure for a lot of reasons, but mostly because of the talent level,” McGraw said. “They have challenged themselves with an out-of-conference schedule that was demanding, and I think that’s why they’re here.” 
That talent includes Cal’s lead­ing scorer, junior guard Layshia Clarendon, who averages 12.7 points per game. Clarendon and an active Golden Bears back-court, along with their athletic post players, should match Notre Dame’s fast-paced attack. 
“They’re really quick and up in your face on defense,” Mal­lory said. “We can’t get flustered with how they’re going to guard us and just run our stuff. They’re going to run, so it’s going to be an up-paced game.” 
The Irish will take on Cali­fornia with a trip to the Raleigh Regional semifinals on the line tonight at 7 p.m. in the Purcell Pavilion. 


Contact Chris Masoud at cmasoud@nd.edu 



SMC SOFTBALL 

But then Eric Atkins, Jerian which would mean a potential Brey’s recruiting has im-
Story 

Grant and Jack Cooley decided Big East all-conference first proved recently as well, and 
they weren’t quite ready to team season. He averaged a the Irish will welcome two 
continued from page 20 write the season off and made double-double against confer-players in the Rivals.com top-Belles open 
a run that no other Notre ence opponents this season 100 for next season who stand 
has downs and it has every-Dame team playing in the Big and he will only improve. at six-foot-seven and six-foot­
thing in between. But before East had ever done. They went Eric Atkins is a point guard ten. The Irish are recruit-
the good guys can win the day, from a NCAA tournament good enough to lead a con-ing size and talent, a lethal 
earn the prize and get the girl, afterthought to a No. 7 seed in tender. Atkins shook off two combination. 
they must first experience tri-the tournament, a favorite on turnovers in the final minutes But most important for the 
als and tribulations that put opening weekend. And when of the game against Xavier future of the Irish basketball 
the happy ending in doubt. taken in context, a semifinals and drew a foul that could program is Jerian Grant. 
season with 
win-streak 

Sports don’t always follow loss in the Big East tourna-have tied the game, if not The sophomore guard with this mold and sometimes fail-ment and an opening round for the lane violation. Atkins three more years of eligibil­ure leads right back to failure. loss in the NCAA tournament made the first free throw and ity evolved from a tentative 
Observer Staff Report 

For some teams and players, really aren’t that bad. would have made the second player who looked out of sorts there is no happy ending. But It was more the way the — that’s just the type of player on the offensive side of the ball The Belles emerged from their 
until the story has been played Irish lost to Xavier that left so he is. to Notre Dame’s go-to player season-opening spring trip to Fort 
out, no one can know. many heartbroken. In Decem-Pat Connaughton and Alex down the stretch. When the Myers, Fla., as a strong contender 
And for Notre Dame’s bas-ber, just making the tourna-Dragicevich are role play-Irish needed a basket against for the MIAA season champion­
ketball program, the story is ment would have been an ers who have the potential to Xavier, the ball was in Grant’s ship. The squad finished 9-1 in 10 
far from over. achievement. But a blown lead be consistent starters. Con-hands. He missed the shot, games crammed into five days, 
Because of their nine-in the final minutes, turnovers naughton has three years of but he has the confidence, and matching their 9-1 starts in 2007 
game winning streak in the from the most reliable players eligibility left and Dragicevich Brey has the confidence in and 2009. 
middle of the Big East season, on the team, missed 3-point has two, so they have plenty of him, to take that shot. He is While outscoring their oppo­
punctuated with wins over attempts and a lane violation time for improvement. Notre Dame’s future, and the nents 57-26, the Belles won in a 
Syracuse, Marquette and made the loss seem so much Transfer Garrick Sherman is potential for stardom is high. variety of situations, from close 
Connecticut, expectations for worse than it actually was. relatively unknown, but a six-For some, the loss to Xavier games to blowouts. 
the Irish skyrocketed. But But despite the difficult but foot-ten compliment to Cooley was the end of an era. But The first victory of the trip March 
remember where Notre Dame not-so-difficult season, there can’t be a bad thing. At worst, for the Notre Dame basket­11 against Stevens Institute was 
was after its loss to Gonzaga, is a lot to like about the state he can spell Cooley without ball program, it was just the not decided until extra innings, as 
Irish coach Mike Brey said of the program. Jack Cooley losing too much and at best, beginning. the teams remained deadlocked 
it himself — making the NIT proved he could be a force the two together could pose a at two until the top of the ninth. 
was probably going to be a in the Big East. He should be formidable and sizable threat Contact Eric Prister at Belles’ junior catcher Morgan Be-
success. even better his senior year, in the Big East. eprister@nd.edu dan hit a sacrifice fly, scoring ju­nior infielder Emily Sherwood for the go-ahead run. The Belles add­ed two more runs in the inning be­fore sophomore pitcher Carlie Sel­ner closed out a 5-2 victory in the bottom of the ninth. She pitched a complete game, allowing only one earned run and striking out seven. 
The Belles followed that victory with three additional wins before falling 3-2 to Polytechnic Institute of NYU on March 13. However, they rebounded by winning the final five games of the trip, includ­ing a 13-1 victory in five innings against Lasell. Senior centerfielder Lauren Enayati led the way, going 3-for-4 with a double and two runs scored. 
The Belles also won two one-run games against New Jersey City College on Wednesday and Thurs­day, 4-3 and 5-4, respectively. 
On Thursday, the Belles spot­ted New Jersey City four runs in the top of the first inning. How­ever, senior pitcher Angela Gillis prevented any additional damage with six shutout innings of relief, striking out five for her first win of the season. 
Meanwhile, Saint Mary’s offense provided just enough run support to mount a comeback. 
The Belles make a short road trip to Wheaton College in Illinois today with first pitch at 3:00 p.m. 


WILL SHORTz 
EUgENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 
CROSSWORD 



HENRy ARNOLD 

JON REPINE 
JUMBLE 
EXPND 
MIKE ARgIRION 





Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556

 Enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year


 Enclosed
 is $75 for one semester 


Name ____________________________________________________ Address __________________________________________________ City ____________________ State___________ Zip______________ 

Tuesday, March 20, 2012 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 20 
MEN’S BASKETBALL 

Musketeer mania 
Notre Dame falls to Xavier in first round 
By DOUGLAS FARMER 
Senior Sports Writer 
GREENSBORO, N.C. — With 12 minutes left in Notre Dame’s season-ending loss Friday, sophomore guard Eric Atkins sank a 3-pointer to give the Irish a 10-point lead over Xavier. With 2.8 seconds left, Atkins sank a free throw, which he thought would cut Notre Dame’s deficit to one. 
The former shot was At­kins’s biggest of the game, as his playing time was limited due to foul trouble. The latter was negated by a lane viola­tion called on Irish sophomore guard Jerian Grant. Two addi­tional Musketeers free throws ended the 66-63 NCAA second round game Friday. 
“Shock and disbelief,” Grant said of the lane violation, in which he stepped inside the 3-point arc before the free throw reached the rim. “It 
see GRANT/page 16 


Future looking bright despite NCAA loss 
GREENSBORO, N.C. — Every story has its parts. And for Notre Dame’s basketball pro­gram, the story is just begin­ning. 
Friday’s loss to Xavier was a heart­breaking way to end the season and another semifinals loss in the Big East tournament did little to show any marked im­provement or progress in the program. But this story is not over. 
Every good story has a be­ginning, a middle and an end. It has an introduction and it has a climax. It has ups and it 
see STORY/page 18 


ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 
Notre Dame takes on California 
By CHRIS MASOUD 
Senior Sports Writer 
Kayla McBride watched Notre Dame’s run to the NCAA tourna­ment championship game from the bench in 2011. After just one tournament game in 2012, Mc­Bride is leading the charge. 
The sophomore guard paced the Irish with a team-high 15 points, as Notre Dame blew past Liberty 74-43 in the opening round of the tournament Sunday afternoon. 
“I think she was so anxious to play in her first [NCAA] tourna­ment game. I actually forgot that this was her first NCAA tourna­ment,” Irish coach Muffet Mc­Graw said. “She really came out well. I thought she might be ner­vous, but she was fine from the start … She’s such an X-factor for us. She’s so important to our success.” 
McBride spurred an 11-0 Irish run from the opening tip, allow­ing No. 4 Notre Dame (31-3, 15-1 Big East) to jump out to an early lead it would never surrender. After back-to-back 3-pointers by senior guard Natalie Novosel and graduate student guard Brittany Mallory, McBride drained a free throw to complete the tradition­al 3-point play following a layup. 
“It’s the NCAA tournament. You see all these upsets … We don’t want to be that team,” ju­nior guard Skylar Diggins said. “We wanted to make a state­ment right off the tip and con­trol the tempo right away, and I thought we did that.” 
Captaining Notre Dame’s at­tack, Diggins finished with a team-high nine rebounds and six assists to go along with her seven points. The Irish out-rebounded the Lady Flames (24­



HOCKEY 

Disappointing losses end NCAA prospects 
By MATTHEW DeFRANKS 
Associate Sports Editor 
A season that began with a preseason No. 1 ranking and a brand-new arena ended with a thud in the second round of the CCHA playoffs when No. 19 Notre Dame dropped 2-1 and 3-1 decisions to No. 2 Michigan on March 9 and 10. 
On Friday night, Notre Dame (19-18-3, 12-13-3-0 CCHA) lost a double-overtime heartbreak-er to the Wolverines (23-11-4, 15-9-4-1) despite sophomore goaltender Steven Summer-hays’ career-high 40 saves. 
“If we had won that game, there might have been a whole different end of the year,” Irish coach Jeff Jackson said. “We had plenty of chances to score the game winner but they did and we didn’t. That was a great game and we played well against them.” 
Sophomore forward Anders 
see JACKSON/page 16 
MEN’S LACROSSE 

Triple overtime secures Irish victory over Denver 
By SAM GANS 
Sports Writer 
For the second week in a row, 60 minutes of regulation were not enough to decide Notre Dame’s fate. And for the second week in a row, it was the No. 7 Irish who prevailed, thanks to a 10-9 triple-overtime victory over No. 9 Denver on Sunday. 
Senior attack Sean Rogers scored his second goal of the game 1:25 into the third over­time on an unsettled play. After a ground ball pick-up by senior captain and defenseman Kevin Randall, the ball eventually worked its way to junior mid­fielder Ryan Foley, who found an open Rogers for the winning goal to send the Irish (4-1) past the Pioneers (4-2). 
It was the second week in a row Rogers netted an overtime winner and the third consecu­tive week he scored the game-winning goal for Notre Dame. On March 10, Rogers notched the overtime score in a 6-5 win against Hofstra. He also scored the deciding goal in a 6-5 win over Drexel on March 3. 
Though Notre Dame’s settled 
see ROGERS/page 16 

9, 16-2 Big South) 38-29, a sig­nificant feat considering Liberty led the nation with a plus-16.4 rebounding margin. 
“[Rebounding] is an area where we’ve struggled, and it’s been a [point] of emphasis the past week,” graduate student forward Devereaux Peters said. “We really focused on it today and tried to box out a lot more. The guards did a good job of 
see REBOUND/page 18 






