The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 46, issue 39 | tuesdAy, OctOber 23, 2012 | ndsmcobserver.com 
electiOn 2012 
The last word 
Students praise, criticize presidential candidates’ foreign policy after final debate 

Republican presidential candidate former Mass. Gov. Mitt Romney, left, and President Barack Obama face each other during the third presidential debate Monday at Lynn University in Boca Raton, Fla. The final debate focused on the candidates’ foreign policy platforms. 
presidential contenders’ views “honor” may have painted too one.” 
By JOHN CAMERON 
news editor 
on foreign policy and offered rosy a picture of the american senior ben Kim praised praise and criticism of both reputation abroad. romney’s assertion of eco­
with just two weeks re-performances. “i think it’s a little mislead-nomics as a threat to american maining before election day, as much of the debate fo-ing,” doonan said. “i think security. president barack obama and cused on military intervention americans get a lot of flak for “my personal opinion is that former mass. gov. mitt romney in the middle east, senior greg immersing ourselves in situa-[intervention] should be more squared off in the final of three doonan said he felt romney’s tions we shouldn’t necessarily economic than military,” Kim presidential debates last night. reference to foreign intervention be involved in. i don’t necessar­students tuned in to hear the as a “mantle of leadership” and ily agree with romney on that see debaTe PAGe 6 


crews respond to gas leak 

Observer Staff Report 
a gas leak on campus disrupt­ed travel across debartolo Quad monday afternoon as emergency crews worked to cap the leak for about three hours. 
The leak was detected at ap­proximately 1:55 p.m., and university spokesman dennis brown alerted students to the leak via email shortly after emer­gency crews responded to the situation. notre dame security police (ndsp) and the notre dame fire department blocked off the north side of debartolo Quad while fixing the leak. 
“The cause of the leak appears to be a tent stake that was driven into an unmarked gas line,” the email stated. 
emergency crews did not evacuate any campus build­ings, but advised students, fac­ulty and staff to avoid the area. 
see leaK PAGe 5 

electiOn 2012 


Gubernatorial candidates clash 

school from saint mary’s after 
By MEGAN DOYLE 
managing editor their freshman year together, she said her friend was initially 
when paige o’laughlin devastated. told sophomore Ziqi Zhang “a few hours later, she she would transfer to another calmed down and told me she absolutely hated my choice, but she supported my decision and said our friendship didn’t have to end because we longer attend 
see Zhang PAGe 6 


By VICKY JACOBSEN 
news writer 

The debartolo performing arts center hosted indiana’s three gubernatorial candi­dates wednesday in the second of three debates leading up to election day. 
in the “final statements” por­tion of the occasionally hostile proceedings, republican candi­date republican candidate mike pence described the hour-long debate as “spirited and memo­rable,” in reference to a few lin­gering barbs from his principal opponent, democratic candi­date John gregg. 
gregg, the former indiana speaker of the house, challenged pence directly on several fronts. 
“if you’re going to be governor, you’ve got to work every day,” gregg said, after accusing pence of missing 86 percent of his votes on the hill. 
gregg said pence exagger­ated his accomplishments in washington. 
“mike, i heard you last time and this time when you said you’re one of the hardest work­ing [members of congress]. i looked up that article, and that’s you quoting yourself, saying 
see governor PAGe 5 



student dies in bike accident 

game reporT PAGe 5 viewpoinT PAGe 8 scene PAGe 10 men’s soccer PAGe 20 fooTball inside 



ndsmcobserver.com 

p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
allan Joseph 

Managing Editor  Business Manager 
megan doyle  Jeff liptak 

Asst. Managing Editor: andrew owens 
Asst. Managing Editor: sam stryker News Editor: John cameron News Editor: Kristen durbin 

Viewpoint Editor: meghan Thomassen Sports Editor: chris allen Scene Editor: Kevin noonan Saint Mary’s Editor: Jillian barwick Photo Editor: suzanna pratt Graphics Editor: brandon Keelean Multimedia Editor: sarah o’connor Advertising Manager: monica mccormack Ad Design Manager: sara hilstrom Controller: peter woo Systems Administrator: william heineman 

Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ajoseph2@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 mdoyle11@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 aowens2@nd.edu sstryke1@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 

Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 

Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 


Scene Desk 

(574) 631-4540 observer.scene.editor@gmail.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
jbarwi01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 


Policies 

The observer is the independent, daily newspaper 
published in print and online by the students of the 
university of notre dame du lac and saint mary’s 
college.  editorial content, including advertisements, is 
not governed by policies of the administration of either 
institution. The observer reserves the right to refuse 
advertisements based on content. 

The news is reported as accurately and objectively 
as possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion 
of the majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, 
assistant managing editors and department editors. 
commentaries, letters and columns present the views of 
the authors and not necessarily those of The observer. 
viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include 
contact information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed 
to Editor-in-Chief Allan Joseph. 

post office information The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through friday except during exam and vacation periods. a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The observer is published at: 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-0779 periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices posTmasTer send address corrections to: The observer p.o. box 779 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-077 The observer is a member of the associated press. all reproduction rights are reserved. 




QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
What did you do over fall break? 


Matt Mleczko 
sophomore 
dillon hall 

“applied for internships in d.c.” 

Tim Gailius 
sophomore 
dillon hall 

“spent time with a new foster baby.” 

Connor Howell 
junior 
dillon hall 

“watched notre dame beat byu.” 

Have a question you want answered? Email obsphoto@gmail.com 



Qineng Shi 
sophomore 
Keough hall 

“visited the world of coca-cola in atlanta” 

Tim Hainley 
senior 
off campus 
“found bif (rock).” 


Melissa O’Brien 
sophomore 
badin hall 

“watched notre dame beat stanford.” 



Want your event included here? 

News Sports 
Kristen durbin Katie heit Email obsnews.nd@gmail.com 




THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 
dan brombach chris allen adam llorens conor Kelly 

Graphics Scene 

Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday 
steph wulz Troy mathew 
Photo Viewpoint 

SSLP Session Carole Masso Zen Meditation Writing Successful Rock Musical: “next 
suzanna pratt meghan Thomassen 
135 Geddes Hall Reading 102 Coleman-Morse Grants to normal” 4 p.m. - 5 p.m. Eck Visitors Center Center McKenna Hall Washington Hall Summer Service 7:30 p.m. - 9 p.m. 5:15 p.m. - 6:15 p.m. 9 a.m. - 12 p.m. 7:30 p.m. - 10 p.m. 
Corrections 

Learning Program Contemporary Open to Notre Dame Introductory workshop PEMCo’s fall 
The observer regards itself as question forum. American novelist. students of all faiths. for grant writing. production. a professional publication and strives for the highest standards 
Film: “42nd Street” Student Debate Thriller NBA Exhibition Game Film: “Take this 
of journalism at all times. we do, 
DeBartolo Performing McKenna Hall Rolfs Purcell Pavilion Waltz” 
however, recognize that we will make 
Arts Center 8 p.m. - 9:30 p.m. 8 p.m. - 10 p.m. 7 p.m. - 9 p.m. DeBartolo Performing 
mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 
8 p.m. - 9:30 p.m. Arguments for both Learn how to dance Joakim Noah and the Arts Center 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
Free to Notre Dame parties from student like Michael Jackson Chicago Bulls face the 9:30 p.m. - 11:30 p.m. 
we can correct our error. 

students with ID. representatives. with RecSports. Indiana Pacers. $4 for students. 


boxers works out to raise funds 

By MEL FLANAGAN 
news writer 
The notre dame women’s boxing club showcased the product of its numerous practice hours at the annual power 24 hour fundraiser oct. 12 and 13. 
each member of the team signed up for two one-hour shifts between 8 a.m. friday and 3 a.m. saturday during which they performed their practice exercises for crowds outside south dining hall. 
“generally, we were doing jumping jacks and [ab] ex­ercises and leg exercises like squats,” senior co-captain ragan Todd said. “Then, as a group, we would do a pushup for every dollar that was do­nated over the time period we were there.” 
a workout fundraiser fits well with the mission of the boxing club, co-president and co-captain mJ durkin said. 
“it really showcases what we’ve been working on up to this point,” she said. “we started training in august and now we’re able to work out and do calisthenics, and it’s what we’re training for. it really brings together the ath­letic and the charity natures of our club.” 
This year, the team raised nearly $2,000, the highest amount ever earned from this event. durkin said last year was the first in which the club exercised for almost an entire day, and the lengthened event brought a corresponding in­crease in funds raised. 
“in past years, it was just for one hour and we had the whole team out there in two groups doing exercises and we would raise about $500,” she said. “This combination of all our efforts more than doubled any other year’s [fundraising].” 

The team donates all funds raised from power 24 hour and the annual baraka bouts boxing tournament to two holy cross schools in uganda: lakeview secondary school and st. Joseph’s hill secondary school. 
“last year was the first year we were able to donate to two schools,” durkin said. “The more money and more awareness we have, the more schools we can donate to.” 
raising awareness of the team and its mission is a main goal of the power 24 hour fundraiser, Todd said. 
“we are kind of a young club at this point and it’s good to be able to let people know we are there,” she said. “out fights are coming up in two weeks and now we’ve got­ten ourselves out there and let people know what we’re doing and raising money for. hopefully people will want to buy tickets and come see us fight.” 
The baraka bouts tourna­ment begins nov. 5, and box­ers who win their first fight will advance to the final round on nov. 8. proceeds from the tournament con­stitute the majority of funds sent to the holy cross schools, durkin said. 
“we charge admission, and we have programs with [ad­vertisements],” she said. “all our club members are also required to fundraise a mini­mum of $200 through ads or ticket sales or from their par­ents or friends.” 
Tickets for the tournament are on sale now and cost $6 for one night or $10 for both nights. 
Contact Mel Flanagan at mflanag3@nd.edu 
Bishop discusses Vatican II 
By JILLIAN BARWICK 
saint mary’s editor 
in a lecture titled “roots and wings: how vatican ii changed my spirituality,” bishop remi J. deroo ad­dressed members of the saint mary’s community monday night as part of the center for spirituality’s annual endowed fall lecture series. 
deroo, a retired bishop from the diocese of victoria in british columbia, canada, spoke about his experience serving as a council father 
— and the council’s youngest canadian bishop — in all four vatican ii sessions from 1962 to 1965. 
“i was 38 at the time,” he said. “i was a brand-new bish­op, a new kid on the block, and the pope looked over at me and smiled and motioned for me to come forward and i got to shake his hand.” 
raised traditionally and conservatively by belgian par­ents who settled in canada, deroo said he spent his en­tire life as a farmer until his ordination. 
coming from that humble background, deroo said his involvement in vatican ii sig­nificantly impacted his per­sonal spirituality. 
“some people who are trying to use the vatican to their own advantage sometimes forget how it is the ultimate author­ity which is found in texts and not people’s interpretation,” he said. “i went through the equivalent of a very profound conversion as a result of the vatican ii.” 
although the council dis­cussed some broad reforms of church practices, deroo said the microcosms of local par­ishes also play a role in those changes. 
“one of the main teachings of vatican ii is precisely the re­ality and the recognition of the local believing community,” deroo said. “it is important that local churches celebrate vatican ii and is just as impor­tant for me to attend.” 
in the past, deroo said the concept of the local church and religion often seemed more like going through the motions of being religious. 
“we are in a religion of pre­sets,” he said. “what we knew of god was primarily about god. religion was mostly a question of obeying the com­mandments. we went to church because it was a sin if you didn’t go on sundays.” 
but vatican ii offered deroo and other catholics the oppor­tunity to move past that super­ficial version of religion and understand god more fully, he said. 
“my image of god moved from propositional god, a god where you learn things and a god who teaches things, to a sense that i appreciate that god is a relational god and wants to share love,” deroo said. “Know god in the biblical 
paid adverTisemenT 
sense in which adam and eve related to each other; it’s a bib­lical sense of relationship.” 
The bible’s messages about god and relationships are enriched by reading several translations of the holy text, deroo said. 
“i am saddened that we have just gone through a phase in the church where some people think that Jesus spoke latin,” deroo said. “we should not equate the message of rev­elation, the bible, the scrip­tures with one language and interpretation.” 
The second vatican council prompted a shift toward per­sonal conscience in theology and faith, deroo said. 
“a massive shift took place in the field of moral theology. it’s very important to recog­nize a way of conscience,” he said. “scriptures should be the very soul of theology. role of conscience becomes an ex­tremely important thing as a result of vatican ii.” 
Though vatican ii’s ideas led to a new era of the church, deroo said uncertainty and fear have prevented some of those ideas from being fully applied in practice in the past. 
“we are called to be proph­ets … to share wisdom and put our finger on where god is present, thus helping the church to move forward,” he said. 
 Contact Jillian Barwick at jbarwi01@saintmarys.edu 



The observer | tuesdAy, OctOber 23, 2012 | ndsmcobserver.com 

electiOn 2012 

Professor panel prefaces foreign policy debate 
By JOANNA LAGEDROST 
news writer 

hours before the presidential candidates debated foreign pol­icy in their final meeting before the election, three notre dame political experts crafted their own foreign policy questions and weighed in with their concerns. 
The scholars met in a pan­el discussion titled “foreign policy Questions we hope the 
u.s. presidential candidates will be asked” on monday eve­ning at the hesburgh center for international studies. 
andrew bacevich, foreign policy analyst and visiting scholar at the Kroc institute for international peace studies, opened the discussion with his predictions about the impact of monday’s debate on future u.s. foreign policy decisions. 
“The presidential debates tend to be tied very much to the present moment, and, to some degree, to the near future, with minimal attention given to the past or to the larger context in which policy unfolds,” he said. “what’s said [monday] is un­likely to foretell u.s. policy — cir­cumstances will have changed by the time a decision must be made.” 
political science professor alexandra guisinger, a special­ist in international relations, crisis diplomacy and political economy, also said the debates do not necessarily give concrete proof of the candidates’ foreign policies. 
“i’m not sure what meaningful information we’ll garner directly 
from  the  debates  themselves,”  
she said.  
bacevich  said  candidates  

should be questioned about possible explanations for and responses to the “high levels of anti-americanism” that exist throughout much of the islamic world. 
“some observers attribute an­ti-americanism to corrupt and destructive governments that use the united states as a whip­ping board — blaming every­thing on uncle sam — in order to distract attention from their own failures and ineptitude,” he said. “others have suggested that there may be something inherent in islam that manifests itself as hostility toward any great power from outside the islamic world. and others still have pointed to past u.s. policies that may … have created a negative image for america in the eyes of iranians, afghans, pakistanis, etc.” 
The country’s post-9/11 mili­tary engagements in iraq and afghanistan also present points of concern for the future of for­eign policy that both president barack obama and gov. mitt romney must address, bacevich said. 
“The united states has now been in war for over a decade, a period longer than the civil war and world war ii combined,” he said. “The iraq war … has ended, with results that fell well short of victory. both [obama and romney] agreed that the afghanistan war ought to con­clude by the end of 2014. what lessons should the united states draw from the wars of the post­9/11 era?  how will those lessons inform your approach in formu­lating basic national security policy?” 
finally, bacevich said the candidates must provide con­crete solutions to america’s eco­nomic woes and those of the global economy aside from their common support of free trade practices. 
paid adverTisemenT 
“The united states have now had a negative trade balance for approximately 40 consecu­tive years,” he said. “during that 40-year period, we’ve gone from being the world’s no. 1 creditor to becoming the world’s lead­ing debtor nation. an economy once driven by production is today increasingly driven by consumption. 
“what concrete evidence is there to suggest that free trade actually works as an engine of 
u.s. economic growth in the present? what will you do to close the gap between how much the u.s. imports and how much it exports?” 
guisinger said obama’s four years of experience as president give him an edge over romney in terms of foreign policy knowledge. 
“we’re not comparing apples to apples — obama is actually in charge of foreign policy and his words represent the united states whereas mitt romney is just a candidate for that posi­tion,” she said. 
The format of the debates cre­ates constraints for both candi­dates in conveying their foreign policy views, guisinger said. 
“in particular, president obama will be constrained be­cause debates are not a great form for measuring response, which is what he needs to do as head of state,” she said. “romney will also be constrained because this is his time to present his for­eign policy platform.” 
guisinger said romney’s back­ground in the financial sector could give him a unique per­spective on the current state of the economy. 
“i’d like to hear romney talk more like the businessman that he is about the financial crisis,” she said. 
peace studies professor george lopez, a Kroc international poli­cy expert, said he would question romney on his views about the obama administration’s han­dling of situations in libya and iran. 
“what would you do that dis­tinguishes your foreign policy from the president’s up until now?” he said. “what, in the last two to four years, would you have done differently in libya or iran?” 
Contact Joanna Lagedrost at jlagedro@nd.edu 




Smooth sailing for Stanford, BYU games 
By KRISTEN DURBIN 
news editor 
although back-to-back home football games against stanford and byu sandwiched a rainy week at notre dame, both games were “quite successful” overall, direc­tor of game day operations mike seamon said. 
“from a weather standpoint, the stanford and byu games could not have been more different,” he said. “The clearing skies followed by dry weather for the [byu] game made for an almost perfect football saturday.” 
despite the heavy storms that peppered the “epic notre dame vic­tory” against stanford on oct. 13, seamon said the weather did not impede the fan experience for that game or the field conditions for the 
Governor 
conTinued from page 1 
you’re one of the hardest work­ing,” gregg said. “This race is about needing a work horse and not a show horse, and to be can­did, you wouldn’t even be a show horse: you’d be down to being a one-trick pony.” 
The two candidates also byu game. 
“we were tracking the weather all week, and it became apparent that it was simply going to deteriorate during the course of the [stanford] game,” he said. “it was great to see the fans endure the bad weather and support the team. The stadium crew, led by dan brazo and robert Thomas, did a phenomenal job get­ting the field and stadium in shape for the byu game following all the rain.” 
The weekend’s pleasant weather drew more than 6,500 fans to the stadium tunnel friday, and more than 9,500 people attended the friday night pep rally in purcell pavilion, seamon said. The majority of students returned from fall break early to attend the game as well, he said. 
a week earlier, students kicked off their breaks with a thrilling win over stanford fueled by the energy of the return of espn’s college gameday to notre dame for the first time since 2005. 
“it was great to see the excite­ment everyone had for welcom­ing gameday back on campus. i thought the students were awesome in promoting the university and supporting our team,” seamon said. “[gameday’s] producers and direc­tor were extremely impressed with our students and fans. They get large crowds wherever they visit, but they thought there was something truly unique and special about being at notre dame.” 
seamon said the high profile of the stanford game attracted more than 10,000 fans to the purcell pavilion pep rally oct. 12. 
campus and state law enforcement officials were present during both games, but neither ran into significant issues given the large crowds on campus. The number of arrests by notre dame security police (ndsp) and indiana state excise police was also significantly lower during both game weekends than the 72 arrests on 99 charges made during the michigan game weekend at the end of september. 
ndsp chief phil Johnson said three people were arrested outside the stadium on saturday. Two peo­ple were apprehended for liquor law violations and one was arrested for a marijuana law violation. ndsp ar­rested one person for public intoxi­cation inside the stadium. 
excise police officers arrested 14 minors on 17 charges while patrol­ling tailgates outside the stadium on saturday, according to a press 
by a single mom and my sister’s a single mom. she’s a family — i love her and her kids. families come in all shapes and sizes.” 
pence said the policies gregg referred to are not meant to dele­gitimize single parent families, but are simply a means of aid­ing married couples and helping them stay together. 
“our proposal for family im­pact statements is an attempt to address childhood poverty,” pence said. “it’s really been rec­ognized by scholars on the left and on the right that one of the most effective ways to reduce childhood poverty is to encour­age more young people to get married, stay married and wait to have kids until they marry. and we want to make sure there’s nothing in indiana’s regulations going forward that gets in the way of people choosing to get married and stay married.” 
gregg also criticized pence’s record on education policy. although pence praised the role of indiana’s universities, gregg, who served as interim president of vincennes university from 2003 to 2004, said pence would not properly fund higher educa­tion as governor. 
“all the jobs in the world don’t mean anything unless we have a well-educated and well-trained work force,” gregg said. “we need to make pell grants avail­able for college. my opponent, congressman pence, talks about affordability of college, but voted against pell grants.” 
pence argued college educa­tions could be made more afford­able if schools made concerted efforts to graduate students on time. 
release. all 14 people, including three 17 years of age, were appre­hended for illegal consumption or possession of alcohol. one person was charged with possession of false identification, and one juvenile was arrested for possession of tobacco. excise officers also arrested on per­son on an outstanding warrant. 
on oct. 13, ndsp made three ar­rests outside the stadium during the stanford game weekend: two for marijuana law violations and one for intoxication, Johnson said. Three people were arrested for public in­toxication inside the stadium. 
according to a press release, excise police arrested 11 people for underage drinking during tailgating oct. 13. 
Contact Kristen Durbin at kdurbin@nd.edu 
“The truth is that less than a third of our kids who go to pub­lic universities in indiana finish a four-year degree in four years,” pence said. “That’s putting a tre­mendous burden on our kids in the manner of student loans and debt, and frankly it’s resulting in a burden on our universities as well.” 
libertarian candidate and former “survivor” contestant rupert boneham avoided name-calling and accusations, instead focusing on community issues he encountered through rupert’s Kids, his foundation for young people who have aged out of the youth social services system. 
during his turn in the lincoln­douglas section of the debate, when the candidates had the op­portunity to ask each other their own questions, boneham chose to focus on indiana’s correctional facilities, which he said will soon be above capacity. 
“are we going to continue to lock up every person who breaks the law, no matter how petty the law is, no matter if it is hurting themselves or others?” boneham asked. “i don’t want to be a state that builds the economy on in­carceration. i want to be the state that actually builds the state on work and workers. when we lock everyone up and stamp that felo­ny on their head, even for hurting themselves, they struggle with going to work for the rest of their lives.” 
The third and final gubernato­rial debate will be broadcasted live Thursday from the pbs stu­dios in fort wayne. 
Contact Vicky Jacobsen at vjacobse@nd.edu 
sparred over family values. while responding to a question from amy leonard, a single mother and full-time student working as a waitress in mishawaka, gregg suggested pence does not consid­er households headed by a single parent to be legitimate families. 
“he’s got a program that he wants to focus on families, but only ‘mom and dad’ families — married couples,” gregg said. 
paid adverTisemenT 
“i’m a single parent, too, and i take great offense that his family plan doesn’t consider me and my boys a family. maybe he doesn’t think you and your kids are a family, either.” 
pence refuted that statement at the press conference immedi­ately following the debate. 
“of course i consider [leonard and her children] a family,” pence said. “my wife, Karen, was raised 


leak 
conTinued from page 1 
“we shut down all air intake units in buildings near the leak, and risk management and fire department person­nel monitored gas levels in those buildings,” brown said monday afternoon. 
nipsco, ndsp and fire of­ficials capped the leak in a 2-inch line around 5 p.m. 
“we require that all un­derground utility lines be located and marked before any digging occurs on cam­pus, but, as mentioned in the news release, it appears this line was not marked,” brown said. 



The observer | tuesdAy, OctOber 23, 2012 | ndsmcobserver.com 

debate 
conTinued from page 1 
said. “when romney said one of the greatest threats to the [united states] is the budget deficit and the economy, i think he’s right. we can’t help others if we can’t help ourselves.” 
when the topic of military spending arose, romney criti­cized the reduced size of the navy’s fleet, to which obama re­sponded with what Kim called one of the president’s best lines of the debate: “governor, we also have fewer horses and bay­onets because the nature of our military has changed.” 
“i think he had one of the best one-liners of the night,” Kim 
Zhang 
conTinued from page 1 
the same school,” o’laughlin said. “since then it has only flourished. … i attribute my greatest college memories i have made so far to her.” 
Zhang, 19, died Thursday eve­ning from injuries sustained in an accident between her bike and an suv outside the entrance to saint mary’s on state route 933. 
a resident of regina hall, Zhang was a dual-degree stu­dent majoring in mathematics at saint mary’s and taking engi­neering classes at notre dame. she was a resident of Jiangsu province in china. 
The accident occurred just be­fore 9 p.m. Thursday, according to a release from the st. Joseph county police department. The driver, identified in the re­port at 34-year-old erin Zick of edwardsburg, mich., told police she had a green light at the time of the accident. The report stated witnesses confirmed Zick’s ac­count and that there is no evi­dence drugs or alcohol played a role in the crash. 
for o’laughlin, Zhang’s friendship will stay with her as she mourns her friend’s death. her memories with Ziqi on week­end trips to chicago or hanging out together are some of her best college memories so far, she said. 
“when she wanted something, she went for it,” o’laughlin said. “she always tried to turn any­thing unpleasant into a positive and something funny experience if applicable. she liked to look on the bright side of situations and focus on changing the future in­stead of dwelling on the past. 
“i found her attitude and out­look on life completely inspiring, having her as a friend changed me and made me a much better person.” 
sophomores l.e. evans and Jessica filipski both lived with Zhang in a regina hall quad as freshmen. Zhang moved into an empty spot in the quad in the middle of the fall semester. filipski said the death of her for­mer roommate didn’t seem real when she first heard the news. 
“i was just really shocked,” filipski said. “i still am kind of shocked that she’s gone. it’s hard to believe that. 

“i feel like today, going to class­es, it’s more real. even though she isn’t in any of my classes, she could be going back to class. it’s hard to think about how she will be missing and how her seat will be empty.” 
evans remembered Zhang as someone with “genuine spirit.” 
“she just brought so much life to the room,” evans said. “she was a genius, so grateful for the opportunity to be at saint mary’s and also doing the dual program at notre dame. … There’s not enough words to describe what kind of person she was.” 
The girls remembered jok­ing with Zhang about american customs and slang. evans said Zhang applied to a number of american colleges while in high school in china, and she planned to stay in the united states for a few years after graduation before returning home to be closer to her family. 
“what i always found remark­able was that it’s usually a fifth year if you’re doing the dual de­gree program,” evans said. “[but Zhang] overloaded on classes. she was a very diligent worker. she wanted to graduate in four years, and she was very dedicat­ed to doing that.” 
evans remembered Zhang as a night owl who loved the sitcom modern family and lay’s potato chips, someone who was always joking and smiling. 
“we would always sit and talk about the american way of doing this or that, she would always say funny things,” evans said. 
The girls said they would of­ten joke about american cus­toms with Zhang, who tried to teach filipski different words in chinese as well. 
“i was so bad,” filipski said. “we would laugh with each other about it. 
“her personality shined out. she was so outgoing. she liked to live life to the fullest.” 
Zhang had not visited her home in china since she moved to the united states as a fresh­man, evans said. she planned to return home for winter break this year. 
“if there’s anything i want peo­ple to know it’s just that she is a huge loss,” evans said. “she was just that person that you could talk to about anything, and she would make you feel better.” 
college president carol ann mooney expressed her sorrow for Zhang’s death in a statement released friday. 
“on behalf of the entire saint mary’s college community, i want to express our shock and deep sorrow at the passing of Ziqi,” mooney said. “we offer heartfelt condolences to her par­ents and sister and our prayers are with them. 
“death is never easy, especial­ly when it is a young person with so much promise.” 
university president fr. John Jenkins also released a state­ment friday afternoon to join in mourning a Zhang as a student at both saint mary’s and notre dame. 
“our deepest condolences go out to the family and friends of Ziqi Zhang and to the entire saint mary’s community,” he said. “Ziqi also was well-known here at notre dame, where she was enrolled in the college of engineering and involved in various clubs and activities. on behalf of the university, our prayers are with all who knew and loved her.” 
a memorial service for Zhang will be held today at 12:30 p.m. in regina chapel. grief counseling is available to students through saint mary’s women’s health center, campus ministry and residence life and community standards. 
anyone wishing to contribute to a fund to help Zhang’s fam­ily with funeral and travel ex­penses may send donations to Karen Johnson, vice president of student affairs, in 175 le mans hall. checks should be payable to saint mary’s college and in­dicate in the memo line that the donation is for the Ziqi Zhang family. 
Johnson told students in an email monday that the family will receive a list of all donors. students can also send notes to Zhang’s family by sending them to the same address. The notes will be translated and delivered to her family when they arrive in the united states. 
Contact Megan Doyle at mdoyle11@nd.edu 


said. “i think what obama said about [military] spending will appeal to voters. … romney’s playing a dangerous game. he wants to seem pro-american and pro-military but that’s also very expensive, to maintain that kind of military prowess.” 
doonan said he felt the presi­dent may have crossed the line with this and other quips. 
“i kind of think he crossed the line toward being a little petty, that he was belittling romney too much,” he said. “but he was also trying to enforce the notion he has way more experience in foreign policy than romney does as a former governor. i think it was a little too patroniz­ing but that’s not totally foreign to a debate atmosphere.” 
as the debate shifted to the controversial topic of the coun­try’s policies toward israel and iran, romney suggested increased sanctions on iran, while advocating containment of the situation with the hope of iran being able to eventu­ally “reenter the community of nations.” soon after, romney alleged the obama administra­tion had left an impression of weakness among foreign foes. 
doonan gave some credit to romney’s accusation, but didn’t take issue with the president’s handling of the middle east. 
“i think possibly obama’s come off too weak on iran. … i think overall obama’s built up our reputation in the middle east,” he said. “i don’t think either is promoting the per­fect policy. it’s a very touchy subject.” 
Kim said he didn’t feel either candidate distinguished him­self on the issue. 
“i think neither [candidate] really came out on top. Their policies are very alike,” he said. “They both want sanctions, nei­ther wants a nuclear iran.” 
in the end, doonan said he thought obama emerged as the victor. 
“i definitely think obama won the debate,” he said. “i thought he came out on the of­fensive, and romney was agree­ing a bit too much with him. i thought obama did a good job with pointing out things romney said in the past that he kept denying. it was a good third debate for obama.” 
Kim, who plans to vote for a third-party candidate, said the president won based on perfor­mance and greater foreign rela­tions experience from his time in office, not for the content of his policies. 
“i think romney didn’t seem as confident as he did with do­mestic policies, and i think that makes sense,” he said. “romney could win that [domestic is­sues] debate. but in terms of composure and articulation, i think obama won. in terms of foreign policy, i can’t really tell the difference.” 
Contact John Cameron at jcamero2@nd.edu 
paid adverTisemenT 



inside cOlumn 

experience something sacred 
Allison D’Ambrosia 
photographer 

“so … what did you do once you got on the football field?” 
i had no response to my friend’s 8-year­old sister, maeve. what was there to do once we stormed the field at the end of the overtime game against stanford? 
with the rain teeming down, we had one of the largest and wettest dance par­ties. (Taylor swift is jealous she missed it.) sinking into the mud, jumping up and down and cheering “we are nd” is what we did. There was no planned event once everyone got on the field — as maeve thought — but that was not the point. The point of going on the field was to experi­ence something sacred. 
it is not sacrilegious to say that notre dame fans associate the football program with the university’s religious backbone. The mural of Jesus and his disciples is referred to as “Touchdown Jesus.” we sing the alma mater at the end of every home football game, as well at the end of every mass during football weekends. The play­ers run onto the field and the first thing they do is kneel in the end zone. 
so as a freshman, stepping onto the field for the first time is like receiving first communion. it’s a new experience that is backed with tradition, faith, history, love and excitement. when you were in sec­ond grade, weren’t you excited to finally join your parents in line and actually take the host? i was. i wanted to be included in the glory that is the eucharist. 
last saturday was analogous. we wanted to be a part of the glory of the un­defeated irish. we wanted to stand where legends have stood, where celebrities watch from the sidelines, and to experi­ence a spirituality that is notre dame’s football field. 
The grass, the mud, the paint and the rain: all very earthly things. yet, in an instant they become otherworldly. There was not one person i talked to that didn’t mention the chills they felt walk­ing through the tunnel, looking toward Touchdown Jesus lit up in the night, freshly gleaming in the rain. 
we rushed onto the field for a reason; some may say excitement, others may say support, but i say community in god. we were all united on the field, understand­ing that we were experiencing something that is very rare to notre dame stadium. 
“for the safety of the ushers, players, and fans please do not go onto the field after the game has ended.” but we did. 
so maeve, what did we do? we basked in the unity of god, country, notre dame. 
Contact Allison D’Ambrosia at adambr01@saintmarys.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Keep it green on the big screen 
The GreenMan 
ask the greenman 

To my fellow green people, 
let’s be honest, college gameday was pretty darn exciting. with showing the sec what a library looks like, snapping pictures of the back of vince vaughn’s head and watching corso jig around in a leprechaun costume, there was just a whole lot going on. 
but i hate to tell you, the majority of you missed the best part … me. yup, i was there. recycling with the best of them in all my green glory. 
see, espn cares about more than just sports. They, like me, love the environ­ment. it’s a mutual passion. every week they set up a sorting game to educate fans about what’s recyclable, what’s composta­ble and what must sadly go to the landfill. 
so it’s basically like harry potter, just a little different. right answers and nice tosses earn you points, which then translate into some pretty exciting espn merchandise. 
Their efforts go way beyond gameday festivities though. for example, all new construction and renovations must be leed compliant, the 2009 espy awards were virtually waste-free and carbon-neutral and they buy only com­postable containers, cutlery and napkins for their cafeteria. 
espn isn’t the only media company trying to make a green difference, and i’m talking about more than just their parent company, disney. 
nbc universal and warner bros. have also been doing their part. The companies finally realized that the hollywood make-it-happen-at-any-cost attitude wasn’t going to work long-term. They started employing reusable water bottles, upping their recycling efforts, reusing script pages, composting and stream-lining their trans­portation efforts. 
warner bros. in particular has recently adopted a strategy for carbon-neutral pro­ductions (think “due date,” “The Town” and “green lantern”). other big-name films you may have seen, like “inception,” “valentine’s day,” and “crazy stupid love,” 
— yes, i like chick flicks, get over it — used solar energy to power their base camps. 
it goes beyond the production though. you may have seen the commercials for nbc’s “green is universal” campaign be­fore. basically nbc set up this division to get its consumers to become more aware of the environment and how they can make a huge impact. 
Then there are the things they don’t really tell you — like in “27 dresses” when Katherine heigl’s character uses 7th generation cleaning supplies awaiting her sister’s return home from stealing the love of her life, or in “The proposal” when the dad sneaks in a little ad of sorts for eco­friendly, deteriorate in water, golf balls. 

have you noticed that actors seem to be using more and more reusable coffee mugs and shopping bags? ahem, “pretty little liars,” — yes, i watch that too. once you start looking for these types of things, you can find them everywhere. and the odd­est part is, you start following suit without even realizing it. it’s bloody brilliant if you ask me. 
anyways, next week, as you watch college gameday broadcasting from dreary, awkward norman, okla., regard­less of who corso picks to win, just be thinking about how green and wonderful espn is and try to spot me in the pit. 
Email your predicaments to The GreenMan at askthegreenman@gmail.com and let him answer you with a sustainable twist. The GreenMan will be here every other week to provide you with insights you never knew you were missing out on until now. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
letter tO the editOr 
douglas road reroute disgregards families 
notre dame’s decision to reroute douglas road directly past university village graduate student housing demonstrates a shocking disregard for the opinions and concerns that its married families might have about the change. 
in July, an abc-57 story detailed the proposed change. Tim sexton, associate vice president for public affairs, said, “we should get the results [of an engineering study] back late september, early october and we are looking forward to sitting down with the county and discussing them further, and of course sharing those findings with the community.” 
on Tuesday night, the university held a meeting with university village residents to inform us of the plans for the pro­posed road, rather than to hear and address our concerns. i suppose this meeting was technically “sharing those findings with the community,” but this is not what many of us were hoping for. 
The residents here almost all have children. many of us have serious concerns about this rerouting in relation to our safety and our children’s safety, both because of increased traffic along what will now be a four-lane road and because of the decreased privacy because of the new road’s drastically closer position to our homes. 
The area around university village, like much of south bend, is prone to crime problems. The relative seclusion of university village insulates it from some of these problems and it is currently a safe place to live. This plan is highly likely to negatively influence those advantages, as it will install a four-lane road directly adjacent to an apartment complex where over 100 children live. 
rather than work with us to address our concerns, the response from the university has been that their proposed mea­sures are adequate. 
The university assured us there would be an opportunity to give feedback on their proposal and offer our concerns, yet aside from a meeting that functioned to inform us of their plan, this has not occurred. 
Tim Cantu 
law student off campus oct. 22 

QuOte Of the dAy Weekly POll 
what would you ask the presidential
“what should young people do with their lives 
candidates if you moderated the debate? 
today? many things, obviously. but the most daring 
thing is to create stable communities in which the 
terrible disease of loneliness can be cured.” 
Tweet your response with #ViewpointPoll
Kurt Vonnegut 

American novelist by 5 p.m. on Thursday 


Respect life, respect women 
Christopher Damian 
ideas of a university 

“hi, my name’s chris. i know that to­day has been a long day, and i just want you to know that i’m out here because i care about you. i know this wasn’t an easy decision, and i want you to know that we’re here for you no matter what decisions you make. i’m with the coalition for life. our building is right next door, and we’ll be right there if you ever need anything, today, tomorrow, in a week, in a month, in a year. we’ll be praying for you.” 
i said these words to a girl follow­ing her abortion at my local planned parenthood. she looked young, about my age. she was crying as she and an­other woman, probably her mother, walked back to their car. not all women came out crying. many walked to their cars with a typical post-surgery gait. most women enter the clinic expecting to feel regret after their abortions. some later say they don’t feel any regret. 
i am reminded of these experiences in the midst of october, respect life month. i look back on years of “sidewalk counseling,” and i am also reminded of accusations made against me: 
“you don’t care about women.” 
“you’re just here to judge them.” 
“you don’t know anything about this.” 
as a naive high school sophomore, i used to think that these claims were ridiculous and unfounded. i was just some kid handing out brochures, trying to inform men and women about free resources available in the area. 
i’ve been going out to that sidewalk for about seven years now. much has changed. years ago, a man used to stand outside the abortion clinic dressed as the grim reaper. Those were the latter parts of the days when being pro-life meant yelling at women and waving pictures of mangled fetuses. we spoke in terms of rights, particularly the right to life of the unborn. 
now the tone is changing, and the vocabulary is broadening. Today notre dame uses the language of “commit­ment,” “to offering students resources that support the choice of life.” official university policy states that “students who become pregnant may stay at notre dame if they wish and will receive the full support of the university commu­nity.” we can no longer be content with protest. we must create a culture such that the unborn and their families enter into a world created for them. now, the largest pregnancy resource centers in the world are run by those who identify as “pro-life.” planned parenthood offers ultrasounds and pregnancy tests, but the women’s care center offers them for free. 
in the past, developing artificial con­traception was the preeminent work being done in fertility studies. years ago, the rhythm method really was as ineffective as everyone said it was. now, effectiveness of natural family planning has risen to 99 percent, with no side effects (and it can cost under $10 a year), while the british medical Journal has reported that some of the newest artificial contraceptives, includ­ing yasmin and yaz, more than double the risk of fatal blood clots. 
The new promoters of natural family planning are tweeting #iusenfp “be­cause a woman’s body isn’t broken.” many men, rather than assuming women will manipulate their bodies through artificial hormones, now seek birth regulation methods that under­stand and seek to cooperate with what is natural to womanhood. 
continued research must be done to study the effects of new birth con­trol drugs. can the ella pill cause an abortion? as the fda label for the drug states, “There are no adequate and well controlled studies in pregnant women,” while “embryofetal loss was noted in all pregnant rats and in half of the preg­nant rabbits following 12 and 13 days of dosing.” 

The pro-life movement begins with the premise that no man or woman can be killed merely because he or she is different. it is a direct attack on hu­man dignity to end a human life merely because of differences in physical or mental ability, religion, race, or stage in life. we fight the claim that a more developed human being has more dignity than a less developed human being. after all, every human body is composed of a “clump of tissues” and a “bunch of cells.” we fight for all of hu­manity: man, woman and child. 
hi, my name’s chris. pregnant? an unplanned pregnancy can be very daunting, and your choices may seem very limited. but i want you to know that you are not alone and that you do have choices. i care. notre dame cares. feel free to contact me or to visit chooselife.nd.edu and click “pregnancy help.” 
Christopher Damian is a sophomore. He can be reached at cdamian1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
letters tO the editOr 

media influences foreign policy 
i became enraged in 2010 when floridian pastor Terry Jones threatened to burn the Qur’an and put americans abroad at risk of violent retaliation. my brother, in pakistan working with a humanitarian aid project, was moved to a secure location. even after the president addressed the issue and defense secretary robert gates made a personal phone call to the pastor, america was uncertain if the man and his 60-person congregation would follow through with their hate crime. The Qur’an later underwent a ‘trial’ in 2011 and was burned as ‘punishment’ by pastor Jones. This act of hate inspired violent riots and attacks throughout afghanistan. 
a hate crime in the u.s. is defined as “criminal offense against a person or property motivated in whole or in part by an offender’s bias against a race, religion, disability, ethnic origin or sexual orientation.” granted, ev­eryone is entitled to hate. america does not label “hatred” as a crime. 
however, it becomes a crime when citizens are hurt in response to that hate. we are used to the idea that hate crimes are direct actions against a particular group. burning a church or shooting someone of a particular ethnicity is easily classifiable as a hate crime. what responsibility do we have when the hate act causes indirect acts of violence? 
when social media gets involved the lines become blurred. secretary of state hillary clinton said in regards to internet freedom, “viral videos and blog posts are becoming the samizdat [underground press] of our day”. 
The mock movie trailer “innocence of muslims” went viral and influ­enced riots and the deaths of non-muslims and muslims alike across the globe. should the video have been censored because past situations have led to similar results of violent retaliation? is so, how can a state determine if a video, comic, etc. will become “viral” and go global? “innocence of muslims” is not the first hateful and inflammatory depiction of islam to hit the web. 
Therein lies our challenge; understanding how social media has begun to influence and incite acts of hatred on a global scale. we must decide how we are going to take responsibility for ensuring respect and safety on equal levels and preventing further deaths. The influence that social media has on public safety and foreign policy cannot be ignored. 
Margot Morris 
senior off campus oct. 22 
Take the plunge 
about three years ago i heard about a program offered through notre dame’s center for social concerns called urban plunge. This winter seminar is a 48-hour immersion experience of urban poverty that takes place in 35 cities across the u.s. 
each year, 200 students on average choose to spend two days in an urban center to see a “face” of the city that usually goes unseen. They attend four classes on campus, which address urban poverty, and that complement and expand upon the experiential component of the course. These classes give students an academic perspective and formal language with which to articulate their experience. 
in January of 2010, i decided to take the plunge in new orleans, and i’ve never looked back. 
my urban plunge experience helped me to see that the causes of poverty are indeed quite com­plicated and intricate. diligent, working people live in poverty. responsible, positive contribu­tors to society live in poverty. with one natural disaster, thousands of families in new orleans lost everything. This experience resonated pow­erfully with me and taught me that some of the most important lessons are those of sympathy and understanding, and a sympathetic, under­standing approach is often the best way to teach them. 
a few weeks ago the census bureau an­nounced that in 2011, 46.2 million people live below the poverty line, unchanged from 2010. The official poverty rate in 2011 stood at 15 per­cent, again statistically unchanged from the rate of 2010. 
statistics, though, fail to put a face on poverty. They do not tell us what is being done, and they certainly give no indication of what we can do. There are so many facets, problems, and compli­cations associated with poverty that it is difficult to know where to start. however, urban plunge makes it clear that we need to start somewhere. 

our university’s mission statement boldly asserts, “The university seeks to cultivate in its students not only an appreciation for the great achievements of human beings, but also a dis­ciplined sensibility to the poverty, injustice, and oppression that burden the lives of so many. The aim is to create a sense of human solidarity and concern for the common good that will bear fruit as learning becomes service to justice.” 
in his 2010 notre dame commencement ad­dress, brian williams told the new grads, “you didn’t go to college; instead, you went to notre dame.” 
it’s kind of odd, but the truth is that we come here to leave. we’re truly blessed to be here, each and every one of us. but we know that there is still something more to be had. There is something else somewhere out there waiting for us; something that requires us to use our gifts, talents, and the skills we have learned to make a corner of the world a little bit happier, brighter, or more hopeful. 
but the thing is, we don’t have to wait until we have left to make a difference. we all come to notre dame for a purpose, or maybe, we come searching for a greater purpose; something to fight for, to stand for, to learn from. we have the center for social concerns and so many other institutes on campus; the resources to help us learn, listen, and serve are almost limitless. 
make the world a better place because you’re a part of it. do what you can, with what you have, where you are. be a part of something larger than yourself. step outside your comfort zone. make someone smile. Take the plunge. 
Shannon McDowell 
senior pasquerilla east oct. 22 

The observer | tuesdAy, OctOber 23, 2012 | ndsmcobserver.com 

By ANDREW OWENS 
assistant managing editor 

each week, for 14 weeks of the college football season, bobby stephens drives the “college gameday” bus to the show’s next location. it’s often a lonely trek during a grueling three-month season, but he wouldn’t have it any other way. 
on saturday, the day the espn show is broadcast to a nationwide audience, he gets to relax. 
“i lead a sheltered life,” stephens told The observer when “gameday” visited notre dame for the stanford game on oct. 13. “not much goes on here. on saturdays, guys watch the games and get ready for the morning show. we entertain our home depot and espn guests that come out for the show, and after that i just make sure they’re happy. if they’re happy, i’m happy.” 
stephens, who is alone 90 percent of the time while driving the orange home depot bus during the week, said the longest drive during his 11 years with “gameday” took him from oregon to massachusetts, which consisted of five 10-hour days of driving. 
“Truck drivers seldom say anything to me. They might ask about the guys on the side of the bus,” said stephens, referring to on-air talent chris fowler, Kirk herbstreit and lee corso. “i’ve been pulled over twice. once for herbstreit’s autograph and once for mine. They wanted mine for a [speeding] ticket — $138 in the state of Texas.” 
while most of the other members of the “gameday” team fly between locations, eight trucks are also driven from campus to campus. Those vehicles contain the technical devices and set equipment that fans see on television each week. 
luther fisher, “gameday” technical manager, said the technical equipment is put together wednesday night, while the stage is constructed Thursday morn­ing — a process that takes six-and-a-half hours to put together and four-and-a-half to disassemble. 
on friday, espn tapes segments for “sportscenter” and broadcasts “college football live” from the set. inside the production truck, dozens of screens are filled with graphics and video as preparations are made for saturday. The truck is quiet except for the occasional discussion about a pending segment. 
“it’s pretty much a traveling circus,” fisher said. “we’re together for 14 weeks in a row and we get along most of the time. That’s really the only way it could work. we couldn’t just have a different crew all over it. we’d never get it done in time. 
“it’s like [a band on tour]. some of the truck drivers even used to be with rock bands.” 
fisher said the crew has to deal with the occasional hiccup, but for the most part everything goes smooth­ly. earlier this year, while stationed at florida state, the broadcast signal went dead for four seconds. 
“The blimp got in between us and the satellite,” he said. “i ran out of the truck and said, ‘guys, can you fly a little to the right?’” 
On-air talent 
The show’s personalities live, eat and breathe football for 14 weeks. during a rare break on friday afternoon, some of the crew enjoyed a catered mcalister’s lunch in decio hall. The mealtime conversation? football, of course. 
“i don’t know if i can put a number on [the hours],” former michigan star and current “gameday” analyst desmond howard said. “it’s more than film work. we talk to coaches, talk to [media relations], people who may do play-by-play locally, so it’s countless. obviously we run the gamut from east coast to west coast, so i may have to talk to [oregon head coach] chip Kelly at 
8:00 where he is, but it’s 11:00 where i am.” 
in 2005, howard was added to the traveling crew to join fowler, herbstreit and corso. he said the challenge was to find his niche among the other stars so as to not disrupt the show’s chemistry. 
“The show, i think, was wildly popular because of what those three guys started,” he said. “i kind of want­ed to get in where i could fit in and not disrupt anything and they welcomed me with open arms and, in my pro­gression, things have worked out very, very well with the addition of desmond howard on the show.” 
both howard and fowler, during the broadcast of “gameday,” alluded to the show not being welcome at notre dame during the latter stages of charlie weis’ ten­ure as head coach. “gameday’s” last visit to campus co­incided with the 34-31 usc victory over the irish in 2005. 
“obviously the program is headed in the right direc­tion and undefeated and they welcomed us back on campus,” howard said. 
when howard watched the irish during spring prac­tice, he didn’t expect the show would pay notre dame a visit this fall, he said. neither did former georgia defen­sive end and current analyst david pollack. 
“i thought notre dame would be a better team with a worse record this year because i just didn’t see, with that schedule, that they’d be able to run the schedule,” said pollack, who added that he thinks notre dame’s defense is sec-caliber. “purdue’s a much-improved team and to go to michigan state, beat michigan, stanford, ou, usc, good lord,” he said. “before the season, that looked daunting and it still looks daunting. They’ve done a great job navigating the schedule with a suspect offense. 
“i didn’t think their defense would be this dominant, especially after losing aaron lynch. Think about that cat on this defense. it would’ve been even more [successful] than it is and it’s already successful.” 
pollack said the season is a blur, but there’s no job he would rather have. 
“i go home, my wife asks me how it was and i say, ‘where was i this week?’ so it definitely is [chaotic],” he said. “i leave Tuesday night or wednesday morning and come home monday. but it beats working for a living. i’m watching college football. This is a dream, so it’s pretty fun.” 
notre dame will be one of the featured teams on “gameday” again this saturday, but this time it will be in norman, okla., before the no. 5 irish and no. 8 sooners face off in primetime. 
Contact Andrew Owens at aowens2@nd.edu 

STEPH WULZ | The Observer 

The observer |tuesdAy, OctOber 23, 2012 | ndsmcobserver.com 

By KEVIN NOONAN 
scene editor 

at equal turns darkly comedic and chillingly sus­penseful, “argo” brings vividly to life the little known story of the rescue of six u.s. diplomats from Tehran, iran in 1979 in the middle of the iranian hostage crisis. 
The film, released oct. 12, stars ben affleck (who also directed and produced) as Tony mendez, the re­al-life cia agent who orchestrated the escape of the americans under the guise of being a canadian film crew scouting filming locations for a science fiction movie titled “argo.” 
The audience knows the outcome going into the the­ater, but that didn’t matter to people sitting on the edges of their seats in genuinely concerned, “you could hear a pin drop” silence for the majority of the film. 
This film sees affleck on the director’s chair for the third time in his career, and once again he shows im­peccable talent at masterfully recreating the feel of the environment in which his stories take place. 
in 2007’s “gone baby gone,” the destitution of the downtrodden boston neighborhood and the underly­ing problems with which it’s riddled. 
affleck’s 2010 bank robbery thriller, “The Town,” again illustrated an impoverished boston neighbor­hood, but this time painting a picture of the kill-or-get­killed nature of those residents who managed to rise above it through crime. 
“argo” may be affleck’s first venture out of his home­town, but it is also his best effort to date at creating a textured portrait within his film that goes beyond just the characters on screen. Tehran in 1979 was a city in upheaval, and the storming of the american embassy and the hostage crisis that ensued was in many ways a boiling point in iran of years of oppression by a cruel leader and anti-american animosity. 
The film’s opening scenes depict this chaotic, mob-induced storming and this along many scenes through­out the movie depicting various scenes of anarchy and fear, including firing squads in the streets, gives the audience a taste of the pure terror that defined the american embassy workers’ lives after the complex was overtaken. 
The main characters are colorfully displayed in the film, and the performances behind them bring the story to life. bryan cranston plays Jack o’donnell, mendez’s boss who works frantically in washington d.c. to make sure all the pieces come together, including some tense and explicit conversations with highly ranked white house officials. John goodman plays John chambers, a real-life hollywood makeup artist who frequently worked with the cia over the course of his career, and teams up with veteran producer lester siegel, played by alan arkin, to create the fake backstory of the sci-fi film. 
goodman and arkin provide much of the comedic re­lief of the film, showing the gilded nature of hollywood in the 1970s. The film provides an interesting contrast in this sense, pitting the flashy, hedonistic character of hollywood, and by extension america, at the time against the stark, violent reality of the upheaval in iran going on at the same time. 
Though these core characters are well developed and feel very real, the film is held back the slightest bit by the sheer number of characters involved. in addition to those main players, there are the six americans on the run, their canadian hosts and a seemingly countless number of names and faces involved in the escape plan. 
The result is the lack of development of some of the key components of the story, especially the six american diplomats. 
additionally, as this is “based on a true story,” its historical inaccuracies have drawn further criticism. namely, though the film succeeds in not falling into the trap of being simply american propaganda, it down­plays the involvement and risk undertaken by other na­tions in order to pull off the rescue, especially canada, britain and new Zealand. 
overall, though, the film wholly succeeds in captur­ing the story and historical context of one of the most creative and daring rescue missions in american his­tory, and is definitely a must-see. 
Contact Kevin Noonan at knoonan2@nd.edu 
“Argo” 

Directed by: Ben Affleck 
Studio: Warner Bros. Pictures 
Starring: Ben Affleck, Bryan Cranston, Alan Arkin 

STEPH WULZ | The Observer 


sPOrts AuthOrity 

rookie takeover 

PETER STEINER 
sports writer 
There is something naturally intriguing about rookies in the nfl. from the combine, to draft day and all the way through training camp, speculation sur­rounds the top rookies. and in a league dominated by the guys under center, no category re­ceives more attention than the rookie quarterback. 
This year a record five rookie quarterbacks started on oopen­ing dday for their respective teams, providing enough hype for espn to finally put Tim Tebow in the backseat — well, sort of. 
but gone are the days when a rookie quarterback would sit behind a proven veteran, learn­ing the ropes and biding his time. while this system turned out some of the greatest quar­terbacks today — think aaron rodgers — it also produced me­diocre ones like carson palmer. 
now teams are starting their newest signal-callers fresh out of college because success in the nfl today requires a great quarterback. each team is look­ing for a savior to lead them to the promised land — the nfl playoffs. with seven weeks in the books, it’s time to take a look at the success and failures of five rookie quarterbacks. They have all had their ups and downs, but here is how the newest nfl quarterbacks rank in their inau­gural seasons: 
5. brandon Weeden 
before you judge weeden too harshly, keep in mind that the 29-year-old quarterback plays for the perennially awful cleveland browns. in addition, his place at the bottom of the totem pole results more because of the solid play by the other four rook­ies than weeden’s ineptitude. weeden has the tools to be the brown’s first franchise quarter­back in ages and his potential has shone through at times, especially in the last two weeks when he threw for 495 combined yards and four touchdowns. but his mistakes override his suc­cesses and there is no ignoring the fact that the browns are 1-6. The browns should stick with weeden though, because he may prove himself a worthy starter by season’s end. 
4. russell Wilson 
The seahawks surprised ev­eryone by naming wilson the starter over free-agent acquisi­tion matt flynn. while they stand at 4-3, the seahawks have struggled with their aerial attack, sitting at no. 30 in the league in total passing yards. wilson led the seahawks past the patriots two weeks ago with over 300 to­tal yards and three touchdowns and he also orchestrated the infamous “touchception” in the victory over the packers in week three. but the former wisconsin badger was abysmal in his most recent start against the 49ers, throwing for only 122 yards without a touchdown. despite his charisma and leadership as a rookie, wilson has been too inconsistent in the passing game to rank him any higher. 

3. ryan tannehill 
The dolphins are hoping their search for dan marino’s replacement finally ends with Tannehill. The quarterback from Texas a&m has proved worthy of the no. 8 pick in the draft thus far, leading the dolphins to 3-3, with two of those losses coming in overtime. although Tannehill only started 19 games at quarterback as an aggie, his inexperience under center has been a nonfactor. while he has not received the attention of the two rookie quarterbacks ranked above him, Tannehill has had an impressive rookie campaign. 
2. Andrew luck 
of all the rookie quarterbacks, luck stepped into the most dif­ficult situation. not only was he touted as the most nfl-ready quarterback in the draft, but luck was also expected to fill the rather large shoes of peyton manning in his first season. overall, luck has played well in his first seven games, especially considering he is working with a team that went 2-14 last season. but his inconsistency has also prevented him from reaching the top spot. for example, luck led the colts over the packers in week five, only to lose to the Jets, 35-9, the following week. while luck is the man of the future in indianapolis, he is not the top rookie quarterback. atop the rankings stands: 
1. robert Griffin iii. 
lofty expectations were placed on the baylor gradu­ate after the redskins traded three first-round draft picks to select him, but “rg3” has all but exceeded those expectations. The dynamic quarterback has impressed the league with his ability to run and has already compiled over 2,000 total yards. griffin’s best performance came in week four when he orches­trated a fourth-quarter come­back against the buccaneers. although the rookie has also struggled at times, he has turned in the most consistent week-to­week performances compared to the other rookie quarterbacks. his highlight-reel plays and de­meanor are just icing on the cake for the top rookie quarterback so far this season. 
Contact Peter Steiner at psteiner@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
smc sOccer | sainT mary’s 1, calvin 1 

Belles prove their worth against conference teams 
By KATIE HEIT 
sports writer 
with three tough matchups over fall break, the belles’ five-game winning streak ended after falling to adrian 1-0 be­fore bouncing back with a 4-1 win over albion. saint mary’s rounded out the week with a 1-1 tie against calvin in double overtime. 
belles coach michael Joyce said calvin was the toughest competition over the break. 
“every other team we’ve played very close,” Joyce said. “even when we’ve lost, the game could have gone our way with a finished chance, or a big save. calvin is very good and we don’t seem to match up par­ticularly well against them.” 
despite Joyce’s feelings about the belles’ ability to match up, the belles managed to stay in the competition when senior maddie meckes converted a corner kick into a goal with 10 seconds left in regulation. neither team was able to pull ahead in overtime, however. 
“overtime is tough,” Joyce said, “an extra 20 minutes after a long game can be hard to get up for, but we’d worked hard in regulation to come back and tie the game only to lose it in over­time, so the motivation was there.” 
Joyce said he was happy with the tie, especially taking into account the amount of effort his team put forth. 
“we had a couple good looks at goal, as did calvin,” Joyce said, “but no one could get that great finish … every point in the tight standings is 

WANTED 
PART TIME WORK 14.25 base-appt earnparttime.com 
PERSONAL 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don’t go it alone. Notre Dame has many resources in place to assist you. If you or someone you love needs con­fidential support or assistance, please call Ann Whitall at 1-0084 or Karen Kennedy at 1-5550. For more informa­tion, visit ND’s website at: http://preg­nancysupport@nd.edu 
When you are courting a nice girl an hour seems like a second. When you sit on a red-hot cinder a second seems like an hour. That’s relativity. 
-Albert Einstein 
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
   I feel sorry for people who don’t drink. When they wake up in the morn­ing, that’s as good as they’re going to feel all day.      
-Frank Sinatra 
      I wake up every morning at nine and grab for the morning paper. Then I look at the obituary page. If my name is not on it, I get up. 
-Benjamin Franklin 
    Well, Art is Art, isn’t it? Still, on the other hand, water is water. And east is east and west is west and if you take cranberries and stew them like applesauce they taste much more like prunes than rhubarb does. Now you tell me what you know. 
-Groucho Marx 


important.” 
Joyce said he was impressed with saint mary’s performance against adrian, despite the loss. 
“we played great against adrian and had some very good looks at goal,” Joyce said. “They cleared two balls off the line after the keeper was beat, and we had a couple point plank chances we didn’t put away. They were able to find the right shot and won a tight game.” 
Joyce said the belles’ perfor­mance in that matchup will be key to their upcoming confer­ence games. 
“if we can get performances like that against some of the tough opponents we have this week, we should come out with some points,” Joyce said. 
with their last four games of the season stacked in the next week, Joyce said he is confident his team will be able to se­cure post-season play. next, the belles will take on alma at home. The game marks saint mary’s senior day. The three seniors being honored are maddie meckes, meaghan daly, and ashley morfin. all three have been key figures in saint mary’s recent success. 
“i think the last few games and the season has taught us that when we play well, we can beat anyone in the conference,” Joyce said. “it’s a nice feeling after struggling the last couple of years, to approach games full of optimism about the op­portunity to showcase a talent­ed saint mary’s program.” 
The belles are in action once more for senior dday at home against alma Tuesday at 4 p.m. 
Contact Katie Heit at kheit@nd.edu 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit 
        Yesterday I was a dog. Today I’m a dog. Tomorrow I’ll probably still be a dog. Sigh! There’s so little hope for advancement. 
-Charles Schulz 
         Bad psychoanalysis would say I enjoyed pleasing people, working re­ally hard and pleasing people, which is probably related to my father in some way. But I really liked working hard. When I worked at Disneyland, I’d do 12 hours straight and go home thrilled.    
-Steve Martin 
           I grew up with six brothers. That’s how I learned to dance - waiting for the bathroom. 
-Bob Hope 



nd WOmen’s sWimminG | dennis sTarK relays  men’s tennis | midwesT regional championship  
Irish dominate in season  squad faces tough  
opener, nearly sweep events  regional matches  

By KATIE HEIT 
sports writer 
The irish started their sea­son off with a bang, claim­ing nine of the 10 events in swimming as well as two div­ing events in the 48th dennis stark relays on oct. 12. 
with 16 underclassmen, the early win could be a sign of good things to come for notre dame this season. sophomore erin foley said as a whole, the team performed extremely well, no matter the experience. 
“we’ve been working re­ally hard,” foley said. “it was 

“It was nice to see where we were at so early on in the season and overall it went really well. We had a lot of promising wins that foreshadow a good season.” 
Erin Foley 
sophomore 

nice to see where we were at meet and i’m excited to see so early on in the season and what they do this season.” overall it went really well. The only relay lost by the we had a lot of promising irish during the competition wins that foreshadow a good was the 400-yard freestyle season.” whee they were disqualified 
foley said the win will be for a false start. They would good for irish confidence have finished in third with-leading into the season. out the disqualification. 
paid adverTisemenT 

“i think winning the first meet was a good start for us and [will] boost the confi­dence as we enter a challeng­ing meet against auburn,” foley said. “This helps us set a good tone for the season and says the hard work has paid off and will continue to pay off.” 
foley said the freshmen performed much better than expected for their first colle­giate meet. 
“all of them really stepped up and have been working hard every single day,” foley said. “They adjusted really quickly to their first college 
foley said it was nice to start the season with an un­usual meet. 
“swimming is usually a re­ally individual sport,” foley said. “you’re on your own. it’s a cool way to start off the season, where every race is a relay. it’s nice to start off the season doing something different. you can see where you are individually and see what you can do as a team throughout the season.” 
The irish success will be put to the test friday when they take on auburn. foley said if the irish continue to focus and work hard on the little things during practice they will be able to succeed. 
“i think we still have a long way to go,” foley said. “There are little improvements we can keep making. we can focus on technique and em­phasize the little things like starts, turn, and finishes be­cause if we keep working on them it really will help in the long run.” 
notre dame will test its suc­cess friday against auburn at 5 p.m. at the martin aquatics center in auburn, ala. 
Contact Katie Heit at kheit@nd.edu 

By MEGAN FINNERAN 
sports writer 
The irish spent the tail-end of fall break competing at the usTa/iTa midwest regional championships in east lansing, mich., com­peting Thursday through monday. advancing deepest into the tournament were se­nior spencer Talmadge and junior greg andrews, who ad­vanced to the finals monday in doubles. 
“overall it was a great tour­nament for [Talmadge and andrews] and they are play­ing at a very high level,” irish coach bob bayliss said. 
Talmadge and andrews faced no. 8 farris gosea and Tim Kopinski of illinois in a tough match, falling 8-5 to the illini duo. The beginning of the match took a 2-0 turn in favor of illinois and the irish were never able to bounce back. 
“we certainly had many op­portunities to be up 2-0, but instead found ourselves down 2-0,” bayliss said. 
despite the fall in the final round of play, both Talmadge and andrews performed bet­ter than expected. 
“greg’s doubles contin­ues to approach his singles level which is something we were hoping for,” bayliss said. “spencer is beginning to come into his own and assuming a lot of responsibility. he is much more consistent on re­turns than he has been in the past.” 
The duo sought revenge for notre dame on sunday with an 8-6 win over michigan’s barrett franks and vlad stefan to advance to the fi­nals. franks and stefan had knocked out notre dame freshmen Kenneth sabacinski and nicolas montoya in the third round of play. 
The progression began friday morning for Talmadge and andrews when they first faced lucas waak and eric honert of valparaiso, defeat­ing the pair 8-2. in the second round they took down rodrigo campos and Zeeshan ismail of youngstown state, 8-4. The third round of play brought denis bogatov and harry Jadun of michigan state, with the irish easily winning 8-0. 
outside the doubles perfor­mance, multiple irish play­ers advanced past the first 
“We certainly had many opportunities to be up 2-0, but instead found ourselves down 2-0.” 
Bobby Bayliss 
Irish coach 
round of play but many strug­gled to break deep into the tournament. 
“several of our guys lost matches that i thought we were capable of winning,” bayliss said. “part of that was inexperience, part of that was adjusting to the quicker course of michigan state, and part of it was not seizing the moment.” 
freshman Quentin monaghan beat drew lied of michigan state 6-4, 6-1 in the first round before falling to ohio state’s connor smith 6-2, 6-4 and andrews advanced to second round by beating alex robles of wisconsin 6-1, 6-4 before hunter callaghan of ohio state knocked him out of the tournament by a 6-4, 6-4 count. 
notre dame has a break in the fall season before re­turning to competition at the usTa/iTa national indoor championships, which begin nov. 8. 
Contact Megan Finneran at mfinnera@nd.edu 



The observer | tuesdAy, OctOber 23, 2012 | ndsmcobserver.com 

men’s sWimminG And diVinG | dennis sTarK relays 
notre dame secures opening week win 

By MEGAN FINNERAN 
sports writer 
The irish demonstrated a strong beginning to their season in the dennis stark relays, taking first place with 210 points and winning seven of 12 events. This start acted as a continuation of last season, when notre dame won the big east title. 
“The weekend went well,” senior chris Johnson said. “it showed us where we have depth and where we are vulnerable.” 
first-place finishes in five of the 10 swimming events and both diving events secured the win. The weekend took off with the 200-yard free relay, fueled by senior Kevin overholt’s 20.40 split that pushed the foursome of overholt, junior frank dyer and seniors John mcginley and chris Johnson to first place with a time of 1:22.69. 
following the opening race, the squad took second in back-to-back relays before senior bill bass and sophomores matthew deblasio and Zach stephens and patrick olson brought them back in check in the 400-yard im relay in 3:29.76 to take first. 
once again, the irish slipped into back-to-back second place 
finishes,  falling  closely  be­ 
hind  oakland.  but  that  only  
motivated  the  trio  in  the  300­ 

yard breaststroke relay, when Johnson, stephens and sopho­more cameron miller broke the 
kaull 
conTinued from page 16 
in the men’s foil. The irish made an appearance in the top finish­ers in men’s epee as well, as Kaull claimed 11th and freshman matt mcgrath claimed 14th. 
“courtney is one of our best. we expect that out of her, same with gerek,” Kaull said. “i thought i fenced pretty well; we all did. it’s a long tournament and it’s still early in the season. it’s good to survive a long tour­nament even if you don’t quite make it all the way.” 
even though the north american cup is not a collegiate competition, the tournament offered irish athletes the oppor­tunity to gain national points to be in the national team for the world championships, world cups and future olympic games. interestingly enough, this setting is more familiar and comfortable for the irish fencers, rather than being intimidating, Kaull said. 
“it’s a little more familiar, be­cause all of us have a lot more experience doing those events than we do in the collegiate set­ting. we’ve been fencing these events all our lives,” Kaull said. “college is a big shift. events like the nac allow you to be in a invitational record and edged out cleveland state by almost nine seconds with a time of 2:50.38. 

“we were kind of caught off-guard by oakland, but came to­gether by the end to pull out the win,” Johnson said. “we are ready to go head-to-head with them this friday.” 
after a second-place finish in the 1,000-yard freestyle relay, notre dame closed out the last two swimming events in first. Johnson took the lead at the last second in the 200-yard medley relay, taking the victory with freshman bogac ayhan, miller and bass in 1:32.45. Johnson’s last touch came just be­fore oakland’s 1:32.53 finish. 
overholt, junior colin babcock, stephens and mcginley had no problem closing the day with a first-place finish in the 400-yard freestyle relay, holding the lead throughout the race and ending it in 3:03.53. 
on the diving end, sophomore nick nemetz took first in the one-meter with 310.82 points and paired with sophomore team­mate michael Kreft to take the 3-meter relay with 255.95. 
oakland, cleveland state and iupui followed behind the irish with 190, 144 and 118 points, respectively. 
The irish next face a dual meet at oakland in rochester, mich., on friday. 
Contact Megan Finneran at mfinnera@nd.edu 

more familiar scenario, you talk to your old coaches, and spend time with your teammates out­side of a college tournament. you end up seeing them more as pure fencers and less as collegiate athletes.” 
despite the influx of young tal­ent this irish team possesses, in­cluding mcgrath and Kiefer, the team’s experience will carry it going forward, Kaull said. of the 46 members on the irish team, over half are upperclassmen. 
“our biggest strength is ex­perience. we have a lot of good fencers in their fifth year. we have a lot of great fencers with a lot experience in both success and failure,” Kaull said. “we’re ready. everyone just kind of looks at each other and says, ‘we’re ready. This is possible. if we do a couple things very well but very simply, we’ll do very well.’” 
The irish will look for experi­ence to prevail going forward. in less than a week, the collegiate season kicks off for notre dame. on sunday, the irish will host the notre dame invitational in the new castellan family fencing center. The invitational compe­tition will go on throughout the day. 
Contact Aaron Sant-Miller at asantmil@nd.edu 
crOss cOuntry | wisconsin inviTaTional 

Slow start costs Irish victory 
By JOE WIRTH 
sports writer 
against an imposing field of teams at the wisconsin invitational, the irish men finished with a 26th place finish, while the women’s team placed 12th. 
although these were not ideal results for the irish, men’s coach Joe piane said this race was a good learn­ing experience for both squads and he expects the runners to learn from some of their mistakes in the race. 
“we obviously expected to do better in this race, but i think our runners learned a lot,” piane said. “we needed to be more aggressive and competitive early. i believe the experience we got from this race will benefit us in future big races.” 
The field in wisconsin in­cluded 37 nationally ranked teams and the slow start proved costly for the irish. 
“when you start off slow in a race like this, you are in trouble,” piane said. “if you are not aggressive ear­ly, you could be behind 300 other runners and good luck trying to get through that traffic.” 
senior rebecca Tracy had the best individual per­formance for the women’s team. she placed 56th and registered a time of 20:32 for the 6-kilometer race. The next best performance for the irish women came from junior Kelly curran, who finished in 65th place with a time of 20:37. 

The irish women also re­ceived solid contributions from some of the younger runners. freshman molly seidel finished in 78th place with a time of 20:41 and sophomore gabby gonzales came in 127th place and had a time of 20:57. 
senior Jeremy rae was a highlight for the men’s team. he finished in 14th place out of 316 total run­ners and registered a time 
paid adverTisemenT 
of 23:40 for the 8-kilometer race. 
piane said he was im­pressed with rae’s perfor­mance, especially the way he was able to get off to a good start. 
“[rae] ran very well and very aggressively early and that is the key to success in these big races,” piane said. “This was a great run for him against great competi­tion and he is gaining confi­dence every race.” 
The irish will be in ac­tion this friday for the big east championships in the bronx, n.y. 
Contact Joe Wirth at jwirth@nd.edu 



nd VOlleybAll | noTre dame 3, villanova 0 
Weekend victories extend Irish win streak to six 
By LAURA COLETTI 
sports writer 
The irish maintained their winning ways during fall break, reeling off three victories in a row and extending their win streak to six matches. 
before the break, notre dame (15-6, 8-1 big east) took down depaul in three sets. The blue demons (7-15, 2-7) had no an­swer for notre dame’s bal­anced attack, led by sophomore right side hitter Jeni houser, sophomore outside hitter Toni alugbue and senior middle blocker hilary eppink. houser and alugbue each contributed 13 kills in the match, while eppink chipped in with 10. 
after handling depaul, the irish turned their attention to georgetown and villanova. Junior captain and outside hitter andrea mchugh knew her team could not take either squad lightly, but thought that the hoyas (7-15, 1-8) were the tougher opponent. 
“georgetown was probably our toughest opponent from the past weekend,” mchugh said. “They had a very dy­namic [middle hitter] that ran a variety of sets and also had a quick arm swing. one of our main goals was to stop her and ultimately get a double block on her every time.” 

The irish were dominant against the hoyas, only trailing in one set. alugbue again led the irish with nine kills and a .643 hitting percentage for the match. mchugh and houser each added seven kills. The vic­tory over georgetown extended notre dame’s win streak to five matches, marking the longest streak on the 2012 season. 
The irish would extend that streak one more match two days later, when they swept villanova in three sets. Their victory over the wildcats (10-14, 4-5) marked the fifth time in six matches the irish swept their opponent. mchugh attributes all of her team’s recent success to focus and sticking to a game plan. 
“we are all really focused and come to practice each day wanting to get better,” she said. “one of our main focuses is our side of the net and making sure we play ‘notre dame’ vol­leyball. while the opponents we face play some role in the outcome, we primarily focus on what we can do as a team on our side of the net to come out victorious.” 


mchugh also said keeping a focused mentality has helped the irish maintain their streak of wins, and moving forward they are going to try to main­tain that mentality. 
paid adverTisemenT 
“our focus and mental­ity coming into each match has allowed us to play the way we have,” mchugh said. “we continue to get closer to one another on and off the court, which creates better chemistry and trust when we are playing or practicing. also, our coaches prepare us really well during film and practice and sure we feel confident going into the match.” 
The irish will prepare this week to welcome pittsburgh to the Joyce center on friday at 7 p.m. 
Contact Laura Coletti at                 lcoletti@nd.edu 


The observer | tuesdAy, OctOber 23, 2012 | ndsmcobserver.com 

nd WOmen’s tennis | midwesT regional championship 
Sanders qualifies for singles final 

By VICKY JACOBSEN 
sports writer 
early this month, the big east named junior britney sanders its women’s tennis player of the month for september. if her performance in the first four days of the midwest regional championships is any indica­tion, it’s an honor she’s trying to hold on to for four more weeks. 
sanders, the no. 98 individ­ual in the nation, qualified for Tuesday’s singles final with a 6-3, 6-4 win over northwestern ju­nior belinda niu, who is ranked no. 117. The monday evening match was the third of the day for sanders, who upset no. 9 michigan sophomore emina bektas in three sets in the quar­terfinal earlier in the day. 
“The longer i’m here, the better i play,” sanders said. “i work re­ally hard to win every match so after every match i feel like there is no way i have enough energy to play the next round, but when i’m on the court, i somehow find a way.” 
The win over bektas marked sanders’ first win over an oppo­nent ranked in the top 10. 
“she is known to have one of the biggest serves in college women’s tennis so i was ex­tremely happy every time i broke her serve,” sanders said. “i was down in the third set against her 3-4 when she was serving. i knew if i lost that game she’d only need one more game to win and i didn’t want that to happen. so i did whatever i could to get her serves back and stay in the points and was able to break her to bring it to four-all. if i had lost that game i might have lost the match.” 
but her first doubles match of the day, the tournament final, did not end in notre dame’s fa­vor. sanders and doubles partner junior Julie sabacinski, who are ranked no. 36, were beaten 8-6 by illinois sophomore melissa Kopinski and senior rachael white. it was the first loss of any kind for sanders so far this fall. 

sanders was not the only notre dame athlete who stood out from her competitors on the illinois campus. 
each of the four irish doubles pairs won at least two matches and made it to the round of 16. Junior Jennifer Kellner and se­nior chrissie mcgaffigan made it all the way to the semifinal round before being knocked out by Kopinski and white, who won in the tiebreaker by a final score of 9-8(3). 
“i was disappointed, especially in the doubles, since we were just so close,” Kellner said. “chrissie and i always enjoy playing to­gether, however, and she played absolutely amazing.” 
Kopinski and white also knocked off notre dame fresh­man Quinn gleason and junior Johanna manningham in a close 9-7 match in the round of 16 on saturday. The only irish pairing that didn’t fall to the illini were freshman molly o’Koniewski and sophomore Katherine white, who lost 8-2 to the no. 10 pairing of senior linda abu mushrefova and junior nida hamilton of northwestern in the round of 16. 
The irish also had several im­pressive runs in the singles draw. gleason made it to the round of 16 in just her second collegiate tournament, while Kellner was knocked out in the same round by no. 12 northwestern senior Kate Turvy, who will be sanders’ opponent in the tournament final. 
sanders will face off against Turvy at the university of illinois atkins Tennis center at 11 a.m. tomorrow in the hopes of cap­turing her first collegiate tour­nament title. a win in the final would guarantee an automatic berth at the national indoor championships in flushing, n.y., on nov. 8-11. 
Contact Vicky Jacobsen at vjacobse@nd.edu 
fencinG | norTh american cup 
nd grabs title in men’s, women’s foil 
By AARON SANT-MILLER 
sports writer 
on oct. 15, a contingent of notre dame fencers left st. louis after competing in the north american cup. more than 2,000 athletes competed in the individual tournament, which included events for all three weapons. senior courtney hurley and freshman lee Kiefer led the irish, as hurley claimed first in the women’s epee and Kiefer brought home another first-place finish for the irish in the women’s foil. 

“as a team, we did very well. as our first tournament, this is definitely a check,” junior fencer James Kaull said. “i think we opened really well. we’re just re­ally happy with how we did.” 
The men had a strong showing as well, headed by senior gerek meinhardt who finished second 
see Kaull PAGe 14 
nd WOmen’s GOlf | susie maxwell berning classic 

weaver leads irish to silver 
By NICK BOYLE 
sports writer 
while the rest of the school was on break, no. 17 notre dame was hard at work at the susie maxwell berning classic in norman, okla. The team impressed, tak­ing home a second-place finish out of 18 teams. 
The irish were able to over­come especially windy condi­tions to finish with a three-day total of 24-over par 888, with all five golfers carding a third score better than their second. 
“yesterday, it was extremely windy and the conditions were against us,” irish coach susan holt said. “i am very proud of how we performed today, even with those conditions continu­ing here in the final day.” 
with extremely windy condi­tions making the course tough to play, the irish were still able to overcome six other ranked teams in the field to finish second. The only team to finish in front of notre dame was the host, no. 18 oklahoma, who carded a tour­nament best 5-under par 859. 
The irish were able to card in six rounds under-par throughout the tournament. 
“To be an elite golfer, you have to overcome the hazards that are thrown at you and we did that today,” holt said. “we stayed fo­cused, made adjustments and overcame our second-round scores.” 
individually, the irish were led by freshman lindsey weaver. weaver finished with a 5-un­der-par 211, good enough for a tie for a second place finish be­hind oklahoma’s chirapat Jao-Javanil. Though finishing ahead of all but one other competitor, weaver was still not totally satis­fied with her performance, holt said. 
“lindsey is doing a lot of things well,” holt said. “lindsey is dis­appointed about finishing sec­ond again, but she is going to win a tournament, she is too good not to.” 
paid adverTisemenT 
with that performance, weaver tied the mark for third-best 54-hole score in school his­tory. weaver also led the irish with 13 birdies. 
sophomore ashley armstrong finished tied for 13th with an 8-over-par 224, while ju­nior Kristina nhim finished with an 11-over-par 227 and tied for 30th. 
The irish next travel to wilmington, n.c., to participate in The landfall Tradition this weekend. 
Contact Nick Boyle at nboyle1@nd.edu 




men’s GOlf | 2nd place 

irish one stroke off lead at georgetown invite 


69 in his final two outings 
By JOSEPH MONARDO 
to finish tied for second at two-over-par after an open­
notre dame put forth ing-round 74. 
a strong showing in the “Tyler did a fantastic job,” 
opening day of the fall sea-irish coach Jim Kubinski 
son’s final tournament in said. “i actually saw a lot 
beallsville, md., on monday. of his first round and what 
with one round left to play, i liked was he was a little 
the irish are one stroke back bit off his game but he just 
of Toledo at the georgetown kept grinding out there and 
invitational. he got in with a 74. but then 
last week, the irish sent he played really super golf four individual competitors … i think that’s the type of to the earl yestingsmeier golf we expected from Tyler invitational in muncie, ind. when we recruited him, and sophomores peyton vitter, the experience he is getting patrick grahek, david lowe this year having a chance to and Tyler wingo made the play, and he’s doing a great short trip. wingo turned job. he learns every time in a strong showing in the out … and he’s figuring three-round tournament, things out as we go and he’s using matching rounds of doing a super job.” 
sports writer 

paid adverTisemenT 
vitter placed second among irish competitors with his finish of 10-over­par, good for a share of 13th place. grahek was not far behind at 12-over-par and tied for 19th place. lowe rounded out the irish slate and finished tied for 28th with his three-day score of 17-over-par. 
both wingo and vitter are among irish competi­tors at the georgetown invitational — wingo as part of the starting lineup and vitter as an individual. 
on monday, the irish worked their way into a share of the lead with Toledo after both teams shot rounds of 290 in the morning play. notre dame improved to shoot 286 in the afternoon but fell one stroke behind the rockets, who turned in a second round of 
285. michigan state record­ed the low round of the day with its second-round score of 280. The spartans sit in third after beginning the day with a round of 300. 

irish senior co-captain paul mcnamara recorded consecutive rounds of 71 to pace notre dame at even par for the day. mcnamara is tied for fourth, four strokes back of leader brian churchill-smith from eastern michigan. 
“paul actually started out with two double bogeys but then he played four-under the rest of the day to shoot even,” Kubinski said. “he was the low man [from our team] this morning.” 
irish junior niall platt and wingo are currently tied for 10th at two-over-par with junior andrew lane follow­ing at four-over-par and tied for 17th. wingo turned in notre dame’s lowest round of the day with his round of one-under 70 in the af­ternoon. Junior co-captain andrew carreon finished at nine-over-par after carding a second-round 77 and is tied for 42nd. vitter is tied for 45th at ten-over-par. 
as they head into the final round of their fall season, the irish are in a good posi­tion, Kubinski said. 
“honestly, we made sever­al double bogeys today,” he said. “we got off to a rough start in both rounds but then we played super. so if we can just get out to a good start tomorrow i think we can win it.” 
The final round of the georgetown intercollegiate will begin at 8:30 a.m. to­day on The members club at four streams. 
Contact Joseph Monardo at jmonardo@nd.edu 

Jackson 
conTinued from page 20 
in the bulldog zone allowed irish junior center T.J. Tynan to open the scoring 15:04 into the game. 
The irish scored again with 
2:32 left in the first period. irish junior defenseman shayne Taker passed a puck from the point to junior captain and center anders lee in the right faceoff circle, who directed it cross-ice to sophomore defen­seman robbie russo. russo fired a one-timer past sprawl­ing minnesota-duluth junior netminder aaron crandall on the power play. 
“we switched [russo] to the other side,” Jackson said. “Taker’s been playing well and we put him out at the point; it made the power play look much better, just with a little bit more poise and putting robbie on his off-side where he can shoot the puck.” 
notre dame held a 21-8 advantage in shots after 20 minutes and carried the mo­mentum into the second pe­riod. irish junior right wing mike voran stole the puck from sophomore defenseman chris casto near the goal and found junior left wing Jeff costello open in front of the net for a notre dame goal. 
bulldog freshman center Tony cameranesi cut the defi­cit to two heading into the third, but irish junior center david gerths sealed the win 
4:39 into the third when he scored off a pass from senior left wing nick larson. 
Jackson said he was pleased with the scoring depth the irish showed. 
“when i start seeing guys like voran and gerths scor­ing goals, that’s a good sign for our team,” Jackson said. “last year, that hurt us. Those guys are really important players to our team. They play valu­able minutes. and when they contribute [goals] — that’s not going to be their forte — that makes us a much better team.” 
summerhays finished friday’s contest with 33 saves. Jackson said he planned on playing senior goaltender mike Johnson in one of the first four games, but wanted to show summerhays he had confidence in the junior by playing him after Thursday’s loss. 
summerhays said the key to the game was shut­ting down the bulldogs after cameranesi’s goal. 
“we’re able to bend but not break,” summerhays said. “They scored a goal and we were able to turn the page and shut them down from scoring another goal and go into the third period with a two-goal lead. That was huge.” 
The irish open ccha play this weekend when they trav­el to northern michigan for a pair of games friday and saturday. both games start at 
7:35p.m. 
Contact Sam Gans at sgans@nd.edu 

clark 
converted by finley. “The second goal, i was very 
conTinued from page 20 

happy with. it was a great goal. i mean, it was a fantastic goal,” 
to not get frustrated with our-clark said. “it was a good per-
selves. i knew we were going to formance and great for ryan. 
make chances but you just have it’s great to have a striker that to be careful that you don’t end is scoring goals for you. but i 
up beating yourself, because thought dillon was terrific. That 
that is what happens when you second goal, that all came from get frustrated.” repressing from dillon.” 
notre dame unleashed sev­eral shots that tested providence redshirt sophomore goalkeeper Keasel broome in the second half’s opening 15 minutes. on the other end, the friars (3-9­2, 1-5-0) succeeded in sending multiple balls across the face of the notre dame net. however, providence failed to generate threatening shots on the finish­ing end. 
notre dame finally broke through with the go-ahead goal in the 69th minute when sophomore defender max lachowecki connected with finley. lachowecki carried the ball down the left sideline before sending in a high-arching cross into finley, who notched his 12th goal of the season with a forceful header. finley added another goal in the 74th minute with a volley off a cross from senior captain dillon powers. powers delivered the cross after track­ing down a loose ball deep in georgetown’s half. The final goal came off a penalty kick drawn by shipp in the 80th minute and 

now with 14 goals on the sea­son, finley leads the big east in the category. he also has three assists and leads the conference with 31 points. 
multiple irish seniors came off the bench to take the field in the contest’s final 15 minutes, pro­viding a chance to recognize the class’s leadership contributions to the team. 
“i always say your senior lead­ership is so important and this has been a great class, a great group,” clark said. “obviously, we lost two of the fifth-years [midfielder and captain michael rose and midfielder adam mena, both to knee injuries], and that was tough. but every­body has been able to work hard and fit in and they’ve set really good examples both on and off the field.” 
notre dame will host marquette in alumni stadium on wednesday at 7 p.m. for the final home game of the season. 
Contact Joseph Monardo at jmonardo@nd.edu 
Georgetown 
conTinued from page 20 
early, as junior midfielder mandy laddish’s attempt hit the top crossbar in the 26th min­ute. The hoyas broke through in the 50th minute when junior forward colleen dinn drove a 15-yard shot past sophomore goalkeeper sarah voigt and added to their total in the 74th minute as sophomore midfield­er daphne corboz re-directed a cross from six yards out for her 16th goal of the season. 
waldrum said he was disap­pointed with the team’s missed opportunities against the hoyas. 
“we had ample opportuni­ties to win, but we didn’t take care of it,” he said. “we played a good game for 50 or 60 minutes, but we didn’t go for the full 90 minutes.” 
after failing to score against georgetown, the irish offense got off to a quick start two days later at villanova (7-8-3, 5-4-1). freshman forward anna maria gilbertson took a pass from ju­nior forward rebecca Twining and launched a shot into the up­per right corner of the net to put the irish on the board in just the seventh minute of the game. 
notre dame’s defense took over following the goal, limiting the wildcats to just three shots on goal, and freshman goal­keeper elyse hight made three saves to record her second solo shutout of the year. 
“i felt our kids played really well at villanova, especially be­cause it’s hard to rebound on the sunday after a friday game,” waldrum said. “we won 1-0 but could have won by three or four. i thought it could have been one of those days where the team has a letdown, but i felt we were fo­cused and showed a lot of fight.” 


The irish will now turn their attention to postseason play, which begins sunday when the team hosts syracuse, the no. 3 seed in the american division, in the big east champion­ship quarterfinals at alumni stadium. waldrum said he was happy with his team’s recent performances, but he empha­sized that consistency would be essential to notre dame’s 
paid adverTisemenT 


postseason success. 
“we’re playing well, but there are some periods of each game where we aren’t really sharp,” he said. it’s been minimized since the beginning of the season, and we have played complete games, but we’ve also played games where we’ve had 10-min­ute spells where we switched off. we’ve gotten much better, but i still think we have more in us.” 
notre dame will face syracuse in a big east championship quarterfinal match on sunday at 1 p.m. at alumni stadium. 
Contact Brian Hartnett at bhartnet@nd.edu 


Furnished Only $475 per month per student Unfurnished Only $395 per month per student Choose from spacious 3, 4, or 5 bedroom townhomes with 1560 - 1860 sq. ft. floorplans 
. Local Ownership and Management . 
Call (574)234-2436 to see furnished model 
Lafayette Square Townhomes 
423 N. Eddy Street 
www.kramerhouses.com 

*Lease must be signed by December 10, 2012. One signing bonus per lease. 
Furnished townhomes include: 
• 42’’ flat screen TV 
• Living and dining room sets 
• Furnished bedrooms with desks 
Now Leasingfor 2013-2014 


crOssWOrd | will shorTZ 


hiGhly Punlikely | chrisTopher brucKer 

lOWer yOur exPectAtiOns | rago & paTricKcross 


Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
sudOku | The mepham group 

hOrOscOPe | eugenia lasT 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Zac hanson, 27; Jesse Tyler ferguson, 37; Jeff goldblum, 60; catherine deneuve, 69. 
Happy Birthday: put more effort into your home, surroundings and your relation­ships with the people you love most. sort out any issues that pertain to your personal finances or your health and wellness. positive changes will happen if you exercise your rights and creative plans for the future. honesty and integrity coupled with practicality will win in the end. your numbers are 3, 11, 15, 22, 26, 32, 40. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): innovative ideas coupled with striving to project what you have to offer using the element of surprise will capture attention and bring you acknowledgment. speed, accuracy and cutting-edge motions will separate you from any competition you face. 


TAURUS (April 20-May 20): problems with a client, colleague or personal partner will incur knowledge that hasn’t been shared. don’t make a judgment call until you have all the facts. you have more to gain if you wait to see what everyone else does first. 


GEMINI (May 21-June 20): make a change that will help resolve a pending problem. a partnership will help determine which path is best for you. a change will lift your spirits and help clear your mind. don’t let a personal matter stop you from doing what’s best.  


CANCER (June 21-July 22): don’t get emotional over money matters; do something about your situation. be creative, put some thought into how you can utilize your skills to conjure up greater income or what you can sell or manipulate in your port­folio to double your intake. 


LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): problems at home or with someone you must deal with will develop. honesty regarding your feelings and what you want to do will be necessary if you’re making a change that will affect the people you live or associate with. 


VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): emotional mind games will lead you astray. ask ques­tions, and be specific with your responses to avoid mishaps or arguments. a change at home may not be to your liking, but give whatever has transpired a chance before you reject what’s happening. 


LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): speak up, share your ideas and you’ll find ways to improve your situation at home and at work. picking up knowledge that will open your eyes to every possible option will help you move on in a direction that suits your needs. 


SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): listen carefully to what’s being said and you get a good idea regarding the outcome of a situation that has been emotionally difficult. distance yourself from negative individuals, and focus on a creative project that you find stimulating. 


SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Tread carefully when it comes to money matters. not everyone will follow through with suggested plans. Keep your contribution simple, cost-efficient and easy to follow through with on your own if everyone around you bails. avoid excess. 

CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): discuss your plans with people you feel have some­thing worthwhile to add. your dedication and determination will outweigh any nega­tive force that tries to stand in your way. don’t be daunted by someone who makes a last-minute change. 


AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): emotional confusion can lead to poor choices finan­cially or medically. find out your options and seek expert advice before you make a decision that can influence your future. stick close to home and avoid anyone who meddles. 


PISCES (Feb. 19- March 20): focus on making money, not giving it away. a residen­tial move or renovations will be a good investment. partnerships will make your life easier. love and romance are highlighted. mixing business with pleasure will pay off. Travel with caution. 


Birthday Baby:you are observant, dedicated and true to your beliefs. 
Jumble | david hoyT and Jeff KnureK 

make checks payable to and mail to: enclosed is $130 for one academic year enclosed is $75 for one semester  The observer p.o. box 779 notre dame, in 46556  
name address city       state  Zip  


The observer | tuesdAy, OctOber 23, 2012 | ndsmcobserver.com 
hOckey | noTre dame 4, minnesoTa-duluTh 1 
Irish split home-opening series with Bulldogs 
By SAM GANS 
sports writer 
after a 3-1 loss to no. 13 minnesota-duluth last Thursday night, the no. 9 irish defeated the bulldogs 4-1 on friday in the first two games at compton family ice arena this season. 
notre dame (3-1-0) notched 23 penalty minutes in the first period Thursday against the bulldogs (2-2-0), including a five-minute major by junior defenseman Kevin lind for a hit to the head of bulldog sophomore winger caleb herbert. lind was disqualified from the rest of the game and suspended for friday’s game. 
irish freshman forward Thomas dipauli then commit­ted a slashing penalty with 35 seconds remaining in the first period. with dipauli and fel­low freshman forward sam herr — serving lind’s pen­alty — in the box, minnesota­duluth scored the game’s first goal on a two-man advan­tage with just 2.1 seconds to go in the period. bulldog se­nior winger mike seidel fed the puck to freshman center cal decowski near the top of the crease, who placed it past irish junior goaltender steven summerhays and under the crossbar. 
irish coach Jeff Jackson was unsure why his team — which went 2-0 in the season-open­ing ice breaker Tournament in Kansas city, mo., the previ­ous weekend with wins over maine and nebraska-omaha 
— had an undisciplined first 20 minutes. 
“The whole game was prob­ably dictated by the first pe­riod,” irish coach Jeff Jackson said. “we took some foolish penalties. i don’t know if we were too emotional, because i didn’t see that last week at all.” 
after minnesota-duluth in­creased its lead to 3-0 in the second period with goals from senior winger dan delisle and sophomore winger Justin crandall, irish junior right wing bryan rust worked his way from behind the goal to the front of the net on the power play and deked out bulldog freshman goalie matt mcneely to pull the irish with­in two at the 15:07 mark of the second period. neither team, however, found the back of the net the rest of the game. 


“we had guys last week as opposed to doing stuff that who were making good plays made us successful last week-getting pucks in behind the end,” Jackson said. “and we’re defense, forechecking [and] playing a better team, prob-creating turnovers and to-ably, too.” night we were trying to do although a poor first pe­stuff too much one-on-one, riod hindered the irish on Thursday, a strong opening 20 minutes friday propelled notre dame to a win. a turn­over by minnesota-duluth junior winger Joe basaraba 
see JacKson PAGe 18 

nd WOmen’s sOccer | noTre dame 1, depaul 0 
Irish emerge in double overtime 
By BRIAN HARTNETT 
sports writer 
it took a double-overtime thriller and some luck, but notre dame emerged from rain-soaked wish field in chicago on friday with a 1-0 victory over depaul and a share of the big east national division title, the program’s 14th regular-season conference crown since 1995. 
notre dame’s division-clinching victory came in the finale of a three-game road stretch, in which the irish (12-4-2, 8-1-1 big east) fell to no. 12 georgetown 2-0 on oct. 12 at north Kehoe field in washington d.c., and de­feated villanova 1-0 on oct. 14 at the vu soccer complex in villanova, penn. 
notre dame and depaul (8-9­2, 3-6-1) fought hardthrough 105 minutes of scoreless soccer be­fore sophomore forward lauren bohaboy drilled a shot into the lower-left corner of the net with 
4:52 left in the second overtime. bohaboy’s game-winning goal, coupled with georgetown’s loss to villanova earlier in the day, allowed the irish to secure a share of the division title. 

irish coach randy waldrum said the division crown marks an important milestone in the development of his young squad. 
“it’s been a couple of years since we actually won the out­right title, so it’s good to get a share of that,” waldrum said. “it’s a really good step for this team, and i’m proud of them for battling all throughout the year.” 
The irish finished tied atop the national division with georgetown (14-1-2, 8-1-1) but earned the no. 2 seed in the big east championships by virtue of their loss to the hoyas, which snapped the team’s eight-game unbeaten streak. 
in its match against georgetown, notre dame missed a key opportunity ear­ly, as junior midfielder mandy 
see georgeTown PAGe 18 
men’s sOccer | noTre dame 3, providence 0 

Finley’s goals down Friars 

By JOSEPH MONARDO 
sports writer 
before the past two contests, the last notre dame hat-trick originated from the feet of for­mer irish forward bright dike on sept. 1, 2009. now the irish have recorded one in consecu­tive games. 
a trio of late goals by irish senior forward ryan finley alleviated early concerns of of­fensive stagnation and sealed a 3-0 win over providence for the home team. one week after irish junior forward harrison shipp recorded a hat-trick in no. 7 notre dame’s 6-1 victory against seton hall, finley did the same on notre dame’s senior day. 
notre dame (12-4-0, 4-2-0 big east) entered saturday’s game wary of providence’s ability to deliver an upset, irish coach bobby clark said. 
“i was very worried about this game because … [georgetown coach] brian weise, … he said they were really lucky to win,” clark said. “and he said, includ­ing [their] game here, the hardest game he had was at providence. and i have watched [the friars’] videos against marquette and … seton hall, and they lost all these games. and they actually are a pretty good team. so that was a game that we certainly weren’t treating lightly and we talked about it all week.” 
after an opening stanza in which both offenses struggled, combining to unleash only five shots, both teams began the second half aggressively. 
“we talked about it at half­time and i felt providence, to some extent, [was] trying to take the tempo out of the game,” clark said. “and we had just to be careful we didn’t get frus­trated to be quite honest with you. i wrote two words down — tempo and patience. we had to speed the tempo up … and then we’ve got to be patient, we’ve got 
see clarK PAGe 18 




