The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 46, issue 34 | FRIDAY, OCTOBER 5, 2012 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Candidates debate domestic policy 
Professor concludes Romney’s confidence outshone Obama in first debate 
By NICOLE MICHELS 
news writer 
president barack obama and gov. mitt romney debated domestic policy wednesday evening in the first of three presidential debates during an evening that seemed to focus more on style than substance at the university of denver. 
in a reversal of the usual pat­tern, romney’s poised, pol­ished performance seemed to outshine obama’s lackluster appearance, political science professor michael Zuckert said. 
“romney knew exactly how he wanted to put things and he put them pithily, he put them smartly and sharply — he was very smooth,” Zuckert said. “obama was still looking for words and ways to formulate 

AP things … he should have had 
President Barack Obama faced off with Republican presidential nominee Mitt Romney in Wednesday’s 
see debaTe PAGE 5 


debate. The debate was the first of three before the November election. 




gallivan passes away 
By JOHN CAMERON 
news editor 
past and present students of journalism at notre dame lost one of their greatest supporters 

Tuesday, when John w. gallivan, namesake of the gallivan program for Journalism, ethics and democracy (Jed), passed away Tuesday at the age of 97. 
gallivan, a 1937 graduate of 
see gallivan PAGE 6 



ndsp makes two arrests 

Observer Staff Report 
notre dame security police (ndsp) arrested two area residents for steal­ing from campus residence halls Tuesday, according to an email ndsp sent to the student body late Thursday night. 
ndsp apprehended a 24-year-old male and 26-year­old female for stealing laptop computers and a wallet, the report said. according to the email, hall staff members and a resident in o’neill hall reported suspicious activ­ity to ndsp, along with a 
see ndsp PAGE 6 



Columnist gives Red Smith lecture 

KIRBY MCKENNA | The Observer 
Kathleen Parker, columnist from the Washington Post, delivers the 2012 Red Smith lecture on “Journalism in the Age of Twitteracy.” 
By JOANNA LAGEDROST 
news writer 
one tweet says it all: “Journalism today all about speed, buzz, page views, in­stanaiety, not substance, leads to uninformed citizens, end civilization.” 
kathleen parker, author of the above tweet, washington post syndicated columnist and winner of the 2010 pulitzer prize for commentary, de­livered the 29th annual red 
of democracy, and probably see Journalism PAGE 6 



international students drawn by new programs 
By CHRISTIAN MYERS 
news writer 
while campus bustle during the summer months, a group of international high school and college students found a wealth of ways to keep busy during their summer at notre dame. 
notre dame international in­troduced three new programs for students from foreign coun­tries during the summer of 2012: international leadership, enrichment and development (iled), international summer undergraduate research experience (isure) and international summer: america and the world Today (isawT). 
dr. Jonathan noble, assistant provost for internationalization and the director of the notre dame asia office in beijing, said the purpose of the three programs was to improve the image of notre dame across the world.
 “The programs were initi­ated with the goal of enhancing notre dame’s international col­laborations and international reputation,” he said. 
The programs provided dif­ferent opportunities to different types of students, noble said. 
“iled aims to introduce outstanding high school stu­dents from around the world to academic life at notre dame, isure provides international engineering undergraduate students with the opportunity to work with research mentors and teams and isawT aims to introduce international univer­sity students to american life and culture,” he said. 
noble said more than 40 
see summer PAGE 6 


maraThon PAGE 3 viewpoinT PAGE 10 scene PAGE 12 hockey PAGE 24 men’s soccer PAGE 24 




ndsmcobserver.com 

p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
allan Joseph 

Managing Editor  Business Manager 
megan doyle  Jeff liptak 

Asst. Managing Editor: andrew owens 
Asst. Managing Editor: sam stryker News Editor: John cameron News Editor: kristen durbin 

Viewpoint Editor: meghan Thomassen Sports Editor: chris allen Scene Editor: kevin noonan Saint Mary’s Editor: Jillian barwick Photo Editor: suzanna pratt Graphics Editor: brandon keelean Multimedia Editor: sarah o’connor Advertising Manager: monica mccormack Ad Design Manager: sara hilstrom Controller: peter woo Systems Administrator: william heineman 

Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ajoseph2@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 mdoyle11@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 aowens2@nd.edu sstryke1@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 

Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 

Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 


Scene Desk 

(574) 631-4540 observer.scene.editor@gmail.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
jbarwi01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 


Policies 

The observer is the independent, daily newspaper 
published in print and online by the students of the 
university of notre dame du lac and saint mary’s 
college.  editorial content, including advertisements, is 
not governed by policies of the administration of either 
institution. The observer reserves the right to refuse 
advertisements based on content. 

The news is reported as accurately and objectively 
as possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion 
of the majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, 
assistant managing editors and department editors. 
commentaries, letters and columns present the views of 
the authors and not necessarily those of The observer. 
viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include 
contact information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed 
to Editor-in-Chief Allan Joseph. 

post office information The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The observer is published at: 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-0779 periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices posTmasTer send address corrections to: The observer p.o. box 779 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-077 The observer is a member of the associated press. all reproduction rights are reserved. 




QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
Where is Waldo? 


Brian Brown 
freshman knott hall 

“i heard magic mike took him.” 

Camille Hayes 
junir breen phillips hall 
“waiting for me.” 

Eric Hinterman 
senior 
Zahm house 
“i am color blind.” 


Have a question you want answered? Email obsphoto@gmail.com 



Ethan Bailey 
senior morrissey manor 
“There’s no way of knowing. we don’t have the technology.” 

Kelsey Weber 
sophomore 
ryan hall 
“living the life in chateau ryan.” 

Sarah Staten 
sophomore 
ryan hall 
“lost in north dining hall.” 



Want your event included here? 
News Sports 

mel Flanagan peter steiner Email obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: christian myers katie heit annmarie Jakubowski sam gans maddie daly 
Scene 


Graphics Friday Saturday Sunday Monday Tuesday 
carrie Turek sara shoemake 
Viewpoint 

Photo Nano Research Men’s Soccer Women’s Soccer Work Off Your Arab-Israel Conflict 
laura rosas kirby mckenna 

Contest Finalists Alumni Stadium Alumni Stadium Weekend Hesburgh Center for Stinson-Remick Hall 2 p.m.-4 p.m. 1 p.m.-3 p.m. Rolfs Sports International Studies 
3:30p.m.-5:30 p.m. ND vs. Georgetown. ND vs. Rutgers. Recreation Center 4 p.m.-5:30 p.m. 




Corrections 

Poster session. All Day Political science lecture. 
The article “Feast day honors st. Francis” in the oct. 4 edition of The 
Nanovic Film: “Much Ado About “Human Evolution” “New Media: From SSLP Session 
observer incorrectly spelled Fr. paul 

Habemus Papam Nothing” Symposium the Middle Ages to Geddes Hall 
kollman’s name as Fr. paul coleman. 
DeBartolo Performing Washington Hall McKenna Hall the Digital Age” 4 p.m.-5 p.m. 
The observer regrets this error. 

Arts Center 7:30 p.m.-9 p.m. All Day 107 O’Shaughnessy Summer Service 
6:30p.m.-8:15 p.m. Student-run theater Discourses by 5 p.m.-6:30 p.m. Learning Program 
Tickets $4/$7 production. international experts. Roundtable drop-in session. discussion. 




Belle prepares for marathon 
By BRIDGET FEENEY 
associate saint mary’s editor 
while some students are trav­eling to chicago this weekend to watch the Fighting irish take on the miami at soldier Field, saint mary’s senior alyssa vinluan is going to the city for her own ath­letic competition. vinluan will run 
26.2 miles sunday when she races in the bank of america chicago marathon. 
This will be vinlaun’s first marathon, which she has been training for since June 1. despite months of training, running and planning for sunday, she has only been running for just over a year. 
“i only started running in July of 2011,” she said. “That is when i ran my first mile. i started to sign up for 5ks and 10ks, and then i did the holy half.” 
despite making a commitment in only January to run the chicago marathon, vinlaun said running a marathon has been a life-long goal. 
“i have always wanted to do a marathon, but it was something i never thought i could actually do,” she said. 
vinluan’s inspiration to run a marathon came almost a year ago. her older brother gilbert, who has run five chicago marathons and participated in an ironman competition, was visiting for christmas and vinluan said she was discussing with him her “new passion for running.” 
“he was like, ‘Then you should sign up for the chicago marathon,’ and so in January, i registered for the race and committed to it,” she said. 
vinluan said her brother’s ex­periences with running and the marathon have been a convenient and needed means of support. 
“we’re not running [the race] together because he’s a much faster runner than i am,” she said. “but i knew i’d have somebody there with me the whole time, and that has been a big help.” 
vinluan has been emailing and texting her brother for advice, and the two update each other on their training runs. in addition to the support of her brother, she said her boyfriend and friends have been constant sources of encour­agement for her throughout her months of training. 
“[senior] dani haydell, who is on the saint mary’s cross country team has done some of my runs with me,” she said. “and my boy­friend, brier, who did track and field when he went to notre dame, also did some runs with me. also, my family has been really encour­aging and helpful.” 
in addition to the intense train­ing and constant self-discipline needed to prepare for the chicago marathon, vinluan has also raised money for a charity, opportunity enterprises. based out of her hometown of valparaiso, ind., opportunity enterprises is an or­ganization that supports people with multiple disabilities. The funds from the marathon will support the organization’s early intervention program, all about kids. 
“i am proud to be running and raising money for such an amazing program,” she said. “The support of my family and friends in helping me reach my fundrais­ing goal is the best part [of my marathon experience.]” 


despite the support from her loved ones and her excellent ex­periences with opportunity enterprises, vinluan said there have been some obstacles to her training and final goal. 
“Training in June, July and august ¾ that was no problem because it was summer,” she said. “but once school started and i had to manage training with classes, dance marathon, my job at the writing center and my other re­sponsibilities, it was difficult. it took a lot to make me go out and run 10 miles on a wednesday.” 
however, vinluan said she is excited to participate in her first marathon and is eager for the fam­ily time that will follow the race. 
“my boyfriend flew in from california and will be waiting for me at the finish line,” she said. “after the race, my entire family will be going out to a nice dinner in downtown chicago. it will be great to celebrate the race and have everyone together.” 


Contact Bridget Feeney at bfeene01@saintmarys.edu 
security police, st. Joseph county police, the south bend police department, the mishawaka police department and the lakeville police department to staff the roof. 
activities at the event in­clude doughnut-eating con­tests, cornhole tournaments, Zumba, fingerprinting and pumpkin painting. 
“we hope to raise around $15,000,” dale said. “we also want to raise awareness about our programs and how people can get help if they’ve been abused.” 
proceeds from the event will benefit services for vic­tims of domestic and sexual violence, including child mo­lestation, rape and intimate partner violence, dale said. 
The fundraiser will also donate profits toward the FJc’s victim and family sup­port services, education pro­grams and information and referral services, as well as The protective order project, which grants protection or­ders to about 1,500 local resi­dents per year. 
“we hope to gain support from the community. we are hoping for a big turn out to raise awareness for the cause as well as raise money for the organization,” saint mary’s senior kristina sorensen, who works at the FJc, said. “[FJc is] planning on moving to a bet­ter location during our winter break. The money would help out greatly with the move and the start in their new location.” 
The FJc provides services to victims of domestic vio­lence and their families in order to get their lives back on track, according to the center’s website. Their pro­grams include confidential assessments, the distribution of emergency cell phones and a clothes closet and diaper bank. 
later in oct., s-o-s, a part­ner program of the FJc who holds a 24-hour crisis line, will hold a fundraiser called a cut for a cause at haircrafter’s in south bend. 


Contact Charitha Isanaka at cisanaka@nd.edu 


paid adverTisemenT 

Police fundraise at doughnut shop 
By CHARITHA ISANAKA 
news writer 

police officers from a num­ber of st. Joseph county de­partments will poke fun at the stereotype of cops hanging around doughnut shops today and tomorrow at the second annual event cops on Top of the doughnut shop. 
The two-day fundraiser is sponsored by the special victims unit sector of the Family Justice center (FJc), a st. Joseph county non-profit that offers services for abused individuals. 
“during the two-day time period, police officers from various agencies in st. Joseph county, including notre dame [security] police, will ‘live’ on the rooftop of krispie kreme … to bring attention to 
“We want to raise awareness about our programs and how people can get help if they’ve been abused.” 
Sareen Lambright Dale 
director 
Family Justice Center 

the issues as well as to raise funds to help combat these crimes,” sareen lambright dale, director of the FJc, said. 
The event will take place at krispy kreme doughnuts at 5615 n main street in mishawaka.officers from the special victims unit are partnering with notre dame 

paid adverTisemenT 




SMC Straight and Gay Alliance holds panel 
Group meets to discuss experiences of allies from Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s communities 
By ANNA BOARINI 
news writer 
saint mary’s straight and gay alliance (saga) held an ally panel wednesday night to give students an opportunity to hear the stories of allies from the notre dame and saint mary’s communities. 
saint mary’s senior Francesca gifford said being an ally means being open to different people and varying viewpoints. 
“an ally is someone who recog­nizes the differences of people in the world and is open and accept­ing of those differences,” she said. “i realized i was an ally when i came to saint mary’s, because that was the first time i really experi­enced the hatred and stress [the] lgbTQ community undergoes just because of who they are.” 
catherine pittman, a professor of psychology at the college, said her role as an ally started when her sister faced discrimination and ultimately lost her job as a teacher because of her sexual orientation. 
“i got very upset because i was unable to do more and i decided to get involved the next time i heard something was going on at saint mary’s,” she said. 
pittman was involved with the movement when saint mary’s added sexual orientation to its non­discrimination clause in the mid 1990s. 
“we started pins, people in support, and got the non-discrimi­nation clause added,” pittman said. “and we said why stop there, and decided to get sexual orientation and gender involved in the south bend human rights [ordinance].” 
after eight years of fighting, pittman said she and others in­volved in south bend equality suc­cessfully added sexual orientation to the south bend human rights ordinance. 
saint mary’s senior cristina bueno, the president of saga, grew up in a very open family, but became a more active ally after watching friends get bullied, she said. 
“when i went to high school and had more friends come out to me and watching them deal with be­ing bullied, i wanted to stick up for them and other people too,” she said. 
saga vice president katie carlisle said she never realized she was an ally because it just seemed second-nature to her. 
“i remember a conversation with my dad when gay marriage be­came big in the political arena,” she said. “my dad asked why do these people need to get married and i always wondered, ‘well, why not?’” 
Two notre dame students, progressive student alliance (psa) co-presidents alex coccia and lauren morisseau, also participat­ed in the panel. 
both are actively involved in the 4 to 5 movement, a student orga­nization with the goals of getting allies involved, holding events to promote an open discussion on campus, getting a gay-straight alli­ance officially recognized and hav­ing the administration add sexual orientation added to the non-dis­crimination clause, coccia said. 
after deciding to go to notre dame, coccia said he saw a gay rights protest mentioned in scholastic magazine. 

“i started to look at notre dame policy … that the particular vision i had of notre dame and my notre dame family contrasted with the realities of students,” he said. “i guess i became an ally as a matter of principle, how [the university] would not protect their students.” 
morisseau said she became an ally when she unknowingly wan­dered into the founding meeting of her high school’s straight gay alliance. before coming to notre dame, morisseau said she was shocked to find out notre dame did not have a recognized club. 
“i didn’t understand how much being an ally was apart of my iden­tity until i got to notre dame,” she said. “i didn’t fully adjust until i was part of psa. i see [being an ally] as acknowledging that we all have a debt to each other as hu­man beings.” 
along with discussing why they are allies, the members of the pan­el talked about how to become an ally or a better ally. 
pittman said it is important for allies to understand the inherent privileges straight people have. 
“i think the kind of things straight people are interested in, seeing those relationships in books, movies, Tv, they are out there,” she said. “it’s a big privilege.” 
allies are important for the lgbTQ community, especially when they come out to their fami­lies, pittman said. 
“allies are so important because people’s families may reject them and it is especially hard to come out if they already know their fam­ilies opinion [on homosexuality],” she said. 
carlisle said being a good ally is watching the language you use or the language your friends or fam­ily use. 
“i think it’s all about making sure the environment you place yourself in is open and safe,” she said. 
Contact Anna Boarini at aboari01@saintmarys.edu 

that the debate would be divided a ‘look where we started from and 
Debate 

into six units of 15 minutes, each look where we are type of thing’ 
conTinued From page 1 

structured around different focal as opposed to ‘look where we are better formulations right at hand points. at the absolute moment,’” Zuckert that he could have relied on and The first question asked the can-said. “obama didn’t emphasize spoken more forcefully, instead of didates to speak to their plans to the trends, some of the trends are groping around for ways to express create jobs, which focused the de-not great but they’re better than things that he could have had on bate on differences between two romney portrayed them.” the tip of his tongue.” disparate plans to stimulate the Zuckert said the focus on 
This impressive showing from economy. the economy played right into romney won him the debate, at economics professor eric sims romney’s hands. least stylistically, Zuckert said. said this beginning gave romney “criticism of obama on unem­
“in terms of overall impression, a lot of momentum starting the ployment is still romney’s best romney carried a lot of the de-debate. technique, but i’ve been waiting bate, but in terms of issues, i think “i think people vote with their to hear more details about how he obama carried it,” Zuckert said. “i pocketbooks,” sims said. “people would actually change [unemploy­saw the polls afterward and they want to ask the question ‘are you ment],” Zuckert said. “i just haven’t said that they thought romney better off now than you were four heard a policy to me that sounds could handle the economy better, years ago?’ and i don’t think many persuasive enough yet, to me it’s that romney could handle jobs people can say yes to that question just not enough detail.” better.” — the president is taking a hit for romney was able to contrast his 
The thermometer measuring that.” experience with business and eco-was pushing through healthcare between the candidates is the role audience reaction on the bottom rarely has an incumbent candi-nomic policy with the relative lack reform that created a lot of uncer-that each envisions for the govern-of the cnn broadcast of the debate date been reelected to the presiden-of progress made in those areas in tainty,” sims said.  “uncertainty is ment within the economy, sims seemed to indicate that the audi-cy after presiding over a downturn the past four years, sims said. not conducive to a healthy labor said. ence was reacting more to style in the economy, sims said. “That’s obama’s weakest point. market on both ends.” “They characterize each other than substance, Zuckert said. “historically speaking it is sur-barack obama has a lot of pluses: ohmer said the differences as free market capitalism and so­
“it isn’t clear to me how much prising that a president would be he’s very likeable, at least four years in policy between romney and cialism, but on the broad level it is of the content of what they actu-running this well with the econ-ago he brought this attitude of hope republican vice presidential nomi-really that one side wants less gov-ally said made an impression, but omy in this shape,” sims said. “To and change to washington, but the nee paul ryan were highlighted ernment intervention and more i do think that style counts a lot,” be fair it is hard to tell how respon-reality is that the economy stinks,” during the debate and by the work power and choice in the hands of Zuckert said. “That’s an example sible president obama is or is not for sims said. “i think this was playing of fact checkers after the debate. the individual, while the other side of why rhetoric is important — that… he did walk into a bad situa-to romney’s wheelhouse, domestic “ryan has endorsed legislation wants more government involve-people react more to the impres-tion but it is very unusual that we and economic policy: That’s where that will [end] pell grants, while ment — i think at the end of the day sions things leave on them rather are in a recession and he is polling he has experience… in their discus-romney has said he wouldn’t do that’s the main difference here,” than the substance of what is there so well.” sion romney came across as hav-that,” ohmer said. “romney has sims said. … and the impression in this per-both candidates have very differ-ing a very good grasp of economics, also said that he won’t cut five tril-The debate has changed formance was that romney is ent visions on how to solve the jobs in contrast i thought the president lion dollars when fact checkers said america’s perception of the choice ‘presidential.’” problem, but romney’s points were looked a little timid at times.” he would.” to make in november, sims said. 
Film, Television and Theatre pro-more salient because he was able to one of the strongest points The degree to which each candi-“last night romney came across fessor susan ohmer said romney’s put obama on the offensive, sims romney made was a criticism of date moved toward the middle was as in control of the debate, and structured answers helped him re-said. the timing of obama’s health care striking, Zuckert said. looked presidential: he helped tain attention. The president failed to refocus law, sims said. “even though people have said himself a lot,” sims said. “i think 
“it was striking to me that he the discussion of the economic “romney’s point was that he the issues were really strongly de-the obama camp will have a dif­numbered his points,” ohmer said. progress and job creation during was surprised that obama was go-fined, they moved back towards ferent strategy next time around … “That’s a strategy that you see in for-his term as an analysis on improve-ing to move this healthcare reform each other,” Zuckert said. “romney as they move away from domestic mal debate that helps keep listeners ment, rather than focusing on its through [congress] so fast right in did maybe more than obama, but policy to foreign policy it will be organized — a very smart strategy current status, Zuckert said. the middle of an economic down-both did substantially: obama did interesting to watch — we have a on [former] governor romney’s “bill clinton gave obama a script turn, and that though we do need in his litany about small businesses much closer race today than we did part.” that he could have used more ef-that kind of legislation — some kind and job creation, and romney in 24 hours ago.” 
moderator Jim lehrer, executive fectively on that issue, and though of healthcare reform in the long how he tailored his position from editor and former news anchor of obama did try, he didn’t push it as term — when the real issue should what we have heard before.” Contact Nicole Michels at pbs news hour, told the candidates forcefully as he might have done as have been jobs, president obama The fundamental difference nmichels@nd.edu 


The observer | FRIDAY, OCTOBER 5, 2012 | ndsmcobserver.com 

the united states. isawT pro-existing relationships, he said. 
of the classroom. 
Summer Gallivan 

vides international students “isure and isawT were cre­“The gallivan program has 
conTinued From page 1 conTinued From page 1 

with a greater understanding ated on the basis of growing 
opened up a whole host of op-students participated in the of american life, society, and partnerships with Tsinghua 
the university, was the former portunities that i might not have three programs. among these culture.” university in beijing and keio 
chairman of the kearns Tribune had in studying journalism at students were u.s. citizens notre dame also benefits university in Tokyo, respec­
corp., publisher of the salt lake another school,” she said. “my who live overseas, as well from these programs, he said, tively,” noble said. 
city Tribune, according to a internship with the south bend as citizens of china, Japan, since they provide an opportu-all of the more than forty 
university press release issued at Tribune [through the gallivan Taiwan, australia, canada and nity for academic departments students met specific selec­
the gallivan program’s founding program] gave me invaluable re­colombia. to show distinguished interna-tion criteria and were selected 
in 1999. al-world experience and showed each program benefitted tional students what they have by faculty and administrators 
Journalism professor robert me how important this industry students beyond learning the to offer. involved in the programs, he 
schmuhl said gallivan dedicat-is to our country and our world.” particulars of the curriculum, “isure, for example, aims said. 
ed his life to improving the jour-schrank said the program has he said. to enhance graduate student noble said the plan going 
nalistic craft and helping others. attracted top-notch teaching tal­“iled helps high school stu-recruitment opportunities,” forward is to expand these 
“in everything John w. ent and offered some of the most dents better prepare for uni-noble said. newly established programs. 
gallivan did, he brought moral engaging courses she’s taken at versity academics, and it aims noble said high school stu-“There are plans to diver-
clarity and civic responsibility. notre dame. to help them think more deeply dents who participated in iled sify student enrollment so that 
Few people in american jour-“The journalism classes that about different academic dis-were recruited from a group of more students from different 
nalism can rival his leadership i’ve taken have been some of ciplines,” noble said. “isure top international high schools. countries and from different 
ability and his commitment my favorites during my time at prepares engineering stu-notre dame selected the high schools and universities 
to professional excellence,” notre dame and the professors dents for graduate studies and college undergraduates in can participate,” he said. 
schmuhl said. “even after he re-that taught them are people who post-graduate research while the isure and isawT pro-
tired from the news business, he know the business inside and introducing them to research grams from two universities Contact Christian Myers at 
never stopped his conscientious out,” she said. practice and methodologies in with whom notre dame has cmyers8@nd.edu 
involvement in his community colwell said the gallivan 
and his devotion to helping other program, established by 
people.” gallivan’s children, is a fitting 
to determine what is meaning-percent of young people age 18­Jed professor Jack colwell said tribute to the revered publisher. 
Journalism 

ful, and then find the meaning 24 get no news from any source gallivan stood out amongst his “generous support from his 
conTinued From page 1 

in that.” on a typical day,” parker said. 
publisher peers for his strong family led to the creation of the smith lecture in Journalism on her early experiences in “if no one is reading the news, 
character and altruism. gallivan program in Journalism, Thursday, titled “Journalism in journalism differ greatly from how will we manage a demo­
“Jack gallivan was one of ethics and democracy here at the age of Twitteracy.”despite that of young journalists in the cratic government that relies 
the old-style publishers, not a notre dame,” he said. “it was a her success, parker said she did current age, parker said. on an informed citizen?” 
newspaper chain bottom-line way for his family to honor Jack not originally plan on becom-“i’m afraid that the spirit parker’s experience with 
executive. he cared about his and honor his commitment to ing a journalist. born in winter that i grew up with seems to journalism will soon become 
community beyond just selling the best in journalism as well.” haven, Fla., she said reading be dead. Technology may have simply a generation of journal-
newspapers,” colwell said. “he schmuhl said the program was protection from unpleas-liberated us from newsprint,” ism history, she said. 
sought to promote civic causes will continue to promote the ten­ant household chores for her. she said. “we have to convince them 
and economic development in ants gallivan cared about most. she said she read quite a bit in Technology may enable in-[young people] of the impor­
salt lake city and to keep the “his life is a tribute to journal-her youth. dividuals to accomplish tasks tance of news to self-gover­
subscribers informed with accu-ism, ethics and democracy,” he parker left Florida in her ear-faster and more efficiently, nance.  i think this will be a 
rate and ethical news gathering.” said. “he really sets an example ly 20s, ventured north and be-parker said, but such efficiency real challenge in the age of 
senior emily schrank, a Jed for notre dame students in the gan writing at the charleston is often overrated. Twitteracy,” parker said. 
minor, said the program has af-program that bears his name.” evening post. “Twitter is fast, furious, 
forded her exceptional opportu­“i fell in love with journalism spontaneous and immediate. Contact Joanna Lagedrost at 
nities to explore her interest in Contact John Cameron at the old-fashioned way,” parker but haste is the enemy of ac-jlagedro@nd.edu 
journalism, both in and outside jcamero2@nd.edu said with a humorous bent. curacy,” she said. “we know 
paid adverTisemenT 

“we met at a party, we had a a lot of stuff. but are we really few drinks and one thing led smarter?” to another. it really was love at parker said technology first sight.“we made no money changes human behavior, even 
— i was taking home 90 bucks if it does not change essential a week — but we were happy human nature. ”The consen­because we were doing some-sus seems to be that we’re bet-thing important,” she said. ter off with more people, more “There is nothing like going non-journalists, more people home at the end of the day with who are non-media talking,” something in your hand that she said. parker said she dis-shows what you did.” agreed with the consensus. 
although she is always proud “all voices are not created of her work, parker said she of-equal,” she said. she added ten becomes frustrated while that writers today feel more writing. entitled, without paying their 
“i do procrastinate and i do “journalistic dues.” love-hate writing, because it’s parker referenced her tweet so hard,” she said. “writing is when she presented the real extremely difficult. i have to sift problem of today’s generation. through masses of information “a 2008 study showed that 34 
hall, who contacted ndsp and 
NDSP 
reported a woman entered his 
conTinued From page 1 

room and picked up his room-report from a building services mate’s computer before imme­employee. The pair was appre-diately leaving the building. hended in nearby parking lots ndsp asks anyone who has with two computers and a wal-information about the incident let, both taken from unlocked to contact its investigations rooms. section at 574-631-8340 or 
The email said some of the ndsp@nd.edu. it also encourag­stolen goods were also linked to es students to report suspicious a report from a resident in Zahm activity by dialing 574-631-5555. 




Man accused of espionage 
Associated Press 
housTon — in his subur­ban houston neighborhood, at least, alexander Fishenko kept a low profile, living well but never mingling with others on his block. all the while, u.s. authori­ties say, the immigrant from kazakhstan was leading a plot to funnel cutting-edge military technology to russia. 
For the last four years, Fishenko lived with his fam­ily in a two-story, four-bedroom home, a stranger to his neigh­bors, unknown to leaders in houston’s russian community of more than 100,000 residents. 
“i wouldn’t have thought he was the ring leader. he was so nondescript, an everyday kind of guy,” charlie houssiere, who lives across the street from Fishenko, said Thursday. “The whole time i thought he worked at an oil company.” 
instead, u.s. authorities say he was running a houston-based company that obtained highly regulated technology and clan­destinely exported it to russia for use by that country’s military and intelligence agencies. The microelectronics could have a wide range of military uses, in­cluding radar and surveillance systems, weapons guidance sys­tems and detonation triggers, 
u.s. authorities say. 
Fishenko is accused of schem­ing to purposely evade strict export controls for cutting-edge microelectronics, of operating inside the u.s. as an unregistered agent of the russian govern­ment, and of money laundering. 
Fishenko and six others ar­rested by authorities this week made their initial appearances Thursday in federal court in houston. an eighth defendant appeared in court wednesday. 
hearings to determine whether Fishenko and the other defendants will be granted bail are scheduled to start Friday. none of the defendants have en­tered pleas. Their cases are ex­pected to be transferred to new york, where the indictment was filed. 
Fishenko’s attorney, eric reed, said he plans to review the charges against his client with a critical eye. 
“i think these are fairly dra­matic allegations that we will certainly take a hard look at to determine whether there is any evidence to back that up,” reed said. 
The russian Foreign ministry in a statement noted the de­fendants are not charged with espionage. 
according to court docu­ments, Fishenko was born in the former soviet republic of kazakhstan and graduated from a technical institute in st. petersburg before coming to america in 1994. in houston, he initially worked at a circuit city store. in his initial asylum appli­cation, Fishenko stated he had no prior military experience, but elsewhere he claimed to have served in a soviet mili­tary intelligence unit in berlin in the 1980s, according to court records. 


Fishenko filed paperwork with the Texas secretary of state to form a for-profit corporation with his houston business — arc electronics — in 2001. his company proved to be success­ful, earning him about $50 mil­lion in gross revenue since 2002. 
but authorities say those prof­its came illegally as Fishenko sent hundreds of shipments to russia containing thousands of electronics, lying to u.s. manufacturers and suppliers about who would be using this technology. 
while neighbors said they weren’t sure what Fishenko did for a living, they knew he was successful. 
don mcglynn, who lives across the street from Fishenko, said the now jailed businessman seemed to remodel his home ev­ery year. electricians, carpenters and other workers would stream in and out of the house, he said. 

paid adverTisemenT 
u. n. condemns syrian shelling 
Associated Press 

uniTed naTions — The 
u.n. security council overcame deep divisions to unanimously approve a statement Thursday condemning syria’s shelling of a Turkish town that killed five women and children “in the strongest terms.” 
council members managed to bridge differences between the strong statement demanded by the united states and its western supporters and backed by their naTo ally Turkey, and a weaker text pushed by russia, syria’s most important ally, after negoti­ations that began late wednesday and continued through Thursday. 
in the press statement, which needed approval from all 15 council members, the u.n.’s most powerful body said the incident “highlighted the grave impact the crisis in syria has on the security of its neighbors and on regional peace and stability.” 
it also extended condolences to the families of the victims and to the government and people of Turkey. 
The council demanded an im­mediate end to such violations of international law and called on the syrian government “to fully respect the sovereignty and territorial integrity of its neigh­bors.” russia’s agreement that the syrian shelling violated interna­tional law was a key concession by moscow. 
The original western-backed draft, proposed by azerbaijan, condemned the shelling “in the strongest terms” and called it a violation of international law. proposed russian amendments never mentioned any breaches of international law, so the inclusion in the final text was a concession by moscow. 
earlier Thursday, syria’s u.n. envoy said his government is not seeking any escalation of violence with Turkey and wants to main­tain good neighborly relations. 
ambassador bashar Ja’afari said the government hasn’t apol­ogized for the shelling from syria because it is waiting for the out­come of an investigation on the source of the firing. 
he read reporters a letter he delivered to the security council that sent syria’s “deepest con­dolences” to the families of the victims “and to the friendly and brotherly people of Turkey.” 
it urged Turkey and its other neighbors to “act wisely, ratio­nally and responsibly” and to prevent cross-border infiltration of “terrorists and insurgents” and the smuggling of arms. 
during Thursday’s negotiations on the text when the outcome was still in doubt, u.s. ambassador susan rice told reporters “we think it’s very important that the council speak clearly and swiftly to condemn this shelling.” 
“This sort of cross-border mili­tary activity is very destabilizing and must be stopped,” she said. 
The border violence has added a dangerous new dimension to syria’s civil war, dragging syria’s neighbors deeper into a conflict that activists say has already killed 30,000 people since an up­rising against president bashar assad’s regime began in march 2011. 
u.n. 
secretary-general ban ki­moon expressed alarm Thursday at the escalating border tensions and warned that the risks of re­gional conflict and the threat to international peace is increasing, 

u.n.
 spokesman martin nesirky said. 


The u.n. chief called on all parties “to abandon the use of violence, exercise maximum restraint and exert all efforts to move toward a political solution,” he said. 
nesirky said lakhdar brahimi, the u.n.-arab league envoy, has been in contact with Turkish and syrian officials “in order to en­courage an easing of tensions.” 
syria’s Ja’afari said the “syrian government is keenly interested in maintaining good neighborly relations with Turkey.” 
“The syrian government is not seeking any escalation with any of its neighbors, including Turkey,” he stressed. 
but he said syria wants to ex­plain to the Turkish people that their government’s policies sup­porting the opposition “are wrong and have been wrong since the beginning of the crisis.” 
Ja’afari said Turkey responded to the incident by launching artil­lery shells into syria starting at 7 
p.m. local time wednesday and stopping at midnight. Turkish troops then resumed artillery shelling Thursday morning until 7 a.m., injuring two syrian army officers, he said. 


The observer | FRIDAY, OCTOBER 5, 2012 | ndsmcobserver.com 

‘shore’ cast readies for final season 
Social media reflects attitudes toward debate 
Associated Press 
washingTon — big bird is endangered. Jim lehrer lost control. and mitt romney crushed president barack obama. 
Those were the judgments rendered across Twitter and Facebook wednesday dur­ing the first debate of the 2012 presidential contest. while millions turned on their televi­sions to watch the 90-minute showdown, a smaller but high­ly engaged subset took to social networks to discuss and score the debate as it unspooled in real time. 
until recently, debate watch­ers would have waited through the entire broadcast to hear analysis and reaction from a small cadre of television pundits. social media has de­mocratized the commentary, giving voice to a far wider range of participants who can shape the narrative long before the candidates reach their closing statements. 
“people still use old media to watch the debates, but they use social networks and other new media to have influence, voice opinions and be involved,” said scott Talan, an assistant professor of communication at american university who studies social media and poli­tics. “old media is not dead; it’s growing. but now we have more people involved and engaged because of digital means.” 
The political conversation plays out across a range of so­cial platforms, especially on the industry giant Facebook and on Twitter, the social net­working hub where opinions are shared through 140-char­acter comments known as tweets. reflecting the chang­ing times, many television analysts now monitor Twitter and Facebook feeds and use information gleaned from those platforms to inform their punditry. 
Twitter announced shortly after wednesday’s debate that it had been the most tweeted event in u.s. political history, topping this year’s republican and democratic national conventions. 
with 11.1 million comments, wednesday’s debate was the fourth most-tweeted telecast of any kind, coming in just be­hind the most recent grammy awards, mTv’s video music awards and the super bowl, according to william powers, director of The crowdwire, an election project of bluefin labs, a social analytics firm. it was far higher than the previ­ous political record holder: the third night of the democratic national convention in september, which drew 2.5 million comments. 
a significant spike in social 


AP 

Big Bird from “Sesame Street” is pictured in Los Angeles in 2009. In Wednesday’s debate, Mitt Romney proposed defunding PBS. 
media commentary came from women, The crowdwire found. some 55 percent of comments about the debate were made by women, compared to just 39 percent during the republican primary debates. 
unlike the wider viewing audience, debate watchers who comment on social media “are politically engaged in the strongest possible way,” powers said. but, he added, “it’s a bit of a hothouse population. it does skew younger, and i’m not sure how much middle america is represented.” 
Twitter scored romney the debate’s clear winner accord­ing to peoplebrowsr, a web analytics firm. The group found 47,141 tweets mention­ing romney and “win or win­ner” compared to just 29,677 mentioning obama and “win or winner.” 
romney was also the top tweet in battleground states in­cluding Florida, ohio, nevada and colorado, peoplebrowsr found. 
search engine google announced the debate’s four most searched terms: simpson-bowles (the biparti­san fiscal commission obama appointed); dodd-Frank (a democratic-backed financial reform law); who is winning the debate; and big bird. 
The debate, focused on do­mestic issues, was a num­bers-heavy discussion of the economy, debt and entitlement reform. it produced strong reactions on Twitter from its earliest moments, from the candidates’ attire and appear­ance — “obama: solid blue tie with dimple. romney: red tie with stripes, no dimple,” tweeted publisher arianna huffington — to Jenga, a stack­ing game romney and his wife, ann, were said to have played with their grandchildren be­fore the debate. 
From there, the social chat­ter settled into a few major themes. 
•Big Bird. Early in the debate, 

romney said he would defund public broadcasting to help bring down the deficit but add­ed that he liked big bird, a pop­ular character on pbs’ “sesame street.” social networks imme­diately responded, with par­ticipants posting spoof photos of big bird and other “sesame street” characters on Facebook and setting up parody big bird Twitter accounts. 
during a lull in the de­

bate,  an  abc  news  execu­ 
tive  tweeted,  “avian  life  is  
outstripping  human  life  in  

this debate.” another view­er with the Twitter handle a cookiemonster wrote, “obama killed bin laden. romney put a hit on big bird.” 
• Jim Lehrer. The veteran PBS newsman was widely panned as the debate moderator, with viewers complaining he asked weak questions and did a poor job of keeping command of the debate’s time and tempo. lehrer’s name became a trend­ing topic on Twitter, and his performance drew jeers from countless participants. “Jim lehrer is like the grandpa at dinner table who falls asleep and wakes up randomly shout­ing,” tweeted a woman with the Twitter handle of bookgirl96. 
• Romney’s big win. Social media participants marveled at romney’s strong outing and pronounced obama’s debate performance flat, non-ener­getic and meandering — a dud. while obama has been leading romney in battleground state polls in recent days, the con­sensus on social networks was that romney’s debate perfor­mance had breathed new life into his campaign. 
obama supporters were some of his toughest critics. andrew sullivan, a pro-obama writer for The daily beast whose Twitter feed, sullydish, has a loyal following, declared: “This was a disaster for the president.” Joe mercurio, a new york media buyer, wrote on Facebook: “it could have been worse.” 
Associated Press 

los angeles — The clock is ticking for “Jersey shore.” 
The boozy reality Tv series about a group of self-proclaimed “guidos” and “guidettes” co­habiting in a run-down seaside heights, n.J., party house is wind­ing down as its sixth — and mTv promises final — season gets under way almost three years after it debuted and became a pop-cultural situation spawning catchphrases, punch lines, hair­dos and tabloid fodder. 
don’t remind the show’s cast. They’re not quite ready for their 15 minutes of fame to end. 
“That was the longest 15 min­utes of my life!” ronnie ortiz­magro boasted during a recent interview with his pals. 
“we got, like, a half hour,” joked paul “dJ pauly d” delvecchio. 
what began as yet another mTv reality show — “The real world” with fist-pumping italian­american twentysomethings 
— became one of the network’s biggest hits. over the past five seasons, the Thursday night show dominated the nielsen ratings, drawing as many as 8 million viewers and consistently rank­ing as the no. 1 cable series in the 12-to-34-year-old demographic. 
as the popularity of “Jersey shore” grew, so did disdain for the series documenting the drunken antics of nicole “snooki” polizzi, mike “The situation” sorrentino and company. italian-american anti-defamation groups lashed out at “Jersey shore” for its ste­reotypical portrayals. new Jersey gov. chris christie once deemed it “negative for new Jersey.” 
despite the continued un­apologetic success of the series, mTv announced this summer that the sixth edition would be the last call for the “Jersey shore” cast and crew, who fled winter for miami beach in the second sea­son and traveled to italy for the fourth edition. it’s a bittersweet moment for the tanned troupe, who have no interest in fading out of the spotlight. 
“everything has to come to an end,” said delvecchio. “’sopranos’ ended. ‘entourage’ ended. ‘Jersey shore’ has to end. it’s only a chapter of our lives. now, another chapter of our lives is opening. we’re just gonna use that tool. whoever is smart enough to make the right deci­sions will make it last forever. That’s the name of the game: making it last forever.” 

Bishop takes seat amid controversy 
Associated Press 

san Francisco — amid heavy security and the splendor of his faith’s most sacred rites, the new roman catholic archbishop of san Francisco assumed office Thursday without referring to the distress his appointment has aroused in this gay-friendly city, but offering self-deprecating jokes about his recent drunken driving arrest. 
archbishop salvatore Joseph cordileone, wearing gold and red robes with a matching miter, told an audience of more than 2,000 in­vited guests at his installation mass that he was grateful for the mes­sages of support he had received from people of different religious and political viewpoints following the aug. 25 arrest in his home town of san diego. 
“i know in my life god has al­ways had a way of putting me in my place. i would say, though, that in the latest episode of my life god has outdone himself,” cordileone said with a chuckle as he delivered his first homily as archbishop. 
The 56-year-old priest, the sec-ond-youngest u.s. archbishop, went on to say he did not know “if it’s theologically correct to say god has a way of making himself known in this way,” and asked for the indulgence of other high-rank­ing church leaders in the audience. 
The connection, he said, was that the compassion he was shown “in the wake of the regrettable mis­take i made to drive after drinking” made him hopeful the bay area’s catholic community has the tools it needs to be part of a broader re­building of the church. 
cordileone had been scheduled to appear in court on the mis­demeanor charge next Tuesday. court records show he pleaded guilty on monday to a reduced charge of reckless driving, an op­tion frequently given to first-time dui offenders, said gina coburn, a spokeswoman for the san diego city attorney. 
u-T san diego reports the san diego native was fined and placed on three years’ probation. 
The standard sentence for reck­less driving is three years’ proba­tion and a $1,120 fine, coburn said. 
as cordileone spoke during Thursday’s mass, about three doz­en gay rights advocates gathered outside st. mary’s cathedral to pro­test his induction opposite a much larger group singing hymns of wel­come for the new archbishop. 
cordileone, who served as bish­op of neighboring oakland for the last three-and-a-half years, has a nationwide reputation as a fierce defender of the catholic church’s positions on homosexuality in general and same-sex marriage in particular. 



Shooting suspects arrested 
Disease outbreak 
stuns New York 

Associated Press 
phoeniX — Federal police have arrested two men who may be connected with the fatal shooting of a u.s. border patrol agent just north of the mexico­arizona border, a mexican law enforcement official said Thursday. 
The official, who spoke on condition of anonymity be­cause he was not authorized to release the information, said it was unclear if there was strong evidence linking the men to the shooting of agent nicholas ivie. 
ivie and two other agents were fired upon Tuesday in a rugged hilly area about five miles (eight kilometers) north of the border near bisbee, ariz., as they responded to an alarm that was triggered on one of the sensors that the government has installed along the border. 
The wounded agent was shot in the ankle and buttocks and released from the hospital after undergoing surgery. The third agent wasn’t injured. 
brenda nath, an Fbi spokes­woman in arizona, and border patrol officials in arizona de­clined to comment on the detention of the two men in mexico. The cochise county sheriff’s office, which is also in­vestigating the shooting, didn’t immediately respond to re­quests for comment. 
lydia antonio, a spokeswom­an for the mexican embassy in washington, confirmed the two detentions, but declined to say what prompted them and what made authorities suspect the two might be involved in the shooting. 
at a news conference Thursday in washington, attorney general eric holder said he is getting updates on the investigation’s progress and has spoken with homeland security secretary Janet napolitano about the probe. 
napolitano is traveling to arizona on Friday to express her condolences to ivie’s family and to meet with law enforcement authorities in southern arizona about the investigation. 
paid adverTisemenT 

authorities have declined to provide key details about Tuesday’s shooting, including what they believe prompted the shooting, whether the agents were ambushed and whether any guns from the shooting were recovered. still, they sus­pect that more than one person fired on the agents. 
The head of the border patrol agents union has said he be­lieves those who carried out the shooting probably had time to escape in the early morn­ing darkness before authorities could seal off the area and that he doubted that whoever shot the agents would still be hiding in the area. 
Associated Press 

new york — The potential scope of the meningitis outbreak that has killed at least five people widened dramatically Thursday as health officials warned that hundreds, perhaps thousands, of patients who got steroid back injections in 23 states could be at risk. 
clinics and medical centers rushed to contact patients who may have received the appar­ently fungus-contaminated shots. and the Food and drug administration urged doctors not to use any products at all from the massachusetts phar­macy that supplied the suspect steroid solution. 
it is not clear how many pa­tients received tainted injec­tions, or even whether everyone who got one will get sick. 
so far, 35 people in six states — Tennessee, virginia, maryland, Florida, north carolina and indiana — have contracted fun­gal meningitis, and five of them have died, according to the centers for disease control and prevention. all had received ste­roid shots for back pain, a highly common treatment. 
in an alarming indication the outbreak could get a lot bigger, massachusetts health officials said the pharmacy involved, the new england compounding center of Framingham, mass., has recalled three lots consist­ing of a total of 17,676 single-dose vials of the steroid, preservative-free methylprednisolone acetate. 
an unknown number of those vials reached 75 clinics and oth­er facilities in 23 states between July and september, federal health officials said. several hun­dred of the vials, maybe more, have been returned unused, one massachusetts official said. 
but many other vials were used. at one clinic in evansville, ind., more than 500 patients got shots from the suspect lots, officials said. at two clinics in Tennessee, more than 900 pa­tients — perhaps many more 
— did. 

The investigation began about two weeks ago after a case was diagnosed in Tennessee. The time from infection to onset of symptoms is anywhere from a few days to a month, so the num­ber of people stricken could rise. 
investigators this week found contamination in a sealed vial of the steroid at the new england company, according to Fda of­ficials. Tests are under way to de­termine if it is the same fungus blamed in the outbreak. 
The company has shut down operations and said it is working with regulators to identify the source of the infection. 
“out of an abundance of cau­tion, we advise all health care practitioners not to use any product” from the company, said ilisa bernstein, director of compliance for the Fda’s center for drug evaluation and research. 
Tennessee has by far the most cases with 25, including three deaths. deaths have also been reported in virginia and maryland. 
meningitis is an inflamma­tion of the lining of the brain and spinal cord. symptoms include severe headache, nausea, dizzi­ness and fever. 
The type of fungal meningitis involved is not contagious like the more common forms. it is caused by a fungus often found in leaf mold and is treated with high-dose antifungal medica­tions, usually given intravenous­ly in a hospital. 
robert cherry, 71, a patient who received a steroid shot at a clinic in berlin, md., about a month ago, went back Thursday morning after hearing it had received some of the tainted medicine. 
“so far, i haven’t had any symptoms ... but i just wanted to double check with them,” cherry said. “They told me to check my temperature and if i have any symptoms, i should report straight to the emergency room, and that’s what i’ll do.” 
The new england company is what is known as a compound­ing pharmacy. These pharma­cies custom-mix solutions, creams and other medications in doses or in forms that generally aren’t commercially available. 
other compounding pharma­cies have been blamed in recent years for serious and sometimes deadly outbreaks caused by con­taminated medicines. 
Two people were blinded in washington, d.c., in 2005. Three died in virginia in 2006 and three more in oregon the fol­lowing year. Twenty-one polo horses died in Florida in 2009. earlier this year, 33 people in seven states developed fungal eye infections. 
compounding pharmacies are not regulated as closely as drug manufacturers, and their products are not subject to Fda approval. 
a national shortage of many drugs has forced doctors to seek custom-made alternatives from compounding pharmacies. The steroid suspected in the out­break has been in short supply. 
The new england company at the center of the outbreak makes dozens of other medical products, state officials said. but neither the company nor health officials would identify them. 
The company said in a state­ment Thursday that despite the Fda warning, “there is no in­dication of any potential issues with other products.” it called the deaths and illnesses tragic and added: “The thoughts and prayers of everyone employed by necc are with those who have been affected.” 



Reevaluate the Shamrock Series 
boxing out of a rut 

Ann Marie Jakubowski 
news writer 

none of my friends could keep a straight face when i mentioned in august that i was joining the boxing team. between the smirks and incredulous laughter, i heard everything from “you’re the least aggressive person ever,” to “i thought you hated working out,” to “i re­ally don’t think you could actually punch someone like that, if you had to.” after hearing “wait, are you serious?” a dozen times, changing my mind really wasn’t an option anymore — at that point, the only way to avoid a year of jokes and off­hand comments about being a wanna-be boxer was to become an actual boxer. 
none of my previous athletic pursuits prepared me for this experience — i was an average member of my high school tennis team and a well below-average swimmer for one season. if i felt par­ticularly motivated, i might take on the occasional fifteen-minute mile and call it quits at the three-quarter mark. i knew this, but at the same time i’d been pretty bored with the current state of the union and i wanted to do something uncharac­teristic and unexpected. 
Team rules hold that members have to attend four practices a week to fight in the baraka bouts in november, and it’s fair to say that the first week or two absolutely destroyed me. The only way to distract myself from the misery of those first runs was to spend the time brain­storming escape routes or excuses to quit the team altogether. i couldn’t bring my­self to do much more than get through it and then sleep as hard as i could. 
each practice is challenging, enough to keep me questioning why i got into this to begin with, but that’s exactly what i was hoping for. i didn’t join the team so my friends would think i was tougher and realize they’d underestimated me, and it had nothing to do with some hid­den desire to punch people. i don’t aspire to go pro after my notre dame career, and while i am proud to say that the money we raise will help the people of uganda, that wasn’t it either. 
i joined because i needed to get out of a rut, to shake up the way my life was go­ing and see what else i had to learn about myself. i needed to know that i could ask that much of myself and then pay upfront, even if the price tags on those first miles were alarmingly high. i like myself much better if i’m a person who boxes after class instead of taking a nap; i needed to learn to fight every now and then, as long as i chose my battles wisely. each day i feel my body getting stronger around me, and if nothing else, i’m glad i can go to bed each night knowing i’m better off in some way than i was when i woke up that morning. 
Contact Ann Marie Jakubowski at ajakubo1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

EDITORIAL 
when notre dame and miami face off in chicago on saturday, it will mark the fourth installment in the highly successful shamrock series, the university’s an­nual off-site home football game. The series promotes the notre dame brand and has brought the irish to san antonio, new york and the washington, d.c. area prior to this year’s tilt in chicago. 
The university has done an admirable job promoting notre dame and consistently finds new heights on which to elevate its imprint. 
but, this time, it has found a new low. 
Three weeks ago, notre dame students received an email telling them only 288 tickets would be made avail­able to the student body for this year’s contest. That’s 288 tickets for an undergraduate population of more than 8,000 students. For a home game. in chicago. 
soldier Field is 94 miles from the notre dame campus. alumni, as usual, will travel in droves to see the gold (and, this week, blue) helmets shimmering under the lights in what is sure to be a notre dame celebration that spans the entire weekend. but only 3.6 percent of the students were invited to the party. 
one of the unique aspects of the shamrock series is its inclusion of academic and other non-football activities that the university puts on during the annual event. This year’s docket includes a pep rally at millennium park, drummers’ circle and several academic lectures. 
when the shamrock series was in other parts of the country, a lack of student tickets was understandable. but this year is different. even students without a car on campus could have easily made the trip by bus or train and taken part in a spectacular atmosphere at one of america’s iconic venues. 
saturday was a day notre dame students — many of whom are from chicago — have had circled on their calendar for quite a while. The notre dame-chicago connection is a special one, and that’s due in large part to the lofty number of students from the area. 
This week, irish players who grew up in the windy city have described what this weekend means to them as bears fans, chicago residents and notre dame student-athletes. it’s an experience they will cherish far after their playing careers are finished, but that opportunity has mostly been withheld from students. 
once the university announced the ticket allotment for this game, many chicago-based students decided to go home for the weekend, even without a ticket after be­ing forced to reevaluate their plans. The university’s de­cision led many other students to look for tickets through outside sources, such as stubhub, for greater than the $125 price it offered students, an amount costing about half as much as the home season ticket booklet. 
maybe it’s time to reevaluate what the shamrock series is all about. 
if notre dame is trying to promote its brand and celebrate its academic and athletic brands, how can it properly do so a couple hours from campus with only a 288-student allotment? This is a college football pro­gram. we are the college students who can bring our voices and our spirit to support a team of our classmates and peers. anyone who’s ever been to a notre dame home game knows the student section is the pulse of the stadium. now, despite a golden opportunity, the shamrock series will feel like a home game in name only. 
maybe the decision was made to maximize a profit. maybe the decision was made to appease as much of the alumni base as possible. maybe the decision was made to keep as many students in south bend as possible the weekend before midterms. 
The university at least owes the student body an ex­planation for this disappointment. an integral part of the home football experience is the student body — and most of us will be missing when notre dame and miami revive a once-intense rivalry this weekend, less than 100 miles from campus. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“speak when you are angry — and you will make the best speech you’ll ever regret.” 
Laurence J. Peter 

American educator 
WEEKLY POLL 

Where in the world is Carmen Sandiego? 
@h4iley: “carmen sandiego? oh, she’s in the angela parking lot at smc. That’s the name of my salsa red vw Jetta!” 
@tommygents: “about 100 yards from pakistan’s capitol building, though officially they have no idea.” 


The observer | FRIDAY, OCTOBER 5, 2012 | ndsmcobserver.com 
My day with JFK 
Gary Caruso 
capitol comments 

Fifty years ago next saturday, on october 13, 1962, president John F. kennedy campaigned for democratic candidates throughout southwestern pennsylvania. one of his stops, at my county courthouse, was located just a few miles from my home. with such a rare opportu­nity before us, naturally my father 
— an elementary school principal, first generation italian-american, catholic, world war ii veteran edu­cated through the gi bill — dragged me to see the president. as an 11-year-old sixth grader, i was more interested in football on that sunny saturday morning. however, little could i imagine at morning’s start that i would ultimately be three feet from the president who spoke to me. 
kennedy’s election was an impor­tant political milestone victory for catholics, a time that also exposed me to my first experience of reli­gious discrimination. growing up, i heard my father share his stories of hostile heritage and religious hatred hurled at him in school and against my italian immigrant grandparents in the workplace. while in fourth grade, during the kennedy-nixon campaign, my best friend — from a protestant family — spewed nasty slurs at me he had heard from his parents about “those catholics” like kennedy and me. so i under­stood why my father dearly admired kennedy who broke the political barriers for catholics similarly to how barack obama shattered one for african-americans in 2008. 
stepping back a half-century ago, our nation faced chaotic and challenging times that tugged the president’s attention from one huge event to another at lightening speed. amidst the pressures of the oval office that october weekend, kennedy focused on the off-term election cycle when an incumbent president’s party usually loses seats in congress. Thus, kennedy campaigned against congressional republicans who were obstructing his legislative agenda. 
when kennedy spoke to us, he was wrestling behind the scenes with an international crisis trying to thwart the soviet union’s installa­tion of nuclear missiles in cuba. on the home front, the president dealt with civil rights discrimination, spe­cifically James meredith’s attempt to break the all-white discrimina­tion that barred him from enroll­ing at the university of mississippi. kennedy mobilized federal forces by sending 170 marshals to es­cort meredith to class. but on that october saturday, i was concerned more about football. 
mid-morning we staked out a spot on the sidewalk and stood for two hours before the motorcade ap­proached. my mind wondered but dismissed the possibility of snipers hiding under a porch with a latched wooden fence. it seemed like forever before the motorcade arrived and surprised me. as a boy, automo­biles played a huge role in my life. so, i was shocked to see president kennedy sitting on the trunk of a tan chevrolet impala convertible with his feet on the back seat. where was that big black limousine i had seen on television? yet within a minute, he passed. he had gone so quickly — in an impala. 
we tried to walk a block closer to where the president spoke on the courthouse steps. however, throngs of people clogged the streets, so we only heard half of his speech through the roaring cheers and blurred sound system. after speak­ing, kennedy attended a luncheon at a hotel, so naturally much of the crowd went home. but my father led me to the alley behind the hotel where we again stood for another hour. Finally, the president mounted onto the impala’s trunk near us. 
we leaned on a fence an arms-length from the president. kennedy’s rich chestnut auburn-colored hair moved in the wind. he nodded in recognition when my father said, “hi Jack!” Then the president said to me, “hello son,” as his car began to roll towards the street. he waved at me first, then to the people at the end of the alley. as quickly as he arrived, he was gone. 
looking back on my day with president kennedy — beyond my sore feet, sniper fantasies and the surprising impala convertible — i note his message countering the republican party for acting as ob­structionists against kennedy’s agenda. ironically, it is not unlike today’s campaign when he said, “as it has shown for 30 years, that ev­ery time we try to do something for jobs, and for security, and for educa­tion, the republicans vote ‘no,’ the democrats vote ‘yes.’” 
kennedy continued, “we lost the medical care for the aged, as we lost the department of urban affairs, as we almost lost minimum wage, as we lost supplemental unemployment compensation, as we lost our agri­cultural bill, as we lost our higher education bill. will you tell me what they are for?” 
kennedy concluded, “and i am proud to stand here, although i am not a candidate for office, and in all good faith ask you to give us some people who in 1963 and ‘64 will build a strong america upon which the world depends.” 
my day with JFk may sound like today, but it still seems like yesterday. 
Gary Caruso, a 1973 graduate of Notre Dame, serves in the Department of Homeland Security and was a leg­islative and public affairs director at the U.S. House of Representatives and in President Clinton’s administra­tion. His column appears every other Friday. Contact him at: GaryJCaruso@alumni.nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
UWIRE 

romney’s “morals” 
James Brennan 
michigan daily 

wednesday night, mitt romney played the mor­als card. during the debate, he stated that the budget deficit is “not just an economic issue, i think it’s a moral issue.” what romney was refer­ring to was his belief that it’s a moral violation to borrow money that will have to be paid back by the generations to follow. i think most americans would agree. it really isn’t okay for the federal gov­ernment to borrow trillions of dollars, allowing for debt to accrue, and pass the bill onto the next generation. what i found most compelling about this statement, however, was the use of the phrase “moral.” 
we’re not talking about far-right religious mor­als. This morality is one of simple right and wrong 
— morals in their most basic sense. i find it in­teresting that romney would reference morality when talking about deficit reduction, given his policies and his choice of running mate. 
“The path to prosperity,” better known as the ryan budget, calls for massive cuts to social security, medicare, medicaid and pell grants. This plan essentially amounts to balancing the bud­get on the backs of the poor. in a recent new york Times article, larkin warren, a self-professed “for­mer welfare mom” told her story of getting through four years of college by heavily relying on govern­ment assistance. she took out student loans, ac­cepted pell grants and used food stamps. her road was an arduous one, but with perseverance, hard work and a lot of help, she eventually graduated and found gainful employment. 
romney’s injection of morality into the debate will likely go unnoticed, but it shouldn’t. The plans he and his running mate have put forward are, at best, of questionable morality. Though romney and ryan both preach “self-reliance” in accor­dance with their religious morals, they’re largely dodging the elephant in the room. cutting welfare, whether it’s for students, the elderly, children or just people down on their luck, is horrifically im­moral. people need these programs, especially during a period of economic crisis — not just to advance in society, but to get by day-to-day. if romney wants to talk morals, he needs to justify how he can propose hurting the poor so badly to balance the budget. 
yes, i realize paying off our federal debt would be a moral achievement. The massive debt we carry makes our country extremely vulnerable as well as weak in diplomatic relations. it would be good for us to be debt-free, or at least minimally in debt. but we cannot alleviate this problem on the backs of our poor. The people in this country who have the hardest lives already shouldn’t be asked to sacrifice even more when there are other ways to balance the budget. 
as president obama asserted, the very wealthi­est in america can afford to pay a little more. i’m not proposing we balance the budget purely through increased taxes on the rich — that isn’t moral either. plus, it would staunch economic growth. The facts, however, are that the rich­est one percent of the country own more than 40 percent of the nation’s wealth and pay historically low tax rates. everyone needs to pay his or her fair share, especially those who can afford a little ex­tra. by increasing taxes, we can begin to cut down our deficit while still providing essential services to grow the economy. 
i commend romney for bringing morals into the discussion — morals, after all, are the basis of law. romney’s ideas on economic morals, however, are just plain backwards. if i were president obama, i’d be sure to point that out at the next debate, especially considering the sharp contrast his eco­nomic policies present. romney was the clear win­ner of wednesday night’s debate, but he shouldn’t have been. after taking such extreme positions during the primary, not to mention a slew of gaffes and obama’s campaign ads that have painted a less than flattering picture of the former governor, i was expecting romney to be left in the dust dur­ing the first debate. president obama, however, faltered, while romney pounded his best talking points home. 
here’s a piece of advice for the president: if he wants to win, he should remind everyone that the guy at the other podium wants to cut help for the poor. Then he should ask the american people if they’d consider someone willing to do that to be “moral.” 
This column originally ran in the Oct. 4 edition of The Michigan Daily, serving the University of Michigan. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

The observer | FRIDAY, OCTOBER 5, 2012 | ndsmcobserver.com 
ma’am, i just think them up prospect, one female star and Round 2 beat me up, then nurse me back to 
Troy Mathew 

and write them down.” – eric one utility player that can fit Pick 1 (Kevin Noonan): Will Smith, health and make me chicken noodle 
scene writer 

cartman any role. current star soup and sing me uplifting songs. 


1. The objective of the draft 4. picks must be for real KN: i might have gone out on a little whatever though, i like it. 
Sam Stryker 

is to create the ultimate team action stars (sorry, michael bit of a limb with my first pick, so i’m SS: at least he brings some vocal 
assistant managing editor 

of action heroes, based on the cera), and if it’s on the border looking for a little more consistency ability to your team, chris. 
following criteria: (michael Fassbender) you must with my second--will smith. TM: solid pick, literally and Chris Allen a. how would they fare in a be able to defend their legiti-SS: welcome to miami, kevin. or figuratively. scene writer street fight? macy as action heroes (“Jane the wild, wild west. i’m lukewarm on 
b. how successful have their eyre,” Fassbender? come on this pick. he’s done so films been? now). much, yet so little with 
Kevin Noonan 

c. can they deliver lines that 5. leonardo dicaprio cannot his career. This is like 
scene editor 

make you shake in your boots? be picked. i do not like him. picking vanilla as your 
d. how straight up and down favorite flavor of ice 
with the release of “Taken cool are they? with that said here’s the cream. 2” this weekend and liam e. or anything else, i don’t draft order: TM: so not jiggy with neeson’s transformation into really care. 1. Troy mathew this pick. full-fledged action star, the 2. There will be 5 rounds, 2. sam stryker KN: vanilla is my recent release of “expendables with pick order determined 3. chris allen favorite flavor. also, 2” and another bond movie randomly (i will determine 4. kevin noonan “independence day,” i on the way, the scene decided pick order). The draft will fol-kn: Troy, you’re on the clock. rest my case. to take a look at some of our low a serpentine order, mean-CA: i like the pick. favorite heroes. and, because ing the order of each round will will smith would get we could, we did a fantasy proceed in reverse order of the absolutely squashed draft. First, scene editor kevin previous one. by my muscle men, noonan explains the rules and 3. each team will consist of though. speaking of regulations: one veteran star or former star, which, it’s my pick. 
“i don’t make the rules, one current star, one future Pick 3 (Sam Stryker): Jennifer Pick 2 (Chris Allen): Hugh Jackman, Lawrence, future prospect current star SS: i volunteer as tribute Jennifer Round 1 hey, those lips… say, hasta la vista, baby. CA: my current star has been all over lawrence for my up-and-coming CA: somewhere, Jennifer SS: solid pick, but he does the place in the past few years, from star pick. she bested the field in “The Pick 1 (Troy Mathew): Daniel aniston is shaking her head. have a blemish on his career hosting the oscars to generally tearing hunger games” and starred as the vil-Craig, current star KN: she could beat me up. — anyone remember his role things up as wolverine. he adds some lainess mystique in “X-men: origins.” 
TM: For the first overall draft TM: she’s so frail! i was laugh-as “mr. Freeze” in “batman & more bulk to my team of muscular su-if you can hang with the district 2 pick, i select a current a-lister, ing during “salt” as she flipped robin”? perheroes, and he’s australian. hugh Tributes and magneto, you’re good daniel craig. he’s re-KN: chris, if Jackman is my second pick. enough for my team. and boy, the placed the ridiculous 
you’re build-SS: he also has hosted the Tony’s things she can do with a bow and ar­cheesiness of pierce 
ing your team multiple times, so there is that. row. she even has an oscar nomina­brosnan and starred 
purely on mus-KN: i feel like hugh Jackman would tion.  like Jolie, she can match any in solid entries to the 
cle, i can’t wait bond canon. 
to see who your 
Round 3 Queen first. his bowtie was always KN: i’d call that 
female pick is. Pick 1 (Troy Mathew): Sylvester perfectly tied, his martini always a little bit of a sur­
ss: probably Stallone, veteran shaken, not stirred. beyond bond, prise. has he done 
brigitte nielsen. TM: For my old-timer choice, i connery was deemed to be worthy anything outside of 
select sylvester stallone. with his of being indiana Jones’ dad. That’s bond? 
lopsided and strangely-botoxed face, when you know you have made it in SS: after 
Pick 4 (Kevin he has the look of a hollywood vet-the action world. he’s got the veteran “Quantum of solace” 
Noonan): eran, and is still relevant today, hav-skills to lead my team. i’d say he needs to 
Joseph Gordon-ing recently starred in focus on making 
Levitt, future “The expendables.” better bond films, 
prospect having starred in all not aiding the Queen KN: i’m a the “rocky” films as to enter the opening kansas city well as “rambo,” he’s ceremonies of the olympics. 200-pound men. royals fan, all i know is build-a solid choice for this 
TM: “girl with the dragon SS: i believe the correct term ing for the future. i’ve got my point in the draft. Tattoo,” y’all. is “trim,” Troy. eye on an exciting prospect CA: i think it is ob-CA: sean connery is shaking TM: i think her most deadly that my team will one day vious you just stole a his head, somewhere. attack would be slicing people be centered around (or i’ll top pick on my muscle SS: and his martini. with her protruding bones. trade to the yankees)--Joseph depth chart. 
Frail. gordon-levitt. Pick 2 (Sam Stryker): KN: That or home wrecking. SS: you and christopher Pick 2 (Sam Angelina Jolie, current star SS: or she could just adopt nolan both. i’m confused, are Stryker): Sean 
SS: girl power! For my first you. we supposed to hope he’s the Connery, veteran pick, i am selecting angelina next batman, or robin? or both? SS: Troy, i’m going Jolie. she kicks some solid butt Pick 3 (Chris Allen): Arnold CA: your no. 1 action star to one-up you with and looks stellar doing it. she’s Schwarzenegger, veteran sang a sing-along with cartoon my classic action star pick and i’m CA: shocking, positively shocking. starred in such high-octane CA: i’m building my team birds just a few years ago. in going to take the real James bond. mr. connery, as tough with his word action flicks as “salt,” “wanted,” around one basic factor-- mus-case you forgot. nobody does it better than sean as he is with his awesome train kicks “mr. & mrs. smith,” and the cle. who better to start my team SS: you just made all three of connery, the original. From the fast in “From russia, with love.” outrageous “Tomb raider” mov-with than the godfather of girth the hipsters on campus really cars to the tuxedos to the gadgets to ies. not to mention the fact she’s himself, the master of mass, happy with your pick, kevin. the gorgeous women, connery not Pick 3 (Chris Allen): Liam Neeson matched up with the likes of arnold schwarzenegger? behind KN: hate away, haters. he’s only set the bar for all subsequent utility player gerard butler, clive owen, brad arnold’s bulging physique and a prospect; he’s a little rough bonds. he established what it really CA: These have been some nice pitt — all potential picks — and gubernatorial credentials, my around the edges. means to be an action star. it isn’t picks so far. some notable stars, each the aforementioned daniel team will push your teams TM: “500 days of summer” is just about punching guys or shoot-with a great resume and respectable craig in her action flicks. and around. This is over. or should i the antithesis of action movie. ing a gun. he always put country and action abilities. but my next pick has 



Sara Shoemake | Observer Graphic 

The observer | FRIDAY, OCTOBER 5, 2012 | ndsmcobserver.com 

man punch-for-punch, she’s well-Round 4 points for not being engaged to hannah KN: only because of anne hathaway in spoken and she looks fresh off the red Pick 1 (Kevin Noonan): Jessica Alba, fe-montana. excuse me, miley cyrus. “The dark knight rises,” i’ll forgive her. carpet. beauty, brawn and brains: the male star KN: i like this pick. as both the god of three b’s make Jennifer lawrence my KN: i’ve been struggling with my fe-thunder and captain kirk’s dad, he’s got a Pick 4 (Troy Mathew): Jamie Foxx, future next pick. may the odds be ever in my male star pick since sam snagged Jennifer strong pedigree of action stardom. prospect favor. lawrence so early in the draft, but then i TM: while this up-and-comer pick is 
KN: i’m bummed, this was my fe-remembered golden globe nominated ac-Pick 3 (Sam Stryker): Halle Berry, female not an obvious choice, he’s a great addi­male pick for sure. tress Jessica alba. i feel like she’s been off the star tion to my team. he’s already proven his 
CA: miss lawrence is a great pick, radar for a few years (other than the vio-SS: as if my team needed an additional acting chops with solid roles in “ray” and having also starred in some lently terrific “machete”) but she showed her shot of estrogen my next pick is the bo-“collateral.” yes, Jamie Foxx. he’s starring in decidedly non-action movies action movie skills in “sin city.” the upcoming Tarantino flick, “django like “winter’s bone.” but she’s plus she’s just so, so, sooooo … 

unchained.” The movie, also known as moving onto the a-list quickly. talented. 
“inglorious basterds” with slave owners and she’s beautiful. good pick. TM: she was in “Fantastic 
instead of nazis, is sure to be fantastic. Four” too. she is certainly nice 
also, he already has a famous catch Pick 4 (Troy Mathew): Uma to look at, but isn’t much besides 
phrase from the starring role. The ‘d’ is Thurman, female star that. 
silent, and his future in action movies is TM: since the well is run-CA: To be honest, she was 
bright. ning dry for action stars pretty tough in “sin city.” love 
SS: he’s a borderline pick in my book. without a y chromosome, i’m the alba pick. 
good, but not great. he’s the type of going to snag mine now. man SS: does she kick butt like 
player who might get away from the hands aside, uma Thurman some of the other available 
royals, but wouldn’t be worthy of the is my choice, having starred ladies out there? no, and i’m 
yankees’ checkbook. in Tarantino’s hugely popular about to prove it with my next 
KN: i disagree sam; i like this pick. “kill bill” franchise. although pick. 
obviously it’s a prospect pick, but she is no longer particularly 
Foxx has proven a decent actor, and 
active in the hollywood game, Pick 2 (Chris Allen): Chris “collateral” was one of his best perfor­“kill bill” is a cult favorite and an all-Hemsworth, future prospect dacious halle berry. she’s done it all: mances and showed he can do action with around solid set of films. uma, drive CA: so let’s see … i need to fill my up-catwoman, X-men and bond girl. really, the best of them. plus, if anybody can make over to my team. and-coming young guy role. i need to add what more could you ask of her? she’s also somebody an action star, it’s Tarantino. i 
SS: exceptional pick. uma Thurman some more muscle to my dream team, and an oscar-winning actress. she wins fights, think after “django” comes out this will look is six feet of Quentin Tarantino-i need someone who’s shown the ability to men’s hearts and academy awards. oh, like a great pick. engineered sword-wielding craziness. wreak some havoc. my next pick is a real-life and she completes secret agent missions in a SS: “collateral” was a great role, but ba­she’s one part victoria’s secret model norse god in the flesh, chris hemsworth. bikini. Try that one, hugh Jackman. sically he was dealing with a crazy Tom and one part ninja. hemsworth showed an absolute mean KN: i could ask her to go back in time and cruise for two hours. katie holmes did it for 
KN: she scares the living daylights streak as the star of “Thor” and backed that not do “catwoman.” That movie was almost six years, and no one has picked her yet. out of me. good pick. up in “The avengers.” and he’s so, so much unforgivable in my book. CA: Foxx gets major bonus points for mak-
TM: her giant hands are more than cooler than his brother. SS: bad things happen to good people. ing incredibly off-color jokes in front of pro-capable of that. next pick coming in a SS: True that. already he gets bonus even to halle berry. fessional athletes at the espys. sec. 
Round 5 KN: my father might disown me for saying next “Fast and the Furious” film and also is 
a very particular set of skills. skills he Pick 1 (Troy Mathew): Christian Bale, util-this, but i love Tom cruise. i love his mov-the lead in a film that is being called the fe­has acquired over a very long career. ity player ies, i love his his wild, screaming rant at Jack male version of “The expendables”. you might skills that will make a nightmare TM: There’s been a lot of talk about the nicholson in “a Few good men.” i don’t care if remember her turning ordinary Janes into for your teams. he trained batman, batman franchise, but i’m choosing the he goes full-tilt mel gibson on us later in life, i roadkill on “american gladiators”. look for voiced aslan and was in star wars. source of the indiscernible growl itself. like the pick. her star to blow up in the next couple years. he’s going to find you, and he’s going christian bale is my next choice, given his TM: anyone who had a role in producing KN: i’m all about this pick; i was real close 
n to kill you. liam neeson is the next career-defining, starring role in nolan’s tril-queen of the universe suri cruise is good in to picking gina. she’s got the “talent” of Jessica action star … taken. ogy. also, considering his performances in my book, and his use of “glib” is just another alba and the fierceness to grapple with any of KN: great pick, terrible pun. “Terminator salvation,” “3:10 to these action stars. SS: and that just happened. yuma,” and “american psycho,” anyone who starred in “love, he’s too good not to take. he Pick 4 (Kevin Noonan): Nicolas Cage, utility player 
actually” is always a winner does it all — method acting, 

KN: last pick in the draft, so who’s mr. oscar-worthy films. he’s got a in my book. action flicks and pretentious 
irrelevant? i want to pick bruce willis, be-Pick 4 (Kevin Noonan): warehouse of deadly gadgets, 
cause “die hard” is my favorite christmas Clint Eastwood, veteran uncontrollable real-life rage and a 
movie of all time, but i can’t bestow that KN: i’m frankly shocked spot on my fantasy team. 
title on officer John mcclain. he’d show he’s still on the board to be CA: christian has fluctuated 
up at my door in a wife-beater tee and honest. dirty harry, himself-from 130 pounds to 210 pounds 
make fun of me before blasting me away. -clint eastwood. let’s ignore for what seems like half a dozen 
and so, with the last pick in the draft-his rnc chair stunt; the guy times. i would absolutely love to 
-nicolas cage. because screw it, why not? has been defining what it see him train to lose 80 pounds 
SS: either way, a winning pick. but i love means to be an action star for a role. 
the choice of nic cage. who can forget the for five decades. age hasn’t 
“national Treasure” movies? They got me stopped him either. “gran Pick 2 (Sam Stryker): Tom 
through my awkward middle school years, Torino” is one of the toughest, coolest Cruise, utility player plus. braces and all. s movies he’s been in, and he did it at SS: my final wild card pick goes to Tom CA: Just like a roller coaster, my team has a KN: and i’d like to nominate “con air” for 78 years old. cruise. and boy, is he a wild card. if chairs height requirement, a mark that cruise would greatest movie ever in ever. CA: also the best director to be are clint eastwood’s kryptonite, then keep not reach. not even close. chosen thus far, by a wide, wide, wide cruise away from couches. but he’s starred Contact Troy Mathew at , margin. in the “mission impossible” films, “war of Pick 3 (Chris Allen): Gina Carano, female tmathew2@nd.edu, Sam Stryker at SS: clint is like a bottle of fine the worlds” and “Top gun.” yes, he is certifi-star sstryke1@nd.edu, Kevin Noonan wine. he’s only gotten better with ably insane and he believes in an alien god CA: so i guess i need a girl on my muscle at knoonan2@nd.edu, h age. and i love wine. or something like that (yay, scientology!) but team. This is an easy pick and a bit of a sleep-and Chris Allen TM: he’s crotchety personified and guess what? even pushing 50 years of age, this er. mma star gina carano defines the modern at callen10@nd.edu i like it. nice selection. guy is still a bona-fide action star. butt-kicking female. she’ll be starring in the 


Sara Shoemake | Observer Graphic 


SPORTS AUTHORITY 

Baseball crowns a new king 

Andrew Gastelum 
associate sports editor 
There is a reason why it is called the Triple crown, because winning it puts you in baseball royalty. 
carl yastrzemski. Frank robinson. mickey mantle. Ted williams. Joe medwick. lou gehrig. Jimmie Foxx. rogers hornsby. Ty cobb. nap najoie. Tip o’neill. hugh duffy. paul hines. 
and now miguel cabrera. 
baseball royalty, it’s a title thousands of little leaguers dream of. From the tee to the wooden bat, it is a dream shared by seven-year olds and seven-year veterans alike. at that stage, it is the most beautifully uneven and even playing field at the same time. it is a steeple that this writer and all of us can only won­der about, yet even well-known players such as Torii hunter and chase utley are on the same level as us. 
in baseball, history remembers us by what we do. unfortunately, the chances are your favorite player today will eventually be forgotten tomorrow. it’s the cruel way of the sport, the forbidding nature of time as the seasons pile on. To each of us personally, that favorite player holds some sort of intrinsic weight. maybe it is a memory that we hold dear or an experience that could never be replicated, but it’s ours and in that form his legacy lives on. but eventually, that player is forgotten. 
For the last 45 years now, we have said that the last person to win the Triple crown was carl yastrzemski. surely some base­ball fans lived their entire lives and never saw such a historic feat. and now, we hit reset and say the last person to win the Triple crown is miguel cabrera. we noticed it. we lived it. we witnessed it. as much as cabrera is a part of baseball history, what is history without the people who experienced it and loved every second of the journey? 
some of history’s greatest hitters sit where we sit, comfort­ably and yet ever so enviously on the outside looking in. alex rodriguez, willie mays, stan musial and babe ruth, just to name a few. 
history tells us the Triple crown requires more than the perfect storm. in a sport where a single stint on the dl could kick you from the race before the sea­son even starts, it requires luck — if there is such a concept. in what seems to be the single greatest achievement for individual per­formance in baseball, it requires the will and drive of teammates to get on base and eventually score. in a year of 162 games that spans six months and three different seasons, it requires the highest degree of focus, determi­nation and mental fortitude. 
and above all, it requires skill: contact, power, smarts and preparation. 
since yaz’s Triple crown in 1967, baseball has seen the best of its sons make a run at royalty. albert pujols, barry bonds, mike schmidt and willie mccovey all came within seeing the jew­els sparkle on the crown, but it just wasn’t the right time for a coronation. 
yet miggy’s Triple crown goes far beyond others in terms of what it does for baseball moving forward. 
cabrera’s feat makes him the first latino player to ever win the Triple crown. in a sport where 
27.3 percent of its players are latino, a spanish-speaker is fi­nally and so deservedly crowned as the best hitter in baseball. cabrera’s accomplishment serves as a moment of triumph for an entire community of latin american, south american and caribbean past, present and future ballplayers that represent such an important part of the game we love. 
adding cabrera’s name to that royal list will hopefully symbol­ize a change in baseball’s latino sphere of influence, where thou­sands of kids spend their entire youths trying to make it to the big leagues to one day help their families. Those same kids who may possess similar talents to a younger bryce harper, mike Trout or andrew mccutchen are unjustifiably poached by major league scouts looking to make a quick, cheap deal while american teenagers receive mil­lion-dollar signing bonuses right after graduating high school. Just a name on that list can level this prolonged disorder in baseball as an ambassador for interna­tional baseball players and a progressive visionary for equal opportunity. 
This isn’t even about the 2012 mvp race or a spot in cooperstown. it’s about one play­er’s absolute dominance in three categories that mean so much to the sport and its fans. For once, it’s about history starting over in an era of baseball dominated by the pitcher. it’s about recognizing that the steroid era is over, and yet a hitter can still energize the sport. 
history is written. history is remembered. in fact, history is in our eyes, the eyes of the beholders. 
and on wednesday, history crowned a new king. 
Contact Andrew Gastelum at agastel1@nd.edu                          The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
NHL 

nhl cancels first two weeks of games 
Associated Press 

new york — what seemed inevitable for the nhl has be­come reality. The league can­celed the first two weeks of the regular season on Thursday, the second time games have been lost because of a lockout in seven years. 
The announcement was made in a two-paragraph statement. it isn’t clear if those games will be made up, allow­ing for a complete 82-game regular season, if a deal can be struck soon with the locked-out players. 
unable to work out how to split up $3 billion in hockey-related revenues with the players’ association, the nhl wiped out 82 games from oct. 11-24 — beginning with four next Thursday, which would have been the league’s open­ing night. 
“we were extremely disap­pointed to have to make to­day’s announcement,” nhl deputy commissioner bill daly said in a statement. “The game deserves better, the fans deserve better, and the people who derive income from their connection to the nhl de­serve better. 
“we remain committed to doing everything in our power to forge an agreement that is fair to the players, fair to the teams, and good for our fans. This is not about ‘winning’ or ‘losing’ a negotiation. This is about finding a solution that preserves the long-term health and stability of the league and the game. we are committed to getting this done.” 
The union countered 

FOR SALE 

$80,900 Just minutes to ND. Country Village Townhome in Georgetown. 18145 Crownhill Dr. Excellent condition. All appliances &amp;amp; washer/dryer, open floor plan, living room w/cathedral ceiling to loft/den or possible 2nd bedroom. Large 17 x 14 master, 1.5 baths, fireplace, security system. 1-car at­tached garage w/opener, corner lot. 574-532-5961 
FOR RENT 

Football Rental. Available BYU and Stanford. 1BR Varsity Club. Call 847-602-8170 
Rent Knute Rockne’s home for foot­ball weekends. 2 blocks from cam­pus. Contact rentlikeachampion.com today! 
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
WANTED 

WANTED: BOOKSTORE PARKING PASS for Stanford, BYU or Wake. ND alum. Call 847-842-9971. 
PERSONAL 

UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don’t go it alone. Notre Dame has many resources in place to assist you. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Ann Whitall at 1-0084 or Karen Kennedy at 1-5550. For more information, visit ND’s website at: http://pregnancysupport@nd.edu 

Thursday by saying the nhl forced the lockout onto the players instead of letting the season go on as planned. 
“The decision to cancel the first two weeks of the nhl season is the unilateral choice of the nhl owners,” nhlpa executive director donald Fehr said in a statement. “if the owners truly cared about the game and the fans, they would lift the lockout and allow the season to begin on time while negotiations continue. 
“a lockout should be the last resort in bargaining, not the strategy of first resort,” he add­ed. “For nearly 20 years, the owners have elected to lock out the players in an effort to secure massive concessions. nevertheless, the players re­main committed to playing hockey while the parties work to reach a deal that is fair for both sides. we hope we will soon have a willing negotiat­ing partner.” 
although there have been negotiations between the league and players in recent days — unlike a three-month break at the start of the 2004­05 lockout that forced the can­cellation of the entire season 
— the two sides haven’t got­ten any closer to a deal on core economic issues. 
“obviously, (cancellations) might have been expected but it’s also disappointing because we set out to negotiate,” new york rangers goalie martin biron said in a telephone inter­view. “we wanted to get a deal and wanted to avoid a work stoppage or any cancellations. 
“we’re still working hard to find a solution and find a way to get the core economic stuff figured out with the league and getting a deal that is fair for everybody and lasts.” 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit 
Famous Yogi Berra Quotes: “All pitchers are liars or crybabies.” “A nickel ain’t worth a dime anymore.” “Baseball is ninety percent mental. 
The other half is physical.” “I never said most of the things I said.” “When you come to a fork in the road, 
take it.” “The game’s isn’t over until it’s over.” “It gets late early out there.” “I always thought that record would 
stand until it was broken.” 
“It’s like deja vu all over again.” 
“You can observe a lot just by watching.” 



NFL 

McGahee continues success despite injuries 
englewood, colo. — willis mcgahee wasn’t sup­posed to make it to the nFl, much less pinball his way through defenses for a decade. 
so said the naysayers after he tore three ligaments in his left knee in his final college game at miami and again and again as he piled on the yards and years. 
mcgahee is still proving the doubters wrong 10 years lat­
mcgahee sat out his first nFl season in buffalo before a solid career with the bills and baltimore ravens, where he was ray rice’s backup, thus saving wear and tear on his body, which paid off in a big way in denver last season. 
he helped the broncos lead the league in rushing by gain­ing 1,199 yards and earning his second pro bowl appear­ance, a testament to how well 

“My whole career people said I’m slow, I’m old, I can’t do this or I can’t do that. I use that for fuel ... You tell me I can’t do something, my goal is to prove you 
wrong.” 
Willis McGahee Broncos running back 
er. he just recorded his 32nd 100-yard rushing game, more than any active nFl running back and one for each candle that will soon decorate his birthday cake, plus a spare for good measure. 
“my whole career people said i’m slow, i’m old, i can’t do this or i can’t do that. i use that for fuel,” mcgahee said. “you tell me i can’t do some­thing, my goal is to prove you wrong.” 
mcgahee joked this week that he quit counting at age 29. 
Thirty-something tail­backs are rare in a league that spits out ball carriers after just more than two sea­sons on average, and rarer still are those as productive as mcgahee after 30 trips around the sun. 
mcgahee is only the 29th running back in league his­tory to top 1,000 yards in his he adapted to quarterback Tim Tebow and coach John Fox dusting off the old read-option at midseason. 
This year, it’s peyton manning stuffing the ball into mcgahee’s belly or throwing it in between the 2 and the 3 on his chest, and he’s even more productive, averaging 81.25 yards rush­ing a game, up from 79.9 a year ago. he’s already scored three touchdowns, one shy of his total from last year, and he also caught a 2-point conversion. 
bill belichick, whose new england patriots host the broncos on sunday in a piv­otal game between 2-2 teams, certainly sees the mcgahee of old. 
“real talented player com­ing out of miami. big, strong, fast guy that has good run in­stincts and is tough. i think you still see those quali­

“He makes coaching fun ... Because he’s what you want. He’s what you want as far as a guy that gives it to you physically all the time and mentally, too. I love 
coaching this guy.” 
Eric Studesville Former Buffalo Bills coach 
30s and if he does it again this season he’ll join just a dozen others — half of whom are in the hall of Fame — who’ve accomplished the feat mul­tiple times. 
since he first donned the orange and navy uniform in 2011, mcgahee has topped 100 yards rushing nine times, tied with houston’s arian Foster — who is five years his junior — for the most in the league. 
ties,” belichick said. “you see him running over people and breaking tackles. he has good run vision and can find the holes and has good pa­tience, knows how to use his blocking when he gets in the open field or when guys start to tackle him, he does a good job of breaking tackles, get­ting his pads down, running with power. 
“and he’s elusive in the sec­ondary. so, he continues to perform well. i have a lot of respect for willis.” 


so does broncos running backs coach eric studesville. he was mcgahee’s position coach in buffalo from 2004­06 and was instrumental in bringing him to denver last year. 
studesville said he sees an even better running back in denver than he had in buffalo. 
“The core things that he is and had at that time he still has now: a tremendous work ethic, a tremendous pas­sion for the game, incredibly competitive personality,” studesville said. “and all those things haven’t dimin­ished with time. They’ve stayed the same.” 
what is different, studesville said, is his lead­ership, as evidenced by his teammates voting him a cap­tain this season. 
“he’s much more vocal, he’s much more out front,” studesville said. “when i had him in buffalo, he just kind of came and worked every day. it’s difficult for a young player to be a leader, but he’s not a young player anymore. he’s developed leadership qualities that have been good for us.” 

That’s taken time for mcgahee, a gregarious per­sonality, sure, but one who prefers to lead by example. 
“i’m one of those guys, if you ask for the help, i’ll give it you. but if you don’t, i won’t,” mcgahee said. “you plenty by just watching mcgahee go to work: “you get the same result out of him every day. Just watching him go to work every day, you see why he’s a 10-year vet.” 
with an average pro career of about 2½ years, most run­

“The core things that he is and had at that time he still has now: a tremendous work ethic, a tremendous passion for the game, incredibly competitive personality ... And all theose things haven’t diminished with time. They’ve stayed the same.” 
Eruc Studesville Former Buffalo Bills coach 

know, certain running backs don’t want to get help from another running back that’s in front of them. They try to do it on their own. That’s what i did. so, you can’t take it to heart if they don’t ask.” 
ronnie hillman, a rookie from san diego state in the mold of darren sproles who is learning that at this level the holes close lickety-split, certainly isn’t shy about hit­ting him up for advice. 
“he’ll tell me what i’m do­ing wrong or how to look at this play the right way,” said hillman, who also learns ning backs don’t stick around the league long enough to become locker room leaders like mcgahee has. 
“it’s a testament to the physical condition that he’s in, and i think there’s a burn­ing desire to compete that’s inside there, too,” studesville said. “he loves this game.” 
That passion rubs off. 
“he makes coaching fun,” studesville said. “because he’s what you want. he’s what you want as far as a guy that gives it to you physically all the time and mentally, too. i love coaching this guy.” 



The observer | FRIDAY, OCTOBER 5, 2012 | ndsmcobserver.com 

NFL 

Tebow content as backup 

Associated Press 
Florham park, n.J.  — Tim Tebow has mostly been a sideline spectator this season, helplessly watching the new york Jets’ offense struggle. 
The energetic do-it-all back­up quarterback has been re­duced mainly to a bit player. not exactly what he — or ev­eryone — expected. but if Tebow is frustrated with his limited role so far, rex ryan doesn’t sense it. 
“i know how competitive he is,” ryan said Thursday. “when you look over at the sideline, him and a lot of guys want to change the situation. we want to win, everybody we have feels the same way. 
“specifically him being frus­trated about his role or any­thing? i don’t see that.” 
Tebow has played in just 31 of the Jets’ 257 offensive snaps after being acquired from denver in march to back up starter mark sanchez and pro­vide a spark to the offense. 
“i mean yeah, you get frus­trated, i think everyone in that locker room when you lose games you’re a little frustrat­ed, but i think that’s natural,” Tebow said. “other than that, try and work hard and get bet­ter. we’re 2-2, the season’s not over yet.” 
many fans and media insist Tebow should play more on of­fense, starting monday night against undefeated houston, or else the season could start slipping away. some have even called for Tebow to supplant sanchez as the starter. 
That could make for an un­comfortable situation in the locker room, but sanchez in­sists he’s fine. 
“i don’t feel threatened to lose my job at all,” sanchez said, adding that it was no different when the team had other backups behind him. “it doesn’t change. i’m really not worried.” 
but Tebow has won in the nFl before, leading denver to the playoffs last season after a terrific run during which he won seven of eight games in one stretch, including five fourth-quarter victories. so, naturally, the assumption is that Tebow is trying to be pa­tient and just wait for what have so far been only occa­sional opportunities — a few as a wildcat-style quarterback, a handful as a tight end or full­back and regularly as a punt protector on special teams. 
ryan and his coaching staff huddled for two days to try to find solutions after the Jets were blown out 34-0 by the san Francisco 49ers. while he refused to give details about those discussions, it would make sense for Tebow to be a larger part of the offense. ryan also was a bit unclear when asked if he’s spoken to Tebow about increasing his role. 
“i talk to players and things like that,” ryan said. “but nothing specific.” 
added Tebow: “no, i haven’t 
talked  to  anybody  or  said  
anything.”  
ryan  also  dismissed  the  

notion that perhaps the Jets have not lived up to what they promised Tebow when they traded for him in march. 
“when you trade for a guy, you do talk to the player or whatever,” ryan said. “when that happens, you’re trying to get a guy on your football team and things like that. sometimes, the trade, the player doesn’t have anything to do with it. ... Tim likes the competitiveness of this group. he’s a competitive guy.” 
The one thing ryan made clear for what seemed to be the millionth time since Tebow came to town is that he is standing by sanchez as his starting quarterback. 
“mark’s been fairly success­ful here, and i’ve said this since day 1: ‘give me the quar­terback that wins because his job is so important to your team’s success,” ryan said. “i think mark is an excellent quarterback.” 
The numbers haven’t supported that so far this sea­son, as sanchez’s dismal 69.6 quarterback rating ranks 30th in nFl, ahead of just rookies ryan Tannehill of miami and brandon weeden of cleveland. he has completed just 49.2 percent of his passes, the lack of accuracy and consistency both big-time knocks on him since his rookie year in 2009. 
he has four road playoff wins, though, and played well in leading the Jets to the aFc championship game in con­secutive seasons. ryan be­lieves that is the real sanchez, not the one struggling to con­nect with receivers. sanchez has also been playing without his favorite target, tight end dustin keller, who has been dealing with a hamstring in­jury for weeks. Top receiver santonio holmes is also gone for the season after seriously injuring his left foot against the 49ers. 
“i just think it’s everybody’s job — we want to see him do well,” ryan said. “The re­ceivers have to get open and sanchez, i think, is accurate enough to put the ball where he needs to. and if that means elevating our play, than i think we can do that. i think it’s on everybody, though.” 
but, it’s sanchez who is tak­ing the brunt of the criticism 
— and a lot of it, justifiably so. The fact that Tebow is wait­ing in the wings and everyone remembers what he was able to do last season in denver has just increased the heat on what has become a bubbling quarterback controversy. 
“you’ve got to have that thick skin because not everybody’s going to write beautiful things about you,” ryan said. “if you have a poor game, it’s going to be right there in front. ... i think it takes a special guy to be a quarterback in this mar­ket, and i think mark has that.” 
sanchez agrees, of course, and this kind of scrutiny is nothing new for him. 
“it’s just another opportuni­ty,” he said. “nobody expects it to work, nobody expects it to go right, nobody expects us to win. That’s fine: i’ve been in situations like that before. i’m confident i can handle it, and there’s only one way in my mind to go about it, and that’s attack it, get after it, give it 100 percent and never want to look back and say i wish i would’ve done that.” 
ryan believes the Jets have the perfect quarterback situ­ation, not a potentially explo­sive one in large part because of Tebow’s athletic ability. 
“he’s not a guy that says, ‘i’m not going to do this. i only want to do this,’” ryan said. “if you said, ‘i need you to line up and play defensive tackle,’ Tim would say, ‘no problem. Tell me where to line up. let’s go.’” 
MLB 

Red Sox fire Bobby Valentine 
Associated Press 

bosTon  — The boston red sox thought bobby valentine would restore order to a cod­dled clubhouse that disinte­grated during the 2011 pennant race. 
instead, he only caused more problems. 
The brash and supremely confident manager was fired on Thursday, the day after the finale of a season beset with in­ternal sniping and far too many losses. valentine went 69-93 in his only year in boston, the ballclub’s worst in almost 50 years. 
“i understand this decision,” valentine said in a statement released by the team. “This year in boston has been an in­credible experience for me, but i am as disappointed in the re­sults as are ownership and the great fans of red sox nation. ... i’m sure next year will be a turnaround year.” 
a baseball savant who won the nl pennant with the new york mets and won it all in Japan, valentine was brought in after two-time world series champion Terry Francona lost control of the clubhouse during an unprecedented september collapse. 
but the players who took ad­vantage of Francona’s hands-off approach to gorge on fried chicken and beer during games bristled at valentine’s abrasive style. 
more importantly, they didn’t win for him, either. 
“we felt it was the right de­cision for that team at that time,” general manager ben cherington said on Thursday in an interview at Fenway park. “it hasn’t worked out, because the season has been a great disap­pointment. That’s not on bobby valentine; that’s on all of us. we felt that in order to move for­ward and have a fresh start, we need to start anew in the man­ager’s office.” 
under valentine, the red sox started 4-10 and didn’t break .500 until after memorial day. 
by august, when the contend­ers were setting their playoff roster, the red sox knew they would not be among them and traded several of their best players — and biggest salaries 
— to the los angeles dodgers. 
without adrian gonzalez, carl crawford and Josh beckett, the red sox will save $250 mil­lion in future salaries and have a chance to rebuild over the winter. 
but that will be too late for valentine. 
“we have gratitude for him, respect for him and affection for him, and we’re not going to get into what his inabilities were, what his issues were,” red sox president larry lucchino said. “i just don’t think it’s fair.” 
cherington, who replaced Theo epstein last offseason, will lead the search for a new manager. The team’s top target is current Toronto manager and former red sox pitching coach John Farrell, who has a year left on his deal with the blue Jays. 
cherington said he has thought about potential suc­cessors but declined to com­ment on specific individuals. he said he is looking for some­one “who can establish a cul­ture in the clubhouse that allows players to perform, and sets a standard.” 
“and we need to find a per­son that can bring some stabil­ity to that office,” cherington said. “when we hired bobby, the roster was fairly mature and we felt, mistakenly, in ret­rospect, that we had a chance to win and the team was ready to win. we’re now at a different point. we’re trying to build the next good red sox team, so it’s a little bit different.” 
a year after a 7-20 september cost the red sox a chance at the postseason, the club went 7-22 in september and october to close its worst season since 1965. boston lost its last eight games, failing even in its role of spoiler as it was swept down the stretch by playoff contenders Tampa bay, baltimore and the rival new york yankees. 

paid adverTisemenT 



MEN’S TENNIS 

Andrews reaches second round before loss 
By MEGAN FINNERAN 
sports writer 
The weekend opened with a strong start by junior greg andrews, who advanced to the second round of play in the intercollegiate Tennis association’s all-american championships. 
andrews was among 48 auto­matic qualifiers and was joined by 16 players selected through qualifying rounds earlier in the week. competition began in Tulsa, okla., on Thursday morning and will continue into the weekend. 
“I’d say Michigan will be one of the tougher teams this weekend.” 
Ryan Bandy 
junior 
no. 24 andrews faced no. 29 clay Thompson of ucla in the first round of play. andrews took the match 6-0, 6-4, 


Kangaroos 
conTinued From page 18 
defense. 
on the other side, keough sophomore captain charlie magiera said he is excited about the kangaroos’ impressive start and wants to atone for last year’s loss to o’neill. 
“we’ve been having a very promising season so far, which makes us look forward to it even more, especially since they beat us last year,” magiera said. “it was a very bitter loss, and we’re looking to avenge it.” 
advancing to the next round. in round two, he met no. 9 raymond sarmiento of usc. sarmiento took the victory 6-3, 6-4, knocking andrews out of the tournament. 
andrews earned the most outstanding player title at the oFcc invitational three weeks ago in olympia Fields, ill. 
while notre dame’s par­ticipation in oklahoma may be over, the rest of the team is set to compete at home in the Tom Fallon invitational. This tournament honors notre dame’s coach from 1957-1987 and marks the first home se­ries of the season. michigan, alabama, michigan state and northern illinois will join the irish to compete at the courtney Tennis center and the eck Tennis pavilion. 
“i’d say michigan will be one of the tougher teams this weekend,” junior ryan bandy said of the competition. 
This also marks the first time the whole squad will compete together in the united states after its opening match in ireland and split tournaments 

Freshman center Jason hofmeister was not around for last year’s loss, but the kangaroos have nonetheless re­lied on his dominant presence this season. 
“Jason is the anchor of the line,” magiera said. “he has the experience necessary to get our line together, so we’re hoping for a big game from him.” 
o’neill and keough will clash sunday at 3:30 p.m. at riehle Fields at stepan. 
Contact Samantha Zuba at szuba@nd.edu 
paid adverTisemenT 

three weeks ago. 
“we are looking forward to hosting a tournament and will enjoy the home field advan­tage, as we practice every day on these courts,” bandy said. 
during the last few weeks, the irish have focused on vari­ous areas to enhance their play. 
“The past two weeks have 
Babes 
conTinued From page 19 
this is kelly’s first year as quar­terback. The senior said she sees definite progression in her receivers and views this game as another chance to get better. 
kelly also said to look out for junior linebacker meaghan ayers. 
“[ayers] is one of the quick­est players on our team,” kelly said. 
breen-phillips and cavanaugh kick off sunday at 6 
p.m. at labar Fields. 
Contact Alex Stembaugh at         astembau@nd.edu 
Pasquerilla West vs. Breen-Phillips 
By RICH HIDY 
sports writer 
in a make-up game that was postponed due to rain dur­ing the first week of the sea­son, pasquerilla west takes on breen-phillips on Tuesday. 
coming off a 12-0 win over cavanaugh on sunday, the purple weasels (3-0) are look­ing to stay undefeated against the babes (1-2). senior captain and defensive lineman meghan schmitt said pasquerilla west will look to improve on offense. 
“we have a very strong team and hopefully we can get our routes down on offense,” schmitt said. 
schmitt also said the purple weasels have been using their youth as an edge over opponents. 
“we have a lot of athletic freshmen that can pick up included more practice match­es and a strong focus on dou­bles,” bandy said. 

on top of andrews’ most outstanding player award, the irish also carry three all-tournament team members into the weekend from their last round of play. senior blas moros was named to the all-tournament team at the oFcc 
the game tempo really fast,” schmitt said. 
sophomore quarterback lauren vidal figures to be a key player for the purple weasels on offense. she will be throw­ing to talented senior receiver alice yerokun. 
pasquerilla west’s defense is also strong as a unit, as evi­denced by the shutout against cavanaugh. 
breen-phillips, meanwhile, is coming off its first win in three years, a 20-18 win over lyons on Tuesday. The babes will hope to carry over that momentum against the purple weasels, ju­nior captain and quarterback molly Toner said. 
“we have been practicing re­ally hard and i think we have a good shot of winning,” Toner said. “[pasquerilla west is] a great team but we are hoping we can compete.” 
pasquerilla west squares off against breen-phillips on Tuesday at 7 p.m. at the Flag Football Fields at stepan. 
Contact Rich Hidy at                rhidy@nd.edu 
 Welsh Family vs. McGlinn 
By D.H. KIM 
sports writer 

west Quad rivals mcglinn and welsh Family will look to solidify their playoff chances when they square off sunday. 
mcglinn (3-1) played a com­plete game against ryan on sept. 24, silencing ryan’s of­fense en route to a 19-7 vic­tory. shamrock senior captain and quarterback emily golden proved to be a dual threat against the wildcats, as she invitational, while freshmen nicolas montoya and ken sabacinski led notre dame at the vredevelt invitational. 
The Tom Fallon invitational will open Friday afternoon at 3:30 p.m. and continue through sunday. 
Contact Megan Finneran at mfinnera@nd.edu 
rushed for two touchdowns and threw another to sophomore receiver emma collis. 
The defense, led by senior cornerback ally scalo, put to­gether a team effort to shut 
down  ryan’s  high-scoring  
offense.  
golden  said  it  was  an  

all-around effort from the shamrocks. 
“our offense was better, but we have a huge defense this year,” golden said. “and our receivers are connecting a little bit better so we have greater team effort.”  
welsh Family (4-1) defeat­ed Farley 27-7 on monday and pasquerilla east 19-6 on sunday. The whirlwinds’ only loss came against ryan on sept. 
23. welsh Family senior cap­tain and quarterback victoria moreno threw touchdown passes to sophomore receiver natalie branch and senior re­ceiver kirsten groody against the Finest. 
The defense also showed tenacity as senior linebacker lynn Tasker had a crucial red zone interception. moreno said welsh Family will look to con­tinue its success by sticking to the game plan. 
“we are not adjusting our strategy for mcglinn,” moreno said. “we look forward to play­ing mcglinn. “This is a rivalry for us and we consider mcglinn as one of the primary teams on our schedule.” 
The shamrocks and whirlwinds will clash on sunday at 4 p.m. at labar Fields. 
Contact D.H. Kim at         dkim16@nd.edu 


The observer | FRIDAY, OCTOBER 5, 2012 | ndsmcobserver.com 

MEN’S INTERHALL 

Sorin takes on Green Wave without senior QB 
Knights and Griffins prepare for rivalry battle; Zahmbies and Gentlemen vie for first season win 
rest of the offensive line will be The manor have scored just 
By LESLEY STEVENSON 

sports writer called upon sunday to protect se-one touchdown all season. 
nior quarterback ed stivers from morrissey’s real concern, how-
Faced with the possibility of a fierce keenan defense. ever, is consistency on defense, playing without senior quarter-The knights (2-0) have beaten as it allowed just three points back Ted spinelli, sorin looks to their first two opponents with to duncan in its first game but preserve its winningtwo-game ruthless efficiency, led by a pass-gave up 20 points to siegfried a win streak sunday when it battles ing attack orchestrated by senior week later. manor senior captain Fisher in a matchup of undefeat-captain and quarterback andrew Taylor stein said he is confident ed teams. mcdonough. mcdonough said the defense will be ready to play 
otters senior captain ryan he believes this year’s keenan sunday. robinson said spinelli suf-team could be a special one. “we were missing some key fered a neck injury in last week’s “if we can do this all year, i guys to injury and that left some game against carroll, and con-see no reason why we shouldn’t holes up the middle,” stein said. cerns over his caT scan results be in [notre dame] stadium,” “i’m not too concerned about our have made his status for sunday mcdonough said after the defense. we think it’ll be able to questionable. knights’ week two win over stand up to anything the offense 
“everything looks very opti-o’neill. throws at it.” mistic, but he’s still in the hos-babiak said he knows Junior middle linebacker mike pital and it’s unclear whether or stanford’s defense will have to be smoljan will return for The not he’ll be able to play this week-sharp to contain mcdonough, a manor, joining a talented line-end,” robinson said. “so, we’ll dual -threat under center. babiak backing corps that include fresh-have to factor that into our game said, however, he does not need men erik rayno, sophomore Zac plan.” to try and play the underdog card plantz and junior nick conrad. 
as the backup quarterback, to motivate his team, as he be-as for the question of play­robinson may be relied upon to lieves the griffins need no extra offs, stein said he is confident push the otters (2-0) to adapt to motivation for sunday’s game. morrissey can play deep into gentlemen have had much time want to make it to the playoffs,” new lineup changes and help the “This game has a lot of im-november. to regroup and prepare for Zahm, sophomore running back Jose team in its attempt to secure a portance for us, and we’re going “we’ve got the talent and the rodriguez said. linardi said. “we’re just trying to spot in the playoffs. to get pretty pumped up for it,” team to make a playoff run,” stein “we’re hoping to run the op-keep that momentum from the 
“with the injuries, differ-babiak said. “our plan is just to said. “we can win playoff games, tion and go with that,” rodriguez last two wins.” ent people are going to step up go out there and take back the no question.” said. “our defense is talented, The ramblers’ hopes rely on and play different positions,” chapel.” knott and morrissey will battle and we hope to keep that up.” their explosive offense, highlight­robinson said. “we’re pretty con-This year’s battle of the chapel sunday at 2:15 pm at riehle Fields The Zahmbies and gentlemen ed by freshman receiver spencer fident we can make it all work.” will go down at 3:30 p.m. sunday at stepan. will square off sunday at 1 p.m. at Judd. Judd’s 50-yard touchdown 
Fisher (2-0) boasts an unde-when stanford and keenan meet riehle Fields at stepan. grab capped off the team’s victory feated record after a shutout of st. at riehle Fields at stepan. Contact Alex Wilcox at against morrissey last weekend. edward’s in week two and a win awilcox1@nd.edu Contact Kit Loughran at “we’re just going to be aggres­by forfeit over Zahm last week-Contact Casey Karnes at kloughr1@nd.edu sive and attack as much as pos­end. The green wave’s offense wkarnes@nd.edu Zahm vs. St. Edward’s sible early in the game,” linardi struggled in their only outing, Siegfried vs. Duncan said of siegfried’s game plan. 
By KIT LOUGHRAN but their stout defense ensured Knott vs. Morrissey sports writer By MARY GREEN The proven ramblers and the 
the team emerged unscathed. new-look highlanders will com-
By ALEX WILCOX sports writer “The defense did really well,” sports writer in a matchup of two win-pete sunday at 1 p.m. at riehle senior Fisher captain matt hart less and scorelessoffensively duncan will put its revamped Fields at stepan. said. “we’re going to keep that up after ugly losses by both teams, struggling teams, Zahm and offense up against a battle-tested 
Contact Mary Green at 

as we move into the second half morrissey and knott head into st. edward’s face off sunday, as siegfried squad looking toward 
mgreen8@nd.edu 

of the season.” sunday’s matchup with one thing each team looks to clinch its first the championship when the two 
The otters and the green wave on their minds: the playoffs. victory. teams meet sunday afternoon. O’Neill vs. Keough will fight to maintain perfect re-The matchup between The Zahm (0-3) and st. edward’s (0-after two losses to open the 
By SAMANTHA ZUBA 

cords when they meet on sunday manor (1-1) and the Juggerknotts 2) are the only two teams in the season, the highlanders (0-2) sports writer at 2:15 p.m. at riehle Fields at (1-1) promises to be one of the league that have not scored an of-used their bye weekend to switch stepan.  at stepan. biggest of the season, as the win-fensive point, this season. from a run-based offense to a in a battle of west Quad ri­
ner greatly improves its chances with the struggles of the teams, passing attack featuring two vals, o’neill will seek its first win Contact Lesley Stevenson at for a playoff run. each team’s thirst to finally se-sophomore quarterbacks at the sunday when it faces an  unde­lsteven1@nd.edu “This game is huge,” knott se-cure a win has fostered a strong helm. sophomores matt garcia feated keough squad. 
nior captain Joe beglane said. “it rivalry between the Zahmbies and pete mcginley will split time Junior captain and running Stanford vs. Keenan could mean getting in the play-and the gentlemen as the teams under center in an effort to hope-back eric reed said the mob (0-2) 
offs or not.” prepare for sunday. fully spark the team’s playoff eagerly anticipate the challenge 
By CASEY KARNES 

sports writer in order for knott to be suc-“it’s a huge rivalry game,” st. push, junior linebacker and cap-of facing the kangaroos (2-0). 
cessful sunday, its offense must edward’s junior captain and tain gerrit hobson said. “it’s one of the games we look 
stanford and keenan will improve. quarterback paul rodriguez said. “we’re going to look to the de-forward to each year, and one meet in this year’s installment offensively, the Juggerknotts “we’re definitely enthusiastic.” fense to hold strong and run the of the games we definitely want of the “battle for the chapel” on have failed to live up to their despite a forfeit to Fisher on offense the way they’ve been to win,” reed said. “we’ve seen sunday, as stanford hopes to name, as they have scored just 13 sunday, the Zahmbies are still practicing with the new quarter-them play a little bit, and they steal back the rivalry’s bragging points this season. beglane has confident and in good spirits, backs and plays,” hobson said. seem like a good team, so we rights. scored his team’s onlylone two senior captain and quarterback “we hope to find success with the need to practice well and step 
stanford (1-2) comes in off its touchdowns, a statistic he hopes alex bowman said. more diverse playbook.” up.” first victory of the season, a 14-7 to see changed. “despite our losses and set-The team anticipates challeng-reed admitted that the mob’s win over o’neill, and looks to “we need more variety,” backs, the morale on the team is ing competition in its final two 0-2 start is disappointing but said build a winning streak by beating beglane said. “we’ve only had a always very high,” bowman said. games, but hobson said he be-he thinks his team is on the brink its main rival. limited number of successful run “it’s an inherent quality of our lieves the highlanders are ready of turning things around. 
“we stuck to our game plan plays.” team.” for any upcoming tests. “we didn’t start as well as we that we’ve been doing all year, knott believes the return of se-with his team excited to play, “we’re playing siegfried and would like, but we’ve shown which was to be really physical, nior guard michael gardella will bowman said Zahm will focus on knott, so both games will be some improvement and are look-and it finally worked for us,” se-help change that. executing its game strategies. tough, but i’m confident in our ing forward to our first win,” he nior captain and linebacker paul “[gardella is] one of our best “we’re working on team cohe-team and its ability to play well,” said. babiak said of the victory over players,” beglane said. “[Junior sion and team building on both hobson said. o’neill will look for major o’neill. guard] James mccaffrey did a sides of the ball,” bowman said. on the other sideline, siegfried contributions from reed and ju­
babiak praised an offensive great job filling in, but it’s good to “we want to move the ball for-(2-1) aims to carry its energy from nior running back Jon savakus line led by senior Joe gadient, have him back at guard.” ward and keep st. edward’s from wins over alumni and morrissey in order to challenge keough’s referring to gadient as one of the morrissey (1-1) has also dealt scoring.” into sunday’s matchup. team’s anchors. gadient and the with struggles on offense, as with a bye last week, the “we can’t afford to lose if we see kangaroos PAGE 17 



WOMEN’S INTERHALL 

Wild Women battle Lyons for playoff spot 
Undefeated Weasels take on rival Ducks; Cavanaugh looks for revenge after first season loss 


paid adverTisemenT 

beating howard is also an­other step in their drive for the championship. schmitt said pasquerilla west is working on some new offensive plays that it will debut against the ducks and hopefully use in the postseason. 
defensively, the purple weasels will look to limit the ducks to short gains on first down. 
pasquerilla west and howard continue their rivalry sunday at labar Fields at 6 p.m. 
Contact Greg Hadley at            ghadley@nd.edu 
Pasquerilla East vs. Farley 
By KYLE FOLEY 
sports writer 
pasquerilla east squares off against Farley on sunday with both teams desperate to get their first win of the season and keep their playoff hopes alive. 
although the pyros (0-3­
1) dropped their last game to pangborn, senior captain anna perino said she is optimistic about the pyros’ future. 
“our defense is going to keep working to tighten up and our offense has to work on finding a way to get into the end zone,” perino said. “we move well up the field. we just can’t score.” 
perino said the pyros have especially appreciated the ad­dition of sophomore receiver and irish varsity fencer nicole ameli. 
“[ameli] transferred into pasquerilla east this year and she’s a fencer.” perino said. “despite being new to the team and being a [varsity] athlete, she has fit right in. she’s been incredible on offense and we definitely love having her.” 
much like pasquerilla east, the Finest (0-4) have begun to step it up in practice and be­lieve this is their week, senior captain courtney currier said. 
“Farley football has had a bit of a slow start this year, but we’ve started to pick up the pace,” currier said. “we feel good about this one.” 
sunday’s matchup will keep the playoff hopes alive for one team and, most likely, elimi­nate the dream for the other. given the implications, both teams are focused on their in­dividual performances. 
“From Farley, we expect a good game,” perino said. “we don’t worry too much about the other teams. we just know what we need to work on.” 
pasquerilla east takes on Farley on sunday at 5 p.m. at labar Fields in a must-win game for both teams. 
Ryan vs. Lewis 
sunday’s matchup between ryan and lewis is one that could put the wildcats back on track with a win or give the chicks momentum in their quest to make the playoffs. 

coming off a disappoint­ing 8-7 loss to pangborn on sunday, the wildcats (2-2) are back at .500 for the season. looking back to last year when the wildcats went undefeated in the regular season, senior captain and quarterback maya pillai sees hope in the future despite the losses. 
“we are disappointed with our record so far,” pillai said. “however, our losses have been close, and we are confident go­ing forward that we will not only make the playoffs, but also make a good run in the playoffs.” 
The chicks (1-2-1), who got their first victory on sunday against Farley, are confident they have finally achieved a solid rhythm, senior captain and quarterback connaught blood said. 
“i feel that we got off to a lit­tle bit of a slow start and didn’t quite have a feel for the game speed, but in past weeks we’ve been making some really great strides,” blood said. 
blood also said she expects to face a strong ryan offense, but she believes the lewis defense will be up to the task. 
“i expect an explosive of­fense from ryan, based on what they’ve done in the past,” blood said. “i don’t think it will be anything our defense can’t handle though.” 
as the season dwindles down, both teams are fighting for a spot in the postseason, and blood said she is aware of that and what it will do to the game atmosphere. 
“They are competing for a playoff spot just like us, so i think it will be a very intense game,” blood said. 
ryan and lewis collide sunday at 4 p.m. at labar Fields in a game that could mark the end to playoff aspirations for 
By GREG HADLEY 
sports writer 
walsh and lyons still harbor hopes for the playoffs, but time is running out and both teams know the loser of sunday’s matchup could be left on the outside looking in. 
walsh (3-2) is in the better position of the two, coming off a 7-6 victory over badin. however, senior safety lauren dunn cautioned that the wild women cannot relax coming down the stretch. 
“we can always improve,” dunn said. “we need a bal­anced attack to keep winning.” 
walsh’s strength all year has been its defense. dunn said se­nior linebacker molly byrne has been one of a few players who has been key on defense. byrne helped force multiple turnovers against badin. 
on offense, junior receiver mary kelly had a breakout game against badin, scoring the game-winning extra point. dunn said she expects kelly to have even more success against lyons. 
The lyonites (1-3), mean­while, face the daunting task of needing to win all of their remaining games to make the playoffs. lyons narrowly lost to breen-phillips on Tuesday by the score of 20-18, leaving it with a lot of ground to make up against the rest of its division. 
“we’ll take it one game at a time, but we still know that we do need to win everything now,” junior captain and safety christina bramanti said. 
against walsh, the lyonites hope to toss longer passes on paid adverTisemenT 
offense and improve their flag pulling on defense, bramanti said. in particular, freshman receiver mary susan kaetzer, who caught a long pass against breen-phillips, will be called on to get open downfield, bramanti said. 
walsh and lyons will square off sunday at labar Fields at 5 p.m. 
Howard  vs.  Pasquerilla West 
as the regular season draws to a close and the playoffs ap­proach, pasquerilla west and howard are set to renew their fierce rivalry sunday with each side looking for a definitive win to gain traction heading into the postseason. 
howard (1-3) has struggled to this point, with numerous play­ers, including junior quarter­back clare robinson, sidelined due to injury. 
but howard coach and graduate student dan scheper said this week’s game against pasquerilla west (3-0) means much more than any other, because the ducks have beat­en the purple weasels for the championship in two of the past three years. 
“They’ve always been a tough opponent,” scheper said. “we always have a good game with them.” 
because of the injuries, scheper said howard will look to bolster its running game to take the pressure off robinson. in addition, scheper said the ducks will need production from their freshmen, including cornerback bridget doyle and receiver maria ianni. 
pasquerilla west enters sunday’s matchup undefeated and determined to erase sev­eral years of bad memories against howard. 
“my freshman and sopho­more years, we lost to [the ducks] in [notre dame stadium] for the champion­ship,” senior captain and line­man meghan schmitt said. “we’re not going to worry about the past though.” 
For the purple weasels, 
one of the squads. 
Contact Kyle Foley at                     kfoley2@nd.edu 
Breen-Phillips vs. Cavanaugh 
By ALEX STEMBAUGH 
sports writer 
Though they go into the game with different mindsets, breen­phillps and cavanaugh are set to square off sunday in a show­
down  between  north  Quad  
rivals.  
breen-phillips  (1-2)  beat  

lyons on Tuesday for its first win in three years. 
“we played really consistent­ly,” junior captain and quarter­back molly Toner said. “There weren’t a lot of big plays, but a lot of small plays in a row that added up.” 
defensively, Toner said the babes are looking to improve the secondary and do a better job defending the pass. 
with improvement on de­fense, the babes hope to put together a winning streak and have a strong showing with a total team effort against cavanaugh, Toner said. 
“we are just really excited following the win,” Toner said. “we have a lot of positive en­ergy and we want to keep it up.” 
on the other hand, cavanaugh (3-1) looks to bounce back after its first loss of the season to pasquerilla west. 
“we had really geared up for that game, so the loss was hard to take,” senior captain rosemary kelly said. 
in order to get back on track, kelly said cavanaugh needs to improve its offense. 
“we want to focus on the strength of our offense, work­ing to move the ball around, and our defense will be solid,” kelly said. 
after three years at safety, 
see babes PAGE 17 


The observer | FRIDAY, OCTOBER 5, 2012 | ndsmcobserver.com 

ND VOLLEYBALL 

Conference competition comes to campus 
the irish, but st. John’s (16-3, 
By JOE WIRTH 

sports writer 3-0) is a talented team and a definite contender. as league play heats up, the “probably the biggest chal­irish will face two important lenge [st. John’s] brings to the 
conference home matches this weekend as they take on uconn and st. John’s. both games will present a tremendous chal­lenge for the irish (10-6, 3-1 big east), who are coming off of a weekend split of syracuse and marquette. 
The huskies (11-7, 3-1) have two of the best outside hit­ters in the big east with senior 
“Probably the biggest challenge [St. John’s] brings to the table is that they have a lot of new players..” 
Debbie Brown 
Irish coach 

mattison Quayle and sopho-table is that they have a lot more devon maugle. Quayle of new players,” brown said. and maugle have recorded a “They have many interna­
“They have many international players 
who have a lot of experience, but we have 
not seen much of them. Of course, we are 
looking at tape, but we will have to rely on 
in-game adjustment.” coach brown referenced in-team with 205 kills ans 3.20 to sleep in their own beds and 
clude karin palgutova, who is a kills per set. brown said it helps there is an extra level of com-
Debbie Brown 

freshman and is second on the to have a home-court advan-fort and confidence when we 
Irish coach 

team with 187 kills, and milica tage anytime you play tough play at home.” 
krstojevice, a senior in her first competition. The irish will take on the large portion of the kills for the tional players who have a lot year with the red storm after “our players love playing at huskies on saturday at the huskies. Quayle has the most of experience, but we have not stints at Florida state college at home,” brown said. “we do not purcell pavilion at 2 p.m. and kills with 186, but maugle leads seen much of them. of course, Jacksonville and oregon. have to put up with the hassle play the red storn sunday at 2 the team in kills per set with we are looking at tape, but we The red storm player the of traveling and we get an ex-p.m. at the purcell pavilion. 
3.39. will have to rely on in-game irish will be most concerned tra practice day we would not 
irish coach debbie brown adjustments.” about is sophomore alexsandra normally get if we were play-Contact Joe Wirth at              said both teams will challenge some of the new players wachowicz, who leads the ing on the road. The players get jwirth@nd.edu 

MEN’S GOLF 

Home tournament provides advantages 
By CORY BERNARD 
sports writer 
after opening their season with tournaments in chapel hill, n.c., and new haven, conn., the irish will not have to travel far for their next event. 
The annual Fighting irish gridiron golf classic tees off sunday at the warren golf 
“We’re excited about this weekend; it’s good to be home.” 
Jim Kubinski 
Irish coach 
course on the north edge of notre dame’s campus. irish coach Jim kubinski said his team is looking forward to playing on a familiar course with a friendly crowd. 
“we’re excited about this weekend; it’s good to be home,” kubinski said. “This is the type of course where home-course knowledge helps. we also get support with so many students com­ing over who are friends of our guys and obviously fam­ily members and then people at the golf course they know. i think the knowledge is a big part of it, though.” 
last year, the irish finished fifth in their home tour­nament, with the houston claiming a share of the top spot. according to kubinski, the field, which includes the cougars again, will challenge his team. 
“i would guess that the three big Ten schools – michigan, michigan state and minnesota – will be good,” kubinski said. “and i know from the last two ncaa tour­naments san Francisco and north carolina-wilmington are ncaa-type teams. The one obvious challenger is the co-defending champs in the university of houston. They have a lot of guys back from last year. They were young last year, and i think they’re pretty good too.” 
because the irish won’t have to travel, they will be able to insert a few members of the team to compete as individuals whose efforts do not count toward the team score. kubinski said entering additional competitors in the gridiron golf classic, as well as the individuals-only earl yestingsmeier invitational at ball state on oct. 15, will al­low his inexperienced golfers to continue to improve. 
“playing individuals in this tournament is huge,” he said. “we’ve been trying to break in three new starters this year, but the guys on the bench haven’t played either so this is a great experience for them. actually we got an­other one for some individu­
“Playing individuals in this tournament is huge.” 
Jim Kubinski 
Irish coach 
als at ball state here in about a week and a half so the next couple weeks will be huge for those guys who haven’t been in the starting lineup.” 
notre dame’s starting five will be nearly identical to the one kubinski used at the macdonald cup in new haven, conn., on sept. 29 and 30, with one exception. Freshman cory sciupider will be making his first start for the irish, replacing sopho­more peyton vitter, who will compete as an individual. 
action begins sunday morning at the warren golf course and concludes Tuesday. 
Contact Cory Bernard at cbernard@nd.edu 


paid adverTisemenT 



Clark 
conTinued From page 24 
games we can have, the better. but every game is important.” 
The irish have been trudg­ing through a recent gauntlet of such important games. notre dame opened the big east sea­son with a 2-1 loss at louisville on sept. 22 before defeating then-no. 10 indiana 1-0 in bloomington four days later. on saturday, the irish lost to no. 2 connecticut 2-1 on the road. clark said the recent string of games is a microcosm of a sea­son that has consisted of one difficult match after another. 
“we’ve had [no. 7] akron and oregon state, who was on a tear,” clark said. “we had clemson and [then-no. 21] duke. i look for the hardest games. i’m a great believer in playing the best games we can find. 
“That’s what we always look for, because it tests your team and at the end of the day i don’t think you get a lot out of beat-good team. i know that. That’s the one thing. and brian will have them prepared, and it will be a big game for brian obvious­ly coming back to notre dame where he was a great coach here for five years.” 
wiese served as an assistant to clark from 1996 to 2005. They spent those first five seasons at stanford before moving to notre dame. clark also coached wiese at dartmouth college, where wiese was the team mvp in 1993. 
since taking over the hoya helm in 2006, wiese has helped turn around a georgetown pro­gram that had missed out on the five previous big east tour­naments. in 2010, wiese led the hoyas to the second round of the ncaa tournament and his coaching staff was named the big east coaching staff of the year. 
clark said he feels like a proud father facing off against wiese. 
“it’s like when i go up against [washington coach and former 

“We take one game at a time and I think [against Pittsburgh] we gave them full respect and attention. Now we’ve got to do exactly the same against Georgetown.” 

Bobby Clark Irish coach 
ing weaker teams by big scores. i think you learn much more when you’re playing against good opposition.” 
The hoyas fulfill the crite­ria of a challenging opponent. georgetown ripped off an 11­game unbeaten streak, includ­ing 10 wins, to begin the season and ascended to third in the nation. clark even went so far as to say this might be the best georgetown team ever. 
yet the hoyas suffered their first blemish of the sea­son wednesday against connecticut. The huskies scored the first two goals of the game and never looked back en route to a 2-1 victory. despite the loss, clark said he knows the hoyas will be prepared come saturday, given the leadership of georgetown coach and for­mer irish associate head coach brian wiese. 
“This is going to be a hard game,” clark said. “They’re a 


Jackson 
conTinued From page 24 
“i remember last year, and every time we played a col­lege it was our absolute best game,” dipauli said. “we went all out against colleges just to prove a point and upset them. i know they’re going to come out flying, especially because they have a few guys commit­ted here. They’re going to be throwing the body and skating hard, so we’ll have to match their intensity. it’s going to be a good game.” 
while the final outcome of the exhibition may not mat­ter in notre dame’s quest to return to the Frozen Four, irish assistant] Jamie [clark], my own son,” clark said. “There’s a great feeling of pride that somebody who has come through our system is doing so well.” 
despite the nostalgia sur­rounding the game, clark will be looking to knock off his former protégé and build off wednesday’s win. 
“we were in top form [against pittsburgh] but saturday is an­other day, so we’ve got to make sure we come out prepared for that game,” clark said. “we take one game at a time and i think [against pittsburgh] we gave them full respect and attention. now we’ve got to do exactly the same against georgetown.” 
notre dame squares off with georgetown in a big east battle saturday at 2 p.m. at alumni stadium. 
Contact Mike Monaco at jmonaco@nd.edu 
Jackson believes that his team’s performance in these early games will be a cru­cial indicator of this season’s potential. 
“you know right away what the chemistry of your team is,” Jackson said. “you know right within the first two or three days. within those first three games…we’ll probably have a pretty good indication of guys who are in the right frame of mind to have a great season.” 
The irish will drop the puck on their 2012 campaign at 
5:05 p.m. sunday night in the compton Family ice arena. 
Contact Jack Hefferon at wheffero@nd.edu 
Voigt 
conTinued From page 24 

she’s really seized the moment when she’s had opportunities.” 
notre dame will look for continued success on the de­fensive side of the pitch when it welcomes a pair of new Jersey teams at a critical juncture in the conference season. 
The irish will first meet a slumping seton hall team Friday night. The pirates (6­8, 1-5) have dropped their last four games, scoring only one goal over that stretch. although the irish hold a 14-game win­ning streak against seton hall, waldrum said he sees the pirates as a team with enough talent to compete with any con­ference opponent. 
“although seton hall has struggled compared to past years, they are still composed of basically the same players, and they have just enough people in the right positions to cause problems,” he said. “They are fully capable of knocking us off, and we have to be careful.” 
Friday night’s contest will also hold some sentimental value for the irish, as it is the team’s annual senior night. before the game, the irish will honor their two departing se­niors, walk-on midfielder nicole borner and tri-captain defender Jazmin hall.  waldrum said he has been impressed with hall’s leadership ability and cited it as her main mark over her time at notre dame. 
“Jazmin is an example of one of those players who came in and didn’t play a whole lot but continued to get better and better,” waldrum said. “she’s really grown in all the off-the field stuff, and the team has re­ally gravitated toward her. she’s the perfect story you can tell re­cruits about, and i think that’s the legacy she’s going to leave.” 
notre dame will close its weekend with a tough test against rutgers (8-6, 1-t), a team that has also struggled in conference. The irish are un­beaten in their last 12 matches against rutgers, although the two teams played to a score­less draw last season. redshirt Junior forward Jonelle Filigno, a member of the canadian na­tional team who has scored nine of rutgers’ 16 goals on the season, leads this year’s scarlet knights team. waldrum said he 
paid adverTisemenT 
expects sunday’s game to be a very close one, as it represents the team’s last test before a date with no. 11 georgetown on oct. 12. 
“although we’ve had suc­cess against rutgers, our games with them are always close,” waldrum said. “it will be one of those games where you don’t want to be the team to make a mistake. if we want to win the conference, we need to win these two games and set up a meaningful game against georgetown next week.” 
notre dame will face seton hall tonight at 7:30 p.m. at alumni stadium and battle rutgers on sunday at 1 p.m. at alumni stadium. 
Contact Brian Hartnett at bhartnet@nd.edu 



CROSSWORD | will shorTZ 


HIGHLY PUNLIKELY | chrisTopher brucker 
SUDOKU | The mepham group 


LOWER YOUR EXPECTATIONS |  lenny rago &        paTrick cross 

HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: rachael leigh cook, 33; alicia silverstone, 36; christoph waltz, 56; susan sarandon, 66. 
Happy Birthday: Take a look at your financial, contractual, legal and medical situa­tions this year. you must strive to ensure that you have everything in order to ease your mind and prepare for upcoming changes that you will want to explore. preparation will be key to getting what you want in a timely manner. your numbers are 1, 6, 11, 21, 29, 32, 43. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): reassess your work before moving forward. you must leave no room for error. discuss your plans for the future with someone influential or knowledgeable regarding future trends. personal change must be made for the right reason. check your motives. 

TAURUS (April 20-May 20): a partnership may make your job difficult if you cannot agree. don’t argue when it may be time to go your separate ways -- at least where money or business concerns come into play. love is highlighted, but romantically, your vision may be clouded. 


GEMINI (May 21-June 20): don’t show your vulnerability. uncertainty will be a mark against you when it comes to your position or personal status. Focus on knowledge and exploring new possibilities that will help you advance and improve your lifestyle.. 


CANCER (June 21-July 22): don’t overspend, overdo or overexaggerate to impress someone who interests you. you will be appreciated for your good qualities if you present exactly who you are, what you believe in and what your goals are for the future. 


LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): choose your words carefully. it’s better to be silent than to have regrets. you will fall behind if you are too busy debating senseless topics. let discipline lead to victory. stay busy doing what’s important and you will discover a brighter future. 


VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Tie up loose ends and address pending problems. love is in the stars, but being honest about the way you feel and what you want will be necessary if you want to reach your personal goals. home improvement will pay off.  


LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): make alterations at home that will allow you greater freedom to expand an interest. investigate an idea you have, and elaborate on a plan that will help you achieve a goal. Take precautions if you are doing something that requires physical exertion. 


SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): reassess your personal and professional positions, and decide what you can do to regain a loss you incurred or to add to a service you already offer. be honest regarding the possibilities, or you may find it difficult to reach your goals.  


SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): offer assistance and you will impress someone you want to work alongside. an interest in someone may run deeper than you are admitting. consider the changes you must make at home or personally before you can follow your dreams. 


CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): don’t push your will on others. you are likely to meet with aggressive reactions. learn from past mistakes and bide your time until you are certain you are doing the right thing. don’t let love cost you emotionally or financially. 


AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): check out your options. a chance to secure your position or to make extra cash is apparent. making changes at home that add to your comfort and happiness will also enhance a relationship that is important to you. 


PISCES (Feb. 19- March 20): Find an outlet or a place to show your attributes. getting involved in social activities that put you in the limelight will help raise your profile, but might cause some problems with someone feeling threatened. 


Birthday Baby: you are quick to learn and to take action. you are an adventurer. prepared. 
JUMBLE | david hoyT and JeFF knurek 


Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
make checks payable to and mail to: enclosed is $130 for one academic year enclosed is $75 for one semester  The observer p.o. box 779 notre dame, in 46556  
name address city       state  Zip  


The observer | FRIDAY, OCTOBER 5, 2012 | ndsmcobserver.com 
HOCKEY 

Opening opportunities 
Irish coach Jeff Jackson believes exhibition game will provide positive outlook for season 

By JACK HEFFERON 
sports writer 

no. 10 notre dame will play an exhibition against the u.s. national under-18 team on sunday, which will serve as an early measuring stick and the team’s lone chance to compete before it opens the regular season next weekend. 
with practice times severely restricted over the summer, the irish value the exhibition as an important opportunity to work on their game against an unfamiliar opponent. with a schedule that includes five top-15 opponents in the first six weeks, working on systems and working out the kinks ear­ly on will be especially impor­tant for the team this year. 
“This exhibition game is the first time we’ll get to work on a lot of game situations, like power play and penalty kill,” junior goaltender steven summerhays said. “so it’s def­initely important.” 
sunday’s game will also be a first chance for freshmen and upperclassmen alike to make cases for starting roles and increased playing time. one of those players will be summerhays, who will try to hold off senior mike Johnson and keep his spot as notre dame’s top option between the pipes. 
both in goal, on the blue line and among the four forward lines, irish coach Jeff Jackson said he is excited to see which players jump out to fast starts and assert themselves in start­ing roles. 
“i want to see in the first month who is going to start off on a positive note,” Jackson said. “we need to find out how ready these guys are, regard­less of the kinds of seasons they had last year.” 
There may be many un­knowns surrounding sunday’s opening game, but one thing is for sure: notre dame’s oppo­nent will come out firing. The 
u.s. team is stacked with some of the nation’s best young tal­ent, and includes future irish forwards dawson cook and kevin labanc. several current notre dame players are alum­ni of the u-18 team, includ­ing freshman center Thomas dipauli, who played on the team last year and knows that the irish should expect a battle on sunday. 
see Jackson PAGE 22 
ND WOMEN’S SOCCER 

voigt’s consistency aids irish success 
By BRIAN HARTNETT 
sports writer 
no. 24 notre dame will look to continue its tear through the big east when the irish welcome conference opponents seton hall on Friday and rutgers on sunday. 
notre dame (9-3-1, 5-0-0 big east) extended its winning streak to six games after a pair of road victories last weekend. The irish took advantage of a late providence own goal to edge the Friars 1-0 on Friday and saw their offense break out for three sec­ond-half goals in a 4-0 win over connecticut on sunday. 
irish coach randy waldrum said the team’s winning streak has come as a result of consis­tency in both the team’s lineup and in the play of notre dame’s young core. 
“i think the biggest thing is that we’ve gotten more settled in our lineup due to the return of [freshman midfielder cari] roccaro and [junior midfielder mandy] laddish,” waldrum said. “other players have also gotten to the point where they’ve really grown and started to show some consistency in their play.” 
The irish have also been bol­stered by a strong defensive unit, which has posted shutouts in four of the team’s last five con­tests. sophomore goalkeeper sarah voigt has stepped into the role of starter and helped lead the unit, as she has recorded three solo clean sheets. For her role in last week’s shutouts, voigt was named the big east goalkeeper of the week, an honor waldrum said indicates that the young netkeeper is playing up to her potential. 
“For the first time, sarah has really been close to healthy,” waldrum said. “we expected this type of performance out of her last year, but she never really got healthy and struggled with a loss of her confidence. This year, 
see voigT PAGE 22 
MEN’S SOCCER 

irish face georgetown 
By MIKE MONACO 
sports writer 

Top-10 matchup. conference clash. big east blue division 
battle.  Former  coaching  
comrades.  
saturday’s  tilt  between  

no. 10 notre dame and no. 3 georgetown has it all. 
The irish (9-2, 1-2 big east) enter their division show­down with the hoyas (10-1-1, 2-1) coming off their first big east victory of the season, a 7-1 demolition of pittsburgh on wednesday at alumni stadium. 
irish coach bobby clark said matches against blue division foes likes pittsburgh and georgetown are critical to­ward postseason positioning. 
“[These games] are very im­portant,” clark said. “if we can get ourselves into the one or two spot, then we don’t have play-in games and stuff like that, and that’s always tough for us. … The less play-in type 
see clark PAGE 22 





