
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 

Students shave heads to raise funds, awareness for St. Baldrick’s Foundation 

By MARISA IATI 
Associate News Editor 
For the past four springs, members of the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s communi­ties shaved their heads and fundraised to support St. Bal­drick’s Foundation’s child­hood cancer research. 
Senior Catherine Soler, or­ganizer of The Bald and the Beautiful (TBAB), said the initially small-scale project has grown into a three-part 
event,  involving  more  than  
1,500 people last year.  
Soler  said  TBAB,  held  

Wednesday through Friday in the LaFortune Student Cen-




Nobel Prize winner lectures on justice, social change 
By AMY KLOPFENSTEIN 
News Writer 
Harvard professor and 1998 Nobel Prize winner in Eco­nomics Amartya Sen delivered the 18th annual Rev. Theodore 
M. Hesburgh Lecture in Eth­ics and Public Policy Tuesday night. Sen is also this year’s recipient of the Notre Dame Award for International Hu­man Development and Soli­darity. His lecture stressed the importance of positive so­ter, was born in 2009 when the Freshman Class Council service committee hosted a St. Baldrick’s event. She said approximately 150 people helped raise $26,000 the first year. 
“The next year we were like, ‘Well, we want to open it up. We want to be able to include more people, people who maybe don’t want to shave their head, but want to be a part of it,’” Soler said. 
The committee created an option for people to purchase hair extensions and donate their hair to benefit Pantene 


see HISTORY/page 6 

South Bend teen used faith, hope to beat cancer 
By SARAH MERVOSH 
Senior News Writer 

It was every mother’s worst nightmare. 
Tonya Ebright of Elkhart was only 22, juggling a toddler, an in­fant and a full-time job when her daughter started sleeping more than usual and complaining that her bones hurt. 
When she took 3-year-old Des­tinee Smith to the doctor’s office, she was told her daughter had strep throat. Another time, it was scarlet fever. But Ebright knew something more was going on. 
Eventually, Ebright obtained an appointment at Riley Hospital for Children in Indianapolis. There, Ebright got an answer: her daugh­ter had leukemia. 
“It was a huge life adjustment,” Ebright said. “Your normal be­comes different.” 
After the diagnosis, Destinee had to be taken to the hospital three times a week for treatment, and was often hospitalized for days at a time as she battled high fevers. 
During those bouts of fever, Destinee sometimes experienced 
see CHILDREN/page 4 



cial change in the world. 
University President Father John Jenkins welcomed Sen and praised his work in justice and development. 
“[Sen’s work] touches the heart of what we are about at Notre Dame,” Jenkins said. 
Sen opened his lecture with a quote from Nietzsche about humanity’s tendency to focus on the negative aspects of life. Rather than contradicting Ni-
see LECTURE/page 5 By SARAH MERVOSH 


Senior News Writer 
When sophomore Kalie Hold­ren first dyed her hair electric blue a few weeks ago, she got a lot of “strange looks.” But once in awhile, someone will ask her why she did it, and she’ll get the chance to explain. 
“I decided to do it all blue when I realized that I could kind of pro­mote [The Holdren Bald and the Beautiful] and also ovar­ian cancer specifically, after finding out that blue was the awareness color for it.” 
But come Thursday, Holdren will say goodbye to her unusual hairdo in exchange for another one when she shaves her head to raise money and awareness for cancer research. 
Because Holdren had previ­ously dyed her hair natural col­ors, she was unable to donate her hair. Instead, she decided to dye her hair blue and then shave it to raise awareness for cancer. 
Holdren said she was in­spired because her mother is a survivor of melanoma, and her uncle and grandfather both passed away from cancer-relat­ed causes. 
“Cancer is kind of prevalent in my family,” she said. 
By dyeing and then shav­ing her hair, Holdren said she hopes to support and be in soli­darity with individuals with cancer. 
“Having dyed my hair blue kind of gives me the same sense of having something different from everyone else,” she said. “Everyday I kind of have to ex­plain why it’s blue. And then when I shave my head, I’m going to have to explain why I won’t have hair. In a way, that kind of relates to how people who have cancer [have to explain.]” 
Holdren has raised $400 so far and will donate the funds when she shaves her head Thursday. 
“A lot of people ask me if I’m nervous and to be perfectly honest, I’m not really that ner­vous about it,” she said. “I know that it will help people.” 
Contact Sarah Mervosh at smervosh@nd.edu 

INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER Senior wins design competition page 3 u Viewpoint page 8 u Style with Sean page 10 u Brothers bond on and off the baseball field page 20 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT COLOR DO YOU THINK THE SHIRT WILL BE THIS YEAR? 

www.ndsmcobserver.com P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 Editor-in-Chief Allan Joseph Managing Editor Business Manager Megan Doyle Jeff Liptak Asst. Managing Editor: Andrew Owens Asst. Managing Editor: Sam Stryker News Editor: Kristen Durbin Viewpoint Editor: Meghan Thomassen Sports Editor: Chris Allen Scene Editor: Kevin Noonan Saint Mary’s Editor: Jillian Barwick Photo Editor: Suzanna Pratt Graphics Editor: Brandon Keelean Advertising Manager: Katherine Lukas Ad Design Manager: Amanda Jonovski Controller: Jason Taulman Systems Administrator: William Heineman Office Manager & General Info (574) 631-7471 Fax (574) 631-6927 Advertising (574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu Editor-in-Chief (574) 631-4542 ajoseph2@nd.edu Managing Editor (574) 631-4542 mdoyle11@nd.edu Assistant Managing Editors (574) 631-4541 aowens2@nd.edu, sstryke1@nd.edu Business Office (574) 631-5313 News Desk (574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com Viewpoint Desk (574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com Sports Desk (574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com Scene Desk (574) 631-4540 knoonan2@nd.edu Saint Mary’s Desk jbarwi01@saintmarys.edu Photo Desk (574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com Systems & Web Administrators (574) 631-8839 Policies The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College.  Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Allan Joseph. Post Office Information The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 and additional mailing offices 024 South Dining hall Notre Dame, IN 46556-077 The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved.  
TODAY’S STAFF News Sports Anna Boarini Kelsey Manning Bridget Feeney Conor Kelly Ann Marie Laura Coletti Jakubowski Scene Graphics Mary Claire Lisa Hoeynck O’Donnell Photo Viewpoint Sarah O’Connor Meghan Thomassen  
CORRECTIONS The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so we can correct our error.  
HIGH 70 LOW 59 


Erin Ward  Daniel  Kasey Puls  Natalie Geiger  Matthew  Drew Williams  
Kwasnieski  Sushinsky  
junior  freshman  fifth-year  senior  senior  junior  
Howard  Stanford  off campus  off campus  Alumni  Stanford  
“I loved last  “I always  “Anything but  “Navy blue.”  “Green.”  “Neon pink.”  
year’s green,  wanted a purple  that awful gold  
so maybe  one, like the  color from a few  
something bright  ‘Shake down the  years back.”  
again.”  thunder’ Shirt.’”  

Have an idea for Question of the Day? Email obsphoto@gmail.com 


OFFBEAT 
French police seize 13 tons of tiny Eiffel Towers 
PARIS — Paris police say they’ve seized some rather unusual contra­band: around 13 tons of mini Eiffel Towers. 
Police official Pierre Co­ric says a Paris souvenir shop owner, her husband and her son also were arrested in the weighty trinket-seizure Friday. 
The three are accused of selling the mini towers at tourist spots including the Louvre and the actu­al Eiffel Tower without a permit. 
The operation, led joint­ly by French customs, so­cial security and the po­lice transport division, followed several months of surveillance of the sou­venir shop. Police say the boutique illegally rakes in some 1 million Euro ($1.31 million) per year. 

If 13 tons seems like a heavy load, it pales in comparison to the real Ei­ffel Tower, which weighs in at 11,100 tons. 
Fleeing bus driver takes Vietnamese cop on wild ride 
HANOI, Vietnam — A Vietnamese traffic cop went on a wild ride in Ha­noi, clinging to the wind­shield wipers of a moving bus for nearly a kilometer 
(0.6 mile) after the rogue driver tried to avoid a tick­et, police said Friday. 
Traffic police 2nd Lt. Nguyen Manh Phan or­dered the bus driver to pull over the 39-seat pas­senger coach Monday, said a police officer in Ba Vi District outside Hanoi. 
The driver allegedly re­fused to show his paper­work and drove off - but not before Phan leaped onto the front, he added. 
The driver, Phung Hong Phuong, eventually pulled over after being chased by police and residents. 
Phuong was arrest­ed for allegedly acting against public officials, an offense that carries a maximum three-year prison sentence, the of­ficer said. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 


IN BRIEF 
The Bald and the Beau­tiful fundraiser begins all day today in LaFortune Stu­dent Center. Students can cut and donate hair, shave their heads, or buy hair ex­tensions to support pediat­ric cancer patients. 
The Notre Dame wom­en’s lacrosse team takes on Vanderbilt today at 2 p.m. at Arlotta Stadium. Student tickets cost $3. 
A physics colloquium titled “Understanding the universe using rare iso­topes” will be held today at 4 p.m. in 118 Nieuwland Hall of Science. 
The Notre Dame women’s softball team takes on Val­paraiso today at 5 p.m. in Melissa Cook Stadium. Stu­dent tickets cost $3. 
The Annual Presidential ROTC Pass In Review will be held today at 5:15 p.m. in Arlotta Stadium. At the event, Fr. Jenkins will pres­ent awards to distinguished midshipmen and cadets. The event is free and open to the public. 
The Creative Writing program continues its MFA student reading series to­night at 7:30 p.m. in the Carey Auditorium of the Hesburgh Library. The event is free and open to the public. 
An informational meet­ing about the Notre Dame women’s club soccer team will be held tonight at 8 p.m. in 101 DeBartolo Hall. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, email detailed information about an event to obsnews.nd@gmail.com 


LOCAL WEATHER 

TODAY TONIGHT THURSDAY FRIDAY SATURDAY SUNDAY 









HIGH 70 LOW 54 
HIGH 58 LOW 38 
HIGH 55 LOW 33 
HIGH 57 LOW 31 

Students design “Sweet’”fundraiser 

By JILLIAN BARWICK 
Saint Mary’s Editor 
Saint Mary’s students can reward their sweet tooth while also supporting a good cause this Thursday, thanks to several seniors working on a class project. 
Chrissy Carson, Amanda Noesen, Michelle Rozman, Er­ika Scoliere and Kelly Smeta­na had no difficulty in choos­ing Hannah & Friends as their charitable cause for a market­ing management class at Saint Mary’s. 
“Hannah & Friends is a non­profit organization dedicated to improving the quality of life for children and adults with special needs,” Rozman said. “We chose this foundation because they have impacted the South Bend community in such a positive way. Our group feels that Hannah & Friends’ mission is inspiring, and we wanted to help support the work they do.” 
After picking the charity, which was founded by former Irish football coach Charlie Weis and his wife Maura, the group decided what type of event to use as a fundraiser for the foundation. 

“We chose [frozen yogurt shop] Let’s Spoon as our event location because of its popu­larity among students and the community, and because it is a lot of fun,” Rozman said. “Customers can create their orders exactly as they want, so there is something for ev­eryone. 
“We wanted to pick a loca­tion that would appeal to all ages and with the weather getting warmer, we thought Let’s Spoon would be perfect for our event.” 
The theme of the event is “Let’s Eat Something Sweet.” Rozman said this reflects the group idea behind the event of having a fun place for people to get together while support­ing a great cause. 
After the group knew they wanted to collaborate with Hannah & Friends and Let’s Spoon, they shared their ideas with both organizations to discuss how to get the event up and running. 
“Our event requires a lot of planning,” Rozman said. “We have been working with both Hannah & Friends and Let’s Spoon for weeks leading up to the event.” 
The group worked with APi­mage to design a t-shirt for the event, Rozman said. 
“The people from APimage were so helpful and guided us through the design process, listening to our suggestions and making recommendations based off their expertise,” she said. “We love the way the shirt turned out, and hope ev­eryone else does as well.” 
Students can visit Let’s Spoon on April 19 with vouch­ers downloaded from www. hannahandfriends.org/calen­dar. The group will also be selling the shirts for $10 at the Student Center today during lunch and dinner hours. 
Contact Jillian Barwick at jbarwi01@saintmarys.edu 


Senior named top designer in the region 
By ANNA BOARINI 
News Writer 
Senior Ryan Geraghty did not become an industrial de­sign major to win awards. He said he picked his major because it focuses on solving problems and com­municating new ideas through form and function. 
However, Sat u rday, Geraghty was named the top in­dustrial de­sign student in the Industrial Design Society of America’s Midwest district. Geraghty beat eight other seniors to win the award in Chicago. 
Notre Dame students have won top honors five of the past six years. Geraghty said this speaks to both the tal­ent of students, as well as the work of industrial design pro­fessor Ann-Marie Conrado. 
“This [award] is in large part to Ann-Marie Conrado. She is a driving force and had touch in every one of my proj­ects,” he said. 
To continue this line of Notre Dame prestige, Ger­aghty said he had to earn the right to represent the Univer­sity at the conference. 
“All the seniors present their portfolios to a group of professional designers and the group gets together and decides what senior best rep­resents Notre Dame and who has the best portfolio over­all,” he said.  “That person wins the merit award and represents Notre Dame at the conference.” 
Geraghty’s portfolio was comprised of three projects: patented meal preparation bowls designed his junior year, his work with fair trade artisans in Nepal and his se­nior thesis, Honed Ultra Son­ic Harmonies (HUSH). 
At the conference, Geragh­ty had seven minutes and 30 slides to present his work. To make sure he used his time wisely, Geraghty said he practiced his speech 50 times the night before presenting. 
“I rehearsed to the point of losing my voice, but it was perfectly timed,” he said. 
A panel of five district chapter chairs judged the student’s presentations. 
“At the conference you are judged on three things: your poster displaying your work, the presentation you give and the visuals of your presenta­tion and the breadth of work you have done,” he said. 

Geraghty said each of the projects he presented set him apart from the other stu­dents. 
“My work showed more of my process,” he said. “For the bowl project, it showed that I started with a prob­lem. I didn’t set out to design bowls, I set out to save space in a kitchen when you are preparing a meal.” 
Geraghty said he spent about two months working on a cutting board idea, and then realized it would not work, so he started over and completely changed the idea. 
“The judges really liked that, because it shows when I found a problem, I readjust­ed,” he said. “I didn’t set out to design bowls, I set out to fix a problem.” 
What set his work in Ne­pal apart was what types of products he was designing, Geraghty said. 
“As for Nepal, that really spoke to my interest in not just designing cheap con­sumer goods that are de­signed to be thrown out in a year … They are things that also help a group of people who are very talented,” he said. 
Geraghty said he faced strong competition for the award from other entrants.
 “There were actually some very, very impressive senior projects from the other stu­dents, one in particular from [senior] Greg Katz [from the] University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign,” he said.  “He had a very cool thesis involv­ing an x-ray tablet … A doc­tor could place a tablet over someone, and actually see x-rays over the person.” 
Geraghty said HUSH was inspired by the “cone of si­lence” from the movie “Get Smart,” and works to in­crease concentration by masking distracting sounds with white noise and direc­tional speakers. 
Geraghty said his thesis stood out from Katz’s be­cause he was able to build a working model. 
“What kind of separated my stuff was I had a sub­stantiated it a bit more, I had built a working model,” he said. “The technology isn’t there yet for his stuff, so he couldn’t substantiate it.” 
Contact Anna Boarini at aboari01@saintmarys.edu 


on our knees and started tend the event as well. Smith said she did it “to weekend, Smith will attend 
praying,” Ebright said. Both girls experienced give back,” but added, “I love her junior prom. 
Children 
continued from page 1 
hallucinations. 
“That was very scary … She told me one time that she was talking to her angels,” Ebright said. “I was like, ‘Please don’t take her home right now.’” 
As her treatment pro­gressed, Destinee lost her hair more than once. 
“That was hard,” Ebright said. “It would come out in clumps and she would just cry.” 
Sometimes, hospitaliza­tions could last up to a week, during which Ebright would drop everything to stay with her daughter. Meanwhile, she had a full-time job and was still breast-feeding her six-month-old son. 
“My son couldn’t be around Destinee at all, because he had been exposed to chick­en pox,” Ebright said. “As a mom, that was the hardest part, was trying to be the mom to both of them and be with Destinee the whole time, and then be with him too.” 
Ebright said her family’s Christian faith and support from loved ones helped her family stay positive during Destinee’s illness, but there were moments when she feared her daughter wouldn’t make it. 
At one point, Destinee’s blood counts got danger­ously close to zero. Ebright had been told that when that happened, that would be “the end.” 
“We just immediately got 
hair loss as a result of che­*** motherapy treatment. “I remember definitely be-
That was 14 years ago. ing taunted, being called a Now, Destinee Smith is a boy and stuff,” Smith said. cancer-free high school ju-“I always wore a bow on my nior who relishes her long, head so they would know brown hair. that I was a girl.” 
She’s what her mom calls Robison said as a young a “fighter.” And she’s also girl, she found an upside to 
a giver, as  being bald.  
she  vol­ “The best  
unteers  to  thing about  
help  those  it  was that  
c u r r e n t ­ly fight­ing their own battles a g a i n s t cancer and other medi­ “Have hope. [Don’t] let it bring you down, because there is always a fighting chance that you are going to make it. Be happy, and live life as much as  my mom would take gel pens and would draw on my head,” she said.  
cal condi­tions. She will speak to- you possibly can and experience everything that you want to do.”  “It was just the cool­est thing, I loved it.”  
night at the kickoff event for  Destinee Smith cancer survivor  R o b i s o n said stu­dents shav- 
The  Bald  ing  their  
and  the  heads  and  
B eaut i f u l,  do  n  a  t  - 
an  annual  ing  hair  

event at Notre Dame where through The Bald and the students donate their hair to Beautiful means a lot to chil­raise funds and awareness dren who are currently bat-for cancer research. tling cancer. 
“I like giving hope to those “I just think that makes that are going through it, to it so much easier for them,” know that it doesn’t all end she said. “They can see older badly,” Smith said. “There is adults supporting them, and still hope that they’ll make it I think that just makes all through it, and live the life the difference.” that they want to live.” Both Robison and Smith 
Seventeen-year-old Paige have previously donated Robison, who also overcame their hair to Locks of Love, childhood leukemia and was a non-profit that provides in South Bend Memorial Hos-hairpieces to children suf­pital’s pediatric oncology fering from medical hair program with Smith, will at-loss. 
having long hair now that I can have long hair.” 
When Smith speaks at The Bald and the Beautiful to­night, she hopes to share a message with children in attendance fighting battles with cancer. 
“Have hope. [Don’t] let it bring you down, because there is always a fighting chance that you are going to make it,” she said. “Be happy, and live life as much as you possibly can and experience everything that you want to do. To just celebrate [life] be­cause it could be taken away from you.” 
*** 
Smith has lived out that message in her 17 years, and is determined to take advan­tage of what she views as a second-chance. 
“I have big dreams and goals that I want to see come true,” she said. 
Smith wants to turn her love of cooking — she makes a mean lasagna and chicken enchilada — into a career, and plans to go to culinary school after high school. 
She hopes to open her own bistro one day, striving for the perfect mix between Starbucks and Panera Bread. 
Smith said her family now goes on with life as normal­ly as possible, letting her battle with cancer fade into a memory. Like most moth-er-daughters, Smith and Ebright strive to find a bal­ance between independence and staying safe, and next 
But since a high school friend died of leukemia a few weeks ago, Smith said her fight with cancer has been on her mind more than usual. 
“It’s just kind of a ‘That could have been me’ kind of thing. It kind of just gives me a different perspective to live every day to the fullest,” she said. “I want to make sure that I do everything that I’ve set out to do, just because I could not have had that chance.” 
Ebright said she thinks there is a certain serendip­ity to Smith’s experience and her namesake. 
When Ebright first became pregnant, she decided on the name “Destinee” because she felt God had given her a child for a purpose. But in watch­ing her daughter fight leuke­mia so early in life, Ebright sometimes wondered what that purpose was. 
Now, Smith’s namesake has come full circle. 
“I think she’s still a work in progress, but I know she has a purpose and there is a reason for her to be here,” Ebright said. “I, at one point in time, said, ‘I know what her destiny is.’ I think that she really will be a good help­er and mentor to others be­cause of things that she has gone through in her life.” 
And Smith shares her moth­er’s vision. 
“I just want to see that something good comes from me staying here,” she said. 
Contact Sarah Mervosh at smervosh@nd.edu 


Students advocate “Equal Pay Day” 

By BRIDGET FEENEY 
Associate Saint Mary’s Editor 
While many students spent yesterday afternoon in class or at lunch, junior Laura Cor­rigan and senior Cat Cleary advocated for equal pay.  The Saint Mary’s students stood on the steps of the South Bend courthouse with Mayor Pete Buttigieg as he declared yes­terday “Equal Pay Day.” 
“Equal Pay Day” is a recog­nized day across the nation in­tended to promote awareness for the fact women are paid less money than man, Cleary said. 
“It takes a woman 15 and a half months to earn what a man makes in a year,” she said. “Women earn 77 cents for every one dollar men earn. People will brush this issue off and say it isn’t relevant, but it is.” 
Corrigan and Cleary, spon­sored by a grant provided by the American Association of University Women (AAUW), have been working all semes­ter on projects and programs that promote the mission of the AAUW. 

“The mission of the AAUW is to break through barriers for girls and women,” Cleary said. 
During Spring Break, Cleary and Corrigan decided they wanted to devise a way to pro­mote “Equal Pay Day” in the South Bend community. After reaching out to the local AAUW branch, the League of Wom­en Voters of the South Bend area, the South Bend Young Women’s Christian Association (YWCA) and the Gender and Women’s Studies Department at Indiana University South Bend, Corrigan and Cleary drafted a letter to Mayor But­tigieg. The letter requested the mayor commemorate April 17 and bring awareness to the is­sue.
 “We wanted to draw atten­tion to this issue,” Corrigan said. “[Women] have a lifetime of earnings ahead of us. Think how much money that is — the wage gap really adds up.” 
At noon on Tuesday, the may­or honored the letter’s request. During a press conference with reporters, business men and women and other commu­nity leaders, Mayor Buttigieg declared April 17 “Equal Pay Day.” The declaration was in sync with other organizations, protests and events through­out the nation also dedicated to promoting equal pay. 
“We were one small part of a larger movement,” Cleary said. “There were larger movements occurring all across the coun­try.” 
Corrigan and Cleary said the process was relatively smooth and they were not worried about making their hopes of “Equal Pay Day” in South Bend a reality. 
“I know Buttigieg is very committed to social issues,” Cleary said. “I wasn’t worried; I knew we would have his sup­port for this issue.” 
Corrigan agreed with Cleary, saying Mayor Buttigieg was a valuable assets to their work to promote “Equal Pay Day” in South Bend. 
“[Buttigieg] said it was im­portant that men should care about this issue, too,” she said. “It’s not just a woman’s issue. It is important that everyone is aware about this problem.” 
Contact Bridget Feeney at bfeene01@saintmarys.edu 


Lecture 
continued from page 1 
etzsche, however, Sen said the world is full of hardships. “The world in which we live, I fear, is, in fact, ugly and bad,” said Sen. 
However, Sen’s said his seemingly pessimistic view is in the context of the many in­justices in the world. He said by failing to address and ac­knowledge the many instanc­es of poverty, injustice, and violence, humans also lose the opportunity for positive social change. 
“The common tendency to ignore how nasty the world is helps many injustices to re­main unexamined and rem­edied,” Sen said.  
Sen said people should not focus on instituting justice, but rather removing sources of injustice. What needs to be eliminated from the world can be agreed upon, Sen said, but disagreement about what will make the world “per­fect” will exist.  In such cir­cumstances, eliminating the injustice should take priority over attempting to achieve an ideal society, he said. 
Sen also stressed the im­portance of freedom in es­tablishing justice. 
“Freedom is not only among the most valued ideas in the world, it is among the most feared human conditions,” Sen said. 
Sen said many oppressed people adopt a cheerful men­tality to cope with their situ­ation. Meanwhile, the op­pressors are those who fear the consequences of libera­tion. 
“Those who are afraid of freedom tend to be afraid of the freedom of others,” said Sen. 
Sen finished his lecture by restating the Nietzsche quote. However, he did not end with on a note of defeat, but a call to engage and rec­tify injustices. 
“We can rise to the chal­lenge with reasoning and a better understanding of the problems we need to ad­dress,” Sen said. 
Contact Amy Klopfenstein at aklopfen@nd.edu 
Obama looks to target oil price manipulation 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON — President Barack Obama pushed Con­gress Tuesday to give oil mar­ket regulators more muscle to deter price manipulation by speculators, the latest White House response to determined Republican attacks on admin­istration energy policies amid high gas prices at the pump. 
Obama wants Congress to strengthen federal supervi­sion of oil markets, increase penalties for market manipu­lation and empower regula­tors to increase the amount of money energy traders are required to put behind their transactions. 
“We can’t afford a situation where some speculators can reap millions while millions of American families get the short end of the stick,” Obama said at the White House. 
The plan is more likely to draw sharp election-year dis­tinctions with Republicans than have an immediate ef­fect on prices at the pump. The measures seek to boost spending for Wall Street en­forcement at a time when con­gressional Republicans are seeking to limit the reach of federal financial regulations. 
The president’s $52 million proposal comes as Republi­cans have been hammering Obama on his energy policies, recognizing the political cost of high gas prices on the pres­ident. Obama’s plan would turn the tables on Republi­cans by taking aim at Wall Street’s role in the oil price chain. 
Obama was joined during his Rose Garden remarks by Attorney General Eric Holder, Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner, Commodity Futures Trading Commission Chair­man Gary Gensler, and Fed­eral Trade Commission Chair­man Jon Leibowitz. 
The president didn’t shy away from casting the issue in partisan terms, drawing attention to Republican op­position to a plan to end tax breaks for oil and gas compa­nies. 
“So here’s a chance to make amends,” he said. 
Even before the White House announced Obama’s plans, House Speaker John Boehner called it a political ploy and criticized the presi­dent for not using authority he already has to deal with such problems. 
“The president has all the tools available to him if he believes that the oil market is being manipulated,” Boehner told reporters Tuesday. “Where’s his Federal Trade Commission? Where is the SEC? He’s got agencies there. So instead of just another po­litical gimmick, why doesn’t he put his administration to work to get to the bottom of it?” 
Boehner used the acronym for the Securities and Ex­change Commission, whose duties include regulating markets. 
Senior administration of­ficials who put together the proposal stopped short of blaming market manipula­tion for rising gas prices, but said they wanted to curtail the ability of speculators to take unlawful advantage of oil price volatility. 
“The price is affected by a variety of factors,” said Bri­an Deese, the director of the White House’s National Eco­nomic Council. “Obviously, instability in the Middle East as well as growth projections across the globe are affect­ing global oil markets all the time.” 
Meanwhile, the average price of a gas at the pump has dropped slightly but is still higher than it was at this time last year. 
“None of these steps by themselves will bring gas prices down overnight,” Obama said. “But it will pre­vent market manipulation and make sure we’re looking out for American consumers.” 

History 
continued from page 1 
Beautiful Lengths, which turns hair into wigs for wom­en with cancer. Soler said the group named the event “The Bald and the Beautiful” after their adviser jokingly sug­gested the name in an email. 
“It was hard to really con­vey everything I think in the name,” Soler said. “We liked it, it was kind of catchy, and I think it sends the right mes­sage.” 
The money raised by sell­ing colored hair extensions benefits Memorial Hospital of South Bend, and Soler kids treated in the pediatric on­cology unit often come to the event. 
“We contemplated giving the hair extension money to the American Cancer Society, but we thought it was really important to give back to Me­morial, and we liked the local and nation­al compo­nent of it,” have personal connections. They know someone who had cancer, a family member has cancer, something like that.” 
Soler said although the core 15 people planning The Bald and the Beautiful have re­mained the same throughout the years, the group has ex­panded. 
“This year there’s about 30, 35 people, maybe more than that, who are planning it, and they’re all different age rang­es, all different clubs, all dif­ferent halls,” she said. “And so it’s just really fun that you don’t necessarily have to be­long to a certain association to be a part of it.” 
Participants in TBAB find solidarity with people suffer­ing from cancer, Soler said. 
“I would say that we just feel really lucky to be a part of an event that’s able to com­bine all the great things that I think about Notre Dame … the ability of people here to work hard, and put the greater good before themselves,” she said. “We’re just constantly blown away by 

she said. “I mean it’s easy to get the commu-The mon-nity … That’s 
caught up in … classes 
ey raised for by far been the 
and extracurriculars 
Memoria l best part for 
and things like that, and 
supports its me.” 
Notre Dame students are 
young adult Metz said co-
obviously really busy, but 
cancer sur-ordinating The vivorship these three days are just Bald and the program. an awesome example of Beautiful has 
“I think getting back to what’s been a special that’s just a actually important experience. really neat and helping people.” “I mean it’s connection easy to get that we have caught up in 
Elle Metz 
with them, … classes and 
TBAB committee member 
because the extracurricu­
hair exten­sion money goes direct­ly to people who come to our event and help us, and also goes towards a cause that if one of us were to have cancer right now, or had cancer as a child, we would be included in that age-range,” she said. 
The colors of the hair ex­tensions represent different types of cancer, Soler said. 
“You could come in and say, ‘I want yellow for bone can­cer, I’d like pink for breast cancer and blue for ovar­ian,’ whatever it is,” she said. “People can kind of do that in honor of different people.” 
Soler said almost 1,800 people participated in TBAB last year and raised $46,500. This year, she said several residence halls and sports teams will be involved. The football team will participate in a kick-off event Wednesday at 6 p.m. 
“It was very hard in the beginning to get sponsor­ship from students, friends, organizations, anything, just because no one really knew, but we have a lot to talk about now … and people come to the event,” Soler said. “And one of my favorite parts is that it’s very upbeat, and while it’s for such a great cause and there’s definitely time for memoriam and honoring people, it is re­ally just fun.” 
Senior Elle Metz, a TBAB committee member, said she enjoys seeing the support people show to those who shave their heads, especially girls and women. 
“We have five or six girls already signed up to shave their heads this year, and their friends will come out with posters, and everyone is so supportive of them, which is great,” Metz said. “It’s in­spiring to hear the stories as to why they do it and why they feel so strongly. A lot of people lars and things 
like that, and 
Notre Dame students are obviously really busy, but these three days are just an awesome example of getting back to what’s actu­ally important and helping people,” she said. 
Soler said the TBAB com­mittee will ensure the event continues after most of the coordinators graduate in May. She said the Class of 2013 has expressed interest in organizing the event in the future, and it might also be­come a joint signature event for residence halls. 
“I hope that we can come back in ten years and donate our hair to The Bald and the Beautiful, and I can bring my kids and donate their hair,” she said. “I’m just al­ways supremely impressed by how generous and self­less everyone who works on this event is, and so giving of themselves and their time, and I’m constantly inspired by the people who work at this event … I think it’s just an amazing demonstration of the true spirit of Notre Dame students.” 
The stress and busy-ness of coordinating The Bald and the Beautiful finally pays off during the three-day event, Soler said. 
“Within the first hour of the event, we’re still scrambling, getting ready, and then you see someone shave their head and the kids show up and you just stop and think, ‘This is worth every single minute of the effort,’” she said. “We all just always stop and kind of pause at the event, and you can see even big football play­ers or like our guy friends, everyone’s just so moved by what’s going on, and I think it’s really cool.” 
Contact at Marisa Iati at miati@nd.edu 

ND supports interfaith acceptance 
By SARAH VERY 
News Writer 

Notre Dame Campus Minis­try wants to provide opportu­nities for members of all faith traditions to encounter God in from her home in Ohio to Notre Dame had an effect on her faith as a United Methodist Christian. 
“I never feel like my faith is being suppressed at [Notre Dame], if anything, I attend 

their daily lives. Brett Perkins, Mass more, head of Catholic Peer Minis-because it’s try and Protestant Student so conve-Resources, said Notre Dame nient in the seeks to remain steadfast in its dorms,” she mission, and provide opportu-said. “How­nities for those of other faiths. ever, some-
Perkins said groups like Iron times it is Sharpens Iron (ISI) helps to difficult , provide those opportunities. because in 
“Iron Sharpens Iron oper-order to go ates as both a Student Activi-to a Protes­ties [Office] club, and as the tant Mass, I’d principal interdenominational have to go off Christian ministry at Notre campus.” Dame,” Perkins said. “ISI re-P e r k i n s sponds to the need felt by our said Campus Christian students who aren›t Ministry of-Catholic, to have a place where fers students they can come together for resources prayer, praise and worship and to attend 
“I never feel like my faith students on is being suppressed at campus are [Notre Dame], if anything, respectful 
and often ea-
I attend Mass more, 
ger to learn 
because it’s convenient 
about her 
in the dorms. However, 
Jewish faith, 
sometimes it is difficult, 
though many 
because in order to go to do not know a Protestant Mass, I’d much about have to go off campus.” it. Even with the accep-Annaleigh McDonald tance she 
feels, Buers­
freshman 
spiritual home,” Perkins said. 
Notre Dame has other faith-based organizations for stu­dents, such as the Jewish Club, which offers opportunities to celebrate the holidays and at­tend lectures off campus. 
Freshman Ali Buers­meyer said 
meyer said 
it is not al­
ways easy to 
observe her faith on a predominantly Cath­olic campus. 
“Last week I observed the Passover by following the tra­ditional diet free of any wheat, corn, beans, rice, pork, or shellfish for eight days — it was very hard to find Passover-friendly options in the dining hall, ” she said. 
According to the Campus Ministry website, there is also an active Muslim Student As­sociation (MSA) at Notre Dame. The goal of the organization is to provide resources for Mus­lims, as well as to cultivate un­derstanding and respect with other faiths. In the past, MSA has arranged Quran reading group, dinners, lectures, films and comedy shows. 
Contact Sarah Very at svery@nd.edu 
fellowship.” 

Perkins said Iron Sharpens Iron also ministers to a large number of Catholic students who are looking for a ministry that focuses on all that unites followers of Christ, regardless of church affiliation or denom­ination. 
Campus Ministry also offers opportunities to answer the questions of non-Catholic stu­dents about Catholic culture and faith. 
“The ‘Catholicism 101’ ses­sions have been offered a few times over the years to pro­vide an opportunity for non-Catholic students of various backgrounds to ask questions about the Catholic Christian faith that surrounds them on campus,” Perkins said. 
Freshman Annaleigh Mc­Donald said her transition church services in their de­nomination. 
“We have an online church directory and ride list that helps students find local churches or other places of worship, including those for Jewish or Muslim students,” he said.  “The directory includes entries for churches of over 25 different traditions and de­nominations.” 
Even with resources like the church directory, many students attend Catholic Mass with their friends. 
“The presence of so many of our fellow Christians at Catho­lic Masses on campus means especially that Catholic Chris­tians need to be ever watchful for ways that they can make the Mass more inviting and/ or accessible to others, that all might find there a welcoming 




page 8 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com Wednesday, April 18, 2012 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Volleyball 
As the crush of joggers around the lakes, presence of lax bros on the quads and appearance of the sun might suggest, spring has descended upon Notre Dame’s campus. With it comes the reemergence of one of Notre Dame’s finest traditions. It’s Brian Hartnett not Bookstore Bas­ketball, or the Fisher Sports Writer Regatta, or even the annual quarterback auditions held on the practice fields. Rather, it’s a tradition unlike any other: Carroll Hall sand vol­leyball. 
You heard that right, a tradition origi­nating from Notre Dame’s only “off-cam­pus” residence hall. Okay, you probably still can’t locate Carroll on a campus map, but for me and other Vermin, sand volley­ball is as integral to the Carroll experi­ence as Carroll Christmas and biking. 
My first exposure came hours after I initially walked onto Far Quad. Before I had even transformed my room into a livable space, I heard fierce shouts com­ing from Carroll’s expansive front lawn. I observed a band of shirtless upperclass­men engaged in an intense game of sand volleyball, replete with digs, kills and many spikes. 
As someone whose volleyball experi­ence was limited to high school gym class, I was slightly intimidated, and took a few weeks to actually wander onto the court. Minutes into my first game, I discovered I was competent enough to hit the ball over the net, but more importantly, I found I was really enjoying myself. So, one game turned into two, and two turned into a streak of multiple contests. 
After trying to discover the root of my volleyball fever, I came to an important conclusion: Playing sand volleyball al­lowed me to discover the famed sense of community fostered by Notre Dame’s residence halls, something I thought only existed in guidebooks. On the volleyball court, I was viewed not as a nameless freshman, but as an equal contributor to the team’s success. 
Thus, I relished earning compliments from my fellow Carroll residents when I made a rare highlight, or lifting another’s spirits up when they made a mistake. Working toward a common goal helped break down barriers to conversation in the awkward first month, allowing me to more easily meet people. 
Additionally, sand volleyball represents the perfect escape from conflicting pres­sures in the life of a Notre Dame student. After a stressful week, nothing is more soothing than escaping the bustle of cam­pus and enjoying a nice match on a sunny day. Notre Dame may be the opposite of a warm-weather school, but it’s easy to forget that when I’m playing beach volley­ball, listening to the booming music and enjoying views of the Golden Dome. 
Several months into my Notre Dame ex­perience, I finally consider myself a Car­roll sand volleyball junkie. I know all the intricacies of “Carroll rules,” rules that allow players to go over the net in pursuit of the ball and are the reasons why the Carroll volleyball net resembles a slice of Swiss cheese. I have taken the court in February, nearly catching hypothermia, and have participated in an opening-day ceremony more befitting of the Super Bowl. I even decided to test my skills against other halls in interhall volleyball. 
So, with temperatures in South Bend becoming more bearable, I invite every­one to make their way to Carroll and participate in a fine Notre Dame tradition. Just don’t complain when we make you play Carroll rules. 
Contact Brian Hartnett at bhartnet@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
A Christian’s guide to stressing out 
It was at the 10:30 p.m. Dillon Hall Mass last Sunday night that I saw it. I opened Mass with the Sign of the Cross, and as I looked up in greeting — “The Lord be with you” — it was staring back 
at me. Late-semes­ 
ter fatigue. Stress.  Fr. Lou DelFra  
You mumbled  
“And also with  Faithpoint  
you,” with an  

energy and interest that was slightly less than awe-inspiring. So, I mentally cut my homily in half, and doubled my volume, but the message was clear: “Father, we love Jesus, but unless he’s writing my papers this week, please keep it short!” 
I’ve always found it hard to know what to pray for during stressful days, and the last weeks of the semester are almost inevitably stressful — some of the most difficult days of the year. I often find myself, on days when the heat is on and I’m behind, sending up prayers of des­peration — prayers that ultimately only feed my stress, and of course produce no grade-changing miracles. Days of performance-induced stress offer a real spiritual challenge, and the way to meet that challenge is never clear. 
Why is it so hard to pray during stress­ful times? Perhaps because, though Jesus does offer us a way of peace, it is not a simplistic way. On the one hand, Jesus continually offers us words of comfort, like “Come to me, all you who are burdened, and I will give you rest. For my burden is light.” And many other consoling words and actions, such as “Do not let your hearts be troubled,” or the calming of the stormy sea. 
But this is only part of his message. The Gospels, it must be admitted, in­clude equally prevalent references to Je­sus’ sleepless nights, stressful confronta­tions and the daily self-sacrifice he takes upon himself and demands of others: “If you wish to follow me, be prepared to take up your daily cross.” 
So, how to pray during stressful days? How to take Christ’s words of consola-
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

tion seriously (“Take courage, for I have conquered the world!”), allowing Him to calm our hearts? How to hear his call to the self-sacrificing work that he invites us to engage (“Give away what you have and come follow me!”), enkindling our hearts to embrace the present challeng­es of our daily lives? 
Perhaps one answer, which is not nearly as simple as it sounds, is to try not to allow either of these two reali­ties — Christ’s consolation and Christ’s call to give ourselves away selflessly – to eclipse the other. The overemphasis of Christ’s consolation, without any nod to his call to sacrifice on his behalf, can lead to escapism — and often procrasti­nation. And this, of course, just leads to more stress, rather than breaking us out of the stress cycle. On the other hand, the overemphasis of Christ’s call to carry our crosses, without any experience of Christ’s constant and unconditional love for us, can lead to an overblown sense of the challenges before us, a distorted view of the importance of our work, in­ner anxiety and even eventual burnout. So, neither emphasis on its own seems to bring the true peace of Christ. 
We need to search for prayer that both reassures and provokes us, that both calms and inspires, relieves and strengthens. We need prayer that puts our work into a proper perspective, focuses our desire, and galvanizes our energy to engage the work. This is not easy or straightforward prayer. 
As always in prayer, our primary image of God is extremely determina­tive here. If we see God primarily as the “great escape,” someone to whom we run to make our troubles disap­pear, we set up the near-certain result of disappointment and its accompany­ing increase of stress. Jesus constantly searches in prayer for the presence and consolation of his Father, and we can see the peace and confidence with which this presence fills Him, especially at stressful moments. Yet, in these prayers, Jesus rarely asks His Father to do things that make His life easier. Rather, He asks for the reassurance of God’s presence and clarification of God’s will, or often asks the Father for the ability to com­plete works that relieve other people’s sufferings. This understanding of His work as fitting into the plan of God, and as ultimately benefiting others besides Himself, brings Jesus peace. 
If, on the other hand, our primary image of God is a divine taskmaster, who demands only our continual excellent performance while contributing little to the endeavor — and for my fellow per­fectionists, this is always a temptation 
— we run the risk of praying to a God who is merely a projection of our own ambitions, or other authority figures in our life. That our stress is not relieved by such prayer is hardly surprising. But this God too is not to be found in the prayers of Jesus. 
Jesus’ prayer in the Garden of Geth­semane is a beautiful example for our purposes. For here, He seeks true peace in the midst of the greatest stress, plac­ing the challenge of His cross directly into the hands of God, yet without a sense of escapism — “Father, if this cup can be taken from me …” Yet, it also asks for the perspective, strength and hope that make His cross meaning­ful: “But reassure me of Your will, and knowing that this work is in Your plan, and will benefit others, this will be suf­ficient to give me peace and strength to carry the load.” Perhaps in His prayer at Gethsemane, in the hours before Jesus’ final challenge, we can find a model, and a way to pray for true peace during stressful times. 
This week’s column is written by Fr. Lou DelFra, director of pastoral life for ACE and member of Campus Ministry. He can be reached at delfra.2@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“Science arose from poetry 
— when times change the two can meet again on a higher level as friends.” 
Johann Wolfgang von Goethe German novelist and scientist 


WEEKLY POLL 
What’s your favorite 
place for a first date? 
Starbucks The dining hall The Mark Chicago 
Vote by 5 p.m. on Thursday at 
ndsmcobserver.com 
Wednesday, April 18, 2012 

Treat others as we desire to be treated 
Overt harassment is far from the only difficulty faced by non-heterosexual people at Notre Dame. Workplace dis­crimination against non-heterosexual employees is a fact of life here. 
Notre Dame offers employees Julia Marvin non-wage “family” benefits — health Guest Columnist and life insurance, tuition benefits, widow and widower benefits, family medical leave, parental leave, access to athletic facilities, etc. as long as the non–employee spouse is “a husband or wife as defined or recognized by the State of Indiana,” and any children are biological “children, step-children [or] children under legal guardianship,” according to the Notre Dame Human Resources website. Since same-sex marriage is not yet legally available in Indiana, and legal parental status is often unavailable to a non-biological parent, employees in same-sex relationships are denied the benefits awarded by Notre Dame to married employees, even though their circum­stances may be analogous in every way. 
That is, one employee with depen­dents may be exposed to much more risk, and be effectively paid thousands of dollars less each year, than another employee with dependents in exactly the same job, at exactly the same wages. 
A few scenarios may help clarify the consequences of this policy. Imagine John and Joan, a married couple with two small children and no connection to Notre Dame, and Mary, a long-time Notre Dame employee. 
1. John and Joan die in an accident. Their old friend Mary becomes legal guardian of the children, who become eligible for health insurance and Notre Dame tuition benefits. 
2.
 Joan dies. John later meets Mary. They fall in love and marry, and he and the children become eligible for all Notre Dame benefits. 

3.
 John dies. Joan later meets Mary. They fall in love, and vow lifelong com­mitment to each other. If an Indiana judge is willing to grant Mary a second-parent adoption, the children may be­come eligible for Notre Dame benefits. Joan remains ineligible no matter what. 

4.
 John abandons his family and divorces Joan but doesn’t surrender his legal parental status. Joan later meets Mary. They fall in love, and vow lifelong commitment. Mary has no way to get legal parental-status. Neither Joan nor the children are eligible for Notre Dame benefits. 


To continue this last scenario: doing without health insurance and avoiding the expense of doctor visits, Joan learns too late that she has cancer. The medi­cal bills, uncovered by insurance, drive Joan and Mary into bankruptcy. Mary can’t afford to quit her Notre Dame job, and she can’t get family leave to be with Joan while she is dying. Notre Dame won’t cover counseling for the children, either. 
Had Mary married John, and John were the person who developed can­cer, all Notre Dame benefits would of course have been available, to him and the children. Note that in all of these scenarios, the identity of the Notre Dame employee, Mary, doesn’t change, and neither does that of the children to whom she becomes a parent, who under some circumstances will be eligible for benefits, and under others, won’t. All that changes are the legal ramifications of different combinations of facts about Mary’s mate: male or female, widowed or divorced. The award or denial of em­ployment-based benefits here has noth­ing to do with the individual employee, but with the gender and marital history of her partner. Does this seem just? 

One response might be that Notre Dame should deny benefits to employ­ees with same-sex partners because the Catholic Church disapproves of homosexuality, or at least of homo­sexual activity (although all the couples hypothesized above could be celibate life partners, and it wouldn’t affect their benefits). The Church also disapproves of such things as fornication, divorce and atheism, but Notre Dame does not deny benefits to employees or their de­pendents because of them. 
Since same-sex couples have yet to achieve legal recognition here, the University is within its legal rights in refusing them recognition itself. The most obvious reason for it to cling to the current, limited, nondiscrimination clause is to guard against the possibility obligating itself to anything more than the law now requires, in this area and others. To do no more than the law now requires: is that the standard to which we aspire? 
Before 1965, marriage between blacks and whites was illegal in Indiana — automatically void, and punishable by fines and up to 10 years’ imprisonment. Officiants at such marriages were also prosecutable. Notre Dame would have been doing no more (or less) the law required if it refused to recognize the marriage of a black employee to a white spouse because they were not husband and wife “as defined or recognized by the State of Indiana.”  It could have forbidden the celebration of mixed-race marriages on campus. Did this happen, even while Fr. Hesburgh was serving on the U.S. Commission on Civil Rights? I don’t know, but I hope not. 
The law may still permit discrimi­nation against same-sex couples, but it does not demand or justify it. Many organizations, including Catholic insti­tutions such as DePaul, Georgetown, Fordham and Boston College, offer them the same benefits as married opposite-sex couples receive — and were already doing so before some of their jurisdic­tions legalized same-sex marriage. It is perfectly possible to consider homo­sexual practice sinful without condon­ing inequitable compensation for Notre Dame employees who cannot yet legally marry their mates. 
In denying equal pay for equal work and ostracizing some of its families, the University’s standard practice seems far from the “Spirit of Inclusion”: 
“We welcome all ... precisely because of Christ’s calling to treat others as we desire to be treated. We value gay and lesbian members of this community as we value all members of this communi­ty ... We consciously create an environ­ment of mutual respect, hospitality and warmth in which none are strangers and all may flourish.” 
I invite a substantive public response from the administration of the Univer­sity. 
Julia Marvin is an associate professor in the Program of Liberal Studies. She can be reached at garagemadrigal@yahoo.com 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
UWIRE 

Reintegration requires reform 
This past weekend, President Barack Obama traveled to Cartagena, Colom­bia to attend the Summit of the Ameri­cas, hosted by the Organization of American States. Although the summit made progress in easing inequal-Alex Rubin ity and other gaps between the United The Dartmouth States, Canada and Latin America, the debate stalled over the issue of whether to reinstate Cuba into the OAS and allow the country to attend future summits. 
Many Latin American nations have criticized the United States for its embargo on Cuba and its continued practice of isolating the island nation. However, to include the oppressive regime of the Castro brothers into the OAS, weeks after it committed oppres­sive crackdowns on peaceful democrat­ic protesters, would be to disgrace the principles of American foreign policy and society. It is in the interest of the region to reintegrate Cuba, but such an action must be taken solely with the aim of promoting a more democratic and open Cuban government. Thus, giving Cuba membership in the OAS must be in response to signs that the Cuban regime is submitting to interna­tional pressure — not just U.S. pres­sure — to reform their governmental institutions. 
U.S. relations with China were im­proved under the Nixon administration through increased contact and China’s reintegration to the international com­munity. This should be the same objec­tive of any U.S.-Cuban policy. The idea that the Cuban regime can be waited out, or that it will fall under its own volition from internal pressures, has proven, at least in the short term, to be unrealistic. Therefore, the U.S. must move to reform the Castro government through engagement and reintegration. However, this process must be started in response to signs from the Castro government that it is willing to reform. Such interactions must be driven, like our opening to China, with the ex­pressed aim and unrelenting pressure to restore Cuba’s democratic institu­tions, and to promote greater freedom for the Cuban people. 
Whether or not American policies, specifically the embargo, are either functional or beneficial to progress in reforming Cuba or the U.S.-Cuban relationship are irrelevant to this ar­gument. The issue at hand is whether the incorporation of Cuba into the OAS and its inclusion in its summits will promote reform in the island nation and foster better relations between the United States and Cuba. Some argue that international organizations can better pressure its members than individual states. However, Iran and North Korea have shown that such international pressure is not sufficient or effective in curbing their nuclear de­velopment. Therefore, the premise that including Cuba in the OAS will allow the OAS and the U.S. to better pressure the Castro government is misguided. By contrast, allowing Cuba to join the OAS at this time, weeks after the government’s crackdown on peaceful protestors during Pope Benedict XVI’s visit to the nation, would demonstrate that the regional community is willing to ignore — and to legitimize — the illegal and inhumane practices of the Castro government in the name of re­gional integration. 

Further, it is not in the interest of the OAS to include the nation of Cuba. As ideological differences have grown between the United States and the leaders of Latin America, the OAS has become less relevant to regional affairs. Therefore, including Cuba in the organization would only add to the ideological polarization, and contribute to further inaction in addressing the pressing concerns facing the region, such as the drug war and economic deficiencies and inequalities. The ad­dition of Cuba would add strains to the debate within the OAS, as it would incorporate longstanding conflicts that are unlikely to change, subsequently stalling any actions aimed at address­ing a variety of other issues that the OAS is in a position to address. 
To incorporate Cuba into the OAS would reward the Castro regime for its brutal crackdowns on peaceful protest­ers, as well as legitimize such action within the spoke of promoting regional integration. The isolated island nation must be eventually reintegrated into the regional community. However, this process must begin with signs on the part of the Castro brothers that their regime is open to reform and is will­ing to follow international standards of governing. 
This article originally ran in the April 17 edition of The Dartmouth, serving Dartmouth College. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


Wednesday, April 18, 2012 


Since 2008, Notre Dame students have been going bald to support childhood cancer research by partici­pating in The Bald and the 
Sean Fitzgerald 
Scene Writer 
a few brave, possibly even heroic, women have gone bald to raise funds for this amazing event. This year, I will be one of those men. 
My Story 

I grew my hair for more than nine months for this event.  What could have possibly caused me to do this? Well, I was reading an article online and it had these two tips: Every guy should shave his head at least once in his life, and every guy should let his hair grow past his ears at least once in his life.  And then I read about TBAB.  So I let it grow. 
I hoped it would be long enough to donate to Pantene’s Beautiful Lengths.  In order to qualify, hair has to be eight inches long from the ponytail.  Unfortunately, I don’t quite make the cut.  My hair is quite long though — about eight-and-a-half inches.  As a male who has never had long hair before, it was quite the experience. 
I had to use conditioner consistently.  I long.  I learned the difference between shampoo and will be shaving our heads on Wednesday at 8 p.m. in LaFortune.  Come on out and support us and 



childhood cancer research. Donations can be made at bald.nd.edu, or in person at LaFor­tune. 
What will I do when I go bald? Will I have phantom-hair syndrome? I honestly do not know what will happen.  Such a drastic change is kind of crazy for most people. And, I have to be honest, it’s a little scary. However, I know that what I am doing will make someone who is much worse off than me have a chance at a life, or at least a little bit of hope.  Even if I look terrible when I’m bald, I know that I have made a positive im­pact on someone else’s life, and that is more important than anything style-related.  How­ever, I’m going to try my best to pull it off. 

SEAN FITZGERALD/The Observer 
Contact Sean Fitzgerald at sfitzge3@nd.edu Sean Fitzgerald models hair before he participates in The Bald and The The views expressed in this column are Beautiful. By the time he cuts it, his hair will have reached a length of those of the author and not necessarily those eight-and-a -half inches. of The Observer. 

By KEVIN NOONAN 
Scene Editor 

President Obama called it his favorite television show. Many have called it the greatest television show of all time. Grantland, Bill Simmon’s entertainment-sports blog, named one its central characters as the greatest in televi­sion history. 
HBO’s “The Wire” is a mastery of entertainment, social criticism and the illustration of reality rarely seen in any storytelling medium, not just television. And on top of all that, it’s awesome. 
This is not some Shakespearean drama, with dull and boring epi­sodes aimed only at higher meaning and subtext. The show, at least in its inception, is a police drama, with a body count to rival any of the most action-packed and violent shows on television. 
What separates “The Wire” from most run-of-the-mill police dramas, however, is its determination to tell the story of a city and its people above all else. 

The show is set in Baltimore, and each of the five seasons of the show fo­cuses on a different aspect of the city. The first is an in-depth look at the drug-trade in the inner city, the second looks at the illegal smuggling in the city’s port, the third examines the political system, the fourth explores the Baltimore school system and the fifth and fi­nal season sheds light on the media. 
The consistently broadening scope of the show meant that as the show went on, more and more characters en­tered the story, and some characters that were main play­ers one season found their roles diminished in the next, and vice versa. 
But every character, no matter how big or small they seem in the show, has their own unique background. It makes for fascinating television, because every second of the show features a character that seems like a real per­son. That in turn makes the show feel very real, as if De­tective McNulty (Dominic West) and Omar Little (Michael Kenneth Williams) — the aforementioned winner of the Grantland contest — were real people that you could run into if you took a wrong turn while visiting Baltimore. Of course, if it’s Omar, that’s one hell of a wrong turn. 
The show was created in 2002 by author and former Baltimore police reporter David Simon. Many of the events in the show draw their inspiration from the experiences of Simon and his writing partner Ed Burns, a former Balti­more homicide detective and public school teacher. 
Simon calls the show a visual novel, with the storytell­
ing aimed at longer arcs and therefore a larger payoff in the end, instead of the common formula approach of a one-sto­ry-per-show seen in many tele­vision dramas. 
Another aspect of the real­ism in the show is the casting. The show has no high-profile stars, which has a few effects on the audience perception of the show. First, with no recog­nizable faces, viewers have no preconceived notions about the character because of the actor. 
Second, a bit more morbidly, with no stars in the show, the audience knows any character could die at any time, and the 
producers don’t have to commit to a character because of the actor playing him or her. 
“The Wire” didn’t win any major awards during the course of its run, and for the most part, the actors have not used the show as a trampoline to bigger success. But it is still without a doubt one of the greatest television shows of our generation. 
Unfortunately, it’s not currently on Netflix Instant streaming, meaning in order to be seen, it must be rented or ordered by mail for Netflix or even, God forbid, pur­chased. 
But it’s worth the money. If for no other reason, you’ll appreciate the respect and fear writers like Bill Simmons and Jason Whitlock have for Omar and his whistling way. 



Contact Kevin Noonan at knoonan2@nd.edu 
Wednesday, April 18, 2012 



A visit to speak about trade in the Western Hemisphere? Definitely presidential. A trip to hang out with Colombian prostitutes? Not so much. 
U.S. Secret Service agents and military personnel are under fire for allegedly spending time with a certain set of ladies during their South Ameri­can trip last week. While they suppos­edly pursued the rendezvous before President Barack Obama arrived, they’re feeling its repercussions long after its end. 
American Secret Service and military men, you may have had your night of fun, but now you’re having the worst week ever. 
Eleven Secret Service agents and at least ten military personnel are under investigation for misconduct, allegedly keeping the company of at least 20 women late into last Wednes­day night, according to CBS News. 
While prostitution is legal in Colombia, paying for special atten­tion ahead of Obama’s visit garnered these gentlemen a whole lot more than they bargained for. Once the media caught wind of the breeze blowing down south, headlines ex­ploded and investigations ensued. 
When Obama arrived at the sum­mit in Cartagena, he said the U.S. has “never felt more excited about pros­pects of working as equal partners with our brothers and sisters in Latin America and the Caribbean.” 
I don’t think this is what he meant. 
If the allegations are true, the United States isn’t going to look too fabulous. All this suspected fun time with friends comes at a price — liter­ally. 
Sen. Susan Collins of Maine, the senior Republican on the Homeland Security Committee, was none too pleased with the developments. 

“Could they have planted bugs, disabled weapons or in any other way jeopardized security of the president or our country?” she asked in a New York Times article. 
Gen. Martin E. Dempsey, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, told re­porters Monday the team was embar­rassed. 
“We let the boss down, because nobody is talking about what went down in Colombia other than this incident,” Dempsey said. 
The cat was let out of the bag after one woman supposedly demanded an additional payment of $170, accord­ing to The Washington Post. An agent got upset and the ensuing dispute drew hotel attention, The Post re­ported. 
Secret Service Director Mark Sulli­van acted quickly, and the Secret Ser­vice put 11 agents on administrative leave Saturday in lieu of the allega­tions. They’ve been stripped of their “top-secret” clearance and lost their official identification and firearms. 
Peter King, chairman of the House Homeland Security Committee, said there is no reason to believe security was compromised, but the team will still conduct investigations to be safe. 
While a casual dalliance might have been the intention, an exploding scandal is the reality. Men in charge of protecting the president are in a quandary, as their ability to protect themselves and America’s reputation comes into question. 
It sounds like the Secret Service’s services might need some fine-tuning and maybe a little reworking. Per­haps some time to reflect, regroup and refocus could serve the gentle­men well. As the situation continues to develop, one thing is for sure: the Secret Service’s secret ain’t a secret anymore. 
Contact Adriana Pratt at apratt@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 

By BRENNA WILLIAMS 
Scene Writer 

Some people are very good at remembering special events. I am not one of them. My friends are lucky if I remember their birthday during the same cal­endar month, let alone the correct day. 
For people like me, who often have to run out the door to a birthday party or social gathering after finding out about it five minutes beforehand, and also need to bring some sort of food in tow, this week’s recipe, Crispix Drops, is for you. If you have 15 minutes and these five ingredients, there is nothing stop­ping you from wowing crowds with a treat that tastes delicious, with minimal effort and time. As an added 
bonus for the non-bakers out there, this is another recipe that doesn’t use an oven! 
Ingredients: 2 cups butterscotch chips 1 cup chocolate chips 
Tip: Use your   favorite kind of chocolate. 
1 1/2 cups peanuts 
Tip: You can use chopped   or whole peanuts,   depending on what texture you want. 
4 cups Crispix cereal 
Tip: The recipe I was given   didn’t say to crush them,   but it might make the 



   mixing easier if you   slightly break them up. 
Instructions: 

1. Combine chips in a large pan and warm on low heat until melted. Stir until smooth. 
Tip: The instructions didn’t say to use a double boiler, meaning putting the   pan of chips over a pot of boiling water on the stove instead of applying   direct heat, but I heated my chips this way, as I am accident-prone and   burnt chocolate is awful. 
2. Remove from heat.  Add nuts and cereal.  Stir until well-coated. 
Tip: Add the nuts and cereal slowly, about a cup at a time to make mixing   easier. 
3.
 Use two spoons to drop cookies into haystack-like shapes on waxed paper or foil. 

4.
 Let set until firm. 


Tip: If you are getting ready to go out, make these, set the trays in the fridge   or freezer while you get ready, and they will be well-set by the time you’re   ready to head out the door. 
This week’s recipe came from South Bend community member Bridget Du-tile, who is quite the baker. Bridget told me that these easy Crispix Drops are by far her most popular treat, and with a total of 15 minutes of cooking, there is no reason not to make these. This recipe makes about 24 drops, plenty to give to your friend as a birthday treat, or to share at a gathering. As always, I welcome recommendations for my next baking adventure! 
Contact Brenna Williams at bwillia9@nd.edu 
LISA HOEYNCK | Observer Graphic 

SPORTS AUTHORITY 

In young MLB season, problems can be fixed 
One NFL regular season game. That’s the equivalent of the 10-or-so games Major League Baseball teams have played to this point in 2012. 
While a week­and-a-half is hardly insignifi­cant, it’s way too early to proclaim your team division champs, or relegate them to cellar-dweller status. 
If the entire season was determined after 10 games, the Orioles, Blue Jays, White Sox, Nationals and Mets would be among the 10 clubs reaching the postseason, and the Dodgers would enjoy the perk of home-field advan­tage throughout the National League playoffs. 
While we’re at it, why don’t we throw the Cubs into the mix for kicks and giggles? 
While trends from the first 10 games of the season are about as reliable as Professor Trelawney’s Divination class, there have been some pretty big headliners early in the 2012 campaign. 
Red Sox drama continues 
After an epic collapse to choke a playoff berth away in 2011, the only cure for Boston was the hope that comes with the start of a new season. 
Apparently, it’s not that simple. 
After enduring a three-game sweep in Detroit, a sweep that included three blown saves and a 10-0 beatdown, Boston realized it takes more than banning beer from the clubhouse and naming a new manager to right its ship. 
Especially when the new manager tries to push the buttons of a clubhouse leader like Kevin Youkilis by ques­tioning his commitment to the game. 
Youkilis’ teammates made it clear their support is with him, not the skipper, so Val­entine rightly backed off after realizing his blunder. 
Combine that with Jacoby Ellsbury’s dislocated shoul­der, and the Sox have a lot of work to do if they’re going to reach the postseason for the first time in three years. 

Giant pitching problems 
Giants stud starting pitcher Tim Lincecum delivered his best outing to date Monday. The only problem is he surren­dered five runs on eight hits in six innings in his best outing. 
The former Cy Young award winner has failed to pitch into the seventh in any of his three starts, and has given up nearly twice as many hits as innings pitched (22 and 13 2/3, respec­tively) in his three starts. 
While Lincecum has the opportunity to (and likely will) bounce back sooner or later, he won’t be handing the ball off to closer Brian Wil­son, who will undergo elbow reconstruction surgery and will miss the remainder of the 2012 season. 
With question marks sur­rounding two of their most im­portant players, and a strong start by the rival Dodgers in an all-of-the-sudden formi­dable NL West, the Giants’ prospects are looking less and less rosy by the day. 
Ozzie still being Ozzie 
It took all of four days for new Marlins manager Ozzie Guillen to make headlines because of his mouth, not his team’s play. 
“I love Fidel Castro ... I re­spect Fidel Castro. You know why? A lot of people have wanted to kill Fidel Castro for the last 60 years, but that [ex­pletive] is still here,” Guillen told Time magazine, before being suspended April 10. 
For the most part, Guillen’s controversial remarks target umpires and the happenings of a baseball game, but this time he really crossed the line. Especially as the manag­er in Miami. With a beautiful new stadium hoping to attract fans. In Little Havana. 
He’s fortunate he only re­ceived a five-game suspension for his comments, which he apologized for last week. 
In true Ozzie form, he’s taken the attention away from a team that could contend, and a ballpark that can pique fans’ interest, and put the spotlight directly on himself. 
Luckily for all three of these teams, it’s only April 18, and there’s 28 more weeks of baseball to go. 
Contact Andrew Owens at aowens2@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
MLB 

Clemens’ perjury trial continues 

Associated Press 
WASHINGTON — One po­tential juror was questioned for 68 minutes. Another for 64 — and he didn’t even make the cut. Along the way, Roger Clemens’ law­yer offered some clues as to his strategy once testimony gets under way, including a challenge to whether Con­gress had a legitimate pur­pose in holding the hearing at which the seven-time Cy Young Award winner testi­fied — and whether Clem­ens’ testimony was volun­tary. 
The laborious task of se­lecting a jury for the Clem­ens retrial resumed Tues­day and might not be done by the end of the week, with the judge and lawyers for both sides parsing pros­pects’ thoughts on topics as disparate as Barry Bonds and Lance Armstrong, Twitter and the reputation of the Justice Department. 
“To be completely hon­est, I dislike Barry Bonds. ... Truthfully, I believe he actually did it. I believe he used drugs,” said one man, a graphic designer who nevertheless was asked to return after he expressed neutral feelings about Cle­mens. 
The court is narrow­ing the initial jury pool of 90 down to 36, from which to select the final 12 ju­rors and four alternates who will decide whether Clemens lied when he de­nied using steroids and hu­man growth hormone before a U.S. House committee in February 2008. The extra 20 are needed because Clemens’ lawyers are allowed to strike 12 and prosecutors, eight — without giving any reason. 
By the end of the second day, only 32 Washingtonians had been questioned, with 15 — 11 women and four men — meeting the initial approval of U.S. District Judge Reggie Walton. 
Jury selection will contin­ue at least through Thurs­day, and no session is sched­uled for Friday. Even the judge’s “10-minute break” in the morning ended up lasting 25 minutes. 
“Things aren’t going as fast as I thought,” Walton said early in the afternoon. 
Finding potential jurors without some preconceived opinion about the case — or whether it’s worth the time and expense for the govern­ment to pursue it — has been challenging. Among those who were excused was the woman who told the judge: “I feel like I know too much.” She said she had discussed the case with friends and added: “I frankly question the legitimacy of bringing this to this court.” 
It was during question­ing of one potential juror that Clemens’ attorney Rusty Hardin raised the issue of whether Clemens truly “vol­untarily appeared” before Congress. Clemens was not subpoenaed to testify at the 2008 hearing, and the gov­ernment has always main­tained that he testified on his own will. 
Clemens’ lawyers also filed a memo with the court that argued the government must show that the hearing was a “competent tribunal.” The memo listed a dozen “exam­ples of Congressional con­duct that exceeds the power to investigate,” including “asking a witness to appear before a committee to give him an opportunity to tell his side of the story.” 
“There’s going to be a chal­lenge by the defense as to the propriety of the hearing ... and the way it was conduct­ed,” Hardin told one juror. 
Clemens, wearing a dark pinstriped suit and red tie, remained silent during the proceedings, listening to the questioning and often look­ing at notes. 
Among the potential jurors asked to return was law­yer who is a distant relative of Hall of Fame pitcher Bob Feller. Among those excused was a woman who realized serving on the case might lead to domestic disharmony. 
“You’re in that Clemens case, aren’t you?” she said her husband asked as they rode in the car after Mon­day’s session. 
“Judge said for me not to talk about this,” she said she answered. 
“We did not talk the whole night,” the woman said. “I said, ‘This ain’t going to work in my house.’” 

CLASSIFIEDS  The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds.  
PERSONAL  Lyrics: Somewhere Over the Rainbow  Someday I’ll wish upon a star And wake up where the clouds are  If happy little bluebirds fly beyond the rainbow  Lost track of how far I’ve gone How far I’ve gone, how high I’ve  Wearin’ the cross of my calling On wheels of fire I come rollin’  
Performed by Judy Garland  far behind me.  Why, oh why can’t I?  climbed  down here  
Come on up for the rising  
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don’t  Somewhere over the rainbow, way  Where troubles melt like lemon  Lyrics: The Rising  On my back’s a sixty pound stone  Come on up, lay your hands in  
go it alone. Notre Dame has many  up high  drops,  Bruce Springsteen  On my shoulder a half mile line  mine  
resources in place to assist you.  There’s a land that I’ve heard of  High above the chimney tops,  Can’t see nothin’ in front of me  
If you or someone you love needs  once in a lullaby.  That’s where you’ll find me.  Can’t see nothin’ coming up  Come on up for the rising  Come on up for the rising  
confidential support or assistance,  behind  Com on up, lay your hands in mine  Come on up for the rising tonight  
please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819.  Somewhere over the rainbow,  I make my way through this  Come on up for the rising  
For more information, visit ND’s  skies are blue  Somewhere over the rainbow, blue  darkness  Come on up for the rising tonight  
website at:  And the dreams that you dare to  birds fly  I can’t feel nothing but this chain  Left the house this morning  Bartlet for America.  
dream,  Birds fly over the rainbow  that binds me  Bells ringing filled the air  
http://pregnancysupport@nd.edu  Really do come true.  Why then, oh why can’t I?  

NBA 

Knicks keep division title hopes alive with victory 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK — Carmelo An­thony had 35 points, 12 rebounds and 10 assists for his second ca­reer triple-double, and the New York Knicks made 19 3-pointers to keep alive their Atlantic Divi­sion title hopes with a 118-110 victory over the Boston Celtics on Tuesday night. 
JR Smith and Steve Novak both scored 25 points for the Knicks, who overcame a season-high 43 points from Paul Pierce and moved into sole possession of seventh place in the Eastern Con­ference while trimming Boston’s division lead to 3½ games. The Celtics would have wrapped up their fifth straight Atlantic title with a victory. 
Instead, the Knicks staggered them with a record-tying 14 3-pointers in a 72-point first half and equaled their season high by finishing 19 of 32 behind the arc. They improved to 14-5 under in­terim coach Mike Woodson. 
Tyson Chandler had 20 points on 9-of-10 shooting for the Knicks, who finished one short of their franchise record for 3s, set last season. 
Kevin Garnett scored 20 points for the Celtics, who fell out of a three-way tie for fourth in the East with Atlanta and Orlando. Rajon Rondo had 13 points and 13 assists. 
Playing without the injured Ray Allen, the Celtics got a brief scare in the third quarter when Rondo landed hard on his back going for a rebound and remained on the court for a few minutes while be­ing attended to before remaining in the game. 
Woodson has repeatedly said the division title was his goal, even though the Knicks’ 18-24 record when he took over always made that unlikely. Boston coach Doc Rivers said he’s never talked to the Celtics about winning a di­vision title or congratulated them for doing so, but there’s no doubt it’s worth having this season. Di­vision winners are guaranteed to be seeded no worse than No. 4, avoiding Chicago or Miami until at least the second round. 
Allen missed his fifth straight game when he felt pain in his right ankle Tuesday morning. He had gone through the morn­ing shootaround and Rivers as­sumed he was set to play before the pain returned. Neither was sure if Allen would play Wednes­day against Orlando. 
Allen, the NBA’s career leader in 3-pointers made, would have fit in perfectly in this game. 
The Celtics jumped to an 8-2 lead, but the rest of the first half belonged to the Knicks. New York scored the final 10 points of the first quarter, going up 32-26 be­hind 12 points from Anthony and 63 percent shooting. 
The Knicks then scored eight straight points to open the sec­ond quarter, capping an 18-0 run when Smith’s 3-pointer made it 40-26 with 9:16 left. Consecutive 3s by Mike Bibby and Smith later made it 54-35 midway through the second, and the lead reached 20 points when Novak was fouled while making a 25-footer, falling backward out of bounds and into the arms of Woodson — the only time anyone got near a Knicks shooter in the half. 
Novak hit two more before halftime, the Knicks taking a 72­53 lead into the locker rooms as The Gap Band’s “You Dropped a Bomb on Me” played over Madi­son Square Garden’s speakers. But Pierce had 17 points in the third quarter to get the Celtics back into it, and the Knicks led 96-84 after three. 
When Rondo landed hard in the third quarter, a long jumper by Anthony was reviewed by of­ficials as the Celtics attended to him on the court and changed to yet another 3-pointer. 
The Celtics finally got within single digits late in the game, with Pierce scoring four straight to cut it to 112-106 with 3:07 left. But Novak hit two 3-pointers around a jumper by Rondo, put­ting it away at 118-108. 
Notes: The Celtics played with­out swingman Mickael Pietrus, who was sent back to Boston with knee pain that Rivers as­sumed was caused by playing on three straight nights after a lengthy absence with a head in­jury. ... The Knicks play their next three on the road and have just one home game remaining, next Wednesday against the Los An­geles Clippers. ... The Celtics fin­ished 1-6 this season on the road against division rivals. 



MLB 

Braves take advantage of Met miscues in 9-3 victory 
Associated Press 
ATLANTA — The Atlanta Braves finally beat the New York Mets, taking advantage of shaky defense to hand Jo­han Santana the shortest start of his career in a 9-3 victory Tuesday night. 
Tyler Pastornicky’s two-run double highlighted a five-run second that fin­ished off Santana. Randall Delgado (2-0) won it for the Braves, who lost their first four games against the Mets this season. 
Two costly errors — Jason Bay dropped a fly ball, Ike Davis made a wild throw — led to a pair of unearned runs against Santana (0-2), who allowed just one run in his first two games. 
He was lifted after 1 1-3 innings, finished off by Ja­son Heyward’s run-scoring single that made it 6-0. San­tana had never gone less than three innings in his previous 265 starts. 
The night turned cool and blustery after an afternoon storm front moved through Atlanta, forcing the teams to use the indoor cages for batting practice. 
The swirling winds led to some adventurous plays in the field. Leading off in the bottom of the first, Mi­chael Bourn lifted a fly ball to deep left that looked like an easy out for Bay. After all, he had leaped above the wall the night before to pre­vent a homer by Jack Wil­son. 
This time, the ball deflect­ed off the side of Bay’s glove at the edge of the warning 
NCAA FOOTBALL 

Petrino’s mistress leaves post with university 
track, an error that left Bourn at second base. He tagged and went to third on Heyward’s fly out, then did it again on Chipper Jones’ sacrifice fly. 
The Braves blew it open in the second. Dan Uggla led off with a walk, Matt Diaz singled to center and Fred­die Freeman kept fouling pitches off until he got one he liked from Santana. On the 11th pitch of the at-bat, the first baseman lined an opposite-field double into the left-field corner to bring home Uggla. 
Pastornicky followed with another opposite-field double, this one just inside the first-base bag to give Atlanta a 4-0 lead. Then, with Delgado putting down a bunt, Davis made an ill-advised decision to take a shot at Pastornicky instead of the sure out at first. It would’ve been close even with a good throw, but Davis flung it far wide of the bag, the ball skipping down the left-field line while Pastor­nicky trotted home. 
Bourn finally made the first out of the inning on a grounder to second, but Heyward’s RBI single to left-center ended Santana’s night. He gave up four hits, walked one and didn’t strike out anyone — the first time that’s happened to him as a starter. 
The Mets took advantage of an Atlanta defensive mis­cue in the fourth. Bay lift­ed a popup behind second base, but Uggla never saw it and none of his teammates arrived in time to make the catch. The ball fell to the ground, giving Bay a fortu­itous double. 


He scored on the first of three straight two-out hits, Josh Thole’s single to center. Kirk Nieuwenhuis kept it going, and pitch-hitter Mike Baxter ripped an RBI single up the middle to make it 6-2. Delgado escaped a poten­tially big inning by getting Ruben Tejada to pop out to Freeman against the railing in front of the Braves’ first-base dugout. 
Tejada swiped at his bat in disgust, knowing he had missed a chance to get the Mets back in the game. 
The Braves regained their six-run lead in the fifth against Ramon Ramirez. Diaz had a sacrifice fly and Freeman drove in his sec­ond run of the night with a two-out single. 
Delgado went 5 1-3 innings and allowed three runs and seven hits. Kris Medlen got out of a jam in the sixth by striking out David Wright, pitching 2 2-3 scoreless in­nings. Juan Francisco add­ed a pinch-hit homer for the Braves in the eighth. 
Associated Press 
FAYETTEVILLE, Ark.  — The former mistress of fired University of Arkansas football coach Bobby Petrino has resigned from her po­sition with the program, school of­ficials announced Tuesday. 
Jessica Dorrell’s decision to step down as the football team’s student-athlete development coordinator was mutual and there are no im­mediately plans to re-fill the job, Athletic Director Jeff Long said in a statement. 
Dorrell will be paid about $14,000 to settle “all matters between the parties.” 
“While Ms. Dorrell had a legiti­mate right to apply for and accept a position within the football pro­gram, the circumstances surround­ing the former coach’s decision to hire her compromised her ability to be effective in such a position,” Long said. “She and I believe she should have the opportunity to move on.” 
As part of her resignation, Dorrell agreed she would not attempt to sell or profit from her affiliation with Razorback athletics, officials said. 
Dorrell didn’t immediately return a message seeking comment Tues­day night. 
Long fired Petrino last week for not disclosing that he was having an extramarital affair with Dorrell, as required by conflict of interest rules at the school. 
Dorrell, a former Arkansas volleyball player, was a Razor­back Foundation fundraiser be­fore she was hired over 158 other applicants for the coordinator position. Petrino announced March 28 that Dorrell would take over the position at a salary of nearly $56,000. 
Their affair became public af­ter the two went for a motorcycle ride April 1 and skidded off the road, putting Petrino in the hos­pital and resulting in a police re­port that contained her identity. 
Long has said the two were in a relationship for a “significant” amount of time. Phone records show they exchanged more than 4,300 text messages and nearly 300 phone calls over the past seven months, and possibly pho­to and video content. 
She was placed on leave after news of the affair broke. 
Petrino has apologized and said he would not appeal his fir­ing and seek any of the $18 mil­lion buyout that was part of his contract. He had the option to appeal as part of the seven-year contract he agreed to in Decem­ber 2010. The contract was for more than $3.5 million annually and carried the $18 million mu­tual buyout clause in 2011 and 2012. 


MLB 

Cleveland signs Damon to one-year deal 
Associated Press on a few more, possibly. It’s that right mix. A team that’s 
CLEVELAND — Johnny as youthful as they are, and Damon has left the on-deck adding a guy like Derek Lowe circle. He’s officially with the during the offseason, and Cleveland Indians. now adding a guy like me, 
Next stop: The starting hopefully we can give them a lineup — and maybe the boost and some experience.” 3,000-hit club. Damon is at the team’s 
The 38-year-old outfielder year-round training complex signed a minor league con-in Goodyear, Ariz., getting tract on Tuesday, the next game ready after not being step before he joins the ma-in a spring camp for the first jor league club and possibly time since he was picked in moves into a permanent spot the first round by Kansas City in left field. The sides agreed in 1995. Damon, who needs on a $1.25 million deal last 277 hits to reach 3,000 in his week, when the Indians were career, will likely spend some off to a sluggish start with a time with Triple-A Columbus team batting average below before joining the Indians. .200. Damon thinks he can be 
However, general manager ready soon. Chris Antonetti said he had “I feel like I can be ready been in talks with Damon and in a week,” said Damon, who his agent Scott Boras long be-spent Tuesday running, shag-fore the Indians opened 1-4. ging flies and lifting weights. The Indians believe Damon, “I kept myself in pretty good entering his 17th season and shape during the offseason. with an impressive resume of That’s why I don’t think it’s postseason experience, can going to be too long. But, I keep them keep climbing in also understand that when the standings. the Cleveland Indians do 
“We still think he has some get me, I need to be in great quality baseball in him,” An-shape and just be healthy and tonetti said. ready to go.” 
Damon, who can earn an-When he’s brought up, Da­other $1.4 million in per-mon will likely take over in formance bonuses based on left field for Duncan, a part-plate appearances, is excited time player in the past who about joining the Indians — has been starting this sea-his seventh AL team. He’ll be son. Duncan was needed in reunited with former team-left because the Indians had mates Shelley Duncan, Derek to implement an outfield Once Sizemore returns, An-day. He’ll have to earn play-was the 16th consecutive Lowe and Casey Kotchman. shift, moving Michael Brant-tonetti said it’s possible the ing time and continue to pro-season Damon has played at 
“They’re a team that’s ley over to center with Grady Indians could carry five out-duce to stay in manager Man-least 140 games, a feat he building for the future, but Sizemore on the disabled list fielders — Damon, Brantley, ny Acta’s lineup. shares with only Hank Aar­they also have a chance to win following back surgery. Duncan, Sizemore and Shin-“I understand the game on, Brooks Robinson and Pete now,” Damon said. “That’s Duncan has delivered. He Soo Choo — the rest of this and how guys can get hot and Rose. a good thing to have. They leads the Indians with a .320 season. you can’t take them out of the Damon has appeared in locked up a few players and I average entering Tuesday Damon knows there are no lineup,” he said on a confer-59 postseason games for the know they might be working night’s game in Seattle. guarantees he’ll play every ence call. “I also understand Rays, Oakland Athletics, New 
that I can get hot and it can York Yankees and Boston Red be tough to get me out of the Sox. lineup. I’m here for the team. The 3,000-hit milestone is It’s not a story about me. It’s right in front of him, but Da­a story about the Cleveland mon said it was never a per-Indians adding another guy sonal goal. to help them throughout the He’ll retire one day, but he’s season. Whatever role it’s go-not planning to stop anytime ing to be — a platoon thing soon. or an everyday thing or spell “I’m playing to win,” he guys when they’re tired, play said. “I’m playing for the a little first — I’m up for Tribe fans. I’m playing for whatever.” the Indians organization. I’m 
A career .286 hitter, Da-not really playing for myself. mon also brings the Indians Obviously, I always want to leadership and playoff ex-go out there and play well perience. As Antonetti said, and treat the game with re-Damon is “universally re-spect, but there’s a lot of fans spected” and can serve as a out there that really wanted mentor to some of Cleveland’s to see me keep pushing and younger players. But the In-keep fighting.” dians believe his biggest “I wasn’t ready to pack it impact will be between the up. So 3,000 could be on the lines despite approaching 40, horizon, but if it comes or when most major leaguers not, when I leave this game I have retired. want to make sure there’s no 
Last season, Damon batted regrets. As long as I keep do­.261 with 29 doubles, seven ing what I did last year, and triples, 16 homers, 73 RBIs hopefully this is a successful and 19 steals in 150 games year, I’m going to keep go-for the Tampa Bay Rays. It ing.” 
Notre Dame softball,” Bun-
McGee 
tin said. “We have to focus on winning each inning by continued from page 20 playing solid defense and 
putting the ball in play reer victories, and boasts hard. Having confidence in a 33-inning stretch void of our team that we can get earned runs. McGee may not the job done is another key appear in this game if the aspect that needs to change Crusaders choose to save within our team.” her for their three-game se-The first pitch in Notre ries against UIC beginning Dame’s matchup with Val-Saturday, but if she does, praiso will be thrown at 5 the Irish lineup is ready to p.m. tonight in Melissa Cox shatter her streak, Buntin Stadium. said. 
“Tomorrow we plan on Contact Megan Finneran at playing seven innings of mfinnera@nd.edu 



Halfpenny 
continued from page 20 
“I really think they have one of the best players in the coun­try in Ally Carey,” Halfpenny said. “She can really make a difference on the draw, so that will be an area we focus on.” 
On the other end of the field, the Irish will look to continue thriving off a balanced attack. The team has had eight or more players score in each of the past two games, which means op­posing defenses can’t single out any one player to key on, Half­penny said. 
“We have offensive systems, but at the same time there’s a lot of freedom to be creative within it. Everyone needs to contribute in their own unique way,” Halfpenny said. “A key component to our success this season is that we’ve had eight to 10 scoring threats in any giv­en game. When we’re able to do that, it makes it difficult for any defensive scheme.” 
The season is beginning to wind down for the Irish, and as it does every game takes on increased importance for post­season seeding and securing a spot in the NCAA tournament. But even with all the pressure, the Irish insist the furthest they are looking into the future is this afternoon’s opening fa­ceoff. 
“Right now we’re just tak­ing things one game at a time and one day at a time,” Half­penny said. “There’s so many new things this year that we’re just staying focused on the little things, and letting those take 

Hudgins 
continued from page 20 
about how to get places, and what to do with this and that, so he definitely helped.” 
In addition to fielding calls from their mother to assure her Mac was well taken-care of, Will said it has occasionally been dif­ficult to balance his roles as team captain and older brother. 
“It’s been kind of tough for me as a senior and as a captain, just to avoid any favoritism when it comes to Mac,” Will said. “I think I hold Mac to a higher standard. I think the great thing is that most of the guys on the team really like Mac, and that makes everything a lot easier.” 
Irish coach Mik Aoki, who coached twin broth­ers during his tenure at Boston College, said the key to managing siblings is to avoid assuming they have similar personali­ties. 
“I just try to deal with each kid individually,” Aoki said. “I think they deserve that. Will and Mac are two very differ­ent kids, and they play two different positions.” 
Aoki said having siblings on the team helps his pro­gram. 
“I think it’s neat. It’s one of the great things about Notre Dame. There is a lot of legacy and family and all those dif­ferent types of things here, and to have that in the base­ball program is great,” Aoki said. “They’re two great kids and they come from a great family, so we’re really happy to have them on the team.” 
Will said he has enjoyed both his time on and off the field with his brother. 
“I think the upside is that I get to hang out with Mac at baseball, but then we try to hang out away from base­ball,” Will said. “When we’re at baseball, it can be kind of stressful and we’re more worried about what’s going on on the field.” 
And when the two do hang out, their competitive ten­dencies still come out. 
“We’re typical brothers. We argue and compete about everything,” Will said. “It just happens at Notre Dame now.” 
The Hudgins brothers, and their teammates, will re­turn to the field Friday when they take on Georgetown in Bethesda, Md., at 7 p.m. 
Contact Vicky Jacobsen at vjacobse@nd.edu 
care of the big things.” 
The Irish and the Commo­dores will square off at Arlotta Stadium at 2 p.m. 
Contact Jack Hefferon at wheffero@nd.edu 
SMC SOFTBALL 

Belles drop doubleheader at home 
By NICK BOYLE 
Sports Writer 
Saint Mary’s dropped both games of its home doubleheader Tuesday afternoon, falling to conference-foe Trine by scores of 7-1 and 6-1. 
Trine got off to an early start in the first game, scoring runs in the first four innings to lead 6-0 halfway through the contest. 
The Belles (20-10, 5-5 MIAA) at­tempted to rally in the bottom of the fourth, with freshman outfielder Victoria Connelly pushing across a run with an RBI single. 
Unfortunately for Saint Mary’s, Trine thwarted the Belles’ rally at­tempt, and didn’t allow the hosts another run. 
“We had some great at-bats, but just couldn’t score the runners we had on,” Belles coach Erin Sullivan said. “We missed out on timely hit­ting.” 
Trine would score once more in the contest, with the game ending with a score of 7-1. 
Though they created many chances, the Belles struggled to get runs on the board. 
“We left bases loaded twice in the first game, and ended the game with 10 left on base, so that hurt us a lot,” Sullivan said. 
The second game was much of the same for Saint Mary’s, with Trine stringing together several ear­ly hits. The visitors’ prowess at the plate paid off for the Thunder in the fifth inning, as they scored six runs to take a 6-0 lead. This would be the only scoring of the game for Trine. 
Sullivan said the Thunder were able to capitalize on the Belles’ er­rors in the fifth inning. 
“Our pitching was good, but Trine was able to string hits to­gether and managed to score on our mistakes,” Sullivan said. 
Saint Mary’s responded right away in the top of the sixth, with ju­nior catcher Morgan Bedan’s RBI fielder’s choice putting the home team on the board. Saint Mary’s strung together two more hits to­gether in the inning, but were ul­timately kept from scoring again. “It was a good team effort, but we took ourselves out of the games with our mistakes,” Sullivan said. 
Sullivan said she hopes her team will get another chance to play Trine in the MIAA tournament in a few weeks. 
“We are hoping to face them again in the tournament, and make the necessary adjustments to take away a win,” Sullivan said. 
The Belles next travel to Albion College for a doubleheader Thurs­day at 3:30 p.m. 
Contact Nick Boyle at nboyle1@nd.edu 
SMC GOLF 

O’Brien leads squad to NCAAs 
By BRENDAN BELL 
Sports Writer 
In the first round of the MIAA tournament and NCAA qualifier, Saint Mary’s sophomore Doyle O’Brien continued her domi­nance on the links, placing first overall with a score of 71 to pull the Belles into first in the four-team field. 
O’Brien’s 71 led the rest of the field by six strokes, and sparked the Belles’ first-round score of 324, which was 21 shots better than second-place Olivet. 
It was not just O’Brien con­tributing for the Belles, as Saint Mary’s placed four total golfers in the top-10. O’Brien has now shot the lowest score for Saint Mary’s in the last three out­ings. Following behind O’Brien for second place was sophomore Paige Pollak, who shot a 77. 
Belles senior captain Natalie Matuszak and freshman Janice Heffernan tied for eighth place, both shooting an 88. After play­ing some challenging courses in the past few weeks, the Belles recorded a team score of 324 
— the lowest single-day perfor­mance of the season for Saint Mary’s. 
With momentum in the right direction and the Belles peaking at the right time, Saint Mary’s has now secured a strong lead over its three competitors in the MIAA conference tournament. Whichever school wins the tour­nament after two more rounds of competition will qualify for the upcoming NCAA champion­ships, set to take place at Zollner Golf Club in Angola, Ind. 
The Belles visited Zollner Golf Club in the fall, where they shot a collective score of 342. Now, Saint Mary’s is revamped, with a new set of golfers that did not compete in the fall season. 
The Belles will travel to Mar­shall, Mich., for the second round of the NCAA qualifiers, holding a 21 stroke lead over Olivet. 
Saint Mary’s will tee off at Medalist Golf Club starting at 1 
p.m. on Friday, Apr. 27. 
Contact Brendan Bell at bbell2@nd.edu 


MLB 

Ozzie Guillen returns as Marlins defeat Cubs 5-2 
Associated Press 
MIAMI — There was no protest and just one heckler. The only boos were directed toward the plate umpire, and by the eighth inning Ozzie Guillen’s Miami Marlins had the crowd in such a happy frenzy that the roar shook the clubhouse. 
Guillen made a victorious re­turn to the dugout Tuesday night, and pitchers Josh Johnson and Heath Bell snapped out of early-season slumps to help beat the Chicago Cubs 5-2. 
When the dugout emptied and Guillen joined his players on the field for the postgame celebra­tion, there were only cheers from the crowd. 
“It was great to perform and hug Ozzie again,” Bell said. “We really want to win for him and try to put all that other stuff be­hind him.” 
Guillen returned from a five-game suspension imposed after his comments praising Fidel Cas­tro caused a backlash in South Florida, especially among Cuban Americans. 
Johnson allowed two runs in seven innings and Bell earned the save after several rocky out­ings. Streaking Hanley Ramirez broke a 2-all tie with a three-run homer in the eighth, his third. 
For Guillen, the win was a re­lief. 
“Thank God this day is over with,” he said. 
No demonstrations targeted at Guillen were evident, although a screaming fan in the second deck did call the Marlins manager an insulting name several times midway through the game. There were boos when Guillen ran onto the field to complain about a call in the seventh inning, but they were for the ump. 
Guillen said what he heard from the crowd was supportive. 
“Everything was pretty nice,” he said. “It made my day a little easier. I appreciate the way peo­ple were, not just with me but with the team.” 
Some fans had pledged to stay away in protest. Announced at­tendance was 24,544, by far the smallest in five games at the Marlins’ new ballpark. 
The game was tied at 2 when Jose Reyes reached on an error by second baseman Darwin Bar­ney to start the Miami eighth. 
“It seems like when something like that happens, something bad is going to happen,” Barney said. “It was just not a good way to start that inning. It’s my fault.” 
Reyes took second on a passed ball and Emilio Bonifa­cio walked. Ramirez, who had a game-ending single in the 11th inning Sunday, followed with a homer off Rafael Dolis (0-1). 
Johnson was in the clubhouse when Ramirez came through. 
“This thing was shaking,” he said. “I was like, ‘Something good must have happened.’” 
Ramirez has gone 8 for 12 with seven RBIs in the past three games to hike his average from .133 to .286. 
“That’s what I’m here for — to drive in runs,” Ramirez said. 
With the retractable roof open on a 76-degree night, both teams struggled for runs much of the way. The Marlins went 2 for 10 with runners in scoring position, while the Cubs grounded into four double plays. 
Johnson had a solid outing for the first time in three starts, low­ering his ERA from 8.38 to 5.94. 
“Two things very nice hap­pened today besides the win,” Guillen said. “One was seeing J.J. throw the ball the way he did. He needs that, and so do we. And the second thing was the opportu­nity for Heath Bell to go out there and do what he does best.” 
Bell, an All-Star closer ac­quired during the Marlins’ off­season spending binge, pitched a perfect ninth for his first save in three chances. 
“It was like a huge weight off my back, plain and simple, I’ll be honest,” Bell said. “I’m trying to get my teammates to trust me, and this is a good start.” 
Steve Cishek (1-0) pitched a hit­less eighth and has yet to allow run in eight games. 
The Cubs’ Ryan Dempster re­mained winless in 12 starts since Aug. 16 even though he lowered his ERA to 1.33. He pitched six innings and gave up two runs, both unearned because of his er­rant throw to first on a grounder. 
“I wish I could have thrown the ball better to first base,” he said. “The results would have prob­ably been different.” 



MLB 

Moyer’s win makes him oldest in MLB history to earn victory 
Associated Press 
DENVER — Jamie Moyer turned in a vintage performance in be­coming the oldest pitcher to ever win a major league game. 
The 49-year-old Moyer threw seven masterful innings and Dex­ter Fowler hit a two-run homer, helping the Colorado Rockies hold on for a 5-3 win over the San Diego Padres on Tuesday night. 
Moyer (1-2) was sharp all eve­ning as he picked up his 268th career win, tying him with Hall of Famer Jim Palmer for 34th on the career list. 
Relying on a consistent cutter and mixing in a 78-mph fastball, the cunning lefty gave up just six hits and two runs — both un­earned — as he kept the Padres hitters at bay and off balance. 
That’s been a winning recipe for Moyer over a career that’s stretched nearly a quarter century and included 689 games. 
Anthony Bass, a pitcher half Moyer’s age, went five innings and gave up three runs. Bass (0-2) also had a career-high seven strike­outs. 
Moyer earned that elusive win for the ages in his third start of the season. His is 49 years, 150 days old. 

That’s important to note since before Moyer’s gem the oldest pitcher to win a game in the ma­jors was Jack Quinn of the Brook­lyn Dodgers on Sept. 13, 1932, fly to right to cut the lead to 3-2. like a spry rookie than a veteran the fourth. Rosario was in the line-Before the game, Kotsay was when he was 49 years, 70 days old. Moyer ended the threat by get-nearing retirement. up after starter Ramon Hernandez giving pointers to his impression-
Rex Brothers pitched the eighth ting pinch hitter Jeremy Hermida Moyer enticed the Padres to hit experienced a little soreness in his able teammates on how to hit Moy­and Rafael Betancourt survived to ground out to second on a 76-into three double plays, despite left hand after a swing he took the er’s methodical pitches. a rocky ninth — giving up a solo mph cutter. warnings before the game by Mark night before. “Be patiently aggressive,” Andy homer to Nick Hundley and put-The Rockies added two insur-Kotsay — the one player who’s con-Kotsay’s first plate appearance Parrino recounted. “Make him ting two more runners on — be-ance runs in the eighth as Michael sistently hit Moyer — to remain pa-of the season was a single in the come to us a little bit more. Oh, and fore striking out Yonder Alonso Cuddyer doubled in a run off for-tient. Then again, it’s difficult to lay opening inning. Kotsay was ac-make him stay in the strike zone. to earn his third save in as many mer Rockies closer Huston Street off a pitch that looks so juicy. tivated off the disabled list on Because there’s a reason he’s been chances. and Wilin Rosario added a sacri-The aged wonder used his Monday after missing the first 10 pitching for so long.” 
About the only blemish to the fice fly. wealth of experience to his advan-games with a strained right calf Moyer doesn’t have a blazing night were two more errors by Away from the mound, Moyer tage against the young Padres, six muscle. fastball, but he does have this — smooth-fielding shortstop Troy hardly looks like a kid anymore. of whom weren’t even born when That his first hit should be pinpoint precision. Tulowitzki, giving him six already He has gray streaks in his hair and Moyer made his major league de-against Moyer hardly comes as Padres manager Bud Black cer­this season. The Gold Glove win-frequently dons reading glasses but in 1986. That included Bass, a surprise since the 36-year-old tainly appreciates the cleverness ner had six all of last year. that sit perched on the tip of his who has fond memories of Coors Kotsay has a .583 lifetime aver-of Moyer, marveling from the dug-
His fielding error in the seventh nose. This betrays his age too: He’s Field after winning his debut in age against Moyer. They even ex-out at the vintage pitcher who went proved quite costly and nearly on the verge of receiving his AARP the hitter friendly stadium last changed friendly grins after each to spring training without a guar­spoiled Moyer’s place in the record card. June. of Kotsay’s two singles. anteed roster spot and performed books. With two on and one out, But once he steps on the mound Fowler gave the Rockies a 2-0 The two veterans haven’t faced his way onto the team. He missed Tulowitzki had a routine double that youthful exuberance returns. lead in the third when he laced an each other since June 13, 2006, all of 2011 as he recovered from a play ball go right through his legs, He’s transformed into a kid 83-mph changeup from Bass into when Kotsay was with the Oak-surgically repaired ligament in his leading to a run. Jason Bartlett again, sprinting out to the mound the bleachers in right field. land A’s and Moyer a member of elbow. brought in another with a sacrifice after each inning. He looked more Rosario added an RBI double in Seattle Mariners. “It’s a great story,” Black said. 

Campbell 
continued from page 20 
the Belles’ schedule. The third matchup is against Hope Col­lege. Hope (12-6, 5-0 MIAA) boasts a solid overall record and is undefeated in the con­ference, which makes things even tougher for the Belles, Campbell said. 
“Hope is usually one of the strongest teams in our con­ference,” Campbell said. “So, realistically, perhaps we may have to win all three to make a mark in the tournament.” 
As such, it’s an uphill strug­gle for the Belles. On either Thursday or Friday, the Belles will make the trip to Adrian to try to pull out a win and reach a .500 mark in the con­ference. Until that match is scheduled, the next date on the Belles schedule is home against Kalamazoo on April 
24. That matchup will begin at 4 p.m. at the Eck Tennis Pavilion. 


Contact Aaron Sant-Miller at asantmil@nd.edu 

WILL SHORTz EUgENIA LAST 
CROSSWORD HOROSCOPE 

HENRy ARNOLD 

JAMES SOLLITTO, CODy ECKERT and JOHN FLATLEy 
JUMBLE
LONDON EXPRESS 
MIKE ARgIRION 






Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556

 Enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year


 Enclosed
 is $75 for one semester 


Name ____________________________________________________ Address __________________________________________________ City ____________________ State___________ Zip______________ 

Wednesday, April 18, 2012 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 20 
BASEBALL 

Brothers in arms 
By VICKY JACOBSEN 
Sports Writer 
When Irish senior right-handed pitcher Will Hudgins and his younger brother, freshman outfielder Mac Hudgins, were growing up, their three-year age gap kept them from competing on the same teams — but it defi­nitely didn’t keep them from competing with each other. 
“I’d say pretty much our entire relationship is based around competing at almost everything, including eat­ing,” Will said. “The youngest child [brother Jay] learned that he had to eat all his food really fast, because Mac and I would take it if he didn’t eat it fast enough.” 
Video games also proved to be a contentious activity. 
“Video games are very, very competitive, except Mac usually wins,” Will said. “That really frustrates me.” 
“I win a lot of stuff,” Mac said. “I remember the time I beat [Will] in putt-putt and [he] wouldn’t talk to me the whole way home.” 
But when it came time for Mac to look at colleges, Will put aside any miniature-golfing grievances and lob­bied for his younger brother to join him in South Bend. 
“He helped convince me to come here,” Mac said. “At the same time, he didn’t really need to because it’s Notre Dame, and it’s where I wanted to go at the end of the day.” 

WOMEN’S LACROSSE 
Irish to face Vanderbilt in midweek competition 
By JACK HEFFERON 
Sports Writer 
Coming in hot off two of its largest wins of the season, No. 7 Notre Dame will look to keep the momentum rolling today when it takes on No. 19 Vander­bilt in a rare midweek matinee. 
After receiving their first two losses of the season back-to-back against No. 14 Loyola and No. 2 Syracuse, the Irish (10-2, 4-2 Big East) were forced to go to the drawing board, and back to basics. Since then, the team has rebounded in a big way, besting Villanova and Connecticut by a combined 20 goals. 
“We did a lot of work last week before Connecticut, knowing that what we did then would directly be benefitting us for these two games this week, as well,” Irish coach Christine Halfpenny said. “We went back to the fundamentals last week and we got better at them, and we were able to see that pro­gression throughout the course of the game at UConn. So I was really pleased with that.” 
That simplistic approach has succeeded for the Irish so far, but it will be tested once again by the deceptively tough Commodores (7-6, 1-4 ALC). While its record might indicate a middle-of-the-pack team, Vanderbilt has turned in some surprising victories nationally this season, and Halfpenny said the Commodore offense is one of the best in the country. 
“We’re going to have to con­tain their high-scoring of­fense,” she said. “You’ve got to respect what they can do with that ball. They move it around, and are able to thread the needle with their passes. They have a selfless style of offense, so that means our defense has to be ready, and has to play a step ahead of their offense.” 
Chief among the concerns for the Irish defense will be Com­modore senior midfielder Ally Carey, who leads the team in shots, goals and points. But while Irish junior goalkeeper Ellie Hilling will be focused on Carey’s shot, Halfpenny is more worried about the senior’s ability on the draw, where her 64 draw controls place her in the nation’s top-10. 
see HALFPENNY/page 16 
SMC TENNIS 

Going gets tough for Belles on road ahead 
By AARON SANT-MILLER 
Sports Writer 
Wins are important to the Belles regardless of the oppo­nent, but the real focus for the team is making a mark the con­ference. Monday, Saint Mary’s struggled to do that, falling to MIAA foe Calvin 6-3 at home. 
“[Losing a third conference game] definitely puts us behind our goals,” Belles coach Dale Campbell said. “We would have to do something extraordinary at this point to get ourselves in the conference tournament to be honest.” 
To get into the tournament, Saint Mary’s (9-7, 2-3 MIAA) would have to finish the season as one of the top-four teams in the conference. The loss to Cal­vin (5-10, 3-2) puts Saint Mary’s in seventh in the MIAA stand­ings. 
Against the Knights, the match started rough in doubles, an area where Saint Mary’s usually performs well. Calvin was able to win both the first and second doubles, despite both matches seesawing back and forth and coming down to the wire. The Knights claimed the first doubles match 8-6, and squeaked out the second win, 9-8, in a tiebreaker set. The Belles did manage a tight victory in the third doubles match behind the solid play of sophomore Margaret Boden and freshman Jackie Kjolhede. 
“We had really close games in the doubles, and it felt like perhaps those matches were the key,” Campbell said. “It would have been good to win all three doubles based on our performance in singles.” 
In singles, the Belles fell to the Knights in four of the six matchups. Sophomore Mary Catherine Faller pulled out a close victory for the Belles in the first singles spot. Faller was able to battle through a super-tiebreaker set to grab one of the two Belles victories in singles. In addition, fresh­man Shannon Elliot turned in a win for the Belles at the third spot. 
Campbell said the road gets tough from here on out for the Belles. 
“We need to beat Adrian and we need to beat Kalamazoo at the minimum,” Campbell said. “That makes it really tough on us.” 
The Belles had been slated to play at Adrian this past Sat­urday, but due to inclement weather and heavy rain, the game has been postponed to either Thursday or Friday. The date of the matchup will be set tomorrow. 
Kalamazoo and Adrian are two of the remaining three conference matchups left on 
see CAMPBELL/page 18 
Mac also said his older brother helped him ease into college. 
“I was with him a lot at first,” Mac said. “I would ask him a lot of questions 
see HUDGINS/page 16 
ND SOFTBALL 

Squad looks to rebound after loss 
By MEGAN FINNERAN 
Sports Writer 
Following a one-run loss to Syracuse, the Irish look forward to a fresh start when they host Valpara­iso tonight. The Crusad­ers (28-10, 12-0 Big East) carry an 11-game winning streak, but in the past 30 meetings of the two teams, the Irish (21-13, 5-3) have taken every victory. 
This year’s squad hopes to reach number 31 to­night, but the Irish are not focused on the figure, ac­cording to junior catcher Amy Buntin. 
“We have prepared for Valpo in the same way we prepare for any team, and focus on how we can be the best Notre Dame softball team,” Buntin said. 
Notre Dame’s most recent loss Sunday came courtesy of a pair of home runs by Syracuse in the seventh and eighth innings. The Irish also struggled to find hits and shut down the Orange bats. While Notre Dame put together two hits, Syracuse managed 10. 
The Irish split with Syr­acuse on the first day of their series, winning the first game 4-3 before fall­ing 8-2 in the afternoon. In the win, the Irish handled Syracuse’s nine runs with tough defense. This week­end, Buntin said the team knows defense is key in preventing opportunities for its opponent. 

“Coming off those two losses from Syracuse, we need to be able to shut the door or finish the game,” Buntin said. “We were able to produce runs, but we gave Syracuse too many op­portunities to score.” 
Valparaiso brings se­nior pitcher Sam McGee to South Bend, recently named the Horizon League Pitch­er of the Week after pitch­ing a pair of shutouts last week. McGee also holds the program’s record for ca-
see MCGEE/page 15 






