
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


Rocheleau, Rose win in single-ticket race 
By MARISA IATI 
News Writer 
Juniors Brett Rocheleau and Katie Rose won Wednesday’s election for student body presi­dent and vice president with 
57.3 percent of the 2,382 votes, vice president of elections for Judicial Council Caitlin Ogren said. 
Rocheleau and Rose ran un­opposed in the first single-ticket election in student government records. 
Ogren said 42.7 percent of students who participated in the election abstained from voting for the Rocheleau-Rose ticket. 
“Fewer students voted than in last year’s election,” she said. “More students abstained than in last year’s election.” 
In last year’s primary elec­tion, 163 voters abstained, rep­resenting 4.04 percent of the total vote. 
Despite this decrease in vot­er turnout, Rocheleau said he looks forward to hearing stu­dents’ opinions about campus issues. 
“It’s exciting to see what peo­ple think about our vision, how they want to add to it, the differ­ent goals and things they’d like to work on,” he said. “And being able to communicate with them and seeing how they take our vi­sion and how they help us grow is going to be the most exciting time for me.” 
Rose said she expects to enjoy working on the initiatives she and Rocheleau developed for their platform. 

see ELECTIONS/page 4 



Facebook breaks wall between digital, real life 
ND professors from three departments reflect on website’s impact on real life 
By SARA FELSENSTEIN 
Associate News Editor 
Take a photo. Photoshop. Upload to Facebook. 
The steps sound simple, but Notre Dame professors said more thought goes into the process than most people re­alize. 
Jessica Collett, assistant professor of sociology, said we are much more “intentional” in our online interactions with others. 
“It’s not that we want to put up an image of ourselves that is untrue or inaccurate,” Col­lett said. “[But people] are go­ing to look for clues about who you are. Because we only have 
see FACEBOOK/page 5 


MARINA KOZAK | The Observer 


Student users express mixed feelings about recent addition of new Timeline layout 
By KRISTEN DURBIN 
News Writer 
Notre Dame students can agree that change is a good thing when it comes to the first signs of spring, but they aren’t so sure about Facebook’s recently introduced timeline. 
Freshman Sami Zuba said the frequent and sometimes dra­matic changes to Facebook can be difficult to adjust to. 
“I really don’t care too much about Facebook’s layout, but I get annoyed when they keep changing it,” Zuba said. “It was months before I figured out I could tag people in statuses, and I’m pretty sure I figured that out on accident. They have a good 
see TIMELINE/page 5 


Saint Mary’s engages in conversation about anti-racism 
By KAITLYN RABACH The conversation was moder-privilege based on gender, sexual down.” direction. News Writer ated by Marc Belanger, associ-orientation and socioeconomic Although overcoming the ta-“Having this discussion from ate professor of political science, status also pervade society. boos surrounding discussions a white perspective allowed for 
In coordination with Black who said white people must ac-“There are many different of race can be challenging, this more open talk about race,” she History Month, members of the knowledge how race affects them types of privileges,” he said. particular discussion was a nec-said. “It did not allow for whites Saint Mary’s community dis-personally for this anti-racist “We are complicated people that essary step in anti-racist dis-to feel left out.” cussed the importance of fight-discourse to effect change. come from all different back-course, Tamara Taylor, assistant Belanger said this spirit of ra­ing against racism in modern so-“It is important to me for grounds, and all of that shapes director of SIMS, said. cial inclusion is crucial for people ciety during a brown bag lunch whites to see the negative con-who we are.” “I felt as though this discus-to be active participants in the discussion Wednesday. sequences of race within their Belanger also said the key to sion was important because we fight against racism, but it is of­
“Beyond White Guilt and An-own lives,” he said. “Not in the eradicating modern-day racism tend to be hesitant to talk about ten overlooked in the case of the ger: Becoming Actively Anti-sense of reverse discrimination, lies in changing the systems that race,” Taylor said. “We are afraid white majority. Racist,” sponsored by Student but rather how white privilege propagate racism in society. to bring it up, so if people were “Psychologically, racism is a Involvement and Multicultural has consequences for people of “Ending racism needs to in-willing to come to this discussion damaging process to white peo-Services (SIMS), addressed sys-all races.” clude the white population,” he I was willing to put it on.” ple as well,” Belanger said. “Not tematic racism and inequality in Belanger said racism is a sys-said. “They are the ones who cre-Taylor said the unique per-to say it is comparable to the terms of white privilege and guilt tem of advantages based on ated the system and need to be spective of the conversation about the legacy of racism. white privilege, but systems of active participants in breaking it helped guide it in a productive see GUILT/page 4 
INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER SMC celebrates Riley Week page 3 u Viewpoint page 6 u Keenan Revue preview page 8 u Men’s basketball beats West Virginia page 16 
page 2 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u DAY-TO-DAY Thursday, February 9, 2012 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT CANDY BEST DESCRIBES YOU? 

www.ndsmcobserver.com P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 Editor-in-Chief Douglas Farmer Managing Editor Business Manager Sarah Mervosh Jeff Liptak Asst. Managing Editor: Adriana Pratt Asst. Managing Editor: Chris Masoud News Editor: Sam Stryker Viewpoint Editor: Meghan Thomassen Sports Editor: Allan Joseph Scene Editor: Maija Gustin Saint Mary’s Editor: Caitlin E. Housley Photo Editor: Pat Coveney Graphics Editor: Brandon Keelean Advertising Manager: Katherine Lukas Ad Design Manager: Amanda Jonovski Controller: Jason Taulman Systems Administrator: William Heineman Office Manager & General Info (574) 631-7471 Fax (574) 631-6927 Advertising (574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu Editor-in-Chief (574) 631-4542 dfarmer1@nd.edu Managing Editor (574) 631-4542 smervosh@nd.edu Assistant Managing Editors (574) 631-4541 apratt@nd.edu, cmasoud@nd.edu Business Office (574) 631-5313 News Desk (574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com Viewpoint Desk (574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com Sports Desk (574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com Scene Desk (574) 631-4540 mgustin@nd.edu Saint Mary’s Desk chousl01@saintmarys.edu Photo Desk (574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com Systems & Web Administrators (574) 631-8839 Policies The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College.  Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Douglas Farmer. Post Office Information The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 and additional mailing offices 024 South Dining hall Notre Dame, IN 46556-077 The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved.  
TODAY’S STAFF News Sports Kristen Durbin Matthew Tori Roeck DeFranks Christian Myers Jack Hefferon Scene Mike Monaco Mary Claire Viewpoint O’Donnell Amber Galik Graphics Photo Marina Kozak Mackenzie Sain  
CORRECTIONS In the Feb. 7 edition of The Observer, the byline on the column “The immigration challenge of a booming Brazil” was incorrect. The column was written by junior Fernando San Juan. He can be reached at fsanjuan@nd.edu. The Observer regrets this error.  
HIGH 38 LOW 33 



Brian Bucciarelli  Ryan Daly  Kelsey Repine  Pat Brosnan  Luke  
Wilgenbusch  
sophomore  sophomore  sophomore  sophomore  freshman  
Keough  Morrissey  Welsh Family  Morrissey  Keenan  
“Snickers,  “Mr. Goodbar,  “Jolly Ranchers,  “Sweet tarts,  “Sweet tarts,  
because I like  because I am a  because I’m  because I’m  because they  
to make people  really good guy.”  always happy.”  a very sweet  help me say  
laugh.”  person.”  what I want  
to say without  

words.” 

Have an idea for Question of the Day? Email obsphoto@gmail.com 


OFFBEAT 
Alaska man allegedly tried to extort the government 
ANCHORAGE, Alaska — Authorities in Alaska say a man threatened to teach “crackheads” how to make “electromagnetic distortion devices” unless the state paid him $85,000. 
Stanislaus Grzeskowiak, of North Pole, is charged with felony extortion and threatening harm. He was in jail Tuesday on $2,500 bail. 
Sgt. Jess Carson says the 36-year-old called state troopers Friday and said he knew how to use discarded televisions to make devices that could block police ra­dios, computer communi­cation and cellphones. He also threatened to cut the communications of oil com­panies and credit card com­panies if he didn’t get the money. 

Authorities say Grzeskow­iak blames the state and companies for his financial situation, lack of education and marital problems. 
Grzeskowiak is represent­ed by the public defender’s office. Officials there didn’t respond to requests for comment. 
Man accused of using sledge hammer in road rage dispute 
RENTON — The Washing­ton State Patrol says an irate driver apparently whacked a man in the shoulder with a small sledge hammer in a road rage dispute. 
Trooper Julie Startup says authorities responded early Tuesday to a report of a two-car collision on State Route 167 in the Renton area. They found a 33-year­old Renton man rubbing his left shoulder. 
The man, who was driv­ing a Nissan 300ZX, said he’d been hit in the shoul­der by the driver of a mini­van. 
Startup says the Nissan and minivan drivers de­scribed a lane change and some aggressive driving that ended with their vehi­cles colliding. 
Brett Carter of Bothell was booked into the King County Jail for investigation of as­sault. The unidentified Nis­san driver was cited with negligent driving. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 


IN BRIEF 
The Rolfs Sports Rec­reation Center will host a blood drive from 11 a.m. to 5:30 p.m. today in the lobby area. Scheduling an appointment is strongly en­couraged but not required. Registration is available on-line. 
The Center for Social Con­cerns will host a lunch in the Geddes Hall Coffee House to benefit St. Margaret’s House. St. Margaret’s House im­proves the lives of women and children by providing individual attention to their immediate needs, breaking the bonds of isolation and helping them acquire skills to better their lives. A $5 do­nation is requested for the lunch and additional dona­tions are welcome. Scarves, ties and cards made by the women of St. Margaret’s House will also be available for purchase. 
In the Annenberg Audito­rium of the Snite Museum of Art a lecture, “India and Human Rights — Develop­ment Discrimination,” will be given at 5 p.m. today. The lecture is free and open to the public. 
The Pasquerilla West flower sale will be held in LaFortune Student Center from 7 to 10 p.m. tonight. The cost is $1 per flower and  Domer Dollars are ac­cepted. 
The SUB movie for to­night is “Drive” and it will be shown from 10 to 11:40 
p.m. in Room 101 of DeBar­tolo Hall. The cost is $3 per ticket. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, email detailed information about an event to obsnews.nd@gmail.com 


LOCAL WEATHER 

TODAY TONIGHT FRIDAY SATURDAY SUNDAY MONDAY 









HIGH 32 LOW 13 
HIGH 22 LOW 16 
HIGH 27 LOW 18 
HIGH 32 LOW 25 

Thursday, February 9, 2012 The Observer u NEWS ndsmcobserver.com | page 3 
Event raises funds for Riley 
By MADELINE MILES 
News Writer 
The Saint Mary’s cheerlead­ing squad gained a new member during Wednesday’s basketball game against Adrian College when 14-year-old Keondia Wood­ley joined their ranks. 
Woodley, a cancer survivor who received treatment at Riley Hospital for Children in India­napolis, relished the opportunity to be a part of the Saint Mary’s cheering squad. 
“[Cheering] was so fun,” Woodley said. “I felt close to all the cheerleaders when I met them.” 
The Dance Marathon-spon­sored “Cheer Your Heart Out” event at Wednesday’s game raised funds for Riley and pro­vided Woodley with the opportu­nity to cheer with the Belles and share her story with the crowd at halftime. 
“I was diagnosed with acute myeloid leukemia in August of 2008,” Woodley said. “But Riley Hospital for Children, along with the love and support of my family, is why I’m here today.” 
Students, faculty and fans in at­tendance were invited to contrib­ute spare change to red Miracle Minute donation buckets at half­time, and all proceeds from the buckets benefitted Riley as well. 
Juniors and fundraising execu­tive co-chairs Kate Kellogg and Liz Kraig planned the event with two goals in mind. 
“Cheer Your Heart Out was a unique opportunity,” Kraig said. “It was a time to show school spir­it by supporting our fellow Belles as well as a great reminder of the importance and impact Dance Marathon is able to make to the families at Riley.” 
Senior and Dance Marathon president Becca Guerin said she enjoyed collaborating with other Saint Mary’s clubs and activities in support of Riley. 

“The game was especially cool because we were not only show­ing support for Riley, but cheer­ing on our team as well,” Guerin said. “It was great school spirit, but we also had the special con­nection with Dance Marathon through having Keondia cheer at the game.” 
Although final collections were not tallied at press time, Kellogg said she was pleased with the re­turns from the Miracle Minutes. 
“Every bit counts,” Kellogg said. “We really want to raise awareness because a lot of people have heard of Dance Marathon, but don’t see where the money goes. Having Keondia cheering here on campus just goes to show why Dance Marathon is so spe­cial.” 
Junior Lauren Berry said the event, especially Woodley’s pres­ence, forged a strong connection between Saint Mary’s, Dance Marathon and Riley. 
“I think it’s great to hold per­sonal events like this to let [Woodley] shine,” Berry said. “It’s one single event, but it makes such a difference. It shows the impact that Dance Marathon has on Riley patients firsthand.” 
Woodley, now three years in remission from cancer, said she is healthy, happy and settling into her freshman year at Elkhart Memorial High School. 
“This really meant a lot to me,” Woodley said. “I loved cheering with them and I love all the sup­port everyone has for Riley.” 
This year’s Dance Marathon will be held March 31 in Angela Athletic Facility. 
Contact Madeline Miles at mmiles01@saintmarys.edu 
SENATE 
Gay-straight alliance debate tabled for week 
By MARISA IATI “We could also partner with News Writer GSAs at other universities in 
the region to make our out-
Student Senate passed reso-reach even more pervasive,” lutions at its meeting Wednes-Lienhoop said. “And service day requesting the Hesburgh isn’t really a mission of the Main Library extend its hours Core Council at all, so that’s and creating a formal process really a detriment.” for selecting the Hall of the The difference between Year. Meanwhile, a discus-Core Council and the pro­sion related to a possible gay-posed, more informal GSA is straight alliance was tabled largely contextual, Lienhoop until Wednesday. said. 
The resolution to extend the “People could just come to a library’s hours asked the Hes-[GSA] meeting once every two burgh Library administration weeks and it would be less to hire sufficient staff so the formal in that sense, but we facility can remain open until could also have a campaign 2 a.m. Fridays and Saturdays. targeted at specific issues,” The library currently closes he said. “The way that Core at 11 p.m. those days. programming is set up right 
Student body vice president now, you have to declare your Brett Rocheleau said there sexuality or be certain of your have been dis-sexual­cussions about ity in order keeping the “The reason we need a to partici­library open pate.” 
gay-straight alliance here 
24 hours, but Lienhoop 
at Notre Dame is partly 
no conclusions said this 
that the environment is 
have been require-
still largely homophobic.” 
reached. ment dis-
The resolu-suades stu­tion regard-Tom Lienhoop dents from ing Hall of the member attending Year mandat-Core Coun-
Core Council 
ed attendance at all Hall Presidents’ Council (HPC) meetings by a member of hall government. 
It also stipulated the deci­sion to award the title of Hall of the Year will be decided by a review board comprised of two senators, one senior Judi­cial Council member and HPC co-chairs, treasurers, social chairs and athletic chairs. The board will allocate points to each hall to determine the winner. 
Ben Noe, internal affairs director for student govern­ment, said the resolution helps avoid overregulation of HPC. 
“I think that this is a good intermediate step to put in a procedure, but also to give Hall [Presidents’] Council some leeway about how they go about the actual process itself,” Noe said. 
Rocheleau said if someone believed the review board made a biased decision, a complaint could be filed with Judicial Council. 
Sophomore Tom Lienhoop, a member of Core Council for Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual, Transgender and Question­ing Students, spoke about the need for a gay-straight alli­ance (GSA) on campus. 
“The reason we need a gay-straight alliance here at Notre Dame is partly that the envi­ronment is still largely homo­phobic,” Lienhoop said. “The fact that the gay-straight al­liance has been denied [club status] … in the past is kind of seen by people outside the University as a homophobic act. It’s an act of discrimina­tion.” 
Lienhoop said a student-led GSA would grant more independence to the GLBT community than Core Coun­cil does. He said the organi­zation would also provide a venue for straight allies to express their support. 
The GSA would be ser­vice-based, Lienhoop said. It would partner with high school GSAs to fund cam­paigns against teen bullying. 
cil events. 
He said the proposed GSA would not re­quire students to declare their sexualities. 
“Certainly, things that al­liance does could be more lenient and more student-based,” Lienhoop said. 
Lienhoop said it was not practical to create a GSA as an outgrowth of Core Council. 
“The number of people who want to participate in alli­ance is far too many to sus­tain an organized role with an expanded Core Council,” he said. 
The Student Activities Of­fice had previously said a GSA was unnecessary because Core Council already served the functions the proposed al­liance would serve, Lienhoop said. 
Nich Ochoa, multicultural affairs director for student government, said there are multiple clubs for students that identify as black, and all target different interests. 
Student body president Pat McCormick asked if any other clubs had been denied rec­ognition on the grounds that their purposes were already being served. 
“If we are unaware of an­other organization that has not been allowed to [duplicate some of the functions of an existing organization], then it seems to me to be a problem­atic point of inconsistency to then level that criticism with a gay-straight alliance,” Mc­Cormick said. 
Multiple senators said mem­bers of their residence halls supported recognizing a GSA. 
Senate voted to table the resolution until next Wednes­day’s meeting. Rocheleau said a similar resolution is in dis­cussion at Faculty Senate and Campus Life Council. 
Lienhoop said represen­tatives from Core Council planned to meet with Vice President for Student Affairs Fr. Tom Doyle on Thursday to discuss the creation of a GSA. 
Contact Marisa Iati at miati@nd.edu 


page 4 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u NEWS Thursday, February 9, 2012 
SGA 

Association prepares for upcoming election cycle 
By CAILIN CROWE 
News Writer 
With student body elections fast approaching, Saint Mary’s Student Government Associa­tion (SGA) discussed ways to spread awareness about elec­tion day and increase voter participation on campus in their meeting Wednesday. 
SGA will provide decorative voting booths in the Student Center atrium and Spes Unica Hall to boost excitement for 
Guilt 
continued from page 1 
hurt caused by those targeted by racism, but it does leave many whites feeling confused and dis-empowered.” 
Belanger said whites are often afraid to be actively anti-racist because they may not know how to effectively address and act on the issue of racism. 
“Many times people want to change the system but just do not know how to make a society free of racism,” he said. 
These ideas sparked discus­sion within the audience, which included several faculty mem­bers, health professionals and students. Several attendees shared personal anecdotes about the effects of racism on their lives today. 
“Racism limits you. It puts up barriers. Even if you would like to reach beyond them, you sometimes just can’t,” Cyndie Horton-Cavanaugh, a nurse in Women’s Health, said. “We can benefit from relationships with people from all different experi­ences, but racism limits us from really knowing and experiencing people.” 
Other attendees expressed the importance of having the cour­age to make a change and fight against racism. 
“We must look at ourselves and have the courage to break through the barriers,” senior Jacquitta Martin said. “It needs to be a joint effort, and barriers must be crossed on both sides.” 
With the discussion as a prime example, Belanger said the first step in finding a solution to end racism is simply talking about the issues. 
“There is only so much we can say in 50 minutes, but this is a good start and these conversa­tions must continue to occur,” he said. 
Contact Kaitlyn Rabach at krabac01@saintmarys.edu 

Elections 
continued from page 1 
“I’m pretty excited to see some noticeable changes in student life and for students to be excit­ed about those changes and to keep being engaged in working with us on those,” she said. 
The incoming administra­tion hopes to advocate for the student body in matters of con­sequence and convenience, Ro­cheleau said. 
“We want to hear the pulse of the students as well as act on it,” he said. “We want to hear what drives them, what’s really im­portant to them, and we want to advocate on those issues.” 
Student body president Pat McCormick extended his con­gratulations to Rocheleau and Rose. 
election day, Executive Secre­tary Emma Brink said. Each booth will have computers where students can vote, but students can also vote at their convenience using the unique voting email link they receive. 
Brink said the voting booths were added to emphasize the importance of the SGA elec­tions and promote voter par­ticipation. 
“Voting booths add to the novelty of voting and the excite­ment of elections,” Brink said. 
“I think that Brett and Ka­tie are uniquely capable of ad­vancing the vision of the kind of student government that we’ve built this year, and I’m excited to see how they build it even big­ger in the year to come,” he said. 
Before handing over the reins to Rocheleau and Rose on April 1, McCormick said he will take advantage of the upcom­ing transition to culminate the work of his administration. 
“I think that there are a num­ber of different ways that we’re hoping to do that, and I’m really looking forward to the coming weeks and to doing our best to support Brett and Katie as well as they transition to these roles,” McCormick said. 
Rocheleau acknowledged that some aspects of his time as stu­dent body president would likely be difficult. 
“I would say any administra-
Brink said SGA will show­case its new structure and available positions to students interested in running for office both at a campus-wide event Feb. 13 in the Student Center lounge and at its Student Cen­ter information table from Feb. 13-17. SGA members hope to attract a wide representation of students, especially first years who are new to the elec­tion process. 
President Nicole Gans said the Association hopes its en­
tion faces challenges along the road, but that’s why we want to build a strong team behind us 
— so when we do face any diffi­culties that lie ahead of us, that we as a team can come together and work on trying to overcome the obstacles that we face and in the end overcome them and accomplish our goals,” he said. 
Rocheleau said he wanted to thank his supporters as well as everyone who participated in the election. 
“From everyone who voted for us … even for those who abstained, just to still vote, I think that’s important,” he said. “We’re looking forward to get­ting the next administration started, keeping what Pat and I laid out last year and hoping to advance the vision.” 
Contact Marisa Iati at miati@nd.edu 
hanced campus presence will encourage more students to not only vote, but also pursue the new leadership roles cre­ated within the new structure of SGA, especially within the redesigned Senate. 
Chief of Staff Emily Skirtich said she wants the current ad­ministration to leave a strong legacy for its successors and the Saint Mary’s community. 
“We want to make this ad­ministration known for how excited and involved we got students to become in student government,” she said. “We are creating a new era in SGA and we want it to start out with a bang.” 
SGA and Senate elections will take place March 1. 
Elections for the Student Di­versity Board, Residence Hall Association, Student Activities Board and Class Board elec­tions will be held March 8. 
Contact Cailin Crowe at ccrowe01@saintmarys.edu 


Thursday, February 9, 2012 The Observer u NEWS ndsmcobserver.com | page 5 
real-life action will become al-trollable stuff that happens, home and it’s your grandmoth-She said psychologists and 
Facebook 

most ‘realer’ when it’s posted.” which is why human speech is er and your aunt.” sociologists have conducted 
so powerful.” The question is, who will see extensive research on the way continued from page 1 Dangers to identity But Blum said interactions that wall post or status update? Facebook affects identity, but 
Blum said one of the potential on social networking sites can Blum said college students the enormous amount of data that split second, that first downsides to using Facebook, actually augment real life in-usually think of their intended Facebook houses is used in oth­impression … we’re going to or any similar social media teractions. audience as their peers despite er settings as well. choose pieces of information site, is that it causes people to “There’s been what sociolo-having a wide range of Face-“It’s an interesting idea that to put up there that we think perform an exaggerated identi-gists call ‘moral panic’ about book friends. there is all this data out there reflect who we really are.” ty that may or may not be real. social media, [concern about] “You’re creating a persona, … which is somewhat terrify-
As a result, the effects of “I think there’s plenty of mo-the fact that people are more as we do all the time in our ing,” Blum said. “And Face-Facebook can extend far be-tivation to do that in our lives comfortable interacting digi-real life, but you have time to book, like Google, can analyze yond online profiles and into anyway, and so Facebook in-tally than they are face to create it and you’re aware of it and organize it with no voli­people’s lives and relation-creases that tendency,” she face,” she said. “But there was all the eyes that will be seeing tion on our part, no intention ships. said. a recent study from the Pew it,” Blum said. “Although if you on our part.” 
She said others will often Collett said these exaggera-[Research] Center [that shows] have 1,000 friends, that’s a lot Collett said the new Face-treat us according to the im-tions of identity can trigger the more active people are in of eyes.” book Timeline profile, which age of ourselves we present on anxiety as relationships tran-social media, the more real life Kelly said people should be offers users the opportunity to Facebook. In turn, we act ac-sition from the digital world to interactions they have as well.” more aware of just how much sort and highlight life events cording to how we are treated. the real world. Facebook profiles impact the chronologically, also makes it 
“If we have a preconceived “Sometimes you can believe Public sphere way others view us. easier for users to look back on notion about somebody, then that what you’re presenting Anita Kelly, a professor of “People should be more care-the past. we’ll interpret any kind of in-isn’t accurate … maybe you psychology who has researched ful,” Kelly said. “There’s a men-And sometimes, looking back formation in ways that support choose your most flattering the effects of public versus pri-tality of ‘it doesn’t matter what on the past lies outside our that [notion],” she said. picture, and then you meet vate self-representation, said people think,’ but no one [re-comfort zones. 
Collett said Facebook also people who maybe you haven’t what we choose to say publicly ally] believes that,” she said. “We like to be selective about prompts us to define and cat-even met in person yet, and has a much greater impact on She said negative images what it is that we remember, in egorize ourselves based on our then there’s just this stress [of] our identity than what we say posted on Facebook can be for-the same way that we like to be interests. living up to expectations,” she privately. gotten, but not if they are vivid. selective about what it is we put 
“Facebook is really about us said. She said the public nature of “People remember things forth [on Facebook],” Collett putting forth our identities,” Facebook use also becomes Facebook is what makes it so that are prototypes of a broader said. “I do think the Timeline is she said. “That when we say risky, Collett said, when digital influential. category, [for example] dancing about people suddenly feeling, that we like a particular [TV] identities are too calculated. “To the extent that Facebook on a tabletop without clothes, ‘Oh my goodness, am I defined show, we’re not just trying to “I think it can be dangerous is more public, it has great that fits the prototype of wild-by this page?’” say that ‘This is what I watch,’ … if people get too caught up in potential to help or harm that ness,” she said. “It’s hard to But regardless of how Face-we’re saying something about the way that they’re presenting identity,” she said. “Once you undo that.” book is formatted, Collett said … the kind of person we are.” themselves, and don’t have a think others have this view of the site still reflects our iden-
Susan Blum, a professor of space where they feel like they yourself, you feel you have to Past, present and future tity in much the same way. anthropology who has studied can be their authentic selves,” behave in a way that [confirms] Blum said the extent of the “[People] are reacting the effects of new media on she said. those views.” cyber footprint we leave on against the fact that [Timeline] the “self” for the past decade, Blum said she questions Collett said that on Facebook, Facebook is striking. feels like it’s defining your life said Facebook can function to whether online interaction we must live up to a multitude “There’s a sort of a digital for you, but ultimately actu­prove or validate occurrences makes face-to-face interaction of identities because different self that’s out there, and even ally that’s what we’ve been do-in our lives. even more “scary” than it al-“types” of friends see us in dif-though Facebook only started ing for a long time,” she said. 
“People are very aware of ready is. ferent ways. seven or eight years ago, it’s “I would argue that for a long the way they’re being seen,” “Facebook, you can con-“You have this clash of worlds going to predate itself [for ex-time Facebook has been repre­she said. “I’ve heard people trol because you do it at your … and it can incite drama,” ample] by finding our baby pic-senting who we are, as far as say, ‘Oh, wait until I post this own pace. You can almost post Collett said. “So, it’s not just tures that people have posted, our identities go.” on Facebook.’ So as they’re something, and change your your Notre Dame friends, but so pretty soon our whole life acting, they’re simultaneously mind,” she said. “In speaking, it’s your high school friends … and biography will be digitally Contact Sara Felsenstein at conscious of the fact that their there’s all this sort of uncon-and it’s your friends from back mapped,” she said. sfelsens@nd.edu 
“I think [Timeline] is creepy 
Timeline 
because it facilitates looking further back at someone’s profile continued from page 1 than you generally need to go,” she said. “I haven’t changed to it product, and innovation is good, yet because I’m generally pretty but too much is too much.” resistant to change, and I don’t Junior Katie Fuentes said she really want to learn more about enjoys the new layout. Timeline. I just want to use Face­
“It allows you to easily access book to talk to my friends.” your past events without having While Fuentes said she thinks to go through the hassle of click-Timeline simplifies and enhanc­ing constantly until you get to es the Facebook experience, past records,” she said. “I have freshman John Olson said the found it especially useful when I new layout complicates his regu­want to share my abroad photos lar activity on the site. with friends and family.” “I just got Timeline this week, 
The global social networking and quite frankly, I don’t like it,” company, which estimated its he said. “It bothers me that it’s monthly usership at 845 million harder to look at and find peo­active users worldwide at the ple’s pictures and info. It’s just end of December, released its too extreme of a change and has latest and arguably most dra-made life on Facebook a lot more matic change to the site’s lay-difficult.” out to those users in the same Although junior Meredith An-month. gell has not made the switch 
The new profile format, to Timeline, she said she had dubbed the Timeline, creates mixed feelings about the new a visual scrapbook of a user’s format and features, especially lifetime Facebook activity by the placement of photos on a us-displaying wall posts, photos, er’s profile. videos, life events and recent ac-“I really like the cover photo tivity as points on a chronologi-and the smaller profile picture, cal timeline. The feature will be but it was really hard to find distributed to all Facebook us-people’s photos until I eventually ers over the next few weeks, ac-found the small boxes under the cording to the official Facebook cover photo for friends, photos blog. and likes,” Angell said. “I think 
While recently posted content the big boxes that showcase sta­remains most visible at the top tuses and posts are too big, and of a user’s profile, the Timeline it makes no sense that way.” feature essentially transforms Like many students, junior the profile into a detailed visual Colleen Bailey said Facebook archive incorporating content often becomes a time-consum­dating back to when the user ing distraction, and she thinks first joined Facebook. For many switching to Timeline would users, this means years of con-only perpetuate that issue. tent are available at the click of “It’s cool to look at other a mouse. people’s timelines, but I haven’t 
Junior Marissa Gaskill, a done it for myself yet because I Timeline holdout, said the new know I would spend too much profile format and availability time setting it up and looking of vast amounts of content make through it,” she said. it too easy to access other users’ personal information and pho-Contact Kristen Durbin at tos. kdurbin@nd.edu 



page 6 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com Thursday, February 9, 2012 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Make new memories 
I have never considered myself a fan of women’s basketball. Sure, I know about Notre Dame’s successful team, and I know names like Geno Auriemma and Brittney Griner because I watch a lot of SportsCenter. There is another name I also know 
— University of Ten­nessee’s head coach Pat Summitt. 
Growing up, Ten­nessee women’s basketball was always a leading Walker Carey team. The Lady Volunteers were to Sports Writer women’s basketball what Duke was to men’s basketball. Every single year, you just knew the Lady Vols were going to be a great team. In my lifetime, the Lady Vols have won the National Championship an amaz­ing six times. I never followed any of those championship teams, but I heard about the Lady Vols’ success one way or another. 

Despite Coach Summitt’s many suc­cesses, I was never really interested in her until this past August when it became known that she was suffering from early-onset dementia. The thing that struck me the most about her ill­ness was that she was only 59-years-old at the time of the diagnosis. I was also really surprised when I read that the she was going to continue coaching the Lady Vols. 
As the college basketball season pro­gressed, I had not heard too much about Summitt’s illness. This all changed last week when I read a feature writ­ten by Pat Forde of Yahoo! Sports. In the feature, Forde compares the chal­lenges Summit’s son Tyler, a sophomore walk-on for the Tennessee men’s team, faces with his mother’s condition to the challenges Forde himself faced when his own mother suffered through an 18­year battle with Alzheimer’s until her death in 2002. 
Forde notes how he was a scared col­lege sophomore in 1984 when he heard of his mother’s diagnosis. In contrast, he believes that if Tyler Summitt is scared, he is definitely not letting it on. This belief is backed up by Tyler stating, “I don’t focus on what I can’t control. We can control the memories we still make together. I’d rather focus on the new memories and the life at hand than worry about losing the past.” 
While reading Forde’s feature, I could not help but think about my mater­nal grandmother who is also battling dementia. I began to think how unfair it was to her that she was losing the last few years of her life to that awful ill­ness, but then I remembered what Tyler Summitt said. I have had many great memories with my grandmother over the first 21 years of my life and I will forever cherish them, so it is entirely useless to focus on something I cannot control. That does no good for anyone involved. 
I know there are many people who know someone suffering from Alzheim­er’s, and I can at least partly under­stand how hard it is. I think it would be beneficial for everyone to remember what Tyler Summitt said about taking advantage of the present. It has helped me and I am sure it will also help others going through this difficult process. 
Contact Walker Carey at      wcarey@nd.edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

A case for the flat tax 
If we acknowledge the way we cur­rently collect federal taxes as both inefficient and unfair, what can we do differently to correct it? The strength of a flat tax is in its simplicity. I don’t need fancy jargon or a bunch of Mark Easley obscure numbers to explain it, nor Elephant in do I need to go too the room far into a debate to convince a person with half a brain that it is fair to all Americans. It’s a concept so easy and so fundamentally better than the current options that only politicians would be incompetent enough to not enact it. 
A flat tax would simplify the system by narrowing the number of tax brack­ets to only one, or maybe even two, segments. Everyone within a bracket pays the same low rate often cited in the 10 to 20 percent range. The cur­rent progressive system is so broken that only half of Americans pay all the taxes collected. Since most college educated Americans fall in the upper half, this should come across to you as quite unfair. If we are all Americans or guests working in this country, is it not understandable that all of us with some type of income should pay a small per­centage into the system for our mutual benefits and security? 
Opponents claim this is some type of hypocrisy, raising taxes on millions of people when conservatives so often argue against such a measure. How is it hypocritical when these people don’t pay into the system at all? How have they earned the benefits that citizen­ship and residency provide? Conserva­tives try to protect those who have paid their dues in a broken system, and by enacting a flat tax we return the power back to the people and take it away from the politicians in Washington, D.C. 
By the same token, opponents bent on class warfare and ignorance claim the flat tax is a big tax cut for the wealthy, 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

saying, “they are not going to be paying their fair share!” Fair should not be based on income brackets, but on the amount of physical dollars individuals have to pay in. That is why percentages are good, because a greater pool of tax­able wealth means the physical dollar amount of the tax contribution grows. If Bill Gates and Joe Blow are both paying in 15 percent, Gates is obviously going to be paying in much more than Joe, but it is still fair to both. If Gates and Joe are 100 percent American, but Gates pays in 40 percent and Joe pays in zero percent, how is that justified?  If Joe is poor and Gates wants to give him some of his wealth out of charity or cre­ate a job for him, there is nothing in the law saying he can’t. In fact, we should have a system that encourages him to do just that. 
The biggest misconception people have about government is that it’s somehow a charity, that we can some­how correct societal wrongs through government. No, we correct societal wrongs by creating systems that re­ward good behavior on an individual level, not punishing success. Bill Gates can certainly do a lot more good in the world by giving money to the Gates Foundation than to the federal govern­ment. All of us can do a lot more for the world by keeping our money and giving it to charity or by buying useful products and services that keep people employed. A flat tax lets all of us keep more of our money and spend it how we like. 
Tax evasion and fraud are big prob­lems in today’s progressive system. Legal loopholes are big paydays for those who can find them. We should ask the question, “why do people cheat?” People cheat because it is per­ceived as easier or more advantageous than being legitimate. That is what this current system has created — a culture of cheating. A flat tax will bring billions of dollars back into legitimate channels by closing all loopholes and exemptions, discouraging off-shore tax evasion and making people realize it’s competitive and easier to keep their money in the States. Our broken tax code makes people hate dealing with tax filing; it has made many honest people seek ways to break the law to get an edge, and it is large factor in our uncompetitive business landscape and further decline in world history. 
Simplifying the tax code will not only generate more tax revenue in the long term, but will create short-term taxpayer savings in numerous areas, most of all in the dreaded IRS. Which is better: keeping more of your hard-earned money up front or giving it to the government and hoping that you may get a refund later? These refunds aren’t free to issue. IRS employees are paid by the tax payers to keep track of this mountain of data and federal mail is used to deliver these checks to you. This whole process runs in the billions of dollars every year, when we could see huge savings by not having to engage in it at all. Not to mention IRS agents, tax specialists and taxpayers alike will save with a simplified taxa­tion process. 
Businesses will be able to thrive bet­ter in an environment of simple taxa­tion, generating more wealth for the 
U.S. and correcting our federal deficit. Opponents of the flat tax are right — a lower rate should bring in less tax revenue. However, a more competitive America that results from lower rates will offset all of the negatives and bring in more tax revenue than has ever been seen, all while putting the tax burden on Americans at an all-time low. 
Occupy D.C. and pass a flat tax. We are the 100 percent. 
Mark Easley is a senior computer science major. He can be contacted at measley@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“Opportunity is missed by most 
people because it is dressed in 
overalls and looks like work.” 
Thomas Edison 
U.S.inventor 


WEEKLY POLL 
Which was the best Super Bowl commercial? 
Pepsi — King’s Court Audi — Vampire Party Budweiser — Prohibition Volkswagen — Dog Strikes Back 
Vote by 5 p.m. Thursday at 
ndsmcobserver.com 


Thursday, February 9, 2012 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 7 
A case against the flat tax 
The discussion over the flat tax is always a very interesting one. Usually people who support it are heavy on de­tails of its benefits and light on details of its negative consequences. But when examined closer, the negative Adam Newman consequences of a flat tax would Scientia make one won-Potentia Est der why anyone would support it at all. 
Implementing a flat tax would mean eliminating most tax expenditures (tax provisions where the government returns money to people through deduc­tions, exemptions or credits), raising massive amounts of revenue. Simulta­neously, the many marginal tax rates (currently at six) would become one low, flat rate. If administered correctly, the loss of revenue from lowering and eliminating rates would be balanced by the increase of revenue through elimi­nating tax expenditures. 
However, this balance is only in terms of the federal government’s finances; the tax burden on Americans would change drastically. For example, George, whose income is $10,000 and Jerry, whose income is $100,000, would pay the same tax rate. If the tax rate was 15 percent, George would pay $1,500 in taxes and Jerry would pay $15,000. Under the current system, both would pay 10 percent for their income from $0-$8,500, 15 percent for their income from $8,501-$34,500, etc. So under the current progressive tax code, George would pay $1,075 (compared to $1,500 under a flat tax) and Jerry would pay $21,615 (compared to $10,000 un­der a flat tax). What this analysis does not include are the tax expenditures Jerry and George could claim, which would probably lower both’s tax liabili­ties. As one can see, the main benefit of the flat tax is its simplicity. But that is no match for the negative consequences a flat tax would bring. 
The first negative consequence of a flat tax is the tax burden would be greatly shifted from richer Americans to poorer Americans. Due to the pro­gressivity of the tax code, bad economy and ability for lower and middle class Americans to take advantage of tax expenditures, roughly 50 percent of Americans do not have an income tax liability. (Note: this is for federal income tax only; poor and middle class Ameri­cans still pay federal payroll taxes, and state and local taxes.) Implementing a flat tax that ended many popular tax expenditures would mean most, if not all, Americans would pay some income tax, effectively raising the taxes on the poorest 50 percent of Americans. Simultaneously, a flat tax would give a huge tax break for the highest income earners. According to an analysis done by the non-partisan Tax Policy Center, 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
I think we’ve missed the point 
It looks like the debate over contraception in these hallowed pages of dis­course are drawing to a close — nonetheless, I’d like to make some remarks about the tone of the debate and the overall point. 
First, I’d like to thank the officers of the Right to Life club for lending their considerable expertise as officers to an undergraduate club to this discussion. Had you not written in and mentioned in two separate places that you are of­ficers of that esteemed club, we might not have known where you stood on life issues. Clarification from such credentialed dignitaries can be very helpful in understanding terms and sharpening discussion. In short: tragedy averted by your letter. 
Still, I can’t believe anyone would disagree that responsible use of contracep­tion has important, objective benefits. That seems almost self-evident — the role of condoms in the prevention of the transmission of STDs is one obvious benefit. The mitigation of poor decision-making is another. The ability to take control of one’s future is crucial, and it is these benefits that led Paul VI’s advisory council to recommend, in the majority, that Catholics be allowed to use birth control. Obviously, the Pope ruled differently and that is binding — I don’t mean to sug­gest we each get to rule individually on the council’s results. But the Pontifical Council was a council made up of committed, faithful Catholics who loved the Church and who struggled in good faith to discern the truth. I’m not sure I trust anyone who cannot appreciate the perspective of the two sides of this debate, or anyone who must engage in discussions of morality by denying facts about the world, as if admitting that contraceptives have some objective benefits flings us head-first down the slope of moral nihilism. 
In fact, the objective benefits of contraception have recently led the Pope to acknowledge that in certain circumstances, use of contraception could actu­ally be a positive step toward genuine morality — he offers the example of an AIDS-infected male prostitute who prevents transmission to a client. These are non-ideal circumstances. But there you are. Contraception can occasionally be responsible. 
Notice that the benefits of contraception don’t tell us anything definitive about the morality of contraception. None of the benefits above suddenly negate the Church’s position. The case for permitting contraception has been considered carefully and rejected. On certain sets of premises, contraception is fine; awe­some, even. But on the premises we operate from — the one that the Church relies on — contraception is not fine, and that has to be okay. Providing guidance and even decision in the face of unclear or intractable moral problems is one of the Church’s most important roles. This isn’t a debate over whether contracep­tion is good or not; it is fundamentally a debate over who gets to decide that. The Church has reached a decision after careful consideration and long dialogue, and the government ought to not force the Church or her institutions to provide contraception when the belief is that contraception is intrinsically immoral. The freedom of religious conscience must be preserved.
 Thomas Maranges 
senior 
off-campus 
Feb. 8 

a 15 percent flat tax would lead to an 11 percent tax break for those making between $500,000-1,000,000 and a 19 percent tax break for those making over $1,000,000. Raising taxes on the poor and middle class while drastically low­ering taxes on the rich during a weak economy does not reflect America’s compassionate values. 
The second negative consequence of a flat tax is that depending on the plan, it would increase the deficit. The devil is in the details when it comes to the flat tax, because the only way a flat tax plan would be deficit-neutral would be if it eliminated enough tax expenditures to make up the lost revenue from lowering and eliminating tax rates. The issue is many of the largest tax expenditures needed to make a flat tax deficit-neutral are the most popular: the tax exclu­sion for health insurance, deduction for mortgage interest and deduction for charitable contributions. Newt Gingrich offered a flat tax plan that would lower the rate to 15 percent for individu­als and 12.5 percent for corporations, but keeps these and other major tax expenditures in place. The Tax Policy Center, assuming that all Americans were taxed at the flat rate, found that in 2015 the plan would increase the deficit somewhere between 800 billion and 1.2 trillion. 
A tax code must balance two prin­ciples: “equity,” by making people who earn more pay a higher percentage in taxes, and “efficiency,” in order to promote economic growth and prosper­ity for its citizens. The flat tax does not balance these goals, because its em­phasis on efficiency shifts too much of the tax burden away from the wealthy and onto the poor. However, there is an option for tax reform that embraces these principles. By cutting the number of tax brackets, lowering rates and re­forming tax expenditures, the tax code could be greatly simplified (something Republicans advocate) while increasing taxes on the rich (something Democrats advocate). 
A flat tax is an idea bounced around by academics and fringe Republicans that may initially sound simple, but the simplicity it could bring to the tax code is not worth the massive shift in tax burden from wealthier to poorer Americans and the billions, if not tril­lions it would add to the deficit. But for some reason, people still cling to the flat tax. Those who continue to do so despite such negative consequences are, as Jon Stewart recently said on The Daily Show, “life support for bad ideas.” 
Adam Newman is a junior fi­nance major. He can be reached at anewman3@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 

The Church’s position 
Ms. Emily Thompson, 
I am writing in response to your letter published Wednesday, Feb. 8 (“Know the Church’s stance”). You assert that “so many people fail to understand the Church’s stance on contraception,” yet you do not provide the readers with the Church’s position. 
The Catechism (CCC) states “every action which renders procreation impos­sible is intrinsically evil” (2370). The same sentiment is repeated in countless Church proclamations, including, but not limited to, “Humanae Vitae,” “Casti Connubuii,” “Dignitas Personae,” etc. Although you encourage fellow students to use the resources provided by the University (e.g., classes, priests, the GRC) to educate themselves about Catholic thought on contraception, none of those sources maintain the authority to differ from the aforementioned official Church teaching. 
The Church believes contraception violates the unitive and procreative aspects of a relationship. The unitive aspect refers to the sense of “true mutual love” 
(CCC) manifested through the mutual respect of two partners. In my opinion, it is extremely unfair of the Church to have such conceptions of true love. For an organization steeped in chastity and celibacy, it is off-base to point its finger at couples, telling them they lack mutual respect or “love” because of their sexual activity. Love and affection are defined by the people involved, and if the Church were to really trust in “free will,” it would respect sexual freedom and not sit on a high horse condemning thousands to “grave sin” because it feels passion can only be restricted to procreation. Following the procreative aspect of relation­ships, I must disagree on the importance placed on procreative sex. The Church feels that contraception denies the “orientation toward man’s exalted vocation to parenthood” (CCC). This thinking totally removes the role of the couple from deciding on a child; parenthood, a choice, is misconstrued as a duty. Considering intercourse to be a procreative act, versus an objectively romantic one, ostra­cizes couples who do not wants kids or are not ready for any. 
Lastly, you tell Ms. Reser to not speak for your fellow Catholic women. She does not have to, as a Harris poll from 2005 found that 90 percent of U.S. Catholics already support the use of contraceptives. Your fellow Catholics have spoken.
 Kevin Fernandez 
freshman O’Neill Hall Feb. 8 



page 8 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com Thursday, February 9, 2012 



By MARY CLAIRE O’DONNELL  terious acting troupe, the chorus, led by the Leading Player,  
Scene Writer  who tell Pippin’s story, almost narrating from the back­ 
ground. But the Leading Player also actively involves herself  
The Pasquerilla East Music Company (PEMCo.) brings the  in the action, critiquing the acting of some characters and  
drama of the Holy Roman Empire to Notre Dame this week- guiding Pippin along his journey at points.  
end with its newest play “Pippin.” The show opens tonight  This structure is intriguing and draws the audience into  
at Washington Hall and continues through Saturday night.  the play. It also helps to highlight the darker side of the play,  
“Pippin” is the story of the son of Charlemagne (senior  which was one of Cooney’s favorite parts of this musical.  
Kevin de la Montaigne), Pippin (sophomore Samuel Evola),  “[The musical’s] a lot darker than any of our other plays,”  
who struggles to find meaning in his life and his place in  she said. “I’ve never played a character that has a very evil  
the world. As the first-born son of the Holy Roman Emperor,  side before. Even though my character seems just more in- 
Pippin is expected to fulfill certain duties, none of which  terested in the spectacle of it all in the first half of the show,  
bring joy to his life. And so he sets out on his journey of self- she becomes really evil in the second half.”  
discovery, singing and dancing his way — with help from  Evola also enjoyed the character development that went  
the chorus — through confusion, disillusionment and even  into his role.  
love.  “This play made me invest more of my emotion into it  
The play opens with a fantastic opening number, “Magic  than other plays,” he said. “Running through Pippin never  
to Do,” in which the Leading Player (senior Claire Cooney)  thinking he’s going to find anything, thinking he’s found it,  
and chorus invite the audience to join them in the magic  then having it cut out from under him, just all the emotional  
of the play and the adventure of the story. Enter Pippin, a  transition that has to happen throughout was new for me.”  
young prince back from the University of Padua, who does  The experiences may have been new for the actors, but  
not fit in with the bellicose personality of his father and half  the end result is excellent. “Pippin” is a funny, though dark,  
brother.  musical that entertains and reflects the hard work of every- 
And so begins Pippin’s journey. Along the way, he tries the  one involved in the production. Don’t miss this play.  
life of a soldier, a priest, a reformer fighting for peasant’s  
rights, a Holy Roman Emperor and a farm worker. He seeks  Contact Mary Claire O’Donnell at modonne5@nd.edu  
power and glory, and the appropriate life for a man of his  
extraordinary talents.  
Through a number of superb musical numbers — “No  
Time at All” is a highlight — he eventually discovers the  
most important thing in life, turning from struggling against  On campus  
himself to struggling against the chorus who want him to  
follow their darker plan. But he makes his choice, bringing  
meaning to the musical, which Cooney thought was the most  What: PEMCo.’s “Pippin”  
moving part of “Pippin.”  
“As the play progresses … it becomes clear that [the cho- Where: Washington Hall  
rus and Leading Player] are really a cult,” she said. “These  
people are creepy and obsessed with sex and probably  When: Thursday, Feb. 9 - Saturday, 
drugs, anything self-destructive. And so even though [Pip­ 
pin’s choice] is not completely fulfilling, because nothing in  Feb. 11, 7:30 p.m.  
the present ever really is, it’s the most wonderful thing he  
can achieve.”  How Much: $5 students, $10 non-students, 
De la Montaigne also enjoyed the message of the musical.  
“I think that it’s natural to make that journey [of self-dis­ tickets available at the LaFortune Box  
covery and disillusionment],” he said. “At the end, we come  
back again, and [the journey] repeats itself for everyone, so  Office and at the door  
it’s okay to feel like that because everyone does at one point  
or another.”  Learn More: www.nd.edu/~pemusic  
PEMCo.’s latest production is especially interesting be­ 
cause of the play’s structure. The musical features a mys- 


MARINA KOZAK | Observer Graphic 


Thursday, February 9, 2012 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 9 

By MEGHAN THOMASSEN 
Scene Writer 
While the Stepan Center might as well be a frozen planet in the Hoth system — minus the wampa and the tauntaun — over 4,000 students will make the trek there this weekend to see one of Notre Dame’s longest standing dorm traditions: the Keenan Revue. 
“The Revue Strikes Back,” staged by the men of Keenan Hall, is a collection of comedic skits re­nowned for blending Notre Dame humor with siz­zling pop culture critiques and references. Previous burn victims include Snooki, campus parties and Charlie Weis. But the heat doesn’t stop there — most costumes include daisy dukes, rip-off shirts and stuffed bras. 
This year’s producer, senior Raymond Gallagher, had to disassemble his costume (consisting of a stuffed bra covered with whipped cream) before sit­ting down to talk about his role in the Revue. 
“I’ve been involved in the last three years,” he said. “It’s a really good time for the people on campus, but [we started] working on it beginning in September, so for us it’s almost a year of fun and enjoyment, get­ting to know the Keenan guys better.” 
Every year, the dorm holds auditions about three weeks before the show and chooses the best skits to include in the production. This year, Gallagher said they held two rounds of tryouts and called back 25 skits. 
 “It was a really difficult decision process. We were debating for over an hour and a half,” he said. “There was a lot of good material. It’s going to be a good show.” 
Gallagher said two of the funniest skits in this year’s Revue are “SAOPA,” written by senior Brian Bettonville, and “Harry Potter and the Swift Who Must Not Be Named,” written by senior Chase Riddle. 
“The final skits of each act are both strong,” he said. 
Despite SAO’s censorship last year, Gallagher doesn’t foresee any changes being made after the first performance. 

“I don’t anticipate censoring, we’re in line with what [SAO] wanted us to do,” he said. “We’re doing stuff that is funny, and whether you go Thursday, Friday or Saturday, it’ll be the same skits.” 
After being exiled from Saint Mary’s in 2010 and facing censorship in 2011, Gallagher said the Revue will “strike back” this year. 
“We wanted to make a statement,” he said. “Even though we were encountering difficulties, [the Re­vue] is still a great tradition that’s been going on for almost four decades.” 
The Revue is in its 37th year, and its second year at its new home in Stepan Center. 
Regarding his costume, Gallagher said the bra­and-whipped-cream combo was an interesting, new experience for him. 
“It reminds me that I better not be self-conscious on stage,” he said. “[I shouldn’t] worry about what people think about me, though I might have a bad reputation after this Revue.” 
The content for each show is entirely written by the men of Keenan Hall. 
“To come up with skits every year that are enter­taining — I think that ability, year in, year out, is pretty impressive,” Gallagher said. “We’re going to come back and makes sure it stays what it is, what it’s intended to be.” 
Gallagher also said the jokes will cover all aspects of campus life, as well as pop culture references. He said the humor will be consistent with the “striking back” theme. 
“[The audience is] never going to be bombarded over and over again with same joke, but we’ll be hit­ting them from all angles, all types of humor,” he said. 
Gallagher emphasized students would be making a mistake if they didn’t attend this year’s Revue. 
“It’s still the Keenan Revue, it’s still our take on Notre Dame,” he said. “We’re not shying away from different aspects of campus, we may have even taken it a step further this year.” 
Riddle, Keenan Hall resident and Revue veteran, said he was excited to have the same production team from last year. 
“The music was one of the best things last year,” Riddle said. “I’m singing one of the songs, which is going to be bad, but it’s going to be fun.” 
This year, Riddle noticed the Keenan residents re­ally came together more to produce the Revue.
 “[Productions at] Saint Mary’s were just running through the motions, there was no inspiration; now we’re pushing ourselves so much further to be funny in a way that we can all laugh together,” he said. “Even though we’re poking fun at each other, and at Notre Dame, there are some things about Notre Dame that are laughable — we’re hoping everyone can laugh comfortably together.” 
If Keenan Hall is the Galactic Empire, then stu­dents of the Rebel Alliance should prepare for a full force of attack of jeers, burns and bounty hunters. 
Contact Meghan Thomassen at mthomass@nd.edu 
On campus 
What: The Keenan Revue Where: Stepan Center When: Thursday, Feb. 9 – Saturday, Feb. 11, 7 p.m. How Much: Free but ticketed Learn More: 
www.nd.edu/~keenan/revue 


DILLON WEISNER/The Observer MARINA KOZAK | Observer Graphic 
page 10 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u CLASSIFIEDS Thursday, February 9, 2012 
SPORTS AUTHORITY 
Let’s convert America into a soccer country 
I just informed Adam Schefter and Chris Broussard that I have cancelled the NFL and the NBA seasons indefinitely. Sorry, Mr. Stern, now I am the most hated commis­sioner in all sports — but not really, who could ever take that title away from him (see the Chris Paul trade veto). It’s basically this past summer all over again, but now I called the players’ bluffs. 
No more Super Bowl, no more Slam Dunk contest, no more hands — unless you want a yel­low card. 
That’s right, it is time to witness the rise of soccer, the original football. 
As an American, I don’t have the hutzpah to cancel baseball and I don’t want to create an international crisis by canceling hockey and upsetting our neigh­bors to the north (see Vancouver riots). And as an Italian, I can’t stand to see soccer’s popularity continue to dive in a way that would even make Cristiano Ronaldo proud. 
Soccer is the most athletic country in the world. So think of this: what if the best athletes in America played soccer? 

Just imagine LeBron James jumping completely over the horrid Robin Van Persie (much to John Lucas’ delight) for a header into the top corner of the goal. Perhaps imagine how crazy it would be to see Larry Fitzgerald receiving a pass from the simply unreal Lionel Messi. Or how about Anthony Davis not moving whatsoever to make a save in the corner of the goal with his seven-foot wingspan (if he doesn’t make the save his unibrow will). 
After all, Steve Nash and Kobe Bryant admitted they would be international soccer stars if the money had been there. 
So I am going to take all the money and resources in the NFL and the NBA and put it to­ward the MLS, which is one of the biggest jokes in the sport­ing world right now next to Dolphins fans posting pictures of Peyton Manning in a Fins jersey holding the Lombardi trophy and M.I.A. showing us her love of birds. 
If you build it (stacks of straight-up cash), they will come. World-class players will easily hop the pond to play in 
the United States 
for the right 
price. And fans 
will surely flock 
world’s game. to stadiums with 
After all, Steve Nash 
It stops wars — these great ath­
and Kobe Bryant 
such as in the letes playing right 
admitted they would 
Ivory Coast in down the street, 
be international soccer 
2006 — makes coupled with the 
stars if the money 
headlines and not-so-tragic loss brings a country had been there. of the NFL and 
together like nothing else I have ever seen. Remember Landon Donovan’s last-second goal in 2010 or even Abby Wam­bach’s header against Brazil last summer? Kids playing football switched to soccer, casual view­ers became fans, fans became die-hards. Now when do you remember a Super Bowl ever doing this? 
In third-world countries, soc­cer is often the fabric that keeps the country together and creates national heroes. But as far as soccer goes, America is a third-world country. The money and resources put into soccer in the United States probably couldn’t even pay off Albert Pujols’ 93­year contract he signed with the Honolulu Angels of Ana­heim (another thing I changed as commissioner to show how ridiculous the name change is). 
America is undoubtedly the 
NBA. 
Then, we would 
be able to build 
the real soccer academies and the 80,000-seat palaces that have made the competition so great in Europe. 
The fanaticism will quickly build and soccer will become the biggest sport in America. Could you imagine if the United States won a World Cup, which has basically been the sole property of Europe and Brazil? We would have McDonald’s, Coca-Cola and the World Cup — which would bring an enormous amount of hate and jealousy from the global com­munity. What else could we want? 
Contact Andrew Gastelum at agastelum@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
NBA 

Billups vows to return from injury 
Associated Press 
CLEVELAND — Chauncey Billups will only watch as the Clippers continue their promising season without him. 
This isn’t going to be easy. 
With his left leg encased in a plastic protective boot and a newly issued crutch standing nearby, Billups sprawled across a few seats Wednesday inside Quicken Loans Arena as his team­mates went through their first pregame shootaround since their veteran guard and leader suffered a sea­son-ending injury. 
Billups tore his Achilles tendon, prematurely ending his first season with Los An­geles and 15th in the NBA. 
He won’t let it be his last. 
“My career is definitely not over,” the 35-year-old said. “I’m not going to crawl out of this league. I’m go­ing to go out on my own two feet. I will be back.” 

Billups’ season came to a stunning end in Orlando on Monday night, when he crumpled to the floor with­out being touched. After missing a 3-pointer in the fourth quarter, Billups took one step toward the loose ball when his leg buckled. As play went the other way, Bil­lups assessed his injury and knew right away something was terribly wrong. 
“When I first went down, it felt like someone kind of kicked me,” Billups said. “But when I tried to get back up and step on it, I didn’t feel anything and I knew it was something I had never felt before and I knew it was bad.” 
Tests taken Tuesday at the Cleveland Clinic confirmed the Achilles tear, a seri­ous injury requiring eight months of recovery time. Billups returned to Los An­geles on Wednesday. Clip­pers coach Vinny Del Negro said Billups will meet with a specialist before it’s decided when he’ll have surgery. 
The loss of Billups is a significant blow to the ris­ing Clippers, who have be­come one of the league’s top attractions with All-Stars Chris Paul and Blake Griffin and a solid supporting cast. A punching bag for decades, they have even threatened to steal home turf away from the Lakers in Los Angeles. 
Billups had been a huge addition for the club, which claimed the five-time All-Star in December after he was waived by the New York Knicks under the league’s new amnesty clause. He was averaging 14.9 points and four assists, modest num­bers. But it was his impact in mentoring Paul and Grif­fin that made Billups invalu­able. 

“It’s a big blow because of how much Chauncey means to the team: his leadership, his play, all that,” said Del Negro. “But we’re going to have to handle the adversity and I expect the guys to step up. We have to come togeth­er as a team and handle it. I feel bad for him. I thought he was just getting comfort­able and his intangibles will be missed. 
“But he’s not going any­where. He’ll be missed, but he’ll be around the team.” 
Del Negro said Randy Foye will take Billups’ starting spot alongside Paul, the elite point guard who said the in­jury to his respected team­mate has impacted him emo­tionally. 
“Everybody has to step up,” Paul said. “There’s not one person that can fill a void that big. Everybody is going to have to do a little bit more and it definitely starts with me and Blake. It’s tough. I’ve had a lot of time to think about it and talk to Chaunc­ey. And if anybody can come back from this, it would be him.” 
Beyond cutting short what Billups believed was evolv­ing into a “special season” for him and the Clippers, the injury also ended his dreams of playing in the Olympics 
Billups was one of 20 play­ers chosen as candidates to play on the U.S. team at the London Games. He’ll be watching them this summer as well. 
“That’s one of my big, big disappointments as well,” Billups said. “I should have been on the team that won it four years ago but I pulled out because of a family issue, my mother was sick. I never thought I would have another chance to do it and was in a position to do it and now this. So that’s disappointing, man. 
“But like I said, one thing you can’t control is fate. I’m just going to keep moving right along and I’ll be back.” 
Once he has surgery, Bil­lups intends to help the Clip­pers any way he can. He has already spoken to the team about pushing through the adversity. He won’t let them use his loss as an excuse. 
“I’ll be watching the games and texting them and coach­ing and helping them do what I think can be one spe­cial season,” he said. “I think it can still happen.” 
Billups’ contract with the Clippers only runs through this season. Mr. Big Shot wants another shot as long as they’ll have him. 
“I feel like I have some un­finished business here,” he said. “I love the movement. I love what’s going on. We had a really good thing going and I’d like to continue that.” 
CLASSIFIEDS 
FOR RENT 
WALK TO CAMPUS 
Great Specials! Studio, 1, 2, 3 Bedroom Townhomes available. (574) 272-8124. 
www.clovervillageapartments.com 
PERSONAL 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don’t go it alone. Notre Dame has many resources in place to assist you. If you or someone you love needs 
confidential support or assistance, 
please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819 or Ann Firth at 1-2685. For more information, visit ND’s website at:
 http://pregnancysupport@nd.edu 
Born on this day: 1974 - Seth Green, American actor 1974 - Kimbo Slice, American 
mixed martial artist 1975 - Damon Denson, NFL guard 1976 - Jim Parque, MLB baseball 
pitcher 1976 - Khaled Mashud, Bangladeshi cricketer 1976 - Adam Piatt, MLB 

1977 - Yucef Merhi, Venezuelan artist 1977 - Dave Farrell, musician 1977 - Barry Hall, Australian rules 
footballer 1977 - Bridgette Kerkove, actress 1978 - Christa Williams, Houston 
TX, softball pitcher 1979 - Tara Tucker, Miss Alabama Teen USA (1997) 1979 - Aaron Cook, MLB 1979 - Josh Keaton, actor/singer 
1980 - Ralf Little, actor/comedian 1980 - Cameron Muncey, Australian guitarist (Jet) 
1980 - Stephen Wright, English footballer 1981 - Tommy Michaels, actor 
1981 - Myriam Montemayor Cruz, Mexican singer 
1982 - Eric Alexander, NFL 
Outlined against a blue-gray October sky, the Four Horsemen rode again ... 
Outlined against a red February sky, the Four Horsemen ride tomorrow. 

Thursday, February 9, 2012 The Observer u SPORTS ndsmcobserver.com | page 11 
HIGH SCHOOL BASKETBALL 

Pennsylvania school accused of racial slurs during game 
Associated Press 
BRENTWOOD, Pa. — Ath­letic tensions between two Pittsburgh-area high schools — one largely white, the other predominantly black — have boiled over into accusations of racism that some say is being swept under the rug. 
Two students at Brentwood High School are accused of dressing in banana suits at a game and, along with other students, taunting players at Monessen High, according to Monessen parents and a school administrator. 
The costumed Brentwood students were thrown out of Friday’s game after they ran past the Monessen fan section, “causing agitation and disrup­tion,” Brentwood’s district su­perintendent, Ronald Dufalla, said in a statement Wednesday. A third student “was removed to avoid a potential problem” that Dufalla wouldn’t specify. 
But Dufalla also said he has reviewed game tapes and talk­ed to school officials, and has “seen no other activity that confirms the allegations made.” The two students in banana suits, he said, have done that at previous games “without inci­dent.” 
“The high school students are emulating college students they have seen on television who wear costumes during the col­legiate contests,” Dufalla said in email Wednesday to The As­sociated Press. “No high school team, Monessen or otherwise, or their fans are being singled out. This is just something the students do.” 
Parents said they heard slurs from Brentwood students in­cluding “monkeys” and “cotton pickers.” 
Superintendent Linda Mar­colini told The Valley Indepen­dent of Monessen for a story Wednesday that she planned to report the conflict to the West­ern Pennsylvania Interscholas­tic Athletic Association, which oversees high school sports in the region. 
“Basically, I feel [Dufalla] sugar-coated the situation,” Marcolini told the Independent. “I’m not happy with that, and I feel like I’ve not been told the whole story or the truth.” 
The AP could not immediately reach Marcolini for comment. 

MLB 
Hall of Fame to begin drug education program 

Associated Press 
NEW YORK — The Baseball Hall of Fame is starting a drug education program for students and young adults — in the same year Barry Bonds, Roger Clem­ens and Sammy Sosa will appear on ballot for the first time after careers tainted by steroid accu­sations. 
While adding PEDs to RBIs and ERAs among its interests, the Hall emphasized Wednes­day that its new initiative wasn’t tied to the former stars up for election or the people who will choose them. 


“It is not intended to cast a directive to voters about Hall of Fame worthy candidates,” shrine president Jeff Idelson said. 
Mark McGwire, 10th on the career home run list, has never come close to election after ad­mitting he used steroids and hu­man growth hormone. Neither has Rafael Palmeiro, who topped 500 homers and 3,000 hits but was suspended for a positive test for performance-enhancing drugs. 
Bonds, a seven-time NL MVP, and Clemens, a seven-time Cy Young Award winner, will ap­pear on the ballot mailed to vot­ers around Thanksgiving. So will Sosa, who hit 609 homers. 
The Hall makes no attempt to influence members of the Baseball Writers’ Association of America when they pick the play­ers for Cooperstown. 
“Hall of Fame voting has been a part of this nation’s fabric since 1936, and has touted the virtues of character, sportsmanship and integrity, along with the contri­butions to the game, as integral qualifications for earning elec­tion,” Idelson said. 
Education is part of the mis­sion for the National Baseball Hall of Fame and Museum, along with honoring the game’s greats and displaying artifacts. 
The Hall plans to promote a healthy lifestyle that is free of PEDs. The program will be called “Be A Superior Example,” or “BASE” for short, and will work with the Taylor Hooton Founda­tion and the Professional Base­ball Athletic Trainers Society. 
In the next 18 months, the Hall hopes to conduct a nationwide survey, hold a summit in Coo­perstown on drugs and begin a national registry for people to pledge commitments to live free of PEDs. 

page 12 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u SPORTS Thursday, February 9, 2012 
AUTO RACING 
IndyCar will listen to driver complaints 

Assosciated Press 
The new race director for the IndyCar Series wants improved communications with the driv­ers, and is willing to listen to their concerns about specific racing is­sues. 
Among the issues Beaux Barfield said Wednesday he will take under consideration is the drivers’ displeasure with using double-file restarts at Indianapo­lis Motor Speedway. Double-file restarts were added to the se­ries last season and were quickly criticized as both IndyCar and the drivers struggled through execu­tion and policing the new practice. 
The drivers also were adamant­ly opposed to using double-file re­starts in the Indianapolis 500, but IndyCar kept them. Most drivers remain opposed to using double-file restarts in this year’s race. 
Barfield, hired as president of competition and race director in January, said he’s in favor of dou­ble-file restarts but will listen to driver concerns. 
“Double-file restarts is some­thing that was brought in and not given an appropriate effort either by the officials or the drivers, and I think it took a worse rap than it should have,” Barfield said. “The racer in me didn’t like them, but when I did see the good efforts of the officials to make adjustments to them ... it brought the kind of excitement to our product that IndyCar needs to get to the next level. 
“That being said, there’s a cou­ple of places that the drivers have legitimate concerns that they’d rather not do double-file restarts. I’m open-minded and going to lis­ten to what they have to say.” 
Asked if double-file restarts will be used in the Indy 500, Barfield said “it’s under consideration.” 
Communication between the drivers and race control deterio­rated last season under former race director Brian Barnhart. A complex rule book that gave Barnhart discretionary power in many officiating decisions led to the breakdown, and as the season came to a close, Barnhart seemed to have lost the respect of the pad­dock. 
He was relieved as race director during the offseason and Barfield, who spent the last four seasons as race director of the ALMS sports car series, was brought into the job at the start of the year. Barfield’s first task was re-writing the IndyCar rule book, which he did with vice president of technol­ogy Will Phillips. 
Barfield said he reformatted the rule book to improve both its readability and flow, which would be the most noticeable difference in what was electronically distrib­uted to race teams late Tuesday. 
But, perhaps the more impor­tant overhaul in terms of percep­tion for IndyCar, was the elimina­tion of nearly all instances that gave the race director discretion­ary power in officiating decisions. 
Barfield said the rule book used last season had more than 90 instances where the discre­tion of the race director could be applied. Drivers complained it created unfair and arbitrary po­licing, and it contributed to them losing faith in Barnhart. 
The 2012 rule book has only six instances where the race di­rector can use his discretion, but Barfield said there’s still a clause that allows officials “latitude to fix problems that come up that have never been seen before.” But Barfield said he’s striving to never have to use that power, and to rule with in a very black-and­white manner. 
“It’s an absolutely tighter rule book,” he said. “As much as I’ve evolved and developed as a race official, you learn that you can’t think about how a ruling or pen­alty will affect a race team, or a driver, or harm a race team. You can’t consider those things. It’s racing and if there’s an incident that has to be looked at face value — blocking, contact, anything — the rules are the rules and have to be applied how they are writ­ten. 
“A statement has to be made that you are in control of your paddock. You have to remove the emotion in officiating, because it’s easy to have sympathy but when you do, you are going down a slip­pery slope.” 
Barfield will discuss in greater detail the 2012 rule book and in­troduce his officiating team next week during planned “State of IndyCar” activities. He wouldn’t reveal his stewards for 2012, but said two recent hires are former drivers and race control will con­sist of Barfield and three other stewards. 
Tweaks to the rule book al­ready announced include: 
• 
the use of an instant messag­ing system between race control, officials and race team managers in which Barfield can communi­cate track conditions, warnings, penalties and other information. Barfield said he used the system, which will complement radio communication, at ALMS and it’s “new to IndyCar, but late to Indy-Car.” 

• standard INDYCAR tech bodywork parts must be able to fit a team’s car during technical inspection. 

•
   a minimum of two track con­dition radio steering wheel lights will be standard, and act in uni­son with dash lights and comple­ment audio and trackside visual caution warning systems. 


NCAA 

North Dakota fights for nickname 
Associated Press 
BISMARCK, N.D. — The University of North Dakota will resume using its conten­tious Fighting Sioux nick­name despite threats from the NCAA, the school’s president said Wednesday, marking the latest twist in a protracted fight about a name that critics consider offensive. 
A state law requiring the university to use its longtime nickname and logo, which shows the profile of an Ameri­can Indian warrior, was re­pealed in November. The university has since been try­ing to retire the moniker, but nickname supporters filed pe­titions late Tuesday demand­ing that the issue be put to a statewide vote. 
University President Robert Kelley said the school decided to resume using the name and logo to respect the state’s ref­erendum process, which re­quires the pro-nickname law be in effect while the secre­tary of state reviews the peti­tion signatures over the next month. 
“As soon as that petition was filed last night, the law reverts,” Kelley told The Asso­ciated Press. “I don’t want to violate the law.” 
The NCAA has told the uni­versity that continued use of the nickname and logo would expose the school to sanctions. The school could not host post-season tourna­ments, and its athletes could not wear uniforms with the logo or nickname in post-sea­son play. 
Emails and phone messag­es left with the NCAA were not immediately returned Wednesday. The university and leaders in Grand Forks, where the school is located, had op­posed the law. 
Kelley said the men’s and women’s hockey teams and the women’s basketball team have a chance for post-season play in the coming months, and it was unclear how the teams would be affected. 
“I don’t know whether this is going to put us back on the (sanc­tions) list or not,” Kelly said. “But clearly, by being mandated by state law to be Fighting Sioux, we are right back to where we were before the repeal.” 
The state Board of Higher Education will likely meet with North Dakota Attorney General Wayne Stenehjem on Monday to discuss whether to go to court to block reinstatement of the law, board President Grant Shaft said. 
The dispute began in 2006, when the NCAA prodded 19 schools to get rid of American Indian nicknames, logos and mascots that it considered “hos­tile and abusive” to Indians. The University of North Dakota is the only school left where the issue is in serious dispute. 
The NCAA said the schools, to avoid sanctions, had to change their nicknames or obtain per­mission from local tribes. Most changed their names, although the Florida State Seminoles and the Central Michigan Chippewas were among the schools that got tribal permission to keep their nicknames. 
North Dakota challenged the NCAA edict in court. In a settle­ment, the school agreed to be­gin retiring its nickname if it couldn’t obtain consent to con­tinue its use from North Dakota’s Standing Rock and Spirit Lake Sioux tribes by Nov. 30, 2010. 
Spirit Lake tribal members en­dorsed the name. But the Stand­ing Rock Sioux’s tribal council, which opposed the nickname, has declined to support it or to allow its tribal members to vote. 
The law forcing the school to use the name and logo was ap­proved last March, despite op­position from university officials and Grand Forks legislators. Supporters of the proposal in­cluded some prominent univer­sity alumni. 
The law’s chief sponsor, Re­publican House Majority Leader Al Carlson, said he resented the NCAA’s bullying and what he re­garded as the Board of Higher Education’s clumsy handling of the matter. Carlson hoped the law would make the NCAA re­consider its opposition to the nickname and logo, but the NCAA was adamant. 
The law was repealed during a special legislative session in November, with many former supporters switching sides and saying it had not accomplished its purpose of influencing the NCAA. 
Supporters of the nickname, including some members of the Standing Rock Sioux, said they turned in petitions with more than 17,000 signatures late Tuesday in support of the law. The required minimum is 13,452 names. 
Reed Soderstrom, chairman of the referendum campaign, hailed the university’s decision Wednesday and discouraged education board members from going back to court. 
“They would seem to be fol­lowing a method of trying to disenfranchise the voters, and I don’t think they have the power to do that,” he said. 


Thursday, February 9, 2012 The Observer u SPORTS ndsmcobserver.com | page 13 
Martin 
continued from page 16 
ning by 10 or 12,” Irish coach Mike Brey said. “The run was coming, and I loved our poise. We’ve showed that on the road now four times, but man did we hit some big shots.” 
Junior forward Jack Cooley kept the Irish in the game in which the team shot just 38 percent from the floor in the second half. He led all scorers with 21 points and grabbed a team-high 12 re­bounds in the win. 
“I am just so thrilled to see his development and his con­fidence,” Brey said. “I think he knew he could score on [Mountaineer forward Deniz Kilicli]. He got to the offen­sive boards for us, and he gets every big defensive re­bound down the stretch in a close game.” 
Grant finished with 12 points despite four of 17 shooting, and Martin chipped in 12 points of his own. 
Notre Dame started slow­ly, connecting on just two of its first 10 shots. But a 9-0 run in the middle of the first half put the Irish ahead, and they took a 10-point lead into half. 
The Mountaineers came roaring back after the break, and thanks to poor shooting on the part of the Irish, West Virginia took a 43-40 lead with 4:28 left. 

“I think we didn’t hang our head,” Brey said. “We knew it was going to be 
physical.  It’s  not  like we  
haven’t  played  against  
physical  defense  before.  
Everyone  plays  us  the  

same way — they get up and pressure us. It’s a little more difficult on the road.” 
But shots began to fall for the Irish. Atkins con­nected from distance to tie the game, and then Grant stole a West Virginia pass and knocked down a quick three-pointer to regain the lead. 
“Jerian Grant makes winning plays,” Brey said. “He had a stretch there when he thought he was getting fouled and he was hanging his head a little. I thought he had a moment 
— that’s why I took him out — I thought he had a moment when he was be­ing young again. I took him out, talked to him a little bit, and when I put him back in, he looked like a veteran in this league with the deflections and the big shots.” 
The Irish will return home for back-to-back Big East contests in the Purcell Pavilion, start­ing with Saturday’s game against DePaul. 
“This is a great road win for us,” Brey said. “I’m thrilled it gets us to eight league wins. I love the make-up of our group and the vibe of our group, and we just want to keep riding this good stuff.” 
Contact Eric Prister at eprister@nd.edu 

NCAA BASKETBALL 
Rivers’ buzzer-beater lifts Duke over UNC 
Associated Press 
CHAPEL HILL, N.C. — Aus­tin Rivers never looked like a freshman in his first Duke-North Carolina rivalry game 
— including when he buried a shot that will live on in the lore of this fierce rivalry. 
Rivers hit a 3-pointer at the horn to give No. 10 Duke an 85-84 win over No. 5 North Carolina on Wednesday night, snapping the Tar Heels’ school-record 31-game home winning streak. 
Rivers scored a season-high 29 points and hit six 3s, the last over 7-footer Tyler Zeller with the Blue Devils (20-4, 7-2) trailing by two in the fi­nal seconds. The ball swished through the net, sending Riv­ers running down the court in celebration while the rest of his teammates gave chase be­fore mobbing him in front of a stunned UNC crowd. 
Rivers’ 3 capped a wild rally for the Blue Devils, who trailed by 10 points with about 2½ minutes left. 
Harrison Barnes scored 25 points for the Tar Heels (20­4, 7-2), while Zeller finished with 23 points and 11 re­bounds. But Zeller missed two free throws in the final min­ute, including one with 13.9 seconds left that set up Rivers’ winning shot. 
It was a finish befitting the rivalry, from Rivers’ shot to Barnes’ second-half surge to a strange play in which Zeller accidentally batted the ball into the Duke basket on a re­bound attempt, bringing the Blue Devils within a point with 14.2 seconds left. 
From the start, the Blue Devils seemed determined to rely on the 3-point shot to off­set the Tar Heels’ dominance inside. They hit plenty early and led by eight in the first half, then cooled off as the Tar Heels charged out of half­time to take control and lead by 13 points. 
In the end, however, the Blue Devils’ shooters warmed up just in time to stop North Carolina’s long home winning streak. 
First Seth Curry drained a 3 that made it 82-78 with 1:48 left. Then Ryan Kelly followed with a jumper off his own missed 3 that closed the gap to 82-80. Then, after Zeller hit a free throw, Kelly launched a long shot that appeared to be a 3 over John Henson. As the ball was falling short of the rim, Zeller tried for the rebound but accidentally de­flected the ball up and into the basket to cut the deficit to 83-82. 
Then again, North Carolina probably never should’ve let it come to that. 
After trailing most of the first half, the Tar Heels ran off a 14-4 run to start the sec­ond half and build a 13-point lead. Barnes — who didn’t have a field goal in the first half — finally getting going with a pair of baskets and a 3-pointer off a crosscourt pass from Kendall Marshall to take a 57-44 lead with 15:08 left. 
North Carolina maintained at least a seven-point lead most of the way from there, with Barnes’ last jumper giv­ing the Tar Heels an 82-72 lead with 2:38 left. 
Curry and Kelly each had 15 points for Duke, which shot 44 percent and matched a season high with 14 3-pointers. 
North Carolina shot 59 per­cent in the second half, but went just 8 for 15 from the foul line after halftime to let this one slip painfully away. 


page 14 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u SPORTS Thursday, February 9, 2012 

ASHLEY DACY/The Observer 
Irish senior captain Kevin Randall provides defensive support during an exhibition game against Robert Morris on Feb. 5. 
Captains 
continued from page 16 
they said they may not get in a teammates face about a mis­take or vocalize their inten­tions, the message is received regardless. 
“I’m not exactly the most vo­cal guy in the world,” Randall said. “But that’s something I’m trying to work on. I think that saying less is sometimes worth more. If there’s a guy who’s al­ways talking to be heard, guys don’t always listen to what he has to say. I think the guys on this team really follow the ex­ample set by the seniors.” 
Pfeifer acknowledged, though, that a less authorita­tive leadership style can have his drawbacks. 
“I try to be liked by every­one,” Pfeifer said. “That’s probably my biggest leader­ship flaw. I want to be the good guy and liked by everyone. That’s not always what the team needs. They need people to be vocal. That’s probably been the biggest challenge as a leader for me.” 
Part of the challenge for these captains is taking on the weight of Notre Dame’s strong lacrosse tradition. In the last two seasons, the Irish made it to the national championships and national quarterfinals. 
As leaders, it is the captains’ responsibility to continually 
Piasio 
continued from page 16 
Although Notre Dame may seem slightly less experienced than it has been in years past, the Irish are still confident they have the right pieces in place to capture the national title. This tradition of excellence at­tracted Piasio to South Bend in the first place, and he said it is something he is proud to be a part of. 
“Especially at a place like this, in tandem with tradition and stellar academics, this truly is a pipe-dream for me,” Piasio said. 
The transition from high school fencing to the colle­giate level was not easy. But it is something Piasio is happy to have endured because he said he is a better fencer and a bet­ter person for it. 
“Fencing was much more re-push the team to be even bet­ter. Pfiefer said the coaches are a big part of that as they only recruit high character players. 
“[Irish] coach [Kevin] Corrigan, when he recruits players, he doesn’t just re­cruit talent, he recruits character,” Pfeifer said. “Year in and year out, ev­erybody cares about each other, works hard. We just keep building every year. Each year we keep getting closer.” 
Randall said the daily commitment to hard work and improvement will help the Irish reach their goals. 
“I don’t think you set lofty goals, like we’re aiming to do something in the long run, but just getting after it every day,” Randall said. “As soon as our season ended last year, I was already look­ing forward to coming back this year, and I was already working hard in the offsea­son. Obviously we would have like to go further. But I think the quality of the guys on our team is that we’re willing to work hard no mat­ter what the situation is.” 
The Irish kick off the reg­ular season with a grudge match against Duke on Feb. 18 at home. The game will be aired on ESPNU. 
Contact Matthew Robison at mrobison@nd.edu 
laxed for me in my prep years,” Piasio said. “I had some nation­al success and accolades, but I wasn’t working as hard as I could have. It’s a fantastic op­portunity and work experience, a lot more preparation that what I was previously doing.” 
Piasio attributed Notre Dame’s tradition of success to the commitment to excellence, the level of talent and the in­tangible sense of camaraderie among teammates. 
“I strongly believe that, when all cylinders blazing, we are the best team in the nation,” Piasio said. 
The Irish women fencers will participate in the Duke Du­als on Feb. 11 and the USFA National Junior Olympics run Feb. 17-20 in Salt Lake City. The next combined meet is the Squad Championships in New York on Feb. 26. 
Contact Matthew Robison at          mrobison@nd.edu 
deficit the same for the start of the second half, down by 11 with 
Playoffs 
13:31 left in the game. From then on, the game was all 

continued from page 16 Saint Mary’s. The Belles closed the game on a 25-11 run, fueled 
digits for the majority of the by the strong game. play of their 
Saint Mary’s started off seniors as well strong, taking a 10-point ad-as a stifling vantage on a three-pointer defense. from senior guard Patsy Ma-“I thought honey only 5:14 into the con-we played test. pretty good 
Adrian fought back to cut defense in the the Belles lead to just five second half,” points on a fast break lay-up Henley said. with 8:24 left in the first half. “We forced 
This was as close as the a lot of turnovers and got some Bulldogs would get for the rest easy transition points because of of the game, as Saint Mary’s our defense.” closed the half on a 17-11 run Senior forward Kelley Murphy to take an 11-point lead into led Saint Mary’s in scoring with the halftime locker room. 20 points, adding eight rebounds. 
Adrian was able to keep the Senior forward Jessica Centa 
Feeney 
continued from page 16 
so I was really happy … to end on a good note.” 
The stellar freshman cam­paign was a welcome sur­prise for Feeney, who in high school was uncertain that he would ever have the oppor­tunity to compete for Notre Dame. 
“My dad went to Notre Dame so I always wanted to come here but I didn’t actually think that I prob­ably would,” he said. “Once I started doing well at track, I knew that could help me get in so I started talking to the coaches … once I found out I got accepted, I definite­ly wasn’t turning it down. Right when I got the letter I was definitely coming here.” 
Having earned his spot at the University and on the track and field team, and even after putting forth a breakout 2011 season, Feeney is far from finished. Already this season, Feeney has bested his outdoor 400-meter time from last year. Even more im­pressively, Feeney did so in­doors, where times are normal­ly slower. 
In the Meyo Invitational at Notre Dame on Feb. 4, Feeney won the 400-meter race with a personal best and school record time of 46.73. The sophomore finished the race just .07 sec­onds ahead of freshman team­mate Chris Giesting, who took second. 
“That was awesome,” Fee­ney said. “Chris and I both thought we could get [the re­cord], and we were like, ‘This is probably our best chance,’ because we had good competi­tion and we had both split 46’s, which [would] beat the record, in relay. We definitely knew we could, it was just down to who­ever gets it, gets it. That was just awesome, knowing that my name is going to be up on that board.” 
added 12 points, and current MIAA Player of the Week Ma-honey finished with nine points, five assists and four rebounds. 
Though the team had just scored a big victory, Henley still 
“We need to do a better job still of getting on the boards as we prepare to play Calvin next week.” 
Jenn Henley Belles coach 
found an area her team could improve on af­ter they were out-rebounded by Adrian. 
“We need to do a better job still of getting on the boards as we prepare to play Calvin 
next week,” Henley said. 
Saint Mary’s is next in action Wednesday, as they travel to con­ference foe Calvin. 
Contact Nick Boyle at                         nboyle1@nd.edu 
Following his monumental victory in the 400-meter race, Feeney helped lead the Irish men’s 4x400-meter relay to vic­tory. 
“I probably enjoy the 4x400­meter race more [than the in­dividual 400-meter race] just because there is more a team aspect and our team is actu­ally really good this year and we have a good shot at going for the school record this year,” he said. “The 400 is a fun individ­ual race, but the 4x400-meter relay is so much better because you get to share that with three other people on the team and just celebrating after a win is a lot better.” 
This year’s men’s relay team ran a time of 3:10.41 at the Meyo Invitational, roughly two seconds slower than the school record time set in 1985. But if Feeney is to be believed, the 27­year old record won’t stand for much longer. 
Contact Joseph Monardo at                jmonardo@nd.edu 


Thursday, February 9, 2012 The Observer u TODAY ndsmcobserver.com | page 15 
EUGENIA LAST 

WILL SHORTz 
HOROSCOPE 
CROSSWORD 



HENRy ARNOLD 

JON REPINE 
JUMBLE
EXPND 
MIKE ARGIRION 





Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 

Make checks payable to The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556

 Enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year


 Enclosed
 is $75 for one semester 


Name ____________________________________________________ Address __________________________________________________ City ____________________ State___________ Zip______________ 

Thursday, February 9, 2011 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 16 
MEN’S BASKETBALL 

Mountain topped 
Late 3s push Irish to third in Big East 
By ERIC PRISTER 
Senior Sports Writer 
The Irish found their shooting stroke just in time. Connecting on three straight three-pointers in the closing minutes of the game, Notre Dame topped West Virginia 55-51 in Morgantown, W. Va. 
Notre Dame made just three of 10 shots from dis­tance in the second half, but all three came as a part of an 11-0 run late in the game. Triples from sophomore guards Eric Atkins and Jer­ian Grant and senior guard Scott Martin pushed the Irish from three points down to six points ahead with only 58 seconds left. The Irish held on to the lead to win their fifth straight, which moves them into sole possession of third place in the Big East. 

“You knew you weren’t go­ing to get out of here win-JULIE HERDER/The Observer 
Irish senior forward Scott Martin dribbles around Marquette’s defense during Notre Dame’s 76-59 win see MARTIN/page 13 Feb. 4. Martin had 12 points and played 40 minutes in the 55-51 win at West Virginia on Wednesday. 

SMC BASKETBALL 
Bellesearn conference playoffberth 
By NICK BOYLE 
Sports Writer 
Saint Mary’s clinched an MIAA playoff spot Wednesday night with a dominant 68-43 victory over visiting Adrian. 
The Belles (12-11, 8-6 MIAA) were the superior team throughout the contest, shoot­ing exactly 50 percent from the field for the game, as well as an impressive 60 percent from be­yond the three-point line. 
“We did a great job of work­ing our offense deep into the shot clock tonight,” Belles coach Jenn Henley said. “[This forced] Adrian to play defense a lot longer.” 
On the other side of the ball, Saint Mary’s played stifling defense, holding Adrian (9-12, 5-9) to just 33 percent shoot­ing as the Belles led by double 
see PLAYOFFS/page 14 
TRACK AND FIELD 

Feeney makes a national impact right out of the blocks 
By JOSEPH MONARDO ney’s success: covering long dis-into his first season, Feeney said school, I figured I would just “Once we got to the Big East Sports Writer tances in short periods of time. he never expected to have suc-kind of be an average runner.” [Championships], I had the top Last year as a freshman, the cess on such a high level. In his debut season, Fee-time going into it so I knew I 
After being an unlikely can-Indianapolis native captured the “It was actually surprising, ney proved himself to be well definitely had a shot at winning didate for the Notre Dame Big East title in the 400-meter because I knew coming in, based above average. After sweeping that,” Feeney said. “Once I won track and field team, sopho-indoor and outdoor races and off the times I’ve had, I would the 400-meter races at the Big at indoor and outdoor, going into more sprinter Patrick Feeney earned All-American honors for be closer to the top 400[-meter] East Championships, the young the national meet at regionals, I has come a long way in a short his role in Notre Dame’s fourth runners, but I think nationally sprinter closed out his first sea-think I was ranked 44th out of stretch of time, notching a school place finish in the 4,000-meter I didn’t think I would do that son of collegiate track with his 48, and I ended up getting 16th, record along the way. distance relay at the NCAA In-well,” he said. “Running 47[-sec-season best time of 47.04 at the 
In fact, that is the key to Fee-door Championships. Heading ond 400-meter races] in high NCAA Division I East Prelims. see FEENEY/page 14 
FENCING 
Piasio grows into key role for Notre Dame 
By MATTHEW ROBISON 
Sports Writer 
All season long, the Irish have seen their fencers grow and take on larger roles, and junior Jack Piasio is no excep­tion. 
In his first two seasons with the veteran-laden Irish, Piasio had more of a background role as a young fencer loaded with talent. This season, Piasio has grown into a veteran looking to lead Notre Dame to its sec­ond straight NCAA champion­ship. 
“Coming into Notre Dame as a relatively inexperienced fencer, especially compared to the all-star talent that I work with here, I had a more minor role and less starting time my earlier years,” Piasio said. 
In his freshman campaign, Piasio went 20-6 in his bouts. 
As a sophomore, he improved his win total, finishing the year 23-10. This season, Pi­asio is on the main stage and has been tallying a number of wins already. 
He earned 10 wins during a 6-0 Notre Dame sweep at the Northwestern Duals on Jan. 7-8. On top of earning wins in the epee and helping his team win matchups, Piasio realizes he has a leadership role, one that he does not take lightly. 
“I have to be a leader on this team. Not the leader, a lead­er,” Piasio said. “No questions about it, I need to perform at the highest level that I can. Not only do I need to do this in order to earn victories, but also push the other guys on the team to the highest level they can be.” 
see PIASIO/page 14 
MEN’S LACROSSE 

Three new captains ready to lead 
By MATTHEW ROBISON 
Sports Writer 
As the No. 9 Irish start off their season, newer team members make adjustments on the field while three vet­eran players strive to per­fect their skills as leaders. 
Seniors and captains Max Pfeifer, Kevin Randall and Nicholas Beattie said they are lucky to be part of a senior class with excellent leadership skills. 
“I definitely think there’s added responsibility due to my title as a captain,” Ran­dall said. “But I think what makes the job a lot easier is that we have a lot of leader­ship throughout our senior class.” 
Midfielder Randall and defenseman Pfeifer said they see themselves as lead­ers by example. While they 
see CAPTAINS/page 14 


ASHLEY DACY/The Observer 
Irish senior midfielder Kevin Randall defends his man during an exhibition game against Robert Morris on Feb. 5. 







