
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


Shirt representatives visit Dominican partners 
President, designer of The Shirt tour Alta Gracia factory, learn about socially responsible production 
By MEGHAN THOMASSEN 
News Writer 
Notre Dame fans can wear The Shirt with even more pride than usual this football season, thanks to its new socially-con­scious manufacturer, Alta Gra­cia. 
Alta Gracia is the only apparel manufacturer in the world that pays a living wage to its employ­ees, “respects their rights” and “provides a safe workplace,” ac­cording to the company’s web­site. 
Senior president of The Shirt Project Andrew Alea and fresh­man designer John Wetzel paid a visit to the Dominican com­pany’s headquarters from April 11 to 13. 
“We were down there for one day, where [The Shirt] is be­ing sewn together, boxed and shipped,” Wetzel said. “We toured the factory … You could see how a lot of the people there who were usually jobless were happy to go to work every day.” 
Alta Gracia flew Alea and Wetzel down to the factory on an all-expenses-paid visit. Alea said the experience was en­lightening, showing the pair the good the production of The Shirt does. 
“It was good will on their part to show us what good The Shirt will do,” Alea said. “It really is making a difference.” 
Wetzel said his experience as a design major was the primary reason he became involved in the organization. However, he said seeing the operation of the 


see SHIRT/page 4 


Photo  provided by John Wetzel 

An Alta Gracia factory worker is seen here wearing the Hype Shirt, made to promote The Shirt 2012 in the Dominican Republic.  Andrew Alea and John Wetzel, president and creator of The Shirt 2012, visited thefactory. 


Tournament honors Valero, raises money for charity 
By ANNA BOARINI last year as a new event that would response from the Keenan com-tournament on to some new people, “He was my partner last year News Writer benefit charitable organizations. munity supported contributing the and whoever does will be asked and in my section and we were 
The event also took on the role of tournament’s earnings to a memo-what they are looking to improve good friends at the time,” Riche 
Notre Dame and Keenan Hall lost commemorating Valero’s life. rial fund for Valero, whose memory about the tournament,” Dunbar said. “So we went along with it [this a member of their collective family “Last year, my roommates and I is also commemorated in the hall said. “Maybe expanding it to near-year], we’re friends and I wanted to when junior Sean Valero died last decided to organize a charity bas-itself with a large crucifix and by dorms, or making a co-ed divi-play with him.” March. But Keenan residents hon-ketball tournament and started plaque on the third floor. sion with Keenan guys and some Riche said he and Healey originally ored his memory by playing in the to get a list of charities compiled,” This year, the tournament fea-other girls’ dorms.” entered the tournament just for Sean Valero Memorial Basketball Dunbar said. “During that process, tured sixteen teams of two Keenan Sophomores Sean Healey and fun. However, he said the tourna-Tournament on April 14. Sean died, and so we made one of residents each, but Dunbar said Jeremy Riche won the tournament ment’s charitable nature was a rea-
Juniors Ryan Dunbar, Gabe the options for the guys to donate to participation could be expanded for for the second year in a row. Riche son to participate as well. The duo DeVela, Preston Scott and Stephen a memorial for Sean.” next year’s tournament. said their team formed out of their Schwaner started the tournament Dunbar said the overwhelming “Next year, we are passing the existing friendship. see VALERO/page 6 
Habitat dedicates Mishawaka home 
Observer staff honored 
By DREW PANGRAZE 
News Writer 
The Notre Dame Campus Chapter of Habitat for Human­ity celebrated another year of hard work in building a home for a family in need at the dedi­cation of the completed house in Mishawaka, Ind., this weekend. 
Jim Williams, executive di­rector of Habitat for Humanity of St. Joseph County, presided over the April 14 dedication, which included prayers and presentation of gifts to the Cole family, who plans to move into their new home by the end of the month. 
Notre Dame student volun­teers put in the majority of work on the house, which took more than a year to complete. Student leaders of the Notre Dame Habi­tat attended the house blessing, including president Ian Gra­ham.  
“It’s a great feeling to see the 


at ICPA conference 
Observer Staff Report 

The Observer took third place in the Division I “News­paper of the Year” category, and former Managing Editor Sarah Mervosh won the Brook Baker Collegiate Journalist of the Year Award at the Indi­ana College Press Association (ICPA) awards ceremony, held Saturday at Ball State Univer­sity in Muncie. 
The Observer staff won an additional 15 awards, includ­ing third place for “Advertis­ing Publication of the Year.” Other University publications 
finished product,” Graham said. represented at ICPA were Scholastic, which tied with see HABITAT/page 4 
Ball State’s Ball Bearings for second place in “News Maga­zine of the Year,” Dome, which won second place in the Divi­sion I “Yearbook of the Year” category and The Juggler, which took third place in “Lit­erary Magazine of the Year.” 
Mervosh is the third Notre Dame student to win the Brook Baker Award, which was first awarded in 1999 in honor of the late Vincennes University student. 
The Editorial Board of The Observer took first place in the “Best Staff Editorial” category for its Nov. 10 piece, “Profes­sionalism and integrity above all.” 
Former Assistant Manag­ing Editor Adriana Pratt won 


see ICPA/page 6 


INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER ND alumnus ordained page 3 u Viewpoint page 8 u FTT presents ‘Light up the Sky’ page 10 u Men’s lacrosse beats Georgetown page 20 
page 2 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u DAY-TO-DAY Monday, April 16, 2012 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT IS YOUR FAVORITE DISNEY MOVIE? 


www.ndsmcobserver.com 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
Allan Joseph 

Managing Editor Business Manager 
Megan Doyle Jeff Liptak 
Asst. Managing Editor: Andrew Owens Asst. Managing Editor: Sam Stryker News Editor: Kristen Durbin Viewpoint Editor: Meghan Thomassen Sports Editor: Chris Allen Scene Editor: Kevin Noonan Saint Mary’s Editor: Jillian Barwick Photo Editor: Suzanna Pratt Graphics Editor: Brandon Keelean Advertising Manager: Katherine Lukas Ad Design Manager: Amanda Jonovski Controller: Jason Taulman Systems Administrator: William Heineman 
Office Manager & General Info 
(574) 631-7471 
Fax 
(574) 631-6927 
Advertising 

(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 

Editor-in-Chief 

(574) 631-4542 ajoseph2@nd.edu 
Managing Editor 

(574) 631-4542 mdoyle11@nd.edu 
Assistant Managing Editors 

(574) 631-4541 aowens2@nd.edu, sstryke1@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 


News Desk 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
Viewpoint Desk 

(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 
Sports Desk 

(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 

Scene Desk 

(574) 631-4540 knoonan2@nd.edu 
Saint Mary’s Desk 
jbarwi01@saintmarys.edu 


Photo Desk 

(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 


Policies 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College.  Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Allan Joseph. 

Post Office Information 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 and additional mailing offices 024 South Dining hall 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-077 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

Drew Williams  Clare Cooney  Erin Moffitt  Isaac Harrington  Thomas Potthast  Bri Neblung  
junior Stanford  senior off campus  junior Welsh Family  junior Stanford  junior off campus  junior off campus  
“Toy Story.”  “Original, Motorcrossed.”  “The Lion Mermaid  “‘Brink’ Brinker.”  “Hercules.”  “Mulan.”  
Finding Enchanted  
Aladdin.”  




Have an idea for Question of the Day? Email obsphoto@gmail.com 


OFFBEAT 

Celebrities owe government money in personal taxes 
LOS ANGELES — Pamela Anderson and Lionel Richie owe the government money. 
California tax authori­ties said Anderson owes $524,241 in personal income taxes. The Franchise Tax Board included the “Bay­watch” star on a list of the state’s 500 biggest income-tax delinquents posted Fri­day. 
Meanwhile, E! Online re­ports that Richie owes the federal government $1.1 million in unpaid taxes and that a lien has been issued warning that the singers’ assets may be seized if he doesn’t pay up in a timely manner. 
A message seeking com­ments from Richie’s pub­licist wasn’t immediately returned Saturday. A call to Anderson’s tax attorney, Robert Leonard, wasn’t im­mediately returned. 
California law requires tax authorities to update and publish the names and amounts owed by the state’s 500 biggest tax scofflaws twice a year. 
New York auction sells items from the Titanic 
NEW YORK — A New York auction house has sold an original ticket to the 1912 launch of the Titanic and a dinner menu from the ill-fated ocean liner, plus items recovered from the wreckage miles underwa­ter. 
On the block Sunday at Bonhams were various Ti­tanic remnants offered to mark the centennial of its sinking. 
The historic admission ticket fetched $56,250, in­cluding the auction house premium. The menu, tout­ing choices like the tongue of a castrated rooster and beef sirloin with horserad­ish, sold for $31,250. 
Both went to private Ameri­can buyers, said Gregg Di­etrich, Bonhams’ maritime consultant; many items went to previous  Titanic collectors. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

IN BRIEF 
The Center for Social Con­cerns hosts a lecture titled “Building the Movement to End Poverty”. Willie Bap­tist, a former homeless fa­ther who survived the Watts uprisings, will be sharing lessons on grassroots orga­nizing. The lecture is today in Geddes Hall from 12 to 1 
p.m . 
Today from 4:30 to 6 p.m. Emma Trelles and Silvia Curbela will be in Room 210 in McKenna Hall for a book reading and signing. This event is co-sponsored by the Latin American Stud­ies Program, Letras Latinas, Institute for Latino Studies, Kellogg Institute for Inter­national Studies, and the José E. Fernández Hispanic Studies Caribbean Initiative. 
Native American Initia­tives is hosting Willly Bau­er, who is presenting a lec­ture titled, “Indigenizing History: Water and Politics in California Indian Oral Tradition”. Bauer is an as­sociate professor of history at UNLV, and the lecture is being held tonight in DeBar­tolo Hall from 5:30 to 6:30 p.m. 
MECHA de ND is spon­soring a discussion titled “Semana de la Mujer: “¡Tu Madre! Appreciate Her”. The discussion is today in Geddes Hall from 6 to 7:30 p.m. 
Engineers without Bor­ders is sponsoring a Five Guys Fundraiser. Stop by to­night from 6 to 9 p.m. to donate 10 % of your purchase. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed in­formation about an event to obsnews.nd@gmail.com 



TODAY’S STAFF 
News 
Kristen Durbin Nicole Michels Kaitlyn Rabach 

Graphics 
Brandon Keelean 

Photo 
Grant Tobin 


Sports 

Jack Hefferon Mike Monaco Brian Hartnett 

Scene 

Maria Fernandez 

Viewpoint 
Meghan 

Thomassen 


LOCAL WEATHER 
TODAY TONIGHT TUESDAY WEDNESDAY THURSDAY FRIDAY 












CORRECTIONS 

In the April 13 issue of The Observer, professor Sebastian Rosato’s position on abortion, the Catholic Church’s teachings and the Democratic Party was incorrectly represented in the article “Professors discuss politics.” His views are correctly portrayed in a letter to the editor in today’s issue.  
HIGH 50 LOW 34 
HIGH 56 LOW 39 
HIGH 70 LOW 48 

HIGH 57 LOW 39 
HIGH 54 LOW 32 

Monday, April 16, 2012 The Observer u NEWS ndsmcobserver.com | page 3 




Week educates Belles about food 
By JILLIAN BARWICK 
Saint Mary’s Editor 
This week, Saint Mary’s students will have the oppor­tunity to learn about the food they consume, healthy eating on a college budget and the ins-and-outs of what they eat during Food Week. 
Senior Kimberly Roland, the event’s organizer, said she came up with the idea for the week when Saint Mary’s participated in National Food Day on Oct. 24, 2011. Roland serves as a Midwest regional field organizer for the Real Food Challenge, and is the sustainable food intern for the Saint Mary’s Justice Ed­ucation department, which prompts her to focus on food more than the average col­lege student. 
“I wanted to expand upon the issues of [National] Food Day and turn it into an entire week,” Roland said. “I want­ed to make one more final mark on Saint Mary’s before I graduated, and leave behind a strong legacy. I came up with the idea for Food Week, and my friends were all ex­tremely supportive of it.” 
Enlisting her peers to help plan Food Week was not a challenge, Roland said. The Saint Mary’s College Sustain­able Food Committee was in­volved in event planning as well, contributing hours of work to create a week of ac­tivities and lectures pertain­ing to food, she said. 
“I want this week to en­courage discussion among students and faculty who have never thought about food as complex and inter­disciplinary,” Roland said. 
The week raises awareness about the many food issues in society in several ways, including film and documen­tary screenings, speeches, presentations, demonstra­tions and food itself, Roland said. 

“Food Week has been es­tablished in order to educate students, faculty and staff as well as the community about the various food issues we all face,” Roland said. “Food is one of the few things in the world that connects every person. We all eat and make decisions about food daily.” 
Roland said food holds much more meaning beyond its daily consumption and necessity for survival. 
“People are connected to food for a variety or reasons. For some, food is pleasure and entertainment. Others are connected to food for nu­tritional reasons, while oth­ers encounter food allergies, or observe special food di­ets,” Roland said. “Still, oth­ers are connected to food for political or environmental reasons. 
“Some are interested in the science of food and agri­culture, while others are in­terested in food justice. This week seeks to touch on the various food issues that in­terest people.” 
The Noble Family Dining Hall and Sodexo are also in­volved with Food Week, Ro­land said. 
“Sodexo has been involved in every step of the way for Food Week,” Roland said. “From planning special menus, to hosting an outdoor picnic on Wednesday, Sodexo is committed to providing students with delicious, sus­tainable food and is working to procure more local, hu­mane, fair trade and organic food.” 
Roland said Food Week also offers students the op­portunity to make sustain­able purchases related to food and cooking. 
“During this week, stu­dents will also be allowed to bring in reusable beverage containers into the dining hall,” Roland said. “We hope this will encourage students to invest in reusable, sus­tainable beverage contain­ers.” 
All Food Week events are free and open to the public, Roland said. 
“I really hope this week encourages Saint Mary’s and Notre Dame students to en­gage with other community members that are working hard on food issues in the South Bend and Michiana areas,” Roland said. “I want community members who are interested in food and sustainability to see that col­lege students really are in­terested in these issues and are becoming conscientious consumers.” 
Roland said she hopes this first Food Week grows into an annual tradition in the future. 
“I would love for this to be­come an annual event after I graduate,” Roland said. “If it continued growing when I left, I feel that it would ben­efit many people in the com­munity. There are many in­terested students at Saint Mary’s who will continue with Food Week in the com­ing years.” 
Contact Jillian Barwick at jbarwi01@saintmarys.edu 



Notre Dame graduate takes vows of priesthood 
By TORI ROECK 
News Writer 
More than 100 Holy Cross priests gathered in the Basilica of the Sa­cred Heart on Saturday to witness Notre Dame alumnus Matt Kuczora profess his final vows and become an ordained member of the priest­hood. 
Kuczora said the ordi­nation Mass revolves around three important ac­tions: the lay­ing of hands, the handing over of the Eucharist and the anointing of chrism. 
“[The bishop] lays his hands on my head, an ancient and biblical symbol of handing on authority and blessing,” Kuczora said. “After the offertory, he hands the chalice and paten on to me too as a symbol of my ministry at the Eucharist. Those actions, along with the anointing of my hands with chrism oil, really mark the ordination of a priest.” 
Kuczora presided over his first Mass on Sunday. Despite his nerves, Kuczora said it was a “wonderful” and “freeing” experience. 
“Before it started, I just said a quick prayer and said, ‘God, this is your prayer. This is your Mass, not mine,’” he said. “I let go, and let God take over from there.” 
Kuczora said he was attracted to the priesthood because he wanted to serve others. 
“I worked for a year after gradu­ation from Notre Dame, and I found myself volunteering and teaching and coaching sports teams,” he said. “The more and more I thought about it, I wanted to make a life out of that kind of service and of helping people.” 
According to a press release from the Congregation of Holy Cross, Kuczora has spent the past year putting his desire to serve others into practice as a deacon at Nuestra Madre Santisima de la Luz Parish in Guadalupe, Nuevo Leon, Mexico. 

“Our parish there has over 40,000 parishioners,” Kuczora said. “There’s a lot of sacramental need.” 
Kuczora said he performed a va­riety of sacramental duties while in Mexico. 
“I did communion services in the absence of a priest. I brought communion to the sick and home­bound,” he said. “I did weddings, many funerals and many baptisms. Sacramentally, I was very busy.” 
He said he also assisted with the parish’s education program. 
“I also helped to run the cateche­sis program for 900 children,” Kuc­zora said. “There was a lot of teach­ing with that and organizing that, and providing ongoing education for our Sunday school teachers as well.” 
Kuczora said he plans to return to the same parish in Mexico for the next few years with the goal of “making God present to the people there.” 
“There’s a lot of violence, especial­ly related to drug trafficking right now in Mexico,” Kuczora said. “[It’s about] making God known to the people there, and letting them know God is with them in their suffer­ing, and God cares about them and loves them. Despite all the violence in their lives, God is still there with them and is offering them healing in this life and in the life to come.” 
In anticipation of his life as a priest, Kuczora said he is most excit­ed to share in people’s spiritual lives. 
“[I look forward to] serving peo­ple, helping them have experiences of God … and walking with people in their journeys, which are so dif­ferent,” he said. “People have strug­gles, but also a lot of joys. [I look forward to] just being with them, helping them to see God and realize God is with them and loves them.” 
Contact Tori Roeck at           vroeck@nd.edu 



SMC seniors coordinate Make-A-Wish golf event 
By CAILIN CROWE 
News Writer 
A team of Saint Mary’s seniors hosted the “Par-Tee for Make-A-Wish” golf outing Sunday at Juday Creek Golf Course in support of a young boy battling a severe illness. 
As part of a marketing manage­ment class, students Keely Noonan, Kelly Conaty, Kelly Kropp, Court­ney O’Neill and Katie Dapper were charged with the task of creating a fundraising event for a charitable cause. 
The group chose the Make-A-Wish Foundation because Dapper serves as its representative at Saint Mary’s. They met with the Make-A-Wish rep­resentative in South Bend who then told them about Hayes, a boy who suffers from chromosome depletion, O’Neill said. (Editor’s Note: Hayes’s full name is not being released in the interest of privacy.) 
“We wanted to raise money for Hayes so that he could go to Dis­ney World and meet Mickey Mouse, something he has been wishing for,” O’Neill said. 
The students said they thought a golf fundraiser for Make-A-Wish would be a perfect fit for their class project. 
“Golf is something that appeals to college-age students as it gets nice outside and it is a fun Sunday activ­ity,” said Dapper. 
The event, which advocated for Make-A-Wish and united Saint Mary’s and the greater community in support of Hayes, raised $1,000, enough money to make Hayes’s wish a reality, O’Neill said. 
During Sunday’s outing, 75 partici­pants spent the day putting, chipping and swinging on the driving range, O’Neill said. 
The group said they were thankful for the generous support and contri­butions from the South Bend com­munity, including silent auction dona­tions of car rentals, a set of new tires and gift cards to local restaurants. 
“Our group went out and solicited for those donations and got a really great response from many places in South Bend,” O’Neill said. 
The event also featured wine tast­ing, sponsored by vendors Fruit Hills, Madison County and People’s Winery, O’Neill said. 
“[The event brought] together peo­ple from campus and community to help inform them about make a wish and to help make a little boys wish come true,” she said. 
Contact Cailin Crowe at          ccrowe01@saintmarys.edu 

page 4 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u NEWS Monday, April 16, 2012 

Shirt 
continued from page 1 
factory firsthand made his work all the more real. 
“[The workers] knew they had somewhere to go to work every day to earn money for their families,” Wetzel said. “One worker, who had only been with the company for two years, had already built himself a brand-new house with four bedrooms for his entire family.” 
Alea said The Shirt’s in­volvement with Alta Gracia is more rewarding now that he has seen the work being done in the Dominican Republic. 
“I have a whole new level of appreciation now that we got to see the outcome,” Alea said.  “We saw the socially-conscious facility, and some of the workers who have been 



Habitat 
continued from page 1 
“There’s a lot of work and caring that went into the house from all the students that were a part of this.” 
Graham said he estimates a total of 100 to 200 Notre Dame students contributed to the project, with 30 to 40 volunteers participating in weekly construction activi­ties, including cabinet and fixture construction, fram­ing, roofing, installation of windows and doors, insulat­ing, painting, trimming and siding. 
“To see the family that we worked with throughout the entire year today with a new place to stay means a lot to us,” Graham said. “We’re grateful to have been able to help.” 
House recipient Starla Cole spoke at the dedication cer­emony, and voiced her grati­tude for the support from Habitat for Humanity. 
“We could never have done this on our own,” Starla Cole said.  “Habitat helped.” 
Her husband, Toby Cole, said the path to home-own­ership was difficult, but the Notre Dame chapter of Habi­tat helped make owning a home a reality for his family. 
“For one reason or anoth­er, we always ran into road­blocks when trying to have our own house,” Cole said. 
there for almost seven years.” 
Wetzel said the people who work at the factory contrib­ute to the socially-conscious spirit of the company. 
“The workers are excited to be part of the progress, part of the change,” Wetzel said. “It’s obvious they enjoy what they do.” 
The 2012 edition of The Shirt will be revealed April 20 at the Unveiling Ceremo­ny at the Hammes Bookstore from 4 p.m. to 6 p.m. Both Alea and Wetzel will repre­sent the Shirt Committee, with Irish football coach Bri­an Kelly participating in the ceremony. 
For more information about The Shirt, visit theshirt. nd.edu, follow  @ theshirtnd on Twitter or “like” The Shirt ND on Face­book. 
Contact Meghan Thomassen at mthomass@nd.edu 
“We’re ecstatic about this house, and thankful for the help from Habitat and the Notre Dame students.” 
Williams said it is a mis­conception that Habitat for Humanity simply gives away free houses to needy fami­lies.  The organization helps the family to construct the house and supply the initial building funds, but the fam­ily is expected to pay off all mortgage payments in the future.  However, the houses are built at no profit, and in­terest is not charged. 
The Notre Dame chapter contributed $40,000 to the initial funding for the home through donations and fund­raising, Graham said. 
“A lot of money came from alumni donations,” Graham said.  “A lot also came from fundraising events like Jail n’ Bail and the Polar Bear Run.” 
Graham said the Coles took an active role in the construction of their new home, and Toby Cole often helped student volunteers on build days. The couple also attended homeowner classes as part of the Habitat for Hu­manity program, Cole said. 
“We put 400 hours into the classes,” he said. “We learned how to build a home, how to manage it, how to take care of it. It was edu­cational and fun at the same time.” 
Contact Drew Pangraze at         apangraz@nd.edu 

Event presents struggles of war veterans 
By CHRISTIAN MYERS 
News Writer 

In his song, “Trying to Find My Way Home,” musician and Iraq War veteran Jason Moon sings, “It’s hard to fight an enemy that lives inside of your head.” 
The College Democrats of Notre Dame sponsored a combination concert and movie showing in the LaFortune Student Center on Sunday to raise awareness about veterans suffering from that “en­emy:” post-traumatic stress disor­der (PTSD). The event featured live music from Moon and excerpts from the documentary “On the Bridge,” a film directed by profes­sor Olivier Morel that features the stories of Moon and other veterans with PTSD. 
College Democrats co-president Camille Suarez said she initially conceived the idea for the event af­ter attending a January screening of the film at the DeBartolo Per­forming Arts Center. 
“After I saw the movie, I was so emotionally moved that I wanted to spread the word,” Suarez said. “Like Jason said, people need to just listen. Hopefully after seeing the movie, more people will lis­ten.” 
At the event, Moon played three songs from his album and an­swered questions about veterans with PTSD. Moon said the public’s instinctive response of asking vet­erans about their experiences and trying to relate to them can cause more harm than good, and the best thing those who want to help veterans can do is simply to listen. 
Moon said Notre Dame can work to become recognized as a school that is veteran-friendly by taking steps to improve resources for returned soldiers, like provid­ing a safe space for them to reach out to each other in dealing with veteran-specific issues like PTSD. 
“Notre Dame has a history of helping veterans through chap­laincy. Let’s extend that to the whole campus,” Moon said. 
Moon was deployed as a combat engineer through the Wisconsin Army National Guard in Iraq from March 2003 through April 2004. 
After returning from his tour of duty, Moon began traveling nation­wide to play concerts for veteran and civilian audiences. In addition to local shows around Wisconsin, Moon travels around the country once a month to perform. He also founded a non-profit organization that works to help veterans suffer­ing from PTSD. 
Moon said participating in the documentary was a challenging experience, but it ultimately led him to use his musical talent to help his fellow veterans. 
“At the time [making the film] was very difficult, and caused about six months of severe PTSD,” Moon said. “Originally, I agreed to do it because I thought it would be the last time I would have to tell my story, but then the music and the CD came out of it, and now that’s all I do. My plan kind of backfired.” 
Morel said he was inspired to make the film after hearing a Na­tional Public Radio piece about veteran suicide rates and PTSD. “On the Bridge” features the sto­ries of six veterans and their expe­riences with PTSD. 
One of the six veterans, Jeff Lucey, committed suicide shortly after returning from Iraq, so his family tells his story in the film, Morel said. 
“He had trouble dealing with the morality of the things he had to do while in Iraq,” Morel said. “I think Jeff’s story is emblematic of what happens to many veterans when they come home.” 
In making the film, Morel said he aimed to raise awareness about PTSD and to show how veterans are working to educate the public about those who suffer from the disorder. 
“I made the film to try and make a difference. My angle was not to have them talk about the war or even necessarily about PTSD, but about the translation of trauma into public expression,” Morel said. “Many veterans are musicians, artists and writers de­picting the war in a powerful way. One day we’re going to be aware of a cultural change that comes from the Iraq War veterans’ testimoni­als and creative expression.” 
Morel shared the story of a vet­eran who contacted him through the film’s website after viewing the movie’s trailer. The man said he had served with Ryan Endicott, one of the veterans featured in the film, and wanted to get in contact with Endicott. Morel said he sent the man’s contact information to Endicott, who was able to talk to the man that afternoon. After the conversation, Endicott called Morel to tell him the film had just helped to save a man’s life. 
“On the Bridge” has been screened at several film festivals around the United States, and won numerous awards, including Best Documentary at Detroit’s Uptown Film Festival. 
Morel said his favorite part of the filmmaking experience was forging relationships with the peo­ple involved. 
“The best thing was the won­derful friendships. The wonder­ful people I met are now part of my family,” Morel said. “I was not making the film about them, but with them.” 
More information about Moon, his music and his efforts to help fellow veterans can be found at www.jasonmoon.org. 
For more information about “On the Bridge,” visit www.onthebridgethemovie.org. 
Contact Christian Myers at      cmyers8@nd.edu 


Monday, April 16, 2012 The Observer u NEWS ndsmcobserver.com | page 6 
ICPA 
continued from page 1 
first place in “Best Entertain­ment Column” for her cover­age of the New York premiere of the final Harry Potter film, titled “The Magic of a Potter Premiere.” Scene Editor Kevin Noonan took third place in the same category for his column titled “A ‘Dear John’ Letter for Netflix.” 
Former Scene Editor Mai­ja Gustin won first place for “Best Entertainment Story” for her coverage of an on-cam­pus presentation of a docu­mentary on the Nuremberg Trials, titled “Schulberg pres­ents ‘Nuremberg’ years after its creation.” 
In the same category, se­nior staff writer Mary Claire O’Donnell took second place for her article about a Notre Dame engineering alumnus who is also a published au­thor, titled “ND grad explores storms and struggle in fiction work.” 
Former Editor-in-Chief Douglas Farmer and Graph­ics Editor Brandon Keelean won first place for “Best Rate Card” for the design of The Observer’s advertising rate card. Farmer and Keelean also took second place in the “Best House Ad” category for their ad titled “The Observer Remembers.” 
Mervosh won second place in the “Best Breaking News Story” for her coverage of 
Valero 
continued from page 1 
plans to enter the tournament again next year to defend their championship once again. 
“As long as we’re around and as long as the tournament is around, we’ll be entering and looking to win,” he said. 
This year, Keenan Hall raised $200 for La Casa de Amistad, a South Bend non-profit organization that strives “to provide the Latino graduate student Xavier Mur­phy’s October death, “Com­munity remembers fifth-year student.” She also took third place for “Best News Feature” for her piece on the 10-year anniversary of the Septem­ber 11, 2001 terrorist attacks, titled “Malloy, graduates re­member ‘somber’ 2001 envi­ronment.” 
The Observer staff won third place for “Best Stand-Alone/ Pullout Section” for its special section on the 10-year anni­versary of 9/11, titled “9/11: Ten Years Later.” Keelean, Mervosh, former Photo Edi­tor Pat Coveney and Managing Editor Megan Doyle also took third place in the “Best Infor­mational Graphic” category for their accompanying 9/11 timeline. 
Multimedia Editor Sarah O’Connor won second place for “Best Feature Photo” for her photo from Girl Talk’s concert at the B1 Block Party concert in August. 
The sports department took third place in the “Best Spe­cial Issue” category for its Oct. 21 Irish Insider profiling the football team’s night game against USC, titled “The Wait is Over.” 
Editor-in-Chief Allan Jo­seph won third place for “Best Sports Column” for his piece “After all the hype, Irish weren’t even close” after the football team’s 31-17 loss to USC on Oct. 22. 
The Observer’s award-winning submissions are available on its website, www.ndsmcobserver.com. 
[and] Hispanic community within Michiana by providing educational, cultural and advocacy services in a welcoming bilingual environment,” according to its website.[this year], we’re friends and I wanted to play with him.” 
This year, Keenan Hall raised $unity within Michiana by pro­viding educational, cultural and advocacy services in a welcoming bilingual environment,” according to its website. 
Contact Anna Boarini at   aboari01@saintmarys.edu 

Women bond over Manson 
Associated Press 

CORCORAN, Calif. — On August 9, 1969, two na­ive 17-year-old girls were launched on a path that led to the unlikeliest of friend­ships. 
That infamous night, four young people under the sway of a charismatic ca­reer criminal slipped into a neighborhood of Hollywood glitterati, then bludgeoned and stabbed rising young actress Sharon Tate, coffee heiress Abigail Folger and three others. Across town the next night, the band killed again. 
The name Charles Manson quickly became a synonym for unimaginable evil, which nobody knows better than Debra Tate, Sharon’s little sister, and Barbara Hoyt, the Manson family member whose testimony helped put the killers in prison. 
“We’ve got a lot in com­mon,” said Hoyt, now a re­tired nurse. “She has been big help to me.” 
“She makes sure I am holding my head up high,” Tate said, “and I do the same for her.” 
Now both about 60, a Manson family member and the last living Tate fam­ily member have bonded in their long quest to keep those responsible behind bars. Both have testified re­peatedly at Manson’s parole hearings. Both say they still get threats from the cult killer’s supporters — mostly white supremacists enam­ored with murders Manson orchestrated to incite a race war dubbed “Helter Skel­ter.” 
Even now not a day passes without Hoyt dwelling on the suffering Manson and her former comrades inflicted and on the widespread ter­ror that ensued. 
“We are completely linked by this event whether we want to be or not,” she said of Debra Tate, who now runs a crime victims group. “She understands me, and I un­derstand where she’s com­ing from.” 
Hoyt never committed a crime for Manson, and her testimony helped send the cult leader and four follow­ers to death row in 1971. The following year, when the California Supreme Court ruled the death penalty un­constitutional, their new life terms made them eligible for a while for annual parole consideration. 
That is when the lives of Barbara Hoyt and Debra Tate began to intertwine. Over the decades, each as written letters to parole panels urging that the kill­ers never be released, and each has traveled to obscure California farming towns for parole hearings in prisons housing some of the state’s most notorious convicts. 
At first Hoyt testified partly out of fear that the killers would seek revenge if released. But after becom­ing a registered nurse, she realized that the psychologi­cal and emotional pain of having to relive her involve­ment with the cult was an­other part of her payback to society. 
“It’s a descent into hell and then having to climb back out again,” Hoyt said. “I think about it and I feel I was simply there to be a wit­ness, because that has been my role. God gave me that role, and that’s my reality.” 
Meanwhile Tate’s late mother, Doris, had become the driving force for victims’ rights in California and was instrumental in a 1982 law that allows family members to testify about their losses at trials and parole hear­ings. 
When Doris died, that left her daughters Debra and Patti to carry on with her work. Patti died of breast cancer in 2000, leaving Deb­ra, disabled from a postal service accident, to go it alone. 
“Over time our mu­tual efforts brought us together,” Hoyt said.
   Now they talk regularly on the phone and get to­gether when they’re in the same town, usually for a parole hearing. Tate lives in the Southern California desert, and Hoyt in the Pa­cific Northwest, the specific location she wants to keep secret. 
Trapped in drab institu­tional waiting rooms, they realized they were the same age and shared similar mid-dle-class upbringings. Both were divorced mothers who raised daughters on their own. In 2006, when Manson associate Bruce Davis was up for parole for another murder Manson had orches­trated, the two had time to talk. 
“I discovered that I real­ly like Barbara,” said Tate, who now works for victims’ rights through her website www.sharontate.net. “She is a good person. She has a good soul and a good spirit and she has come through for us when it was very iffy whether these core mem­bers were going to get out.” 
As the friendship devel­oped, Tate realized that Barbara has suffered from the murders as much as she had. “She flew under such a horrible social stigma for so long,” Tate said. “For Barba­ra to have suffered the same stigma as those other so­ciopaths, well it just wasn’t right.” 
Hoyt didn’t appear Wednesday for the 77-year­old Manson’s 12th and prob­ably final parole hearing because she knew the pros­pects were virtually nil that the state would release such a notorious killer. 

NRA legislation positions Zimmerman to contest murder conviction 
Associated Press prosecutors and police have 
generally opposed as confus-

MIAMI — George Zimmer-ing, prone to abuse by crimi­man persuaded the police not nals, and difficult to apply to charge him for killing un-evenly. Others are concerned armed teenager Trayvon Mar-that the laws foster a vigilante, tin, but the prosecutor has even trigger-happy mentality accused him of murder. Soon, that might cause too many un­armed with unparalleled legal necessary deaths. advantages, Zimmerman will An Associated Press re-get to ask a judge to find the view of federal homicide data killing was justified, and if that doesn’t seem to bear that out. doesn’t work, he’ll get to make Nationwide, the total number the same case to a jury. of justified homicides by citi-
The wave of National Rifle zens rose from 176 in 2000 to Association-backed legislation 325 in 2010. Totals for all ho-that began seven years ago in micides also rose slightly over Florida and continues to sweep the same period, but when ad-the country has done more justed for population growth, than establish citizens’ right the rates actually dipped. to “stand your ground,” as sup-At least two-dozen states porters call the laws. It’s added since 2005 have adopted laws passed “stand your ground” your ground.” If Zimmerman causing his death. second, third and even fourth similar to Florida’s, which laws continue to model them wins that stage, prosecutors “You get even more protec­chances for people who have broadly eliminated a person’s loosely after Florida’s — Penn-can appeal. tion than any acquitted mur­used lethal force to avoid pros-duty to retreat under threat of sylvania, Wisconsin and New But in another aspect pecu-derer,” said Tamara Lawson, ecution and conviction using death or serious injury, as long Hampshire put expanded laws liar to Florida, if the appeals a former prosecutor who now the same argument, extra op-as the person isn’t committing on the books last year — Flori-court sides with Zimmerman, teaches at St. Thomas School portunities to keep their free-a crime and is in a place where da is unique. not only will he be forever of Law in Miami. “This law dom that defendants accused of he or she has a right to be. Oth-One area that sets Florida immune from facing crimi-seems to give more protection other crimes don’t get. er states have had similar stat-apart is the next step Zimmer-nal charges for shooting the than any other alleged crimi­
Martin’s shooting has un-utes on the books for decades, man faces: With the police and 17-year-old Martin — even if nal could dream about.” leashed a nationwide debate and still others grant citizens prosecutor having weighed in, new evidence or witnesses If Zimmerman can’t convince on the validity of these laws, equivalent protections through a judge will decide whether surface — he could not even the judge of his innocence, which exist in some form in established court rulings. to dismiss the second-degree be sued for civil damages by he still can use “stand your most of the country and which While the states that have murder charge based on “stand Martin’s family for wrongfully ground” to convince jurors. 

Monday, April 16, 2012 The Observer u NEWS ndsmcobserver.com | page 7 
Candidates barred from Egyptian election 
Associated Press 
CAIRO — The elimination of three of the main contenders from Egypt’s presidential race has eroded the chances of an Islamist candidate to seize the country’s top job. 
The Muslim Brotherhood, the most powerful political group to emerge from last year’s up­rising, finds itself increasingly in a bind. It is unable to exer­cise the power of its electoral wins so far and is jostling with the ruling generals and liberal and secular groups that drove the uprising but now fear reli­gious domination of politics. 
The Brotherhood was out­raged over the election com­mission’s decision late Saturday to bar its chief strategist and leading choice for president, Khairat el-Shater. It threat­ened more protests like a large march on Friday that drew tens of thousands of Islamists to Cairo’s Tahrir Square. 
“This is a political decision not a legal one, said Murad Mohammed Ali, a spokesman for el-Shater’s campaign. “This commission is politicized and we will exert all political pres­sures to restore our rights.” 
The election commission dis­qualified 10 candidates from the May 23-24 vote includ­ing el-Shater and a popular, more hardline Islamist from another party, Hazem Abu Is­mail. Omar Suleiman, who was ousted President Hosni Mubarak’s long-time spy chief and only vice president, was also barred. He was believed to have been backed by the ruling military council that took pow­er after Mubarak’s ouster and is headed by Mubarak’s long­time defense minister. 
The shakeout left three front-runners and two of them are stiff competitors of the Muslim Brotherhood — former Foreign Minister Amr Moussa and a prominent Brotherhood defec­tor, Abdel-Moneim Abolfotoh. The other front-runner is the Brotherhood’s second choice for the presidency, Mohammed Morsi, who was nominated as a back-up in case el-Shater got eliminated. 

The Brotherhood is also suffering from a public back­lash over its decision to field a presidential candidate after promising it would not do so. Critics say the group has got­ten too greedy for power and Suleiman, in the opening salvo of his campaign, warned the Brotherhood was trying to turn Egypt into a religious state. 
The Brotherhood-led parlia­ment that emerged from the pro-democracy uprising has passed only one law in its first few months in power and has failed in its bid to fire the mil­itary-appointed government it has blamed for depleting the country’s coffers. 
Last week, a court ruling suspended the constitution-writing panel appointed by parliament and dominated by Islamist parliament members after secular groups com­plained it was not representa­tive. 
After months of basking in its election victory, the Brother­hood has now returned to pro­testing, loudly criticizing the military rulers and threaten­ing more demonstrations if the elimination of its top strategist from the race is upheld. 
The electoral commission, appointed by the military rul­ers to oversee the vote, gave the candidates until Monday to contest their disqualification. 
Obama disputes criticism of U.S. action 
Associated Press 
CARTAGENA, Colombia — Exposing a rift with Israel, President Barack Obama on Sunday insisted that the Unit­ed States has not “given any­thing away” in new talks with Iran as he defended his con­tinued push for a diplomatic resolution to the dispute over Tehran’s nuclear ambitions. 
Obama said he refused to let the talks turn into a “stalling process,” but believed there was still time for diplomacy. 
His assessment, delivered at the close of a Latin Amer­ican summit in Colombia, came after Israeli Prime Min­ister Benjamin Netanyahu on Sunday had said the U.S. and world powers gave Tehran a “freebie” by agreeing to hold more talks next month. 
Obama shot back: “The no­tion that somehow we’ve given something away or a ‘freebie’ would indicate Iran has got­ten something. In fact, they’ve got some of the toughest sanc­tions that they’re going to be facing coming up in just a few months if they don’t take ad­vantage of these talks.” 
Still, in a news conference here, Obama warned to Iran, “The clock’s ticking.” 
Winding down his three-day trip in the port city of Carta­gena, Obama also sought to offer hope for fresh start with Cuba, saying the U.S. would welcome the communist-run island’s transition to democ­racy. There could be an oppor­tunity for such a shift in the coming years, Obama said. 
Standing alongside Colom­bian President Juan Manuel Santos, Obama also pro­claimed a free-trade agree­ment between their countries as a win all-around, even as labor leaders back home de­nounced it. Obama announced that the trade pact can be fully enforced next month, now that Colombia has enacted a series of protections for workers and labor unions. 


Obama had hoped to keep his role in the Summit of the Americas focused on the econ­omy and the prospect of the region’s rapid economic rise as a growth opportunity for American businesses. 
But that message was quick­ly overshadowed by an alleged prostitution scandal involving Secret Service personnel who were in Colombia to set up se­curity for Obama’s trip. The president said Sunday that he expected a full, rigorous in­vestigation of the allegations, and said he would be angry if the accusations turn out to be true. 
As Obama met with Latin American leaders, negotiators from the U.S. and five other world powers were in Turkey for a fresh round of nuclear talks with Iran. 
While previous talks have done little to dissuade Iran from moving forward on its nuclear program, diplomats called the latest negotiations constructive and useful. Both sides agreed to hold more talks in Baghdad at the end of May. 
The Israeli prime minister balked at the announcement of more talks, saying the in­tervening five weeks would simply give Iran more time to continue enriching uranium without restrictions. Netan­yahu has said Iran uses dip­lomatic negotiations as a di­version while it continues to pursue a nuclear weapon. 
Israel has raised the pros­pect of a preemptive military strike on Iran’s nuclear facili­ties. The Obama administra­tion has urgently sought to hold off Israeli military action, which would probably result in the U.S. being pulled into a conflict as well. The U.S. be­lieves a combination of diplo­macy and crippling economic sanctions could push Iran to abandon its nuclear ambi­tions. 

Security Council approves Syrian action 
Associated Press 
BEIRUT — The U.N. Security Council on Saturday approved the deployment of a first team of observers to Syria to shore up a brittle truce, even as a new surge of violence threatened the inter­nationally brokered deal meant to end 13 months of violence. 
The unanimous Security Council resolution also called on both sides to immediately “cease all armed violence in all its forms” and asked Syria to pull troops and heavy weapons from population centers — a truce provision the regime has so far ignored. 

The cease-fire is at the center of a broadly backed peace plan by special envoy Kofi Annan. It is aimed at ending a conflict that reports of the use of heavier has killed over 9,000 people and weapons suggested the cease-launching talks on the country’s fire was coming under increas­political future. ing jeopardy. 
The deployment of observers The heaviest fighting Saturday is seen as crucial for making a was reported in the central city of truce stick. Annan’s spokesman Homs, one of the cities hit hard-Ahmad Fawzi has said a small est by the regime crackdown on advance team is on standby to fly mass protests that erupted in to Syria once the Security Coun-March 2011 and sought Presi­cil has approved the mission, to dent Bashar Assad’s ouster. be followed by a larger contin-Activists said regime forces gent later on. shelled rebel-held neighbor-
The Syrian regime and opposi-hoods of Homs, killing at least tion fighters have traded allega-three civilians. The state-run tions of scattered violations since Syrian news agency SANA said the truce formally took effect rebel fighters fired rocket-pro-Thursday. However, Saturday’s pelled grenades at an area of re-gime loyalists, killing one man. 

Sporadic shelling by regime forces in Homs began late Friday and continued Saturday, said the Britain-based Syrian Observa­tory for Human Rights, an activ­ist group. 
“I can see black smoke billow­ing from a building that was hit in Jouret el-Shayah,” local ac­tivist Tarek Badrakhan, based in the neighborhood of Khaldi­yeh, told The Associated Press via Skype. Badrakhan said the body of the man remained in the street for several hours, with people unable to approach it due to the shelling and sniper fire. 

Secret Service agents involved in scandal 
Associated Press 

CARTAGENA, Colombia — An embarrassing scandal involving prostitutes and Secret Service agents deepened Saturday as 11 agents were placed on leave, and the agency designed to protect President Barack Obama had to offer regret for the mess overshad­owing his diplomatic mission to Latin America. 
The controversy also expanded to the U.S. military, which an­nounced five service members staying at the same hotel as the agents in Colombia may have been involved in misconduct as well. They were confined to their quar­ters in Colombia and ordered not to have contact with others. 
All the alleged activities took place before Obama arrived Fri­day in this Colombian port city for meetings with 33 other regional leaders. 
Put together, the allegations were an embarrassment for an American president on foreign soil and threatened to upend White House efforts to keep his trip fo­cused squarely on boosting eco­nomic ties with fast-growing Latin America. Obama was holding two days of meetings at the Sum­mit of the Americas with leaders from across the vast region before heading back to Washington Sun­day night. 
The Secret Service did not dis­close the nature of the misconduct. The Associated Press confirmed on Friday that it involved prosti­tutes. 
The White House said Obama had been briefed about the inci­dents but would not comment on his reaction. 
“The president does have full confidence in the United States Se­cret Service,” presidential spokes­man Jay Carney said when asked. 
Carney insisted the matter was more a distraction for the media than Obama. But Secret Service assistant director Paul Morrissey said in a statement: “We regret any distraction from the Summit of the Americas this situation has caused.” 
Rep. Peter King, chairman of the House Homeland Security Committee, told the AP after he was briefed on the investigation on Saturday that “close to” all 11 of the agents involved had brought women back to their rooms at a hotel separate from where Obama is now staying. 
The New York Republican said the women were “presumed to be prostitutes” but investi­gators were interviewing the agents. 


page 8 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com Monday, April 16, 2012 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Praying forheadlights 
“Wagon Wheel” by Old Crow Medi­cine Show is one of those songs col­lege students love. 
The moment that distinctive intro­duction blares from the speakers, arms link, glasses clink and the room erupts in cheering. 
In true spring break road trip style, “Wagon Wheel” played multiple times on our drive from South Bend down to South Carolina a few weeks ago. 

The first time it came on, I was behind the wheel and we had just crossed the Kentucky-Tennessee state line. We had all been silent for awhile, enjoying the green and gold scenery that unfolded before us. The open road softly rose and fell as we sped at 80 miles per hour south down I-75. 
The lyrics of “Wagon Wheel” filled the empty space between us, repre­senting all the things we were think­ing, but hadn’t said. 
In my head, I tried to define what the song is about. On one level, the song is about freedom — having the freedom to pursue what matters most. It’s about remembering the people and places you care about after being away for a long time. 
As a senior in college, this aspect of the song seems especially rel­evant. I’ve spent months abroad and summers away in different cities. In four years, my younger siblings have grown up, and people in my child­hood neighborhood have moved out. Like the narrator, I’ve gone away to mature, and will return both different and the same. 
“Wagon Wheel” is also about the beauty of simplicity — that life can be reduced to a single person, a single car and a single desire. You don’t need to know the song to relate to it — the music reflects some reality about the future we all can find truth in. 
On our way back to South Bend after spring break, “Wagon Wheel” came on again while I was driving. This time, it was about 10 p.m., dark and raining, and the song had a much more sobering effect. 
I realized then that the song is bit­tersweet, even sad. Loneliness and regret infuse the lyrics because the past still weighs him down. It’s pos­sible that after all those years of long­ing, after seventeen-straight hours of driving, his vision for a new life could be shattered. 
At its core, however, “Wagon Wheel” is about faith. It’s about having faith that the one you love will still be there when you come home, about having faith that you can drive straight into the unknown and everything will end up okay. 
With May 20 quickly approaching, I feel like I’m speeding at 80 miles per hour towards graduation, and after that, the unknown. But before then, I hope to share a few more swaying “Wagon Wheels” at Finny’s, indulging in one of those rare moments when we all feel exactly the same thing. 
Contact Sara Felsenstein at      sfelsens@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

Remembering Virginia Tech 
I remember April 16, 2007 because I almost did not go to school that day. When you’re in your high school schedule of waking up at ungodly times to go to school every Edithstein Cho morning, you remember those Asiatic Gaze rare occasions when you almost got to go back to bed. Any form of parental excuse was a blessing from the heavens in the midst of endless standardized testing. 
Today is the fifth anniversary in which we remember the Virginia Tech Massacre. It was the first of a string of tragedies to follow in American school-shooting history. 32 people were shot to death and 22 people were wounded by Seung-hui Cho. The news of the shooting hit the media quickly, especially as a video of the shooter sent to NBC was released. Seung-hui Cho was quickly identified as a son of Korean immigrant parents who struggled with adjusting to school from a young age. He killed two people in a residential hall, then headed over to the classrooms in which he shot at random. At the end, he took his own life. 
The world was shocked awake, and the nation went into mourning. 
That morning, my race had to do with why I almost didn’t go to school. 
I went to a public school in the Twin Cities with 2,500 students. Only handful of Asian-Americans made up classes. In the entire school, there was a fluctuating population of Korean-Americans ranging between 10 and 20. 
My mom worried that some ignorant peer might target me for revenge on the shooter. I am Asian-American. Adding a layer to that, I am Korean-American. Then, what struck the strongest chord of fear in my mom was my last name was the same as the shooter’s last name — Cho. 
At large, Korean-American com­munities across the nation froze when they learned about the massacre. College newspapers expressed being extremely worried for future harass­ments of Asian-American and Korean-American students. 
Korean-American communities’ fear stemmed from history and the memory that people hold on to. The Asian-American communities have sorrowful memories of being isolated at times of hardships. April 2012 is also the 20th anniversary of the L.A. riots — a sorrowful memory in which the minority communities were looted, and no assistance or police interven­tion took place during the 15 day-long riot. Such historical facts cannot be divorced from a community when they react. Likewise, the concerns of Civil Rights with the Trayvon Martin case arise from the milieu in which we belong. Trayvon Martin’s death is one of numerous cases of a young black male being shot. Whether or not this one case will be filed as a case of discrimination will not determine if we live in a post-racial society. We do live in a racialized society, whether we like it or not. 
Five years ago, I decided not to skip school in fear of accumulating make­up work, because that was what I was more afraid of at the time. When I went to my classes, I was shocked to discover my peers’ obliviousness about the shooting. What turned my world around seemed to have affected no one else. I did not complain about how I did not have to explain that I am not related to the shooter if any targeting was to happen. However, I did know my facts about how there are over 1.7 million Korean-Americans and over 
1.3 million Cho’s in the world. 
The fact that I was prepared to distance myself from the shooter’s identity highlighted how race affects me. It seemed as if I had to undermine my belief in the dignity everyone de­serves with the selfish logic of gearing the hate towards people related to the shooter in order to save myself. 
Despite the relief my mom felt when I came home unharmed, I felt frustrat­ed with the blindness to what I went through psychologically. 
From my interactions on campus, I think the Trayvon Martin case is cast­ed off with the similar obliviousness I faced five years ago. By not talking about it, we will not learn about how different individuals are affected in such different ways from an incident. Unless we take the steps to engage in conversation, we will not know how race plays a role in the workings of our world. 
Edith Cho is a sociology and peace studies major. She can be contacted at echo1@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
It’s good to be alive 
Dear Notre Dame community: 
On Jan. 14, my dad’s birthday, I woke up in the dark with a terrible headache. I fell out of bed and was having seizures. I was later transported to the hospital. I was having an AVM stroke — a bleed in my brain caused by a malformation of  blood vessels, previously undetected, which formed before I was born. 
The doctors said that I would not survive, but God works in mysterious ways. One of those ways were the prayers of the Notre Dame community. I am alive today because of the prayers  and support of all of you. I need to thank you for those prayers and your continuing prayers. 
It’s good to be alive. 
It’s good to have so many of you that cared for me: my friends and professors in PLS, Gretchen Reydams-Shils, the dean and administrators from Arts & Letters, my friends from Cavanaugh, the Spain abroad program, my Spanish major friends and too many other friends on campus to name here. Even people I never met cared enough to pray for me and send cards and gifts just because I am part of Notre Dame. 
I was not in the hospital for three days before Fr. Jenkins sent me a rosary. Coach McGraw, Coach Kelly and the Sorin Society sent me a prayer book. I received books, Valentines and a box of a hundred and something origami cranes. 
At the Academy Awards, the winners try in vain to remember all of the people who helped them and always leave the stage still trying to remember those they know they are forgetting. I feel the same way now. My brain does not work as fast as it used to, but I am trying. I will be back, and I will thank you all in person then. I will light a candle at the Grotto in thanksgiving for my school. 
I am happy to be part of the greatest university out there. There are some silver linings to this tragedy and learning what “We Are ND” really means, is one of those. I needed you, Notre Dame, and you have been there for me. 
Thank you from the bottom of my heart. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“If you want to make peace, you don’t talk to your friends. You talk to your enemies.” 
Moshe Dayan Israeli general & politician 

Maria Diamond 
junior off-campus April 12 
WEEKLY POLL 
What’s your favorite 
place for a first date? 
Starbucks The dining hall The Mark Chicago 

Vote by 5 p.m. on Thursday at 
ndsmcobserver.com 


Monday, April 16, 2012 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 9 
Hope on the horizon 
In February, the Gender Relations Center (GRC) invited Kerry Cronin to our campus to begin a conversation about dating. The program in Legends was very well-attended, and the audi­ence partici­pated in a lively G. David Moss dialogue about relationships Dr. D @ the GRC (or the lack thereof) on the Notre Dame campus. 
As a part of that program, we passed out level one date vouchers to Star­bucks. Those participating had two weeks to redeem the voucher by invit­ing someone on a date. There were approximately 80 vouchers collected by Starbucks which means that 160 in­dividuals actually went on a level one date. Of the students I talked to about their dating experience, all made very positive comments. Reportedly, one of the primary roadblocks to asking a person out on a date was the anxiety that came along with the process. 
When we asked what the GRC could do to help alleviate the natural anxi­ety of asking someone out on a date, we were told that it was, “out of your hands really. Everything at Notre Dame contributes to the culture where people don’t date. Either people are in a serious relationship or they are not dating at all.” 
One male student commented on the several false starts he experienced in making his level one date happen, but in the final assessment, he was pleased that he made the initial attempts and with the outcome of the eventual date. One female student also said her date was very positive overall. She indi­cated being just a little nervous at the beginning, becoming more comfort­able as the date progressed, and by the end of the date her anxiety had disappeared. 
Both of the students mentioned above indicated that although their dates did not turn into a relationship, there was a natural parting and there was no nervousness about what would happen next. They are still friends, and being in the presence of the per­son they dated is not awkward. 
Regardless of what many may say about the status of relationships on this campus, I have gained a great deal of encouragement by my conversa­tions with students who are living the delicate balance of academics, societal pressure and the need to continue developing a healthy psycho-sexual perspective. As evidenced by the re­sults of our level one dating program, when given the right environment (and incentive), students are able to bring their true selves to the relationship and are able to engage each other in authentic dialogue. 
The end result is an intentional com­mitment to not treat members of this community as objects, but as individu­als worthy of the respect granted to men and women created in the image of God. This is the higher standard one student spoke of in an earlier edito­rial, and it is an indicator that we are one step closer to becoming the Notre Dame we claim to be. 
The key question is whether or not we are willing to face the anxiety or fear of inviting someone into our sphere of relationship long enough to test the water. More times than not, that test will reveal the person you are with was not meant to be a long-term relationship. 
This is a tremendous outcome because, one, you are continuing to re­fine and define the kind of person you want to get in the water with and two, at the conclusion of level one dating you will have freedom in friendship. Each person was able to ask questions, and the resulting friendship could be short-lived or life-long. Either out­come is far better than the alternative. There is no walk of shame, regret or the burning desire to hide from your latest hookup companion. 
Intentional relating allows us to pay close attention to the scripts we bring to life. It also affords us the oppor­tunity to interrupt those scripts that could potentially leave a bad taste in our mouth. All indications are that this type of intentional relationship devel­opment is well worth the investment … and will hopefully become the new swag in our community. 
If you have already mastered the lev­el one date, there will be a discussion of level two and level three dating this Friday in the Dooley Room in the La-Fortune Student Center from 1:30 p.m. to 2:30 p.m. Hope to see you there. 
Dr. G. David Moss is the assistant vice president for Student Affairs and the interim director for the GRC. He can be contacted at gmoss@nd.edu 
Amanda Downey, an assistant direc­tor for the GRC, also contributed to this article. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Bald is beautiful 
Next Friday, I am shaving my head for St. Baldrick’s. This was something I had been thinking about over the past few weeks, and finally I just decided to go for it. St Baldrick’s is such an amazing cause, and raises so much money for research for childhood cancer. I know we all know people who have been affected by cancer. One of my friends and classmates that I graduated with from grade school died of leukemia in September 2010 after a four-year-long battle. She was such a vibrant person, so full of life and never afraid to speak her mind. I saw her undergo chemotherapy and go bald, something she was very self-conscious about. Which leads me to my main point here. 
When I started telling people that I was shaving my head for St Baldrick’s, I received a wide variety of responses. Many people were very supportive, and many have donated money to the cause. After the initial shock, my mother has been very supportive and encouraging. But others have not been so supportive. A few guys I know have not been so kind about it. They have said offensive things about me looking like a dude soon, or that now I’ll have to start wearing makeup and jewelry and dressing more feminine. I’m not stupid. I know that I will definitely look a lot different. But the fact that some males have decided that my femininity is based on the amount of hair I have offends me. That is the exact opposite of St. Baldrick’s mission. They work to prove that bald IS beautiful, that a woman, or even a man should not be defined by how much hair they have. There is something wrong when it is considered okay by our culture to judge someone and make assumptions about them based simply on the length of their hair. 
So I urge you all to reconsider your definition of beauti­ful. And please come out and support all those shaving their heads next week. 
Erin Stoyell-Mulholland 
freshman Lewis Hall April 13 

Holy Votes correction for Democratic platform 
To the Editors: 

Your article, “Professors Discuss Politics” (April 13) mischaracterizes my views on Catho­lic teaching, the Democratic Party platform and the abortion issue. 
In the article, you state my position as fol­lows: “the pro-choice stance allows for a com­mon good available to many and that all issues should be considered before voting, despite its contradiction with Church teachings.” 
There’s just one problem: I never said or even implied this. 
What I actually said, excerpted from my pre­pared remarks for the event, is the following: 
“If you think about it carefully, the Demo­crat approach to the abortion issue is just as or more compatible with a culture of life than the Republican position. 
Before laying out this argument, a point of clarification on the Church’s position. 
Then-Cardinal Ratzinger argued that a Catholic may vote for pro-choice candidate: a Catholic would only ‘be guilty of formal coopera­tion in evil if he were to deliberately vote for a candidate precisely because of the candidate’s permissive stance on abortion.’ 
Now let’s look at the parties’ approaches to the abortion problem. 
The Republican approach is to criminalize abortion, which is to say overturn Roe vs. Wade. 
There are three problems with this approach: there is no evidence that the Republicans are serious about overturning Roe, there is no chance that Roe will actually be overturned and even if it were overturned the data suggests there would likely be no significant reduction in abortions. 
The Democrat approach is to enact socio­economic policies that discourage abortion. The logic is two-fold: healthcare and education result in fewer unintended pregnancies and pre/post natal healthcare, income support, paid leave and adoption programs mean that women are less likely to terminate their pregnancies. 
The evidence suggests that it works. The Clin­ton administration emphasized education and brought millions out of poverty and had more success at reducing the abortion rate than the Reagan and Bush administrations. 
Plus we know that countries where abortion is legal but that have strong welfare systems (think Belgium and the Netherlands) have some of the lowest abortion rates in the world. It is also worth noting that the Bishops support such measures because they protect life by reason­able alternative means. 
So let’s assume that you decide to be a single issue voter (not a position, incidentally, that the Church preaches). Do you vote for a Republican approach that has almost no chance of success and will, in any event, not improve the situation. Or do you vote for a Democrat whose policies have a real shot at protecting life?” 
That’s what I said. Clearly, I did not imply that a pro-choice stance “allows for a common good” and I did not suggest that Catholics should be prepared to ignore Church teaching. What I did say — and I stand by this claim — was that the Democrat position is eminently compatible with a culture of life. 
Sincerely, 
Sebastian Rosato 
assistant professor Department of Political Science April 13 




By MEGHAN THOMASSEN 
Scene Writer 
The University of Notre Dame’s Department of Film, Television and Theatre (FTT) will present their production of “Light Up The Sky” this week. Directed by professor Jay Paul Skelton, “Light Up The Sky” was the last play written by Pu­litzer Prize-winner Moss Hart. Hart is best known for his stage adaptation of George Bernard Shaw’s “Pygmalion,” the musi­cal “My Fair Lady.” 
The show is set in 1940s Bos­ton, where Broadway producer Sidney Black has risked a large amount of money on a new playwright, Peter Sloan, and his play, “The Time is Now.” 
“Black will do anything and everything to save the produc­tion,” Skelton said. “The length to which he goes to save the show is one of the funnier as­pects of our production.” 
Senior cast member Kevin Argus will play veteran play­wright Owen Turner in this week’s production. Argus’ poise and wit evokes wisdom amongst the conflict of the oth­er actors, but he has a unique challenge with his role. 
“I’m one of the only people who doesn’t have anything at stake in ‘The Time is Now,’” he said. “I’m just friends with the producer and the actress, so it’s been interesting to figure out how my character fits in the show.” 
With “Light Up the Sky” marking his last show at Notre Dame, Argus said he found the small group dynamic valuable in this production. 
“The most fun for me was getting a chance to work on the one or two-person scenes,” he said. “We’re really hammer­ing home specifics of those mo­ments, really figuring out how each moment connects.” 
Sophomore Gabriela Nunez will play Stella Livingston, the mother of the play’s diva. Nunez seems right at home on stage, as she dishes out moth­erly advice with just the right amount of sass. 
“I’m kind of the stage mom,” Nunez said. 
Sophomore John Corr plays the hyperbolic director, Car­leton Fitzgerald, known for his dramatic superstitions. Corr demonstrates range of skill, as his character goes from zero to screaming in three-point-five. 
“For the parts when we’re all yelling at each other, Jay had to pull us aside and say, ‘You’re all so nice … stop,’” he said. 
Corr’s commitment to the role draws the audience through his manic mood swings. When he grieves, they grieve. And when his little cup of joy over­flows, the house floods. 
Junior Clara Ritger, who plays an underappreciated ghostwriter, said Skelton cast the show very well. 
“There are a lot of charac­teristics that people can draw from their own lives to apply to their characters,” Ritger said. “For instance, my character is a writer, and she’s trying to get into the business. I find a lot of personal delight in the role, because I understand what this character is going through.” 
Ritger said she wanted to audition for the show after she read the script. 
“I thought it was a fun show. You have a hard time not laugh­ing at the characters,” she said. “Honestly, the fact that they fail is kind of enjoyable. You enjoy watching them rip each other’s heads off.” 
Other standouts include freshman Joe Doyle, who plays mogul Sidney Black. Doyle schmoozes with all the ego of a 1940s dynamo. Fresh­man Katherine Dudas, who plays Sidney’s wife, Frances, is a lightning bolt onstage. Her eclectic New York person­ality is the perfect mix of grit and glamour, and her accent is spot-on. 
The plagued playwright Pe­ter Sloan, played by freshman Matthew Vincent, is one of the most believable characters in the entire show. Vincent’s vul­nerability is raw, and his frus­tration with show business is real. Anyone who has struggled with the creative process can identify with his mid-perfor­mance crisis. 
Sloan’s character comments on the inherent selfishness and cattiness of theater. This is one of the show’s problems: at times the arguing can get a little tiresome, and the drama seems overdone. The produc­tion has also taken a bit too much liberty with the physical expression of “meta-theatrics.” 
Near the end of the perfor­mance, a character breaks out of the set and criticizes the bothersome thespians from the outside, but the concept seems tacked-on. Sloan could be the irate voice of Moss Hart, who, in his final play, expresses his qualms with the theater world, but the movement attracted too much attention and need­ed more support earlier in the show. 
Skelton said the humor in “Light Up the Sky” involves a tremendous amount of focus and energy for the cast. The cast engaged in a special act­ing form for the production, he said. 
“We underwent a workshop in an acting technique called ‘Viewpoints’ that helped raise the level of focus and aware­ness,” he said. “This is so that the actors can change accord­ing to the nature of the envi­ronment and deal with what­ever obstacles thrown in their way during the production.” 
Skelton said he has written, directed or produced over 100 productions, as well as shows on campus such as the Notre Dame Shakespeare Festival. Compared to past productions, Skelton said “Light Up the Sky” was one of the more pleasant shows he’s worked on. 
“It’s enjoyable for me to pro­duce and for people to see,” Skelton said. “It’s pure comedy, and it’s been wonderful to work on an out-and-out American comedy.’” 
The play runs in the Decio Mainstage Theatre of the De-Bartolo Performing Arts Center at 7:30 p.m. on April 17, 18, 19, 20 and 21, with a matinee per­formance at 2:30 p.m. on April 
22. Tickets can be purchased online at performingarts. nd.edu or by calling the ticket office at (574) 631-2800. Prices are $15 for regular admission, $12 for faculty, staff and se­niors and $7 for students. 
Contact Meghan Thomassen at mthomass@nd.edu 


By SAM STRYKER 
Assistant Managing Editor 

The year of 2012 is packed with a slew of significant cultural events — in July, the latest “Batman” and “Spiderman” movies are released, in November a pres­ident will be elected and in December, the world is supposed to end. But perhaps the most anticipated date on the year’s calen­dar falls on September 27 — the day J.K. Rowling’s first post-“Potter” novel, “The Casual Vacancy,” is released. 
Rowling is perhaps the most significant figure in children’s literature of all time, thanks to her “Harry Potter” series. How­ever, her new release, her first aimed at adult readers, is the literary equivalent of Peyton Manning joining the Denver Bron­cos — highly anticipated, shockwave-in­ducing, slightly strange and a milestone event in popular culture. 
The premise for “The Casual Vacancy” is tantalizing to say the least — when the synopsis was released last week, just enough was revealed to whet readers’ ap­petites, without revealing too much. 
Set in the small English town of Pag­ford, the book tells the tale of social clashes following the death of a parish councilman — fighting between teens 
BRANDON KEELEAN | Observer Graphic 

and parents, wives and husbands, teach­ers and pupils ensues. The plot seems to center around the race for the empty parish councilman’s seat — an election “fraught with passion, duplicity and un­expected revelations,” according to Little, Brown & Company, the book’s publisher. 
Perhaps the most intriguing detail re­vealed about the novel does not concern the plot, but the book’s tone of “black comedy.” Rowling’s deft hand with dark humor was clearly evident in the “Pot­ter” novels. Mrs. Weasley’s battle cry as she defends her daughter from Bellatrix Lestrange in the seventh novel is particu­larly memorable — despite “The Deathly Hallows” ostensibly being a children’s novel, the mother of seven uses some choice language as she kills the Death Eater. 
Now that Rowling is relieved of the re­strictions that comes with writing a chil­dren’s series, it will be interesting to see how this black comedy emerges in “The Casual Vacancy.” Unrestrained, it would seem the possibilities are endless — and a small-town setting filled with secrets and intrigue offers a wealth of opportuni­ties for her dark wit. 
The location itself also is an interesting creative choice. A small English village is about as un-magical as you can get, and it seems Rowling is trying to not only de­velop herself beyond her career-defining “Potter” series, but also distinguish her­self as an author. Thankfully, she doesn’t seem to be doing so in an uncouth man­ner — she respects association with a major franchise, while looking to prog­ress beyond her past success. 
In addition to her wit, one of her stron­gest traits that shined in the “Harry Pot­ter” books was Rowling’s development of the characters and the world they lived in — ask anyone who plays Sporcle about the “Harry Potter” quiz, which roles 200 characters deep. The wizarding world of Hogwarts, Muggles and Quidditch is fan­tastical, yet believable because of Rowl­ing’s attention to detail. 
With a small English town with a likely motley assortment of characters, Rowl­ing should have no trouble utilizing this skill. Pagford may be as far away from Hogwarts as imaginable, but “The Ca­sual Vacancy” seems to play to Rowling’s strengths. 
Despite astronomical expectations, there is no reason to believe “The Casu­al Vacancy” will disappoint. Despite the fact Rowling developed perhaps the most significant media franchise since “Star Wars,” she always remained in control of every aspect of her series. Even when “Potter” exploded onto the scene, Row­ling never lost her grip — she played a role in the decision-making process of the film series, the development of The Wiz­arding World of Harry Potter in Orlando, and was the prominent figure in “Potter­more,” the online “Harry Potter” commu­nity website. 
It may be cliché to say, but Rowling had the Midas touch because she oversaw the entire development of “Harry Potter” as a media property. She started writing the series on paper napkins, and now has a record-setting set of novels, a theme park and blockbuster film series to her name. She has earned the right to do whatever she wants creatively without even the most cynical reader questioning her de­cision-making. 
Instead of worrying whether “The Ca­sual Vacancy” will be able to live up to her previous work, audiences instead can look forward to what should be an amaz­ing 480 pages of mystery, black comedy, and plot-twists. Suffice it to say, J.K. Row­ling doesn’t need wizards and witches to create literary magic. 
Contact Sam Stryker at sstryke1@nd.edu 

Monday, April 16, 2012 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 11 page 12 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u CLASSIFIEDS Monday, April 16, 2012 





SPORTS AUTHORITY 

Excitement of NHL playoffs draws fans 
You can call them bandwagon fans, fair-weather fans, or even just common fans. But regard­less of how you choose to desig­nate them, there is no denying that NHL fans come out in full force for the playoffs. 
So what exactly makes Lord Stanley’s playoffs so exciting, considering the regular season is such an af­terthought to the majority of well-rounded sports fans? It’s a question worth asking, since the inevitable spike in fandom that annually ac­companies the commencement of the NHL playoffs is one not shared by the other major sports postseasons. 
Sure, Super Bowl Sunday is practically a national holiday, but the NFL regular season is already zealously followed by a multitude of fans (even if they only care about their fantasy team). 
Granted, there are ardent followers of the MLB postseason, but the long games, the longer breaks between games and the even longer interludes in be­tween series make for a drawn-out postseason. By the time the World Series comes around, the fan support is akin to that of the regular season. The same can be said for the NBA, where regular season primetime matchups between superstar-laden teams prompt high enough Nielsen rat­ings to mirror a game seven. 
So what changes between a regular season showdown pitting the Philadelphia Flyers against the Pittsburgh Penguins in early April and a postseason clash between the same teams just two weeks later? 
First and foremost, NHL play­off hockey is simply fun to watch. The speed of the game increases come playoff time, and with that comes more exciting bone-jar­ring hits, standing-on-his-head saves and picturesque goals. That’s not to say the regular season is something to sneeze at, but there’s no comparison to a playoff game. 
And then there’s the overused, yet entirely accurate adage that “Anything can happen in a seven-game series,” which gives fans the (realistic) sense their beloved eight-seed can knock off the conference juggernaut. For evidence, look no further than this year’s playoffs. The Los Angeles Kings won the first two games against the defending Western Conference champion Vancouver Canucks in Vancou­ver, mind you,  and are thinking upset. 


Such occurrences aren’t even particularly anomalistic in the NHL. But in the NBA in 2007, when the top-seeded Dallas Mavericks were eliminated in round one by the Golden State Warriors, history was made. 
There is also something about the blue-collar nature of the NHL playoffs that inspires sports fans to tune in when the post­season rolls around. The NHL hardly has the scintillating stars that are littered throughout the NBA and can carry their team (and television ratings) to new heights. 
For every Sidney Crosby and Alex Ovechkin, there are a dozen journeymen third or fourth-liners who scrap their way through every shift and con­tribute with a forecheck here, a backcheck there and maybe even an occasional goal. 
Contrast these rosters with an NBA or MLB squad, in which you need superstar(s) to win championships, and you will find the NHL generates incredible excitement in the playoffs with few transcendent megastars. 
Take the defending champion Boston Bruins. They won last year’s Cup with little to no star power. Zdeno Chara and Tim Thomas may have been the best players at their respec­tive positions a year ago, but they certainly aren’t household names the way Dwight Howard and Albert Pujols are. The rest of the Bruins were scrappy and feisty in a manner that made you believe the whole is more than the sum of its parts. When you add it all together, you get a recently-dominant sports city that rediscovered its love for the formerly-forgotten Bruins. 
So while you may poke and prod the fans that have jumped on the local bandwagon roll­ing by, or while you may have recently hopped on yourself, don’t forget they are doing so for a reason. These playoffs manu­facture a newfound excitement level professional sports head honchos like Bud Selig only dream of attaining. So strap in and enjoy. 
Contact Mike Monaco at jmonaco@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The         Observer. 
NHL 

Flyers take Game 3 slugfest 

Associated Press 
PHILADELPHIA — Fists were flying faster than shots on goal. Sidney Crosby and Claude Giroux even became knotted in the push­ing, pulling and shoving, a pair of superstars willing to mix it up to prove which team was the bad­dest on the ice and the scoreboard. 
The Penguins and Flyers talk­ed trash, laid the smack down, and played one wildly entertain­ing game. The result was still the same. The Flyers rallied from an­other early deficit for a decisive Game 3 victory that placed them on the brink of an improbable sweep. 
Danny Briere, Matt Read and Max Talbot each scored two goals to lead Philadelphia to an 8-4 vic­tory over Pittsburgh on Sunday in a fight-filled game in the East­ern Conference quarterfinal. 
Giroux and Wayne Simmonds also scored to help the Flyers take a 3-0 lead in the combus­tible best-of-seven series. Game 4 is Wednesday night in Phila­delphia. The Flyers scored 20 goals in the first three games. 
“Our goal is to finish it right away,” Briere said. 
The goals might be hard to find on a highlight reel. This one was all about the brawls more suitable for a UFC card. Three players were tossed in the first period. There was a rare fight between superstars when Cros­by squared off against Giroux. 
No one got the better end of that scrap. But by the end, Flyers fans serenaded the Penguins with boom­ing chants of “You can’t beat us!” 
“All three games were kind of weird games,” Giroux said. “I guess I like weird games because we always finish by winning.” 
Jordan Staal and James Neal scored twice for a Penguins team pushed to the limit by its hated, intrastate rival. Marc-Andre Fleury was benched after al­lowing six goals in two periods. He has allowed a whopping 17 goals in the first three games. 
Coach Dan Bylsma said Fleury would start, “the next four games.” 
Hard to imagine at this rate, es­pecially with NHL scoring leader Evgeni Malkin (109 points) yet to score a goal for the Penguins. 
The Flyers played a postsea­son video that billed their run as the “Fight to the Cup.” They never expected a first period that would have left those old Broad Street Bullies smiling. 
Each team had their top defen­seman — Pittsburgh’s Kris Le-tang and Philadelphia’s Kimmo Timonen — tossed. So was Pen­guins forward Arron Asham. 
But the scene ripped straight out of the pages of Ripley’s came when Giroux and Crosby went at it against the backboard. 
“In the end, that’s really playoff hockey,” Flyers coach Peter Lavio­lette said. “A couple of the best play­ers in the world dropping the gloves going at it. Would I rather have G keep his gloves on? Sure. But when he’s fighting Sidney Crosby, that’s playoff hockey. That’s this series.” 
Crosby ignited the scrum when he twice jabbed goalie Ilya Bryzgalov’s glove against the ice. Giroux, third in the NHL in points this season, shoved Crosby from behind. Crosby, clearly not caring about his history of concussions, retaliated by shov­ing Giroux’s head against the glass. 
While the 20,092 fans dressed in their matching Hulk Hogan-inspired orange T-shirts roared, Timonen and Letang exchanged shots, and Voracek and Pitts­burgh’s Steve Sullivan each were penalized for roughing. 
Timonen and Letang were both hit with 5 minutes for fighting and were ejected because they were assessed a major penalty af­ter the original fight had started. 
Crosby insisted the Pen­guins weren’t getting rattled. 
“There’s more than one team get­ting in those things,” he said. “You can make a story all you want about us getting frustrated. They’re doing the same things we are. It’s intense.” 
The on-ice violence was just warming up. 
Flyers forward Brayden Schenn rammed Paul Martin into the boards, turned around and was crosschecked in the upper body by Asham. Asham jumped a defense­less Schenn and connected with a vicious right to earn the match penalty — a penalty imposed on a player who deliberately at­tempts to injure or who delib­erately injures an opponent in any manner. Asham could get suspended for the punch. 
As the game wound down, Crosby yanked the back of Scott Hartnell’s jersey and the fireworks went off again. Sim­monds, Neal and Pittsburgh’s Craig Adams also were socked with penalties. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The 
Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
PERSONAL 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don’t go it alone. Notre Dame has many resources in place to assist you. If you or someone you love needs 
confidential support or assistance, 
please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819. 
For more information, visit ND’s 
website at:  
http://pregnancysupport@nd.edu 

This Day in History : 1818 – The United States Senate 
ratifies the Rush-Bagot Treaty, 
establishing the border with Canada. 
1862 – American Civil War: The District of Columbia Compensated 
Emancipation Act, a bill ending slavery in the District of Columbia, 
becomes law. 
1862 – American Civil War: The Battle at Lee’s Mills in Virginia. 
1941 – Bob Feller of the Cleveland Indians throws the only Opening Day no-hitter in the history of 
Major League Baseball, beating 
the Chicago White Sox 1-0. 
1947 – Bernard Baruch coins the term “Cold War” to describe the relationship between the United States and the Soviet Union. 
1972 – Apollo program: The launch 
of Apollo 16 from Cape Canaveral, 
Florida. 

1982 - Queen Elizabeth proclaims Canada’s new constitution. 
2003 - The Treaty of Accession is 
signed,admitting 10 new member 
states to the European Union. 
2004 - The super liner Queen Mary 
2 embarks on her first Trans-
Atlantic crossing. 

2008 - Start of Papal Journey of Pope Benedict XVI to the United States. 
Born on this day: 

1889 – Charlie Chaplin, English actor and filmmaker. 
1928 – Dick “Night Train” Lane, 
American football player. 

1935 – Bobby Vinton, singer. 
1947 – Kareem Abdul-Jabbar, 
American basketball player. 

1952 – Bill Belichick, American 
football coach. 
1965 – Martin Lawrence, American 
actor. 
1971 – Selena, American Tejano 
singer. 
1973 – Akon, American singer and 
song writer. 
1982 – Jonathan Vilma, American 
football player. 
1992 – Prince Sébastien of Luxembourg. 

Monday, April 16, 2012 The Observer u SPORTS ndsmcobserver.com | page 13 
MLB 

League honors Jackie Robinson with ballpark tributes 
Associated Press showed off their gloves and jer­seys for two-time All-Star Har-
NEW YORK — LaTroy old Reynolds. Hawkins has heard the stories There was a pregame trib­from his 87-year-old grandfa-ute at the new Yankee Stadium ther, about his days of picking on Sunday night featuring Ra-cotton in Mississippi, about the chel Robinson, Jackie’s wife, times when there were no black and Sharon before the Angels players in big league baseball. played New York. Yankees stars 
And about what it meant Derek Jeter and Robinson Cano when Jackie Robinson broke the — who is named for the base­game’s color barrier. ball pioneer — hugged the Rob­
“Without Jackie, I wouldn’t be insons as they gathered with in front of you,” the Los Ange-three Tuskegee Airmen behind les Angels pitcher told several home plate. dozen kids at a Bronx ballfield Yankees center fielder Curtis Sunday. “Jackie’s role in my life Granderson wore customized has been tremendous.” spikes with the Jackie Robinson 
From Dodger Stadium to Fen-Day logo on the back and No. 42 way Park, there were ceremo-on the tongue. The shoes will nies as Major League Baseball be auctioned off later, with pro-honored Robinson and his leg-ceeds going to the Jackie Robin­acy. Video tributes and on-field son Foundation. celebrations at every ballpark On a shelf in his locker, included his family, his former Granderson had a small figu­teammates, players from the rine of Robinson sliding feet-Negro Leagues and NBA great first in his Brooklyn uniform. Bill Russell. He pointed out that Robinson’s 
Players, managers, coaches success provided opportuni­and umpires all wore No. 42 ties for so many in baseball, not on Jackie Robinson Day to re-only blacks. member the 65th anniversary “It opened up doors for ev­of the day the future Hall of erybody. I think that’s the one Famer first took the field with thing he would be proud of,” the Brooklyn Dodgers in 1947. Granderson said. “You just look Markers on each base noted the at the diversity, all of which occasion. started with Jackie Robinson 
“I’m very happy the players 65 years ago.” feel that connected,” said his Granderson’s teammate, daughter, Sharon Robinson. Mariano Rivera, is the only ac­“Back in 1997, players were tive player still wearing No. 42. saying, ‘Jackie who?’ So we’ve The number was retired by MLB come a long way.” 15 years ago on the 50th anni-to me saying, ‘Hey, my first book many in 1990 when the Rich-Robinson!!!” 
Hall of Famer Reggie Jackson, versary of Robinson’s debut. report was on Jackie Robinson.’ ard Lapchick’s Institute for Di-In Boston, former Robinson Hawkins and several former “I think it’s a great thing for These are 6, 7, 8, 9-year-olds versity and Ethics in Sports at teammate Ralph Branca threw players joined Sharon Robinson baseball. I think it’s a great that are doing it.” the University of Central Florida out the ceremonial ball before at a youth clinic in a park where thing for life in general, con-Hawkins noted the dwindling started tracking the number. Tampa Bay played Boston. The the old Yankee Stadium stood. tinuing to promote his legacy,” percentage of black players in Hawkins thanked his grand-86-year-old Branca tossed the Smiling boys and girls from the Granderson said. “I don’t think the big leaguers. There were dad for always steering him pitch on one bounce from the Reviving Baseball in Inner Cit-it’s been forgotten, by the num-only 8.5 percent on opening day toward baseball instead of bas-front edge of the mound to his ies program in Harlem eagerly ber of kids that are coming up in 2011 — there were twice as ketball and encouraged parents son-in-law, Red Sox manager 
to do the same. He also said Bobby Valentine. colleges could help by offer-Branca remembered being at ing four-year baseball scholar-Ebbets Field a day before Robin-ships. son’s debut. 
“Play the game,” Hawkins “I was in the locker room said. when Jackie walked in. I walked 
Asked whether he thought over, shook his hand, ‘Welcome MLB would ever again achieve aboard,’” Branca said. a high population of black play-“I didn’t think about the color ers, he said: “Anything’s pos-of his skin because I lived on a sible.” block that was the United Na-
Jackson recalled his days in tions of all. It was four black the minor leagues, where he families, about nine families was not allowed to stay in the (of) Italian extraction, two same hotels or eat in the same Irish, two German, two Jewish. restaurants as his teammates. So it was a league of nations on He said he sometimes spent the my block. So blacks, I played night on the couch at the apart-with them, went in their house, ments of Rollie Fingers, Joe they came into mine. So seeing Rudi, Dave Duncan and others. Jackie meant nothing special or 
“It was a very embarrassing different to me,” he said. time in your life,” he said. At Safeco Field, Russell 
Jackson paused to “to re-bounced his first pitch to Se-member what it was like, what I attle’s Chone Figgins before the went through” and reflected on Mariners hosted Oakland. At the likes of Roy Campanella and Turner Field, Robinson’s grand-Don Newcombe, black players son, Jesse Sims, was on the field who followed Robinson to the with Atlanta outfielder Michael Dodgers. Bourn before Milwaukee visited 
“He represented all of us,” Atlanta. At Citizens Bank Park, Jackson said. “I really feel he Harold Gould and Mahlon Duck-represented black and white.” ett of the Philadelphia Stars 
Newcombe and former Los from the Negro Leagues were Angeles star Tommy Davis recognized, along with mem­threw out ceremonial first bers of the Tuskegee Airmen. pitches at Dodger Stadium be-At Kansas City, Cleveland fore the game against San Di-manager Manny Acta said it ego. was a special day. 
Hall of Fame Dodgers an-“It has a lot of meaning to me. nouncer Vin Scully, who had Those guys opened the way for missed five games because of a everyone else. Jackie and Larry bad cold, returned to the broad-Doby, Frank Robinson was the cast booth. Scully, now 84, first African-American man-called Brooklyn games for more ager. And Felipe Alou, Tony Per-than seven years when Robin-ez. It was tough for those guys, son played. even tougher for guys like us, 
“All I want to do is think minorities and foreigners.” about the game and Jackie and “It wasn’t tough for me,” the how grateful I am to be back,” Dominican-born Acta said. “I Scully said. had it made because of guys like 
Tweeted current Dodgers star that. Those guys had to break Matt Kemp: “Thank u Jackie the ice. They did it for us.” 


page 14 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u SPORTS Monday, April 16, 2012 
FENCING 

Irish take three medals, finish season strongly 

By MIKE MONACO 
Sports Writer 
Three weeks after finish­ing in third place at the NCAA Championships, the Irish con­cluded the 2012 campaign with strong individual showings from their eight participants at the United States Fencing As­sociation’s national champion­ships in Virginia Beach, Va., over the weekend. 
A host of current Notre Dame underclassmen turned in re­spectable finishes, while up­perclassmen and former Irish fencers placed at the top of the pools. 
“We had some pretty strong results,” Irish coach Janusz Bednarski said. “Our two gold medals, and then some good finishes from our other stu­dents who are returning next year are good, and are signs of the foundation for how we should look next year.” 
The men’s epee competition got the action started Friday. Sophomore epeeist Michael Rossi, who went 36-21 in the regular season, finished in 15th place. 
Sophomore foilist Nick Kubik, who was third on the Irish foil team with 36 wins during the regular season, came in 22nd in Saturday’s men’s foil event. 
Bednarski said he was pleased with how the perfor­mances of Rossi and Kubik bode for next year. 
“It’s good to see those results from [Rossi and Kubik] because they will be part of a strong pool of fencers for next year,” Bednarski said. 
On the women’s side, fresh­man Ashley Severson took 24th place Saturday in the women’s epee. Severson led the Irish women’s epee squad with a 37-7 record in the regular sea­son, won a bronze medal at the National Junior Olympics in February and was named a second-team All-American at the NCAA championships. 
Fellow freshman foilist Madi­son Zeiss finished in 10th place Sunday to conclude a strong first year. Zeiss compiled a stellar 42-5 record in the regu­lar season and, like Severson, was named a second-team All-American. 
“Zeiss in 10th place means she was also pretty highly-lo­cated,” Bednarski said. “That is a great result for her – prob­ably her best yet – in an event like the [national champion­ship].” 
Notre Dame’s old guard had top finishes as well, as cur­rent team members and recent graduates turned in strong performances. 
The Hurley sisters stole the show during Saturday’s wom­en’s epee competition. Court­ney, a current senior who took the year off from competing for Notre Dame in order to train and qualify for the Olympics, won the gold medal. Her older sister Kelley, who graduated from Notre Dame in 2010 and was a two-time first-team All-American during her career, claimed the silver medal. 
Later in the day, Gerek Mein­hardt took the gold medal in the men’s foil competition. Meinhardt, who won the 2010 NCAA foil title and participated in the 2008 Olympics, also took the 2012 season off to pursue his Olympic aspirations. 
Although these fencers were not with the Irish in 2012, Bed­narski said he is still pleased to see their strong showings. 
“It is great to have them fin­ish so high,” Bednarksi said. “It is an appreciation of our pro­gram and our university. Even if they graduated from us, they are still a part of us, and I hope they can qualify for the Olym­pic Games in London. That’s why some of them took the year off, to qualify, and it’s a good sign they are winning.” 
Junior foilist Grace Hart­man took sixth place Sunday in the women’s foil competition, finishing four spots ahead of Zeiss. 
“Hartman coming in sixth place is very high,” Bednarski said. “It is great for her, espe­cially in the nationals. I don’t think she’s ever been that high and she was in the final eight which is great.” 
Contact Mike Monaco at jmonaco@nd.edu 
ROWING 

Team wins seven of 12 races 
Observer Staff Report 

After three weeks off, the Irish had a successful return to action over the weekend in the Virginia Invite at Lake Monticello in Charlottesville, Va. 
The event began on Satur­day, and Notre Dame’s first competition was competition was the novice eight/third var­sity eight race against Clem­son and Northeastern. Despite a strong effort from a crew led by senior Ching-Ting Hwang, the Irish came in second the race. The Tigers beat out the Irish by a two second margin with a time of 7:04.00. 
The highlight of the day was turned in by the varsity four boat. This crew defeated Clemson with an impressive 11-second margin of victory. 
The Irish made it two wins in a row when they defeated Clemson again with the sec­ond varsity eight boat coxed by sophomore Christina Dines. The next Irish victory came in the varsity eight heat when they defeated the Tigers by two seconds. 
The afternoon session on Saturday saw the Irish com­pete in four races against Northeastern and Virginia. The Irish registered second place finishes in every race. 
The Virginia Invite contin­ued Sunday with the Irish fac­ing off against Pennsylvania and San Diego, where they recorded four more wins. Sun­day’s victories gave the Irish seven wins in 12 total races on the weekend. 
The Irish got their first win on the day from the varsity eight crew. The crew won the race with a time of 6:40.80, which was five seconds fast than the second-place Quak­ers. 
The second varsity eight race was also won by the Irish by a nine second margin over Penn. The last race on Sunday also resulted in a Notre Dame victory, as the Irish third var­sity eight, led by juniors Sarah McShane and Kelsey Murphy, won the race with a time of 7:04.80. 
The Irish now will hope to ride their newfound momen­tum into their next competi­tion, which will occur next weekend when they take on Stanford and USC in Redwood Shores, Calif. 
SMC SOFTBALL 

Belles reach 20 wins with sweep 
Observer Staff Report 

Saint Mary’s picked up its 19th and 20th wins of the season as it swept Franklin at home in a doubleheader Sunday. The first game end­ed in a score of 7-1, while the Belles ended the second contest in five innings with a mercy-rule 11-1 victory. 
The Belles (20-8, 5-3 MIAA) jumped out to an ear­ly lead in the first game with six runs in the bottom of the first. Senior pitcher Angela Gillis, freshman first base­man Jordie Wasserman, se­nior infielder Kate Mitchell, junior infielder Emily Sher­wood, and senior left fielder Kristen Nelson contributed with RBI hits. 
The home team finished their scoring for the game when freshman infielder Mi­chelle Duncan drove in a run with an RBI single. 
Sophomore pitcher Cal­lie Selner earned her 11th pitching win of the season, allowing only one run on six hits. 
Game two started out much the same for Saint Mary’s. The Belles scored four runs in the first, three in the sec­ond, and four in the third to take an early 11-0 lead. Each Belles batter contributed at least one hit and one run. 
Gillis picked up the win, allowing only one run on three hits. 
With the win, Saint Mary’s has won at least 20 games in each of coach Erin Sullivan’s seven seasons at the helm. 
The Belles host league-leading Trine on Tuesday at 
3:30 p.m. 


Monday, April 16, 2012 The Observer u SPORTS ndsmcobserver.com | page 15 
ND WOMEN’S TENNIS 

Squad wraps up regular season with pair of wins 
By KATIE HEIT 
Sports Writer 
In their final action before chasing their fourth consecu­tive Big East championship later this week, the 19th-ranked Irish wrapped up the regular season with wins against conference foes South Florida and Louis­ville. 
The Irish swept South Florida 7-0 in their senior day Friday. Seniors Shannon Mathews and Kristy Frilling were undefeat­ed in both singles and doubles. Frilling notched her 100th ca­reer win, 6-2, 6-2, and became just the ninth player in Irish history to reach that landmark. Mathews defeated Ecaterina Vasenina 6-2, 6-0 in her 92nd career victory. 
Mathews said the win over the Bulls won’t hold much signifi­cance when the Irish face them at South Florida for the Big East championship. 
“South Florida is one of our toughest competitors in the Big East,” Mathews said. “It was def­initely great to come away with a victory at home, but we know when we play them at Big East on their courts that it’s going to be a battle. We definitely don’t want to look over any of our op­ponents.” 
The Irish traveled to Kentucky to take on Louisville on Sunday. Once again, Notre Dame swept all three doubles competitions, as Frilling and Mathews went undefeated once more in singles, and their fifth-ranked doubles pair won their 16th matchup of the season. 
Mathews said ending the reg­ular season on a high note was especially important to the se­niors. 
“To have a good senior day was really special for both Kristy and I,” Mathews said. “To have wins in doubles and singles was great for our senior day and our last season match.” 
Mathews said freshman Kath­erine White stepped up through­out the weekend. After sopho­more Julie Sabacinski rolled her ankle during her doubles match with fellow sopho­more Britney Sanders on Friday, White stepped in and grabbed a big win in singles. 
White won the final game of the regular season Sunday, defeating Amelia Harris 6-2, 6-3. 
“She really played great in the sixth position in South Florida and against Louis­ville,” Mathews said. “She re­ally competed well and had two great wins this week­end.” 
Mathews said she has been really impressed with the success of her team in the fi­nal weeks of competition. 
“Across the board every­one had been competing well and we’ve seen great suc­cess,” Mathews said. “To win all three doubles [matches] against South Florida gives us really great momentum heading into this weekend.” 
Though the schedule for the tournament has not been released yet, Mathews be­lieves Notre Dame has a good chance at being the number one seed, which would give the squad a bye on the first day of competition Thursday and begin its run at another Big East championship Fri­day. 
“I think we’re going to come out with everyone gun­ning for us [if] we’re the num­ber one seed,” Mathews said. “But I think we definitely need to take it one match at a time and everyone is looking to win that Big East tourna­ment. Kristy and I are look­ing to end our career with a fourth-straight Big East championship. We all have that focus of doing it again, so that’s what we’re looking for this week.” 
The Irish will look to claim another title this weekend at the Big East championship in Tampa, Fla. 
Contact Katie Heit at kheit@nd.edu 
MEN’S TENNIS 

Seniors lead team to 5-2 win 
By PETER STEINER 
Sports Writer 
The Irish could not have planned a better way to end the regular season. 
In their final home match of the year, the Irish took down Louis­ville, 5-2, to extend their winning streak to six matches. 
Notre Dame (18-7, 3-1 Big East) also honored the accomplish­ments of seniors Casey Watt, Sam Keeton, Niall Fitzgerald and Daven Brodess. 
Entering the match, the Irish had dropped the doubles point in two consecutive matches. But the three Irish pairs reversed their luck Saturday, sweeping all three matches to take a 1-0 lead on the Cardinals (15-9, 0-1). 
“Once we got five to six games into the doubles, we had pretty clearly broken them, established a lead and it looked like we were going to win the doubles point,” Irish coach Bobby Bayliss said. “Doubles takes a while to learn, and I think we had an advantage of experience today.” 
Experience proved to be an important factor in the singles for the Irish as well. Led by three seniors, the Irish took four of the six singles matches to secure the overall victory against an evenly-matched Cardinals squad. 
While Watt dropped a three-set match at No. 1 singles, Keeton and Fitzgerald both took home victories in the last home match of their careers. At No. 3 singles, Keeton recovered from a shaky second set to defeat freshman Al­bert Wagner 6-3, 3-6, 6-0 and ex­tend his singles winning streak to five games. 
“At No. 3 singles, Sam started off playing reasonably well and the game plan was to play up in the court on Wagner, take away his time and make him move,” Bayliss said. “After a poor sec­ond set, Sam really picked up his game and played well in the third, and never let Wagner into the match. He just dominated the set.” 
At No. 5 singles, Fitzgerald im­proved to 7-3 in singles this year by finishing off senior Robert Hall 6-1, 7-5. 
“Niall Fitzgerald was all over Hall, who is a very good player,” Bayliss said. “Hall has beaten us in the Big East championship twice, so that match concerned me. 
“The key is [Niall’s] ability to, under pressure, still play big with his forehand and firm with his backhand, and yet under con­trol. A lot of guys have trouble hitting big and keeping the ball in play, and Niall has the ability to do that.” 
Watt, Keeton and Fitzgerald have been mainstays in the Irish lineup all year and according to Bayliss, the intangibles the three seniors provide for the team are invaluable. 
“In doubles they were four-year starters, four-year letter winners, and it was good to have that kind of experience out on the court,” Bayliss said. “Certainly we will miss their talent and leadership. Casey was an instant-impact freshman. He’s added a little bit to his game since then, and has had to play high in the lineup, mostly at No. 1 all of the last three years. 


“It’s good to see the progress each one of them has made. Niall and Sam have gone from not al­ways playing as freshmen, to be­ing guys we absolutely need in our lineup as our seniors.” 
In addition to continuing their winning ways, Saturday’s victory was especially important for the upcoming Big East champion­ship. The victory over Louisville should move the Irish ahead of the Cardinals in the national rankings, thus giving Notre Dame the No. 1 seed in the tour­nament. 
With the conclusion of the reg­ular season, the Irish will pre­pare for their first match of the Big East championship on April 20 in Tampa, Fla. 
Contact Peter Steiner at psteiner@nd.edu 


SMC GOLF 

Belles finish fifth at Illinois Wesleyan 
By BRENDAN BELL 
Sports Writer 
Saint Mary’s faced its toughest competition this year at the Illinois Wesleyan Spring Fling, and rose to the level of play, placing fifth of 18 teams, with a total score of 660 over the two-day tournament. 
“We shot the ball well today and we were a few shots out of third place,” Belles coach Mark Hamil­ton said.  “It was a great showing overall, and I was very happy with it.” 
Sophomore Doyle O’Brien shot the lowest score of the first day for the Belles with a 78, setting the tone for her teammates for the rest of the tournament. She then fol­lowed it up with an 81 on the sec­ond day to put her in third place in the individual rankings for the weekend. 
O’Brien’s success followed af­ter shooting a score in the 70s at the Southwestern Invitational in Georgetown, Texas, the week be­fore, making it three-consecutive rounds where she has shot the low­est score for Saint Mary’s. 
“She just hit the ball well and has been all year,” Hamilton said. “She just needs to keep doing what she does best, and strike the ball.” 
Close behind O’Brien’s 159 to­tal score for the tournament was senior captain Natalie Matuszak, who put up a combined score of 
165.  Sophomore Paige Pollak shot a 168, and senior captain Christine Brown shot a 171 to help the Belles as well. After shooting 325 as a team in the first round, Sunday the Belles moved up one more spot on the leaderboard by avoiding the miscues that hurt many teams. Sunday’s wet weather caused the average scores for the round to go up nearly 15 strokes per team, but the Belles beat the average and shot a 335, 10 shots higher than their first day score. 
Among the tough competition was No. 3 DePauw, which had the lead for the entire tournament, and shot a total score of 634. No. 4 Cen­tre College placed three strokes be­hind DePauw. No. 6 Wisconsin-Eau Claire and No. 16 Birmingham-Southern placed third and fourth, respectively, while Saint Mary’s rounded out the top five. 
The Belles’ attention now has shifted towards the national scene, as they hope to make the NCAA championships. 
“Our goal is just trying to get to nationals, and over the last rounds of the tournament just take it to the other teams in it,” Hamilton said. “It’s going to be a good battle and I’m hoping we come out on top.” 
The Belles will continue to pre­pare for their upcoming NCAA qualifying matches in order to make the NCAA Division III cham­pionships. The first round of the NCAA qualifiers will be tomorrow at Wuskawhon Players Club in Hol­land, Mich., starting at 2 p.m. 
Contact Brendan Bell at bbell2@nd.edu 

page 16 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u SPORTS Monday, April 16, 2012 

Koerner 
continued from page 20 
tom of the first was a defining play for the Irish, but much of the victory was a result of No. 25 Syracuse’s (30-10, 7-2) three errors and the four wild pitches. 
Koerner had three hits in four at-bats in the second half of the doubleheader, but was the lone highlight of the con­test, which the Irish lost 8-2. The Orange outhit the Irish 9-6, and used success at the plate to 


score two 

“I felt like our defense 
runs in the 

was really solid. We 
fourth, fifth 

made some really 
and sixth 

innings. great plays.” The rub­ber match Dani Miller took place 
Irish infielder 
on Sunday, when the Irish fell in an extra-in­ning heart-breaker, 3-2. Two solo homeruns from the Or­ange in the final two innings secured the Syracuse win, but the Irish held their ground for most of the game. Sophomore pitcher Laura Winter shut out the fourth and fifth innings, and senior infielder Dani Miller’s sacrifice bunt helped score junior catcher Amy Bun-tin, securing the second run of the game for the Irish. 
Miller said despite the losses, she was impressed by Notre Dame’s strong defensive play. 
“I felt like our defense was really solid,” Miller said. “We made some really great plays.” 
As they head into their next game against Valparaiso on Wednesday, Miller said the Irish cannot afford to focus on changing any part of their game. Instead, Miller said the key to the team’s success de­
pends upon whether they players play to their fullest ability. 
“We don’t have many more oppor­tunities to play the way we know we should and we can,” Mill­er said. “We don’t have to work on very much, it’s just about stepping up and being the player we know we can 
be, and that we know that you are.” 
The Irish will hit the field again on Wednesday at home against Valparaiso. First pitch from Melissa Cook Stadium will be at 5 p.m. 
Contact Katie Heit at kheit@nd.edu 
SMC TENNIS 

Saturday’s matchup with Bulldogs postponed 
Observer Staff Report 
On Saturday, the Belles trav­eled to Adrian College to take on the Bulldogs in a mid-sea­son MIAA matchup. However, the match was called off due to rainy weather. The match has been postponed to either April 19 or 20, and will again be host­ed by Adrian. The decision as to what day the match will be played will be made tomorrow. 
Before Saturday’s rainout, Saint Mary’s (9-6, 2-2 MIAA) hosted Bethel at home, where the Belles pulled out a close 5-4 victory decided by the last match of the day. That triumph over the Pilots extended Saint Mary’s winning streak to two, and the team was looking to ex­tend it to three Saturday against Adrian. The Belles next play on Monday, when they host Calvin in another MIAA match. The Belles will take on the Knights at 4 p.m. 
TRACK AND FIELD 

Irish successful in Border Battle 
By AARON SANT-MILLER 
Sports Writer 

In a battle between two states, the Irish helped lead Indiana over Kentucky. 
On Saturday, the Uni­versity of Louisville host­ed the third-annual Texas Roadhouse Border Battle, where Notre Dame and In­diana made up team “Hoo­sier Land” and Kentucky and Louisville formed team “Commonwealth.” Both the Irish men and Irish women were able to carry team “Hoosier Land” to victory, as the men won 113-81, while the women prevailed by a single point, 101.5-100.5. 
This was the second win in a row for “Hoosier Land”, as the Irish helped pull out a victory in the spring of 2011. Team “Common­wealth” claimed the first Border Battle in 2010. 
“The whole point was the combined teams,” Irish coach Joe Piane said. “It led to two separate teams both getting a win, which is fun.” 
Even though these teams were working together, the structure of the meet wasn’t able to quell the competitive nature between the intra­state rivals of Notre Dame and Indiana, Piane said. 
“No doubt, there still is a lot of that competitive nature between the two teams,” Piane said. “But, still, it’s a very friendly type of competition.” 
Saturday was a strong day for the Irish, as Notre Dame athletes won nine events. 
“We had a lot of good things happen on both the women’s and the men’s side,” Piane said. “It went pretty well.” 
The Irish women put forth an impressive outing, claim­ing six first-place finishes. Freshman Jade Barber won the 100-meter dash with a time of 11.82 seconds. Ju­nior Natalie Geiger won the 400-meter dash with a time of 55.89 seconds, while classmate Rebecca Tracy also took a first-place fin­ish in the 800-meter run with a time of 2:07.49. The Irish also won the 400-me­ter hurdles, as sophomore Megan Yanik finished with a time of 1:00.43. Sophomore McKinzie Schulz rounded out the individual victories, as she crossed the finish line first in the 3,000-meter steeplechase with a time of 10:31.14. 
Additionally, the women’s 4x400-meter relay team took a victory for the Irish. The group, composed of Barber, Yanik, Gieger and sophomore Michelle Brown, finished first with a blazing time of 3:40.56. 
The Notre Dame men had a strong showing as well, starting with the 4x400-me­ter relay. The group, com­prised of freshman Chris Giesting, sophomore Pat­rick Feeney, junior Brendan Dougherty and senior Mitch Lorenz, won with a time of 3:11.30. 
The Irish men also shone in the field events, where sophomore Andrew Brock won the shot put with a throw of 17.22 meters, and senior Kevin Schipper claimed yet another pole vault victory with a vault of 
5.36 meters. 
“All in all, our perfor­mance was good, but not great,” Piane said. “ We did have quite a few kids qualify for the Big East champion­ships, which is very good.” 
Getting athletes into the Big East meet and the NCAAs is always a goal for the Irish, as the end objec­tive for the season is to shine in both meets, Piane said. 
“Our goal is always those two meets,” Piane said. “We’ve had quite a few kids qualify for both over the last few weeks, so things are looking really good.” 
The Irish will look to con­tinue their pursuit of that goal when the team travels to Walnut, Calif., on April 18 to compete in the Mt. SAC Relays. The relays will take place all day. 
Contact Aaron Sant-Miller at asantmil@nd.edu 

Monday, April 16, 2012 The Observer u SPORTS ndsmcobserver.com | page 17 

Morrison 
continued from page 20 
goals, while sophomore mid­fielder Kaitlyn Brosco chipped in three of her own. 
For the Irish, junior goal­tender Ellie Hilling returned to the cage, registering 11 saves and earning her ninth win of the season. 
Senior attacker M.E. Lapham opened up the scoring for the Huskies (7-5, 0-4) just 2:26 into the first half. Connecticut scored two of the game’s first three goals, but did not lead in the final 50 minutes of the game. Lapham, Connecticut’s all-time leading scorer, was limited to just three goals on 15 total shots. 
When senior attacker Kelly Driscoll found the back of the net with 14:11 remaining in the first half, the Irish took a 6-3 lead. The goal also marked the first of six straight Irish goals that were assisted by Tamasitis. 
Graduate student defend­er Brittany Mallory saw her first action as a part of the Irish, after joining the team last week. She recorded one draw control and commit­ted one turnover. 
“We’ve seen [Mallory] a little bit everywhere right now, so she could end up on the stat line for maybe an assist and a goal, or she could end up on the defen­sive side with a ground ball or a turnover, and maybe even a draw control here or there,” Halfpenny said Thursday. 
Notre Dame returns to action Wednesday when they take on No. 17 Vander­bilt at Arlotta Stadium at 1 p.m. 
Contact Matthew DeFranks at mdefrank@nd.edu 
Markson 
continued from page 20 
third baseman Eric Jagielo hit a three-run home run to left field. Notre Dame stretched its lead to 8-1 in the third inning as junior catcher Joe Hudson hit a solo home run. Markson manufac­tured another run by singling, stealing second, moving to third on freshman outfielder Mac Hudgins’s groundout, and scor­ing on a wild pitch. 
Things began to unravel for the Irish in the fourth, however. Senior right-hander Will Hudgins began the game with a confer-ence-leading 1.33 ERA, but was scorched for four in the fourth after giving up four singles and a walk. He was pulled in the fifth after allowing another pair of runs, narrowing the Notre Dame lead to 8-7. 
The Irish and the Bearcats (12-23, 2-10 Big East) traded two-run frames in the bottom of the fifth and the top of the sixth, but the Notre Dame bullpen did not allow a run in the last three in­nings and held on for the win. Sophomore right-hander Sean Fitzgerald (3-3) earned the win and sophomore right-hander Dan Slania claimed his seventh save of the season. 


The Irish also received good news when they learned sopho­more first baseman Trey Man­cini, who was just returning from injury, did not break his wrist when he was hit by a pitch in the first inning. He did not play the remainder of the weekend. 
“It wasn’t broken thankfully, but he’s just a little too sore and dinged up from it,” Irish coach Mik Aoki said Saturday. “He can grip a bat, [but] it’s really hard for him to actually swing a bat.” 
While the Irish spent most of Friday’s game trying to hold off the Bearcats, on Saturday it was Notre Dame’s turn to wear the rally caps. Both teams scored in the first inning, but the Bearcats had a 5-1 lead in the sixth before senior outfielder Alex Robin­son hit a two-run single to score freshman designated hitter Ryan Bull and junior infielder Frank DeSico. Freshman infielder Phil Mosey cut the Cincinnati lead to one in the seventh with the first home run of his college career. It was the game’s second home run by a nine-hitter, as Cincinnati’s redshirt freshman left fielder Ethan McAlpine hit a two-run homer in the sixth. 
“Almost any kid in any college lineup is capable of leaving the yard, and certainly I think Phil is one of those kids,” Aoki said. “I’m glad for Phil. He’s struggled a little bit on and off all year long, and I’m really happy for him.” 
Mosey also ignited Notre Dame’s ninth-inning rally with a single to left center. Robinson hit a single to right to score DeSico and claim the second Irish win of the weekend. 
Aoki said the gutsy wins Friday and Saturday showed the Irish had recovered from their series of tough losses. 
“I think that’s a really good job of a lesson learned,” Aoki said. “I think they’ve gotten a little bit of that confidence back, I think they’ve got a little bit of that sort of fighting spirit [back]. Hopeful­ly, I think today is the sort of win that you can really build upon.” 
But Cincinnati — at this point sitting on a seven straight losses 
— returned with a vengeance on Sunday. 
Freshman right-hander Pat Connaughton held Cincinnati to one run through the first four in­nings, but racked up 80 pitches and was replaced by senior left-hander Ryan Richter to begin the fifth. 
“I was glad to get Patrick up to his pitch count, which for us was about 75 or 80,” Aoki said. “I’m not as glad that we arrived at that in four innings, but I think he did a good job [and] made pitches when he needed to. He left a 1-1 game; we had our opportunity.” 
Richter, freshman right-hand­er Matt Ternowchek, senior left-hander Steve Sabatino, and Fitzgerald combined to allow five runs in the fifth and sixth in­nings. 
Aoki had plenty of praise for the Cincinnati lineup that finally beat his team on Sunday. 
“I have a hard time believing that that team’s 2-10 [in the Big East],” Aoki said. “I think that’s as good of a lineup as we’ve played. They’ve got some guys that run. The wind obviously aided their power numbers this weekend, but you look at kids like … [Bearcats senior infielder Nic] Spence — I can’t believe that Spence is hitting what he is with the sort of swing that he has.” 
The Irish will try to start a new winning streak when they travel to Bethesda, Md. for a tilt against Georgetown this weekend. The series will kick off Friday, with first pitch at 7 p.m. 
Contact Vicky Jacobsen at vjacobse@nd.edu 

page 18 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u SPORTS Monday, April 16, 2012 

Corrigan 
continued from page 20 
we can saddle up and ride,” Corri­gan said. “I think that’s when we’re at our best, when we get contribu­tions from a lot of people like that. That not only means a lot of people are scoring, but it means that we’re sharing the ball and playing in a way where a lot of people have op­portunities to score.” 
So far, Notre Dame has gone through its Big East schedule un­scathed, with its only loss coming in overtime to Penn State on Feb. 
26. The Irish now have two regu­lar season games remaining – a matchup at No. 12 Villanova on April 21 and a regular season fi­nale with No. 1 Syracuse at home April 28. 
But going undefeated in the con­ference is not something Corrigan has made an explicit goal. Rather, the Irish prepare for each oppo­nent one at a time. 
“It’s not something I’ve focused on a ton,” Corrigan said. “We’ve just really tried to play each game as it comes. We did a great job of getting out of the early stretch of our season with a lot of good teams. So far so good in the Big East, but still two really good teams to play.” 
The results of the Big East standings have implications for the conference tournament from May 3 to 5 in Villanova, Pa., as well as the NCAA tournament, which begins May 12. However, Notre Dame is only focused on what is directly in front of them. 
“[Postseason seeding] is not something that we’re looking at, other than who’s next and what the next challenge is,” Corrigan said. “Next up for us is a very good Villanova.” 
Notre Dame will square off against the Wildcats at Villanova on Saturday at 5:30 p.m. 
Contact Matthew Robison at mrobison@nd.edu 
Lynch 
continued from page 20 
it and mutually agreed that the best decision for him is to leave the football team, which he has decided to do,” Kelly said. “He’ll finish out the semester … and then he’ll pursue other opportunities.” 
Kelly said it was more of a comfort level issue rather than a geographical problem. 
Over Easter break, Kelly sent Lynch home to his moth­er in Ohio to think about what he wanted to do. He also said he did a similar thing with sophomore linebacker Ishaq Williams earlier this year following winter break. Wil­liams remains a part of the Irish defense. 
Lynch had an up-and-down recruiting journey that ulti­mately led him to the Irish. Initially, he was committed to Notre Dame before switch­ing to Florida State and then enrolling early last year with the Irish. 
Kelly said all the players know what they signed up for when they come to Notre Dame. 
“We’re laying our cards on the table,” Kelly said. “We’re not going to come in and say ‘You don’t have to live in the dorms.’ No, you have to live in the dorms. We don’t say ‘Hey, it’s easy in the class­room, don’t worry about it.’ We don’t say ‘Don’t worry about it, it never snows here.’” 
Kelly said the terms of Lynch’s release have not yet been decided upon yet. 


“We’re not going to hold him back and take his future away from him,” Kelly said. “We’ll discuss that. That’s the next stage which we’ll get into and start talking about those is­sues.” 
While Florida State remains an option, Bulls 247 says Lynch could potentially land at South Florida. The Bulls defeated Notre Dame 23-20 in last year’s season-opener. 
With Lynch’s departure, Irish fifth-year senior Kapron Lewis-Moore will move back into the starting lineup. Ju­niors Louis Nix, Kona Schwen­ke, sophomore Stephon Tuitt and freshman Sheldon Day will have to take on expanded roles on the defensive line. 
“We feel really blessed that we’re able to feel really good about our defensive line even losing a really good player like Aaron Lynch,” Kelly said. 
Contact Matthew DeFranks at mdefrank@nd.edu 


The Observer u TODAY ndsmcobserver.com | page 19 
CROSSWORD WILL SHORTz 
HOROSCOPE EUgENIA LAST 


HENRy ARNOLD 

CLAMMY HANDSHAKE SCOTT MICHAEL and MATT MOMONT 
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARgIRION 





Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556

 Enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year


 Enclosed
 is $75 for one semester 


Name ____________________________________________________ Address __________________________________________________ City ____________________ State___________ Zip______________ 

Monday, April 16, 2012 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 20 
MEN’S LACROSSE 

Second-half surge 
Irish overcome four-goal halftime deficit to beat Georgetown 
By MATTHEW ROBISON 
Sports Writer 
Despite trailing 5-1 at halftime Sunday, the No. 6 Irish dominated the third and fourth quarters to rally for a 9-7 victory over George­town on the road. 
Notre Dame (9-1, 4-0 Big East) had its opportunities early, but could not capitalize. Senior mid­fielder Eric Keppeler scored the lone first-half goal off a feed from junior midfielder Steve Murphy. 
“We had some good opportuni­ties, particularly in the first quar­ter, and just couldn’t seem to get any in the back of the net,” Irish coach Kevin Corrigan said. 
In the third quarter, the Irish picked up the defensive pressure and knocked Georgetown (5-6, 1-3) out of its comfort zone. 

“The other thing was our de­fense played very well,” Corrigan said. “[Junior goaltender] John Kemp was outstanding. And we got ground balls. So because of that, we dominated the time of possession in the third quar­ter, and kind of got them out of a rhythm and got ourselves into one.” 
The second-half scoring came from eight different players, as Keppeler added a second tally, while senior attack Sean Rogers, senior midfielder and tri-captain Max Pfeifer, sophomore attack Ryan Mix, freshman attack Westy Hopkins, junior attack Ryan Foley, senior long-stick midfielder Bobby Smith and sophomore midfielder Jim Marlatt all found the back of the net in the period as well. Smith’s goal was the first of his career. 
Corrigan said he was pleased to see such well-rounded scor­ing, especially from players who might not usually find their name on the scoresheet. 
“I think it means a lot to us, be­cause we all feel like that’s who we are as a team,” Corrigan said. “We have a lot of guys who can make plays.” 
Some teams center their offens­es around one player. The Irish do not have a go-to scorer and no­body who will light up the score­board with four or five goals on any given day. But their identity is a squad who has capable scorers from top to bottom. Production comes in across the board. 
“We don’t have any one guy who 
see CORRIGAN/page 18 
FOOTBALL 

Lynch leaves team, will transfer at semester’s end 

By MATTHEW DeFRANKS 
Associate Sports Editor
 When sophomore defen­sive end Aaron Lynch missed practice April 4, rumors be­gan to swirl. Now, what was first feared has been realized 
— Lynch is transferring, the football program announced Friday morning. 
“Your head and your heart has to be in it to be a Notre Dame student-athlete,” Irish coach Brian Kelly said. “The challenges are great here and if your head and heart is not in it, you just can’t be suc­cessful here.” 
Lynch will finish the spring semester at Notre Dame be­fore transferring elsewhere. 
“I want to thank coach Kelly for giving me this great opportunity to attend Notre Dame and be part of the Fighting Irish football fami­ly,” Lynch said in a statement. “This was one of the toughest decisions I have had to make, but I want to go back home to Florida. I’m grateful to Coach Kelly for understanding and allowing me to return home.” 
Last season, Lynch racked up a team-high 5.5 sacks and 14 quarterback hurries while earning playing time in 12 games. 
“Aaron and I talked about 
see LYNCH/page 18 
WOMEN’S LACROSSE 

Tamasitis sets record in win over Huskies 
By MATTHEW DeFRANKS 
Associate Sports Editor 
Just add another record for senior attacker Maggie Tamasitis. 
Tamasitis, the all-time Irish leader with 138 career assists, racked up a program-high eight assists in No. 7 Notre Dame’s 16-9 win over Connecticut on Saturday. The eight helpers also set a Big East record for most assists in a game. 
Tamasitis’ performance topped her own record of six assists, set a year ago against Connecticut. Former Irish standouts Gina Scioscia and Kerry Callahan also shared the record. Tamasitis also scored a goal in Saturday’s game, one of eight Irish goal­scorers on the day. 
“I think one of the main points [this week in prac­tice] was holding each other accountable [and] having high expectations for one an­other,” Irish coach Christine Halfpenny said Thursday. “[I want them to] be really fo­cused on moving the ball and maintaining the integrity of our spread offense that con­sistently does revolve around lots of people touching the ball.” 
Junior attacker Jaimie Morrison paced Notre Dame (10-2, 4-2 Big East) with four 
see MORRISON/page 17 
ND SOFTBALL 

Team loses two of three toOrangeoverweekend 
By KATIE HEIT 
Sports Writer 
Despite losing two of their three games against Syra­cuse, the Irish had a successful weekend, raising over $10,000 for South Bend Memorial Hos­pital in their Strikeout Cancer doubleheader Saturday. 
The weekend began with a trivia night Friday. Over 250 people showed up to support the team and the cause as part of the second-annual Strikeout Cancer weekend, with the pro­ceeds dedicated to help leuke­mia patients at Memorial Hos­pital. 
Two such patients threw out the first pitch in Saturday’s first game, which the Irish (21­13, 5-3 Big East) won 4-3. Oth­er festivities at the Saturday’s games included a dunk tank, balloon animals and Strike Out Cancer t-shirts. To round out the event, the Irish hosted a homerun derby directly fol­lowing the doubleheader.  
Along with fundraising for charity, Saturday’s win gave the Irish an eight-game home-winning streak. Freshman outfielder Emilee Koerner’s two-RBI double in the bot-
see KOERNER/page 16 
BASEBALL 

Irish take two from Bearcats 
By VICKY JACOBSEN 
Sports Writer 

The Irish survived Friday night’s slugfest for a 10-9 win and rallied for a 6-5 walk-off win against the Bearcats on Saturday, but slumping Cincin­nati prevented a Notre Dame sweep with a 6-2 victory in Sun­day’s get-away game. 
Both teams entered the week­end with five consecutive loss­es, but the Irish (19-16, 6-6 Big East) were the first to turn their fortunes around. After scoring two runs with two outs in the first, the Irish added four more in the second when junior out­fielder Charlie Markson scored on a sacrifice fly and sophomore 
see MARKSON/page 17 






