
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


SMC group supports AllianceND 
Panel addresses formation, success of Saint Mary’s Straight and Gay Alliance 
By KRISTEN DURBIN 
News Editor 
As the University’s decision ap­proaches on whether to approve AllianceND as an official student club, the Progressive Student Alliance (PSA) hosted a panel discussion Monday about the work of the Saint Mary’s College Straight and Gay Alliance (SAGA) in combating prejudice since its recognition in spring 2005. 
Sarah Medina Steimer, a 2006 alumna of the College who served as SAGA’s first president, said lesbian, bisexual, transgender and questioning (LBTQ) issues were addressed by a somewhat “underground” group of students prior to SAGA’s recognition as an official student group. 
“Before [SAGA was recog­nized], we would only hear about things on the National Day of Si­lence and National Coming Out Day, when students would draw with sidewalk chalk, wear rib­bons or present a slip of paper to their professors about the day of silence,” Steimer said. 
Initially, the College adminis­tration did not strongly oppose the recognition of SAGA as an of­ficial club, Steimer said, though the proposed club’s intentions were sometimes misrepresented. 


“There was some worry that having a gay-straight alliance would turn into a sex club that would promote homosexual be­havior, which we had to keep in mind when planning events and fundraisers,” she said. “In trying to get approved, we were showing the need for awareness, not try­ing to get a group of women to­gether to start dating each other.” 



Chef honored with award 
By DAN BROMBACH 
News Writer 
In an age of cooking shows and celebrity chefs, it can be easy to forget the culinary profession has not always been respected, let alone glamor­ized, by American society. 
But Notre Dame Executive Chef Donald Miller received the American Culinary Fed­eration National Chef Profes­sionalism Award this month in honor of his continued ef­forts to el­evate the status of chefs in the Unit­ed States through ed­ucation and training. 
Although he did not actively Miller seek the award, Mill­er said it was greatly humbling to be recognized for fostering increased respect for chefs as working professionals. 

Miller said he was inspired to enter the culinary profes­sion by childhood visits to his grandmother’s house, where he sat for hours watching her make strudel, ribbon candy and Austrian delicacies. 
“Whenever I got bored, I would go back into the kitch­en where my grandma was cooking,” Miller said.  “She was incredible, I was fasci­nated by it. I’m sure that’s what impressed me.” 
However, Miller said his eventual decision to pursue his dream and enter the Culi­nary Institute of America in­furiated his parents. 
“My folks were incredibly upset,” he said. “They just couldn’t see it, but it was something that I wanted to do. You get your shot, and you either take it or you let it pass you by.” 
After working as the execu­tive chef at a series of hotels and resorts, as well as serv­ing as a culinary arts instruc­tor at Joliet Junior College in Joliet, Ill., Miller said he came to Notre Dame because 


see CHEF/page 5 

Steimer said the student body’s support helped the club achieve official recognition. 
“We had a lot of student sup­port and not a lot of backlash. There wasn’t much opposition in student government either,” she said. “We had a lot of support from the Student Diversity Board, which had a position for a SAGA member, so that really helped.” 
During SAGA’s first year, the club worked to increase its vis­ibility on campus and make its mission known to the Saint Mary’s community, Steimer said. 
“We tried to make a name for ourselves so people would see that we were there to promote diversity and a safe space for les­

see PANEL/page 3 


Columnist writes book on religion 
By MEGHAN THOMASSEN 
News Writer 
What’s wrong with American Christianity today? Just ask New York Times columnist, Ross Douth at, who will speak on his latest book, “Bad Reli­gion: How We Became a Nation of Heretics,” Wednesday at the Eck Hall of Law. 
Douthat said the book was intended to capture what is oc­curring within American Chris­tianity. He said he defines “her­esy” in two ways — when one completely departs from faith or when one pushes traditional faith to an extreme. 
“The ultimate goal of the book is to make a theological argument about how American religion [has 

see BOOK/page 4 




Students build model rocket 
By TORI ROECK 
News Writer 
Many people dream of be­ing astronauts, but for mem­bers of Notre Dame’s student chapter of the American In­stitute of Aeronautics and Astronautics (AIAA), design­ing rockets is more fun than riding in them. 
Eight aerospace engineer­ing majors of all years put their studies into practice this weekend in the National Aeronautics and Space Ad­ministration (NASA) Uni­versity Student Launch Ini­tiative (USLI) in Huntsville, Ala. 
Junior Jim Lampariello said the competition in­volved designing and testing a sophisticated rocket. 
“It’s a contest sponsored by NASA to build a reus­able, high-powered rocket,” Lampariello said. “The goal is to reach exactly one mile in altitude and also to carry scientific payload.” 
Lampariello said 55 teams from colleges around the United States were chosen to 

Photo courtesy of Matthew Kudija 
Notre Dame’s USLI team poses with their rocket. The rocket launched to 4,680 ft. in altitude and carried a scientific payload. 
compete in USLI. [were involved].” 
“Teams [came from] as far Notre Dame’s team spent away as Alaska and Hawaii, the last year working on the competing against teams project, Lampariello said. like MIT and Georgia Tech,” he said. “Big name schools see ROCKET/page 4 

INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER SMC student wins spiritual service award page 3 u Viewpoint page 6 u Quincy’s Cafe review page 8 u Women’s Lacrosse page 16 
page 2 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u DAY-TO-DAY Tuesday, April 24, 2012 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHO WOULD YOU PICK TO PLAY A LEGENDS CONCERT THIS SATURDAY? 

www.ndsmcobserver.com P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 Editor-in-Chief Allan Joseph Managing Editor Business Manager Megan Doyle Jeff Liptak Asst. Managing Editor: Andrew Owens Asst. Managing Editor: Sam Stryker News Editor: Kristen Durbin Viewpoint Editor: Meghan Thomassen Sports Editor: Chris Allen Scene Editor: Kevin Noonan Saint Mary’s Editor: Jillian Barwick Photo Editor: Suzanna Pratt Graphics Editor: Brandon Keelean Advertising Manager: Katherine Lukas Ad Design Manager: Amanda Jonovski Controller: Jason Taulman Systems Administrator: William Heineman Office Manager & General Info (574) 631-7471 Fax (574) 631-6927 Advertising (574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu Editor-in-Chief (574) 631-4542 dfarmer1@nd.edu Managing Editor (574) 631-4542 smervosh@nd.edu Assistant Managing Editors (574) 631-4541 apratt@nd.edu, cmasoud@nd.edu Business Office (574) 631-5313 News Desk (574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com Viewpoint Desk (574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com Sports Desk (574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com Scene Desk (574) 631-4540 mgustin@nd.edu Saint Mary’s Desk chousl01@saintmarys.edu Photo Desk (574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com Systems & Web Administrators (574) 631-8839 Policies The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Allan Joseph. Post Office Information The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 and additional mailing offices 024 South Dining hall Notre Dame, IN 46556-077 The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved.  
TODAY’S STAFF News Sports Marisa Iati Joseph Monardo Christian Myers Joe Wirth Adam Llorens Peter Steiner Graphics Scene Lauren Kalinoski Maija Gustin Photo Viewpoint Ashley Dacy Meghan Thomassen  
CORRECTIONS The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so we can correct our error.  
HIGH 59 LOW 41 


Matt Bernstein  Jamie Schmidt  Mike Kreft  Georgie Herr  Kathleen Severyn  Shaylyn Sikorski  
junior  freshman  freshman  freshman  freshman  junior  
Stanford  Stanford  O’Neill  Pangborn  Welsh Family  Lewis  
“Holographic  “Peter Chung.”  “The Darkness.”  “Bon Iver.”  “Backstreet  “*NSYNC.”  
2Pac.”  Boys.”  


Have an idea for Question of the Day? Email obsphoto@gmail.com 


OFFBEAT 

Calif. eatery known for ‘rudest waiter’ closing 
SAN FRANCISCO — Heartbroken customers lined up for meal at a closing San Francisco institution - a 100-year-old Chinese res­taurant once known for hav­ing “the world’s rudest wait­er.” Diners of decades past say he would verbally abuse patrons, slam down dishes, and chastise complainers. 
Sam Wo, a Chinatown hole-in-the-wall that typi­fied the kind of ethnic eat­eries for which the city’s culinary scene was lauded before it became a trendy haven for foodies, planned to serve its last customers early Saturday. 
David Ho, a descendant of one of the restaurant’s original owners, decided to shut down after officials demanded extensive health and safety upgrades. 
On Friday, saddened pa­trons lined down the block to get a seat at one of the eight lunch tables and to mourn the loss of another San Francisco institution over bowls of won ton soup. 
New Mexico cat weighs in at nearly 40 pounds 
ALBUQUERQUE, N.M. — Meow can’t help but waddle. He’s one super-sized cat. 
The 2-year-old orange and white tabby tips the scale at nearly 40 pounds, and the Santa Fe Animal Shelter is on a mission to get the feline back into shape. 
Meow’s 87-year-old owner could no longer take care of him, so the pet was turned over to a shelter in south­eastern New Mexico that called the Santa Fe shelter for help. 
“The thing with this cat is when you look at it, certain­ly it’s obese. You see that. But it’s a sweet looking cat. His face is very sweet. It’s just incredibly fat,” shelter spokesman Ben Swan said Friday. 
Meow has been placed with a foster family. He’ll be on a special diet so he can start shedding some pounds. The goal is for him to lose at least 10 pounds so he can be put up for adoption. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 


IN BRIEF 
There will be a workshop titled “Teaching with Con­course in Sakai” today from 2 to 3:15 p.m. in the Notre Dame Room in LaFortune Student Center. 
L. James Lee, a chemical and biomolecular engineer­ing professor at The Ohio State University, will present a seminar on nanofluidics for gene delivery today from 
3:30 to 4:30 p.m. in 155 De-Bartolo Hall. 
Elder Bruce Porter of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints will de­liver a lecture titled “The Latter-day Saints Come Marching In: Mormonism Abroad and at Home in the 21st Century” today from 4 to 6 p.m. in 119 DeBartolo Hall. 
Emily Budick, Ann and Joseph Edelman Professor of American Studies and Di­rector of the Center for Lit­erary Studies at The Hebrew University, Jerusalem, will deliver a lecture titled “The Holocaust and the ‘Subject’ of Fiction” today at 5 p.m. in the Hesburgh Center for In­ternational Studies Audito­rium. The event is free and open to the public. 

Rev. Timothy Scully, 
C.S.C. will deliver a lecture as part of the Last Lecture Series today from 7 to 8:45 

p.m. in the Coleman-Morse Lounge. 
The Bookstore Basketball Tournament round of 32 be­gins tonight at 7:15 p.m. at the bookstore courts. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews.nd@gmail.com 



LOCAL WEATHER 
TODAY TONIGHT WEDNESDAY THURSDAY FRIDAY SATURDAY 









HIGH 65 LOW 48 
HIGH 51 LOW 34 
HIGH 56 LOW 44 
HIGH 55 LOW 43 

Tuesday, April 24,  2012 The Observer u NEWS ndsmcobserver.com | page 3 



Panel 
continued from page 1 
bian, bisexual and questioning students to come together with­out making them vulnerable,” she said. “It was very important to have this inclusion and show that a gay-straight alliance is re­ally important on a college cam­pus, especially one that’s faith-based.” 
Steimer said she and her fellow SAGA members emphasized how the club’s mission coincided with that of Saint Mary’s as a Catholic institution. 
“We tried to show how much this group supported the school’s mission and would make Saint Mary’s a better place for its stu­dents,” she said. 
Above all, the founding of SAGA provided students with a more informal arena for peer-to-peer interaction and conver­sation about LBTQ issues on campus outside of the counseling services available to students, Steimer said. 
“The members of SAGA found it important that students knew we were there as a resource to use. You need multiple areas of support, and by having a recog­nized group, you know there are people you can talk to,” she said. “Not all students feel comfortable going to the Counseling Center because of the power dynamic it creates, whereas having a peer-to-peer group allows students to talk to others going through the same situations and creates a better place to talk to someone in the same age group about their experiences.” 
Although its operational struc­ture has evolved in recent years, the mission of SAGA in provid­ing a safe space for peer sup­port and discussion on campus has remained constant since the group’s inception, senior and vice president of SAGA Rebecca Jones said. 

“The focus was originally on having a peer support group for students who had faced issues on campus, but it didn’t do much in terms of campus program­ming or outreach,” she said. “Then a new group of officers came in, and they had a vision for totally hybridizing the group into a support group that does something about the things they talk about.” 
Jones said SAGA focuses on incorporating its concerns into academic issues on campus and works to promote its ally out­reach program at Saint Mary’s and outside the College. 
“Last year, it came to our at­tention that we were the only campus of Notre Dame, Saint Mary’s and Holy Cross that had a gay-straight alliance. We didn’t figure it out until Holy Cross students started coming to our meetings, so we tried to help them get conversations going on their campus,” she said. “This year, we got in touch with PSA to work on outreach at Notre Dame to see what we could do to help get AllianceND approved.” 
Although reception of the club has been generally favorable on campus, Jones said SAGA faces certain restrictions in its pro­gramming because of the Col­lege’s Catholic character. 
“In planning our events, we’re not allowed to raise money for or promote things that go against the Catholic mission of the Col­lege, such as same-sex mar­riage,” she said. 
In a similar vein, the club is also restricted from scheduling programming when the Board of Trustees meets on campus, ju­nior and SAGA president Cristina Bueno said. 
“Our adviser from the Office of Student Involvement notified us about [the restriction], and SAGA is the only multicultural club that’s not allowed to have advertisements or events while the trustees are on campus,” she said. “They pay more attention to us than other multicultural clubs.” 
Despite these restrictions, Bue­no said SAGA strives to create programming that brings more students into the conversations the group has on a regular basis through awareness events like Ally Week and Pride Week. 
“It’s great to have big events to get other students interested in SAGA events, and we gear a lot of events towards allies,” Bueno said. “We really try to have speakers who can educate, be inspiring and get people in­volved. The question and answer sessions afterwards show that students are interested in these issues, so we’re glad we can pro­vide that for them.” 
Mary Rose D’Angelo, associ­ate professor of theology at Notre Dame, said the role SAGA plays at Saint Mary’s could be filled by an approved gay-straight alliance at Notre Dame without posing a threat to Catholic teaching or in­juring the Catholic character of the University, as opponents of the proposed AllianceND often argue. 

“Any group that helps make campus a more welcoming place should be considered an advocacy group, and it’s clear that the Saint Mary’s group has been effective,” D’Angelo said. “Catholic teaching and Catholic character are far from simple, but the catechism af­firms that people must be treated with respect, compassion and dig­nity.” 
The catechism states every sign of “unjust discrimination” should be avoided, and refusing approval for AllianceND is a prime example of unjust discrimination, D’Angelo said. 
“[AllianceND] looks like a re­ally good means of carrying out the mandate of acceptance ar­ticulated in the catechism in that it would be a place where LGBTQ students and allies can work to create a sense of human solidar­ity,” she said. “The focus of the group would be to provide social support, but because it’s explicitly an alliance, it isn’t a dating ser­vice for gay students. It’s a venue for student relief where students are treated with compassion and sensitivity.” 
Contact Kristen Durbin at kdurbin@nd.edu 
CAMPUS LIFE COUNCIL 




Group reviews The Shirt 


By NICOLE TOCZAUER 
News Writer 
Members of Campus Life Coun­cil (CLC) discussed reopening the Campus Bike Shop, innovations in The Shirt Project and the new ac­ademic focus of the First Year Ori­entation (FYO) program Monday. 
Student body president emeri­tus Pat McCormick requested a vote on a resolution supporting the continuation of the Campus Bike Shop. CLC voted unanimous­ly in support of the resolution. 
Senior Paul Baranay, vice presi­dent of The Shirt Committee, presented the new design of this year’s Shirt. He said the student-run committee chose to highlight Notre Dame’s past with a more complex design than in past years. 
“[The design] captures the tradition of Notre Dame, its past players and rising players, along with several accomplishments,” Baranay said. “The front [of The Shirt] is a throwback to a “Shake Down the Thunder” design of the 90’s with Knute Rockne’s face. 
Baranay said the choice of part­nering with the Alta Gracia brand this year was novel, but kept in line with The Shirt’s original mis­sion. 
“They were a great company with a history of success and a benefit of living wages for their workers in the Dominican Re­public,” he said. “The shirt itself provides charity for students and organizations that need it.” 
Sophomore Alex Doctor, a mem­ber of the Student Campus Orien­tation Committee, then spoke to CLC members about refocusing the FYO program. The goal of FYO is to foster the social, spiritual and academic development of each student, she said. 
“We really want to develop the academic portion, which hasn’t been as focused on in the past,” she said. “The challenge we see in the FYO process is that the dorms and staff are focused on the social aspect and sometimes forget that they’re preparing freshmen for an academic journey.” 
Doctor said the team also worked with the First Under­graduate Experience in Leader­ship (FUEL) program to institute a series of training sessions for FYO staff. These meetings are meant to start conversation on cultural competency and inclusion, she said. 
“We’re really hoping through these meetings to emphasize this feeling of cultural competency, inclusion, a new type of event, di­versity with events,” she said. “By the time FYO comes around, we’ll have a new, more inclusive pro­cess.” 
The Orientation Committee will meet with each of the dorms sepa­rately to ensure programming with purpose, Doctor said. 
“We’re trying to make it a Uni­versity-wide effort this year,” she said. 
CLC postponed a discussion on the Town Hall meetings held in response to racial harassment on campus until next week. McCor­mick said members will discuss a resolution thanking the University for their work in stopping discrim­ination on campus. 
“We’ve been incredibly grate­ful in student government for the work of the Office of Student Af­fairs, which was strongly repre­sented at the Town Hall meetings. There’s a real sense that this is an opportunity for conflict trans­formation,” he said. “Particularly as we move forward, it is a major point of the new administration, and we will honor that accord­ingly.” 

Contact Nicole Toczauer at ntoczaue@nd.edu 

page 4 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u NEWS Tuesday, April 24,  2012 


Book 
continued from page 1 
become] increasingly heretical,” Douthat said. “[What constitutes heresy is] the hardest question human beings experience.” 
Douthat said he wrote ”Bad Religion” in response to the stark divisions he observed between the religious and secular spheres during the Bush administration era. 
“Every argument about reli­gion boiled down to whether God exists,” Douthat said. “I thought it made it seem like Americans in particular were divided into conservative Christians and sec­ular people, and it didn’t capture America in all its weirdness and complexities.” 
The book also tries to take a more serious look at “pop spiritu­ality,” Douthat said. 
“I spent a lot of time on fig­ures like the author of ‘Eat, Pray, Love’ [Elizabeth Gilbert] and Dan Brown’s ‘The Da Vinci Code,’” he said. “Those are the places where a lot of Americans get a lot of their religious sensibilities.” 
Douthat said he wanted “Bad Religion” to explore what hap­pened to the Catholic Church and Protestant denominations in America beginning in the 1940s. 
“There were times when I thought I bit off more than I could chew,” Douthat said. “[The his­tory] is just the first half of the book … I tried to cover such a broad and complicated story. It’s a hard story to tell … You could write a whole book about just what happened to Catholicism in the 1960s.” 
As the youngest op-ed con­tributor at the New York Times, Douthat said his youth was an advantage for finding a historical perspective on the internecine conflicts in the late 20th0th cen­tury. 
“I like to think that part of what I’m trying to do with my book is put some of the religious conflict in a bit of a historical perspec­tive,” he said. “I didn’t participate in a lot of these debates, [which] gives me a little bit of distance and fresh perspective.” 
A Harvard graduate, Douthat said his education as a Catholic at a politically liberal school makes his perspective particularly inter­esting. 
Douthat said ”Bad Religion” would be a fascinating read for Notre Dame students because it distills the challenge of trying to be traditionally Christian in a 21st-century society. 
“[I tried to] determine what the real challenges to the Catholic faith are,” he said. “Secularism isn’t that powerful … There are potent alternatives, [for exam­ple,] pseudo-Christianity.” 
Compared to his past two books, “Privilege: Harvard and the Education of the Ruling Class” and “Grand New Party: How Re­publicans Can Win the Working Class and Save the American Dream,” Douthat said “Bad Reli­gion” is the most ambitious. 
“[‘Privilege’] was a personal book, with a bit of sociology, that commented on elite education … It was a more limited subject,” he said. “[‘Grand New Party’] was more ambitious, but I did have a co-author. We shared the burden of tackling history and modern policy.” 
Douthat said he was honored to speak at Notre Dame as part of his tour. 
“[Notre Dame] is the flagship Catholic institution,” he said. 
Douthat will speak in 1140 Eck Hall of Law at 12:30 p.m. Wednes­day. Lunch will be served. 
Contact Meghan Thomassen at mthomass@nd.edu 



Rocket 
continued from page 1 

“We had to submit a pro­posal to get accepted by NASA … back in late Septem­ber,” he said. “We got accept­ed in October, and we were awarded a $3,000 grant to carry out the project.” 
The team submitted peri­odic reports leading up to the event, Lampariello said. 
“Throughout the year, we had three different design reviews and three different presentations to NASA,” he said. “We had a web confer­ence with NASA engineers from across the country pre­senting our ideas and our de­sign concepts and convincing them that we would be able to have a successful project.” 
Lampariello said a lot of work went into preparing for the contest. 
“In our case, we measured atmospheric pressure, tem­perature, data [and] a whole bunch of different atmo­spheric characteristics,” he said.  
Junior Matthew Kudija said the team looks forward to hearing the results of the competition in May after its members submit their final report. 
“There was a string of re­ports submitted as part of the competition, and our fi­nal report summarizing our results will be submitted shortly,” Kudija said. “From that they select the overall winner of the competition.” 
Kudija said Notre Dame’s student chapter of the AIAA encourages students to use their knowledge of aerospace engineering outside the classroom. 
“The student chapter serves to promote aerospace-related activities, projects and such on campus,” he said. “This year, its primary projects have been to sponsor the Design/Build/Fly and the USLI competitions.” 
Fifteen aerospace engi­neering students fielded a team for the Design/Build/ Fly event that took place April 15th in Wichita, Kan., Kudija said. 
Kudija said participating in aerospace engineering competitions gives students a glimpse of what their jobs will be like after graduation. 

“[These competitions] give all of us the opportunity to put into practice the theoret­ical knowledge we’re learn­ing in our classes as well as learning about working on a team and sticking with a project through the various said the student chapter of the AIAA is looking for new members to participate in next year’s competitions. 
challenges  that  arise,”  he  
said.  
Junior  Joshua  Szezudlak  

“We would really like to recruit younger members as hard as we can. If there’s any interest at all, contact us,” he said. “Anyone who likes rock­ets [is welcome].” 

Contact Tori Roeck at vroeck@nd.edu 


Tuesday, April 24,  2012 The Observer u NEWS ndsmcobserver.com | page 5 



SMC student wins spiritual service award 
By JILLIAN BARWICK 
Saint Mary’s Editor 
Saint Mary’s senior Emily Kief­fer will spend next year teaching English as a second language in Spain, a country she fell in love with after studying there in her sophomore year. 
Kieffer said she decided to pursue a year of service abroad after realizing her passion for helping others, for which she re­cently received the Sr. Kathleen Anne Nelligan, C.S.C. Award for Spiritual Service. 
“I did not even know I had been nominated for the award,” Kieffer said. “Regina Wilson, the assistant director of Campus Ministry, had apparently nomi­nated me for it. It was a complete surprise.” 
A native of Dublin, Ohio, Kief­fer said she entered Saint Mary’s with an interest in developing her faith for the good of others. She said she received the spiritu­al service award for her involve­ment in Campus Ministry and was one of five recipients. 
“We were invited to a dinner a couple of week ago in honor of all of the recipients,” Kieffer said. “All the recipients, including my­self, were chosen based on the service we had committed to the Saint Mary’s community.” 
Kieffer said she serves as a Eu­charistic minister, leads weekly Bible studies and participates in a Women’s Spirituality Group. She said she has also been a peer minister for the last two years. 
“Being a member of the Wom­en’s Spirituality Group has al­lowed me to get to know other students who have a strong sense of faith and are eager to learn more about being Catholic,” Kief­fer said. “We talk through the struggles of being young, Catho­lic women and discuss how to stand firm in our faith and live it out daily.” 
Kieffer said she will teach through the Council on the In­ternational Education Exchange. 
“I came into Saint Mary’s thinking I’d be a bio major be­cause I was good at science,” Kieffer said. “After studying abroad in Spain, I realized how much I loved Spanish as a lan­guage and I knew that would be my major when I returned to Saint Mary’s. I am also a second­ary education minor, so teach­ing English to Spanish speaking students will be a perfect fit for me.” 
Kieffer will be in the Anda­lucía region but does not know what city she will be in or what grade she will teach. 
“When I was abroad, I re­ally enjoyed teaching English to adults in Spain,” she said. “It was more of a conversation-based class rather than just learning the basics and grammar. I would love to be able to have that expe­rience again.” 
Kieffer said she looks forward to re-immersing herself in Span­ish culture and speaking Span­ish fluently with people around her. 
“The program is for one year, but it can be renewed for a sec­ond year, so who knows if I will be in Spain longer,” Kieffer said. 
Satisfied with how she will leave Saint Mary’s in May, Kief­fer encourages others to study abroad, recognize their passions and follow them, she said. 
“Being involved in Campus Ministry and with Women’s Spirituality really got me think­ing about what I want to do with my life and how it can be useful to others in the world,” Kieffer said. “I definitely think my jour­ney to Spain will make good use of my time, my knowledge and my faith.” 

Contact Jillian Barwick at jbarwi01@saintmarys.edu 




Chef 
continued from page 1 
of its emphasis on education and academic benefits out­side the kitchen. 
“There’s an appreciation here at Notre Dame that edu­cation and research are im­portant parts of the game,” he said. “I could sense they wanted to take their food service to where I wanted to take it.” 
Miller said his day-to-day responsibilities as Notre Dame’s executive chef are extensive and time-consum­ing, reaching far beyond food production itself. 
“To assure the highest quality culinary integrity through product develop­ment, research, demonstra­tion, and audit. To provide leadership and guidance in reaching the correct culinary formula,” he said. “Those are my responsibilities.” 
Administrative duties aside, Miller said his favorite part of the job is still escap­
ing into the kitchen to cook. 
“Cooking is an art, that’s the fun part of it,” he said. “When you’re cooking and you really get into a rhythm, it’s a beautiful thing.” 
Miller said he plans to work for a couple more years before retiring to pursue his passion for sailing. 
“I’m not going to be one of those chefs who die in their kitchens,” Miller said. 
Miller said he would warn people considering becoming chefs that the Food Channel is not an accurate represen­tation of what their careers will be like. 
“The Food Channel is a good thing, but it’s also a bad thing because a lot of kids go to culinary school think­ing their jobs are going to be glamorous, and then wash out when they have to work on weekends, holidays,” Mill­er said. “The adage is when everybody else is having fun, you’re usually working. Know what you’re getting into.” 
Contact Dan Brombach at dbrombac@nd.edu 




Economic reforms falter in Europe 
Associated Press 
FRANKFURT, Germany — Europe’s plan to fix its debt crisis by imposing budget cuts frayed Monday. Heavy sell­ing rocked financial markets, uncertainty gripped two gov­ernments, and the economic outlook darkened across the continent. 
The German stock market suffered its worst day in six weeks. In the United States, the Dow Jones industrial aver­age lost more than 100 points. 
Across Europe, the debt cri­sis appeared at its most per­ilous point since December, when most of the continent united behind a plan to place strict caps on government spending, a strategy known as austerity, and the European Central Bank made the first of two infusions of cheap credit into the banking system. New governments in Spain and It­aly got to work on improving growth. 
Now the first pillar of Eu­rope’s approach — austerity 
— is faltering. 
“Europe has not solved its problems, and the austerity programs are making things worse, not better,” said Peter Morici, an economist at the University of Maryland. 
Cutting government spend­ing can weaken an economy and result in less tax revenue flowing back to the govern­ment. So the goal of cutting the deficit can backfire and make it grow. 
And even if a country is re­ducing its deficit, it still has one, which means the debt is increasing. The European Union said Monday that gov­ernments did cut their budget deficits in 2011, but govern­ment debt nonetheless rose as a percentage of economic output. 
Meanwhile, developments across the continent cast doubt on public support for Europe’s austerity prescrip­tion: government layoffs and wage reductions, spending cuts on government programs and higher taxes. 
The government of the Netherlands, which has loud­ly cricitized its European neighbors for inflaming the crisis by losing control of their budgets, submitted its resignation to Queen Beatrix after failing to agree on its own budget cuts. 
The Dutch prime minis­ter, Mark Rutte, had hoped to clinch a deal to cut the Nether­lands’ budget deficit to within a target range adopted by Eu­ropean countries last fall. 
But his most important po­litical ally, populist Geert Wilders, walked out of the talks. He said that slavish ad­herence to rules set by “the dictators in Brussels,” the headquarters of the European Union, would hurt the Dutch economy. 
France headed for a presi­dential runoff election May 6 after the Socialist candidate, Francois Hollande, took the most votes Sunday in the first round of voting. 
Hollande edged Nicolas Sar­kozy, the incumbent president. Sarkozy and German Chancel­lor Angela Merkel have been such forces in setting debt-fighting strategy that they have come to be known as “Merkozy.” 
Hollande took 29 percent of the vote and Sarkozy 27 per­cent. The Socialist has said he would push to add measures to stimulate economic growth to the fiscal pact. 
If Hollande is elected, it will mean “the end of the common road for France and Germa­ny,” with negative repercus­sions for the markets and the euro, said Stefan Scharfetter of Germany’s Baader Bank. 
Most French polls had pre­dicted that Hollande would finish slightly ahead of Sar­kozy in the first round. But the far-right candidate, Marine Le Pen, captured a surprise 18 percent. Where her voters will fall in the Hollande-Sarkozy runoff is uncertain. 
Financial markets generally hate uncertainty, and they did not respond well to it Monday. 
Germany’s DAX index dropped 3.4 percent, the equivalent of a 450-point de­cline in the Dow. The bench­mark stock index dropped 3 percent in Paris, 3 percent in Madrid and 2 percent in Lon-don. 

Stocks also fell broadly in the United States, where a re­surgence of fear about the fate of Europe has ended the steady ascent that the market enjoyed during the first three months of the year. The Dow fell back below 13,000 and was down a 
0.8 percent for the day. 
In the bond market, inter­est rates for U.S. Treasury securities dipped, a sign that investors were seeking safety by pulling money out of stocks and putting money into bonds. 
The borrowing rate for Spain, probably the most closely watched thermometer of investor fear about Europe, remained close to 6 percent. Seven percent was the level that forced Greece and Ireland to seek international bailouts earlier in the crisis. 
The central bank of Spain said that country had slipped back into recession. Its econ­omy shrank 0.4 percent from January through March af­ter shrinking 0.3 percent the quarter before. Two straight quarters of economic contrac­tion is the generally accepted definition of a recession. 
Spain’s new conservative government has warned that its economy will get worse. A contraction of 1.7 percent is expected for the year. Spain, struggling after the collapse in 2008 of a housing bubble, emerged from a two-year re­cession in 2010. 
Suggesting more obstacles to economic growth, an index of the European manufactur­ing and services industries dipped in April to a five-month low. It even declined in Ger­many, the economic bulwark of Europe and the country that has most insisted on budget cuts. 


page 6 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com Tuesday, April 24, 2012 

INSIDE COLUMN 


Off-campuslogistics 
In a matter of weeks, I will no longer be living in Lewis Hall, my home away from home for the last three years. When I come back for my senior year in August, I will be living off-campus with two of my closest friends. 
Since we decided to embark in this off-campus adventure earlier last semester, I’ve been ecstatic. I can’t wait to have my own apartment 
— not to mention my own room and bathroom. I am also looking forward to meet­ing new neighbors, decorating and furnishing my new humble abode. 

Living off-campus comes with many perks. However, I received a call from my mom last week that reminded me of some commodities I will miss. I am still figuring out how I am going to go without them. 
“I think you should take some cooking classes this summer, Maria.” 
Believe it or not, these were the first words that came out of my mom’s mouth when we began talking about off-campus housing. I have never been very skilled when it comes to cooking. My abilities extend to adding milk to a bowl of cereal and making a grilled cheese sandwich. 
For the past few years, the dining halls have fed me deliciously and conveniently. There is always something good to eat and something new to try there, and it is also five minutes away from my dorm. What else could you ask for? But now, my par­ents are convinced it is time I reduce my number of weekly meals at the dining hall and cook for myself. So, bye, bye, dining hall, and hello grilled cheese for break­fast, lunch and dinner. 
“And, where are you going to store your winter clothes and other extra items you might want to save for your new room?,” my mom continued. 
Living in Puerto Rico, I have always counted on hall storage to leave every­thing I want to save for the next school year. Yet, this time, my apartment lease doesn’t start until August and I have very few options of where to store my things. 
Instead of having my storage boxes delivered to my dorm, I will have to pick them up in different friends’ houses throughout the outskirts of campus. My mom is definitely not excited about this. 
And finally, she added, “How much time will it take you to walk from your apart­ment to campus every morning?” 
The logistics of walking to campus from my apartment had yet to cross my mind and were definitely an eye-opener. When it comes to walking, I am kind of lazy — riding in golf carts through campus would be ideal for me. Now, I will have to wake up earlier. At least it’s good exercise. 
I was living in an off-campus cloud without considering some of the challeng­es and the new lifestyle I would be partak­ing in coming August. However, my mom’s infinite questions and concerns definitely brought me back down to earth, making me realize living off-campus is not going to be as comfortable as living in Lewis. 
I can’t wait to move off-campus next semester. Although I still have some cook­ing classes to take, storage to put away and stamina to gain, I am ready to enjoy a fun new semester — and apartment, of course. 
Contact Maria Fernandez at      mfernan5@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


Take back the night 
This column concerns an unfortunate  South Quad.  to make any kind of negative comments  
situation I witnessed last Thursday  As we walked by and my face visibly  towards those fighting for change.  
night. I am an avid supporter of the  filled with fury, my friend looked over  Insulting the march is a direct affront  
annual ND/SMC-sponsored “Take Back  at me and said, “Just ignore it, Katie,  to victims of sexual assault. These  
the Night” event. “Take Back the Night”  they’re just drunk.” Not surprisingly,  survivors have often already endured  
events are held  this just made my reaction stronger.  months of victim-blaming and disbe­ 
nationwide, with Katie Rose  One of the biggest messages of “Take  lief of their stories — is it necessary to  
three separate  Back the Night” and all sexual assault  invalidate their experience further?  
marches hap-Guest Columnist  prevention education is that being  I am going to take the most forgiving  
pening in South  drunk is not an excuse. It is not an ex- approach that I can on this situation:  
Bend alone. The organization gives its  cuse for what you have said to another  I will blame the comments, jokes and  
reasoning for why these marches are  person, the way you acted towards  mockery on a lack of understanding.  
organized:  another person or the crimes commit- Perhaps you young men have never  
A woman walks alone down a dark,  ted against another person.  known a victim of sexual assault, never  
deserted street. With every shadow  Notre Dame has been in the news  imagined your sister in that kind of  
she sees, and every sound she hears,  too frequently over the past two years  situation or perhaps you have just never  
her pounding heart flutters and skips a  in regards to our dealings with sexual  known what it feels like to be filled with  
beat. She hurries her pace as she sees  assaults. Major publications have criti­ fear on your walk home.  
her destination become closer. She is al­ cized our school across the country. My  Whatever your reasoning, I’d like to  
most there. She reaches the front door,  mom sent me an article from Houston  give you an opportunity to understand  
goes inside, collects herself, and moves  about one such incident before I had  exactly what you were making fun of  
on, forgetting, at least for tonight, the  even heard about it. This school has  last Thursday night. This is a formal  
gripping fear that momentarily envel­ worked very hard over the years and  invitation for those five men, and any- 
oped her life. This scene could have  especially over the past few months to  one else on this campus that would like,  
occurred anywhere last night, last year,  turn our image around, to show we are  to join me at the city-wide “Take Back  
or even 100 years ago. Historically,  actively trying to change the culture  the Night” march this Thursday. The  
women have faced the anxiety of walk- on campus to one intolerant of sexual  event will take place at the South Bend  
ing alone at night and that is why “Take  assaults. We have made great prog- Courthouse steps at 7 p.m. Following  
Back the Night” began.  ress internally regarding policies and  the march there will be a Speak-Out  
Many Notre Dame students, espe­ training, but it is our responsibility as  event where survivors and allies can  
cially women, have this same feeling as  students to show the outside world we  share their stories in a confidential,  
they walk home to their dorms at night  recognize sexual assault as a major  safe space. If you would like a ride to  
— the familiar feeling of a pounding  problem on college campuses and we  the event, please email me at krose1@  
heart. Whether we like it or not, sexual  support the changes being made. The  nd.edu. I would be honored to have you  
assaults do happen on our campus, and  five young men on South Quad have  join me.  
the annual “Take Back the Night” event  shown me the student body is appar­ 
is one opportunity for members of this  ently not as united as I had hoped in  Katie Rose is the student body vice  
University community to publicly speak  eliminating sexual violence on this  president at the University of Notre  
out against sexual assault and violence.  campus.  Dame. She is a junior and a resident of  
Unfortunately, as some 50 students  It baffles me this is even a possibil- Pasquerilla East Hall. She can be  
passionate about ending sexual assaults  ity — why would you feel compelled to  reached at krose1@nd.edu  
marched around campus last Thursday,  jeer at people standing out against a  The views expressed in this column  
we were met with mockery, jokes, and  gross social problem? There is only one  are those of the author and not neces­ 
laughter from about five young men on  side to this issue. It was inappropriate  sarily those of The Observer.  

LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Anonymous racism 
This Sunday morning, I walked into the library and was greeted by a neon-colored cardboard cutout in the shape of a person. My curiosity was immediately intrigued, but as I approached, I noticed that the cutout’s bright color did not reflect its somber purpose. 
These cutouts, as I read, are intended to be a chance for Notre Dame students, faculty and staff to share their personal experiences and words of support in regards to the subject of racism on campus. 
As a white, male student, I often take for granted the culture and community at Notre Dame. I do not think about the problems of racism as much as I should, and although I thought that it might be interesting, distractions got in the way and I did attend this semester’s “Race Monologues.” After all, we are all nice people at Notre Dame and racism is non-existent here, right? 
Unfortunately, the cutouts tell a much different story. As I continued through the library, I noticed that while many people used the cutouts for their intended purpose, seemingly more people had abused the cutouts and written inappropriate mes­sages and vulgar drawings. 
Much like “trolls” on internet message boards, these cowards took advantage of the anonymity of the cutouts to spread their poor humor and, in some cases, veiled racist attacks. There is nothing that speaks to the existence of racism on cam­pus more than the disrespect of these cutouts. 
I have taken an interest in these cutouts because I believe that society needs to have discussion about serious issues such as racism. The fact that there are others on campus who see this as another opportunity for a joke is disheartening and completely contradictory to everything this University stands for. 
This spring, many minority students will visit Notre Dame as they eagerly look for a place to put their talents to work. Un­fortunately, their visit to Our Lady’s University may end with the vision of a crudely drawn male body part on a neon cutout. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“The history of the world is but the biography of great men.” 
Thomas Carlyle Scottish author and historian 

Ben Moeller 
junior Zahm Hall April 23 
WEEKLY POLL 
How do you deal with finals-week stress? 
Coffee breaks Naps Pick-up basketball A visit to the Grotto 
Vote by 5 p.m. on Thursday at 
ndsmcobserver.com 


Tuesday, April 24, 2012 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 7 
Eulogy for a God Quad tree 
I read a patch of God Quad, where the earth Had scratched a little poem to mark the spot Where just two weeks ago a mighty oak Arnav Dutt 
Or poplar trunk aspired heavenward, With leafy arms uplifted, as in prayer. I’d seen the giant stump just days before It too was moved (or removed) from the spot Where some forefather of this school once thought A tree belonged. Indeed it was just one Of a line of leafy tow’rs that led the way Up God Quad to the hallowed Golden Dome, 
Columnist 

And one of two that were chopped down that day. 
It’s funny how it only takes a day 
Or two at most to cut down and remove 
A tree. For, after all, it takes trees years 
To attain statures sufficient to obscure 
Administration buildings. Surely that 
Is why they cut it down. Or am I wrong 
To think it cast a shadow on the Dome, 
To think that’s why the fall arrived 
In spring this year? (And would that be so strange? 
The seasons — winter most of all — forgot 
To be themselves this year.) 
But I digress: 

This tree, whose rings appeared not overnight, 
Would not have been surprised. For many years 
It stood there, growing, taking it all in, 
Providing shade for men like Sorin and Zahm 
And Hesburgh and Malloy and Jenkins too; 
It knew them all — and youth and old age too, 
The changing of the seasons, life and death, 
The purpose of tradition; everything 
That we’re too young to know. 
But now it’s gone, 

And on the patched-up patch of earth 
Where once it stood, I read (or, rather, thought): 
That only God’s empowered to make a tree. 
And as I read this, I, so long 

A worshipper of nature came to see 
That I had spent too long turning new leaves 
(Perhaps I’m missing forests for this tree) 
Forgetting how great it feels to be alive. 
I’ve lived near Notre Dame my entire life: 
Three years on campus, and seventeen nearby. 
A lifetime in the shadow of the Dome 
And it’s been fine. Although I sometimes feel 
A little like a fixed point. Friends will come 
And friends will go, but I’ll ever reside 
But minutes from my home away from home. 
One consequence of this is that I’ve made 
Th’ acquaintance of the other reference points 
That one can read about in tourist books 
About South Bend. The Dome has always been 
A light in times of darkness. The down-town, 
For all its strange mutations, too has been 
A place that I can count on. But alas, 
Like anyone who lives and loves, I’ve lost. 
This spring — autumnal, terminal — will mark 
The end for yellow-bricked St. Joseph’s High, 
The graduation of so many friends, 
The retirement of others. By and by 
I’ll learn to accept the changing of the guard, 
To turn another leaf without regret 
Or melancholy. Yes, I’ll move on too. 
One day even the Golden Dome will fall 
And leave the forest ‘round it wondering: “why?” 
Arnav Dutt can be reached at adutt1@nd.edu 

The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

Jenky’s homily was accurate and commendable 
This column is in response to the 55 mem­bers of the Notre Dame faculty (“Faculty call to distance Notre Dame from Jenky’s ‘incendiary statement,’” April 23), who took Bishop Daniel Jenky’s homily out of context and actually added their own analogies to Mark Gianfalla their interpretation. Bishop Jenky’s homily Guest Columnist demonstrated a great understanding of what it means and takes to be an active Catholic during our current generation. 
I am glad that you accept the First Amend­ment to the United States Constitution, but anyone who reads or listens to the homily must be mindful of the careful wording used. 
At no point does Bishop Jenky either com­pare President Obama’s policies to those of genocide, or downplay the severity of the ho­locaust or Stalinist genocide that occurred in Germany and the former Soviet Union. In fact, Bishop Jenky specifically curtails his com­ments to relate to the issues of health care, religious freedoms and the HHS mandate. 
Everything that Bishop Jenky speaks about in his homily and draws analogies between can logically be connected through historical pattern, which Bishop Jenky states and clari­fies. His homily is historically accurate rather than ignorant, and because he does not even mention the aspect of genocide, there is no way he could be insensitive to victims. 
It is historically accurate to acknowledge the fact that Stalin and Hitler declared a war on Catholic culture and sought to destroy the Church’s influence around the globe. Bishop Jenky only warns that President Obama has started to make similar decisions, which in politics often indicates a future pattern that could develop into political intolerance or oppression of the Catholic Church and reli­gious ministry, still nothing mentioned about genocide. 
Although incorporating politics into a hom­ily is not always appreciated by churchgoers, the Bishop should be commended for having the courage to speak out about an issue that is affecting the global Catholic Community and the Notre Dame community all the same. 
The Diocese of Peoria even issued a state­ment standing behind Bishop Jenky, only lamenting the fact that his words were taken out of context by many. Should Notre Dame is­sue a statement denouncing the entire Diocese of Peoria and the national Catholic community that stands against President Obama’s HHS mandate? 
If it were not for religious leaders like Bishop Jenky, countries like the United States would lose its religious freedom one mandate at a time. As a Catholic university that hold’s Our Lady’s affiliation close to our core, denounc­ing Bishop Jenky’s comments would only force more discord within the Catholic community at large. 
Our University has a unique challenge of balancing its Catholic roots with its non-profit and secular restrictions. This incident is a great chance for Notre Dame to emerge in concord with the Church, and not fall victim to a liberal secular power sweeping across academia and the media. According to the Department of Anthropology, which is home to five of the professors associated with the origi­nal Letter to the Editor, “In addition to clarifi­cation, the best remedy for controversy is more speech” (Department of Anthropology website, Notre Dame). This statement appears in their event sponsorship guidelines, and many other Notre Dame colleges have similar policies. 
Why not follow your own guidelines and simply disagree with Bishop Jenky instead of calling for a distancing by the University and his resignation from the Board of Fellows? If the faculty members who signed the letter are not in favor of this University’s Catholic iden­tity, then they should distance themselves from it or step down from their positions instead of calling for those who have the Church’s and University’s best interests at heart to do so. 
Mark Gianfalla is a freshman and a resident of Morrissey Manor. He can be reached at mgianfal@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Judge candidates separately 
Mr. Davis (“Democrats are in line with Catholic faith,” April 23), 
Almost all those things that you list under the Democratic platform are not disputed by anyone. No one wants HIV/AIDS in the world or health care that’s unaffordable or endless wars. It’s not the ends that are disputed, but the means. Now, I’m not sure what the most “efficient” economic means are for producing these ends, but there are some social means that are evil and against the Church’s teach­ing and, therefore, must not be tolerated. 
Abortion and contraception are among these. Capital punishment has never been declared to be on the same plane as abortion, so the support of some Republican candidates for capital punishment is not in itself against the teachings of the Church. 
To vote for someone such as Obama who actively promotes abortion and contraception in his rhetoric and his policies is, in fact, to support that rhetoric and those policies. To vote for some Republican who will actively promote torture in rhetoric and policies is also to support that rhetoric and those poli­cies. 
Isn’t it the case though that the Democratic party has, as part of its platform, a direct vi­olation of the Church’s teaching whereas the Republican platform does not itself support torture? Some Democrats may be against this aspect of their platform, but the platform remains the belief of the party in general. 
So, let us not be bogged down though in party politics. Let us judge each candidate separately. Does this candidate support something that violates Church teaching? It is doubtful that abortion or torture are the goals of the candidate, but they certainly are part of the path to those goals. If a candidate is willing to use evil means for his goals, then he is not to be supported, regardless of party. 
Nathaniel Gotcher 
junior abroad April 23 



page 8 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com Tuesday, April 24, 2012 

By MICHAEL RODIO 
Scene Writer 

Quincy’s Café is at a cross­roads. 
Tucked away in a plaza at the corner of Edison Road and Route 23, Quincy’s overlooks the main corridors between Mishawaka and downtown South Bend. 
But Ismail Egilmez, the owner of Quincy’s, will explain that his café is also at a cultur­al crossroads:  the intersection of fast-paced modernity and a simpler, quieter era. Quincy’s looks the part of a modern café with its variety of coffee roasts and its purposefully quirky dé­cor, but at its heart is a quaint community gathering place for music, art and conversation. 
“Everything’s instant now,” said Egilmez, who runs Quin­cy’s alongside his father, Phil­ip, a Notre Dame alum. “This is ‘come in and take a breath.’ I still have things like Wi-Fi, of course. But we serve all our drinks in mugs. We actu­ally have conversations with our guests.” (As if to subcon­sciously prove his point, Egil­mez almost always refers to people in Quincy’s as “guests” or “visitors” rather than “cus­tomers.”) 
Egilmez is a South Bend na­tive, but Quincy’s has Chicago roots.  In 1998, Ismail moved from South Bend to Chicago, where he studied oil painting and guitar at Columbia Col­lege. Between visiting musi­cians and locally-produced art on the café’s walls, Ismail’s interests in art and folk music give Quincy’s color and char­acter. 
Even the café’s name is a Chicago throwback. Ismail named the café after Quincy, an historic Victorian ‘L’ stop in Chicago’s Loop that dates to 1897, replete with stained oak woodwork, historical re­production signs and, like Quincy’s Café, period adver­tisements and artwork. 
“I like Victorian, Art Deco and 50’s-60’s décor,” Egilmez said, sporting a tidy fedora. “It never goes out of style. It is a little kitschier — I try not to be stuck on one theme but to have all of it.” 
That eclectic spirit perme­ates the café. Although Quin­cy’s is quiet midweek, it draws a range of customers: old and young, college students and lo­cals, professors and farmers. On Sundays, it can get crowded with students who take advan­tage of Quincy’s internet ac­cess and caffeine. 
“It’s a nice creole of different people who wouldn’t ordinar­ily all be together,” Egilmez said. 
The furniture is diverse, but the café’s openness and its warm incandescent light­ing give it the ethos of a liv­ing room. There is a student-friendly table for studying, complete with an essential power strip for all the visiting MacBooks, by the door. Near the counter, a comfortable blue couch sits next to a coffee table featuring books of art. A small stage has just enough room for a four-man band. But the café’s spirit emanates from its simple wooden tables and purposefully mismatched wooden chairs, as if to invite group discussion around a shared meal. 
“People tell me, ‘This is 
Quincy’s Café 
Where: 1631 Edison Rd.
   South Bend, IN 46637 Phone: (574) 273-0159 Learn More: www.quincyscafe.com 


By COURTNEY ECKERLE 
Scene Writer 
Three years ago Califor­nia singer-songwriter Eric Hutchinson charmed the Notre Dame Community at the B1 Block Party with tunes from his debut album “Sounds Like This.” His latest full-length ef­fort, “Moving Up Living Down,” brings the same quirky, catchy California sunshine to a charming sophomore album. 
Hutchinson has spent the last few years touring “Sounds Like This” and said that expe­rience influenced the way he recorded “Moving Up Living Down.” 
“The best concerts are when 
people sing along with me,” he 
said when the album was re­
leased. “So for the next one, 
what kind of songs do I want 
people singing with me? What 
kind of songs do I want people 
dancing to?” 
Hutchinson kept his word — 
this is an album for dancing 
and singing along. 
Album-opening track “Talk 
is Cheap” sets off the mood 
right with Hutchinson’s sig­
nature crooning vocals and 
piano mix, with a teensy reg­
gae vibe thrown in. 
“Best Days” is a fun sing­
along with a message college 
students can appreciate, with 
lyrics like, “As I’m struggling 
on my own, I have to think 
I’m not alone” and “Here we 
are, living the best days of our 
lives.” 
Enter bluesy ‘50s rock and something we really needed, that we don’t have many ven­ues like this,’” Egilmez said. 
Of course, a café lives by its coffee, and here Quincy’s shines. Egilmez brews Intel­ligentsia Coffee, a direct-trade brand popular in Chicago. 
The coffee prices are on par with Starbucks. A cup costs between two and five dollars, putting Quincy’s on the up­scale end of the coffee spec­trum. But with far more op­tions and nifty orange mugs, Quincy’s wins on flavor and value.  (The honey latte in par­ticular is absurdly tasty.) 
“Business has been good,” Egilmez said. “Over the first year, I have no complaints.  We have a really good response on the coffee and the venue. It’s grown every month since we’ve opened.” 
Quincy’s offers a range of soups, salads and sandwiches. A few are eye-catching:  the Spin Melt, featuring sautéed spinach and plenty of Swiss cheese, is a terrific vegetar­ian choice. Egilmez is proud that Quincy’s sources most of its produce from local food distributors in the Midwest, including bread from a bakery in Muskegon, Mich.
 “It’s almost as if we had ev­erything here,” he said. “Ev­erything is fresh.  We have lots of options: gluten-free, vegan, wraps.” 
Egilmez also takes great pride in the café’s music scene, which features local and trav­eling musicians.  Quincy’s is crowded with eager listeners on weekend evenings. The Moore Brothers, a popular four-man blues band from Goshen, Ind., often play on Sat­urdays and Sundays. 
“I really try to focus on roots music as much as possible,” he said. “That includes folk, jazz, blues, and what you could call indie-folk or contemporary indie,” like modern day folk-music darlings Mumford and Sons. 
But regardless of Quincy’s success as a home for music, Ismail says he will still aim to keep his coffee shop “just a little kitschy café with some­thing going on” for the people around it. 
“Even though the economy’s not perfect, you can always af­ford a cup of coffee,” he said. “People will always be search­ing for a place of community and good conversation.” 
Contact Michael Rodio at mrodio@nd.edu 
roll jam “The Basement.” With a quick “That Thing You Do” tempo, it’s impossible not to start toe tapping and singing along — if you can keep up. It is easily one of the catchiest tunes on the album. 
“Watching You Watch Him” is a very sweet song of a guy in love with a girl who loves someone else. It is a happy­go-lucky tune combined with adorably sad-sap lyrics. 
“Cool people maybe they’re just born with it / They know the trends before they’re here / And I’m so sick of tryin’ / Because there’s no denying / There’s nothing cool about my atmosphere,” Hutchinson croons in funky hand clapping tune “I’m Not Cool.” It is, ironi­cally, a very cool song. 
Once again hitting on a note college students can relate to, especially those frantically trying to plot out their post-graduation future, in “Not There Yet” Hutchinson sings, “I don’t want to work any more / I just want to live instead / Ev­eryone is saying I’m all grown up / I’ve come a long way, but I’m not there yet.” 
Some of the songs on the lat­ter part of the album aren’t standouts, but Hutchinson’s music in general blends effort­lessly together to make a re­laxing, fun album in the same sing-along vein as his debut. 
Musical growth is overrat­ed, and in “Moving Up Living Down” Hutchinson presents his unique talent for producing energetic, sincere, sing-along worthy pop songs. 
Contact Courtney Eckerle at cecker01@saintmarys.edu 

“Moving Up Living Down” Eric Hutchinson 
Label: Warner Bros. Records Best Tracks: “Talk is Cheap,” “The Basement,” “Not There Yet” 


Tuesday, April 24, 2012 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 9 


First impressions are crucial. The prologue of a book can be as effective as a handshake, both for better and for worse. Let’s take a look at the literary overtures that set the tone for some of the most recent books released, in­cluding some reviewed in the New York Times Book Review. 
“Imagine” by Jonah Lehrer 
The Prem­ise: Lehrer cracks open the science of imagination by unveiling the psychological influences behind the creative process. 
First Impression: Lehrer opens with the case example of Proctor and Gamble and their struggle to reinvent the mop. After much re­search and frustration, designers from a firm, Continuum, came to an epiphany — the Swiffer. Lehrer says acutely, “that insight changed floor cleaning forever.” With the remodeled mop, Lehrer launches into the question: “How does one measure the imagina­tion?” This book will explore the neurobiological and environmen­tal influences on imagination, in­dividual and dynamic creativity. 
The Takeaway: Lehrer has some promising insights about creativity, even though his semi-statistical approach sounds like Malcolm Gladwell’s style. Non-creative “types” should rejoice, because Lehrer obviously believes that the creative process is open to all. 
“The Big Miss: My Years Coach­ing Tiger Woods” by Hank Haney 
The Premise: Haney opens up about his six-year roller-coaster ride coaching golf prodigy Tiger Woods. 
First Impression: Haney sets his reader up for a tale of great success and great disappoint­ment. This book is a peek into Tiger’s career, one that began with unending praise and ap­plause, but now is riven with trips to rehab and heavily critical media coverage. Haney seems to wrestle with the “artistry” of playing both coach and friend. Apparently, getting Tiger to open up is one of the toughest chal­lenges Haney faces, but that doesn’t mean he can’t spill every­thing he’s observed in this 272­page memoir. The first chapter introduces Tiger’s situation on a dark note. “He’s become less of a golfer, and he’s never going to be the same again.” 

The Takeaway: Anyone who has an interest in Tiger, or golf, for that matter, might find Haney’s story an interesting one, but the tone is inherently som­ber. If readers are looking for a tale of athletic victory, however, try one of his earlier books, pre­scandal. 
“Drift” by Rachel Maddow 
The Premise: In her critically acclaimed novel, Maddow tackles the financial woes of America through the lens of America’s involvement in the war in the Middle East. She argues that the American financial policy has “drifted” from its original, Con­stitutional goals. 
First Impression: Maddow begins with the local effects of the financial crisis and takes it to the national level. Her position as a vocal advocate for small-town America makes this book attractive and approachable. In her prologue, she voices many Americans’ concerns about the excessive spending overseas, saying, “It’s not just the small potatoes, post-9/11 Homeland spending that feels a little off-mission.” She even includes an international perspective: both the negative and positive effects of American influence on Iraqi neighborhoods. She bases her argument on the fact no one approved the initial investment in Iraq, and it’s been escalating ever since. Maddow calls for a “small c” conservative approach to reinstate the mission of the Constitutional Convention. 
The Takeaway: Maddow’s mission is inspiring and timely, especially since it’s an election year. This book’s quick populari­ty is well deserved, since it caters to the entire American audience. 
Contact Meghan Thomassen at mthomass@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LAUREN  KALINOSKI | Observer Graphic 

page 10 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u CLASSIFIEDS Tuesday, April 24, 2012 
SPORTS AUTHORITY 

Enjoy the craziness of early-season baseball 

The baseball world is in chaos. The Red Sox have hit “bottom,” according to new manager Bobby Valentine. Af­ter signing a $240 million con­tract in the offseason, Albert Pujols has yet to hit a homerun through 16 games. The Washington Nationals are tied for the best record in the National League. 
But that’s the glory of early-season baseball. For those of us who are Orioles fans, April is virtually the only time to be hopeful about baseball. After that, nearly every ounce of hope erodes away as Baltimore makes its slow, methodical sink to the basement of the AL East. 
Eventually, things will even out. Pujols will get his home runs, the Red Sox should make a run at the AL Wild Card — at the least — and Stephen Strasburg’s funky delivery will land him on the disabled list and toss the Nationals into a tailspin. 
As much as I would love to see the Red Sox wallow 

Matthew Robison 
Sports Writer 

But I have to admit 
in misery for The Nation-
the rest of that I love the craziness als will the year, for of early-season and realize how the Orioles to postseason baseball. young they 
things like, “He’s on pace to his 324 dingers this year!” 
I also love that I can say that I have as many home runs as Pujols this season. I love when fans completely overreact to their teams’ early successes or failures. I love seeing people calling for Bobby Valentine’s head three weeks in. I love people trad­ing Pujols for a closer in their fantasy leagues. It’s all just part of how entertaining pro­fessional sports can actually be, even beyond the games themselves. 
In a couple months, it will be time for me to check out until October. It will be time for me to feel sorry for the Orioles fans who sit in a nearly-empty Camden Yards as they inexplicably lose to the Royals or instead be sur­rounded by 25,000 Yankees fans as Oriole Park turns into Yankee Stadium 2.0. It will be time for Pujols to turn things around and start sending balls into orbit again. 
But after the midseason lull, everything will break loose again. Instead of the late-season collapse they had last year, the Red Sox will real­ize they are one of the most 
talented 
teams in 
baseball and 
will come 
scream­
ing up the 
standings. 
make a run in the wild card race, fantasy own­ers continue to tear their hair out due to Pujols’ lack of production and perhaps see the Nationals (another local team) win the NL pennant, I just can’t see any of those scenarios holding true into October. 
I consider myself a sports fan, but to be honest the sum­mer heat usually sucks away my baseball enthusiasm in the middle of June. So I tend to pay the most attention to what hap­pens in the early months and then again when the playoffs roll around. I’m sorry, I just can’t do it for 162 games. To the diehards out there, I respect you. 
But I have to admit that I love the craziness of early-season and postseason baseball. I love when a guy hits two home runs on opening day and we can say are and 
disintegrate. 
I hope I’m 
wrong. It’s 
still early 
enough in 
the season to have hope. And when it’s time for the postseason again, I will become interested again. I will become the biggest fan of whoever has a chance of knocking the Yankees out of the playoffs. I will be the one hoping every game goes into 16 innings so we can see an outfielder fill in for a depleted bullpen. 
Until then, Major League Baseball, continue give me craziness. Otherwise, I’ll see you in October. 
Contact Matthew Robison at mrobison@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

NFL 
Loomis accused of eavesdropping 
Associated Press 
NEW ORLEANS — The New Orleans Saints denied an anonymously sourced ESPN report on Monday which al­leges that general manager Mickey Loomis’ booth in the Superdome was wired so he could listen to opposing coaches’ radio communica­tions during games. 
ESPN could not determine if the system was ever used. The report on Monday’s “Outside the Lines” said Loo­mis would have been able to eavesdrop on opponents from 2002 to 2004. The re­port also said the system was disabled in 2005, when the Superdome was heavily damaged by Hurricane Ka­trina. 
Saints spokesman Greg Bensel called the report “1,000 percent false.” 
“We asked ESPN to pro­vide us evidence to support their allegations and they refused,” Bensel said. “The team and Mickey are seeking all legal recourse regarding these false allegations.” 
Loomis explained his use of an earpiece and described his game-day setup in the Su­perdome booth in an emailed statement. 
“I have a monitor in front of me in my booth that pro­vides the league issued stats for the game,” Loomis stat­ed. “I have a small TV with the network broadcast and I have an earpiece to listen to the WWL-AM radio game broadcast. 
“To think I am sitting in there listening and actually ... doing something with the offensive and defensive play calls of the opposing teams makes this story and the un­named sources that provided the false information that much more less credible,” Loomis’ statement contin­ued. “It just didn’t happen.” 
Washington Redskins de­fensive coordinator Jim Haslett was the Saints’ toring opposing team coaches communication, nor did I have any knowledge of this,” Has­lett said. “To my knowledge this concept was never dis­cussed or utilized.” 
If the Saints had installed a system allowing them to listen in on their opponents it would have violated NFL rules and also could have infringed on federal wire-tapping laws. 
“We were not aware of it,” league spokesman Greg Aiello said. “We have no knowledge of the allegations.” 
FBI spokeswoman Sheila 

head coach from 2000 through 2005. In a “We asked ESPN to comment provide us evidence to the Saints support their allegations forwarded and they refused.” to the AP by email, 
Greg Bensel 
Haslett de-
Saints spokesman 
nied knowl­edge of any system that would have Thorne said the agency’s New Orleans office was aware of the sit uation, but wouldn’t comment fur­ther. 
U.S. At­torney Jim Letten in New Orleans also said his of-

allowed for eavesdropping on opponents. 
“At no time during my tenure as head coach with the New Orleans Saints did Mickey and I discuss moni­fice had been told about “gen­eral allegations” involving the Saints and possible wiretap­ping, but he did not elaborate. Letten declined to discuss who made the allegations, and whether they involved Loomis or any other Saints officials. 
For the Saints, the report in itself added to a slew of recent bad publicity, which began in early March when the NFL re­leased a report describing a crunch-for-cash bounty sys­tem that provided improper cash bonuses to defensive players who delivered hits that hobbled targeted opponents. 
Commissioner Roger Goodell has suspended head coach Sean Payton for the en­tire 2012 season in connection with the bounty probe. Loomis was suspended for the first half of the regular season and assistant head coach Joe Vitt was suspended six games. 
The team also lost its sec­ond-round pick in this week’s NFL draft and was fined $500,000. Goodell took away the Saints’ second-round pick in 2013 as well, but has said he may lessen that punish­ment if he is satisfied with the club’s cooperation in the ongo­ing investigation. 
The NFL still has yet to hand down punishment to between 22 and 27 current and former Saints defensive players whom the league has said participat­ed in the bounty program. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The 
Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

Interhall Cup Points 1) McGlinn - 1510 Anyway by O.A.R. But now I’m thinkin’ that today It’s 3 a.m. and I wanna go to bed 
PERSONAL 

Based on Recsports website 2) PW - 1420 sounds fine to me I know this lady with eyes as blue Soccer, Tennis, and Lax remain 3) PE - 1415 It’s 3 a.m. and i wanna go to bed Well I’ve been working for days on as the sea Men’s Interhall - Top Ten Dorms 4) Howard - 1390 I got a lady running through my full time Now she would sit and stare 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? 1) Alumni - 2265 5) Ryan - 1135 head I’ve got no money but everything directly through me Don’t go it alone. Notre Dame 2) Siegfried - 1925 6) Lewis - 950 Ran out of money, looking for a is goin’ fine And that laugh would take me to has many resources in place to 3) Stanford - 1765 7) Cavanaugh - 865 night shift But I’ve been tired in my head, the future assist you. If you or someone you 4) Keenan - 1685 8) Pangborn - 680 It’s 3 a.m. and I wanna go to bed said I’ve been tired in my head... love needs confidential support 5) Zahm - 1615 9) Breen-Phillips - 615 I know this lady, way down in my Throughout the past, there was or assistance, please call Sr. Sue 6) Knott - 1595 10) Welsh Family - 605 country It’s 3 a.m. and I wanna go to bed nothing left for me Dunn at 1-7819. 7) Duncan - 1325 11) Farley - 395 She was so pretty thet my eyes I got a lady running through my But I’ve been working for days on For more information, visit 8) Morrissey - 1160 12) Lyons - 340 threw disguises at me head full time ND’s website at: http:// 9) Keough - 1090 13) Walsh - 325 And we would sit and wonder Ran out of money, looking for a I’ve got no money but everything pregnancysupport@nd.edu 9) Sorin - 1090 14) Badin - 260 ‘bout the future night shift is goin’ fine 
Tuesday, April 24,  2012 The Observer u SPORTS ndsmcobserver.com | page 11 
“Yes, it is a must, must win,” Saint Mary’s will be strong in doubles,” Campbell said. “Our 
Belles 

Campbell said. “Kalamazoo’s the doubles matchups, but the freshmen players just had more 

continued from page 16 
to win out and hope that Calvin (6-10) slips up. Saint Mary’s will likely get a game back when Calvin faces off with conference leading Hope, but will need a lot of help as from second-to-last place Trine, Calvin’s final op­ponent. 
Before entering into a con­sideration of the many possible conference outcomes, the Irish must secure a victory over Ka­lamazoo. 
overall record itself is not im­pressive, but their out-of-con­ference schedule was rough. It will be an extremely hard-fought match.” 
Campbell said the Belles need to step up their game in order reverse a losing trend to Ka­lamazoo. 
“We haven’t beaten them in the past three years,” Campbell said. “I think this is the time we will turn it around. There is definitely an opportunity pres­ent and we just need to take ad­vantage of it.” 

Belles’ singles competitors need to step up and be prepared indi­vidually in order to be success­ful against the Hornets, Camp­bell said. 
“Our doubles have played better all year,” Campbell said. “Our singles will need to have a good outing.” 
Campbell said the lopsided success comes from the fresh­men having more experience previously in doubles than in singles play. 
“I don’t think it is any more pressure in singles than in experience in high school. The freshman have progressed and done very well, though.” 
Although he has a history of mixing up his team’s lineup, Campbell said there would be no changes made for the Ka­lamazoo match.  
With home-court advantage on their side, the Belles look to put themselves in a playoff posi­tion with a win over the Hornets at 4 p.m.   
Contact Isaac Lorton at ilorton@nd.edu 


Keeton 
continued from page 16 
nent role on the team. 
“I’ve learned to embrace a lead­ership role,” Keeton said. “I’ve also learned how to manage my time in a way that allows me to succeed athletically and academically.” 
This season, Keeton has thrived in an anchoring role in the middle of the Irish lineup. His overall re­cord of 25-10 has impressed Notre Dame coach Bob Bayliss. 
“Sam has anchored the mid-lineup quite well,” he said. “He’s done a good job and has begun to recognize defined pattern play better.” 
Looking back on his four years as a Notre Dame student-athlete, Keeton said he is happy with his career thus far, but knows his work is not through. He initially picked Notre Dame for the chal­lenges it would provide, and his experience has lived up to that ex­pectation, he said. 
“I wanted to push myself in the classroom and on the court, and I knew Notre Dame could provide that,” he said. “Also, I was com­fortable with the coaches and knew they would give me the best chance to succeed.” 
As he nears the conclusion of his fourth season, Keeton said his victory in the No. 3 singles slot in Notre Dame’s 4-3 victory over Michigan on Feb. 18 stands out as especially significant. 
“It’s hard to pick a specific mo­ment in my career that is my fa­vorite, because all four years have been great,” Keeton said. “One of the best, though, was clinching the match at [then-no. 28] Michi­gan this year.” 
Looking forward to the remain­der of the Irish’s spring season, Keeton is hoping to continue to perform at a high level. 
“We have [the NCAA tourna­ment] in two weeks and we’re hoping to make the final site, then do some damage there,” he said. 
Keeton and the Irish will look for a strong performance in the NCAA tournament, which begins May 11, to close out the 2012 sea­son. 
Contact Laura Coletti at lcoletti@nd.edu 

Pacers rest starters, beat Pistons 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS — Indiana coach 
Frank Vogel couldn’t have asked for 
much more Monday night. Three starters rested, no one got 
hurt, and the Pacers won. Paul George scored 12 of his 27 
points in the fourth quarter to help Indiana beat the Detroit Pistons 103­97. 
“It was a great team win,” Vogel said. “A lot of guys contributed, we got guys rest, we got the second unit a ton of work. I think we got a lot ac­complished tonight.” 
George made 13 of 15 free throws and grabbed 10 rebounds for the Pacers. David West scored 20 points and Leandro Barbosa and Tyler Hansbrough added 13 points each for Indiana. 
Vogel could afford to rest regular starters Danny Granger, Roy Hib­bert and George Hill since Indiana is locked into the No. 3 seed in the East­ern Conference playoffs. 
West, who has scored at least 20 points in four of his past five games, said he wanted to keep playing even though Vogel gave him the option to sit out. 
“Frank talked about limiting me a little bit, cutting my minutes down, but just being out there in the flow is most important to me in terms of preparing for the postseason,” West said. 
West said it was important for some of the starters to play so the Pacers could maintain their momen­tum. Indiana is 12-2 in April. 
“I just think in terms of mental preparation, just want to kind of keep the train going,” he said. “We’ve been playing some good ball. We’ve been sharing the load in terms of what we’re doing. I think it’s just a good idea to keep that rolling.” 
Darren Collison, who has been 
replaced by Hill as the starting point 
guard, played with the reserves. He shot 1 fo -8 from the field and com­mitted six turnovers in 31 minutes. He called the situation a “major ad­justment.” 

“Just trying to work my way in with them,” Collison said. “Trying to get accustomed with how they play. They’ve got some good players on the second unit. It can definitely help my game out. I’m just going to have to continue to move forward.” 
Jeff Pendergraph got his first start as a Pacer and registered sea­son highs of 10 points and seven re­bounds in 18 minutes. He said it was good knowing he was going to get serious playing time. 
“Just like anything, if you’re more calm, more relaxed knowing that you’re going to play regardless of if you make a mistake, long as you’re playing hard it’s all right,” he said. “To actually have an opportunity to play hard through your mistakes — I messed up a bunch tonight, but I was playing my butt off and Coach let me keep playing.” 
Greg Monroe scored 18 points, Brandon Knight had 16 and Tay­shaun Prince added 14 for the Pis­tons. 
Detroit held the Pacers to 38 per­cent shooting, but Indiana forced 18 turnovers and outrebounded the Pistons 56-42. Indiana out­scored the Pistons 29-13 from the free-throw line. 
“We had great opportunities, but all those extra possessions add up, and it puts you in a sit­uation––––– to make a missed game,” Detroit coach Lawrence Frank said. “Unfortunately, to­night we missed.” 


page 12 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u SPORTS Tuesday, April 24, 2012 
Hilling 
continued from page 16 
second weekly award of the season. Following a 16­save performance against No. 12 Ohio State earlier this season, Hilling was named the Big East Defen­sive Player of the Week. 
“[The awards are] always nice to get but if our de­fense isn’t playing as well in front of me, I don’t know if I would have made that many saves,” Hilling said. “It kind of goes to the de­fense too.” 
Hilling — who has start­ed 50 of 51 games since ar­riving on campus — said the experience of starting as a freshman has helped her tremendously during her stellar junior cam­paign. 
“The past two years, I was an underclassman so I didn’t talk as much on defense and didn’t take as much of a leadership role,” Hilling said. “I’m more comfortable, I don’t get as nervous as I used to. I’m just more confident and more talkative.” 
Halfpenny said Hilling has adjusted well to the new defensive schemes af­ter playing two seasons under former Irish coach Tracy Coyne. 
“She’s just been build­ing,” Halfpenny said. “I feel like she got comfort­able within our defenses, which are very different than what she’s played in the last two years. Once she got comfortable in that, I think her lacrosse IQ went up.” 
On April 7, hours be­fore a home contest with Villanova, Hilling was forced out of the Irish lineup with an illness. In Hilling’s stead, freshman goalkeeper Allie Murray recorded her first career start in Notre Dame’s 18-5 win. Halfpenny said the missed start was ben­eficial for Hilling. 
“It was a blessing in disguise when she got sick and had to sit out a game,” Halfpenny said. “She got to actually watch it from the stands, some­thing she hasn’t done [in a long time]. It gives you a little different perspec­tive. 
“She was able to come in and she’s been playing with such a clear head, on a great angle, attacking the ball with her hands. Obviously, this is what you want when you’re coach­ing all year, you hope you peak at the right time. I think that’s what we’re starting to see right now.” 
Hilling will hope to maintain her high level of play when the Irish vis­it No. 1 Northwestern in Evanston, Ill., on Wednes­day for Notre Dame’s sec­ond-to-last game of the season. 
Contact Matthew DeFranks at mdefrank@nd.edu 

NFL 
Colts to address weaknesses in draft 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS — Now that the Indianapolis Colts have decided who their new quarterback will be, they can start filling in other holes. 
Like tight end, receiver and offensive line. Or defen­sive tackle, linebacker and cornerback. 
For the Colts, a success­ful draft this week goes far deeper than taking Stan­ford’s Andrew Luck at No. 1. It’s about giving him a stron­ger supporting cast to start the next era of Colts football. 
First-time general manag­er Ryan Grigson can’t wait. 
“I kind of wish it was to­day,” Grigson said with a smile during his pre-draft availability last week. “Ev­ery day I wake up thinking about the draft. This is fun. What a great opportunity and great job. To help build a team is a dream.” 
Grigson will certainly get his chance and with 10 picks this weekend, it may be his most important draft. 
The question about who to take first -- Luck or Rob­ert Griffin III -- has already been settled. Luck has been told that he will be Peyton Manning’s successor bar­ring something unforeseen or unusual. 
Luck must replace the only four-time MVP in league his­tory and someone who has been the face of the franchise for almost a decade and a half. Manning was regarded so prominently in the com­munity that a local children’s hospital was named in his honor and 4,000 season tick­ets are now available from a team that had a waiting list before he left. 
The draft will demonstrate just how much will be differ­ent in Indy in 2012. 
Former Baltimore defensive coordinator Chuck Pagano is the Colts’ new coach, and he prefers using a 3-4 defensive alignment rather than the Colts traditional 4-3. To make the switch, Indy is trying to get bigger up front. They’ve signed three free agents from Baltimore -- 298-pound de­fensive end Cory Redding, 345-pound defensive tackle Brandon McKinney and hard-hitting safety Tom Zbikowski. 

They could go after another behemoth defensive tackle in the draft. 
And then there are the glar­ing deficiencies in the pass defense. Colts opponents com­pleted a league-record 71.2 percent of their passes and had a quarterback rating of 
103.1. Indy’s eight intercep­tions were tied for the league low. 
NFL 

All-pro safety Dawkins retires after a 16-year career 
Associated Press 
ENGLEWOOD, Colo. — Brian Dawkins says his head told him to retire, not his neck. 
The veteran safety called Den­ver Broncos coach John Fox on Monday morning to tell him that after plenty of prayer and reflec­tion, he’d decided that 16 seasons in the NFL was enough. 
Then, Dawkins announced his retirement on Twitter, where he quickly began trending as fans worldwide expressed their ad­miration for the mild-mannered family man who transformed himself into a ferocious football player on Sundays. 
Well-known by his alter-ego “Wolverine,” and for his passion­ate, energetic play for 13 years in Philadelphia and three in Denver, Dawkins was one of the greatest to ever play his position, and no­body played safety in the NFL lon­ger than he did. 
Dawkins, 38, said he felt he had another year left in him after recovering from a serious neck injury that sidelined him for the stretch run and playoffs last sea­son. But he instead fulfilled one final wish from his NFL bucket list: walking away from the game he loves before being betrayed by a battered body or one too many trips around the sun. 
“It’s probably going to sound crazy, but you know the fact that I could play another year gave me a lot of peace to say that this is it,” Dawkins said. 
Broncos boss John Elway said he wanted Dawkins to play in 2012 but never pressured him to return. 
“It’s always tough to take that final step,” Elway said. “He’ll be missed. He did so many tremen­dous things for the Broncos, not only on the field, but his leader­ship off the field was something that we’ll always be grateful for.” 
Dawkins said the offseason ad­ditions of quarterback Peyton Manning and defensive coordina­tor Jack Del Rio forced him to pray a little longer on his future. 
He insisted his neck didn’t enter the equation, though. He said the nerve had regenerated and he was fine. 
“My body feels good. It really does. My neck, that nerve area is cool, nothing’s wrong with it,” he said. “My strength is back where it was and my knees, things don’t ache like they do during the sea­son when I’m walking up and down the steps.” 
Dawkins said he felt great peace over his decision. 
Dawkins said he wasn’t sure whether he’d sign a one-day deal with his old team to ceremonious­ly retire from the team that draft­ed him in the second round out of Clemson in 1996, but one thing’s for sure: he’s staying in Denver, where he hopes to help coach high school football in the fall. 
“I’ll raise my kids here,” he said. “This is a beautiful spot.” 
He also has a soft spot in his heart for Philly, where he plans to meet with the media on Saturday. 
For 13 years, he was the heart and soul of the Eagles’ defense. 
“The NFL will miss a player as talented, ferocious, and deter­mined as Brian Dawkins,” Eagles coach Andy Reid said. “He was one of the most dedicated and hardest working players I have ever coached. Whether it was on the practice field, the film room or the weight room, Brian always put in the extra hours it took to be­come the star player that he was. And he transferred all of that and more onto the field on Sundays.” 

Dawkins finished his career in Philadelphia in 2008 as the fran­chise’s leader in games played 
(183) and interceptions (34) while spearheading a defense that made the Eagles perennial champion­ship contenders. 
“Brian Dawkins is one of my all-time favorite players and one of the best to ever put on an Eagles uniform,” team owner Jeffrey Lurie said. “On the field, in many ways, Brian re-invented the safety position. He had the speed and athleticism to line up against the game’s best receivers, and was equally effective in the run game. His love for the game was infec­tious and he poured his entire heart and soul into everything he was doing from the moment he entered the stadium until he left. 
“Everyone who ever watched Brian play saw that and it was impossible not to love that about him.” 
The Eagles announced they would honor Dawkins at their Sept. 30 game against the New York Giants, and the Broncos have plans to do the same at a later date. 
Longevity isn’t normally associ­ated with the position where the hardest hits are both received and delivered — the only other safeties to log 16 seasons in the pros were Hall of Famer Paul Krause and Eugene Robinson. 
Dawkins was named to several All-Pro teams and the NFL’s All-Decade team of the 2000s and he made nine Pro Bowls, includ­ing last season as an alternate. Dawkins finished his career with 17 fumble recoveries, 26 sacks, 37 interceptions, 42 forced fumbles and 98 pass breakups. His 42 forced fumbles are the most ever by a defensive back in the NFL. 
“Brian Dawkins is one of the best to ever play the game, a fu­ture Hall of Famer who changed the way his position is played,” Fox said. “In many ways, he helped my job as a coach with his great leadership and preparation. He brought so much to the table and was such an enormous asset to our football team.” 
As a member of the NFLPA executive committee, Dawkins pushed for new league rules that limited full contact during camp and also in the regular season. He credited those changes in the 10-year labor pact reached last summer with keeping him fresh at the beginning of what turned out to be his final season, which he played a year after laboring through sprains to both knees. 
What he was really fighting for, he said, was the next gen­eration of players who will one day walk away from the game in better shape than he could. 


Tuesday, April 24, 2012 The Observer u SPORTS ndsmcobserver.com | page 13 
CLUB SPORTS 

Irish secure second straight conference championship 
Rowing team records strong perfomances against top compeitition in SIRA Regatta in Tennessee 
Special to The Observer attacks and fast finishing sprints. ing another seventh-place finish in SIRA regatta against some of the top Sunday racing opened early with 
In Men’s D, junior Phil Palmon was Women’s B/C. Another great effort competition from across the coun-the Varsity 4 taking second in the 
This past weekend, the top the top finisher for the Irish in fifth came form the Men’s C riders with try, including both club and var-C final in a very tight race that saw athletes in the Midwestern Col-position. Next, sophomore Carolyn Corcoran earning a podium posi-sity programs. The Irish achieved the top-5 crews finish within four legiate Cycling Conference de-McCann fought hard for seventh tion with third, and top-10 finishes the best results in club history, but seconds of each other. The Novice scended upon South Bend for the place in the Women’s B/C field. Ju-from junior David Pratt and fresh-failed to meet their own expecta-4 then took sixth place, followed regional conference champion-nior Josh Corcoran continued the man Mike Chifala, who finished tions, Irish coaches and rowers said. by the second novice 8, which took ships. Nearly 200 cyclists rolled strong efforts from the Irish on the sixth and seventh, respectively. In Racing opened on Saturday with fourth in its finals event after heats up to compete for coveted spots at day with a fifth-place finish in the Men’s B Tilmans was the top finish-the Novice 4 and Novice 8 advanc-were cancelled on Saturday due to a the Collegiate National Champi-Men’s C field, and in Men’s B three er in fourth place. Finally, in Men’s ing out of their heats to the semifi-late scratch. The Novice 8 then took onships in Ogden, Utah. Looking Notre Dame athletes placed in the A, Irish junior Joe Magro, who nals. The JV 8 then placed fourth in fourth as well in a very tight race, to cement its second consecutive top-10 with Junior Brian Hurley at was leading the conference points its heat to earn a spot in the petite as the Irish were passed at the last conference championship, Notre second, Sophomore Luke Tilmans standing for Division II, fought his finals. Up next were the Varsity 4 second by Virginia, missing a medal Dame brought nearly 20 riders to in fifth and Freshman Jim Snitzer way into the winning break-away and 8, with both boats advancing by only seven tenths of a second. build on the lead it had accumu-at 9th. Finally, in the ultra-competi-and held on to earn seventh place, to the semifinals, as the Varsity 8 The JV 8 was up next, taking lated all season. The team time trial tive Men’s A field, all six Notre Dame while John Pratt held on in the field placed second to eventual cham-second in the petite final to St. Jo-was the first event of the weekend. men finished in the main field, with for 14th. pions George Washington. In their seph’s, a varsity program from While also organizing the race, the points coming from graduate stu-The weekend performances from second races of the day, the Irish Philadelphia. Racing concluded as Irish turned in several solid perfor-dent Doug Ansel in 13th and Fresh-the Irish secured their back-to-back Novice 4, Novice 8 and Varsity 8 all the Varsity 8 raced to a sixth-place mances. Both the Men’s D and Men’s man John Pratt in 17th. conference championship, and advanced out of their semifinals to finish, missing a medal for third C units earned wins and spots as Sunday all eyes turned to the fi-Magro and John Pratt finished first earn places in the Grand Finals on place by two seconds, behind club conference champions, while the nal race of the regular season in and second in the overall Division II Sunday, while the Varsity 4 placed rivals Grand Valley State and Vir­Men’s B squad earned 2nd place downtown South Bend. Crowds individual standings. In two weeks, fifth in its semifinal for a spot in the ginia, and varsity programs from and Men’s A snagged important lined the streets all day to view the Magro, Pratt, graduate student An-C final. George Washington, Florida Tech points with fifth place. fast-paced action of criterium rac-drew O’Donnell and senior Nate Lee In its semifinal, the Varsity 8 and Temple. 
After a quick turnaround, the ing. In the first race of the day, Irish will represent the Irish at the na-defeated varsity programs from The team returns to action next road race followed the opening sophomore August Kunkel cap-tional championships. Jacksonville and Oklahoma City, weekend in Grand Rapids, Mich., for event. The teams raced laps of a tured another win for Notre Dame but fell to Florida Tech. Saturday the MACRA regatta, where the Irish 15-mile course in rolling terrain in the men’s D sprint. In Women’s B, Men’s Rowing racing concluded with dinner with will face strong programs in Michi­south of downtown South Bend, McCann repeated her solid perfor-Notre Dame traveled down to Oak recent Notre Dame alumni in town gan, Michigan State, Grand Valley and the races featured flurries of mance from the day before, earn-Ridge, Tenn., this weekend for the to watch the racing. State, and Purdue. 
World Peace to face discipline from NBA after elbowing Harden 
Associted Press right arm in celebration of a of the crowd fell silent as fans claims he accidentally clipped awareness. dunk over two opponents Sun-watched in disbelief the latest Harden while celebrating a “One play in the heat of a bat-LOS ANGELES — The Lak-day when his left arm suddenly act of violence by a player who dunk, yet given his history as tle, all of the sudden it changes 
ers jersey says World Peace on flung out, landing a vicious changed his name last year to perhaps basketball’s most no-his perception as a man and as 
the back. The player wearing it backward elbow to James promote peace. torious troublemaker since a person? No,” said Kobe Bry­
is still Ron Artest, and he’s in Harden’s head and dropping World Peace is likely to be Dennis Rodman, not even his ant, his teammate and tireless 
trouble again with the NBA. the Oklahoma City guard to the sidelined when the Lakers teammates have any idea why defender. “Everybody, all you Metta World Peace was hardwood. open the postseason this week-he lost control for an inexpli-guys, know what a sweet guy 
pounding his chest with his Within seconds, the roars end, and possibly longer. He cable instant. he is.” “It was unfortunate that While the NBA’s top brass James had to get hit with an watched video of the elbow unintentional elbow,” World and debated the length of a Peace said. “I hope he’s OK.” suspension Monday, sports World Peace undid much of fans debated whether to give the goodwill created by his Peace another chance. Some notable charity work over saw his actions as an ill-timed the past few years when he celebration that accidentally knocked Oklahoma City’s top hurt a player standing too reserve out of the key late-sea-close, while others thought the son game, giving him a con-Lakers forward should be sus­cussion. pended indefinitely, perhaps His upcoming suspension even banned from the NBA for will be just a fraction of the a dangerous lack of impulse 86-game ban Artest received control. in November 2004 when he “During that play, I just jumped into the stands at the dunked on (Kevin) Durant and Palace of Auburn Hills to fight (Serge) Ibaka, and I got really fans, precipitating perhaps the emotional and excited,” World ugliest brawl in North Ameri-Peace said in a 30-second can sports history. statement afterward, refusing Yet World Peace changed to take questions in the Lakers’ more than his name over the locker room. “The Thunder, past three years with the Lak-they’re playing for a champi­ers. The former math major onship this year, so I hope that from St. John’s has devoted he’s OK, and I apologize to the much of his free time to char-Thunder and to James Harden. ity, even winning the NBA’s J. You know, it was such a great Walter Kennedy Citizenship game, and it was unfortunate Award last April, primarily so much emotion was going on for his work in mental health at that time.” 


AP 
Thunder guard James Harden lays on the ground after being elbowed in the head by Metta World Peace on Sunday at the Staples Center. 

page 14 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u SPORTS Tuesday, April 24, 2012 
Buntin 
continued from page 16 
against DePaul.” 
Batting performances from Buntin and senior outfielder Alexa Maldo­nado continue to lead the Notre Dame lineup with batting averages of .359 and .325, respectively, get­ting on base regularly to help the team gather runs. 
While the Irish have ex­celled on the offensive side, the Spartans have strug­gled. In its five most recent games, Notre Dame has tal­lied 21 runs, while Michi­gan State has only managed two. In the last 18 games, the Spartans have a single win, dating back to April 4 when they beat Central Michigan 6-1. They cur­rently carry a 10-game los­ing streak, and the Irish are hoping to push that number to eleven, Buntin said. 
“The main focus for us against Michigan State will be to keep the same high energy, both on the field and in the dugout, because defensively and offensive­ly we’re a solid team right now,” Buntin said. 
Looking for their sixth straight win, the Irish will host the Spartans tonight with the first pitch at 6 
p.m. in Melissa Cook Sta­dium. 
Contact Megan Finneran at mfinnera@nd.edu 
Kubinski 
continued from page 16 

tage sometimes, but to a man, they have worked so hard. 
“That’s one of the reasons we host an event in the fall and the spring, to make sure everybody has a couple of tournament opportunities.” 
Of the individual entrants in the tournament, Irish sopho­more Andrew Carreon fin­ished atop the leaderboard with a total score of 150. The Texas native recovered from a shaky morning round of 80 with a strong second-round performance to shoot a one­under-par 70. 
“Andrew Carreon had a tough start in the morning,” Kubinski said. “He struggled, shot 80 in the morning, but he came back and shot 70 in the afternoon — one of only four rounds under-par out of 72 rounds.  That just shows what kind of competitive­ness is there and what kind of game.” 
Irish sophomore Andrew Lane and Irish freshman Ty­ler Wingo followed Carreon with scores of 154 and 155, respectively. Both Lane and Wingo received opportu­nities earlier this year to compete in spring events, as Lane entered The Schen­kel Invitation in mid-March and Wingo competed in The Match Play in February. 
“Tyler won three matches for us at The Match Play when we took six players there,” Kubinski said. “He is really a kid with a very bright fu­ture. He is going to play a lot of tournaments over the summer, get himself ready for next season because I think he can step in. An­drew Lane has been making a swing change this year for the better. He has had some really good rounds, espe­cially at the qualifying and even at the Schenkel.” 
Rounding out the group of individual entrants for the Irish were freshmen Peyton Vitter and Patrick Grahek alongside junior walk-on Eddie Hjerpe. While none of the three have made an im­pact this year as part of the Irish lineup, their successes in their high school and ju­nior accomplishments are strong signs of potential, Kubinski said. 
“The freshmen like Pat­rick and Peyton had very good junior golf careers,” Kubinski said. “Peyton had won the Southern Junior last summer. Patrick was the Georgia high school cham­pion. It’s just a matter of get­ting some time in the lineup and a chance to get some ex­perience to get their feet wet. They just need that opportu­nity.” 
Because many of Notre Dame’s golfers are unable to compete in collegiate tour­naments during the year, they must gain experience by playing in events and tourna­ments in the summer months. With four Irish golfers grad­uating this year, the sum­mer preparation for the fall season will be a determin-ing factor for who fills in the open spots, Kubinski said. 

“We have two good incom­ing players, so I think it’s go­ing to be a really competitive situation for us come August because we will potentially have six, seven or eight guys fighting for maybe three or four lineup spots,” Kubinski said. “It’s going be very com­petitive, but I think the key for all these players is to take the good things they did this year in stretches and then go play a nice summer schedule of tour­naments, which they typically do, and really gain some ex­perience and be ready for the fall.” 
While many of these golfers will look towards the summer for their next tournaments, the Irish lineup will prepare for the upcoming Big East champi­onships this weekend in Or­lando, Fla. 
Contact Peter Steiner at psteiner@nd.edu 

ND WOMEN’S GOLF 

Irish lose lead at Big East championship 
By NICK BOYLE 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame saw its two-stroke lead slip away Mon­day at the 2012 Big East championship after the Irish shot a 25-over-par 313 in the second round to fall behind tournament leader South Florida by five strokes. South Florida posted an 18-over-par 306, seven shots better than the Irish to take the said. 
“Well, the conditions were a bit crazy today, it was just one of those days where nothing was work­ing,” Armstrong said. “It was a little bit of a strug­gle, I need to work on put­ting.” 
Coming into the 18th green, Armstrong hooked her approach wide into a group of trees. Needing a 

“We’re such a good team, 
lead. 

we need to play okay and 
Individu ­

ally, Irish really focus and realize freshman every single shot counts, Ashley Arm-no matter how long ... strong con-Putting will be crucial.” 
tinued her strong play, 

Ashley Armstrong 
holding on 

Irish freshman 
to a share of the indi­vidual lead after two days of golf. Armstrong carded a five-over 77 Mon­day, giving her a total of 150 through 36 holes. She is tied with South Florida’s Amy West for the low score through two rounds. 
Though she remained in the lead, Armstrong was not completely pleased with her performance, she par to stay even with the leader, Armstrong landed her chip shot within a couple of feet of the hole and sunk her putt to keep her lead. 
“I was pretty an­gry after pulling the 
ball that far, but I put it exactly where I wanted to on the chip,” Armstrong said. “I was able to put it on the green and it stuck near the hole.” 
Following Armstrong for the Irish are senior Bec­ca Huffer and sophomore Kristina Nhim, who are tied with scores of 152, eight-over-par. Both Huffer and Nhim are two strokes off of the individual lead. 

Freshman Kelli Oride turned in an 80 on Monday, bringing her total score to an 11-over 155. This was good for a tie for 12th place after two rounds. 
Rounding out Notre Dame’s roster of five was senior Katie Allare, who is tied for 29th place after 36 holes of golf. Allare turned in a score of 85 Monday. 
“We’re such a good team, we need to play okay and really focus and realize every single shot counts, no matter how long,” Arm­strong said. “Putting will be crucial.” 
Though the postseason may be pressure-filled, Armstrong said she is still enjoying the tournament. 
“There’s a lot more pres­sure than the normal tour­naments, but I’m enjoying it a lot and having a lot of fun with my team,” Arm­strong said. 
Notre Dame will try to come from behind and win their second straight Big East title when they tee off the final round at 8:50 
a.m. today. 
Contact Nick Boyle at nboyle1@nd.edu 

Tuesday, April 24, 2012 The Observer u TODAY ndsmcobserver.com | page 15 
WILL SHORTz 
HOROSCOPE 
CROSSWORD 




LEE HAggENJOS and ALEx gRISWOLD 
HENRy ARNOLD 
JUMBLE 

THE LONDON EXPRESS 
MIKE ARgIRION 






Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556

 Enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year


 Enclosed
 is $75 for one semester 


Name ____________________________________________________ Address __________________________________________________ City ____________________ State___________ Zip______________ 

Tuesday, April 24, 2012 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 16 
WOMEN’S LACROSSE 

Leading between the pipes 
Hilling thrives under pressure, leads Irish in goal 

By MATTHEW DeFRANKS 
Associate Sports Editor 
Irish junior goalkeeper Ellie Hilling had never played goalkeeper before. But in fifth grade, when the starter could not play, Hilling was thrust into the net — and she hasn’t left since. 
The Rochester, N.Y., na­tive has led the No. 6 Irish to wins in their last four games, including a 7-6 double-overtime decision against No. 16 George­town on Saturday. Hilling racked up a career-high 16 saves in the win. 
“I’m thrilled with El­lie’s performance,” Irish coach Christine Halfpenny said. “I think the leader­ship she’s commanding back there is doing great things for our defense. The defense they’re putting in front of her is obviously helping her tremendously also. We hope to see more of that.” 
The Brighton High School product has helped Notre Dame (12-2, 5-2 Big East) to a 4-0 record in games decided by two goals or less. She said staying calm is one of her strengths. 
“I think I’m pretty good under pressure,” Hilling said. “No matter if we’re down a couple of goals or if we’re in sudden-death overtime, I feel like I’m pretty good at staying composed.” 

The junior sociology ma­jor leads the Big East in saves per game (9.38) and ranks second in save per­centage (.473). Addition­ally, she allows only 10.57 goals per game, good for fourth-best in the confer­ence. 
“I’m more confident in our defense so I don’t have to really worry about them making the right slides as much or covering the right person all the time. I’m just able to focus on the ball,” Hilling said. 
On Monday, Hilling was named to the Big East Weekly Honor Roll, her 
see HILLING/page 12 
ND SOFTBALL 
Irish put win streak to test against Spartans 
By MEGAN FINNERAN 
Sports Writer 
The Irish enter tonight’s home game with a surge of confidence following a weekend sweep of DePaul and Melissa Cook Stadium’s first no-hitter by sopho­more pitcher Laura Winter. Tonight, they carry that confidence into a matchup with Michigan State. 
Winter’s performance against the Blue Demons was just what the Irish (26-13,8-3 Big East) needed to rebound after a pair of home losses to conference foe Syracuse last weekend, junior catcher Amy Buntin said. 
“The high energy and momentum Laura brought 
to the mound over the 
weekend is exactly what 
our team needs from her 
for the rest of the season,” 
Buntin said. “It was easy 
to see that she was in the 
zone and no hitter was go­
ing to beat her.” 
Now, riding a five-game 
winning streak, the Irish 
step forward ready to face 
the Spartans (11-33, 0-15 
Big Ten). 
“Laura having this kind of 
attitude is very contagious 
throughout the team and 
helps pump us up as well,” 
Buntin said. “We have a lot 
of confidence rolling into 
today’s game with Laura 
throwing a no-hitter and 
the way we swung bats 
see BUNTIN/page 14 
SMC TENNIS 
Belles take on Hornets with eyes set on MIAA’s 
By ISAAC LORTON 
Sports Writer 
Coming off of a key win against Adrian, Saint Mary’s looks to get one step closer to the MIAA tournament by defeating Kalamazoo. 
“We went in to the match against Adrian thinking it was going to be a close one,” Belles coach Dale Campbell said. “It was a good confidence boost to get a convincing win. We won all of our doubles and most of our singles [matches].” 
The top four teams in the conference will com­pete for the conference title and at this point, the Belles (10-7, 3-3 MIAA) are in sixth place. Alma sits in fifth place, having completed its conference matches with a record of 4-4. Calvin occupies fourth place with a conference record of 4-2 and Kalama­zoo (5-14, 5-2) is in third. 
With only two conference games left, the Belles need 
see BELLES/page 11 
MEN’S GOLF 

Unsung players get shot at Warren Tournament 
By PETER STEINER 
Sports Writer 
They aren’t in the headlines or even in the Irish lineup on a reg­ular basis, but six members of the Irish team have been waiting and working in the background for their opportunity to come. 
These golfers received their chance to play Sunday, when all six competed as individuals in Notre Dame’s winning perfor­mance at the Battle at the War­ren, the team’s lone home event of the spring. 
While the tournament allowed the Irish lineup a chance to fine-tune its game before head­ing into postseason play, it also presented an opportunity for the other golfers on the team to gain valuable match experi­ence — something that is tough to come by when only five golfers can compete in most collegiate events. 
“It’s tough for those guys [not consistently in the lineup],” Irish coach Jim Kubinski said. “They are developing players and be­ing at home and not getting tournament experience makes it a challenge when we get into those competitive situations. They are really at a disadvan­
see KUBINSKI/page 14 

MEN’S TENNIS 
Keeton enjoying success as a senior 
By LAURA COLETTI 
Sports Writer 
For Irish senior Sam Keeton, the past three years have been nothing but buildup for a great senior season. With Notre Dame (20-8, 3-1 Big East) tak­ing third place at the Big East tournament last weekend and preparing to head into the NCAA championships, his last year on the squad is shaping up to be just that. 
Keeton, who has been a solid contributor for the Irish since his freshman year, said he has grown both on and off the court during his athletic career. This year, it has all come together as he has taken on a more promi­
see KEETON/page 11 






