
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


Graduate student fellowship ends after 11 years 
Fellowship funded African-American graduate students writing dissertations; Conference to mark its end 
By AMANDA GRAY 
News Writer 
The Erskine Peters Fellow­ship, which helped African American graduate students finish their dissertations for the past 11 years, will come to an end at the conclusion of this academic year, the Fellowship’s coordinator said. 
The Office of the Provost, which funds the Fellowship, de­cided to terminate the program. The Office did not give a specific reason for its decision, how­ever, the program was not en­dowed and was funded strictly on a year-to-year basis, Erskine Peters coordinator Maria McK­enna said. 
McKenna said the Fellowship aimed to give students the op­portunity to experience aca­demic life. 
“We wanted to give African-American graduate students an opportunity in [higher edu­cation],” she said. “The second goal was for them to experience academic life at a major Catho­lic university.” 
The Fellowship, which funded two to four African-American graduate students for a year to finish their dissertations 


see FELLOWS/page 4 




Students to thank alumni donors for contributions to ND 

By SHANNON O’BRIEN 
News Writer 
Students are trading in the tur­key and stuffing of Thanksgiving for thank-you cards and envelopes this week for Notre Dame’s Student Development Committee’s signa­ture event, “Thanksgiving in Feb­ruary.” 
Today through Wednesday, stu­dents can give thanks to the alum­ni donors who help make their education possible by filling out thank-you cards. 
“Many students don’t realize how important these alumni are, but without their generosity, we couldn’t enjoy many of the oppor­tunities and experiences we take for granted each day at ND,” junior and event organizer Mia Gene­reaux said. 
Although Thanksgiving seems out of place in February, Gene­reaux said this time of year is per­fect for the event. 
“We run the event in February, because it is in the middle of this month that alumni donations take over our expenses as students,” she said. “Our tuition only covers our expenses from August through mid-February. So, from now through the end of the year, we rely on alumni donations.” 
Though yearly tuition seems like it would be more than sufficient to cover costs, Genereaux said it only covers about 50 percent of the year­ly expense of educating a student at Notre Dame. This makes alumni donations extremely significant, 

see THANKS/page 3 
‘Legion’ expands to unify Irish fans at sporting events 
By DREW PANGRAZE 
News Writer 
The Leprechaun Legion is formulating plans to expand be­yond Purcell Pavilion. 
Currently, the Leprechaun Le­gion holds the label of fan sec­tion at Notre Dame basketball games. Sophomore Matthew Cunningham and the rest of the Legion Board hope to shed this label and extend to sports such as soccer and baseball. 
“We’re taking the brand name, ‘Leprechaun Legion,’ and using it to address the entire student body as a collective fan group,” Cunningham said. 
In addition, the administra­tion of the Legion Board will be expanding to include an Ex­ecutive Council — a group of individual sport leaders — and a Board of Student Representa­tives.  
Cunningham said the goal of the additional boards is to gen­erate as much input from as many different student perspec­tives as possible. 
“Essentially, we want the Le­gion Board to be the student athletic department,” Cunning­ham said.  “It’s a channel for students to be able to voice their opinions about Notre Dame sports. The Legion Board pro­vides a more formal way to do that.”  
Junior Kristen Stoutenburgh, Legion Board representative, said small steps are helping the Leprechaun Legion expand. 


see LEGION/page 4 

JPW introduces parents to campus life 
By CAROLINA WILSON 
News Writer 

Junior Parent’s Week­end (JPW) gave Notre Dame mothers and fathers a small glimpse into the college lives of their undergraduates. 
“After being here this week­end, we saw firsthand that Notre Dame is really like a big family,” Alberto Elizondo, the father of Alberto Elizondo, said. 
Family, both new and old, joined together for a weekend of events featuring an opening gala, collegiate workshops, hall luncheons and a presi­dent’s dinner that left parents reminiscing. 
Cris Bowman, father of Alex Bowman, said he experienced a special warmth at Notre Dame. 
“Having a son that is here gives you a different perspec-tive,” Bowman said. “This weekend has given us that dif­ferent perspective, and it re­ally helps you see how warm, welcoming and wonderful the institution is,” 

Alumnus Martin Prellwitz, father of Sophie Prellwitz, said it was interesting to note the changes around campus. 
“It was kind of ironic visit­ing [Riley Hall] because I’m a 
see WEEKEND/page 5 

INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER Fifth-year seniors at ND page 3 u Viewpoint page 8 u Review of Chimes of Freedom page 10 u Men’s basketball beats Villanova page 20 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: DO YOU HAVE A FAVORITE JEREMY LIN NICKNAME? 

www.ndsmcobserver.com P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 Editor-in-Chief Douglas Farmer Managing Editor Business Manager Sarah Mervosh Jeff Liptak asst. Managing Editor: Adriana Pratt asst. Managing Editor: Chris Masoud News Editor: Sam Stryker Viewpoint Editor: Meghan Thomassen Sports Editor: Allan Joseph Scene Editor: Maija Gustin Saint Mary’s Editor: Caitlin E. Housley Photo Editor: Pat Coveney Graphics Editor: Brandon Keelean advertising Manager: Katherine Lukas ad Design Manager: Amanda Jonovski Controller: Jason Taulman Systems administrator: William Heineman Office Manager & General Info (574) 631-7471 Fax (574) 631-6927 Advertising (574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu Editor-in-Chief (574) 631-4542 dfarmer1@nd.edu Managing Editor (574) 631-4542 smervosh@nd.edu Assistant Managing Editors (574) 631-4541 apratt@nd.edu, cmasoud@nd.edu Business Office (574) 631-5313 News Desk (574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com Viewpoint Desk (574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com Sports Desk (574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com Scene Desk (574) 631-4540 mgustin@nd.edu Saint Mary’s Desk chousl01@saintmarys.edu Photo Desk (574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com Systems & Web Administrators (574) 631-8839 Policies The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College.  Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Douglas Farmer. Post Office Information The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 and additional mailing offices 024 South Dining hall Notre Dame, IN 46556-077 The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved.  
TODAY’S STAFF News Sports Caitlin Housley Matthew Nicole Michels DeFranks Christian Myers Vicky Jacobsen Graphics Conor Kelly Dan Azic Scene Photo Maria Fernandez Pat Coveney Viewpoint Ren Brauweiler  
CORRECTIONS The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so we can correct our error.  
HIGH 41 LOW 37 



Matt Taylor  Ben Turk  Ninna  Isabela Cigarroa  Ethan Swan  Kristin Murphy  
Villavicencio  
sophomore  junior  sophomore  sophomore  freshman  freshman  
Zahm  Keough  Ryan  Ryan  Keough  McCandless  
“Linpossible.”  “Mr.  “Super  “Linception.”  “All I do is Lin.”  “Super  
Lincredible.”  Lintendo.”  Lintendo.”  

Have an idea for Question of the Day? Email obsphoto@gmail.com 


OFFBEAT 

Emu escaped residence, has been on loose for weeks 
SOUTH HERO, Vt. — An elusive emu on the lam in Vermont has been amusing residents in communities on Lake Champlain. 
The 150-pound flightless bird looks like a small os­trich. It has been spotted wandering here and there in Grand Isle and South Hero since it escaped from a local farm five weeks ago. 
It was spotted again Fri­day outside the South Hero elementary school, where it walked by a window of the principal’s office. School worker Steve Berard tried to lasso it with an exten­sion cord, but it broke free. 
The emu’s owner said he bought three emus for his grandchildren but they don’t make great pets. 
He’s taken out an ad in a local newspaper saying, “Free emu if you can cap­ture it.” 
A stray dog prevented a prison break in Paraguay 
ASUNCION, Paraguay — A stray dog is getting cred­it for thwarting a prison break in Paraguay. 
Officials say three dan­gerous inmates dug a tun­nel about 26 feet (eight me­ters) from their cell to the street, and were about to break free just before dawn when the dog began to bark and alerted a guard. 
Authorities at the Ta­cumbu prison on the south­ern edge of the capital dragged the unlucky pris­oners before the media on Friday to tell the tale. 
“Because of a stray dog we couldn’t escape,” com­plained Hilario Villal­ba. “When I reached the street, sticking my head out, the stupid dog barked and alerted a guard.” 
Villalba, who is serving a 30-year double-murder sentence, vowed in his na­tive Guarani language that he’ll keep keep trying to escape because he said his sentence isn’t fair. 
Meanwhile in neigh­boring Argentina, a yel­low labrador named Tiza alerted border guards to a motorist trying to smuggle $110,000 in $100 bills into Uruguay. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

IN BRIEF 
Students will have an op­portunity to thank those who donate to the University at the “Thanksgiving in February” event held in the Sorin Room of LaFortune from 11 a.m. to 3 p.m. today. Free food will be provided. The event will be held again Tuesday at the same time and place. 
The Red Cross will hold a blood drive in the LaFor­tune Ballroom from noon to 6 p.m. today. Appointments are available through online registration. The blood drive will continue Tuesday at the same time and place. 
The Institute for Educa­tional Initiatives will hold the lecture, “Teacher Prepara­tion in an Era of Reform,” in the Eck Visitor Center from 4 to 5:30 p.m. today. The event is free and open to the pub­lic. 
The run-off election for sophomore class council will take place via an online link from 8 a.m. to 8 p.m. Tues­day. The two tickets proceed­ing to the run-off election are that of Kevin McMan­nis, Cristin Pacifico, Ryan Newell and Kai Gayoso, as well as Tim Scanlan, Nathan Foje, Andrea Palm and Emily Voorde. 
Student Affairs is now ac­cepting nominations for the Denny Moore Award for Excellence in Journalism, named after the University’s late Associate Vice President for Public Affairs. Candi­dates may be nominated by faculty, staff or fellow stu­dents. The deadline is Fri­day, March 2. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, email detailed information about an event to obsnews.nd@gmail.com 


LOCAL WEATHER 
TODAY TONIGHT TUESDAY WEDNESDAY THURSDAY FRIDAY 










HIGH 45 LOW 34 
HIGH 50 LOW 34 

HIGH 45 LOW 32 
HIGH 37 LOW 25 

Fifth-year seniors search for campus community after classmates graduate 
By TARA HUNT 
News Writer 
For fifth-year accoun­tant student Mike Quinn, the phrase “home under the 
dome”  has  lost a bit  of  its  
meaning.  
“The  campus  of  Notre  

Dame was home as an under­graduate,” he said. “Now, our home base is Mendoza. If you want to go somewhere else on campus it feels very discon­nected.” 
Quinn is one of many stu­dents who decide to attend the University an extra year to complete degrees in spe­cialized fields. But Quinn said he encountered discon­nect in his fifth year. 
“I felt jealous that [my friends] got to go be on their own feet and I was stuck with the same college routine,” he said. “They have their re­sponsibility at work whereas someone like me who’s stay­ing in graduate school, we still have to go to class, do homework and group proj-
Thanks 
continued from page 1 
especially in tough economic times. 
“We believe that it is our duty to show our gratitude to ND alumni who donate, especially during these tough economic times,” Genereaux said. “Alumni love hearing from current students, and opening a handwritten note means so much ects and have exams to worry about. It’s like a whole new step of life.” 
Quinn said he rarely moves beyond DeBartolo Quad for classes and feels removed from the days of dorm life and spending time in LaFor­tune or the dining hall, not to mention the shift in his social life, he said. 
“The people I knew who were staying the fifth year were the people who you’d give the head nod to or chit­chatted with after class, but not necessarily great, true friends,” he said. 
John Villecco, a fifth-year senior completing a double major in anthropology and PLS, agreed. 
“Most people at the end of last year had regrets about having to leave,” he said. “But it’s been really interesting to see them go off and have them live their lives, and I still have this safety net while I can observe them from afar. I’ve been able to spend more time reflecting on what I want my life to look like. 

“[They’ve] been a buffer so that I feel ready to leave now.” 
Villecco said the number of people he recognizes on cam­pus has decreased, but it has allowed him to foster more in-depth friendships. 
“[The fifth year] allowed me to focus more on a small­er group of friends,” he said. 
With a more intimate group of friends, Villecco said his classmates compare sched­ules more often and have settled into a more consistent routine than he did in his previous years. 
It also allows them to veer away from social norms, he said.  
“It’s easier to have a good sense of self,” he said. “You almost feel like you’re not re­quired to abide by as many social rules. I’m separate in a positive way. I’m separate from [social] expectations.” 
Contact tara Hunt at          thunt5@ nd.edu 

more than receiving an automated, mass email.” 
Freshman Emily Pollard said this event provides an opportunity for her to personally thank the alumni who have given her so much. 
“The alumni are just as integral to the Notre Dame community as all of the current students,” she said. “Writing a personal thank-you is my way to acknowledge their continued support.” 
This year, the Student Develop­ment Committee has set an all-time high goal of 2,000 cards, Genereaux said. To achieve this goal, the event has been extended from the previ­ous year’s two-day time frame to a three-day event. 

Students who wish to partici­pate can stop by LaFortune’s Sorin Room from 11 to 3 p.m. Monday through Wednesday to sign cards and receive free T-shirts and Jim­my John’s sandwiches. 
Contact Shannon o’Brien at sobrien12@nd.edu 

SMC Cinema festival brings global perspective 
By TAYLOR COUILLARD­RODAK 
News Writer 
The World Cinema Festival at Saint Mary’s College will morph culture and cinema into five nights of intercultur­al communication this week. 
Mana Derakhshani, associ­ate director of the Center for Women’s Intercultural Lead­ership (CWIL), said there is a focus on internationalization on campus. 
Cinema is one of the ways that we get to learn about other cultures and the world,” she said. 
The festival consists of five nights of award-winning films shown at 7 p.m. in Vander Vennet Theater. 
The week kicks off today with a showing of “Monsoon Wedding.” According to a College press release, the movie, directed by Mira Nair, is a story highlighting mod­ern Indian culture with an emphasis on female rights. It focuses on the events sur­rounding an arranged mar­riage. 
Derakhshani said the main 
character must make a tough 
choice between following 
tradition and following her 
heart. 
“It is very much about the changing society and differ­ent generations,” she said. “It weighs tradition against the expectations of the young people of India.” 
“In the Mood for Love,” will be shown Tuesday. 
Set in Hong Kong and di­rected by Kar Wai Wong, “In the Mood for Love” is the story of a married man and married woman who move into neighboring apartments and bond over suspicion of their respective spouses’ af­fairs, according to the press release. 
Derakhshani said she rec­
ommends this film to anyone 
interested in East Asian cul­
ture. 
On Wednesday night, the festival will feature “Biuti­ful.” Directed by Alejandro Gonzalez Inarritu, it tells the story of a man who can see his own death and makes choices accordingly. 
Derakhshani said “Biutiful” is the most graphic film of the festival. 
“It is a dose of reality and one of the darkest films,” she said. “It will be one of the hardest films to watch.” 
“Copie Conforme” will show on Thursday. Directed by Ab­bas Kiarostami, an Iranian director, this film is set in Italy and tells the story of a British writer who encounters a French woman and the ad­ventures they have together. 
Derakhshani said it is the most diverse film of the fes­tival. 
“It brings together several different cultures,” she said. “There is variety with the director and within the cast that brings the film to life.” 
“Of Gods and Men” will close the week on Friday. The film, directed by Xavier Beau­vois, follows a brotherhood of Trappist monks during the Al­gerian Civil War. It chronicles the months leading up to their martyrdom. 
Derakhshani said it is a good film to show people the reality of a region that is not commonly known. 
“This is a part of the world where the relationship be­tween the Middle East and Europe is very tense, and [it is] an area that we tend not to be aware of,” Derakhshani said. 
Derakhshani said students, especially those unfamiliar with foreign films, should be aware that these films differ from the films of Hollywood. 
“In general, American cin­ema likes very neat, tied-up endings,” she said. “All the threads of the stories are tied beautifully. Foreign films are sometimes just a slice of life. There is no plot or, if there is, it does not get resolved. It is about that particular per­spective — that window into life. They have a lesson or a message.” 
Contact taylor Couillard-Rodak at tcouil01@saintmarys.edu 


Legion 
continued from page 1 
“At the hockey game this Friday, there will be a Lep­rechaun Legion giveaway to raise awareness and get peo­ple excited,” she said. “We’re also planning to get banners printed that say ‘Leprechaun Legion’.  They will be placed in every student section at every sporting event so stu­dents will know where to sit.” 
In addition, Stoutenburgh said students can help spread the word through the cloth­ing they wear. 
“There’s also a Leprechaun Legion t-shirt that was just designed,” she said. “We will distribute free Legion t-shirts at men and women’s sporting events, so students can wear them at every home sporting event except foot­ball.” 
Throughout the expansion process, the Legion Board has been working closely with ‘The Shirt’ committee, Cunningham said. 
“We admire the unity that ‘The Shirt’ committee has been able to create at the football stadium,” he said. “We want to work with them to continue to grow the over­all student experience with the Leprechaun Legion.” 
The Legion also utilizes so­cial media to help spread the word. Students can follow them on Twitter (@leplegion) and on their Facebook page. 
“We use the social media to frequently remind stu­dents of the various sport­ing events on campus,” Vice President of the Legion Board Tyler Moorehead said. “We also use the social me­dia to post articles regard­ing Irish teams, give score updates, post fun Irish facts and insights and notify stu­dents of gameday promotions and giveaways.” 
Ultimately, Moorehead said he hopes the expansion will entice students to turn to the Legion for all their sporting needs. 
“I think our ultimate goal is for [the Legion] to be Notre Dame students’ first stop when they want to learn any­thing about Irish athletics.” 
Contact Drew Pangraze at         apangraze@nd.edu 


Fellows 
continued from page 1 
through the Office of the Provost and other funds, has seen 47 fel­lows in its 11-year run, she said. 
“It is viewed as one of the premiere pre-doctoral fellow­ships,” McKenna said. “It put Notre Dame on the map as one of the universities putting Afri­can-Americans into higher edu­cation.” 
Richard Pierce, chair of the Africana Studies department and one of the founders of the fellowship program, said the Fellowship brought remarkable individuals to campus. 
“We’ve had some great people come through the program,” he said. “[Writing a dissertation] is a lonely process in the academic world — it’s just you and your work. To have this program and to be part of that process with these fellows is good. I get to see the best parts of the students.” 
When the idea of a fellowship program for minorities came up in a conversation with First Year of Studies Dean Hugh Page in 1999, Pierce said both agreed they wanted to find a way to in­crease the number of diverse faculty teaching in higher edu­cation. Therefore, they estab­lished a fellowship to help stu­dents finish their dissertations and enter the teaching realm. 
At the same meeting, Erskine Peters — a former Notre Dame English professor who empow­ered his students and fellow fac­ulty members — was declared the namesake of the Fellowship due to his diverse mindset. 
“Peters came here and was committed to students,” he said. “[Notre Dame] is a large experi­ment. Some say you can’t have reason and faith in one body. Peters challenged that — he showed that you can have this in one mind, one body and one heart.” 
McKenna said she believes Peters would have been honored by the fellowship. 
“This fellowship program meant a great deal to his family because he was such a pioneer in many ways to the academy,” she said. “Notre Dame did jus­tice to the impact Erskine Pe­ters had on students and the academy by honoring him with this program.” 
To commemorate the Fel­lowship, McKenna said the Af­ricana Studies department, in conjunction with the Institute for Scholarships in the Liberal Arts, the College of Arts and Letters and the Kenneth and Frances Reid Fund, will host a conference from March 29 to March 31. 
“We’re having it as a finale,” she said. “The conference is ‘Af­ricana Studies’ Impact on the Academy,’ looking at the study of African people and the dias­poras around the world.” 
The keynote address, “Mi­norities in the Academy: Then and Now,” will be given by Earl Lewis, the provost of Emery University. McKenna said Lew­is knew Peters when he taught at the University of Califor­nia, Berkeley, before coming to Notre Dame. 
There are no plans to con­tinue a pre-doctoral fellowship program like the Peters Fellow­ship on campus, McKenna said. 
Pierce said he is grateful for the Fellowship and what it taught the faculty of the Univer­sity. 
“We fulfilled the goals we had,” he said. “However, I wish we had more people hired here that came through the program … It’s difficult to think that we didn’t keep them here. Look­ing at their accomplishments, though, I’m pleased with the little part we played.” 
Contact amanda Gray at      agray3@nd.edu 


Weekend 

Public schools provide dinner 
continued from page 1 
Associated Press 
KANSAS CITY, Mo. — Too often it is after the fact that teachers discover their stu­dents are worrying less about math and reading and more about where the next meal comes from. 
So Doug White, principal of Garfield Elementary School in inner-city Kansas City, was relieved when his school, like many across the country, be­gan offering dinner to stu­dents enrolled in after-school child-care or tutoring pro­grams. 
With breakfast and lunch already provided for poor students, many children now are getting all their meals at school. 
“When you know about those situations those kids are bringing into the school and we are asking them to sit down and concentrate and do their work, and they might be hun­gry and we haven’t been made aware of it yet — we definitely want to do everything we can to help the kids,” White said. 
The Healthy, Hunger-Free Kids Act, signed into law by President Barack Obama in December 2010, provides federal funds for the after-school dinner program in areas where at least half the students qualify for free or reduced price lunches. Be­fore the change, the program was limited to 13 states and the District of Columbia. Most states had provided money for only after-school snacks. 
Since the change, districts have started rolling out dinner programs both in states newly able to offer them and states like Missouri where funding was available previously but districts didn’t always know about it. The Congressional Budget Office estimates there will be almost 21 million ad­ditional suppers served by 2015 and that number will rise to 29 million by 2020. The added spending would total about $641 million from 2011 to 2020. 
Advocates for the poor praise the program, but there have been complaints from conservatives who question whether the schools should be feeding kids three meals a day. Radio talk show host Rush Limbaugh asked on-air in November, “Why even send the kids home?” 
Dinners are funded through the U.S. Department of Agri­culture’s Child and Adult Care Food Program, which also helps feed people enrolled in ordinary lives in extraordinary places.’ And that’s what [study abroad] is,” she said. “We live there, we just really understood and learned and educated our­selves just as the Romans did.” 
Mark Buczek, the father of Kate Buczek, said his experi­ence at the Environmental Sci­ence workshop made him ex­cited for his daughter’s future. 
“Knowing now about all the opportunities that are and will be available to [Kate is hope­ful],” he said. “We also saw a physics presentation and we realized how difficult physics is.” 
Mauro Gregorio, father of Flavio Gregorio, said the event left him nostalgic. 
“I think that [JPW] forces you to think that it’s probably the last time you come to an event [here] before graduation,” he said. 
Gregorio said the week­end inspired him to reflect on where his son has been and where he is going. 
“Graduation is about how everything is behind you, and even more about what’s ahead of you outside of Notre Dame,” he said. “[This weekend] gives us an opportunity to be thank­ful for everything that’s hap­pened. It has been a great op­portunity for our son, and also to start looking forward to how his life will be like after Notre Dame.” 
Contact Carolina wilson at cwilso16@nd.edu 


child and adult day care pro­grams and emergency shel­ters. The number of dinners served through the program has grown over the past de­cade, although the USDA doesn’t currently break out how many meals are served through after-school pro­grams specifically. 
“The USDA has done a lot to streamline the requirements and made it easier for people to apply and participate,” said chemical engineer, so that was my building when I was here, and now it’s the art building,” he said. “It’s an interesting blend of the old and of the new.” 
Carol Prellwitz, Sophie Prell­witz’s mother, said she enjoyed JPW because it allowed her to meet her daughter’s family away from home. 
“We got to [know] her ‘Domer’ friends a little better and her friends’ parents — her Notre Dame family,” Carol Prellwitz said. 
Sophie Prellwitz said she was excited to show her parents how independent she had be­come over the past three years. 
“I’m proud to show them the life that I have here that they don’t know about,” she said. 
Other parents said they en­joyed JPW because it taught them more about the amazing opportunities the University has provided their children. 
Senior Rebekah Wierson, an architecture major, partici­pated in this year’s JPW. She said the collegiate workshops helped her parents understand how life-changing her time in the Rome Program was. 
“The Dean gave a really good speech while quoting one of my professors saying that Notre Dame students have the amazing opportunity ‘to live 

Crystal FitzSimons, who re­searches and advocates for after-school meals for the an-ti-hunger nonprofit Food Re­search and Action Center. “Be-
Growing number of kids fore, we did outreach in the states that allowed it. There were programs participating. But I think it has gained a lot 
identify as transgender 
of momentum and a lot of vis­

ibility because it has been ex­panded nationwide.” 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO — A small but growing number of teens and even younger children who think they were born the wrong sex are getting support from parents and from doctors who give them sex-changing treatments, according to reports in the medical journal Pediatrics. 
It’s an issue that raises eth­ical questions, and some ex­perts urge caution in treating children with puberty-block­ing drugs and hormones. 
An 8-year-old second-grad­er in Los Angeles is a typical patient. Born a girl, the child announced at 18 months, “I a boy” and has stuck with that belief. The family was shocked but now refers to the child as a boy and is watch­ing for the first signs of pu­berty to begin treatment, his mother told The Associated Press. 
Pediatricians need to know these kids exist and deserve treatment, said Dr. Norman Spack, author of one of three reports published Monday and director of one of the nation’s first gender identity medical clinics, at Children’s Hospital Boston. 
“If you open the doors, these are the kids who come. They’re out there. They’re in your practices,” Spack said in an interview. 
Switching gender roles and occasionally pretending to be the opposite sex is common in young children. But these kids are different. They feel certain they were born with the wrong bodies. 
Some are labeled with “gender identity disorder,” a psychiatric diagnosis. But Spack is among doctors who think that’s a misnomer. Emerging research suggests they may have brain differ­ences more similar to the op­posite sex. 
Spack said by some esti­mates, 1 in 10,000 children have the condition. 
Offering sex-changing treatment to kids younger than 18 raises ethical con­cerns, and their parents’ motives need to be closely examined, said Dr. Marga­ret Moon, a member of the American Academy of Pedi­atrics’ bioethics committee. She was not involved in any of the reports. 
Some kids may get a psy­chiatric diagnosis when they are just hugely uncom­fortable with narrowly de­fined gender roles; or some may be gay and are coerced into treatment by parents more comfortable with a sex change than having a homo­sexual child, said Moon, who teaches at the Johns Hopkins Berman Institute of Bioeth­ics. 
It’s harmful “to have an ir­reversible treatment too ear­ly,” Moon said. 
Doctors who provide the treatment say withholding it would be more harmful. 
These children sometimes resort to self-mutilation to try to change their anatomy; the other two journal reports note that some face verbal and physical abuse and are prone to stress, depression and suicide attempts. Spack said those problems typically disappear in kids who’ve had treatment and are allowed to live as the opposite sex. 

Riot in high-security Mexican prison kills 44 

Associated Press 
MONTERREY, Mexico — A fight among inmates led to a prison riot in northern Mexico that killed 44 people Sunday, a security official said. 
Nuevo Leon state public secu­rity spokesman Jorge Domene Zambrano said the riot broke out at about 2 a.m. in a high-security section of a prison in the city of Apodaca outside the northern in­dustrial city of Monterrey. 
Several inmates attacked oth­ers, and the fighting then spread and blew up into a riot, Domene said. Forty-four people died be­fore authorities regained control of the prison a couple of hours later, he said. 
Families of the prisoners gath­ered outside the prison pushing at the fences and shouting at po­lice to demand word of the vic­tims. 
Deadly fights happen peri­odically in Mexico’s prisons as gangs and drug cartels stage jail breaks and battle for control of penitentiaries, often with the in­volvement of officials. 
Some 31 prisoners died in January during a prison riot in the Gulf coast city of Altamira in Tamaulipas state, which borders Texas. Another fight in a prison in the Tamaulipas border city of Matamoros in October killed 20 inmates and injured 12. 
In July, a riot at a prison in the border city of Juarez killed 17 inmates. Mexican authorities detained the director and four guards over that clash. Surveil­lance video showed two inmates opening doors to let armed pris­oners into a room where the slain victims were reportedly holding a party. 
Twenty-three people were killed in a prison riot in Durango city in 2010, and a 2009 riot in Gomez Palacio, another city in the northern Mexican state of Durango, killed 19 people. 

Court reviews ‘Stolen Valor Act’ 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON — Xavier Alvarez was in good company when he stood up at a public meeting and called himself a wounded war veteran who had received the top military award, the Medal of Honor. 
Alvarez was lying about his medal, his wounds and his military service, but he wasn’t the first man to invent war exploits. 
He was, however, one of the first people prosecuted under a 2006 federal law aimed at curbing false claims of mili­tary valor. 
Concerns that the law im­properly limits speech and turns people into criminals for things they say, rather than do, are at the heart of the Supreme Court’s review of his case and the Stolen Valor Act. 
Veterans groups have come to the aid of the Obama ad­ministration, which calls the law a narrowly crafted ef­fort to protect the system of military awards that was es­tablished during the Revolu­tionary war by Gen. George Washington. The high court will hear the case Wednes­day, which is Washington’s 280th birthday. 
“They’re committing fraud. They’re impersonating some­body else. They take on at­tributes of somebody else, at­tributes of a hero who served honorably,” said Pam Sterner, whose college term paper calling for the law wound up in the hands of members of Congress. “When you do that, impersonating someone else, that’s fraud, not freedom of speech.” 
Civil liberties groups, writ­ers, publishers and news me­dia outlets, including The As­sociated Press, have told the justices they worry the law, and especially the adminis­tration’s defense of it, could lead to more attempts by gov­ernment to regulate speech. 
When he established mili­tary decorations in 1782, sev­en years before he was elected as the nation’s first president, Washington himself also pre­scribed severe military pun­ishment for soldiers who pur­ported to be medal winners but weren’t. Since then, many men have embellished their war records, and some have won special recognition. 
It long has been a federal crime to wear unearned med­als, but mere claims of being decorated were beyond the reach of law enforcement. 
The House of Representa­tives has more than once vot­ed to name a post office after men who claimed awards they never received. The Air Force named an award after a man who falsely claimed to have survived the Bataan Death March and been awarded the Silver Star in World War II. The Boxing Writers of Amer­ica named its perseverance award after the late Pat Put­nam of Sports Illustrated be­cause of his made-up tale of surviving a Chinese prisoner of war camp in the Korean War and receiving a Navy Cross. 
The Stolen Valor Act aimed to solve that problem, and garnered significant support in Congress during a time of war. 
“The admiration and re­spect for the military in­creased dramatically after 9/11 and the false claims, as well,” said Thomas A. Cottone Jr., a retired FBI agent who investigated phony award cases. 
Alvarez made his claims by way of introducing himself as an elected member of the Three Valleys Municipal Wa­ter District in Pomona, Calif. There is nothing to suggest that he received anything in exchange or that listeners es­pecially believed him. 
Even Alvarez’ lawyers ac­knowledged their client some­times has trouble telling the truth. “Xavier Alvarez lied,” they declare in the first sen­tence of their Supreme Court brief and go on to recount six separate lies in the next few lines. 
He lied when he claimed he played hockey for the De­troit Red Wings, married a Mexican starlet who made paparazzi swoon, was an en­gineer, rescued the Ameri­can ambassador during the Iranian hostage crisis and was shot when he went back for the U.S. flag. Alvarez also lied, they said, when he talk­ed about his military service. 
But the lies Alvarez told harmed no one, they said, so what he did couldn’t be con­sidered fraud. 
A three-judge panel of the 9th U.S. Circuit Court of Ap­peals in San Francisco struck down the law as an uncon­stitutional restraint on free speech and said the govern­ment might instead invest in an awards database that would make it harder for people to lay claim to medals they never won. Last month, the 10th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals in Denver upheld the law in a separate case, saying the First Amendment does not always protect false state­ments. 
The issue might never have reached this stage if not for the efforts of Sterner, and her husband, Doug. 

FDA will investigate “AeroShot,” a new inhalable caffeine product 
Associated Press “I am worried about how a 
product like this impacts kids 
BOSTON — U.S. Food and and teens, who are particularly Drug Administration officials vulnerable to overusing a prod-plan to investigate whether uct that allows one to take hit inhalable caffeine sold in lip-after hit after hit, in rapid suc­stick-sized canisters is safe for cession,” Schumer said. consumers and if its manufac-He planned to announce the turer was right to brand it as a AeroShot review Sunday. dietary supplement. Tom Hadfield, chief execu-
AeroShot went on the market tive of Breathable Foods, which late last month in Massachu-makes AeroShot in France, said setts and New York, and it’s also in a statement that the com-available in France. Consumers pany will cooperate fully with put one end of the canister in the FDA’s review to address the their mouths and breathe in, issues raised by Schumer and releasing a fine powder that are confident it will conclude dissolves almost instantly. that AeroShot is a safe, effec-
Each grey-and-yellow plastic tive product that complies with canister contains B vitamins, FDA regulations. plus 100 milligrams of caffeine The company said that powder, about the equivalent when used according to its la-of the caffeine in a large cup of bel, AeroShot provides a safe coffee. amount of caffeine and B vi-

AeroShot inventor, Harvard tamins and does not contain biomedical engineering pro-common additives used to en­fessor David Edwards, says hance the effect of caffeine in AeroShot qualifies as a dietary when students looking for a students,” Schumer said in a the product is safe and doesn’t energy drinks. supplement. The product will quick and cheap buzz began statement. contain taurine and other com-It said each AeroShot con-also be tested to figure out consuming caffeine-packed Breathable Foods says the mon additives used to enhance tains B vitamins and 100 mil-whether it’s safe for consump-alcoholic drinks they dubbed product is different from the the caffeine effect in energy ligrams of caffeine, about the tion, the official said. “blackout in a can” because of potent beverages. The company drinks. equivalent of caffeine in a large The official spoke on the con-their potency. says that it’s not targeting any-
AeroShot didn’t require FDA cup of coffee, and that AeroShot dition of anonymity because Pressure from the senator one under 18 and that AeroShot review before hitting the U.S. is not recommended for those that official was not authorized and others helped persuade the safely delivers caffeine into the market because it’s sold as a under 18 and is not marketed to discuss the matter. FDA to stop the marketing, dis-mouth, just like coffee does. dietary supplement. But New to children. Schumer pressed the FDA in tribution and sale of these bev-A single unit costs $2.99 at York’s U.S. Sen. Charles Schum-Meanwhile, an FDA official December to review AeroShot, erages, including Four Loko. convenience stores, mom-and­er said he met with FDA Com-who was at the meeting con-saying he fears that it will be “We need to make sure that pops, and liquor and online missioner Dr. Margaret Ham-firmed the decision, telling used as a club drug so that AeroShot does not become the stores. The product packaging burg and she agreed to review The Associated Press that the young people can keep going next Four Loko by facilitating warns people not to consume the safety and legality of Aero-review will include a study of until they drop. He cited inci-dangerous levels of drinking more than three AeroShots a Shot. the law to determine whether dents that occurred last year among teenagers and college day. 

Santorum criticizes Obama’s  worldview 
Associated Press 
CUMMING, Ga. — Rick Santorum on Sunday con­demned what he called Presi­dent Barack Obama’s world view that “elevates the Earth above man,” discouraging increased use of natural re­sources. 
The GOP presidential can­didate also slammed Obama’s health care overhaul for re­quiring insurers to pay for prenatal tests that, Santorum said, will encourage more abortions. 
A day after telling an Ohio audience that Obama’s agen­da is based on “some phony theology, not a theology based on the Bible,” Santo-rum said he wasn’t criticizing the president’s Christianity. 
“I’ve repeatedly said I don’t question the president’s faith. I’ve repeatedly said that I be­lieve the president’s Chris­tian,” Santorum told CBS’ “Face the Nation.” 
“I am talking about his world view, and the way he approaches problems in this country. I think they’re dif­ferent than how most people do in America,” he said in the broadcast interview. 
The former Pennsylvania senator said Obama’s envi­ronmental policies promote ideas of “radical environ­mentalists,” who, Santorum argues, oppose greater use of the country’s natural re­sources because they believe “man is here to serve the Earth.” He said that was the reference he was making Sat­urday in his Ohio campaign appearance when he de­nounced a “phony theology.” 
When pressed by report­ers after he made the initial remark, however, Santorum made no mention of the pres­ident’s environmental poli­cies. Instead, he suggested that Obama practices one of the “different stripes of Christianity.” 
Santorum walked back those comments on CBS Sun­day morning. 
But later in the day, he again criticized Obama’s “theology” — with no refer­ence to his environmental policies — while speaking to more than 2,000 supporters gathered at a suburban At­lanta megachurch. 
The president is “trampling on a constitutional right,” Santorum said of the Obama administration’s recent deci­sion to allow employees of re­ligious schools and hospitals to have birth control covered by their insurance policies. 
“It is imposing his ideol­ogy on a group of people ex­pressing their theology, their moral code,” Santorum told those gathered in the First Redeemer Church, a mega­church that hosted former presidential candidate Mike Huckabee four years ago. 
Obama’s campaign said Santorum’s initial remarks were another attack on the president’s faith by Repub­lican rivals in a nominating contest that has grown in­creasingly bitter and nega­tive. 
“It’s just time to get rid of this mindset in our politics that, if we disagree, we have to question character and faith,” said Robert Gibbs, Obama’s former press secre­tary, on ABC’s “This Week.” 
“Those days have long passed in our politics. Our problems and our challenges are far too great,” Gibbs said. 
Santorum said his claim that Obama’s health care overhaul encourages abor­tions stems from the require­ment for insurance com­panies to pay for prenatal testing, which he said will re­sult in more pregnant women having more procedures. He specified amniocentesis, a procedure that can identify physical problems in the un­born. 
“The bottom line is a lot of prenatal tests are done to identify deformities in utero and the customary procedure is to encourage abortion,” he said. 

Strategists question Romney’s ability to inspire conservatives 


Associated Press 
DES MOINES, Iowa — If Mitt Romney wins the Republican nomination for president, he’ll face the urgent task of inspir­ing the party’s conservative core and rallying them to beat President Barack Obama. 
Judging by his performances in the primaries and caucuses so far, and the challenge he faces next week, he’s got his work cut out for him. 
Even Republicans who think he’ll be the nominee worry about whether he can generate the intensity required to beat the Democratic incumbent. 
These party leaders and ac­tivists, from the states voting Feb. 28 and the most contest­ed ones ahead in the fall, say Romney has made strides to­ward addressing this problem. But, they say, he needs to do more to convince the Republi­can base that he’s running to fundamentally reverse the na­tion’s course, not simply man­age what they see as the federal government’s mess. 
“I think Romney will be the nominee, but there is still tre­mendous work to be done,” said Sally Bradshaw, a Florida Republican and adviser to for­mer Gov. Jeb Bush. “He has got to find a way to unify the party and increase the intensity of support for him among voters who have supported Newt Gin­grich, or Rick Santorum or Ron Paul or someone else. And that is going to be the key to how he does in the fall.” 
Romney leads in the delegate count for the nomination, and by a wide margin in private polling ahead of the Arizona primary Feb. 28. But the rising challenge from former Penn­sylvania Sen. Rick Santorum in the contest also that day in Michigan, where Romney was born and raised, underscores doubts about Romney’s abil­ity to ignite fervor in the GOP base. 
He nearly tied Santorum in Iowa, although entrance polls showed that more of Santo­rum’s backers than Romney’s said they were strongly behind their chosen candidate. 
Romney lost the primary in South Carolina last month to former House Speaker Newt Gingrich. More of Romney’s supporters in that state said they would support him with reservations in the general election than would support him enthusiastically. 
Santorum swept caucuses Feb. 7 in Colorado and Minne­sota, and the nonbinding Mis­souri primary. 
Romney’s challengers have risen by sounding more conser­vative and displaying sharper differences with Obama, while nipping Romney’s appeal as the most electable against Obama. 
Romney, a former Massachu­setts governor with a moderate past, has campaigned more as the likely GOP nominee, por­traying himself as acceptable to swing voters in a race where polls show voters prizing most a candidate’s perceived ability to beat Obama. 
Romney has pivoted toward the GOP’s conservative base in light of Santorum’s surge. 
He dove into the debate over whether birth control ought to be covered by health insurance provided by church-backed em­ployers by faulting the Obama administration’s original push to do so as an “assault on reli­gion.” But Romney was accused of overreaching after recently telling influential conserva­tive activists, “I was a severely conservative Republican gover­nor.” 
“In Romney’s case it’s like the difference between someone who grew up speaking Span­ish and someone who went to school to speak Spanish,” said Constantin Querard, an Arizo­na Republican operative. “The moment Romney starts speak­ing, people know the differ­ence.” 
A Pew Research poll taken last week shows the Republi­can voters nationally who think Romney is a strong conserva­tive has dipped to 42 percent from 53 percent in November. 
Romney’s campaign aides say it’s unrealistic to think con­servatives staring at the possi­bility of a second Obama term will not unify behind Romney. “President Obama is the best unifier the Republican Party could ever hope for,” Romney’s political director, Rich Beeson, told The Associated Press. 
The campaign points to re­cent conservative opinion lead­ers who have signed on to his campaign, and his support from popular rising conserva­tive figures such as South Caro­lina Gov. Nikki Haley as evi­dence of Romney’s newfound buzz. 
Michigan Republican Holly Hughes, who supported Ari­zona Sen. John McCain in the 2008 primary, said Romney is more passionate than during his failed bid that year. 
“He’s a different candidate than he was four years ago,” said Hughes, a Republican na­tional committeewoman from Muskegon County. “There wasn’t the excitement there.” 
Hughes and others also point to Romney’s winning the straw poll at the recent Conservative Political Action Convention in Washington, which attracted thousands of the nation’s most ardent conservative activists. 
Yet Michigan GOP consul­tant Tom Shields said Santo-rum, now ahead of Romney in polls Romney’s native state and where his father served as gov­ernor, is exciting people where Romney isn’t. 
Establishment Republican figures are lining up behind Romney in Michigan, including Gov. Rick Snyder. But in 2000, Gov. John Engler promised to deliver the state as George W. Bush’s firewall; McCain won the primary that year. 
“For whatever reason, Rom­ney’s not objectionable. But peo­ple just haven’t fully warmed up to him,” said Shields, who conducts public opinion polling in Michigan. “They’ve just re­fused to take the next step and marry the guy.” 
It foretells problems assur­ing the die-hard GOP activists will be lining up in November, when their phone-banking and door-knocking could make the difference in a close election against an Obama re-election campaign projected to have $1 billion to spend. 
“I voted for him. I don’t want to screw around because he’s who we’re going to end up with,” said former Arizona GOP Chairman Mike Hellon, refer­ring to his absentee primary vote for Romney. “But I talk to people who are generally reluc­tant to pull the trigger for him. More than anything else, that’s’ a problem of intensity which could be a problem in the fall.” 
Romney could spice things up with his running-mate choice, although some say an August announcement might be too late to lock in the GOP foot-sol­diers. 



page 8 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com Monday, February 20, 2012 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Say cheese! 
My favorite food is not pizza. It’s not ice cream either. Even South Din­ing Hall’s broccoli doesn’t hold the key to my food-loving heart. 
My favorite food is that most deli­
cious of animal byproducts: cheese. 
Words cannot begin to describe how much I love cheese, but I’ll try to express my lactose-laden emotions about it 


as best as I can. 
For me, a day without cheese is like Notre Dame without squirrels. I feel empty inside (literally and figu­ratively) when I go without it, and I wouldn’t dare dream of going vegan for fear of losing one of my life’s greatest sources of pleasure. 
Not only do I enjoy eating all types of cheese on their own, but I also relish any dish containing cheese, especially Noodles and Company’s macaroni and cheese and Lou Mal­nati’s deep-dish pizza. 
I love cheese so much that nearly all of my passwords are cheese-related (don’t get any ideas). If that doesn’t fully express to you the mag­nitude of my feelings for cheese, you probably don’t love anything as much as I cherish the tangy flavor of a nice sharp Cheddar or a grilled cheese sandwich made with rich Brie. 
Since I’m the most indecisive per­son in the world, cheese is the per­fect food because it comes in so many shapes, sizes, colors, flavors and tex­tures that I am perpetually sampling new varieties wherever I go. 
From Florence to France, Madrid to Munich and Barcelona to Bilbao, I spent a large part of my semester abroad tasting the local specialty cheeses of Europe. My lunch in Paris’s Luxembourg Gardens con­sisted of Babybels and a baguette, and when I came upon a giant wall of cheese in the Mercat St. Josep in Barcelona, I almost had a coronary on the spot. Apparently my failure to go into cardiac arrest means all that cheese miraculously hasn’t increased my cholesterol to a life-threatening level just yet. 
Living in Toledo, Spain, for three­and-a-half months was the experi­ence of a lifetime, due in no small part to the amount of Manchego cheese I ate with my host mom and my friends. I loved that typical cheese of the Castilla-La Mancha province so much that I smuggled a chunk home in my suitcase at the end of the semester. 
And as if studying abroad in Spain wasn’t cheesy enough for me, I also take great pride in my Greek heri­tage and will vouch for feta cheese’s status as the true food of the gods. Like any good Greek, I refuse to eat anything but the real-deal imported feta (SDH’s doesn’t cut it). 
Though my world travels have come to a temporary halt, my love of cheese will endure forever, no matter where I find myself. As a good friend once said, “Cheese brings people together,” so if anyone reading this shares a mutual love of gouda or gor­gonzola, consider yourself a kindred spirit. 
Contact Kristen Durbin at      kdurbin@nd.edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

Start your engines 
Every time I hear the Barenaked Ladies song “If I Had a Million Dol­lars,” I can’t help but start to make a list of what I would buy or do with it. In the Energy and Climate class I am in this semester, we explored the Shelly Fuhrman different “green cars” that are Ask the currently avail-GreenMan able, and I must say that one in particular captured my heart. The Tesla Roadster, an electric car that uses a lithium ion cell battery to store up to 56 kWh of energy, is the sports car of green cars. With the ability to go 245 miles per charge, from 0-60 mph in 3.7 sec­onds, and best of all, get passengers from point A to point B with 0 emis­sions, its performance is outstanding. There’s just one problem for me: I would need to win the lottery to pay the $110,000 base sticker price. 
But do not let this one price deter you from all alternative-power ve­hicles. Automakers, seeking to make an industry-changing breakthrough, are working on hybrid, electric and alternative fuel vehicles, like biofuel, natural gas and ethanol, to decrease our current dependency on fossil fuels. What’s the difference? A hybrid vehicle, like the Toyota Prius, uses a combination of an internal combus­tion engine with an electric engine. This combo engine is lighter than tra­ditional internal combustion engines, which gives the hybrid car greater fuel efficiency. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
Electric cars, like the Chevrolet Volt, operate off of a completely elec­tric motor and receive power from a rechargeable battery. Totally sold on these sleek new technologies, right? The Prius starting price ranges from $26,400 to $29,990, depending on the model, and the Chevy Volt has a base price at $31,700. Hopefully by the time we graduate (or are in the market for new cars) these prices will have dropped even further, making it more affordable to hop on the band­wagon. 
But cars are not the only form of transportation that can go green. Electric buses and trains can be found in many parts of the world including Quebec, Canada, Madrid, Spain and San Francisco, California, while many cities including our own South Bend are making progress in becoming more bike-friendly. Car-sharing is rapidly gaining popular­ity as well and is available on our campus through the Zipcar program. If you’re 18 or older, you’re eligible for the program, which includes gas, insurance, reserved parking spots, roadside assistance and a mileage limit of 180 miles per day for a mod­est fee. There are three cars available 24 hours every day of the week. 
So why is transportation a central issue for sustainability? The trans­portation sector accounts for 15 percent of global CO2 emissions, and road transportation alone consumes 28 percent of total US energy use. But reducing this impact is going to require a joint effort between both industry leaders and consumers. Consumers will rely on the industry to provide affordable sustainable options and the industry will rely on consumers to purchase sustainable goods and alter behavior for the bet­ter. And here’s the good news: You have an opportunity to see where the industry is headed by attending Green Summit V: The Future of Transporta­tion on Wednesday, Feb. 29 from 11 
a.m. to 1 p.m. in Stepan Center. 
A variety of alternative-fuel and electric vehicles, including the Nissan Leaf, Mitsubishi iMiev and perhaps even my dream car, the Tesla Road­ster, will be on display. A compressed natural gas vehicle, a propane vehicle and a Smart Car will also be revving up the Stepan Center. There will be experts on hand to answer questions about battery technology, charging stations, electric bikes, public trans­portation and more. Lunch will be served, so no excuses about needing to eat! See you at the Summit! (Don’t forget to register at green.nd.edu) 
Email your predicaments to The GreenMan at askthegreenman@gmail.com and let him answer you with a sustainable twist. The GreenMan will be here every other week to provide you with insights you never knew you were missing out on until now. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“Forgive many things in others; nothing in yourself.” 
Ausonius Greek poet 

WEEKLY POLL 
What are you giving up for Lent? 
Huddle candy Facebook stalking Super Smash Brothers Naps 

Vote by 5 p.m. on Thursday at 
ndscmobserver.com 


Monday, February 20, 2012 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 9 
Dare to be called 
I once heard a story comparing Jonah and Noah. These two prophets responded very differently to God’s calling. While Jonah originally flees from God and rejects His commands, Noah immediately obeys God’s orders. Dee Tian Jonah pushed away and resisted God, Confessions until God showed of a Christian that His will was Party Girl absolute and Jonah begrudgingly obeyed. Noah, on the other hand, trusted God’s wisdom and followed God’s will from the begin­ning. 
I’m extremely grateful and proud to have a job lined up for after gradua­tion. However, I often question if en­tering the business world and climbing the corporate ladder is really what I want out of this life — if it’s my call­ing. Growing up, I didn’t dream of be­ing a business woman. In fact, I think few of us dreamed of being where we are headed. It’s hard to remember exactly when we lost our childhood as­pirations, but at some point, we were forced to consider the realities of life and make more practical choices. 
Although I’m impressed with many of my friends’ future occupations — aerospace engineers, doctors and film directors — those who I admire most are the ones who are taking time to engage in service, something I wish I had the guts to do. 

I watch documentaries about orphan children in North Korea and feel a gut instinct to do something to help. I attend plays about sexual assault and feel a passion to speak for those who have been hurt. I feel called by God to alleviate those who are suffer­ing. Yet, a few days pass and I’m back into the routine of my life. I can push these atrocities out of my mind. We often think, after all, what can I do? I’m just one person. There has to be someone else out there who is smarter, wealthier, more passionate and better equipped for this task than I. 
Why do we so often want to act but fail to do so? Because it’s not polite or comfortable. Because we don’t think or know if it is our place. Because we aren’t the one directly hurting some­one else; aren’t we just innocent by­standers? Because we think someone else will intercede. 
All of these are valid concerns and emotions we struggle with. However, our failure to act can lead to dire con­sequences. There’s a whole world out there that needs our creativity, brains, generosity and love. Why be caught up in our own little world? 
I often think to myself, there’s no way you could work for a non-profit or commit a life of mission trips to developing countries. You want too many material things in life. And then I fault myself and feel guilty for having so much when so many others don’t. I’m afraid of missing out on the bigger picture, the grander purpose of life but I must constantly remind myself that entering the corporate world doesn’t necessarily mean that I’m selling out. It’s not going to rob me of my soul. I can still reach out to different com­munities and contribute to different causes that I believe in. In business it’s called the Triple Bottom Line: where profitability, sustainability and social responsibility meet. 
Aristotle had a fascinating view on beatitude, or happiness. He be­lieved performing virtuous deeds (aka random acts of kindness) was vital to a person attaining true happiness. However, he also believed that when a person has wealth, power, status and influence, he can accomplish even more! This slightly eases my mind. Regardless of my profession, with my resources, I can still obey God’s calling of helping those in need. 
We are all called to do what’s right, to reach outside our immediate circle of influence and to try to alleviate suffering and lend a hand in a world that’s broken. 
I think we have all, at one point or another, struggled with finding our callings. Unfortunately, most of us don’t hear God’s voice telling us ex­actly what to do with our lives. Howev­er, even if you did, would you accept? Are you a Jonah or a Noah? Will you obey God’s calling for you? Will you kick and scream until you’re forced to accept it, or will you freely accept your calling and, as Ghandi once said, “be the change you wish to see in this world?” 
Dee Tian is a senior marketing ma­jor pursuing minors in philosophy and anthropology. She can be reached at ytian1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
‘Dialogue’ the message of the Church? 
Mr. Hagwood,
 I was enjoying your article (“Church should be open to change,” Feb. 16) until I happened upon this amazing sentence: “If anything, Jesus would promote a collaborative dialogue.”
 Christ’s response to disagreement with the truths he came to reveal was not a call for “dialogue.” While revealing himself as the Way, Truth and Life, Christ didn’t waste time dialoguing with his opponents be­cause he understood when “dialogue” was no longer fruitful. He didn’t “dialogue” with the throngs who abandoned him after his Eucharistic discourse; he didn’t “dialogue” with the pharisees as they accused him of blasphemy and sacrilege — in fact he said nothing at all for most of the evening.
 Christ did engage the marginalized, misaligned and misunderstood members of his society in a man­ner considered scandalous, true. But Christ always understood that his mission, to achieve for mankind atonement and salvation through his life, Passion and Resurrection, ought not to be compromised by “col­laborative dialogue” if the pursuit of the latter would interfere with the achievement of the former.
 I was similarly baffled when you asserted that “discussion with all people ... remains the true mes­sage of Christian action and love.” The true mission of the Church, in action and in charity, remains precisely what Christ commissioned his disciples to do two millennia ago — to promulgate, teach, af­firm, uphold and witness to, with joy and charity, the truths which he revealed through his own life and teachings.
 “Dialogue” can be a good and fruitful means of ar­riving at truth, and ought to be pursued and utilized. But it must not be pursued beyond the context in which it is fruitful and conducive toward fulfilling Christ’s mission and the Church’s: the promulgation and affirmation of the Good News. Christian mem­bers of our relativized and secularized culture, and our own beloved university, would do well to reevalu­ate their own cherished enshrinement of “collabora­tive dialogue” and instead endeavor to more authen­tically witness to the truths of the faith which Christ commissioned his Church to uphold and affirm, be­cause this will be more fruitful than any “dialogue.” 
Michael Bradley
                              sophomore                             Dillon Hall Feb. 18 

Bishops and mandates 

My wife Jane and I, along with a considerable num­ber of the Notre Dame teaching faculty and emeriti, are deeply concerned about the official stance that the University may take regarding the dust-up over mandates, contraception and freedom of religion. A vast majority of Notre Dame faculty and staff were in admiration of Father Jenkins’ deft and sensible han­dling of the controversy over the invitation to Presi­dent Obama to speak at a Notre Dame commencement ceremony, and they are ready to support him again in a truly religious and rational handling of this develop­ing controversy. 
A large number of bishops complain that the Obama mandates will force them to pay for various forms of contraception in violation of their freedom of con­science because, by permitting lay Catholics to use contraceptives in violation of the “official” teaching of the Church, they become enablers of sin and evil. But whose consciences are involved in judgments on birth control? The Church has always taught the primacy of the individual conscience, and re-affirmed it in Dig­nitatis Humanae of the Second Vatican Council. What about the primacy of the individual consciences of all members of the Notre Dame faculty and staff, espe­cially those of women? In the thorny thicket of moral actions with double or multiple effects, many judg­ments have to be taken into account: the judgments of the bishops, those of the moral theologians and ethicists and those of the lay members of the Body of Christ, the often ignored Sensus Fidelium, that is, the almost universal agreement of the Faithful. 
The teachings of the encyclical Humanae Vitae 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
are a matter of discipline, not of doctrine. Teachings promulgated in encyclicals are not infallible unless the Pope expressly declares them to be so. In 1990 at a press conference introducing an instruction of the Congregation for the Doctrine of the Faith, then Car­dinal Joseph Ratzinger, who is our present Pope Bene­dict XVI, listed several examples of teachings that had been reversed, such as statements promulgated by the Holy See in regard to ecumenical activities, relations between church and state, personal freedom and the rights of conscience in choosing a religion and declarations of the Pontifical Bible Commission made at the beginning of the 20th century. To this list can be added teachings, long considered official and irreformable: the trial of Galileo, the burning of Joan of Arc, the acceptability of human evolution, the possibility of salvation without baptism, the existence of Limbo and many others. The teachings of Humanae Vitae can and should be revisited. 
Many of us see in the bishops’ present position an attempt to legislate general rules of moral conduct that they cannot get their own subjects to obey. The potential of their position to divide the faithful even further than did the invitation extended to President Obama is very real. It will only increase the well-documented drift of Catholics away from the Church, especially among the younger generations. 
Bernard Doering 

professor emeritus Romance Literatures and Languages Feb. 19 


By COURTNEY ECKERLE 
Scene Writer 
There are very few occasions where artists like Adele, Dierks Bentley, Dave Matthews Band, Miley Cyrus, Ziggy Marley and My Chemical Romance are all on the same album. 
But these artists come together to tribute Bob Dylan in “Chimes of Free dom: The Songs of Bob Dylan Honor ing 50 Years of Amnesty Internation al.” The album is an homage to Dylan as well as a benefit for the peace and equality organization. 
Dylan’s original version of “Chimes of Freedom” is the only song actually sung by him in an album made up en tirely of his music. 
As with any compilation of 73 songs (spanning four discs), they can’t all be winners. Stay away from “Bob Dylan’s 115th Dream” by Taj Mahal and The Phantom Blues Band. The gravelly swamp voice and harmonica mix just doesn’t work for some reason. It sounds less like Dylan, and more like a “Wa terboy” Soundtrack reject. No idea how Evan Rachel Wood wormed her way in, but her swanky jazz club version of “I’d Have You Anytime” is tolerable at best. 
The lady of the hour, Adele, unsur prisingly does a beautiful cover of “Make You Feel My Love,” whose side effects include introspection and an in clination to drown one’s sorrows in her voice. “One of Us Must Know (Sooner or Later)” by Mick Hucknall, sounds eerily like if Bob Dylan and Rod Stewart had a vocal baby. A solid cover as well as a genuinely interesting vocal combina tion to check out. 

“John Brown” by State Radio imme diately jolts with a Deep Purple hom age electric guitar intro, and doesn’t let up the rest of the song. Dave Matthews Band gets the honor of a live cover of “All Along the Watchtower,” which is sadly underwhelming. It starts out slow and melodramatic, and never picks up the power Dylan and a previous cover by Jimi Hendrix gave it, essential to the song’s greatness. An extended saxo phone solo was also a poor choice on the band’s part.  
Michael Franti hits “Subterranean Homesick Blues” out of the park. So good it could very easily grace a Honda commercial one day — the ultimate in happy song verification. “Forever Young” by Pete Seeger with The River town Kids is adorable. So happy and fun, a genuinely great listen with a “grandpa giving advice” attitude.  
“You Ain’t Goin’ Nowhere” by Brett Dennen adds a little bit of Cajun blues flavor in the mix. In stark contrast (in a good way), it immediately goes into the tango fied “Love Sick” with the ang sty, tight and high violin. Ziggy Mar ley does not disappoint with the iconic “Blowin’ In The Wind,” and Gaslight Anthem surprises with “Changing of the Guards” which starts off slow, but kicks in at just the right moment. 
Miley Cyrus’ “You’re Gonna Make Me Lonesome When You Go” is aston ishingly good, but also sounds almost nothing like her. So do with that what you will. On that note, Kesha’s “Don’t Think Twice It’s Alright” is as big of a disaster as it sounds — like a frog whose been gargling with Jack Daniels. 
Queens of the Stone Age do a kick bass version of “Outlaw Blues” that would do Jesse James proud. K’Naan deviates from his usual fast paced style and does a soothing and mind open ing version of “With God On Our Side.” Flogging Molly’s unique Celtic style is a romping good time on the originally contemplative “The Times They Are A Changin’ ” 
Other standouts include: “Señor (Tales of Yankee Power)” by Dierks Bentley, “Leopard Skin Pill Box Hat” by Raphael Saadiq, “Quinn the Eskimo (The Mighty Quinn)” by Kris Krist offerson, “Drifter’s Escape” by Patti Smith, “Ballad of Hollis Brown” by Rise Against, “Lay Down Your Weary Tune” by Billy Bragg, “Abandoned Love” by Paul Rodgers & Nils Lofgren and “I Want You” by Ximena Sariñana. 
You can’t deny the awesome factor with so many great artists covering songs from one of the great Dylan — and it’s for a good cause. Even if some of the tracks are less than worthy, for $18.99 to download the MP3s on Ama zon, it’s a great deal for the majority of songs that are genuinely fantastic cov ers. 
Contact Courtney Eckerle at                      cecker01@saintmarys.edu 

Label: Amnesty International Best Tracks: “The Times They 
Are A-Changin’,” “John Brown,” “Knockin’ on Heaven’s Door” and 
“Make You Feel My Love” 




By BRENNA WILLIAMS and come to a boil. Scene Writer 2. Put chocolate in a heatproof bowl and pour of the cream/butter mixture over it. 
I admit: I cheated this week. The col-3. Let the mixture sit for about two umn is called “Baking with Brenna,” but minutes to allow the chocolate to melt. an oven does not make an appearance in Stir slowly to incorporate, making sure to this recipe. However, this week’s delicious avoid mixing in too much air. treat — homemade chocolate truffles — is 4. Cover with plastic wrap and place in well worth forsaking the oven for the stove refrigerator for at least three hours. and the fridge. Frankly, some people don’t Tip: As a time saver, since you have like baking, but everyone loves chocolate, three hours to kill, prepare your top-so I felt it my duty to deliver a treat even pings while the chocolate is chilling. the oven-wary among us could enjoy. Place your truffle toppings on separate 
Chocolate truffles, essentially chocolate sections of a large plate or in separate ganache covered with various toppings, small bowls if you’re concerned about are the kind of confections you see in fancy mixing them. candy stores, not what you usually make 5. Remove the mixture from the refrigera­at home. However, they are surprisingly tor. Using a small spoon or your hands, easy and fun to make and even more fun form small balls out of the mixture and to share. roll each ball in a topping. 
Even though they’re simple, they’re still 6. Eat immediately or place the truffles special. So, make a homemade batch as in a container or on a tray lined with a delicious birthday surprise for a friend parchment paper or foil and return to the or for the Oscar party you’ll attend to this fridge. weekend. 
Serving tips: Ingredients: - Don’t let the truffles sit out too long at 
-
 1/2 cup heavy whipping cream room temperature when you’re serving 

-
 2 tablespoons butter them. They’ll get soft and become hard to 

-
 8 oz chocolate chopped pick up without falling apart. Tip: The recipe I used called for dark      - The truffles are very good right out of chocolate, but you can use your favorite the fridge or slightly below room temp. kind or even mix it up and make a batch with two kinds! Truffles look and taste delicious. They 

-
 pinch of salt are far too easy to make to justify the pric­

-
 1 tsp vanilla extract es you’ll pay for them elsewhere. So the 

-
 Various coatings next time you’re having a girls’ night in or Tip: Get creative here. I used cocoa want something fun to do for a date, try powder, powdered sugar, chopped wal-making these. The downtime leaves plenty nuts, and chopped Reese’s candies. You of time to pop in a movie or to play a board can also use shredded coconut, other game before adding your toppings, and chopped candies or your favorite kind the pay off at the end will leave you feeling of nut. like a master confectioner (with quite the 


happy stomach to go along with it). 
Instructions: 

1. On the stove, heat heavy cream and Contact Brenna williams at butter over medium heat until they mix bwillia9@nd.edu 
DAN AZIC | Observer Graphic 


Monday, February 20, 2012 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 11 

By MARIA FERNANDEZ 
Scene Writer 

Name: Rachel Boggs and Peter Perez   
                      Spotted: JACC 

Rachel and Peter wore very sophisticated and stylish ensembles for the JPW Presidential Dinner on Satur­day. They both sported classic pieces with fashionable twists. Rachel rocked a simple long-sleeved LBD (Little Black Dress) with gold and white details. She completed her look with gold flats — comfortable and perfect for the occasion. Peter styled a beige suit, a light blue shirt and a striped yellow and blue tie. The choice of colors in his outfit also looked very elegant for the activity. 
Contact Maria Fernandez at mfernan5@nd.edu 


By MEGHAN THOMASSEN 
Viewpoint Editor 
When films packed with robot wars, gang violence and stereo­scopic overstimulation are in the­aters, why would anyone want to rewind almost 100 years to the era of silent black and white films? 
For those who liked “Midnight in Paris,” then “The Artist” will be equally delightful.  Set in 1920s Hollywood, this homage to the old-style of film studies how an actor’s personality becomes a work of art through public adoration and rec­reation. 
Released during the 2011 Cannes Film Festival, “The Artist” was nominated for six Golden Globes, the most out of all the 2011 films. It won Best Motion Picture for Mu­sical or Comedy and Best Original Score. Dashing Jean Dujardin de­servedly won Best Actor for Motion Picture Musical or Comedy. The Academy Awards also seem prom­ising for “The Artist” as it has been nominated for 10 awards, including Best Picture, Best Director and Best Original Screenplay. 
This French romantic drama, directed by Michel Hazanavicius, spins a tale of star-crossed lovers, separated by the chasm created by the talkies craze that hit Hollywood in full force at the turn of the de­cade. Dujardin and Bérénice Bejo, Hazanavicius’s wife, are a brilliant pair. 
It’s 1927. Silent films are burning bright and fast — too fast. While George Valentin, played by Dujar­din, rides the crest of his fame, he deigns to recognize aspiring ac­tress Peppy Miller, played by Bejo. After a chance encounter, George jumpstarts Peppy’s “Pretty Woman” rise to stardom. 
Peppy is an utter delight, charm­ing to the core with her mischie­vous, nose-wrinkling grin and true love for George. As much as “The Artist” tells a story about Dujar­din’s wounded pride as his time in the spotlight comes to an end, it is equally about Peppy’s undy­ing devotion to a man she at first idolized and then adored, despite his descent from fame. At first, she might have just been star struck, but when George’s career suffers a devastating downfall, she remains loyal to the end. 
Peppy might have been too per­fect of a heroine if George hadn’t kept her at arm’s length for the ma­jority of the film. Despite George’s inability to accept Peppy, she acts as an anonymous benefactor to George. When George hits rock bot­tom, Peppy truly has the opportu­nity to shine. With every downward spiral, 
Peppy matches it with more ac­tions of selflessness. Like a well-studied artist, she maintains a backwards glance to her predeces­sors, solely George, while still tak­ing America by storm. It’s a won­derful combination of “Singing in the Rain” and “All About Eve.” The Hollywood scene bursting with new life and sound barely brightens the travesty of being outmoded. 
Without spoiling any surprises, the film takes an unexpected turn after unexpected turn. The musical score, composed by Ludovic Bource, the same man who worked on “OSS 
117: Cairo, Nest of Spies” with Ha­zanavicius and Bejo, is brilliant. And Hazanavicius takes the audi­ence down a psychological road unprecedented by the initially light mood of the film. Hazanavicius uses sound and silence and light and dark to make George’s despair as dynamic as possible. The result is an oscillation between pity for and frustration with George. 
The film updates its 1920s prem­ise through thoughtful use of sound and Dujardin and Bejo’s incredible ability to reflect every conflicting emotion on their faces. The simplic­ity of black and white allows for the actors to master striking facial ex­pressions. Some of the best parts of the film are the moments in which Dujardin’s and Bejo’s eyes connect and exchange wordless messages. This sort of lost, unrecognized as­pect of falling in love is enchanting. The audience becomes extremely attuned and attached to the way the actors smile, frown, cry and shout. Their appearances became the first source of information the audience receives about each character’s in­ner landscape. 
So the question becomes, then, when choosing between shoot-em­up intergalactic robot movies and Hazanavicius’ work, why wouldn’t anyone see “The Artist”? 
“The Artist” is still playing at AMC Showplace on West Chippewa Avenue in South Bend. 
Contact Meghan thomassen at        mthomass@nd.edu 

Directed by: Michel Hazanavicius Starring: Jean Dujardin and Bérénice Bejo 
DAN AZIC | Observer Graphic 

SPORTS AUTHORITY 
Lebron’s disconnect from Cleveland’s reality 
I thought long and hard about the best analogy to use for this column. 
I first considered a spurned-lover analogy, where the object of desire shat­tered your dreams after years of placing it on a pedes­tal. But no, the public-humiliation aspect just wasn’t the same, even if she left you to star on “The Bachelorette.” 
Then I thought about a business partnership gone bad, much like Steve Jobs’ departure from Apple in the mid-1980s. That didn’t work either, because the emo­tion involved just wasn’t the same. 
I kept searching and searching, but there’s really nothing that even comes close to describing how Ohioans feel about LeBron James. 
James was a hometown kid. He grew up in northeast Ohio. He understood the dif­ficulty of being a sports fan in that area. The Indians had a few years in the tal in the Garden,” he could have said in an introductory press conference in New York. People would have understood. (In fact, I don’t really understand why he didn’t take that opportunity, but that’s a topic for another column.) 

“Cavalier fans, this wasn’t easy. But I couldn’t pass up the opportunity to play basketball with two of my best friends and hang out in South Beach,” he could have said in a statement. No one would have blamed him for that — how could you? 
But instead, he called a one-hour primetime special. Every Ohioan figured James understood the region’s sports pain and that he knew better than to twist the knife. If he was mak­ing such a big deal of this, the thinking went, he must be announcing his return to Cleveland — he gets us, right? 
We all know how that story went. 
Now, apparently LeBron says he’s open to returning to Cleveland. 
“I think it would be great,” James said when asked if he would want to don a Cava­liers jersey in the future. 
He really doesn’t get it. After growing up in that culture, being hailed as the savior of Cleveland sports, 
then very 
publicly 
1990s, but nothing ever came of it. The Browns  He really doesn’t get it. After growing up in that culture, being hailed as the savior of  leaving the area in humiliating fashion …  
were, well, the Browns. (Let’s not even men- Cleveland sports, then very publicly leaving the area in humiliating fashion … he wants to  he wants to come back? The depth of his hubris is  
tion Art Modell and  come back? The depth of his hubris is staggering.  staggering. I’m not  

his heart-wrenching midnight move to Bal­timore.) The Cavaliers, though, were the most inept of the bunch. They were never — and I mean never 
— any good. But James changed all that, and the city of Cleveland welcomed him with open arms precise­ly because he was home­grown. He got it, and while he was there, he embraced it. 
Then his contract came up. 
Most Ohioans would have understood if James had just respectfully decided to leave. “Cleveland, it’s been great. But I could become immor­going to pre­
tend I know what’s going on in James’ head. But I really do find it difficult to believe he didn’t know better than to publicly torture an already-tortured city. He grew up there. How could he not have known? 
I find it even more dif­ficult to believe he doesn’t realize that it’s now too late to mend that relationship. Is he that really blind? 
Forget analogies. There are no words. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Allan Joseph at ajoseph2@nd.edu 
NBA 

Lin leads Knicks past Mavericks 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK — Linsanity lives. 
Forget the off night that had NBA fans worldwide wondering if the Jeremy Lin story was too good to be true. It’s still plenty good, all right. 
The Harvard sensation was back at his whirling ways Sun­day, and the stage couldn’t have been better — against the de­fending champions on national TV. 
Lin was Lin, and that was good enough for the New York Knicks to win. 
Hours after the opening of “Saturday Night Live” spoofed the Lin phenomenon, the point guard had 28 points and a ca-reer-high 14 assists to carry the Knicks to a 104-97 victory that ended the Dallas Mavericks’ six-game winning streak. 
“Looking back, it’s like I was watching them win the champi­onship last year, and that’s ob­viously where this team wants to go,” Lin said. 
“This is helpful to us, not just to me but to us, just to be able to see where our team can go and what we can become, and I think that’s the biggest take­away from tonight,” he said. 
Lin already owns the high­lights and headlines, and now he has some new admirers af­ter bouncing back from a nine-turnover performance against lowly New Orleans by dominat­ing a Dallas defense that made even LeBron James look ordi­nary in the NBA finals. 
After the final buzzer, Lin got a hug from a fellow Bay Area product, and someone who knows a thing or two about playing the point — Mavs star Jason Kidd 
“He looks a little bit like Steve Nash out there,” Kidd said, re­ferring to the two-time MVP of the Phoenix Suns. 
In a game of wild momentum swings, the Knicks reeled off 17 straight points in the first quarter, fell behind by 12 in the third, then pulled it out to beat the Mavericks for only the third time in the last 20 meetings. 
“I think they found something in Lin, and they’re starting to piece together a team that can beat anyone,” Mavs guard Jason Terry said. 
Steve Novak also delivered for the Knicks. He scored all 14 of his points in the fourth quarter, including four 3s. J.R. Smith scored 15 points in his Knicks debut as New York won for the eighth time in nine games. 
Dirk Nowitzki scored a sea­son-high 34 points for the Mav­ericks, who had been playing championship-level defense but became the latest team who couldn’t stop Lin. 
“I was talking to them before the game and they were saying they had an answer for Lin,” said Knicks center Tyson Chan­dler, who played for the Mavs last season, “I guess they were dead wrong on their scouting report.” 
Playing for the seventh straight game without the in­jured Carmelo Anthony, the Knicks got a huge lift from Smith, signed just Friday after returning from China. 
Coach Mike D’Antoni had pre­viously said Smith wouldn’t play Sunday since he hadn’t prac­ticed yet. But when swingman Bill Walker also had to sit out with an injury, D’Antoni needed someone at that position, and Smith hit three of the Knicks’ 12 3-pointers. 
“First five minutes was re­ally mind blowing,” Smith said. “First thing I was thinking was don’t airball your first shot. You never live that down in New York City. So once I made my first one, that really got me go­ing.” 
Lin’s turnovers Friday night matched the most in the NBA this season Friday in an 89­85 loss to New Orleans that stopped a seven-game win­ning streak. He had seven more Sunday and has committed six or more in six straight games, but D’Antoni said Saturday he wanted Lin to keep taking risks. 
That paid off Sunday, when Lin got the Knicks back into a game that had seemed to be getting away in the third quar­ter, before shooters all around him got going in the fourth. 
“I thought we had the game under control,” Nowitzki said. “And then the fourth quarter, that really got the crowd back into it.” 
Novak made four 3-point-ers in about 4½ minutes of the fourth quarter, then Lin buried one to give the Knicks a 90-81 lead with 6:51 remaining. The Mavs got it back down to two on Terry’s 3-pointer with 3:26 left, but Lin answered with a 3, and the Mavs couldn’t get closer than three again. Lin shot 11 of 20 overall. 


Chandler capped it off with a dunk and finished with 14 points and 10 rebounds. 
The Mavs came in holding opponents to an NBA-low 41.4 percent shooting. They were limiting teams to 39.2 percent during the winning streak, but the Knicks carved them up for 54 percent in the first quarter as Lin ran the offense flawless­ly. 
Lin actually started his NBA career with the Mavs’ summer league team in 2010. But owner Mark Cuban said Lin preferred to play closer to home, and he signed with the Warriors, who cut him, as did Houston in De­cember. The Knicks claimed him off waivers. 
“It wasn’t luck because there were how many other teams that could have signed Jeremy and the Knicks were the ones who went out and got him,” Cu­ban said. “So they saw some­thing and they were smart enough to go out and get him.” 
Friday’s loss may have ended the Knicks’ winning streak, but certainly not the buzz around Lin. Sunday’s crowd included Kevin Costner, Eva Longoria, Spike Lee — wearing Lin’s No. 4 Harvard jersey — and another famous Harvard product, Face­book head Mark Zuckerberg. Lin’s high school coach from Palo Alto (Calif.) High School also made the trip. 

CLASSIFIEDS  The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds.  
FOR RENT  $3,600/month. Please contact Rob or Bob at  PERSONAL  Take me back Josephine  For me one more time  I am missing someone but I don’t know who  
574-271-4060 or email robpryor@  To that cold and dark December  And take me on back to the start  
cressyandeverett.com or  Now I’m standing alone and I’m  
Six student rental for the 2012-13  bobdunbar@cressyandeverett.  UNPLANNED PREGNANCY?  I am missing someone but I don’t  Where the midnight moon shines  trying to remember  
school year.  com  Don’t go it alone. Notre Dame  know who  so bright  
Extra nice, 3 year old house,  has many resources in place to  Sometimes I wonder how I ever  
one mile south of campus at 330  WALK TO CAMPUS  assist you. If you or someone you  Now I’m standing alone and I’m  Nearly pulled us up to  started loving you  
Sunnyside Avenue.  Great Specials! love needs confidential support  trying to remember  
Three two student furnished suites   Studio, 1, 2, 3 Bedroom  or assistance, please call Sr.  Heaven by the strings of our heart  
with common living area, hardwood  Townhomes available.  Sue Dunn at 1-7819. For more  Sometimes I wonder how I ever  “Josephine”  
floors, granite, stainless appliances,  (574) 272-8124.  information, visit ND’s website  started loving you.  Take me back Josephine  
40” flat screen TV, cable, wireless  at: http://pregnancysupport@  
internet, ADT security.  www.clovervillageapartments.com  nd.eduWanted  Noontime wind can you blow  To that cold and dark December  - Brandi Carlile  

MLB 
Yankess trade Burnett for two minor leaguers 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK — A.J. Burnett’s rocky tenure in pinstripes is over. 
The Yankees and Pirates completed a trade Sunday that sends the much-maligned pitcher to Pittsburgh for a pair of minor leaguers. New York is also giving the Pirates nearly $20 million to cover most of Burnett’s hefty salary in a deal that clears the way for the Yankees to sign Raul Ibanez. 
The teams agreed to the trade Friday but it was subject to Burnett passing a physical, which he did Sunday at Pirates camp as pitchers and catch­ers held their first workout of spring training in Bradenton, Fla. 
Commissioner Bud Selig also had to approve the deal because of the money involved. 
Burnett goes from a pe­rennial World Series favorite to a club coming off its 19th consecutive losing season, a record for the four major pro sports in North America. 
“Having played in New York, I can say that playing in Pitts­burgh is ... I wouldn’t say eas­ier, but just the pressure and everything that comes along with it is less,” said Pirates right-hander Jeff Karstens, who also pitched for the Yan­kees. “That should make his transition here a little bit easier. Anytime you can add a quality arm like that to the staff, it’s going to make us bet­ter.” 
The Yankees get 25-year-old right-hander Diego Moreno and 20-year-old outfielder Exicardo Cayones, both low-level prospects. 
Pittsburgh will pay $13 mil­lion of the $33 million sal­ary due Burnett for 2012 and 2013, a person familiar with the negotiations said Friday, speaking on condition of ano­nymity because no announce­ment had been made at that time. 
Both teams announced the deal Sunday night, though nei­ther disclosed the amount of cash involved. 
“A.J. Burnett is a solid, vet­eran starting pitcher with an above-average pitch reper­toire and potential to provide us with significant quality in­nings from our starting rota­tion,” Pirates general manager Neal Huntington said. 
New York plans to use the money saved to sign a desig­nated hitter following Jorge Posada’s retirement. The Yan­kees already have been negoti­ating a major league deal with Ibanez, who spent the past three seasons in Philadelphia. 
A left-handed hitter, Ibanez has been waiting for New York to agree to the deal, a person familiar with those negotia­tions said, also on condition of anonymity. The contract for the 39-year-old outfielder would have a base salary of about $1 million. 
Ibanez batted .245 with 20 homers and 84 RBIs last sea­son. His on-base percentage was only .289 but he had 31 doubles. 
NHL 

Rangers top Blue Jackets in OT 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK — Derek Stepan scored 22 seconds into overtime, and the New York Rangers over­came a late tying goal by Colum­bus and one disallowed on their side in a 3-2 victory over the Blue Jackets on Sunday night. 
Stepan took a pass from Mi­chael Del Zotto, who faked a shot and scored into a wide-open left side of the net. 
Columbus captain Rick Nash, the subject of trade rumors — in­cluding those involving the Rang­ers — got the Blue Jackets even at 2 with 1:33 left in regulation. That prompted chants of “We don’t want you” from the disap­pointed Madison Square Garden crowd. 
Artem Anisimov snapped a 1-1 tie in the second period for the Eastern Conference-leading Rangers, who got back to their winning ways following a 4-2 loss at home to Chicago on Thursday. New York (38-14-5) has won five of six and nine of 12 (9-2-1), and leads second-place Boston by nine points. 
The Blue Jackets, who lost 6-1 at home to Chicago on Satur­day, are last in the NHL with 41 points. Columbus had alternated wins and losses the previous six games. 
Brad Richards gave the Rang­ers a first-period lead, and Der­ick Brassard tied it in the second. Henrik Lundqvist stopped 21 shots to earn the victory after taking a day off against Chicago. 
Steve Mason made 32 saves for Columbus (17-35-7). 
Nash could be on the move before next week’s NHL trade deadline, and the Rangers are a potential destination for the high-scoring forward. He declined to say before the game whether he would like to be dealt or if New York is a team he wants to join. 
Anisimov used a fortuitous bounce to give the Rangers a 2-1 lead with 6:47 left in the second. Dan Girardi fired a shot from the right point that sailed high and wide of the net and slammed off the end boards. While Mason scrambled to locate the puck, it kicked back out front to Anisi­mov, who scored his 11th of the season from just in front of the left post. 
Mason was down on his stom­ach in the crease as the Rangers celebrated. 
For the second straight period, the Blue Jackets spent most of the final two minutes on a failed power play. Columbus escaped danger in the final second of the second when the Rangers ap­peared to stretch the lead to 3-1. 
New York got control of a loose puck in the Blue Jackets’ end, and Del Zotto fired in a shot as the buzzer sounded. The offi­cials huddled around the scorer’s table as a video review ensued in Toronto. Unofficial television replays, that superimposed the dwindling clock against the re­play of the goal, showed that the puck entered the net with 0:00.1 seconds left. 


However, it was determined in Toronto that time had run out before the puck crossed the line. Referee Don Van Massenhoven was showered with boos when he made the announcement that the official video showed time expired, and those grew much louder when the television replay was displayed on the arena video board. Van Massenhoven ex­plained the ruling to exasperated Rangers coach John Tortorella before he left the ice for the dress­ing room. 

NBA 

Durant, Westbrook fuel Thunder 
Associated Press 
OKLAHOMA CITY — Kevin Durant scored a career-best 51 points for the top performance in the NBA this season, Russell Westbrook added 40 and Serge Ibaka had his first career triple-double as the Oklahoma City Thunder beat the Denver Nug­gets 124-118 in overtime Sunday night. 
Durant hit a 3-pointer and drove for a dunk to tie the game with 4.4 seconds left in regula­tion, then used the extra period to chalk up the first 50-point game of the two-time scoring champion’s career. 
He walked slowly over to his mother, seated courtside, and gave her a kiss and a hug when the final horn sounded. 
Ibaka added 14 points, 15 re­bounds and 11 blocks to become the 14th player in franchise his­tory with a triple-double. 
Arron Afflalo scored 27 points and Andre Miller had 21 points and 10 assists for Denver, which had a shot to win at the end of regulation. 
Ty Lawson, who missed a 3-pointer with 7 seconds left, also couldn’t connect on an off-balance jumper from the foul line at the buzzer after pump-faking Westbrook into the air. 
Westbrook hit a 3 on Oklaho­ma City’s opening possession of overtime, and the Nuggets com­mitted five turnovers to squan­der their chances in the extra period. 
Fans in the sellout crowd chanted “MVP!” as Durant hit two free throws in the final sec­onds to surpass 50 points for the first time in his career and put the finishing touches on Okla­homa City’s ninth straight win at home. 
Reserve Rudy Fernandez (lower back strain) joined start­ers Danilo Gallinari (ankle) and Nene (calf) on the Nuggets’ in­jury list, and coach George Karl went with his 13th different lineup of the season in 32 games. Denver lost for the eighth time in its last 10 games. The last two have been particularly wrench­ing, by one point at Memphis and then an overtime thriller at Oklahoma City. 
It was a wildly back-and-forth game from the start, with big swings in either direction. 
The Nuggets took an early lead before allowing a 16-2 Oklaho­ma City run that featured a pair of 3-pointers from Durant and Westbrook’s driving dunk. Af­flalo then had two jumpers and a finger roll in transition as Den­ver scored the final 10 points to lead 27-25. 
That was only the start of the Nuggets’ big run, though. 
Reserve Kosta Koufos, forced into action after Al Harrington picked up three fouls, had a three-point play and two layups set up by Andre Miller while Denver outscored the Thun­der 29-7 in a span of about 7½ minutes. Chris Andersen’s fast-break layup made it 46-32 with 
6:29 left before halftime — Okla­homa City’s largest deficit at Chesapeake Energy Arena this season. 
It still didn’t take the Thunder long to wipe it away. 
Durant and Westbrook scored the next six points, and Oklaho­ma City went on a 20-0 run span­ning halftime to get back ahead. James Harden’s 3-pointer got the lead down to 58-53 by halftime, and Westbrook scored the first three baskets of the second half to put the Thunder ahead. 
Durant added a two-handed slam off Westbrook’s alley-oop and a right-handed fast-break jam in a span of three posses­sions, and Oklahoma City led 65­58 with 6:04 left in the third. 
Then it was Denver’s turn again, rallying back to take a brief lead on Miller’s layup with under 2 minutes left in the third. The Nuggets kept it going into the fourth, getting back-to-back 3-pointers from Harrington just after Durant and Westbrook re­entered for a 93-84 advantage with 8:50 to play. 
Oklahoma City whittled away at the deficit, finally pulling even at 102 when Westbrook connect­ed on a jumper from the foul line with 2:52 to play. Ibaka swatted Lawson’s shot 20 seconds later for his 10th block in regulation. 

SMC SWIMMING 
Saint Mary’s ends year with sixth-place finish 
By MIKE MONACO 
Sports Writer 
The Belles finished their sea­son over the weekend when they placed sixth overall at the MIAA championships in Hol­land, Mich. 
Senior Audrey Dalrymple led the Belles on Friday with her third-place performance. The captain took third in the pre­liminary round of the 100-yard freestyle and matched that fin­ish in the finals of the event with a time of 1:07.52. 
The 200-yard medley relay team, featuring Dalrymple, senior Megan Price, junior Kristyn Gerbeth and freshman Anna Nolan, finished second in the preliminaries with a time of 1:55.31. That time was good enough for a top-five all-time Saint Mary’s performance in the event. Later in the final round, the relay team posted a nearly identical time and fin­ished in seventh. 
Nolan had other strong ef­forts on the day in the 100­yard backstroke. She finished eighth in the preliminaries and sixth in the finals with times of 1:02.17 and 1:02.06, respec­tively. Both times now stand as top-five marks in Saint Mary’s history. 
Price had another top indi­vidual finish for the Belles with a seventh-place effort in the 200-yard freestyle. 
Gerbeth, junior Genevieve Spittler, junior Liz Litke, se­nior Katie Donovan and fresh­man Julianne Divine all earned points for the team by reaching the consolation finals of their respective events. 
Saturday was the final day of action for the champion­ships and although the Belles couldn’t muster together a final surge up the standings, they showed some strong individual performances. 
Dalrymple continued to lead the pack as she won the prelim­inaries of the 200-yard breast­stroke and finished second in the finals. In both races, she had NCAA B-cut times. 
Nolan also continued her impressive performances. The freshman set a new school re­cord in 50-yard freestyle with a time of 24.74. Nolan also fin­ished ninth in the 100-yard freestyle finals and her time of 
55.15 is in the top-five all-time in Saint Mary’s history. 
Spittler earned points for the Belles in the 200-yard back­stroke and 200-yard fly with finishes in 16th and 10th, re­spectively. 
Saint Mary’s closed out the competition with a strong per­formance in the final event of the championships. The 400­yard freestyle relay team of Dalrymple, Nolan, Price and Donovan turned in another top-five all-time finish with its fifth-place showing. 
Contact Mike Monaco at jmonaco@nd.edu 
ND SOFTBALL 

Irish lose four of five games 
By KATIE HEIT 
Sports Writer 

Notre Dame struggled in the season-opening Camp-bell/Cartier Classic, snatch­ing only one victory in five games in San Diego. 
After tough losses to San Diego State, San Diego and Oregon State, the Irish (1-4) finally managed to catch a break against UC Santa Bar­bara, winning 6-4 in their second game of the day Sat­urday. Senior outfielder Al­exa Maldonado said failure to get into a rhythm hurt the team in the tournament. 
“What held us back this weekend was that we weren’t able to connect all the parts of our game,” Maldonado said. “We didn’t have great offense, defense and pitching come together for us.” 
Junior catcher Amy Bun-tin was the star of the game, driving in three of the six Irish runs with two hits. 
Buntin drove in Maldona­do in the first inning with a double to right-center field. In her next at-bat in the bot­tom of the third, Buntin hit a single up the middle that sent Maldonado and soph­
omore  outfielder  Lauren  
Stuhr home.  
Senior infielder and  All- 

American Dani Miller also had a strong performance overthe weekend, hitting two solo home runs Friday, first against San Diego State (7­4), who went on to crush the Irish 8-3, then again later in the day against San Diego (2­3), who won 4-2. 
Maldonado also performed well this weekend. The se­nior hit a solo home run Sunday against Boise State, which ended up being the only score Notre Dame put on the board all day. Boise State (7-3) claimed the 3-1 victory. 
“It was exciting to hit my first home run of the year, but I was not happy that it was the only score of the game,” Maldonado said. “I’m never happy with a loss. With a loss, the home run means nothing.” 
Maldonado also led her team in stolen bases for the weekend, grabbing a total of three. Maldonado said she is putting the losses this week­end behind her to prepare for the North Carolina Invite on Saturday. 

“It gets frustrating be­cause we hold ourselves to a much higher standard than what we’ve been displaying,” she said. “We will be work­ing hard this week to pre­pare for our tournament this upcoming weekend.” 
The Irish are back in ac­tion this weekend at the North Carolina Invite, where they will head to Chapel Hill for four games. Play will be­gin against Penn State at 10 
a.m. Saturday. 
Contact Katie Heit at kheit@nd.edu 
NBA 

Wade, James propel Miami to blowout win over Orlando 
Associated Press shortly after the final buzzer. the second straight game where getting things started. A 3-point-minutes without a point, and 
The six-game winning streak the Magic faced a double-digit er from Ryan Anderson with 8:57 wound up missing 11 straight 
MIAMI — Dwyane Wade is a season best for Miami. Or-deficit in the opening quarter. left in the half gave Orlando what shots and 14 of 15 in one stretch. scored 27 points, LeBron James lando lost for just the third time Just as they did two days ear-was then its biggest lead at 27-24. Howard only had six shots in had 25 points, 11 rebounds and in its last 11 games. lier against Milwaukee, Orlando Good thing the Magic had that the first half, the Magic finished eight assists, and the NBA-lead-Fueled by Wade scoring 12 rallied. The Magic scored the run. The rest of the half was with just 12 points in the second ing Miami Heat beat the Orlando points in the first seven minutes, next 13 points, 3-pointers from downright abysmal. quarter, and Miami took a 43-31 Magic 90-78 on Sunday for their Miami ran out to a 22-11 lead, Redick and Quentin Richardson Orlando went more than seven lead into intermission. sixth consecutive victory. 
With former President Bill Clinton sitting courtside next to Heat managing general partner Micky Arison, Udonis Haslem scored 10 for the Heat, who im­proved to 25-7, a half-game bet­ter than Chicago for the best re­cord in the NBA and the Eastern Conference. The 12-point final margin Sunday was Miami’s smallest during its current win­ning streak. 
Wade made 13 of 23 shots from the floor, shooting 50 percent or better for the 10th straight game. 
J.J. Redick, who was a late ad­dition to the Orlando starting lineup after Jason Richardson was scratched with chest pain, scored 17 points. Dwight How­ard finished with 12 points and 15 rebounds and Glen Davis — back in the Magic lineup after a one-game absence to attend his father’s funeral — scored 12. 
Quentin Richardson added 10 for Orlando, which made 11 shots from 3-point range. The Magic had been 12-1 when con­necting on at least that many this season. 
Clinton stayed until the end, even posing for a quick photo with game officials Bill Kennedy, Mark Lindsay and Rodney Mott 


MEN’S TENNIS 

Irish edge out Wolverines, 4-3 

By PETER STEINER 
Sports Writer 
The No. 30 Irish utilized strong singles play to earn their fourth away game victory Saturday by defeating No. 28 Michigan 4-3. 
The Irish (9-4) knew Satur­day’s match against the Wolver­ines (4-4) would be tightly con­tested and the match certainly met the their expectations as three matches went to three sets. 
The day started out poorly for the Irish as all three doubles teams fell to the Wolverines. Notre Dame turned it around quickly though, taking four of the six singles matches in front of a large crowd at Varsity Ten­nis Courts in Ann Arbor, Mich. 
“I thought we played really well in singles,” Irish coach Bobby Bayl­iss said. “I was disappointed in our lack of toughness in the doubles. They had a pretty big and raucous crowd that I think some of the guys let get to them in the doubles. I think we really played with a lot of resolve and toughness in singles.” 
In the top singles match, senior Casey Watt started out hot against No. 8 Evan King, winning the first set 6-1. But King fought back to win both the second and closely con­tested third sets. Even though Watt lost, Bayliss said he played some of his best tennis in the match. 
“Casey Watt, at No. 1 singles, played the No. 8 player in the country,” Bayliss said. “At one point near the end of the match, it was 5-5 and it was anybody’s match. I think that’s one of the better matches he’s played even though he lost.” 
Following early victories from sophomore Greg Andrews and junior Blas Moros at No. 2 and 5 singles respectively, the Irish were tied with the Wol­verines 2-2 with three singles matches remaining. While junior Michael Moore at No. 6 singles fell to sophomore Alex Buzzi 7-5, 7-5, both senior Sam Keeton at No. 3 singles and senior Niall Fitzgerald at No. 4 singles came up big for the Irish with three-set victories. 
“At No. 4, [Niall] Fitzgeraled played a very intelligent match in which he was outgunned in terms of firepower by his op­ponent. He mixed up different spins, heights of the ball and pace to take advantage of his op­ponent,” Bayliss said. “At No. 3 singles, Sam Keeton really held his poise . . . He had a 5-3 lead and several match points that he dropped, but he was able to muster the moxie to come back and win the tie-breaker, which clinched the whole match.” 
The win gives the Irish their third victory over a top-50 op­ponent this year. The Irish will prepare this week for home matches against Michi­gan State and Marquette. 
Contact Peter Steiner at psteiner@nd.edu 
FENCING 

Two fencers compete in national tournament 
By MIKE MONACO 
Sports Writer 
Two Irish fencers hit their mark this weekend at the United States Fencing Association’s National Ju­nior Olympics with a pair of strong performances. 
The event is a chance for fencers under the age of 20 to improve their individual standing and potentially qualify for the national team. 
Leading the way for the Irish was freshman epeeist Ashley Severson, who finished in a tie for the bronze medal out of a field of 151 partici­pants. Severson won her first five matches by scores of 15-6, 15-3, 15­11, 15-7 and 15-6, respectively, be­fore squaring off in the semifinals against Anna Van Brummen. Van Brummen advanced with a close 15-14 win and eventually won the finals to secure her gold medal. 
Severson’s third-place finish was right in line with the pre-tourna­ment expectations of Irish coach Janusz Bednarski, who predicted a medal for Severson. 
“We expected [Severson] to get a medal position,” Bednarski said. “She simply had a very strong tournament, especially since there were a lot of fencers that competed in this event.” 
Bednarski was satisfied with the result and believes it puts Severson in prime position to attain the goal 
— making the U.S. national team. 
“It really puts her in a solid posi­tion to make the national team,” he said. “Overall it was a good event [for her].” 
The bronze medal adds to a solid rookie campaign for Severson, who finished the regular season with a 37-7 mark. 
Freshman epeeist Nicole Ameli finished in 11th place in the same event. Ameli won her first three bouts by scores of 15-1, 15-13 and 15-13, respectively. She then lost 15-9 to Audrey Abend, who went on to claim the silver medal. 
Bednarski was also pleased with Ameli’s performance, especially given the amount of fencers in the field. 
“[Ameli] was very close to reach­ing the final eight and she also fenced pretty strongly,” he said. “It’s a good sign for the rest of the sea­son.” 
Ameli led the Irish epeeists with 39 wins on the season, including a 15-1 showing at the Notre Dame Duals on Jan. 28. 
Bednarski hopes both fencers can build off their strong showings moving forward. 
“Now [Severson and Ameli] have to return to collegiate fencing and in the next few weeks we’ll have some very important competitions for them to qualify for the NCAA Championships,” he said. “I think it’s a good sign that they are strong enough to perform this well and it will give us strength as a team.” 
The Junior Olympics conclude to­day with the men’s foil competition. 
Contact Mike Monaco at jmonaco@nd.edu 


ND WOMEN’S SWIMMING AND DIVING 
Team takes second at conference meet 
By BRIAN HARTNETT 
Sports Writer 
Despite success in several individ­ual and relay events over the final two days of the Big East championships at Trees Pool in Pittsburgh, Notre Dame was unable to take home the con­ference crown, falling to Louisville for the second consecutive year by a score of 758.5 points to 593.5. 
The Irish took three individual titles over the final two days of com­petition, giving them four individual titles overall. Freshman Emma Re­aney, who had claimed a victory in Thursday’s 200-yard individual medley, added a win in the 100-yard breaststroke on Friday to her impres­sive first-year resume. Reaney fin­ished the 100-yard breaststroke event in 59.85 seconds, becoming only the second Irish swimmer to break the one-minute mark in the event. 
Sophomore Kelly Ryan put on an impressive show Saturday night, taking the title in the 200-yard backstroke and 100-yard freestyle events. Ryan finished the 200-yard backstroke in a time of 1:55.56, which broke the Trees Pool record, before quickly transitioning to the 100-yard freestyle, which she won for the second consecutive year with a time of 49.38 seconds. With these two victories, Ryan now holds four individual Big East titles, which is tied for seventh in school history. 
Ryan said she attributes her success in the Big East champi­onships mainly to the encourage­ment of her teammates. 
“I think this year we’ve all re­ally connected as a team, and it’s really good to know that the team will support me through the ups and downs of a race,” she said. 
The Irish relay teams were a ma­jor factor in the team’s second-place finish, as the 400-yard medley relay picked up a title Friday and the 400­yard freestyle relay followed up with a victory Saturday. The 400-yard med­ley relay squad of Ryan, Reaney, junior Kim Holden and senior Amy Pres­tinario took the fourth consecutive title in the event for the Irish, breaking the Trees Pool record with a time of 
3:36.28. The 400-yard freestyle team of Ryan, Prestinario, freshman swim­mer Suzanne Bessire and Reaney put forth a record-breaking performance of their own, shattering the school re­cord in the event with a time of 3:18.93. 
“I think our relay teams were so successful because of the confidence we have in each other,” Ryan said. “I think it was really important for us to trust the people on the relay with us fully and know that they could do well under any circumstance.” 
Although the Irish claimed six titles, they were unable to catch Louisville, which led by three points going into the swimming portion of the champi­onships. They never relinquished their lead, pulling away in the final two days of competition to win by 165 points. 
With conference competition now completed, Notre Dame will focus its efforts on the NCAA Swim­ming and Diving championships, held in Auburn, Ala. in mid-March. 
The Irish will return to competi­tion Feb. 25, when they travel to West Lafayette, Ind. to compete in the Boiler-Make-It Last Chance meet. 
Contact Brian Hartnett at bhartnet@nd.edu 

TRACK AND FIELD 
Irish men claim fifth Big East championship 

By BRIAN HARTNETT 
Sports Writer 
The men’s team won its fifth indoor Big East championship in New York over the weekend, while the women’s team finished in fourth place — the team’s highest since 2007. 
“Everybody really came to­gether as a team and competed well, from the sprinters to the long distance runners to the field events,” Irish coach Joe Pi­ane said. “This championship really means a great deal to our team and bodes well for our fu­ture.” 
The men’s team spent much of Saturday, a day filled with most­ly preliminary races, laying the groundwork for Sunday’s finals, as 13 team members qualified for the final round. Senior pole-vaulter Kevin Schipper provided an early spark for the Irish on Saturday, winning his third con­secutive pole vault crown with a vault of 5.25 meters. 
Sitting in fourth place on Sun­day morning, the Irish pulled away from the field in the finals, earning two individual titles and several top-three finishes. Soph­omore sprinter Patrick Feeney took his second consecutive title in the 400-meter event, while junior middle distance runner Jeremy Rae claimed his second straight title in the mile event. 
Boosting Notre Dame’s point totals were top finishes in the sprints and middle distance events, as four other Irish run­ners earned all-Big East ac­colades. Freshmen sprinters George Atkinson III and Chris Geisting placed third in the 200-meter event and 500-me­ter event, respectively. Senior middle distance runner Johna­than Shawel took second in the 1,000-meter event, while senior middle distance runner Ran­dall Babb finished third in the 800-meter event. 
Notre Dame’s relay teams also posted strong showings. The 4x400-meter relay squad of Geisting, Feeney, junior sprinter Brendan Dougherty and senior middle distance runner Mitch Lorenz and the 4x800-meter re­lay team of Shawel, Rae, Babb, senior middle distance runner Zac Suriano finished second in their respective events. 
With the strong final round performances, the men’s team concluded the championships with 131 points, 28 more than second-place finisher Connecti­cut. 
On the women’s side, the Irish tallied up 79 points, good enough to earn the team a fourth place finish. 
Senior multi-event athlete Maddie Buttinger bolstered the team’s point total on the first day of the championships, finishing in second place in the pentath­lon with a total of 4,008 points and earning her second all-Big East citation. The team also qualified 10 athletes for the final round events. 
Sitting in second place before the final round, the women’s team turned in one individual title and one top-three finish on Sunday. Continuing her strong indoor season, junior sprinter Nevada Sorenson took home an individual title in the 60-me­ter hurdle event. The 4x800­meter relay team of sophomore Kelly Curran, sophomore Alexis Aragon, sophomore McKinzie Schulz and junior Rebecca Tra­cy placed second, earning all Big-East accolades. 
Piane said he was very happy with the women’s team perfor­mance, taking into account the progress the team has made over the course of the last year. 
“Last year, we placed eighth in the indoor championships, so the women’s team really im­proved,” Piane said. “We had a lot of kids perform exceptionally well, and we’re definitely com­ing along.” 
With the conference portion of the season now over, Piane said the team’s focus is now shifted to NCAA Indoor championships, which will take place in mid-March in Nampa, Idaho. 
The Irish will return to com­petition March 2, when they host the Alex Wilson Invitational. 
Contact Brian Hartnett at bhartnett@nd.edu 
WOMEN’S LACROSSE 

Halfpenny earns first victory 
By JACK HEFFERON 
Sports Writer 

No. 20 Notre Dame and its new coach, Christine Halfpenny, did not assemble this year’s schedule without early-season challenges. In opening their season with No. 6 Stanford, the Irish blazed out of the gates, earning a 17-14 victory on a record-setting day at Arlotta Stadium. 
From the opening draw, Notre Dame (1-0) appeared poised and played an extremely efficient game, especially on the offensive side of the field. The squad scored seven goals on its first seven shots, and opened up a 7-2 lead on Stanford (0-3) early in the first half. 
The Irish continued to pour it on before the break, and senior attacker Maggie Tamasitis set up three goals as the clock dwindled to send her team to the locker room with a 12-7 lead. The late burst gave Tamasitis five first-half assists, breaking her own single-half record of four from last season. 
For Halfpenny, it was satisfy­ing to see her newly-implemented motion offense work so effectively early on. 
“We knew we were going to see a different look in Stanford, who runs a different style than we’re used to,” Halfpenny said. “I was very proud of our girls because they just stayed very composed, and took advantage of their op­portunities, and they worked for them. Of those [first seven goals], so many of them had helpers, and I think that’s a sign of a team playing as a team, and we prac­tice that. That’s what you want to see on gameday.” 
The Cardinal made some key adjustments in their gameplan, and the seemingly unstoppable Irish offense was held in check in the second half. Stanford was able to cut off Tamasitis and con­trol the motion offense, which allowed them to take control of possession. Stanford was able to work for shots and chip away at the Irish lead, and soon the Notre Dame lead stood at just three. 
“Stanford is an awesome op­ponent,” Halfpenny said. “They make you work for your oppor­tunities, and as we all saw in the second half they make great ad­justments, as well.” 
As the offense began to slow down, the Irish defense, led by junior goaltender Ellie Hilling, picked up the slack. Showing the aggressive style that Halfpenny has attempted to instill, the de­fense forced the Cardinal to use more time than they had to work for every goal. 
“Our ride was outstanding to­day, and when the goals weren’t falling we were able to get the ball back, which is huge,” Half­penny said. “When Stanford was pushing down the stretch to put this game into overtime, our de­fense held them for a three-min­ute stand. Maybe it resulted in a goal, maybe off an eight-meter [shot], but we held them for three minutes, and I think we’ll be able to learn off that.” 
Down the stretch, it was fitting that the ride would put the game away for Notre Dame. As Stan­ford tried to clear with less than three minutes to play, Tamasitis forced a turnover and fed sopho­more attacker Lindsay Powell for a breakaway goal. Powell, who had never scored prior to Sun­day’s game, finished with a game-high five goals. That type of devel­opment is something Halfpenny said she hopes to see often. 
“We’re playing a lot of youth on the field and we’re going to be de­veloping during every game,” she said. “Some of it’s going to be on-field development. In the middle of the game we had a freshman learning about the slide package, and that’s just going to be a grow­ing pain that we have this year. But their effort and their hunger out there is something that I’m re­ally excited about.” 
Now, the Irish will set about conquering the rest of their gru­eling schedule, which they hope will lead to the NCAA tourna­ment after they were left out of the 16-team field last year. The next challenge on that path will be Duquesne, who will visit the Irish on Saturday. 
While preparing for the Dukes, Halfpenny will be able to sit down and enjoy her first win at the helm of the Irish program. 
“It always feels good when [what] your team has practiced translates to gameday,” she said. “It certainly feels good to be 1-0 at Notre Dame. And heading into another week of preparation, it’s nice to learn lessons off of a win. Yeah, it definitely feels good.” 
Contact Jack Hefferon at wheffero@nd.edu 
MEN’S SWIMMING 

Bass leads ND to conference title 
By MEGAN FINNERAN 
Sports Writer 

For the fifth time in program history, the Irish return from the Big East championships as cham­pions. In addition to the overall title, they also left the weekend with top individual honors. 
Tim Welsh was named Coach of the Year and junior Bill Bass was recognized as the Most Outstand­ing Swimmer of the meet. Earlier in the week, freshman diver Nick Nemetz was named Diver of the Year while coach Caiming Xie was awarded Diving Coach of the Year. 
The Irish took the title for the first time since 2009, finishing each day at the top of the stand­ings. Their 887 points at the end of the four-day contest beat out defending champion Louisville’s 859.5, leaving Pittsburgh’s Trees Pool after a very successful week­end. 
“We had a great last swim in the pool after the trophy cere­mony with all the coaches, train­ers and managers,” junior Chris Johnson said. “Everyone is quite happy.” 
The team carried the momen­tum of strong finishes Wednes­day and Thursday from the re­lay teams, Bass and sophomore Frank Dyer into the weekend. 
On Friday afternoon Bass won the 100-yard butterfly, nudging in front of West Virginia’s Taylor Camp in the finals by .02 seconds to finish in 47.03. Bass bounced back to take the gold after finish­ing third in the preliminary race earlier that day. 
The next afternoon, freshman John Williamson took the 200­yard butterfly, finishing in 1:44.74 and also coming back from a third-place preliminary time. He set both a school and pool record, shedding more than one second between the preliminary and fi­nal rounds. Freshman Brennan Jacobsen also grabbed a first-place victory, winning the 1,650­yard freestyle in 15:16.77. 
The 400-yard freestyle relay team of Dyer, Bass, junior Kevin Overholt and freshman John Mc-Ginley took the silver in 2:55.42 and contributed valuable team points. 
The team’s underclassmen had a strong showing, filling in key positions to gain points. Fresh­man Kevin Hughes finished second behind Jacobsen in the 1,650-yard freestyle, clocking in at 15:17.53. Dyer took third in the 100-yard freestyle in 43.22, fresh­man Zachary Stephens took third in the 200-yard breaststroke in 

1:57.44 and Bass took third in the 200-yard butterfly at 1:45.60. 
“I think there were some spots here and there that could have been better, but it’s hard to argue with a championship,” Johnson said. “We’re already thinking about next year.” 
The team has a break for a few weeks before returning to competition for the NCAA cham­pionships. The three-day diving portion will begin March 9 in Bloomington, Ind., followed by the swimming championships March 22 in Federal Way, Wash. 
Contact Megan Finneran at mfinnera@nd.edu 


Jackson 
continued from page 20 
the first shot on goal goes in,” he said. “I thought we compet­ed hard for the first part of the game. Then it got away from us, from just not being able to fin­ish and then giving up chances against and all of a sudden now we’re down.” 
Saturday’s contest again saw Miami get ahead early in a must-win game for the Irish, as the RedHawks recorded two goals on junior goaltender Mike John­son in the first period. John­son received both starts on the weekend, in a move Jackson said was intended to build confidence between the pipes. 
“I thought Mike settled down and played well after that first goal on Friday,” Jackson said. “I’ve been going with two differ­ent guys, and I thought maybe he didn’t have a ton of work on Fri­day night, so I thought coming back with him maybe he could start building up some confi­dence. I don’t think he had much chance on goals on Saturday. 
“So it was a little matter of just trying to see if, just like I ran with Steven for several straight games in the first part, I thought giving Mike a chance to play back-to-back again might help him build some confidence.” 
Despite the decisions in goal, Notre Dame’s problems on the offensive end contin­ued against Miami, and Jack­son said the team must turn around its inability to finish and find confidence headed into the conference tourna­ment. 
“I can’t control their con­fidence. You can try to do things to instill confidence but confidence comes from within and right now it’s just a matter of taking care of the things we can control,” Jack­son said. “We can control our effort level, we can control our discipline, we can control our execution and if we take care of those things, if we just focus on the details, then ev­erything else will take care of itself.” 
Notre Dame will attempt to turn around its colossal struggles in the regular sea­son’s final weekend against Michigan State at Compton Family Ice Arena, needing a strong performance to secure home-ice for a first-round CCHA series to be held the following weekend. The puck will drop at 8:35 p.m. on Fri­day night and Saturday’s con­test will begin at 7:35 p.m. 
Contact Chris allen at callen10@nd.edu 
ND WOMEN’S TENNIS 

Tar Heels slip by Irish in close match 

By VICKY JACOBSEN 
Sports Writer 
It felt like a case of déjà vu. 
On Saturday afternoon, Irish players and fans circled around court six as sophomore Ju­lie Sabacinski lost a three-set thriller against North Carolina sophomore Tessa Lyons, giving the No. 13 Tar Heels (7-4, 1-0 ACC) the 4-3 victory. 
The next day, the outcome of the duals match against No. 57 Illinois (5-2) again came down to the last pairing as sopho­more Britney Sanders and Il­lini freshman Caroline Price battled for the deciding point on the No. 4 court. This time, though, Sanders held on for the 6-4, 7-5 win and the No. 23 Irish (6-3, 1-0 Big East) finished on the right side of a 4-3 deci­sion. 
Seniors Shannon Mathews and Kristy Frilling, the nation’s No. 3 doubles pair, jumped to a 3-0 lead against North Carolina senior Shinann Featherston and junior Lauren McHale, but lost the next five games. Although Mathews and Frilling lost to Featherston and McHale last February, they were not intimi­dated by the sudden momentum swing and chipped away at the lead until they regained it, 8-7. The Irish claimed match point at 9-7 when Frilling caught McHale off-balance and the Tar Heel swatted helplessly as the ball glided in front of her. 
“We just stayed really focused and we didn’t give up, and I think that was really impor­tant,” Frilling said. “It’s hard, sometimes, to be up and then lose the lead so fast, but I think we just didn’t let it affect us.” 
North Carolina claimed the next doubles match as Lyons and senior Haley Hemm de­feated Irish junior Chrissie Mc-Gaffigan and sophomore Jen­nifer Kellner, 8-6, but Notre Dame earned the doubles point when Sanders and Sabacinski closed out Tar Heels senior Jen­nifer Stone and junior Zoe De Bruycker, 8-5. 
“It’s always really helpful to win the doubles point, because it kind of gives people confi­dence going into singles,” Frill­ing said. 
That confidence was appar­ent in the two quickest matches 
– Sanders dispatched Price (6­3, 6-4) and Frilling shook off McHale (6-4, 6-1) with little dif­ficulty. 
“I was really happy with how I played today,” Frilling said. “I’ve been struggling a little bit so this is the first match where I’ve felt the flow of things and felt good, so hopefully I can keep that up for the rest of the year.” 
But with the score at 3-0 Notre Dame, the tide turned in North Carolina’s favor. Kellner dropped at 6-4, 6-4 decision to Featherston. Within seconds of each other, Mathews fell to De Bruycker (7-5, 7-5) and McGaf­figan lost to junior Gina Suarez-Malaguti (6-4, 6-3). 
With the duals match tied 3-3, attention turned to court six, where Sabacinski had forced a third set against Lyons. While trailing 5-1 in the last set, Sa­bacinski tried to return the ball with a floater that dribbled its way into the net, giving Lyons and North Carolina the win. 
“It’s a heartbreaker, espe­cially when you know you’re so close and especially with a good team,” Frilling said. “We’re al­most there, so I think a couple more matches like this and we’ll be fine.” 
Although the Irish arrived at the Eck Tennis Pavilion on Sunday looking to rebound, the match was oddly reminiscent of the previous day’s contest. Illinois senior Marisa Lambro­poulos and freshman Melissa Kopinski wasted no time as they defeated Sabacinski and Sanders, 8-2. Mathews and Frilling trailed Illini junior Ra­chael White and sophomore Al­lison Falkin at 5-2 and rallied to 7-5, but eventually lost, 8-5. 
Kellner and McGaffigan took down Illini senior Chelcie Aba­jian and junior Breanne Smutko in a tie-break, 8-7 (7-3), but the doubles point had already gone to Illinois. 
Both Mathews and Frilling dominated their singles oppo­nents; Mathews beat Lambro­poulos 6-1, 6-2 and the rejuve­nated Frilling won 6-0, 6-1 over Falkin. 
With the score tied at 3-3 and one match left to finish, all at­tention turned to Sanders and Illini senior Amy Allin. 
“I just thought of my team. We were down, and I just wanted to come back and win it for my team,” Sanders said. “If I was going to lose I was going to stay as long as I could, and if I was going to come back and win I was going to do it for my team.” 
With the score at 6-5 in the second set, Allin hit the match point into the net, giving the Irish the win and a happy end­ing to what started as a trying weekend. 
The Irish will try to keep the good times rolling against Indi­ana at the Eck Tennis Pavilion at 3 p.m. Friday. 
Contact Vicky Jacobsen at vjacobse@nd.edu 

The Cardinals (19-7, 8-5) game is important from here on sport a two-game win streak, out for seeding in the tourna-
Cardinals 

most recently a 71-66 win at ment.” Pittsburgh. The game will be featured on continued from page 20 After playing Louisville, ESPN’s “Big Monday” coverage 
the Irish only have two more as one of the three games of McGraw said. “She has good regular season games — both ranked opponents the network passes and good shooting. She’s against Big East opponents — will show. Tip-off is scheduled got the whole package. That’s before the conference tourna-for 2 p.m. something we really have to key ment. on, that’s something that is go-“We need to take it one game Contact Molly Sammon at ing to be important for us.” at a time,” McGraw said. “Every msammon@nd.edu 


that’s a pretty good day.” 
Duke 
The victory marked the 10th straight season-opening win for continued from page 20 Notre Dame, an accomplishment 
Irish coach Kevin Corrigan cred­kept it on [Wigrizer]. He was ited to his team’s offseason dedi­making some good saves. We cation. were hitting him early on. We “Our guys work very hard in just kept it on and kept the pres-the preseason and I think they sure on, didn’t change anything do a good job of doing what you and they just ended up going in. need to do in the preseason, No goalie can keep up that good-which is kind of preparing your-paced tempo that he was doing self fundamentally so that you’re in the first half throughout the ready to take what comes at you whole game.” in the first game, because it’s al-
Pfeifer, who had two assists in ways a little bit of a crapshoot,” the first half, added two goals of Corrigan said. “You’re going to his own in the second, including see some things you know, but the final tally to ice the game. a lot that you haven’t, so I think 
The Irish offense could afford fundamentals are real impor­a lack of finishing early thanks tant early on.” to the play of their defense and The result is a little bit of déjà Irish junior goaltender John vu for the Irish, who also de-Kemp, who held a Duke of-feated Duke to open last season fense that notched 16 goals in after falling to the Blue Devils in its season opener to just three the NCAA championship in 2010. Saturday. Kemp finished with Because of that, while Pfeifer an impressive 14 saves and af-know Saturday’s win was big, ter the Blue Devils (1-1) went up there’s still a lot of season left to 2-0 with 10:42 left in the second be played, he said. quarter, Notre Dame did not al-“It’s big. It feels good right low another goal until just 18 now, but it’s just the first game,” seconds remained in the contest. Pfeifer said. “[What] really mat­
“I thought we just came out ters [is] the last game at the end and played well,” Kemp said. of May. So that’s what we’re 

a rally and scored four runs to the team learned a lot about its “We didn’t really make that working for but it feels good right 
Aoki 

take a 5-2 lead. Hudson contin-strengths and weaknesses by many mistakes. Defensively, we now. Good win, good team effort. 
ued to make contact at the plate facing challenges early in the didn’t really give up that many [We will] enjoy it now and then 
continued from page 20 for the Irish, going 2-for-2 with season. good shots. And thankfully, the get back to work next week.” 
two doubles and a RBI. “We need to address our sixth, good shots that they did get I was The Irish are back in action 
he throws a lot of pitches that In the final game of the week-seventh and eighth innings so able to stop a couple of them, so Sunday when they host No. 18 
force the hitters to make bad end, Notre Dame fell to rival that we can get the ball to Dan-I think we’re pretty happy. We Penn State. 
contact early in the count.” Purdue 15-8. The Irish held the ny Slania to close it out,” Aoki gave up three goals against the 
Iowa pitcher Matt Dermo-lead until the Boilermakers (3-0) said. “For the first weekend, we No. 2 team in the country. I think Contact Sam Gans at sgans@nd.edu 
dy could not find the plate, scored nine runs in the sixth in-played infinitely better offen­
throwing 113 pitches in 4.2 ning. sively than we did at any point 
innings. Despite Norton’s “We need to give credit where last year. 
strong performance and Der-credit is due as Purdue played “We will just continue to get 
mody’s struggles, the Irish a great game, but in large part better game by game and hope-
still found themselves down the sixth inning was also our fully improve throughout the 
2-1 for most of the game. own creation,” Aoki said. “If we season.” 
In the fifth inning, Dermo-had given up only two or three The Irish will look to improve 
dy walked the bases loaded runs in that inning, it would against every opponent, start-
and found himself in a jam. have been a different ball game. ing Saturday when they have a 
Iowa pitcher Ricky Sandquist We threw some balls away and double-header against Hofstra 
replaced Dermody, though, could not find the strike zone in Cary, N.C. 
and shut the Irish down to es-well, and Purdue capitalized.” 
cape the inning. In the eighth While the Irish could not ac-Contact Brendan Bell at 
inning, the Irish finally made complish the Big Ten sweep, bbell2@nd.edu 
five assists played a huge factor in getting the Irish to overtime, 
Comeback 
but once overtime began, Con­naughton stole the spotlight. The continued from page 20 freshman sharpshooter knocked 
down two decisive 3-pointers: three-point play, gave the Irish one to take the lead and one to their first lead since the game’s seal the victory with 45 seconds opening minutes. left and a six-point lead. 
Sophomore guard Jerian Junior forward Jack Cooley Grant added a critical 3-pointer also added his fourth-straight to extend the lead to four, but the double-double with 18 points Wildcats (11-15, 4-10) came back and 13 rebounds. with some late heroics of their Notre Dame fought off a strong own to send the game to over-shooting night from Villanova time. Following two clutch free freshman forward JayVaughn throws from guard Dom Cheek, Pinkston (24 points), who had to center Maurice Sutton’s putback fill the scoring void of the Wild-with 0.9 seconds left tied the cats’ injured leading scorer, ju­game at 60. nior guard Maalik Wayns. But 
“Because we did it before in the Irish as a group, Brey said, Morgantown, we talked at the pulled through against the odds, 12-minute mark about getting drawing comparisons to anoth­[the lead] to 11 and at the eight-er basketball star. minute mark into single-digits,” “[After the Gonzaga loss] I was Brey said. “We just had to keep thinking if we somehow pull off game pressure on them because [making it to] the NIT I’m having at some point [Villanova] is go-a parade,” he said. “And that’s ing to have to win it. We had what’s great about sport. You nothing to lose because we were never know. probably supposed to get blown “But collectively we are kind out anyways after everybody of like a Jeremy Lin. I told our watched the first half. So you be-staff the other day, Jeremy Lin come loose in the game. and the Irish. Believe it.” 
“And that is where we have Notre Dame will return been on the road a couple of home to face West Virginia on times. Grant, Atkins and Con-Wednesday, looking to extend its naughton are fearless guys. They season-high winning streak. really make some big plays.” 
Grant’s 10 points and nine as-Contact andrew Gastelum at sists and Atkins’ 17 points and agastel1@nd.edu 





WILL SHORTz 
HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 
CROSSWORD 



THE LONDON EXPRESS ALEx GRISWOLD and LEE HAGGENJOS 
JUMBLE HENRy ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 




Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 

Make checks payable to The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556

 Enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year


 Enclosed
 is $75 for one semester 


Name ____________________________________________________ Address __________________________________________________ City ____________________ State___________ Zip______________ 

Monday, February 20, 2011 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 20 
MEN’S BASKETBALL 

Crazy eighth 
Overtime win ups win streak to eight 
By ANDREW GASTELUM 
Sports Writer 
Add an improbable comeback victory to the improbable eight-game winning streak. 
No. 23 Notre Dame rallied from a 20-point deficit to cap a 74-70 come-from-behind over­time win at Villanova, led by four players in double-digit scoring. 
“What a night,” Irish coach Mike Brey said to und.com in a postgame interview. “We had a little bit of that look that we had at Louisville and West Virginia and I used that as a reference point at halftime. [I told them to play in] four minute segments and play those last five minutes like we did in Morgantown, just fearlessly with nothing to lose.” 
Down 20 late in the first half, the Irish (19-8, 11-3 Big East) spent most of the second half chipping away at the Villa-nova defense with a barrage of 3-pointers and a ruthless zone defense that only gave up five Wildcat field goals in the entire second half. Freshman guard Pat Connaughton’s 21 points 
— all from a career-high seven 3-pointers — led the way for the Irish. 
“We made big shots. Going zone helped us in the second half because it kept our big guys closer to the bucket and we could rebound a little better,” Brey said. “I just think we are special. I really do … It’s a great win for a group that really be­lieves in itself.” 


The Irish made their big­gest run with just over four minutes left in the second half, scoring 13 unanswered points in a three-minute span. Sopho­more guard Eric Atkins’ acro­batic layup, which led to a 
see COMEBACK/page 18 

ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 
McGraw not worried about week-long layoff 
By MOLLY SAMMON 
Sports Writer 
The No. 4 Irish will take on No. 19/16 Louisville tonight at the Cardinals’ KFC Yum! Center, marking the 10th time Notre Dame has faced a ranked opponent this season. 
“Louisville has a great team,” Irish coach Muffet Mc­Graw said. “They’re 10-1 at home. It’s tough to be here.” 
Both teams had the last week off from play, as both the Irish and Cardinals won their last games against Big East opponents nearly one week prior to tonight’s contest. 
“We had a good break,” Mc­Graw said. “I think it was a good mental break as well as a physical break. We’re feel­ing really good.” 
Notre Dame has a 7-4 ad­vantage over Louisville and 3-1 record on the road against the Cardinals. 
The last time the Irish (25­2, 12-1 Big East) took to the court, they beat Providence 66-47 at home on Feb. 14. Ju­nior guard Skylar Diggins put up 19 points, and fifth-year senior forward Devereaux Pe­ters matched Diggins’ 19 points for the Irish and added 11 re­bounds against the Friars. 
“I think Skylar [Diggins] has been playing extremely well, as well as Devereaux [Peters], and [sophomore forward] Nat­alie Achonwa,” McGraw said. “Especially for [senior guard] Natalie Novosel, this is a good game for her being from Ken­tucky. But we’re all really ready to play.” 
Novosel will face two familiar players. Both Louisville junior guard Tia Gibbs and senior for­ward Monique Reid joined No­vosel as the top three Kentucky high school women’s basketball players. Novosel took second place to Gibbs in Kentucky’s Miss Basketball prize in 2008, and Reid followed Novosel in third place. 
Cardinal sophomore point guard Shoni Schimmel leads the team in scoring, steals and assists on a squad that returns four of the five starters they had on last year’s Sweet 16 team. 
“Schimmel is really good,” 
see CARDINALS/page 17 
MEN’S LACROSSE 
Defense, goaltending shut down Blue Devils 

EILEEN VEIHMEYER/The Observer 
Sophomore attack Westy Hopkins, left, looks for the goal during Notre Dame’s 7-3 win over Duke on Saturday at Arlotta Stadium. 
By SAM GANS 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame’s 2011 season came to a close at the hands of Duke in a 7-5 loss in the quarter­finals of the NCAA tournament. This year, the No. 9 Irish opened their season with a bit of revenge thanks to a 7-3 win over the No. 2 Blue Devils at Arlotta Stadium on Saturday. 
After falling behind 2-0 early in the second quarter, Notre Dame (1-0) took control of the game, scoring four goals in the second stanza to take a 4-2 lead into halftime and sending the sold-out crowd of 2,053 into a frenzy. 
Duke goaltender Dan Wigrizer frustrated Irish shooters early, making 11 saves before Irish senior captain and attackman Nicholas Beattie fired a hard shot from 10 yards out past the netminder with 9:28 left in the half to get Notre Dame on the board. Beattie, who was cross­checked just after releasing the shot, was injured on the play and did not return to the game. 
Wigrizer had only one more save in the half after Beattie’s goal, as a trio of sophomores each found the back of the net to give the Irish a two-goal cush­ion. Attackmen Westy Hopkins and Ryan Mix and midfielder Jim Marlatt all scored within two minutes of each other near the end of the half. 
“We didn’t really change anything with our shooting,” Irish senior captain and mid­fielder Max Pfeifer said. “We 
see DUKE/page 18 
BASEBALL 

Irish win two on opening weekend 
By BRENDAN BELL 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame got the better of the Big Ten Conference over the weekend in the Big Ten/Big East Challenge, defeating Illi­nois and Iowa before falling to Purdue. 
Junior catcher Joe Hudson set the tone for the weekend in Friday’s 13-12 win against Illi­nois (1-2) by hitting a go-ahead solo shot in the top of the ninth inning. Hudson went 3-for-4 with two home runs and four RBIs for the game. 
“In Joe Hudson’s case the numbers speak for them­selves,” Irish coach Mik Aoki said. “He swung the bat really well, but also looked comfort­able up there and had big hits in timely moments.” 
Sophomore first baseman and 2011 Big East Rookie of the Year Trey Mancini went 4-for-5 with a home run and three RBIs. Senior left-handed pitcher Steve Sabati­no made a return to the mound for the first time since 2010 after coming off Tommy John surgery, tossing four innings of relief. Sophomore right-handed pitcher Dan Slania earned the victory for the Irish, pitching 2.2 innings while allowing only one run in relief. 
Saturday’s game against Iowa (1-2) was played at a different pace, as Notre Dame (2-1) or­chestrated a late rally to win 5-2. Junior right-handed pitcher Adam Norton threw a complete game and did not surrender a run to the Hawkeyes in the final 
7.1 innings. Norton tallied four strikeouts and only gave up one walk to the Hawkeyes. 
“After a slugfest Friday, it was great to have Adam go out there and be able to give the bullpen a rest,” Aoki said. “We had Dan Slania available, but there is a reason that we have Adam Nor­ton in that second spot in the pitching rotation. He has the ability to go deep in games and 
see AOKI/page 18 
HOCKEY 

Losing streak stretched to five 
By CHRIS ALLEN 
Sports Writer 
No. 13 Notre Dame came into this past weekend’s series with Miami needing to post a strong performance and turn around a season that is quickly getting away from them. Instead, the No. 19 RedHawks handed the Irish 3-0 and 4-1 defeats and sent them into the last weekend of the regular season on a five-game losing streak. 
In strong contention for a first-round bye in the CCHA tournament just two weeks ago, Notre Dame (16-15-3, 11-12­3-0 CCHA) was outscored 15-2 in its last four games and now sits tied for eighth in the conference with 36 points — 17 points be­hind conference-leading Ferris State. 
“It’s just been a consistent frustration as far as the inability to score goals, and especially if we get power play situations, be­ing able to play patient enough not to give up chances against it that lead to goals,” Irish coach Jeff Jackson said. “Right now, it’s unacceptable how we’re playing.” 

The Irish controlled the flow of play in Friday’s contest, out-shooting the RedHawks 31-16 on the game. Miami senior goal­keeper Connor Knapp stopped all 31 of Notre Dame’s shots, however, and the RedHawks went up for good on their first shot on goal, as freshman for­ward Blake Coleman scored just 
2:08 into the first period. Jackson said Coleman’s goal was a game-changer. 
“It looked like we were ready to play on Friday night and again 
see JACKSON/page 17 






