

COMMENTARY 

irish can learn from other teams 


Andrew Owens 
assistant managing editor 
2012 is a fresh start. a turned page. 
after a potential bowl championship series sea­son was cast aside in 2011 because of a bumbling irish offense that failed to consis­tently protect the football, this season represents a new opportunity. 
a new identity. 
sure, all-everything re­ceiver michael Floyd has de­parted, but there are enough playmaking threats on the unit to turn some heads. 
The only question is how to maximize the current crop of talent, and who to emulate with the 2012 personnel. 
Stanford’s three tight ends 
because of notre dame’s talent pool at tight end — even after the loss of junior tight end alex Welch to a season-ending acL tear — it only makes sense to trot out a pair of tight ends in most packages. 
Look at the effectiveness of that strategy with last year’s stanford team that finished 11-2 with a Fiesta bowl ap­pearance. Three tight ends combined for more than 1,300 yards and 20 receiv­ing touchdowns, led by coby Fleener’s 10. 
The personnel not only aided the cardinal passing attack, but also enhanced the ground game. With an extra tight end on the field, stanford essentially carried an added offensive line­man on most plays, helping stepfan Taylor rush for 1,330 yards and 10 touchdowns. 
With senior Tyler eifert and physical specimen sophomore Troy niklas, Kelly should take advantage of the position’s depth and center the game plan around the pair and sophomore ben Koyack. The irish rushing at­tack should even exceed the output of stanford’s, because notre dame possesses four legitimate starting threats at the position. 
“[stanford] did a great job of utilizing them,” Kelly said. “We had better do a good job of utilizing them as well.” 
USC’s stable of backs 
another blueprint the irish might consider belongs to (gasp!) their archrivals from sunny southern california. 
Usc has been ‘running back U’ during the past de­cade, developing talents from reggie bush and Lendale White to Joe mcKnight and now silas redd. While the program’s quarterbacks haven’t been too shabby, ei­ther, it’s been the depth of the ground game that has been so impressive. 
When one blue-chip player graduates or is lost to injury, you can bet there is a five-star replacement ready to take his place. 
sophomore amir carlisle, currently hampered by an ankle injury, transferred to notre dame from running back U last spring. even with redd’s transfer to the Trojans, the irish appear to have more depth at the posi­tion than their West coast counterpart for the first time in ages. 
although it’s the quarter­backs who are typically the centerpiece of a brian Kelly offense, the irish should play to their strengths and take advantage of a versatile and deep cadre of running backs. 
Communication is key 
regardless of the form the offense embraces, it appears clear the unit has upgraded in some key aspects. 
When former offensive coordinator charley molnar landed a head coaching gig at massachusetts, Kelly chose communication and trust above all else with his selec­tion of chuck martin to fill the position. 
so far, so good. 
“i think we’re effectively communicating in some of the areas we’ve wanted to improve on from last year — we’ve carried that over,” Kelly said. “The dynamics are re­ally good in that we’re on the same page the whole game.” 
What Kelly needed out of the coordinator role more than anything else is what he’s gotten: communica­tion. more important than martin’s pre-notre dame of­fensive background was the way the two coaches click. combine that with Kelly’s newfound approach as team ceo, and the unit might co­alesce nicely. 
Perhaps the brightest feather in notre dame’s cap is a change at quarterback. out with Tommy rees; in with everett Golson, a player, as you’ll read on the next page, poised enough to usher in a new-look irish offense, whatever it resembles. 
in the end, maybe the irish don’t need to emulate stanford. or Usc. running the notre dame offense might just do the trick. 
Contact Andrew Owens at aowens2@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

RECRUITING 


Smith, Bivin headline weekend visits 
By CHRIS ALLEN 
sports editor 
as the irish return to notre dame stadium for the first time since nov. 16, do not look for a throng of eager recruits trailing the current team on the tradi­tional player walk. instead, look for the faces that have made up the list of commitments for the growing recruiting class of 2013 so far. 
The irish coaching staff will return a number of commit­ments from future classes to campus for this weekend’s home opener and hope to fur­ther sell them on notre dame. 
“right now, the visit list for this weekend is looking a lot like a bunch of the 2013 commit­ments, and there will certainly be some 2014 commitments as well,” irish recruiting expert mike Frank said. “[offensive linemen] hunter bivin, steven elmer, [outside linebacker] Jaylon smith and [receiver] Justin brent are all guys who are expected to be in town.” 
With 19 commitments al­ready secured in the 2013 class, the irish recruiting staff can now focus in on targeting spe­cific needs, including bring­ing in some top talents in the defensive backfield. Frank said the irish will host several top cornerbacks in a marquee recruiting weekend sept. 22 against michigan. 
“i think if there is any spe­cific place that the staff is look­ing where they still need to do some work, it is in the defensive backfield at the cornerback po­sition,” said Frank, who runs the esPn-affiliated irish sports daily. “They will be hosting some of the better cornerbacks in the country on michigan weekend when [corners] Priest Willis and cole Luke take their visits. if there’s any other spots beyond that they are looking to pick up commitments, it’ll be at pass rusher and probably a speed receiver.” 
one evolving aspect of the irish program that will be on display for young recruits this season is a group of modern initiatives embraced by notre dame for the first time. The public address system will in­stitute more widespread mu­sic throughout the stadium, the team will play its first full season with enhanced gold helmets and the program has unveiled ultra-modern uni­forms for the oct. 6 shamrock series contest against miami in chicago. 
irish coach brian Kelly has also floated talk of a future JumboTron and FieldTurf in 
Paid adverTisemenT 

notre dame stadium — to the chagrin of many alumni. Frank said these elements are becom­ing necessary to attract top tal­ent in the college game. 
“While i think kids do value the tradition of notre dame, it is also one of the programs in the country where you will get the most exposure,” Frank said. “i think kids view this as … the bigger and brighter the lights, the better it gets. There’s a reason you see new and differ­ent uniforms for the shamrock series, and it’s certainly not for adidas to pump money into it. it’s to attract the younger generation. 
“it’s for the kids. i can’t tell you how many times during a football game i’ve seen a bunch of recruits just sitting on their hands. You want to see smiles on their faces, and the bigger the stage, the more you’ll see them smile. That’s why even though the alums may not like it, i think you’ll see a JumboTron.” 
For more on Notre Dame recruiting, check out Mike Frank’s irishsportsdaily.com 
Email Mike at mikefrank18@sbcglobal.net and tell him The Observer sent you. 
Contact Chris Allen at callen10@nd.edu 


ndsmcobserver.com | FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 7, 2012 | The observer 


i’ll come to the dorm after a long and playing what i feel,” Golson but i just took it as if i see it, i have in front of 51,000 people or what-

By ANDREW GASTELUM 

associate sports editor day and just get on the keyboard said. “i think that is what trans-to work towards it and not stop ever it was,” Golson said of his and just relax. lates over to the field also. being until i get it.” first start. ”it wasn’t really nerve-
as a quarterback, on the field “When i was a kid, all my fam-able to improvise allows me to Then on aug. 22, the o’neill wracking. For the most part i was with white laces at his fingertips, ily played [piano]. That part of be out there as a guy just trying resident found a visor on his hel-calm, but who helped the most he has to trust his keys. my family is just really musical. to make a play. “ met in the locker room and knew were the veteran teammates.” 
as a musician, on the stage i actually started by playing the but relying on the art of play-immediately what that meant. in his first collegiate start, with black and white ivory at drums and went to the keyboard ing quarterback could only get “There’s a funny story about Golson eased into his role with his fingertips, he has to trust his and started tinkering around him so far, though it did help him that,” Golson said. “coach Kelly nearly-symphonic finesse, keys. with the piano. i just sort of rack up 11,634 passing yards and and i had this so-called deal. throwing for an efficient 144 
but notre dame’s key per-picked it up and loved it.” 151 touchdowns during his high When i came in i actually want-yards and a touchdown on 12-for­former, sophomore quarterback school career in myrtle beach, ed a visor right off. and so i asked 18 passing. While an ill-advised everett Golson, doesn’t want the The art and the science s.c. since day one at notre coach Kelly: ‘i’m ready for the vi-interception showed the sopho­attention. Golson had the art under dame, irish coach brian Kelly more’s inexperience, Kelly said 
“To be honest i don’t like the control, as seen in his well-stressed to Golson that he would 

Golson’s mentality showed the spotlight, but it doesn’t get to me documented appearance at the have to work on the science to 
poise of a maestro in the making. either,” Golson said with a twist champs sports bowl talent show succeed. 
“Playing the “This is a process for everett,” of irony. in december. improvisation “i would just stay in the film 
Kelly said Tuesday. “This will be 

quarterback 
The new star of the notre came easy when gliding across room [in the offseason]. Like a continuation week-to-week 


position at 
dame offense prefers his free the keys of a grand piano, as did coach Kelly said in the spring of growing as a quarterback. i


Notre Dame is 
time private, his day run on his relying on instinct. game, i really had the art of it but 

guess what i like the most in the own time. but it always finds its “Yeah i think there’s an art not the science,” Golson said in 
more than just big picture sense was his com-way to end on a high note at the and a science to [the piano], but an aug. 23 press conference. “i 
fortable place out on the field. 

what you do on 
keys that serve a special mean-i honestly think i don’t have the kept going back to that. i think he did not seem overwhelmed 


the field.” 
ing to the south carolina native. science to that. i play it all by ear. that was really what i devoted 

at any time. he was extremely “There is a lot of relaxation in so i can really do most of the most of my time to, just being in 
Brian Kelly communicative when he got to [playing the piano] for me,” the stuff like that and give it my all. the film room and getting com-
Irish coach the sideline. he could tell me sophomore said.  “many times but it’s me mostly improvising fortable reading defenses.” 
what was going on. Those are asked what he did in the off-
all big picture, good things, after season to compete for the start-game one.” ing job, Golson replied with sor, can i get a visor?’ and what Kelly’s role as head coach one simple word critical to his he told me was, “You won’t get changed immensely this season, time as a musician, and even the visor until you start here.” with a major focus on working more so to his future as a college From my perspective it was a lit-with the quarterbacks. but Kelly quarterback. tle monumental of me just to get had a vision for his young pro­
“repetition,” he said. “Just the visor … it kind of just showed tégé, especially when Golson knowing what i had to do and up on my helmet. asked how he could improve. continuing to do that allowed “The visor is a good story to “What i talked about was that me to grow and get better along tell but more so, it’s about what it playing the quarterback position the way.” represented and me just coming at notre dame is more than just 
from where i was to where i am what you do on the field,” Kelly The announcement now.” said. “and i used [former baylor 
Golson’s notre dame career The announcement was made quarterback] robert Griffin as a began as an early enrollee in the to the public the very next day. great example as an ambassador 2010 spring semester; he hoped Golson had gone from underdog of college football, and i said, lis­to get an early start on college to top dog in a matter of months. ten, all you have to do is take a life and the irish offense. The “it definitely means a lot. i look at his heisman acceptance dual-threat quarterback sat the know that with this comes a lot speech and how he was able to season out, but traveled with the of responsibility, so i am not go-articulate his experience and team and gained valuable expe-ing to rejoice in it [too much],” how it was more than just play­rience behind the scenes of the Golson said at the aug. 23 press ing the game.” offense he hoped to someday conference. “Like i said, i am For Golson, it had become run. happy about it, but i also under-more than just playing the game. 
at the beginning of the 2012 stand that it is time to go to work it was about finding something quarterback battle, junior right now.” within himself: something that Tommy rees had a 12-4 record might not be attributed to an as a starter on his resume, ju-Time to go to work art or a science, a piano or a pig­nior andrew hendrix had seen Last week, Golson boarded skin, but simply to grabbing hold time as a backup quarterback the team plane as he had done of the will to persevere when in 2011 and incoming freshman all last season. he was the same counted out. Gunner Kiel was the top-rated person as before, but now with “[being the notre dame quar­high-school quarterback in the a new load placed solely on the terback] means a lot. it really nation. 19-year-old. he was off to dublin does,” Golson said with quiet 
Then there was Golson, whose at the helm of the irish offense humility. biggest accomplishment in an for the first time. but what most “honestly, it goes a long way to irish uniform was a 120-yard, thought would be a burden to a show what hard work and dedi­two-touchdown performance in young quarterback turned out cation can do. i think it was just the 2012 blue-Gold Game. to be a transatlantic blessing in about me and [those around me] 
but he still believed in himself. disguise. pushing me to be the best that i 
“You’ve got to. if you can’t see “i have to admit, [going away to can be.” it, it probably won’t happen,” dublin] helped, since we really Golson said. “i had to have that had no clue about what was go-Contact Andrew Gastelum at vision. it was nothing granted, ing to happen over there playing agastel1@nd.edu 





Observer File Photo Observer File Photo 
PURDUE PASSING midshipmen to their lowest rushing 
Fifth-year senior caleb Terbush total (149 yards) in almost two years. returns from his one-game suspen-Led by senior linebacker manti Te’o, sion for violating team rules and will the irish defense forced five fumbles certainly look to make an impres-and will try to shut down the running sion in one of the boilermakers’ big-game early as it did last year in order to gest games. Terbush poses more of a put the focus on Terbush and the pass-rushing threat than sixth-year senior ing attack. robert marve Last season, Terbush EDGE: NOTRE DAME threw for 101 yards and a touchdown on 10-for-15 passing and poses a much PURDUE OFFENSIVE COACHING bigger running threat than marve, boilermakers coach danny hope who started in last week’s 48-6 romp has his squad healthy and will look over eastern Kentucky. to push the passing game, especially 

meanhwhile, Purdue is young at the against inexperienced irish corners. wide receiver position, but returns ju-Last week, against eastern Kentucky, nior receiver antavian edison, who to-Purdue distributed the ball to near­taled 584 yards and three touchdowns perfection, as 10 different rushers car-last year. The irish will also have to ried the ball and 12 different receivers wary of the dynamic playmaking abil-recorded receptions. and seven differ­ities of sophomore receiver raheem ent players scored a touchdown. mostert. Last week, two boilermaker it likely won’t be the same this week, receivers set career highs in recep-as irish defensive coordinator bob tions as Purdue threw for 392 yards. diaco has the opportunity to show off 
The young irish secondary gave up his real defense after adjusting to the 192 yards to a pass-wary navy last triple option against navy. week. senior safeties Zeke motta and EDGE: NOTRE DAME Jamoris slaughter constantly ap­peared out of position while freshman PURDUE SPECIAL TEAMS Keivarae russell is still looking to find The boilermakers kicking game is a his bearings after saturday. Terbush bit of a scramble right now, as it looks could have an opportunity to put up to replace the most accurate kicker in some big passing numbers if the irish school history, carson Wiggs. Purdue don’t get to him fast enough. is distributing playing time across the EDGE: PURDUE board to two true freshmen and one 

redshirt freshman. PURDUE RUSHING as a freshman last year, sophomore 
in last year’s meeting between the receiver raheem mostert averaged just two teams, the irish held Purdue to 84 under 34 yards per kick return, only rushing yards in the 34-17 notre dame good enough to lead the nation. victory in West Lafayette, ind. starting EDGE: PURDUE at running back for the boilermakers is senior akeem shavers, who earned PURDUE SCHEDULE Little caesar’s Pizza bowl mvP honors sept. 1 vs. Eastern Kentucky (W 48-6) after a 149-yard rushing performance sept. 8   @ Notre Dame in Purdue’s 37-32 win over Western sept. 15 Eastern Michigan michigan on dec. 27. sept. 29 Marshall 

The boilermakers also return three oct. 6 Michigan starters on the offensive line, combin-oct. 13 Wisconsin ing for 48 starts in their respective col-oct. 20 @ Ohio State legiate careers. With Terbush’s return, oct. 27 @ Minnesota however, Purdue may continue to fo-nov. 3 Penn State cus on its aerial attack. nov. 10 @ Iowa 
Last week, notre dame shut down nov. 17 @ Illinois the navy triple option, holding the nov. 24 Indiana 



HEAD TO 
PURDUE  
(Jr.) O.J.  Ross (r-Fr.) shane mikesky  4 87  WR  
(Jr.) Kevin Pamphile (Jr.) Justin Kitchens  64 51  LT  
(Sr.) Akeem Shavers (so.) akeem hunt  24 11  RB  (R-Sr.) Peters Drey (Jr.) cody davis  67 59  LG  
(R-Sr.) Caleb TerBush (6th) robert marve  19 9  QB  (Sr.) Rick Schmeig (r-Fr.) robert Kugler  76 57  C  
(Jr.) Devin Smith (Jr.) cody davis  71 59  RG  
(Jr.) Trevor Foy (Jr.) Justin Kitchens  78 51  RT  
(Jr.) Gabe Holmes (r-sr.) crosby Wright  86 82  TE  
(Sr.) Antavian Edison (so.) raheem mostert  13 8  WR  
(Jr.) Gary Bush(Fr.) cameron Posey  6 18  WR  
(Jr.) Ricardo Allen (r-Fr.) Frankie Williams  21 2  CB  
(R-Sr.) Robert Maci (r-sr.) nnamdi ezenwa  58 18  SLB  
(So.) Landon Feichter (sr.) max charlot  44 34  S  (So.) Ryan Russell(Jr.) Greg Latta  99 91  DE  
(Jr.) Joe Gilliam (sr.) antwon higgs  39 5  MLB  (R-Sr.) Kawaan Short (r-Fr.) michael rouse (Jr.) Bruce Gaston (Jr.) brandon Taylor  93 97 90 55  DT DT  
(So.) Taylor Richards(so.) e.J. Johnson  4 7  S  (Jr.) Ryan Isaac(so.) Jalani Phillips  61 89  DE  
(Jr.) Will Lucas (Jr.) ruben ibarra  45 47  WLB  
(Sr.) Josh Johnson (Jr.) normando harris  28 1  CB  

43 18

(R-Fr.) Sam McCartney (R-Fr.) Thomas Meadows 
PK
KO
 (Fr.) Paul Griggs 37 (r-Fr.) sam mccartney 82 
42 P 8
(Jr.) Cody Webster (So.) Raheem Mostert
KR 
 (Fr.) Thomas meadows 30 (so.) akeem hunt 11 
28 50
(Sr.) Josh Johnson (So.) Jesse Schmitt 
PR
 (r-Fr.) Frankie Williams 2 (Fr.) John bednar 53 
LS 

Allan Joseph 
editor-in-chief 
sure, the boilermakers have Kawann short. and ap­parently caleb Terbush is better than last year. but come on. You can’t seriously think the team notre dame pum­meled less than 12 months ago is going to make this even close — especially considering that contest was a home night game for the boilermakers. 
notre dame is a better team than it was last year, even with michael Floyd gone to graduation. Purdue is bet­ter too, but they had so much ground to make up that it doesn’t really matter. i’ll be concerned about the effects of the ireland trip and a brutal first month a few weeks down the road, but not this week. The irish are going to be thrilled to open their home slate. Who wouldn’t be, given the romp this one should be? 



Andrew Owens 
assistant managing editor 
amidst a logistical nightmare, last week’s excursion to dublin could not have gone much better for the irish. a rousing rushing attack and a focused front seven led notre dame to a blowout win in the season opener. This week, it’s the home opener and Purdue makes the trek up U.s. route 31. 
The boilermakers run a pass-heavy attack, which will pose problems for an irish secondary as green as ireland’s terrain. athleticism is not an issue, but the unit simply needs game action to improve. stephon Tuitt and the pass rush need to pressure caleb Terbush early and often to relieve the pressure on an inexperienced irish offense. everett Golson will manage the game well and benefit from another strong ground game. 



Chris Allen 
sports editor 
The last time the irish played a competitive game in notre dame stadium, they stumbled to eke out a win over an inferior team on senior day against boston college. since then, we’ve seen the line play on both sides of the ball elevate to the next level to avoid those kinds of letdowns. 
make no mistake: the irish are a better team both on paper and on the field than Purdue. This is going to be the year Kelly’s team wins all the games it should win on paper. Facing a quarterback making his season de­but in Terbush, the defense will do just enough to con­tain Purdue, and the offensive line will get a push to keep the running game in top form, even against sure first-round nFL draft pick Kawann short. 

FINAL SCORE: notre dame 42, Purdue 17 FINAL SCORE: notre dame 37, Purdue 28 FINAL SCORE: notre dame 38, Purdue 30 

ndsmcobserver.com | FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 7, 2012 | The observer 




TO HEAD 

NO. 22 NOTRE DAME 

SARAH O’CONNOR | The Observer SUZANNA PRATT | The Observer 
IRISHPASSING the boilermakers. We really didn’t get to see too much Two irish running backs recorded 

KeiVarae Russell (Fr.) 
from the irish passing attack last week two touchdowns each against the 
CB 43 Josh atkinson (so.) 
due to the prowess of the rushing midshipmen for the second-straight game. but everett Golson still threw year, giving irish coach brian Kelly a for 144 yards with a touchdown and an welcome wrinkle to the spread offense. 

Ben Councell (So.) 
OLB 
interception on 12-for-18 passing be-Led by short and junior defensive 
45 romeo okwara (Fr.) 
Zeke Motta (Sr.) 


29 nicky baratti (Fr.) fore getting a rest in the third quarter. tackle bruce Gaston, the middle of the 
S
Kapron Lewis-Moore (Gr.) 

senior tight end Tyler eifert remains Purdue defensive line will pose a ma-
DE 
91 sheldon day (Fr.) 
Dan Fox (Sr.) the focal point of the passing game, as jor threat to the irish running game. 

ILB 
59 carlo calabrese (sr.) 
Louis Nix (Jr.) boilermakers coach danny hope has it will be up to the veteran offensive 
NT 
Kona schwenke (Jr.) 

Manti Te’o (Sr.) emphasized this week. meanwhile, line to push back the Purdue duo that 


96 ILB 
59 Jarrett Grace (so.) 
DE 
Stephon Tuitt (So.) look for the irish to try to throw the combined for 24 tackles for  loss just a 
50 chase hounshell (so.) 
Jamoris Slaughter (Gr.) ball downfield, possibly to sophomore season ago. 
24 matthias Farley (so.) 
S 
davaris daniels and junior T.J. Jones EDGE: NOTRE DAME 
Prince Shembo (Jr.) 
OLB 
11 ishaq Williams (so.) against two young safeties. The offensive line will try to keep IRISH OFFENSIVE COACHING Golson on his feet, especially after Purdue defensive coordinator Tim CB 
21 Bennett Jackson (Jr.) last week’s scary blindside hit. senior Tibesar will almost certainly have his 
Jalen brown (so.) 
captain and preseason all-american hands full with the suddenly versa-selection Kawaan short will have tile Kelly offense. it will take a solid something to say about that from the gameplan and a few bounces to go the defensive tackle position after record-boilermakers’ way to slow the irish 
T.J.Jones (Jr.) 

16 
ing 6.5 sacks last season. offense. 
WR 
davaris daniels (so.) 
Purdue returns both its starting cor-EDGE: NOTRE DAME 
Robby Toma (Sr.) 

19 davonte’ neal (Fr.) nerbacks from last year: junior captain ricardo allen and senior Josh Johnson. IRISH SPECIAL TEAMS The experienced corners will lead the senior kicker nick Tausch missed 
RT 

Christian Lombard (Jr.) way for the Purdue secondary and an extra point against navy while the 
WR 
72 nick martin (so.) 
take some of the pressure off the two irish also botched another. The kick-
Theo Riddick (Sr.) 
Mike Golic Jr. (Gr.) 

65 
4 George atkinson (so.) sophomore safeties. Last week against ing game cannot afford to get in the 
RB RG 
conor hanratty (so.) 
eastern Kentucky, redshirt fresh-way of putting points on the board, es-
Everett Golson (So.) 
Braxston Cave (Gr.) 
C 
57 mike Golic Jr. (Gr.) QB 
12 andrew hendrix (Jr.) man corner Frankie Williams led the pecially when top-ranked teams show 11 Tommy rees (Jr.) boilermakers with six tackles, earn-up on the schedule. 
Chris Watt (Sr.) 
65 conor hanratty (so.) 
LG
or ing him big Ten Freshman of the Week The irish will also have to look out 
LT 

Zack Martin (Sr.) honors. for the dominant presence of short on 
78 ronnie stanley (Fr.) 

EDGE: EVEN field goals, as the preseason all-big 
TE 
Tyler Eifert (Sr.) Ten selection blocked a field goal and 
18 ben Koyack (so.) 
IRISHRUSHING extra point in the second quarter alone The secret’s out: the irish can really last week. 

John Goodman (Gr.) run the ball. EDGE: PURDUE 
WR 
87 daniel smith (Jr.) 
notre dame rushed for 293 yards and 

five touchdowns against navy, Led by IRISH SCHEDULE senior Theo riddick’s 107-yard, two-sept. 1 vs. Navy (W 50-10) 
touchdown performance, the irish sept. 8 Purdue 
completely controlled the tempo and sept. 15 @ Michigan St. 
eased its way to a victory. sophomore sept. 22 Michigan 
Kyle Brindza (So.) 
Nick Tausch (Sr.) 

40 nick Tausch (sr.) 
27 Kyle brindza (so.) George atkinson saw plenty of action oct. 6 vs. Miami 
KO 
PK 
as well, racking up 99 yards on only 11 oct. 13 Stanford 
George Atkinson (So.) 
Ben Turk (Sr.) 
6 Theo riddick (sr.) 27 Kyle brindza (so.) 
KR 
P 
carries, which included an impressive oct. 20 BYU 
PR 
LS 

Davonte’ Neal (Fr.) 56-yard run. The irish accomplished oct. 27 @ Oklahoma 
Jordan Cowart (Sr.) 

61 scott daly (Fr.) 81 John Goodman (Gr.) 
all this without the services of injured nov. 3 Pittsburgh sophomore amir carlisle and senior nov. 10 @ Boston College starter cierre Wood, who will finish nov. 17 Wake Forest out his two-game suspension against nov. 24 @ USC 


Andrew Gastelum 
associate sports editor 
The distraction is over. The irish are home, back into the normal routine. now it’s just about playing football. irish coach brian Kelly won’t let his team be caught looking ahead and if the jetlag didn’t affect them in dublin, there shouldn’t be too much of an effect tomorrow. 
This week, everett Golson shows the nation what he can do, especially against an inexperienced pair of safe­ties. The irish running attack should continue to be a ma­jor force as well while the irish defense will have to get to caleb Terbush to avoid putting pressure on the secondary. 
Purdue thinks this game is a rivalry, and the boilermakers are looking for their first win at notre dame since 2004. but it won’t be this year. The irish will domi­nate to start the season 2-0 for the first time in the Kelly era. 
FINAL SCORE: notre dame 31, Purdue 7 


Matthew DeFranks 
associate sports editor 
do you remember last season’s game against Purdue? The one when boilermaker quarterback caleb Terbush threw an interception on the very first play? The one when notre dame ran roughshod over, around and through the Purdue defense? The one when the first Purdue touchdown came in the closing moments against the second-string irish defense? 
Yeah, well, nothing much has changed on Purdue’s part since then. simply put, they are not very good. 
Last week, i was unsure of how the irish offense would perform. but now, after watching the veter­an offensive line control the line of scrimmage, the points should come as no problem despite facing all­american defensive tackle Kawann short. 
FINAL SCORE: notre dame 38, Purdue 13 







Maturity helps Williams stand out vs. Navy 

SARAH O’CONNOR | The Observer 

Irish sophomore linebacker Ishaq Williams, right, dives at Navy quarterback Trey Miller during Notre Dame’s 50-10 victory over the Midshipmen on Saturday. Williams finished the game with four tackles, including three solo, one tackle for loss and a forced fumble. 
for him but he’s making good “he’s starting to know his role. we are seeing him take that next “ishaq has evolved in this 

By MATTHEW DeFRANKS 

associate sports editor progress. he’s starting to lead more by step,” Kelly said. game and i can’t wait to see “his development has been example.” While Williams’ performance where it goes from now,” Lewis-
sophomore linebacker ishaq such that it’s already put him in Lewis-moore said the front in the opener was an eye-open-moore said. Williams ran down the field a position to be on the field and seven does not place specific er for many irish fans, Lewis-pumping his fist and clapping pass rush in situations but we expectations for Williams from moore said it was a sign of things Contact Matthew DeFranks at his hands as sophomore defen-saw that this spring. The navy week to week but have an over-to come. mdefrank@nd.edu sive end stephon Tuitt rumbled game did not bring that to our arching goal. towards the endzone — and he attention.” “We except to dominate. We had a reason to. The six-foot-five, 255-pound want to play hard, we want to 
Williams had caused the linebacker was recruited to notre play fast, we want to play aggres­fumble that Tuitt was returning dame as a defensive end out of sive,” Lewis-moore said. “We ex-for an irish score during notre Lincoln high school before be-pect that out of ishaq and ishaq dame’s 50-10 win over navy on ing moved to outside linebacker. expects that out of us.” saturday. he was finally having “i’m not satisfied, i just have to Kelly attributed Williams’ fun. keep on getting better,” Williams jump in production to defensive 
The brooklyn, n.Y., native said said. “as far as expectations, i coordinator bob diaco’s work it was the most fun he had play-feel like i’m my toughest critic.” with the linebacker. ing football since he was a little While Williams said he still “i think coach diaco has done kid. Williams racked up four to-has work to do at linebacker, a great job of mentoring him, as tal tackles (including three solo), graduate student defensive end well.  i think there’s a great re-a tackle for loss and a forced Kapron Lewis-moore said he has lationship there of trust, and i fumble. his performance caught improved. think coach has done a great the eye of irish coach brian Kelly, “he’s a really good pass rusher job of bringing him up along the who called Williams’ perfor-and he’s really matured as well,” way.  it’s what you expect from mance his best. graduate student defensive young guys.  You want to see 
“There’s a maturity that just end Kapron Lewis-moore said. them take that next step.  i think comes with being here and get­ting older and growing up and Paid adverTisemenT hearing the same message,” Kelly said. “i will say this, the ex­pectations have been high and he is starting to meet those. he is nowhere near he needs to be. it has to be a consistent thing 





ndsmcobserver.com | FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 7, 2012 | The observer 




Short to challenge Irish offense, special teams 
By ALLAN JOSEPH 
editor-in-chief 
it won’t be difficult for irish sophomore quarterback everett Golson to spot his biggest chal­lenge in saturday’s home open­er against Purdue. it’ll be lined up right in front of him in the form of boilermaker defensive tackle Kawann short. 
“short’s going to come off the ball really fast,” irish senior guard chris Watt said. “he’s go­ing to get after it and get after us.” 
short, a senior captain and preseason all-america selec­tion, leads the boilermaker de­fense by virtue of the experience he has accrued in starting all 38 games in his Purdue career. a physical presence on the line of scrimmage, he burst onto the national scene after Purdue’s 2011 victory over ohio state with a three-sack performance that garnered him national defensive Player of the Week accolades. The 2011 all-big Ten selection is joined in the middle of the defensive front by junior defensive tackle bruce Gaston. irish coach brian Kelly said his experienced offensive line will have its hands full with the duo. 
“obviously short and Gaston are two very, very good de­fensive linemen — as good as we are going to see during the year,” Kelly said. 
although the irish offensive line knows they will have their hands full with short, junior offensive lineman christian Lombard says going up against a strong notre dame defensive line in practice has helped him prepare. 
“he’s a long-armed guy, very fast off the ball,” Lombard said. “he’s a great player … going against guys like [sophomore defensive lineman stephon] Tuitt and anyone else on our team has me prepared for him, but he’s definitely a great player too.” 
short and Gaston anchor an aggressive boilermaker defense, but they may make their big­gest impact on special teams, where they form the core of the Purdue kick-block team. short has blocked four field goals and two extra points in his career, including one of each kind in Purdue’s season-opening 48-6 win over eastern Kentucky. Gaston sent last year’s ohio state win to overtime by block­ing an extra point. short said his success blocking kicks relies on his fellow linemates, including Gaston. 

“The guys beside me really help me out by getting a push,” short said after the season opener. “once we get the push, i basically just get my jump and try to knock it down.” 
Purdue coach danny hope said it was more than that. 
“i think Kawann has great hand-eye coordination,” he said. “That’s a big part of him not only getting some push against the opponent’s [extra point] and field goal teams, but also be able to time it up and get his big paw up at the right time and bat the ball down out of the air.” 
as the irish offense looks to continue its momentum in the rushing game from last week’s romp over navy, Watt said the offensive line will have its hands full with the preseason all-american. 
“We’re always working to get better individually and as a unit, so we know what we need to do,” he said. “in the back of your mind, he’s a big guy. There’s definitely times when we’re going to have to be heavi­er on him than any other guy.” 
Contact Allan Joseph at ajoseph2@nd.edu 
Paid adverTisemenT 




A different game plan for autumn weekends from the College of Arts and Letters 
You are invited to join in discussion with some of Notre Dame’s most engaging faculty in the Saturday Scholar Series on “home game” Saturdays. Each lecture and Q&A, sponsored by the College of Arts and Letters, is presented in the Snite Museum’s Annenberg Auditorium at 12 noon, unless otherwise noted. No tickets required. 

“Gregori and Washington Hall” 
Mark Pilkinton 
Professor, Department of Film, Television, and Theatre 
12 Noon Saturday, September 8, 2012 Snite Museum’s Annenberg Auditorium 
At the heart of our campus, in the interiors of the Basilica and the Main Building, Luigi Gregori’s designs are a familiar and iconic part of Notre Dame. Mark Pilkinton, author of a new history of Washington Hall, explores new information about Gregori’s contribution to the interior of Washington Hall in 1894, unseen since his images were painted over in 1956. 
" 9.8.12 (vs. Purdue University) 
“Gregori and Washington Hall” 
Mark Pilkinton, Professor, Department of Film, Television, and Theatre 

" 9.22.12 (vs. University of Michigan)  7:30 p.m. game; 4 p.m. lecture 
“Caesar’s Legacy at Butrint: Archaeological Discoveries From Current Excavations in the Heart of the Ancient City” 
David Hernandez, Assistant Professor, Director of the Butrint Archaeological Research Project, Department of Classics 

" 10.13.12 (vs. Stanford University) 
“Presidential Campaign Commercials From ‘I Like Ike’ to Today” 
Susan C. Ohmer, The William T. and Helen Kuhn Carey Associate Professor of Modern Communication, Department of Film, Television, and Theatre; Director of Digital ND 

" 10.20.12 (vs. Brigham Young University) 
“Sleep on It! There’s More to It Than Just the Old Adage” 
Jessica Payne, Assistant Professor, Nancy O’Neill Collegiate Chair in Psychology, Director of the Sleep, Stress and Memory Lab, Department of Psychology 

" 11.3.12 (vs. University of Pittsburgh) 
“The Unintended Reformation: How a Religious Revolution Secularized Society” 
Brad S. Gregory, Professor, Department of History 

" 11.17.12 (vs. Wake Forest University) 
“What’s So Funny About a Joke?” 
Mark W. Roche, Rev. Edmund P. Joyce, C.S.C. Professor of German Language and Literature, Department of German and Russian Languages and Literatures 







