
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


Scholar to join political science dept. 
By MARISA IATI 
News Writer 
Associate Professor in the Department of Government at Georgetown University Patrick Deneen will trade the White House for the Golden Dome as he joins the faculty at the University of Notre Dame at the begin­ning of next semester. 
Deneen said he was drawn to Notre Dame because of Patrick Deneen its dedication to building a great Catholic research univer­sity. He said despite the similar religious affiliations between Georgetown and Notre Dame, he recognizes a more rigorous com­mitment in the latter. 

“I think at Notre Dame there is a stronger sense of a community of scholars and students engaged in a common project [than there is at Georgetown] because of a greater awareness and presence of [Notre Dame’s] Catholic mis­sion,” he said. 
Michael Desch, chair of Notre Dame’s Department of Political Science, said Deneen will join the University’s faculty as an associ­ate professor in the fall of 2012. He will begin teaching courses about American political thought in the department’s recently an­nounced new Constitutional Studies subfield the following spring. 
At Georgetown, Deneen taught courses in ancient thought, American thought and religion and politics. Though he does not know which specific classes he will teach at Notre Dame, De­neen said he hopes to offer an introductory political philosophy course. 
“Some of my teaching will be aimed at building [the Constitu­tional Studies] program,” Deneen said. “In nearly all my courses, I try to show my students that political philosophy, which can sometimes seem a little abstract and distant, has shaped and transformed the world in which we live.” 
Deneen is the founder and di­rector of the Tocqueville Forum on the Roots of American Democ­racy. The six-year-old George­town program promotes the study of Western philosophical and theological sources’ influ­

see DENEEN/page 6 


Keenan primes for ‘Revue’ 
Residence hall’s variety show to parody life at Notre Dame 

GRANT TOBIN/The Observer 

Members of Keenan Hall perform a skit about attire choice during the Keenan Revue in 2011. This year’s performance will take place in the Stepan Center for a second straight year. 
By KRISTEN DURBIN 
News Writer 

Whether students are ready or not, the Keenan Re­vue is back with new skits, new satire and nearly four decades of tradition to up­hold. 
Preparations for the 37th annual Revue are in full swing after the first round of tryouts this past weekend, and the show’s administra­tors are optimistic about this year’s potential acts, Senior Producer Raymo Gallagher said. 
“We haven’t picked any of the final skits yet, but we def­initely saw some good ones and we found a couple that people will remember past walking out of the Stepan Center doors after the show,” Gallagher said. 

The Revue, a campus tra­dition since 1976, is a variety show comprised of sketches and satirical comedy written entirely by the residents of Keenan Hall. This year’s in­stallment, titled “The Keen­an Revue: The Revue Strikes Back,” will take place Febru­ary 9, 10 and 11 at 7 p.m. in the Stepan Center. 

see REVUE/page 5 


Club bridges faith, academics 
By CHRISTIAN MYERS 
News Writer 
A link between the Catho­lic identity of Notre Dame and the study of engineer­ing may not seem obvious, but Notre Dame Students Empowering through Engi­neering Development (ND SEED) bridges the gap — literally and figuratively. 
Professor Tracy Kijewski-Correa, a faculty advisor for ND SEED, said the group’s mission of building bridges in impoverished countries blends Notre Dame’s reli­gious affiliation with stu­dents’ academic interests. 
“In engineering, it has not always obvious how the University’s Catholic iden­tity fits,” she said. “This project gives students an opportunity to live out the University’s mission in their field. Infrastructure chang­es lives.” 
ND SEED works with the non-governmental organi-
Photo courtesy of ND SEED 
zation Bridges to Prosper-

Members of ND SEED visited San Francisco, Nicaragua, during fall see BRIDGE/page 6 break and completed a preliminary design for their bridge project. 

Professor receives book award 
By NICOLE MICHELS 
News Writer 
Career-minded students should not shy away from a liberal arts education, profes­sor Mark Roche says, because students educated in liberal arts will be just as well prepa red for the real world as those who study busi­ness. 
Roche, former dean of the College of Mark Roche Arts and Letters, ex­plored this theme in his book titled “Why Choose the Lib­eral Arts?” for which he re­ceived the 2011 Frederic W. Ness Book Award. He said he felt the need to express his support of such an education in a public forum. 

“Administrators often give abstract, brief and occasion­al speeches about the value of the liberal arts, but I give a fuller response,” Roche said.  “My unease [was] with the sense that even though I was endorsing the practical argument, education was be­ing reduced to the practical. We hadn’t set our sights lofty enough.” 
The Ness Award is bestowed annually by the American Association of Colleges and Universities to the book that best contributes to the under­standing and further develop­ment of “liberal education,” according to the organiza­tion’s website. 
Roche said he was initially driven to explore the real-world applicability of an edu­cation in the arts and sciences because of the struggle to lure students from the perceived practicality of a business de­gree. 
“I wanted to make the case that students could pursue the liberal arts and succeed,” Roche said. 
Exploring which talents em­ployers valued most, Roche said he found students of the arts and sciences are often considered ideal candidates. 
“The practical skills that you develop, especially com­munication skills both oral and written, are often the most important skills identi­
see ARTS/page 6 

INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER Students use LinkedIn page 3 u Viewpoint page 8 u Luigi Gregori exhibit at the Snite page 10 u Women’s basketball vs. Rutgers recap page 20 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT IS YOUR FAVORITE 90S TV SHOW? 

www.ndsmcobserver.com P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 Editor-in-Chief Douglas Farmer Managing Editor Business Manager Sarah Mervosh Jeff Liptak Asst. Managing Editor: Adriana Pratt Asst. Managing Editor: Chris Masoud News Editor: Sam Stryker Viewpoint Editor: Meghan Thomassen Sports Editor: Allan Joseph Scene Editor: Maija Gustin Saint Mary’s Editor: Caitlin E. Housley Photo Editor: Pat Coveney Graphics Editor: Brandon Keelean Advertising Manager: Katherine Lukas Ad Design Manager: Amanda Jonovski Controller: Jason Taulman Systems Administrator: William Heineman Office Manager & General Info (574) 631-7471 Fax (574) 631-6927 Advertising (574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu Editor-in-Chief (574) 631-4542 dfarmer1@nd.edu Managing Editor (574) 631-4542 smervosh@nd.edu Assistant Managing Editors (574) 631-4541 apratt@nd.edu, cmasoud@nd.edu Business Office (574) 631-5313 News Desk (574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com Viewpoint Desk (574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com Sports Desk (574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com Scene Desk (574) 631-4540 mgustin@nd.edu Saint Mary’s Desk chousl01@saintmarys.edu Photo Desk (574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com Systems & Web Administrators (574) 631-8839 Policies The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Douglas Farmer. Post Office Information The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 and additional mailing offices 024 South Dining hall Notre Dame, IN 46556-077 The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved.  
TODAY’S STAFF News Sports Sam Stryker Sam Gans Marisa Iati Joe Wirth Nicole Michels Peter Steiner Graphics Scene Lisa Hoeynck Mary Claire Photo O’Donnell Sarah O’Connor Viewpoint Ren Brauweiler  
CORRECTIONS The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so we can correct our error.  
HIGH 45 LOW 36 



Eileen Cullina  Emily Hazen  Maddie Sampson  McKenna Schuster  Nora Clougherty  Shanlynn Bias  
sophomore  first year  first year  first year  first year  sophomore  
Le Mans  McCandless  McCandless  Holy Cross  McCandless  Le Mans  
“Recess.”  “Zoboomafoo.”  “Full House.”  “Boy Meets  “Doug.”  “Dexter’s  
World.”  Laboratory.”  

Have an idea for Question of the Day? Email obsphoto@gmail.com 

OFFBEAT 

New drug for CF patients 
WASHINGTON — The first drug that treats the root cause of cystic fibrosis won approval Tuesday, offering a life-changing treatment for a handful of patients with the deadly illness and broader hope for thousands more pa­tients with the inherited dis­ease. 
About 30,000 Americans live with cystic fibrosis, a dis­ease that causes sticky mucus buildup in the lungs and other organs, leading to infections, digestive problems and death in young adulthood. The typi­cal life expectancy is about 37 years, according to the Cystic Fibrosis Foundation. 
The Food and Drug Ad­ministration approved Ver­tex Pharmaceuticals Inc.’s Kalydeco for patients with a rare form of the disease that affects just 1,200 people in the U.S., about 4 percent of af­fected population nationwide. These patients have a protein defect that prevents their cells from properly absorbing and excreting salt and water. Studies of the drug showed it significantly improved lung function and reduced other symptoms of cystic fibrosis. 
Cancer charity halts funding 
NEW YORK — The na­tion’s leading breast-cancer charity, Susan G. Komen for the Cure, is halting its part­nerships with Planned Par­enthood affiliates - creating a bitter rift, linked to the abortion debate, between two iconic organizations that have assisted millions of women. 
The change will mean a cutoff of hundreds of thou­sands of dollars in grants, mainly for breast exams. 
Planned Parenthood says the move results from Ko­men bowing to pressure from anti-abortion activ­ists. Komen says the key reason is that Planned Par­enthood is under investiga­tion in Congress -a probe launched by a conservative Republican who was urged to act by anti-abortion groups. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
IN BRIEF 
The Diversity Reception will be held today in the Monogram Room from 12 
-2:30 p.m. The networking event, put on by the Career Center, is meant to allow students to personally con­nect with employers before attending the Winter Career Fair. Attire is business pro­fessional. 
The Hesburgh Library Workshop titled “Using Ref-Works” is today from 4 - 5:30 
p.m. in room 247 of the Hes-burgh Library. This work­shop will demonstrate how to use RefWorks to generate bibliographies. 
The Career Center’s an­nual Winter Career and In­ternship Fair is today from 4 
-8 p.m. in the Joyce Center Fieldhouse. Attire is busi­ness professional. A com­plete listing of companies at­tending the fair can be found on GO IRISH. 
The Keenan Revue: The Revue Strikes Back ticket distribution will be today at 5 p.m. at the Joyce Center Box Office Gate 3. The Revue dates are Feb. 9, 10, and 11 from 7 - 9 p.m. Each student is allowed to get four tickets per one ID. 
William V. Spanos, Dis­tinguished Professor at the State University of New York at Binghamton, will read from his book titled “In the Neighborhood of Zero, a World War II Memoir.” Spanos will read at 5:30 ­
7:30 p.m. in 131 Debartolo Hall. The event is free and open to the public. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, email detailed information about an event to obsnews.nd@gmail.com 

LOCAL WEATHER 
TODAY TONIGHT THURSDAY FRIDAY SATURDADY SUNDAY 











Students network for job openings using LinkedIn 

By AMANDA GRAY 
News Writer 
Social networking has be­come an integral part of the job search, Career Center As­sociate Director Kevin Mona­han said. 
“Social networks have helped us connect alumni and students, as well as provide timely career advice,” he said. “It’s a great experience for us to be able to connect with stu­dents and put information in front of them.” 
Students have been using LinkedIn, a popular job search and professional networking website, to make those con­nections, Monahan said. Mem­bers can create a free pro­file and add “connections” to people they know or those in fields they wish to network in. 
“About four years ago, I cre­ated a group on LinkedIn for Notre Dame alumni,” Monah-an said. “It’s called the ‘Notre Dame Alumni Network,’ and it has more than 24,000 mem­bers today. It’s the 10th largest university network on Linke­dIn.” 

Students have used the web­site to network for internships and job opportunities, he said. The Career Center has also been useful in connecting young alumni with job post­ings and career opportunities. 

“It’s great to be able to see someone’s biography and be able to reach out to them,” Monahan said. “It’s helpful for a lot of students — especially those in non-traditional work fields. It’s a tool to use. I’ve seen it used most successfully before office visits, where stu­dents can talk to young alums at the company.” NFL’s Junior Rotational Pro-
Monahan cited a recent ex-gram after graduation. change with a public relations “It helped,” she said. “I used 
firm in Chi­cago as evi­dence for the effectiveness of online net­working. 
“They had 600 resumes for six spots,” he said. “The candidates they decided to interview were the ones that current employe es passed for­ward. The Notre Dame students who it to follow up on people that I didn’t have other contact in­

“Social networks have 
for mation 

helped us connect 
for. You can 

alumni and students, take a look as well as provide at their cre­
timely career advice.” dentials and send mes­sages.” 
Kevin Monahan 
Hefele said 

associate director 
the biggest 

Career Center 
advantage of the website is the use of networking groups. 
“The 

reached out to current employ-groups provide business op­ees through LinkedIn were the portunities,” she said. “I didn’t ones who got interviews.” like creating a profile very 
Another student who has much, but once it’s done it’s used LinkedIn to its fullest easy to update.” is senior Cate Hefele. Hefele, Hefele said the approach to who majors in marketing and online professional network-minors in Journalism, Ethics ing is different than the job-and Democracy, will be in the hunting of the past. 
“You need to outline your profile differently than your resume,” she said. “You need to take a look at the formatting 
— they’re not interviewing you right then, like how you’d use a resume.” 
Monahan said students need to be cautious of online activ­ity, however, if they choose to use digital networking. 
“During the job search, stu­dents need to conduct them­selves with a level of profes­sionalism online,” he said. “You still have to remember that you have to be profes­sional at all times. Always use good judgment — once you put something online, it’s out there forever.” 
If students aren’t using LinkedIn, they can also turn to other sources, Monahan said. 
“LinkedIn is just one op­tion,” he said. “We use blogs as well. The information is in a searchable form.” 
Contact Amanda Gray at agray3@nd.edu 


Alumna to receive award for distinguished service 
Special to The Observer 
Molly Kinder, a 2001 gradu­ate of the University of Notre Dame in political science and peace studies, will receive the 2012 Distinguished Alumni Award from Notre Dame’s Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies. 
Kinder, a native of Buffalo, N.Y., is director of special pro­grams for Development Innova­tion Ventures in Washington, D.C., a new initiative at the United States Agency for Inter­national Development (USAID) that funds groundbreaking ap­proaches to global development challenges. 
Kinder will accept her award from the Kroc Institute in March and also will deliver the keynote address at Notre Dame’s Student Peace Conference. 
Before joining USAID, Kinder worked as a senior policy ana­lyst at the Center for Global De­velopment in Washington, D.C., where she directed the U.S. de­velopment strategy in Pakistan initiative. She is the co-author of the report “Beyond Bullets and Bombs: Fixing the U.S. De­velopment Approach in Paki­stan,” as well as the book “Mil­lions Saved: Proven Successes in Global Health,” a collection of stories about global health programs that is required read­ing in more than 60 universities worldwide. 
In 2004, when a devastating earthquake struck the north­west region of Pakistan, Kinder was working at the World Bank in New Delhi, India. Two weeks later, she moved to Islamabad to join a team that negotiated a half billion dollar loan to Paki­stan’s government for earth­quake reconstruction. Later, in the wake of U.S.-led efforts to counter extremism and the mil­itary campaign in Afghanistan, she helped create the Center for Global Development’s Pakistan initiative. 
Kinder also holds a master’s degree in international develop­ment from Harvard University’s Kennedy School of Government. As a graduate student, she was awarded a fellowship to work for the Liberian government as a consultant on poverty issues. She co-authored a policy report on ways to maintain Liberia’s security by economically em­powering women. The report earned the Harvard Women and Public Policy Program’s Jane Mansbridge Research Award for best paper in the area of gender and public policy. When Kinder presented the report to Ellen Johnson-Sirleaf, Liberia’s — and Africa’s — first female president, Sirleaf asked for 500 copies to distribute to policymakers. 



Professor designs Haiti recovery 
By CHRIS BARNES 
News Writer 
Professor Tracy Kijewski-Correa has some powerful words of inspiration follow­ing her work with the Kel­logg Institute in Haiti. “Lis­ten, Innovate, Empower!” is the mantra of the group’s ef­forts to provide aid following the devastating earthquake which struck the island nation in January of 2010. 
Kijewski-Correa gave a lecture titled “An Empower­ment Model for Sustainable Residential Reconstruction in Léogâne, Haiti, after the January 2010 Earthquake” on Tuesday in the Hesburgh Cen­ter. 
Kijewski-Correa, associate professor of civil engineer­ing, spoke of a proposal she and her team of associates de­signed to construct personal residences within Haiti. She said engineers working on the project must listen to the needs of the Haitian people. 
“This project relies on its workers to consider the pref­erences of the locals in con­structing homes while up­holding safety as a priority in construction,” Kijewski-Cor­rea said.  “Some may ask for a house built with the same type of brick that caused deaths (during the earthquake), to which an engineer must pro­vide reliable alternatives.” 
Throughout her talk, Kijew­ski-Correa identified resilien­cy, feasibility, sustainability and viability as the four main points in her proposal. 
“Only through these four ways can we provide mean­ingful change for the poor of Haiti,” she said. 
Kijewski-Correa said she 

understood the hazard and context in which the locals vulnerability that plagued the live,” she said.  “Solutions pro-country following the earth-posed by outside entities are quake would provide chal-not what the Haitians want, lenges to the work of her team. so our engineers should lis­“Under the theme of resil-ten to them when they voice, 
iency, my team  for  exam- 
and I must de­ ple,  their  
sign types of homes that can weather future natural disas­ters,” said Ki-jewski-Correa. “The standard  “This project relies on its workers to consider the preferences of the locals in constructing homes while upholding safety as a priority in construction.”  fear of multi-sto­ry homes that re­sults from the earth-q u a k e ’ s  
concrete blocks  damage.”  
and columns of Haitian homes could not resist the demands  Tracy Kijewski-Correa associate professor civil engineering  A l -t h o u g h K ijewsk i-C or r ea  

of the earth­quake, and many were killed by walls that split during the crisis.” 
The country of Haiti does not have much to provide in terms of available capital for construction, Kijewski-Correa added. 
“Steel is in high demand and is very expensive,” she said. “There is hardly any wood to work with, and a high tax on imports discourages traders from bringing any more into the country.” 
Kijewski-Correa said that there is very little the Hai­tian people can do to provide themselves with a sustainable society to live in. 
“When you put econom­ics on the table, there really aren’t solutions at the bottom of the (social) pyramid,” she said. 
There is importance in un­derstanding the priorities and culture of the land in con­structing homes, Kijewski-Correa said. 
“Viability requires an un­derstanding of the cultural said there 

has been a lack of assistance from the lo­cal government, she remains optimistic that this project will be a success. 
“Although the Haitian gov­ernment does not provide any federal oversight of indi­vidual residence construction, we can control the quality of our product by means of stan­dardization,” she said.  “We want prototype houses there with strong networks.” 
Although her project will start locally, Kijewski-Correa hopes the success of the proj­ect triggers worldwide expan­sion of the same model. 
“We just want a proof of concept at this point,” she said.  “However, solving this problem for the poor of Haiti by offering a sustainable, af­fordable housing model actu­ally solves the problem of in­sufficient housing for the poor around the world, especially those living in urban slums.” 
Contact Chris Barnes at     cbarnes4@nd.edu 

Revue 
continued from page 1 
Gallagher said the team be­hind the Revue wants to em­phasize that the event intends to make fun of life as a student at Notre Dame without being malicious. 
“Our view of the Revue as a whole is our commentary, our take on life on campus and on pop culture as well,” Gallagher said. “Some people may dis­agree with the take we have on it, but it’s not meant to insult or offend any specific person or group.” 
In light of the Revue’s mixed reception by University ad­ministrators and students in recent years, both Gallagher and senior di­rector Brian and based on the good material we saw in tryouts, people will enjoy it.” 
However, Bettonville said criticisms of the show would not fall on deaf ears. 
“That said, we are going to be more careful because we don’t want to have shortened shows,” he said. “We are go­ing to try really hard to have everything all the nights, so we’re working to try to make that happen.” 
Gallagher said the Revue’s storied past is also crucial to the future of the event. 
“This isn’t just a Revue for this year,” Gallagher said. “We see the Revue as continuing a tradition that Keenan has es­tablished over the past four decades, so we want to make sure we continue the tradition for future Keenan guys 


Bettonville em-and set the 
“We see the Revue as 
phasized the Revue up 
continuing a tradition 
light-hearted for a strong 
that Keenan has 
motives behind future while 
established over the 
the show’s en-honoring the velope-pushing past four decades, so we past.” material. want to make sure we Despit e 
“Out intent continue the tradition the chal­is to provide for future Keenan guys lenges the satirical hu-and set the Revue up for Revue has 
mor for the faced in re-
a strong future while 
men of Keenan cent years, 
honoring the past.” 
and people on Bettonville this campus said he is 
Raymo Gallagher 
to enjoy, but confident the incidents over senior producer Revue will the last couple Keenan Revue maintain its 
years have made us more aware that people may take a different view of the skits we put on,” Gallagher said. “We know we’re never going to please everyone, but as long as [the audience] goes into it with a good mindset, it will work out.” 
Bettonville said the perform­ers want to be satirical without being mean-spirited. 
“We want you to laugh with us, we don’t want to laugh at you,” Bettonville said. “We do our best as administrators of the Revue to make sure there’s no malice involved. The Revue should not be a stick to poke people with.” 
Although last year’s Satur­day night performance was shortened due to issues with the material, Gallagher said the traditional spirit of the Re­vue will remain intact. 
“Based off last year, people might think we will completely tone it down and take a differ­ent approach to the Revue,” he said. “I think people would be disappointed if they choose not to go to the show. It’s still go­ing to be the Keenan Revue, reputation 
and longev­ity as a unique campus event. 
“There have obviously been changes and with changes there are growing pains, but we think the Revue is strong enough to go through that,” he said. “We are going to do ev­erything in our power to keep it that way.” 
After the Revue moved from Washington Hall to the O’Laughlin Auditorium at Saint Mary’s College, then to the Ste-pan Center in 2011, Gallagher said the show has proved to be a unifying element between Notre Dame, Saint Mary’s and Holy Cross over the years. 
“I think the Revue has dem­onstrated itself as a great tra­dition that not only Keenan [Hall] enjoys, but also people on campus and at Saint Mary’s and Holy Cross,” he said. “That goes to show what kind of event it is.” 
Free student ticket distribu­tion for the Keenan Revue be­gins Wednesday at the Joyce Center box office at 5 p.m. 
Contact Kristen Durbin at kdurbin@nd.edu 

Bridge 
continued from page 1 
ity to find locations in need of their help. Bridges to Prosper­ity identifies locations around the world where communities acting constructively with the local community. 
The amount of community involvement in the project var­ies, Kijewski-Correa said. This year the student team will be hosted in a local school build­ing and native workers will help build the bridge. 
are isolated by impassable riv­ers or gorges, and then part­ners with cor­porations and other groups to build the nec­essary bridges. The ND SEED program is the only university-based partner of Bridges to Prosperity. 
ND SEED has built three bridges in Cen­
“For the students, it is their only exposure to a truly comprehensive engineering project.” 
Tracy Kijewski-Correa faculty advisor ND SEED 
“The stu­dents will work every day side by side with local masons,” Kijewski-Cor­rea said. 
Students are selected for the program by an applica­tion and inter­view process. At first, Ki-jewski-Correa said, only Civil Engineering students could 
tral America, specifically in Honduras, Guatemala and Ni­caragua, over the past three years. This year’s project is underway in San Francisco, Nicaragua. 
This year’s team visited the site during fall break and com­pleted a preliminary design. They have also arranged for the purchase of all necessary materials in the area around San Francisco. The students will focus on the final design of the bridge this semester. 
Senior Jacqueline Gilhoo­ly said raising funds for the bridge, which can cost up­wards of $20,000, has been one of 
the most chal-“We choose students ment,” she lenging as-with an open mind said. pects of the and a positive attitude Kijewski­project. about working in the Correa said it 
“Raising the developing world, those is difficult to funds was the fully prepare 
who understand the 
most difficult students for 
concept of empowerment.” 
part so far,” the project. she said. “We “It’s like 
Tracy Kijewski-Correa 
had to track nothing the money faculty advisor they’ve ever from a lot ND SEED experienced participate, but in the last two years Mechanical engineering students have also gotten in­volved. 
“For the students, it is their only exposure to a truly com­prehensive engineering proj­ect,” Kijewski-Correa said. 
Kijewski-Correa said every spring seven students are se­lected for the program. The team formed begins a new project in the fall semester of the next academic year. 
“We choose students with an open mind and a positive attitude about working in the developing world, those who understand the concept of empower-
of different sources.” 
Kijewski-Correa said the six-week pro­cess of building the bridge, which takes place after gradu­ation, is a different experience every year. 
“It is a custom project each year,” she said. “No two bridg­es and no two communities are the same.” 
Kijewski-Correa said ND SEED focuses on Central America because the student teams can be designed to have Spanish speakers. Additional­ly, she said the close proximity offers lower travel costs than other developing areas of the world. 
“We get to choose the region. Central America is better for travel costs,” Kijewski-Correa said. “If we had to fly an en­tire team to Africa a few times a year, we would run out of money.” 
ND SEED spent the past two years working with the In­ternational Summer Service Learning Program (ISSLP) in the Center for Social Concerns. Kijewski-Correa said the Cen­ter for Social Concerns helps prepare the students for inter-before,” Ki­
jewski-Cor ­
rea said. 
Gilhooly said ND SEED offers her a unique way to exercise her academic interests and her interests in service. 
“I chose Civil Engineering in order to help people out,” she said. “This is the best way I know of, within the Engineer­ing Department, to help peo­ple.” 
Senior Eric Herbert said he was attracted to the program because of its fusion of service with academics. 
“I wanted to join since I was a freshman,” he said. “I’m drawn to the chance to help people and use what I’m learn­ing in school to do it.” 
Senior Rachel Guinsatao said the program has given her a broader understanding of the applications of her major. 
“I applied because I do a lot of service, but I was looking for something that would com­pletely immerse me,” she said. “It has been great to experi­ence first hand how practical my engineering degree is.” 
Contact Christian Myers at                    cmyers8@nd.edu 

Deneen 
continued from page 1 

ence on the American constitu­tional experiment. 
Deneen said he had not yet discussed bringing something like the Tocqueville Forum to Notre Dame. 
“Notre Dame has many fine centers, programs and insti­tutes,” Deneen said. “Once I arrive and get my feet on the ground, some of those might well welcome my participation and contributions based on my experience with founding and running the Tocqueville Fo­rum.” 
In a note he sent to several Georgetown students and later published on frontporchrepub­lic.com, a website dedicated to being a public forum, De-
Arts 
continued from page 1 

fied by employers,” Roche said.  
Roche said students also make the mistake of perceiv­ing college as just a launch pad for future success, ignor­ing what they can accomplish during their time on campus. 
“There is a tremendous fo­cus on college as a means to an end, but I wanted to stress another dimension: the value of learning for its own sake,” he said. 
Additionally, institutions should encourage students to be aware of the matura­tion process that takes place within the liberal arts class­room, Roche said. 
Roche said the liberal arts tradition at Notre Dame is unique because of the impact neen cited his sense of place at Georgetown and family con­cerns as his reasons for resign­ing. 
“In the seven years since I joined the faculty at George­town, I have found myself often at odds with the trajectory and many decisions of the univer­sity,” he wrote. 
Deneen expressed concern that Georgetown “remakes itself in the image of its secular peers” and said he wants to contribute to a more rigorous institutional mission. 
“I don’t doubt that there will shortcomings at Our Lady’s Uni­versity,” he wrote. “But, there are at least some comrades-in­arms to share in the effort.” 
Deneen said he and his fam­ily also look forward to having a more integrated life between their home, community and uni­versity. 
“I would like to see those spheres coming closer together,” he said. 
Desch said he believes Deneen will be a strong addition to the University’s faculty. 
“He’s a very distinguished scholar of political theory and constitutional studies,” Desch said. “He seemed like a perfect individual to help us achieve both scholarly excellence and to further the University’s Catholic mission.” 
Deneen said he hopes to make a mark on Notre Dame by the close of his career. 
“I sincerely hope that … I will be able to look back with satis­faction and gratitude at having made a difference in the lives of several generations of Notre Dame students,” he said. 
Contact Marisa Iati at miati@nd.edu 

of Notre Dame’s Catholic mis-research as an institution,” sion. he said. 
“Three things distinguish Roche said the award is a 
Notre Dame: the high num­ber of re­quirements 

in a wide “There is a tremendous array of focus on college as a fields; the means to an end, but I Catholi c wanted to stress another 
mission 

dimension: the value of 
that mani­

learning for its own sake.” 
fests itself in a strong 

Mark Roche 
interest in integrat -dean emeritus ing au-College of Arts and Letters thors like Dante or Augustine in humani­ties cours­testament to Notre Dame’s vi­sion of a worldly ed­ucation. 
“Part of what I’m saying is that Notre Dame has a certain vi­sion of edu­cation that is to a cer­tain degree transfer ­able to oth­er settings, but it has a very fertile 

es, social justice questions home here,” he said. and ethical applications and questions … and that we try Contact Nicole Michels at to interweave teaching and nmichels@nd.edu 

SYRIA 


Military thwarts rebel uprisings 
Associated Press 
BEIRUT — Syrian troops crushed pockets of rebel sol­diers Tuesday on the outskirts of Damascus and the U.N. Se­curity Council took up a draft resolution demanding that President Bashar Assad halt the violence and yield power. 
U.S. Secretary of State Hill­ary Rodham Clinton told the Security Council that action to end the violence in Syria would be different from U.N. efforts to pacify Libya. 
“I know that some members here may be concerned that the Security Council is headed to­ward another Libya,” she said. “That is a false analogy.” 
“It is time for the interna­tional community to put aside our own differences and send a clear message of support to the people of Syria,” Clinton said. 
Russia, one of Assad’s stron­gest backers, has signaled it would veto any U.N. action against Damascus, fearing it could open the door to eventual international military involve­ment, the way an Arab-backed 
U.N. resolution led to NATO air­strikes in Libya. 
However, the Arab League emphasized that international military action was not being sought. 
“We are attempting to avoid any foreign intervention, par­ticularly military intervention” in Syria, Secretary-General Nabil Elaraby said. “We have always stressed full respect of the security, sovereignty and territorial integrity of the Syr­ian people.” 
Russia has stood by Assad as he tries to crush an uprising that began nearly 11 months ago. In October, Moscow ve­toed the first Security Council attempt to condemn Syria’s crackdown and has shown little sign of budging in its op­position. 
Moscow’s stance is motivated in part by its strategic and de­fense ties, including weapons sales, with Syria. Russia also rejects what it sees as a a world order dominated by the U.S. 
The diplomatic showdown came as Syrian government 

Romney drubs Gingrich in Florida primary vote 

forces took back control of the eastern suburbs of the capital, Damascus, after rebel soldiers briefly captured the area in a startling advance last week. 
The fact that rebels made it to the doorstep of Damascus, the seat of Assad’s power, was a dangerous development for the regime. The military launched a swift offensive Monday and on Tuesday crushed the re­maining resistance in Zamalka and Arbeen. 
But the suburbs were not en­tirely quiet. On a government-sponsored media trip, Syrian journalists heard at least seven explosions Tuesday from the eastern suburb of Rankous. It was not clear what caused the blasts. 
Associated Press 
TAMPA, Fla. — Mitt Romney routed Newt Gingrich in the Florida primary Tuesday night, rebounding smartly from an earlier defeat and taking a ma­jor step toward the Republican presidential nomination. Gin­grich vowed to press on despite the one-sided setback 
Romney, talking unity like a nominee, said he was ready to take the Republican helm and “lead this party and our na­tion.” In remarks to cheering supporters, the former Massa­chusetts governor unleashed a strong attack on Democratic President Barack Obama and said the competitive fight for the GOP nomination “does not divide us, it prepares us” for the fall campaign. 
“Mr. President, you were elected to lead, you chose to follow, and now it’s time to get out of the way,” he declared. 
Returns from 98 percent of Florida’s precincts showed Romney with 46 percent of the vote to 32 percent for Gingrich, the former House speaker. 
Former Pennsylvania Sen. Rick Santorum had 13 percent, and Texas Rep. Ron Paul 7 per­cent. Neither mounted a sub­stantial effort in the state. 
For the first time in the cam­paign, exit polls showed a gen­der gap, and it worked to Rom­ney’s advantage. 
He was leading Gingrich 52­28 among women voters and was winning men by a far smaller margin of 41-36. 
Ominously for the thrice-married Gingrich, only about half of women voters said they had a favorable view of him as a person, compared to about eight in 10 for Romney. 
Nor was Romney’s victory a narrow one. His winning per­centage approached 50 percent and a majority that would de­molish Gingrich’s oft-stated contention that the voters who oppose Romney outnumber those who favor him. 
Still, the former speaker said, “We’re going to contest every­place and we are going to win.” 
As in Iowa, New Hampshire and South Carolina, about half of Florida primary voters said the most important factor for them was backing a candidate who could defeat Obama in No­vember, according to exit poll results conducted for The Asso­ciated Press and the television networks. 
Not surprisingly, in a state with an unemployment rate hovering around 10 percent, about two-thirds of voters said the economy was their top is­sue. Nearly nine in 10 said they were falling behind or just keeping up. And half said that home foreclosures have been a major problem in their com­munities. 



page 8 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com Wednesday, February 1, 2012 
INSIDE COLUMN 
The magic of SuperbowlSundays 
I’m a nostalgic person. Really, it’s sometimes bad. I find myself at times not enjoying the present as much as I could be because I’m instead think­ing of the past. I know I can’t stop time or go back, but sometimes I Laura Coletti wish I could. 
I’m also a Sports Writer sports lover. I am a huge fan of college basketball (anyone who knows me well knows I’m a pain to watch it with because I won’t shut up), I am forever cursed as a Mets fan and Sundays in No­vember are good for three things: schoolwork, church and football. 
Super Bowl Sunday is a beautiful marriage of these two things that help embody who I am. Now, at age 20, it’s a time to gather around a television with some good friends, have some chips and salsa, be com­mercial critics and perhaps make a wager or two during the course of the game. Last year, it was a time to share in the elation of the two big­gest Packers fans I know. So far this year, it’s been a time to watch with amusement as my boyfriend and our friend argue the merit of the Giants even making it as far as the Super Bowl. 
The Super Bowl is also a time that makes me remember. I remember the parties my parents used to host, when all their friends from Brooklyn used to drive down to our home in Jersey. The men would all have beers and watch the game. The women would sit around the kitchen table and catch up on life. We kids would tear around the basement and play music and invent games because we were too young to care about foot­ball. 
I can tell you exactly where I was and what I was doing the last time the Giants and the Patriots met in the Super Bowl. For the first half, I was on the second floor of my house, banging out a history paper in our office with the game on in the back­ground. For the second half, I was in our family room, eating mini hot dogs, wishing my dad weren’t away on business as I watched David Tyree catch a ball with his helmet. 
At the moment, it’s nice to have a major sporting event to take my mind off things, if only for a day. College epitomizes time and uncertainty. We are forever moving forward, look­ing on to what’s next — what’s going on next weekend, what are we doing next summer, what’s going to happen after we graduate. Sports are time­less and operate with a reasonable amount of certainty. Major League Baseball will start again in April, the World Cup comes every four years, the Super Bowl will be played on Sunday. 
The memories they create are forever burned into our minds and help us stop, or at least hold on to, time. Hopefully everyone on campus, whether they’re rooting for the Gi­ants, Patriots or are simply hoping to see a good game, takes advantage of this event to forget papers, forget tests and stop time for a few hours. 
Contact Laura Coletti at       wcarey@nd.edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


Landlubbing pirate fighters 
SOPA, PIPA, OPEN, ACTA — The music and movie industries are trying to tear the Internet to bits! When that which we love and hold dear is threatened, we grab our pitchforks, practice our battle yells and head for the streets. At Blake J. Graham least that’s what we did on Jan. 18 Erudite when Wikipedia Techno-Lust and its net-born pals decided to close for business in protest of the draconian bills sitting in Congress. 
But a lot of people’s understanding of the nature of the protest is miscon­strued. Yes, the Stop Internet Piracy Act and Protect IP Act are designed to combat piracy, but the online commu­nity wasn’t protesting in favor of piracy. Rather, they were protesting against the detrimental ways in which those particular bills fought piracy. 
The principle behind SOPA recognizes that pirated content exists, and it gener­ally exists in large clumps in countries outside the United States. For people in the U.S. to find this pirated content, they must go through sources like Google, Ya­hoo and Bing or navigate to file-sharing communities by means of URL. 
To stop nefarious citizens from access­ing such content, the logic followed that the government should step in and alter the foundation of the Internet to remove those linking connections from the user to the pirate’s chest of stolen booty. The MPAA and RIAA would then have the power to tell the government where to point its takedown cannons. If a link is found on Twitter that heads toward a pirate site, they could take down Twitter. It’s the equivalent of destroying every road leading out of a city on the assump-
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
tion that there might be illegal action oc­curring wherever those roads may lead. 
There’s no question that piracy is bad. Having material or content stolen, appro­priated and rebranded is one of the worst things a content creator can encounter. As someone who has had intellectual prop­erty taken, I can speak to how devastating it is. But when one is dealing with a deli­cate networking system like the Internet, it takes the precision of a scalpel — not a tomahawk cruise missile — to protect the rights of content producers and ensure they get paid. 
The most powerful tool in the modern fight against piracy is a bill passed in 1998 called the Digital Millennium Copy­right Act or DMCA. Under the DMCA a content creator can file a takedown notice to a site hosting their copyrighted mate­rial and the host can remove the material without facing liability for the content itself. To put this into context, DMCA take-down notices are most common on the ever popular video website, YouTube. 
YouTube is magically unique from nearly any other video viewing service 
— it is the homeland of amateurs with a camera and something to share. But, up until being acquired for $1.65 billion by Google in Oct. 2006, YouTube was plagued with copyright issues. 
The users of the site decided to create their own on demand service by upload­ing songs, films and portions of television shows. In 2007, Viacom took YouTube to court on the grounds of them hosting over 160,000 videos of copyrighted material. YouTube itself was protected under DMCA but the press was bad for the public view of the company. 
To take a proactive stance against the inevitable masses of copyrighted material on the site, YouTube created a program called Content ID. With Content ID, all videos are analyzed for similarities between their nature and a database of copyrighted material. If a match is found, the copyright holder is issued a notice and an option. They can either request for the content in question to be taken off You­Tube, or they can let it stand and sell ad­vertising against it. This solution allowed the users to continue to go to YouTube to find the material they wanted, created an advertising window for the content producers and helped pay YouTube’s bills. Content ID now accounts for one-third of YouTube’s revenue. 
The Internet allows for instant access to content to be possible, and as a rule on the web, the easiest method is always the best method. YouTube found a way to turn their copyright fiasco into a money­making proposition. Network stream­ing service Hulu has been attempting to combat piracy by providing their network content online with customizable options for ad partners. Spotify and Pandora offer services where the user can listen to their favorite music so long as they hear an advertisement every once in a while. 
The MPAA and RIAA still assume that people want to own the media they consume, but they’re entirely wrong. The users of the Internet just want access to it. If the media conglomerates allow us to access their content easily — wherever and whenever we like — in exchange for ad time or a small monthly fee, piracy will truly be on the run. 
Blake J. Graham is a freshman. He can be reached on Twitter @BlakeGraham or at bgraham2@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“It is through creating, not possessing, that life is revealed.” 
Vida D. Scudder American writer 


WEEKLY POLL 
What’s the best part of the Super Bowl? 
The advertisements The food The uniforms The rivalry 

Vote by 5 p.m. Thursday at 
ndsmcobserver.com 


Wednesday, February 1, 2012 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 9 
Placing the astonishing within our grasp 
“When the Sabbath came he began to teach in the synagogue, and many who heard him were astonished. They said, ‘Where did this man get all this?’” (Mark 6:2). 
I’ve always thought that this Chuck Lamphier line from today’s Gospel is one of the Faithpoint most authentic and reasonable reactions to Jesus in all of the Gospels. Jesus is back in his hometown, back in the synagogue where he had worshipped as a child. He’s with people who knew him as a helpless infant, a stumbling toddler, an awkward teenager. Can you picture the woman in the midst of the assembly, listening to Jesus’ call to repentance, who could herself remember scolding the six year old Jesus for run­ning in the synagogue? Or the carpenter in the back of the room, who was there the day Jesus bloodied his own thumb with an errant swing of a hammer, sud­denly encountering Jesus teaching with such apparent authority? 
Of course they were astonished! Who wouldn’t be? I’m sure they were wonder­ing, “Where does this kid get off telling us what to do?” At that moment, they were having a profound experience of God’s presence, but simply weren’t prepared for it. Instead, they were held hostage by their previously held — and seemingly legitimate — beliefs about Mary and Joseph’s son. 

Jesus came to make us ready for God. To put this another way, Jesus’ life was all about taking “astonishing” truths about God and making them humanly comprehensible. This is precisely why we are so ready to call Jesus “Christ the Teacher.” If we can believe that God walked along the dusty, desolate back country roads of ancient Palestine, maybe it’s not so hard to believe that God can be found amongst the poor of Calcutta, Haiti or South Bend. If we rec­ognize that Jesus’ impulse was toward forgiveness, mercy and communion, then it must mean that God invites us to be agents of reconciliation. If the truth of Christ’s dying and rising gets into our bones and becomes the central theme of our lives, then we will surely approach suffering and difficulties with a spirit of hope. These are some of the astonishing truths that Christ placed within our hu­man grasp. 
This week, as we mark Catholic Schools Week, we celebrate an enter­prise that continues Christ’s work of revealing God. Today, millions of chil­dren and young adults throughout the United States attend Catholic schools and universities in which the Gospel message is proclaimed, community is fostered, worship and prayer are encouraged and service to our neighbors is modeled. 
Somewhere today, a child is study­ing the parable of the Prodigal Son and is learning that God will run to us the moment we take a step in the direction of home. In a high school classroom, students are debating immigration policy in light of Catholic social teaching on human dignity, solidarity and the com­mon good. On college campuses — right here at Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 
— undergraduates are being challenged to consider how their deepest desires intersect with the world’s greatest needs, thereby discovering how God is calling them to a life of service to others. 
When Blessed Basil Moreau, founder of the Congregation of Holy Cross, wrote, “Education is the art of helping young people to completeness,” he could have been describing the lifelong work of Jesus’ listeners in the synagogue. That is, to their own question, “Where did Jesus get all this?” Moreau might well have answered “He got a lot of it from you!” The believing community educates and helps to shape us into the person we’re going to be. 
Every inch of the world is a classroom for somebody, and Catholic schools are at work forming and sending out good teachers to share astonishing news. In a world that offers lots of lessons — some that are true, and some that are ulti­mately empty — Catholic schools seek to prepare the next generations to share their faith by bringing values into the marketplace, ethics into the laboratory, justice onto our streets and a witness to faith, hope and love to all the corners of the world. 
May our experience of Christ the Teacher astonish us, rouse us, challenge us — as it did that synagogue assembly in Jesus’ hometown — and so lead us to become better students and teachers our­selves. And during this Catholic Schools Week, may we pray in thanksgiving for the countless men and women who have answered this challenge through the ministry of Catholic education. 
This week’s column is written by Chuck Lamphier (ND ‘03, M.Ed. ‘05, MNA ‘09), the Director of the Alliance for Catholic Education’s ACE Advocates Program. He can be reached at Lamphier.1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Mass of Remembrance 
Dear Notre Dame Family, 

My wife Ann, daughter Doranne and I were hosted by the University at the Mass of Remembrance for Meghan Beeler and Colleen Hipp on Jan. 24.  What a special experience for us all. We thank University President Fr. John Jenkins, who presided, and Fr. Malloy for his comforting and healing homily.  We were touched by the presence of Haley Scott DeMaria and many other returning swimmers from both the wom­en’s and men’s team of 1992 and the current teams in their Parkas.  Thanks also to Kate Barrett, Colleen’s rector in Lewis Hall who was the cantor at the Mass, and the student choir, who participated so beautifully. We met with Professor Patty O’Hara, other faculty and several rescue and police officials who assisted at the time. 
While on campus we visited Lewis Hall where a tree and plaque remember Colleen. We visited the Grotto and Meghan’s grave for prayer.  We met with Coach Welch and former assistant Randy Julien and visited the lockers still kept locked with Colleen and Meghan’s names affixed. 
The amazing love of the greater Notre Dame family has followed us over the 20 years since the accident; all across the country we have met and shared with alumni and friends of Notre Dame their remembrance of the accident. 
We thank the entire Notre Dame community for their so-very-unique ability to remember together as a remarkable family, not just at this Mass of Remembrance but for our family over the entire 20 years since the accident. 
A special thank you is made to Missy Conboy, senior deputy athletics director at Notre Dame who has been in touch with our family throughout the years and hosted this visit for us. 
Thank you most sincerely from our family.  You all have kept Colleen and Meghan alive in the  history of your great University. 
Jerry Hipp Ann Hipp Doranne Hipp Tom Hipp 
Jan. 31 

Mandate is an assault on Church 
As a Catholic who firmly believes in the Church’s teachings on sexuality morality, I wholeheartedly disagree with the new health care mandate issued by President Obama. This mandate, which calls for all employers, including Catholic hospitals and educational institutions, to provide health insurance that includes prescriptive contraceptives, surgical sterilization and abortifacient drugs to its employ­ees, directly attacks the Church’s pro-life principles. While an exemption is granted to religious groups who employ and serve only those who share their beliefs, the fundamental mission of Catholic-based organizations is to serve all people in need. Not even Jesus himself would qualify for this exemption! 
While Catholic colleges are not free of sexual activity, contraceptives have always been excluded from their health care plans. Major contraceptive companies and the almighty Planned Parenthood have been prohibited from cashing in on a market with millions of potential clients. President Obama, a longtime friend of the pro-choice movement and Planned Parenthood, is attempting to force the Church to compromise their principles and comply with orders that defy their consciences. I agree with Bishop Rhodes who called this measure “unconscionable” and “an attempt to force us to violate our rights.” I hope the Bishops throughout the Unites States stand firm in their fight against this discrimination and refuse to comply with this unjust and immoral command. 
Christopher Lushis 
alumnus Class of 2010 Jan. 31 
Contraception and dignity 
In seeking to promote life, we, the officers of Notre Dame Right to Life, would like to articulate and defend the Catholic Church’s clear and unchanging rejection of artificial contraception. 
Although the use of some hormonal contraceptives for medical purposes may be legitimate, a woman seeking to sterilize herself in order to be sexually available to any man, whether husband or boyfriend, is in direct opposition to her body’s dignity in both the biological and moral realm. 
Indeed, “The regulation of births represents one of the aspects of responsible fatherhood and moth­erhood.” (Catechism of the Catholic Church, 2399). Recourse to moral means, such as Natural Family Planning, preserves the unitive and procreative aspects of the sexual act. They are not rendered impossible by these means. Without these aspects the sexual act is stripped of its meaning, and man and woman fail to give themselves to each other in complete love. 
Artificial contraception is neither a “right” nor health care. A woman’s choice to sterilize herself is a condemnation of the dignity of her body and its moral meaning. She destroys her body’s power to bring forth life and to give the sexual act its com­plete meaning. Through acts of sterilization, includ­ing contraception, a woman chooses to be less than who she is. The Catechism states, “Every action which, whether in anticipation of the conjugal act, or in its accomplishment, or in the development of its natural consequences, proposes, whether as an end or as a means, to render procreation impossible is intrinsically evil” (2730). 
Therefore, institutions that seek to promote the good of humanity have a responsibility to condemn and oppose sexual activity that is contrary to the dignity of the human person. The Catholic Church is one of these institutions, and, as a Catholic univer­sity, Notre Dame is as well. We, the officers of Notre Dame Right to Life, defend it. (For the unabridged copy of this letter, visit chooselife.nd.edu and click “Essays” under the “Information” tab). 
Christopher Damian 
junior off campus 
Andrew Lynch 
junior Morrissey Manor 
Samantha Stempky 
junior Lewis Hall Jan. 30 



BRIGID MANGANO  understand the evolution of the composi- 
Scene Writer  tion. In the watercolor rendering, Colum­ 
bus is seen kneeling in profile, while in the  
The Basilica of the Sacred Heart is un­ graphite version the positioning of his legs  
doubtedly one of the most iconic and most  is awkward and unconvincing. Another  
frequented buildings on campus. Yet very  episode in the series depicts Columbus on  
few students or alumni can recount the  his deathbed, surrounded by four grieving  
story of its construction or identify the  figures and a cleric. A globe and traveling  
Italian painter responsible for the ma- trunk adjacent to his bed make pointed  
jority of its interior decorations. “Artist  reference to Columbus’ historic voyages.  
in Residence: Working Drawing by Luigi  This drawing is especially noteworthy be- 
Gregori,” an exhibition at The Snite Muse- cause the bearded visage of Columbus was  
um of Art organized by 2010 Notre Dame  based on a head study of Father Sorin.  
alumna Sophia Meyers, reveals this infor- Other drawings in the exhibition com­ 
mation and other little-known facts about  memorate events from Father Sorin’s life,  
the Basilica.  including a wedding ceremony over which  
Born in 1819 in Bologna, Gregori moved  he presided for the local Potawatomi tribe.  
to South Bend in 1874 at the invitation  The engaged couple stands outside the Log  
of Fr. Edward Sorin, who had traveled  Chapel in the company of six witnesses,  
to Rome in search of an art professor. In  while in the background several cloaked  
addition to his teaching responsibilities,  figures exit or enter the place of worship.  
Gregori completed three major mural  Those who are curious to see the finished  
projects in the Basilica, the Main Building  canvas should pay a visit to the Grego­ 
and Washington Hall. Since the murals in  rian Room on the second floor of Saint  
the latter were destroyed during renova­ Edward’s Hall. Gregori’s painting was un­ 
tions, the exhibition focuses on the first  earthed five years ago in the storage area  
two decorative schemes.  of this dorm.  
Although most of the paintings in the  Ultimately, “Artist in Residence” offers a  
Basilica depict Biblical scenes that are  unique opportunity for students and fac­ 
easily recognizable, some of them, by vir­ ulty alike to learn about a painter whose  
tue of their location, are difficult to see  personal history is intertwined with that  
without craning one’s neck. A prime ex- of Notre Dame and whose creative vision  
ample is the “Life of the Virgin” mural se­ produced some of the most stunning mu­ 
ries that Gregori designed for the upper  rals on campus. The exhibition will re- 
register of the transept.  main open until March 11.  
At the Snite Museum, however, it is  
possible to see preparatory drawings for  Contact Brigid Mangano at bmangano@nd.edu  
these paintings at a comfortable eye lev­ 
el. A drawing titled “The Marriage of the  
Virgin Mary and Saint Joseph” is notable  
for its subject matter, which is underrep- On campus  
resented in Christian art. Mary, dressed  
in her signature pink robe and blue man­ 
tle, extends her right hand to Joseph, who  What: “Artist in Residence:  
interlocks his fingers with hers. Indeed,  
the whole scene is predicated on an inti- Working Drawings by Luigi  
mate exchange of looks and gestures. The  
drawing also highlights Gregori’s knowl- Gregori”  
edge of the Italian Renaissance, because  
the symmetrical composition and figure  Where: The Snite Museum of  
poses are strongly redolent of  “The Be­ 
trothal of Mary” (1504) by Raphael.  Art  
The mural series in the Main Building  
was dedicated to the life of Christopher  When: January 15 - March 11  
Columbus, the world-famous Catholic ex­ 
plorer whose discovery of America was  How Much: Free  
thought to embody Catholicism’s substan­ 
tial contributions to United States history.  Learn More:  
The episode titled “Father Perez Blessing  
Christopher Columbus before his Jour­ sniteartmuseum.nd.edu  
ney” is depicted twice by Gregori, once in  
watercolor and once in graphite.  
These two views allow the spectator to  


LISA HOEYNCK | Observer Graphic 


Wednesday, February 1, 2012 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 11 


MARY CLAIRE O’DONNELL 

Scene Writer 
It’s often hard to motivate yourself to get off the couch during these bleak winter months of snow, 
sleet, rain and hail, even on a Friday or Saturday 
night. My advice: give in to that urge to stay in­side. Invite your friends over from down the hall, down for some good old-fashioned bonding. Below is a list of ideas for fun activities. 
Remember those game nights you used to have with your family when you were a kid? And how fun they were? Recreate that with your friends. Let your competitive side come out during a game of Monopoly. Let your sense of humor emerge in Apples to Apples. You’ll not only laugh off some stress from the busy week of work you just put yourself through, but you’ll also learn a thing or two about your friends and how their minds work. My suggestions: Say Anything or Scattergories 
Watch a movie 
I know, it’s simple and you probably didn’t need my advice for this suggestion, but sometimes the 
best solution is so simple you can’t see it right in front of you. On cold or dreary nights, it’s always 
for something new. If you’ve got your eye on a cute friend of a friend, be sure they get the invite 
and the seat on the couch next to you. And for good measure, pick a scary movie. 
My suggestions: “Lord of the Rings” trilogy or 
lifts spirits better on an ugly day than a freshly baked cookie or brownie. Take advantage of the dorm kitchens or the one in your apartment and discover a friend’s hidden talent for decorating cupcakes. If you’re feeling adventurous, check out a new recipe online and make something like banana chocolate chip oatmeal cookies. 
My suggestions: chocolate chip cookies or oat­meal scotchies (see the back of bags of Nestlé® 
some may entirely skip this section, calling it lame or saying they do enough reading for class. But do you ever have the desire to read something you’re not going to get graded on? Something you 
bedside table that I desperately want to finish but never seem to have the time to. One chilly day, set aside an hour or two for yourself to just curl up on the couch with hot chocolate and a good book 
before your friends come over. Ask your pals or the librarians for suggestions, or reread an old favorite. But just give your mind a rest from that Orgo textbook you’ve been poring over for the Collins or “Blink” by Malcom Gladwell 
Contact Mary Claire O’Donnell at modonne5@nd.edu 

MARIA FERNANDEZ 
Associate Scene Editor 
The ScreenPeace Film Festival returns for its fifth consecutive year at Notre Dame on Thursday with a new selection of films to broaden and enlighten attend­ees’ views of the world. 
In conjunction with the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center (DPAC), the Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies has selected a number of award-winning docu­mentaries that present past and current international and domestic conflicts. Each film presentation will be followed by a discussion panel with leading profession­als in the fields of International Studies and Peace. 
The Kroc Institute hopes the screening of these films will help promote campus-wide knowledge and recog­nition of important political and social issues. 
“Our goal is to highlight peace issues around the world using film as a medium,” Hal Culbertson, execu­tive director of the Kroc Institute, said. 
This year’s festival has several innovations that will distinguish it from past years. The Kroc Institute worked directly with film director and Notre Dame fac­ulty member Olivier Morel to select the films and theme for this year’s weekend-long activity. 
“In working with Olivier Morel, we have developed a general theme for the whole series,” said Culbertson. 
Morel’s film and the other selected documentaries are centered on trauma, healing and reconciliation in the wake of war, Culbertson said. 
Below is a preview of the ScreenPeace films you won’t want to miss. 
“On the Bridge” (2011) 
Thursday, Feb. 2, 7 p.m. 

The festival opens to the public with the screening of a faculty member’s documentary focused on the effect of posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) on Iraq and Af­ghanistan war veterans. Morel focused his work on the lives of six war veterans who try to readapt to Ameri­can life once they return to the U.S. The film has been presented in seven festivals around the world since last summer and has won two awards. 
“Rebirth” (2011) 
Friday, Feb. 3, 6:30 p.m. 
Director Jim Whitaker’s film tells the story of five people whose lives were completely changed on Sept. 11, 2001. He portrays their 10-year transformation from trauma to hope as he simultaneously shows the evolution of the site where the Twin Towers once stood. 
“Nostalgia for the Light” (2010) 
Friday, Feb. 3, 9:30 p.m. 
The Atacama Desert in Chile is widely known as a great working-field for astronomers. However, it also hides the bodies of a number of political prisoners who were killed by the Chilean army after the 1973 military coup. Director Patricio Guzman’s film presents trauma and the power of reconciliation as relatives try to find a sense of closure by searching for the remains of their loved ones. 
“Enemies of the People” (2009) 
Saturday, Feb. 4, 6:30 p.m. 
From 1975 to 1979, the Khmer Rouge ruled Cambo­dia. Their regime was characterized by arbitrary ex­ecutions and torture that resulted in genocide. Thet Sambath and Rob Lemkin’s documentary features the testimony of the men and women who perpetrated these atrocities and kept silent for more than 30 years. 
“Fambul Tok” (2011) 

Saturday, Feb. 4, 9:30 p.m. 
In Sarah Terry’s film, Sierra Leone’s victims and per­petrators reunite for the first time after a brutal civil war. Through “fambul tok” (family talk), these citizens work for sustainable peace in their country and attempt to forgive and heal all past wounds. 
Contact Maria Fernandez at mfernan5@nd.edu 
On campus 
What: ScreenPeace Film Festival Where: DeBartolo Performing Arts Center When: Thursday, Feb. 2 - Saturday, Feb. 4. How Much: Free but ticketed Learn More: performingarts.nd.edu 
LISA HOEYNCK | Observer Graphic 


SPORTS AUTHORITY 
Eliminating the DH is an overdue change 
What would I do if I were sports dictator for a day? 
Where do I start? The first thoughts that pop into my head involve adjusting the NBA’s one-and-done rule so that ‘stu­dent-ath­letes’ stay in school longer and college basketball’s talent pool rises to what it once was. 
I would implement meaningful reform in college foot­ball that would lead to fewer NCAA scandals and more integrity for a game that has little of the said integrity its amateur­ism would suggest. 
Oh yeah, I’d get rid of the BCS in favor of a playoff as well, but that argument is not exactly new. 
But No. 1 on my list of changes I’d like to see in the world of sports is to com­pletely even the playing field in baseball by eliminating the designated hitter rule. 
Commissioner Bud Selig has instituted realignment with equal 15-team leagues and five-team divisions, which is a huge step forward for a sport that has finally sacri­ficed some tradition for some practicality. 
Now, I know it is much like­lier that the National League adopts the designated hitter rule than it is for the Ameri­can League to drop it. Why? 
Two reasons: Money (fans dig the long ball) and the fact that the Major League Baseball Players Association (MLBPA) is unlikely to sign off on any rule change that would decrease the career lifetime of some of its greatest players, many of whom are able to hit but not field when they age. 
Eliminating the designated hitter would be the final step in restoring baseball to its pure form, a time before the Steroid Era, when the sport effectively sold its soul to increase home run numbers and, as a result, fan atten­dance in the gloomy post-strike stretch. 
Many (probably most) con­sider a 450-foot home run by a designated hitter to be a thing of beauty. While I’m not saying it isn’t, you lose a lot of what makes the game great 

Andrew Owens 
Associate Sports Editor 
when you opt for designat­ed hitters over having the pitcher bat, double-switch­es and the general chess-game mentality National League managers must possess. 
Watching retired manag­er Tony LaRussa out-smart the other manager in late-game situations was part of what made him so great. Did he over-manage at times? Certainly. It’s safe to say his teams won more games than they lost as a direct result of his moves. 
So what happens to players in the American League who no longer play positions and are slotted into a designated-hitter role in their respective manager’s lineup card each day? 
Amazingly, I think life will go on and the game will be better with the change. 
Sure, it would not exactly help my favorite team, the Tigers, if the DH were eliminated. They have one locked up through 2014 (Victor Martinez) and po­tentially two future DHs in Miguel Cabrera and Prince Fielder (signed through 2015 and 2020, respec­tively). The game, however, would be better off. 
Red Sox fans would be­moan the loss of David Or­tiz, a staple in the organi­zation for the past decade. But, hey, should you really be a baseball player if you can’t even take the field anymore? 
White Sox fans should definitely be in favor of this change. Maybe Adam Dunn’s bat will pick up if he takes the field everyday, like he did during his time in the National League. After batting .159 in 2011 (the worst average dur­ing the live-ball era by 20 points), it certainly can’t hurt. 
So, baseball, even the playing field and have both teams play under the same rules. Now that realignment is about to be a reality in 2013, it’s time to completely balance the leagues and eliminate the designated hitter. 
Contact Andrew Owens at aowens2@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
NFL 

Explosive WR trio to lead Giants 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS — Eli Man­ning has a 1-2-3 punch at receiv­er that’s not only dynamic, but highly entertaining. 
Victor Cruz, Hakeem Nicks and Mario Manningham give the Giants a pass-catching trio rivaling any in the NFL, and it could be New York’s biggest ad­vantage on offense against the New England Patriots in Sun­day’s Super Bowl. 
Cruz is coming off a record-setting season, Nicks had anoth­er 1,000-yard season and Man­ningham is finally healthy after dealing with a knee injury much of the year. 
For the inconsistent Patri­ots defense, which ranked 31st against the pass, that’s one big headache. 
“Once you look at it and see they have a receiver over there and a bunch of different things, you understand that’s an area we can excel,” Cruz said at me­dia day Tuesday, referring to the Patriots receiver Julian Edel­man, who plays nickel back at times. “We don’t want to force it. We want it to happen naturally and take it play by play and we’ll see how it goes and how they come out and play us and we’ll adjust accordingly.” 
The Giants (12-7) have ad­justed well this season. Starting with a revamped offensive line, New York quickly discovered that the running game which carried the team for decades wasn’t as good as usual. 
Four yards and a cloud of dust turned into 2 or 3 yards and that didn’t add up to a first down. Something had to change and offensive coordinator Kevin Gil-bride opted to unleash Eli and his receivers. 
“It’s never bothered me to throw the ball,” Gilbride said. “I have always enjoyed the chal­lenge of being able to come up with some plays that would give our guys a chance and put them in position to be successful. I think we have the talent level to do that and it seemed foolish to keep banging our head against the wall when we weren’t hav­ing success that way to not take advantage of guys who were having success. So it was not by design but necessity we evolved into more of a passing team.” 
The numbers have been sen­sational. 
Manning threw for a fran­chise record 4,933 yards, 29 touchdowns and 16 intercep­tions. Cruz caught 82 passes and set a franchise-record with 1,536 yards receiving and nine touchdowns, including at least five of 68 yards or longer. Nicks had 76 catches for 1,192 yards and seven TDs despite missing a game, Manningham had 39 catches for 523 yards and four TDs in 13 games. 
And if that’s not enough, the Giants found a pass catching tight end this season in Jake Ballard, who had 38 receptions for 604 yards and four TDs. 
“I feel it starts with us as an offense,” Manningham said. “We know how good we are. We know how we can go out and make plays and we know our po­tential. We’re trying to play the fullest out there. Usually when we go out there and play good, we win.” 
What has been so amazing about the receivers is their abil­ity to turn short passes into big gains. 
The Giants’ five-game win­ning streak that carried them to the Super Bowl is dotted with game-breaking plays by the re­ceivers. 
In the Giants’ 29-14 win over the Jets in the next to last game of the regular season, Cruz used his speed to turn a 10-yard, third-down pass into an NFL record-tying 99-yard touchdown catch and run that ended with his usual salsa in the end zone. 
A week later in the 31-14 NFC title clinching victory over Dal­las, Cruz ignited the team with a 74-yard catch and run for a score late in the first quarter of a scoreless game. 
Nicks took over in the playoffs, scoring four TDs in the wins over Atlanta and Green Bay. The big plays were a 72-yard catch and run against the Falcons in a 24-2 win and a 37-yard des­peration pass before halftime against Green Bay in a 37-20 up­set of the defending Super Bowl champions. 
Manningham caught a 17­yard touchdown in the 20-17 overtime win against San Fran­cisco in the NFC title game on a play that Gilbride and Manning drew up on the sideline to coun­ter something they saw in the Niners’ defense. 


The receivers attend a weekly meeting with Manning on Fri­days to discuss upcoming op­ponents and watch videotape of their tendencies in down-and­distance situations and what to expect when they go into certain defensive fronts and alignments. 
“I feel like as a group we like to make plays, we like to get the job done,” Nicks said. “It comes from us working hard; getting in that time with Eli. We put in a lot of time off the field and on the field to get the job done.” 
The Giants’ receiving corps is different than the group that Manning had against New Eng­land in the 2008 Super Bowl. 
Amani Toomer has retired. Plaxico Burress is with the Jets after serving a nearly two years in jail on a gun charge and Steve Smith signed with Philadelphia as a free agent. 
Cruz, Nicks and Manningham are pretty good replacements. 
“I had three talented receiv­ers, who I had great faith to get open, there are some similari­ties in that matter with the guys now and the team, with Hakeem, Victor Cruz and Mario Manning-ham,” said Manning, who threw a game-winning pass to Burress in the last Super Bowl between these teams. “I’m just looking for matchups. If guys are dou­ble-teamed or they’re covered; I have to have faith in each one of those guys to get open and make some big plays for us.” 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The 
Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

The Office Quotes: Michael Scott:  Ladies and Michael Scott:  Guess what? I have Dwight: Stanley, you have earned 

FOR RENT PERSONAL 

gentleman, I have some bad news. flaws. What are they? Oh I donno, one Schrute Buck. Jim Halpert:  Question. What kind Meredith was hit by a car. I sing in the shower? Sometimes I Stanley: I don’t want it. of bear is best? Oscar: Where? spend too much time volunteering. Dwight: Don’t you wanna earn Dwight Schrute:  That’s a Michael Scott:  It happened Occasionally I’ll hit somebody with Schrute Bucks? 
WALK TO CAMPUS  UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don’t ridiculous question. this morning in the parking lot. I my car. So sue me-- no, don’t sue Stanley: No. In fact, I’ll give you a go it alone. Notre Dame has many 

Jim Halpert:  False. Black bear. took her to the hospital. And the me. That is opposite the point I’m billion Stanley Nickels if you never 
Great Specials! Studio, 1, 2, 3 resources in place to assist you. 

Dwight Schrute:  That’s debatable. doctors tried to save her, life, they trying to make. talk to me again. 
Bedroom; Townhomes available. If you or someone you love needs There are basically two schools of did the best they could. And she is Dwight: What’s the ratio of Stanley 

confidential support or assistance, 

thought. going to be ok. Dwight:  Whenever I’m about to do Nickels to Schrute Bucks? 
(574) 272-8124.  please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819 Jim Halpert:  Fact. Bears eat Stanley:  What is wrong with you? something, I think “Would an idiot Stanley: The same as the ratio of or Ann Firth at 1-2685. For more beets. Bears. Beets. Battlestar Why would you have to phrase is do that?”  And if they would, I do unicorns to leprechauns. 

information, visit ND’s website at: 

Galactica. like that? not do that thing. www.clovervillageapartments.com http://pregnancysupport@nd.edu 
NFL 

All-Pro quarterback Manning says no plans to retire 
The four-time MVP is coming off major neck surgery, could potentially become a free agent this offseason 

spat with team owner Jim Irsay and the ensuing make-up, Irsay joined the city’s mayor, the Indi­ana governor and host commit­tee officials at Monday’s news conference to discuss game week. Irsay wound up taking most of the questions and, of course, most focused on Man­ning’s future. He also said he didn’t want to discuss the Man­ning situation again this week. 
On Tuesday, Manning was the chatty one. 
Shortly after about 5,000 fans watched more than 1,000 reporters spend two hours in­terviewing Patriots and Giants, Manning delivered the third part of media day with an im­promptu appearance in front of a small group of reporters. His motive was to turn the away from him and back to Sunday’s game and his brother’s quest to win a second Super Bowl ring. 
That didn’t work too well, ei­ther. 
“I’m working hard, I had a re­ally good session today,” Man­ning said after throwing to sev­eral teammates. “I continue to make progress and work hard. The doctors are encouraged and that’s encouraging to me.” 
Manning smiled throughout the 10-minute interview and looked happier and more vi­brant than he has in months. 
Not everyone is paying atten­tion to the diversion. 
“Oh you meant Eli? I got it now,” Patriots linebacker Gary Guyton said when asked about coming to Indy with Manning in the headlines. 
Most Colts fans, meanwhile, have enthusiastically backed Eli in hopes of sending the dreaded Patriots home empty-handed again from Indy. And Eli chimed in, too. 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS — Peyton Manning isn’t ready to discuss retirement yet. 
The four-time league MVP told a group of reporters Tues­day he doesn’t plan to stop play­ing and that his recovery from a third neck surgery continues to be on schedule. 
“My plan hasn’t changed,” Manning said at a hotel after media day at Lucas Oil Stadium featuring the Giants and Patri­ots. “I’m on track with what the doctors have told me to do, and I’m doing that. I’m rehabbing hard.” 
When asked about reports he may soon retire, he responded: “I have no plans on doing that.” 

Manning’s shadow has been looming over the NFL title game for days, and it doesn’t show signs of going away any­time soon though he wishes he wasn’t such a distraction. 
“It’s not the way it should be,” he said earlier in a taped inter­view with ESPN. “I really don’t think it will be as the week goes on.” 
The quarterback of the home­town Colts has not played in more than a year because of a damaged nerve that caused weakness in his throwing arm. He had neck surgery in May, then underwent his third and most invasive neck surgery in 19 months in September. Doc­tors fused two vertebrae to­gether, a procedure that forced him to miss the Colts’ 2-14 sea­son. 
Since then, Manning hasn’t been able to escape the spot­light. 
There has been rampant speculation about his recov­ery, the potential risks of a re­turn, whether the Colts will pay Manning a $28 million roster bonus in early March to pre­vent him from becoming a free agent or whether the soon-to-be 36-year-old might quit playing. 
The ongoing saga has spilled right into the first Super Bowl week in Indianapolis. 
While the marquee story line was supposed to be Manning’s brother Eli vs. Brady, it’s the older Peyton who continues to make news. 
Following last week’s public 


NFL 

Gronkowski’s ankle healing for Super Bowl 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS — The boot is off and Rob Gronkowski’s ankle is feeling much better. New Eng­land’s All-Pro tight end shed his walking boot in time for media day Tuesday, and sounded optimistic he’d be lining up against the New York Giants in the Super Bowl on Sunday. 
“I’m improving every day,” Gronkowski said. “The only rea­son it’s getting so blown up is be­cause it’s the Super Bowl. It’s just like any other injury during any other week.” 
Gronkowski, who suffered a high left ankle sprain in the AFC title game Jan. 22, said he could be anywhere from in perfect health to “2 percent” for the game, adding that it’s still six days away. 
The outgoing Gronkowski smiled frequently from the podi­um during his hour-long appear­ance that opened with a question, of course, about how he was feel­ing. 
“Good. How are you feeling?” he replied. 
At one point, Gronkowski even put on a red tri-cornered hat, reminiscent of those worn by the original patriots during the era of the American Revolution. 
“He’s obviously making prog­ress,” quarterback Tom Brady said of his key pass-catcher. “He’s out of his boot today, which makes me feel a lot better. I told him he should write like ‘Mom I love you’ on his sock or something because I’m sure there’ll be a lot of pictures of his sock. 
“If anybody wants to be out there, it’s him. No one’s as tough as him.” 
Gronkowski was careful not to convey an overly optimistic atti­tude about his chances of playing, repeatedly saying he was work­ing with the Patriots training staff and approaching the situation on a day-to-day basis. 
He also was non-committal when asked if he could play if he had the injury during the regular season. 
“I couldn’t answer that,” he said. “It’s not a regular-season game. It’s the Super Bowl this week and (we’re) just preparing like it’s a big game and it’s the biggest game. It ain’t no regular-season game. So you’ve got to treat it a lot differ­ently.” 
Gronkowski set an NFL record for his position this season with 17 touchdown catches and had 90 receptions overall for 1,327 yards. He’s made a team-high 15 catches for a 15.5-yard average and three touchdowns in the postseason. He also developed into a powerful blocker. 

PGA TOUR 

Stanley hopes to use collapse as learning experience 
Stanley heads to this week’s Waste Management Phoenix Open after blowing a seven stroke lead Sunday 
lost in a three-man playoff. Stanley, like Garrigus, was Associated Press Stanley can relate only to the going for his first PGA Tour vic­triple bogey, the water and a tory. Both grew up in the Pacific 
JACKSONVILLE, Fla. — Rob-playoff. Northwest. Both are in the top ert Garrigus didn’t see any rea-He did everything right on class of power players in golf. son to stick around for the fin-the final hole of the Farmers The similarities end there. ish. Insurance Open, even taking Stanley, who grew up in the 
He had watched enough of a sand wedge instead of a lob Seattle area, was an All-Amer­the final round at Torrey Pines wedge for his third shot over ican at Clemson who played in to see that Kyle Stanley, whom the pond to a hole location in a the Walker Cup. He is in his he described as “exploding bowl at the front of the green. second full season on the PGA with talent,” had a three-shot What happened next surprises Tour, so naturally skilled and lead and headed for a sure win. him still. His shot landed be-polished that his long-term out-Garrigus left for the spa to get hind the hole and raced off the look is better than some of the a massage. front of the green and into the rookies who won last year. 
It didn’t take long for him to water. Garrigus, from Oregon, didn’t figure out what had happened. After a drop into the first cut have the grades to get a serious 
“I got back to my car, saw my to eliminate even more spin, he scholarship offer. He spent two phone and it was blowing up,” landed his shot on the top shelf years at junior college before Garrigus said. “I had six or sev-and three-putted for triple bo-hitting the mini-tours. Then his en text messages. I had four or gey. On the second playoff hole, career was nearly derailed with five voicemails. I wasn’t talking he missed a 5-foot par putt and drug and alcohol addiction that to anyone on Sunday, so there watched Brandt Snedeker pose put him in a 30-day clinic. He was no need for anyone to call with a trophy that should have remains an open book, which lowers in 24 hours, those who Eventually, anyway. me.” been his. reads like a comedy given his felt badly for him or were im-“I know I may not have be-
He didn’t have to read a sin-Stanley was still in shock self-deprecating sense of hu-pressed how he handled him-lieved it on Sunday night, or gle message. He didn’t have to when he faced the media. His mor. self in defeat. even Monday morning, but ev­listen to a voicemail. eyes were glassy with tears. His “It was a lot easier for me,” He received text messages erybody just kept telling me I’ll 
He knew. lip quivered. He answered ev-Garrigus said. “I think the per-from Steve Stricker, who beat be a lot stronger for it, and I 
“I looked at my phone and ery question, even if he had to sonality I had made it easier to Stanley with a birdie-birdie fin-agree with that. I will.” thought, ‘Uh-oh. He blew it,’” stop at times to compose him-deal with. It’s just golf. I don’t ish at the John Deere Classic Garrigus bounced back from Garrigus said Monday evening. self. Looking back, he realizes know if he thinks of it that way. last summer, and from Gonza-that Memphis meltdown by win-
Among his priorities this that was part of the healing. I want to reach out and talk to ga basketball coach Mark Few, ning the final PGA Tour event of week at the Phoenix Open was “I tend to wear my emotions him. I don’t know if he wants to whom he doesn’t even know the year at Disney. Stanley re-to find Stanley and offer the on my sleeve a little bit,” Stan-hear what I have to say, and I personally. calls watching Rory McIlroy’s kind of advice that only comes ley said Tuesday at the Phoenix don’t care. He’s a good kid, and “That’s why I thought that collapse at the Masters last through experience. Open, where he agreed to an-I don’t want him to get shook up was so cool,” Stanley said. “I’ve year — and how graciously he 
Garrigus has every bit of that. other interview to help put his over it.” been watching Gonzaga play faced the press after an 80 — 
He had a three-shot lead on collapse behind him. “It was Stanley appears to be well on basketball since I was 3 feet and quickly pointed out that the final hole of the 2010 St. very tough to swallow. But one his way. tall. I live and die with every McIlroy was a U.S. Open cham-Jude Classic when he smoth-of the things I learned is I think His family was with him Sun-game they play. I try not to miss pion two months later. ered his tee shot into the water, you need to really be prepared day night, along with a close any of them. So that was real He believes something good is took a drop, then tried to go at for whatever this game can friend and his agent. He man-special to hear from him.” coming his way, and although the green not realizing the size throw at you. aged to eat. The sun came up The other messages, includ-the support has been over-of his lead. He went left of the “It’s a crazy game,” he said. the next day. He just signed up ing a phone conversation with whelming at times, Stanley is water into the trees and even-“It can love you; it can hate for Twitter a few months ago Zach Johnson, were equally not interested in dwelling on tually made triple bogey. He you.” and picked up about 4,000 fol-meaningful. Sunday at Torrey Pines. 

NFL 

Ochocinco finally reaches Super Bowl 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS — Chad Ocho­cinco was the last Patriot to walk across the field and wade into the pack of reporters and photogra­phers waiting near the sideline. He felt no need to rush the mo­ment he’d longed for nearly his whole life. 
This was his Super Bowl media day. 
Ochocinco finally got to be on the receiving end of questions Tuesday at Lucas Oil Stadium for an annual event that he attended several times as a microphone-toting correspondent for his so­cial media Ochocinco News Net­work. 
Now, the microphones were aimed at him. 
“Aw, man, I’ve dreamed of it,” Ochocinco said, wearing his blue No. 85 jersey, blue Super Bowl cap and irrepressible smile. “I’ve been playing this game a long time — started out at 4 years old. And this is what you dream of, to come to this stage and enjoy it. So that’s what I’m going to do.” 
And he’s doing it the New Eng­land way. 
Instead of driving the conver­sation by talking about himself, Ochocinco was along for the ride. He didn’t seem to mind that he didn’t get one of the 14 podiums set up on the field for coach Bill Belichick and players. 
Instead, he stood at the 13-yard line between podiums reserved for tight end Aaron Hernandez and receiver Matthew Slater, his soft tone often drowned out by his teammates’ speaker-ampli­fied comments. 
Didn’t matter. 
“This is my podium,” Ocho­cinco said, referring to his small section of artificial turf encircled by reporters and photographers. “If I was up there, you couldn’t get to me. You couldn’t smell the cologne I have on now.” 
During the nearly hour-long session, Ochocinco provided hardly a whiff of his old look-at­me ways. After 10 years of com­manding the spotlight and losing games in Cincinnati, the social media mogul had to pull off one of his most difficult changes. 
Ochocinco had to use the words “I’’ and “me” much more sparingly in order to co-exist with Belichick in New England. He had to learn, he says, throw­ing in an obscenity, to shut up. 
There was no remorse in his tone on Tuesday. He knew when the Patriots traded for him that his self-promoting ways would have to end. If he lapsed back into look-at-me, he’d be looking at the end of his stay in New England. 
So, he did away with his lists of cornerbacks who couldn’t cover him, his touchdown skits and vic­tory guarantees. Ochocinco, who legally changed his name from Johnson to get more attention, would have to drop the “diva” from his job description. 
“I could have talked,” he said, ‘but then I’d be sitting at home today. 
“I think I’ve had a great career in general. The year wasn’t what I expected, what everyone else expected. But I did everything I was supposed to do — work, stay quiet. I don’t know if being on this stage is a reward, but there’s nothing else I can do. I’m part of a team and I’ve done everything asked of me.” 
Especially the “stay quiet” part, which went against his na­ture. 
He repeatedly bumped egos in Cincinnati with coach Mar­vin Lewis, who referred to him once as “Ocho Psycho.” Ocho­cinco miffed teammates with his attention-gathering antics — and his sloppy pass routes — and got under the skin of opponents by sending them Pepto-Bismol and other gifts. The league repeat­edly fined him for his on-field cel­ebrations and refusal to follow its uniform code. 
He set Bengals receiving re­cords, but made the playoffs only twice in 10 years and went 0-2. He tried to get out of town, but ownership made him stay. He started planning for his next career, getting involved in social media, including his OCNN ven­ture. 
During the NFL lockout last summer, he rode a 1,500-pound bull for 1.5 seconds, tried out for Kansas City’s MLS team and took a 160 mph spin around the Atlanta Motor Speedway with Jeff Burton. 



NCAA MEN’S BASKETBALL 

Home court spurs Arkansas to win over Vanderbilt 
Associated Press 
FAYETTEVILLE, Ark. — Vanderbilt’s road success this season wasn’t enough to overcome Arkansas’ seeming home invincibility. 
Despite 19 points from John Jenkins, the Commodores (16-6, 5-2 Southeastern Con­ference) fell behind in the sec­ond half and never recovered in an 84-72 loss to the Razor­backs on Tuesday night. 
Vanderbilt had won 11 of 12 entering the game and had a 4-1 road record. The Commo­dores led 40-37 in the second half before the Razorbacks (16-6, 4-3) used six of their nine 3-pointers to start a 22-6 run that put the game away. 
“They came out in the sec­ond half and hit us in the mouth early and that was the key, I think,” Jenkins said. “They got a lot of shots in that big run and we just couldn’t respond.” 
The Commodores led 34-32 at halftime behind 10 points from Festus Ezeli, who scored 21 points in his last game, against Middle Tennessee. He scored nine straight points at one point to start an 11-0 run that put Vanderbilt up 29-25. 
The Commodores shot 52 percent (13 of 25) in the half and kept Arkansas’ big men in foul trouble, but they were still outrebounded 19-15 in the half and 36-29 for the game. 
“I thought the difference in the game was their team speed,” Vanderbilt coach Kev­in Stallings said. “I thought that they were faster and quicker than we were, and they utilized that to their ad­vantage — especially on the offensive end.” 
Jeffery Taylor added 18 for the Commodores, while Ezeli finished with 14 and Steve Tchiengang had 10. 
Rickey Scott had 18 points as Arkansas moved to 16-0 in Bud Walton Arena and equaled its best start to open a season in Fayetteville since the 1993-94 national cham­pionship team had the same home mark for the entire season. Only that team and the 1997-98 team have gone undefeated at home since the arena opened in 1993. 
“I think it’s been like that, you’ve got to protect the home (court),” Scott said. “Every team is like that; you’re going to protect the house. 
“It’s just natural to us.” 
The Commodores led 40­37 before Arkansas’ Hunter Mickelson stepped back and made the first 3-pointer of his career to tie the game. Mick­elson was 0 of 2 on 3-point attempts before that, but the make started a stretch where Arkansas hit six of seven field goals from behind the arc. 
That led to a 59-46 lead, and Vanderbilt was unable to get closer than seven points after that. 
Five players finished in double figures for the Razor­backs, while Mickelson added nine points in 11 minutes be­fore fouling out. That includ­ed consecutive baskets in the second half to put Arkansas up 71-57, the first of which was a two-handed dunk after a spin move past Ezeli. 
“We should have come out the gate firing on all cyl­inders, but sometimes that doesn’t happen,” Mickelson said. “Like I said, we’re all versatile and anybody can start it at any time. We’ve been doing that throughout the whole year, so (hopefully) we can keep it up.” 


Julysses Nobles added 17 points for the Razorbacks, who entered the game with home wins over two ranked teams this season: then-No. 15 Mississippi State and then-No. 20 Michigan. They used big first-half runs in both of those wins, but didn’t follow that script in falling behind 40-37 early in the second half. 
This time, Arkansas pulled away with its 3-point barrage 
— equaling its SEC-best with nine 3s. Nobles finished with three of the 3s, while Scott and Mardracus Wade each hit two during the 22-6 stretch that put the Razorbacks up 59-46. 
BJ Young also hit a 3-point­er during the run and fin­ished with 12 points. Wade and Ky Madden added 10 points apiece as Arkansas did its best to start making a le­gitimate case for a return to the NCAA tournament after missing it the last three sea­sons. 
“I thought this team grew up tonight,” Arkansas coach Mike Anderson said. “I thought we grew up in a lot of areas, just from the stand­point of how hard you’ve got to play. Not only how hard you’ve got to play, but playing together.” 

NHL 

Kovalchuk, Devils rally past Rangers 
Associated Press 
NEWARK, N.J. — David Clarkson scored the tying goal for New Jersey in the fi­nal minute of regulation, and Ilya Kovalchuk netted the only goal in the shootout as the Devils snapped a three-game losing streak with a 4-3 vic­tory over the New York Rang­ers on Tuesday night. 
Kovalchuk had the first at­tempt in the shootout and beat New York backup Martin Biron between the pads. That was enough to give the Devils a 9-2 mark in the tiebreaker. Martin Brodeur preserved the win by stopping all three Rangers shooters: Derek Ste-pan, Brad Richards and All-Star MVP Marian Gaborik. 
Kovalchuk and Zach Parise also scored in regulation for the Devils, who trailed 1-0, 2-1 and 3-2. Brodeur made 23 saves. 
Anton Stralman, Brian Boyle and Michael Del Zotto had the Rangers’ goals while Biron had 26 stops. 
The loss snapped a two-game winning streak for the Eastern Conference-leading Rangers. It was the first game for both teams following the NHL All-Star break. 
It was a crucial win for the Devils, who are fighting to stay above the postseason cutoff in the conference. 
Biron got the start for the Rangers ahead of All-Star Henrik Lundqvist, who had a rare night off against the Devils. Lundqvist, who had made 32 consecutive starts against New Jersey, is expect­ed to play Wednesday night when the Rangers take on the Sabres in Buffalo. 
The first period started as a tight-checking affair with few scoring chances. Play opened up when the Rangers buzzed the Devils end with three minutes remaining following a turnover by the New Jersey defense. Brodeur scrambled in his crease to keep the game scoreless. 
That sequence shifted mo­mentum to New York, and the Rangers cashed in with 
32.9 seconds remaining in the period. Gaborik fired a shot off a right-wing rush that hit Devils defenseman Anton Volchenkov. Brodeur made a skate save, but couldn’t pre­vent Stralman from knocking in the rebound from deep in the left circle for his second of the season. 
Parise pulled the Devils even at 8:20 of the second with an extra-effort goal. Us­ing Rangers defenseman Stu Bickel as a screen, Parise fired a shot from the top of the left circle that Biron stopped. Parise outsprinted Bickel to the rebound and beat Biron from a sharp angle. 
Gaborik tested Brodeur with a shot from the top of the left circle late in the period, but the goalie came up big and kept the Devils in a 1-1 tie heading into the third period. 
Biron stopped Kovalchuk early in third on a short­handed breakaway, and the stop was important because the Rangers took the lead again on Boyle’s goal. 
Bickel fired a shot from the right point that Brodeur stopped. Boyle pounced on the rebound and dragged the puck across the slot before flipping it in at 2:37 for his fourth goal. 
Kovalchuk pulled New Jer­sey even 2-2 with a power-play tally at 16:01 for his team-leading 20th goal. 
Del Zotto, set up nicely by Gaborik, gave the Rangers their third lead 36 seconds later. That appeared to be the game-winner, but Clarkson tied it again with 47.6 seconds left. 
Andy Greene hammered the puck into the Rangers zone with Brodeur on the bench for an extra attacker. The puck bounced off the end boards into the slot, and Clarkson fired it in. 
In the overtime, Derek Ste-pan came very close to tuck­ing the winner past Brodeur with under 2 minutes left. 


NCAA MEN’S BASKETBALL 

Down at halftime, Marquette rallies to defeat Seton Hall 
Associated Press 
MILWAUKEE — Seton Hall tried to take advantage of a Marquette team that was scrambling to adjust without one of its big men. The Pirates just couldn’t keep up. 
Facing a team that went with a smaller — and quicker — lineup without injured forward Davante Gardner, the Pirates controlled the first half but ul­timately fell to the 15th-ranked Golden Eagles 66-59 on Tues­day night. 
“Their going small really bothered us,” Seton Hall coach Kevin Willard said. “Even though you get it inside they were double-teaming. It’s the transition side that kind of hurts us. So sometimes even you are big and they go small, it can hurt you and they do a great job of getting out on the break.” 
Herb Pope scored 16 points for the Pirates (15-7, 4-6 Big East), who have lost five straight. 
“I think everyone is disap­pointed about this losing streak and no one is happy, but we un­derstand this is part of a grow­ing process and we’ll keep com­ing out and fighting,” Willard said. 
The losing streak is wearing on guard Jordan Theodore, who scored seven points on 3-for-14 shooting. 
“We wanted this game,” The­odore said. “We just couldn’t make plays down the stretch, especially me. I just couldn’t get going at all tonight.” 
Jae Crowder had 20 points and 12 rebounds, Vander Blue scored 16 points and Darius Johnson-Odom added 14 for the Golden Eagles (19-4, 8-2), who extended their winning streak to seven games. 
Trailing at halftime, Mar­quette turned to Blue and John­son-Odom in a 16-2 run to take the lead midway through the second half. 
Former Marquette standout Dwyane Wade attended the game, along with Miami Heat teammate LeBron James. Mi­ami is in town to play the Mil­waukee Bucks on Wednesday. 
The two NBA stars sat on the baseline near the Marquette bench and were cheered by the crowd when they were intro­duced on the video board in the first half. 
Wade showed some excite­ment for his former team when Marquette woke up in the sec­ond half, pumping his fist a cou­ple of times after Blue slammed home an alley-oop pass from Junior Cadougan to cut the Se­ton Hall lead to two. 
Pope scored inside for Seton Hall, but Blue hit a 3-pointer. After an empty possession by the Pirates, Blue scored on a driving layup to put Marquette up 39-38 with 12:23 left. 
Crowder scored for Mar­quette, then Cadougan came up with a steal and Johnson-Odom hit a 3-pointer to put the Golden Eagles up 44-38 with 11:07 to play. 
The Golden Eagles stretched their lead to 56-46 when John­son-Odom fired a long pass to Jamil Wilson for an easy layup with 4:56 left. 
But the Pirates weren’t fin­ished, as Freddie Wilson hit a 3-pointer to cut the lead to 58­53 with 3:25 remaining. 


Trailing by four and facing a critical possession with just over 2 minutes left, the Pirates lost the ball out of bounds as the shot clock expired. Crowder hit two free throws to help put the game out of reach. 
Gardner sprained his left knee in the Golden Eagles’ vic­tory at Villanova on Saturday. The school said his return will be evaluated on a game-by­game basis. 
The 6-foot-8, 290-pound Gardner is having an impres­sive season, and his inside play has been critical in the wake of a season-ending left knee inju­ry to center Chris Otule. 


McGraw 
continued from page 20 
her rebounding and just her game in general. I thought she was doing a really good job.” 
Novosel returned with a strong performance in the sec­ond half, finishing with six points, three rebounds and two steals in 15 minutes of play. 
“Novosel got two quick fouls, only played two minutes in the first half,” McGraw said. “Two of the last three games she’s played very limited minutes in the first half, and then she goes in and plays a chunk in the sec­ond.” 
Junior guard Skylar Dig-gins contributed a game-high 18 points and hit three-of-five shots from behind the arc. Dig-gins connected on five of seven three-point shots during Notre Dame’s victory over Tennessee on Jan. 23, as the Irish continue to shoot well from three-point range. 
Notre Dame’s third consecu­tive victory over the Scarlet Knights also marked its seventh win in eight contests against ranked opponents. McGraw fin­ishes the month of January un­defeated for the fifth time in her tenure at Notre Dame. 
“[The January success] is all the players, it really is,” she said. “We’re trying to keep them fresh mentally. We’ve been able to use the bench well, and that’s been important. We’ve been able to work in a few days off where we can give them a men­tal and a physical rest. I think this team’s mentally tough. They don’t mind the grind, and that’s what you’ve got to do win.” 
The Irish return to action Sunday when they host DePaul at 1 p.m. 
Contact Chris Masoud at cmasoud@nd.edu 
Coaches 
continued from page 20 
enough coaches there to make the final 22-man ros­ter and earned the right to represent their country against the likes of Finland and Canada, among others. Tynan in particular had an impressive showing for the team, scoring three points in six tournament games on the USA roster, plus adding a goal in one of the three exhibition games. 
“I thought it was a great experience, playing against the top players in the world your age,” Tynan said. “It was great to be in Canada [and] great to see those fans doing their thing.” 
Johns also turned in a solid performance with his usual physicality on the blueline, although he had a difficult time finding the scoresheet against the high level of competition, manag­ing a goal and an assist for the national team in nine games.For Johns, a second round pick by the Chicago Blackhawks, the high level of play was hopefully just a taste of his future in hockey. 
“Playing against the top players in the world your age, it was definitely an experience and an eye­opener, seeing what the fu­ture holds hopefully,” Johns said. “Playing against faster guys and better guys, it just makes you better as a play­er and as a person.” 
After the somewhat dis­appointing seventh-place finish, Tynan and Johns returned to the Irish line­up, barely missing a beat. In their first game back against No. 3/5 Minnesota, Tynan scored Notre Dame’s first goal and Stephen Johns tallied a team-high six blocked shots as the Irish up­set the Golden Gophers on the road. 


“Obviously, the tourna­ment didn’t go as well as we thought it would with Team USA, but I think we were both pretty excited to get back to all of our friends and missing the boys and stuff like that, and it was great to be back, especially when they were playing so well,” Tynan said. “I watched the highlights versus [Boston University] and they said they played great, and I was excited to be back and see how all the guys were playing … It was a big win for us and I was excited to get back.” 
Since their return, Johns and Tynan have once again taken up the mantle of be­ing two of the team’s most productive players. Tynan, a third round pick by the Co­lumbus Blue Jackets, cur­rently leads the Irish in points and assists, and with a shooting percentage near 24 percent, is the team’s most efficient scorer. Johns has continued to be a gritty and physical sparkplug for the Irish defense, leading the team in blocked shots and penalty minutes. 
Each also added a goal in Notre Dame’s 4-2 win at Alaska on Saturday. 
There is no question the duo has continued to step up its game since return­ing from Canada, and Irish coach Jeff Jackson believes both are playing with chips on their shoulders after the result at the championships. 
“I think T.J. he had kind of a secondary role on that team and I think he’s out to prove again; he’s always out to prove something to some­body,” Jackson said. “And I think that’s the way he’s play­ing right now … I think Ste­phen’s confidence was hurt a little bit in that environment and I think he’s played some really good games for us in the last couple of weeks.” 
For Notre Dame, the team can only hope that its inter­national representatives keep up their level of play, as they look to make a final push be­fore the CCHA playoffs. The next step for the Irish will come this weekend as they host Bowling Green in a pair of key conference games. 
Contact Jack Hefferon at wheffero@nd.edu and Sam Gans at sgans@nd.edu 


NBA 

George scores 24, Nets down Pacers 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS — Paul George is starting to make the New Jersey Nets cringe whenev­er they play the Indiana Pacers. 
George scored a career-high 24 points to lead the Pacers to a 106-99 win over the Nets on Tuesday night. 
And it’s not the first time George has spoiled things for the Nets. George, who shot 8 of 11 in this one, scored 21 points to lead the Pacers to a 108-94 win against the Nets on Jan. 2. 
“I just want to be effective on both sides of the ball and help this team win,” George said. “We picked up the defensive ef­fort and just turned it up.” 
Danny Granger had 21 points and seven rebounds and Roy Hibbert had 18 points and 14 rebounds, his ninth double-dou­ble of the year. 
Deron Williams scored 34 points for the Nets, who have lost two straight overall and nine straight against the Pac­ers. 
Indiana went on a 12-0 run midway through the third quar­ter and eventually led by as much as 18 in the fourth. 
The Nets turned the ball over three times and missed three shots in the Pacers’ big run and shot just 40 percent overall in the third. 
For Pacers coach Frank Vogel, it was just a perfect example of the smash-mouth basketball he has always been striving for. 
“We continue to grow our identity,” said Vogel, who was impressed with George. “Paul George really carried us through some offensive stretches. He’s a heck of a weapon at both ends.” 
George capped the biggest lead of the third quarter with a reverse dunk off Lou Amund­son’s steal to give the Pacers an 84-72 lead at the end of the third quarter. 
With the game tied at 66, George hit a 3-pointer and Granger went to the line to give the Pacers a 71-66 lead. Granger and George combined to score nine of the 12 points in the run. 
But the Nets made a run back at the Pacers late in the fourth quarter and even got within three after a 15-2 run in which Anthony Morrow scored 11 of his 28 points. 
“Our team got down 12 or 14 points, but we kept battling and then we got within striking dis­tance,” Nets coach Avery John­son said. “Unfortunately, the ball just popped out on us.” 

Britons 
continued from page 20 
Henley said the Belles must control the tempo of the game and prevent Albion from going on long runs. 
“We also definitely want to get out and push and try to set the tone early as we do every game we play,” Henley said. “We have to be able to work the clock a little bit better at times when we have the lead to elimi­nate the runs by our opponents. 
“We need to go deeper in the shot clock, make them play de­fense a little bit longer. We want to try to wear them out defen­sively instead of being one-and­done and going back on the other end.” 
Having lost to Albion 72-52 in their first matchup, Henley said her players recognize the importance of this game. Only the top four teams will make the postseason. 
“I think [the players] are very focused,” Henley said. “We are at the point in our season where every game is big for us. Those who are behind us in the league are starting to creep up and we have a one game cushion in fourth place. Every single night we have to go out there and try to maintain that fourth place.” 
Saint Mary’s will travel to Albion, Mich., to take on the Britons in a 6 p.m. matchup to­night. 
Contact Peter Steiner at psteiner@nd.edu 
Hawaii 
continued from page 20 
which may be closer, it is defi­nitely worth it [to go to Hawaii] as we have guaranteed weather and top-notch Division I training fa­cilities at our disposal,” Kovenock said. 
While the Irish did not face Ha­waii in a dual meet, they did hold a combined practice with the War­riors’ swimming and diving team. 
For the duration of the trip, the Irish followed a set routine of opening each morning with a two-hour practice session. After morning practice, the team ex­plored the surrounding beaches and area. Each day closed with a night practice session. 
“Everyone benefits from extra training, but the freshman class definitely benefits the most,” Ko­venock said. “Living with fellow swimmers and hanging with the coaches allow the freshmen to de­velop.” 
Kovenock said the Hawaii train­ing trip also helped the Irish refo­cus their energy on the remaining part of the season, which quickly concludes in February with the Big East conference champion­ships and in March for those who advance to the NCAA champion­ships. 
“One of the best parts of the trip is seeing our swimmers at ease without the stress of academic work,” Kovenock said. “The trip also builds a real family atmo­sphere.” 
Although the Irish fell to Michi­gan and Northwestern in their first double dual meet following the trip, they dominated Michigan State in a dual meet Jan. 21, win­ning 218-82. 
The Irish face Ball State in Mun­cie, Ind., on Saturday at 1 p.m. for their final dual meet prior to the Big East championships. 
Contact Matt Unger at munger3@nd.edu 
Doubles 
continued from page 20 
team spends up to a third of its practice time on doubles, which in the collegiate ranks features three pairings. The point goes to the first school that has two teams win eight games. 
“College doubles is good — it’s so much better than juniors and a lot of it is because most schools do put quite a bit of time into the doubles,” Louderback said. “There’s a few that don’t, that feel like if they can work on singles, they can win four singles matches and win the match, but most do.” 
The first thing newcomers must learn is that singles and doubles are essentially differ­ent games, Louderback said. 
“A lot of the time, singles is just people hitting the ball as hard as they can, and in dou­bles you can’t do that,” Louder-back said. “It uses a little more touch than they’re used to. You have to be able to hit topspin lobs, offensive lobs. 
“When your opponent’s com­ing into the net, it doesn’t have to be hard. It’s more important to get the ball down at their feet, because if you hit hard they just use your pace when they vol­ley.” 
Louderback also said that many players who are used to singles have to relearn how to position themselves in doubles matches. 
“The biggest [mistake] is just not really knowing where they should be — where to move, when to move when you’re at the net, where to serve to,” Louderback said. 
In addition to helping rookies adjust to a new version of a fa­miliar game, the coaches have to decide which players best complement each other’s style of play. 
“The best doubles teams have one person that hits the ball big and hard and one person that doesn’t miss, that’s more con­sistent,” Louderback said. “The problem is if you get two play­ers that both hit the ball hard but make errors. If neither one of them is on they can be really bad. They can be really good, or they can be really bad.” 
McGaffigan said that she and her partner, sophomore Jenni­fer Kellner, fit the first descrip­tion of a successful duo. 
“Jen [Kellner] and I have much different styles of play. She has a huge baseline game so our styles mesh well togeth­er,” McGaffigan said. “She has such a killer backhand that it sets me up for poaches at the net.” 
McGaffigan said their rela­tionship extends beyond the court. 
“Jen and I are really close, so I think that our relationship, it carries over to our tennis play,” McGaffigan said. “The best part about playing doubles is getting to spend a whole eight game pro set with her. Jen is a ferocious competitor, so I love having her on my side of the tennis court.” 
Louderback said this type of friendship is common among doubles partners. 
“We’ve had kids that played together for two and three years, and they end up very close,” Louderback said. “They not only spend normal prac­tice time together, but doubles practice as well. You can see kids that have played doubles together, especially ones that have played well together, they become very close for sure.” 
Contact Vicky Jacobsen at vjacobse@nd.edu 


NCAA BASKETBALL 

Illini outlast Spartans at home 
Associated Press 
CHAMPAIGN, Ill. — Down two points with 14 seconds to play Tuesday night, Michigan State center Derrick Nix had a chance to tie Illinois and give the ninth-ranked Spartans a shot a stealing a win that would give them a share of the Big Ten lead. 
But the junior missed the first of his two free throws, and a late, desperate drive by Keith Appling came up empty, too, leaving the Spartans (17­5, 6-3 Big Ten) on the short end of an ugly 42-41 loss. 
Spartans coach Tom Izzo wasn’t happy how Appling, or the rest of his team, played under pressure on a night when neither team shot well. 
“I didn’t think we handled adversity very well at all,” Izzo said. “My two best players had their worst games.” 

Draymond Green, half of the two Izzo singled out, finished with five points and eight re­bounds in just 16 minutes. Ap­pling had four points and four rebounds to go with five turn­overs. 
Possibly worse, Green left the game with just under 4 minutes to play with an apparent left knee injury. He didn’t return after being helped from the court in obvious pain, and Izzo wasn’t sure how bad it was. 
“I have no idea how he is,” Izzo said after leaving the Spartans locker room. “I’m not even sure exactly what it is.” 
The shooting — 32.6 percent for Illinois (16-6, 5-4) and 24.1 percent for Michigan State — was so bad that players sug­gested the ball may have had too much air in it. Illinois’ Brandon Paul, who missed the front end of two 1-and-1s in the final minute that could have put the game out of reach, was one of them. 
“Someone brought it up to the refs, I think one of the coach­es,” Paul said. “I’m not try­ing to make excuses. I missed those free throws, I shouldn’t be missing those shots.” 
The win ended a three-game losing streak for the Illini, a run that left coach Bruce We­ber resorting to prayer. 
“When the shots go up, I just say, ‘Please, God, let it go in,’“ Weber said. “Some of the shots just sat in there and then popped out.” 
Paul led Illinois with 18 points. 
He scored 13 of Illinois’ 20 second-half points, but was 6 of 17 from the field. He was 5 of 9 from the free throw line and the Illini finished 9 of 17. 
After burying those two late free throws, his misses on the 1-and-1s that followed gave the Spartans — with Green on the end of the bench wincing in pain — a chance to steal the game with 11 seconds to play. 
But down 42-40, Nix’s miss­es and Appling’s failed drive with 2 seconds left exhausted the final chances for the Spar­tans. 
“He had a rough night,” Izzo said of Appling. “When Draymond went out, he tried to take the game over. It’s a shame because we had our chance and we didn’t get it done.” 
Green hit a key layup in a 9-0 run that gave the Spar­tans a shot. They were up 36­35 with 5:01 to play. But just over a minute later he was be-ing helped form the court. 


With 2:09 left and Michi­gan State up 40-37, Illinois freshman Tracy Abrams hit a 3-pointer to tie the game. 
After losing three games straight by a combined 11 points, Illinois badly needed to hold on against Michigan State, Abrams said. 
“It shows toughness. Coach always says, ‘When things aren’t going right, how do you respond as a team?’“ Abrams said. “We stuck together.” 
Branden Dawson had 12 points for the Spartans. 
While their shooting was aw­ful, the Spartans pulled down 49 rebounds, 23 on the offen­sive end. 
In the first half, the Spartans had more rebounds (22) than points, and trailed 22-20 at halftime. 
Green spent the last 10:56 of the first half on the bench with three fouls, the last a technical when he complained about a foul call. 
The technical cost Green a sharp chewing-out by Izzo as he took his place on the bench. 
The game was physical, with Izzo complaining to the refer­ees at one point, “They’re kill­ing us down here.” 
“This was WWE wrestling,” Weber said. 
Paul often matched up against Green, and relished seeing the big forward pile up fouls. 
“He’s obviously a great play­er and he does everything for them,” Paul said. “I got a cou­ple fouls on him early, and with him we probably should have capitalized on it more.” 
Given Michigan State’s rough first half, it was hard to figure why Illinois headed to the lock­er room with a narrow two-point lead. 
The Illini were 9 of 25 from the field after 20 minutes and 3 of 7 from the free throw line. 
The biggest shots for Illinois in the first half were arguably two putbacks by freshman Myke Henry. 
The first, off a miss by D.J. Richardson, put Illinois up 18­16 with 5:43 left. The second came with 34 seconds left, off another miss by Richardson, and gave the Illini their half­time lead. 


CROSSWORD WILL SHORTZ HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 

HENRY ARNOLD 

JOE MILLER and KELLY LYNCH 
JUMBLE 

CLAMMY HANDSHAKE 
MIKE ARGIRION 






Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556

 Enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year


 Enclosed
 is $75 for one semester 


Name ____________________________________________________ Address __________________________________________________ City ____________________ State___________ Zip______________ 

Wednesday, February 1, 2012 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 20 

ND WOMEN’S SWIMMING 
Training trip to Hawaii builds team chemistry 
By MATT UNGER 
Sports Writer 
Collegiate winter breaks can put college swimming teams at a disadvantage with over a month between meets and much time out of the pool. To prevent this lag time from hurting team perfor­mance, most programs take one to two week training trips to warm weather climates. Notre Dame is no exception, as the team travelled to Hawaii for its annual 11-day training excursion. 
This marked the team’s third consecutive year traveling to Ha­waii. The trip served the dual pur­pose of improving performance and building team chemistry, ac­cording to Irish assistant coach Kate Kovenock. 
“[Traveling to Hawaii] to train really allows us to take advantage of a large block of time to both train hard and come together as a team,” Kovenock said. “The team’s personality really develops.” 
Notre Dame partnered with the University of Hawaii to use its fa­cilities and training rooms. It also helped that Irish strength coach Elisa Angeles had connections with coaches at Hawaii. 
“While some teams travel to Puerto Rico or the Bahamas, 
see HAWAII/page 18 

SMC BASKETBALL 
Belles look for payback against rival Albion 
By PETER STEINER 
Sports Writer 
A clear, unwavering focus is the Belles’ top priority at this point in the season. 
The Belles (9-11, 5-6 MIAA) must improve their defensive consistency, focus on beating Al­bion tonight and hold on to the last MIAA conference playoff spot, Belles coach Jenn Henley said. 
After a close 77-73 loss to Hope on Saturday, the Belles will travel to play Albion (13-6, 8-3) this eve­ning. Even though five regular season games remain for Saint Mary’s, Henley said the Belles are not looking too far ahead. 
“Our focus is purely Albion right now,” Henley said. “All we have is one game at a time. We can’t look past anybody on our schedule.” 
The Belles will enter the game third in the MIAA in scoring of­fense, but also allow 64.1 points per game, second worst in the con­ference. Henley said defense and rebounding is vitally important to the Belles’ success against Albion. 
“I think we need to continue what we’ve been doing defensive­ly,” Henley said. “On Saturday, we played one of our better defensive games that we’ve had all season. We’ve got to control the boards, too. We can’t give Albion second shots and that’s something we are going to focus on [on Wednesday].” 
Meanwhile, Albion enters the game in third place in the MIAA. The Britons are led by senior cen­ter Patty Rewa, who ranks second in the MIAA in scoring and first in rebounding, averaging 13.2 points and 9.6 rebounds per game. 
see BRITONS/page 18 


ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 
Pounding in Piscataway 
Balanced scoring attack drives Irish to 19th straight victory 

By CHRIS MASOUD 
Assistant Managing Editor 

Notre Dame capped its fi­nal game in January just as it opened the year — blowing out its opponent en route to a road victory. In fact, Notre Dame dispatched all of its opponents in January, cruising to a per­fect 9-0 record for the month. 
Four players scored in double figures for the No.2 Irish, as they defeated No. 13 Rutgers 71-41 Tuesday night. 
“The January schedule was brutal,” Irish coach Muffet McGraw said. “With so many ranked teams, to come through it the way we did, I’m so proud of my team. They’re working hard, they’re competitive and they can’t wait to get back in the gym.” 
Graduate student forward Devereaux Peters continued her dominance in the paint, registering a career-high 17 rebounds to go along with 10 points and two blocks. Peters recorded her third consecutive double-double Tuesday night. 
“[Peters had] a monster, monster game. She’s unbeliev­able. She goes up with two or three people, and she’s going to come down with the ball,” McGraw said. “She’s strong and she’s scoring off offensive re­bounds. She’s just been amaz­ing. I couldn’t be happier with the way she’s playing.” 
Despite the 30-point margin of victory, the largest in the 28 meetings between Notre Dame (22-1, 9-0 Big East) and Rutgers (17-5, 6-3), the Irish came out of the gate slow. Senior guard Natalie Novosel picked up two quick fouls within the contest’s first two minutes and the Irish found themselves tied with the Scarlet Knights at 11 after sev­en minutes of play. 
Playing in Novosel’s absence, sophomore forward Natalie Achonwa sparked a 9-0 Irish run to put Notre Dame ahead for good. Achonwa finished with 11 points and six rebounds in the first half and the Irish took a 40-23 lead into halftime. 
“She’s able to get a lot of points in a few minutes,” Mc­Graw said. “I thought she gave us a great lift off the bench to­day. I was really pleased with 
see McGRAW /page 17 


HOCKEY 

Dynamic duo represent ND 
By JACK HEFFERON and SAM GANS 
Sports Writers
 Two of Notre Dame’s best skaters competed on a world stage over winter break, as sophomores T.J. Tynan and Stephen Johns represented Team USA at the World Ju­nior Championships in Al­berta, Canada. Tynan and Johns helped lead the Unit­ed States to a seventh-place finish. 
Johns and Tynan were invited to the USA train­ing camp as two of the top 30 under-20 players in the country. They impressed 
see COACHES/page 17 



ND WOMEN’S TENNIS 

Louderback commits to doubles improvement 
By VICKY JACOBSEN 
Sports Writer 
Any member of the Irish wom­en’s tennis team will tell you that doubles matches play a huge role in determining the winner of a dual match. 
The problem? Most freshmen enter college with almost no doubles experience. 
“Most of the juniors — the ones that play in national tour­naments in the summer — have no clue how to play doubles,” Irish coach Jay Louderback said. “They don’t play it in tourna­ments and they never work on it in practice. And they go out and basically two people play singles together. Some come in with some knowledge of doubles, but a lot of them, they have to learn when they get into college.” 
Irish junior Chrissie McGaffi­gan was one of those who had to learn how to play doubles after arriving at No. 21 Notre Dame (4-1, 1-0 Big East). 
“Before coming to Notre Dame, I did not have much doubles ex­perience,” McGaffigan said. “Our coaches have taught us the tac­tics of playing doubles, so my doubles play has improved a lot.” 
Louderback estimates that the 
see DOUBLES/page 18 




