
Title time 

By MATTHEW ROBISON 
Sports Writer 
DENVER — With 11 seconds to play in the second half, Connecticut guard Kelly Faris hit a free throw that would have ended Notre Dame’s sea­son. With the Irish down two points, Irish junior guard Skylar Diggins received the inbounds pass, took it coast-to-coast, and missed a layup, a miss that would have ended Notre Dame’s season. Strug­gling through defenders, se­nior guard Natalie Novosel recovered the miss and sent the game to overtime, keeping Notre Dame’s season alive. 
Behind two key three-point­ers from graduate student guard Brittany Mallory and some clutch free throw shoot­ing, Notre Dame (35-3) domi­nated the overtime period to advance to the national cham­pionship game for the second time in two years, winning 83­75. 
“[The win] means so much for our program, our team, our fans,” Irish coach Muffet McGraw said. “It’s so great for Notre Dame and I’m so blessed to be representing such a great school.” 
Early in the contest, Con­necticut (33-5) got everything it wanted on the offensive end. of big turnovers at the end graduate student forward Sophomore center Stefanie of regulation,” McGraw said. Devereaux Peters added 17 Dolson overpowered Notre “But we really kept our poise points and a game-high 12 Dame’s post players, sliding [in overtime] and did a better rebounds. Sophomores Kayla off ball screens and knock-job.” McBride and Natalie Achonwa ing down layups. The Huskies Novosel was the hero in reg-each added eight points. also repeatedly beat the Irish ulation, and Mallory was the Overcoming the disadvan­on backdoor cuts to take com-hero in overtime. The graduate tage she faced in the post with mand of the contest. student sharpshooter scored an opponent three inches tall-

Momentum swung early in seven points in the extra five er than her, Peters controlled the second half when Dolson minutes and carried the Irish the glass. As a team, the Irish was whistled for her fourth with her calm demeanor. pulled down 20 offensive re-foul only three min-bounds. utes into the period, “The re-forcing her to sit the bounding was 

“It’s so great for Notre 
majority of the half. really impor-She finished with a tant,” Peters 

Dame and I’m so blessed 
team-high 20 points said. “I think and nine rebounds. the guards 

to be representing such 
“She really played came in and well,” McGraw said. crashed, tipped 

a great school” 
“We were really hap-some balls and py when she got that got real key third foul and had to rebounds to-out of the game be-wards the end 

Muffet McGraw 
cause we were hav-of the game.” ing trouble guarding M c G r a w

Irish coach 
her.” compliment ­
Even with Dol-ed her team’s son on the bench, heart in not brings.” 
For their part, the Notre Dame players made it clear they play for their coach. 
“We play this game for her,” Diggins said. “And this team, we want to get it. We’re hun­gry. We told her at the begin­ning of the game: We didn’t have you in the last game in the Big East tournament; we’re going to have you this time.” 
Diggins said the win in the national semifinal was even more gratifying coming over conference rival Connecticut. 
“I think it’s great for the Big East,” Diggins said. “Two straight years, two Final Four teams … But this is great. Yes, it’s that much sweeter because it’s UConn.” 
Notre Dame is now 3-0 all-time in national semifinals against the Huskies. The Irish knocked off Connecticut to advance to the title game last year, as well as in 2001’s Fi­nal Four en route to a national crown. 
The Irish will face Baylor in the national championship game at 8:30 p.m. Tuesday. The game will be aired on ESPN. 
Contact Matthew Robison at mrobison@nd.edu 

the Irish failed to pull away from the Huskies, and Con­necticut stayed within strik­ing distance the entire game. In a frantic final 90 seconds of regulation, Notre Dame al­most gave the game away. 
“We really struggled to take care of the ball with a couple 
“We didn’t want this to be our last game,” Mallory said. “We were tired and we fought. I’m just so proud of this team.” 
Four players for the Irish scored in double figures. No­vosel led the charge with 20 points and seven rebounds. Diggins scored 19 points, and letting the late comeback by the Huskies faze them and answering with a big perfor­mance in overtime. 
“They just don’t quit,” Mc­Graw said. “They just keep on going. They have the maturity, the poise, and that calm, that calm that Brittany [Mallory] 
page 2 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u IRISH INSIDER Monday, April 2, 2012 

By the numbers 
3 8 16 7 55 52 8 11 4 6 
Notre Dame pulled away from the Hus­kies in overtime on the strength of three 3-pointers, including a duo of shots from graduate student guard Brittany Mallory from beyond the arc. 
Connecticut and the Irish have played eight games in the last 14 months. The Irish have won four of the last five games, with two of those wins coming in the Final Four. 
After falling behind by three early in the overtime period, Notre Dame scored 16 points to put distance between itself and Connecticut. Mallory’s two 3-point­ers put the Irish up for good. 
With the victory, Notre Dame is now 7-0 on the year in games played at neutral sites. The Irish took a pair of games in the Bahamas during the regular season before the five postseason games. 
Connecticut led by three at halftime on the strength of a 55 percent shoot­ing performance in the opening frame. Huskies forward Stefanie Dolson con­trolled the paint in the early going. 
Dolson’s size advantage over Irish grad­uate student forward Devereaux Peters manifested itself in the form of a 52-34 advantage in points in the paint. Dolson led UConn with 20 points. 
Notre Dame is now a perfect 8-0 in its alternate home jerseys, featuring a green trim on white background. The Irish wore green jerseys in last season’s national championship. 
Getting out in transition was kind to Notre Dame, as the Irish notched 11 fast-break points. The Huskies slowed down play, scoring only two points in transition. 
Mallory missed her first four attempts from three-point territory before con­necting on back-to-back attempts in overtime. 
The Irish led the Huskies by six points with 2:52 left in regulation before squan­dering the advantage in a frantic final few minutes of play. 

DENVER — Skylar Diggins jumped into Devereaux Peters’ arms, Muffet McGraw pumped her first and the other team cried. The script couldn’t have been more perfect if McGraw had written it herself. 
Well, may­be she would have taken out the 8-0 Huskies run over the final three min-Chris Masoud utes of regu­lation to put Senior Sports the Huskies Writer ahead by two. Or perhaps Notre Dame’s inabil­ity to put the game out of reach when Stephanie Dolson picked up her fourth foul and headed to the bench with over 17 minutes to go. But that’s why she’s a head coach and not a director, and judging by Notre Dame’s thrill­ing 83-75 victory over Connecti­cut in the national semifinals, she’s one of the nation’s best. 

With the win, McGraw has now outdueled Geno Auriemma in four of the team’s last five meet­ings and became the only coach to take down the Huskies in three national semifinals in all three tries. 
This victory can be boiled down to a pair of coaching deci­sions made in the final minutes. 

Auriemma, concerned with his team’s ability to move on top of Notre Dame’s screen, subbed out 6-foot-3 center Kiah Stokes in favor of the quicker guard Caro­line Doty. Helped by her coaching staff, McGraw avoided the temp­tation of ripping into her team in the game’s final timeout, opting instead to deliver a positive mes­sage and an offensive set. 
When the Huskies pulled ahead by two with 11 seconds remain­ing on a pair of free throws, the Irish remained poised. With no timeouts remaining, Diggins ran the length of the court and missed a layup at close range. But senior guard Natalie Novosel outrebounded the Connecticut frontcourt, laying it up to send the game to overtime with three seconds left on the clock. 
Diggins and Brittany Mallory took care of the rest, lifting Notre Dame in overtime with a com­bined three 3-pointers and limit­ing UConn to just eight points. 
These teams don’t like each other, and whether or not the referees realized it, eating their whistles only made things chip-pier. After the game, Peters said beating the Huskies in the Final Four made it that much sweeter. 
Of course it did. After losing to Connecticut in eight straight contests during their first four seasons, Mallory and Peters are doing their best to exact some form of revenge. That’s a dish best served in the Final Four on the sport’s biggest stage. 
It should come to no surprise then that the two played their best games of the tournament, with Peters battling Dolson in the post and Mallory hitting clutch 3-pointers in overtime. More importantly, their composure trickled down to the rest of the team, even to Diggins. 
The sheer pressure of return­ing to the national championship is difficult to grasp. 
After falling to Texas A&M last season, Notre Dame said all the right things about using that loss as motivation to work harder in the offseason. 
But so does every national champion runner-up. 
In recent memory, only But­ler actually followed up on that promise. 
Maybe that’s why Sunday’s win feels almost as satisfying as win­ning a national title. In taking down its biggest rival on the big­gest stage, the Irish overcame the pressure of fulfilling the expec­tations placed upon them since day one by the rest of the world. 
The only expectation left to ful­fill in Tuesday’s national cham­pionship is the one they put on themselves. 
Contact Chris Masoud at cmasoud@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 



Beating UConn makes win even sweeter 
Monday, April 2, 2012 The Observer u IRISH INSIDER ndsmcobserver.com | page 3 


Griner leads Baylor past Stanford 

By CHRIS MASOUD 
Senior Sports Writer 
DENVER — Stanford forward senior Nnemkadi Ogwumike outscored Baylor center  junior Brittney Griner 22 to 13, yet fin­ished as the Cardinal’s only scor­er in double figures as the Lady Bears advanced to the NCAA title game with a 59-47 victory Sunday night. 
Stanford forward and Nnem­kadi’s sister sophomore Chiney Ogwumike fouled out with 7:58 remaining in the second half, fin­ishing with just four points and four rebounds. 
“They have an excellent team. We worked very hard, we pre­pared really hard, but at the end of the day they outplayed us,” Stanford coach Tara VanDerveer said. “They have some great play­ers and an outstanding coach in Kim Mulkey.” 
Sophomore guard Odyssey Sims directed the Baylor offense from the backcourt, tallying 11 points, four rebounds and three assists. After leading the Cardinal (34­2, 18-0 Pac-12) by just two at the break, the Lady Bears (39-0, 18-0 Big 12) erupted in the second half to outscore Stanford 34-24. 
But it was the Baylor defense that stifled the Cardinal into bad shots as the clock wound down, allowing the Lady Bears to pull away in the second half. 

“Having Brittney in the paint completely changes everyone’s game, not just the inside players’ game. Attacking the basket is a little bit more difficult,” Nnemka­di said. “It’s not that we were try­ing to run the clock down, it just kind of happened. Those aren’t the shots we want, but I think we tried our best to really compose ourselves on offense.” 
The Cardinal could not find the bottom of the net from behind the arc, finishing 2-for-17 on the night. Yet they did outscore Baylor 24-16 in the paint, while limiting Griner to just nine rebounds. 
“I give credit to Stanford. They’re a good team,” Griner said. “They always had two people on me or a second defender com­ing to try to double me, and they stuck with their plan the whole game. You’re frustrated when your shot doesn’t go in. But you know I had all the confidence in my team. Like coach said, it’s not the Brittney Griner show at all.” 
Senior guard Terran Condrey chipped in 13 points for Baylor, who finished with one less field goal than the Cardinal at 19. What the Lady Bears lacked from the field they made up from the free throw line, knocking down 19 of 26 attempts. 
“We’d make one pass and play right into Stanford’s hands and shoot the first shot that was open. All you’ve got to do is reverse the ball, be patient, let Griner still get touches,” Mulkey said. “But you know, Griner does what she does. She draws a lot of attention, and we’re not a one-dimensional team. Brittney Griner is the face of women’s basketball right now.” 
Baylor’s victory sets up a na­tional championship matchup with Notre Dame, 83-75 winners in the other national semifinal contest against Connecticut. Bay­lor defeated the Irish 94-81 on Nov. 20 in Waco, Texas. 
Nnemkadi, who played with sev­eral Notre Dame starters on Team USA in the Women’s World Univer­sity Games last summer, said the rematch could be a tightly-played affair. 
“[Notre Dame] may not have the size, but I think Devereaux is one of the best post players I’ve played with [on Team USA], and Kayla McBride is a brute,” she said. “You have Natalie Novosel, Brittany Mallory and obviously Natalie Achonwa and everyone that comes off the bench. I think it’s going to be a great matchup on Tuesday.” 
Contact Chris Masoud at cmasoud@nd.edu 
NOTES 

Irish improve to 11-0 as top seed 
By MATTHEW ROBISON 
Sports Writer 
DENVER — Notre Dame is now 11-0 in the NCAA Tournament as a No. 1 seed. 
“I am just so proud of our team right now,” McGraw said. “At the end of regulation we had the game won with about 1:13 to go, and we simply gave it back to them.” 
Back with a vengeance 
The Irish advance to the national championship game for the second straight year. Last season, Notre Dame lost to Texas A&M in the title game. 
“I don’t think we’ve ever had a group like this,” McGraw said. “They take such ownership. We play for each other. I want them to experience a na­tional championship.” 

Conquering the Huskies 
Notre Dame went 3-1 against Con­necticut this year. The Irish beat the Huskies twice during the regular sea­son but lost in the Big East champion­ship game. 
“It’s great getting to the champi­onship game and it’s the exact thing that happened last year,” Mallory said. “But we’ve had a battle with them all year. We played them three times be­fore this game. And they won the last game that we had, that we faced each other. 
Semifinal success 
Notre Dame is now 3-0 all-time against Connecticut in national semi­finals. The Irish beat the Huskies in 2011 as well as in 2001 en route to a national championship. 
“I don’t really look at it that way be­cause it’s over such a long span of time and they’re a program that’s here so often,” McGraw said. “It’s nice to be able to be a team that can actually beat them here.” 
Stealing a victory 
The Irish recorded 14 steals Sunday. Notre Dame has recorded a double-digit steals total 29 times this season. 
“At the end I think our defense kind of led to our offense,” Peters said. “We got a couple steals, got out in transi­tion, got some points. And it was good for us to get our momentum going.” 
Contact Matthew Robison at mrobison@nd.edu 




page 4 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u IRISH INSIDER Monday, April 2, 2012 



Back to the big game 
The Irish prevailed 83-75 in a back-and-forth contest in the first of two national semifinal games in Denver. Despite only scoring four points in regulation, Irish graduate student guard Brittany Mallory hit two 3-pointers in the overtime period to put Notre Dame ahead for good. Notre Dame will play Baylor in the national championship game on Tuesday at 8:30 p.m. 

PAT COVENEY/The Observer PAT COVENEY/The Observer 
Clockwise from top: Irish junior guard Skylar Diggins inbounds the ball; graduate student forward Devereaux Peters contests a shot; senior guard Natalie Novosel leaves the court after the overtime win; Novosel loses her headband during a contested play; Diggins drives on Connecticut guard Caroline Doty. 



