tHe IndePendent tO unCOver neWsPaPer servInG tHe trutH nOtre dame and and rePOrt saInt mary’s It aCCurately 

vOlume 46, Issue 12 | WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 5, 2012 | ndsmCObserver.COm 
“A More Perfect Union” 
Notre Dame panel series hopes to challenege community to bring about positive change 

SUZANNA PRATT| The Observer 

Panelists discuss the importance of being educated about the the political and religious challenges facing voters today. The panel, “Conviction & Compromise: Being a Person of Faith in a Liberal Democracy,” was held last night at Leighton Concert Hall at the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. It is the first in the Notre Dame Forum. 
reflect on ways to bring positive has been an extremely impor-democracy, said it was a good professor at notre dame law 
By MEGHAN THOMASSEN 

news Writer change to the american demo-tant factor to help this nation be time to be airing these topics at school and theology professor, 
cratic system and find solutions vibrant and strong and creative,” notre dame. opened with a question for each 
the notre dame forum to the nation’s most pressing Jenkins said. “It is a truly historic event be-panelist about how their reli­kicked off its panel series “a problems. the panel was titled cause tonight we will model what gious role guided their politics. more Perfect union: the future fr. John Jenkins welcomed the “Conviction & Compromise: it means for notre dame to be dallin Oaks, a member of the of america’s democracy” last crowd and said he hoped the fo-being a Person of faith in a ‘Catholic’ and ‘catholic,’ in both Quorum of the twelve apostles night at leighton Concert Hall rum would help leaders discuss liberal democracy.” One of the cases … because we brought to-of the Church of Jesus of latter-at debartolo Performing arts today’s political and religious moderators, political science gether leaders of many american day saints (lds), said that while Center. challenges. professor david Campbell, the religions,” Campbell said. the Church of lds encouraged 
the forum aims to challenge “It is indisputable in the histo-founding director of the rooney m. Cathleen Kaveny, the John the notre dame community to ry of the u.s. that religious faith Center for the study of american P. murphy foundation law see fOrum PAGE 5 


Mendoza enrollment rises 
By CAROLYN HUTYRA 
news Writer 
In recent years, mendoza College of business has dealt with a rise in its num­ber of students, which can be partially attributed to bloomberg businessweek’s no. 1 ranking of notre dame’s undergraduate busi­ness program. 
“mendoza is committed to providing an excellent business education to all interested students,” roger Huang, the interim dean for the mendoza College of business, said. 

this year alone, the school has hired 13 new faculty members who now make up 10 percent of the total fac­ulty positions in the College, Huang said. 
the academic day was also lengthened in order to allow more class sections. the implementation of such changes is necessary to ac­commodate the increase of students without diminish­ing the caliber of the educa­tion, he said. 
“this summer we also added another advisor to the undergraduate advising Office to ensure that our students continue to receive the high level of service they’ve come to expect,” Huang said. 
Currently, mendoza has open enrollment in all of its six available business pro­grams, and students, who must choose a major their sophomore year, will likely receive their first choice. 
“With pre-majoring 
see mendOZa PAGE 4 


excise police prepare for game 
By JOHN CAMERON 
news editor 
as campus prepares for a weekend of football, parties and tailgates, the Indiana state excise Police are doubling their efforts to enforce alcohol, to­bacco and public safety laws in the area. 
notre dame has been add­ed to the law enforcement agency’s Intensified College enforcement (ICe) program, the product of a federal grant funding additional police presence around campuses within Indiana, excise Police sergeant ally taylor said. 
“It’s just an increase in our presence in those areas enforc­ing alcohol and tobacco laws as well as public safety,” he said. “[notre dame] was added this year but [the program] has been in place since last year.” 
the initiative began in february, but originally only targeted ball state university, dePauw university and 
see eXCIse PAGE 5 


students travel  PAGE 3 lePreCHaun leGIOn PAGE 3 vIeWPOInt PAGE 6 sCene PAGE 8 fOOtball PAGE 16 



Have a question you want answered? 
Email obsphoto@gmail.com 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
ndsmcobserver.com 

P.O. box 779, notre dame, In 46556 024 south dining Hall, notre dame, In 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
allan Joseph 

Managing Editor  Business Manager 
megan doyle  Jeff liptak 
Asst. Managing Editor: andrew Owens 
Asst. Managing Editor: sam stryker News Editor: John Cameron News Editor: Kristen durbin 

Viewpoint Editor: meghan thomassen Sports Editor: Chris allen Scene Editor: Kevin noonan Saint Mary’s Editor: Jillian barwick Photo Editor: suzanna Pratt Graphics Editor: brandon Keelean Multimedia Editor: sarah O’Connor Advertising Manager: monica mcCormack Ad Design Manager: sara Hilstrom Controller: Peter Woo Systems Administrator: William Heineman 
Office Manager & General Info 
Ph: (574) 631-7471 fax: (574) 631-6927 
Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 
Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ajoseph2@nd.edu 
Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 mdoyle11@nd.edu 
Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 aowens2@nd.edu sstryke1@nd.edu 
Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 
News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 
Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
Scene Desk 

(574) 631-4540 Observer.scene.editor@gmail.com 
Saint Mary’s Desk 
jbarwi01@saintmarys.edu 
Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 
Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 
Policies 

the Observer is the independent, daily newspaper 
published in print and online by the students of the 
university of notre dame du lac and saint mary’s 
College.  editorial content, including advertisements, is 
not governed by policies of the administration of either 
institution. the Observer reserves the right to refuse 
advertisements based on content. 

the news is reported as accurately and objectively 
as possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion 
of the majority of the editor-in-Chief, managing editor, 
assistant managing editors and department editors. 
Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of 
the authors and not necessarily those of the Observer. 
viewpoint space is available to all readers. the free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include 
contact information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed 
to Editor-in-Chief Allan Joseph. 

Post Office Information the Observer (usPs 599 2-4000) is published monday through friday except during exam and vacation periods. a subscription to the Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. the Observer is published at: 024 south dining Hall notre dame, In 46556-0779 Periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices POstmaster send address corrections to: the Observer P.O. box 779 024 south dining hall notre dame, In 46556-077 the Observer is a member of the associated Press. all reproduction rights are reserved. 
Which Disney princess do you identify with the most? 

Andrew Krizman 
senior 
off-campus 

“aladdin because Jasmine is the best-looking princess.” 
Grace Wessel 
junior 
badin 
“I love Pocahontas because I want to be her.” 
Alex Cummings 
junior 
off-campus 

“ariel because I like the song she sang, ‘Part of your World’.” 


Michael Varravto 
junior 
dillon 
“nala from ‘the lion King’ because she’s pretty.” 
Tim Kunst 
junior 
dillon 
“ariel because she lives underwater.” 
Emma Lyons 
freshman 
Howard 
“Cinderella because she has a fairy godmother.” 


Want your event included here? 
News Sports 

Jillian barwick laura Coletti Email obsnews@gmail.com 
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 

bridget feeney Joe Wirth sarah swiderski matthew defranks 
Graphics Scene 

Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday 
Jaqueline O’neil troy mathew 
Photo Viewpoint 

Fall Career Expo Fall Career Expo Trumpets Under the Midnight Drummer’s Men’s Soccer 
sarah O’Connor Caroline lang 
Joyce Center Joyce Center Dome Circle Alumni Stadium 4 p.m.- 8 p.m. 4 p.m.- 8 p.m. Main Building Main Building 2:15 p.m. - 4:15 p.m. The Career Center’s The Career Center’s 4 p.m. - 4:10 p.m. 12 a.m. - 12:45 a.m. ND vs. Akron 
Corrections 
Full-Time Fair. Internship Fair. 

the Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards 
Opera Notre Dame Nieuwland Lecture Men’s Soccer Saturday Vigil Mass Fleur de Lys Concert 
of journalism at all times. We do, 
Auditions Series Alumni Stadium Basilica of the Sacred DeBartolo Performing 
however, recognize that we will make 
Washington Hall Jordan Hall of Science 7:30 p.m. - 8:30 p.m. Heart Arts Center 
mistakes. If we have made a mistake, 
5 p.m.- 7 p.m. 7 p.m.- 8:30 p.m. ND vs. Oregon State 7:30 p.m. - 8:30 a.m. 5 p.m. - 6:30 p.m. 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
Auditions for the “The Higgs Boson: Featuring Baroque 
we can correct our error. 

spring production. Beyond the Headlines” chamber music. 


SMC students soak up Ireland atmosphere 
By CLAIRE CREELY 
news Writer 
While many students began last saturday morning crowded around a television, thousands of notre dame fans were al­ready enjoying some savage craic, also known in Ireland as “great fun,” as they cheered on their football team in aviva stadium in dublin. 
although students and fans traveled thousands of miles to support the team in differ­ent ways, most agreed that the weekend was an unforgettable experience and a great way to start off the season. 
for some, the weekend pro­vided several responsibilities as well as exciting opportuni­ties for those traveling abroad. 
senior laura Krahe traveled with the football team as a trainer, arriving in dublin ear­ly thursday morning to begin preparations for the game on saturday. 
Krahe said the team’s sched­ule was both busy and fun.  
“the team arrived and we had a practice, followed by an Irish meal and Irish dancing. the next day was similar,” she said. “the team had a walkthrough in the morning followed by a bus tour of dublin. saturday was the game and it was a truly great and memorable experience.”also finding time to enjoy the sights in dublin between busy schedules were two members of notre dame’s band, senior erin brown and junior amy minasian. 
“With two big performances, the pep rally at the O2 arena and the halftime show at the game, we had a lot to rehearse and prepare for,” brown said. “We still did get a few hours of free time every day, though, which my friends and I used to soak up as much of the dublin game day atmosphere as possible.” 
minasian also found some downtime to sightsee between band commitments. 
“I hung out at the pubs with my section, where we met fans and Irish people,” she said. 
some students, however, traveled on their own accord and had more time to discover Ireland with family and friends. 
senior bri tepe traveled with her family to not only cheer on the team but to also discover her family’s Irish heritage. 
“there really was no bet­ter way to bring in the football season than being at the home opener in Ireland. It’s some­thing I won’t forget and I’m very grateful I got to be a part of it,” she said. 
In recounts of the weekend, the enthusiasm of the Irish and americans in dublin seemed overwhelmingly positive. 
“even the Irish men and women welcomed notre dame and navy. they flew flags of both schools, had signs wel­coming the teams and fans, and were more than happy to help the teams and staff with making game day a success,” Krahe said. 
brown added that the fans from Ireland were enthusiastic, although a little bit mystified by american football.favorite game day moments from stu­dents include the band’s half­time show, continuing notre dame traditions such as the pre-game march and push-ups in the stadium, and participat­ing in the energy of the city. 


“seeing dublin made the spirit of the notre dame fighting Irish come alive even more,” Krahe said. “We were playing the game we love in the country that inspires us.” 
Contact Claire Creely at ccreel01@saintmarys.edu 

leprechaun legion expands to all sports 
By CAROLINE SCHUITEMA 
news Writer 
notre dame’s student body has always been a spir­ited group, but this year, the leprechaun legion is making changes that they hope will improve the overall atmo­sphere of all sporting events. 
“Our goal is to try to find different ways to get students to come to games,” matthew Cunningham, president of leprechaun legion, said.  “We want to keep them entertained and engaged and loud and to create kind of a home field advantage.” 
to encourage maximum participation from the student body, the legion has recently decided to expand itself so that every sport will have its own loud, boisterous student section. 
“the legion last year focused on basketball,” vice president, Kristen stoutenburgh, said. “It’s historically been men’s basketball so we expanded to encompass not just the student section at basketball games but also the student section at all sporting events. every stu­dent on campus is part of the leprechaun legion.” 
but for those who want to be more involved in the legion than simply attending various athletic contests, new changes in the organization’s leader­ship structure will provide a way. 
the leprechaun legion board is comprised of an ex­ecutive council, board leaders, marketing members, and the board of student representa­tives. essentially, the board will work to find areas in which the student section can im­prove, Cunningham said.“We have weekly meetings and we talk notre dame athletics about how to make them the best that they can possibly be,” stoutenburgh said. “ 
there are also individual sports committees, which take charge of the student sec­tion for their particular sport. any student can join a sports committee.” 
“I think we have a great stu­dent section,” Cunningham said.  “I think part of the reason people come to notre dame is the great athletic programs. but we can do better.” 
He noted that last year’s de­cision to add music to the foot­ball games as an example. 
“It added a great dimension to the stadium atmosphere,” Cunningham said. 
Other things like the leprechaun legion shirts, which were distributed at sev­eral sporting events early in the year, serve to bring the stu­dent body together as a unit­ed force, stoutenburgh said. “they’re not just there to watch.  they’re there to be a fan and support their team,” she said. 
the bigger, more excited stu­dent sections will unite fans, but they will also lend support to the athletes. 
“We want to be the best, not only for our own enjoyment but also to support the players and the coaches,” stoutenburgh said. “athletes know the legion stands behind them.” 
the energy the student sec­tion generates can play a cru­cial role in notre dame games. 
“Coaches will say ‘yeah, the crowd was great today, it re­ally gave us a boost when we needed it,’” Cunningham said. “that’s what we’re trying to do here — give the students and coaches that extra energy.” 
In the end, the leprechaun legion serves two purposes.  It is a voice for the student body within the athletic department and it brings fans and athletes together. 
“there’s not that big separation between us,” stoutenburgh said.  “We’re all one team.” 
for more information on the leprechaun legion, email le­gion@nd.edu with your name and sport of interest. 
Contact Caroline Schuitema at cschuite@nd.edu 



tHe Observer | WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 5, 2012 | ndsmCObserver.COm 

Mendoza 
COntInued frOm PaGe 1 
advising, the university helps students make thoughtful, in­tentional decisions regarding their education and future career paths,” Huang said. 
according to a survey that was taken by students and recruiters, the three main 
“I do not agree that Mendoza is overcrowded, but our No. 1 ranking in the Bloomberg Business over quality schools such as Wharton, MIT, Cornell and Virginia for the past three years has certainly brough a lot of attention.” 
Roger Huang 
interim dean for the 
Mendoza College of Business 
factors that accounted for the no. 1 ranking were an engaged and accessible set of faculty and advisors, an emphasis on ethics and an award-winning Career Center, Huang said. 
“through the survey, our students are telling us they receive an excellent ground­ing in all business princi­ples, not just those specific to their major, which makes them adaptable to a wide va­riety of job responsibilities,” Huang said. 
the Career Center at notre dame showed an 82 percent rate of full-time employment within six months of gradua­tion for the Class of 2011. In addition, 17 percent of the remaining students enrolled in a graduate or professional school, service program or the military. 
though worries exist about increasing enrollment, Huang said that mendoza has kept a graduating class of approximately 665 students during the last two years. 
“I do not agree that mendoza is overcrowded, but our no. 1 ranking in bloomberg business over quality schools such as Wharton, mIt, Cornell and virginia for the past three years has certainly brought a lot of attention,” Huang said. 
even so, the university has created more ways of getting students involved in busi­ness without necessarily ma­joring in the College. 
“the shared goal of everyone on campus is to ensure that students are aware of all the programs the university offers, that they make the choices that are right for them, and that, no matter what ma­jors or minors they pursue, they take advantage of ev­ery opportunity that notre dame has to offer,” said marie blakey, senior direc­tor of Communications and marketing in the College of arts and letters. 
another Career Center survey showed that approxi­mately 42 percent of arts and letters majors choose to go directly into the business world, she said. students can now achieve a liberal arts ed­ucation while simultaneous­ly forming and strengthening a business background. 
“many students who want to pursue a primary major in arts and letters are also interested in becoming liter­ate in basic economics prin­ciples,” blakey said. 
the arts and letters pro­gram now offers a new busi­ness minor specifically for students in its college. 
“We joined the College of arts and letters in creating the business economics mi­nor to address their student’s interest in adding formal training in the fundamental 
PaId advertIsement 
concepts of business in a market economy,” Huang said.  
In addition, a major in in­ternational economics is now possible as of this year. 
blakey said the major is aimed at students in pur­suit of international careers as well as those who want to remain in the us while still 
“What stands us apart from others is the Notre Dame business education that integrates the mind and the heart and faith with reason, and we have done so from the founding of our College.” 
Roger Huang 
interim deam for the 
Mendoza College of Business 
globally interacting in the business world. “the major combines the 
study  of  economics  with  
courses  in  languages  and  
cultures,” blakey said.  

the College of arts and letters also offers its stu­dents a business boot camp, a four-day seminar, now held over fall break, which pro­vides networking opportuni­ties and the chance to create and present case studies to business executives. 
“It is an immersion expe­rience in Chicago that gives students in the College a first-hand look at business operations and marketing in action,” blakey said. 
In the fall of 2013, Huang said mendoza plans to of­fer introductory courses in accounting and finance for arts and letters stu­dents taking the business economics minor. the in­troduction of new courses among other changes has shaped the business focus, but it has not defined it. 
“What stands us apart from others is the notre dame business education that in­tegrates the mind and the heart and faith with reason, and we have done so from the founding of our College,” Huang said. 
students may enter the mendoza College of business or enroll in the College of arts and letters, but either way they will graduate with more than just a strong busi­ness background. 
Contact Carolyn Hutyra at chutyra@nd.edu 




Forum 
COntInued frOm PaGe 1 
church members to participate politically, it did not endorse any political party, platform or candidate. 
“On very special occasions, we take a position on a public issue that has important moral impli­cations,” Oaks said. 
He also said that religious unity would preserve religious freedom. 
“We must … [ensure] our abil­ity to act out and exercise what we have in common,” Oaks said. 
rev. Joseph Kurtz, the arch­bishop of louisville and vice president of the united states Conference of Catholic bishops, said he and the other bishops sought to educate people in a ra­
“We live in a pluralistic society where no one wins all the time. Jesus said, ‘My kingdom is not in this world.’ ... I don’t place all my faith in the government to change.” 
Rick Warren 
pastor 
Saddleback Church 
tional but passionate way. Kurtz said it was a moral obligation to seek the common good. 
“faith is citizenship,” he said. “the work that we’re about is the lifelong formation of our con­science … [which] is the most important exercise you will do in your lifetime.” 
Kurtz said certain moral is­sues carry more heft than others. 
“the taking of innocent life will always be an issue that is intrinsically evil,” he said. “We don’t endorse candidates or co­erce voters, [we want you] to in­form your conscience.” 
Kurtz said religious freedom is something to cherish because it fosters reasonable and effective discussion. 
“[religious freedom] is in the fabric of how a nation deepens its moral character,” he said. 
david saperstein, represen­tative for the reform Jewish movement to Congress, said so­cial justice was the focus of all types of Judaism. 
“at the center is a passion for the perfection of the world,” he said. “Jews are to be a light to the nations, fulfilling the charge to be a prophetic witness.” saperstein said america’s free­dom of religion allowed all faiths to flourish. 
“every human being has basic equality,” he said. “[a person’s] rights as an individual are not dependent on [their] religious identity. … america is an ex­traordinary country.” 
rev. richard Cizik, president of the new evangelical Partnership for the Common Good, said that after working on his ministry for 28 years, he was asked to resign from the national association of evangelicals after a radio inter­view on nPr. 
“I said I voted for Obama in the virginia primary,” he said. “I support civil unions, [and] the religious right had a conniption fit. It was deeply hurtful.” 
after he left the association, he formed the new evangelical Partnership with 100 other top evangelical leaders. 
“We agreed to see and think more clearly, care more deeply about this country and where it’s going,” he said. “[We are] as­suming responsibility for the polarization which we have con­tributed to.” 
rick Warren, pastor at saddleback Church in lake forest, Calif., and author of the book, “the Purpose driven life,” said the key issue was civility. 
“We live in a pluralistic soci­ety where no one wins all the time,” he said. “Jesus said, ‘my kingdom is not in this world.’ … I don’t place all my faith in the government to change.” 
Warren said that although he knew every president since Carter, he never offered policy advice. 
“If I thought I could change the human heart through politics, I would be a politician,” he said. “no law is going to turn a bigot into a lover. [law] can change behavior, but not attitudes.” 
Warren said he believed in the separation of church and state, but not the separation of faith and politics. 
“We are moving away from freedom of religion to freedom of worship,” he said. “you’re free to do what ever you want during that hour at mass, but it involves more than just the service. Jesus was a preacher, teacher and a healer — one-third of his minis­try was health care.” 
saperstein said voters should never endure coercion. 
“If you have to ask for forgive­ness for the way you voted in the voting booth, [like] Catholics withholding communion, you have one narrow exception in balancing [freedom of choice],” 
“[Religious 
freedom] is in the 
fabric of how a 
nation deepens its 
moral character.” 
Rev. Joseph Katz 
Archbishop of Louisville 
he said. 
Kurtz said coercion had to do with how people act in public, while a personal relationship to a faith community was a choice. 
“as a Catholic I desire to be formed by the moral teachings,” he said. 
When the panelists discussed political candidates’ faith, Warren said he focused on elect­ing a president, not a pastor. 
“I want him to have presiden­tial skills, [and be] competent to lead,” he said. 
Kurtz said he took into account a candidate’s public virtue. 
“[I want him to be] willing to be courageous,” he said. “but the quality of the character of that person often flows with religion.” 
Oaks said he would sup­port a person for public office if they felt answerable to a higher power. 
“Integrity is how the person adheres to their belief,” he said. 
Oaks said political candidates should be able speak about their religion because it reveals their personality. 
“How can you understand mitt romney or Joe lieberman without understanding the role religion played in them?” he said. “the u.s. inches closer to a truly inclusive society. We’re not there yet, but we’ve made enor­mous strides.” 
the panelists talked about how those who are more reli­gious are more likely to be in­volved politically. 
“those without belief cause me concern,” Oaks said. “[they are a] threat to free exercise of religion because they do not value [religious] expression or participation.” 
the panelists also touched on the HHs mandate and its effect on moral principles. 
“[It is the] fundamental rights of women to have access to healthcare,” Oaks said. “[We need to] find a reasonable com­promise that embodies core principles that both sides can live with without giving up a central principle.” 
Cizik said he did not believe the mandate violated reli­gious liberty enough to pose a problem. 
“I am not persuaded that … the public good is so minimal,” he said. “[It is] sufficient enough to balance.” 
Kurtz said that political and religious figures had to carefully analyze the mandate to find that balance. 
“We have to find what is re­quired in order to maintain the public good,” he said. “[the mandate] is restricting our religion.” 
Contact Meghan Thomassen at mthomass@nd.edu 
Excise 
COntInued frOm PaGe 1 
Indiana university, an excise Police press release stated. 
While the new program will enable more excise officers to patrol the south bend area, taylor said it will not impact program.” or at house parties, and we enforcement by local agencies. taylor said college campuses end up receiving calls or com­

“It doesn’t include other po-naturally draw more law en-plaints to investigate,” he said. lice departments, but we’re forcement attention during many investigations re-always working in collabora-football season. sult from these complaints; tion with local law enforce-“normally during football however, taylor said excise is ment,” taylor said. “the ICe season there’s a large number frequently patrolling for suspi­enforcement itself is an excise of people gathering, tailgating cious or illegal activity. 
PaId advertIsement 


“We’re always looking for underage people looking to procure alcohol. If and when those activities occur, and we’re there, we’ll definitely in­vestigate,” he said. “It’s our job to regulate and enforce these laws for the state of Indiana.” 
He said the agency is in con­stant collaboration with the university and student gov­ernment to encourage a posi­tive working relationship with a common goal of maximizing student safety. 
“We’ve met with the on-cam­pus student government as well as the off-campus presi­dent,” he said. “I was recently at the student safety summit along with all the law enforce­ment in st. Joseph County as well as ndsP, talking about not just alcohol and related issues but also security and safety issues.” 
taylor said the ICe program and all of the agency’s efforts are intended to protect, not target students. 
“by no means should notre dame students feel that offi­cers are after them,” he said. “their safety and security is of the utmost concern to every law enforcement officer in the area.” 
Contact John Cameron at jcamero2@nd.edu 

tHe Observer | WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 5, 2012 | ndsmCObserver.COm 
INSIDE COLUMN 

The dumbest box 

my 36-inch inseam 

Brandon Keelean 
Graphics editor 

so I’m tall. I always have been. from kin­dergarten through second grade and from fourth grade on I was the tallest person in my class. In third grade I was bested by Jenna Hornsby who, due to the early onset of puberty in women, grew a lot that year. you might think, dear reader, that my proc­lamation that I was the tallest is a sign that I view my height as only positive. not so. 
being tall sucks … a lot of the time. like when you have to buy jeans. unless you go to JCPenney and buy the folded arizona Jeans on the back wall, you are not going to find anything with a 36-inch inseam inside of a store. you might think that “big and tall” stores would be the solution, but let me tell you, “and” is the operative word in “big and tall.” big Or tall does not exist. 
I am also convinced the modular dorm furniture was designed by a short person. Granted the space created by a lofted bed is not ideal for a person of any height, but when I try to stand below it, I literally be­come the hunchback of notre dame. 
When you are tall, people always assume that you are, could be, or were a basketball player. 
If I could make a request on behalf of uncoordinated tall people everywhere, I would ask you never again to assume someone is good at basketball because they are tall in stature. as my Observer colleagues witnessed during bookstore basketball last spring, this could not be further from the truth in my case. 
being tall inherently creates awkward situations. standing 6’5” at a high school dance makes it hard not to stand out in the crowd. though not always a problem, it can make my white boy dance moves un­necessarily apparent. I would rather dance without feeling like all eyes are on me. 
being tall during childhood is also chal­lenging. I grew continuously throughout my life rather than in spurts like many peo­ple, so when I would play hide-and-seek as a child finding a hiding spot was nearly im­possible. most of the children could fit into small cupboards, under laundry baskets or behind bookshelves. my lanky frame could barely hide behind the couch. 
On the bright side, I have yet to meet a woman taller than I am, even in heels. 
I could ride all of the coasters at Cedar Point at the age of 9. I am more likely to hold a leadership role. and my risk of developing a short-person complex is slim-to-none. 
If you’re waiting for some sort of resolu­tion, there isn’t one. I don’t have any solu­tions to the challenges being tall creates, 
Blake J. Graham 
erudite techno-lust 
your cable box is likely the most unsophisticated piece of technology you own. It’s an antediluvian ruin — a paean to an age of primitive tools, lo-fi signals, and basic cable. yet it survives in apartments, homes and dorms across the country and continues to be sold by cable providers. the box provides a difficult-to-use interface controlled by a wonky remote control and struggles to perform the simplest tasks. 
all of the other technology around us has advanced: We have sophisticated wireless internet, our telephones have enough horsepower to get us to the moon and film an Hd documentary when we arrive, our lights can auto­matically dim to conserve energy, our computers can perform billions of cal­culations in fractions of seconds and are thinner than pencils. but, if you want to watch live television, you have to walk over to a dusty grey box, pick up a sticky remote with faded rubber buttons and repeatedly press the power button. 
now it’s easy to consider assembling a committee of kind but disgruntled folks to analyze the defects of the cable box, then have them write a report and take it to the cable companies. this could be done, but it’s much more exciting to think of a world where there is no cable box or cable company. 
the box is just an intermediary. and in many cases, it’s not even visible (i.e. it has been buried in the walls of the build­ing or is embedded in the television.) It serves to interpret the signals sent by the cable provider and decode them into seinfeld reruns and e! news. If you throw out the cable box, all you have is a screen and a need for media source. 

We are surrounded by screens — they absolutely consume our lives. Phones, computers, tablets, coffee makers, toast­ers, refrigerators, alarm clocks, etc. all have visual displays just waiting there. egad, we also have a super-massive pro­tocol for getting information and data from place to place: the Internet. 
netflix was founded on the premise that they could get an envelope to your mailbox before you broke down and made the hike all the way to the video store. It took a couple of days, but it just showed up after you made a couple of clicks on your computer. they then beat that timing when they decided to send the media to your computer instead of to your door. 
now there’s a glut of services and com­panies that do just that: Hulu, amazon, apple, Google, sony and so on. for a fee, they will send a movie or television show straight to your devices so you can watch it anytime, on any screen, anywhere. but there are a couple of holdouts and they are all controlled by the cable companies and the premium channel providers. HbO released a web and mobile applica­tion called HbO Go which allows users to playback a huge portion of HbO’s pre­mium catalog, the only caveat being you must be an HbO subscriber to access it, and to be an HbO subscriber, you also have to be a cable subscriber. 
Comcast, who is trying very desper­ately not to be Comcast but Xfinity, also has a web and mobile application that allows you to stream any of their On demand content. alack. you must be a Comcast subscriber to use it. 
Imagine if you could simply purchase a HbO Go subscription and forego the entire cable company. ten dollars a month? twenty dollars a month? It doesn’t matter. Pay $20, then add an­other $10 for Hulu Plus, $8 more for netflix and budget off $30 for movie rentals from itunes or amazon, and your monthly bill is still significantly less than many forms of basic, standard definition cable across the country. 
you could watch all the media you require on any of your devices and do it at any time. enjoy Cnn’s 24-hour cover­age? they could also sell a subscription tied to a web and mobile app. fifteen dollars a month and live tv you actu­ally like would be available to you at any hour of the day. and with technology like apple tv and the newest mac oper­ating system, you can easily stream any content on your computer to your ginor­mous tv over Wifi. 
sadly, this is not the world in which we live yet. We’re still tethered to dumpy-looking boxes made by motorola in the year 1997. all the technology is there; the potential future is primed. but cable companies are slow to move and afraid of losing their money. In fact, revenue for time Warner and Comcast continues to grow while companies like netflix and Hulu are taking heavy flack from their investors for growing too slowly. 
your habits will form the consump­tion models for years to come. look to the options that fight for progress. 
Blake J. Graham is a sophomore. He can be reached on Twitter @BlakeGraham or at bgraham2@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 


QUOTE OF THE DAY WEEKLY POLL 
and I understand that a large portion of the population wishes they were taller. I leave “nothing is so strong as gentleness. 
How do you keep up with news on campus?
you with the thought that not everything is nothing so gentle as real strength.” as great as it looks from the outside. Please remember that the next time you want to ask a tall guy if he plays basketball. St. Francis de Sales tweet your response with #viewpointPoll 
French saint & bishop of Geneva by 5 p.m. thursday. 
Contact Brandon Keelean at bkeelean@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


tHe Observer | WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 5, 2012 | ndsmCObserver.COm 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Faith and identity 
as a freshman and a latino, I am compelled to respond to junior Johnny Wichard’s claim that the concept of “hosting retreats and/or masses is by defini­tion the most racist thing I [Wichard] have heard on this campus and a way to fo­cus incoming freshmen on their race.” I believe these statements lack truth. 
two weeks ago, I registered for the latino freshman retreat, scheduled for the weekend of september 14. While I first heard about the retreat through a Campus ministry email, I merely checked it off in a list along with other possible interests and activities for my faith here at notre dame. In all honesty, I did not think much of it at the time. 
but the smiles I have seen from asian american and african american class­mates who have shared their multicultural retreat experience inspired me to register for the retreat with excitement and anticipation. I even went up to several upperclassmen to ask, “Is the latino retreat a worth it?” only to receive firm nods and once again, smiles.
  I cannot speak for everybody, but in my experience, no one pressured me to sign up for the retreat. no structure here locked me into any form of total segrega­tion. no new friendship of mine was forged on the criteria of skin color. and while I will focus on my heritage on that weekend, and probably other times of the year, it will certainly not be the focus of my first year or those to follow.
  It is worth asking, then, what the multicultural retreats and masses signify to those involved. many reasons, feelings and thought can answer this question. In my case, it is an opportunity to combine identity with faith. the visits to see family in mexico, all the holy water-sprinkled rituals my mom ministered, and all the si­lent prayers to Our lady of Guadalupe? Well, I cannot wait to share that with class­mates whose hearts identify with those experiences. I pray the retreat will help me understand what role my heritage and spirituality can play, especially within this community. 
I try to do all this as best I can while still developing my whole self, which more than ever, will grow here at the university of notre dame, free from the bonds of racism and segregation. 
Steven Fisher 
freshman fisher Hall sept. 4 

Carpe Dome-em 
Here it is. the once a year (okay, more like once every few weeks) nostalgic “do it while you can!” letter. but seriously, people. you know that event your dorm is hosting you think sounds kind of cool? Go to it! stop making excuses. Wake up from your nap, drag your best friend with you, just go to the events and activities that you keep talking about. your time here is limited. make the best of it. 
I can say all of this with the utmost confidence because here I am in my “victory lap” becoming a double domer. yeah, it is still as much of a surprise to me as it is to everyone I see on campus who says, “What are you still doing here?!” 
after graduation in may, I was in a state of denial about not returning to notre dame. It seemed surreal that I would never again experience game day as a student or sing the alma mater arm in arm with my classmates. It is the little moments like this that you will miss most of all. embrace them. (literally.) 
so, what am I still doing here? Good question. I am getting my masters of science in the esteem program in a last minute decision. (I’m talking com­mitted five days before orientation started.) I just couldn’t stay away, and I am so happy with my decision. for those of you as undecided about your future as I am, it is okay! take a minute to breathe.everything is going to work out. 
this may seem like a meaningless post, but I swear it has a point. the point is this: the time is now. not tomorrow, not next year. nOW. Go to the soccer game. stay up late for a quarter dog. see the hypnotist show. attend a free con­cert at legends even if you don’t know the band. Head over to main building for drummer’s Circle. Check off your bucket list now because your time at notre dame is going to run out before you can even believe it. not everyone is going to get a second chance, but I swear I am going to do it right this time. take advantage of everything and everyone around you while it lasts. 
With that said... 
Go Irish! beat boilermakers! 
Kelly Kraus 
graduate student off campus sept. 4 
UWIRE 

It only takes 140 characters 
Randi Reeder 
Iowa state daily 

Have you noticed how news outlets now include tweets as part of the news? many newscasts now talk about celebrity twitter accounts and any tweet that is outrageous enough to comment on. It seems as if a person can’t get through a single news report on the tv or read an article in the paper without hearing about a recent tweet from “so-and-so.” 
Honestly — who cares? Or better yet — why should I care? 
twitter, like facebook is a great com­munication tool if used properly. 
but when mishandled, things can go terribly wrong. 
some examples of out-of-line tweets can be seen with the recent london Olympics. With more than 150 million tweets about the Olympics posted during the 16 days of the london Games, twitter was declared the winner in what some are calling the “social Olympics.” there were about 80,000 Olympic tweets per minute published after usain bolt won the gold medal in the 200-meter final, according to information given by twitter in an article for the australian paper the age. 
the tweets started out with Greek triple jumper voula Papachristou, who tweeted a racist comment mocking african im­migrants on her personal twitter account. Papachristou was expelled from Greece’s Olympic team for saying: “With so many africans in Greece, at least the West nile mosquitoes will be eating food from their own home.” 
swiss soccer team player michel morganella was the second athlete after Papachristou to be kicked out of the 2012 Olympic Games after posting a racist and threatening tweet saying south Korea’s athletes were “retards” and should “burn themselves” shortly after switzerland’s 2-1 loss to south Korea. When the french and text-speak tweet is translated into english, morganella tweeted something along the lines of: “I want to beat up all south Koreans. bunch of mentally handi­capped retards.” 
because of their need to blow off steam or show their racist colors to the rest of the world — it cost them big time. Plus 
— from now on, whenever their name is brought up they are forever tied to “that tweet.” 

these types of postings have been hap­pening on twitter for quite some time and have been making headline news along with negatively affecting those who use the social media tool in the wrong way. back in 2010, aussie swimmer stephanie rice released an offensive tweet after australia beat south africa at rugby. In recent times, she has been under fire for posting a “racy” picture of herself wearing a two-piece swimsuit that left little to the imagination. 
during the 2008 beijing Olympics, twitter did not have as big of a role as it did in this year’s london Olympics. “there were more tweets in a single day than during the entire 2008 beijing Games,” twitter reps wrote in a blog post. 
my favorite part about the aftermath of these rash and senseless tweets is the “I’m sorry” tweet afterward. all three athletes above tweeted their apologies, with rice even having a tearful news conference, apologizing to the public. Well, if you weren’t careless with your actions, you wouldn’t have anything to pretend to be sorry for. they are not sorry for what they said; they are sorry they got slammed for the tweet. 
as always, the few ruin it for the rest of us, giving twitter an image which teeter-totters back and forth between good and bad. 
the solution to the trouble the Olympic athletes got themselves into is to be more discrete, and it applies to the rest of us, too. take an extra two seconds of your time to think twice about your next post. and if you decide that your mother would be disappointed in you if she saw it, give her the benefit of common sense and don’t make the post. 
maybe the solution is as simple as a short quote from the tv show “the Office”: “Whenever I’m about to do some­thing, I think, ‘Would an idiot do that?’ and if they would, I do not do that thing.” 
This editorial originally ran in the Aug. 23 issue of the Iowa State Daily, serving Iowa State University. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 











JACQUELINE O’NEILL | Observer Graphic 
tHe Observer | WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 5, 2012 | ndsmCObserver.COm 















simultaneously determined, ambiance that progresses slaughterhouse’s “Welcome to: Our House” 
By MIKO MALABUTE 

scene Writer with the song. truly showcases the supergroup’s mastery of their crafts. Perhaps the most perplexing and unsolv-almost-tangible senses of hunger and robustness, 
the hip-hop supergroup slaughterhouse boasts able question surrounding this group is the identity of mixed with plain honesty, make for a special project, its bravado once again on its solid sophomore effort, the group’s leader. the Jackson 5 had michael Jackson, and — among high expectations for a major label debut “Welcome to: Our House.”  With three years of experi-nsynC had Justin timberlake and G-unit had 50 Cent, under none other than eminem’s shady records — the ence and chemistry between members Crooked I, Joell but who exactly is the “lead” for slaughterhouse? but sophomore effort does not fail to impress.  because the Ortiz, Joe budden and royce da 5’9”, the fantastic four the beauty of the group lies in its enigma — there is no stories each of these men tells are so deep and intricate, of hip-hop flexed their lyrical muscles once more over unquestioned leader. each of the four members shine it might take a few listens to truly begin to understand their major label debut. in their own right in different songs, supporting the in-where they are coming from. you might want to make 
the album opens with a skit, aptly titled “the creasing argument that slaughterhouse has become the yourself at home. slaughter,” which — without getting into the less than best pound-for-pound rap supergroup of all time. their civil aspects of the skit — really showcases the agenda of collective lyrical capability showcases the strength of the hip-hop collective:  to assert themselves in their own each of the individuals, where any member could essen­
“Welcome To: Our House” 
arena (read as “their house”) in an unfiltered manner, tially take over on any given song. Joe budden honestly 
Slaughterhouse 
expressing themselves as they see fit, and within their and compassionately paints a picture when he says “God own comfort zones. intervened, guess more was at stake / thought nothing 
Label: Interscope Records 
and their comfort zones are wide and diverse. was left over, He put more on the plate” in the sentimen-
Tracks: “Hammer Dance,” “My Life,” “Flip a Bird” 
the versatile project has the ability to appeal to a wide tal track “Goodbye,” but then Crooked I brings some audience, and emits all sorts of auras across the emo-bravado in “Park It sideways” with the lines “like a.I. I tional spectrum. the spacey, distant whines mixed cross over when I’m near a mic / I stay fly even though I with the rhythmic drums in the first single “Hammer got a fear of heights.” simple, abstract quotes taken out dance” evoke a dark party scene, while the grandiose of context cannot do these men justice, though, for they booms and Cee lo Green’s triumphant voice in “my truly tell stories in their craft. the message is sometimes life” capture the rock star ecstasy feeling. the hypnotic, funny, sometimes bitter and sometimes somber, but al­cool chants in “flip a bird” inspire a very mellow, yet ways vivid, heartfelt and genuine. Contact Miko Malabute at mmalabut@nd.edu 
By CLAIRE STEPHENS 
scene Writer 

Getting stuck in monotony by always getting fro yo for dessert? Want something healthy and delicious? Contrary to popular belief, it is possible and easy to do. Get your cool and crunchy fix with a Caramel apple Parfait. 


SPORTS AUTHORITY 

nfl should not limit kickoffs 

Joseph Monardo 
sports Writer 
I am not a scientist or doctor. I do not specialize in head trauma or concussions. but I can sense something wrong in the attempt, spearheaded by the nfl last sea­son and adopted by the nCaa this season, to reduce the risk of injury on kickoffs. 
before the 2011 season, the nfl decided to move kickoffs up from the 30-yard line to the 35­yard line in order to reduce the number of kick returns and thus reduce the number of serious injuries resulting from returns. College football did the same before the 2012 season, also pro­hibiting the coverage team from gaining more than a five-yard head start. 
a consulting firm’s study of injury data provided by the nfl Players’ association reported that of 270 reported league-wide concussions in 2010 (before the rule change), 35 occurred dur­ing kickoffs. If we assume there are 120-140 offensive plays in an average football game and 10 kickoff returns (which is most likely an overestimate), kickoffs account for between 6.6 per­cent and 7.7 percent of plays in the season. at the same time, kickoffs accounted for almost 13 percent of concussions reported in the 2010 season. Obviously the numbers are not exact, but they are not unreasonable either. 
all this to say kickoffs account for a number of concussions not proportionate to their rare occurrence in the game, which makes sense given the 50-yard head start (or more) that pre­cedes full-speed collisions. 
but still, I am not on board with football’s new rules that aim to limit the number of kick returns. even though it stands to reason that fewer kick returns translates into fewer concus­sions, and even though the nflPa reported only 20 concus­sions sustained during kickoffs in 2011 after the change, I am not buying this move. 
the nfl and nCaa imposed these rules to make football a (kind of) safer game. and the “(kind of)” part is why I do not agree with them. 
fans of amC’s breaking bad will recognize this iconic line mike delivers to Walter in the season 3 finale: “the moral of the story is, I chose a half mea­sure, when I should have gone all the way. I’ll never make that mistake again. no more half measures, Walter.” 
the circumstances were dif­ferent but the underlying mes­sage is the same. the football authorities of america have cho­sen to address the dangers posed by kickoffs with a half-measure. 
they have acknowledged that kickoffs represent a significant and extra-proportionate danger in a dangerous game, but have simultaneously failed to fully protect their players against those very dangers. 
they have (sort of) made the game safer and (almost) re­moved one of the most exciting moments in sports from their product. they have made a com­promise where a compromise has no business existing. either kickoffs are too unsafe for foot­ball or they aren’t, but the deci­sion makers have avoided the tough decision. 
the aim of player safety is ad­mirable and should be a priority of the sports’ governing bodies. It is good that concussions sus­tained on kickoffs in the nfl fell by nearly 43 percent following the rule change. 
but why should football’s at­tempts to increase safety stop there? Of course, quarterback and defenseless receiver protec­tion has increased, but the dan­ger is at least as present as it has ever been in a sport so inextrica­bly linked with violence. If player safety is the real goal, surely the leagues can do more than short­en kickoffs by five yards. 
at risk of sounding overly cynical, by electing to pursue a course of half-measure action, the nfl and nCaa have chosen to do just enough to protect their own needs. the changes (some­what) contribute to player safety, and although they also (a little bit) annoy the spectators and fans, certainly not to an extent that would hurt the associations’ revenue streams. but the author­ity figures are off the hook; they make an easy-to-see effort to increase safety without sacrific­ing any profits. 
again, I am no doctor, scientist or any other type of expert quali­fied to weigh in on matters as grave as the safety of human be­ings put at risk in the name of en­tertainment. I do not know how the nfl and the nCaa should handle kickoffs and the larger issue of player safety. I am simply not satisfied with the current ar­rangement that all but removes a spectacular aspect of football while still exposing the players to substantial risk. We get some of the worst of both decisions. 
In 2011, while kickoff concus­sions reduced to almost half their previous year’s total, the total number of concussions also fell. by four, to 266. a reduction of 1.48 percent. 
no more half measures. 
Contact Joseph Monardo at jmonardo@nd.edu
     The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
GOLF 

Snedeker to make US Ryder Cup debut as rookie 
Associated Press 
neW yOrK — brandt snedeker had nothing more than big hopes and another strong finish when he left the tPC boston, expecting to wait deep into the night for a phone call from ryder Cup captain davis love III that would deter­mine if he was on the u.s. team. 
“I had no clue one way or an­other,” snedeker said tuesday. “Got on the plane, got here to Indianapolis and got a voice­mail from davis just asking if I brought my putter from boston and if I wanted to be on the team. I was just so excited. Couldn’t hardly sleep last night. Just a huge, huge thing for my career.” 
snedeker was among four players whom love selected to fill out his 12-man ryder Cup team. the captain also took a pair of veterans, Jim furyk and steve stricker, and dustin Johnson, who showed the hot­test hand over the past two weeks and who love said was “perfect for medinah.” 
the ryder Cup is sept. 28-30 at medinah outside Chicago, which has hosted the PGa Championship twice since 1999 and is known as a power golf course. tiger Woods won two majors there. 
more than power, however, love emphasized putting. 
stricker is regarded as one of the best in the game, and snedeker is not far behind, as he showed at the british Open and during his charge up the leaderboard the past two weeks at bethpage black and the tPC boston. 


PERSONAL 

   UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don’t go it alone. Notre Dame has many resources in place to assist you. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Ann Whitall at 1-0084 or Karen Kennedy at 1-5550. For more information, visit ND’s website at: http://pregnancysupport@nd.edu 

“I’ve been saying a lot that we need hot putters, and there re­ally has not been a hotter putter on tour since the british Open,” love said, referring to snedeker, one of four ryder Cup rookies for the u.s. 
there was just as much talk about who didn’t make the team. 
Hunter mahan, whose two PGa tour wins this year included the match Play Championship when he beat rory mcIlroy, was leading the ryder Cup standings after the masters and still didn’t qualify for the eight automatic spots. 
He had to rely on a pick after he missed the cut in the PGa Championship, and then he missed the cut at the barclays and was in the middle of the pack at the deutsche bank Championship. 
“the ryder Cup has been a goal for every american player, and it’s disappointing not to be a part of it,” mahan said tuesday from the bmW Championship in Indiana. “I’ve been part of the last five teams, so it hurts not to be a part of it, and it feels a little empty right now. It’s tough be­cause I’ve still got two events to play, and they don’t feel quite as important as I want them to be right now.” 

also left off was rickie fowler, who picked up his first PGa tour win this year at Quail Hollow and turned in the most dynamic american perfor­mance at Wales two years ago when he won the last four holes to earn a halve that kept alive the american chances. fowler has not had a top 10 since a tie for fifth at the Colonial in may. 
“I definitely felt like I was kind of on the outside looking in,” he said. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit 
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
Land of Hope and Dreams Lyrics Bruce Springsteen 
Grab your ticket and your suitcase Thunder’s rolling down this track 
Well you don’t know where you’re goin’ now But you know you won’t be back 
Well darlin’ if you’re weary Lay your head upon my chest 
We’ll take what we can carry Ya, and we’ll leave behind the rest 
Well, big wheels rolling through fields Where sunlight streams Meet me in a land of hope and dreams 
Well I will provide for you Ya and I’ll stand by your side 
You’ll need a good companion now For this part of your ride 
Ya leave behind your sorrows Ya this day at last 
Well tomorrow there’ll be sunshine And all this darkness past 
Well, big wheels rolling through fields Where sunlight streams 
Oh  meet  me  in  a land of hope and dreams 
Well this train Carries saints and sinners 
This train Carries losers and winners 
This train Carries whores and gamblers 
This train Carries lost souls 



NFL 

Cowboys kick off NFL season against Giants 
Associated Press 
east rutHerfOrd, n.J. — a good start is what is on the line this time when the new york Giants host the dallas Cowboys in the nfl sea­son opener. 
the stakes were much greater the last time the nfC east foes faced off to close the last regular season. new york won to claim the division title en route to the super bowl title. dallas was left out of the postseason. 
On Wednesday night at metlife stadium, the winner will take the early upper hand in the divisional race. 
for eli manning and the super bowl champion Giants, this will be a chance to silence the critics and detractors who have sounded off repeatedly after they beat the new england Patriots in february to claim their second title in five seasons. 
the Giants heard it all. they were lucky to get into the playoffs with a 9-7 record. they really didn’t beat the Packers or 49ers, they were just handed the games. there is a lot more, but that is the gist. 
that is now over. 
the goal for tom Coughlin’s play­ers is to show they have constructed that bridge the 65-year-old coach urged them to build to link their late-season 6-0 run to the title to the 2012 campaign. 
“the leadership we have on this football team, that’s going to be the spine of the bridge, if you will,” de­fensive captain Justin tuck said. “I think we’re in a good place as far as where we want to be coming into the game.” 
the Giants are confident, and they don’t care what outsiders are saying about them. 
“We’ve already showed people who we are,” safety antrel rolle said. “We can care less about that. We leave that up to spectators. We’re just going out there and playing ball. and that is what it is all about. We can care less about what kind of recognition we are getting or who is crowning us and who is not crown­ing us. none of that matters coming into the 2012 season.” 
Jerry Jones’ Cowboys face a much different task after an 8-8 campaign that ended with an embarrassing 31­14 loss to the Giants on new year’s day. 
the outspoken owner, who boasted to fans that his team would kick the Giants’ posteriors in dallas when the clubs meet a second time this season on Oct. 28, knows the window for the aging Cowboys to return to the franchise’s glory years is fading fast. 
“It’s a great opportunity for us is how I look at it,” Jones said of the season opener. “so very meaning­ful. everybody has all the apprecia­tion in the world for what we’re up against here, the quality of the team, so to have success up there would be very meaningful. 
“as in any game in the nfl, it’s certainly not how you ultimately will wind up one way or the other, but it is a big game in front of really the entire world of sports, high visible game against the world champions.” 
romo will again be under the spotlight. He has yet to lead the ‘boys to a title, and many wonder whether he will after a late-season meltdown in which dallas lost four of its final five games, including two to the Giants. 
“I think they always stick with you,” romo said of the last game. “that’s what fuels you in the offsea­son and makes you ... you want to remember those moments so you can improve from them. as a foot­ball team, we’ve taken an approach that we need to get better. I think we’ve done that with the personnel and our approach and the way the guys have been committed. It’s been great to see. now it’s time to take it to the field.” 
there are a couple of key match-ups to watch. 
PaId advertIsement 


manning and receivers victor Cruz and Hakeem nicks combined for 14 receptions for 237 yards in new york’s 37-34 win in dallas on dec. 11, and they had 11 more catches for 254 yards and two touchdowns in the division-deciding game. 
In the offseason, the Cowboys signed former Chiefs cornerback brandon Carr as a free agent and moved up eight spots in the first round of the draft to take another cornerback, morris Claiborne of lsu. 
the key to the Giants’ success in the postseason was the ability of the defensive line to pressure quarter­backs. the assault will again be led by all Pro Jason Pierre-Paul, tuck and fellow two-time Pro bowler Osi umenyiora. 
dallas has revamped its offen­sive line, signing veteran guards mackenzy bernadeau and nate livings, and having tackles tyron smith and doug free switch sides. Center Phil Costa returns in the middle. 



tHe Observer | WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 5, 2012 | ndsmCObserver.COm 

Belles 
COntInued frOm PaGe 16 
the home team, dominat­ing from start to finish. 
“We were too slow in transition today,” Kuschel said. “We didn’t play well on defense and missed way too many serves deep and long. We weren’t aggres­sive enough on offense.” 
though her team lost in straight sets, Kuschel was still able to take some pos­itives from the contest. 
“though we didn’t play well, we were able to pick up our intensity in [set] number three,” Kuschel said. “We were able to do some good things and had a few bright moments here and there.” 
Overall, Kuschel said she believes her team can learn from the match against trine. 
“We need to take this as a learning experience,” Kuschel said. “now we know the level we have to play at to compete in this conference.” 
saint mary’s travels to albion for its second conference match on saturday. 
Contact Nick Boyle at          nboyle1@nd.edu 
NFL 

Patriots prepare for opener 
Associated Press 
fOXbOrOuGH, mass. — tom brady threw for a team-record 517 yards in the new england Patriots opener last year. 
When they begin this season on sunday at tennessee, the offense will have several differ­ent starters from that 38-24 win over miami. 
but it still has brady. and Josh mcdaniels, who has returned to the offensive coordina­tor’s job he held from 2006-08, sees improvement in his star quarterback. 
“I think tom has gotten bet­ter every year,” mcdaniels said tuesday. “It’s a great example for our younger players to see how he goes about trying to pre­pare for this opening game. I see a guy that’s determined, that’s working extremely hard, that wants to play his best football, and he’s trying to do everything that he can to make sure that happens this year.” 
brady was pretty good last season. 
He threw for 5,235 yards, sec­ond most in nfl history. His 39 touchdown passes were fourth in the nfl. He led the Patriots to a 13-3 record and the super bowl, where they lost to the new york Giants 21-17 on a last-min­ute touchdown. 
this season, they have brandon lloyd, the deep threat they lacked. 
second-year running backs stevan ridley and shane vereen should play bigger roles now that benJarvus Green-ellis, who lacked their elusiveness, has left for Cincinnati. 
and the tight-end tandem of rob Gronkowski and aaron Hernandez already is the best in the league after just two seasons. 
but the offensive line is a question mark. 
left tackle matt light re­tired and his replacement, nate solder, has been inconsistent. right guard brian Waters hasn’t reported after an outstanding season with the Patriots, and coach bill belichick has repeat­edly declined to update his status. 
“I’m just talking about the guys that are here,” he said. 
the Patriots loaded up on free agent wide receivers in the off­season when they signed lloyd, Jabar Gaffney, donte’ stallworth and anthony Gonzalez. all but lloyd have been released. 


deion branch, who started all 18 games he played last season 
— including three in the post­season — also was cut. 
that leaves lloyd and Wes Welker as the only proven re­ceivers, although Hernandez sometimes lines up in that spot. 
“We have plenty of players that can make a contribution on offense,” mcdaniels said. “Hopefully, every skill player that plays in the game has an opportunity to make some plays for us, whether that be in the backfield or tight end or at the receivers position. 
“We’ve played with a lot of different variations, a lot of dif­ferent numbers at certain posi­tions over the course of time and the guys we’ve got now, we feel good about and are excited to use them on sunday.” 
Greg salas could be one of them. 
the second-year wide receiver was acquired for an undisclosed future draft choice on saturday from the st. louis rams, where he played while mcdaniels was the offensive coordinator. 
PaId advertIsement 




CLUB SPORTS 

Men’s club soccer sweeps Butler and IUSB 
Women’s club soccer defeats Augustana in first-ever game; Sailing finishes second in Boiler Cup Regatta 
butler showed a more at-remnants of Hurricane the Irish began the day a score of 33-12. 
Special to The Observer 

tacking style and closed the Isaac, but the team man-with two pool games against In the semifinal match, 
this saturday the Irish score to 3-1. the host Irish aged to get ten races in for Western michigan and the Irish met a very good hosted Indiana university once again took control of both the a division and Ohio. the Irish started off davenport side, ranked no. south bend (Iusb) and the game and added a goal the b division.  sophomore strong against their first op-7 in the nation this year. butler. the Irish had a suc-by lapira.  as the game Pat Power, freshman Jack ponent Western michigan. Initially the Irish seemed cessful day, defeating Iusb neared its end, spittler schneider, and sophomore after stealing the ball off shell-shocked by the speed 12-0 and butler 5-1. In other added one more tally for maddy skorcz sailed in the opening kickoff, senior and experience of the invitational play, butler de-the Irish to complete the the a division and junior center bobby manfreda davenport side, giving up feated Iusb, 2-0. 5-1 victory. annie schoenwetter, soph-cut through the defensive two early tries at the begin-
In the first game, the the club now boasts a 3-0 omore becky Jegier, and line and scored the first try ning of the game. the Irish Irish took the lead early record, and hopes to build sophomore ryan schultheis of the tournament for the found themselves though in the game with a goal by upon the perfect season sailed in the b division. Irish. the Irish then con-and mounted a number of junior striker nick yulan. this sunday when they face a division came in first ceded a couple of tries due attacks, controlling the ball senior teddy larew scored Western michigan. place and the team placed to a couple of missed tack-for most of the remainder of three goals and sophomore second overall. the team les and found themselves the first half, and much of michael O’brien scored two Women’s Soccer will participate in the fall behind 14-7. but after that, the second half. However, shortly after yulan’s tally. notre dame opened its fury regatta this week-the game was all Irish, a the Irish were unable to put sophomore matt spittler inaugural season with a end at the university of couple of long breakaways the ball over the try line. added another for a 7-0 lead thrilling 2-1 victory over Wisconsin-madison. by junior scrumhalf byron a final score by davenport at the half. during the sec-augustana this sunday at Henry and senior wing-late in the game sealed the ond half, the Irish contin-mcGlinn fields.  freshman Men’s Rugby er ryan robinson put the deal, and the Irish received ued their dominance. two aliska berry opened the On sept. 1, the fighting Irish ahead. tries were also their defeat loss of the day more goals by larew and scoring for the Irish, and Irish 7s squad traveled to scored by senior prop david by a score of 19-0. goals by O’brien, senior the score held until five bowling Green to compete Harrington and junior the loss suffered against Joseph lapira and fresh-minutes remained, when in a tournament where the hooker rob mungia. the davenport pitted the Irish man ryan bonner gave the the guests scored on a pen-first place winner and tour-first win of the day came against a newly formed, Irish the 12-0 victory over alty kick to knot the score at nament champion would convincingly with a score yet skilled Wheeling Jesuit. Iusb. 1-1.  In the final minute, ju-qualify for a spot in the usa of 33-14. they were a young squad 
the second game was nior Coley Konkey’s header 7s national Championship the next game against made up entirely of fresh-evenly played during the proved to be the difference tournament in december Ohio featured an entirely men. both teams seemed first 10 minutes. the Irish for the Irish. later this year. the tour-different Irish side from the evenly matched, with more took the lead on a goal by nament featured 11 other opening game. first, the of a focus on quickness junior Jack reilly. before Sailing teams from the mountain Irish found themselves on and skills over size and the end of the half, senior this past weekend, notre athletic Conference as well the defense for most of the brute strength. the Irish ricardo romero and se-dame competed in the an-as some other indepen-opening moments of the gained the upper hand nior andres Humbert each nual boiler Cup regatta dents such as newly formed game. Ohio was banging on when Henry hounded the scored to build a cushion. at Purdue.  the weath-varsity program, Wheeling notre dame’s try-zone, but opposing scrumhalf after during the second half, er was rainy due to the Jesuit university. a stout defensive line and a Wheeling scrum; the ball stellar tackling held-up the was stripped and found its 
PaId advertIsement 

ball on two separate occa-way into the hands of ju­sions. secondly, the Irish nior prop tom Hickey who offense was struggling a took the ball the remainder bit. Weather began to play a of the way. Wheeling did factor, and the Irish gave up not give up however, and 10 scrums due to poor ball continued to press on, they handling. were able to find a crease 
the only score of the down the middle of the field game came near the clos-and scored right before ing moments of the second halftime, giving them the half, when Henry scooped lead 7-5. However, the Irish up a loose ball off of a were not to be outdone. the scrum. With the help of se-Irish continued to press for­nior flyhalf sean Peterson, ward and, using their skills, who sold the hard cut-worked the ball sideline to back, Henry was able to cut sideline. the ball found it-through the defense and self in the hands of Hickey touch the ball down in the who broke through the line corner of the try-zone. the and took it 50 meters for final tally was 5-0 after the the score. that score would unsuccessful conversion. prove to be enough as the 
after a brief intermis-Irish won the game 12-7 and sion in the day, the Irish finished third overall in the faced Central michigan tournament. in the quarterfinals. this While the goal for the day game was a return to form was to walk away as tourna­for the Irish. they played ment champions, the Irish their best game of the day. were proud of their accom­as a team, they were com-plishment and held their pletely in sync on both of-heads high as they made fense and defense, shutting the drive home to south down the Central michigan bend. the Irish saw that attack. although they gave their abilities held up to top up a try very early in the competition and they will contest, the Irish were able continue to work on their to capitalize on a num-skills and fitness as they ber of breakaways, made strive to improve. the 7s by robinson, Peterson and squad will be in action in Henry. from then on, the two weeks when they travel Irish held Central michigan to Ohio state to compete scoreless right up until the in a national tournament final whistle. the Irish ad-which also includes top vanced to the semifinals by teams navy and Cal. 


tHe Observer | WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 5, 2012 | ndsmCObserver.COm 

Kelly 
COntInued frOm PaGe 16 
Junior offensive tackle tate nichols, sidelined with a knee in­jury, went through individual work tuesday but was withheld from any team activities. Kelly said nichols lifted in the weight room last week and has begun to reengage in football-related activities. 
Junior linebacker danny spond, hampered by migranes, has been cleared for everything except physi­cal contact. Kelly said he hopes spond will be cleared for next week. 
sophomore running back amir Carlisle, battling an ankle in­jury, has been cleared to practice and will be part of notre dame’s 
PaId advertIsement 
practice rotation, Kelly said. 
Kelly also said sophomore running backs Cam mcdaniel and George atkinson, who were both dinged up in the win over navy, will be ready to play against Purdue. 
Contact Matthew DeFranks at mdefrank@nd.edu 


Alugbue 
COntInued frOm PaGe 16 
.700 attack percentage. Her accuracy made her only the second player to ever hit .700 or higher in a four-set match with a minimum of four attacks a set average. alugbue’s performance was fueled by notre dame’s disappointment in the outcome of their opening weekend in nebraska. 
“Coming back from two losses at nebraska last weekend motivated me this past weekend,” she said. “I wanted to come back and 
“Coach Brown 
expects a lot of 
great things out of 
me this year, but 
most importantly 
she wants me to 
have fun while 
doing this.” 
Toni Alugbue 
Irish right side hitter 
work on the things that I struggled with against uCla and nebraska. In those matches, I played with such in confidence that I’d never played with before. I wanted to recreate that fire and competitive attitude that I had in those matches.” 
alugbue’s performances over the first two weekends of competition have been a continuation of a great freshman campaign. after adjusting to the game at the collegiate level, alugbue has her sights set on great­er goals for this season. 
“freshman year I was learning about the speed of the game and the system we used,” she said. “I earned the starting middle block­er job, and that gave me a lot of confidence, know­ing that I had an impact on the team. I became a lot a stronger in the off-season not only physically, but mentally as well. I feel this has made me into a much better volleyball player. 
“as a sophomore, I’ve set high goals for myself and goals for my team. Coach brown expects a lot of great things out of me this year, but most importantly she wants me to have fun while doing this.” 
the Irish are looking forward to some more in­tense competition this weekend when they travel to California. alugbue is especially excited to be re­turning to her home state and playing in front of fam­ily and friends. 
“my team and I are ex­pecting to win all three matches this weekend,” she said. “usC, university of san diego, and Cal Poly are all great teams. We proved our opening weekend that we can compete with top­25 teams. this weekend, we need to play steady and limit our unforced errors. It’s not going to be easy, but I believe in my team and I know we will come out on top. I’m from [los angeles] so I’m really excited to be­ing going home and play­ing in front my family and friends. I plan on having a lot of fun this weekend and bringing the confidence that I’ve had.” 
Contact Laura Coletti at        lcoletti@nd.edu 




CROSSWORD | WIll sHOrtZ 


HIGHLY PUNLIKELY | CHrIstOPHer bruCKer 

LOWER YOUR EXPECTATIONS | lenny raGO &                PatrICK CrOss 


Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
SUDOKU | tHe mePHam GrOuP 


HOROSCOPE | euGenIa last 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Whitney Cummings, 30; beyonce Knowles, 31; Wes bentley, 34; drew Pinsky, 54. 
Happy Birthday: think matters through. don’t let insignificant, trivial matters escalate into uncontrollable situations. you are best to deal with matters as they arise and refuse to let anything or anyone take over your life. you must focus on what’s important and finish whatever you start. small personal changes will turn out well. love is in the stars. your numbers are 5, 14, 27, 29, 31, 35, 46. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): take patterned steps toward your goal. If you veer off course it will be difficult to resume your direction. a love relationship or a self-improvement project will not turn out well if you don’t compromise. Work hard and be practical. 


TAURUS (April 20-May 20): don’t let emotional turmoil build or cause a problem between you and a partner. do your best to take care of personal business and to learn all you can before embarking on a new endeavor. a practical approach will pay off. 


GEMINI (May 21-June 20): dealing with financial, medical or legal institutions will be beneficial. Collect data conducive to fixing an unsavory situation. too much talk and not enough action will hurt your reputation. be honest regarding what you can and cannot do. 


CANCER (June 21-July 22): Put effort into home, family and getting along with the people you deal with most. discuss your plans openly, but don’t let your emotions interfere with a good decision or making a necessary change.. 


LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Go where the action is. your dynamic approach to dealing with others as well as your responsibilities will be impressive. anger is a waste of time, but success will bring you satisfaction and make the people who anger you the most envious. 


VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): take action, achieve your goals and gain the respect of onlookers. take advantage of any opportunity to prove you are capable of handling any situation. romance is present and should be pursued during the evening hours. 


LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): don’t let love cost you. Whether dealing with a partner, parent or child, you must not give in to demands that are impossible to meet. bide your time, and focus on making the changes that will help you expand your interests. 


SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): spend time with people you love or doing something entertaining. a challenging activity will give you the chance to impress someone special. a career move will turn out better than anticipated. 


SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): money matters may be a little disconcerting. Check your personal finances and get back on track regarding your debts and collections. you will have to work hard at getting along with your peers and resolving problems that arise. 


CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Good things come to those who wait. make changes that will help you gain ground personally and professionally. your ability to take charge and do with ease whatever needs to be done will impress someone looking for services you can offer. 


AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Observation is a must if you want to avoid turmoil. you will face opposition if you are too intent on doing things your way. spend more time at home and taking care of your personal, financial and emotional needs. Honesty is a must. 


PISCES (Feb. 19- March 20): a partnership can help you get ahead, but first you must clear the air and share information that might change the dynamics of your relationship. Open and honest discussions will help seal a deal. 


Birthday Baby: you are an achiever and a detailed individual. you strive for perfec­tion. 
JUMBLE | davId HOyt and Jeff KnureK 

make checks payable to and mail to:  the Observer P.O. box 779 notre dame, In 46556  
enclosed is $130 for one academic year enclosed is $75 for one semester  
name  

address 

City      state Zip 

tHe Observer | WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 5, 2012 | ndsmCObserver.COm 
FOOTBALL 

Backup Battle 
Irish coach Brian Kelly says Hendrix and Rees will compete for No. 2 quarterback position 
By MATTHEW DEFRANKS 
associate sports editor 
after starting 12 games last year and serving a one-game suspen­sion saturday, junior quarterback tommy rees will now battle for the no. 2 spot behind sophomore quarterback everett Golson. 
Golson started his first game for no. 22 notre dame during the sea­son-opening 50-10 win over navy. He will also start when the Irish (1-0) face Purdue (1-0) on saturday. 
rees and junior quarterback andrew Hendrix will vie for the backup job. Irish coach brian Kelly said he had not decided on who will be the backup for saturday and the two will continue to share reps. 
“It will be, for me, probably more about making sure that we get tommy up to a level where he can be sharp if he’s in a position where he had to go into the game, and I don’t know if he’s got enough work yet,” Kelly said. “He’ll get work at [backup] as well as andrew and we’ll see how that progresses during the week. 
“We saw some of the things that we wanted in terms of ball secu­rity and good decision making [from tommy], and we’ll continue to work on that.  but tommy is a very valuable player to our pro­gram.  He’s got a lot of experience, and we are happy to have him.” 
Kelly said rees was helpful in the development of Golson and Hendrix during the offseason. 
“you know, he was a great team­mate, that’s all I would tell you.  He was a great teammate.  He han­dled himself the right way.” 
Secondary developments 
after losing junior safety austin Collinsworth and junior cornerback lo Wood to injury during the offsea­son, notre dame began the season shorthanded in the secondary. the young and inexperienced defensive backfield looked suspect during notre dame’s win over navy. 
the Irish gave up 192 pass­ing yards to midshipmen junior quarterback trey miller — 43 yards more than they surrendered on the ground to the triple option attack 
freshman cornerback Keivarae russell, freshman safety nicky baratti and sophomore safety matthias farley all saw their first significant playing time in the sec­ondary saturday. 
“We [have] a number of young, talented players that we need to continue to work,” Kelly said. “nicky baratti, Hardy, we had a number of guys that played limited roles in special teams, but important roles. We’ll continue to do that. so each and every week, you’re going to see their names popping up and as they continue to grow and develop, hopefully we get a chance to see them play more and more.” 
Injury updates 
Kelly updated the media on some injuries during tuesday’s press conference. 
see Kelly PAGE 14 


SMC VOLLEYBALL | trIne 3, st. mary’s 0 
belles fall to trine in straight sets 
to drop the match, which was belles coach toni Kuschel “While we didn’t play up answered with a 5-1 run to 
By NICK BOYLE 

sports Writer marred by a plethora of un-said. “We had way too many to our potential, trine really end the set. forced errors from the visi-unforced errors all night and played a great match,” Kuschel the second set was all trine, 
saint mary’s started off its tors, who had trouble with they really put us out of the said. “they were in the game, with the belles trailing by at conference season on a sour serves all evening. match early.” ready to go from the start.” least five for the entirety of the note, losing at trine in three “right from the beginning While not pleased with trine took early leads of 5-2 game’s final stretch. the third straight sets. we came out and basically her team’s error-laden play, and 8-4. the belles battled set was not much different for 
the belles lost the 25-17, gave them seven of the first Kuschel gave the thunder back to pull the game within 25-18 and 25-18, respectively, nine points of the match,” credit for a match well played. one point, but the thunder see belles PAGE 12 
ND VOLLEYBALL 

SMC SOCCER | st. mary’s 6, HOly CrOss 0 
Alugbue earns Big East honors 
By LAURA COLETTI 
sports Writer 
for the second consecu­tive week, a member of the Irish was named to the big east Weekly Honor roll. 
sophomore right side hit­ter toni alugbue turned in a stellar performance over the weekend at notre dame’s annual shamrock Invitational and earned the tournament’s most valuable Player award along with the conference honor. 

alugbue’s 49 kills in 103 chances helped the Irish (4-2) win all three match-conference,” alugbue said. es last weekend. she also “It feels good to have made chipped in 19 digs and four such an impact this week-blocks over the course of end. this award is reflec­the tournament. tive of the great chemistry 
“It is a great honor to be that I had with my setters honored by the big east this weekend.” 

alugbue stepped up in a big way in notre dame’s 3-1 win over buffalo. she doled out 21 kills on 30 chances with no errors, good for a 
see aluGbue PAGE 14 

belles dominate Holy Cross 
Observer Staff Report 

saint mary’s posted their third straight shutout of the season and fourth overall when it de­feated Holy Cross 6-0 on tuesday. 
Junior forward Kaitlin teichman opened the scoring for the belles (2­0-1) with a 15th minute tally. It was teichman’s second goal of the sea­son and second game-winner. 
the belles added three more goals in the opening 45 minutes to take a 4-0 lead into the break. saint mary’s outshot Holy Cross (0-2-0) 23-6 in the first half. saint mary’s added two more goals in the second half. 
In addition to teichman, five other belles scored in the victory: freshmen midfielders Kathryn lueking, rachel schulte, maggie mclaughlin, freshman forward morgan Gagnon and sopho­more forward Kelly Wilson. freshman defender Paige Kennedy earned an assist on a corner kick in the 52th minute. 
saint mary’s outshot the saints 44-8 for the game. the six-goal output was the most by a belles squad since 2009. 
for the saints, senior defend­er lindsey swaim led Holy Cross with three shots on goal. she was one of 10 starters to play the entire game for the saints. 
saints junior goalkeeper aileen Clouse recorded 20 saves on the day. 
Holy Cross will try to rebound against mount mercy in Cedar rapids, Iowa on sept. 10. saint mary’s will face Olivet on sept. 13. 





