
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


Campus reacts to hate crime 
By SAM STRYKER 
News Editor 
Two acts of racial harassment were committed against black student groups between Feb. 14 and 20 in the LaFortune Student Center. 
According to a statement emailed to the student body Fri­day, fried chicken parts were placed in the mailboxes of the Black Students Association (BSA) and African Student Association (ASA). The Office of Student Af­fairs is now working with the two student organizations to present the incidents to the Notre Dame Security Police (NDSP) for inves­tigation. 
Vice president for Student Af­fairs Fr. Thomas Doyle, vice president and associate provost Don Pope-Davis and chair of the Black Students Association Brit­tany Suggs signed the joint state­ment. 
“These acts of harassment are a clear violation of Univer­sity policy, unacceptable in every way, and will not be tolerated on our campus,” the statement said. 
Iris Outlaw, director of Multi­cultural Students Programs and Services (MSPS), said these inci­dents reflect the need to report discrimination at Notre Dame. 
“Discriminatory harassment is a serious matter and depending on the severity can lead to dis­missal,” she said. 
Suggs said most of campus, not just minority groups, responded strongly to the two incidents. 
“Whether or not the acts were intended by the offender as harmless pranks, or as … ha­rassment or hate crimes, … the greater Notre Dame community perspective by known parties that has developed around the issue is one of sheer disgust and sadness, along with shock and confusion,” she said. 
In addition to occurring during Black History Month, Suggs said she was troubled the incidents perpetuate harmful stereotypes. 
“In the black community, we aim to embrace our similarities while, most importantly, cel­ebrating our differences. Hence, the frustration is obvious,” she said.  “Just because the mail­boxes had the words ‘black’ and ‘African’ in the labels, the [per­petrators] assumed that these groups were one in the same, which is far from the case.” 
ASA vice president Chris Moore said finding a fried chicken strip 

see CRIME/page 5 


Jenkins converses with White House 
Obama administration values University President’s counsel on HHS issue 

By SARAH MERVOSH 
Managing Editor 

Before President Obama publicly announced each de­cision regarding the contra­ception mandate, a Holy Cross priest in South Bend received a phone call. 
University President Fr. John Jenkins heard from the White House prior to the origi­nal contraception mandate announcement in January and before the subsequent ac­commodation announcement earlier this month, Univer­sity Spokesman Dennis Brown said. 
“[Jenkins] appreciates the dialogue he’s had with the White House and will continue to keep the lines of communi­cation open,” Brown said. 
Since he invited Obama to speak at Notre Dame’s com­mencement ceremony in 2009, Jenkins has been criticized for initiating dialogue with an ad­ministration that takes a pro-choice stance on abortion. 
Now, as tensions between the Obama administration and Catholic leaders across the country rise over another right-to-life issue, Jenkins has engaged in a give-and-take conversation with the White House in an attempt to tackle unresolved issues with the contraception mandate. 
The current version of the mandate requires insurance companies ¾ rather than re­ligiously-affiliated employ­ers ¾ to pay for contraception for employees. The Obama administration said self-in­sured employers, like Notre Dame, would be included in the exemption, but has not released specifics as to how this will work. 

Brown said Jenkins wel­comes conversations with the White House because re­spectful dialogue is the only path to resolving disagre­


see JENKINS/page 6 


Basketball event connects cadets 
Angela Ferreira, coordinator of the event. 
“All ROTC branches the Army, Navy, Marines and Air Force [were] represented,” she said. “The teams play through their brackets so that everyone is guaranteed at least three games.” 
Teams from universities across the country, includ­ing Michigan State and Texas A&M, traveled to South Bend for the weekend to compete, Ferreira said. 
“Many of the teams are lo­cal, but Texas A&M comes in every year and almost always wins,” she said. “We have four teams from the Notre Dame Air Force ROTC, two ND Navy ROTC teams, one Tri-Mil team with ND Army/Navy/Marines and one cross-town team from Trine [University] who is in our same detachment.” 
Ferriera said the event con­nects students who will 

see ROTC/page 3 



By ANN MARIE JAKUBOWSKI 
News Writer 

The 26th annual Flyin’ Irish Basketball Invitation­al brought service men and women from across the coun­try together for a weekend of 


‘Lunch’ promotes discussion 
By NICOLE MICHELS 
News Writer 
Students and faculty gathered Friday to engage in feeding their minds and their stomachs. 
“The Professors for Lunch Series” kicked off last week to discuss “The Unintended Reformation: How a Reli­gious Revolution Secular­ized Society” — the latest book of Brad Gegory, pro­fessor of Early Modern Eu­ropean History. 
The event was the first in the Series, an initiative in­spired by Political Science 


see LUNCH/page 5 
friendly competition. 
Organized and staffed by members of Notre Dame’s Air Force ROTC program, the In­vitational serves as the larg­est ROTC sporting event in the nation, with all teams guar­anteed a substantial number of games, according to junior 

INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER Hypatia day educates community page 3 u Viewpoint page 8 u Matt Costa concert review page 10 u Men’s basketball defeated page 20 
page 2 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u Day-to-Day Monday, February 27, 2012 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WITH WHICH CELEBRITY WOULD YOU MOST LIKE TO GO ON A DATE? 


www.ndsmcobserver.com 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
Douglas Farmer 

Managing Editor Business Manager 
Sarah Mervosh Jeff Liptak 
asst. Managing Editor: Adriana Pratt asst. Managing Editor: Chris Masoud News Editor: Sam Stryker Viewpoint Editor: Meghan Thomassen Sports Editor: Allan Joseph Scene Editor: Maija Gustin Saint Mary’s Editor: Caitlin E. Housley Photo Editor: Pat Coveney Graphics Editor: Brandon Keelean advertising Manager: Katherine Lukas ad Design Manager: Amanda Jonovski Controller: Jason Taulman Systems administrator: William Heineman 

Office Manager & General Info 
(574) 631-7471 
Fax 
(574) 631-6927 
Advertising 

(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 

Editor-in-Chief 

(574) 631-4542 dfarmer1@nd.edu 
Managing Editor 

(574) 631-4542 smervosh@nd.edu 
Assistant Managing Editors 

(574)631-4541 apratt@nd.edu, cmasoud@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 


News Desk 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
Viewpoint Desk 

(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 
Sports Desk 

(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 

Scene Desk 

(574) 631-4540 mgustin@nd.edu 
Saint Mary’s Desk 
chousl01@saintmarys.edu 


Photo Desk 

(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 


Policies 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College.  Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Douglas Farmer. 

Post Office Information 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 and additional mailing offices 024 South Dining hall 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-077 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

Anna Wanzek  Ryan Alberdi  Laura Semeraro  Grant Conner  Brian Scully  Alyssa Casill  
junior McGlinn  junior Sorin  junior Welsh Family  junior Fisher  sophomore Siegfried  junior Walsh  
“Ryan Gosling.”  “Scarlett Johannson.”  “Joseph   Gordon-Levitt.”  “Natalie Portman.”  “It’s times like these that I wish  “Joseph   Gordon-Levitt.”  
Ellen Degeneres wasn’t a  
lesbian.”  



Have an idea for Question of the Day? Email obsphoto@gmail.com 

Sports 

Molly Sammon Matthew DeFranks Mike Monaco 

Scene 

Maria Fernandez 

Viewpoint 
Amber Galik 

LOCAL WEATHER 
TODAY TONIGHT TUESDAY WEDNESDAY THURSDAY FRIDAY 


OFFBEAT 

Marine wins slot machine jackpot, credits good karma 
LAS VEGAS — Marine Cpl. Alexander Degenhardt is crediting karma for landing a $2.9 million progressive slot jackpot in Las Vegas. 
Degenhardt was accepted as a bone marrow donor to an anonymous patient only a couple of days before hitting the jackpot Sunday at the Bellagio, the Las Vegas Sun reported. 
“They asked me if I was sure I wanted to go through with it because it’s kind of painful, but what’s a little pain if it will save someone’s life?” Degenhardt said. “I look at this jackpot as kind of good karma for that.” 
Degenhardt, 26, said he plans to continue his career with the Marines and go through with the bone mar­row donation, which is ex­pected to occur in the next six months after extensive testing. 
He and several fellow Ma­rines had flown to Las Ve­gas from Washington, D.C., where he’s stationed, for a week of training at Nel­lis Air Force Base. He said he decided to kill a couple of hours before the return flight by playing the penny slot, which takes bets from 40 cents to $2, at the Bel­lagio. He landed the jackpot about 10 minutes later. 
Man will lose his expensive collection of exotic reptiles 
HENDERSONVILLE, N.C. 
— A North Carolina man is losing his exotic reptile col­lection worth $49,000 after police found dozens of ven­omous lizards and snakes in his home. 
Fifty-one-year-old Wal­ter Kidd of Hendersonville pleaded guilty Friday to 30 misdemeanor charges of possessing endangered ani­mals and failing to properly label containers of poison­ous snakes. 
Police seized the reptiles in August after Kidd was bitten by an exotic venom­ous snake and rushed to a hospital. Officers said his mobile home was packed with snakes in plastic con­tainers. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 


IN BRIEF 
The Department of Applied and Computational Math­ematics and Statistics will host the lecture “Noise At­tenuation and Robustness in Cell Signaling and Pat­terning” in Room 127 of the Hayes-Healy Center from 4 to 5 p.m. today. 
The School of Architecture will host the lecture “Archi­tecture and Town Building” in Bond Hall from 4:30 to 6 
p.m. today. 
As part of the Lynch lec­ture series, the Department of Physics will host the lec­ture “The Accelerating Uni­verse” in Room 101 of the Jordan Hall of Science from 7 to 8 p.m. tonight. 
The lecture, “How Do We Connect Person to Person, Without Technology? Story­telling and the Lakota Oral Tradition,” will be held in the Eck Visitor Center au­ditorum from 7 to 9:30 p.m. tonight. The lecture is free and open to the public. 
Student Affairs is now ac­cepting nominations for the Denny Moore Award for Excellence in Journal­ism, named after the Uni­versity’s late Associate Vice President for Public Affairs. Candidates must be seniors and may be nominated by faculty, staff or fellow stu­dents. The deadline is Fri­day, March 2. 
A knock-out tournament, which is projected to set a world record, will take place in the Joyce Center imme­diately following the men’s basketball game Friday. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, email detailed information about an event to obsnews.nd@gmail.com 



TODAY’S STAFF 
News 
Caitlin Housley Nicole Michels Christian Myers 
Graphics 
Dan Azic 
Photo 
Pat Coveney 











CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
HIGH 22 LOW 19 
HIGH 39 LOW 34 
HIGH 50 LOW 34 
HIGH 39 LOW 28 
HIGH 50 LOW 32 

Monday, February 27, 2012 The Observer u NEwS ndsmcobserver.com | page 3 
SMC Hypatia Day encourages learning in math & science 
By TAYLOR COUILLARD-ing fun math and science RODAK activities led by all of our News Writer student clubs,” Kristin Jeh­
ring, mathematics professor 

DNA extractions, Fibo-and director of Hypatia Day, nacci numbers and bouncy said. ball polymers were the main To qualify for participa­attractions of Saint Mary’s tion, Jehring said students 21st annual apply for the Hypatia Day on event after Saturday. their teach-
The event, ers nominate 
named for the “The event is for the them. first female seventh graders to get “We send 
mathematician out materials 
them involved in doing 
and scientist to the math 
fun math and science 
in recorded and science 
activities led by all of 
history Hypa-teachers to the 
our student clubs.” 
tia of Alexan-schools in the dria is aimed greater Michi­to inspire local Kristin Jehring gan area,” she 
seventh grade SMC mathematics said. “They girls to study nominate a
professor 
math, science couple stu­and engineer-dents that they ing. think would 
“The event benefit and is for the seventh graders should be encouraged to to get them involved in do-continue their math and sci­ence education.” 
This year, 95 students were selected. 
The students, along with their parents, started the day with a welcome from Jehring and a keynote ad­dress by Abby Weppler, local meteorologist for WSBT-TV. 
From there, students from various clubs lead hands-on activities for the girls, Jeh­ring said. 
“The chemistry club [lead an activity with] bouncy balls to learn about poly­mers,” she said. 
In addition, the Biology Club worked with the girls on extracting DNA from strawberries and learning about dissection to experi­encing working in the lab. 
The Nursing Club taught students how to perform Tri­age and basic CPR, the En­gineering Club built bridges with K’Nex and the Math Club showed students how to manipulate a JAVA program. should take in high school 


“[The students received] to prepare them for college a taste of pro-and why a life gramming and in science or seeing how math is a good little chang-option, Jehring 
es will affect the system,” Jehring said. “[They also played] with math theo­ry, Fibonacci  “[The students received] a taste of programming and seeing how little changes will affect the system.”  said. The day con­cluded with closing re­marks from College Presi­dent Carol Ann  
numbers  and  Mooney.  
sequences  to  Kristin Jehring  Despite  the  
[observe]  pat- SMC mathematics  number  of  
terns.” While  the  professor  hands-on ac­tivities offered  
girls  con- by  the  event,  
ducted experi- Jehring  said  
ments,  par- the most excit­ 

ents attended lectures by ing aspect of the event was mathematics professor Mary the participation. Connolly, Director of Admis-“[The seventh graders] get sions Kristin McAndrew and involved, and they’re active-financial aid counselor Lon-ly doing things in these ses­nie Kizer. sions,” she said. 
The lectures featured in­formation about college af-Contact taylor Couillard-Rodak at fordability, classes women tcouil01@saintmarys.edu 

ROTC 
continued from page 1 
work in the same field af­ter graduation. 
“We have boards set up [at the event] for seniors that have lists of people who know which job type they will have, like in­telligence or analysis, so they can meet some of the people they’ll end up work­ing with,” she said. “The juniors have just finished field training as well, so they have the opportunity to reunite with people they met there.” 
Additionally, Ferriera said the event provides an outlet for students to meet others whom they may not normally interact with. 
“We don’t have a lot of chances to interact with other detachments now, but we’re all going to be in the Air Force or Army or whatever branch together after this,” she said. 
Colton Kennelly, a fresh­man from Iowa State and a member of the univer­sity’s Air Force ROTC pro­gram, made the eight-hour trip to Notre Dame and en­joyed the interactive atmo­sphere. 
“It was my first time at the Invitational, and it was a lot of fun playing a lot of basketball,” he said. “It re­ally makes the ROTC expe­rience something beyond drill and marching stuff all the time.” 
Kennelly’s team lost to the ND Tri-Mil team in the semifinals Sunday, but he said the merit of the event was beyond winning or los­ing. 
“It was fun to bond with some of the guys, work on our teamwork and just have a good time,” he said. 
Sunday’s championship men’s game featured the Notre Dame Tri-Mil team against Texas A&M, with A&M pulling away in the overtime win. 
Additionally, the Notre Dame women’s Air Force team fell to Marquette’s Navy team in the women’s bracket final. 
Contact ann Marie Jakubowski at ajakubo1@nd.edu 


Monday, February 27, 2012 The Observer u NEwS ndsmcobserver.com | page 5 
Crime 
continued from page 1 
in the club’s mailbox initially did not prompt him to view the incident as a hate crime. 
“Given that Africans aren’t typically stereotyped as being as fond of fried chicken like soci­ety tends to depicts black Amer­icans, and that this appeared to be an isolated incident, none of us really thought of it was ra­cial intimidation but rather a a sign of disrespect [and] impo­liteness,” he said. “As we now know, this was regrettably not the case.” 
In addition to the investiga­tion, student leaders, staff and faculty are developing a “com­prehensive response” to the spe­cific incidents that occurred, as well as unreported occasions of intolerance, the statement said. This response will take “various forms.” 
“We seek to use it as a means to educate our community and create awareness of the fact that, even at this point in our national history, hatred and big­otry continue to exist and must be combated,” the statement said. 
Suggs said the BSA has devel­oped a three-step plan of action with the ASA and MSPS. The first step is to address the situ­ation in the black community; second, to address the incident with campus administration and third, to increase aware­ness and evoke action among the Notre Dame community. 
“A critical component to this proposal includes urging the administrative officials in the Provost Office through formal letters and petitions to establish a cultural competency require­ment that spans a semester be­yond the current two-day pre­sentation, which only serves to begin a conversation in regards to diversity,” she said.  “This component should be a top pri­ority to the University.” 
In the immediate future, Sug­gs said there are plans to host a campus-wide town hall meet­ing titled “A Call to Action in Regards to the Discriminatory Incident.” The meeting is sched­uled for March 5 in the Andrews Auditorium of Geddes Hall. 

“The purpose for the town hall meeting will not only serve as a campus-wide opportu­nity to discuss the incident and other related cases, but also to serve as productive means of understanding the various per­spectives of the student body concerning such incidents and formulating a concrete plan of action,” she said. 
Though immediate action has been taken to address the situ­ation, Suggs said she does not view the incident as a “quick­fix.” Rather, she said this is an opportunity to bring necessary change to the University com­munity. 
“The plans of action proposed will require a great deal of re­vision, time and patience in the interest of bringing about effec­tive implementation that will make for a sustainable modi­fication in the campus climate and culture of Our Lady’s Uni­versity,” she said.  “With cam­pus-wide interest, action and support, we can work, jointly, to bring about these changes that are long overdue and have been swept under the rug too many times before.” 
Moore said he hopes the cam­pus engages in dialogue on the subject of race at Notre Dame, rather than responding with anger. 
“I believe that many students, faculty and administrators would like to see Notre Dame as a campus that embraces all of its students,” he said. “The reality, however, is that overall experience and quality of cam­pus life for many students is unfortunately shaped by their minority status on campus ¾ be it racial, ethnic or religious. 
“Without actual dialogue re­garding the subject, we cannot make progress as a community to ensure that inclusiveness is materialized for all.” 
Anyone with information on these incidents is asked to con­tact NDSP at 574-631-5555. 
Contact Sam Stryker at                   sstryk1@nd.edu 
Senior Laura Taylor, a par-
Lunch 
ticipant in the talk hosted by 

Gregory, said the convenience continued from page 1 of the talks gave the already-
attractive event extra allure. Professor Vincent Munoz’s de-“I was very excited about the sire to build the intellectual event because it offered a ton life for students on campus. of students from all majors the 
“Notre Dame students are opportunity to witness a lec­fantastically smart, but it ture from one of Notre Dame’s seemed to me that we should most renowned professors,” offer them more to encourage Taylor said. “Even better, it was their intellectual life beyond offered at lunch a much more the classroom,” Munoz said. convenient time of day for most “We do a fantastic job of pro-students … and it was held at 
viding  ath­ an easily acces­ 
letic activity  sible location.”  
beyond  the  Student  gov­ 
cla s sroom,  ernment’s  Neal  
and ND stu- Ravindra,  di­ 
dents known are  for  “These opportunities for discussion are an  rector demic  of aca­affairs,  
their  ath­ excellent chance to  helped  to  co­ 
letic prow­ess, but I don’t think t h e y ’ r e known for their intel­ broaden our minds and expose ourselves to the incredible breadth of knowledge that is being shared by our professors.”  ordinate fur­ther logistics of the event and helped attract students. “ O r i g i n a l l y  
lectual curi­ [Pino] and Pro­ 
osity. I think it’s there,  Laura Taylor senior  fessor Munoz reached out to  

but the cul­ture hasn’t developed.” 
Munoz said that this was an immensely student-driven event, reflecting on feedback that he collected from students in classes and in conversation. 
Morgan Pino, senior and un­dergraduate assistant to Mu­noz, said she met with Munoz to help coordinate the event. 
“His basic idea was that he wanted to bring the professors to the students,” Pino said.  “He sees how busy we are and felt like the students don’t neces­sarily get intimidated, but find the professors a little inacces­sible.” 
Since students eat meals in the dining halls three times per day, Pino said they decided to host the event during a meal to help Notre Dame students find time for intellectual life in their busy schedules. 
The talks, Pino said, feature a group meal before a ques­tion-and-answer session and general conversation. 
us and asked if 
we wanted to 
help promote 
the event and 
get students to 
come,” Ravin­dra said. “We mainly helped to hammer out details and to direct logistical things like ad­vertising.” 
Ravindra said student gov­ernment representatives are excited about the series, and would love to see it continue in the future. 
“We are very glad for the op­portunity to provide students with this cross-disciplinary experience and to see them pursue learning outside of the classroom that’s not necessar­ily going to be for anything other than their intellectual development,” he said. 
Ravindra said the events were planned around three specific goals outlined by Mu­noz to nurture, help and create. 
“Our goals are to nurture undergraduate intellectual life beyond the classroom, to help create an interdisciplinary in­tellectual community among the faculty and between faculty and students and to create a fo­rum for learning for the entire Notre Dame community, while recognizing and celebrating outstanding faculty achieve­ments,” Ravindra said. 

Taylor said she plans to at­tend more lunches because she appreciated the opportunity to engage intellectually with fac­ulty and students from diverse disciplines. Also, she is excited by its potential to have a posi­tive impact on the Notre Dame community. 
“The atmosphere at Notre Dame is definitely one centered on academic performance; this is wonderful, but it allows stu­dents to get too wrapped up in their specialized courses of study,” Taylor said. “These op­portunities for discussion are an excellent chance to broaden our minds and expose our­selves to the incredible breadth of knowledge that is being shared by our professors.” 
Freshmen Matt Hing of Dil­lon Hall and Kendra Reiser of Pangborn Hall also attended the event, and said that they enjoyed the chance to hear one of Notre Dame’s prominent pro­fessors discuss his work. 
“Professor Gregory is an en­gaging professor in class, so I wanted to hear him outside [of class],” Hing said. 
Resier echoed Hing’s thoughts. 
“I wanted to attend the event because I wanted to learn more about how religion can play a stronger role in the institution that we have,” Reiser said. 
Munoz said judging from the feedback of the first event, he envisions holding this event more frequently. 
“I think we’ve hit upon a good idea,” Munoz said. “We’re doing it to make life at Notre Dame more interesting for the students. The focus is on creat­ing an event that would reso­nate with the students, what would be intellectually engag­ing for them. We want to not only cater to their interests, but elevate them.” 
Contact Nicole Michels at nmichels@nd.edu 


Progress in  settlement talks delays trial 
Associated Press 
NEW ORLEANS — A judge has delayed the federal trial over the nation’s worst off­shore oil disaster by a week, saying Sunday that BP PLC was making some progress in settlement talks with a com­mittee overseeing scores of lawsuits, according to people close to the case. 

Two people close to the case told The Associated Press that the decision was made Sun­day during a conference call between parties in the Gulf of Mexico oil spill case and U.S. District Judge Carl Barbier. blown-out well, soiling miles the penalties that need to be They spoke on condition of of coastline. paid by BP and other compa­anonymity because they were However, the judge did not nies involved in the oil spill. not authorized to discuss the mention the status of settle-Billions of dollars are at stake. call. ment talks between other par-BP and the Plaintiffs Steer-
They said the judge told ties, nor did he mention any ing Committee confirmed in those on the call that BP and figures being discussed, ac-a joint news release that the the Plaintiffs’ Steering Com-cording to the people close to trial had been delayed. It said mittee were “making some the case. the oil giant and the PSC were progress” in their settlement The brief order issued by working to reach an agree-talks. The steering commit-Barbier on Sunday said only ment that would “fairly com-tee is overseeing lawsuits that the delay was granted pensate people and businesses filed by individuals and busi-“for reasons of judicial effi-affected by the Deepwater Ho­nesses following the explosion ciency and to allow the parties rizon accident and oil spill.” on the Deepwater Horizon rig to make further progress in “There can be no assurance on April 20, 2010, in the Gulf. their settlement discussions.” that these discussions will The blast killed 11 workers Among other things, the lead to a settlement agree-and led to 206 million gal-trial that is now set to begin ment,” the joint statement lons of oil spewing from the March 5 is meant to determine said. 


page 6 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u NEwS Monday, February 27, 2012 
Jenkins 
continued from page 1 
ments. 
“He has emphasized over the past three years that you can’t change society unless you persuade people, and you can’t persuade them unless you engage them in a respect­ful way,” Brown said. “So you don’t shun the person you want to persuade ¾ perhaps especially when that person is our president.” 
Nick Papas, a White House spokesman, said the Obama administration appreciates its relationship with Jenkins. 
“We deeply value Fr. Jen­kins’ advice and counsel,” he said. “The White House also benefits from a number of Notre Dame alums who play an integral role in our Admin­istration.” 
The spokesmen for the White House and Notre Dame declined to share specifics about the nature and extent of Jenkins’ relationship with the White House, citing those conversations as private. 
“It would be imprudent for us to get into an detail on these private conversations,” Brown said. 
Sometimes, part of the con­versation has meant pushing back. 
When Obama responded to opposition from religious groups earlier this month and announced a modifica­tion that put responsibil­ity for funding contraception onto insurance companies, Jenkins released a statement saying the accommodation was a “welcome step toward recognizing the freedom of religious institutions.” 
But when the White House included Jenkins’ statement in a blog post of statements from organizations support­ive of Obama’s accommoda­tion, including Planned Par­enthood, Notre Dame asked for Jenkins’ statement to be removed. 
“We asked the White House to remove it from their blog because, while he viewed the ‘accommodation’ ... as a step in the right direction, he be­lieves there is much still to be done and was not offering the same support as others who were cited,” Brown said. 
Jenkins previously spoke out against the original pro­posal for the contraception mandate. 
When the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) opened the original rule up for comment, Jenkins sent a letter to HHS Secretary Kathleen Sebelius in Septem­ber asking that Notre Dame and other religious institu­tions be exempt from provid­ing contraceptive services. 
“This would compel Notre Dame to either pay for con­traception and sterilization in violation of the Church’s mor­al teaching, or to discontinue our employee and student health care plans in violation of the Church’s social teach­ing,” Jenkins wrote. “It’s an impossible position.” 
Jenkins has since worked with the Obama administra­tion to resolve this “impos-sible position.” In addition, he has been in conversation with Church leaders at a national and local level. 


“He also has been in regular conversation with Cardinal [Timothy] Dolan, president of the U.S. Conference of Catho­lic Bishops, and Bishop Kevin Rhoades from the Diocese of Fort Wayne-South Bend as we work together in a united ef­fort on this issue,” Brown said. 
Brown said the University plans to discuss specifics as to how the contraception man­date will affect Notre Dame in the near future. In the mean time, Jenkins will remain in communication with the White House, he said. 
“There will continue to be engagement with the admin­istration ¾ on this and other issues,” Brown said. 
Contact Sarah Mervosh at               smervosh@nd.edu 

Court to debate extension of Statute 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON — Corpo­rations and human rights groups are squaring off in a Supreme Court fight over whether foreign victims of war crimes, killings and other atrocities can haul multinational companies into American courts and try to prove they were com­plicit in the abuses and should pay damages. 
The rights groups say a 223-year-old law gives for­eigners such as Nigerian-born Charles Wiwa the right to try to hold businesses ac­countable for the roles they play in atrocities. Energy and mining companies have been among the most fre­quent targets of these law­suits in recent years follow­ing efforts by the military in Indonesia, Nigeria and elsewhere to clamp down on protests against oil and gas exploration and devel­opment. 
The justices will hear ar­guments Tuesday over the reach of the Alien Tort Stat­ute and a 20-year-old law that allows victims of tor­ture to pursue civil lawsuits against the responsible in­dividuals. 
The Alien Tort Statute lay unused for most of Ameri­can history until rights law­yers dusted it off beginning in the late 1970s. Lawsuits have been brought against individuals who allegedly took part in abuses and, more recently, against com­panies that do business in places where abuses occur and in the United States. 
“The corporations have a lot of money and are very attractive targets,” said Northwestern University law professor Eugene Kon­torovich, an expert in inter­national law. “The idea is that they were in bed with the countries.” 
But the federal appeals court in New York stopped a class-action suit against oil giant Royal Dutch Shell, saying the Alien Tort Stat­ute does not allow suits against corporations. 
Business interests argue that the legal tactic also will discourage investment in developing countries and they point out that they uniformly condemn human rights violations. 
Wiwa, 44, fled Nigeria in 1996 following a crackdown on protests against Shell’s oil operations in the Niger Delta. Wiwa and other na­tives of the oil-rich Ogoni region claim Shell was ea­ger to stop protests in the area and was complicit in Nigerian government ac­tions that included fatal shootings, rapes, beatings, arrests and property de­struction. 
He said an American court is the only place the Ogonis can seek accountability. 


“Nigeria gets so much money from oil. There is no way the company will be held liable for anything in courts in Nigeria,” Wiwa said. He now lives in Chi­cago, having been allowed into the United States as a political refugee. 
In the most notorious in­cident of the crackdown, Nigeria’s military dicta­torship hanged author Ken Saro-Wiwa and eight other activists, sparking interna­tional outrage. 
In 2009, Shell paid $15.5 million to settle a separate lawsuit filed in New York under the Alien Tort Statute and alleging that the oil gi­ant was complicit in the ex­ecutions of Saro-Wiwa and the others. The company did not admit it did anything wrong. Shell’s Nigerian sub­sidiary ended its operations in the Ogoni region in 1993, although a pipeline still passes through the area. 
Gambling couple loses thousands in casinos 
Associated Press 
ATLANTIC CITY, N.J. — As lost weekends go, this one was a doozy. 
The woman and her long­time boyfriend, regular At­lantic City gamblers, lost $100,000 in two days in ear­ly January. She lost her job, and they now owe $205,000 to five Atlantic City casinos, with no realistic prospects of paying it back. 
She picked up the tele­phone and called her host, John Conklin, Resorts’ vice president of player develop­ment, whose job it is to keep gamblers happy — and com­ing back. 
“This is more than I can handle,” she told him. “I’m in over my head. All of my real estate is underwater. I don’t know what I’m going to do.” 
Conklin was concerned. 
“She sounded desperate,” he recalled. “I could hear it in her voice.” 
He gave her the phone number of Arnie Wexler, the former head of New Jersey’s Council on Compulsive Gam­bling and himself a former gambling addict. Wexler helped get the woman and her boyfriend into a program for gambling addicts, prom­ised to help her work out some sort of arrangement with the casinos, and just let her know she was not alone, that there are thousands like her. 
Wexler travels the coun­try giving training sessions to casino employees on how to spot potential compulsive gamblers and what to do if they encounter any. 
The casino industry’s ef­forts to spot problem gam­blers and intervene with them range from intense, hands-on sessions like those Wexler gives, to much more passive efforts like having brochures about where to get help for a gambling addic­tion available on the casino floor, or handling out pens with the toll-free number of a help line printed on them. 
While most casinos have adopted some form of re­sponsible gambling policy, it can be a delicate balance in an industry whose very business model relies on gamblers risking and losing money. The casino industry has two main motivations in dealing with problem gam­blers, said Alan Feldman, a vice president at MGM Resorts International, and chairman of the National Center for Responsible Gam­ing. 
“There is a strong belief among many of the casino executives that there is a moral obligation to do this,” he said. “But there’s also a strong business reason: Problem gamblers make for lousy customers. By their very nature, they will turn into bad debt. 
“For them to hit bottom, they have to cause a lot of pain along the way, to them­selves, their families and to companies,” he said. “It serves no purpose in any business to have customers who can’t pay their bills.” 
The center developed a training program called Emerge, which has become the standard among casinos belonging to the American Gaming Association, the in­dustry’s main trade group. Different casinos use it dif­ferently, but the aim is the same: to intervene when there is a problem, Feldman said. 



page 8 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com Monday, February 27, 2012 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Draft day 
With spring training underway, pitch­ers are working off the rust in their shoulders, hitters are stepping back into the batter’s box and new faces populate the baseball fields in their respective major league parks across the coun­try, preparing for opening day. At the same time, fantasy baseball managers are re-evaluating strategy, combing through stats and preparing for draft day. 
For the millions who will take over the helm of a fantasy team this season, draft day represents the most important day of the fantasy schedule. The selec­tion day brings with it the opportunity to manage a new team, to start from scratch as the long road to the cham­pionship begins. So why in the world would anyone prefer a keeper league to a fresh start? 
For anyone unfamiliar with fantasy baseball, the premise is simple enough: Participants take on the role of manager in a league and personally draft a team from the list of Major League Baseball players. Each player’s stats count to­wards the fantasy teams that own him. Each fantasy team has one catcher, one first baseman and one of every other position in the field, as well as a number of pitchers. 
In a keeper league, managers retain a set number of players on their team (e.g. no more than four) from the previous season rather than starting anew. The teams then draft from the remaining players, which are not kept by any of the teams. Not only does this process detract from the excitement of draft day, but it detracts from the excitement of the entire season. 
Of the two leagues that I am playing in this year, one is a keeper league. I am keeping catcher Brian McCann, second baseman Robinson Cano, pitcher James Shields and outfielder Ryan Braun, who was definitely not caught taking performance-enhancing drugs last sea­son. Phew. All four of these players are great, to be sure, but they are so ... How should I say this? So last year. I already saw Braun rake in points, now I want to see another stud hitter carry my team. I already saw Shields go into the eighth inning almost every time out, now I want a new ace. 
In a keeper league, the best players available to you are already on your team. When each team selects four play­ers to keep, it is as if the top four rounds worth of players are accounted for. In last year’s draft in the same league (because it was the inaugural season there was no possibility for keepers), the top three picks in the fifth round were pitchers Josh Johnson and Matt Cain, followed by first baseman Billy Butler. Yuck. 
Not that Johnson, Cain and Butler are yuck (although Butler definitely is), but this is what I am supposed to get excited for? The chance to draft Billy Butler as the top overall hitter is supposed to drive me through the final weeks of the fantasy off-season? 
Fantasy baseball is exciting, fulfilling and enjoyable no matter what the sys­tem, but for an optimal experience and a meaningful draft day, ditch keeper leagues. 
Contact Joseph Monardo at      jmonardo@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

The fried chicken 
For those of you that missed the email from Fr. Tom Doyle last Friday, somebody put fried chicken pieces in the mailboxes of the Black Student Association and the African Student Association. 
When I first Jee Seun Choi heard about it a few days Asiatic Gaze before the email, I gasped and frowned at the act of offense. I was disgusted that there were people out there who would do such a thing. 
But because I didn’t grow up here, I want to understand more about the connotation of this act and know what I might be missing. I want to know exactly why I felt so disgusted even when I was missing the cultural background. I vaguely remembered the stereotype of black people eating lots of fried chicken. I Googled it and asked some of my American friends. I thought about what would be the equivalent of that to me. Finding cooked rice in the mailbox of Asian American Association? Finding kim­chi in the mailbox of Korean Student Association? 
But none of these actually ex­plained the feeling of intense disgust. I finally asked a black friend of mine: “How do you feel about this?” 
He does not represent the entire black community. But he told me that many of his black friends were very indignant, deeply hurt, seriously offended and overall just frustrated. Some also thought it would be one of those things that would make people angry but would end up doing noth-
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
ing in the end. 

Then he also said, “Personally, I was really angry. This was just an act of offense that came from ignorance. I try to laugh away at those things. But at the same time, I don’t find it so much differ­ent from the verbalization of such ste­reotypes. Saying something like ‘Black people love fried chicken’ and putting fried chicken in the BSA mailbox is the same thing. They are equally bad.” 
I disagreed with him at this point — that having a prejudice and taking ac­tion on a prejudice are the same. Then I realized why I was so disgusted with something that I didn’t fully compre­hend. It was not the connotation of fried chicken that put me off. 
It was just the sheer intentionality and physicality of the chicken in the mailbox that disgusted me. The thought of somebody deliberately carrying out an act of aggression based on his/her racial prejudices. That is the essence of the incident, and it is disgusting. Every­one has prejudices — invented or based on facts — but physically using them with the intention of hurting somebody is different. 
Whoever put the chicken in the mailbox was an active agent of aggres­sion with the full intention of harming someone else. Isn’t that how horrible things — what we now condemn as criminal activities that I don’t even need to mention here — happen? The racial prejudice and intentionality of violence were transformed into pieces of fried chicken wrapped in dining hall tissues. That was what freaked me out. The spe­cific implications of fried chicken and how that makes this action much more abhorrent is a separate issue. 
I don’t represent every minority; I only represent myself. But the Asiatic Gaze and I would like to show support to my black friends of the Notre Dame community who were offended by this incident. 
Stereotypes can have lasting conse­quences. My black friend said, “I feel self-conscious whenever I eat fried chicken because of that assumption people have.” He also differentiated between kimchi, rice and fried chicken. Kimchi and rice are actually part of the culture. Asians do eat a lot of rice and Koreans do eat a lot of kimchi. But black people eating lots of fried chicken is just an invented stereotype — that’s what people eat in the South. 
Despite the difference between rice, kimchi and chicken, if somebody put rice or kimchi in my mailbox, I would be offended. But I would make kimchi fried rice and invite all my friends: “Hey, free Korean food!” It would be an act of defiance that would turn into a party. My friends and I would eat up all the negative energy of hatred and violence. 
Many of us in the Notre Dame com­munity were offended by this fried chicken incident. I cautiously propose an idea … Why don’t we throw a fried chicken party? Sometimes humor is the best reaction to something ridiculously sad. 
Jee Seun Choi can be reached at jchoi2@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“I never think of the future 
— it comes soon enough.” 
Albert Einstein 
U.S.physicist 

WEEKLY POLL 
What was the best part of the Oscars? 
The dresses The speeches Betting on the winners Billy Crystal 
Vote by 5 p.m. Thursday at 
ndsmcobserver.com 


Monday, February 27, 2012 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 9 
Dating and relating 
Things happen very fast in the cur­rent generation. Whether we want to acknowledge it or not, there is a good reason why top chefs do not prepare elegant meals in a microwave. Clearly one of our issues on campus is the David Moss sometimes frantic pace with which Dr. D @ we build relation-the GRC ships. There is no one to blame for the demise of the dating ritual on this campus. It is what it is. In my curiosity to understand why men and women have abdicated owner­ship of this social norm, I engaged ten students (5 women; 5 men) in single-sex conversations about their opinions around this issue. Although I cannot extrapolate these comments to all men and women on campus, this is what I discovered. 
The women I talked with were unanimous in their belief that the Notre Dame environment is packed with pres­sure. They described the pressure to look a certain way (hair done, make-up on, never wear sweats) and to behave a certain way. “You always have to look as good as possible. Men talk about putting on their ‘ND goggles.’ I know a lot of beautiful girls on campus so I don’t understand how the men here can think that all of us are ugly.” 
There is a belief that this creates an environment where women are will­ing to take any attention they can get from men, hook-up or otherwise. They compete against Notre Dame women out of the classroom and Notre Dame men in the classroom. “And we can’t forget about the pressure added by the presence of St. Mary’s students. You are fighting so much already, that the pressure really gets to you.” Some of the women said they felt stuck and won­dered if coming to Notre Dame was a mistake. Others have decided to place relationship formation on hold, to wait until they leave Notre Dame to pursue this portion of life. 
The women also talked explicitly about the dining hall as a source of stress and judgement. Whether it is the men who “moo” at those who get fro-yo, or the other women who meticulously watch what your plate looks like, the dining halls have contributed to a nega­tive atmosphere where women don’t feel valued. 
Many of the frustrations the men talked about revolved around the perennial issue of parietals. It is noted, however, that not every man interviewed had a negative view of this Notre Dame tradition. They also commented that differing expectations about the college experience is part of 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Caruso and the Canon 
There is a comforting predictability in Gary Caruso’s “Capitol Comments.” In fact, it is hardly necessary to read one of his columns to guess at its content: de­nunciations of Catholic teaching on contraception, abortion and sexuality or reck­less mockery of the hierarchy of the Church. Every column begins with the same half-truths, logical lapses and misrepresentations of Catholic dogma — these would be laughable if they were not so serious. Appeals to that learned authority, the EMHC at St. Matthew’s Cathedral, and attacks on Virginia Governor Bob Mc­Donnell are seldom far behind. If I were Caruso’s professor, I would be forced to warn him of the consequences of recycling ideas from old essays as original work. As it is, I find the rhythm and regularity almost soothing — like a faucet dripping in the background or a dog barking in the distance. 
But this Caruso column contains something new: a denial of the authority of Scripture. The Canon, as he has it, is unreliable and probably irrelevant: after all, first-century Palestine was so much simpler and the Canon was compiled by the same ecclesiastical hierarchy responsible for the rest of Catholic dogma. Marcion would be proud. Now, the inspiration of Scripture is a thorny topic and can be debated elsewhere. But I am unclear on one point: If Scripture is so unreliable, why does Caruso bother appealing to the actions and teachings of the “real” Je­sus? From what source other than the Gospels does he draw his information? One almost suspects that Caruso’s Jesus is a figment of his imagination — a projection of his own 21st century prejudices and desires. 
To close on a positive note, Caruso is right on one thing: Christ did seek out the tax collectors and sinners. If he paid more attention to scriptural context, Ca­ruso would know why Our Lord did so: to call them to repentance. The Catholic Church continues this mission today. As the sacrament of salvation for the world, the Church is the means by which Christ will save us all — but only if we have the humility to let Him. 
Ben Reinhard 

graduate student off campus Feb. 26 

the problem. They believe that many women come to Notre Dame looking for committed relationships and others hope to achieve the coveted “ring by spring.” The men used the term “Ameri­can Pie” to describe what the typical college man expected. 
All the guys I talked with agreed with the notion that women have some pressure to always look good/perfect. They believe, however, that much of this pressure is either self-induced or im­posed on women by other women. They also commented that when a woman receives a negative comment about her apparel, she may have the tendency to inflate the importance of that comment. In the end, they admitted that how a woman dresses does impact their im­pression of her, but added that the same is probably true from the other side. 
Some of the men agreed with the no­tion that it might be better to wait until after college to focus on relationships. One stated that doing this now makes “girls panicky and guys frustrated.” One young man said eloquently that “doing a relationship the right way is not easy. It takes a great deal of effort and I would rather focus my attention on making sure my academics are in order. If you can get involved and do it the right way, go for it. But typically once two people get involved, it is only then that they realize how involved the process is.” In terms of waiting on romance, one young man commented that, “good things come to patient peo­ple.” Other common frustrations guys experience on campus include women who are “jersey chasers,” being trapped in the friend zone and the fact that when a certain type of athlete shows up at a party the game is over. 
From what I can surmise, the issues presented here, while serious, are not insurmountable. It will just take au­thentic and honest communication. To that end I am inviting the ten individu­als that offered their opinions for this editorial to join me for a meeting of the minds and some great food. This ex­tended conversation will be the first of many and the topic of a future column. Until then talk to your friends about what you have read and decide if these comments ring true for you. I look for­ward to seeing you at the Notre Dating program tonight at 7 p.m. in Legends. 
Dr. G. David Moss is the Assistant Vice President for Student Affairs and the Interim Director for the Gender Rela­tions Center. He can be contacted at    gmoss@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 

Not a post-racial society 
In recent days, both the Black Student Association and the African Student As­sociation have been the targets of racially motivated crimes. The nature of these transgressions? Placing fried chicken wings in the LaFortune mailboxes of both organizations. When they hear about this, many Notre Dame students will likely react with exasperation. “It’s just a joke!” people might say. “A joke in poor taste, but a joke all the same.” 
I disagree. The coordinated nature of the events and their deliberate timing (they come right in the middle of Black History Month) indicate that these were well thought-out incidents with a clear intent — to perpetuate crass racial stereo­types. These events also indicate something greater: We do not live in the post-racial society that many would like to think we do. As long as racial stereotypes exist, so do racial tensions. 
We, the students of this University, need to recognize this fact and be more honest about it. There needs to be more open, candid dialogue on these impor­tant issues. Writing from the perspective of a white, middle-class student, I know that these are not issues that many of us think about much. I also know that, even when reminded of them, they are not issues we want to think about. But Notre Dame should not hold itself to the low standards set by the perpetrators of these crimes. In order to demonstrate that we reject this kind of behavior, we must first acknowledge that it exists. 
Initiating such dialogue amongst all students would be a small step, but it would definitely be a step in the right direction. Only by making this first move can we begin to move beyond such incidents and create a welcoming environ­ment for all students. Maybe then we could get to the real work of tackling racial misunderstanding and discrimination. 
Patrick Gill 
senior Alumni Hall Feb. 26 

Remembering Gail Walton 
Students and alumni of Notre Dame alike can think of personalities from their time at the University that left an indelible impression upon them. For those of us who had the good fortune to sing in the Liturgical Choir under the direction of Dr. Gail Walton, she was one of those personalities. 
Countless stories could be recounted about the positive impact she had upon the lives of so many. Her kind, professional and courteous manner served as a strong example in how to lead a life in service to others. Her deep understanding of the Church’s rich musical heritage led to her students having a greater ap­preciation of their faith. The timeless music that her choirs performed enhanced the worship experience of innumerable parishioners and visitors to the Basilica through the years. 
As of Feb. 24, we marked the second anniversary of her untimely passing. Her former students look back fondly upon the lasting impact she had upon us. Though she is gone, she will never be forgotten. 
Michael McAllister 
Class of 1998 Chicago, Ill. Feb. 26 



rimmed 
glasses 
By COURTNEY ECKERLE 
Scene Writer 

Pied piper is perhaps a more fit­ting moniker for Matt Costa than indie folk singer-songwriter. He ended his Saturday night con­cert at Legends nightclub by exit­ing the stage through the crowd, leading them in a guitar and har­monica jamboree. 
Opening act Ratboy (band name soon to be changed for legal rea­sons, and it is taking suggestions) was a pleasant and fitting prelude to Costa. The group held its own in a crowd of Costa fans, surprising-
crowd. 
The duo’s acous­tic set, high­lighted by lead singer Julia Steiner’s pretty and light voca ls, nicely insid e joke. 
Before Costa ’s jubilant exit, he pr ove d himself to be a musi­cian of the peo­ple. In between songs, he was telli ng recommend ­ing “the best beer I’ve had in a while” from Leg­ends restau­rant (Bell’s Hopslam Ale) and engag­ing in gen­eral lively repartee with the crowd. It seemed as if mostly he talked and answered questions. He asked two girls the best plac­es to see at Notre Dame, and when they named the Grotto, he innocent­ly replied, “What’s the Grotto?” Af­ter the ini­with personality and charisma to spare. His demeanor made the concert truly fun, bringing the crowd together in clapping and swaying musical moments. He will certainly be welcomed back to campus with arms as wide as Touchdown Jesus ¾ and speaking of, maybe next time he’ll even get a chance to see the Grotto. 



Contact Courtney Eckerle at cecker01@saintmarys.edu 


ly extending beyond the plaid and stories, tial moment 
thick-
of shock, he 
was  brought 
into the Domer 
loop. 

During his performance, Costa rocked two guitars, but the real groove started when he brought out the harmonica, which he used for the majority of his songs. “Miss Magnolia” was magnifi­cently done half a capella, and “Mr. Pitiful” had the entire crowd singing along. 
Costa was honest and fun with the crowd, even when he couldn’t find the right sound for “Jose­phine,” his so-called morning song. He sheepishly explained to 
he was just the crowd he wrote it to match his 
hanging out voice in the morning, when he had 
con­
trasted 
w ith 

with a crowd to play on radio shows. Whenever 
Dave Sa­gan’s bass guitar. They brought to mind the 2007 “Juno” soundtrack; the duo would have fit right in with their upbeat sound and lyr­ics that brought the crowd into an 
of his good Notre Dame buddies. 
This continued after the show where Costa came out and spent time greeting everyone. He was taking pictures, of course, but he plays it at night it, he says it takes him a bit to find the right tune for it. 
In the world of 13-year-old You­Tube pop stars, Costa is a humble, but enormously talented musician 

DAN AZIC | Observer Graphic 


Monday, February 27, 2012 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 11 
By FELICIA CAPONIGRI 
Scene Writer 

Upon entrance to the South Bend Center for Histo­ry’s exhibit “Gizmos, Corsets and other Concoctions: Our Obsession with Health and Beauty,” the visitor is greeted by an early 20th century banner, complete with beauty advertisements and a mannequin remi­niscent of barbershop entertainment. The journey into the historical origins of our timeless desire for health and beauty has begun. 
Organized in a circular manner, the exhibit alter­nates recreations of a fully-equipped late 19th cen­tury doctor’s office(complete with bones and concoc­tions which makes one realize how much trust we truly place within our doctors prescriptions), with later hospital and sanitarium scenarios. On display is a 1930s phrenology machine, which capitalized on the pseudoscience’s hold on the public imagina­tion by equating one’s talents and intelligence with the size of the head (problematic on so many equal rights fronts). 
Moreover, did you know Dr. Kellogg’s (yes, of the corn flake variety) sanitarium in early 1900s Battle Creek advocated not only regular exercise, but sitting in a contraption of electric lights to sweat out tox­ins? Think it’s similar to our obsession with tanning beds? You would be correct, dear fellow fashionistas. In fact, the exhibit explains the first tanning beds were invented in the 1920s and soared in popularity. Of course, we insiders know this was thanks to two things: Coco Chanel and her propensity for Cannes vacations, and all those fabulous women who coura­geously worked on farms during World War I, taking on the brunt of men’s work. 
Next to the 1920s tanning machine is the world’s first electric perm variety. Be prepared, dar­lings, it looks like a torture device engineered by our medieval forefathers ¾ but the black and white pho­tographs prove it to be a staple of 1920s hair care, and you can’t deny the photographic evidence. 
Of course, apart from explanations of lead make­up and arsenic laced beauty products, no health and beauty exhibit would be complete without a large display of corsets through the ages. Yes, turns out while those good posture-inducing contraptions were beloved by women from the 17th century to the early 20th, they were none too comfortable (but let’s be real here, don’t we always suffer for beauty?). 
The exhibit supplements its life-sized recreations of actual corsets and undergarment ensembles with ad­vertisements of the period and even a helpful “Silhou­ettes Through the Ages” plaque. Now there is happily no need to fear a disgraceful historical fashion faux pas during out next cocktail party style debate. 
Exercise is also on the menu, with those oh-so­lovely conveyor belts which promised to shake the excess fat and cellulite off your middle and behind on display (men take notice, this was for you too, as evidenced by the male mannequin demonstrating the talents of this machinery). 
The most scintillating and scandalous prize, how­ever, goes to the section devoted to the history of male and female pleasure enhancers. Clearly inspired by recent Hollywood movies such as Maggie Gyllenhaal’s “Hysteria” and the Freud flick “A Dangerous Method”, the exhibit shows the 21st century HBO phenomenon of advertising intimacy is not as innovative as we thought ¾ it’s actually been used for centuries.   
On a more serious and less historical note, the ex­hibit is extremely thought-provoking in its presenta­tion of the lengths we go to attain our culture’s beau­ty and health ideals. Will 22nd century fashionistas looks upon our stiletto heels with the same scorn with which we interpret the corset? 
Moreover, the exhibit highlights a recent Facebook phenomenon, which will have even the most liberal among us questioning the messages we send to our fellow citizens of the world. In 2010, Vaseline spon­sored a skin-lightening application for photos on Facebook’s India site. Whether a demand was being catered to or detrimental stereotypes were being en­forced is up for debate, but nevertheless it gives us pause. 
Every time we apply make-up, tan, exercise or dress, we fashionistas and all our counterparts must keep in mind the non-verbal and visual language we speak. As it turns out, tanning our skin or lighten­ing it by staying out of the sun, applying our favorite lipstick, exercising on that treadmill or stair master and choosing those skinny jeans will affect the future generations of tomorrow. “Gizmos, Corsets, and Con­coctions” at the Center for History has assured us of that. 
Contact Felicia Caponigri at fcaponig@nd.edu 
Around the Bend 

What: “Gizmos, Corsets and Concoctions” Exhibition Where: Center for History, 808 West Washington Street When: Monday to Saturday from 10 
a.m. to 5 p.m., and Sundays from noon to 5 p.m. How Much: $5 admission for students Learn More: 
www.centerforhistory.org 




DAN AZIC | Observer Graphic 

page 12 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u ClaSSiFiEDS Monday, February 27, 2012 
SPORTS AUTHORITY 

Thanks to the bad times, it’s been a good time 
This marks my final ap­pearance in the Sports Au­thority space. As of Thursday night, I will no longer toil away in this office. From there, I will moon­light on the men’s basketball beat, riding as far into the sunset as Eric At­kins and Je­rian Grant carry me. 
So pardon me, as I stray from the Sports Authority mission of looking away from the Notre Dame bubble, and let me turn the microscope back inward. 
You see, four years of covering Irish athletics can wear down even the staunch­est Notre Dame fan, whom I once was. It could be argued I should not admit such bias on the record. Well, when the next Irish loss could be the last game you cover, you tend to stop caring as much about the rules. 
You especially stop caring as much about the rules when these last four years have taught you not to live or die by a team anymore. 
I now admit I cried when Notre Dame lost to USC in 2005, thanks to the ol’ “Bush Push.” No lie, that loss so up­set me, I have neither written nor typed those two words together until now. 
I now admit I sat stunned in Greenville, N.C., in March 2002 after Notre Dame gave up a seven-point lead with six minutes left against top-seed­ed and tournament-favorite Duke. 
I’ll even admit I let the 2009 College Cup Semifinals defeat of our women’s soccer team ruin a fully-comp’ed trip. 
Maybe this is simply ma­turity gripping me, or per­haps the recent titles by the Yankees, Mavericks and Packers — all teams I whole­heartedly cheer for, say what you will — have softened my sports soul. But I suspect there is something more to it than that. 
Take this past year’s evening tilt against USC. Naturally, I wanted the Irish to win — I do go to Notre Dame after all. I was in the stands, enjoying the sounds of Dropkick Murphy’s with 8,000 of my closest friends. 

After the game, I was less than pleased. I sat in the stands until three ushers approached me, pointing out I was the sole student remaining. 
By the time I watched the Irish squeak out a win over Boston College, the wins and losses did not matter to me. Falling to Stanford, and subsequently to Florida State, rolled right off my shoulders. 
Sure, it is nicer to win than to lose. Such is the nature of life; of course it would be the same in sport. But cliché as this may sound, despite those losses, I felt I was winning any­ways. 
After that 2005 loss, I went over to a friend’s house afterward, played wing­man for my best friend and helped him land his first girlfriend. The 2002 debacle only made the 2003 Sweet Sixteen trip that much sweeter, and the snow-riddled trip to Texas in 2009 yielded one of my closest friends to this day. 
Notre Dame has repeat­edly punched me in the stomach in my lifetime. As a student, it feels as if it could not have happened more. Remember the 2009 Basketball Gameday loss to Hasheem Thabeet and Con­necticut? That was awful. 
Yet I could not tell you the score or Luke Harangody’s statline. I can tell you I got up at 6 a.m. to meet my girl­friend in the middle of South Quad so we could snag some of the last seats. 
I’ve often been heard say­ing Notre Dame simply is not good at the whole football (or basketball, or …) thing. And I do hope that changes sooner rather than later. 
But really, I don’t care. As long as I end up watching in the stands or on a couch or, preferably, in a press box working while watch­ing (or is it watching while working?), I’m fine with the outcome. 
That’s what I’ve learned covering Notre Dame athlet­ics for four years.  I am no longer an avid Notre Dame fan. I simply love thee Notre Dame. 
Contact Douglas Farmer at dfarmer1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority column are the views of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
NASCAR 

Officials postpone Daytona 500 
Associated Press 
DAYTONA BEACH, Fla. — NASCAR has raced on the beach at Daytona, under the lights and even around a pesky pothole. 
But never on a Monday — un­til now. 
The Daytona 500 was post­poned Sunday for the first time in its 54-year history after heavy rain saturated Daytona International Speedway. 
NASCAR officials spent more than four hours waiting for a window to dry the famed track, but it never came. When the latest storm cell passed over the speedway around 5 p.m., they had little choice but to call it a day. 
The 500-mile race was re­scheduled for noon Monday. It will be aired on Fox. 
“This is one of the toughest things for us drivers,” pole-sit­ter Carl Edwards said. “It’s now who can really stay focused. That’s not just the drivers, that’s the pit crews, the crew chiefs, everyone, the officials. But I think we’ll be just fine.” 
But Monday might be an­other test for both drivers and fans. 
The forecast calls for more rain, and officials are prepared to wait all day and into the night to avoid a Tuesday race, which would strain teams that must get to Phoenix for next week’s race. 
“The longer runway we have tomorrow to get in the Daytona 500, the greater the likelihood for us to start and finish the event on Monday,” NASCAR spokesman Kerry Tharp said. “There are certainly a lot of considerations that go into the start time decision, and we believe scheduling it for noon gives us the best opportunity for us to get the race in tomor­row.” 
Eight previous Daytona 500s have endured rain delays, the latest in 2009. But never before had storms forced NASCAR’s premier event to be moved. 
“I think that’s a pretty good record for NASCAR,” Edwards said. “They’ve been living right to have 53 of these and never have one postponed. That’s pretty spectacular. ... I think NASCAR, they’re doing the right thing, you know, not dragging this out.” 
Noontime showers sent fans scattering for cover and leav­ing everyone in wait-and-see mode. Puddles of water formed in parts of the infield, and many fans got drenched as they tried to make the best of a less-than­ideal situation. 
Drivers retreated to their motorhomes, relaxing while keeping an eye on develop­ments. Edwards, Brad Kesel­owski and others took naps. For­mer Daytona 500 winners Jamie McMurray and Trevor Bayne did in-studio interviews with Fox. Another previous race winner, Ryan Newman, played with his daughter in the motorhome lot. 
“I guess I’m gonna have to win the first Monday Daytona 500,” driver Greg Biffle said. “As you can tell, I’m still in my uniform because I was optimistic that this weather was gonna get out of here and we were going to get this thing going. But I’ll have to save my energy for tomorrow. 
“I know a lot of race fans are disappointed and a lot of people at home on TV, but we just hope they tune in tomorrow.” 
The last shortened Daytona 500 was Matt Kenseth’s vic­tory three years ago, when rain stopped the event 48 laps from the finish. He was declared the winner while the cars were parked on pit road. 
This time around, drivers didn’t even get in their cars. 
“I didn’t know when to eat. I didn’t know when to rest. I didn’t know what to do,” Bobby Labonte said. “I never took my uniform off. I took a nap. I think we cleaned out the refrigerator snacking on things.” 
Now, NASCAR must deal with the downside of moving its big­gest race. Ratings and atten­dance will suffer, falling short of what the series expected. 
Fans surely will have com­plaints, too. 
Daytona president Joie Chit-wood said he understood fans were frustrated about the sched­uling change that pushed the race back one week later than usual. NASCAR and the track made the decision to move the start of the season to address an awkward early off weekend and to avoid potential conflicts with the Super Bowl. 
Had the race been run on its traditional Sunday, it would have been completed under a bright, blue sky. 

“I’m sure I’m going to have some customers tell me about the date change and the chal­lenges that we have with it,” Chitwood said. “But I think weather is unpredictable. I think based on the NASCAR schedule, the TV schedule on whole, this was the right move for the indus­try. We’ll continue to work with the last weekend of February. 
“It’s unfortunate that this had to happen the first year after we made that change. I’m sure I’ll be talking to a number of cus­tomers in the next weeks ahead about that situation.” 
Chitwood also said trying to wait out the rain any longer Sun­day wasn’t an option, because the Daytona 500 deserves bet­ter than being crammed into the late evening hours. 
Pointing to several intriguing story lines, NASCAR was hoping to capitalize on the success of last season’s captivating cham­pionship race. 
The Daytona 500 is the first of 10 scheduled Sprint Cup Series events this season for Danica Patrick, who left IndyCar behind for a full-time move to NASCAR. She will race for the Nationwide Series championship driving for JR Motorsports. 
Three-time and defending NASCAR champion Tony Stewart is trying to snap an 0-for-13 los­ing streak in the 500. Stewart’s 17 victories at Daytona include everything but the 500, ranking him second on the all-time list behind the late Dale Earnhardt’s 34 wins. Stewart will start third when the race goes green. 
Earnhardt Jr., the 2004 Day­tona 500 champion, takes a 129­race losing streak into the event. His last victory was in 2008, his first season with powerhouse Hendrick Motorsports. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The 
Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
FOR RENT 
WALK TO CAMPUS Great Specials! Studio, 1, 2, 3 Bedroom Townhomes available. 
(574) 272-8124. 
www.clovervillageapartments.com 

WANTED 
Artist needed for children’s book/ program 
Contact mkarle@alumni.nd.edu for more information. 
PERSONAL 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don’t go it alone. Notre Dame has many resources in place to assist you. If you or someone you love needs 
confidential support or assistance, 
please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819. For more information, visit ND’s website at: 
http://pregnancysupport@nd.edu 
Born on this day: 

1974 - Chris Dishman, guard (Arizona Cardinals) 
1974 - Jim Maher, cricketer (Queensland lefty batsman) 
1975 - Christina Nigra, actress (Out of This World) 
1975 - Dana Marie Lane, Cheyenne Wyoming, Miss America-Wyoming (1996) 
1975 - Duce Staley, running back (Philadelphia Eagles) 
1975 - Marcus Robinson, wide receiver (Chicago Bears) 
1975 - Prodromos Korkizoglou, Greek decathlete 
1975 - Shelby Walker, American mixed martial artist (d. 2006) 
1976 - Tony Gonzalez, tight end (Atlanta Falcons) 
1977 - Lance Hoyt, American professional wrestler 
1977 - Ji Sung, South Korean actor 
1977 - James Wan, Australian film 
director 
1978 - James Beattie, English footballer 1983 - Devin Harris, NBA player Go Irish. 

Monday, February 27, 2012 The Observer u SPoRtS ndsmcobserver.com | page 13 
NHL 

San Jose drops game to Wild 

Associated Press 
ST. PAUL, Minn. — Jed Ort­meyer’s first goal of the season gave the Minnesota Wild the lead with 4:13 left in a 4-3 vic­tory on Sunday, sending the San Jose Sharks home with a tough loss to finish 2-6-1 on a season-long nine-game road trip. 
The Sharks played more than half of the night without head coach Todd McLellan, who was inadvertently hit in the head with a stick during a play in front of the bench early in the second period. After staying down for a bit, McLellan walked gingerly to the locker room. 
That scary scene came sec­onds after Nick Schultz’s first goal of the season — a slap shot just four seconds into a Wild power play — tied the game at 
2. Kyle Brodziak won a faceoff and sent the puck to Schultz, who zinged it past Sharks de­fenseman Jim Vandermeer. 

Brent Burns mimicked his former teammate’s score with a one-timed slap shot on a Sharks power play midway through the third period. He skated back to the bench with a big smile on his face, but that’s not the mood the Sharks finished with. 
Matt Cullen ended an 18­game goal-less skid with a de­flection of Marco Scandella’s shot from the blue. The puck bounced in the goal like a bas­ketball with 5:27 remaining. Then just 74 seconds later, Ort­meyer sliced across the slot and got a stick on Jared Spurgeon’s shot. 
Joe Thornton and Tommy Wingels each scored in the first period for the Sharks, who were flat for the remainder of the middle frame after McLel­lan’s injury. The Wild held a 13-2 shots on goal advantage in that period. 
Cal Clutterbuck also scored for the Wild, his first after 10 games without one. 
The Sharks, who lost 6-2 to the Nashville Predators on Saturday, face a four-game homestand next week. They’ve fallen behind the Phoenix Coy­otes in the Pacific Division and are only one point ahead of the eighth-place Dallas Stars in the Western Conference race. 
They’ve been lacking fun­damentals, confidence and a strong penalty kill. 
This was the last meeting of the season for these teams that made three trades this summer, including the Burns-Devin Setoguchi deal the day of the draft. Dany Heatley and Martin Havlat were the pieces in the other big swap. Until Burns took that swing mid­way through the third period, none of the traded players had scored on their former team. 
The Wild won three of the four games, including two in regulation. 
The Wild welcomed three new players to their lineup: de­fenseman Kurtis Foster, right wing Nick Palmieri and left wing Stephane Veilleux. They were acquired on Friday with draft picks from the New Jersey Devils for dissatisfied defense-man Marek Zidlicky. The Wild have used an NHL-most and franchise-record 42 players this season, nearly double the active roster limit. 
With captain Mikko Koivu out for a fifth straight game be­cause of an undisclosed injury, Brodziak centered the first line between Heatley and Setogu­chi. Palmieri joined Clutter-buck and Cullen on the second line. 
NCAA MEN’S BASKETBALL 
Watford’s 12 points leads Indiana over Minnesota 



Associated Press 
MINNEAPOLIS — Chris­tian Watford went his last two games without making a bas­ket. So Indiana coach Tom Cre­an told him to stay focused on his defense. 
The Hoosiers confidently fol­lowed their plan to an impor­tant road victory, showing the kind of poise that’s been eluding Minnesota for weeks. 
Watford rediscovered his shooting stroke with 12 points for 23rd-ranked Indiana, and the Hoosiers blew out the sput­tering Gophers 69-50 on Sun­day. 
“Our guys were locked in,” Crean said. “They were very fo­cused.” 
Victor Oladiopo and Jordan Hulls each scored 12 points themselves, and Verdell Jones III added 11 points off the bench for Indiana (22-7, 9-7 Big Ten), which held the Gophers to a season-low score and went 21 for 25 at the free-throw line. That’s exactly what Crean wanted, plus a relentless ap­proach to rebounding. 
“When you get away from what your concerns are and you stay with what really, re­ally matters, it’s amazing what works out,” Crean said. 
Watford was 0 for 13 from the floor over the last two games, but he knocked down a pull-up jump shot and a 3-pointer in the first half. He only pulled the trigger four times, but he was 7 for 7 from the line and grabbed six rebounds. Oladipo had eight boards for Indiana, which kept pace with Purdue and Wisconsin in the scramble for fourth through eighth place. Hulls, who went 3 for 11 over his last three games, hit a pair of 3-pointers and finished 4 for 8 from the field. 
But, again, the proof of this success was in the defense. 
“We got a lot of stops in a row and we were able to rebound the ball, push it and run our offense the way we wanted to,” Hull said. “It was good for us that way.” 
The Gophers (17-12, 5-11) won 77-74 at Assembly Hall when the Hoosiers were seventh in the Associated Press poll six weeks ago, a potentially season-changing victory that softened the sting of an 0-4 start in the conference. But their perfor­mance this afternoon was noth­ing like that night. 
“I think we had a big sense of urgency this game, a sense of urgency just to execute our plays and get stops and get a lead,” Oladipo said. “They got us at our place. We always had that in the back of our mind.” 
The Hoosiers raised their Big Ten road record to 3-6 by holding the Gophers to 31 per­cent shooting, by far their low­est rate this season. Watford frequently defended freshman point guard Andre Hollins, who picked up two quick fouls and fouled out in only 16 minutes of playing time. Oladipo stifled power forward Rodney Wil­liams in the post. 
“It kind of helps me get going a little bit. That’s what I’ve got to do, be able to guard multiple positions,” Watford said. 
That loss to Minnesota on Jan. 12 started a slide of five defeats in seven games, but Indiana has recovered at least enough to have a little momentum enter­ing March. The Hoosiers host conference leader Michigan State on Tuesday. They haven’t beaten a ranked team since Jan. 5, after they took down Kentucky, Ohio State and Michi­gan in the span of a month, but they’re now guaranteed to fin­ish at least .500 in the Big Ten after going 8-46 over Crean’s first three years. 
They got this victory despite a quiet game from leading scor­er Cody Zeller, who had seven points on 3 for 8 shooting. 
“Just shows you how deep we are and how we’re all capable of playing if we put our mind to it,” Oladipo said. 
Austin Hollins had 14 points for the Gophers, who lost their fifth straight game. This was the lowest score against Indi­ana in a conference game this season. The Hoosiers gave up 54 points to Penn State last month. 
“I think it’s just a matter of going out there and playing hard every second you’re on the floor, because they came at our necks and I guess they wanted it more,” said Hollins, the only Gophers player with more than six points. 

page 14 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u SPoRtS Monday, February 27, 2012 
FENCING 

Irish earn top-three finishes in New York 
Observer Staff Report 
Notre Dame sent a small group of fencers to New York on Sunday for the United States Collegiate Squad Champion­ship at NYU and earned top-three finishes from all three squads. A No. 1 result from the men’s foil team, consist­ing of seniors Enzo Castellani and Nicholas Crebs and junior Grant Hodges, highlighted the trip. 
The Irish men’s foil squad entered the competition as the third seed behind Princeton and St. John’s and advanced past Haverford, North Caro­lina and the Johnnies before dispatching Penn in the finals. After a first-round bye, the trio handled the Fords with ease, 45-22, advancing on to face eleventh-seeded North Caro­lina in the quarterfinals. 
A 45-33 victory over the Tar-heels moved the Irish on to the semifinals for a match with the second-seeded Johnnies. In a tense set of bouts that saw Cas­tellani finish in a tie with St. John’s Eli Schenkel in the final bout to preserve a one-point victory, the Irish prevailed 45­
44. Notre Dame faced Penn and won a close 39-36 set of bouts for the top spot. 
The top-seeded women’s foil team, comprised of junior Grace Hartman, sophomores Rachel Beck and Adrianna Camacho and freshman Madi­son Zeiss, advanced to the fi­nals before falling decisively to second-seeded Princeton, 45-18. The Irish advanced with victories over City College of New York (45-25), Brown (45­
22) and St. John’s (32-31) be­fore falling to the Tigers. 
The men’s saber team clawed to a tie for third place with St. John’s behind the Ivy League tandem of Penn and Columbia. The fourth-seeded Irish squad of senior Keith Feldman, junior Jason Choy and sophomores Kevin Hassett and Alexander Coccia continued Notre Dame’s daylong battle with Princeton, eking out a victory over the Tigers, 45-44 in the quarter­finals. The Irish advanced to that point after defeating Drew 45-33. The team fell in the semifinals to top-seeded and eventual runner-up Columbia 45-38. 
The Collegiate Squad Cham­pionship was the last oppor­tunity for Irish coach Janusz Bednarski to evaluate his team before hosting the conference championships, which begin Friday at Notre Dame. 
NHL 

Selanne earns career milestone in Ducks’ win 
Associated Press 
ANAHEIM, Calif. — Teemu Selanne scored a power-play goal and had an assist to move into 20th place on the NHL’s career scoring list, and the Anaheim Ducks kept roll­ing in their return from an eight-game road trip, beating the slumping Chicago Black-hawks 3-1 Sunday night. 
Jonas Hiller made 18 saves in his 21st consecutive start for the Ducks, who won for the ninth time in 12 games during their improbable playoff push. Andrew Co­gliano scored his first goal of February for the Ducks, and Sheldon Brookbank also scored as Anaheim avoided a four-game season sweep by Chicago. 
Patrick Kane ended the Blackhawks’ monthlong 0-for-39 power-play drought with a first-period goal, and Ray Emery stopped 35 shots against his former Anaheim teammates in Chicago’s third consecutive loss. 
The Blackhawks have lost 12 of 16 overall, yet still sit comfortably in sixth place in the Western Conference standings. 
The Blackhawks played their fourth straight game without captain Jonathan Toews, who is home in Chica­go with an apparent concus­sion. Coach Joel Quenneville hopes Toews and defenseman Niklas Hjalmarsson will re­turn Wednesday against To­ronto, but the Blackhawks struggled through a two-game Southern California road trip, losing 4-0 up the I-5 freeway in Los Angeles one night earlier. 
Selanne inched up the NHL scoring list by setting up Brookbank’s goal in the second period before scor­ing his 21st of the season from a sharp angle during a two-man advantage in the third. The 41-year-old Finn­ish Flash caught and passed Luc Robitaille with 1,395 points, and his 246th career power-play goal put him one behind Robitaille for fourth in league history. 
Selanne is the second-old­est player in NHL history to score at least 21 goals in a season, trailing only Gordie Howe, who did it twice after his 41st birthday. 
Anaheim got just two days off following the longest con­tinuous road trip in fran­chise history before starting a key stretch of five games in seven days. The Ducks have been among the NHL’s top teams since Jan. 1, going 17­4-4 — but it still might not be enough to save their season. 
After falling 20 points out of eighth place in the West during their awful start, the Ducks are just six points out of playoff position — but still in 13th place in the West. 
Chicago hadn’t scored a power-play goal since Jan. 24, but Kane slipped a long shot through traffic and just inside Hiller’s post midway through the first period. 
MEN’S TENNIS 

ND overpowers Spartans, Eagles 
By MEGAN FINNERAN 
Sports Writer 

No. 29 Notre Dame had no problem taking down both No. 56 Michigan State, its sixth win in nine games against ranked opponents this season, and Marquette on Sunday in the Eck Center. 
A team effort granted a 7-0 sweep against the Spartans and a 6-1 win over the Gold­en Eagles. 
“I think today went as ex­pected,” senior Sam Keeton said“We knew both teams would come out with a lot of intensity. We were able to match that intensity and build early leads that we nev­er looked back from.” 
The Irish continued their momentum from last week­end, when they came from behind in singles play after losing the double point at Michigan to win the match 4-3On top of that success, sophomore Greg Andrews provided encouragement with his recent climb to No. 49 in the national rankings. 
The afternoon started smoothly with doubles play, when the No. 2 pair of An­drews and junior Spencer Talmadge combined with the No. 3 pair of Keeton and sophomore Billy Pecor to take the point for the Irish. 
In singles play, only two of the matches required a third set to allow the final decision, all of which went to Notre Dame. These cru­cial individual wins from each member of the roster clinched the win. 
Junior Blas Moros paved the way for the afternoon in the No. 6 slot, defeating Gijs Linders cleanly 6-0, 6-1. Pe­cor followed suit directly after in the No. 5 slot, also taking the point in only two matches 6-2, 6-4. Senior Casey Watt slid past Spar­tan Dennis Bogatov in a similar fashion, adding his point with back-to-back 6-4 matches. 
From there, senior Niall Fitzgerald, Keeton and An­drews sealed the win, taking their singles matches, (6-1, 1-6, 6-3), (6-4, 7-5) and (6-1, 7-6, 1-0), respectively. 
“It was important for us to get the sweep so we can preserve our energy for this tough stretch we have com­ing up this week,” Keeton said. 
Doubles play against Mar­quette went even better, as all three Irish pairs beat their opponents. The closest match came in the No. 1 slot, where Watt and Fitzgerald just nudged past the Golden Eagles’ Jose Crowley and Dan Mamalat 8-7. The same teams from earlier in the afternoon in the second and third slot had little trouble confirming the Irish point, winning their matches 8-2 and 8-3, respectively. 

Keeton urged the Irish ahead, finishing the first sin­gles match of the evening to bring the Irish to a 2-0 lead with his 6-0, 7-6 set. Fresh­man Wyatt McCoy moved into the No. 5 spot in singles play, bringing the Irish to a 3-0 lead when he took his first two sets 7-5, 6-2. Moros se­cured the win with his 6-1, 6-4 victory. 
Andrews and Watt each contributed a point to bring the Irish total to six. Junior Michael Moore fell in a close final set to Cameron Tehrani, going 3-6, 6-2, 7-5. 
The Irish travel to Indiana on Wednesdayto compete against the Hoosiers at 2 p.m. 
Contact Megan Finneran at mfinnera@nd.edu 


Monday, February 27, 2012 The Observer u SPoRtS ndsmcobserver.com | page 15 
ND WOMEN’S TENNIS 

Notre Dame holds off Indiana, Georgia Tech 

By KATIE HEIT 
Sports Writer 
Though seniors Kristy Frill­ing and Shannon Mathews suf­fered their first singles losses in three weeks, the Irish swept their games this weekend over ranked opponents Indiana and Georgia Tech. 
Frilling and Mathews both dropped their singles matches when No. 23 Notre Dame took on No. 16 Georgia Tech on Sunday. 
Frilling’s four-game win­ning streak came to an end when she fell to Elizabeth Kilborn in three sets (2-6, 7-5, 6-4). Frilling now has a sin­gles record of 7-4. 
Mathews fell to Jillian O’Neill 2-6, 6-0, 6-3. Despite the two losses, the Irish still claimed the victory 4-3. 
“I think we both had tough matches and it’s too bad we couldn’t capitalize on our leads,” Frilling said. “But I’m really proud of the rest of our team for stepping up and get­ting the win for us today.” 
Frilling said that clench­ing the doubles point against Georgia Tech was key in the Irish victory. 
“Winning the doubles point has been really helpful as it gives us a confidence boost heading into singles,” Frilling said. 
All three Irish doubles pairs won their matches against Georgia Tech, the duo of soph­omores Britney Sanders and Julie Sabacinski defeating Kilborn and Lynn Blau. 

The Irish were almost un­defeated against No. 74 Indi­ana, grabbing a 6-1 victory. The only loss of the day fell to freshman Katherine White. She brought her match to three sets but in the end fell to Kayla Fujimoto. For the rest of the day, both singles and dou­bles managed to clench their matches in two sets. 
Frilling said that sophomore Chrissie McGaffigan was one of the standouts on the week­end. 
“I didn’t get to see her play today, but Chrissie McGaf­figan stepped up this week­end,” Frilling said. “She’s been nursing some injuries and she even twisted her ankle during her match today, but she still came out with the win.” 
Frilling said that to keep fo­cus from match to match, the team has to devote themselves entirely every time they hit the court. 
“I think we just try to put ev­erything into every match we play and leave everything out on the court,” Frilling said. “A lot of it comes from practicing hard and keeping ourselves motivated.” 
The Irish are back in action at home against Iowa at 3:30 on Friday.  
Contact Katie Heit at kheit@nd.edu 
ND SOFTBALL 

Irish take three of four in N.C. 
By ERNST CLEOFE 
Sports Writer 
The Irish won three of four games at the Carolina Classic over the weekend, picking up two wins against tournament host No. 24 North Carolina, adding another win from Penn State and falling to Minnesota. 
Coming off of a four-loss tour­nament last weekend in San Diego, the Irish (4-5) turned around a rough start on the season at the Carolina Classic. 
“The most difficult thing we’ve had [to change] was at­tacking every inning of the game,” junior pitcher Brittany O’Donnell said. 
The weekend started with a 6-3 win over Penn State on Saturday. Senior outfielder Al­exa Maldonado and sophomore outfielder Lauren Stuhr drove in five of the six Irish runs with both players adding a home-run. 
In the second game Saturday, the Irish earned a close 6-5 win against their undefeated host North Carolina. 
After the Irish scored four runs in the seventh inning to push the score to 6-5, sopho­more pitcher Laura Winter came in and shut out the Tar-heels the rest of the inning to pull out an Irish victory. Win­ter had 14 strikeouts across the two games, got the win against Penn State and the save against North Carolina. 
The Irish lost to Minnesota 9-1 on Sunday, but the day turned around with their sec­ond victory over host North Carolina, 9-3. 
Maldonado hit one of her three home runs during the last game of the weekend to lead the Irish to victory. 
“The difference between the Minnesota and [second] North Carolina game was the entire approach,” O’Donnell said. “We were late making adjust­ments. Everyone contributed something different during our wins,” O’Donnell said. “The toughest opponent this week­end was ourselves because we let things in our control work against us at times instead of helping our cause.” 
Despite the winning re-


ND WOMEN’S SWIMMING 
Three compete in Boiler-Make-It 

cord over the Carolina Classic, O’Donnell said the Irish have a lot of improvements to make in the coming weekend. 
“It feels great, but we aren’t satisfied yet,” O’Donnell said. “We still have work to do in order to achieve our goal of a national championship, but we are just going to keep on at­tacking improvement on each area of the game.” 
The Irish will head to Buena Vista, Fla. this weekend for the Diamond 9 Citrus Classic where they will play Long Is­land, Fordham, Ohio State and Virginia Tech. 
Contact Ernst Cleofe at ecleofe@nd.edu 
western teams, including Louisville, Northwestern and Purdue,participated. 
Ryan competed in the 100­yard backstroke event and earned a B-cut time after finishing in 53.83 seconds. This marked her third-best time for the event on the season as she finished in 
53.32 at the Big East cham­pionships on Feb 15. 
Reaney attempted to im­prove her season-best times in two events, the 100-yard fly and 200-yard back­stroke. In the 100-yard fly, she finished in 56.35 in the preliminaries, which was 
0.7 seconds behind her 55.65 finish at Michigan State on Jan. 21. Reaney also swam the 200-yard backstroke 
(2:05.60) but was unable to knock time off her previous best. 
While neither time met the NCAA B-cut criteria, the two events do not rank among Reaney’s best. She leads the team with top times in the 100 and 200-yard breast­stroke and 200 and 400­yard individual medley. 
Casey swam the 200­yard fly in 1:59.80 for a B-cut time. However, she also swam the event faster at the conference championships in 1:59.22. 
The Irish now wait for the list of championship quali­fying participants to be an­nounced in early March. The championships will take place from March 15-17 at Auburn University in Au­burn, Ala. 
Observer Staff Report 
Three Irish swimmers could not improve their personal-best times at the Boiler-Make-It Last Chance Meet at Purdue on Saturday. The meet stood as their fi­nal chance to qualify for the national championships on March 15. 
Sophomore Kelly Ryan an­dfreshmen Emma Reaney andBridget Casey partici­pated in four events com­bined at Saturday’s meet in West Lafayette, Ind. 
The meet was more of an individual competition for time rather than a team competition as only a few in­dividuals from various mid­

page 16 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u SPoRtS Monday, February 27, 2012 
accomplished. It’s an amazing cause it helped us respond to 
Novosel 

accomplishment in a conference their run and start a run of that is so difficult. And for us to our own,” McGraw said. “It was continued from page 20 play the most difficult schedule probably good for us to play in the league, we went to a lot from behind. We don’t do that a ly to build my confidence from of ranked teams and earned all lot and it was good for us. Sky-the start.” those wins on the road. We defi-lar’s defense really created a 
Tonight, the No. 3 Irish (27-2, nitely earned it.” lot of turnovers. She got two or 14-1) will close out the regular The Bulls (15-14, 7-8) did not three steals in a row for layups. season and play No. 4 Connecti-make it easy for the Irish to She had a mini-run of her own cut (26-3, 13-2) to determine earn the win. and that broke the game open.” whether Notre Dame wins the With 30 seconds left before Irish graduate student for-Big East regular season title halftime, South Florida tied the ward Devereaux Peters broke outright for the first time in game at 38 on a seven-point run. a personal-best rebounding school history, or whether it will A three-pointer from graduate record against the Bulls with share it with the Huskies. The student guard Brittany Mallory 18 boards. Peters also had 17 two teams shared the title 11 put the Irish up three points at points, just behind Diggins’ 18 seasons ago, the same year the the break, but the Bulls gained points. Irish won the national champi-the lead for the first time three Following the actual contest, onship. minutes into the second half. the crowd took time to con­
“These girls finally have After a pair of made free-gratulate Novosel, Mallory, Pe­something to brag about to throws from Novosel and two ters and senior guard Fraderica [Notre Dame ‘01 national cham-successive breakaway layups Miller and two student manag­pion and current assistant coach from Irish junior guard Skylar ers for their contributions to 
and find some people outside Niele Ivey],” Irish coach Muf-Diggins, Notre Dame never lost Notre Dame as part of Senior 
Aoki 

of Danny in there to step up.” fet McGraw said. “She reminds it again. Day. 
While Aoki said certain them often enough of what she “[Skylar’s run] was huge be-The contest marked Notre 
continued from page 20 aspects of the bullpen need Dame’s last regulation home 
improvement, the Irish ben­game, but it will return again to 
“I think we’ve been hav-efitted from starting pitching the Purcell Pavilion for at least 
ing good at bats where pitch-performances lasting deep one and potentially two games 
ers have to get us out rather into the games. Junior right-in March to open the NCAA 
than us getting ourselves out,” handed pitcher Adam Nor-tournament. 
Aoki said. “People are going ton tossed seven innings on “It was rough [against South 
out with a plan and executing. Saturday, while senior right-Florida], but it was worth it with 
Rather than being concerned handed pitcher Will Hudgins [Connecticut] on Monday,” Pe­
about batting averages or pitched 7.2 innings of one-run ters said. “We knew it was going 
slugging percentages, instead ball for the Irish on Sunday in to be a physical game to the very 
our batters are passing the his second career start. last second. It was good to get a 
eye test.” Aoki said the defense looked taste of what the game is going 
Sophomore first baseman strong over the weekend as to be like on Monday.” 
Trey Mancini and last week’s well. The Irish and the Huskies met 
Big East Player of the Week “Defensively, we played re-on Jan. 7 at the Purcell Pavilion, 
junior catcher Joe Hudson ally well and only had two where No. 3 Notre Dame upset 
went a combined 8-for-15 in errors all weekend,” he said. then-No. 2 Connecticut 74-67 in 
the Saturday double-header. “There may have been a few overtime. 
Hudson, who went 3-for-3 in plays that we should have “It’ll be a big game on Monday, 
the opening 6-3 win, is hitting made, but as a whole I was but there will be less pressure 
.611 on the season. In the final very happy with the defense.” on us now that we already have 
game of the weekend, Man-The Irish hope to continue a share of the Big East title,” Mc­
cini continued making solid their momentum and develop Graw said. “We can relax, have 
contact by going 3-for-3 and their play over the next few fun and play like we enjoy play-
sparked a three-run fifth in-weeks. ing. We’re much better when we 
ning against Hofstra. “We just need to continue to play relaxed.” 
During all three games this get better and have a long way Notre Dame and Connecticut 
weekend, Hofstra came within to go, but it has been great to will face off at 9 p.m. tonight 
a few runs of Notre Dame and start the season with this suc­at the XL Center in Hartford, 
threatened to take the lead, cess,” Aoki said. Conn., for the teams’ last game 
but Slania managed to close The Irish will be back in ac-of the regular season. The game 
out the Pride in the ninth in-tion next weekend when they will be featured on ESPN2 as 
ning. travel to San Marcos, Texas, part of the network’s Big Mon­
“Danny has been doing out-to face Texas State in a three-day coverage. 
standing in games that we game series starting Friday. needed to put away,” Aoki 
Contact Molly Sammon at 

said. “We need to get our bull-Contact Brendan Bell at msammon@nd.edu 
pen straightened out, though, bbell2@nd.edu 



WOMEN’S LACROSSE 

Nine different players score for Irish in win over Duquesne 
By BRIAN HARTNETT 
Sports Writer 
After struggling early, the No. 15 Irish went on a tear, scoring nine consecutive goals over a 21-minute stretch to pull away from Duquesne and cruise to a 17-7 victory over the Dukes on Saturday at the Loftus Sports Center. 
Coming off a victory over a ranked Stanford team, Notre Dame (2-0) struggled out of the gate against Duquesne (1-2), falling behind 4-2 in the early part of the first half. The Irish quickly rebounded with a 5-1 run that included five different players scoring goals. 
After Duquesne’s Claire Hur­ley cut Notre Dame’s lead to 7-6 with a goal at the 1:38 mark of the first half, the Irish went on another run, one that would give them control of the game. 
Sophomore midfielder Kai­tlyn Brosco sparked the scor­ing streak for the Irish, scor­ing with 24 seconds left in the first half. The Irish would then score the next eight goals, holding Duquesne without a goal until the 7:19 mark of the second half. 
Irish coach Christine Half­penny credited the team’s 9-0 run to better looks on goal, as well as improved ball move­ment. 
“I think we did a better job seeing the goalie,” Halfpenny said. “Early in the first half, we hit a bunch of pipes and I had to remind the girls that we were doing the right thing, but we just had to move one more step inside to get a better shooting angle. 
“We were also moving the ball around better because we had so many people on the team contribute today.” 
Notre Dame utilized a very balanced attack, as nine dif­ferent players contributed goals in the victory. Sopho­more attack Lindsay Powell, sophomore midfielder Mar­garet Smith and junior attack Betsy Mastropieri each scored three goals, while Brosco and junior attack Jaimie Morrison each tallied two scores. The Irish assailed Duquesne with 32 shots en route to scoring 17 goals, the second straight 17­goal performance the team has put up this season. 
Halfpenny attributed the team’s balanced attack to its new style of offense, which highly favors team output over individual statistics. 
“We play a very unselfish style of offense,” Halfpenny said. “When you have that mentality, everyone on the team knows that when the ball hits the back of the net, it’s a goal for Notre Dame, allowing us to focus on how far the team can go as opposed to individu­al outputs.” 
Junior goalie Ellie Hilling displayed a strong effort in goal for the Irish, notching six saves in her second win of the season. Hilling was bolstered by an aggressive Irish defense, which forced 14 turnovers and helped the Irish gain an 18-11 advantage in ground balls. 
“I think ultimately our com­munication and our athleti­cism on defense really helped us in this game,” Halfpenny said. “Some of our veteran ex­perience back there, starting with Ellie and including our senior defenders Meg Sullivan, Jordy Shoemaker and Kate Newall, was huge in the second half.” 
The Irish will now prepare to go on the road for the first time ready to take on an Ohio State this year when they travel to team that is also off to a strong No. 14 Ohio State on March 4. start,” Halfpenny said. 

“We’re going to have to get back to work, focus on what we Contact Brian Hartnett at need to do better and then get bhartnett@nd.edu 


page 18 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u SPoRtS Monday, February 27, 2012 
Brey 
continued from page 20 
shoot it. You are going to have to make some more jump shots over the top of their zone be­cause that is what they were giving up.” 
The Irish struggled might­ily in the first half, as their top scorers during the winning streak (Grant and junior for­ward Jack Cooley) combined for 1-for-7 shooting and four points. The strug­sponded with a lot of character. I would like for us on Monday to start off with more energy.” 
With their first loss since Jan. 16, the Irish will have to bounce back fast with a tough road test against No. 9 Georgetown to­night. The Hoyas (21-6, 11-5) are coming off a 67-46 rout over Villanova on Saturday, high­lighted by senior guard and leading scorer Jason Clark’s 15 points and six rebounds. Georgetown trails the third-place Irish by one game in the conference standi ngs and the meet­ing could go 

gles rolled a long way 
“This group has always 
over into in determin­
responded with a lot of 
the second ing the seed-
character. I would like 
half as Notre ing in next 
Dame went for us on Monday to start week’s Big on a scor-off with more energy.” East champi­ing drought onships. of almost six Mike Brey “We have minutes af-not had to 
Irish coach 

ter missing 10 -straight shots, while St. John’s jumped out to its biggest lead of the game behind freshman forward Moe Harkless, the game’s leading scorer (22 points). 
Led by Martin’s 18 points, Notre Dame broke out of its of­fensive funk and started forc­ing the ball inside to Martin and Cooley, sparking an 11-2 run with 4:54 left to pull within three at 55-52. But the season-low 3-point shooting prevented Notre Dame from pulling off its second double-digit road come­back of the week, Brey said. 
“You are going to have to make a few more of them to steal a win, and we just couldn’t make enough,” he said. “I loved our effort, and we had a chance to put that darn thing into over­time when it looked like we were maybe going to get beat by 
15. This group has always re-
Lions 
continued from page 20 
first overtime period. But the Irish were called for a loose ball violation and Penn State was giv­en possession with 10 seconds to play. It capitalized and earned the sudden death victory. 
Statistically, the Nittany Lions and the Irish were nearly even across the board. Each team won five face-offs, the two goal­ies made the same number of saves and Penn State only took one more shot than Notre Dame’s 32 for an evenly played contest throughout. 
The Irish did not suffer from a lack of effort or a lack of prepa­ration. It all came down to ex­ecution, Corrigan said. 
“Offensively, we played well this week in practice,” Corrigan said. “We just simply did not play well today, when it counts. We’ve got the ability to make those plays, we didn’t make them to­day, and we paid by getting beat.” 
The Irish defense, anchored by Kemp, only surrendered three goals in regulation. That amount of effort is usually enough for the win, but on Sunday would not cut it. 
“The defense played very well,” Corrigan said. “They played well enough for us to win. We just didn’t play well enough offensively to win.” 
Kemp eclipsed his previous re­cord of saves per game with 18 against Penn State. He set the initial record in Notre Dame’s first contest of the season against Duke on Feb. 18. Kemp allowed only three goals and made a then talk about 
how do we 
bounce back 
for a while 
because we haven’t had to,” Brey said. “So that is something I want to talk to our guys about. The other thing I would like to remind them about is who we were the last time we played in this gym against Maryland and who we are now. And [we need to] play with great poise against a heck of a basketball team. But we are going to have to get off to a better start, and you know you are off to a good start when you are getting more 50/50 balls than your opponent.” 
The Irish look to clinch a dou­ble-bye in the Big East tourna­ment with a win over George­town at the Verizon Center in Washington D.C. at 7 p.m., with the game televised on ESPN. 
Contact andrew Gastelum at agastel1@nd.edu 
career-high 14 saves against the Blue Devils. 
“John’s the best goalie in the country,” Corrigan said. “He de­serves better than what we did for him today.” 
The Irish will return to action against Drexel on Saturday at 1 p.m. in at the Dragon’s Vidas Field in Philadelphia, Penn. 
Contact Matthew Robison at mrobison@nd.edu 
Spartans 
continued from page 20 

up to the task, snatching the wrist shot with a smooth glove save. 
“No question [the save was a turning point],” Jackson said. “Goaltending is such a key el­ement to a winning team, and when we get goaltending like that, it gives us a great chance to win.” 
After a tripping penalty on Forfar, Irish sophomore left wing Jeff Costello cashed for Notre Dame, banging home Irish sophomore defense-man Shayne Taker’s rebound. Costello returned to the line-up after missing the previous sev­en games, five of which were Notre Dame losses. 
“It was something to look forward to,” Costello said. “There’s nothing like getting back on the ice in front of your home crowd for your first game back.” 
The goal gave Notre Dame its first lead since Feb. 4, when the Irish couldn’t hold a third pe­riod lead in a 3-2 loss to Bowl­ing Green. 
Summerhays came up big again in the second period, when he stopped a two-on­one Michigan State opportu­nity. Spartans freshman center Brent Darnell sent a pass over to junior left wing Kevin Wal­rod, who one-timed the puck on net. Summerhays dove back to the left and made a sprawl­ing stop with his stick. 
Notre Dame struck again when freshman right wing Pe­ter Scheider roofed a pass from junior left wing Kevin Nugent past Spartan goaltender soph­omore Will Yanakeff. Yanakeff misplayed the puck into the boards, and Nugent found Schneider streaking down the middle of the ice to give the Irish a 2-0 lead. 
It was the first even strength goal for Notre Dame in more than 363 minutes of play and the first since Feb. 3. 
On Saturday night, Jackson elected to start Irish junior goaltender Mike Johnson in­stead of the hot Summerhays. 
“I told [Johnson] he was play­ing Thursday,” Jackson said. “I told Summerhays and Johnson together I was going to play one one night and the other the next night.” 
Johnson collected 15 saves on the night, but the Irish fell 4-2. 
Lee put the Irish up 1-0 when he capitalized on a Michigan State penalty 4:37 through the first period, scoring his sev­enth power play goal of the year. Irish senior center Billy Maday earned an assist on the play, his 100th career point in a Notre Dame uniform. 
“I was conscious of [scoring my 100th point], but I would trade it for a win,” Maday said. 
Spartan junior left wing Kev­in Walrod struck for Michigan State with less than three min­utes left in the first period. The Spartans (19-13-4, 14-11-3-2) caught Notre Dame changing lines and short a defenseman and took advantage with their first goal of the weekend, beat­ing Johnson glove-side. 
Irish sophomore center T.J. Tynan tallied his 13th goal of the year at 10:57 of the second period. Tynan, with the Irish shorthanded, forced a turnover in the Spartan defensive zone and punched a backhand past Yanakeff. 
Saturday’s game marked the first time since Nov. 12 that Tynan and Lee, Notre Dame’s top two scorers, scored in the same game. 
Michigan State responded with a short-handed goal of their own when Forfar trailed an odd-man rush and banged the tying goal past Johnson. Later in the period, Spartans junior defenseman Torey Krug, the CCHA’s top scoring defen­seman, blasted a shot from the point to push Michigan State ahead, 3-2. 
“We shot ourselves in the foot a couple times tonight,” Jackson said after Saturday’s game. 
The Spartans added an in­surance goal from junior left wing Dean Chelios in the third period to open up a two-goal advantage. 
“This is what you wait for all season long . to play in the play­offs,” Jackson said. “We [have to] take care of business next week, nothing else matters.” 
Notre Dame and Ohio State will square off in a best two-of­three playoff series beginning Friday at the Compton Family Ice Arena. 
Contact Matthew DeFranks at mdefrank@nd.edu 


Monday, February 27, 2012 The Observer u toDay ndsmcobserver.com | page 19 
CROSSWORD WILL SHORTz 
HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 



HENRy ARNOLD 

CLAMMY HANDSHAKE JOE MILLER and KELLy LyNCH 
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 






Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556

 Enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year


 Enclosed
 is $75 for one semester 


Name ____________________________________________________ Address __________________________________________________ City ____________________ State___________ Zip______________ 

Monday, February 27, 2011 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 20 
MEN’S BASKETBALL 

Stormy skies 
Loss to St. John’s snaps Notre Dame’s nine-game winning streak 
By ANDREW GASTELUM 
Sports Writer 
On Wednesday, the Irish set the school record for consecu­tive Big East wins with nine. By Saturday, the streak was over. 
No. 18 Notre Dame (20-9, 12-4 Big East) rallied from a 14-point deficit midway through the sec­ond half, but couldn’t survive 4-for-31 shooting from beyond the arc and clutch finishing from St. John’s in a 61-58 loss at Madison Square Garden. 
“Well I think [St. John’s] de­fense really bothered us,” Irish coach Mike Brey said. “We didn’t really shoot it well, and you have got to give their de­fense credit. They rushed us a little bit … I love our group. We fought back and gave ourselves a chance. But our start and our energy level wasn’t as high as it needed to be.” 
The Irish never led in the game, but came within one with 44 seconds left following a layup by senior forward Scott Martin off a designed inbound play. But the Red Storm (13-16, 6-10) displayed some heroics of their own, as freshman forward Amir Garrett wove his way through three Irish defenders and threw up an acrobatic shot that put St. John’s up by three with nine seconds left. 
Despite having one timeout left, Notre Dame chose to in­bound the ball to sophomore guard Jerian Grant, who threw a cross-court pass to sophomore guard Eric Atkins at the three-point line. Atkins passed up the open 3-pointer and found soph­omore guard Alex Dragicevich in front of the Irish bench. But Dragicevich’s potential game-tying 3-pointer bounced off the side of the rim as the buzzer ex­pired, and St. John’s celebrated its first win over a ranked op­ponent this season. 
“For us, I thought maybe we had one or two in us there at the end because we had some great looks the last seven min­utes,” Brey said.  “We had some guys we wanted to step up and 
see BREY/page 18 
HOCKEY 
Summerhays posts first ND shutout in two years 


By MATTHEW DeFRANKS 
Sports Writer 
Just when it seemed like No. 18 Notre Dame had finally scrapped its recent struggles following a 2-0 win over No. 13 Michigan State on Friday, the Irish dropped a 4-2 deci­sion to the Spartans on Satur­day night, marking the team’s sixth loss in seven games. 
With the split over the week­end, the Irish (17-16-3, 12-13­3-0 CCHA) will host No. 17 Ohio State next weekend in the first round of the CCHA play­offs. 
“I’m glad we’re getting a chance to play at home,” Jack­son said. “It gives you the op­portunity to play in front of your own fans. Our crowds have been great. There’s an advantage to playing at home, and we need to take advantage of it.” 
On Friday night, Irish sopho­more goaltender Steven Sum­merhays earned the start be­tween the pipes and posted the first Notre Dame shutout in more than two years in the 2-0 victory. 
Less than 15 seconds af­ter Irish sophomore left wing Anders Lee hit the post on a shot, Spartans junior left wing Chris Forfar forced an Irish turnover in the neutral zone and created a breakaway op­portunity. Summerhays was 
see SPARTANS/page 18 
MEN’S LACROSSE 
Penn St. stuns Irish with goal in overtime 
By MATTHEW ROBISON 
Sports Writer 
No. 2 Notre Dame let No. 20 Penn State earn an upset vic­tory Sunday at Notre Dame’s Arlotta Stadium, as the Nittany Lions scored the game-win­ning goal in the final seconds of overtime to claim a 4-3 victory. 
“At the end of the day peo­ple have to make plays,” Irish coach Kevin Corrigan said. “We didn’t make enough plays to win today. We had our op­portunities.” 
The Irish started strong and got on the board first with a goal by junior midfielder Quinn Cully, The first goal of Cully’s career came off an assist from sophomore attackman Westy Hopkins. 
Junior midfielder Ryan Foley had the other two goals, the first with 11:22 left in the first half while the Nittany Lions remained scoreless. But Penn State put two on the board be­fore the break. 
After Penn State took its first lead of the night, Foley scored again to even the score with just over three minutes left be­fore the end of regulation. 
In overtime, both teams had a shot at winning. After a save by junior goaltender John Kemp, it looked like the Irish would have the final shot of the 
see LIONS/page 18 
BASEBALL 

Slania leads Notre Dame to sweep over Hofstra 
By BRENDAN BELL 
Sports Writer 
Sophomore right-handed pitcher Dan Slania earned three saves over the weekend as Notre Dame swept Hofstra at the USA Baseball Complex in Cary, N.C., on its way to the best start to an Irish season since 2004. 
The Irish (5-1, 0-0 Big East) played a double-header Sat­urday against the Pride (1-6), where they won the two games 6-3 and 10-8, respectively. Notre Dame completed the sweep Sunday, holding off a late Hofstra rally to earn a 5-4 vic­tory. 
Irish coach Mik Aoki said the team’s fast start is a great springboard for the rest of the season. 
“I think this gives us a little bit of confidence going for­ward,” he said. “It is great to see that the hard work the players have been putting in since August is being tangibly awarded and it is great to have some success early on.” 
Notre Dame thrived at the plate, consistently making con­tact. With the exception of Sun­day’s game, the Irish have re­corded double-digit hits every game this season. 
see AOKI/page 16 

ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 
Squad tops USF, clinches share of title 
By MOLLY SAMMON 
Sports Writer 
When Irish senior guard Natalie Novosel made a 3-point shot on the first play of Notre Dame’s 80-68 win over USF on Saturday, it was clear she was on her offen­sive game. 29 points and 
39:53 later, Novosel finished with a career-high 32 points, very fitting for senior night, and led the Irish to clinching not only a share of Big East regular season title, but also the No. 1 seed for the confer­ence tournament. 
“It was nice to have a great shooting day in our last game at home,” Novosel said. “I was lucky to make a shot ear-
see NOVOSEL/page 16 







