The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com 

page 2 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u IRISH INSIDER Friday, March 23, 2012 
COMMENTARY 


Irish ready to reach consecutive Final Fours 
Six points. That is how close Notre Dame came to winning a national championship last sea­son. Six points. The Irish did the seemingly impossible: They knocked off both Tennessee and Connecticut in consecutive games to advance to the national champion­ship game. Forty minutes of basketball against Texas A&M was all that remained between Notre Dame and a title. 
But the Irish fell short. Six points. Undoubtedly, the loss haunts coach Muffet McGraw and the Irish. But it has only made them hungrier. One only has to look at the fire in the eyes of Skylar Diggins as she drives to the basket, the con­centration on Natalie Novosel’s face as she slashes for a run­ning jumper or the look of fury on Devereaux Peters’ face as she gobbles up rebound after offensive rebound. 
This Notre Dame team looks ready. The Irish have already knocked off Tennessee, they have already beaten Connecti­cut twice, and the only blem­ishes on their record so far are a loss to undefeated No. 1 Baylor, a surprising home upset at the hands of West Virginia and a disappointing loss to the Huskies in the Big East champi­onship game. 
The road to the national championship continues in Raleigh this weekend. In their first two games of the NCAA tournament, the Irish have dominated three of four halves of basketball. California man­aged to keep it tied through the first half of the second round matchup, but Notre Dame took control in the second. The electricity of the crowd in the Purcell Pavilion on Sunday and Tuesday nights was palpable. Indeed, McGraw picked up the public address announcer’s microphone after the game, telling the crowd there was no way Notre Dame would have won without that support. 
The best news for Irish fans is that trips to the Final Four have become what are expect­ed for Notre Dame. McGraw has built a tradition of excellence that accepts nothing less than runs at national championships every year. She got her first in 2001 with Ring of Honor resi­dent Ruth Reilly and current assistant coach Niele Ivey. This year, it seems as though she has all the pieces again. 

The Irish have arguably the best player in the nation in Dig-gins, a Naismith Award final­ist. They have a dominant post player in Peters. They have a lockdown defender in Brittany Mallory. They have a pure scor­er in Novosel, and they have a strong all-around, young player in Kayla McBride. They are deep off the bench and they play good team defense. 
For those reasons and more, for the Irish not to make it out of Raleigh with a ticket to the Final Four would be nothing less than disappointing. On top of holding the No. 1 seed in the bracket, the Irish have a favor­able draw. It may be demand­ing a lot, but it is not demand­ing too much. 
Should the Irish beat No. 5 St. Bonaventure in the regional semifinal, the possibility of a rematch with Texas A&M awaits. The No. 2 seed is Mary­land, the ACC champion. Losing to any of those teams would be unacceptable with the degree of excellence McGraw demands. 
The future is certainly bright for Notre Dame, but the present is just as brilliant. 
Every year, the challenge of winning a national cham­pionship will get harder. The parity that was once lacking in collegiate women’s basketball is developing. One game in particular points to that trend. In the Des Moines bracket, No. 11 Kansas knocked off No. 3 Delaware. That points to parity for two reasons: Delaware, a mid-major team, locked up a No. 3 seed in the bracket, and Kansas advanced to the Sweet Sixteen as a No. 11 seed. 
Women’s basketball is becoming a more dynamic game. In that respect, there is no better time for Notre Dame to capitalize and take home another national title. 
It’s Denver or bust. The time is now. 
Contact Matthew Robison at mrobison@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 



Bonnies stand in way of Elite Eight 
By MOLLY SAMMON 
Senior Sports Writer 
Top-seeded Notre Dame knows the routine of Sweet 16 competition well, as this week­end’s regional semifinal in Ra­leigh, N.C. is its third appear­ance in three years this far in the tournament. But its next opponent, fifth-seeded St. Bo­naventure, is a new challenge for the Irish. 
“[The Sweet 16] is where we expect to be every year, and now from here on out anything can happen,” Irish coach Muffet McGraw said. 
Not only is this year the Bon­nies’ first time to compete at the regional semifinal level, this is the first year they have qualified for the national tournament. 
“I think they are a team that you look and you have not heard a lot about them, so it is easy to look past them and think that we are just going to concentrate on the next game,” McGraw said. “But this is a really good team. They’re number one in the nation in turnover margin, they do not turn the ball over and they shoot it really well. They have the No. 1 three-point shooter in the country.” 
The Irish and Bonnies share an identical 31-1 record heading into their third round match-up. The Irish finished the season at No. 4 with losses to top-ranked Baylor and Big East opponents Connecticut and West Virginia. St. Bonaventure fell to Dela­ware, Villanova and Dayton twice, once in the regular sea­son and in the Atlantic-10 con­ference tournament final. 
“We beat three No. 2 seeds in the tournament, and we beat a No. 1 seed twice, so for us, I think we are playing the level of competition that we are used to,” McGraw said. “But for them, they are very similar to us in that they are a veteran team. They have juniors and seniors on the starting line-up, they have played together for three or four years, they really know each other well, they don’t turn the ball over, take care of the little things and pay attention to the details.” 
The Irish will depend on the defensive aid of graduate stu­dent forward Devereaux Peters, who averaged 12.3 rebounds and 3.4 blocks per game in 2012. 
“They are very good 3-point shooting team, they’re very ath­letic, they move the ball really well and they do not cause a lot of turnovers, so it is going to be a good test for us really defen­sively,” Peters said. 
Peters said that St. Bonaven­ture’s way of structuring an out­side offensive strategy looks like what she is used to seeing inside the Big East. 
“I’m just going to play outside a little bit more, and definitely on offense we’re going to look in because they’re more of a guard-oriented team,” Peters said. “We’re going to look in a little more. I just have to play guards, which helps a little bit because I am usually trying to usually play that in the Big East. Teams like Villanova that play a lot of side offense with a lot of guards. It shouldn’t be that big of a difference for us.” 
The Irish played their first two rounds of the NCAA tournament at the Purcell Pavilion, and the trip to Raleigh starts what really feel like a tournament, McGraw said. 
“It has a tournament feel when you’re traveling and you get to have the team to yourself, watch a lot more film and do a lot more things with them,” Mc­Graw said. 
At home, Notre Dame beat Liberty 74-43 in the first round. In its second game of the tour­nament, eighth-seeded Califor­nia was tied with the Irish at halftime, but Notre Dame took off on a 10-2 run at the begin­ning of the second half for a 72­63 victory. Irish senior guard Natalie Novosel finished with 28 points against the Golden Bears. 
“After the game, I really liked that we had a really tough game going into it, I was really wor­ried about that, thinking they were under-seeded, and it was going to be a really good game,” McGraw said. “But now that we’ve had that experience, I think we really needed it. 
St. Bonaventure rides the ex­citement of its first time at the Sweet 16 on the two nail-biting games that helped them reach this point. First, the Bonnies topped Florida Gulf Coast in overtime 72-65 followed by a 66-63 win over Marist after a failed attempt from the Red Foxes to tie the game before the buzzer. 
The competition on the court is not the only matchup between Notre Dame and St. Bonaven­ture. Bonnies’ coach Jim Craw­ley and McGraw are both final­ists for the Naismith Women’s Coach of the Year. 
McGraw said junior guard Skylar Diggins wears many hats while on the court and is critical to Notre Dame’s success on both ends of the floor. 
“[Skylar is] just doing what­ever we need her to do. She had nine rebounds in the first game, scored 20 points in the second, so she’s really ready,” McGraw said. “She wants to score, she wants to help us win, and if that means she needs to score, she’ll do it. She’s comfortable getting the assist, getting good steal, playing good defense, she’ll do a little bit of everything. 
“The big stage is the big place for her. She really plays well as the competition steps up.” 
A win against the Bonnies would advance the Irish to face the winner of second-seeded Maryland and third-seeded Tex­as A&M in the elite eight, each an underdog to Notre Dame’s place atop the regional. 
“This time we’re the No. 1 seed, and I think that puts a lit­tle different look on it,” McGraw said. “I think that there is maybe a little more pressure on us, but we’re trying really not to think about that. We’re trying really just to focus on St. Bonaventure. That’s the big game for us.” 
The Irish will play the Bon­nies in the Sweet 16 round of the NCAA tournament at PNC Are­na in Raleigh, N.C. at 2:30 p.m. Sunday. A win qualifies them for the Elite Eight portion of the na­tional tournament, where they will play the winner of second-seeded Maryland and third-seeded Texas A&M on Tuesday at the same location. 

Contact Molly Sammon at msammon@nd.edu 


Friday, March 23, 2012 The Observer u IRISH INSIDER ndsmcobserver.com | page 3 



Getting ‘Nasty’ 
Irish senior guard’s tough demeanor, scoring prowess power Notre Dame into Sweet Sixteen 
By JOSEPH MONARDO 
Sports Writer 
Whatever it takes, Natalie Novosel is willing to do it. 
The senior guard can drain jumpers, make the right pass, slash to the basket and finish at the rim. And she does it all with regularity. 
After pedestrian freshman and sophomore seasons, No­vosel emerged as one of the nation’s best players as a ju­nior. In the 2010-2011 sea­son, Novosel started all 39 games for the Irish, improving her previous season’s aver­age of five points per game to a team-leading 15.1. Novosel reached double-digit scoring totals in 33 games as a ju­nior after reaching the mark only 19 times total her first two seasons and posted seven 20-point performances and made a school-record 183 free throws. 
Following her stellar third year, Novosel received an invi­tation to compete in the World University Games alongside Irish junior guard Skylar Dig-gins and graduate student for-game. 
“Nat’s been amazing,” Pe­ters said. “She has been a huge offensive threat for us … it has been great for us because whenever we really need a basket and we have been going through a drought or things haven’t been falling, we can always count on Nat to get to the basket and get a la­yup and get to the line, so she has been great for us and she has grown a lot in the past two years.” 
Having grown into a leader on the score sheet, Novosel eased into a position of lead­ership on the team naturally, she said. 
“I think I am a leader by ex­ample,” the senior said. “They always tell me that I work the hardest and make the hustle plays — I think everybody [on this team] does that. But I think that just being an ex­ample on the court and always giving 100 percent [makes me a leader].” 
Novosel exhibited her lead­ership ability multiple times this season, most notably by netting a game-win­ning buzzer 


ward De­vereaux Pe­ters. “That just gave me a lot of con­fidence, to  “I don’t really think anybody can guard her ... She is very deceptive with her game and her moves and the way she slashes to the baskets  beater against No. 7 Duke to capture the Junkaroo Jam title in the Bahamas on Nov. 26. No- 
know that I was one of  and gets around people.”  vosel shot just 6-of-20 from  
the premier players in the nation  Devereaux Peters Irish graduate student forward  the field for the game, in­cluding 1-of-10  
and to have  shooting in the  
Dev and Sky  first half,  but  
on the same  finished  with  
team,”  No­ 15 points and  

vosel said. “That’s three play-propelled the Irish to victory ers on one team, we were able with her jump shot as time ex-to just come back and [it] just pired. kind of [motivated] us and However, for the native of [showed] us what we can do Lexington, Ky., another game this year, and I think that was provided the top memory from really exciting.” this season. 
In her final season, Novosel “I would say, definitely, the has not experienced any drop-Kentucky game — avenging off from her breakout cam-last year’s loss [was the high­paign last year. The guard is light],” she said. “And then, averaging 15.3 points, four my buzzer-beater in the Baha­rebounds and two assists per mas, that was really fun.” 

In Notre Dame’s 92-83 vic­tory over then-No. 7 Kentucky on Dec. 18 at Purcell Pavilion, Novosel scored 23 points and grabbed seven rebounds to help the Irish avenge a loss to the Wildcats during the 2010 season. 
“It was a great win for me,” Novosel said after that con­test. “I thanked every one of [my teammates]. I’m just re­ally happy; it felt really good to get that win and a little re­venge.” 
Much of Novosel’s success is a product of her versa-most ever made in an NCAA tournament game. The game’s leading scorer also brought down nine rebounds and re­corded four steals on the night. 
Novosel’s 84.5 percent shoot­ing from the stripe this year is a product of a simple concept, she said. 
“Repetition,” Novosel said. “[I am] in the gym always just shooting the same shot at the free throw line and making sure I see the ball go in.” 
Even when she is not able to draw a foul, Novosel’s ability 
to penetrate 
the lane cre­
tility, Peters said. Able to score from inside and  “I think I am a leader by example ... They always tell me that I work the hardest and  ates other opportunities for the Irish offense, Pe­ 
out, the se­nior guard presents a s i g n i f i c a n t challenge to opposing de­fenses. “I don’t re­ally think  make the hustle plays — I think everybody [on this team] does that. But I think that just being an example on the court and always giving 100 percent [make me a leader].”  ters said. “Especially when [she drives] to the paint — if she drives past s o m e bod y , somebody has to pick her  
a n yb o dy  up,  and  it  is  
can  guard  Natalie Novosel  usually  the  
her,”said.  Peters  “She is  Irish senior guard  person that is on the block,  
very  decep­ which is my  
tive with her  man,”  she  

game and her moves and the said. “So that opens up a lot of way she slashes to the baskets possessions for me to either get and gets around people.” offensive rebounds or for her 
However, when her jumpers to dish it off to me, or whatever are not falling or she is unable it may be at the time.” to find an open shot, Novosel While Novosel takes pride turns to the aspect of her game in her ability to get to the foul that most closely corresponds line and draw fouls on oppo­to her nickname: “Nasty.” nents, she found herself on The 5-foot-11 guard has the the wrong side of that process speed to attack the basket and during the most important the strength to finish layups game of her career. while absorbing contact, often In the national semifinal drawing a foul in the process. game last year, Novosel helped 
“I think [having an inside to guide the second-seeded game] is huge for me, because Irish to the national champi­when my outside shots aren’t onship game with 22 points falling and I can get confi-in a 72-63 victory over top­dence at the free throw line, I seeded Connecticut. Novosel think that is what is most im-drilled a 3- pointer with 7:38 portant,” she said. “Also, get-remaining in the game to open ting the other players in foul up a 12-point lead for the Irish trouble so we can open up oth-as they held on for their first er people, I think that is key.” win against the Huskies in 
In Sunday’s 73-62 win over four tries. California in the second round However, in the final against of the NCAA tournament, No-No. 2 seed Texas A&M, Novosel vosel powered the Irish of-spent much of the first half on fense with 28 points, in large the bench with two fouls and part by making 18-of-20 shots only managed six points in from the free-throw line, the eight minutes on the court. For the game, Novosel contributed 14 points and four rebounds in 27 minutes as the Irish fell 76­70 to the Aggies. 
“It was really tough because I had not been in foul trouble all year,” Novosel said. “It is all about how you respond in the second half and not getting down on yourself and keeping your confidence up and not trying to gain it all back in the first few minutes of the second half. I think [from now on], just once I get that first foul in the first 10 minutes, just back off a little bit and let my team­mates help me.” 
Novosel will try to be there for the Irish when it matters this year as they head into the Sweet 16 and potentially be­yond. 
With at most four games remaining in the season, No­vosel approaches the end of what has been an impressive career. In a 99-34 win over Indiana State during the Pre­season WNIT at Purcell Pa­vilion, Novosel became just the 29th Irish player to reach 1,000 points in a career (Pe­ters became the 30th on Dec. 28, joining Novosel and ju­nior guard Skylar Diggins on the list). Another individual achievement is within the an­thropology major’s grasp, as she is one of 10 finalists select­ed for the Lowe’s Senior Class Award in women’s basketball. 
“It is just really humbling [to be considered],” Novosel said. “To be honest, every rep in the summer, all those sprints, all those community service hours, it is just nice to be rec­ognized.” 
The award winner will be announced during the Final Four in Denver, held from April 1-3, but Novosel hopes to be busy preparing for the national championship game about that time. The senior will approach the final games in her career with the same attitude that has accompanied her all along, and she is will­ing to do anything to accom­plish her goal. 
“Win. I don’t even care how we do it, I just want to win,” she said. 

Contact Joseph Monardo at jmonardo@nd.edu 

page 4 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u IRISH INSIDER Friday, March 23, 2012 




PAT COVENEY/The Observer 
PAT COVENEY/The Observer 

Clockwise from top left: Irish graduate-student forward Devereaux Peters goes for a layup during a 73-62 win over California on March 20; the Irish huddle before their win over California; sophomore forward Natalie Achonwa battles in the paint against Cal; senior guard Natalie Novosel drives during Notre Dame’s victory over the Bears. 
No. 2 Maryland (30-4, 
12-4 ACC) 

Round Two: No. 1 Notre 
Dame 73, No. 8 California Possible Elite 8 matchup 
62 Second-seeded Maryland 
passed through the first 
Irish coach Muffet McGraw round of the tournament 
said she was worried the with ease, topping Navy 
Bears were underseeded, by a score of 59-44. They 
and her fears were war-struggled in the second 
ranted. California chal-round, as seventh-seeded 
lenged the Irish throughout Louisville held a five-point 
the game, led by junior lead, before a Terrapin 
guard Layshia Claren-13-4 run earned them 
don’s 17 points. The teams a 72-68 win. Maryland 
entered halftime locked No. 5 Saint Bonaventure opened the season with a 
at 31, but the Irish began (31-3, 14-0 Atlantic-10) 16-game win streak and 
the second half on a 10-2 finished 25-4 overall, with 
run. 10 second-half steals Sweet 16 matchup an ACC championship and 
helped the Irish get out in Not only is this the fifth-No. 6 ranking. They lost to 
transition and stifle the seeded Bonnies’ first time Duke, Virginia Tech and 
California offense. Novosel in the Sweet 16, it is their twice to Miami during the 
scored 28 points on the first-ever appearance in regular season. 
night, Diggins added 21 the national tournament. 
and Peters had a career-Though they far sur­
high seven blocks to go passed their season goal of No. 3 Texas A&M (24-10, 
with her 11 points and 17 qualifying for the tourna-11-7 Big 12) Round One: No. 1 Notre 
rebounds. ment, it was not easy for Dame 74, No. 16 Liberty them to get there. In the Possible Elite 8 matchup 43 first round, St. Bonaven-The Irish have a chance to 
ture outperformed Florida meet the defending nation-The Irish began the game Gulf Coast in overtime for al champions in the Elite on an 11-0 run and cruised a 72-65 victory in which Eight, the same Aggies to victory in their tourna-they erased an 11-point they fell to by six points in ment-opener against Lib-hole with six minutes to last season’s champion­erty. McBride led the Irish play. Next, St. Bonaventure ship. Third-seeded Texas with 15 points, 13 in the barely snuck by Marist to A&M pushed Albany out first half, in her first-ever qualify for the Sweet 16 in the first round by 22 NCAA tournament game. when a long 3-point at-points, then almost fell to Novosel and Peters each tempt by the Foxes fell flat sixth-seeded Arkansas. scored in double figures, and the Bonnies won 66-The Aggies were saved by a and Diggins filled the score 63. In the regular season, pair of free throws, giving sheet with seven points, the Bonnies’ went 31-3, them a two-point win. In nine rebounds and six as-highlighted by an 18-game the regular season, Texas sists. win streak and climbed to A&M topped out at No. 6 at 

a No. 19 ranking. the beginning of the sea­
son, slowly dropping to No. 
14 at the end with a 24-10 


record. 







