
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


Army ROTC cadets take to the field for training 
Sophomores and freshmen spend weekend running combat simulation drills at Culver Military Academy 
By DAN BROMBACH ver, Ind. iszewski said. “It gives them take charge of a squad, of a work on,’” Waliszewski said. News Writer “It was a culmination point some really good experience, platoon, to take control of Senior NDFTX primary or-
of our learning so far,” Be-a chance to step up and fi-another group of people and ganizer Joshua Sandler said 
For sophomores in Notre dard said.  “We basically took nally be the one issuing the have confidence.” the weekend’s training was Dame’s ROTC program, the everything we had learned orders.” As a senior evaluator, Wal-meant to challenge young ca-annual spring Notre Dame up to that point and put it to Bedard said the NDFTX iszewski said it was exciting dets and push them to their Field Training Exercise the test in a real-world atmo-weekend plays a significant to watch and provide feed-limits, but not be so difficult (NDFTX) leadership week-sphere.” part in preparing sophomores back as the sophomores grew as to set anybody up to fail. end is a formative and excit-Senior Trevor Waliszewski for their upcoming duties as into their leadership roles Bedard said some of the ing opportunity to apply their said the event is crucial, be-ROTC upperclassmen. over the course of the week-participants, although ex-extensive training outside the cause it gives sophomores an “The event really serves end. cited, feared judgment before confines of the classroom. invaluable taste of what it to get us sophomores ready “It was great to watch soph-the weekend. But this fear 
Sophomore Pat Bedard said will be like to assume a true for next year, where we’ll be omores really step up and quickly turned to assured-ROTC members applied their leadership role. responsible for controlling prove they had some leader-ness as the event progressed, knowledge in a real-world en-“For the sophomores, the upcoming freshman and ship skills, and also to sit he said. vironment at this weekend’s [NDFTX] is basically their sophomores,” he said.  “It’s back and be able to help, to “Everybody was nervous training exercises at the Cul-first opportunity to be in a about getting first-hand ex-say ‘You can do this better’ ver Military Academy in Cul-leadership position,” Wal-perience, about learning to or ‘Here’s something you can see NDFTX/page 5 

Activist shares story of poverty 
By KRISTEN DURBIN 
News Editor 
Author, activist and scholar Willie Baptist highlighted the serious challenges America faces in the fight against pov­erty and homelessness when he shared his personal expe­riences with poverty during a Monday discussion. 
The Higgins Labor Studies Program sponsored the talk, which was held in Geddes Hall. 
In his introduction of Bap­tist, John Wessel-McCoy, an organizer for the Poverty Ini­tiative and Poverty Scholars program at New York City’s Union Theological Seminary, said the program’s mission “came out of the great his­tory of organizing what Willie Baptist embodies.” 
“[The Poverty Initiative] is dedicated to raising up gen­erations of religious and com­munity leaders committed to building a social movement to end poverty led by the poor,” Wessel-McCoy said. “We don’t want to make it kinder, gen­tler or slightly better. We want to end it.” 
Wessel-McCoy said mobiliz­ing the poor to fight systemic causes of poverty is crucial to American social progress and the elimination of the grow­ing wealth gap. 
“We have the productive capacity and means to … lift the load of poverty, and the 

see POVERTY/page 5 



Engineers compete nationally 

By TORI ROECK 
News Writer 
Fifteen aerospace engi­neering students traveled to Wichita, Kan., this weekend to test a remote-controlled model airplane they de­signed in the American In­stitute of Aeronautics and Astronautics Design/Build/ Fly Competition. 
Junior Greg Obee said each team in the competition submitted a report outlining the design of its plane, and then tested the plane oppo­site other teams’ aircraft in three “missions.” 
“This year, the three mis­sions were a speed-based mission to complete as many laps of a course as possible in a set timeframe,” Obee said. “Mission Two was to carry eight simulated pas­sengers in the aircraft … 
Then Mission Three was to carry two liters of water up to an altitude of 100 meters, and then drop it at 100 me­ters automatically.” 
Junior Matthew Kudija said the competition was cut short due to dangerous weather before the Notre Dame team could complete all three missions. 
“There was a tornado Sat­urday night that caused the competition to be cancelled [Sunday], a day early,” Kudi­ja said. “We flew Mission One and successfully com­pleted it. We flew Mission Two, and due to a power fail­ure, landed off the runway and therefore did not receive a score for it. Then we were unable to reattempt Mission Two and to attempt Mission Three, because it was can-celled on Sunday.” 
Despite not finishing the competition, Kudija said the Notre Dame team, com­prised of aerospace engi­neering majors ranging from freshmen to seniors, fared well in the standings. 

Out of 68 reports describ­ing how the planes were designed, the Notre Dame team’s report tied for third place. He said its airplane was ranked 20th in mission performance when the com­petition was halted. 
“Our plane was definitely more stable and one of the best flying planes there,” he said. 
Obee said the team faced stiff competition, because the event involved interna­tional teams from Turkey, Israel and Italy, as well as teams from other Ameri­can universities. Most of 

see FLY/page 5 


Fr. Kollman appointed CSC director 
Observer Staff Report 
Fr. Paul V. Kollman, associ­ate professor of theology, has been appointed executive di­rector of Notre Dame’s Center for Social Concerns (CSC), ef­fective July 1, the University announced Monday in a press release. 
Kollman succeeds Fr. Bill Lies, who was recently named vice president for mission en­gagement and church affairs. The CSC was designated a University instit ute under Lies’ leadership. 
“I’m hum­bled and honored to be asked to lead the Center for Social Con­cerns,” Kollman said in the press release. “I look forward to building on the vision of my predecessors, Center founder Fr. Don McNeill and Fr. Bill Lies, and working with the host of talented and committed colleagues who have made the Center a vibrant place of en­gaged scholarship and service learning. I’m confident that to­gether we can deepen the Cen­ter’s role in bringing together education of mind and heart, a goal long central to the mission of the Congregation of Holy Cross and of Notre Dame.” 
Kollman, who spent this se­


see CSC/page 3 


INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER Student founds Haitian non-profit page 3 u Viewpoint page 6 u Chilean film festival page 9 u Men’s lacrosse midfielder Liam O’Connor page 16 
page 2 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u DAY-TO-DAY Tuesday, April 17, 2012 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT ARE YOU MOST EXCITED FOR THIS WEEKEND? 

www.ndsmcobserver.com P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 Editor-in-Chief Allan Joseph Managing Editor Business Manager Megan Doyle Jeff Liptak Asst. Managing Editor: Andrew Owens Asst. Managing Editor: Sam Stryker News Editor: Kristen Durbin Viewpoint Editor: Meghan Thomassen Sports Editor: Chris Allen Scene Editor: Kevin Noonan Saint Mary’s Editor: Jillian Barwick Photo Editor: Suzanna Pratt Graphics Editor: Brandon Keelean Advertising Manager: Katherine Lukas Ad Design Manager: Amanda Jonovski Controller: Jason Taulman Systems Administrator: William Heineman Office Manager & General Info (574) 631-7471 Fax (574) 631-6927 Advertising (574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu Editor-in-Chief (574) 631-4542 ajoseph2@nd.edu Managing Editor (574) 631-4542 mdoyle11@nd.edu Assistant Managing Editors (574) 631-4541 aowens2@nd.edu, sstryke1@nd.edu Business Office (574) 631-5313 News Desk (574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com Viewpoint Desk (574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com Sports Desk (574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com Scene Desk (574) 631-4540 knoonan2@nd.edu Saint Mary’s Desk jbarwi01@saintmarys.edu Photo Desk (574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com Systems & Web Administrators (574) 631-8839 Policies The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College.  Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Allan Joseph. Post Office Information The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 and additional mailing offices 024 South Dining hall Notre Dame, IN 46556-077 The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved.  
TODAY’S STAFF News Sports Marisa Iati Matthew Robison Christian Myers Victoria Jacobsen Adam Llorens Isaac Lorton Graphics Scene Lauren Kalinoski Kevin Noonan Photo Viewpoint Ashley Dacy Meghan Thomassen  
CORRECTIONS The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so we can correct our error.  
HIGH 59 LOW 50 



Aaron Contreras  Andrew Blonigan  Lindsay  Clayton Smith  Hope Dubuque  Mia Counts  
McSweeney  
junior  sophomore  sophomore  sophomore  sophomore  sophomore  
Knott  St. Edwards  Breen-Phillips  St. Edwards  Breen-Phillips  Pasquerilla East  
“Pigtostal.”  “Getting  “Pigtostal.”  “Eating healthy.”  “Pigtostal.”  “Squirrel  
stronger.”  catching.”  


Have an idea for Question of the Day? Email obsphoto@gmail.com 


OFFBEAT 
Northern Spanish town buries former mayor killed in 1936 
MADRID — A Spanish mayor says her northern town held an official buri­al ceremony for one of her predecessors and three other townsfolk after their bodies were found in an un­marked dump dating from the country’s civil war. 
Pilar Perez, who presides over the town council of Torrellas, says the bodies were discovered and ex­humed in October 2010. DNA analysis revealed they were those of former mayor Gregorio Torres and resi­dents Luis Torres, Feliciano Lapuente and Marcelino Navarro. 
All four had been driven out of town and shot by forces loyal to Gen. Fran­cisco Franco in 1936 after the beginning of the war, which lasted until 1939. 

Relatives and around 200 residents attended a cer­emony at the town hall on Saturday before a formal burial in the town’s cem­etery. 
Burglar arrested in shower after champagne, meal 
JOSHUA TREE, Calif. — Police say a naked burglar has been arrested while taking a shower after he sipped champagne and ate a meal in a Southern Cali­fornia family’s home. 
San Bernardino County sheriff’s Sgt. Steve Wilson says 25-year-old Michael Calvert was arrested at gunpoint by deputies while he lathered up in the show­er Thursday night. 
KCDZ radio says that af­ter helping himself to a bottle of champagne and a meal, Calvert decided to take a shower in the Josh­ua Tree home. The Mojave Desert community is 130 miles east of downtown Los Angeles. 
The homeowners called 911 after returning home at 8:10 p.m. and hearing someone in the shower. 
Calvert was booked for investigation of residential burglary. He’s in jail with bail set at $25,000 and was not available for comment. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 


IN BRIEF 
Mauro Magatti, pro­fessor of sociology at the Catholic University of Mi­lan, will be giving a lunch­time talk from 12:30 to 
1:30p.m. at the Eck School of Law for all faculty and students. Lunch is free and available on a first come, first served basis. 
William A. Sirignano, professor of mechanical and aerospace engineering at the University of Cali-fornia-Irvine, will deliver a lecture titled “Turbine Burners: Flameholding in Accelerating Flow Over a Cavity” from 3:30 to 4:30 
p.m. at 138 DeBartolo Hall. 
Beatriz Roldan Cue­nya, associate professor of physics at the University of Central Florida, will deliv­er a lecture titled “Struc­ture, Chemical State, and Reactivity Investigations of Size- and Shape-se­lected Nanocatalysts un­der Operando Conditions” from 3:30 to 4:30 p.m. in 155 DeBartolo Hall. 
Amartya Sen, winner of the 1998 Nobel Prize in Economics, will deliver a lecture at the 18th Annu­al Rev. Theodore M. Hes-burgh, C.S.C., Lectures in Ethics and Public Poli­cy from 5:30 to 7 p.m. at Leighton Concert Hall at the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. Sen is known for his commitment to ad­dressing the challenges faced by the world’s poor­est people. The event is sold out. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews.nd@gmail.com 



LOCAL WEATHER 

TODAY TONIGHT WEDNESDAY THURSDAY FRIDAY SATURDAY 










HIGH 71 LOW 52 
HIGH 71 LOW 48 

HIGH 53 LOW 35 
HIGH 55 LOW 30 

Tuesday, April 17, 2012 The Observer u NEWS ndsmcobserver.com | page 3 




StudentfoundsHaitiannon-profit 
By CHARITHA ISANAKA 
News Writer 
When biology graduate stu­dent Victoria Lam traveled to Leogane, Haiti, through Notre Dame’s Haiti program last year, she returned with an idea for promoting sustainable develop­ment in the Caribbean nation. 
Lam said she began the non­profit organization Swell Cause, to help Haitians start their own businesses. 
“There is a perception of Haiti as being subsistent on aid,” she said. “However, in going there, it was obvious that the primary re­quests were not for food, clothes or money. Rather, people wanted jobs. I started Swell Cause be­cause I saw the need for long­term development and employ­ment.” 
Swell Cause aims “to provide the education, training, and sup­port needed for Haitians to start sustainable, scalable businesses, which will not only provide jobs for the region, but will highlight Haitian goods, services and nat­ural resources,” Lam said. 
Lam said she believes a sus­tainable livelihood is the longest-lasting assistance a person can receive. 
“Starting a program that pro­vides entrepreneurship and management education seemed like a logical way to give people the tools to succeed,” she said. 
Swell Cause will provide basic marketing, accounting, manage­ment and business plan classes, as well as skill-building work­shops, to Haitians trying to open businesses. 
A successful Haitian entrepre­neur will mentor each aspiring business owner in his or her field of interest. Lam said participants would also receive capital, such as raw materials, space, market­ing and facilitation of funding. 
Lam said she hopes to eventu­ally develop curricula and work­shops tailored to specific indus­tries, such as tourism, hospitality and retail. 
“I would like participants not only to have a formal education, but also additional skills that would help their business,” she said. 
Swell Cause receives support from social venture incubator Notre Dame’s Fellow Irish So­cial Hub and the Law School’s Community Development Proj­ect. Lam said Swell Cause also receives support from non-gov­ernmental organizations Surf Haiti and the Papaza Center for Handicapped Children. 

Lam said she wants to create employment and economic sta­bility in Jacmel, Haiti, by using surfing as a means of stimulat­ing tourism and long-term devel­opment. 
“We just had a Surf and So­cial Service event to introduce students to how surfing can be used as a means to lift people and communities up, and are currently trying to spread the word about our initiatives to gain some more momentum,” Lam said. 
Lam said she hopes to visit Haiti to better understand the community’s needs and discuss how to decrease regional eco­nomic deficits. 
“There may be glaring deficits in many areas of this country, but one thing they have an over­whelming stock of is resilience,” she said. 
Contact Charitha Isanaka at cisanaka@nd.edu 




SMC students fundraise for cystic fibrosis research 
By JILLIAN BARWICK 
Saint Mary’s Editor 
For five senior marketing majors at Saint Mary’s, picking a charity for a marketing man­agement class project was one of the easier tasks they have taken on this semester. 
As part of the class, stu­dents must create a fundrais­ing event for a charity of their choice. One group, composed of seniors Antonia Infante, Ashley Ward, Debbie Neal, Liz Leeuw and Jessica Vravis, chose the Cystic Fibrosis Foundation, be­cause the members have mul­tiple connections with the dis­ease. 
“My 18-year-old sister has cystic fibrosis (CF),” Leeuw said. “This is one of the reasons why we chose to raise money for CF and all of the families it affects.” 
Ward said the group chose to sell tickets to the South Bend Silver Hawks game scheduled for April 20 to target the South Bend community, especially children. 
“I remember when I was younger and our school would have a night where all the kids and families would come to ‘The Cove,’ or Coveleski Sta­dium, where the Silver Hawks play,” she said. “It was always a really fun time for everyone involved.” 
Ward said she babysits for a local two-year-old child with cystic fibrosis, and the boy’s grandfather purchased 50 tick­ets for his business. 
The group has sold more than 100 tickets in total, In­fante said, and if they sell 100 more, a guest of their choosing may throw the first pitch at the game. 
Vravis said the Silver Hawks made organizing the fundrais­er fairly simple. 
“When we were deciding on what type of event we wanted to hold, we realized that hav­ing a fundraiser for a current event would be the best route to take,” she said. “The Silver Hawks already participate in charity events, so this outlet was perfect for our cause.” 
Neal said the group created a Facebook page for their fun­draiser and hung posters and flyers around campus. They also sold tickets in the Student Center, she said. 
“We have also advertised for our event at Urban Swirl in Granger, [Ind.], and we were selling tickets at Sam’s Club all weekend,” Leeuw said. “In ad­dition to these advertisements, we have been handing out little bells for people to personalize that have a message about CF on them.” 
Ward said raising aware­ness of cystic fibrosis is impor­tant to the group, because it is not a well-known disease or a cause to which people often donate. 
“Research has come so far over the years, and it is all due to donations and people want­ing to help,” she said. 
Ninety cents of every dollar raised for the Cystic Fibrosis Foundation support research, Leeuw said. 
“We really want CF to get the awareness is deserves,” Leeuw said. “Let’s make CF stand for ‘Cure Found.’” 
Tickets are available to stu­dents, faculty and the greater community and cost $6 each. Do­nations are also accepted. Ticket orders can be sent to Leeuw at lleeuw01@saintmarys.edu by Wednesday at 5 p.m. 

Contact Jillian Barwick at jbarwi01@saintmarys.edu 

CSC 
continued from page 1 
mester teaching theology at Tangaza College in Nairobi, Kenya, was selected for his commitment to service in his experience as a teacher and administrator, Don Pope-Da­vis, vice president and associ­ate provost for undergraduate studies, said in the press re-
African Christianity, mission history and world Christian­ity. He has pursued research in eastern Africa, Nigeria, South Africa, Europe and the United States. He has pub­lished articles and reviews in several journals of theol­ogy, African studies and re­ligious studies, and authored the book “The Evangelization of Slaves and Catholic Origins in Eastern Af­rica.” He is cur­rently working on a book about 

lease. “Fr.man’s arship teaching,  Koll­schol­and  his  “I’m humbled and honored to be asked to lead the Center for Social Concerns.”  the Catholic m i s s i o n a r y evangelization of eastern Afri­ca and a study  
commitment  to  of the Catholic  
Catholic social  Fr. Paul Kollman  C h a r i s m at ic  
teaching and his administra­ professor of theology  MovementAfrica.   in  
tive experience  In  addition  
all  uniquely  to his commit- 
equip  him  for  ment  to  the  
leadership  of  CSC,  Kollman  

the Center for Social Con-serves as a fellow of three cerns,” Pope-Davis said. Notre Dame institutes: the 
Kollman has worked with Kellogg Institute for Interna­the Center since 2004, includ-tional Studies, the Kroc Insti­ing his recent tenure as its tute for International Peace acting director. In 2009, he Studies and the Nanovic Insti­and CSC assistant director tute for European Studies. Rachel Tomas Morgan co-au-A Cincinnati native and thored an article in the New 1984 Notre Dame alumnus, Theology Review on the chal-Kollman earned a master’s lenges and opportunities of degree in theology from the service-learning programs at University in 1990 and a doc-Catholic universities. toral degree from the Univer­
Kollman’s theological schol-sity of Chicago Divinity School arship and teaching involve in 2001. 


The Office of Undergraduate Admissions welcomes the following admitted students to campus as part of the 2012 
Alejandra Aranguren Guadalajara, Mexico Sofia Leal Guatemala City, Guatemala          Andre Archer Kingston, Jamaica Lucas Lima Sao Paulo, Brazil          Pablo Arguelles Cattori  Mexico City, Mexico          Leah Mackay South Africa          Ernesto Aveledo  Caracas, Venezuela
          Enrique Marquez Panama City, Panama
 Emily Belin Madrid, Spain          Marcos Martinez  Asuncion, Paraguay

          Paulina Bosque Guatemala City, Guatemala          Samuel Melgar Santa Cruz, Bolivia

 Elia Castillo Managua, Nicaragua

          Melonie Mitchell Kingston, Jamaica
          Christina Carpenter San Juan, Puerto Rico          Kaya Moore  London, England

          Jorge Chacon Caracas, Venezuela          Norman Morales San Juan, Puerto Rico

          Martin Chapman Panama City, Panama

 Luis Munoz San Salvador, El Salvador
          Isabella Cortina Lima, Peru          Adriana Obiols Roca Guatemala City, Guatemala

Nina dos Santos Orlandi Rio de Janiero, Brazil          Alexandra Ortiz San Juan, Puerto Rico

          Patricio Elizondo Madrid, Spain          Maria Oveido Managua, Nicaragua          Santiago Espinosa  Cuernavaca, Mexico          Yeo Jin Park Sao Paulo, Brazil          Maria Fernandez La Paz, Bolivia          Fernando Pedreira San Juan, Puerto Rico          Patricia Fernandez Mexico City, Mexico Gabriel Prado Santiago, Chile          Olivier Fioroni  Florence, Italy          Roberto Ramirez San Juan, Puerto Rico

Daniela Gallo  Panama City, Panama

          Maria Laura Reautegui San Juan, Puerto Rico
Adrian Gerbaud Panama City, Panama

          Jose Sanchez  Tegucigalpa, Honduras
Isabella Grazioso Guatemala City, Guatemala

          Martin Serrano Quito, Ecuador          Andres Gutierrez Mexico City, Mexico          Antonia Schreier Zurich, Switzerland          Carolina Gutierrez Monterrey, Mexico
 Daniel Sieh Campinas, Brazil
          Cristina Gutierrez Monterrey, Mexico

 Ena Solorzano San Salvador, El Salvador
          Daniel Hidalgo Quito, Ecuador          Michelle Stackmann Guatemala City, Guatemala          Morganne Howell London, England          Alexandra Techar Toronto, Canada          Daisuke Inoue San Jose, Costa Rica          Kristina Techar Toronto, Canada


          Ricky Jimenez  San Juan, Puerto Rico Carolina Jimenez Panama City, Panama          Adrian Wolff La Paz, Bolivia 
Tuesday, April 17, 2012 The Observer u NEWS ndsmcobserver.com | page 5 

father who now serves as the scholar­in-residence of the Pover­ty Initiative, said the pov­erty organiz­ing movement must address root causes of American poverty to find a solu­tion. 
“We have to look at the root struc­ture of what produced the problem … The polarity of wealth and pendence to highlight these un­
“[The book] challenges 
just con-
us to take up Martin tradictions Luther King Jr.’s manner and urge and become real scholars his audi­through engaged ence to take scholarship, theology and action to eliminate 
intellectualism because 
them. 
poverty is a complex, 
“Ever y-
globalized problem due to 
one is cre­
the current technological 
ated equal 
revolution that renders 
… We all 
people superfluous to have the production worldwide.” right to life, liberty and Willie Baptist the pursuit 
of happi­
poverty activist 
ness. But how can you have the 


NDFTX 
continued from page 1 
going in because the leadership was kind of breathing down our necks, but looking back now that the event is over we’re all glad we did it,” Bedard said.  “It was a big boost to our confidence.” 
Despite the weekend’s intense training, Bedard said ROTC members were able to cut loose and enjoy themselves during a game of paintball “Civil War” problem due to the current technological revolution that renders people superfluous to production worldwide.” 
Baptist said his experi­ence as an organizer for the United Steelworkers laid the foundation for his efforts to organize the poor and home­less, especially in his work with the National Union of the Homeless. 
“When I organized with the [National] Union of the Homeless, we were working with 25 local unions in 25 states at its height,” Baptist said. “Union members were becoming homeless union members, and homeless peo­ple were organizing home­less people.” 
The public perception of homelessness as a self-in­flicted condition has pre­sented an obstacle to fight­ing the issue because it overlooks the knowledge and talents of homeless people, Baptist said. 
“Despite the public opin­ion of homeless people as those who can’t fight for themselves, there’s a rich reservoir of geniuses having to manipulate with meager means how to get from one day to another, but we allow that to lay waste in consider­ing the consequences of pov­erty,” he said. 
Baptist, an African-Amer­ican male who was once homeless, shared an anec­dote about an encounter with a middle-aged Caucasian woman in Philadelphia in which his presence inflicted “the most God-awful fear in her eyes.” He said such en­counters impede progress in American social relations. 
“Dr. King suggested that we have to somehow over­come the miseducation and stereotypes that exist that keep me from knowing the story of that lady and her knowing what my story is,” he said. “This is the chal­lenge before us to keep our nation moving forward.” 
Contact Kristen Durbin at kdurbin@nd.edu 




Author lectures about women’s dietary health 
By CHRISTIN KLOSKI 
News Writer 
By dieting in accordance with their menstrual cycles, women can feel satisfied with their bodies and their emo­tions, “Fertility, Cycles and Nutrition” author Marilyn Shannon said at a lecture Monday. 
The lecture was part of Saint Mary’s first official Food Week, which provides students tips on how to live a healthy lifestyle. The week’s events focus on food choices, nutrition facts and sustain­ability in food. 
Shannon said women who im­prove their overall health will also improve their menstrual cycles because irregularities, such as cramps, long cycles and premenstrual syndrome, are caused by poor diets. 
Shannon said women must better their diets and take essential vitamins to make their cycles more regular. Adequate sleep, moderate exercise and proper weight gain or loss also contribute to healthy cycles, she said. 
“Nutrition is the number one way to improve the body, but so is eating whole foods and taking the right vita­mins,” Shannon said. 
Shannon said women who have no or little premenstrual syndrome take in more veg­etables, dietary fiber, vita­mins and vegetable oils than other women. These reduce symptoms, but also improve a woman’s health. 
Shannon said there are 12 rules women should follow for better nutrition, including eating plenty of whole plant foods, avoiding trans fats and drinking pure water instead of soft drinks and caffeinated beverages. 
“When you go to the store, choose a variety of food and change the routine,” she said. “Pick something you usually don’t eat.” 
Variations in the diet allow the body to obtain the essen­tial vitamins found in dif­ferent food groups, Shannon said. She said women must be confident in their dieting and follow the 80-20 rule. 
“Follow your diet or nutri­tion balance 80 percent of the time, but you can have 20 per­cent for things outside of the diet,” she said. 
Shannon said self-care for better cycles and fertility makes a difference in wom­en’s lives. 
“Improved nutrition is the natural way to start,” she said. 
Contact Christin Kloski at cklosk01@saintmarys.edu 



Poverty 
continued from page 1 
fact that we have growing ranks of poor in America is what we feel is the defining issue of our time,” he said. “We must build a network of leaders who are organizing, working in congregations as religious leaders and engag­ing the plight and fight of the poor.” 
In a short film promoting his book “Pedagogy of the Poor,” Baptist, a formerly homeless eral other contradictions characterize the reality of American poverty. 
“Every year, 46 billion pounds of food are thrown away in America, when it only takes 4 billion pounds to feed everyone in the coun­try for a year,” he said. “Cali­fornia is capable of produc­ing enough food for everyone in the world, but people go hungry in our own country. These are the antagonisms that we face today and that each and every one of you confronts on your watch.” 
Baptist used the rhetoric of the Declaration of Inde-
Fly 
continued from page 1 
the other teams designed and built their planes in conjunc­tion with classes, while Notre Dame’s team did so as an ex­tracurricular activity. 
“A lot of the teams we com­peted against are school-sanc­tioned groups,” Obee said. “They’re competing for class, they’re competing for a grade. They have a lot of faculty help … whereas we are completely doing it voluntarily.” 
Even without the incentive of grades, Kudija said the team began preparing for the competition when the rules were released in August. 
“Most of the fall semester was spent designing the air­craft and building the pro­totype that we finished by Christmas break,” he said. “Then during the spring se­mester, we spent a lot of time testing that prototype, mak­ing design changes and build­ing our final aircraft.” 
Kudija said the team took some risks on its aircraft that paid off in the competition. 
“We decided as a team to take two pretty significant risks this year to challenge ourselves,” he said. “The first was that we went with a fly­ing-wing design, which is not your conventional design and had some additional chal­lenges especially with stabil­ity. Secondly, we went with a foam and fiberglass com­posite construction, instead of using the more traditional balsa wood.” 
Kudija said the competition is a good way for aerospace engineering majors to put their skills into practice. 
“This is a project that gives aerospace students an op­portunity to get involved and really get some hands-on ex­perience applying the things we learn into the classroom to an actual design problem,” he said. 
Even though this is only the second year Notre Dame field­ed a team for the competition, Obee said he wants students to continue to participate for years to come. 
“We’re really trying to keep the freshman and sophomore classes involved so that as Matt and I graduate, we will be able to keep this team go­ing from year to year,” he said. “We started it together last year … but it’s definite­ly something we want to see continue from year to year from now on.” 
Contact Tori Roeck at vroeck@nd.edu 
poverty in America means that the people most affected by it need to organize and be educated to solve problems,” he said. “Poverty scholarship is an understanding of the complexity and globalized character of poverty.” 
According to the film, the polarity in wealth distribu­tion has led to a situation of “abandonment alongside abundance,” in which the top five percent of American earners have enjoyed un­precedented gains in wealth in recent years, while 46 million Americans live be­low the poverty line and one-third of the population lives on incomes just above that threshold. 
Baptist said this and sev­right to life if you don’t have a home or a decent job?” he said. “This immoral, irreli­gious contradiction we face challenges us to take a stand to do something like others in American history.” 
Baptist said his book, co-written with Union philoso­phy professor Jan Rehmann, challenges readers to con­sider their role in the fight against poverty. 
“What do you see is right or wrong? How will you live out your life?” Baptist said. “[The book] challenges us to take up Martin Luther King, Jr.’s manner and become real scholars through engaged scholarship, theology and intellectualism because pov­erty is a complex, globalized 
after lightning cancelled their regularly-scheduled exercise. 
“It may not have been a great learning experience, but it was definitely the most fun part of the weekend,” he said. 
Although the NDFTX weekend is over, Sandler said the ROTC program will spare neither time nor effort in continuing to pre­pare freshmen and sophomores for their upcoming leadership roles. 
“The plan moving forward is to continue to push cadets to their potential, constantly striv­ing to cut down on wasted time and to enhance training value,” he said. 
Waliszewski said the event is a great way to build unity and foster enthusiasm in the ROTC department, as well as to create anticipation for the future. 
“It definitely boosts morale, gets everyone excited about be­ing in the program and gives us a mini-taste of what our careers are going to be like,” he said. 


Contact Dan Brombach at dbrombac@nd.edu 



page 6 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com Tuesday, April 17, 2012 

INSIDE COLUMN 



Get ‘Bully’online 
Like many highly intelligent, self-important members of society, I only lend my attention to the most noble and artistically highbrow forms of entertain­ment. All right, none of that’s true; well maybe just the self-important part. 
Truth be told, I watch a lot of “South Park.” Like, a lot of “South Park.” And for non-fans of the show, any hippie can tell you that the show, for all its inappro­priate and asinine humor, often can hit the nail directly on the head of a touchy social issue. Popular or not, the people at “South Park” often have some very deep things to say about some very important things. 
Last week’s episode focused on bullying in grade schools, and more specifically on the attempts at schools and outside sources to stop bullying. Much of the show pokes fun at the new documentary, “Bully,” which is receiving a lot of buzz that portrays it as an unflinching look at how bullying affects children and families. 
Hidden among the bathroom humor and some very clever shots at the “Kony 2012” creators is one quote that struck a chord with me. 
“If it needs to be seen by everybody, then why wouldn’t you put it on the Inter­net for free?” 
In the episode, one character is criticiz­ing another for trying to make money off of a documentary made about ending bullying. It’s a fairly clear and direct mes­sage to the people behind “Bully.” 
The film was given an R-rating by the MPAA, to which the Weinstein Company (the film’s studio) adamantly and publicly protested. At first, the company claimed it would release the film unrated, which would render it basically unseen by the public, due to the fact that every major theater chain has a policy against screen­ing unrated films. 
“We’re working to do everything we can to make this film available to as many parents, teachers and students across the country,” said Stephen Bruno, Weinstein Company president of market­ing. 
They eventually cut some profanity out and the film received a new PG-13 rating, allowing children to see it in theaters. 
But that’s not the point. As the “South Park”  character said, if it’s so impor­tant that parents, teachers and students across the country see this documentary, and its message and content is so neces­sary for our nation’s school systems, then why not put it on the internet for free? Wouldn’t that be the right thing to do? 
I understand that the studio deserves to make money for its work; I am not op­posed to that. So I propose a compromise. 
Late last year, comedian Louis C.K. released his newest comedy special for $5 online. He made $250,000 in just 12 hours. If the studio behind “Bully” did something similar, they could make a return on their investment while allowing everyone in the country to access it for a fair price. 
I don’t disagree that everybody needs to see this; bullying needs to be curtailed. But if the “Bully” makers really believe that, they should do something about it. 

Contact Kevin Noonan at knoonan2@nd.edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


Instagram: Nostalgia born to sell 
On April 9, a seemingly insignificant photo application called Instagram announced it was being purchased by Facebook for a massive billion dollars. 18 months ago, Insta­gram didn’t exist. Blake J. Graham It was just an offshoot of an idea Erudite rattling around Techno-lust Kevin Systrom’s and Mike Krieger’s heads. 
In Jan. 2010, Systrom was bold enough to show a mobile app named Burbn (after his drink of choice) to a couple of inves­tors at a party. The concept was vague: a location-sharing app similar to four­square, but with some odd photo-sharing functionality. The investors there decided to put $500,000 up, and Systrom began to search for a co-founder. He found a coding expert with a background in psy­chology, linguistics and philosophy. Mike Krieger joined the two-man Burbn team. 
Only after a short time of working together, they realized that Burbn as a product wasn’t possible. The idea was too complicated, but Systrom, who always had an eye for photography, decided the company could focus on the side photo component they had been developing. When Apple’s iPhone 4 came out, they found the perfect device to match their premise. Users could use their app to take a photo, make minor adjustments, add a note and share it. They renamed the app Instagram, as it was an instant telegram. 
When it was new, the app experienced tremendous success: 25,000 users in the first 24 hours. Now, Instagram has expanded to Android and iOS mobile operating systems and has a user base of over 40 million. 
As the deal was Facebook acquisition of Instagram was announced, many reacted in horror, surprise or confu­sion. “Instagram is selling out,” the loyal shrieked through tears. “That’s way too much money,” the economically-

LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

conscious observed tapping on their calculators. “What’s an Instagram?” the confused mumbled to their neighbors. 
No. Instagram is not selling out. They’re not the Beatles — they can’t lose their flavor. They’re just selling. And for those who have been loyal users since the beginning, it breaks my heart to tell you this was always their plan. It was the plan of every investor who put a dime into the company. They had to sell at one point. Why? Because Instagram has no revenue, nor did it have plans to monetize the application. There weren’t going to be ads on the service, nor would they charge for additional features. When you opened up Instagram, all users encountered the purest possible experience, because those making it knew eventually some large company was going to come along and purchase it. They also can’t change much under Facebook — the service is simply too large. Everything people love about Instagram will essentially remain the same. The biggest difference is now, the company is bank-rolled by a giant. And the Blue Behemoth doesn’t want their investment to sour. Anything Systrom and team need, Facebook will foot the bill. 
Yes. One billion dollars is a lot of money. In fact, it’s one percent of Face­book’s theoretical worth. Two days before the Facebook announcement, the company was valued at $500 million, based on a new $50 million investment that happened the week prior. Overnight, those investors literally doubled their money. There are many reasons why Facebook would pay that much money for a small company run by thirteen people. The most conclusive is Facebook runs on photographs, and Facebook is awful at photographs. Photos on Facebook are soulless and ugly, where photos on Insta­gram are simple, meaningful and sexy. People put photos on Facebook so people can see them, but people add photos on Instagram because they like to make them. Another difference is Facebook is full of photos taken of users, where Instagram is composed of images taken by users. 
Instagram’s set of photo filters and tweaks give its users control over the photos they take. Not everyone is an artist, but nearly everyone has a camera on their smartphone. Because people have cameras, they take pictures. And, whenever someone is about to press the shutter button, they have to go through a series of artistic decisions: how to hold the camera, where to frame the shot, at which point to focus, etc. The mere fact that everybody has the tool makes them act as artists, even though many have little perceivable skill. 
The point of taking a photograph is to capture a moment in time. But the mo­ment the shutter closes and the image is stored, many of the fleeting components of that moment are lost. The smell on the air, the mood of the subject, the sounds in the background and whatnot vanish in the final capture. The photograph rep­resents a visual fraction of the composite moment. Instagram filters provide preset means to tweak the image until it, on average, matches the sentiment exter­nal to the image. Being a professional photographer wielding a DSLR is a chore. People practice and train for years to master that art. Instagram is important to users because they can control some­thing they had little handle on previously without going through grueling training or purchasing expensive tools. 
Instagram makes its users happy. The people on Instagram truly love the ser­vice because they believe they are creat­ing a chronicle accurate to who they are. 
Blake J. Graham is a freshman. He can be reached on Twitter @BlakeGraham or at bgraham2@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“Never tell people how to do things. Tell them what to do and they will surprise you with their ingenuity.” 
George S. Patton 
U.S.general 



WEEKLY POLL 
What’s your favorite place for a first date?? 
Starbucks The dining hall The Mark Chicago 

Vote by 5 p.m. on Thursday at 
ndsmcobserver.com 


Tuesday, April 17, 2012 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 7 
Beware of hidden ‘income’ when filing 



educational expenses 
Tax time came as usual this spring. I am aware of the federal income tax and the basics of how the tax structure operates — you make “x” amount of money, you pay “a” amount to the gov­ernment; you make “y” amount of money, Robby Smith you pay “b,” and so on. The Battalion 
As a student, I was unaware, however, of how to factor scholarships into taxes. I file my taxes independently, as I am sure many students with complicated family situations do. I’ve held multiple part-time jobs during the past year, and was aware of the approximate amount I would be required to pay. To save money on tax preparation, I asked my boyfriend’s dad to help me file mine this year. He has used tax preparation software Turbo Tax to file on behalf of his family for years. 
After inputting all of my personal and W-2 information, we began to go through the series of questions to deter­mine how much I owed the refunds for which I qualified — investments during the past year, whether I am a new home or car owner, family size and other questions of the like. 
When we came to the part on schol­arships and educational expenses, we looked to my 1098-T form from the Howdy financial aid portal. I typed in the amount of aid I received, subtracted the total amount paid to the University in tuition and then reported the balance of that amount as “income.” 
The reported amount was high — I have a full-ride in scholarships, and received additional aid this past year with my summer study abroad. I am thankful for the scholarships, which pay my educational expenses, but wasn’t so thankful when I realized that I owe tax­es on more than $10,000 of “income.” 
After subtracting the costs of text­books and a summer school class I took at Blinn, I was still paying almost $1,000 in taxes just on my scholar­ships, in addition to taxes on my income from my part-time jobs. I was shocked. I didn’t know where that money would come from — the only possibility was sacrificing the money I needed for rent during the summer. 

I enlisted the help of my grandpar­ents’ accountant to double-check things and make sure I hadn’t overlooked any education expenses. After digging through paperwork, he found a few ex­penses I had yet to report that lowered the amount I owed. 
I was lucky to have family and friends who helped navigate the tax season, but I still learned much from the experience. Students with scholar­ships should be prepared to pay taxes on any funds not deemed “educational expenses.” If your scholarship — like mine — pays for room and board, that money is taxable. Educational expenses include costs of tuition, books, comput­ers and equipment, but not room and board. Though your scholarship donor already paid taxes on this money when they earned it, it is taxed a second time when you receive it — kind of like an inheritance tax or a tax on gambling winnings. 
Do not be caught off-guard or unpre­pared. Whatever scholarship you have, budget to save some of this amount dur­ing the year so that you’re ready when tax season rolls around. I was caught with insufficient savings, due to insuf­ficient planning and lack of awareness. Don’t make the same mistake. 
This article originally ran in the April 16 edition of The Battalion, serving Texas A&M University. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 


Save St. Edward’s lofts — and dorm identity 
Every pamphlet, tour and administrator brags about dorm life at Notre Dame. Most students stay in the same dorm all four years, and each hall is a community. Our system succeeds, because each hall has its own particular identity. This is only the case because Keenan Hall is different than Keough Hall, Walsh Hall is different than Welsh Family Hall, and so on. These differences and traditions give each incoming student something to be proud of, and each upperclassman something to hold on to. 
The Office of Residence Life and Housing (ORLH) wants to change that. 

I live in St. Edward’s Hall, and I’ve grown to love it. We’re old, we’re small and we’re family. We don’t have air conditioning, we don’t have nice lounges and we barely have a working elevator. But this doesn’t really matter, because what makes St. Edward’s Hall such a great home is the student-built lofts that turn our cramped rooms into the best living spaces on campus. Our lofts are safe. There hasn’t been a collapse in years, the lofts have never been a fire-hazard and I haven’t heard of anyone fall­ing off during my time here. 
Next year, ORLH will begin phasing out the lofts in favor of modular furniture. By 2013, every room will have the same mandatory, uniform and boring furniture as other dorms. But St. Edward’s without its lofts is like Dillon without its size, or Siegfried without its athletics, or Zahm without its crazy. ORLH, by stripping St. Edward’s Hall of one of its few perks, is only going to push upperclassmen off campus, and the traditions of our oldest dorm with them. We’ll quickly lose most of what makes St. Edward’s so great. 
By banning lofts, ORLH is slowly destroying one of the best aspects of Notre Dame: dorm identity. Why not end SYR’s, dorm mascots and everything else that makes a hall a home? This is just one step towards the conformity that will turn our dorms from vibrant communities into the lifeless apartment complexes of other schools. 
So, if members of administration listen at all to students, I beg you: save St. Edward’s Hall. 
Daniel Sullivan 
freshman St. Edward’s Hall April 17 



SMC postings meant to inform about representatives 
In response to Rebekah Wielgos (“Postings at SMC,” April 12): 
As a part of our Women’s Awareness week, Feminists United decided to focus on politics. There have been many events this past year that will af­fect many women, including Saint Mary’s women. To educate the student body, we chose to display posters of major leaders in both the Democratic and Republican parties. 
We used a variety of politicians to show the diversity of both ideologies. This included Republi­can Senator Olympia Snow, a supporter of women’s rights. We did not promote one over the other. These posters showed that feminism goes beyond partisan politics. 
The purpose of the posters was to inform the students about how representatives support women’s rights, or don’t. The posters were not aggressive because we were just stating facts. Many politi­cians or states have been commenting or passing laws concerning women’s rights, and not all women on campus are aware of this fact, so we decided to publicize it. 
We reported politicians’ legislative record on certain policies, like the Violence against Women Act. We could have cited our sources, or been more detailed, yes, but then would anyone have read our posters? Short, sweet and to the point was our goal. 

Additionally, our posters (and our entire Women’s Awareness Week) were approved by the Student Involvement Office. 
The purpose of the posters was to promote our panel that targeted women’s role in politics and women’s issues — nonpartisan issues. We had a fantastic discussion that was, as you say, “chari­table, open-minded and constructive.” The audience enjoyed the topics, and felt the environment was welcoming and tolerant. 
In the future, please contact us if you have is­sues with the way we conduct our club, or come by a meeting or an advertised panel sponsored by our club to have an open and welcome discussion. Our club willingly promotes discussion of different opin­ions in an attempt to grow and learn as feminists and supporters of equality for all. 
Sincerely, 

Gabby Masini 
junior Le Mans Hall April 17 

Arianne Rodriguez 
senior Le Mans Hall April 17 


page 8 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com Tuesday, April 17, 2012 



By KEVIN NOONAN 
Scene Editor 

Guy Pearce’s “Lockout” isn’t a par­ticularly good movie. The plot is a little confusing, with the kind of last-minute plot twist that manages to pull off the post-“Sixth Sense” Shyamalan paradox of the audience absolutely not seeing it coming, but also totally and completely not caring. 
The acting, outside Pearce and one of the villains, is stiff at best. The special effects are at brief times impressive and visionary, but inevitably devolve into a video game-like blurriness and artifici­ality. 
The characters, mostly as a result of the plot-by-“Mad Libs” and the Hayden Christensen-inspired acting perfor­mances, are mostly uninteresting, un­sympathetic and undeveloped. 
But come on. Is anybody who’s seen the trailer going to the theaters expecting “The Dark Knight?” No. Is Guy Pearce supposed to portray a man struggling with inner psychological issues, or some artsy junk like it’s a Colin Firth movie? No. Also, sidebar, no offense is meant to Colin Firth — great actor. 
“Lockout” is a cheap thrill, a B-movie with low aspirations, little depth and lots of explosions. It’s not the greatest B-movie of all time (see: “Killer Klowns From Outer Space”) but it clearly knows the formula for success, and delivers on that formula. 
The film is produced by Luc Besson, a man with a history of slick, commercial-ly-minded films, which often trade sub­stance for style. Besson also produced the 2008 Liam-Neeson-kicks-butt cel­ebration, “Taken,” another example of a film that succeeds in spite of its lack of storytelling depth. 
Much like “Taken,” Besson’s latest film places much of the burden on the shoul­ders of its leading man. And in this case, the leading man is more likeable, and equally as hard-core as Neeson in “Tak­en” (Mr. Neeson, please don’t come track me down and exact revenge for saying that). 
Guy Pearce once again proves himself to be a fantastic actor with an unbeliev­able range of ability, both dramatically and physically. He is the shining star that takes this film from extremely mediocre to wonderfully and delightfully average. 
Pearce plays Snow, a former CIA agent in the near future — 2079 — caught up in a murder investigation. Pearce claims innocence, but is convicted without tri­al and sentenced to 30 years “stasis,” a medically-induced coma, aboard “MS-1,” a new prison that floats around in space. It’s the same prison which, conveniently, hosts Snow’s partner, who is the only person in the universe who knows where a mysterious briefcase is hidden. This briefcase can supposedly prove Pearce’s innocence. 

But when a philanthropic trip to the prison by the President’s daughter, played by Maggie Grace, who also played Neeson’s daughter in “Taken,” results in a massive prison breakout and hostage situation (I told you, thin plot), it seems Snow is the only one who can get her out alive. 
Snow is clearly a relic of an older gen­eration, despite being a fairly young guy. He wears t-shirts when everyone around him is in suits and battle gear. He carries a shotgun, even though clearly the weap­onry has advanced far past that point. And he smokes cigarettes and continu­ally plays with a Zippo lighter, which an­other character in the film points out is far past out-of-style. 
Pearce’s portrayal of Snow as a sar­castic, common-sense genius of covert combat is brilliant, and goes beyond the cliché notions of a character which ev­eryone has seen a million times before. 
It’s Pearce’s style and humor that make the film, not to mention his general awe­someness as a professional butt-kicker. 
The real question about this film, though, is why Pearce, a star in highly-respected and successful films such as “L.A. Confidential,” “Memento,” and “The Count of Monte Cristo” is in it. 
It’s a question for which I don’t have answer, but I believe Jim Craig would say there are about thirty thousand of them, all sitting in his New York bank account. Thank goodness he is in this movie, though, and hopefully somebody in Hol­lywood will give him a reward for saving “Lockout” from the unforgiving jaws of bland mediocrity. 
Contact Kevin Noonan at knoonan2@nd.edu 
“Lockout” 

Director: James Mathier, Stephen St. Leger Producer: Luc Besson Studio: EuropaCorp, Canal+, Cine+ Starring: Guy Pearce, Maggie Grace 


Tuesday, April 17, 2012 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 9 



By KEVIN NOONAN  ly for Notre Dame.  of the chaos. The movie was fea- 
Scene Editor  “The Kellogg Center, since it  tured at the 2004 Cannes Film  
was founded 30 years ago, has  Festival.  
The DeBartolo Performing  had a long and deep associa- Agüero, a documentary di- 
Arts Center (DPAC), the Kellogg  tion with Latin America, and a  rector, will introduce two of his  
Institute for International Stud- special relationship with Chile.  films on Saturday evening. “100  
ies and the Institute for Educa- In the 1980s, when there was a  Children Waiting for a Train”  
tional Initiatives collaborated  military government in Chile,  will screen at 6:30 p.m., fol- 
to bring the first-ever Chilean  many leading academics and  lowed by “Agustin’s Newspaper.”  
film festival to Notre Dame this  policy makers came to Notre  The first tells the story of chil­ 
week.  Dame and came to Kellogg, and  dren who are introduced to cin- 
The event, officially titled “A  ever since, we’ve had a really  ema for the first time, and the  
Festival of Chilean Film,” be- close relationship with Chile,”  education that ensues.  
gins Thursday at 6:30 p.m.,  Reifenberg said.  The second takes a question- 
with a discussion panel featur- After the discussion panel,  ing look at the role of Chile’s  
ing three of the most prominent  the first film of the festival will  oldest newspaper, which was  
directors in Chilean cinema —  screen Thursday at 9:30 p.m.  pro-coup in the 1970s, in the  
Ignacio Agüero, Gonzalo Jus- Justiniano will introduce his  dissemination of information to  
tiniano and Andrés Wood.  film “b-happy,” which follows  the people.  
In addition to being deco- a teenage girl who must make  All the films are in Span- 
rated Chilean filmmakers, the  hard choices to escape her trou­ ish, but have English subtitles  
three all received Holy Cross  bled family, and finds solace in  or voiceovers. Reifenberg said  
education as boys, attending St.  the form of poetry.  the language gap, or a lack of  
George’s College in Santiago,  Friday will feature two films  knowledge about the history of  
Chile.  by Wood, the most internation­ the country, should not scare  
“[The filmmakers] will be  ally-acclaimed director of the  students away.  
here starting on Thursday to  group. His newest film, “Vio­ “The films are pretty differ- 
talk about their work, to talk  leta Went to Heaven” will show  ent, but they touch on specific  
about the lasting legacy of Chil­ at 6:30 p.m. The movie is a bi- things to Chile, but they’re re­ 
ean film, specifically in the  ography of Chilean singer and  ally universal themes of love  
post-1970s era, and how they’ve  cultural icon Violeta Parra, and  and loss and hope. These are  
been instrumental in rebuilding  received the honor of the 2012  really wonderful stories,” he  
the industry under a lot of kind  Sundance Film Festival World  said. “These are not films that  
of severe limitations within the  Cinema Jury Prize.  are putting big barriers to be- 
country in terms of the restric- Immediately following will be  ing able to enter in. They’re just  
tions,” Ted Barron, senior asso­ perhaps the internationally-fa­ great films, and students should  
ciate director at DPAC, said.  mous film in the Chilean indus­ take advantage.”  
Barron refers to the politi­ try, Wood’s “Machuca.” The film  Tickets are $3 for each film,  
cal coup of the 1970s, in which  was one of the first in Chilean  and the panel discussion is free.  
army general Augusto Pinochet  history to illustrate the events  
violently overthrew the demo- of Pinochet’s coup, and follows  Contact Kevin Noonan at  
cratically-elected government  young school boys in the midst  knoonan2@nd.edu  
and brutally put down any dis­ 
senters, placing industries such  
as film in a position of what An­ 
drés Wood once called a lasting  A Festival of Chilean Film  
restriction of “self-censorship.”  
According to Barron, though  Where: DeBartolo Performing Ar ts Center  
the Performing Arts Center has  
featured series of films from  When: Thursday-Saturday, starti ng at 6:30 p.m.  
around the world before, this is  Featuring: Panel discussion wit h Chilean directors Andrés Wood,  
the first time it has focused so  niano. 
specifically on Latin America.  Ignacio Agro and Gonzalo Justi 
Steve Reifenberg, executive  Films:  “b-happy,” “Violeta Went  to Heaven,” “Machuca,” “100  
director of the Kellogg Institute,  Children Waiting for a Train” and “ Agustin’s Newspaper.”  
explained why Chile was an im­ 
portant place to start, especial­ 

“You can’t live your life in the same pair of jeans that feel like you’re wearing pajamas.” 
Challenge accepted, Mom. 
My mom chastised me with this comment while shop­ping for in­terview suits over Easter Break. She was tired of me com­plaining about how one blazer made my shoulders look big, how another pair of pants fit weirdly around my hips, and on and on when she, my grandmother, my sister and even the fitting room attendant disagreed. 
I was not impressed though, not even with the capri chinos in a fantastic orange color. I didn’t want to grow up, to be forced out of my favorite jeans into a suit. 
It’s okay though. I loved the color of those chino pants, so I found my favorite pair of jeans in almost that exact same color. And while I haven’t yet broken them into the pajama-like feel of my other pair, I’m sure they’ll get there. 
But this column is not about my struggle to join the real world, fashion-wise. This is a call for everyone to celebrate the denim in their lives. 
Celebrate the versatility of jeans. Throw on a sweatshirt and flip flops for a super casual look, or don a nice blazer, top and boots to class the closet-staple up. 
The story of American jeans begins a little less than 150 years ago. In 1873, Levi Strauss received a patent to make the first pair of riveted men’s work pants out of denim. And thus, the first pair of jeans was born. Only cowboys and other hard laborers wore jeans until about the 1950s, when the style became popular among teenagers. From then on, jeans were a staple of almost every American closet. 

Fashions have changed a lot since jeans became main­stream, and accordingly, jeans have come in many forms. Bell-bottoms. Bootcut. Tapered. Acid wash. High-waisted. Skinny leg. Overalls. Shorts. Boyfriend. Dark wash. Light wash. White. Black. Green. Purple. You name a style, color or fit, and jeans have probably come in that form at some time or another. 
I’m not fashion-savvy enough or fashion history-savvy enough, however, to begin to discuss these chang­ing trends in denim clothing. I have noticed, however, that while all types of jeans have passed in and out of fashion through the years, even in our short 18 to 22 years of life, the idea of that favorite pair is eternal. 
I’m talking about that special pair of jeans that make you feel better every time you put it on. Those jeans can make you feel invincible, sexy, anything. Whatever you need to make it through the day. 
Rock those jeans. Find them in multiple colors or washes. Because everyone deserves to feel that way. You feel the cool denim on your legs as you slide them on, and you’re empow­ered. Look good, feel good. Maybe everyone at the dorm party, bar or club is in a dress or skirt. Don’t worry, they’ll never look as good in your jeans as you do. 
Now, there’s no problem if you prefer skirts or dresses, corduroys or chinos to jeans. I just want to take a second to celebrate jeans because too often people, male and female, are criticized because “all he or she wears is jeans.” 
Embrace that. There’s noth­ing wrong with jeans, and there’s nothing wrong with you. And do as I did — enter a profession in which it is more that acceptable to wear jeans at least every Friday. 
Contact Mary Claire O’Donnell at modonne5@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LAUREN KALINOSKI | Observer Graphic 

page 10 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u CLASSIFIEDS Tuesday, April 17, 2012 


SPORTS AUTHORITY 


MLB takes time to remember Robinson 


Never has a nightmare felt so good. 
On a day where every major league player donned Jackie Robinson’s famous No. 42, broadcasters and public address announcers had a night­mare trying to decode who was who. Who’s that warm­ing up in the bullpen? Who’s that in the on-deck circle? Who’s that making the pitching change? 
Jackie Robinson and Jackie Robinson and Jackie Robinson. 
He was everywhere on the field Sunday afternoon — just as he was everywhere in the 

news when he broke baseball’s color barrier in 1947. The hall of famer racked up a career .316 average and six consecu­tive years in which he hit over .300. 
But no one really cares about his stats. And if they do, they’re not the right stats. They 
“Kemp, the current Los Angeles center fielder, tried his best to honor Robinson’s No. 42, bashing a home run on his way to a 3-for-4 day at the plate. The classic white Dodgers uniforms, with blue lettering and red numbers, looked particularly good with No. 42 back on them.” 
remember the numerous death threats, the multitude of hate mail, the many flying cleats — but they also remember the one remarkable life he lived. 
His courage and talent opened the door for two* black baseball players, first Hank Aaron and then Barry Bonds*, to break Babe Ruth’s long-standing home run record. His footsteps allowed Matt Kemp, Prince Fielder and Brandon Phillips to sign huge deals with major league squads. His heroics gave C.C. Sabathia and David Price the opportunity to play the sport they love at the highest level possible. 
Despite the fact that just 8.5 percent of major league rosters made up of black players, “Jackie Robinson Day” on Sunday was a success. 
My initial thought when this happened for the first time a few years ago was “Wow, they must really need to sell some jer­seys.” But then I realized how genuine Major League Baseball was about this endeavor. They did it year after year to honor one of the game’s best. 
They didn’t do a “Nolan Ryan Day” or a “Cy Young Day.” They didn’t do a “Ty Cobb Day” or a “Joe DiMaggio Day.” This was special — and it worked. 
There were special tributes at every stadium from Wash­ington to Los Angeles, from Mi­ami to Toronto. His family, his former teammates in the Negro Leagues and even the Tuskegee Airmen were all involved in the festivities. 
Perhaps nothing could have seemed as right as when the Dodgers, Robinson’s old team, took the field Sunday on the West Coast. Vin Scully, the voice of the Dodgers, summed it up best during his broadcast: “Before Ellsbury. Before Kemp. Before Ichiro, Mo, and Thomas. Before Gwynn. Before Ozzie. Before Murray, and Carew. 
Before Frank. Before Ernie. Before Aaron, and Mays. There was Jackie.” 
Kemp, the current Los Angeles center fielder, tried his best to honor Rob­inson’s No. 42, bashing a home run on his way to a 3-for-4 day at the plate. The classic white Dodgers uniforms, with 
blue lettering and red numbers, looked particularly good with No. 42 back on them. 
The whole day was a success. Why do I say that? Because I am writing a column about it. Because people are talking about it. Because the Jackie Robinson Foundation is being helped. 
Because people take time to remember him. 
So next time you see retired numbers hanging on an out­field wall, from an upper deck balcony or on flags rustling in the wind, note which one is everywhere, simply because one day is not enough. 
Contact Matthew DeFranks at mdefrank@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority column are those of the author and not nec­essarily those of The Observer. 
MLB 


Valentine, Youkilis make up 
Associated Press 
BOSTON — Kevin Youki­lis’ teammates came to his defense Monday after Red Sox manager Bobby Valen­tine questioned his com­mitment to the game and then apologized to his third baseman. 
During an interview aired Sunday night on WHDH­TV, Valentine said he didn’t think Youkilis was “as physically or emotionally into the game.” 
That drew a sharp re­sponse from Dustin Pedroia before Monday’s 1-0 loss to the Tampa Bay Rays. 
“I know he plays as hard as anybody I’ve ever seen in my life. I have his back and his teammates have his back,” the second baseman said. 
After the game, first base­man Adrian Gonzalez also supported his teammate. 
“All you can do is tell Youk we love him. All it says is we have each others’ backs,” he said. “We’re pulling for each other on the field and in the clubhouse. We’ve got a strong bond.” 
On Monday morning, Val­entine said he apologized when Youkilis came into his office and asked for an ex­planation. 
“I don’t know if he accept­ed my apology,” Valentine said. “It was sincere.” 
Youkilis had a poor spring training and is batting .200 (6 for 30), but Valentine said his comments weren’t aimed at motivating him. Af­ter a 2-for-20 start, he was 4 for 10 in the first three games against the Tampa Bay Rays. He missed Monday’s series fi­nale because of a minor groin injury. 
“I’m more confused than anything,” Youkilis said be­fore the game. “Everybody knows I go out and play the game as hard as I can.” 
If Valentine’s intent was to have Youkilis’ teammates rally around him, it may have worked. 
“I really don’t know what Bobby’s trying to do, but that’s not the way we go about our stuff around here,” Pedroia said. “He’ll figure that out. The whole team is behind Youk.” 
Asked if Valentine was trying to motivate Youkilis, Pedroia said, “maybe that works in Japan” — where Valentine used to manage. 
The manager said after the game that he spoke to Pe­droia and “he’s cool. He says he gets it.” 
Valentine took over on Dec. 1 for the more laid-back Terry Francona, who led the Red Sox to two World Series championships in eight sea­sons. 
Valentine said that in the interview he was just an­swering a question about how Youkilis may be feeling during early season strug­gles. 
“I don’t think he’s as physi­cally or emotionally into the game as he has been in the past for some reason,” he said in the interview before Boston’s 13-5 win on Sunday. “But (on Saturday) it seemed, you know, he’s seeing the ball well, got those two walks, got his on-base percentage up higher than his batting aver­age, which is always a good thing, and he’ll move on from there.” 
On Monday, Valentine said, “I should have been more spe­cific. Physical is about your swing, emotional is about not being happy when he doesn’t hit a ball off the wall.” 
Youkilis hit a career-low .258 last season, when he was limited to 112 games by several injuries. Going into this season, his ninth with the Red Sox, he was batting .289 with 129 homers and 550 RBIs. 
He said he talked Monday with Valentine about the manager’s comments but gave no details. Youkilis said he doesn’t think his passion­ate approach to the game has changed. 
“I go out and just play the game. It doesn’t matter one way or another. There’s things that happened over the years with a lot of dif­ferent things in baseball,” he said. “For me it’s not an is­sue.” 
Valentine said he doesn’t want Youkilis to think “I was jabbing at him.” 
“I’d be surprised if Kevin didn’t know I was totally be­hind him,” he said. “We’re big boys. I think he’ll get it. If not, I’ll talk to him a lot more.” 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The 
Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 

CLASSIFIEDS 

Today in History The Ford Mustang, a two-seat, Eddie Cochran, the man behind On this day in 1976, Mike Schmidt mid-engine sports car, is officially “Summertime Blues” and “C’mon 
PERSONAL Heavy eruptions of the Tambora 
of the Philadelphia Phillies hits volcano in Indonesia are letting up With the world anxiously watching, unveiled by Henry Ford II at the Everybody,” was killed on this day four consecutive home runs in a 
by this day in 1815. The volcano, Apollo 13, a U.S. lunar spacecraft World’s Fair in Flushing Meadows, in 1960 when the taxi carrying him game against the Chicago Cubs. which began rumbling on April that suffered a severe malfunction New York, on April 17, 1964. from a show in Bristol, England, Schmidt was only the fourth player 
5, killed almost 100,000 people UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don’t on its journey to the moon, safely That same day, the new car also crashed en route to the airport in 
in the history of Major League directly and indirectly. The eruption go it alone. Notre Dame has many returns to Earth. debuted in Ford showrooms London, where he was to catch Baseball to accomplish this feat. was the largest ever recorded and resources in place to assist you. across America and almost 22,000 a flight back home to the United 
its effects were noted throughout If you or someone you love needs Mustangs were immediately States. A raw and exciting rocker The first major antiwar protest of the world. confidential support or assistance, snapped up by buyers. Named for with a cocky, rebellious image, 1972 is held. The demonstration, please call Sr. Sue Dunn at On April 17, 1790, American a World War II fighter plane, the Eddie Cochran was very different held at the University of Maryland, President John F. Kennedy waits 1-7819. For more information, statesman, printer, scientist, and Mustang was the first of a type of from the polished and packaged was organized to protest the 
for word on the success of a 

visit ND’s website at: http:// writer Benjamin Franklin dies in vehicle that came to be known as a idols of Elvis Presley and the Reserve Officers Training Corps covert plan to overthrow Cuba’s pregnancysupport@nd.edu Philadelphia at age 84. “pony car.” arrival of the Beatles. (ROTC). 
government on this day in 1961. 

Tuesday, April 17, 2012 The Observer u SPORTS ndsmcobserver.com | page 11 
NBA 



Lawson, Afflalo lead Nuggets past Rockets 
Struggling Wizards take down first-place Bulls in Chicago; surging Pacers defeat Minnesota 
HOUSTON — Arron Afflalo to tie it. scored 26 points, Ty Lawson had But Parsons’ desperation 25 and the Denver Nuggets con-3-pointer hit off the front of the tinued their playoff push with rim, and Denver sent Houston to a 105-102 victory over the fad-its fourth straight home loss, a ing Houston Rockets on Monday season high. night. Brewer scored all 11 of his 
Al Harrington added 15 points points in the second half, and the and Andre Miller had 13 assists Nuggets finished 9 for 18 from for the Nuggets, who swept back-3-point range to win in Houston to-back games with the Rockets, for the first time since October the team directly behind them in 2010. the Western Conference stand-The Nuggets shot 33 percent (8 ings. for 24) in the first quarter, and 
Denver began the night hold-McGee missed a point-blank la­ing the No. 7 spot in the Western yup on the first shot of the second Conference, one game ahead of as Denver trailed by as many as the Rockets. Houston was only 11 points. one game ahead of Phoenix and But with Houston center Mar­1 ½ games ahead of Utah, who cus Camby sidelined with a back were both playing later Monday. injury, Denver got some easy bas-
Goran Dragic and Chan-kets down low. Afflalo cut inside dler Parsons scored 21 points for consecutive layups to trim the apiece for the Rockets, who have deficit to 38-33 and force Rockets dropped four straight after a coach Kevin McHale to burn a four-game road winning streak. timeout. 
Denver led 75-74 after three The Rockets, meanwhile, went quarters, and the fourth was cold in the second quarter, miss-tight all the way to the end. ing 8 of their first 11 shots, includ-
The Nuggets took a 99-98 lead ing three 3-point attempts. Kyle into the final 2 minutes, and Af-Lowry hit a 3-pointer with 5:41 flalo found Harrington with a left in the first half, but Houston wraparound pass for an easy la-missed its next two shots and yup with 1:19 left to make it 101-Lawson swished an answering 3 
98. Parsons rattled in a jumper with 4:36 to go before the break. from the free-throw line, but with Afflalo then drove for another la-for a layup, and Houston moved handed Chicago Bulls  on Mon-and six rebounds in the first two all the Nuggets standing on the yup to tie it at 41-all. back in front with 3:49 left in the day night. quarters. sideline, Lawson hit a 3-pointer Houston finished the half with quarter. Richard Hamilton scored 22 Boozer and Hamilton each had from the corner with 45 seconds a 10-3 burst, capped by Courtney The teams swapped the lead points to lead the Bulls, who nine points for the Bulls. left to silence the noisy crowd. Lee’s second 3-pointer, to lead five more times, and Denver played without stars Derrick 
Patrick Patterson hit a short 51-44. Despite the rally, Denver took a one-point lead to the final Rose and Luol Deng. Rose was Pacers 111, Timberwolves 88 jumper, and Luis Scola had a shot only 36 percent (16 of 45) in quarter. out with a sore right foot as he The Indiana Pacers ap­chance to tie it, but his runner the first half. missed his 24th game of the sea-proached Monday night’s game in the lane rattled out with 6 sec-The Nuggets made 9 of their Wizards 87, Bulls 84 son, and Deng sat out due to sore against the Minnesota Timber­onds left. Afflalo, a 79 percent first 14 shots out of the break. Kevin Seraphin had 21 points right ribs. wolves as though they were fac­free-throw shooter, split two free Harrington made two 3s, and and 13 rebounds, John Wall After two straight games of ing the Chicago Bulls or the Mi-throws with 3.9 seconds remain-Afflalo scored in the lane to put scored 16 points, and the Wash-clutch 3-pointers in the finals ami Heat. ing, giving the Rockets a chance Denver up 67-66. Lee swept in ington Wizards beat the short-seconds to force overtime in The Pacers rolled to a 25-point 
wins against Miami and Detroit, lead in the first 9 minutes and the Bulls missed a third chance beat the Timberwolves for their when Hamilton’s 3-pointer was fifth consecutive win. blocked by James Singleton with This young team is starting to 
5.9 seconds left and C.J. Watson get it. missed in the final seconds. “We came out with the killer 
The Bulls’ lead on Miami in the instinct tonight,” Pacers coach Eastern Conference dropped to Frank Vogel said. “That set the 2 ½ games with five games re-tone for us. That’s what we want maining. The Heat beat New Jer-to go into the playoffs with.” sey earlier Monday night. David West had 22 points and 
Rose injured his foot in Sun-10 rebounds, Danny Granger day’s win at Detroit, when he scored 19 points, Paul George bounced back from a dismal had 18 and Roy Hibbert added 12 two-point performance against points and 11 rebounds for the the Heat on Thursday by scoring Pacers, who solidified their grip 24 points and making a 3 in the on the No. 3 position in the East-final seconds to force overtime. ern Conference standings. Deng also injured his ribs Sun-Indiana has won eight of nine day. games, but none of the other 
Trailing 68-57 early in the wins started this well. The Pac­fourth quarter, the Wizards got ers generally have been stronger back in the game with a 13-0 in the second half than in the run. Maurice Evans hit a jumper first, but this time, they did the over Hamilton then he made a right things from the opening tip. 3, Brian Cook tied the game at “I think the biggest thing is 68 with another 3 and Shelvin that we continue to build good Mack’s jumper gave the Wizards habits,” West said. “We’re coming a 70-68 lead. out and trying to make the right 
Wall found Singleton for a play every single time. I think dunk to put Washington up 82-77 that’s imperative for us. We con-with 1:40 left. Watson answered tinue the momentum we’re start-with a jumper for Chicago and ing to build and hopefully, we’ll then appeared to have a steal but be playing some of our best ball a referee Tony Brothers called a week-and-a-half from now.” foul on Watson to the dismay of Indiana scored at least 100 Bulls coach Tom Thibodeau. points for the 10th time in 11 
After Wall made one of two games. at the line, Watson hit another “We’ve been trusting the pass,” jumper to get Chicago to 83-81. George said. “Everybody’s been After Mack turned it over, the willing to share the ball, and Bulls failed to take advantage, we’ve been moving.” committing a turnover on the of-Jose Barea had 14 points and fensive end. Wall then made two nine assists and reserves Michael free throws to put the Wizards Beasley and Derrick Williams up 85-81, but Watson made a 3 to added 13 points each for Minne-get Chicago back within one with sota, which lost its 10th in a row. 
16.5 left. Kevin Love, one of the league’s Evans finished with 14 points, top scorers and rebounders, sat 10 in the fourth quarter. out for the third consecutive 
The Wizards led 43-40 at the game with a mild concussion and half. Seraphin had 10 points a neck strain. 


page 12 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u SPORTS Tuesday, April 17, 2012 
CLUB SPORTS 


Sailing team wins conference in blustery conditions 
Men’s Ultimate A-Team hosts East Plains Conference Championship, Notre Dame-B travels to Michigan 
Special to the Observer 
This weekend, Notre Dame sent sailors to Dexter, Mich., to race in the championship for the Midwestern Colle­giate Sailing Conference, which counted as the quar­terfinals for the national sailing championship.  The top five teams would qualify for semifinals in Annapolis, Md. 
When the team arrived it was windy and wavy, which made for some challenging sailing. But freshmen Pat­rick Power and Maddy Skor­cz started the weekend in strong fashion with a pair of first-place showings in their first set.  Solid competition throughout the day had the Irish fighting for the fifth qualifying spot, with UIC trading the lead with every set.  At the end of the first day, Notre Dame was in sixth place, six points behind UIC. 
The second day was al­most cancelled due to thun­derstorms, but as soon as the lightning cleared, the sailors headed out into another rainy and windy day.  In the final races, Notre Dame’s sailors bat­tled hard against UIC. However, UIC was able to protect their lead, and Notre Dame finished sixth. 
Men’s Soccer 
The Irish tied Western Michigan 1-1 in Kalamazoo, Mich., this weekend in their first competition since res­urrecting the club. 
The Irish dominated the Broncos for the entire game, creating many opportunities in front of goal, but were un­able to finish.  Junior Ricar­do Romero scored the lone goal on a dazzling free kick midway through the first half. 
The Broncos began threat­ening late in the second half, and eventually won a free kick with four minutes left.  On the ensuing play, the ball was crossed in, and after a scramble in the box, the Broncos score to tie the game.  The Irish had one more chance to score on a corner in the closing min­utes, but failed to capitalize. 
Women’s Ultimate 
Notre Dame’s women’s team traveled to Galesburg, Mich., from April 14 to 15 to compete in Eastern Great Lakes Conferences. With six bids to the regional event, the women were looking to secure their place within the top six teams. 
The A-team opened the tournament with a game against Indiana. The women went down 0-2 at the begin­ning, but eventually began to trade points. Senior Kelly Nickodem made great cuts and junior Allie Hawkins laid out for scores. However, the Irish lost 9-8. The team followed the loss with easy wins against Grand Valley State and Ball State. Senior captain Ashley Satterlee was patient with the disk, and found cutter junior Kelsey Taylor in the end zone. 
In their final game of the day, the Irish played Purdue. The women needed to secure the win in order to advance to the championship brack­et Sunday. The team came out extremely hard and shut down Purdue’s offense, win­ning 11-2. Sophomore Mara Stolee and junior Erinn Riley made great strides in their play throughout the day. 
On Sunday the women squared off in the semifi­nals against Michigan. They struggled to score against one of the nation’s top teams, losing 15-4. The women faced Indiana in their next match. After losing Saturday, the Irish were determined for revenge. The team played great defense, winning 15­
6. Junior Kelly Taylor sent hucks downfield for scores, and senior captain Victoria Hadlock put accurate throws into the end zone. 
In their final game of the tournament, the women played Michigan State in the second-place match. The women traded points throughout most of the game, struggling with both fatigue and injuries. Sopho­more Molly Carmona made great catches in the rainy weather. Notre Dame was determined to seal the vic­tory, however, they eventu­ally lost 11-9. The A-team finished third in the 11-team field, and secured their bid to the regional. 
The B-team opened Sat­urday with games against Purdue, Ball State and In­diana. The women were un­able to secure a victory, but displayed offensive prowess. Sophomore Kim Kowalski sent beautiful throws down-field. 
The women defeated Grand Valley State 10-9 in their fi­nal match of the day. 
On Sunday, the B-team faced off against Michigan-B and Western Michigan. Though they lost to both squads, they scored effi­ciently against Michigan-B, finishing their season strong. 
The women’s A-team will next compete at the Great Lakes regional from April 28 to 29 in their most important tournament of the season. 
Men’s Ultimate 
Both the Notre Dame men’s teams competed in confer­ence championships this weekend.  Notre Dame-A was at home in South Bend, com­peting in East Plains Confer­ence championship, while Notre Dame-B travelled to Ann Arbor, Mich., for the Eastern Great Lakes Devel­opmental Conference cham­pionship. 
Notre Dame-B finished in third place with a 4-2 record on the weekend, while Notre Dame-A won the tournament and their first conference ti­tle since 2009.  Notre Dame began their weekend with a comfortable win 13-7 against Western Kentucky.  In the following game against Indi­ana, the team fell 13-10.  Fac­ing Kentucky, Notre Dame-A continued their sloppy play but was able to secure a 13­11 win, thus earning a place in the semifinal against Pur­due. 
The next morning, Notre Dame fell behind early to the Boilermakers. Near the end of the first half, the Irish were able to turn the tide, and went to half on-serve trailing 7-6. 
A huge layout by junior Charlie Bowen early in the second half energized the squad. That led to a short run by Notre Dame to take a two-break lead that they would hold for the rest of the game. Increased pressure on the Purdue handlers cre­ated a number of turnovers, along with an emphasis on short and quick movement of the disc was key in the windy conditions. 
The win sent Notre Dame to the championship game against Ball State. Once again, Notre Dame started slow, falling behind 2-0.  Af­ter those first two points, Notre Dame finally flipped the switch. Intense defense and efficient offense led by senior handlers Mike Del­laPenna, Adam Barsella, James Denue and Sean Jack­son made the difference as Notre Dame cruised to a 13-6 victory to win the con­ference title.  Junior han­dlers Dan Bolivar and Col­lin Mackett had impressive Sundays, each throwing mul­tiple scores to cutters senior Will Cernanec, sophomore Conor Hanney and juniors Zack Woodruff and Jona­thon Koch.  The freshman trio of Jason Wassel, Kyle Hill and Erich Kerekes also had strong defensive perfor­mances throughout the tour­nament. 
Notre Dame-B finished un­defeated on Saturday with wins over Indiana-B, Kalam­azoo-B and Michigan State-
B. Sunday began with a loss to Michigan-B to finish pool play, and then a loss in the semifinal to Indiana-B to eliminate them from champi­onship contention. 
The team would bounce back, however, to take third place over Michigan State-
B. Junior captain Andrew Romero and sophomore cap­tain Jordan Lange led the team all weekend. Fresh­men Keith Podgorski, Peter Hall, Kevin Song and Steven Zurawski gave strong perfor­mances. 
Notre Dame-A will look to continue their winning ways in two weeks at the Great Lakes regional championship in Naperville, Ill., where they hope to secure one of the two region’s bids to nationals. 
Cycling 
A strong rainstorm, cou­pled with sandy roads, led to 8 of thirteen riders crashing in this weekend’s race.  The club is currently ranked first in D-II standings.  Junior Joe Magro is ranked first among all riders in D-II. 
In road-race results, the club took first in men’s “B” and men’s “C,” and third in men’s “A.”  Junior Phil Pal­mon was 22nd in men’s “D.” While in men’s “C,” sopho­more Josh Corcoran and freshman Michael Chifala finished sixth and ninth, re­spectively. 
Junior Brian Hurley and sophomore Luke Tilmans finished fourth and fifth in men’s “B;” and junior Caro­lyn McCann took sixth in women’s “B.” Freshman John Pratt, Magro and se­nior Nate Lee finished third, sixth, and 14th, respectively in the men’s “A” line-up. 
Palmon was 12th in men’s “D” circuit race.  Freshman Jim Snitzer took first in the men’s “C” event, followed by Chifala, 13th, and Corcoran, 16th.  McCann was seventh in women’s “B.”  In men’s “A,” Pratt was ninth, Magro, 17th and Ansel 24th among all finishers. 
Next week, the club will host the Midwest Collegiate Cycling Conference championship.  The team time trial will start and stop at the Greene Intermedi­ate Center in South Bend.  The road race for each division will be 31, 46, 61, and 76 miles, along a 15-mile rolling terrain loop. 
The Criterium will be con­ducted Sunday, finishing in front of the College Football Hall of Fame.  It begins at 9 a.m., and the last race starts at 1:15 pm. 
Women’s Water Polo 
Notre Dame claimed the MWCWPA conference cham­pionship this weekend, with a thrilling one-goal win over Grand Valley State in the fi­nals.  With 48 seconds re­maining in the game, the Irish maintained possession until time expired. 
The victory avenged the Irish lone conference loss during the season.  Notre Dame-B squad placed fifth in the tournament.  The Irish now advance to the national championships, to be hosted at Florida State in May. 
SMC GOLF 

Belles face conference foes in postseason qualifying tourney 
By ANDREW CARDOZA 
Sports Writer 
Today the Belles travel to Holland, Mich., for the MIAA NCAA qualifier to compete for a spot in the postseason national tournament. 
“This meet is what the sea­son leads up to,” Belles coach Mark Hamilton said. “We have to realize we belong here and can compete with any teams. We have put in a lot of work this season, and our team knows what we are capable of performing on the golf course.” 
In the qualification match, the Belles face competitive play from conference rivals Olivet, Hope, Calvin, Adrain and Trine. The Belles have seen most of their opponents throughout the season tour­naments and conference play. 
“This will be a great meet to see how much we have grown as a team,” Hamilton said. “This meet gives our players the opportunity to reach for postseason play, which is one our top team goals. I expect nothing but a great team performance and a fantastic day of competi­tion on the green.” 
Hamilton is looking for ev­eryone to be on their best game while making sure they improve on their mistakes. This will be the first quali­fication tournament for the Belles this year. 
“We need to work together as a team on the course, we are a team and need to sup­port and encourage each other,” Hamilton said. “Ev­eryone will need to play their personal best and give it their all. The beauty of a qualification meet is it gives you the opportunity to put yourself in the postseason by playing your very best.” 
The Belles are coming off a nice performance from the Illinois Wesleyan Spring Fling Tournament in Normal, Ill. In a field of 17 teams that included 10 NGCA top-25 teams, Saint Mary’s rounded out the top five with a fifth-place finish and a two-day team score of 660. The Belles hope to grow from this per­formance and use it to their advantage in the qualifica­tion tournament. 
“This meet will not only be a competitive meet but it will be a very big meet for our school,” Hamilton said. “We will learn a lot from this meet and hopefully we will continue to play golf for the next couple of weeks.” 
The Belles will not only look for strong performances on the course but they will try to consistently play well as a team. 
“Last meet we finished very strong,” Hamilton said.  “We need to take that momentum and carry it into this qualifi­cation match.” 
The MIAA NCAA Qualifier begins Tuesday and will be played in Holland, Mich. 
Contact Andrew Cardoza at acardoza@nd.edu 

Tuesday, April 17, 2012 The Observer u SPORTS ndsmcobserver.com | page 13 
O’Connor 
continued from page 16 
to a rough start when he was knocked out of the season opener against Duke after re­ceiving a hit to the head, which also caused him to miss Notre Dame’s only loss of the season against Penn State. On April 1, the injury bug bit again when O’Connor suffered a sprained ankle against St. John’s, forcing him out of the following week’s win over Providence. He said he is now recovered from both in­juries. 
In addition to the bothersome injuries, O’Connor is also facing a decrease in statistical output from a year ago. After finishing in the top-20 in the nation in face-off percentage last season at .553, O’Connor is currently outside the top-50 in the coun­try at .432 this year. But the lower production has not had an effect on his mindset. 
“It’s kind of a team philoso­phy not to worry about indi­vidual statistics,” he said. “I have noticed it, but it hasn’t dis­couraged me at all. I try to see in other aspects that I’m help-big momentum swing – or a ing the team … So I just try to big goal against St. John’s to make sure that every face-off is keep a run going,” he said. at least a 50-50 groundball, and While he has scored three try to contribute as much as I goals off face-off wins this can within my ability.” year, O’Connor is still uti-

That ability has not just been lized solely in face-off situa­taking face-offs, but scoring tions, and not in the settled goals this year, as well. Af-offense. Though he is hope­
ter record­ing no points last season, O’Connor scored a criti­cal goal off a face-off win with just over two minutes left in an 8-7 victory at Ohio State on March 21. He also added tallies against Rutgers and St. John’s. 
“In high school, I scored a lot, but it’s defi­nitely a good 

“I think that we could definitely win the national championship. When we’re focused all week preparing to play a game, and we prepare ourselves to go up against the competition, we’re as good as anybody in the country.” 
Liam O’Connor sophomore midfielder 
ful he can eventually evolve from a face-off specialist to an all-around of­fensive or defensive contribu ­tor for the Irish in upcoming seasons, he is current­ly focused on doing whatever possibl e to help his team win the ulti-
NHL 



Chara’s late goal gives Bruins 2-1 series lead 

feeling to have that recognized [from] a team standpoint … kind of contributing [with] a big goal against Ohio State – a mate prize in May. 
“I think that we could definitely win the national championship,” O’Connor said. “When we’re focused all week preparing to play a game, and we prepare our­selves to go up against the competition, we’re as good as anybody in the country. 
“Where we get down is maybe after the first quar­ter. Against Rutgers, [we] got up to a 6-1 lead and then let up on the pedal a bit. We lose our focus, and that’s where we kind of let other teams get back into the game. But if we stay focused 100 percent during the game, then we can compete with anybody.” 
Notre Dame’s next match-up is at Villanova on Satur­day at 5:30 p.m. 
Contact Sam Gans at sgans@nd.edu 


Associated Press 
Zdeno Chara scored the tie-breaking goal during 4-on-4 play with less than 2 minutes left, and the reigning Stanley Cup cham­pion Boston Bruins finally solved playoff rookie goalie Braden Holt-by, beating the Washington Capi­tals 4-3 Monday night to take a 2-1 lead in the first-round series. 
Chara’s shot from the right cir­cle appeared to get deflected on its way past Holtby. The Bruins captain also had two assists. 
Tim Thomas, last season’s playoff MVP, made 29 saves and ignored the taunting from fans who held up photos of President Barack Obama, reminding Bos­ton’s goalie that he turned down a trip to the White House in Janu­ary with his teammates. 
Game 4 is Thursday in Wash­ington. After that, the best-of­seven Eastern Conference series shifts back to Boston for Game 5 on Saturday. 
Brian Rolston, Rich Peverley and Daniel Paille also scored for the Bruins. 
Alex Ovechkin, Alexander Se-min and Brooks Laich got Wash­ington’s goals. Laich scored on a breakaway with 6 minutes left to make it 3-3, but Chara came through with 1:53 remaining for second-seeded Boston. 
Holtby, who blocked 72 of 74 shots through the first two games, was good but not great Monday, making 25 saves. 
The action was more free-flow­ing than it had been in the series, and perhaps the teams were due. The Bruins ranked second in the NHL during the regular season with 269 goals, and no team had more players with 20 goals than Boston’s six. The Capitals have emphasized defense lately, but they still boast talented forwards such as Ovechkin, Semin and Nicklas Backstrom. 
Game 1 went to overtime be­fore Boston won 1-0, and Game 2 wasn’t decided until the second extra period, when Washington claimed a 2-1 victory. Two games and a whopping total of four goals. 
There were four goals in 1½ pe­riods Monday, and a lot more hit­ting and fighting and penalties. After one prolonged skirmish involving a handful of players, Capitals defenseman Karl Alzner made a fist and rotated it near his eye, as if to say to one of the Bruins, “Why are you being such a crybaby?” 
Ovechkin attempted to set the tone right away, flattening defen­seman Dennis Seidenberg with a big, roar-inducing hit less than 30 seconds in. About 10 minutes later, Ovechkin was at it again, rattling Rolston, one of the five hits the Russian accumulated in the first period. 
Nearly every save made by Holtby — especially snatches with his glove — drew raucous cheers from the red-clad fans in the stands. He caught a 1-on-1 try by Milan Lucic in the first period, inspiring chants of “Holt-bee! Holt-bee!” 
The spectators tried to bother Thomas, mocking him by chant­ing his name and showing signs that made reference to his deci­sion to skip the trip to visit the president. Thomas, who was born in Michigan and went to the University of Vermont, said at the time he believes the federal gov­ernment “has grown out of con­trol.” 
Chara is Boston’s best defen­seman and it’s likely not a coin­cidence that Washington went ahead 1-0 on a power play with him in the penalty box for rough­ing. 
The Capitals capitalized 29 sec­onds into the 5-on-4 chance, with Laich corralling the puck, keep­ing it in the zone and dropping it to Semin, who made it 1-0 at 
16:00 of the first period. 
Ovechkin was credited with a secondary assist on the goal, the first of the series on a power play. Until then, Washington was 0 for 5, Boston 0 for 7. 
The opening 20 minutes ended with a bit of a scrum several feet to Thomas’ left. Nothing of the sort seen in the rowdy Flyers-Penguins series, but there was enough improper contact that two players began the second period off the ice: Washington’s Backstrom for cross-checking, and Boston’s Lucic for roughing. 
With some 4-on-4 action, the teams produced two goals in 13 seconds. 
Boston tied it at 1, with Pever­ley scoring off a slap shot from the left circle 35 seconds into the period. 
It didn’t take long for Ovechkin to respond. 
Limited to zero goals — and only four shots on net — through the first two games, the two-time NHL MVP put Washington ahead 2-1 at 48 seconds. Laich lobbed a pass up ahead, and Ovechkin pounced, beating Seidenberg to the fluttering puck and one-tim­ing a shot under Thomas’ left leg. 


page 14 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u SPORTS Tuesday, April 17, 2012 

Armstrong 
continued from page 16 
strength lies in her emotional stability on the course and not letting bad shots get to her. 
Holt said her competitive­ness has outweighed the struggles she had early. 
“Ashley is a fierce competitor and has spectacular on-course demeanor,” Holt said. “She has a great attitude and always gives 100 percent, so she is never out of it. Her competi­tive nature gets her through those tough rounds where not all of the shots are going her way, but she still comes out of it with a good score.” 
Armstrong said her golf game is marked by pattern of behavior on the course. 
“I am a very superstitious player,” Armstrong said. “There isn’t necessarily any­thing I do before I tee off, but when I’m playing, I have to mark my ball on the right side of the Sharpie line on my ball, or else I will miss the putt.  Also, on par-threes I have to use a broken tee, or else I feel like I won’t hit a good shot.” 
With a fierce competitive­ness and superstitious na­ture in tow, Armstrong will lead the Irish into the Big East championship at the Re­union Resort and Golf Club in Orlando, Fla. starting Sun­day. 

Contact Isaac Lorton at ilorton@nd.edu 
MLB 

Strasburg earns second win 
Associated Press 
Washington – Stephen Strasburg pitched six in­nings for his second win of the season, to lead the Washington Nationals to a 6-3 victory over the Hous­ton Astros on Monday. 
Strasburg looked near­ly unhittable for five in­nings, allowing just three singles, but the Astros got to him in the sixth for two runs and three hits. 
Strasburg (2-0) walked one and struck out five. He hasn’t allowed a home run in 50 1-3 innings — since Aug. 15, 2010. His ERA rose from 0.69 to 1.42. 
Steve Lombardozzi had three singles and a two-run double in the sixth off Kyle Weiland (0-2) that gave Washington a 4-2 lead. Ryan Zimmerman followed with a two-run single. 
Weiland started for the seventh time in his major league career and is win­less in five decisions. 
After Strasburg left, Sean Burnett got two outs in the seventh, Ryan Mat­theus allowed an earned run in the eighth, Tom Gorzelanny finished the eighth, and Henry Rodri­guez pitched the ninth for his second save. 
In the third, Ian Desmond doubled to left with one out. Lombardozzi bunted, but Weiland threw the ball away, and Desmond scored on the error. 
Wilson Ramos hit his first home run with two outs in the fourth. 
In the sixth, Jordan Scha­fer and Jed Lowrie led off with singles. On the ninth pitch of his at-bat, J.D. Martinez walked to load the bases. Carlos Lee flied out to center fielder Rick An­kiel, but Schafer elected not to attempt scoring. Ankiel’s threw home was perfect. 
After Strasburg struck out Travis Buck, Chris Johnson hit a two-run single to tie the score. 
In the bottom of the sixth, Ankiel singled with one out, and with two outs, Rog­er Bernadina, batting for Strasburg walked. Desmond walked to load the bases, and Lombardozzi, who was starting because manag­er Davey Johnson wanted to rest Danny Espinosa, slapped a double to left, and Zimmerman followed with the two-run double. 
Weiland pitched 5 2-3 in­nings, allowing six runs and 10 hits. 
The Astros scored their final run in the eighth on a single to Travis Buck and a triple by Johnson — his third hit of the game. They batted 2 for 14 with runners in scoring position. 
NOTES: Strasburg singled in the fourth inning. He’s now 2 for 31 as a major league hitter. ... Nationals RHP Chien-Ming Wang will throw a simulated game in Viera, Fla., on Wednesday, and if that goes well, he’ll pitch in a minor league game. Wang has been on the disabled list with a left hamstring in­jury. ... TV evangelist Joel Osteen threw out the first pitch. He’ll be conducting a service at Nationals Park on Apr. 28. ... The Astros have scored at least three runs in every game. ... Houston LHP Wandy Rodriguez (0-1, 2.38 ERA) is scheduled to throw against Nationals LHP Gio Gonzalez (0-0, 3.38 ERA) on Tuesday night. 



Tuesday, April 17, 2012 The Observer u TODAY ndsmcobserver.com | page 15 
WILL SHORTz 
HOROSCOPE EUgENIA LAST 
CROSSWORD 



SCOTT MICHAEL and MATT MOMONT 
HENRy ARNOLD 
THE MATING RITUAL 
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARgIRION 





Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556

 Enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year


 Enclosed
 is $75 for one semester 


Name ____________________________________________________ Address __________________________________________________ City ____________________ State___________ Zip______________ 

Tuesday, April 17, 2012 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 16 
MEN’S LACROSSE

 Facing the enemy 

By SAM GANS 
Sports Writer 
The goaltender is often con­sidered the key position on a lacrosse team. Attackmen are frequently the recognized stars. But it is the face-off specialist who plays one of the most im­portant, yet anonymous, roles on the squad. 
For Notre Dame, that position is filled primarily by sophomore midfielder Liam O’Connor. 
O’Connor is now in his second season as the top face-off man for the No. 5 Irish (9-1, 4-0 Big East). The frequency of face-offs in lacrosse, which occur at the start of each quarter and after every goal, makes it a pre­mium to find a player who can win extra possessions for his team. 
O’Connor, who arrived at Notre Dame as the 10th best midfielder in the nation in his class according to Inside La­crosse, added face-offs to his skill-set as a sophomore in high school, and has since developed his ability at the collegiate level. 
“I always liked taking face-offs,” O’Connor said. “My older brother Mike took them when he was in high school, and I never really started to really work on them until sophomore year of high school when I had my high school coach learn a bunch of stuff and he taught it to me. And ever since then, I got a spot on varsity lacrosse and started playing really well and just loved facing off.” 
O’Connor’s season got off 
see O’CONNOR/page 13 
SMC SOFTBALL 

Belles host series against MIAA-leading Trine 
By MATT UNGER 
Sports Writer 
The Belles ride a four-game winning streak into potentially their toughest challenge of the season, as they take on first-place con­ference foe Trine College on Tuesday. 
Saint Mary’s (20-8, 5-3 MIAA), currently tied for third place in the MIAA, has the opportunity to move within a game of first with a doubleheader home sweep of the Thunder (23-5, 5-1). 
This weekend, the Belles swept both MIAA-rival Oliv­et and non-conference op­ponent Franklin College in doubleheaders. The first game against Olivet and the second game against Frank­lin both ended after five in­nings by mercy rule, as the Belles were ahead 16-1 and 11-1, respectively. 
The Belles’ offense ex­ploded to score 38 runs over the course of the four week­end games, and Saint Mary’s raised the team’s batting av­erage from .287 to .309. 
Senior captain and left-fielder Kristen Nelson, the top Belles hitter on the sea­son, went 4-for-7 with three doubles and five RBIs in the doubleheader sweep of Oliv­et. 
The Belles pitching staff, anchored by sophomore Callie Selner, allowed just five runs in the four games. Selner, who pitched three complete games, improved her record to 11-5 and lowered her ERA to a team-best 1.99. 
Meanwhile, the Thunder also ride a four-game winning streak into today’s competition following recent doubleheader sweeps of Hope and Alma. Trine is an established confer­ence powerhouse, having won the MIAA tournament four out of the past five seasons. 
Trine’s offense has been formidable throughout the season, batting .336 and hit­ting 20 home runs, compared to just five homers for Saint Mary’s. 
Additionally, their leading pitcher, junior Andi Gasco, holds a 14-2 record with a 1.49 ERA, striking out 109 batters in 108 innings pitched. Gasco is also a dual threat, as she leads the team with six home runs and is second with a .429 batting average. 
Following the doublehead­er with Trine, the Belles will play six-straight road games, starting Thursday with a dou­bleheader at MIAA-foe Albion College at 3:30 p.m. 
Contact Matt Unger at munger3@nd.edu 
ND WOMEN’S GOLF 

Armstrong named player of the week 
By ISAAC LORTON 
Sports Writer 
Leading Notre Dame to a 10th­place finish at the Liz Murphey Collegiate Classic at the Univer­sity of Georgia from March 28 to April 1, freshman Ashley Arm­strong tied for 13th place over­all. For her performance, she was awarded Big East Player of the Week. Armstrong finished with an even-par 216 in the 18­team, 90-player field, consisting of 13 teams ranked in the top­50 nationally. 
“I think it is great that Ash­ley was awarded this, because she deserves it,” Irish coach Su­san Holt said. “The tournament we played in Georgia was the toughest field of competition we have played all year. For Ashley to finish in the top-25 is a great accomplishment.” 
Despite receiving the award, Armstrong said she looks for­ward to contributing more to the team’s success. 
“I was very excited to win Player of the Week,” Armstrong said. “It will be more important though that I play well at the Big East tournament to help out the team. It was awesome to be given this honor, but now I need 
to prove that I deserved it.” 
Holt said Armstrong’s heavy 
focus on the team actually was 
a drawback in the fall season. 
Holt said she and Armstrong 
recognized the freshman’s 
first two rounds were stronger 
than her final round in tour­
naments. 
“Her struggle was playing 
too much for the team,” Holt 
said. “Golf is a very individual 
sport, and I think Ashley re­
alized her teammates were 
looking to her for a good score 
on the last day and she put too 
much pressure on herself.” 
Armstrong said she has 
been working on this issue. 
“I need to overcome the 
pressure and weakness for 
the postseason tournament,” 
Armstrong said.   
Holt said Armstrong has al­
ready improved, and the prob­
lem is no longer a concern. 
“She is a very consistent 
player for us now,” Holt said. 
“In the fall season, she was 
struggling to produce good 
scores all three rounds, but 
we worked on it and she now 
has consistency.” 
Armstrong said her golf 
see ARMSTRONG/page 14 

ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 
Peters and Novosel selected in draft 
Observer Staff Report 
The Minnesota Lynx draft­ed graduate student for­ward Devereaux Peters with the No. 3 overall pick in the WNBA draft Monday, and the Washington Mystics drafted senior guard Natalie Novosel with the No. 8 pick. 
Peters became Notre Dame’s highest-drafted player ever, ahead of Ring of Honor member Ruth Riley, who was drafted No. 5 by the Miami Sol in 2001 after win­ning the national champion­ship for the Irish. 
In her career, Peters scored 1,319 points, 17th all-time for the women’s basketball program. She be­came the first player in pro­gram history to ever record at least 1,000 points, 500 rebounds, 200 blocks, 200 steals and 200 assists in her career. In her final season, she averaged 11.8 points and 
9.3 rebounds per game. She blocked 78 shots and assist­ed on 88 baskets. 
Novosel finished her ca­reer with the second-most ever games played (144), free throws made (464) and free throws attempted (588). She scored 1,569 points, which ranks ninth all-time and shot 
39.2 percent from behind the three-point line, which ranks fifth all-time in program his­tory. During her senior cam­paign, Novosel averaged 15.2 points and 4.1 rebounds per game. She shot 82.9% from the field and 41.1% from be­hind the arc. 


Novosel finished as a first-team All-Big East member for the last two seasons. 
Stanford senior All-Ameri­can Nnemkadi Ogwumike was selected with the No. 1 over­all pick by the Los Angeles Sparks. 






