TO UNCOVER 
THE TRUTH 
AND REPORT 
IT ACCURATELY

THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING 
NOTRE DAME AND 
SAINT MARY’S

VOLUME 46, ISSUE 32 | THURSDAY, OCTOBER 4, 2012 | NDSMCOBSERVER.COM

Game weekend features lectures

Debate captivates nation

Students respond to candidates’ comments on education, healthcare


By MEL FLANAGAN
News Writer
As a lead-up to this weekend’s Shamrock Series football game against the Miami Hurricanes in Chicago, the University will host four academic events in the Windy City that focus on various key issues in today’s world.
The events, which are free and open to the public, will be held at Chicago’s J.W. Marriott at 151 W. Adams Street. 
Sophomore Emily Strickland, student advocacy assistant for the Ford Family Program in Human Development Studies and Solidarity, said the scheduled aca­demic talks emphasize the values important to the University.
“I think it’s highlighting that Notre Dame is an academic institu­tion first rather than a sports power­house,” Strickland said.
As part of the series, the Ford Program, along with the Kellogg Institute for International Studies and the Initiative for Global Development, is sponsoring a debate titled “International Development and U.S. Foreign Policy,” which will be held today at 5 p.m. in Grand Ballroom B and C.
The debate will feature two pan­elists: Paul Collier, development economist and the director for the Center for the Study of African Economies at the University of Oxford, and Sean Callahan, ex­ecutive vice president of Overseas Operations at Catholic Relief Services.
Collier gave a lecture at the University on Wednesday night, titled “International Human Development: Has the U.S. a Leadership Role?”
In the Chicago debate, Collier and Callahan will discuss what the U.S. role in international devel­opment should be, Strickland said. The Kellogg Institute will stream a live feed of the event on its website.
“They’re going to talk about what factors are relevant in policy making, and how they should be implemented,” Strickland said.
This topic will play a significant role in November’s presidential election, Strickland said, and to­day’s event will give students a chance to learn more about the different approaches to global development.
“It’s preparing students to see how they should vote, what they feel and to develop their own opin­ions about foreign aid,” she said.
At 2 p.m. today, the University will host another panel, titled “Notre Dame Faculty in the Media.”
The event, which will also be held in Grand Ballroom B and C, will feature Notre Dame faculty panelists who been heavily in­volved in print, broadcast or on­line news media, a Notre Dame press release stated.
Kate Sullivan, Notre Dame class of 1998 and CBS Chicago news an­chor, will moderate the panel.
Friday’s academic events, which will both be held in the Lincoln Room of the J.W. Marriott, will fo­cus on economy and politics in to­day’s world.
“The Economy Now: A Roundtable of Notre Dame Economists” will take place at 10 a.m. and will feature a discussion by Notre Dame faculty and a ques­tion-and-answer period.
The final academic event of the Shamrock Series is hosted by University Communications at 2 p.m. Friday. David Shribman, executive editor of the Pittsburgh Post-Gazette, will moderate “Religion in the Public Square,” and its panelists include University professors and members of the news media.
The week’s events offer Notre Dame alumni and fans a chance to stay involved with the University through avenues besides sports, Strickland said.
“Notre Dame is a University, it’s not going to be all about sports,” she said. “I think it’s showing that athletics are important, but aca­demics always comes with it at the University.”
For a complete listing of this weekend’s events in Chicago, visit gameday.nd.edu.
Contact Mel Flanagan at
mflanag3@nd.edu

AP
President Barack Obama faced off with Gov. Mitt Romney in the first of three presidential debates Wednesday night at the University of Den­ver. The candidates addressed the economy, the federal deficit and taxes. 

By JOHN CAMERON
News Editor
The final stretch of the presi­dential race kicked off last night as President Barack Obama and former Massachusetts Gov. Mitt Romney faced off on employment, the economy and healthcare in the first of three 2012 presidential debates. 
Students tuning into the debates had mixed feelings about how con­vincing the candidates’ plans were on the controversial topics.
Senior Betty Graham said the is­sue of education hit home for her as a college student.
“Romney was quoted as saying college students should ask our parents for a loan, but that’s not an option for a lot of students, even from high-income families,” she said. “For me that was a big deal. ... Romney didn’t really respond to it in a great way.”
Graham found merit in both candidates’ philosophies toward education for younger students.
“I think a lot of the responsibility lies at the state and local level, but I think in terms of what Obama talk­ed about, with education being the future of America — they can’t just leave that up to towns and states,” she said. “Mississippi needs help, they can’t get it done on their own.,” 
she said. 
Senior Tom Swanson was not af­fected by either candidate’s state­ments on education.
“No candidate is ever going to say he’s against education,” Swanson said. “They both end up saying the same politically-correct platitudes. I would call it a draw.”
As much of the debate focused on the role of small businesses, Graham said she felt the distinc­tion between “small” and “large” businesses was unclear.
“I wish one of them would have taken the time to say what in their eyes is a big or small business,” she said. “When Obama brought up the fact that under some defi­nitions Donald Trump is a small business, it gets tricky. ... I thought small business was the ‘mom and pop’ hardware store.”
Senior Patty Walsh was not wholly convinced by Romney’s claim he would not reduce taxes on large corporations as president.
“He’s definitely easy to criticize as flip-flopping on issues,” she said. “The temptation is to say he won’t stick behind that, and that he’ll be tempted by his background to be lenient toward big business. But I don’t think, given the economy we’re in, he has the room to let his preferences decide.”
As Obama frequently alluded to Romney’s alleged plan to cut taxes by $5 trillion, Graham was unconvinced by Romney’s expla­nation the cuts would be made up for by eliminating exemptions and loopholes.
“When Obama said the math doesn’t add up ... I’m cautious about that,” she said. “I know nei­ther of the candidates want to say they’re not going to not cut taxes — we all want to hear they’ll cut them or not raise them.”
Swanson said third-party re­search exists to support both sides of Romney’s claim.
“I’ve read findings that would vindicate both sides,” he said. “I think [Obama’s refutation] will res­onate with people’s common sense, true or not. I think voters are going to have to do their homework and educate themselves going into the other debates.”
As the survival of the Affordable Care Act hinges on the outcome of the election, the candidates de­bated whether a $716 billion cut in payments to healthcare providers serving Medicare recipients was a result of streamlining inefficiencies or reducing quality of care.
“I agree with Romney on this one,” Graham said. “I think it’s go­ing to hurt the patients in the long run. [Quality of care] does affect me. Sure, I can stay on my parents’ in­surance until I’m 26, but what does that do if the care is mediocre?”
Graham found little comfort in Obama’s reassurance he can main­tain Medicare successfully.
“Cutting off the elderly is a big deal,” she said. “Romney backed Obama up in a corner there. Obama did not do a good job of explaining how it won’t collapse.”
Following Romney’s pledge to replace Dodd-Frank, a package of regulations on financial institu­tions, Walsh said it was unclear as to what the presidential hopeful would replace it with, or whether it should have been focused on at all.
“First of all, the fact they were talking about it in such a specific way was frustrating,” she said. “Even as an educated student in the business college, I can’t speak to that issue. He gave no informa­tion [on his proposed replacement regulation].”
Swanson said the limited time available was not constructive for a detailed explanation of Romney’s proposed regulations.
“I don’t think he was too vague,” he said. “I don’t think he could do much more on that score ... and I don’t think Obama defended Dodd-Frank well.”
Walsh said the debate did not af­fect her voting decision, although it may have highlighted some of her favored candidate’s weaknesses.
“I think across the board, a lot of people are already locked into their beliefs,” she said. “You go in root­ing for your candidate and based on their performance, my support might be affected. I think it’s more of a call-to-arms situation.”
For Graham, the debate inspired her to seek more information.
“After watching this, it definite­ly shook my thinking a bit,” she said. “I’ve got to do some research. People who are less firm in their de­cision could be swung in a different direction.”
Contact John Cameron at          jcamero2@nd.edu

see DEBATE PAGE 6

see FOOTBALL PAGE 6

Professor critiques war apathy

Advisor addresses economy

By MEGHAN THOMASSEN
News Writer
Right before President Barack Obama and Republican presidential nominee Mitt Romney de­bated for the first time on live television Wednesday night, economist Jared Bernstein spoke on the government’s role in the economy.
Bernstein, former economics advisor to Vice President Joe Biden, ad­dressed students and fac­ulty at the annual McBride lecture.
“I don’t know that I’ve ever seen an election that so starkly presented a choice about the role of government in our econ­omy and in our econom­ic lives,” Bernstein said.
The two parties have dif­ferent views on the govern­ment’s role in the economy, Bernstein said.
“The question is: What’s the proper function of the government in advanced economies like ours?” he said.
Both candidates believe markets and market forces should dominate, Bernstein said.
“It’s not a matter of one side believing the govern­ment should do everything and the other side believing the government shouldn’t do everything,” he said. “It’s a matter of where you draw the line. I’m talking to younger people now. I want you to think yourself of where you would draw that line.”
In an interview before the lecture, Bernstein said the jobs market is up for debate because the unemploy­ment rate is still too high.
“The budget deficit aspect is a trickier discussion in the sense that the budget deficit itself is a function of the great recession, and as the economy recovers from that, the pressure from the budget deficit will natural­ly come down,” Bernstein said. “But it will certainly be a part of the discussion.”
Bernstein said neither candidate has offered suf­ficiently concrete plans to improve the job market.
“It’s a little tricky for the president in the sense that he proposed a plan a year ago called the American Jobs Act in Sept. 2011 and Congress wouldn’t even look at it,” he said. “He has an extra barrier to face; even if he comes up with good ideas he has a Republican House [of Representatives] that is stonewalling him.”
Pressure to overcome the barriers between the gov­ernment and economic solu­tions will need to come from the public, Bernstein said. 
“I’m a denizen of Washington and its ex­tremely frustrating to see just how dysfunctional Congress is right now, at a time when we have real eco­nomic challenges to face,” he said. “If the economy were humming along at five percent unemployment rate, I might feel less frustrated with this gridlock, but we have big problems to solve, and Congress just threat­ens to make them worse.”
The pressure will need to come from both sides of the political aisle, Bernstein said.
“The refusal to compromise is antithetical to getting anything done in politics,” he said.
Bernstein’s lecture was part of the Higgins Program, which established the McBride Lecture with the United Steelworkers in 1977 “to better understand the principles of union­ism and our economy.” Bernstein is a senior fellow at the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities. The lec­ture preceded a live stream­ing of the presidential debate Wednesday night in the Hesburgh Library Auditorium.
Contact Meghan Thomassen at mthomass@nd.edu


By DAN BROMBACH
News Writer
Choose one of two options in the war on terror: Either assent to continued war as necessary for the preserva­tion of freedom and commit fully to its material and hu­man costs, or abandon the struggle and settle for a con­stricted definition of liberty.
These were the two options Boston University professor Andrew Bacevich presented to Americans on Wednesday afternoon in his lecture ti­tled, “Cheap Grace and the American Way of War.”
Bacevich said the way in which the United States has waged war since the September 11 terrorist at­tacks can be defined by the term “cheap grace,” meaning the American public enjoys a life of freedom and privilege without participating in the armed conflicts that ensure these liberties.
By disengaging from the war effort, attempting to live unaffected lives by placing the burden on politicians, volunteer military forces and future generations, the American public has indulged in a “cheap grace” of un­earned gifts, Bacevich said.
“[American soldiers] fought while we watched, uninvolved and seemingly unaffected,” Bacevich said. “When it came to fighting and dying, we not only got a free pass, but we got to feel good about it. Courtesy of the Bush administration, this free pass also extended to the financial cost, with the obligation to pay for this global war on terror fall­ing on future generations of taxpayers.”
Bacevich contrasted the “cheap grace” of the war on terror with the shared sacri­fice and commitment to the military cause displayed by the American public during World War II. 
He said World War II is an example of “costly grace,” or grace earned through struggle and unified devotion to the cause of freedom. For exam­ple, Bacevich said this idea of costly grace is visible through the equality of American pub­lic participation created by the draft system.
“When it came to raising an army, equitability became a defining precept,” Bacevich said. “Rather than relying on volunteers, the United States implemented a system of con­scription. The draft took black and white, rich and poor, the famous and the obscure, and Ivy Leaguers and high school dropouts.
“In other words, the United States waged World War II with a citizen army that re­flected the reigning precepts of American democracy.”
Bacevich said such notions of collective responsibility in warfare have been replaced by a system in which citi­zens outsource their duty to defend American freedoms to a distant “warrior class,” alleviating their guilt for do­ing so through displays of veneration for the troops. He compared this unbalanced relationship between the public and armed forces to that between the lower class and the financial elite of the one percent.
“If the one percent who are very rich are engaged in ruth­lessly exploiting those who are not rich, their actions are analogous to that of American society as a whole in its treat­ment of soldiers,” Bacevich said. “The 99 percent who do not serve in uniform just as ruthlessly exploit those who do serve.”
The costly grace of complete public sacrifice during World War II launched the United States to dizzying heights of prosperity, whereas more than a decade of public dis­enfranchisement and cheap grace in the fight against global terrorism has dragged the country into its current pit of recession and moral un­certainty, Bacevich said. 
The United States must ei­ther involve the public in its continued war efforts or accept limitations to its freedoms.
“Cheap grace has turned out not to be that cheap after all,” Bacevich said. “It ends up exacting its own costs.”
Contact Dan Brombach at dbrombac@nd.edu

SUZANNA PRATT | The Observer
Jared Bernstein, former economic advisor to Vice President Joe Biden, discussed the government’s role in the economy Wednesday night.  

see McBRIDE PAGE 7

see WAR PAGE 7





Perks of Being a       Superfan

ST. FRANCIS DAY PAGE 3

SCENE PAGE 10

VIEWPOINT PAGE 8

WAKING THE ECHOES PAGE 20

WOMEN’S SOCCERPAGE 20

2

THE OBSERVER | THURSDAY, OCTOBER 4, 2012 | NDSMCOBSERVER.COM

TODAY

QUESTION OF THE DAY:

Have a question you want answered?
Email obsphoto@gmail.com



ndsmcobserver.com
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556
024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556
Editor-in-Chief
Allan Joseph
Managing Editor                  Business Manager
                  Megan Doyle                              Jeff Liptak
	Asst. Managing Editor:	Andrew Owens
	Asst. Managing Editor:	Sam Stryker
	News Editor:	John Cameron
	News Editor:	Kristen Durbin
	Viewpoint Editor:	Meghan Thomassen
	Sports Editor:	Chris Allen
	Scene Editor:	Kevin Noonan
	Saint Mary’s Editor:	Jillian Barwick
	Photo Editor:	Suzanna Pratt
	Graphics Editor:	Brandon Keelean
	Multimedia Editor:	Sarah O’Connor
	Advertising Manager:	Monica McCormack
	Ad Design Manager:	Sara Hilstrom
	Controller:	Peter Woo
	Systems Administrator:	William Heineman
Office Manager & General Info
Ph: (574) 631-7471
Fax: (574) 631-6927
Advertising
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com
Editor-in-Chief
(574) 631-4542 ajoseph2@nd.edu
Managing Editor
(574) 631-4542 mdoyle11@nd.edu
Assistant Managing Editors
(574) 631-4541 aowens2@nd.edu
sstryke1@nd.edu
Business Office
(574) 631-5313
News Desk
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com
Viewpoint Desk
(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com
Sports Desk
(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com
Scene Desk
(574) 631-4540 Observer.Scene.Editor@gmail.com
Saint Mary’s Desk
jbarwi01@saintmarys.edu
Photo Desk
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com
Systems & Web Administrators
(574) 631-8839
Policies
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College.  Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content.
	The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer.
	Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information.
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Allan Joseph.
Post Office Information
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods.
A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester.
The Observer is published at:
024 South Dining Hall
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779
Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame and additional mailing offices
POSTMASTER
Send address corrections to:
The Observer
P.O. Box 779
024 South Dining hall
Notre Dame, IN 46556-077
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press.
All reproduction rights are reserved.

If you could get rid of one thing in the world, what would it be?



Kathleen Hull
senior
Ryan Hall
“Fifty Shades of Grey.”

Andy Hatfieod
law student
Fisher Graduate Residence
“Way too early Christmas stuff.”



Caitlin Beauchamp
freshman
Pasquerilla West Hall
“Homework.”

Lindsay Smith
senior
Welsh Family Hall
“Colds.”



Christina Dollar
senior
Ryan Hall
“Hagfish.”

Siyu Yao
freshman
Ryan Hall
“Death.”


LILY KANG | The Observer
The College of Engineering hosted an information session Tuesday in DeBartolo Hall for its summer programs in London, 
England, and Alcoy, Spain. Bob Alworth, director of Inegrated Engineering and Business Practices, delivered useful information to students who are interested in the foreign study programs.

Today’s Staff

THE NEXT FIVE DAYS:

Want your event included here?
Email obsnews.nd@gmail.com

News
Tori Roeck
Ann Marie Jakubowski
Nicole Michels
Dan Brombach
Rebecca O’Neil
Graphics
Brandon Keelean
Photo
Mackenzie Sain
Sports
Joseph Monardo
Conor Kelly
Laura Coletti
Scene
María Fernández
Viewpoint
Caroline Schurz

Thursday
Talk Science Seminar
Jordan Hall
7 p.m.-8 p.m.
Current research by students and faculty.
2012 Red Smith Lecture: “Journalism in the Age of Twitteracy”
Eck Visitors Center
7:30 p.m.-8:45 p.m.
Friday
Nano Research Contest Finalists
Stinson-Remick Hall
3:30 p.m.-5:30 p.m.
Poster session.

Nanovic Film: Habemus Papam
DeBartolo Performing Arts Center
6:30 p.m.-8:15 p.m.
Tickets $4/$7
Saturday
Men’s Soccer
Alumni Stadium
2 p.m.-4 p.m.
ND vs. Georgetown


“Much Ado About Nothing”
Washington Hall
7:30 p.m.-9 p.m.
Student-run theater production.
Sunday
Women’s Soccer
Alumni Stadium
1 p.m.-3 p.m.
ND vs. Rutgers


“Human Evolution” Symposium
McKenna Hall
All Day
Discourses by international experts.
Monday
Work Off Your Weekend
Rolfs Sports Recreation Center
All day

“New Media: From the Middles Ages to the Digital Age”
107 O’Shaughnessy
5 p.m.-6:30 p.m.
Rountable discussion.

Corrections
A column in the Oct. 3 issue of the Observer, “Career baby steps,” was misattributed to Julie Gray. The column was written by Rose Kopec, the associate director of Early Career Outreach.

3

NDSMCOBSERVER.COM | THURSDAY, OCTOBER 4, 2012 | THE OBSERVER

NEWS

Students enjoy bonfire despite rain

Feast day honors St. Francis

By CATHERINE OWERS
News Writer
The Notre Dame community will celebrate the feast day of St. Francis of Assisi today with a special mass, a movie showing, a blessing in the cha­pel of Breen-Phillips Hall and treats in the dining halls. 
Duncan Hall rector Terry Fitzgibbons helped plan the days event to honor St. Francis, who is the patron saint of animals and the environment. 
Fitzgibbons said Heather Rakoczy Russell, associate vice-president for residential life, knew of his interest in the environment and social justice, and asked him to be the representa­tive for the Office of Student Affairs on the University’s Energy and Environmental Issues committee.
“The environment’s something that’s always been important to me, and at the same time my faith has been important to me,” he said. “I don’t view them as separate, the two go hand in hand. … This is God’s earth, and we’re supposed to take care of it.”
The daily 5:15 p.m. Mass in the Basilica will honor the feast day. Fr. Paul Coleman, director of the Center of Social Concerns, will preside at the Mass. Following the mass, the movie “Sun Come Up” will screen in the Jordan Hall of Science, Fitzgibbons said. 
“It’s a story about … climate refu­gees,” Fitzgibbons said. “[The people in the film] basically have no place to live anymore, due to rising sea levels, and this [film] follows their story.”
Fitzgibbons then said moviegoers can attend a forum after the film to talk about the Catholic standpoint on the environment.
“We’re going to have a discussion, prayer [and] reflection afterwards,” Fitzgibbons said. “With sustainability, ecology, environment, climate stuff … sometimes it can tend to be statistic-oriented, number-oriented. The idea is to spiritualize the environment and ecology because stewardship of the earth is part of our Catholic teaching. It’s not just a hobby we tree-huggers are into, but a part of our Catholic faith.”
Fitzgibbons said he hopes the Mass, film and discussion lead to a deeper sense of awareness on environmental issues and how they can be integrated into faith. 
“Once you make it part of our faith, it’s something we have to take seri­ously. … We hope students, faculty and staff will join us for this and also be part of the conversation,” he said. “We want to not just end with the film, but moving forward, what are ways we can make the issues of ecology, envi­ronment, sustainability [and] climate … more personal, more spiritual?”
Other meaningful questions can be addressed in the context of these events, Fitzgibbons said.
“What can we do practically for people, like the people in the film who are affected by climate change?” he said. “But also, what can we do on campus, what can we do in our faith lives, to make this more meaningful?”
The feast of St. Francis is the perfect time to bring these concerns to light, Fitzgibbons said.
“I think the feast of St. Francis is the natural way to tie [faith and the envi­ronment] in, with Mass, with the dis­cussion of the film, to tie it in and make it very personal and spiritual,” he said. 
Breen-Phillips Hall will also hold a prayer service Thursday in the dorm’s St. Francis of Assisi Chapel to celebrate the feast day of its namesake. 
Breen-Phillips Hall’s liturgical com­missioner Kate Lang said the prayer service will also focus on faith and the environment.
“One of the Masters of Divinity stu­dents [Collen Mayer] is going to give a small reflection on St. Francis and the environment,” Lang said. “One of the students who graduated in 2009 made a marble plaque of St. Francis, and during the prayer service we are going to bless it.” 
The plaque will then be hung in Breen-Phillips Hall’s chapel. 
The prayer service will continue the theme of St. Francis of Assisi, she said, with the opening song “Make Me a Channel of Your Peace,” which is based on the Prayer of St. Francis. “The Canticle of the Sun,” written by St. Francis, will also be read, Lang said. 
In addition to the religious events commemorating the feast of St. Francis on campus, the dining halls will serve special nature-themed des­serts at dinner.  
Contact Catherine Owers at
cowers@nd.edu


By SARAH SWIDERSKI
News Writer
Saint Mary’s students braved the rain Wednesday evening to attend the an­nual Student Diversity Board (SDB) bonfire, featuring lo­cal performers, three blazing fires and food.
Board member Jean Osberger said the bonfire was the start of great year of SDB events to come. 
“Tonight is a kickoff for the year and to get everyone ex­cited for other SDB events,” Osberger said.
Saint Mary’s singing group Bellacappella performed renditions of popular songs such as “Some Nights,” com­plete with background beat boxing. 
Local poet Pam Blair recit­ed two poems she had writ­ten titled “The Carousel of Life” and “I Want to Dream.”  
Notre Dame student rapper D. Montayne performed a set, including a rap to the tune of the Notre Dame fight song. He also performed his song “Broken Mirrors,” for which a music video will soon be filmed. Students danced and put their hands up as the rapper performed, in prepa­ration for his upcoming show at Club Fever this Saturday. 
The TroopND hip-hop dance team and the ND/SMC Irish dance team followed these performances. 
Raffles took place through­out the night for three buckets of candy, an SDB t-shirt and a rubber brace­let. Students also enjoyed s’mores, caramel apples and cider. 
Later this year, SDB will host the Diverse Students Leadership Conference on diversities in various set­tings, the challenges in in­corporating diversity and the benefits of diversity, which will be held March 19 to 20. The theme for this school year’s conference is “From Awareness to Action.”
SDB bonfire chair Abby Burgan said she was pleased with the number of students who attended. 
“Despite the rain and all the obstacles we still had a great turnout,” Burgan said. 
SDB president Maggie Galvin said she also thought the event was successful de­spite the inclement weather. 
 “I would like to thank ev­eryone for coming out in the rain to support our amazing performers,” Galvin said. 
“A little rain didn’t ruin our fun.”
Board member Rachel Chaddah said the event has grown in popularity. 
“It’s a testament to the tra­dition of (the bonfire) that so many people came out,” she said. “I’ve been on the board since freshman year, [and] it’s gotten bigger and bigger each year.”
Contact Sarah Swiderski at
sswide01@saintmarys.edu

Photo courtesy of Kate Lang
This marble plaque of St. Francis of Assisi will be blessed at a prayer service commemorating his feast day in the Breen-Phillips Hall Chapel.

“I would like to thank everyone for coming out in the rain to support our amazing performers.”
Maggie Galvin
SBD president

Please recycle
The Observer.



PAID ADVERTISEMENT


PAID ADVERTISEMENT


5

NDSMCOBSERVER.COM | THURSDAY, OCTOBER 4, 2012 | THE OBSERVER

NEWS

Lecture explores U.S. role

SENATE

Group discusses overcrowding

By MICHAEL FERNANDES
News Writer
What would happen if America ceased to be — if it failed to provide the leadership in the international arena for which it is best known?  
Professor Paul Collier, director of the Centre for the Study of African Economies at the University of Oxford, raised these questions and more in his lecture Wednesday titled “International Human Development: Has the U.S. a Leadership Role?”
Collier, whose research includes the political economy of democracy and poverty, emphasized the dis­tinct way in which the United States must exert its influence in the world so it may more effectively foster hu­man development.
He said the United States must lead by employing soft power, the power of influence and example, as opposed to the traditional notion of hard, physical power. 
With its “power of example, of im­itation, [soft power] is much, much stronger than people appreciate,” Collier said. 
The U.S. should also use soft pow­er to communicate particular val­ues that have empowered America but are lacking in Africa, he said. 
Motivation is an important as­pect of any healthy, vibrant society, including the United States, Collier said. Prosperous nations and suc­cessful organizations empower individuals to make a leap of iden­tity, internalize objectives and be­come motivated. Africa, he said, suffers from a chronic “failure of motivation.” 
“If you look at the public sector across Africa — schools, health clin­ics — the fundamental problem is the astonishingly low productivity of the labor force because the labor force is not motivated,” he said. 
Collier defined another piv­otal value, neutral regard, as two-pronged: it empowers individuals to achieve a cooperative solution to problems and allows for redistribu­tion from the better-off to the worse-off in society. Here too, he said, the developing world struggles and must look to the developed world as an example.
“Quite systematically, there are big variances, big differences, between the ability of different societies to reach [a] cooperative outcome,” he said. “It is much more difficult for poorer societies than wealthy societies.”
Collier emphasized the power of integrity, which has reeled in the shadows of dictatorships and crum­bling democratic governments. 
“The poorest countries have enormous problems with high lev­els of corruption, low levels of integ­rity in their government,” he said.
But Collier said the virtue of stew­ardship — one that even Americans have not fully embraced–— is one of the most pressing. 
“Stewardship is the central task of the present generation of African decision makers,” he said, “in the next decade there is going to be a re­source boom.”
Collier praised American society as an exemplar, but stressed the ur­gency of communicating its values to a world greatly in need.
“[The developing world] needs role models of high integrity,” he said, “which is something that America has been able to deliver dramatically over the years.”
Contact Michael Fernandes at mferna11@nd.edu


By MADDIE DALY
News Writer
Student body president Brett Rocheleau reviewed meetings this week between student govern­ment, community leaders and ad­ministrators during Wednesday’s gathering of the Student Senate. He also looked ahead to his ad­ministration’s goals for its upcom­ing meeting with the Board of Trustees. 
Last Thursday, Rocheleau met with Director of Academic Affairs Max Brown to talk about issues within academics.
“We met with the provost and talked over issues and looked ahead at what’s to come in the fu­ture,” Rocheleau said. 
Friday morning, Rocheleau and chief of staff Katie Baker attend­ed the South Bend Community Summit.  
“The main topic this time was the perceptions held by Notre Dame students about South Bend residents and vice versa,” Baker said.  “The idea is for students to get more involved in the com­munity because a lot of the time the residents just see Friday night shenanigans going on. We are try­ing to show them a more positive image.”
Rocheleau said the summit was successful. 
“Basically the summit was for community leaders, police force, and students,” Rocheleau said  “We met and talked through dif­ferent events and collaboration ideas. I thought it went very wel .”
Also on Friday, Rocheleau met with the Office of Student affairs about the current proposals for a Gay-Straight Alliance (GSA).  
“It went really well,” Rocheleau said. “They’re definitely go­ing through a lengthy process. They’ve done a lot of research for benchmark activities. They are planning to make an announce­ment at the end of the semester so that’s something to look forward to.” 
After completing this overview of their weekend meetings, Senate looked ahead to a student gov­ernment presentation before the Board of Trustees. Student body vice president Katie Rose went through an outline ofnwhat this will entail. 
“We will start by showing what the student body looks like sta­tistics-wise and infrastructure,” Rose said. “So we have 29 dorms — two new buildings opened to relieve overcrowding, but we are back to being overcrowded.”
Rose said the presentation will include an analysis of the resi­dence hall system versus off-cam­pus living.
“We’ll talk about why people love living on campus and why our residence life system is so remark­able and unique,” she said. “We also have to address why students are moving off campus, which we discussed last week. We will conclude with recommendations for the future, some being more student facilities or possibly new dorm buildings.”  
Rocheleau said overcrowd­ing is a result of admitting more students.
“We have about 8,400 students when our goal is usually 8,000,” Rocheleau said. “We’ve been ad­mitting more and more per class, so more beds are being taken up in dorms. Even if we build new dorms, the same thing will hap­pen again. We just opened two new dorms and overcrowding still happened.. 
McGlinn Hall senator Ali Wellman asked if reducing admis­sions would fix the problem.
“Notre Dame admits a certain amount of students anticipating that some students will decline their offer,” Baker said.  “More and more people have been accepting the offer lately which is why the class sizes have been over the nor­mal amount.”
Carroll Hall senator Matthew O’Brien brought up a good sug­gestion that would open up more beds.
“Would they change the rule that athletes have to live on cam­pus? I know a lot of athletes who have rooms in dorms but don’t actually live there,” O’Brien said.  “That’s a good 100 beds that aren’t being used.”
 After concluding their discus­sion of overcrowding in residence halls, the senators addressed a resolutionoabout a new campus ministry council, introduced by campus ministry representative and senior Ellen Carroll
“There is a new campus ministry leader this year, so we’re changing the model to make it really driven by the students,” Carroll said. “We want student-generated ideas to share with the administration so they can work with each other.”
To bring those ideas before the administration, Carroll said a new body called the Campus Ministry Advisory Council will include 12 to 15 students. 
“They will meet with campus ministry administrators and talk about topics brought up from both sides,” she said. 
Carroll said she hopes for a wide range of students to participate in this council, not just “campus ministry regulars..  
“We want to be able to bet­ter meet the needs of the entire student body,” Carroll said. “The resolution says we have this new position to facilitate communi­cation between student govern­ment and campus ministry. The campus ministry representative will be someone from the advisory council, once it is created.” Senate voted unanimously in favor of this resolution.  
Contact Maddie Daly at 
mdaly6@nd.edu

RENA MULTAPUTRI| The Observer
Professor Paul Collier spoke Wednesay about America’s ability to promote moral values and foster human development throughout the world.  

PAID ADVERTISEMENT


6

THE OBSERVER | THURSDAY, OCTOBER 4, 2012 | NDSMCOBSERVER.COM

NEWS

Republicans claim victory in debate

Associated Press
WASHINGTON — Challenger Mitt Romney used Wednesday’s de­bate to put President Barack Obama on the defensive on health care, jobs and other issues. The president’s reluctance to fire back harshly gave new hope to Republican partisans.
Romney managed to highlight his top campaign themes — calling for lower tax rates, less regulation, the re­peal of “Obamacare” — while largely fending off Obama’s demands for de­tails on how to pay for his proposals or safeguard Americans’ health and well-being.
Neither Obama nor the debate’s moderator, meanwhile, pressed Romney on some of his most vulner­able points. They included Romney’s claim that 47 percent of Americans are docile dependents on the government, a topic heavily featured in TV ads and public conversations the past two weeks.
The 90-minute debate in Denver may have been too wonky to capti­vate millions of American viewers and change the campaign’s overall arc. Polls show Obama leading in key battleground states.
But it delighted Republicans who felt Romney was the aggressor with­out going overboard, and who were surprised by Obama’s cautious, at times listless demeanor.
Even some Democratic parti­sans grudgingly acknowledged that Romney had a good debate.
“I think he won, unfortunately,” said Karl Amelchenko, 36, a lawyer from Raleigh, N.C., who supports Obama. “Romney was aggressive. He attacked.”
The nominees have two more debates this month, and a govern­ment jobs report on Friday could re­shape the contest. Obama has aired more TV ads than Romney in several key states, and it’s unclear whether Romney can follow his solid debate performance with the type of inci­sive message that has eluded him so far.
Obama and moderator Jim Lehrer repeatedly failed to force Romney to detail how he would cut tax rates at every income level without expand­ing the deficit or forcing middle-in­come people to pay a higher total tax bill.
“If you believe that we can cut tax­es by $5 trillion and add $2 trillion in additional spending that the military is not asking for,” Obama said, “and you think that by closing loopholes and deductions for the well-to-do, somehow you will not end up picking up the tab, then Gov. Romney’s plan may work for you.”
“Virtually everything he just said about my tax plan is inaccurate,” Romney retorted. “I’m not looking for a $5 trillion tax cut.”
As Romney all but accused Obama of lying about his tax plan, the presi­dent alternated between looking directly at his Republican rival and bowing his head to take notes. “Now he’s saying his big bold idea is ‘never mind,’” Obama said.
Romney held his ground. He said he would reduce income tax rates without adding to the deficit and without reducing “the share paid by high-income individuals.”
Economists say Romney has yet to explain how he can manage that feat.
Obama seemed frustrated but almost resigned. He said Romney’s running mate, Rep. Paul Ryan, “put forward a budget that reflects many of the principles that Gov. Romney’s talked about. And it wasn’t very de­tailed. This seems to be a trend.”
But rather than press Romney any harder for details, the president moved on.
Obama seemed eager not to ap­pear prickly or angry. He flashed his familiar smile often, and it’s possible that many viewers saw him as re­laxed and unshaken.
But the president also failed to fol­low through on some openings, such as when he noted that Romney once said he would reject a deficit-reduc­tion plan even if it called for only $1 in new tax revenues for every $10 in spending cuts.
Obama said he wants “a balanced approach” that would include $2.50 in spending cuts for every $1 in new revenue.

Football
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1

PAID ADVERTISEMENT


Debate
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1

7

NDSMCOBSERVER.COM | THURSDAY, OCTOBER 4, 2012 | THE OBSERVER

NEWS

War
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1


SARAH O’CONNOR | The Observer
Jared Bernstein lectured on the unearned benefits the American pub­lic enjoys and the disconnect between the citzenry and its defenders.

McBride
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1

PAID ADVERTISEMENT


Like us on Facebook.
fb.com/ndsmcobserver



8

THE OBSERVER | THURSDAY, OCTOBER 4, 2012 | NDSMCOBSERVER.COM

The perks of being a superfan

INSIDE COLUMN

Fall ball

The other day, I was running around the lakes, the sun glinting off the water, the first fallen leaves of autumn crunching beneath my feet and “Gangnam Style” pounding in my ears, when I approached a man running towards me from the oppo­site direction.  
He appeared to be in his early seventies, with a weathered coun­tenance, a shock of white hair and a tan to rival that of Indiana Jones.  His shorts, perhaps a little too short, looked as if they were from his high school cross-country days, but any egregious attire was made up for by the fact that he ran with a huge smile on his face.  
Clearly, this man was so happy to be alive that day and so happy to be running.  
As we passed each other, he gave me a thumbs-up and said, “Hey, keep it up!”   
This stranger’s enthusiasm for what was obviously a lifetime passion re­minded me of one of the best parts of the sport of running — the support we runners receive from other run­ners and non-runners, alike.  
In last year’s Holy Half, hundreds of dedicated supporters showed up to cheer on their friends and family. 
I remember in particular a couple of local folk from South Bend, who set up a table near the Rock with free donuts for the runners. I do not know if anyone actually took up their offer to satisfy a mid-race Krispy Kreme craving, but it is the encouragement of fans like these that truly makes the difference in the experience of people running the race.   
Especially with the Chicago Marathon coming up next weekend, I urge everyone to watch a big race at some point in his or her life. 
Every year, thousands of specta­tors flock to Boston on Patriot’s Day (coincidentally, a state holiday in Massachussetts), to watch the histor­ic Boston Marathon take place. Half a million fans line the course to cheer runners through the toughest spots, including the notorious Heartbreak Hill. Boston College students have the day off from school, and their march­ing band often plays along the course.  Watching the Boston Marathon has become an annual celebration, just as memorable for the fans as it is for the runners.
Many marathon spectators take pride in the signs they hold up for runners, which if anything help to break up the monotony of the course for race participants.  
Be creative with the content of your signs. May I suggest writing things like, “Your feet hurt because you are kicking so much butt!,” “Worst pa­rade ever,” “Chuck Norris never ran a marathon” or “Where are you all going?”
We adopted this tongue-in-cheek mentality with our mile markers for the Holy Half Marathon 2012. 
Recall, if you will, the picture of Yoda with the slogan “May the course be with you,” and the word “Run” above a picture of a forest with an­other word “Run” written beneath. As a personal friend of Jason Segal (okay, my sister shook his hand one time), I know the cast of “How I Met Your Mother” would have approved of our signpost for mile four that said, “This race will be legen —wait for it” and our signpost for mile five that said, “Dary.” 
We already know that running makes you happy (those pesky en­dorphins at it again), but cheering on runners can offer just as much satisfaction.  
Even if you don’t make it to the Windy City or Beantown to cheer on runners in a large-scale marathon, flash a smile or offer a thumbs-up to the next person you pass on an up­coming run.  
Even a simple “Good job!” can make a runner feel that much better about himself or herself. 
It’s not just famous people who have fans, after all.  
Carolyn Green is the student director of the Holy Half Marathon. She can be reached at cgreen9@nd.edu
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer.

Carolyn Green
The Holy Half 

Laura Coletti
Sports Writer

I often flip-flop on my favorite season, but fall is a front-runner.
Fall is a season rife with transitions. However, one constant that remains, fall in and fall out, is playoff baseball.
Although I never played a game of organized softball in my life, at the ripe young age of 15, I fell in love with a base­ball team. I picked a good year to do so, too, because said team has not come close to sniffing playoff baseball since 2006. But during those 162 games, I ab­sorbed everything I could.
Throughout the spring and summer, I would buy packs of baseball cards when­ever my mom had to go to Wal-Mart (a hobby, as my dad never failed to remind me, more suited for 9-year-old boys). I learned player names, stats and factoids, not just for my team, but for other teams too. It became a treat to go to games, and I would beg my parents to stay for all nine innings. By the time October rolled around, I was hooked.
Then those darn New York Mets broke my heart. 
But for the last six years of my life, I’ve continued to love playoff baseball in spite of the Mets’ lack of presence. I dis­covered it didn’t matter who was playing. Sit me in front of an exciting game and I’ll be happy for hours. 
Although the presence of baseball in our lives eight months a year is pretty constant, the storylines are constantly changing, keeping the game fresh and exciting. Take this year. Even just within my own team, a non-contender, the Mets were able to celebrate the franchise’s first-ever no-hitter this season. Along with that, improbable comeback kid R.A. Dickey became the Mets first 20-win pitcher since 1990 and is a strong can­didate for the Cy Young award. So they didn’t make the playoffs. At least there’s still something to smile about.
In the grander scheme, the two teams from the D.C.-Metro area have made names for themselves. Both the Baltimore Orioles and the Washington Nationals went from being bottom feed­ers to both clinching playoff berths. The Nationals had the best record in the National League. There’s just nothing not to love about underdog stories.
Individually, players are causing a buzz too. By the time you read this, Detroit’s Miguel Cabrera could be the newest Triple Crown winner and the first since Notre Dame grad Carl Yastrzemski was crowned in 1967. 
Playoff baseball is here again, just like it is every October. And, just like every October, there is always something dif­ferent about it. It is one of the best things about fall. Even if you’re not the biggest sports enthusiast, stop to take in some human interest angles of the game. Who knows, maybe you’ll be hooked too.

EDITORIAL CARTOON


WEEKLY POLL
Where in the world is Carmen Sandiego?

QUOTE OF THE DAY
“I’ve done the calculation and your chances of winning the lottery are identical whether you play or not.”

Tweet your response with #ViewpointPoll by 5 p.m. Thursday.

Franz Lebowitz
U.S. writer and humorist 

Contact Laura Coletti at      
lcoletti@nd.edu
	The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer.

Submit a Letter to the Editor | Email obsviewpoint@gmail.com

THE OBSERVER | THURSDAY, OCTOBER 4, 2012 | NDSMCOBSERVER.COM

Love and the Holy Trinity

Fr. Louis DelFra
Faithpoint

How many times a week do we make the Sign of the Cross, with its somewhat absurd claim that our one God is three persons? Perhaps we have made it in the dining hall before a meal, or in bed dur­ing prayer before falling asleep. What’s the significance? Does it really matter, right there in the dining hall, in your dorm room or apartment, that we affirm God as three persons, as a Trinity, rather than as, well, just “God?”
The theologian Karl Rahner thought it made a difference. He observed that in modern culture, with its huge emphasis on the individual, and the alleged “pow­er of one,” that we are in huge danger of becoming “mere monotheists.” Rahner implies that it would be a major dimi­nution if we worshipped God merely as one. So … what would we lose?
Meister Eckhart, a Christian mystic of the 13th and 14th centuries, explained the Trinity this way: Imagine a baby looking up at his mother, and the baby, when he recognizes her face, laughs at his mother, which causes the mother to laugh back at her baby. Eckhart said, “The laughter produces pleasure, and the pleasure produces joy and the joy produces love, which is the Holy Spirit.” The parent, the baby and the laughter between them is the Trinity, the nature of our God.
To put it another way: God is three, because God is love. If God is love, then God simply can’t be one person, because one person can’t love.  You have to love another. So you have Father and Son, lover and beloved. The love between the Father and the Son is so perfect that it is itself a third person, the Holy Spirit.
Beautiful! Still, a major question hangs before us: So what? Does it really make any difference, there in the dining hall, in your dorm room or apartment, that God is a mother, a baby and the laughter between them, that we make the three-fold sign of the Cross?
What we’re really asking: Does it make any practical difference in our lives that God is love? The answer, of course, is yes, it makes all the difference in the world.
It makes all the difference, for one simple reason, given to us in the Book of Genesis: “And God made human beings, male and female God created them, in God’s own image God made them.” That is, God is love, and we are made in the image and likeness of Love.
To underscore why this is so impor­tant, rewind in Genesis, where we are told of God’s first impression after hav­ing created Adam, a solitary human being. God’s first words about our earli­est ancestor are somewhat uninspiring, especially given God’s obvious delight with the rest of Creation. When God looks down on Adam, standing there all by himself, God’s first words are: “It is not good for this one to be alone.”
Might it be fair to conclude that the same is true for us? That God (unlike some employers, admissions commit­tees and other evaluators of our résu­més) is not primarily interested in what each one of us can accomplish on our own, how far we can get in life just on our own talents?
God is dissatisfied with the creation of one, solitary human being. So, God puts the human being into a deep sleep, and takes out a rib, and God creates two of them. Then, and only then, are we told: “In God’s own image, God created them.” Only when there is more than one of us are we made in the image and likeness of God.
That’s a great mystery, and it means at least this much: We were created by Love, in the image of Love and so for the purpose of love. And this, finally, has one hugely practical effect, right there in the dining hall or in your room: We can­not, any more than God can, live alone, by ourselves or solely for ourselves.
This doesn’t mean we have to be romantically in love, and if we’re not, we’ve somehow failed. Romantic love is a great form of love, but it’s only one form. Rather, the point is none of us can live for our own sake, and expect to be happy. We have to live for the sake of other people. It’s how we were created.
This is the message of our Scriptures, literally from beginning to end. Genesis gives us this message from the first mo­ment of our creation, that only when there was someone else to love, were we said to be made “in the image and like­ness of God.”
In a well-known scene from Matthew’s Gospel, Jesus tells us what the last moment of our life will be. The Good Shepherd will stand with us at the threshold to eternal life, and ask one question. Given what we learned in Genesis, and all the times we will have made the sign of the Cross by that mo­ment, perhaps we shouldn’t be surprised at what Jesus will ask: “Did you feed your brothers and sisters in need? Did you clothe them? Did you visit them when they were lonely? Did you love them?”
Did you love?  Did you love?  Did you love?
Because whenever you loved one of these least of mine, you became what I am, Love. So come, he will say to his disciples on that day, enter the dwell­ing place where we live, the three of us, where all there is … is love.
Fr. Lou DelFra is a campus minister, the director of pastoral life for the ACE Program and resident of Keenan Hall. He can be reached at delfra.2@nd.edu
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer.

UWIRE

Low voter turnout could be beneficial

Whichever candidate takes office in January will have plenty of people to thank, most notably the Americans who voted him into office. But more than a third of us won’t have participat­ed. Less than 60 percent of registered voters have shown up to cast ballots in recent presidential elections, and atten­dance at midterm and local elections ranges from five to 40 percent, certainly not encouraging figures for those who value democratic participation.
Low voter turnout has been a point of complaint for spirited citizens for decades. Civil-minded types will point to dismal returns from the ballot box as a failure to perform basic civil duties. This is especially true at crucial local and state elections where a single vote carries much more weight than one vote in large national elections.
But registered voters staying home may be a sign of an improving and es­tablished democracy rather than a fail­ing one.
On Nov. 6, millions of Americans will perform their “duties” and walk out of a polling place proudly displaying an “I Voted” sticker, proving to their commu­nities that they care about their coun­try. The “Get Out the Vote” and voter registration drives sprout up across the country in election years to preach that regardless who you cast a ballot for, showing up to the polls is positive.
It’s not negative to feel good about participating in government or influ­encing others to do so, but isn’t strange that a major motivation for influencing elections is personal pride?
More importantly, we should ques­tion whether pushing citizens to the polls at all costs is truly beneficial to our democracy.
Every vote casted should be made by an educated and informed citizen who has a stake in the effect of their selection. The most inconsistent voters, those who show up to one election but not another, are also the most likely to be less educated voters.
There are two reasons why low voter turnout can actually benefit govern­ment and even representation.
First, those who aren’t motivated to show up to the polls are unlikely to be educated on or have an opinion about the issues and candidates on the ballot. Sure, apathy is never a good thing, but is ignorantly casting votes any better? Just the opposite: It’s worse.
Second, voting on any and every is­sue as a matter of civic duty means that voters will inevitably select between options on policy or platforms that don’t affect their lives, diluting the weight of every vote cast by an affected citizen.
In some cases, this is okay. An educated voter can choose an option likely to benefit the whole of society. However, in most instances, an unaf­fected voter will find it hard to under­stand the reach of their vote and how they are changing other citizen’s lives.
Voting is a citizen’s right, not a duty. Those who choose to vote, however, ought to understand the civic duty of being an informed voter. There are no points for bubbling in ballot choices without researching their meaning. 
Being involved can, and should, be absolutely positive. Show up prepared and for the right reasons and you will be part of the most important part of our democratic system.
But, afterward, understand that the “I Voted” sticker on your chest doesn’t tell the whole story. Maybe that sticker should include a modifier in the form of an asterisk:
“I voted*
*responsibly.”
This article originally ran in the Oct. 3 version of The Oaklahoma Daily, serving the University of Oaklahoma.
	The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer.

Storm Dowd-Lukesh
The Oaklahoma Daily

Follow us on Twitter.
@ObserverViewpnt



10

THE OBSERVER | THURSDAY, OCTOBER 4, 2012 | NDSMCOBSERVER.COM


‘¡UNO!’:

‘¡UNO!’:

MEDIOCRE YET CATCHY

MEDIOCRE YET CATCHY

By MAC HENDRICKSON
Scene Writer
During a 1997 record signing at Tower Records Manhattan, upset that several critics were bashing their punk cred, Green Day started a riot, or perhaps more accurately, threw a temper tantrum. Lead singer Billie Joe Armstrong sprayed-painted some nasty words on the storefront window and mooned the audience, while drummer Tre Cool hurled his bass drum into the crowd. All three punk rockers were placed in time-out for several hours.
These acts of childish rebellion have peppered Green Day’s career despite their impressive and noteworthy catalogue. Many of the high-profile disturbances coincided with poor album releases, because nothing sells albums like some solid van­dalism. So it didn’t bode well for the artistic integ­rity of “Uno!” when Armstrong, a few days before the album’s release, caused a scene at iHeart Radio Music Festival in Las Vegas when their set was cut short to accommodate Usher. 
Two days later, Armstrong headed to rehab for substance abuse. Thus, there may be more to the story than a childish attempt at attention. However, somewhere in the recesses of his stoned-out cortex, Armstrong must have had an inkling that smash­ing his guitar on stage couldn’t hurt sales for his terrifically mediocre album. 
There are two types of Green Day fans. The first is always romanticizing about the old Green Day, as if 1994 was 1967. The second joined the band­wagon 10 years later in 2004 with the band’s release of the pop landmark “American Idiot.”
Neither type of fan will enjoy this album very much, which is a shame. If Green Day even had a target audience, they certainly were not catering to it while recording the album. “Uno!” is the first in an album trilogy. The next two, “Dos!” and “Tre!” will be released in two and four months time, respectively. 
The album is full of contradictions. It’s jam packed with radio-friendly pop blasts that no one will be hearing on the radio. The thematic mate­rial of youthful revolt is heavily contradicted by Armstrong’s obnoxious use of profanity. In fact, a great amount of the album sounds like a pa­thetic attempt to come off as punk despite the fact Armstrong may or may not be reading from Bethany Cosentino’s journal. It’s all perfectly par­allel to their antics in the ‘90s.
The thematic material of all the songs is nause­atingly both homogenous and obvious. The lyrical content is as uninteresting and uncomplicated as ‘50s radio. Almost every song has the same basic idea, which not coincidentally is the same idea as “Burnout” on “Dookie,” a far better song than any­thing on “Uno!” The whole “we’re running out of time so let’s make love, live our lives as fast as we can and let go” mentality gets juiced to a mush. 
This isn’t to say the album is devoid of good tracks. Armstrong, though at his thematic worst, is at his melodic best. Everything is catchy. Any song would be a solid candidate to oust Ms. Swift from the radio spotlight — if people still cared about punk, that is. Beyond the general “acceptability,” two songs are noteworthy, and two are fantastic. “Carpe Diem” and “Rusty James” best represent the lovable pop sound that permeates the album in uninteresting grandiosity. And the bookend tracks, “Nuclear Family” and “Oh Love,” are power-punk blasts that might last longer in your memory than, say, a Reese’s. I wish I could say the same about the rest of the material on the album.
Here’s the problem. Green Day is not Blink 182. It’s not enough to just write catchy songs. Not in my book. These are the guys that shook the pop world not once, but twice. These are the guys who spear­headed one of the most profitable sub-genres of the 90s and aughts, and engineered one the definitive pop albums of the Bush era. 
It’s okay, guys. We won’t desert you. We’re not mad. Just disappointed. And no one has high ex­pectations for the next two albums, in case you were wondering.
Contact Mac Hendrickson at mhendri1@nd.edu

“Uno!”
Green Day
Label: Reprise
Tracks: “Carpe Diem,” “Nuclear Family,” “Oh Love”
If you like: Foxboro Hot Tubs, My Chemical Romance, Sum 41




BRANDON KEELEAN | The Observer


BRANDON KEELEAN | The Observer


11

THE OBSERVER | THURSDAY, OCTOBER 4, 2012 | NDSMCOBSERVER.COM

WEEKEND EVENTS CALENDAR

THURSDAY

FRIDAY

SATURDAY

SUNDAY

THURSDAY




What: Nanovic Film — “Habemus Papam” 
Where: DPAC, Browning Cinema
When: 6:30 p.m.  and 9:30 p.m.
How Much: $4 for students
Experience tension and excite­ment with “Habemus Papam,” screening all throughout the weekend. This second film of the Nanovic Series is about a newly elected Pope and his fear and eventual refusal to take of­fice. Don’t miss it.

What: SUB Movie — “Magic Mike”
Where: DeBartolo 101
When: 9:30  p.m.
How Much: $3
Channing Tatum, Matthew McConaughey, Alex Pettyfer and Matt Bomer all in one movie. What more can you ask for? Laugh, dance and enjoy watching “Magic Mike” with friends.  

What: ND Theatre NOW
Where: DPAC, Philbin Studio Theatre
When: 2:30 p.m.
How Much: $5 for students
It’s ND Theatre NOW’s last per­formance! Come and enjoy two student-run theatrical pro­ductions at DPAC on Sunday. This year’s play titles are “The Sinopean” by Daniel Garcia de Paredes and “SHE” by Renee Roden. 

What: “Much Ado About Nothing” by the Not-So-Royal Shakespeare Company
Where: Washington Hall, Mainstage Auditorium
When: 7:30 p.m.
How Much: $3 at the door
Begin your weekend watch­ing students perform a great Shakespearean comedy. “Much Ado About Nothing” tells the story of two pairs of lovers as they are tricked into marrying each other. Don’t miss what promises to be an entertaining spectacle.


 KNOW
THY 
SHELF LITERATURE IS NOT DEAD

If I could swap lives with anyone in the world, I’d switch with Anthony Bourdain.
This guy has it all. He earned his culinary cred in the oyster shacks of Provincetown and worked his way up from Hell’s Kitchen the executive chef spot at Brasserie Les Halles, where he gathered a vocabulary worse than a sailor and a pal­ate comparable to Eric Ripert’s. He started his own restaurant and succeeded, which is a statistical miracle. He did this for 20-odd years, and decided to attempt anoth­er near-impossible feat: Write a successful book. True to his style, he has written 10.
Bourdain is best known for his unstop­pable drinking problem, questionable choices as a youth and flagrant disrespect for “celebrity chefs” such as Bobby Flay and Paula Dean. His dry cynicism makes him an impeccably critical chef, but it also makes him a great writer, as seen in his many books, my favorite so far being “Kitchen Confidential: Adventures in the Culinary Underbelly” (2000). 
In this underground exploration of the restaurant world, Bourdain unleashes his withering sarcasm on the restaurant busi­ness that made me laugh and cringe at the same time. (One of the most important things I learned: Never order the fish on Monday.) There is something charming about the way Bourdain can break down his own lifestyle and industry. Despite his best efforts to self-deprecate and thereby disillusion any aspiring chefs, Bourdain wisecracks himself to a god-like status. He writes, he cooks, he eats, and he has an ear piercing, wears leather jackets and smokes like a Frenchman. And after his wildly successful first book, he went on to write more books, innumerable essays for the New York Times, The New Yorker, and Gourmet. What more could he ask for?
Answer: a phenomenal, interna­tional television series based solely on his culinary whims and biting wit. “No Reservations” on the Travel Channel is a delicious double entendre that perfectly portrays Bourdain’s contradictory social irreverence and devotion to good food. The episodes set in exotic cities, such as Tokyo, Dublin, Berlin or Chicago, distill the best from the chaff and the traditional from the sensational. 
Many of his episodes are plagued with a sort of old man’s nostalgia for “the good old days,” before chain restaurants had invaded Times Square or any of the bor­oughs. But Bourdain perseveres and hits the streets, his cameraman a few steps behind, and eats whatever his hosts puts in front of him. This includes Moroccan moonshine, Thai squid and Chinese grasshoppers. The food isn’t always mouthwatering, but the conversations Bourdain has with cooks, bakers, farmers, brewers, fishermen and baristas are rivet­ing. Thanks to Bourdain, we can see how the rest of the world lives through one of the essentials of life: local, traditional, life-blood food. Bourdain has circumnavigat­ed the globe, searching for the best food served by some of the strangest people you will ever see outside of the Discovery Channel. 
Perhaps the reason why I idolize Bourdain so much (I spent an entire day last summer in New York searching for his favorite Gray’s Papaya hot dog stand) is because he has found something that captivates, challenges, explains and ful­fills him in more ways that just a career. Bourdain doesn’t just cook — he breathes the culinary culture, seeks the essence of each culture every time he tries a new cuisine, delves into the successes and fail­ures of his favorite chefs and analyzes the virtues and vices of the business. Now, Bourdain plans to start a travel show on CNN, write a graphic novel for DC Comics/Vertigo and publish his own line of books with Ecco Press at HarperCollins. 
Food is Bourdain’s religion, and not only does he make his living off it, he’s re­ally good at it. He chose a part of life that allows him to peel the layers of the human experience as far back as possible. Food is not only the man’s fuel, but also the glue that holds together his history, his fam­ily, his culture and his memories. And the fact that Bourdain has cooked and written about food says to me that he truly under­stands it, and understands it intimately enough to explain it well to his audiences, through books on the stands and conver­sations on his show. 
Contact  Meghan Thomassen at 
mthomass@nd.edu 
The views in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer.  

By MEGHAN THOMASSEN
Scene Writer


BRANDON KEELEAN | The Observer

12

THE OBSERVER | THURSDAY, OCTOBER 4, 2012 | NDSMCOBSERVER.COM

CLASSIFIEDS

SPORTS AUTHORITY

MLB

Introducing Mount Basemore

Oakland sweeps Texas to clinch playoff berth

On this day in 1927, Danish-American sculptor Gutzon Borglum began work on Mount Rushmore, the most famous, well, anything in South Dakota. For those of you who didn’t pay attention in history class, the monument features four 60-foot-tall heads of the most important presidents in our nation’s his­tory — George Washington, Thomas Jefferson, Theodore Roosevelt and Abraham Lincoln. Why Borglum left off the distin­guished Rutherford B. Hayes, America may never know.
Nothing says “America” quite like carving a giant face into the side of a mountain. And of course, baseball is America’s pastime. With the 2012 regular season ending last night, I pro­pose we scrap all the postsea­son awards — MVP, Cy Young, Rookie of the Year and so on — and for practicality’s sake, just build a second Mount Rushmore for this year’s four best players. Let’s call it Mount Basemore. It will be the greatest thing to hit baseball since the All-Star Game determined World Series home-field advantage (just kidding on that one).
The first two “heads” on Mount Basemore are Triple Crown threat Miguel Cabrera and rookie phenom Mike Trout. You can argue the merits of both — Trout’s Wins Above Replacement is more than three wins above the next closest com­petitor in the American League, while the last time someone won the Triple Crown Sean Connery was James Bond. It’s like trying to choose between pizza and a cheeseburger. Each brings something different to the plate (pun intended) and you can’t go wrong either way. Both Trout and Cabrera have earned their rightful place on Mount Basemore. Think of them as this season’s version of Washington and Jefferson. Just as one val­ues Washington for defeating the British and Jefferson for the Louisiana Purchase, we can appreciate Trout as the best rookie ever and Cabrera as the preeminent all-around threat in baseball.
The race for National League MVP may be a little less scintil­lating — the favorite, Giants catcher Buster Posey, can “only” boast one of the best second-half stretch runs of all-time — but when it comes to the Cy Young, things start to heat up a bit. The case could be made for many a hurler — Nationals ace Gio Gonzalez and Braves closer Craig Kimbrel come to mind — but Mount Basemore needs its equivalent of Abraham Lincoln. That’s where Mets knuckleballer R.A. Dickey comes in. Finishing with 20 wins and one of the top ERA’s in the National League, Dickey was an ace for the oth­erwise woeful Mets, one of the few bright spots in their season. Just as Lincoln was born in a log cabin, Dickey comes from humble origins. Before 2012, he could boast of just one other sea­son of double-digit wins in his nine-year major league career. This year, it all came together for the knuckleballer without much support from the so-called Amazin’s. For that reason, R.A. Dickey has earned his spot on Mount Basemore.
The final spot to be filled is the Teddy Roosevelt position — someone who is a fearless leader and has a fiery passion for what they do. When Roosevelt was campaigning for the presidency in 1912, he was shot before de­livering a speech in Milwaukee. Ever the Rough Rider, he re­fused to go to the hospital until he finished his speech. In the same spirit, Orioles manager Buck Showalter has displayed a religious zeal for the game in leading his plucky team to the playoffs for the first time in 15 years — in the treacherous AL East nonetheless. Despite the fact the O’s barely scored more runs than they allowed, they beat the odds and got the neces­sary wins. For his determination and wherewithal, Showalter earns the final spot on Mount Basemore.
Four faces, etched in imagi­nary granite. Each of these men has earned their spot in stone-cold eternity over the course of 162 games. Were there other worthy competitors? Absolutely. But just like Borglum couldn’t fit James Madison or Andrew Jackson onto his masterpiece, there is no room for Posey, Kershaw and so forth. So there you have it: Trout, Cabrera, Dickey and Showalter — the de­fining faces of baseball in 2012.
Contact Sam Stryker at sstryke1@nd.edu
     The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer.

Associated Press

OAKLAND, Calif. — Same chaotic, champagne dance-par­ty scene in the clubhouse just two days later. New T-shirt: AL West champions.
The Oakland Athletics won the division title with another improbable rally in a season full of them, coming back from four runs down and a 13-game division deficit to stun the two-time defending league cham­pion Texas Rangers 12-5 on Wednesday.
“We knew this is a beast of a team we would have to beat, and to be able to beat them three games in a row and win the divi­sion on top of it, really it’s a mag­ical-type thing,” manager Bob Melvin said.
Josh Hamilton dropped a fly ball in center field for a two-run error that put the A’s (94-68) ahead 7-5 in a six-run fourth in­ning. The A’s only added to Texas’ troubles the rest of the way.
While Hamilton’s Rangers (93-69) are headed to the new one-game, wild-card playoff, the A’s get some time off before opening the division series in their first postseason appear­ance since 2006.
Both teams had to wait to learn their opponents from a pair of night games: Boston at New York, and Baltimore at Tampa Bay.
“You can have all the experi­ence as you want but when you run into a team that’s hot, expe­rience has nothing to do with it,” Texas manager Ron Washington said.
The A’s would earn the AL’s No. 1 seed if the Yankees lose, and open the division series at the winner of Friday’s wild-card playoff featuring the Rangers. If New York wins, Oakland would be the No. 2 seed and begin at Detroit.
The A’s needed a sweep and they delivered to win their first division crown in six years and 15th in all. They overcame a five-game deficit in the final nine days and took sole possession of the West’s top spot for the first time this year.
“It shows how important Game 162 is,” Oakland’s Jonny Gomes said. “I don’t think it took 162 to games to check the char­acter of this ballclub.”
Grant Balfour retired Michael Young on a fly to center for the final out, then raised his arms in the air as the A’s streamed out of the dugout and began bouncing up and down in the infield.
“2012 AL WEST CHAMPIONS” flashed on the scoreboard two days after the A’s clinched a playoff spot Monday and held a wild dance party in the clubhouse.
“I’m glad there’s not one to­morrow or Friday,” owner Lew Wolff said. “I can relax and go home. I’m running out of underwear.”
Players high-fived fans while taking a victory lap through the rundown Coliseum, where the outfield still has a light patch of grass from football in the venue shared by the NFL’s Raiders.
Soon, the celebratory cham­pagne and beer made its way to the field — and players sprayed it into the stands. The A’s returned to the field almost an hour later to greet fans still gathered along the top of the dugout.
Oakland pulled off another re­markable performance in a sea­son defined by thrilling walkoffs, rallies and whipped-cream pie celebrations by a team that was never supposed to be here.


Sam Stryker
Assistant Managing Editor


AP
Athletics  pitcher Grant Balfour, top, and catcher Derek Norris celebrate after their 12-5 win over the Rangers on Wednesday.

Nothing says “America” quite like carving a giant face into the side of a mountain. And of course, baseball is America’s pastime.

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds.

FOR RENT
Football Rental. Available BYU and Stanford. 1BR Varsity Club. Call 847-602-8170

WANTED
WANTED: BOOKSTORE PARKING PASS for Stanford, BYU or Wake. ND alum. Call 847-842-9971.

Math-Tutors Mathnasium seeking qualified math tutors. Experience working with children. 10-20hrs/week. Resumes:granger@mathnasium.com 888-850-6284
PERSONAL
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don’t go it alone. Notre Dame has many resources in place to assist you. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Ann Whitall at 1-0084 or Karen Kennedy at 1-5550. For more information, visit ND’s website at: http://pregnancysupport@nd.edu

Lyrics: Begin Again
By Taylor Swift

Took a deep breath in the mirror
He didn’t like it when I wore high heels
But I do

Turn the lock and put my headphones on
He always said he didn’t get this song
But I do, I do

Walked in expecting you’d be late
But you got here early and you stand and wave
I walk to you
You pull my chair out and help me in
And you don’t know how nice that is
But I do

And you throw your head back laugh­ing
Like a little kid
I think it’s strange that you think I’m funny cause
He never did

I’ve been spending the last 8 months
Thinking all love ever does
Is break and burn and end
But on a Wednesday in a cafe
I watched it begin again

You said you never met one girl who
Had as many James Taylor records as you
But I do
We tell stories and you don’t know why
I’m coming off a little shy


13

NDSMCOBSERVER.COM | THURSDAY, OCTOBER 4, 2012 | THE OBSERVER

SPORTS

NBA

NBA set to institute fines for ‘flopping’

Associated Press

    NEW YORK  — Stop the flop.	    The NBA will penalize floppers this season, fining players for repeated violations of an act a league official said Wednesday has “no place in our game.”
Those exaggerated falls to the floor may fool the referees and fans during the game, but of­ficials at league headquarters plan to take a look for themselves afterward.
Players will get a warning the first time, then be fined $5,000 for a second violation. The fines increase to $10,000 for a third of­fense, $15,000 for a fourth and $30,000 the fifth time. Six or more could lead to a suspension.
“Flops have no place in our game —they either fool referees into calling undeserved fouls or fool fans into thinking the refer­ees missed a foul call,” vice presi­dent of basketball operations Stu Jackson said in a statement. “Accordingly, both the Board of Governors and the competi­tion committee felt strongly that any player who the league deter­mines, following video review, to have committed a flop should — after a warning — be given an automatic penalty.”
The players’ association plans to file a grievance with the league office and an unfair labor prac­tice charge with the National Labor Relations Board, arguing that it should have been consult­ed first before the new rules were implemented.
“The NBA is not permitted to unilaterally impose new eco­nomic discipline against the players without first bargaining with the union,” union executive director Billy Hunter said. “We believe that any monetary pen­alty for an act of this type is inap­propriate and without precedent in our sport or any other sport. We will bring appropriate legal action to challenge what is clearly a vague and arbitrary overreac­tion and overreach by the com­missioner’s office.”
However, a number of players expressed support for the policy. Lakers star Kobe Bryant said he hopes it has an impact on the game.
“I like the rule,” he said. “Shameless flopping, that’s a chump move. We’re familiar with it. Vlade (Divac) kind of pioneered it in that playoff series against Shaq, and it kind of worked for him.”
Players cautioned that it would be difficult to completely elimi­nate flopping, but welcomed the attempt to try.
“It’s good. Guys can’t be flop­ping and get away with it any­more,” Oklahoma City guard James Harden said. “It was bound to happen at some point. Obviously, the league got fed up with it and they put it in. I’m hap­py they did.”
The NBA said flopping will be defined as “any physical act that appears to have been intended to cause the referees to call a foul on another player.”
“The primary factor in deter­mining whether a player commit­ted a flop is whether his physical reaction to contact with another player is inconsistent with what would reasonably be expected given the force or direction of the contact,” the league said.
Commissioner David Stern has long sought to end flopping, be­lieving it tricks the referees. But the league determined it would be too difficult for refs to make the call on the floor, preferring instead to leave it to league office reviews.
Jackson’s department already reviews flagrant foul penalties to determine if they should be up­graded or downgraded.
“I’m all on board for it,” Heat coach Erik Spoelstra said. “I think it needs to be addressed. I think the steps they’re taking right now, I think will benefit the game. I do. It remains to be seen if it truly has an impact. But I think it’s a step in the right direction.
“It’s not good for the game; no­body likes the flop. A majority of coaches don’t like the flop, par­ticularly if you’re trying to build a solid defense.”
Rasheed Wallace raged against it for years, picking up quite of a few of his 308 technical fouls for arguing that he was called for a foul because a player flopped. After ending a two-year retire­ment to join the New York Knicks, he said certain unnamed players were going to be in trouble and agreed penalties needed to be enforced.
“Hey, you all thought I was crazy for saying it over the last so-and-so years. I ain’t even gonna get into it, but yes,” he said. “They needed to bend on that.”
The blame for the rise in flop­ping is often aimed at the interna­tional players, such as Divac, who came to the NBA after growing up watching soccer, where falling down in hopes of drawing a foul is part of the game. Denver’s Danilo Gallinari, an Italian, believes that’s unfair.
“I don’t know why everybody just talks about European flop­ping,” he said. “I don’t know where this thing comes from. We flop as much as other players all around the world flop. I don’t know why everybody keeps say­ing that Europeans are soft or Europeans flops. I don’t know.”
Cleveland’s Anderson Varejao is a renowned flopper, once one of the targets of Wallace’s wrath. But he said he’s a changed man now.
“I’m not flopping anymore,” he said Monday with a smile. “I used to flop a little bit.”
The league said it will an­nounce a separate set of flop­ping penalties for the playoffs at a later date.


AP
Phoenix center Marcin Gortat falls to the floor to take a charge against Washington center JaVale McGee during a game on Feb. 20. Exaggerated attempts to draw a foul will be penalized during the 2012-2013 season.

PAID ADVERTISEMENT


14

THE OBSERVER | THURSDAY, OCTOBER 4, 2012 | NDSMCOBSERVER.COM

SPORTS

MLB

Headley leads Padres to win over Brewers

MILWAUKEE — Chase Headley drove in two runs, finishing the season with an NL-leading 115 RBIs, and the San Diego Padres beat the Milwaukee Brewers 7-6 on Wednesday night.
Headley doubled home a run in the fifth inning, mo­ments after his drive down the right-field line was called foul and confirmed when the umpires looked at a video replay.
Headley hit an RBI triple in the seventh and scored the go-ahead run on a sacrifice fly by Yonder Alonso.
Headley also drew two walks and finished with a .286 batting average. His previous RBIs high was 64 in 2009.
San Diego improved by five wins this year and wound up with a 76-86 record. The Padres won only five of their last 15 games.
Travis Ishikawa drove in four runs for Milwaukee, in­cluding three with a double in the third that made it 6-0. The Brewers went 83-79, a drop of 13 wins after reaching the NL championship series last year.
Since Aug. 20, Milwaukee’s 29-13 record was tops in the majors. The Brewers got within 1½ games of St. Louis in the chase for the second wild-card berth, but that was dashed with a 3-6 stretch in late September.
Cameron Maybin hit a two-run homer for San Diego, and five relievers held Milwaukee hitless in the final six innings.
Tommy Layne (2-0) pitched 1 1-3 innings for the victory and Luke Gregerson earned his ninth save. Jim Henderson (1-3) gave up two runs in the seventh.
Brewers star Ryan Braun went 1 for 4. He led the NL with 41 homers and 108 runs, and also ranked first extra-base hits, slugging percent­age and total bases. Braun was second in RBIs with 112 and third in batting at .319.


PAID ADVERTISEMENT


AP
San Diego’s Chase Headley beats the tag of Milwaukee catcher 
Jonathan Lucroy in the Padres’ 7-6 win over the Brewers Wednesday.

SMC CROSS COUNTRY 

Belles travel to Gibson 

By BRIAN HARTNETT
Sports Writer
Saint Mary’s will get a little taste of competition on the national level when it trav­els to Terre Haute, Ind., on Saturday to run in the Gibson Family Pre-National Meet.
The Belles last competed Sept. 21, when they finished sixth in a field of nine teams at the MIAA Jamboree on their home course. Junior Jessica Biek continued her strong string of performanc­es, as she led the way for the Belles with a 19th place finish in a time of 23:19 on the 6-ki­lometer (6K) course. 
Seniors Angela Nebesny and Elizabeth Majewski rounded out the top three for Saint Mary’s in the last Jamboree, with Nebesny fin­ishing 51st and Majewski fin­ishing 53rd in a personal-best time of 24:47.
Majewski said her strong performance resulted from the hard work she has put in at practice thus far.
“I have come to prac­tice mentally prepared and ready to work my hardest,” Majewski said. “I try to take this attitude to the course each race day. My team has also been a great factor in my success. Without them, my success would not be possible.”
Majewski said Saint Mary’s spent its weekend off from competition undergoing spe­cialized training designed to prepare for its upcoming competitions.
“We really utilized the week’s training to prepare mentally for race day dur­ing our workouts and longer mileage runs,” she said.
The Belles will look to take their training into a field of tough competitors at the Gibson Family Pre-National Meet, which features Division II, Division III and NAIA teams from all over the country. The meet is intend­ed to act as a preview for the Division III National Cross Country Championships, which takes place on Nov. 17, also in Terre Haute. 
Majewski said she expects to see further improvements in the team’s 6-K times when the Belles takes to the course this weekend.
“I believe that we will all run very strong races,” Majewski said. “Our train­ing these past two weeks has greatly prepared us for the potential of improved 6-K times.”
Although the Belles will face a field of top Division III competitors Saturday, Majewski said the competi­tion would serve to benefit the team’s performances and would act as good prepara­tion for important upcoming meets, including the MIAA championships Oct. 27.
“These teams will push us to run fast races and hope­fully shave off the seconds needed to run very competi­tive races at our final races of the season,” Majewski said.
Saint Mary’s will compete in the Gibson Family Pre-National Meet on Saturday at 12:30 p.m. at the LaVern Gibson Championship Course in Terre Haute, Ind.
Contact Brian Hartnett at bhartnet@nd.edu

PAID ADVERTISEMENT


15

NDSMCOBSERVER.COM | THURSDAY, OCTOBER 4, 2012 | THE OBSERVER

SPORTS

SMC SOCCER | SMC 4, TRINE 0

Belles defeat Trine, move to second-place slot 

By MIKE MONACO
Sports Writer
The Belles downed in-state rival Trine 4-0 on Wednesday as they earned their sixth shutout of the season and moved into a three-way tie for second place in the MIAA.
Off to their best 11-game start since 2004, the Belles (8-2-1, 5-2-0 MIAA) continued their early-season success with another conference victory. With the top four teams in the MIAA advanc­ing to the postseason confer­ence tournament, the Belles are hoping to keep riding the recent wave of wins, senior captain and midfielder Maddie Meckes said.
“This is the best year we’ve had since I’ve been here and I keep reminding [my teammates] of that so they know what a special season this is for us,” Meckes said. “We’re just trying to keep it up and work toward that confer­ence bid this season.”
Saint Mary’s coupled two goals in each half with 90 min­utes of dominant defense to quell Trine’s squad (1-8-2, 0-6-1).
Sophomore defender Kerry Green scored the first goal of the game and her first goal of the season when she headed home a corner kick from Meckes in the 25th minute.
Saint Mary’s extended its lead to 2-0 just over six minutes later, as junior forward Kaitlin Teichman netted her third goal of the season.
In the second half, senior midfielder Ashley Morfin scored unassisted in the 75th min­ute, as she shot from inside the penalty area and drilled it up and over Trine freshman goalie Sloan Davis toward the far post and into the back of the net.
With just under three min­utes remaining in regulation, Meckes put the finishing touch on the victory when she blasted a shot from outside the 18-yard box for her second goal of the season.
“We did really well,” Meckes said. “It was a game we could definitely win. We did a good job taking care of business.”
Saint Mary’s sophomore goalie Chanler Rosenbaum picked up the shutout victory by making three saves in the match. The Belles’ defense, led by Rosenbaum, Green and sophomore defender Mary Kate Hussey, held the Thunder to just one shot in the second half and four shots total.
With the win, Saint Mary’s matched the 5-2 conference re­cords of Hope and Calvin and positioned itself in a tie for sec­ond place in the MIAA, behind only Alma.
The Belles will take on the Hope (8-3-0, 5-2) on Saturday. The Flying Dutch defeated Calvin 2-0 on Wednesday in a critical conference matchup.
The Flying Dutch got out to a 1-0 lead in the 21st minute off a Calvin own goal, and followed it up in the 34th minute when ju­nior forward Raisa Yewah found the back of the net off a header.
Though Calvin outshot Hope 14-10 in the match, Flying Dutch senior goalie Megan Altieri wasn’t needed to make a save, as the defense forced shots from the perimeter that failed to find the frame.
Hope has allowed 12 goals in 11 games, while the Belles enter Saturday’s tilt averaging 2.53 goals per game. Meckes said the key to sustaining this strong stretch of soccer is stay­ing focused on the task at hand, something the Belles did against Trine.
“[It comes down to] making sure we’re staying focused for every game and knowing we’re concentrating on one game at a time,” Meckes said. “We were just focused on getting the [win against Trine] and working our way up in the conference.”
The Belles and Flying Dutch square off Saturday at noon in South Bend in a pivotal MIAA matchup.
Contact Mike Monaco at
jmonaco@nd.edu


LILY KANG | The Observer
Belles sophomore defender Abby Garcia clears the ball during Saint Mary’s 1-0 overtime loss to Calvin on Sept. 27. The Belles defeated Trine 4-0 Wednesday.

PAID ADVERTISEMENT

SMC VOLLEYBALL


Saint Mary’s travels to Trine

By NICK BOYLE
Sports Writer
Coming off a string of conference losses, Saint Mary’s hopes to right the ship when it takes on the visiting Trine squad Friday.  
With a current .500 conference re­cord, a win Friday would mean a big boost for the Belles (8-8, 4-4 MIAA) in the conference standings.  Belles coach Toni Kuschel said she thinks her team is ready for the challenge.
“I expect us to play our very best,” Kuschel said. “We know we are capa­ble of playing great volleyball and we are looking forward to proving that against Trine on Friday.”
Trine (14-7, 5-3) has gotten off to a hot start this season..  A win for Saint Mary’s would put them even with Trine in fourth place, which would buy the Belles a spot in the end of the season MIAA conference tournament.
“We know that [Trine is] a very tough team,” Kuschel said. “They have some great freshman and a great leadership in seniors [setter] Sarah Radkin and [middle hitter] Betsy Irwin, and junior [defensive specialist] Darcy Crabtree.”
To compete against its conference foe, Saint Mary’s will need to play some of the team’s best ball of the season, Kuschel said. They have been preparing for this final stretch by play­ing a competitive slate of matches.
“We have put in a lot of hard work the last two weeks while facing some of the top teams in the country,” Kuschel said. “We want all of that hard work to show up on Friday.”
Kuschel said she hopes her team can come out playing tough against Trine. With a team filled almost en­tirely with sophomores and fresh­men, the Belles will look to lone senior setter Danie Brink for leadership. Brink currently sits in the top-three Belles setters of all time in numerous statistical categories.
“We need to play tough and not give up on points,” Kuschel said. “We will need to serve and pass well. When we are able to do those two things well we will give ourselves the opportunity to win.”
Kuschel said she thinks her team will come out excited for the rivalry match Friday.
“We are confident and excited to be playing a rival at home,” Kuschel said.
Saint Mary’s will welcome in-con­ference foe Trine at 7 p.m. on Friday.
Contact Nick Boyle at 
nboyle1@nd.edu

16

THE OBSERVER | THURSDAY, OCTOBER 4, 2012 | NDSMCOBSERVER.COM

SPORTS

SMC GOLF

MEN’S TENNIS

 Belles to enter Jamboree

Andrews to travel to All-American

By PETER STEINER
Sports Writer
Halfway through their con­ference season, the Belles enter Saturday’s Jamboree hoping to improve on their current third-place position in the MIAA and climb the conference rankings.
The young Saint Mary’s squad will travel to Lenawee Country Club in Adrian, Mich., to compete in the fourth of six conference rounds this fall.
After finishing third in their home conference round on Sept. 26, the Belles trail sec­ond-ranked Hope College by only seven strokes, but only hold a two stroke lead on fourth-place Calvin. 
Belles coach Mark Hamilton said the coming Jamboree presents an opportunity to overtake Hope and chip away at first-place Olivet’s lead.
“We’re looking to first of all get ahead [of] Hope to make sure we host one of the rounds in spring for our NCAA quali­fier,” Hamilton said. “We are still gunning for the No. 1 team, which is Olivet. We’re 40 strokes from the top and we still feel like we’ve got a chance to catch them. We can’t make any mistakes. We’ve got to play well.”
To catch the conference front-runner, the Belles will rely on the play of their un­derclassmen. With five fall events under their belts, con­ference rounds are no longer new for the four freshmen on the Belles’ squad.
“I think they know what to expect,” Hamilton said. “They know their opponents. Again, it’s playing a golf course that nobody’s seen so we’re still a little behind there. I think they know the overall atmo­sphere of what a conference event is all about so we should feel a little more comfortable in what we’re doing out there.”
While inexperience has been a focus of the fall, Hamilton said he believes ju­nior Alexi Bown is ready to take the next step. Bown has played as an individual in the fall thus far, but will get a chance in the starting lineup this weekend.
“One of our juniors, Lexi Bown, is starting to play very well,” Hamilton said. “She’s coming into her own here at the end of the season.
“It’s her turn to shine and I think she will. A few other players, the top other four, have struggled in the last cou­ple of weeks, but I think it’s going to all come together on Saturday.”
In preparation for the up­coming Jamboree, the Belles have focused on keeping their shots down the middle, in addition to converting their chances around the green, Hamilton said. 
“We need to hit the golf ball pretty straight,” Hamilton said. “It’s a tight golf course. We’ll need to hit the greens and when we don’t hit the greens, get it up and down, basically. Pretty simple.”
The Belles will travel to Adrian, Mich., on Saturday to compete in the fourth MIAA conference round of the fall season.
Contact Peter Steiner at 
psteiner@nd.edu


“We are still gunning for the No. 1 team, which is Olivet. We’re 40 strokes from the top and we still feel like we’ve got a chance to catch them. We can’t make any mistakes. We’ve got to play well.”
Mark Hamilton
Belles coach

KIRBY MCKENNA | The Observer
Irish junior Greg Andrews returns a shot during Notre Dame’s match against Louisville on April 14. 

By PETER STEINER
Sports Writer
With lofty expectations as the No. 24 singles player in the country, junior Greg Andrews will finally get a chance to tru­ly prove himself.
Over the next four days, the top player on the Irish squad will compete against the best 64 singles players in the coun­try at the ITA All-American Championships in Tulsa, Okla. 
After finishing last year ranked No. 54 with a 26-5 singles record, Andrews has already faced tough com­petition this fall. The junior most recently played in the OFCC Invitational in Olympia Fields, Ill., and in September he faced off against current ATP tour player Conor Niland in Ireland. Now with those experiences under his belt, Andrews will face some of the top collegiate competition in the country.
“He worked very hard this fall and is showing steady im­provement,” Irish coach Bobby Bayliss said. “He was the MVP of the Illini Invitational that had a number of top teams in it. I have every reason to think he’s capable of doing very well in the ITA All-American.”
In the first round of the tour­nament, Andrews will square off with junior Clay Thompson from UCLA. If Andrews is able to hit a strong backhand, con­trol the court and stick to what he’s done so far this season, he will find success, Bayliss said.
“In general, if Greg returns well off the backhand and is able to play up in the court enough to cut in on the back­hand side, I think he can cer­tainly play with anybody in the country,” the coach said. “He’s played at a high level all fall. We don’t need to reinvent the wheel, just keep him on the same path.”
Because Andrews will match up with the top play­ers in the nation, the ITA All-American Championships has wide-reaching implications. National rankings, NCAA seeding and qualifying for lat­er tournaments are all large­ly based on players records against the best.
“Obviously when you get to play against the best players in the country in any event, you are going to get opportu­nities to get wins that will help your ranking and your ability to qualify for the NCAA cham­pionships, your seeding in the NCAA tournament and the goal to be ranked high enough to become an All-American,” Bayliss said. “If you reach the quarterfinals, the final eight, of this tournament, you are also automatically invited to National Indoors which is in November and is the top-30 players in the country.”
Despite the concrete pos­sibilities associated with this tournament, Bayliss also rec­ognizes the opportunity for Andrews to improve his game by playing against tough competition. 
“I’m more interested that he plays well and competes well and continue to build on what he’s done so far,” Bayliss said. “Every outstanding play­er you play against, you’re forced to stretch your game to a higher level in order to be competitive.”
Andrews will begin his tour­nament play when he faces off with Thompson at 10:30 a.m. today at the Michael D. Case Tennis Center in Tulsa, Okla.
Contact Peter Steiner at 
psteiner@nd.edu

PAID ADVERTISEMENT


17

NDSMCOBSERVER.COM | THURSDAY, OCTOBER 4, 2012 | THE OBSERVER

SPORTS

Clark
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 20


JULIE HERDER | The Observer
Irish forward Leon Brown battles for the ball during Notre Dame’s 7-1 victory over Pittsburgh on Wednesday night.

PAID ADVERTISEMENT


Voigt 
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 20


ASHLEY DACY | The Observer
Irish goalkeeper Sarah Voigt watches the ball during Notre Dame’s 2-1 victory over Louisville on Sept. 14 at Alumni Stadium.

PAID ADVERTISEMENT


18

THE OBSERVER | THURSDAY, OCTOBER 4, 2012 | NDSMCOBSERVER.COM

SPORTS

Terrell
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 20


Observer File Photo
Former Irish safety Pat Terrell celebrates after Notre Dame’s 31-30 
victory over Miami on Oct. 15, 1988.

PAID ADVERTISEMENT


19

NDSMCOBSERVER.COM | THURSDAY, OCTOBER 4, 2012 | THE OBSERVER

DAILY

HOROSCOPE | EUGENIA LAST

CROSSWORD | WILL SHORTZ


CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Ashlee Simpson, 28; Seann William Scott, 36; Neve Campbell, 39; Gwen Stefani, 43.
 Happy Birthday: Concentrate on what’s most important to you this year. Don’t neglect your personal or professional life; both will be equally important as the year progresses. Build strong relationships with the people who can influence your future. Security and stability should be your top priorities. Follow through with your plans, but be receptive to new methods. Your numbers are 7, 10, 17, 23, 38, 43, 47.
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Partnerships will undergo changes that may not initially be convenient, but in the end the outcome will be beneficial. Unusual events and information will spark interest in making personal alterations to your life. A past partner will surface. 



TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Don’t make decisions in the heat of the moment. Take a breather and rethink your next move. Not everyone will be completely honest with you about what’s being offered and what’s expected of you. Bide your time. 



GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Keep your emotional opinion out of the workplace. You will only make matters worse if you share your beliefs and feelings, especially if you are basing your information on assumptions. Put more emphasis on self-improve­ment. 



CANCER (June 21-July 22): You will be drawn to challenges that require discipline and serious thought. An original approach will help you stand out as a leader among your peers. Participation will give you a new lease on life and enhance your personal relationships. 




LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Expect opposition. An emotional difference of opinion will fester if you are opinionated or push your beliefs on others. Keep your ideas to your­self. As a diversion, catch up on home improvements and lifestyle changes. 


VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Travel to enjoy the company of someone special, or open your doors and invite friends over. Interaction will lead to new ideas that will help you move forward, but don’t overspend in the process.  





LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): Practicality will be your ticket to a better future. Size up your financial situation and make whatever adjustments are necessary to save for something you really want. Change is heading in your direction, but you must take a leap of faith. 



SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Put your heart on the line and let your feelings be known. A partnership will benefit from your honesty and your obvious passion to follow your heart and create a life that suits your needs. Working from home can bring in extra cash.  



SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): A friend, relative or peer will cause you grief if you haven’t shared exact information. Changes at home will help you move forward pro­fessionally. Don’t let your personal life stop you from exploring financial interests. 



CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Jumping too quickly will lead to setbacks. Observe what everyone else does first and make a calculated move based on facts. Love and romance will enhance your life and bring about an unusual opportunity regarding an investment. 





AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Someone you deal with daily will help you make improvements to your life and your financial situation. Emotions will be difficult to control, but they can also instigate what needs to happen in order for you to push forward and reach your goals. 


PISCES (Feb. 19- March 20): Your social skills and unique way of viewing situations will be helpful in social settings. Someone will recognize what you have to offer and suggest a service you can provide. Invest in you and your abilities and proceed. Love is in the stars. 




Birthday Baby: You are clever and cautious. You are a little stubborn but always prepared.

JUMBLE | DAVID HOYT AND JEFF KNUREK

SUDOKU | THE MEPHAM GROUP

HIGHLY PUNLIKELY | CHRISTOPHER BRUCKER




LOWER YOUR EXPECTATIONS |  LENNY RAGO &        				                      PATRICK CROSS


WORK AREA

Make checks payable to and mail to:	The Observer
	P.O. Box 779
	Notre Dame, IN 46556

  Enclosed is $130 for one academic year

  Enclosed is $75 for one semester

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community.
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home.

Name
Address 
City  						State  		Zip

20

THE OBSERVER | THURSDAY, OCTOBER 4, 2012 | NDSMCOBSERVER.COM

WAKING THE ECHOES | PAT TERRELL

Terrell recalls ‘Catholics vs. Convicts’

By MATTHEW DEFRANKS
Assistant Sports Editor
Editor’s note: This is the fifth of a new Observer feature. The “Waking the Echoes” series in­tends to inform fans about some former players and will feature weekly stories profiling them and their lives since Notre Dame.
They were one point behind. There were 45 seconds left in the game and they were one point behind.
Miami and coach Jimmy Johnson could have gone for the tie — but instead elected to try a potential game-winning two-point conversion on an October day in 1988 in South Bend, Ind. The Hurricanes lined up on the left hash mark and quarterback Steve Walsh had three receiv­ers lined up to his right. Walsh dropped back and back again before floating a cross-field pass to receiver Leonard Conley.
Former Irish safety Pat Terrell was out on an island. He was all by himself with Conley in the corner of the south end zone. Terrell rose and batted the ball down, destroying Miami’s play, its swagger and its season all at once while preserving a 31-30 win for the Irish.
“The crowd has never been so loud and intense for any game I remember playing at Notre Dame,” Terrell said in a phone interview with The Observer. “The coaches have never been so intense. Each play was big. That’s one game I remember, I’ve played in playoff games, NFC championship games, for some reason, that game, you re­member that second and third [down]. It was like every play was electric.”
In the buildup to the game, students produced “Catholics vs. Convicts” T-shirts and other “Hate Miami” shirts that made it tough for the team to escape the buzz around campus.
“You would have thought that every student was going to strap it up and play,” Terrell said. “There was an electricity in the hallways, in the dorms. It was electricity in South and North Dining Halls during lunch. It was unlike any other week that I’ve ever been involved with in my four years at Notre Dame.”
Four years earlier in Miami, Notre Dame accused Johnson and the Hurricanes of running up the score in former Irish coach Gerry Faust’s last game with the Irish. Miami won that contest 58-7.
In 1988, the Hurricanes strolled into South Bend with a No. 1 ranking and a 36-game regular season winning streak. Miami had won two national titles in the previous five sea­sons — and they had done it by dominating opponents and cel­ebrating it, too.
“We felt Miami didn’t nec­essarily respect us as athletes and I think they were walking with a swagger and deserved to because they earned it, quite frankly,” Terrell said. “You have a lot of players, such as myself, that were recruited by those guys, too. All of a sudden, you’re looked upon as this ‘you couldn’t even play here.’ That made games pretty intense.
“We couldn’t wait to get out there and snap the ball. It wasn’t that we were trying to upset anyone, play beyond our means and hang in there for four quar­ters with the No. 1 team. We wanted them to snap the ball so we could smack them in the mouth. Period.”
Terrell was making just his second career start at free safety after making a move from re­ceiver. The St. Petersburg na­tive said he was nervous but not afraid of the flashy Hurricanes wideouts.
“I wanted to be a starter ever since I stepped foot at Notre Dame,” Terrell said. “For me, I had the opportunity not to come off the field. That’s what I want­ed to be. I wasn’t out there like ‘Oh my God, look at these guys I have to cover’ because I covered all those guys in high school and kicked a lot of ass back then.”
While some believed Miami had more talent than Notre Dame, Terrell said the Irish — particularly in the secondary — were more athletic than the Hurricanes.
“We were a faster team than Miami,” Terrell said. “People don’t even realize that. Our corners, Todd Lyght and Sam Smagala, ran a 4.3 40 [-yard dash]. D’Jaun Francisco ran a 4.3 40. I ran a 4.3 40. There were no wide receivers on Miami’s team that ran a 4.3 40.
“Their quarterback, Steve Walsh had all the statistics but Steve Walsh couldn’t play bas­ketball, jump straight up, do a 360 and slam it with two hands. That’s an athlete. Not one wide receiver they had was better or more physical to cover than [former Irish receivers] Ricky Watters and Rocket [Ismail] in practice.”
Even before the game, the teams mixed it up. During a Notre Dame punt return drill, Miami came out of the tunnel and bumped into Ismail. The two teams exchanged pushes, shoves and punches before be­ing separated.
“Maybe in a different situa­tion we would have moved but our guys felt this was our house, they were showing us disrespect by running through the line,” Terrell said. “Miami thought they were being disrespected by us by not giving them ground or making sufficient room … I don’t think the cameras picked up how intense it really was.
“I don’t think we were neces­sarily arrogant but we were con­fident. Sometimes confidence can rub an arrogant team the wrong way.”
In the locker room before the game, former Irish coach Lou Holtz was angry at his team for fighting before the game but in a quote immortalized in Notre Dame lore, told them to “leave Jimmy Johnson’s ass for me.”
“That was so intense because half was laughter and half was if this guy is ready to go at it like that and we’re not ready, there’s something wrong,” Terrell said. “That comment from Lou was timeless. It was perfect.”
While Terrell is remembered mostly for the two-point con­version play, he also returned an interception for a touch­down in the win. After defensive lineman Frank Stams tipped a Walsh pass, Terrell ran un­der the batted ball, caught it in stride before sprinting towards the end zone. Walsh was the only Hurricane that had a shot to stop Terrell.
“To be able to make a play early in the game like that, it’s a relief because it puts you in a good zone, your confidence level raises,” Terrell said. “I was more worried about [my team­mates] laughing at me getting caught by a quarterback, even though he did have a huge angle on me … I had some hidden mo­tivation factored in there and that was my secondary.”
Terrell said he had a bigger thrill at the time running back the interception than he did batting down the two-point conversion.
After a Tony Rice fumble late in the fourth quarter set up the Hurricanes with good field position and chance to tie the game, the defense took the field aiming to stop an offense that totaled more than 500 yards in the contest. Despite allow­ing more than 500 yards and 30 points, Terrell said the day was a good one for the Irish defense.
“They moved the ball, they absolutely did but they weren’t chucking 40- or 50-yard bombs on us or big runs for 20 or 30 yards,” Terrell said. “They knew how to move the sticks. We didn’t play with a bend-but-don’t-break attitude but be­cause of their scheme, because of their talent, they’re going to complete passes.”
With 45 seconds remaining, Walsh found former Miami re­ceiver Andre Brown in the cor­ner of the end zone for a diving touchdown catch. The score cut the Miami deficit to just one point.
Terrell and the Irish did not immediately know Miami would go for two but were not surprised by the decision, Terrell said. Former Irish defen­sive coordinator Barry Alvarez prepared Notre Dame to expect a few plays the Hurricanes exe­cuted to perfection, Terrell said.
“They did like a pick so we an­ticipated to look out for that play, maybe a couple other plays that were effective for them,” Terrell said. “My challenge was to stay on top to make sure I could clear any picks. Steve Walsh had such a great arm that if you gave any­body any room in the end zone, he was going to zip it in on you and it’s over.”
Terrell said the pressure ap­plied by George Williams was key and helped force a wob­bly pass from Walsh. While the ball was in the air, Terrell said it looked like it was going in slow motion.
“At that point, as a defensive back, you want them to throw to your man,” Terrell said. “If you’re not thinking that way, you’re going to get struck. Teams with that attitude typi­cally don’t win championships. Everyone out there wanted to make that play. Fortunately for me, it came at my guy and I was able to make that play.”
The win launched the then-No. 4 Irish to an undefeated season and a national cham­pionship. The Irish have not reached the pinnacle since. 
Terrell played nine seasons in the NFL with the Los Angeles Rams, New York Jets, Carolina Panthers and Green Bay Packers. After his playing days, Terrell took up a profession just as thrilling as football— flying planes.
He earned his pilot’s license his rookie year in the NFL and climbed his way up to captain, flying planes as big as Boeing 767s.
“It had been a passion of mine for years. A lot of my close friends always knew that,” Terrell said. “It was a great thrill of mine. It made me not miss football im­mediately after retiring from it because I was in a completely different career that, for me, was equally exciting.”
Terrell has since hung up his wings and now owns a con­struction business that builds runways and freeways in Chicago.
“I’ve been able to utilize all my tools from football and be­ing an airline pilot to put ev­erything together and I’m also doing something now that I’m very passionate about and very thrilled about,” Terrell said.
Terrell, 44, is married to his wife Elizabeth. The couple has five children — Seth, 14, Veronica, 12, Lucian, 10, Cecilia, 10, and Eli, 8.
A full transcript of our in­terview with Pat Terrell will be available Friday morning at ndsmcobserver.com
Contact Matthew DeFranks at mdefrank@nd.edu


Photo courtesy of Pat Terrell
Former Irish safety Pat Terrell celebrates after defending a two-point conversion pass from Miami quarterback Steve Walsh and preserving a 31-30 Notre Dame victory on Oct. 15, 1988.

see TERRELL PAGE 18

MEN’S SOCCER | ND 7, PITTSBURGH 1

ND WOMEN’S SOCCER

Voigt keys Irish defense

Irish dominate Pitt at home

By CORY BERNARD
Sports Writer
The surging Irish recorded their sixth consecutive vic­tory Sunday with a shutout of Connecticut, and that tra­jectory has included the ris­ing star of the team’s young goalkeeper. 
Prior to this season, sopho­more goalkeeper Sarah Voigt had never recorded a solo shutout for the Irish. In Notre Dame’s 3-0 win over Oakland on Sept. 23, Voigt registered the first clean sheet of her ca­reer and has not surrendered a goal since.
Defense has largely carried Notre Dame during its cur­rent streak, with Voigt playing a key role. She made four first-half saves during the team’s 4-0 win over the Huskies on Sept. 30. Irish coach Randy Waldrum praised his goal­keeper’s play, saying Voigt kept the team in the game un­til the offense broke through. 
Despite the praise, Voigt said a group effort spurred the Irish win over the Huskies.
“I think [the win] definitely helped put confidence [in the team],” Voigt said. “It helps the confidence not only of me personally but the confidence of the team because that was definitely a team win. I think being able to come out hard and come away with a win that’s really going to help us go forward with confidence and help us go forward and be winning in the future.”
The Big East recognized Voigt’s recent efforts Monday when the conference named her as the Big East goalkeeper of the week. The honor car­ries added significance, con­sidering Voigt began the year behind freshman goalkeep­er Elyse Hight on the depth chart.
“I think it’s a great honor, but yeah, that definitely helps my confidence,” Voigt said. “I think it would help anyone’s confidence. I know Elyse also won [the award] earlier in the year [on Aug. 27] and I think it’s really cool that we have two goalkeepers in the same season who won it. Also, I think it’s a testament to the program in general, not only our personal achievements.”
Backing up Hight motivated Voigt to improve her game because the sophomore said she disliked playing second fiddle. Voigt said she made it her goal from the beginning of the year to earn the start­ing role.
“It was really just a lot of fo­cus and a lot of training, ob­viously,” Voigt said. “It was frustrating at the beginning to know that I was not start­ing and I think that would be the same from anyone’s standpoint. No one likes to sit on the bench. I think that be­ginning in second really kind of helped me push myself and motivate myself to really have a concrete goal of starting.”
Having only been the start­er for five games, Voigt will not become complacent with her position. She said having a goalkeeper of equal ability behind her on the depth chart keeps her motivated.
“Both Elyse and I train really hard because we know if we’re not on our ‘A’ game then we’re going to be on the bench,” Voigt said. “I think that level of talent and the depth we have in the goalkeeping posi­tion really helps us push our­selves and push each other. We’re both pretty competitive goalkeepers. We’re both on a similar level. It’s kind of up to us who starts and it’s up to our level in training and how we show, level-wise, to see who deserves the role.”
The Irish return to action Friday when they host confer­ence opponent Seton Hall at 7:30 p.m.
Contact Cory Bernard at 
cbernard@nd.edu


By ISAAC LORTON
Sports Writer
Sheets of pouring rain did not stop the No. 10 Irish from routing Pittsburgh 7-1 and set a Big East record along the wayThe Irish took 36 shots in the match, the most shots taken since the Big East era began in 1995.with 36 shots.
This is the first time Notre Dame (9-2-0, 1-2-0 Big East) has scored seven goals in a match since 1997 against Western Michigan. 
With this win against Pittsburgh (6-4-2, 0-3-0), Notre Dame notched its first -conference win and rebounded from its losses to Louisville and Connecticut while on a four-game road trip.
“It’s about time,” Irish coach Bobby Clark said. “We needed to win. We re­ally needed that one. It came a little bit easier than I expected. Pittsburgh had been doing well; they were undefeated only 10 days ago. Maybe it was the long bus trip, but we seemed to catch them cold tonight. We will take the win and move on.”   
Notre Dame’s first goal came in the 15th minute, as senior forward Danny O’Leary passed the ball off to forward Leon Brown who ripped a shot. The ball skipped off the wet ground, bounced off Pittsburgh sophomore goalkeeper Lee Johnston’s hands and rico­cheted off the post. O’Leary followed through, put the ball in the wide-open net and finished the play he started for his first goal of the season. 
Not letting up, O’Leary re­ceived a cross on the ground from junior defender Luke Mishu and placed it in the The third goal came in the 33rd minute from an individual effort by senior forward Ryan Finley. Finley received the ball at the top of the box, spun around one defender, sprinted past the sec­ond defender and put it in the far post. 
The Irish were in complete control at the end of the first half with a score of 3-0 and dominat­ed the shots category 17-5 in the stanza.
Coming out in the second half the Irish did not let up and fin­ished strong.
“We talked about that at half­time,” Clark said. “We hadn’t put a team away for a little while; I mean really put a team away. If you don’t play honest through­out the whole game, you re­ally disrespect the opposition. I think it is important to play honestly and fully the whole game.”
Freshman midfielder Patrick Hodan started the second half and did not waste his time, as he scored in the 51st minute. Hodan received a ball from se­nior captain midfielder Dylan Powers, beat a defender and put it past the keeper for his second goal of the season.
Not to be shut out, the Panthers caught the Irish defense off guard, played a through ball behind the defense and caught Irish junior goalkeeper Patrick Wall halfway between staying home and coming out. Panthers red-shirt freshman Ryan Myers shot the ball to the inside post for the score in the 59th minute.  
“We were disappointed to lose the goal, to be quite honest,” Clark said. “We really wanted the shutout as well.”
The Irish did not stop there, however. In the 68th minute Finley received the ball out­side the 18-yard box and took a shot which was deflected by a Pittsburgh defender and went into the net. His second goal of the game was Finley’s team-leading eighth goal of the season. 
With a commanding lead some younger players and bench players got the opportu­nity to come into the game for Notre Dame. 
“It was really important to­night to put the younger lads in,” Clark said. “All of the other games have been pretty tight and it was nice to get some new faces in.”   
The Irish take the confidence from this offensive explosion forward as they look to defeat No. 3 Georgetown on Saturday at Alumni Field at 2 p.m.     
Contact Isaac Lorton at
ilorton@nd.edu

ASHLEY DACY | The Observer
Irish goalkeeper Sarah Voigt punts the ball during Notre Dame’s 2-1 victory over Louisvile on Sept. 14 at Alumni Stadium.

see CLARK PAGE 17

see VOIGT PAGE 17



