


This notre dame stands together 

Allan Joseph 
editor-in-chief 
I’m a naturally garrulous person, so this is astonish­ingly rare: I have no words to describe this senior class. 
no words, that is, except one: “We.” 
It’s a simple, short word that gets used every day. but it’s a word that rarely gets used so authentically as with this senior class, this football pro­gram and this University. 
only here, and especially with this class, do we say “we” with the football team and mean it. 
Why else would we storm the field after stanford? Why were the cheers after beating michigan so cathartic? 
Forty-eight games ago, this senior class took notre dame stadium for the first time against nevada. The sun was shining, the hope had sprung anew and the chants of “beat Wolfpack!” were so clear they reverberate in our memories even today. That 35-0 victory to open the season was the 


we need? 
high point of 2009, and by the time we took our first set of finals, the man who had brought the football play­ers among us to campus was gone. 
slowly, we grew. There were fits and starts: a big win at boston college preceded consecutive ugly losses to navy and Tulsa, which were of course followed by a long-awaited win over Usc and a sun bowl romp over miami. In the process, some trans­ferred. many more graduated. 
Then what seemed like it could be our year — a healthy quarterback, an explosive offense and a scheduled night game against Usc — got off to a stormy start against south Florida. That agonizing, drawn-out, heartbreaking day portended the rest of the 2011 season — and only got worse the next week in the big house. 
After the Usc loss, Irish coach brian Kelly got into some trouble by comment­ing on the players whom he didn’t bring here. It looked like two of the best talents on the roster were heading off to the nFL, and the quarterback position was up in the air again. 
but manti Te’o and Tyler eifert came back. They had unfinished business, they said. more importantly, they said they love notre dame. We do too — so we heard whispers of hope, but our doubts were shouting: Three straight heartbreaking losses to michigan. Three straight mediocre seasons. And the hardest schedule in the coun­try awaited. 
now? To accomplish this? The journey, long and ar­duous as it has been, has brought us to the cusp of the best notre dame football season since the legendary 1988 squad — the Lou holtz­coached, national title-win­ning Irish forever etched in this program’s lore. 
We were all years away from being born when that hap­pened. We’ve never seen this before. 
but for three years, we did see our classmates beside us in class. We saw them in the dining hall and in the dorms. And in those three years, we felt only that the football team was a part of us. 
It’s not that there’s a special bond between the team and 


Only at this University could we have this senior season. Because of this football team, we have “we.” What other words do 
the student body. It’s that the team is simply a part of the student body. 
only at this University, and especially with this class, would the emotional leader of the football player both be a heisman candidate and a guy who loved dorm life in dillon hall. manti Te’o isn’t just the best representation of the football team, he’s the best representation of our student body: passionate, successful and driven — but with a heart for people above all. 
only at this University, and especially with this class, is it unthinkable to say “they won” after a game. It’s always “we won.” It’s always about us as a University — it’s easy to stay for the Alma mater after a triple-overtime win to stay undefeated, but the student section was just as full at the end of the 2010 blowout loss to stanford as it was two weeks ago. 
only at this University could we have this senior sea­son. because of this football team, we have “we.” What other words do we need? 
Contact Allan Joseph at ajoseph2@nd.edu 
The views in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

RECRUITING 



10-0 start endears Irish to elite recruits nationally 
By CHRIS ALLEN 
sports editor 
With the Irish just two games from an undefeated regular season — a position few could have imagined at the begin­ning of the season — notre dame has found itself quickly back among the recruiting elite in the country. With a class of 22 recruits set to come to cam­pus for the 2013 season ranked no. 4 in the country by esPn, the Irish are set to restock tal­ent following the departure of their current seniors. The Irish have begun to attract talent from top recruits who were not considered targets a few weeks ago, including no. 1 wide re­ceiver Laquon Treadwell. Irish recruiting expert mike Frank said the rise of the 2012 Irish has already begun to impact recruiting. 
“I believe you’re already start­ing to see the success affect this current class,” said Frank, who runs the esPn-affiliated Irish sports daily. “There are a cou­ple of guys who are elite guys who I believe they wouldn’t be interested in notre dame if they were going to go 8-4. You look at a guy like Treadwell; he wouldn’t be looking at notre dame if they were 8-4. 
“[safety] max redfield is another guy who probably wouldn’t be so interested in notre dame if they weren’t hav­ing this kind of season.” 
Frank said he believes Irish coach brian Kelly has begun to build a dominant program around an identity formed through recruiting. 
“You look at elite programs, what sets them apart is the depth. If you have a guy go down due to injury, usually you can have a guy step in and there won’t be too big of a drop-off,” Frank said. “The big thing that a lot of guys who don’t succeed as coaches don’t have is the consistency is recruiting. You can’t have one good class fol­lowed up by two bad ones. You need to have good classes every year. You also need to hit your numbers at each position in each class, or else you’ll be thin down the line. 
“one thing [notre dame director of Athletics] Jack swarbrick said in an interview about Kelly was that he wasn’t interested in a guy who recruit­ed the best or talked the best necessarily, but a person who can build the best program. Kelly did that at Grand valley state, at central michigan and at cincinnati. now he’s start­ing to do that here through recruiting.” 
With the imminent depar­tures of a talented class of se­niors to the nFL and other postgraduate opportunities, the Irish are set to welcome a group of six early-enrollee play­ers from the current recruiting class. Quarterback malik Zaire, wide receivers James onwualu and corey robinson, tight end mike heuerman, offensive tackle steve elmer and line­backer Alex Anzalone will be­gin taking classes and working out with the football team in the upcoming spring semes­ter. The opportunity to enroll early is generally seen as an advantage for recruits looking to make an early impact, and Frank said elmer is one player who may benefit the most from the chance. 
“You look at offensive tackle, that’s a need area. [Junior] Tate nichols, you look at his situa­tion and it’s kind of up in the air. nobody really knows if Jordan Prestwood is going to return, so a guy like elmer has some opportunities,” Frank said. “I don’t necessarily think he is go­ing to start, but he could work his way onto the field early.” 
With a star-studded group of seniors including All-Americans manti Te’o and Tyler eifert set to play its final game at notre dame stadium, Frank said the recruiting class of 2009 was destined to be a special one. 
“I knew this was going to be a good class,” he said. “but I don’t necessarily think I would say I knew they were going to be in a position where as seniors they would be knocking on the door of a bcs championship.” 
For more on Notre Dame recruiting, check out Mike Frank’s irishsportsdaily.com 
Email Mike at mikefrank18@sbcglobal.net and tell him The Observer sent you. 


Contact Chris Allen at callen10@nd.edu 






TABLE OF CONTENTS 
Blake Breslau 
4 
No. 49 
SAFETY SAN DIEGO 


Jordan Cowart 
No. 60 
LONG SNAPPER 
PlaNtatioN, Fla. 


Carlo Calabrese 
5 
No. 44 
LINEBACKER 
VeroNa, N.J. 


Braxston Cave 
6 
No. 52 
CENTER 
GraNGer, iNd. 


7 Tyler Eifert 
No. 80 
TIGHT END 
Fort WayNe, iNd. 


8 Nick Fitzpatrick 
No. 38 
WIDE RECEIVER 
MishaWaka, iNd. 


Jake Golic 
No. 88 
TIGHT END 

West hartFord, CoNN. 

Dan Fox 
9 
No. 48 
LINEBACKER ROCKY RIVER, OHIO 


Mike Golic, Jr. 
10 
No. 57 
OFFENSIVE GUARD 

West hartFord, CoNN. 

John Goodman 
11 
No. 81 
WIDE RECEIVER 
Fort WayNe, iNd. 
12 
13 
14 
16 
17 
18 
19 
20 


Kapron Lewis-Moore 
No. 89 
DEFENSIVE END WEATHERFORD, TEXAS 


Dennis Mahoney 
No. 71 
OFFENSIVE TACKLE BALTIMORE 


Grant Patton 
No. 63 
DEFENSIVE END 
louisVille, ky. 

Notre Dame vs. Wake Forest: Head-to-Head 

Zack Martin 
No. 70 
OFFENSIVE TACKLE INDIANAPOLIS 

Dan McCarthy 
No. 15 
SAFETY YOUNGSTOWN, OHIO 

Zeke Motta 
No. 17 
SAFETY 
Vero BeaCh, Fla. 

Theo Riddick 
No. 6 
RUNNING BACK 
MaNVille, N.J. 

Chris Salvi 
No. 24 
SAFETY 
lake Forest, ill. 

Will Salvi 
No. 36 
CORNERBACK 
lakeForest, ill. 

21 Jamoris Slaughter 
No. 26 
SAFETY 
stoNe MouNtaiN, Ga. 

22 Tyler Stockton 
No. 92 
NOSE GUARD 
liNWood, N.J. 

Matt Tansey 
No. 62 
OFFENSIVE LINE 
Berkeley heiGhts, N.J. 

Nick Tausch 
23 
No. 40 
KICKER PLANO, TEXAS 

Kevin Walsh 
No. 54 
LINEBACKER BETTENDORF, IOWA 

24 Robby Toma 
No. 9 
WIDE RECEIVER LAIE, HAWAII 

Ben Turk 
25 
No. 35 
PUNTER 
daVie, Fla. 

Chris Watt 
26 
No. 66 
OFFENSIVE GUARD 
GleN ellyN, ill. 

Cierre Wood 
27 
No. 20 
RUNNING BACK 
oxNard, CaliF. 
SUZANNA PRATT | The Observer 


2012 SENIOR CLASS 48 GAMES • 32 WINS • 45 TOUCHDOWNS SCORED • 4,147 RECEIVING YARDS • 3,281 RUSHING YARDS • 1,150 TACKLES • 33.5 TACKLES FOR A LOSS • 28 SACKS • 10 INTERCEPTIONS 


breslau makes mark as student first, then athlete 
By PETER STEINER 
sports Writer 
every ncAA football player is called to be a “student-ath­lete.” however, not every player embodies this term as well as senior blake breslau — a science-business major whose priorities accurately reflect the order of the words “student” and “athlete.” 
“I think [the term student-athlete] definitely applies to me in particular, being science-business,” breslau said. “It’s not an easy major. It’s very hard with a lot of chemistry and science-based classes so the student defi­nitely comes before athlete in my case. being a student has defi­nitely been a real priority.” 
but the term doesn’t just illus­trate the san diego native’s dedi­cation as a student. The order of the two words also reflects the chronology of his time at notre dame. 
breslau spent his first two years in south bend exclusively as a student before trying out for the football team in the spring of his sophomore year. After be­ing invited to return for summer football camp, breslau knew he had found his place at notre dame as both a student and an athlete. 
however, breslau’s two lives were never separated as he con­tinued to learn a variety of les­sons while on the football field. 
“[Football] has played a big role in my life,” breslau said. “It’s taught me a lot of good values that I can take off the field — dis­cipline, responsibility and ac­countability — and just apply to school and anything else.” 
The former Keough hall resi­dent attributes this work ethic displayed on and off the field to someone who has always been in his life: his father. 
“my dad is always pushed me to strive in both school and ath­letics, keep trying, doing your best every day,” breslau said. 
As a member of the team for the last two years, breslau has added an unrivaled set of experi­ences to his time at notre dame. 
“It’s been a great time and I’ve created some good relationships with the guys,” breslau said. “It’s been a really special year. 
“The best experience so far has been the stanford game this year. being able to share that with the students rushing the field I thought was a really spe­cial experience.” 
While the victory over stanford in october and the champs sports bowl Game highlight breslau’s football experience, he said the community he shares with his teammates, particularly the other walk-ons, has been the most rewarding aspect of playing for notre dame. 
“I think [the Walk on Players Union] has been a really good support system,” breslau said. “We all stick together and we just have a blast with it. It keeps us motivated to keep working hard and keep playing hard for prac­tice and hopefully some of us can get on the field once and a while.” 
This camaraderie breslau has with his teammates also extends past football, as his friendships off the field define his favorite times at notre dame. 
“my best memories are just being with my friends, hanging out with my friends and just the friendships I’ve made,” breslau said. “Those times just hanging around, just talking, just having a good time are the best.” 
In fact, this strong commu­nity is the realization of what the senior sought even before he stepped foot on campus at notre dame. Four years ago, breslau recognized notre dame held ex­actly what he was looking for in college — a welcoming, friendly environment. 
“I just really liked the com­munity atmosphere [at notre dame],” breslau said. “It was a good community and I really liked some of the professors that I was able to talk with on my visit. I just thought it was a really good, friendly place to spend four years.” 
on senior day, breslau is look­ing forward to sharing this place he has found with two visitors. 

“my parents will be here so that will be special,” breslau said. “That will be the most memora­ble part [of my last game].” 
Ultimately, breslau will not just show his parents what notre dame means to him. he will prove to himself that at notre dame, he has found the perfect combination of academics, ath­letics and community. 


Contact Peter Steiner at psteiner@nd.edu 

JORDAN COWART | Ls | PLAnTATIon, FLA. 



Cowart eyes NFL career as long snapper 
coaching or anything. I’ve more “You’re human, so you have me,” cowart said. “I know I come player, it’s easy to get a reputation 
By AARON SANT-MILLER 

sports Writer been self-coached along the way. I that mental element in there in off as a laid back guy, but I pride for being “soft,” cowart said, so have the ability to watch film and the back of your head all the time.” myself in my personal skill. I was the fight earned him respect from 
many of notre dame’s athletes see what I’m doing wrong. I think Luckily for the Irish, the team just really upset that I allowed that teammates. claim the title of “master of their that really helps.” has been able to depend on to happen.” “my teammates were really craft,” but few more so than se-Yet the position is not entirely cowart to remain cool under despite playing a position of cool about it,” cowart said. “They nior long snapper Jordan cowart. based on technique and physical pressure since his freshman year. relative anonymity, cowart will were proud I stood up for myself cowart is in his final season as the skill, cowart said. The intangible For notre dame’s long snapper, not graduate from notre dame and didn’t just get pushed around. first scholarship long snapper in elements of his game are incred-much of this has to do with the without ever being thrust to the They were saying how they knew I Irish history. ibly important to his success as familiarity he has with the Irish front stage. Last season at Purdue, was tough now. They were proud 
For cowart, a lot of this skill well. punter and holder ben Turk. following a punt, he got into a of me. It would have been a differ-comes from his knowledge of the “All you do is reps of the same Turk and cowart both gradu-scuffle with Purdue linebacker ent thing if it really affected the game and his position. thing over again,” cowart said. ated in 2009 from saint Thomas chris carlino, ending up on top game or if we didn’t have some­
“I know a lot of snappers that “It’s similar to kickers, so when Aquinas high school in Ft. of the boilermaker and throwing one to fill in my spot. specialists are just backup guys thrown in you mess up, you know you can Lauderdale, Fla. both players a few punches. cowart’s behavior kind of get joked about, so they there,” cowart said. “I’ve gone physically make the kick. It’s just a have gone on to have solid careers not only earned him a flag for un-liked it that I showed I was tough around the country doing dif-mental thing with snapping. You for the Irish, which includes zero necessary roughness, but also left and stood up for myself.” ferent camps and different com-realize that all eyes are on you and blocked punts, a trend that start-him walking away with a broken despite toying with the idea of bines, so I would say I have a pretty everyone is expecting you to be ed for the pair in high school. hand, causing him to miss four attending law school, the sociol­good knowledge of technique. I perfect every single time, which “We haven’t gotten a punt games of the 2011 season. ogy major said he is leaning more haven’t really received any new adds pressure. blocked in our entire college ca-“I’ve never been in a fight in my and more toward a professional 
reer and I don’t think we had any life,” cowart said. “You can ask the career on the field. currently, in high school either,” cowart guys on the team, I’m not a very esPn and various other media said. “We are such close friends aggressive guy. That’s why I’m a outlets project cowart to be one of too. We live together and know long snapper and not a linebacker. the top long snapper prospects in what gets each other calm. We just “I’m not really aggressive this year’s nFL draft. have a connection going on and and I don’t want to hit people. “I think the best decision for me it’s definitely beneficial.” something happened, I must would be to keep pursuing foot-
Yet, things have not all been have been stressed out from ball,” cowart said. “It’s what I’m smooth sailing for Plantation, school, football and all that kind best at and what suits my life best. Fla., native. This year, against of stuff. I just snapped. I don’t even I’ve been having a good career stanford, the Irish failed to con-remember it happening. I kind of and have been getting my name nect on a snap for a 44-yard field just ran off to the sideline and did out there. I have the opportunity goal attempt in the second quar-my thing. We were all just amped put out in front of me so I might ter. In a game where every point up on adrenaline and I didn’t even as well take it. I don’t want to look was critical, the Irish snapper said realize until five minutes later at it and say, ‘Wow, I could have he experienced what he titled his when I went to go pick my helmet played in the nFL and never tried worst moment in his notre dame up that there is something wrong to.’ I would just be happy with the career. with my hand.” opportunity.” 
“That’s the only time I’ve re-Yet, for cowart, he was able to ally messed up bad like that and find strength and support from Contact Aaron Sant-Miller at I think that really kind of got to his teammates. As a special teams asantmil@nd.edu 





Calabrese adds physical presence to defense 
Middle linebacker uses breakout sophomore season to earn spot in linebacker rotation 

By KATIE HEIT 
sports Writer 
In an Irish linebacking corps crowded with talent, se­nior inside linebacker carlo calabrese is a force to be reck­oned with all on his own. With 136 career tackles and count­ing, calabrese has served as a constant presence on defense for the last three years. 
The new Jersey native, who clocks in at 6-foot-1 and 245 pounds, was ranked the 12th­best inside linebacker by esPn as a high school senior. he played quarterback and receiv­er during high school in addi­tion to his role on defense — he caught 27 passes for 488 yards and totaled 131 tackles his se­nior year alone. While he was heavily recruited by boston college and rutgers, calabrese said the choice to come to notre dame was an easy one. 
“This school has great tradi­tion,” calabrese said. “I visited a lot of schools and one of the biggest things that persuaded me to come here was just be­ing here and seeing this atmo­sphere. no other school made like this and made me feel at home and that was a big part of the decision.” 
calabrese, who lived in siegfried hall as an under­classman, said he’s never re­gretted his decision to attend notre dame. he said he lines up each week eager to satisfy the expectations of the Irish fans. 
”my favorite part is playing in front of all the fans and put­ting on a great show for them,” he said. “I just love when fans are happy.” 
calabrese preserved a year of eligibility his freshman year under former Irish coach charlie Weis and said despite not playing, he still felt a rush when he ran out on the field. 
“my first year, it was great, just running out on the field,” calabrese said. “Knowing you play for such a great team.” 
With the transition from Weis to current Irish coach brian Kelly at the end of the 2009 season, calabrese said the support of the assistant coaches made the coaching change easier. 
“It was a big change but these coaches here recruited me, so I knew them,” calabrese said. “It was hard, but at the same time it wasn’t.” 
As a sophomore, calabrese got his chance to take the field for the first time. he played in 11 games, missing two because of a hamstring injury. With 60 tackles that season, he was an immediate force on defense. he had a career-high 10 tack­les during his second collegiate appearance against michigan on sept. 11, 2010, though the Irish lost that contest 28-24. 
calabrese said his high point of the dominant sophomore season was finally getting the opportunity to play. 
“sophomore year was the year I was actually going to be running out on the field,” calabrese said. “The best part was knowing you’re going to start and play for that team.” 
Against boston college on oct. 10, 2010, calabrese record­ed a career high of 3.5 tackles for a loss, the best single-game performance by a notre dame player during the 2010 season. 
during the 2011 season, calabrese played in all 13 games as a reserve linebacker. he recorded 37 tackles, 15 of them individual, and tied his season high of five tackles dur­ing contests against Pittsburgh, maryland, Air Force and south Florida. 
so far as a senior, calabrese has returned as a dominant presence on defense. With at least two more contests re­maining, the senior has 39 tackles. his season high came in his first game of the season against Purdue, where he had a hand in seven tackles. 


calabrese said the highlight of his senior year was the 30-13 victory over oklahoma on oct. 
27. calabrese had five tackles against oklahoma, including an assisted tackle for a loss of one yard. 
“being in their stadium and beating them there was incred­ible,” calabrese said. “It was a great game.  We were both high-ranked teams and it was a battle.” 
calabrese said throughout his time at notre dame, team unity was never something he had to worry about. 
”There’s good camaraderie with our whole team,” calbrese said. “We’ve got great team bonding. We’re all friends, we all know each other and we’re always together. It’s a great team.” 
calabrese said Kelly and the rest of the coaches have been a huge influence on his time at notre dame, especially defen­sive coordinator bob diaco. 
“It’s great playing for Kelly,” calabrese said. “he teaches us a lot each week, and coach diaco teaches us things we’re going to remember the rest of our lives, not only in foot­ball. It’s great playing for them both.” 
With the attention of both coaches, calabrese said he believes he has made major improvements to his game throughout his time with the Irish. 
“I think I’m getting better and better each year,” calabrese said. “I’m getting wiser and learning the game more.” 
Kelly said he believed calabrese has improved against the passing game even within his senior season. 
“There’s more confidence,” Kelly said after notre dame’s 29-26 triple-overtime victory over Pittsburgh on nov. 11. “but I think carlo has definite­ly closed the gap there in terms of his development this year in the passing game.” 
Though he will graduate with a degree in industrial de­sign in the spring, calabrese’s time with the Irish will not end. calabrese hopes to return to notre dame next year as a graduate student in order to utilize his fourth and final year of eligibility. 
“I’m not sure what I’m going to do,” calabrese said. “I’ve got to see what options I have when I graduate and see my advisers and go from there.” 
Though he’s not certain yet what post-graduate degree he will pursue, he said he hopes his time with the Irish will con­tinue for a final year. 


Contact Katie Heit at kheit@nd.edu 






Cave becomes mainstay on offensive line 
Graduate student center stays close to home with decision to play at Notre Dame 
super bowl when they play 

By MATTHEW ROBISON 

notre dame. We’re ready for that.” For most high school foot-
sports Writer 

Another striking aspect of ball players, the recruiting 
this season has been notre process is full of difficult 
dame’s success on the road decisions. For senior center 
relative to its performance at braxston cave, the decision 
home. but cave can’t point to was a no-brainer. 
a reason why that is the case, “my entire family’s all 
either. about notre dame and always 
“It’s an ‘Us against the have been,” cave said. “When 
world’ mentality,” cave said. I got the offer it was a pretty 
“There’s no reason why we easy decision.” 
play better on the road than cave grew up in the pro-
at home. verbial shadow of the golden 
“I do love the hatred that dome in nearby Granger, Ind. 
comes with playing on the he was a standout center at 
road. It makes it fun. It makes Penn high school and ranked 
a live environment. I go out as one of the best offensive 
there and let my playing linemen in the country. 
speak for itself. I’ve never got-As a school that recruits na­
ten caught up in the moment tionally, notre dame’s players 
with fans. I’ve got a job to do come from all over the coun­
that’s way more important try. but cave has the unique 
than all that other stuff that’s opportunity to play in front 
going.” of his hometown crowd ev-
As an undefeated team, ery time the Irish play a home 
notre dame can’t avoid the game. 
speculation about the possi­

“It’s fun knowing a lot of bility of playing for the bcs people around town, having national championship. but a lot of local support,” cave with the current format, the said. “being able to go home now, he is part of a veter-After his sophomore season those marquee matchups. Irish could finish the regular and get that home-cooked an group on the line that in-in which the Irish went 6-6, “obviously, there’s tradi-season without a loss and still meal makes it even better.” cludes two fifth-year seniors notre dame fired former tion that comes along with not make it to miami for the 
nbc’s “onward notre in cave and guard mike Golic, coach charlie Weis and aban-playing michigan and Usc,” title game, and cave said he dame” featured cave and the Jr., senior tackle Zach martin, doned the system cave was cave said. “but with the and the Irish can’t focus on rest of the offensive live eat-senior guard chris Watt recruited to play in. The Irish schedule we’ve played this anything out of their control. ing dinner at cave’s home in and junior tackle christian hired brian Kelly and the en-year, you can’t really sleep on “All we can worry about is Granger. Lombard. tire offense had to adjust to a anybody.” what we’re doing,” cave said. 
After making the decision “It’s a unique group,” cave new system and style. If he had to pick one memo-“We play the toughest sched­to come to notre dame, cave said. “We’re with each other but cave said his reaction rable moment from his career ule in the country. If that’s not immediately found a mentor all day every day. It’s pretty to the situation depended on thus far, cave said coming out good enough, then we’ve done in veteran offensive lineman much we’re all like brothers, perspective — he saw it as an onto the field was something our part. everything else lies eric olsen. fist fights one second, laugh-opportunity, rather than a he’ll never forget. in someone else’s hands.” 
“eric olsen pretty much ing and jokes the next. It disruption. “As an offensive lineman, With just a few games left right away took me under his makes it pretty fun.” “It was tough at first,” you don’t really get those in his collegiate career, cave wing,” cave said. “We’re kind cave has been around for cave said. “but it’s all in how highlights,” cave said. “That cannot help but be a bit nos-of similar personalities. We a great deal of change dur-you take it, how you look at was just one of the more sen-talgic about his time at notre just clicked right away.” ing his time at notre dame. it. I looked at it as a fresh timental things for me.” dame. 
start. It was me being able notre dame’s success “I was talking to my parents to take advantage of a great this year is something that about [my career ending] the opportunity.” prompts questions about what other day,” cave said. “They 
cave has practiced at both is different — in the locker can’t believe it’s almost over. center and guard and played room, in the team’s mindset. It’s been a crazy journey, defi­12 games as a long snapper but cave can’t put his finger nitely special. It’s something in 2009, but he much prefers on something specific that is I’ll remember for the rest of being the man with the ball different other than the work my life. but I’m trying to hold at his fingertips before every ethic this team possesses. on to each game for every-play. “It’s a really close group,” thing it’s worth right now.” 
“being the guy in the mid-cave said. “The biggest thing but cave knows he’s pre­dle who’s got to communi-is that it’s a group of guys that pared for life beyond notre cate and get everybody on the comes to work every day with dame. because of the de­same page is a big responsi-one goal in mind. I can’t re-mands placed upon student­bility,” cave said. “I wouldn’t ally explain it. It’s a special athletes at notre dame, the want to have it any other way.” group.” players learn skills they can 
during his junior and se-With that success comes carry with them and cave nior years, cave started every added pressure. notre dame said he recognizes that. game that he played in, 13 in gets every team’s best shot, “The sheer discipline that it 2010 and nine in 2011 before evident in the elevated play takes to not only play football suffering a season-ending by mediocre teams like here, but to go to school — the injury. This year, cave has Pittsburgh and Purdue. For loads are heavy,” cave said. started every game at center that reason, cave said it’s es-“so learning how to manage and has contributed to an im-sential that the Irish prepare time and get everything done proved ground game. week-in and week-out. but that you’ve got to get done, 
“The rushing improvement cave commends the team for and then also become the best in the last two years is some-stepping up to this challenge. football player you can. It’s thing we’re definitely proud “every game is so impor-harder here than anywhere. If of,” cave said. tant,” cave said. “We’ve had you can do it here, it just pre-
Growing up a notre dame some close ones with some pares for you for anything you fan, cave understands the teams that the fans may could take on later in life.” historical rivalries, but he have overlooked, or thought doesn’t let himself get dis-that we would stomp them. Contact Matthew Robison at tracted by looking ahead to everybody’s preparing for the mrobison@nd.edu 







Eifert returns to school, adjusts to new role 
Senior tight end goes from unheralded recruit to All-American and future NFL Draft pick 
called at radio city music hall 

By ANDREW GASTELUM 

Associate sports editor this April, eifert said he isn’t sure how he will react, only that 
Editor’s Note: A version of the nFL won’t change the player this article originally appeared he has unremittingly worked so in the Nov. 2 edition of The hard to become. Observer. “nothing will change from 
the nFL-me to the college-me,” 

Last december, the process he said. “I’m just going to come began. Tyler eifert filled out the to work, do my job and have fun nFL draft evaluation paper-doing it. I’m just going to do my work and endlessly ran through best to put myself in the best both scenarios in his head. To position to get drafted as high return or leave, that was the as possible.” grueling question. but for a co-captain on a 
“I was really close,” the senior team ranked third in the bowl tight end said. “It was kind of championship series, there different every day, but at some is ample reason to push that points I was about to go.” thought aside. 
despite projections as a sec-“I’m not really thinking about ond- or third-round pick from [the nFL] because there is a lot draft experts, eifert found it too left to play,’ eifert said. “We’re difficult to leave an opportunity 8-0 so everyone is feeling pretty to graduate with a degree from good, including myself.” notre dame and, ultimately, the lasting bonds he built. All-American journey 
“I wanted to make sure I had coming out of bishop can control. playmaker, making him the no. role as mentor to the newest my degree,” eifert said. “I wasn’t dwenger high school in Fort “The thought of failing and of 1 target for opposing defenses. crop of tight ends: four-star re-very far away from that and Wayne, Ind., eifert was labeled not doing well, I hate that,” he “[Getting double-teamed] cruits in junior Alex Welch and I wanted to get that. And you as a low-level three-star recruit said. “Just to come out and work is tough,” he said. “Last year sophomores ben Koyack and only get this shot one time and I and received offers from big hard and put yourself in the against Pitt they wouldn’t let Troy niklas. didn’t want to cut it short. Ten schools such as Indiana, best position to succeed makes [Floyd] open and they had two “I know that I’ve been in that 
“I’ve had too much fun here northwestern and Purdue. me feel good.” guys on him. so that allowed position so I know how they are being a kid with my friends and “There wasn’t really [a chip on eifert has turned into one of me to make some plays. This feeling and I can relate to them a developing a good relationship my shoulder],” eifert said. “I’ve the premier receiving threats year [teams] are double-team-lot of times and help them with with my coaches. I just wasn’t always believed in myself, but in the Kelly era, totaling 1,625 ing me so it allows other guys to a lot,” eifert said. “I’ve never ready to grow up, I guess.” I’ve tried to stay level whether yards on 124 receptions and 10 make some plays.” really thought about [how im­
eifert credits his mentor, that’s good or bad and tried to touchdowns. Although he amassed a ca-portant I am to their success]. I former notre dame and cur-be the same guy everyday. “here’s what I love about Tyler reer-high 98 receiving yards just try to be a good teammate rent minnesota vikings tight “I’ve done my best to be a eifert: You know you’re moving against his childhood-favorite and do what I can to help. It will end Kyle rudolph, with guid-good teammate and put in a lot your program along when your Purdue on sept. 8, eifert’s num-be cool to see them down the ing him throughout the pro-of hard work for the past few best players are your best work-bers (341 yards, three touch-road.” cess. since rudolph opted for years. I was going to work hard ers,” Irish coach brian Kelly downs) have dropped from niklas made the switch to the nFL draft following his ju-and try to play if I really had [the said in August. “he’s just been where they were a year ago. but tight end in the spring, after nior year — he was selected in opportunity].” incredible to work with over that hasn’t affected the tight seeing the field in all 12 games the second round with the 43rd That opportunity came mid-the past couple of years, to see end’s ability to positively affect last season at outside lineback­pick — eifert said he confided in way through his sophomore his development and his matu-the offense in making his mark er. The 6-foot-7, 260-pound con­rudolph to help him make the year, when rudolph tore his rity. he’s a leader on our football in run-blocking and draw-verted linebacker said eifert has decision that suited him best. hamstring that required sea-team. ing attention away from Irish been an active source of sup­
“I still stay in contact with son-ending surgery. In his first “When I first got here, he was receivers. port in helping him learn the rudy,” eifert said. “he left early, start, eifert caught four passes in the back row. he was two or “eif is one of those guys that’s intricacies of the Kelly offense. so I went to him a lot last year for 72 yards and a touchdown. three rows back. now he’s up very dependable,” senior cap-“he’s an All-American so he’s for advice. And even this year, since then, the 6-foot-6 tight front. so you can understand tain manti Te’o said before been there,” niklas said. “It’s just about the process because I end has started in 31 consecu-from my perspective that’s ex-facing bYU. “he’s not a mean really good to have someone had never been through it.” tive games for the Irish, moti-citing when your best player, player. he’s not a selfish player. who you can see do it because 
When he hears his name vated by a single fear only he one of your best players has that obviously eif is the best tight sometimes it’s hard to know kind of desire to be the best.” end in college football. he hasn’t what coach is talking about. 
by the time he was a senior, had the kind of receptions and When you can see someone do eifert had been named a notre numbers that he would like, but it right, you know what to do. It dame captain, a finalist for the you never would see Tyler com-just makes the learning process 2011 mackey Award — given to plaining. As long as we’re win-so much faster. If I ever have a the nation’s top tight end — and ning, he’s happy. he leads by question, I can just talk to him a second-team All-American example. he leads by his work and just ask him.” with nFL potential. If someone ethic, and just really, really do-For eifert, the starting job would have told him this on ing his best to ensure that our entails the preservation of a signing day in 2009, eifert said team wins.” longstanding tradition of nFL­he would have come across as one thing that defenses can-quality notre dame tight ends, more than skeptical. not take away from the pre-earning the program the nick­
“I’d probably say I’ll believe season All-American is his name: ‘Tight end U.’ it when it happens,” he said. “I unmitigated calm and poise, “If you look down the line, was one of the lower-rated guys put on full display as he took we’ve had some really good coming in from our class, so I the field in the fourth quarter tight ends in the past decade would have never expected it … with the Irish tied at 13 with no. and going even further back,” It’s pretty cool. I’ve waited my 8 oklahoma. eifert said. ”so it’s pretty cool to turn and worked hard. coming “You can only control what be a part of that. We recognize from that to where I am today, you can do, so I don’t let a lot of it for sure.” it’s pretty awesome.” other things affect me,” eifert And for eifert, it also entails 
said of his composure. “As long the compelling vindication for Becoming the target as I stay under control and lev-returning for his senior season. 
In his breakout junior season, elheaded, that’ll give me my “I love notre dame and I love eifert caught 63 passes for 803 best chance to be my best.” playing football here.” yards and five touchdowns. but Just as rudolph and John with the departure of michael carlson before him, eifert rec-Contact Andrew Gastelum at Floyd, eifert slid into the role of ognizes that he must fulfill his agastel1@nd.edu 






Fitzpatrick stands out on scout team 

By SAM STRYKER 
Assistant managing editor 
When notre dame beat michigan for the first time since 2008 on sept. 22, the Irish had prepared for victory long before they took the field against the Wolverines. Part of that ground­work fell on the shoulders of se­nior receiver nick Fitzpatrick, who played michigan quarter­back denard robinson on the scout team in practice, helping ready the Irish defense for the shifty Wolverines signal-caller. 
“Part of it was watching film and understanding their scheme, but the other part of it is he is a dynamic football play­er that can do anything at any time,” Fitzpatrick said. “he can throw the ball, he can run the ball, he makes plays when there is no play to be made.” 
Fitzpatrick said portraying robinson entailed not only studying the michigan quarter­back’s on-the-field habits, but also enacting them in practice. 
“Part of it was preparing throughout the week, and the other part of it was going out there and playing with your instincts and trying to make high-risk, high-reward plays,” he said. “I thought we did a good job, the offense in general.” 
The accounting major from mishawaka, Ind., said portray­ing the athletic Wolverines quarterback was an incredible experience. 
“It was a blast,” he said. “I mean, any time you get to go out there and play quarterback, give a look for one of the most dynamic players in college football and go up against one of the best defenses in college football, it was a unique oppor­tunity and a lot of fun.” 
A former resident of dillon hall, Fitzpatrick walked on to the team as a sophomore in August of 2010. his older brother d.J. Fitzpatrick was a kicker and punter with the Irish and graduated in 2005, and his grandfather also attended the University. Fitzpatrick said at­tending notre dame had al­ways been a dream growing up. 
“It’s a place I always knew I wanted to be, and football was kind of icing on the cake,” he said. 
A kicker, receiver and corner­back at marian high school, Fitzpatrick nearly was a kicker for the Irish, but instead walked on as a receiver, something the team needed at the time. 
“As a walk-on, you never know what your role is going to be and it is always changing. so any way you can contribute to the team is a success,” he said. “It’s different for each guy, but I feel I have contributed in a lot of different ways. I feel pretty good about what I have accom­plished so far.” 
Fitzpatrick said he has also enjoyed serving as a mentor for some of the younger players, especially helping fellow walk-ons understand their role with the Irish. 
“They just need to under­stand whether or not they are going to start or never play a down, their roles are impor­tant,” he said. “It is always changing; they are always go­ing to ask you to do different things at different times. 
“When your name is called, your number is called, you need to go in there and contribute in an important fashion. You al­ways need to be ready. That’s important for young guys to understand.” 
Though Fitzpatrick said he does not feel there has been a definitive moment in his tenure with the team, he feels he has been able to contribute more and more during his time with the Irish. 
“I think it has slowly built from day one. my role has be­come more and more valuable I guess I could say. I’m doing a lot now, playing a lot of differ­ent positions on scout offense,” he said. “When you go out there and contribute to something special and what we have done so far this year, it is certainly satisfying.” 
An avid sportsman, Fitzpatrick said he enjoys his time on the golf course the most out of all his athletic pursuits, with Lake nona in orlando, Fla., ranking as his favorite course he has ever played. 
“I fancy myself an all-around athlete,” he said. “I play golf and I played basketball in high school. Golf is my go-to. I think I’m the best on the team.” 
Though he does not play much during the football sea­son, Fitzpatrick said he is look­ing forward to hitting the links more after the season is over. 
“Golf is something I will con­tinue to play for the rest of my life,” he said. “It’s an important sport that can teach you a lot about yourself. I really enjoy it.” 


Contact Sam Stryker at sstryke1@nd.edu 

JAKE GOLIC | Te | WesT hArTFord, conn. 



Golic continues family legacy at Notre Dame 
notre dame. defensive end] Kapron Lewis-
By JOSEPH MONARDO 

sports Writer “my dad told me from day moore and [junior quarterback] 
one, ‘it doesn’t matter that I Andrew hendrix my sophomore 
Family legacy and University went there and your brother year … so at this point we have tradition combined to create a goes there,’” he said. “‘You know pretty much passed the torch … special occasion on a saturday it’s your choice. Wherever you down to the younger guys. so afternoon in 2009. Irish tight are most comfortable, you can it’s in their hands now, wherever end Jake Golic prepared to take go there.’ but I knew in my mind it goes it’s up to them.” the field for the first time in an this is the place I wanted to be. It video of the game, which ap-Irish uniform. just felt right.” pears on YouTube each week, has 
“man, the first time I ran out The attraction he felt to notre worked its way into the national of the tunnel [is a clear memo-dame was enough to draw Golic spotlight after appearances on ry],” Golic said. “I was standing to play football for the Irish, but esPn shows “sportscenter” right next to my brother, I could his family’s connections to the and “college Gameday.” Golic see my folks up in the stands. I program have helped to make said he has been surprised that was just overtaken by emotion his career especially enjoyable, Trick shot monday has received at that point. It was something I Golic said. so much attention. had waited for since the begin-“It’s incredibly special,” he “I got a tweet one morning, it ning of my conscious memory, said. “It’s a huge honor and a said ‘check out sportscenter, so it was a huge thing for me.” blessing. not a lot of people can you are no. 2 [on the top 10],’ “ 
Golic’s first time running out say they played on the same he said. “I was like, ‘There’s got of the tunnel in notre dame field as their dad and with their to be a mistake there.’ I turn stadium fulfilled what had been brother at the same time. so it’s it on, I was blown away. It was at notre dame never acted as a said his favorite aspect of being for him a journey begun, at least a very cool thing and I’ve never pretty cool.” negative force or burden, Golic a part of the Irish involves one in part, long before his birth. taken a day for granted here and Golic is enrolled in the said. of the program’s more recogniz­his father, mike Golic sr., and I’ve loved every moment I’ve college of Arts and Letters and “As long as you try your best able and storied traditions. uncles, bob and Greg Golic, all been here.” is majoring in design. The self-every day, it doesn’t matter what “Just putting that gold helmet played football at notre dame The West hartford, conn., described “computer geek” said the outcome is,” he said. “If you on,” he said. “every time you from 1975 to 1985. Golic’s older native has also helped to estab-he chose the major because it put in the work you think you get to run out of that tunnel. I brother mike Golic Jr., is a grad-lish a new notre dame tradition appealed to his interests and need to and you do everything only have two opportunities to uate student right guard while during his time with the Irish. offered the chance to do some-possible … I don’t think there is do that left and I am really [go­his younger sister sydney Golic Golic is one of the founders of thing different than his dad and any kind of burden that comes ing to] soak it up these next two is a freshman swimmer at notre “Trick shot monday,” a locker brother. along with it.” times because that is what I’ll dame. room game which requires the Golic’s choice of major rep-Golic made three appearanc-miss the most, is strapping it on 
despite the extensive tradi-players to shoot a ping-pong resents the same willingness es in 2009 on special teams and and running out of that tunnel tion of the Golic football players ball into a Gatorade cup. to forge a path of his own he offense and has seen time on the and seeing those fans.” at notre dame, Jake Golic said “I was one of the people that showed in the program that has field in 2012. Although he may he never felt pressure from his started it,” Golic said. “It was featured the names of several of have created what will become Contact Joseph Monardo at father or anyone else to choose originally me, [graduate-student his relatives. his family’s legacy the next Irish tradition, Golic jmonardo@nd.edu 






Fox develops into key linebacker 
Senior linebacker grows his hair out and becomes consistent performer for Irish defense 

championship during his se-something I kind of got used really think that is what he’s nior year at st. Ignatius, Fox to instead of being the fastest helped me with.” committed to notre dame guy on the field, now I’m just Fox’s consistency plays a as a four-star-rated safety, one of the fast people on the major role in in the nation’s turning down offers from field.” top red-zone defense. stanford, michigan state and In 2011, Fox started in all 13 “You see dan Fox play, and boston college among oth-games and recorded 48 tack-he doesn’t hesitate,” Te’o said. ers. Fox didn’t see any action les at his inside linebacker po-“he is a lot more confident in in his freshman year at notre sition. he returned to the Irish his ability to make plays and dame, but used the time to defense this season as one of comfortable in the scheme. he make an exacting transition only two players to start ev-knows what to do, he knows to linebacker ery game last season, where that the guy next to him is do­
“I was excited,” Fox said. Irish coach brian Kelly said he ing, and he knows where I’m “A linebacker at notre dame, made striking progress. going to be. that’s something to be excited “Well, I think, first of all, “combine that with confi­about. That was sweet when I he’s a very physical player,” dence, you will get dan Fox’s first found out. I wasn’t sure Kelly said. “Though I would process throughout his career how it was going to translate not say that he wasn’t physi-here at notre dame. he’ll get and how I was going to pick it cal last year. I think just over-better.” up, but [defensive coordinator all knowledge of the position. In notre dame’s 20-13 over-bob] diaco did an awesome As you know, the [weakside] time win over stanford on job helping me out. he started linebacker position for him november 13, Fox recorded six me from scratch, taught me all was something new. I thought tackles, but was not included of the basics. he just took me he adapted very well last year. in notre dame’s goal line under his wing and helped me There were times that we package. so he watched the out. he is one the best defen-thought that he was clearly the defense’s samson-esque goal 
came, Fox was free to create sive coordinators in the coun-no. 1 player at that position.” line stand from the sidelines 
By ANDREW GASTELUM 

Associate sports editor his own image. try without a doubt.” “I was nervous, but then “I’ve been growing my hair A combination of hair-Making interior progress again I have full confidence 
Editor’s Note: A version of since the end of high school. trigger instincts and break-oftentimes, the linebacker’s in everyone on that defense,” this article originally appeared I had this dean of discipline, through speed made the persona on the field doesn’t Fox said. “I just knew we were in the Oct. 19 edition of The mr. Arthur, who made me cut safety the perfect candidate get too far past being the “guy going to win. once it went to Observer. it before graduation [in 2009] to make the switch to line-with the hair.” Fox is off to a [overtime] I knew we were 
and I haven’t gotten a haircut backer, as his exploits as a career year in 2012, having al-winning that game. 
According to legend, the since. top 110-meter hurdler in high ready recorded 51 tackles in 10 “We just know we have each biblical character samson “At first it was just that I school heightened Fox’s ath-games, yet is often overshad-other’s backs when it comes was blessed with phenom-never got it cut. I was that kid letic appeal. but now, Fox has owed by the heisman con-down to it. If you make a mis­enal strength, yet there was in college that never had a to comb his way through of-tender he lines up next to. but take, someone is going to get one condition to his clout: he haircut. And then after it just fensive linemen rather than Fox said he owes senior line-in your face about it. That’s could never cut his hair. started to fall back I just let it meeting the ball carrier at the backer manti Te’o the bulk of the thing; you’re held ac-
since his last haircut, senior go. now it’s just like I’m never second level. the credit for his success at his countable. That’s how you’re linebacker dan Fox has add-going to get a haircut. I was “The guys coming after new position. going to get good. You have ed over 20 pounds of muscle. thinking next year if I come you are a lot bigger,” he said. “I kind of do [like being un-your weaknesses and you have coincidence? Fox thinks not. back for my fifth year of get-“I didn’t really do anything der the radar],” Fox said. “It’s to get better at them. It’s about 
“no, no, no, it’s not true, but ting dreads. I told my mom specific to try to gain weight. kind of funny on defense, they letting things go and knowing it’s a cool story,” said Fox, who that and she was not having I just stuck to [strength and snap the ball and everyone is that we are going to get better often draws comparisons to it.” conditioning coach Paul] trying to get the tackle. but and be one of the best defens­samson from others. “People even though he does not Longo’s strength program and there aren’t too many tack-es in the country.” say all the time, ‘You can’t cut have to adhere to the strict I put on about 20 pounds. so les to be had because [Te’o] is When asked about his gold-it or you will lose all of your rules of high school these that really helps when I try to snatching up a lot. en-brown locks, the player strength.’ but I don’t believe days, Fox said that doesn’t slam into [senior guard] chris “he’s showed me the way, who comes across more as a that. It’s funny though.” stop people from trying to get Watt in practice. he’s thick, so to be honest. It helps so much surfer than a linebacker was 
Instead, the 6-foot-3, him to clean up. I just remember running into when you can understand ev-breezy instead of flippant. 240-pound linebacker nick-“A lot of people usually will him the first time and telling erything on the defense and “I don’t think the power’s named “Foxy” finds a better tweet at me: ‘cut your hair,’” myself, ‘Welcome to inside what other people are do-in the hair,” Fox said. “I guess comparison for his hair root-he said. “but then I just say, linebacker.’ ing so you can know why the it’s just attached to the power. ed in the locks of an nFL icon. ‘Why?’” “but something that has re-ball is going where and where That’s pretty funny though.”” 
“I get a lot of [Packers line-Fox heads a group of long-ally translated for me is that you need to be. If you just backer] clay matthews com-locked Irish players, which speed. except in college foot-understand the defense you Contact Andrew Gastelum at parisons,” Fox said. “he’s a includes junior defensive end ball everyone is fast. That’s can play so much faster and I agastel1@nd.edu really good player so it’s great Kona schwenke, sophomore to be compared to him. but linebacker Ishaq Williams, hopefully I can try to be as sophomore defensive tackle good as he is.” Tony springmann, senior 
despite the uncanny tight end Tyler eifert and similarities he shares with sophomore running back cam samson, Fox said he holds one mcdaniel. As far as becoming definite advantage over the a distraction during games, heroic character. Fox brushed past his first and 
“I use shampoo and condi-only bad hair day. tioner all the time,” Fox said. “Actually it really hasn’t got­“but I just got this Garnier ten in the way. It’s crazy — the Fructis oil stuff. It’s kind of first game I played was against like moroccan oil and you put Purdue [in 2010],” he said. “I it in your hair to make it soft. was running down on the first It’s pretty sweet.” kickoff and a dude just grabs 
it. The first play [in an Irish Growing it out uniform] and I said ‘oh is this 
When he attended an all-what’s going to happen?’ but boys catholic high school at it has not been touched since st. Ignatius in cleveland, Fox then.” met hair length requirements set by the school’s adminis-Strong safety switch tration. but once graduation After winning a state 



Golic emerges as versatile lineman 
Graduate student right guard becomes face of ‘Trick Shot Monday,’ opens holes for Irish backs 
By CORY BERNARD 
sports Writer 
When citing reasons for committing to notre dame, most athletes will mention the university’s unique combina­tion of academics and athlet­ics. others will refer to notre dame’s religious atmosphere and sense of community. Although graduate student guard mike Golic Jr., acknowl­edges all of these aspects, his decision to play football for the Irish differs from most of his teammates. 
his father mike, who now co-hosts an esPn show, and uncles bob and Greg all played for the Irish. mike Jr. wasn’t certain he would receive the opportunity, but he said he only wanted to play football for one school. 
“I mean, obviously, you have to look around, because you never know what’s for certain,” he said. “I mean, it wasn’t a guarantee I was going to get of­fered here so I had to plan ac­cordingly in case that wasn’t an option. I looked at other schools, I visited other schools, but in my heart of hearts this is where I wanted to be, so it was really a no-brainer. I kind of wanted to follow in the family footsteps and do all that stuff.” 
With such a strong family legacy, Golic grew up rooting for the Irish. he said his family annually travelled from their home in connecticut to south bend for games well before he became a division I football recruit. 
“I had been coming to notre dame at least a game or two every year since I was in the third or fourth grade, so it was a place I felt really comfortable with,” Golic said. 
With a national recruiting base, the football team boasts a coast-to-coast roster. Players frequently deal with home­sickness while at notre dame. however, Golic said his class­mates and family helped stave off a longing for home. 
“We were a class that had grown so close through recruit­ing,” Golic said. “I mean, there were guys I had known since beginning or middle of my ju­nior year of high school just from coming to games, coming on visits and everything and being around each other. Also, obviously my parents came out here for all the games, so I didn’t have to deal with the homesickness quite as much. obviously you still go through it living on your own for the first time, but there was a defi­nite comfort right away, and I owe a lot of that to the guys I came in with.” 
despite feeling comfortable at notre dame, Golic said rid­ing the bench early in his ca­reer still frustrated him. 
“I mean, we all come in here big recruits, guys that were dominant in the high school level and were used to being the man there,” he said. “When that doesn’t go your way here, obviously it’s a new level and it is frustrating, especially over that couple-of-year period. You really have to do a lot of soul searching and dig down really deep to kind of keep pushing through all that.” 


When the coaches finally called Golic’s number, he had to replace a classmate. Graduate student center braxton cave injured his foot last season, and Golic started the final four games of the season at center. he said the opportunity vali­dated years of preparation. but according to Golic, being a full-time starter from day one this season necessitates a different approach. 
“obviously last year is proof of that preparation,” he said. “You work hard every day and you go through the game plan, watch all the film in practice to be ready when something like that happens when you’re a backup. so, obviously, it’s sat­isfying to go in there and know that you’re helping the team in the way that you always knew you could. 
“however, there is a differ­ent sense this year of knowing you’re going to be that guy from the first snap of the game until the end. If all goes well, you’re going to be that guy in there the whole game. You know that go­ing into the week, so you can prepare accordingly with that, so it’s definitely a different feeling.” 
The Irish have improved mightily from last season to this season, and the same can be said for Golic. he said if his current improvement continues, he will attempt to fulfill a lifelong dream of don­ning an nFL jersey. 


“That’s kind of up for grabs right now,” Golic said of his fu­ture. “obviously, I want to take the shot at the next level if ev­erything keeps going well this season and work out for pro day and see where things go with that, take the shot there. At this point that’s really the plan.” 
Though his football future is uncertain, his effect on locker room morale is not. Golic, the face of notre dame’s “Trick shot monday” YouTube sensa­tion, said he hopes the weekly game will continue after he leaves. 
“A lot of younger guys have gravitated towards it, and I think it’s something that the fans really enjoy and guys re­ally like it and look forward to it every monday,” he said. “I mean, it’s everyone’s chance for that little 15-minute win­dow to blow off some steam and have some fun. I hope that keeps going on after I’m gone. I mean, we’ll see what happens with it, but regardless it’s had a really good run — definitely a lot more than we expected.” 
Though most football fans know his father, a 1984 team captain for notre dame and 1985 nFL draft pick more than him, Golic does play for a 10-0 Irish squad in the hunt for the national championship. 
“At this point, yeah that’s something I have on [my fa­ther],” Golic said of the un­defeated season. “his whole years here [they were] never much above .500 just kind of the way we were, so to have this last year really go so well gives me a little bit of bragging rights on him. he was a heck of a ball player, that’s for sure and everyone obviously still re­members that around here. It’s a well-deserved legacy that he and my uncles left here.” 
If the season continues on its current trajectory, Golic will add more than simply a game involving a ping pong ball and a cup to his family’s storied notre dame legacy. 
Contact Cory Bernard at cbernard@nd.edu 
PAId AdverTIsemenT 




Goodman mentors young players 
Quarterback turned graduate student receiver returns for fifth year, makes big catches 
By MEGHAN THOMASSEN 
sports Writer 
Graduate student receiver John Goodman enters his final home game at notre dame with 32 receptions for 392 yards under his belt and four touchdowns — one passing and three receiving. behind the statistics, however, some instantly memorable plays stand out. 
Goodman is best known for his performance in notre dame’s 44-20 victory over Western michigan in 2010. The former high school quarterback hit re­ceiver michael Floyd with a 32­yard pass to put the Irish ahead of the broncos 14-7. 
Although Goodman only has four catches this season, they have been big ones. 
during the 20-3 win over michigan state, he made an as­tounding one-handed, 36-yard touchdown catch after sopho­more quarterback everett Golson improvised to keep the play alive. Goodman also snatched a late pass from junior quarter­back Tommy rees that led to a game-winning field goal in notre dame’s 20-17 win over Purdue. 
Goodman made a similar play in the 21-6 win over boston college after Golson extended the play with his feet. Goodman found space in the corner of the end zone and Golson said. 


For his final home game, Goodman said he feels the way he did during last year’s senior game, when he still hadn’t heard whether the Irish would take him up for his last year of eligibility. 
“Last year it was really crazy because I didn’t know if I was go­ing to get my fifth year or not, and I didn’t know if they wanted me back or not, so I kind of treated the last game last year like it was my last game. seeing my class leave and then get out, but then getting invited back was wild,” he said. “but this is actually my last game and something I won’t forget.” 
The Fort Wayne, Ind., native leaves the team known as a men­tor for younger players. 
“I wanted to develop them as much as possible,” Goodman said. “I knew there were younger guys who would have to step up. It’s fun watching them develop as players.” 
As the second-oldest player on the team, Goodman said one of his younger teammates gave him the nickname “Grandpa.” 
“It’s something I take pride in, they’re all my kids, I guess,” he said. “That’s something I re­ally wanted to do when I saw this class coming in was a re­ally solid class. [senior receiver robby] Toma and [junior receiv­er T.J. Jones] have made so many plays as well. When you have that much experience helping younger guys, you get better as well. I feel like a parent talking right now.” 
even though he is the young­est of four siblings, holding a strong leadership role isn’t un­familiar territory for Goodman. At bishop dwenger high school, the same school that produced senior tight end Tyler eifert, he moved to quarterback as a senior and guided his team to an unde­feated regular season and no. 1 ranking before falling in the state semifinals. 
but it was his two years as a high school receiver that at­tracted a scholarship offer from former Irish coach charlie Weis. Goodman did not see any game action his freshman year but had his first career start against Usc in 2009 and played in nine games during his sophomore year. he caught two passes for 73 yards, including a highlight-reel 64-yard touchdown during notre dame’s 40-14 victory over Washington state in 2009. 
In 2010, the 6-foot-3, 215-pound receiver started against boston college, Pittsburgh and navy and recorded 15 receptions for 146 yards. Last year, Goodman had seven catches for 65 yards. 
Goodman said he credits his success to mentors from his early career, former receivers david Grimes, robby Parris and George West. 
“When I was a freshmen, I looked up to … those guys were guys who were here with me day in and day out teaching me the ropes. I just wanted to be what they are when I was a freshman, just to be the leader,” Goodman said. “They helped me so much to get to where I am and I thank them whenever it’s needed, whenever they deserve it.” 
Goodman said he knows the younger players will follow suit. 
“I think it’s just something about notre dame, that’s what’s special about it,” he said. 
he said he wished his team­mates well as he bids farewell to his time at notre dame. 
“I’m happy to see that all the guys that left and went to play at other places are doing well, and I wish the best for them, especially all the guys at the nFL and the guys who are at jobs,” he said. 
Goodman graduated from the mendoza college of business in may with a degree in manage­ment consulting and is currently enrolled in a graduate studies program. 
Contact Meghan Thomassen at mthomass@nd.edu 
fired a cross-field pass for the touchdown. 
Goodman said this year’s game against stanford was one of the highlights of the season, even though he didn’t see any playing time during the contest due to injury. 
“When I think of my five years here, in my five seasons, there have been a lot of ups and downs, and [the stanford game] was probably the most special game we’ve been through, because we 
PAId AdverTIsemenT 
had ‘college Gameday’ for the first time and I’d never experi­enced that,” he said. 
but for Goodman, the 30-13 win over oklahoma on oct. 27 remains the most memorable contest of his career. 
“I would say the coolest thing was going to oklahoma and win­ning there because that was the most hostile environment we’ve ever played in, and probably the biggest game we’ve ever played here in the past five years,” he 




Lewis-Moore captains Irish in fifth year 
Graduate student defensive end comes back from knee injury to anchor Irish defensive line 

sheldon day combined. leader for us.” 
“It’s fun watching them Returning from injury grow,” Lewis-moore said. “I’ve during last season’s 31-17 loss seen Tuitt grow. I’ve seen Lou to Usc, Lewis-moore detached grow. I’ve seen sheldon grow his medial collateral ligament every day. It’s really awesome and required season-ending and it’s something I take pride surgery five days later. in. I’m kind of like the old man “It was awful,” Lewis-moore of the team. It’s different to said. “True senior year and not have that close relationship being able to play is one of the with your defensive linemen.” worst feelings in the world. not 
Lewis-moore, who is affec-being able to do anything about tionately known as ‘old man it was really tough. Luckily, I Kap,’ said despite the develop-leaned on my close friends and ment of the younger players, my family and my teammates to there are always opportunities help me get through it. I worked for instruction. hard in rehab and I was able to 
“There’s always room for come back full strength.” teaching,” he said. “[defensive Lewis-moore rehabbed his line coach mike elston] is knee during the offseason and teaching us all really well and returned for the season-opener we all feed off each other. When against navy. he said the rehab one of us makes a big play, we process was difficult. all get excited. We have great “It wasn’t really physically communication between the tough but mentally, it takes defensive line, coach elston a toll on you,” Lewis-moore and the coaching staff. It works said. “You kind of want to rush really good.” it to come back but you’re not 
The Irish defensive line supposed to. sometimes dur­has accounted for 21 of notre ing rehab, you just want to get dame’s 31 sacks this season out there and run again or lift but also does the little things. weights again.” Lewis-moore said such is the With his reconstructed knee, life of a defensive lineman. Lewis-moore is having argu­
“It’s a mentality,” he said. “I ably his best season to date. he really don’t care about personal has already registered a career-stats. As long as we’re wining high in sacks for a season and games, that’s what’s really im-has also tallied 31 tackles, 5.5 portant. I don’t care who makes tackles for loss and seven quar­the sack. With the whole de-terback hurries. fense, you really don’t care who “obviously, I wanted to have 

coach brian Kelly named up. If you make a good play, makes the play, as long as we’re a good year but I think we’re 
By MATTHEW DeFRANKS 

Associate sports editor Lewis-moore one of notre we’re going to be there to cel-getting three-and-outs and having a tremendous year,” dame’s four captains, along ebrate with you.” forcing turnovers and playing Lewis-moore said. “I can’t re­
Editor’s Note: A version of with seniors manti Te’o, Tyler Lewis-moore said the support 100 percent. If we’re playing fast ally explain it. I’m just happy this article originally appeared eifert and Zack martin. goes both ways on sidelines. and physical, it really doesn’t to be back. being fortunate in the Nov. 9 edition of The “It’s been awesome,” Lewis-“We feed off of each other, matter who gets the praise.” enough to be back for a fifth Observer. moore said. “I’m very honored offense and defense,” he said. After a quiet first five games, year, be with my teammates 
and fortunate to be in this lead-“sometimes in the heat of the Lewis-moore has come on and fight on.” 
Kapron Lewis-moore is all ership position and it’s pretty battle or the moment of the strong recently, registering four Lewis-moore has had to fight about having a good time. From exciting. I just want to keep my game, you might go up to a sacks in the last five games. his knee injury but there is one his trademark smile to his energy, keep my effort and en-guy and go ‘hey, keep it up’ or “he’s been a better football thing he has no problem doing booming laugh and his goofy thusiasm, try to keep that con-‘Guys, don’t worry about it, we player for us this year,” Kelly — having fun. faces, the graduate student de-tagious to the team.” have your back.’ If the defense said. “he is an extremely pro­fensive end loves to have fun. during a team meeting in makes a mistake, you’ll have ductive player, is playing with a Contact Matthew DeFranks at 
so when last year’s basket-August, Kelly announced the [junior quarterback Tommy lot energy, and has been a great mdefrank@nd.edu ball season rolled around, the four captains for the first time, rees] or eifert or martin come decision was simple for the before he told the captains. up and say ‘don’t worry d, Weatherford, Texas, native — “he called my name last and we’re going to put it in the end wear a floppy safari hat to the I wasn’t really expecting it be-zone.’” games and stand in the front cause we have a lot of guys on Kelly said Lewis-moore’s im­row of the student section. the team that are worthy of pact on the team extends past 
“It’s just something I like to being captains,” Lewis-moore the box score. wear,” Lewis-moore said. “At said. “To hear my name called “It’s night and day in my eyes that point in time in basketball was really something special. outside of the statistics as to his season, I kind of wore it every-“It was kind of like ‘Whoa’ impact last year as to this year,” where. I think that’s how I got and I got a little teary-eyed. I Kelly said. “now he was a junior noticed for it.” knew this season was going to last year and he’s a senior this 
In his five years at notre be special but to be captain is year, too.  but he’s one of the dame, though, Lewis-moore just something I can’t really ex-reasons why we’re 9-0.” has been noticed for more than plain. It’s speechless.” his headgear. The 6-foot-4, during games, Lewis-moore Mentoring the line 306-pound lineman has been a has given pep talks to younger on the defensive line, Lewis-stalwart for the Irish defensive players on the sideline after a moore is the elder statesman line, racking up 140 tackles and mistake or will congratulate of a rotation that features two six sacks in his three seasons them after a big play — offense juniors, two sophomores and before 2012. or defense, it doesn’t matter. a freshman who all contribute 
After graduating in may with “If they make a mistake or if significantly. a marketing degree, Lewis-they don’t make a mistake, you entering this season, Lewis­moore returned for his fifth have to have fun, you have to moore had almost three times season with the Irish. go on to the next play,” Lewis-as many starts as juniors Louis 
moore said. “You can’t let one nix and Kona schwenke, soph-Captaining a team bad play hurt you all game be-omores stephon Tuitt and Tony before the season, Irish cause your mistakes will build springmann and freshman 




mahoney looks toward law school after football 

By BRIAN HARTNETT 
sports Writer 
Although it took graduate stu­dent offensive linesman dennis mahoney more than three sea­sons to get into a game, it didn’t take him long to make an im­pact on the field. 
minutes after taking the field in the fourth quarter of notre dame’s 59-33 victory over Air Force last october, mahoney, playing right tackle, was asked to pull and block an inside linebacker. mahoney executed the play with ease and opened a hole to allow then-sophomore quarterback Andrew hendrix to scramble 78 yards downfield, the longest run of the season for the Irish. 
“It was the first time I had ever gone in, and they called the tackle pull,” mahoney said. “I was a little shocked, but it was great. The most special part of my time here was getting in the Air Force game.” 
The block against Air Force represented the culmination of a dream for mahoney, a life-long notre dame fan. 
“my family always loved notre dame, and I was always a huge fan growing up,” mahoney said. “I always wanted to be part of it, and it was always the dream.” 
As mahoney grew into his 6-foot-7, 294-pound frame, he became a force on the offen­sive line at boys Latin school in Towson, md., gathering all-con­ference honors. Although he re­ceived interest from Princeton, harvard and other Ivy League schools, he decided to attend notre dame, where he had been accepted early as a student. 
“It wasn’t really that difficult,” mahoney said of his decision. “You’re in front of 80,000 people [at notre dame], even if you’re not playing, and just being part of notre dame is a different experience.” 
With the help of his high school coach, mahoney con­tacted Irish coaches and sent them a highlight film at the end of his senior year. The Irish coaches responded by offering him a preferred walk-on spot, which allowed him to come to camp with regular scholarship players. 
“I was in a different position because most walk-ons come on in the spring, so it was just me and two other [preferred walk-ons],” mahoney said. “It was dif­ferent, but I got along well with everybody, and they were all very welcoming.” 
After getting through his ini­tial fall camp, mahoney has spent the last five seasons prac­ticing with the offensive line. The former dillon hall resident, who prefers to play tackle, said he has formed a tight bond with both his fellow linesmen and walk-ons. 
“It’s great because [the of­fensive linesmen and walk-ons] are tighter communities within the program,” mahoney said. “Those are the kids I’ll be friends with forever.” 
mahoney’s strong work ethic on the line was rewarded last season when he appeared in two games. In addition to his ap­pearance in the Air Force game, mahoney made the team’s travel roster and played against maryland when the Irish visited Fedex Field in Washington last november. 
“I think I had 22 people [at the maryland game],” mahoney said. “It was great to get back and see everybody, since they didn’t always get to come to notre dame. my grandfather played for maryland, and he was there, so it was special.” 
The history major graduated in may and is currently enrolled in graduate courses. he said the decision to come back for a fifth year was not a difficult one. 
“I just had the opportunity to come back, and I knew we’d do real well this year,” he said. “I wanted to be part of it.” 
mahoney said he is currently in the process of applying to law school. he plans to apply to notre dame, virginia and Georgetown, among others. 
regardless of where he ends up, mahoney said he is not quite sure how he will adjust to his life beyond football. 
“It will be weird, since foot­ball’s been my life the past four­and-a-half years,” mahoney said. “I don’t really know what to expect, since I won’t have to work out everyday or adjust my eating schedule for football.” 
In addition to his time on the football team, mahoney said the close friendships he’s created would be what he best remem­bers about notre dame. 
“I think I’ll take away the rela­tionships I’ve made with people, day in and day out,” he said. “Going through all this with others has allowed me to make some strong friendships that will last a lifetime.” 
Contact Brian Hartnett at bhartnet@nd.edu 

GRANT PATTON | de | LoUIsvILLe, KY. 
Patton tranfers from Holy Cross, walks on 
story] ‘the rudy thing,’” he said. and the notre dame offense,” he defined as doing it the notre wouldn’t have been here without 
By LAURA COLETTI 

sports Writer Patton interned with the notre said. “It was like drinking water dame way,” he said. “Whether a whole army of people to help dame athletic department and through a firehose.” it’s a last-second drive, whether me fight on to get here,” he said. “have courage to pursue applied to transfer to notre In spite of the rapid turn of it’s grinding out a win, whether “It’s been an incredible honor dreams.” dame for the fall of his sopho-events, Patton found himself it’s running the football and only just to put on the helmet, an in-These are the words etched on more year. After being rejected, welcomed by the team more throwing it a few times in a half, credible honor to run out of the the inside of senior defensive end he again applied to transfer that than he ever imagined he would [Irish coach brian Kelly] has re-tunnel, and I do it every day for Grant Patton’s class ring. They fall, to begin at notre dame dur-be. ally got this team to find an iden-my family, for my friends, and are words the Louisville, Ky., na-ing the spring semester of his “The first thing I saw was how tity that fits notre dame, and I’m for those who always dreamed tive has lived out since he made sophomore year. once again, he close this team is, and how great just so proud to have a small part of going to notre dame. because the best decision of his life the was not accepted. each and every one of the guys of that.” I’m living proof that if you want day after his high school prom “In this whole process, I is, and just how welcoming they Patton was quick to acknowl-it, and if you work hard enough, four years ago. learned a lot about perseverance, are,” Patton said. “For them, there edge the outpouring of support your dreams really can come 
“I did what every red-blooded and about really going after what is no ‘scholarship’ versus ‘no-he received from his friends and true.” American male does after prom, I wanted,” Patton said. scholarship’. It was everything family. and that is, jump in the car and Almost eerily similar to the I could have imagined it being, “I’m standing here as a cul-Contact Laura Coletti at drive four-and-a-half hours to movie’s eponymous character, not just because of the football, mination of a lot of people. I lcoletti@nd.edu the blue-Gold game,” he said. on his third and final time apply-but because of the brotherhood 
originally slated to join the ing to transfer, Patton’s persever-of that football team that you track and field program at ance paid off. he was accepted hear so much about. As a fan, I’d Louisville as a thrower, Patton to notre dame and started there heard it and kind of believed it, found himself at a crossroads at the fall of his junior year. but when I saw it in real life it was the notre dame bookstore that “I called my mom and told her. everything and so much more.” weekend in may. she thought I was kidding,” he From day one, Patton has em­
“I saw a notre dame alumni said. “There were a lot of people braced his role on the team. shirt, and I had the realization who didn’t think I’d ever do it. “I’m there, and I’m whatever that I’d never get to wear one,” especially with football, there the team needs me to be,” he he said. “I had grown up going were a lot of people who thought said. “If that means I’m a cheer-to notre dame games my entire I wouldn’t get this.” leader on the sideline waving my life, and that was where I wanted After spending the fall semes-helmet around, I’m that. If that to be.” ter playing interhall football for means I’ve got to be a tackling 
Within 72 hours, Patton had sorin college, he walked on to dummy, I’m that. If I’ve got to be applied, been accepted to, and the football team in the spring. on scout team defense, I’m that. enrolled at holy cross. since The entire experience went by everyone has a role.” that point in his college career, like a whirlwind, Patton said. And although this is his only Patton’s story has run in the “monday I found out I made year as a member of the team, he same vein as the classic movie the team, Tuesday I got my is enjoying the special season the “rudy.” equipment, and Wednesday I squad is having. 
“To this day, my dad calls [my was put up against Tommy rees “This whole season has been 





EILEEN VEIHMEYER | The Observer EILEEN VEIHMEYER | The Observer 
DEACONS PASSING 136 carries. backing up harris is red-
The Irish have seen Wake Forest ju-shirt freshman deandre martin, who nior quarterback Tanner Price before. has rushed for 371 yards and five touch-Last season, Price threw for 187 yards downs on 394 carries. The duo each had and a touchdown on efficient 17-for-a 100-yard rushing performance with 24 passing in notre dame’s 24-17 win four touchdowns between the two of on nov. 5, 2011. The junior has thrown them in a 49-37 win over Army on sept. for 1,965 yards and 12 touchdown, av-22. but Wake Forest has one of the worst eraging just under 200 passing yards rushing offenses in the country, ranked per game. In Wake Forest’s 28-14 win 111th in the country with 102.7 rushing over boston college on nov. 3, Price set yards per game. a career high in completions and pass meanwhile, notre dame has the attempts, throwing for 293 yards and sixth-best rushing defense in the coun­three kids on 39-for-57 passing. try, giving up 95.9 rushing yards per 

After facing boston college’s do-it-game. notre dame has held four oppo­all receiver Alex Amidon, notre dame nents to under 10 points and is the only will face another in redshirt junior team in the Fbs to have not allowed slot receiver michael campanaro. a touchdown drive of longer than 95 campanaro tied an Acc record with yards. Against boston college, the Irish 16 receptions against boston college, allowed 53 yards rushing on 23 rushing while adding three receiving touch-attempts. downs. campanaro leads the Acc in EDGE: NOTRE DAME receptions per game, with 8.1 and has 21 receptions in the last two games. DEACONS OFFENSIVE COACHING despite missing two games with a bro-defensive coordinator bob diaco ken hand, the versatile slot receiver has will have another pass-heavy offense six touchdowns and 618 yards and 65 to deal with, but stopping the running receptions. In a 37-6 loss to n.c. state game shouldn’t be too much of a prob-on saturday, campanaro even threw a lem for the Irish. touchdown for the deacons’ only score EDGE: NOTRE DAME of the day. 

The deacons bring the 111th best of-DEACONS SPECIAL TEAMS fense in the country, averaging only notre dame limited boston college’s 
309.7 yards per game, into notre dame electric return game to 18.7 yards per stadium against the no. 1 scoring de-return. The deacons rank 118th in the fense in the country. notre dame’s de-country in kick returns, averaging 16.5 fense gives up only 11.1 points per game yards per return. redshirt freshman and 295.2 yards per game. only seven kicker chad hedlund replaced senior teams in the last 11 years have held kicker Jimmy newman and is 3-for-3 opponents to less than 11.1 points per this year with a long of 44 yards. game.  In a 21-6 win over boston college EDGE: EVEN on saturday, senior linebacker manti Te’o recorded his sixth interception of DEACONS SCHEDULE the year, the second most by a Fbs line-sept. 1 Liberty W 20-17 backer in the last 11 years. sophomore sept. 8   North Carolina               W 28-27 defensive end leads all underclassmen sept. 15 @ Florida State               L 52-0 in the nation with 11 sacks, while junior sept. 22 Army               W 49-37 linebacker Prince shembo had three sept. 29 Duke                  L 34-27 sacks against boston college. oct. 6 @ Maryland L 19-14 EDGE: NOTRE DAME oct. 20 @ Virginia               W 16-10 

oct. 25 Clemson                            L 42-13 DEACONS RUSHING nov. 3 Boston College W 28-14 
redshirt junior running back Josh nov. 10 @ NC State L 37-6 harris leads the deacons in rushing nov. 17 @ Notre Dame with 607 yards and five touchdowns on nov. 24 Vanderbilt 
HEAD TO 
WAKE FOREST 


(R-Sr.) Terence Davis


WR
 (r-so.) brandon Terry 86 
(R-Fr.) Dylan Intemann


LT 
 (r-Fr.) hunter Goodwin 71 
(R-Jr.) Josh Harris 

(R-Jr.) Whit Barnes 
RB 


LG
(r-Fr.) deandre martin 21 (r-sr.) Gabe Irby 79 
(Jr.) Tanner Price 

(R-Sr.) Garrick Williams 
QB


C
 (r-Jr.) brendan cross 12 (r-Fr.) cody Preble 72 

(R-Jr.) Frank Souza 
(Sr.) Tommy Bohanon 


RG 
FB

 (r-so.) Jordan Garside 43 (r-sr.) Gabe Irby 79 
(R-So.) Colin Summers


RT
 (r-Fr.) hunter Goodwin 71 
(R-Jr.) Spencer Bishop


TE
(r-so.) daniel vogelsang 97 
(R-Jr.) Michael Campanaro


WR
 (r-sr.) Lovell Jackson 4 
(R-Sr.) Chibuikem Okoro 

CB
(r-so.) merrill noel 7 
(Jr.) A.J.  Marshall 



(sr.) Josh strickland 18 
FS (R-Jr.) Kris Redding

DE
(Gr.) hasan hazime 96 
(R-Sr.) Joey Ehrmann

OLB 
(r-sr.) derricus ellis 49 

(R-Jr.) Nikita Whitlock 
(R-Jr.) Mike Olson 


NG 
(Fr.) Tylor harris 36
MLB 
(r-Fr.)  brandon chubb 48 
(R-Sr.) Riley Haynes

WLB 
(r-sr.) scott betros 32 
(R-Jr.) Zach Thompson


DE

(r-Fr.) desmond Floyd 94 
(R-Jr.) Justin Jackson 
OLB 
(r-so.) Zachary Allen 35 
(R-Jr.) Daniel Mack 

SS
(Fr.) James Ward 23 
(R-So.) Kevin Johnson 

CB
(r-Fr.)  Allen ramsey II 15 
(R-Fr.) Chad Hedlund 

(Sr.) Jimmy Newman 
PK


KO 
 (sr.) Jimmy  newman 82 (r-Fr.) chad hedlund 27 
(R-Fr.) Alexander Kinal 

(R-Jr.) Josh Harris 
P


KR 
 (sr.) Alex Wulfeck 24 (r-Fr.) deandre martin 21 
(R-Sr.) Lovell Jackson 

(R-So.) Logan Feimster 
PR 


(r-Jr.) michael campanaro 3 (r-Jr.) Whit barnes 60 
LS 

Allan Joseph 
editor-in-chief 

Wake Forest isn’t nearly as good as it was last year, but this isn’t really about the deacons. It’s about a special senior class, led by a special linebacker, playing for one last special moment  inside notre dame stadium. There is absolutely zero chance that manti Te’o and company let this moment pass them by. 
remember that 35-0 win over nevada to open 2009? seniors will get to savor the feeling of a big victory once more, and it’ll bookend their notre dame stadium memories. 
This class started its career with a big win. It will end it that way, too.  students will join the team on the field in celebra­tion of the best regular season since, yes, 1988. There will only be one thing left to do for these Irish — in the words of the cheers that will inevitably ring out saturday: “beat sc.” 


Andrew Owens 
Assistant managing editor 
11-0. no one could have expected it, but that’s the lasting mark this senior class will give fans when it walks off the field and into the tunnel early saturday evening. This group has al­ready accomplished something incredibly special, but it will have the opportunity to do something  extraordinarily and historically special in Los Angeles next week, and that’s the pursuit of a perfect regular season. 
but, first, Wake Forest. notre dame has proved no opponent can be overlooked on its home turf, but I don’t see the Irish let­ting the demon deacons hang around this weekend. not with so much on the line. not in the final home contest of 2012. 
Take a moment, especially you, seniors, to look around saturday and soak in the moment and realize just how incred­ible this ride has been. 

Chris Allen 
sports editor 
They came from all over the country, from new england to hawaii. They united in south bend. This season, they have led the resurgence of the notre dame program — and this weekend the seniors of the class of 2013 take their cur­tain call. 
Against a Wake Forest team that will struggle to match a charged notre dame roster, the seniors will display the skill that fans will miss next season. manti Te’o will lead the defense and wreak havoc at linebacker one last time. Tyler eifert will rise above the defensive secondary one last time. Theo riddick and cierre Wood will run with purpose one last time. The class that, decades from now, may be looked back upon as one that turned the fortunes of America’s most storied program will win once more and move to 11-0. 

FINAL SCORE: notre dame 34, Wake Forest 10 FINAL SCORE: notre dame 38, Wake Forest 0 FINAL SCORE: notre dame 33, Wake Forest 13 


TO HEAD 

No. 3 Notre daMe 

SUZANNA PRATT | The Observer SUZANNA PRATT | The Observer 
IRISH PASSING and sophomore running back George on saturday, sophomore quarterback Atkinson combined for 42 yards on 10 KeiVarae Russell (Fr.) 
everett Golson had one of his most ef-total carries. The Irish had three drives 

CB 43 Josh Atkinson (so.) 
ficient passing performances, throwing of over four minutes, but also turned the for 200 yards and two touchdowns on 16-ball over twice on fumbles by riddick for-24 passing. That makes two straight and Atkinson. Golson continued his 

Danny Spond (Jr.) 

OLB 
200-yard games with two touchdowns rushing prowess, rushing for 39 yards 
30 ben councell (so.) 
Zeke Motta (Sr.) 



29 nicky baratti (Fr.) for the first-year starter. since the con-on 10 attempts. Golson also scored the 
S
Kapron Lewis-Moore (Gr.) 


cussion he sustained in notre dame’s only rushing touchdown of the game on 
DE 
91 sheldon day (Fr.) 
Dan Fox (Sr.) 20-13 overtime win against stanford on notre dame’s 95-yard opening drive. 

ILB 
44 carlo calabrese (sr.) 

Louis Nix (Jr.) oct. 13, Golson has thrown for over 600 Wake Forest is in the middle of the 
NG 
Kona schwenke (Jr.) 


Manti Te’o (Sr.) yards, four touchdowns and only one pack in terms of rushing defense, 

96 ILB 
59 Jarrett Grace (so.) 

DE 
Stephon Tuitt (So.) interception in three games. ranked 63rd in the country giving up 
69 Tony springmann (so.) 
Matthias Farley (So.) Golson is starting to develop a rapport 156.9 rushing yards per game. notre 
24 chris salvi (sr.) 

S 
with preseason All-American tight end dame ranks 33rd in the nation in rush-
Prince Shembo (Jr.) 

OLB 
11 Ishaq Williams (so.) Tyler eifert. eifert had six receptions ing offense, averaging 198.7 rushing for 67 yards in notre dame’s 21-6 win yards per game. In saturday’s 37-6 loss over boston college on saturday. eifert to n.c. state, the deacons gave up 170 
CB 
21 Bennett Jackson (Jr.) needs only five receptions to break Ken rushing yards. 
Jalen brown (so.) 

macAfee’s 35-year-old record for most EDGE: NOTRE DAME receptions by a notre dame tight end. eifert has 124 career receptions and IRISH OFFENSIVE COACHING 1,625 receiving yards. sophomore tight Irish coach brian Kelly used the run-
T.J.Jones (Jr.) 


10 
end Troy niklas caught his first career ning game to establish long drives for 
WR 
davaris daniels (Fr.) 

touchdown pass against the eagles and notre dame, including one of over 
Robby Toma (Sr.) 


2 chris brown (Fr.) senior receiver John Goodman add-eight minutes. Kelly used Golson effec­ed his second of the season. The Irish tively as well, not turning the ball over didn’t come out of boston unscathed, and using deceptive run plays to push 
RT 

Christian Lombard (Jr.) though. notre dame lost sophomore for first downs on third-and-long. 
WR 
64 Tate nichols (Jr.) 

receiver davaris daniels for the re-EDGE: NOTRE DAME 
Theo Riddick (Sr.) 
Mike Golic Jr. (Gr.) 


51 
20 cierre Wood (sr.) mainder of the regular season with a broken clavicle. daniels had 375 receiv-IRISH SPECIAL TEAMS 
RBRG 
bruce heggie (Jr.) 
Everett Golson (So.) 
Braxston Cave (Gr.) 

C 
57 mike Golic Jr. (Gr.) QB 
11 Tommy rees (Jr.) ing yards on 25 receptions before the sophomore kicker Kyle brindza injury. didn’t attempt a field goal against the 
Chris Watt (Sr.) 
65 conor hanratty (so.) 

LG 
Wake Forest enters the game with the eagles on saturday and the Irish punt-
LT 

Zack Martin (Sr.) 98th-best passing defense in the coun-ed only three times. Against n.c. state 
78 ronnie stanley (Fr.) 


try, giving up 260.9 passing yards per on saturday, Wake Forest gave up a 100­
TE 
Tyler Eifert (Sr.) game. The deacons have a pair of dan-yard kickoff return for a touchdown 
18 ben Koyack (so.) 

gerous cornerbacks in redshirt senior while Atkinson averaged 26 yards per chibuikem okoro and redshirt sopho-kick return against boston college. 
WR 

John Goodman (Gr.) more Kevin Johnson. Johnson leads the EDGE: NOTRE DAME 
87 daniel smith (Jr.) 

team with three interceptions and 15 pass breakups. Johnson is also fifth on IRISH SCHEDULE the team with 45 tackles. sept. 1 vs. Navy W 50-10 EDGE: NOTRE DAME sept. 8 Purdue W 20-17 

sept. 15 @ Michigan State W 20-3 IRISH RUSHING sept. 22 Michigan W 13-6 
Kyle Brindza (So.) 
Kyle Brindza (So.) 


40 nick Tausch (sr.) 
40 nick Tausch (sr.) Last week against boston college, the oct. 6 vs. Miami W 41-3 
KO 
PK 
Irish rushed for 184 yards, led by senior oct. 13 Stanford W 20-13 (OT) 
George Atkinson (So.) 
Ben Turk (Sr.) 

6 Theo riddick (sr.) 27 Kyle brindza (so.) 
KR 
P 
running back Theo riddick’s 104 yards oct. 20 BYU W 17-14 
PR 
LS 

Davonte’ Neal (Fr.) on 18 carries. That was riddick’s third oct. 27 @ Oklahoma W 30-13 
Jordan Cowart (Sr.) 


61 scott daly (Fr.) 81 John Goodman (Gr.) 
100-yard rushing performance of the nov. 3 Pittsburgh W 29-26 (3OT) season and his first since a 17-14 win nov. 10 @ Boston College W 21-6 against bYU on oct. 20. meanwhile, nov. 17 Wake Forest senior running back cierre Wood nov. 24 @ USC 


Andrew Gastelum 
Associate sports editor 

The Irish have been far from impressive at home. but while 10-0 looks awfully good to brian Kelly and his players, 11-0 would look even better to a team that came into the year unranked with the toughest schedule in college football. 
It’s senior day and expect these seniors to go out with a bang. That means Tyler eifert, Theo riddick, almost the entire offensive line and especially manti Te’o. notre dame is too focused to let this one slip away or get even remotely close and the team knows it needs style points to have any hope of making a case for the bcs national championship. 
Without a doubt, it will be notre dame’s biggest home win this year and they will head to beautiful Los Angeles 11-0 with a chance to go undefeated. Who would’ve thunk it? 
FINAL SCORE: notre dame 41, Wake Forest 6 


Matthew DeFranks 
Associate sports editor 
It just would not be right if manti Te’o, Kapron Lewis­moore and Tyler eifert lost in their final game at notre dame stadium. Luckily for them, they welcome in a medio­cre Wake Forest team, who clocks in at 5-5. 
The deacons are not terrible, but they’re not very good ei­ther. Their secondary can be tough but everett Golson has grown in the past few weeks, providing both clutch heroics and steady leadership. he has developed his running game as well, which complements cierre Wood, Theo riddick and George Atkinson. 
maybe the Irish will give the fans another home heart at­tack. maybe they will blow out Wake Forest. but one thing is for sure, there is no way manti, Kapron and Tyler fall in their final farewell to the house that Knute built. 
FINAL SCORE: notre dame 27, Wake Forest 10 




Martin matures into vocal offensive leader 
In-state offensive line product anchors unit from left tackle, becomes model of consistency in protection 
Forest, rates well. The 6-foot-
By SAM GANS 

sports Writer 4, 304-pound Indianapolis na­tive was named notre dame’s 
The notre dame offense has Guardian of the Year in both been hot and cold all year — 2010 and 2011 as the top of-at times a well-oiled machine fensive lineman on the roster. and at others a sputtering cog. In 2010, the Irish allowed 1.54 Just make sure not to blame sacks per game, their few-Zack martin when things est since 1998; in 2011, notre don’t go well. dame ran the ball for a 4.8 
martin, in his third year yards-per-carry average, its starting at left tackle for the most since 1996. The Irish are no. 3 Irish, has been a mod-just under that mark this sea-el for consistency on notre son, at 4.78 yards per carry. dame’s offensive line this martin’s position on the line season. martin has allowed is of particular importance, as only one sack all season — on he protects sophomore quar­the season’s opening drive terback everett Golson’s blind against navy — and frequent-side, along with holding addi­ly grades highly in offensive tional responsibilities. line coach harry hiestand’s “I think [a left tackle has] to critiques of each individual be a balanced player,” martin lineman’s performance. said. “You have to be able to 
“he’s lapping the field. he’s communicate to the rest of that good on a consistent ba-the line, because if you have sis,” Irish coach brian Kelly something off the edge, you said of martin in a press con-have to communicate it all ference on nov. 6. “I think the way down. You’ve got to [hiestand] is grading him be able to protect the speed out in the 90s where guys are rusher off the edge and then grading in the 60s and 70s. also you’ve got to be able to he’s just a consistent player run block. so it’s kind of a bal­for us at a high level, and has anced position.” been that way all year.” despite success as an in­
hiestand’s ratings are not dividual and as a unit and the game — that’s the biggest through the catholic school martin, who started in the simple evaluations, but rather nearly three full seasons of thing. offensive line play, ev-system and living in Indiana, 20-16 win over the Trojans in look at all the aspects of of-experience, martin says he eryone thinks it’s a big, brutal he was not a notre dame fan 2010, notre dame’s first win fensive line play. is still improving as he accu-game. but if you watch film in his youth. over Usc since 2001. martin 
“coach hiestand is very mulates more repetitions and and learn stuff, you can make “I was never a notre dame said that experience was one thorough on his grading,” corrects tendencies he notices yourself that much better of a fan growing up,” martin said. of his favorite during his time martin said. “he coaches your need fixed in film study. player just by learning what “I watched them occasionally in south bend when he looks technique, your steps, your “I think I’ve improved more little keys you pick up from but I wasn’t a die-hard notre back. hands, your footwork and in awareness of the game and film. That’s something I’ve dame fan, but Indianapolis “my first year playing out then he goes through if you’re the more you can get in there been able to do.” is a big catholic communi-at Usc was probably the first doing your job and if you and the more you can get martin’s impact on the field ty, big notre dame fans, so I [memory] that comes to mind, block your man. so it’s not just reps and plays, that’s where has been substantial since his have a lot of friends that are because our season was kind a check for this play, there’s a I’ve improved in the most, I sophomore year, but his role die-hards.” of down a little bit and then few things for each play.” think. I think [the consisten-increased this season when martin grew up playing we went out and had a big win 
It’s no surprise martin, who cy comes] through repetition he was named one of four cap-football with two brothers. in the coliseum,” he said. “It will make his 37th career start and trying to get things right,” tains, along with manti Te’o, one of them, nick, is now a was a lot of fun.” on senior day against Wake martin said. “It’s the studying Kapron Lewis-moore and sophomore offensive line-The 10-0 start is something 
Tyler eifert. man for the Irish. Playing on new for the Irish players, as 
“People are looking to you the same position unit creates none of them have been on offensively to kind of bring a unique opportunity for in-a notre dame team that had that spark and that leader-creased bonding. less than five losses until this ship,” martin said. “I try to be “I was very excited when year. martin said a potential the same guy every day and I he committed and decided to reason why is the team’s per-know myself and the captains come to south bend,” martin formance in practice has no-just try to be ourselves and try said. “It’s been a great couple ticeably improved. to get the team up a little bit of years having him up here. “We’ve done a pretty good every day.” We’re enjoying the moment job this year in coming out 
That leadership ability is being up here together and and being ready to practice, noticeable to teammates, in-having a good time.” so I don’t know if that’s the cluding fellow senior and left martin did not play his fact we’re winning or that guard chris Watt, who has freshman year at notre dame we have a group of guys that started alongside martin for and has a fifth year of eligibil-can get up and actually enjoy the past two years. ity for the 2013 season, should practicing with their team­
“Zack has been a really con-he wish to use it — but he also mates,” he said. sistent player for us,” Watt could enter the nFL draft af-Ultimately, martin said it’s said. “Also, we both came in ter this season. martin said he critical for the Irish to ap­together, so I’ve been able to has not decided yet. proach games with a “play to see his leadership abilities “I’m going to wait until the win” attitude, rather than one grow over time. obviously end of the season and talk to not to lose. he’s a captain this year, and coaches and parents,” he said. “The mentality of the team he’s been an important lead-“but right now I’m just trying is that we’re undefeated, we er for this team. he’s done a to take it a game at a time and have to go out there and we great job.” stay undefeated.” know we have to work,” he 
before attending notre It’s that focus on this season said. dame, martin played foot-that is currently driving him, If the season up to this point ball at bishop chatard high as the Irish have three games is any indication, that won’t school after his family moved left, including the regular-be a problem for no. 70. to Indianapolis from Kansas season finale at Usc. city when he was eight The trip to Los Angeles will Contact Sam Gans at      years old. but, despite going likely rekindle memories for sgans@nd.edu 




McCarthy follows in his brothers’ footsteps 
By KEVIN NOONAN 
sports Writer 
Irish graduate student safety dan mccarthy is a family man 
— and his family is a notre dame family that bleeds blue and gold through and through. 
he is the third of his brothers to attend notre dame, and his older brother Kyle was in his se­nior year as a safety and for the Irish football team when dan came in as a freshman. 
but the family roots go deeper than just this generation, and mccarthy pays homage to this history every time he puts on his jersey. 
“my grandfather went here and played sports here, and I wear 15 because that’s what my grandpa wore,” mccarthy said. 
mccarthy came to notre dame as a freshman after a suc­cessful high school career that saw him named Gatorade Player of the Year in ohio, a second-team UsA Today All-American and offensive player of the year for his division by the Associated Press. 
That high school success didn’t immediately translate into col­lege success, as mccarthy sat out his freshman season, and then struggled to gain playing time his next two seasons. 
mccarthy played in 12 of the 13 games of the 2011 season, primarily making his impact on special teams, and finished the season tied for fifth for the Irish in special teams tackles. he has continued to see playing time on special teams and as a reserve safety this season. 
but the experience of playing for the Irish is one that mccarthy cherishes for more than just playing time. 
“being an Irish catholic, it’s been my dream my whole life,” mccarthy said. “We have pic­tures of my brother and I in front of Touchdown Jesus from when we were five years old. You know just with memories like that, be­ing able to make that a dream come true has just been amazing and been a great ride.” 
mccarthy, who completed his degree in finance in may and is currently in graduate stud­ies, remembers what it was like to come in as a freshman and have a ready-made mentor in his brother to look up to. 
“[Playing with my brother] was awesome, he was always there as a leadership role for me. he set a great example on and off the field and it was also great to just be here and hang out with him. That was a very neat experience,” mccarthy said. 
And now that he is an elder member of the team, mccarthy sees himself filling a similar role for the younger players in his own way. 
“You know it’s kind of funny, you take on the role of kind of guiding those guys,” mccarthy said. “It’s pretty cool because you’ve been there and you know what to expect and you kind of let them know what to expect, and tell them to just keep work­ing and it’s fun watching them.” 
even since his high school days as a football star at cardinal mooney in Youngstown, ohio, mccarthy has been actively in­volved in areas outside of foot­ball. he was a member of the national honor society in high school, and served on his school’s student council for all four years. 
That involvement carried over to notre dame. he is engrained enough in the business school to be able to repeat the party line on cue — “I graduated with a finance degree from the busi­ness school, and you know notre dame has the no. 1 business school.” 
PAId AdverTIsemenT 

outside of the classroom, mccarthy is an avid fisher and a member of notre dame’s fishing club. 
“I’m trying to get out on the lake to try to beat my record of an eight-and-a-half pound bass last spring,” mccarthy said. “That’s something that I love to do here and hopefully we can continue to grow the notre dame fishing club.” 
The future is uncertain accord­ing to mccarthy, but wherever he goes, he’ll bring with him his attitude and playing style (and a finance degree from the no. 1 business school in the country). 
“I just play every play like it’s your last, just leave it all out there,” mccarthy said. 
Contact Kevin Noonan at knoonan2@nd.edu 




Motta leads young Irish secondary 
Safety has been a model of consistency, playing in every Notre Dame game since 2009 
By MATTHEW DeFRANKS 
Associate sports editor 
Through four years, three roles and two coaches, one thing has stayed the same for Irish senior safety Zeke motta — his presence. 
The vero beach, Fla., native has played in all 48 games during his time at notre dame, a streak that dates back to his first game in his freshman season when charlie Weis was notre dame’s coach. 
As a freshman, motta contrib­uted mainly as a special teams player but also shifted between outside linebacker, which he played in high school, and safety. he earned his first start at safety against michigan in 2010, when he recorded four tackles. 
motta said he has grown sig­nificantly in two years. 
“I’ve taken leaps from where I was two years ago,” he said. “From last year, obviously, a lot more comfortable and confident out on the field and that helps with being able to play fast and really dominate your opponent.” 
The 6-foot-2, 215-pound safety was a heavily recruited line­backer in the football-crazy state of Florida. he was named to the 
U.s. Army All-American bowl and also was ranked inside the rivals 100. he enrolled early and has been a mainstay on the Irish defense. 
This season, motta has taken on a new role as the elder states­man of a young and inexperi­enced secondary. 
entering this season, the de­fensive backfield appeared to be the weakest link of the Irish defense. After injuries to junior safety Austin collinsworth, ju­nior cornerback Lo Wood and graduate student safety Jamoris slaugher, a depleted second­ary was forced to start two con­verted receivers and a freshman cornerback. 
“For multiple reasons, it was going to be a rebuilding year in the secondary anyway and then a few other poorly timed events happened that created an even more inexperienced secondary,” Irish defensive coordinator bob diaco said on sept. 26. 
motta has stepped into the role of teacher and mentor for junior cornerback bennett Jackson, sophomore safety matthias Farley and freshman cornerback Keivarae russell. 
“I don’t think we can underes­timate what he’s done back there for us,” Irish coach brian Kelly said. “he’s an integral part of our defense.” 
The secondary has helped the Irish allow less than 200 pass­ing yards per game and just six touchdowns through the air this year. The Irish defense is the top-ranked scoring defense in the nation, allowing 11.1 points per game. 
motta was named one of 15 semifinalists for the Thorpe Award, an honor given to the top defensive back in the country. 
“Zeke motta is hungry and in­terested in being the very best safety in America, he may very well be,” diaco said. “he’s well on his way.” 
diaco said motta has directed his attention to being the best football player he can be. 
“I’m sure he’s a wonderful son and a heck of a friend and a strong student,” diaco said. “but he’s basically focused most of his energy on becoming the very best player he can be. he comes to practice like game day. There’s no moment of football prepara­tion where he’s not at 100 per­cent, at 100 miles per hour, all the energy he has.” 
There is not a time that motta is not trying to improve, diaco said. 
“Walkthrough, meetings, watching tape on his own, at practice, shorts practice, articu­lated work, scouted work. he’s just working on his game con­stantly and it’s paying off,” he said. 
Through 10 games, the indus­trial design major has already surpassed his previous season-high in tackles with 52. he is tied for second in tackles on the team, behind only senior linebacker manti Te’o. 
motta — who described his game as “physical, fast, tough, crazy and wild” — said his best football moment came during last year’s champs sports bowl against Florida state, when he returned a fumble 29 yards for a touchdown. The score gave the Irish an early 7-0 lead but the seminoles came back to win 18-14. 
“That’s probably the big­gest play I’ve had,” motta said. “Unfortunately, we lost that game so it wasn’t that good.” 
motta enters his final home game with the third most career tackles of current Irish play­ers, trailing Te’o and graduate and look at that, there’s really no other place in America that has that nostalgic feel to it. being around my brothers this year, be­ing a senior, having spent four years growing with these guys, it’s pretty special. The people I’ve met and the games I’ve been able to play in, it’s been a wonderful opportunity.” 


Contact Matthew DeFranks at mdefrank@nd.edu 
student defensive lineman Kapron Lewis-moore. 
motta, though, wants to be remembered as a well-rounded person. 
“I’d like to be remembered as a dominant predator on the field and a kind-hearted gentle­man off the field and somebody’s who’s a firm believer in God,” he said. “I try to do everything right all the time. I’m a firm believer in God. I treat each day as a new day to get better and tomorrow is never guaranteed.” 


motta could not pinpoint one item as his favorite thing about notre dame. 
“The best thing I like about being at notre dame is prob­ably a combination of a lot of things. obviously, you have a beautiful campus with mother mary, Touchdown Jesus and the basilica. 
“When you take a step back 
PAId AdverTIsemenT 



Riddick shows versatility in four years 
Senior running back moves to receiver and back, succeeding at each position 
on the field, off the field riddick 
By CHRIS ALLEN 

finds his passion in humor and having fun — a trait that might Theo riddick has taken a lot 
sports editor 

be traced back to his notorious of steps in his career. 
freshman-year dorm. his steps past, through and 
“I lived in Zahm when I over defenders have earned 
stayed on campus,” riddick him 966 rushing yards, 1,166 
said. “What can I say? They’re receiving yards and 1,050 re-
always rowdy, from Wednesday turn yards in his four-year ca-
till sunday. The guys in Zahm reer in an Irish uniform. but 
never sleep.” with his first step on campus as 
riddick has carried that hu­a notre dame student, riddick 
morous spirit into his long achieved something far more 
friendship with fellow senior important. 
running back cierre Wood. “I’m the first person from my 
Though the two seniors com-family to go to college,” the se­
pete for carries in the back­nior riddick said. “I wanted to 
field, their friendship has never really do something big with 
wavered. my college choice. I wanted to 
“I don’t think my relation-leave home for once, you know. 
ship with cierre has ever really I wanted to do something dif­
changed at all,” riddick said. ferent that my family never had 
“It’s always been a real tight the opportunity to do. I went 
bond on and off the field. From big and chose to come to notre 
day one, we just clicked. I’m just dame.” 
really happy to be here with him.” Mr. Versatility riddick and Wood have 
In his four years in an Irish worked hard to earn a repu­uniform, the versatile riddick I’m very versatile.” the speed of the game,” he said. take advantage of his open-field tation as practical jokesters from manville, n.J., has per-In 2009, with former Irish “beyond that, I don’t think it ability in space in the spread of-among teammates in the Irish formed in almost every skill head coach charlie Weis at the helped too much as a running fense. riddick said the move re-locker room. This penchant for position role on offense and helm, riddick had the opportu-back or wide receiver.” quired a mental adjustment. jokes reached a boiling point special teams. In addition to his nity to contribute immediately before riddick could make “It was a huge transition,” he this season, when riddick and primary duties as a tough, all-as a freshman kick returner. that move onto the first-team said. “I had never played wide Wood shared a house with around running back, riddick riddick’s open-field elusiveness offense, the Irish program had receiver before. Luckily we had senior defensive end Tyler has returned kicks and punts, and quickness down the field — to undergo a seismic change. a great receiver in [former Irish stockton — also a notorious played two years as a slot re-traits that made him one of the riddick said the firing of Weis receiver michael] Floyd here. comedian. ceiver and has even thrown a top recruits in new Jersey in the and the hiring of current coach he taught me more than a few “If I could record our house, few lead blocks for his fellow 2009 recruiting class — made a brian Kelly was a challenge as a things.” man, I think everyone in south backs. riddick said the flex-big impact on the Irish special young player. After playing the whole 2010 bend would watch,” riddick ibility in positions has always teams. his 849 return yards “It was a tough time,” riddick season and much of 2011 at the said. “We like to make jokes, do come naturally. were the most in a single season said. “being a freshman and slot position, riddick returned some pranks, it gets a little bit 
“I would say I definitely saw by an Irish player in program coming into an environment to his original position of run-wild. It happens at all hours of that I had the abilities to do a lot history, breaking a record then like that was shocking, and it ning back after a late injury to the night. It doesn’t matter if its in terms of catching the ball and held by one of riddick’s men-was tough. but we’ve bounced former Irish running back Jonas 2 a.m., you better lock your door running the ball,” riddick said. tors: former Irish running back back and overcome a lot, and Gray. since that injury, riddick in our house or someone will “coming here to notre dame, Armando Allen. riddick said he look at where we are today.” has become the most consis-mess with you.” the coaches just enhanced my learned on special teams and one of the first positional tent and dependable Irish run-While Wood and stockton abilities in those areas. … I can waited his turn on offense. changes Kelly made on the of-ning back. Through 10 games of make up riddick’s notre dame catch the ball, I can run it, I can “returning kicks just helped fensive side of the ball was to the 2012 season, riddick leads family, it is his commitment to come in and be a power back. me, in some ways, just to realize move riddick to slot receiver to notre dame in rushing with make his true family proud, as 
714 yards on the ground. The the first member of his fam­senior said his time as a wide-ily to pursue a college degree. out improved some facets of his riddick said he will share his game as a running back. career at notre dame on senior 
“That time as a wide receiver day with a very special family definitely helped me now that member. I’m a running back again,” “I get to see my twin sister. riddick said. “I can read cov-… her name is Thea,” he said. erages and I can predict where “she doesn’t go to school, she’s people are going to be in the back at home but I keep in pre-snap. definitely, that all touch with her on a daily ba­enhanced my game.” sis. We’re twins, so I mean, we 
Though he has traveled from did everything together. she the bottom of the running back didn’t play football, but she depth chart to the slot receiver was a cheerleader. If I did some position and back to be the lead things wrong, you know, she let Irish running back, riddick me know about it. she was like said he does not care about another coach out there.” his individual standing in the While riddick will walk backfield. off the field at notre dame 
“It really means nothing stadium against Wake Forest whether or not I’m the top guy,” as one of the more versatile of-he said. “I just want to win and fensive players to don the Irish be a part of wins. I’ll do any-uniform, it is his trademark thing to help this team do that. toughness that he hopes leaves I’m just happy to be a part of an impact on future players. success.” “I just want to be remembered 
as someone that never quit, re-The joker gardless of the circumstances.” 
Though he has earned a repu­tation as a tough and intimidat-Contact Chris Allen at ing between-the-tackles runner callen10@nd.edu 





safety earns scholarship in final season 

By NICOLE MICHELS 
sports Writer 
For most people, simply playing football at the collegiate level is a dream come true.  driven to chal­lenge himself, graduate student safety chris salvi wanted more 
— he wanted to play football as a student-athlete at notre dame. 
As his final home game quickly approaches, the former walk-on salvi will conclude his senior year at notre dame as a scholarship player who saw playing time on special teams and at safety. earning a full scholarship for his senior year was the fulfillment of a lifelong dream, salvi said. 
“being able to get a scholar­ship is a great honor: there are only 80-some kids who get one, and [notre dame] is such a great school, such a great football pro­gram,” salvi said. “This was some­thing that I wanted for a long time; it took an extra four years but it happened. I guess that could be a lesson to people who get discour­aged: don’t give up.” 
salvi began his collegiate foot­ball career at butler University, where he played in all of the team’s 11 games during his freshman sea­son in 2008. 
The 5-foot-10 native of Lake Forest, Ill., applied as a transfer student to notre dame, leaving a guaranteed roster spot on butler’s football team in the fall of 2009. salvi said he also transferred be­cause he felt driven to challenge himself. 
“What motivated me was testing myself — at least my football abili­ties — and also being able to attend such a great academic institution,” salvi said. 
After receiving his acceptance to notre dame, salvi contacted the football coordinator to ask for a tryout, only to endure a period of uncertainty while he waited for a response. 
“They don’t get back to you right away, which is understandable be­cause they have a lot to do,” salvi said. “You just have to be relentless with getting in contact with them 
— I eventually did, and got a tryout. A week later I was on the team.” 
due to ncAA regulations, salvi sat out his sophomore season and started playing the next year. Joining the team as a walk-on proved challenging, but his hard work on the practice squad even­tually earned him recognition and a spot on special teams, where he contributed on the kick-off and kick-return teams. 
salvi played in all 32 games to date. salvi recorded some particu­larly critical plays on special teams, including a memorable block dur­ing notre dame’s game in 2011 against a 15th-ranked michigan state that allowed George Atkinson to return a kick-off for a touchdown. 
salvi took out two players at the notre dame 25-yard line with one block, allowing Atkinson to make a 89-yard touchdown run. still, salvi said one of his most memorable moment in his football career came a few games earlier. 
“The best memories I’ve had this season, but I would say that my favorite [individual] memory probably was my first tackle that I got when I was a junior against Pittsburgh,” salvi said. 
For the notre dame-navy game oct. 29, 2011, salvi was named a game day captain for the Irish. he said serving as one of the team’s gameday captains against navy might be his best memory of his entire football career, even over the michigan state block or his first tackle. 
“That might be my best memory, actually … because it’s such a great honor that the coaches gave me, even more than the scholarship,” salvi said. “only so many guys get to be game day captain — even less than the number of scholarships on the team – so being game day captain is one of the best moments of my football career.” 
salvi said his closest bond is with his brother Will salvi, a senior walk-on cornerback. 
“I’m sure any guy on the team who has a brother would very much like their brother to be on the team with them — I’m sure the Atkinsons and the martins can at­test to that,” salvi said. “Growing up together, we know each other better than anyone else, and it’s a lot of fun to be able to go through something difficult with a sibling … it’s that much more reward­ing and you get to know them in a different way.” 
Through the name on the front of his jersey and his position on the field have changed throughout his football career, for salvi playing football is a return to the game he loved growing up. 
“I’ve always had the same ap­proaches, no real differences,” salvi said. “I like to think that I’ve played this game the same way since I’ve been a little kid: as hard as I can and trying to have fun.” 
In last year’s offseason, salvi competed in the bengal bouts boxing tournament and was the champion of the 188-pound divi­sion. Though he plans to compete again this year, for now he said his focus is entirely on relishing his fi­nal collegiate football games. 
“I’m going to miss my team­mates and being able to legally hit people,” salvi said. “It’s an outlet for frustration, when you start practice or a game you think about nothing else which is awesome — everyone should have something like that in their life.” 
To future football players think­ing about trying out for the team, salvi had one piece of advice: Go for it. 
“It’s going to be a tougher road throughout college, but it’s going to be worth it,” salvi said.  “don’t get discouraged, believe in yourself, keep confident and don’t be afraid to go for it.” 
Contact Nicole Michels at nmichels@nd.edu 

WILL SALVI | cb | LAKe ForesT, ILL. 
Salvi cherishes time on field with older brother 
just doesn’t compare to the dorm especially when I knew that the “competing with the best athletes much time and I didn’t realize 
By PETER STEINER 

sports Writer team, he said. game time was close, was pretty in the world, obviously I have a that until I joined the team,” salvi 
“Interhall was a lot of fun, but sweet,” he said. “Then running out disadvantage because I was out of said. “There’s definitely a limited 
roughly one year ago, senior this is just so much more special onto the field in Purdue was pretty football for a little bit and athleti-amount of time to do work, but Will salvi caught the winning and so much more intense and awesome as well. obviously, it cally, I’m probably not as supreme you just have to manage it well. It’s touchdown pass in a come-from-competitive, which just makes it was my first home game and you as Tyler eifert or manti Teo. I’ve not too bad.” behind win in notre dame great,” salvi said. could feel the energy of the crowd tried to hold my own and obvi-While salvi is undecided on stadium. When he made the team, salvi and being with my brother was ously working hard is a huge part what he would like to do after 
This year, salvi will be on the joined his brother chris salvi — just so special. being able to run of this.” this year is complete, one thing field saturday with a gold helmet a senior safety who transferred out of the tunnel with him on As a political science major, is certain. The decision to walk on his head, instead of playing for from butler and made the notre something we’ve held to hearts so salvi also has to balance school-on the notre dame football team the interhall football champion-dame football team in 2009. dearly is just pretty great.” work and playing football. he said one year ago has paid off with an ship sunday, like he did last year. Although they have only had one This moment was particularly the biggest change has been the amazing experience. 
As part of the 2011 dillon inter-year together on the team, salvi special because of the large role decrease in free time outside the hall football championship team, — also a transfer from Alabama notre dame has played in his life, classroom. Contact Peter Steiner at last year’s game in notre dame — identified playing with his salvi said. “As a student, you have so psteiner@nd.edu stadium represents more than brother as the most meaningful “Just always being notre dame taking home the interhall crown. aspect of his notre dame football fans was a big deal for us because It also marks the moment when experience. we just grew up with it,” salvi said. salvi decided he would try to walk “I’ve always loved notre dame,” “my dad went here and showed on to the notre dame football salvi said. “And the fact that chris us how awesome notre dame team. made the team as soon as he football was and how special the 
“Actually, before the champion-transferred here … was surreal University is. notre dame football ship game in interhall, I was talk-as is. Then when I decided to try has always been an important ing to my brother and I decided out and when I got on the team, it part of our lives.” that I think I could walk on and I was just a dream come true, being but playing for notre dame has want to join the team,” salvi said. with him. It’s the most fun I’ve had been significant for more reasons “I just wanted to be with him and and some of the best experiences than playing for his boyhood-fa­part of the team. It was a good de-have come from this year.” vorite team with his brother. This cision on my part to try out.” outside of playing with his year has also taught him many 
After a successful tryout, salvi brother, the first two football valuable lessons and life-skills he made the football team during games this year highlight the will take into the future, salvi said. his junior year. despite his and his most meaningful times salvi has “I’ve learned a lot from foot­team’s achievements in interhall had while on the team. ball that I didn’t necessarily learn football, playing for notre dame “The Ireland trip as a whole, from the classroom.” salvi said. 




Slaughter leads despite season-ending injury 
Fifth-year safety leads young secondary from sidelines after versatile career at multiple positions 
By MIKE MONACO 
sports Writer 
It all started with his mother, and it’s been a family affair ever since. 
roughly six years ago and 700 miles away, debbie Garrett con­vinced her son, Irish graduate student safety Jamoris slaughter, 
to  consider  attending  notre  
dame.  
slaughter, a native of  stone  

mountain, Ga., had focused on southern schools during his re­cruitment until Garrett floated out an idea that he had yet to entertain. 
“I could put all that solely on my mom,” slaughter said of end­ing up at notre dame. “I didn’t know much about notre dame. I was sec-bred and all I thought about was the sec and all those southern teams but my mom was the one who always cared about education. she always wanted me and my little brother to strive to do better and always reach our potential. 
“When I took the visit to notre dame I just saw all the opportu­nities educationally for me and my future and my family. I just thought it was a great situation that you could play football and go to a great university and kill two birds with one stone.” 
slaughter, ranked as the 86th­best recruit in the class of 2008 by esPn, committed to the Irish in June 2007 at his mother’s behest. The 6-foot, 200-pound defensive back joined a secondary stocked with future nFL talent, including defensive backs raeshon mcneil, Terrail Lambert, robert blanton, sergio brown, david bruton, Kyle mccarthy and harrison smith. slaughter credited the upperclassmen with serving as his “big brothers” while he ad­justed to the collegiate level. 
“raeshon mcneil [was a big brother to me],” slaughter said. “he played corner when I first came in. he was a really smart guy. he really understood foot­ball and the defense. I think when you come out of high school you don’t really under­stand football on the college level so he was a major factor. And Kyle mccarthy and david bruton [also helped] as well. 



drive you crazy. I really just have been thinking about everything I have to do to get back and that’s really just carried me through this whole season. I’ve still had a smile on my face and helped out the younger guys. my knowl­edge and my assistance can re­ally help them out and it’s been showing on the field.” 
The young secondary has ben­efited from slaughter’s coach­ing expertise. Along with senior safety Zeke motta, junior cor­nerback bennett Jackson, sopho­more safety matthias Farley and freshman cornerback Keivarae russell have powered a defen­sive backfield that is ranked 11th in the nation in passing efficien­cy defense. slaughter said he has made it a point to stay involved with the secondary. 
“I still watch film with matthias and Zeke and still coach up the younger guys like I’m still out there on the field,” slaughter said. “They really appreciate that because at first when I got hurt I just wanted to shut down. I didn’t want to do anything be­cause it was just a shock to me that I got an injury and I knew I was going to be out for the whole year. but it was something that I told myself I was going to keep doing because I knew it was one of the right things to do.” 
slaughter, as he has become the elder statesman of the sec­ondary from the sidelines, said he thinks he has especially helped the younger players, just as former teammates like mcneil, mccarthy and bruton advised him. 
“I always want to see the suc­cess of my teammates, especially the young guys,” slaughter said. 
“I remember when I came in, when you’ve got somebody older than you that understands and has been through what you’ve been through and they can sit and talk to you and help you un­derstand things, it shows they really care and it really helps. so I think with me doing that with the younger guys they really ap­preciate that. They always say ‘Thanks slaughter’ for helping with me out with this or that.” 
slaughter has taken an espe­cially keen interest in mentor­ing the rookie russell, who has thrived as a starter since con­verting from running back to cornerback. 
“I look at him as my little brother and he looks at me like I’m the big brother,” slaughter said of their relationship. “When he first got in, he played [running back] and switched to [defen­sive back] and now he’s starting. That’s crazy. I’m thinking when I was a freshman I was all nervous and he has the poise of a senior so I think he’s going to be a great player. As time goes by he’s going to get better each year.” 
slaughter may end up play­ing alongside russell once more. The safety has applied to the ncAA for a sixth year of eligibil­ity and is awaiting a decision. 
“I’m just waiting for the word,” slaughter said. “If I get the sixth [year], I probably will come back and if not I’ll be trying to get to the nFL.” 
slaughter said he knows the injury has hampered his nFL prospects, but he is willing to put in the hard work to achieve his longtime dream. 
“The thing with me is I knew if I stayed healthy I knew I would 

PAId AdverTIsemenT 
get [to the nFL],” slaughter said. “It wasn’t about making plays or anything. I knew if I stayed healthy, I’d be fine. When I took that injury this year it kind of set me back but I’m a very hard worker and when it comes to something I want, I always put in the time and the hours. so don’t count me out yet.” 
Whenever slaughter does make the leap to the professional ranks, he will be doing it with a new perspective on earning a living. on march 19, slaughter’s girlfriend Jasmine Torres gave birth to santana ryan slaughter. With roughly eight months un­der his belt as a father, slaughter has learned how to lead a fam­ily different than the Irish secondary. 
“[santana’s birth] has definite­ly brought a lot of things in per­spective just about life in general, about family,” slaughter said. “When you’ve got somebody that depends on you for everything, you really have to think about the decisions you make and how it could affect you or your family. so it’s definitely made me into a better man.” 
slaughter said his son’s birth has also made him a better team­mate, as he leads his younger teammates as a father figure and an older brother. 
“I’ve always cared about my teammates, but I feel like when you have a son — I know a lot of people don’t have kids in col­lege — it just turns a switch on inside you and makes you care about things a little bit more,” slaughter said. 
Contact Mike Monaco at jmonaco@nd.edu 
They all played [defensive back] so I was always hanging around them and they always showed me the ropes.” 
slaughter used his freshman campaign to learn from his up­perclassmen brothers as he redshirted. In 2009, slaughter appeared in all 12 games as a sophomore for the Irish and tal­lied 14 tackles. As a junior in 2010 under first-year coach brian Kelly, slaughter transitioned to safety and made five starts in the secondary. 
slaughter played in all 13 games as a senior last season, making 10 starts. In the champs sports bowl against Florida state, the hard-hitting slaughter moved into a hybrid outside line­backer role in which he excelled, racking up five tackles and the first two sacks of his career against the seminoles. 
slaughter said he has been comfortable shifting around the defensive lineup as long as he is still a playmaker. 
“my mindset when I was asked to play different positions — and at first I just wanted to play safety — is sometimes when you’re asked to do something I look at it as a challenge, like ‘can I do that?’” slaughter said. “And I just went all in and I really put in the time and the study to un­derstand the positions that I had to play, because I played numer­ous positions last year. It just all started to make sense for me and I just wanted to make plays.” 
The versatile defender was granted a fifth year of eligibility by the ncAA on march 20 and was expected to lead a youthful secondary in 2012 that was green after the graduations of blanton, smith and cornerback Gary Gray. but slaughter’s time as the on-field leader of the young sec­ondary was short-lived. 
slaughter tore his Achilles ten­don on the first play of the sec­ond half of notre dame’s 20-3 victory over michigan state on sept. 15. The injury required sur­gery and ended slaughter’s sea­son in shocking fashion. 
“It’s real hard to deal with,” slaughter said of the injury. “I’ve been trying to stay positive and look at things on the positive side because if you don’t it will 



Stockton succeeds in school, plans on MBA 
By TORI ROECK 
sports Writer 
senior nose guard Tyler stockton is an academic leader for his teammates. A marketing major, stockton said he enjoys schoolwork and hopes to in­still intellectual curiosity in the younger players. 
“Working is something I love to do. It’s something I’ve been doing all my life, and I’ve nev­er stopped doing it,” stockton said. “That’s what I want to show the younger kids.” 
When he was a freshman, stockton said the upperclass­men mentored him through adjusting to college, which in­spired him to do the same for others. 
“When I came in, there was always someone there to help me with school, tell me the right way to study and how to be a good person on and off the field, always doing the right thing,” he said. “Looking back now, that’s what I want to con­tribute, just being a leader for the younger kids, making sure everybody’s on time, making sure everybody’s working hard, nobody’s messing around, ev­erybody’s focused.” 
stockton said he hopes his academic journey can serve as a good example for his teammates. 
“coming in, it was hard for me with school, so now it’s like school’s easy for me,” he said. “I need to show [younger play­ers] what it took for me to bet­ter myself academically here so they’re not going to struggle as they get older.” 
stockton said he chose to at­tend notre dame because of the academic quality of the university. 
“I decided to come here be­cause I knew that football wouldn’t last forever,” he said. “I knew that coming to notre dame I would get the best de­gree, meet some of the best people possible and live a great life after football and after school here.” 
The notre dame network was also appealing to stockton, and he said alumni have been very generous to him. 
“Whatever literally you want to do, there’s someone that’s willing to help you, someone that’s willing to show you the ropes,” he said. “I only have two weeks off [in the summer] and people are willing to say, ‘come to my office for two or three weeks and I’ll show you what I do.’ People want to help you out just because you’re a notre dame student, and there’s a big network out there so you can go pretty much wherever you want.” 
being a marketing major was an easy choice for stockton because he said he wanted to follow in the footsteps of his father, who served as executive vice president of marketing at Kerzner International resorts. 
“As soon as I got into college, I knew that I wanted to do some­thing similar to him,” he said. 
so far, stockton said he has had internships at morgan stanley and hopes to enter an mbA program after graduation. 
stockton’s life isn’t consumed only by homework and foot­ball. he said he enjoys bowling, soaking up the notre dame ex­perience and especially video games. 
“I’m the greatest at all video games,” he said. “You can ask anybody that.” 
In his downtime, stockton said he also enjoys hanging out with his teammates who have formed a very close-knit group. 
“We’ve always been close since day one, our class. It starts with our coaches,” he said. “They’re a close group as well. [Irish defensive coordina­tor bob diaco] instills stuff into us every day, like to better our­selves, have a lot of energy and give a lot of effort. everyone is out there fighting for each other and doesn’t want to mess up for all their brothers.” 
stockton said having to leave notre dame after graduation will be difficult for him, but he knows his education has pre­pared him to do great things. 
“It was an unreal experience and something I’ll never forget,” he said. “It was totally worth it coming here, and I hope kids make the right decision when they go through recruiting be­cause [football] is not going to last forever, so you’re going to have to figure out something else to do with your life. This school’s going to set you up for that.” 

Contact Tori Roeck at vroeck@nd.edu 

MATT TANSEY | oL | berKeLeY heIGhTs, n.J. 
Tansey to leave football, become pilot 
would head to Pensacola, Fla., carter, and he told me — dead-and my father were all big notre basically said, ‘dude, I can’t 
By CHRIS ALLEN 

sports editor after graduation to train as a pan as ever — you’re going to be dame fans. my uncle died watch this from up here any-navy pilot. a student naval aviator. You’re when I was in fourth grade, and more, we have to try out for the 
It was oct. 17, and then 6-0 “normally, they would call us going to train to be a pilot.” my grandfather died this sum-team next season’” notre dame was preparing in one at a time to tell us our as-For Tansey, the only player on mer,” Tansey said. “my grand-Tansey was one of four play-for a home game against bYU. signments, but because it was the notre dame roster who also father was a navy veteran and ers to join the team after a walk-before a customary Wednesday fall break and people were all trains in notre dame’s highly-was absolutely one of the driv-on tryout in the fall of 2010. practice, notre dame senior of-over they called us instead,” regarded roTc program, the ing factors for me choosing since that time, he has logged fensive lineman matt Tansey Tansey said. “I was in the Gug, call was a culmination of four the navy. he was a huge notre almost three full seasons as received a phone call he will just got out of a morning lift. years of discipline and hard dame fan, and he never missed a member of the scout team, never forget from captain earl We had practice in about two work. he shared the moment a football game for me growing prepping the Irish starters for carter of the United states navy. hours. so I got the call from our with his parents — and his up. From pee-wee, high school, opposing offenses. regardless The news was simple — Tansey [commanding officer] captain notre dame football family. you name it. he got to watch me of whether he sees his first 
“As soon as I got off the phone, on Tv at notre dame. game experience on senior day I called my mom and my dad. “This whole season has been against Wake Forest, Tansey It was almost the same feeling the weirdest feeling, because I said he will take many lessons from them that they had when just said to myself, ‘We haven’t from his time in an Irish uni-I got the call about getting into lost since he left us. It’s hard not form as he prepares to don an­notre dame,” Tansey said. “I to feel like there’s something other uniform in defense of his told some of the guys on the special there.’” country. team. It was just the greatest After adjusting to the al-“You know, football is just a feeling in the world. That day ready-regimented schedule of game. but for me, my purpose at practice I could barely focus, an roTc participant and train-is just to do what I’m told to the just thinking about how I could ing to meet strict physical fit-best of my ability in order to have gotten that lucky.” ness requirements of the navy help the team improve,” Tansey 
The journey to that moment as a freshman, Tansey sought said. “That’s an attitude that I was a long one for Tansey, a to take on further commitment plan on carrying forward. I’m walk-on who joined the notre in the fall of 2010. Tansey said going to do what I’m supposed dame football program in the he felt an urge to return to the to do to the best of my ability in fall of 2010. Tansey said the playing field and continue play-order to fulfill whatever duty it conviction to come to notre ing football. is that I have. dame and participate in the “After high school, I was okay “I don’t see anything that re-navy roTc program came being done with football. I was ally matters past that point. I’ve from his relationship with his ready to walk away,” Tansey had three years to play a game late grandfather, Petty officer said. “Then I got here. I still that I love and have some fun Third class James Tansey, who remember watching a game in before I head into service.” served in the navy from 1944 to 2009, we were in the stands at 1954. a game, and I got a text mes-Contact Chris Allen at 
“my grandfather, my uncle sage from a friend of mine. It callen10@nd.edu 



Tausch adds name to Notre Dame record books 
By JOSEPH MONARDO 
sports Writer 
For Irish senior kicker nick Tausch, watching the ball sail through the uprights is a special feeling. 
“It feels great,” Tausch said. “Just going through your tech­nique and going through your rhythm that you have and know­ing that all the hard work that you worked on through practice and throughout the week in the film study that you look at, the work that you put in really paid off.” 
Tausch, a native of Plano, Texas, had a standout fresh­man campaign in 2009 when he converted a then-school re­cord 14-straight field goals in a stretch spanning seven games. In notre dame’s 37-30 overtime victory over Washington on oct. 3 of that year, the rookie was suc­cessful on all five of his field goal attempts –— good for another school record. however, an inju­ry cut his season short and forced Tausch to miss the season’s final three games. 
“It was really tough,” Tausch said of the injury. “I ended up spraining my ankle and it was tough because I was on a roll and the team was doing well. so, I mean, it was tough to have to go on the sideline and know that since it was the end of the season, or the latter end of the season, it was going to be towards the end and I probably wouldn’t get back out there.” 
As a sophomore Tausch saw action in three games, mostly on kickoff duty. he converted his lone field goal attempt in 2010, a 34-yard kick against miami in the sun bowl. he did not see game action as a junior and has not played since the 2012 opener against navy. 
Although he has not returned to a primary role in the Irish kicking game since his injury, the self-proclaimed “country boy” said he does not think about what could have been. 
“I mean, I just think that inju­ries have kind of played a part in my career here, but I look at the positives that I’ve done and just continue to work better every single day knowing that my op­portunity is around the corner,” Tausch said. “It’s there, I am go­ing to jump on it and do well. 
“I don’t really try to focus on the negatives or anything nega­tive that happened in the game before. I am just always looking at the positives. I know that inju­ries do play a part in sport.” 
Instead of focusing on set­backs, Tausch said he takes pride in his ability to be consis­tent when given the chance to perform. 
“really just me being con­sistent, I think [is my most im­portant achievement],” he said. “I think I am [15-of-18 in field-goal attempts] throughout my career, so just being consistent is something.” 
ranked as the ninth-best kicker in the nation coming out of high school, Tausch said the decision to come to notre dame was originally difficult. 
“I think it was [a hard deci­sion] at the beginning but then the more that I thought about it, and then when I took my visit here, the more that I realized this place was for me,” he said. 
“When I got up here it was dur­ing the spring … and it was just really cool and a really beautiful place, I just fell in love with it, to be honest. right when I stepped on campus, and then through­out my whole tour that I had and meeting the coaches and every­thing, I knew it was the school for me.” 
The sociology major said he aims to stay a fifth year to play out his final year of ncAA eligi­bility. Tausch especially values the relationships he has formed with teammates, especially se­nior special teams players long snapper Jordan cowart and punter ben Turk. 
“[What comes to mind is] really just my class, my team­mates that are in my class this year,” he said. “We have a really good group of guys, I probably couldn’t ask [for] anyone better. I have just bonded with them and gotten to know them for the last four years, that I will have rela­tionships with for the rest of my life.” 
As to what comes after gradua­tion, Tausch said he is not certain what path he wants to pursue, al­though a position within football is at the top of the list. 
“I’m really not sure 100 percent yet,” he said. “I am still kind of thinking about that, actually re­ally starting to zone in on what I really want to focus on. but right now I am leaning towards coaching. I’m not sure what type of level or whatnot, but I think it would be really cool to kind of give back to players that want to play.” 

Contact Joseph Monardo at jmonardo@nd.edu 
SARAH O’CONNOR | The Observer 
Senior kicker Nick Tausch attempts a field goal in Notre Dame’s 50-10 win over Navy on Sept. 1 in Dublin. Tausch was 1-for-1 in the game. 

KEVIN WALSH | Lb | beTTendorF, IoWA 
Walsh adjusts to mixing school with sport 
morning to seven at night.” linebacker playing for Keenan on Although Walsh was not re-
Walsh says that crossing the sundays, he said interhall football cruited to play football for the divide between athletes and non-could not prepare him for what he Irish, he never wavered in his de­athletes has changed the way would see as part of a division I sire to follow his grandfather and he views the segment of the stu-program. numerous other family members dent body that has access to the “[Interhall’s] completely differ-to notre dame, even if it meant Guglielmino Athletics complex. ent, oh my gosh,” Walsh said. “I’m that he would not play college 
“I definitely have a lot more re-looking at it now, after I’ve been football. he says that the oppor­spect for the amount of time that exposed to this so often, and it tunity to try out for the team so it takes to be a student-athlete, just seems like … it’s a whole new late in his college years came as a and the ability that all my team-world.” surprise, even to him. mates have to balance school and Walsh said that it took a little bit “It kind of just sprung upon athletics,” Walsh said. “And for of time to get used to formal foot-me,” Walsh said. “It’s my last year. them doing that for fours years — ball after three years away from a I always kind of wanted to do it, that’s amazing.” varsity team. every kid dreams about it.” 
Although Walsh hadn’t even “At first, it was definitely a Although he never expected to considered trying to walk on to curve,” Walsh said. “but I’ve been join the football team, Walsh says the team in previous seasons, he getting into it now and now it’s that being able to run onto the was friends with several players, going well.” same field that his grandfather including senior punter ben Turk As scary as the Irish defense played on decades ago has been 
— Kevin Walsh, who walked onto and senior long snapper Jordan has been for opposing teams this one of his favorite parts of the en-
By VICKY JACOBSEN 

sports Writer the team at the beginning of this cowart. Walsh said they were the season, Walsh says that his new tire experience. season, becoming a student-ath-ones who told him he might have teammates have made him feel at “definitely running out of the 
The president of the notre lete in his fourth and final year a shot as a walk-on. home. tunnel,” Walsh responded when dame Accounting Association at notre dame has been a crash “Well I know a couple guys on “everyone’s so nice on the asked about his favorite moment didn’t make an appearance at course in balancing the different the team and then I got in contact team, and they were so welcom-as a member of the team. “my the club’s concession stand in demands on his time. with [director of football person-ing and so helpful, and you make grandpa played here on a na­the hours leading up to kickoff “now [my life has] much more nel] Tim mcdonnell, and kind so many new friends by join-tional championship team with against bYU this season. he had structure and responsibility, of worked it out through him,” ing the team,” Walsh said. “You his two brothers, and he passed a pretty good excuse, though: more accountability to my team-Walsh said. “And [the coaching spend so much time with these away my freshman year and to be members of the varsity football mates,” Walsh said. “definitely I staff] emailed me before sum-people that you develop relation-able to do this senior year is really team don’t have much free time have to have better time manage-mer camp and told me there was ships with them. All the defensive special.” on game days. ment skills, because between the a spot open.” guys, all the walk-ons, we have 
For senior linebacker — and credits I’m taking and the foot-Although Walsh enjoyed his a close bond because of all the Contact Vicky Jacobsen at Accounting Association president ball I’m busy from seven in the three years as a defensive end and scout team work we do.” vjacobse@nd.edu 



Toma excels as slot receiver 
Senior receiver steps into major offensive role following injuries to key players 

By ANDREW OWENS 
Assistant managing editor 
robby Toma has always em­braced being the little guy. At 5-foot-9, 185 pounds, he doesn’t have any other choice. 
“even when I was growing up I’ve always been a cocky, pushy guy,” Toma said. “Just growing up, I’ve always thought I was better and that I could go out and win no matter what situ­ation I was given. I’ve always been confident.” 
When signing day ap­proached for Toma and close friend — and fellow gradu­ate of Punahou high school in honolulu — manti Te’o, the two were set to go in different direc­tions: Toma to UcLA and Te’o to notre dame. In a last ditch recruiting effort by former Irish coach charlie Weis, Toma was persuaded to reconsider and ultimately faxed his letter of in­tent to notre dame. 
“It was definitely difficult,” the former three-star recruit said. “over recruiting, you gain trust and a bond with these coaches, but in the end it’s a business and coaches are go­ing to make a decision to benefit them and their family, and I had to make the best decision for myself. 
“[In Jan. 2011], my recruit­ing coach, [norm] chow, was at Utah, so as mad as [UcLA was] at me, I would’ve been there and he would’ve been gone. It wasn’t difficult. As I look back on it, I couldn’t be happier with the decision.” 
but that doesn’t mean the ride was always a smooth one at a university nearly 5,000 miles away from his friends and family. 
“It was an adjustment being away from home and getting used to the speed of the game, the strength of the players,” Toma said. “The first couple days of camp were rough on [Te’o and I], but once we settled in, we just got back to football and what we wanted to do. It was just a comfort level for us.” 
Toma said the adjustment was made easier by technology and the ability to contact family members and friends via phone or skype. 
“I couldn’t imagine not talk­ing to some of my friends and family that I talked to almost every day,” he said. “so it really hasn’t been that difficult and having manti and [hawaiian junior nose guard Kona schwenke] here has definitely been a blessing and when you are missing home, you can look across and see a familiar face.” 
even before Toma had to deal with icicles instead of palm trees, he first had to overcome a depth chart on which he was initially nowhere to be found. 
“It was tough,” he said. “I was redshirted the first few weeks, and then coach Weis called me in after a bunch of injuries, so I played a few games my fresh­man year. You can’t get down on yourself. … You just need to learn from your mistakes and that’s all you can do as a football player. 
“It really tested my faith. my parents have always been there, but I just kept going, kept grinding and my opportunities came.” 
In the seventh game of his collegiate career, Toma finally broke through and recorded two receptions for 13 yards against boston college. he caught an­other pass the following week but, following a coaching change, Toma needed to hit the reset button once again. 
As a sophomore in 2010, Toma didn’t see any meaningful ac­tion until the 4-4 Irish faced Tulsa. After Theo riddick and T.J. Jones went down with injuries, no. 9 was called into action. A program-low in the form of a 28­27 loss to the Golden hurricane resulted in an individual break­through for Toma, as he jumped into duty and caught four passes for 67 yards. 
“I didn’t play a snap, and then a couple injuries happened and they threw me in and I started playing well and they kept me in the whole game and I started the rest of the season,” he said. “When the opportunity present­ed itself, I’m glad I was ready for it, and I showed the coaches I could play, so that might be the greatest moment I’ve had since being here.” 
since then, Toma has been a consistent performer out of the slot position for the Irish. 
“my whole thing was I just wanted to be a part of the of­fense and help out any way I could, whether it’s blocking or catching passes,” he said. “We’re [undefeated] and it’s a blessing to be on this team and help out in any way I can.” 
but even now that Toma has a stranglehold on the slot posi­tion, he stays true to his size and spunk. 
“I know I’m quicker than most guys, so I know I have advantag­es over people and people have advantages over me, but I try to really focus on my strengths,” he said. “When I do have a weak­ness, I try to work on it in the offseason and in practice.” 
Toma said he refuses to trash talk with an opponent unless he feels he or a teammate has been disrespected. earlier this sea­son, when the Irish were warm­ing up at oklahoma, Toma said he couldn’t resist. 
“A guy came at me and was laughing at my chin hair, say­ing, ‘how long have you been growing it?’ or something child­ish and I came right back at him and Theo [riddick] and [senior running back] cierre [Wood] lost it on the bench,” he said. “We shouldn’t be doing that, but there’s certain guys who have that on and off switch and as long as you can stay focused, I don’t see a problem with it. 
“every stadium I go to I get ripped by the crowd because of my size, but I look forward to what the opposing crowd has to say to me.” 
Toma’s attitude is even di­rected toward Irish coach brian Kelly on occasion. 
“In practice, they’ll be calling out certain personnel for run­ning back and I’ll be in [Kelly’s] ear like, ‘call mine.’ he’ll just look at me and start smiling,” Toma said. 
“If I didn’t want to get the ball, there’d be a problem.” 
Contact Andrew Owens at aowens2@nd.edu 




Turk steadily improves as starting punter 
By LAURA COLETTI 
sports Writer 
during Irish punter ben Turk’s senior season, he has established success to cap a career that has faced many challenges as a rare four-year starter at punter. 
Upon graduation from saint Thomas Aquinas high school in Fort Lauderdale, Fla., Turk was ranked no. 3 nationally among punters in his class. Turk chose notre dame over Alabama, cincinnati, Florida and miami. 
“It was a pretty easy decision for me as far as picking a school,” Turk said. “notre dame was among the top academically, so for school reasons and academics I chose to come to notre dame.” 
his punting debut came dur­ing his freshman year in notre dame’s 37-30 overtime victory over Washington. Turk was sub­sequently named the starter by then-Irish coach charlie Weis and punted in six of the team’s final eight games. 
“Freshman year was pretty stressful, kind of going back and forth between playing and not playing,” Turk said. “I was kind of competing for a job every week. I feel like it made me a better punter, though, just to be in those pressure situations at practice, so that it was not only in games but in practice that I was having to compete.” 
Turk maintained his starting role into his sophomore year, staying consistent with a 38.3­yard average. he hit his stride during his junior year, when he averaged 40.3 yards per punt on the season and hit a career-long 58-yard punt in the Irish’s 45-21 victory over maryland. 
This year, Turk has continued to increase the average length of his punts, as well as help the Irish on special teams. he cited holding for sophomore kicker Kyle brindza as one of his more personal exciting points on the season. 
“Against Purdue, the field goal to avoid going into overtime when I was holding [for brindza] was exciting, because it was the first time I was a part of the game-tying or game-winning play,” he said. 
Along with his consistent im­provement over the last four years, Turk and senior long-snap­per Jordan cowart have a person­al record to keep intact. The two were teammates at saint Thomas Aquinas as well, and the pair has yet to have one of their punts blocked in the seven years they have been playing together — a statistic rare for a four-year starter at punter in college football. Turk has also earned a monogram all four years, another especially rare statistic for a punter. 
It should be no surprise that Turk has become a more success­ful athlete as his football career has progressed. his uncle, matt Turk, made the nFL Pro bowl three times while punting for the Washington redskins. The family ties influenced Turk while in high school and has continued to have an impact on his career. 
“It was nice to kind of have a personal coach who’s done it so long at the professional level,” Turk said. “If I needed anyone to give advice or anything, he was probably the person to go to.” 
In addition to devoting time to his on-field improvement as a punter, Turk has worked hard to improve in the classroom. As a finance major in the mendoza college of business, he takes as much pride in representing notre dame as a student as he does in representing the school as a member of the football team. he is a tour guide for the University, as well as an employee at the hesburgh Library’s circulation desk during the offseason. Turk 
PAId AdverTIsemenT 

thoroughly enjoys his classes in finance, and said they are his fa­vorite thing about notre dame outside of football. 
“I really enjoy learning about different finance topics and I think the classes are great,” he said “I actually enjoy going to class, so that’s probably my favor­ite thing outside of football.” 
As for his post-graduation plans, Turk is exploring a vari­ety of roles in the financial world — while keeping an eye on poten­tial opportunities on the gridiron. he is exploring options in both football and finance. 
“I want to go into sales and trading or investment banking,” he said. “but I’m still kind of play­ing out the whole football scenar­io and worrying about a job after that.” 
Contact Laura Coletti at lcoletti@nd.edu 




Watt flourishes as pulling guard 
Senior offensive lineman becomes a consistent force on the left side of the offensive line 

defensive linemen over the one of my strengths.” weekend. Looking ahead — even past 
“having that relationship off a bowl game in Pasadena, the field helps a lot,” Watt said. Glendale or, he hopes, miami — “It’s great to have a guy with that Watt is quick to assert that he’ll kind of experience on your left be back for a fifth year, despite side, and a guy where you know having solid nFL prospects that he’s going to have your back and a mid-to-high round draft and you’re going to have his. projection. There’s a lot of trust there.” “obviously I’ll check and see 
Watt has continued to pave the process, but I definitely want the way for the Irish this year, to come back for that fifth year,” and usually has martin right he said. “I’ve grown up playing there beside him. As a result, football, and in coming here the Irish have favored the left that’s one aspiration that I’ve al­side of the line in much of their ways had, is to play at the profes­running game, letting Watt and sional level. You think about it, martin lead the team to victory but I try not to, because there’s with ‘Power Left’ after ‘Power really nothing better than being Left.’ 10-0 at notre dame with your 
“chris and I have the same buddies and the whole cam-mentality, and we’ll do whatever pus vibe around you. It’s been we can to help the team,” martin great.” said. “We know when our num-After what he hopes will be ber is called on the left side, we’ll a long career in pros, Watt said be ready to go.” that he will leave the world of 
Watt was ready and able dur-football behind — but not the ing notre dame’s most impor-professional world. The mar­tant game in almost two decades, keting major plans to make the on the road three weeks ago at most of his degree, and continue then-no. 8 oklahoma. The Irish on the tremendous experience looked like they wouldn’t be able he’s had as an undergrad. to keep pace early on, as halfway “Professors are amazing here. 

end at northwestern, while adjustment period.” through the first quarter the I have a few marketing profes-
By JACK HEFFERON 

sports Writer chris himself was a five-star re-Watt waited his turn that sooners had already amassed sors that I feel I can go talk to cruit and was pegged by many year, and found a role on spe-over 100 yards — compared to whenever I want,” he said. “I 
“I had a dream last night that as the best offensive line pros-cial teams as a sophomore. still, notre dame’s meager nine. definitely want to go to gradu-I was a muffler. And I woke up pect in the country. he wanted to make an impact but then Irish coach brian ate school when it’s all said and exhausted.” coming out of Glenbard on the line, and kept prepar-Kelly dialed up a trap run to done, hopefully after a profes-
If you’re talking about senior high school on the west side of ing for his chance, learning the left. Watt took a quick step sional career. I really would like chris Watt, that’s usually the chicago, Watt received schol-from upperclassmen like eric to right, then wrenched all 309 to go into brand management.” best way to start. arship offers from most of the olsen, chris stewart and Trevor pounds of sooners senior defen-Watt still has plenty of foot-
Throughout his life, Watt has big Ten, including an oppor-robinson. Watt’s chance final-sive tackle casey Walker with ball left to play before then, and opened everything from his tunity to follow his brother to ly came in a pressure-packed him, turning Walker a full 90 plenty of classes left to take. And high school commencement evanston. The offer to line up environment four games into degrees. senior running back even though he’ll likely return address to class presentations against his brother every day — the season, and he took full cierre Wood burst through the for a fifth year under the Golden 
— even his speech at the pep like they had always growing up advantage. gap Watt had just vacated, then dome, Watt is making sure that rally before playing stanford in the backyard — was certainly “on the road at boston scampered 62 yards untouched he continues to cherish every last month — with that same appealing. but once he visited college was the first time I got to put the Irish on the score-second of his fourth. gem. notre dame, Watt knew that he in for meaningful snaps, and board and keep them in the “A lot of people talk about the 
It’s a peek at the lighter side had met his new family. I loved it,” he said. “It was an game. community of notre dame, and of the 310-pound left guard, “being here and meeting the awesome experience, and I “[offensive line] coach you can definitely feel that when something opposing defen-players I was going to be playing think my adrenaline was at an [harry] hiestand always tells us you come here,” Watt said. “It’s a sive linemen don’t get to see on with and the guys in my class, all-time high. but that all came that we’ve got to do our job first, wonderful place to go to school, saturdays. I really bonded with them,” he because I was able to learn the and use our technique, and ob-and everyone is passionate 
“When I’m off the field, I try said. “I got to see a game here offense over the spring and the viously that’s what I had to do on about everything that they do. to keep things light and be for the first time, and to see all summer, and then perform it on a play like that,” Watt said. “Then “For me, it’s running out of funny,” Watt said. “but I can of the tradition behind that was the field.” lastly, you’ve got to whoop your that tunnel. It’s kind of cliché, get serious when I need to, and unbelievable. everyone loves Watt’s excellence in spot work man’s [butt], and that’s what we but I still get chills every time. during practice and the games notre dame — or hates it — and as a sophomore sprung him into try to do every game. I can’t believe it’s all gone by so that’s definitely where I’m at.” it was cool to be put in the spot-the starting lineup as a junior, “I feel like I’ve done a really fast, but it’s such a great feeling.” 
For the past four years, Watt light like that, especially with where he proved to be an impor-good job of being really physical has made his presence felt as the opportunity to play on na-tant cog in one of the nation’s this year, and getting after my Contact Jack Hefferon at one of the grittiest players on tional Tv every week as well.” most successful units. In the 13 guy and playing hard has been wheffero@nd.edu notre dame’s roster. Whether And while Watt didn’t go to games that season, the offensive pulling or pass blocking, his northwestern with his brother, line allowed just 17 sacks and speed and nastiness have set he still had Kevin to go to for powered the running game to the tone for and powered the guidance, especially as a fresh-an average of 4.8 yards per carry, Irish, making Watt more mo-man. As a redshirt player deal-both the best marks by an Irish tor than muffler. ing with the jump to college line in well over a decade. 
“he brings the toughness to both athletically and academi-The left side of the line was our offense, and he’s got to be cally, Watt said that having that particularly solid, as Watt had the toughest guy on the team,” lifeline was a huge part of his martin lining up directly to his senior tackle Zack martin said. transition to division I athletics. left. The two linemen have been “he’s played through injury, “It was tough, but at the same roommates since that first sum-especially this year, and he time Kevin was very support-mer of minicamp, and have brings that mentality to our ive of my decision,” Watt said. shared the basement of an off-whole offense.” “I called my brother and talked campus house for the past two 
Watt has had a pedigree to him all the time. being able years. of excellence, even before he to talk to a brother who had al-The two are nearly insepara­arrived at notre dame. his ready gone through the process ble both on and off of the field, brother Kevin was two years was really important. he really watching movies together dur­older and a starting defensive helped me through that camp ing the week, then pounding 




Wood embraces California mentality 
Senior running back adjusts to life away from home, excels in Kelly offense 
only one thing to say. “[I’m a california boy] 
By ANDREW GASTELUM 

Associate sports editor “West coast, best coast, West through and through. It doesn’t coast is the best coast,” Wood matter where [I live].” 
In just one year, senior run-said. ning back cierre Wood went Wood started his spectacu-All-around effort from 5,641 rushing yards and lar high school career in Long coming from high school to 71 touchdowns in high school beach, calif., at Long beach college, Wood worked on re-to zero his freshman year. Zero Poly, the same school that pro-fining his raw athleticism and yards, zero touchdowns and duced nFL talents desean speed into a lethal combination zero playing time. Jackson, marcedes Lewis and of agility and power. 
“I was thinking about [trans-Willie mcGinest. but Wood “At the beginning it was all ferring after freshman year],” transferred before his sopho-finesse, but I had to learn how Wood said. “I didn’t like the more year to santa clara high to become a complete back,” position I was in and stuff like school, where he rushed for Wood said. “If I had to go in that. but [running backs] coach 2,612 yards and 34 touchdowns between the tackles, I would [Tony] Alford kept me grind-in his junior year alone. be able to do it. or I could be ing the whole time I’ve been And even though he is in his the speedy guy on the outside. here along with a couple of my fourth year away from home, once I got here I learned how to teammates. And we decided we Wood said he still misses the do it. were going to make it work and luxuries of home. “That’s how it is in the [nFL]. found a way to make it happen.” “I miss everything. In-n-out That’s part of why we are here. 
recruited by former Irish [burger]. Going to the beach, We are not doing this for noth­coach charlie Weis, Wood was all the clubs in hollywood. ing. The backs in the league a highly regarded four-star Going shopping,” Wood said. now are all well-rounded. There recruit, also receiving offers “everything in california is just are some that are finesse and from Auburn, Florida and Usc. better than any other place in make it work. but at some point coming from all the atten-the world. There is something you have to have the physicality tion to none at all was a defi-to do at all times. You’ll never to run up the middle. I figured I nite challenge, combined with be bored. You can go outside, should get a start on that early the adjustment to the frigid literally walk outside your door, rather than later.” work paid off, becoming just have nicknames,” Wood said. weather. and something is bound to hap-The senior gained 23 pounds the 11th player in notre dame “[being a jokester] is just how I 
“In the beginning it was ter-pen. I don’t think it’s the same between the summer of his history to surpass the 1,000-am. being from california, ev­rible, because of the fact that it with the midwest or the east.” freshman year and his senior yard rushing mark, highlighted eryone just makes fun of each was so cold,” he said. “but once Although some things could year, putting in the work dur-by a career high 191 yards on 20 other. I was born and raised like you’ve been out here for a long not come to south bend with ing and after practice. he even carries against Purdue on oct. that, so I might as well bring it time, you begin to adapt. And him, Wood said he brought the went as far as to ask senior line-1, 2011. despite missing the first here.” once I got that, it felt easier at mentality of his state with him, backer manti Te’o to hit and two games of the 2012 season but Wood said he has devel­that point.” and it has translated in be-tackle him repeatedly so the for violating team rules, Wood oped a special bond and target 
Wood has his sights set on tween the tackles as well. 6-foot, 215-pound back could has rushed for 570 yards and for his barbs in his roommates something beyond his col-“Just the fact that in improve his toughness and three touchdowns while aver-and fellow four-star recruits legiate career, 2,275 rushing california, people don’t really pass blocking. aging 6.3 yards per carry. from the class of 2009: defen­yards, 15 touchdowns and three trip out about a lot of stuff,” “I really wasn’t good at pass but one play this season still sive tackle Tyler stockton and seasons later. Wood said. “everybody’s calm, blocking at the beginning, so has the running back fuming: a running back Theo riddick. 
“I can’t really say it, but it has everybody’s collected. my de-[Te’o] is a good pass rusher,” goal-line fumble in the second “We are around each other to do with the [nFL],” Wood meanor is just real cool. When he said. “When I got here, we overtime against Pittsburgh on as often as possible,” he said. said. “If they give me good things go down, a lot of people had a bunch of big dudes like nov. 3. “I live with Theo, so I see him news, I might skedaddle. It all always ask me why I am so [linebackers] Kerry neal and “I don’t care what anyone every day. so being around depends, but that is what it will nonchalant about stuff.  but brian smith. so what I would says, I know I [scored],” Wood him everyday, we can pick up come down to. but I’m not re-I just can’t help it. even when do is have them line up coming said. “The ball crossed the on each other’s tendencies ally worried about that.” I’m mad, I don’t really trip out off the edge and do their best plane, but it is what it is. It and learn a lot more from each 
about it. That’s just how I roll.” move, whether it be a bull rush shouldn’t have happened, but it other.” West Coast bias no matter wherever his life or whatever. That’s what made did. I am just happy we won the Always trying to one-up the When it comes down to home, takes him, Wood said one thing me get better.” game. my teammates kept me same back he shares carries 
the oxnard, calif., native had will remain constant. Last season, Wood’s hard up. And we are still undefeated. and a house with, riddick inter-I don’t care what people say rupted Wood and jokingly gave about the game, we still won his take on his fellow senior. and that still counts. “If you ask him if he can 
“I was kind of upset about it, paint, he will say he’s the best but you have to snap out of it painter. If you ask him ‘can and step right back.” you play tennis?’ he will say he 
In his notre dame career, is the next serena [Williams],” Wood has recorded four two-riddick said. “he thinks he touchdown performances, with is the best at everything. Let the latest coming in a 41-3 win me correct that: I’m the best. over miami on oct. 6. but he don’t let anybody else tell you has yet to score three touch-different.” downs in a single game. For Wood, going to school 
“I can do it,” he said. ”If they more than 2,000 miles away need me to, I could get five. I from home has been a journey know I can get multiple. If I get mixed with hardships, road-the ball out there, I know it can blocks and change. but it has happen.” also been one mixed with dili­
gence, resolve and camaraderie Lasting bonds — something Wood said he will 
In his four years at notre never forget. dame, Wood has had plenty of “There are a lot of experiences time to develop a reputation basically,” he said. “From com­as a lovable jokester within the ing out of the tunnel to going Irish locker room, where no one to class or playing on the field, is safe from a verbal onslaught. I’ll take in everything I’ve been 
“They all have nicknames. through since I’ve been here.” chocolate drop [Louis nix]. [robby Toma] is Tommy Contact Andrew Gastelum at from ‘The rugrats.’ We all agastel1@nd.edu 



PAId AdverTIsemenT 






