
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


ND listed as a top Peace Corps university 
With 35 alumni currently serving, Irish ranks 10th on list of top schools to produce volunteers 

By DAN BROMBACH 
News Writer 
Placing on the Peace Corps’ list of top universi­ties nationwide for the 12th straight year, Notre Dame has established a tradition of expanding learning be­yond the classroom. 
Notre Dame ranked 10th on the Peace Corps’ list of Medium Colleges and Uni­versities to produce the most Peace Corps volun­teers in 2011. 
According to a recent Notre Dame press release, 35 alumni currently serve in the Peace Corps around the world. Among that list is 2010 Notre Dame alumna Meghan Costello, who has spent the past 16 months in Rwanda.  
Costello said her primary role in Rwanda is teaching English, yet her mission goes far beyond teaching itself. 
“Peace Corps is different from other organizations because it is so much more than the primary assign­ment,” she said. “It’s about integration into a commu-


Symposium encourages interreligious dialogue 
By KRISTEN DURBIN 
News Writer 
As one of the nation’s most prominent Catholic university, Notre Dame will uphold the Church’s com­mitment to peaceful inter­faith dialogue by hosting 
a sympo­sium fea­turing leading members of the world’s foremost religions. 

“Stories of Practi­cal Holi­ness: An Cavadini Exercise in Inter-religious Understanding,” which takes place Feb. 5 to 8 and is sponsored by the Insti­tute for Church Life (ICL), brings together Buddhist, Sikh, Catholic, Muslim 
and Jewish perspectives on the common element of holiness to facilitate ad­miration across religious boundaries, ICL director John Cavadini said. 
“The reason we chose this focus is because we wanted it to be something irreduc­ibly religious, like holiness, but also practical, as in ho­liness that has an effect in social or cultural renewal,” he said. “We want to give people who think religion is only a source of violence or problems a way of see­ing something irreducibly religious that has an obvi­ous practical impact, not in spite of its being religious but because it is religious.” 
Cavadini said the con­ference’s focus on stories of holiness stems from an idea outlined by Pope John Paul II in his encyclical let­ter, “Veritatis Splendor.” 
“[John Paul] reminded us 

see STORIES/page 4 
nity, learning about anoth­er culture and spreading American culture. Through these steps, you can find other ways to be useful in the community.” 
The prospect of joining the Peace Corps was some­thing that Costello said she had always considered, and after joining, it became the perfect fit for her. 
“I think Peace Corps was always in my head, a little thing inside that I always wanted, but didn’t think I would ever actually expe­rience,” she said. “When it became a part of my reality, I had the support of all my family and friends. It felt so right.” 
The atmosphere and the people of Notre Dame are what motivated Costello to join the Peace Corps, she said. 
In addition, a study abroad trip to Rome helped her realize a passion for applying her education out­side of the classroom. 
“Studying abroad in Rome certainly helped in my de­sire to experience oth­er cultures,” she said. “I wanted to understand what I was reading in class and to experience the reality of these situations, whatever the reality was.” 
Although Costello said life in Rwanda can be diffi­cult and lonely at times, she finds comfort in her tasks and responsibilities. 
“The highlights always come with good work,” she said. “I have recently been plunging into projects in my community, and they bring me joy — the kind of joy that comes after finish 

see CORPS/page 4 



Observer announces top four 
Observer Staff Report 
Megan Doyle, Andrew Owens and Sam Stryker have been chosen to help oversee The Observer’s op­erations in 2011-12, incom­ing Editor-in-Chief Allan Joseph announced Sunday. 
Doyle will serve as man­aging editor, the No. 2 posi­tion at the paper, and Ow­ens and Stryker will each assume the position of as­sistant managing editor. 
Doyle, a junior majoring in English with a minor in Journalism, Ethics and De­mocracy, will assist Joseph in managing all aspects of The Observer’s operations. Originally hailing from Granger, Ind., Doyle lives in Lyons Hall and is cur­rently studying in London. Doyle served as News Edi­tor in the fall semester and has a wide range of experi­ence with The Observer, 

see FOUR/page 4 



Giant success for New York 

By NICOLE TOCZAUER 
News Writer 

With its championship teams, thrilling commercials and star-studded halftime show, Super Bowl XLVI’s Gi­ants 21-17 win over the Patri­ots left students screaming in both joy and grief. 
Sophomore Giants fan Nick Lupica said the game kept him captivated until the very end. 
“It came down to the last quarter, which makes all games interesting,” Lupica said. 
Watching the game with both Giants and Patriots fans made for an exciting atmo­sphere, and regardless of the winner, Lupica said he was happy both teams made it to the championship. 
“It was a split room,” he said. “[But,] I was happy to see anyone but the Green Bay Packers or the Chicago 
Bears make the Super Bowl,” 
he said. “Notre Dame has too 
big of a fan base for both of 
those.” 
Junior Adam Wisbrock, a 
Packers fan, said he watched 
the game as a neutral third 
party, but was happy when 
the Giants won. 
“I wasn’t invested in either 
team, but I think I subcon­
sciously wanted the Giants to 


see GIANTS/page 4 

INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER OIT introduces technology page 3 u Viewpoint page 8 u Late Night with Jimmy Fallon page 10 u Men’s basketball beats Marquette page 20 
page 2 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u DAY-TO-DAY Monday, February 6, 2012 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHERE IN THE WORLD WOULD YOU WANT TO MOVE NOTRE DAME’S CAMPUS? 

www.ndsmcobserver.com P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 Editor-in-Chief Douglas Farmer Managing Editor Business Manager Sarah Mervosh Jeff Liptak Asst. Managing Editor: Adriana Pratt Asst. Managing Editor: Chris Masoud News Editor: Sam Stryker Viewpoint Editor: Meghan Thomassen Sports Editor: Allan Joseph Scene Editor: Maija Gustin Saint Mary’s Editor: Caitlin E. Housley Photo Editor: Pat Coveney Graphics Editor: Brandon Keelean Advertising Manager: Katherine Lukas Ad Design Manager: Amanda Jonovski Controller: Jason Taulman Systems Administrator: William Heineman Office Manager & General Info (574) 631-7471 Fax (574) 631-6927 Advertising (574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu Editor-in-Chief (574) 631-4542 dfarmer1@nd.edu Managing Editor (574) 631-4542 smervosh@nd.edu Assistant Managing Editors (574) 631-4541 apratt@nd.edu, cmasoud@nd.edu Business Office (574) 631-5313 News Desk (574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com Viewpoint Desk (574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com Sports Desk (574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com Scene Desk (574) 631-4540 mgustin@nd.edu Saint Mary’s Desk chousl01@saintmarys.edu Photo Desk (574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com Systems & Web Administrators (574) 631-8839 Policies The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College.  Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Douglas Farmer. Post Office Information The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 and additional mailing offices 024 South Dining hall Notre Dame, IN 46556-077 The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved.  
TODAY’S STAFF News Sports Caitlin Housley Molly Sammon Nicole Michels Sam Gans Dan Brombach Peter Steiner Graphics Scene Brandon Keelean Maria Fernandez Photo Viewpoint Pat Coveney Meghan Thomassen  
CORRECTIONS The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so we can correct our error.  
HIGH 45 LOW 39 


Ali Searle  Connor Brutocao  Kirsten Conrath  Marissa Vos  Nikki Puckett  Vincent Birch  
sophomore  freshman  sophomore  sophomore  sophomore  sophomore  
Lyons  Alumni  Lyons  Walsh  Welsh Family  Carroll  
“New Zealand.”  “Spokane,  “Hawaii.”  “The moon,  “Ft. Lauderdale,  “Hogsmeade.”  
Washington.”  because Newt  Florida.”  
Gingrich is our  
trailblazer.”  


Have an idea for Question of the Day? Email obsphoto@gmail.com 


OFFBEAT 
Kobayashi eats record 337 wings at Wing Bowl 
PHILADELPHIA — Com­petitive-eating champ Tak­eru Kobayashi (tah-kah­roo koh-bee-yah-shee) conquered Philadelphia’s annual gustatory gorge-fest by eating 337 chicken wings in a half-hour before a crowd of nearly 20,000 at Wing Bowl XX. 
The Friday morning ex­travaganza drew thousands to the Wells Fargo Center before sunrise to watch competitors stuff them­selves with chicken wings. 
Kobayashi claimed a $20,000 cash prize for his victory. It was the six-time Nathan’s Hot Dog eating con­test champ’s first time com­peting at Wing Bowl, though he consumed a cheesesteak in 24 seconds as part of an eating exhibition last year. 

Wrong-number call helps Ohio woman having stroke 
CUYAHOGA FALLS, Ohio 
— A woman who called the wrong number when she suffered a stroke still found help a couple of time zones away. 
Loretta Smith, of Cuyahoga Falls near Akron, felt her right side go numb and fell to the floor at her home last weekend. 
The 70-year-old Smith said she was able to grab the phone with her left hand and thought she was calling her son. Instead, she was one digit off and reached a man in the Denver area who was originally from northeast Ohio and had kept the same number after he moved. 
“It was a woman, and she said ‘I may be having a stroke,’” said Kenny Cra­ter, 28, a sculpture major at Metropolitan State Univer­sity in Denver. 
Crater asked for her name and address and offered to get help. His 911 call was answered by Broomfield, Colo., police, who trans­ferred his call to Cuyahoga Falls. 
Smith said Crater saved her life. “I want this kid to be praised to high heaven,” she said. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 


IN BRIEF 
Thomas DiPrete, profes­sor of Sociology at Colum­bia University, will present a seminar titled, “Peers and the Gender Gap in Ed­ucational Achievement,” today at 3 p.m. in Room 310 of the Jordan Hall of Science. 
Sikh faith leader Bahai Sahib will give a lecture titled, “The Story of a Sikh Luminary: Guru Nanak Nishkam Sewak Jatha as an Exemplar of Holiness,” today at 4:30 p.m. in the McKenna Hall auditorium. The lecture is free and open to the public. 
Professor Georgios A. Panetsos will give a lec­ture titled, “Inventing a Tradition: Theophilos Hansen in Athens,” today at 4:30 p.m. in Bond Hall. 
Soojin Pate will give a lecture titled, “Militariza­tion, Gender and the ‘Mili­taristic Gaze’ in Korean Adoption,” today at 5 p.m. in Room 118 of Debartolo Hall. In her lecture, Pate will argue that U.S. occu­pation militarized Korea’s social welfare system, as well as the war orphans, through the building  of Ko­rean orphanages. 
The Basilica of the Sa­cred Heart will hold a Mass of Remembrance for Sister Jean Lenz, O.S.F., today at 
5:15p.m.  Former Assistant Vice President for Student Affairs at Notre Dame, Sis­ter Lenz died on Jan. 21 af­ter a long illness. 
To submit information to be included in this sec­tion of The Observer, e­mail detailed informa­tion about an event to obsnews.nd@gmail.com 


LOCAL WEATHER 

TODAY TONIGHT TUESDAY WEDNESDAY THURSDAY FRIDAY 










HIGH 37 LOW 27 
HIGH 33 LOW 29 

HIGH 37 LOW 27 
HIGH 30 LOW 20 

Monday, February 6, 2012 The Observer u NEWS ndsmcobserver.com | page 3 




OIT showcases new campus technologies 
By MARISA IATI 
News Writer 
The Office of Information Technology’s (OIT) Academic Technologies Lab (AT Lab) is bringing the latest technolo­gies to both the students and classrooms of Notre Dame. 
“A lot of what we do is learning about new and up­coming technologies and see­ing how we can apply them toward education,” Jessica Choi, coordinator of the open house, said. 
The AT Lab hosted an open house Friday to intro­duce some of the technolo­gies available for use by the University. The lab displayed several of its current projects, including small motion-sens­ing computers, panoramic imager robotic mounts (the GigaPan) and the Amazon Kindle. 
Choi said AT Lab employees follow the latest technology news and conduct research to identify potential projects. 
“We do a lot of testing, and then once we think it’s ap­propriate, then it becomes a full-launch project toward education,” she said. “Testing can vary depending on the technology. For a lot of our eReaders, we see if we can implement that. Instead of buying textbooks, we can use a Kindle.” 
One of the AT Lab’s most successful projects was re­searching iTunes U, an appli­cation that enables educators to distribute video, audio and books, Choi said. Several Uni­versity departments utilized iTunes U to distribute course and promotional material. 
Choi said if a technology is approved for campus-wide use, the lab’s employees rec­ommend it to faculty mem­bers that might benefit from it. 
“We’re working with the architecture department a lot with the GigaPan because it takes 3-D panoramic photos,” she said. 
Freshman Joey Copp said the Microsoft Surface pro­gram, a computing platform that enables users to manipu­late digital content by touch, would be especially helpful in a biochemistry classroom because it can project a 3-D representation of a protein structure. 
“I actually think that … if you attach it to a projector … this would be really helpful in my [biochemistry] class right now,” Copp said. 
Students and faculty are encouraged to visit the AT Lab, and they can borrow some of the Lab’s technology such as microphones to re­cord class lectures. 
Choi said the Lab is con­tinuing to discover which cut-ting-edge technologies would be most useful to the campus. 
“Our current projects that are still in their initiation phases are the Siftables, Apple TV [and] Kindle,” Choi said. “We’re still working a lot with GigaPan, and the Ki­nect is something that’s just been initiated.” 
Contact Marisa Iati at                   miati@nd.edu 



College archives document history 
By ANNA BOARINI 
News Writer 
On the fifth floor of Bertram Hall, Sister Rose Anne Schultz of the Sisters of the Holy Cross recounts the stories of Saint Mary’s College that started it all. 
In the Heritage Rooms, Schul­tz gives tours and highlights the letters, artwork and religious items that belong to the sisters of the College. One such item in­cludes the family tree of the Holy Cross. 
“[The family tree] starts with Father [Jacques] Dujarie,” she said. “Father Dujarie had this group of brothers called the Brothers of Saint Joseph. Father Dujarie was getting on in years and he wanted to do some ad­vance planning, so he said to the bishop, ‘Help me find someone to take over the brothers and be their director after I am too old to do it.’” 
Schultz said this is how Blessed Basil Moreau, who was a young priest at the time, was given the task of leading the brothers in 1835. 
“[Moreau] said, ‘Why don’t I get the priests and the brothers together to form one group’ … In his mind, [he] always had the vision of both men and women. He wanted priests, brothers and sisters,” she said.
 At this time in history, men and women were not allowed to share a religious community, Schultz said. Instead, the women in the community were called “pious girls.” Eventually, after much deliberation with Rome, the Marianites of the Holy Cross, women of prayer, were founded in 1841. 
“Moreau’s vision was always global. The big issues [were] to see what needs to be done and do it,” she said. “So with that, he had sent brothers off. However, when the priests and broth­ers got [to the U.S.], they were busy doing things and said [they needed] help.” 
Schultz said four young French women who had just made their vows were sent over to help the brothers. These women formed the basis of the Sisters of the Holy Cross in 1844, the birth year of Saint Mary’s College. 
The main Heritage Room also houses boards that high­light each “Mother Superior,” or leader of the congregation, and her accomplishments during her tenure. Mother Rose Elizabeth, one of the congregation’s great­est leaders, is just one woman featured on the boards, Schultz said. 
“At the time, different congre­gations were doing their forma­tions,” she said. “Finally, they said maybe we can get together and not change who we are, but share ideas. So, this group [headed by Mother Rose Eliza­beth] became the first leader-ship conference of women reli­gious that still exists today.” 


Along with the boards, the main heritage room features a machine used to make the tiny pleats that made up the halo-looking white habit the sisters used to wear. 
“This machine was invented by one of the sisters to make the habit, and it was very delicate and difficult work,” Schultz said. 
Along with the main room, two other rooms feature the international work the sisters have done in various countries, including India and Bangladesh. They also showcase tokens of individual Sisters of the Holy Cross, including the Olympic torch Sister Maura Brannick carried through South Bend on the way to Salt Lake City. 
The congregation offers heri­tage tours for visitors Monday through Friday from 8:30 a.m. to 3:30 p.m. 

Contact Anna Boarini at aboari01@saintmarys.edu 





Retreat focuses on faith, experience 
By ADAM LLORENS 
News Writer 
Students took a break from the stress of college life Friday and Saturday to reflect on their faith. 
Around 60 freshmen attend­ed the third 24-hour Freshman Retreat at the Sacred Heart Parish Center. 
Father Pete McCormick, di­rector of the Freshman Retreat Program, said participants had a chance to form support struc­tures with other freshmen and adjust to the college environ­ment. 
“Some freshmen think what’s going on with them is unique to themselves, when in fact it’s really a commonality between them,” McCormick said. “Of­ten times, freshmen worry that they are the abnormal ones. This retreat helps them settle into the Notre Dame experi­ence.” 
McCormick said his role re­quires more behind-the-scenes preparation. 
“I do a lot of work preparing the sophomore team [leaders] and working with other leader­ship to organize the retreat,” he said. “During the retreat, I listen to confessions, conduct adoration and celebrate Mass.” 
McCormick said the Fresh­man Retreat is a great out­let for freshman to meet their classmates. 
“[It] exposes freshmen to a variety of people they would not otherwise come into con­tact with on campus,” McCor­mick said. “It gives freshmen time to expand their horizons.” 
Freshman Emily Potucek said meeting people was one of her goals for the retreat. 
“I’ve done similar retreats in high school and thought it would be cool to do with my Notre Dame class,” Potucek said. “I wanted to make more friends in my class.” 
Potucek said participants mingled while discussing aca­demics, social life and faith. 
“We talked about adjustment to college and adjusting to the second semester,” Potucek said. “We also talked about where we are in our faith journey and how we can practice our faith here at Notre Dame.” 
Echoing McCormick’s thoughts, Potucek said the retreat gave her the opportunity to converse with other freshmen who share simi­lar interests. 
“It was a great chance to see how other freshmen are prac­ticing their faith here,” Potucek said. “It was nice to meet other people who also hold that as a priority.” 
Freshman Melanie Mironov­ich said the retreat was a per­fect way to step back from the stress of college life. 
“You get really stressed in college, so the retreat was a good way to relax and get away from schoolwork,” she said. “[The retreat is a chance to] slow down and really think about your choices … You’re forced to think about things you wouldn’t normally think about. It makes Notre Dame feel more like a community.” 

Contact Adam Llorens at allorens@nd.edu 


page 4 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u NEWS Monday, February 6, 2012 
or collapsing all religions into one, but neverthe-

Stories less it’s interesting that in 
spite of doctrines that are continued from page 1 not reconcilable with each 
other, you can still admire that Christians have moral the holiness of someone heroism in common with across cultural and reli­the ‘great religious and sa-gious boundaries,” he said. piential traditions of East The symposium opened and West,’ so Sunday that made me with a think that we screen-can admire ing of the 
people across cultural and r el i g io u s b o u n d a r i e s as a kind of pedagogy,” he said. “If you can admire  “The reason we have the Pope on the conference poster is because he convened an interfaith group in Assisi to pray for peace, so we’re following his lead on this.”  c r i ti c al l y a c cl a i med film “Of Gods and M e n , ” which tells the story of a group  
someone,  it  of Trappist  
means  you’re  John Cavadini  monks who  
able to learn s om e t h i ng  ICL director  livedpeace  in  with  
from  your  the  large- 
a d m i r at io n ,  ly  Muslim  
so  interreli­ c o m mu  - 
gious under­ nity of Al- 

standing comes from this geria until seven of them pedagogy of admiration.” were assassinated dur-
Though interreligious ing the Algerian Civil War understanding and dia-in 1996. Fr. Armand Veil­logue may be commonly leux, a priest who knew the perceived as conversations monks, will give a related over religious doctrine or presentation titled, “Of pluralism, Cavadini said Gods and Monks: The Story the symposium aims to dis-of the Trappist Martyrs of pel these misconceptions Algiers,” on Monday night. by promoting cross-cultur-Sunday’s events also fea­al and religious admiration tured a Buddhist account in spite of doctrinal differ-of holiness from Dharma ences between religions. Master Hsin Tao, titled 
“It’s not about doctrine “Transforming Self and the World: A Tale of Buddhist Spirituality.” He will also lead conference partici­pants in a Zen meditation session at 2 p.m. on Mon­day. 
Monday’s programming will also include the story of Bhai Sahib (Dr.) Mohin­der Singh Ahluwalia, a vi­sionary Sikh faith leader who operates a charitable organization in Birming­ham, United Kingdom. 
Muslim perspectives on holiness will take cen­ter stage during Tues­day’s events, which include presentations by Islamic scholar Abdolrahim Gavahi and the co-founders of the Open House Peace Center in Ramle, Israel. 
Based on the examples of holiness presented at the conference, Cavadini said he thinks interfaith dialogue should be gener­ally encouraged, but Notre Dame plays a special role in this discourse as a re­ligiously affiliated institu­tion. 
“I think we have an op­portunity to get into [inter­faith dialogue] in a unique way from secular universi­ties where you simply study the religions,” he said. “But since we operate from the core of Catholicism, we have an opportunity to be a dialogue partner and en­gage persons of faith, not just the religions they rep-resent.” 


Cavadini said the Univer­sity’s opportunity to en­gage in interfaith dialogue follows the example of Pope Benedict XVI and his ef­forts to promote interreli­gious discourse. 
“The reason we have the Pope on the conference poster is because he con­vened an interfaith group in Assisi to pray for peace, so we’re following his lead on this,” he said. 
Though the overarching goal of the symposium and others like it is to promote widespread interreligious understanding, Cavadini said that can only occur if peo­ple take the first step of engaging in genuine admi­ration. 
“I want people to con­template sources and well­springs of admiration and what that teaches us about people we may not agree with,” he said. “You’re guaranteed to learn some­thing from genuine admi­ration.” 
More information about the symposium and up­coming interfaith events is available at icl.nd.edu 


Contact Kristen Durbin at kdurbin@nd.edu 


Four 
continued from page 1 
covering student government, the recent South Bend may­oral election and changes in the University’s sexual as­sault policy, in addition to co-founding “ND Minute,” The Observer’s multimedia news blog with Stryker. 
“I’m very excited for this upcoming year with our in­credible staff at The Observer, and I look forward to working together to publish our best paper possible for the student body,” Doyle said. 
Owens is a junior majoring in Political Science with a mi­nor in Journalism, Ethics and Democracy hailing from Sagi­naw, Mich., and currently liv­ing in Carroll Hall. Owens has a wide variety of experience in his current role as Asso­ciate Sports Editor, covering football and men’s basketball this year and the women’s basketball run to the national championship game last year. 
“I’m excited to work with The Observer’s talented and motivated staff, and I look for­ward to carrying on the great work of the outgoing Editorial Board,” Owens said. 
Stryker, a junior, is major­ing in Film, Television and Theatre and minoring in Me­dieval Studies and Anthropol­ogy. The native of New Ca­naan, Conn., and Knott Hall resident currently serves as News Editor, where he helped co-found “ND Minute” and covered the cancellation of the Japanese study-abroad programs last year. 
“I’m thrilled to take this new position at The Observ­er,” Stryker said. “I look for­ward to working with the pa­per’s talented and dedicated staff to continue its tradition of excellence.” 
Joseph will take over as Ed­itor-in-Chief on March 5, and the rest of the Editorial Board will assume their positions March 19. 


Corps 
continued from page 1 
ing a tough paper or a long run.” 
However, Costello said it is difficult for her to ex­press in words how her time in Rwanda has been because she has yet to fully understand it herself. 
“My experience in Rwanda is impossible to describe,” she said. “It’s everything that you’d picture it would be: enlightening, challeng­ing, life-changing, difficult, rewarding … it’s all those things, but different than you could ever imagine.” 

Looking toward the fu­ture, Costello said she is unsure of what her plans are, but her experience in the Peace Corps has broad­ened her perception of what careers are available in the business world. 
“I am meeting fascinating people all the time here, and so many are doing great work,” she said. “There are so many cool jobs out there, and I want them all. We will have to see what life has in store for me.” 
Contact Dan Brombach at dbrombac@nd.edu 



Egypt to try nonprofit employees 
Associated Press 
CAIRO — Ignoring a U.S. threat to cut off aid, Egypt on Sunday referred 19 Americans and 24 other em­ployees of nonprofit groups to trial before a criminal court on accusations they illegally used foreign funds to foment unrest in the country. 

Egypt’s military rulers had already deeply strained ties with Washington with their crackdown on U.S.­funded groups promot­ing democracy and human billion in aid Egypt is set to rights and accused of stir-receive from the U.S. this ring up violence in the af-year. termath of the uprising a On Saturday, U.S. Secre­year ago that ousted Hosni tary of State Hillary Rod-Mubarak. The decision to ham Clinton warned Egypt send 43 workers from the that failure to resolve the various groups to trials dispute may lead to the loss marks a sharp escalation in of American aid. The Egyp­the dispute. tian minister, Mohammed 
Egypt and the United Amr, responded Sunday by States have been close al-saying the government can-lies for more than three not interfere in the work of decades, but the campaign the judiciary. against the organizations “We are doing our best to has angered Washington, contain this but ... we can-and jeopardized the $1.5 not actually exercise any influence on the investigat­ing judges right now when it comes to the investigation,” Amr told reporters at a se­curity conference in Mu­nich, Germany. A few hours later, word of the referral to trials came. 

The Egyptian investiga­tion into the work of non­profit groups in the country is closely linked to the po­litical turmoil that has en­gulfed the nation since the ouster of Mubarak, a close 
U.S. ally who ruled Egypt for nearly 30 years. 


Giants 
continued from page 1 
win,” he said. 
Wisbrock said the final drive was the most exciting part of the game. 
“It was most intense when Ahmad Bradshaw scored at the end instead of running out the clock for a field goal as time ex­pired,” he said. 
Sophomore Olivia Gutsgell, a Colts fan, said the Patriots’ de­feat was consoling. 
“I’m glad the Patriots lost,” she said. “We were screaming at the only Pats fan in the room, and [everyone was] happy.” 
Sophomore Leo Mironov­ich said he watched the Super Bowl, but not to see which team came out on top. Instead, it was the Super Bowl ads that drew him in and he said he was sat­isfied with most. 
“It’s great bonding with friends, and the commercials with babies are always a fan favorite,” he said. “And since I’m a history major, the end of prohibition in the Budweiser commercial was funny, too.” 
Mironovich said the Super Bowl is about much more than winners, losers and ads. 

“It’s great bonding with friends,” Mironovich said. “I just wanted to see a good game.” 
Lupica said he also enjoyed watching the game with a group of his male friends. 
“It was a straight bro-out,” he said. 
Some students watched the game primarily to see its half­time show. The performance featured Madonna, Nicki Minaj, LMFAO, M.I.A. and Cee Lo Green. 
Sophomore Nicole McMillan said she enjoyed the halftime show and thought the choice of performers appealed to a wide audience. 
“Madonna was a good artist to pick for the Super Bowl be­cause she speaks to different generations,” she said. “But I was sad that Nicki Minaj and 
M.I.A. didn’t get to say much more than a few lines.” 
McMillan said the technology and spectacle of the halftime show lived up to the hype. 
“I loved the stage and screens on the field because the visual effects were amazing,” she said. 
Contact Nicole Toczauer at ntoczaue@nd.edu 

Monday, February 6, 2012 The Observer u NEWS ndsmcobserver.com | page 5 



Komen frustrates supporters 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK — When Dorothy Twinney first saw a Race for the Cure walk for breast cancer — “a sea of pink” traveling through her hometown of Plymouth, Mich. — she was so moved she sat in her car and wept. 
This week, after watching The Susan G. Komen for the Cure breast cancer charity announce plans to cut funding to Planned Parenthood, then abandon those plans amid a public furor, Twin­ney decided she was done with the organization for which she raised thousands of dollars on three-day, 60-mile walks that left her feet bloodied and blistered, but her spirits high. 
“It just feels like it’s all tar­nished now,” the 41-year-old mother of two said. “Honestly, I’m not sure what they can do to change that.” 
At week’s end, many longtime Komen supporters were feeling 


SYRIA 



Clinton calls for support to combat Syrian violence 
Associated Press 

SOFIA, Bulgaria — U.S. Sec­retary of State Hillary Rod­ham Clinton called Sunday for “friends of democratic Syria” to unite and rally against Presi­dent Bashar Assad’s regime, previewing the possible forma­tion of a formal group of like-minded nations to coordinate assistance to the Syrian opposi­tion. 
Speaking in the Bulgarian capital of Sofia a day after Rus­sia and China blocked U.N. Se­curity Council action on Syria, Clinton said the international community had a duty to halt ongoing bloodshed and promote 
Clinton warned that a fail­ure to act would increase the chances for “a brutal civil war” as many Syrians under attack from their government moved to defend themselves. 
U.S. officials said a friends group would work to further squeeze the Assad regime by enhancing sanctions against it, bringing disparate Syrian opposition groups inside and outside the country together, providing humanitarian relief for embattled Syrian communi­ties and working to prevent an escalation of violence by moni­toring arms sales. 
“We will work to expose those who are still funding the 
similarly conflicted. Some, de­a political transition that would regime and sending it weapons 

pending on where they stood on 
the hot-button issue of abortion, see Assad step down. She said to be used against defenseless 

the “friends of Syria” should Syrians, including women and 
called it more of a betrayal. Those who supported Komen’s grants to Planned Parenthood for breast-cancer screenings called the ini­tial move to cut them politically motivated; those opposed to the grants said the same thing about the reversal. 
The outrage clearly stunned Komen, the country’s most widely known breast cancer organiza­tion. “I think (Komen) has been horrified to be so caught up in this culture war,” said Eric Scheidler, executive director of the Chicago-based Pro-Life Action League. 
Many women described feeling caught in the middle when The Associated Press first reported on Tuesday that Komen had ad­opted criteria excluding Planned Parenthood from future breast screening grants because it was the subject of an investigation launched by a Florida congress­man at the urging of anti-abor­tion groups. The grants totaled $680,000 in 2011. 
Alyce Lee-Walker was one of them. A longtime Komen sup­porter, she’d never given money to Planned Parenthood. But when she learned of the funding cut, she immediately went online to donate $188 — the 88 signifying good luck in Chinese. 
She didn’t stop there. The small business owner from Pinehurst, N.C., went about removing all the pink-ribbon stickers, a Komen symbol, that she’d affixed to her belongings. 
“I took them off my personal car, the business car, off the doors in the office,” she said. And that pink chef’s knife she bought at Williams-Sonoma, with some of the proceeds going to Komen? “I’m done with that, too,” she said. 
When she worked on Wall Street, Lee-Walker once prowled the trading floor soliciting dona­tions “from anyone who loved a sister, mother, wife — or who was a fan of breasts,” she quips. She raised $15,000. But now, Komen’s reversal as well as its original move left her disgusted, she said: “It’s all political.” 
Many shared that skepticism. “I’m wondering, is this really what they believe now, or is it just all the bad press that made them do it?” asked Mary Gauvin, a 27-year-old mother from Fort Drum, N.Y. “I doubt their motiva­tion a bit.” 
Gauvin, a supporter in the past of both Planned Parenthood and Komen, said that now, if a friend asked for sponsorship in a Race for the Cure event, she would of­fer to give money instead to the American Cancer Society. 
Also switching allegiance was Suzanne Strempek Shea, a novel­ist and college writing teacher in Northampton, Mass. “If someone asks me to sponsor them,” she said, “I’m going to say, ‘I wish you well, but I’m going to give the amount I’d have given you to Rays of Hope,” another breast cancer support group. 
The issue was particularly painful to Shea, 51. She is a breast cancer survivor who discovered early warning signs at a Planned Parenthood breast screening (the group does screenings and refers some patients for mammograms). 

work together to promote those ends. 
Clinton was bluntly critical of Saturday’s veto by Russia and China at the United Nations blocking action against the con­tinuing violence in Syria. 
“What happened yesterday at the United Nations was a trav­esty,” she said. 
“Faced with a neutered Se­curity Council, we have to re­double our efforts outside of the United Nations with those allies and partners who support the Syrian people’s right to have a better future,” Clinton told re­porters after meeting top Bul­garian officials. 
Such a group could be simi­lar, but not identical, to the Contact Group on Libya, which oversaw international help for opponents of the late deposed Libyan leader Moammar Gad­hafi. However, in the case of Libya, the group also coordinat­ed NATO military operations to protect Libyan civilians, some­thing that is not envisioned in Syria. 
children,” Clinton said. “We will work with the friends of a democratic Syria around the world to support the opposi­tion’s peaceful political plans for change.” 
Clinton’s comments came as Syria’s opposition appealed for international backing along the lines she suggested follow­ing the double-veto at the U.N. Security Council that outraged the U.S., its European allies and Arab leaders and intensified fears that Assad would unleash even greater violence to crush protesters. 
Meanwhile, a Syrian state-run newspaper vowed Sunday that Damascus will press its crackdown on the uprising un­til stability is restored. Early Saturday, regime forces bom­barded the restive central city of Homs in what activists said was the deadliest incident of the uprising. They reported more than 200 killed, but the regime denied any bombardment and there was no way to indepen­dently confirm the toll. 



As colleges obsess over rankings, students shrug 

Associated Press bonuses to presidents who lift 
their school a few slots. 

When US News & World Re-And it’s colleges that occa­port debuted its list of “Amer-sionally get caught in the kind ica’s Best Colleges” nearly of cheating you might expect 30 years ago, the magazine in sports or on Wall Street, hoped its college rankings but which seems especially would be a game-changer ignominious coming from for students and families. professional educators. But arguably, they’ve had a The latest example came much bigger effect on colleges last week at Claremont McK­themselves. enna, a highly regarded Cali-
Yes, students and families fornia liberal arts college still buy the guide and its where a senior administrator less famous competitors by resigned after acknowledg­the hundreds of thousands, ing he falsified college en-and still care about a col-trance exam scores for years lege’s reputation. But it isn’t to rankings publications such students who obsess over ev-as US News. ery incremental shift on the The scale was small: sub-rankings scoreboard, and mitting scores just 10 or who regularly embarrass 20 points higher on the themselves in the process. It’s 1,600-point SAT math and colleges. reading exams. Average test 
It’s colleges that have spent scores account for just 7.5 billions on financial aid for percent of the US News rank-high-scoring students who ings formula. Still, the maga-than No. 11. ence.” colleges. don’t actually need the money, zine acknowledged the effect “For Claremont, there is I If it was an effort to gain an Competitiveness may be motivated at least partly by could have been to move the would think a psychologically edge, it backfired badly. An-naturally human, but to many the quest for rankings glory. college up a slot or two in its large difference between be-other popular list, Kiplinger’s who work with students, such 
It was a college, Baylor Uni-rankings of top liberal arts ing ninth and 11th,” said Bob “Best College Values,” said behavior among fellow educa­versity, that paid students it colleges. And so it was hard Schaeffer of the group FairT-Friday it was removing Clare-tors is mystifying. Contrary to had already accepted to re-not to notice Claremont McK-est and a rankings critic. mont McKenna from its 2011-widespread perceptions, they take the SAT exam in a trans-enna stood at No. 9 in this “We’re a top 10 school,’ (or) 12 rankings entirely because say, students typically use the parent ploy to boost the aver-year’s rankings, which to ‘we’re 11th or 12th’ — that’s a of the false reporting. The rankings as a source of data age scores it could report. It’s people who care about such big psychological difference. college had been No. 18 on its and pay little attention to a colleges that have awarded things sounds much sweeter It’s a bragging rights differ-list of best-value liberal arts school’s number. 

Monday, February 6, 2012 The Observer u NEWS ndsmcobserver.com | page 7 

Missing mushroom pickers found in Oregon 
Romney extends lead in GOP race 

Associated Press 
LAS VEGAS — Now it’s on to Colorado, Minnesota and Maine. 
With back-to-back victories fu­eling him, Republican presidential front-runner Mitt Romney is look­ing toward the next states that hold GOP nominating contests as main rival Newt Gingrich brushes aside any talk of abandoning his White House bid — all but ensur­ing the battle will stretch into the spring if not beyond. 
Shortly after losing big to Rom­ney here, the former House speak­er emphatically renewed his vow to campaign into the party con­vention in Tampa this summer. His goal, he said, was to “find a se­ries of victories which by the end of the Texas primary will leave us at parity” with Romney by early April. 
Gingrich continued to shrug off Nevada’s caucus results in an appearance on Sunday on NBC’s Meet the Press.” 
“This is the state he won last time, and he won it this time,” he said of Romney. “Our goal is to get to Super Tuesday where we’re in much more favorable territory.” 
But first, Gingrich must make it through Colorado and Minnesota, which both hold caucuses Tues­day. Maine follows on Saturday during a month that promises to be as plodding as January was rapid-fire in the presidential race. Romney will look to maintain his position of strength, if not build upon it, as his rivals continue d to derail him even as their options for doing so narrow with each vic­tory he notches. 
The former Massachusetts gov­ernor held a double-digit lead Sunday morning over his nearest pursuer as the totals mounted in Nevada, where fellow Mormons accounted for roughly a quarter of all caucus-goers. Gingrich and Texas Rep. Ron Paul vied for a dis­tant second. Former Pennsylvania Sen. Rick Santorum trailed the field. 
Santorum won the leadoff cau­cuses in Iowa and has trailed in the contests since then. He none­theless insisted on Sunday that “our numbers are moving up con­tinually.” 
“I think we’re going to show im­provement. This race is a long long way from being over,” Santorum said on Fox News Sunday. 
And on ABC’s “This Week,” Paul maintained the results show vot­ers are still up for grabs. 
“I get energized because I know there’s a large number of people who are looking for another op­tion,” Paul said. 
With votes from 71 percent of the precinct caucuses tallied, Romney had 48 percent, Gingrich 23 percent, Paul 19 percent and Santorum 11 percent. Turnout was down significantly from 2008, when Romney also won the state’s GOP caucuses. 
More than 24 hours after cau­cuses began, results from the state’s most populous county were still being tallied. The outcome could affect the second- and third-place finishers. 
“Our goal is to finish verifi­cation,” said Clark County GOP spokeswoman Bobbie Haseley. “There is no modern technology when it comes to how the voting took place and the counting.” 
Romney’s victory capped a week that began with his double-digit win in the Florida primary. That contest was as intense as Nevada’s caucuses were sedate __ so quiet that they produced little television advertising, no candidate debates and only a modest investment of time by the contenders. 
A total of 28 Republican Na­tional Convention delegates were at stake in caucuses held across the sprawling state. Romney won at least 10, Gingrich at least four, Paul at least three and Santorum at least two. Eight were still to be determined. 
That gives Romney a total of 97, including endorsements from Republican National Commit­tee members who will automati­cally attend the convention and can support any candidate they choose. Gingrich has 30, Santo-rum 16 and Paul seven. It will take 1,144 delegates to win the Repub­lican nomination. 
Preliminary results of a poll of Nevada Republicans entering their caucuses showed that nearly half said the most important con­sideration in their decision was a candidate’s ability to defeat Presi­dent Barack Obama this fall, a finding in line with other states. 


Associated Press 
GOLD BEACH, Ore. — Three mushroom pickers lost six nights in the rugged forest of southwest Oregon with no food considered eating their dog, and used the screen on their dead cellphone and the blade of a sheath knife to flash a signal at the helicopter pilot who found them. 
Dan Conne said Sunday from his hospital bed in Gold Beach that he and his wife and son spent the nights huddled in a hollow log with nothing to eat, and considered sacrificing their pit bull, Jesse, for food. 
“She’s that good a dog, she’d have done it, too,” Conne said. 
A volunteer helicopter pi­lot looking outside the search area Saturday spotted Dan and Belinda Conne, both 47, along with 25-year-old Mi­chael, on the edge of a deep ravine in tall timber. They were about 10 miles northeast of the town of Gold Beach, roughly 330 miles south-southwest of Portland. 
“The wife had the Blackber­ry and I had the knife,” Dan Conne told The Associated Press. “I kept flashing. The wife said, ‘You’re blinding them.’ But I wanted to make sure they seen us. I wasn’t taking no chance.” 
The three had given up hope and thought they were going to die when rescuers came. 
“None of us thought we were coming out of there,” he said. 
While lost, the cold and hun­gry family could see search helicopters and airplanes fly­ing low and slow overhead, but they couldn’t get the pi­lots’ attention through the thick, coastal forest vegeta­tion. 
When they were found, the Connes were just five football fields from a road, and a mile from their Jeep. 
The three were airlifted to a Gold Beach hospital, where they stayed overnight. 
Dan Conne hurt his back, and Belinda Conne had hypo­thermia, Curry County Sheriff John Bishop said. All three were hungry, and enjoyed their potato soup and sand­wiches at the hospital. 

Belinda and Dan Conne were discharged Sunday. Their son, who suffered frostbite, hypothermia and a sprained ankle, remained in the hospital for more treat­ment. 
The family was spotted by Jackson County Commission­er John Rachor, spending his first day searching for them in his own helicopter with Cur­ry County Sheriff’s Lt. John Ward. 
Rachor had been up two hours and decided to go out­side the search area, heading uphill from where the family parked their Jeep, instead of down. 
“We couldn’t find anything in the obvious places, so we decide to go to the not-obvi­ous places,” he said. “I kind of think outside the box on these things sometimes, and it pays off.” 
Rachor is the same pilot who found a San Francisco family lost in a snowstorm in 2006 just 35 miles from where he found the Connes. In 2006, Rachor flew Kati Kim and her two young daughters to safety after spotting them near their car. James Kim died of hypo­thermia trying to hike out for help. 
On Saturday, Rachor saw a movement on the edge of a deep ravine in tall timber. A man in tan bib overalls was waving his arms. Ward marked the spot on his GPS and called the Coast Guard for a helicopter to winch the family out. He also called a nearby ground team to give them immediate aid, then flew back to Gold Beach for fuel. 
“The searchers were with us within 20 minutes of the first copter that found us,” Dan Conne said. “There must have been nine or 10 of them. They just kept coming out of that brush. lt was just a real happy feeling, ‘cause we knew we wasn’t going to die out there.” 



New Yorkers protest Yemeni President 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK — A protest against embattled Yemeni President Ali Abdullah Saleh outside a luxury hotel in New York got heated Sunday when demonstrators saw him leave the building, with one charg­ing toward him and another throwing a shoe. 
“Everybody is living in fear of this guy at home, but here, he’s getting good treatment!” said Yemeni immigrant Nasser Almroot, a Brooklyn grocer. 
The dozen angry protesters were kept behind police bar­ricades across the street from the Ritz-Carlton hotel, which was teeming with security guards, both inside and on the sidewalk where Saleh passed. 
The 69-year-old leader is visiting the United States for medical treatment. 
He exited the hotel on Cen­tral Park South on Sunday af­ternoon and waved and smiled sardonically toward the yell­ing protesters — even blowing them a kiss. Suddenly, one of them tried to charge across the street but was restrained by police, who wrestled him to the ground. 
“He can’t help it, the killer is here,” Almroot said. 
As the man bolted out, a shoe flew in Saleh’s direction. Showing the sole of a shoe is an insult in Arab culture, be­cause it is on the lowest part of the body, the foot. To hit some­one with a shoe is seen as even worse. 
Saleh got into his car and his motorcade left for an unknown destination. 
Since he arrived in New York about a week ago, the Yemeni president has kept a low pro­file. 
His presence, however, has been controversial. 
On Sunday, the protesters hoisted placards bearing pho­tos of Yemenis badly bloodied and brutally killed during his government’s yearlong crack­down on anti-Saleh demon­strations. 
He signed a deal in Novem­ber to transfer power to his vice president in exchange for immunity from prosecution. 
An election is scheduled on Feb. 21 to select his successor in a nation mired in poverty and divided among powerful tribes and political factions. 
While Saleh has been an an­ti-terrorism ally of Washing­ton, the United States has not officially welcomed a leader accused of killing hundreds of people during an uprising against his 33-year rule. 
Saleh traveled to the United States with permission for a private visit. 
In June, he was badly injured in an attack on his presidential palace — an assassination at­tempt after which he spent months in Saudi Arabia be­ing treated for massive burns from the explosion that ripped through his palace mosque as he prayed. 


page 8 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com Monday, February 6, 2012 

INSIDE COLUMN 


Power of sound 
Sound. You’re always exposed to it. You hear it, you can even feel it, but sometimes you don’t even recognize it. Until you notice a silence. 
In my Moving Media class this semes­ter, I’ve begun look­ing at, or in this case, listening to, things in some very differ­ent ways. We were recently assigned this project: Recre­ate a space or feeling simply by using sound. Nicole Toczauer 

Now, this doesn’t seem too difficult. News Writer Get a recording device and go on an adventure around campus recording random things, right? Not quite. As soon as we stepped out of class, I felt like I was constantly search­ing for odd sounds. Sounds you wouldn’t pay much attention to otherwise — the hum of fluorescent lights, how footsteps sound on different surfaces and the “horrible noise coming from the evil box underneath the window” … Buddy the Elf then imitates the radiator. I digress. 
But listening to things differently is strange. Especially with voices. It’s amazing how many different sounds a voice can make, how it can transform pitch and volume and how subtle accents can play in. How one whisper can stand out in a silent room or the way voices rumble together in a crowd. Add in the weight words can carry when you listen to the content of the sound, and you’ve got something extremely powerful. Just think of famous speakers like Martin Luther King, Jr. Words can lead a crowd; they can inspire. 
As for my project, it’s actually quite overwhelming having to isolate one theme to work with, but it’s been a new experience. As a photography major (yes, we exist), I work in stills. I don’t have to worry about temporal aspects of a piece or the connotations sound and rhythm carry. This is something I love about pho­tography, but also something that can be limiting. But since I get the opportunity to work with it now, I love getting to delve into sound. It’s beautiful. 
So even if you’re rushing around, stop. Listen. Spend a day just listening to the world you live in. It’s an interesting one. Even if something seems com­pletely mundane to you, like the sound of people walking the paths on South Quad towards DeBartolo, it could be that very “everyday” sound you’ll remember once you graduate. Sounds can take you places in that way. 
After listening to the glorious sounds on campus — the hubbub in La Fun, your friends’ voices, the chattering squirrels and whatnot — pop in some earphones and spend your day with a personal sound track. I’d recommend “Where is My Mind” by the Pixies for anyone with an excessively early or late class to walk to — since it hasn’t seemed to be raining lately (hallelujah), which is honestly the perfect time to listen to that song. 
But after that experiment, compare the two. Both are centered completely on noticing sound, just in very different ways. As for me, I’m going to continue enjoying this experience. This project was a good reminder for me to pause, listen and notice the place in which I was living in this one little way. 
Contact Nicole Toczauer at ntoczaue@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

Girls like flowers and chocolate 
Gentlemen, in case you haven’t picked up on the not-so-subtle hints your girlfriends have been leaving you, Valentine’s Day is a week from tomorrow. This much anticipated, yet simultaneously dreaded, holiday seems to stress everyone out. 
There is always pressure about what to give and how much to Anna Gorman spend, as well as confusion about Ask the whether or not GreenMan she’s lying when she says she doesn’t really care about Valentine’s Day. 
Well, if I were you, I would as­sume she does actually care, and to avoid drama next Tuesday, let me remind you — girls like flowers and chocolate. Yes, the gift may seem a bit generic, maybe a little lacking in creativity, but the flowers and choco­late combination is almost always a safe bet. 
So why am I, your guru on sustain­ability, so concerned with the issue? Valentine’s Day puts a huge stress on our environment. Luckily, there are many sustainable alternatives. 
With regard to flowers, if you haven’t noticed, the winter weather here in South Bend is not ideal for their growth. This means the beauti­ful flowers you will be sending next Tuesday need to be shipped from tropical climates. 
Long and refrigerated shipping means energy wasted in transporta­tion. 
Beyond just tropical climates, Hol­land has a huge flower market. But unfortunately, growing 12,000 roses there emits 77,150 pounds of CO2. Part of the problem is the use of climate-controlled greenhouses necessary for their production. 

Energy use aside, there are also many environmental impacts resulting from the fertilizers and pesticides used to make these flowers look so beauti­ful. 
Don’t be too distressed, though; there are organic, sustainable and fair-trade brands available at mega-re­tailers and florists across the U.S. For example, the Colombian brand “Flo­riverde” has set guidelines as to meth­ods of drip irrigation (uses minimal H20), organic fertilization, integrated pest control resulting in almost 50 percent less pesticide use and sensible waste disposal methods. 
They offer social programs and benefits to their workers as well. While the standards vary between compa­nies here and abroad, most companies strive for basic sustainable and envi­ronmental principles. 
The prices are a little bit higher for these sustainability-focused brands, but flower prices are already pretty astronomical, so a few more dollars shouldn’t be a big deal, especially for a special someone. If you’re really into green, you could buy local to cut down on transportation costs and buy something in season, but I know that’s asking a lot. 
Now on to chocolates. I know you’ve heard my tangent on fair-trade choco­lates before, so I’ll keep this part short. Growing cocoa for chocolate is usually tied with things like wars in Africa, the loss of rain forests, toxic pesticides and meager wages to child workers. 
Buying organic and fair-trade choco­late is an easy way to help stop some of these injustices against both the environment and society. Plus, I swear it makes the chocolate a bit more deli­cious. 
To sum things up, look for organic or sustainable flower brands such as Floriverde or Veriflora, at places like Walmart, Sam’s Club, national food stores, 1-800-Flowers, etc. 
In terms of chocolate, there are doz­ens of fair-trade and organic brands out there, just check online. Many stores are starting to incorporate fair-trade certified brands in their selec­tions as well. 
Next time you’re at the store, keep an eye out for names like Sweet Earth Organic Chocolates, Madécasse Choco­late, Equal Exchange Chocolate, Taza Chocolates and Newman’s Own. 
Oh, and by the way, I like tulips. Just in case you were wondering … 
Email your predicaments to The GreenMan at askthegreenman@gmail.com and let him answer you with a sustainable twist. The GreenMan will be here every other week to provide you with insights you never knew you were missing out on until now. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 


Protecting the University’s right to choose 
In response to Evan Graham’s letter (“Protecting the right to choose,” Feb. 2), I wish to make the case against the HHS man­
date which forces Notre Dame to offer contraception in its health plans. 
Mr. Graham is “happy that the right to choose has come full-force to Notre Dame,” but he overlooks its coming is coupled 
with a much greater suppression of the right to choose. 

Two rights are at stake here: first, everyone’s right “to be able to take prescriptive contraceptives if they so desire,” which 
Mr. Graham champions, and second, the right of a religious institution to act according to the principles of its faith. The HHS 
mandate violates the second for the sake of the first. Without the mandate, the second is intact and the first mostly unharmed. 
Considering the second is a core First Amendment right, and the first a hotly disputed branch of the evolving corpus of health 
care rights, which overrides the other? 

The mandate falls to religious liberty even if it is allowed the full force of Mr. Graham’s association of it with the right to 
contraceptives. But this association is also wrong. Without the mandate, everyone is still free to buy contraceptives. The man­
date only makes a relevant difference for a very limited group: those very few people for whom coverage makes the difference 
as to whether or not they can afford contraceptives and those who are not already covered. Yes, few: Nine out of ten employer 
plans already cover contraceptives, and 99 percent of women who have had sex have used contraceptives (Guttmacher). 
Even employees of conscientiously objecting institutions don’t seem to have much of a problem getting contraceptives at the 
moment, and the argument for the mandate falls again right there. 
Even if I were utterly convinced that the University should offer contraception in its health plans, I could never be happy 
that the progress embodied by the changing of this policy should come at the price of so crippling a blow to religious liberty. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“Everywhere I go I find a poet has been there before me.” 
Sigmund Freud Austrian psychologist 


Matt Cole 
sophomore Carroll Hall Feb. 5 


WEEKLY POLL 

Which was the best Super Bowl commercial? 
Pepsi — King’s Court Audi — Vampire Party Budweiser — Prohibition Volkswagen — Dog Strikes Back 
Vote by 5 p.m. Thursday at 
ndsmcobserver.com 


Monday, February 6, 2012 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 9 



We have been blessed 
Last Sunday, I walked out of the Senior Retreat with an overwhelming sense of pride for this great university we attend. The opportunity to reflect on my past three and a half years here, alongside my peers, filled me with a Dee Tian wonderful feeling of belonging and Confessions community that re-of a Christian minded me of many Party Girl things that are so clear and obvious yet we often forget to appreciate. 
First, we must all remember to be thankful. Always. Sure, it’s easy to be thankful when everything is go­ing well, but we must also remember to be thankful when it’s not so easy to be. Too often do I take for granted the many blessings I have in my life. When it’s 3 a.m. and I have two papers due and two exams to study for the next day, it’s hard to be thankful for any­thing. 
When you get in a fight with your significant other, and you’re obviously in the right, why should you be happy about anything? However, it’s in those moments it’s most important to remem­ber you’re lucky to be here. Remaining grateful in times of trouble reveals our true character. 
Second, we must continue to shine outside of Notre Dame. Many of us are concerned about our lives post-gradu­ation. Whether we have jobs lined up or acceptances to graduate schools, the future is still very uncertain. I don’t know about you, but I’m not ready to leave this place, now … or ever. There truly is a magic in the sound of their name … we have been blessed to be Fighting Irish for the last four years. But it’s time to bring the magic of Notre Dame outside of South Bend. 
It’s easy to be good and genuine in a loving, caring community. However, you can’t see light in light. In fact, light shines brightest in utter darkness. I think that’s what we have to keep in mind. In entering “the real world,” we must bring our light to places where it can really shine. 
Third, we must remember to find God in others. It’s okay to not adore every single person you meet (i.e. that obnoxious guy in your philosophy class who uses words you’ve never heard of), but we must remember God created 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 



Contraceptives and control 
I would like to reply to Notre Dame Right to Life officers’ Jan. 31 letter, “Contra­ception and Dignity,” touched off when it sternly condemned the use of artificial contraception. I am going to argue on be­half of the original letter’s position by re­sponding to some of the arguments made by “Contraception and Dignity,” Feb. 3. 
Emily Bienek, Joel Moore and John Galeziewski argued contraception can mitigate the harmful consequences of domestic violence, rape and drunken hook­ups. This argument fails because these problems cannot be solved by contracep­tion. If women are really so afraid of being assaulted by friends, boyfriends, husbands and strangers they feel they must be tak­ing contraception at all times to prevent unplanned pregnancies, our society suf­fers from a far greater problem than a lack of reproductive choice. 
I would rather make the world safe from violence against women than hand out birth control pills to potential rape victims. Similarly, the fact that many Notre Dame students regularly get so drunk that they cannot control their behavior contributes to a host of problems of which unplanned pregnancies are only one. We can bet­ter resolve that issue by helping students drink responsibly than by constantly struggling to reduce the harm they do to themselves and others when they are drunk.
 Bienek, Moore, Galeziewski and Anne Reser all made the point artificial contra­ception helps women by allowing them to regulate how many children they have and when they have them. This allows women to pursue other goals before starting a family and to responsibly regulate the size of their families once they have them. Abstinence before marriage and NFP during marriage can do the same things. Researchers at the University of Heidel­berg in Germany found NFP is as effective as “the pill” at preventing conception, and (forgive the cliché) abstinence remains the only 100 percent effective means of preventing pregnancy and STDs. 
John Galeziewski suggests NFP, even when properly used, is no different than other forms of contraception. On the contrary, NFP does not upset the delicate chemical balance within a woman’s body in ways that could damage her health, as hormonal contraceptives do. 
It also does not fundamentally change the nature of the sexual act by chemi­cally or mechanically eliminating one of its key functions, something all forms of artificial birth control do as well. Finally, NFP makes sex more intimate for couples that use it by giving them a greater un­derstanding of the natural reproductive process and how to work within it to plan their families. 
Anne Reser deplores the fact “there are still people who believe that a woman’s dignity is somehow tied to her ability and desire to have children.” I believe she has misunderstood “Contraception and Dig­nity” on this issue. At the risk of putting words in the authors’ mouths, I believe the people behind “Contraception and Dig­nity” would not call a woman’s reproduc­tive ability the sole source of her worth. Rather, they would assert that a woman derives her dignity from all of the various and wonderful gifts God has bestowed on her by making her in His image, and that her ability to create and nurture life within her own body is merely one of these gifts, though it is an awe-inspiring and very important one. 
Women do not need artificial birth control to protect themselves, plan their families or affirm their dignity. They can avoid unplanned pregnancies and STDs by abstaining from sex before marriage and regulate the births of their children within marriage by using NFP. They can better respect themselves by embracing their ability to bear children as an important part of their nature than they can by deny­ing the beauty and significance of one of the greatest abilities of any human person, which they alone happen to possess. The only thing women (and men) “need” artifi­cial contraception for is to have sex when­ever they want and with whomever they want. Modern society thinks sex should be like television: entertainment on demand. Those of us who believe that sex is a total, loving and fruitful gift from one person of incommensurable dignity to another believe sex was meant for something more.
 Elliott Pearce 
junior Knott Hall Feb. 3 

each of us in his image. None of us are perfect, but we all have loved ones, aspirations and fears. When you look at it like that, it’s quite difficult to really hate anyone (even your best friend’s ex who walks around like he owns the place). 
Lastly, we must remember not to worry. In one of my favorite chapters in the Bible, Jesus does not suggest, but commands us not to worry. 
In Matthew 6:25-34, Jesus says, “Do not worry … Look at the birds of the air; they do not sow or reap or store away in barns, and yet your heavenly Father feeds them. Are you not much more valuable than they … But seek first his kingdom and his righteous­ness, and all these things will be given to you as well.” 
I think we’re all guilty of this. We worry constantly — how will I get this absurd amount of work done, how am I going to do well on this impos­sible exam, is my friend upset with me because I was too forward, what will I do next year when I graduate? It’s impossible to not worry, but we must trust that God knows our anxieties and hopes and dreams, and that He has a plan for each of us. Once we make right our relationship with God, everything else will fall into place. 
So whether you’re a senior or a freshman, whether there are four amazing months left of your college career or three and a half years (lucky tykes), remember how lucky you are to be here. Sure, there will be times when we will be stressed out, times that we wish we could fast forward to the weekend, times we choose to ignore the beauty of this campus around us. But these times will be grandly overshad­owed by the love we’ve found (in this not so hopeless place). 
Although we have bright futures ahead of us, for now, they can wait. In risk of sounding cliché, let’s treasure the moment, treasure our remaining time here, treasure our friends and treasure Notre Dame. 
Dee Tian is a senior marketing major pursuing minors in philosophy and anthropology. She can be reached at ytian1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

Save the bike shop 
To the folks who run the bike shop: 
It has recently come to my attention the bike shop will be closing. This is heart-breaking news. As a student who solely depends on her bike for trans­portation, I cannot thank the bike shop staff enough for all their time and hard work. They have helped me with my tires, derailleur, gears and so much more. 
After I was hit by an unalert cab driver last semester, I thought I would have to find another way to get to school (I live three miles off campus). Rather, your staff was more than willing to do everything they could to help fix my bike. 
I have run into countless students who also have had issues with their bikes (some minor, some quite drastic) and have been thrilled to find out Notre Dame has a bike shop. The bike shop does not get enough attention for how sustainable they are either. 
Shutting down the bike shop is not only disappointing, it will hurt the Notre Dame community in many ways. I hope there are options to keep it open for future students. If I can do anything to help, I would be more than glad to do what I can. My information follows. 
In conclusion, thank you. Thank you for everything you and your staff have given me these past years. Thank you for keeping Notre Dame sustainable. I hope you will reconsider your decision to close the bike shop.
 Sarah McCroy 
senior Saint Mary’s Feb. 2 


Vermin vouch for shop 
I’m a junior in Carroll Hall, and I’ve had my bike repaired by the bike shop two or three times these past few years. Whether the problem was faulty brakes or a bent front wheel, my bike was always returned to me working better than it had been before, beyond the pertinent problem that needed fixing in the first place. On behalf of all men of Carroll, I plead that NDSP keep the bike shop open, or else condemn Vermin to perpetually long and tedious journeys to class as we attempt to survive the year without our precious (albeit prone to break­ing) bicycles.
 Jason Kippenbrock 
junior 
Carroll Hall 
Feb. 2 




By PATRICK McMANUS Wednesday’s first segment after Fal Obama hasn’t Scene Writer lon’s monologue was Head Swap, a hu done anything for morous bit ostensibly about switching him, drinking beer 
On the Wednesday, Thursday, and the heads of various celebrities, but and arguing about Friday before the Super Bowl, “Late actually centered on a lengthy intro the Knicks at Camp Da Night with Jimmy Fallon” was filmed duction that tells the story of how the vid, to drinking beer and from the Hilbert Circle Theatre in bit came to be. The skit’s incarnation arguing about the Knicks downtown Indianapolis. It was the featured, among other things, the kid in the cockpit with Captain show’s first venture outside of studio napping of Bob Costas. That video was Sully, to inexplicably finding 6B in New York’s Rockefeller Center. followed by another, this one the final himself on the Hudson, to finally In support of NBC’s broadcast of the cut of Jimmy’s Subs Across America using a bird hitting the engine as big game on Sunday, “Late Night” did project, where viewers sent in videos an excuse to his wife. its part to drum up excitement around of them catching and throwing Sub The next guest, Tim Tebow, was not football and the city of Indianapolis, way sandwiches in front of landmarks as funny, except for when he criticized though that hardly seems necessary. in their area.  It was a very gimmicky Fallon’s singing in a bit that aired a This reporter was lucky enough to bit, with obvious corporate overtones, few weeks ago that imagined a Tebow/ be in the audience for the taping of but Mr. Fallon’s unflagging enthusi David Bowie conglomeration. Tebow Wednesday’s show. asm made it all work. did of course discuss his charitable 
The Hilbert Circle Theatre seats The first guest was “SNL” alum and works, including building a hospita 1,781, which by Jimmy Fallon’s own “30 Rock” star Tracy Morgan, who for ble in the Philippines. He concluded off screen estimation, is 12 times some reason wore a pair of bedazzled by launching an autographed jersey more than “Late Night’s” usual stu jeans. Mr. Morgan required only the into the crowd (it landed just three dio audience. The theatre is located in slightest prompting from inquirer Fal rows behind me!). The All American the center of downtown Indianapolis lon to go off on a variety of subjects, Rejects’ performance concluded the in Monument Circle, usually home to including how former Cowboys wide show. the Indianapolis Symphony Orchestra, receiver Drew Pearson used to sell The biggest difference between who for Wednesday’s program sat in fish to his grandfather from a white the Fallon show in New York and with the “greatest band in late night,” van and how Morgan grew up with Indianapolis must have been the the legendary Roots crew. Other dif a crash helmet adorned with Tom audience. Sure, there were the grizzled ferences from the show’s usual format Brady (one assumes, of course, that New Yorkers who followed the Giants included a guest announcer, as Steve everything Morgan says is entirely as much as they did Fallon to Indy, Higgins stayed in New York to work on fictitious). Interestingly, cut from the but the bulk of viewers were natives, producing “Saturday Night Live.” Hig broadcast version of the interview but whose cheers expressed sheer joy at gins was replaced by NFL Hall of Fame a part of the afternoon’s taping, was a seeing something live that had only athlete Deion Sanders, who announced remarkable train of thought that took come to them through the television. the show’s guests, Tracy Morgan, Tim Morgan from collapsing at a Sundance Tebow, and the All American Rejects, Film Festival event and being visited Contact Patrick McManus at                    and the host, Jimmy Fallon. in the hospital by “Mitch” Romney, to pmcmanu1@nd.edu   

Masterpiece Classic’s host, Laura Linney, curled up with mugs of tea brewed in plug-in kettles, is a vision for college students who are ready to get lost in this year’s hit signature period drama, “Downton Abbey.” Smiling enigmati-MEGHAN cally, Linney sets THOMASSEN the scene: a tra­ditional Victorian VIewpoint family struggles to Editor come to terms with the modern world. 
Downton’s sociological theory is nothing to yawn at. This series has more secrets than social theory, more women of ill repute than ideologies of virtue — at least, not in places you would expect. 
In the series, the Crawley family teeters on the brink of scandal in the sumptuous halls of Downton, while the staff simmers downstairs in the dingy kitchen. In the first episode (spoiler alert), the Titanic sinks, a footman kisses a visiting duke, a cripple is made the new valet and the only child left to inherit Crawley estate is female. 
While the staff may be charac­terized by their varying degrees of insubordinate and bold behavior, it is the lovely head housemaid, Anna, and her beau, the crippled valet, Bates, who capture viewers’ hearts. 
Anna’s articulate honesty makes even the sorrowful Bates smile. Their selfless love story should be a lesson to the likes of Mary Crawley, the el­dest daughter, who abuses the heart of poor Matthew Crawley, her suitor (and cousin). Of course, she falls for him eventually, but this realization is conveniently timed with Matthew’s inheritance of the entire Crawley estate. Chuck and Blair better watch out: there’s a new masochistic couple in town. 
For all the finery and good man­ners, Downton seems all the more vulnerable to corruption. The tradi­tional Mr. and Mrs. Crawley watch on rather ineffectually, and sometimes enable their daughters as they de­scend into respective personal crises. 
As the Crawley’s entertain a parade of suitors, the series riffs on Jane Austen’s theme of courting, marriage and husbands, or lack thereof. 
Mary’s first lover, a Turkish am­bassador, dies in her bed before anything interesting can happen. The youngest daughter, Sibyl, suffers as her intellectual side fails to gain her the kind of respect she desires and deserves. She eventually convinces her steadfast grandmother, Countess Violet Grantham (played by the bril­liant Maggie Smith), to open Down-ton to wounded officers recovering from the trenches of World War I. 

Meanwhile, middle daughter Edith, overlooked by everyone, including her mother, rebels by learning how to drive and having an ephemeral tryst with a local farmer. 
The aristocracy disappoint again and again, so viewers naturally turn to the servants. While Anna and Bates fight his vengeful ex-wife for a life together, the meddlesome maid, Mrs. O’Brien, and the psychopathic footman, Thomas, pull Mrs. Crawley’s puppet strings, who in turn controls the strings of her husband. What motivates these malignant villains is unknown, but strange (albeit few and far between) exhibitions of mercy and compassion keep viewers guess­ing. 
The best character, however, is Carson, the bear-like butler whose bark is worse than his bite. He stands by his lady, Mary Crawley, to preserve her honor, even when she is deeply in the wrong. His attitude doesn’t befit that of a servant, but a king — the other employees of Down-ton act accordingly. 
Carson serves as a model for the rest of the house: determined but ag­ing, loyal but deceived. Viewers can­not help but cheer every time Carson wins a fight, but with each loss, they suffer, along with the headstrong butler, the tragedy of an era gone by. 
On a side note, the fashion of “Downton Abbey” may induce yet an­other retrospective trend, similar to that of the “Mad Men” craze catwalks experienced these past few years. Slender Mary frames the geometric, Orient-inspired gowns, which defined the British 20’s modernist move­ment. Fresh Sibyl boldly introduces the harem pant to women’s clothing, while Edith adheres to a wardrobe more resembling her grandmother’s than an unmarried girl’s. Tower­ing heels and low-cut dresses a la Serena Vanderwoodsen may soon be replaced by the demure mystique of a British closet. 
Drama defines Downton’s debonair delinquency. The characters’ eter­nal struggle to keep up appearances makes this series as addicting as it is visually stunning. As relation­ships develop and dissolve, viewers delve deep into the lives and loves of Victorian debutantes. Linney’s half-restrained smile speaks more than words; she knows her audience is in for a treat. 
“Downton Abbey” airs Sundays at 8 
p.m. on PBS as a part of Masterpiece Classic. 
Contact Meghan Thomassen at mthomass@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
  BRANDON KEELEAN  | Observer Graphic 


Monday, February 6, 2012 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 11 

MARIA FERNANDEZ/ The Observer 

By MARIA FERNANDEZ 
Scene Writer 

Name: Sydney Speltz Spotted: North Dinning Hall 
Casual and comfortable is always in style and Syd­ney sure knows how to work it. Her black leggings and beige empire waist windbreaker look great with her light brown leather boots. She completes this cool outfit with a printed green scarf and beaded hoop earrings. Sydney paired perfectly her go-to basics with special accessories, making this a simple yet chic look for a relaxing after­noon. 
By BRENNA WILLIAMS music is simple, foregrounding Scene Writer the lyrics, which tell a story of confusion, lessons learned, and 
If you’re a fan of folk music, the knowledge that comes with you should definitely give First experience. Aid Kit a listen. If you’re not The heavily promoted single familiar with them, the band is “Emmylou” is pure folksy good-composed of sisters Johanna and ness. The music itself feels Klara Söderberg, who hail from influenced by Bright Eyes’ more a suburb of Stockholm, Sweden. recent work with a bluegrass After a successful American tour undertone that works surpris­with their first album last year, ingly well. the duo is back with their sopho-Perhaps the best cut on the more album “The Lion’s Roar.” album is the obligatory lost-love 
First Aid Kit can be thought of track “To a Poet,” in which the as the Justin Beiber of Europe, sisters slow down the pace of the gaining notoriety after their album to embrace and accept the cover of the Fleet Foxes’ “Tiger pain of loss and distance. The Mountain Peasant Song” went vi-song doesn’t sugarcoat the way ral in 2008. They later performed it feels to lose. The beauty of the the song alongside the actual track comes from the simplicity band in Holland. of the tune and the honesty of the 
Their momentum continued lyrics — clearly one of the women with their EP release later that is sharing an intensely personal year, eventually crossing the experience. Atlantic to take the American Overall, “The Lion’s Roar” is a indie and folk scenes by storm. In solid album, diverse in its themes 2011, they earned a place as one and sounds and sure to please of the most talked about musical current fans of First Aid Kit acts at the South by Southwest while earning them new ones. festival with songs off their first full-length album “Big Black & Contact Brenna Williams at              the Blue.” bwillia9@nd.edu 
The sisters caught the attention of American indie heavyweights such as Jack White and Bright Eyes front man Conor Oberst, their former tour mate who ap-
“The Lion’s Roar” pears on this album in “King of 

First Aid Kit 

the World.” Bright Eyes member and music producer Mike Mogis also took notice, stepping in to produce “The Lion’s Roar.” Recommended 
Their music has been de­scribed as “haunting” and cuts: “Emmylou,” “melancholy” and they have 
“The Lion’s Roar,” 
been compared to their inspira­tion The Fleet Foxes more than a 
“To a Poet” 
fair share of times. However, the most impressive quality of their music is its åto self-assurance. No matter your mood, there will probably be a track on this album that suits you. 
The album opens strong with the title track “The Lion’s Roar,” which showcases the lyric-writing abilities of the duo. The 
Contact Maria Fernandez at mfernan5@nd.edu 
BRANDON KEELEAN | Observer Graphic 

page 12 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u CLASSIFIEDS Monday, February 6, 2012 
SPORTS AUTHORITY 



Revamp recruiting and return to old traditions 
The Super Bowl? You want me to write about the Super Bowl? 
No, today is my day to hold the vaunted title of Sultan of Sports. I get to fix what­ever I want, however I want. Heck, I could legislate the Steelers out of existence, not that it would help my beloved Browns very much. Allan Joseph 

And no, the Super Sports Editor Bowl doesn’t need fixing. 
What does? I’m glad you asked. 
Let’s start with football recruiting. As it stands right now, it’s absolutely a prepos­terous process. These are 17­and 18-year-old boys deciding where to go to college. Let them make the decisions them­selves. Create an early sign­ing period so kids who decide before their senior year of high school can relax during their senior year instead of being hounded by coaches and jour­nalists alike — all of whom are doing nothing but making an already 

tough decision Right now, coaches drive in America even tougher. the process, not the instead. 
More student-athletes. Before In a com-importantly, pletely selfish 
a coach can even talk 
let’s change move, let’s 
to a player, he should 
the culture move the 
have to seek permission 
around NHL’s Blue 
of the athlete himself; if 
recruiting. Jackets to 
a player doesn’t want 
Right now, the Eastern coaches drive to consider a school, Conference. 
the pro-he shouldn’t have to. Let’s get the 
Northwestern State. 
Let’s have a playoff to deter­mine the national champion. 
Let’s return to the roots of college football while taking advantage of the opportunities of this century. That means, yes, having a Big Ten cham­pionship game — but playing it outdoors in December in Soldier Field. That means let­ting players celebrate freely again, but mandating the use of so-called “concussion-proof” helmets. 
The NBA? Where do I even start? How about this: too many games, too many empty seats. How do we fix it? Fewer teams. That’s right, Charlotte 
— wave goodbye to the Bob­cats, although by the looks of it very few of you will miss them anyway. 
Other college sports? Go back to 64 teams in the NCAA men’s basketball tournament. 68 is just silly, and the only thing the play-in game did was force all of us to get our brackets submitted before we were ready. Make the Frozen Four rotate between St. Paul, Minn., and Boston every year. No one in Florida cares about it this year. 
Let’s pretend Major League 
Soccer never happened and get the top Euro­pean teams to play regularly 
cess, not the student-ath­letes. Before a coach can even talk to a player, he should have to seek permis­sion of the athlete himself; if a player doesn’t want to consider a school, he shouldn’t have to. Return some sanity to the lives of the prospective athlete and his family. 
I’d ask to restore some sanity to the lives of the fans who ob­sessively follow recruiting, too, but I’m pretty sure that’s not much less than asking someone to draw me a square circle. 
Recruiting isn’t the only thing broken in college foot­ball. Let’s play more early-sea­son nonconference games like Ohio State-Texas, Michigan-Notre Dame and LSU-Oregon. Let’s play fewer games like Ohio State-Akron, Michigan-San Diego State and LSU-Tiger Woods 
of the early 
2000s back. I don’t particularly care what we have to do to get it. 
Let’s all agree NASCAR isn’t a sport, but an excuse for a bunch of people to have a big party every weekend. There’s no shame in that. 
Most of all, let’s make today a holiday. There is no reason we should have to be at work or school today, the day after the Super Bowl. 
And I thought I couldn’t find anything to fix about the Super Bowl. 
Contact Allan Joseph at ajoseph2@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority column are those of the author and not necssarily those of The Observer. 

NCAA MEN’S BASKETBALL 


Hurricanes upset No. 7 Duke 
Associated Press 
DURHAM, N.C. — No. 7 Duke won four national championships over the years while being driven by what Hall of Fame coach Mike Krzyzewski says was energy, effort and hunger. 
When the Blue Devils didn’t necessarily have those things Sunday, they couldn’t even beat Miami. 
The Hurricanes stunned Duke 78-74 in overtime, dropping the Blue Devils out of their three-way tie for first place in the Atlantic Coast Conference and likely tak­ing some of the luster off the Duke-North Carolina game later this week. 
The Blue Devils couldn’t handle Miami’s 6-foot-10, 284-pound Reggie Johnson, who scored five of his career-high 27 points in the over­time and added a season-high 12 rebounds. 
But more distressing to Krzyzewski — once again 
— the Blue Devils played for too long without the all-out effort that has marked his program’s rise among the nation’s elite. 
“A Duke team should play with energy for 40 minutes, or 45,” Krzyzewski said. “Go outside right now and you look at the banners — there are quite a few of them up there. They were not won without energy, without hun­ger, with no complacency, with people really wanting it. 
“And we’ve wanted it a lot, and we’ve won a lot. We’re supposed to play hard and with energy all the time. Those are givens. Those should be givens.” 
Instead, the Blue Devils (19-4, 6-2) have lost two of their last three games at Cameron Indoor Stadium and have dropped multiple home games for the first time since going 15-4 there in 2006-07. Krzyzewski at the time compared his team’s only home win in the past two weeks — a victory over St. John’s — to an AAU game because of Duke’s occasional lack of intensity. 
Seth Curry scored 22 points and freshman Aus­tin Rivers added 20. Mason Plumlee had 13 rebounds for Duke, which missed all six of its free throws in overtime and wound up being beaten at home by a Florida-based conference rival for the sec­ond time this season. Duke had its 45-game home win­ning streak snapped two weeks ago by No. 21 Florida State. 
“The biggest emphasis for us was to protect our home court,” guard Quinn Cook said. “We’ve got to get better.” 


The Blue Devils had plenty of chances in the extra session. They trailed 75-74 with Cook on the line, but he missed two free throws with 27.2 seconds left. 
After Johnson missed two foul shots with 26.2 seconds left to give Duke another shot, Cook missed badly on a running jumper with about 15 seconds left. DeQuan Jones extended Miami’s lead to 77-74 with two foul shots with 12.9 seconds left. 
Rivers and Ryan Kelly missed 3s in the final seconds and Johnson added a free throw with one-tenth of a second re­maining to silence the subdued arena. 
Miami outrebounded the Blue Devils 48-43 and outscored them 38-26 in the paint. 
“I feel I had the hot hand the whole game,” Johnson said, adding that new coach Jim Lar­ranaga “was trying to ride me a whole lot. My teammates found me in good positions — catch and score.” 
Kenny Kadji added 15 points for the Hurricanes (14-7, 5-3), who blew a 16-point lead in the second half, then regrouped to claim their first big victory for their first-year coach. 
“To come in here and play with the kind of poise we did, play the kind of defense we did 
— especially in the first half and in the overtime — was some­thing that we can be very, very proud of,” Larranaga said. 
That poise gave Miami its first victory ever at Cameron and just its second win over Duke since joining the ACC. The Hurricanes are on their first four-game winning streak since 2008 and have won three consecutive ACC road games for the first time. 
Johnson scored the Hurri­canes’ first four points in over­time before Malcolm Grant’s open-court layup put Miami up 75-69 with 2:10 left. 
Miami forced 14 turnovers and was cruising before going cold midway through the second half, managing only one field goal during the critical stretch that coincided with Duke’s rally. 
Miami went up by 16 points three times, the last on Kadji’s open 3-pointer from the key that made it 53-37 with 14½ minutes left. But a putback by Johnson was the Hurricanes’ only field goal for quite over the next 8½ minutes. 
Duke, which missed 15 of 18 shots during the stretch that put it in such a huge hole, got equal­ly hot during the 16-2 run led by Curry that put the Blue Devils right back in it. 
“For 24 minutes, I just think we were not very good at all,” Krzyzewski said. “We had no energy and they did. ... Then in the last 16 minutes of regu­lation, I thought we played ex­tremely well and gave ourselves an opportunity to win.” 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The 
Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 

CLASSIFIEDS 

WALK TO CAMPUS BREAKDOWN 
FOR RENT PERSONAL 
by Jack Johnson So for now If these tracks don’t bend 
Great Specials! I hope this old train breaks down I need this somehow Then I could take a walk around Old train to breakdown And I got no time And, see what there is to see Oh please just That I got to get to 
House for rent. UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don’t Studio, 1, 2, 3 Bedroom And time is just a melody Let me please breakdown Where I don’t need to be 
go it alone. Notre Dame has many All the people in the street 
2BR 1BA, full basement, fenced in resources in place to assist you. Walk as fast as their feet can take This engine screams out loud So I
backyard. If you or someone you love needs Townhomes available. them Centipede gonna crawl westbound I need this 
confidential support or assistance, 

I just roll through town So I don’t even make a sound Old train to breakdown 
20 minutes from campus - please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819 And though my windows got a Cause it’s gonna sting me when I Oh please just 
Mishawaka. $600 + utilities. or Ann Firth at 1-2685. 
(574) 272-8124. view leave this town Let me please breakdown 
For more information, visit The frame I’m looking through All the people in the street I need this 
Call 574-248-0185 or 574-633-ND’s website at: http:// www.clovervillageapartments.com Seems to have no concern for now That I’ll never get to meet Old train to breakdown 
4084 pregnancysupport@nd.edu 
Monday, February 6, 2012 The Observer u SPORTS ndsmcobserver.com | page 13 
NBA 




James’ dunk secures Miami’s win over Toronto 
Associated Press 
MIAMI — LeBron James took a hard foul and clearly was not happy. So the next time he saw the ball, he made sure no To­ronto player could reach him. 
James’ steal and dunk with just more than two minutes left gave Miami some breath­ing room, and the Heat held on to defeat the Toronto Raptors 95-89 on Sunday. James fin­ished with 30 points and Dwy­ane Wade added 25 for the Heat (18-6), who won for the 10th time in its last 12 games and moved within one game of Chicago (20-6) for the best record in the Eastern Confer­ence. 
“We stuck with our princi­ples,” James said. “And that’s to defend.” 
Chris Bosh scored 12 points against his former team, which trimmed Miami’s 15-point edge to three in the final minutes but never cap­tured the lead. Mario Chalm­ers added 11 for Miami. 
DeMar DeRozan 25 for the Raptors, who got 17 apiece from Jerryd Bayless and Linas Kleiza . 
“I liked our disposition,” Raptors coach Dwane Casey said. “I liked the way we ap­proached it. I liked the way we competed.” 
Kleiza’s 3-pointer with just under five minutes left got To­ronto within eight, and anoth­er 3 from Bayless as the shot clock expired on the next Rap­tors’ possession cut the Miami lead to 85-80 -- the closest the game had been since early in the third quarter. 
Bayless scored again to get the Raptors within three and cap a 12-0 Toronto run. And after Bosh missed a fadeaway from the right baseline, Bay-less tried a 3-pointer to tie. It bounced off, and with the game in the balance, James went to work. 
He was fouled by James Johnson and made two free throws with 2:20 left, not be­fore letting anyone around him know he wasn’t pleased with the physicality of the play. The next time James touched the ball, he didn’t give the Raptors a chance to foul him—his steal and two-handed slam with 
2:07 left gave Miami an 89-82 edge and all but ensured the win. 
“Good back-to-back plays for our team and I was hap­py I was able to make them,” James said. 
James—who leads the NBA in first-quarter scoring this season (9.1 points a game) -­got off to another big start, making his first five shots and scoring 12 points in the open­ing quarter. He’s now shooting just under 60 percent in first quarters this season. 
While scoring wasn’t an is­sue, the Heat were far from in the clear. 
Casey told the Raptors that establishing pace and limiting turnovers—especially early— would be big keys. Seemed like his team got the message: The Raptors matched a season-high with 27 points in the first quarter, and turned the ball over only five times in the first half. That, combined with DeRozan tying his season best with 16 points in the opening two quarters, kept the Raptors close. 
“It just shows that we can compete with anybody,” DeRo­zan said. 
Miami’s lead was only 53­48 at the break, and that was even after James and Wade combined to score 22 points in the opening quarter on 8 for 9 shooting. 
“We knew it was going to be one of those grind-out kind of games,” Wade said. “We un­derstand that a lot of teams do that when they play the Heat— come out on fire.” 
In the third quarter, the Heat finally took control—not surprisingly, when the defense picked up a notch. 
Toronto missed all but one of its shots over a seven-min­ute stretch of the third, a span where Miami started with a 55-54 lead and increased it 73-57. Chalmers hit back-to­back 3-pointers late in the 18-3 run, James made a fade-away with 3:27 to play in the period to close the flurry. 
“Our energy was good,” Heat coach Erik Spoelstra said. 


“Even throughout the game, I didn’t have a problem with the energy. ... It was more of a real concentration and a discipline toward the end of the (shot) clock. And that’s something we’ll have to continue to get better at.” 
And, just as Casey feared, turnovers proved decisive. To­ronto committed eight in the third, which Miami turned into nine points. Miami gave the ball away only twice in the third, and the Raptors didn’t score on either. 



Monday, February 6, 2012 The Observer u SPORTS ndsmcobserver.com | page 15 

NCAA MEN’S BASKETBALL 


Spartans exact revenge on Wolverines 64-54 
Associated Press 
EAST LANSING, Mich. — Every time Trey Burke was poised to drive the lane, it seemed a white jersey was in his way. 
And when Tim Hardaway Jr. tried to shoot Michigan back in the game in the second half, the Wolverines instead fell further behind. 
Burke and Hardaway were a combined 5 of 21 from the field, and No. 23 Michigan couldn’t overcome its back-court struggles in Sunday’s 64-54 loss at No. 9 Michigan State. The Wolverines lost to the Spartans for the first time in four meetings and remain stuck in a win-one, lose-one rut as the Big Ten season heads toward the home stretch. 
“Sometimes we’re on, some­times we’re off,” Burke said. “They were just a better team today.” 
Burke had 11 points on 4-of­11 shooting, but the 5-foot-11 point guard struggled to cre­ate anything in the lane after scoring 20 points in a win over the Spartans last month. 
Hardaway had an even rougher afternoon. He went 1 for 10 and finished with only four points while the Michi­gan State fans taunted him with chants of “Not like dad­dy!” in the second half. Hard­away’s father, the former NBA player, was sitting behind the Michigan bench. 
Hardaway tried attacking the basket and shooting from the perimeter, but nothing seemed to work. 
“They’re in and out — or they’re either short or long, but they’re on line,” he said. “I can’t get upset with that. As long as they’re on line, and they look good and feel good, just keep on shooting.” 
Michigan State’s Draymond Green had 14 points and 16 rebounds, equaling the entire Michigan team’s total on the boards. The Wolverines were outrebounded 40-16, and the Spartans had nearly as many rebounds on offense (12) as Michigan did on defense (13). 
The Wolverines (17-7, 7-4) went scoreless for the game’s first 5:09, and although it took the Spartans (18-5, 7-3) a little while to pull away, they led by as many as 14 points in the half. Burke’s 3-pointer just before halftime made it 30-22, but Michigan couldn’t pull any closer. 
It was 45-37 with 8:35 re­maining, but Green pushed the lead back to double dig­its with a jumper. Zack Novak made a layup for Michigan, but Green answered again in­side to make it 49-39. 
Starting with a loss at Iowa on Jan. 14, Michigan hasn’t won or lost consecutive games in over three weeks. 
Green played with a sprained left knee. 
“There aren’t many guys on this team that this game means more to than him,” Michigan State coach Tom Izzo said. “Draymond didn’t want to go out losing four in a row to them.” 
The Spartans took control with a 17-7 run in the first half and pulled away with eight straight points to take a 57-40 lead with just under 3 minutes left after Brandon Wood tracked down an of­fensive rebound and made a 3-pointer. 
Hardaway missed his first six shots. He’s had rough shooting stretches all season but has also made his share of big plays late in games, in­cluding in Michigan’s 60-59 win over the Spartans on Jan. 17. 
“We were trying to do every­thing we can. When he strug­gles like that, we just have to continue to work with him,” Michigan coach John Beilein said. “He had a bad night, but he’ll try to grow from this ex­perience. I love coaching that kid.” 
Keith Appling and Branden Dawson each scored 10 points and Wood added nine for the Spartans, and stopping Burke and Hardaway was a team ef­fort. 

ND WOMEN’S TENNIS 



Irish rebound after Tennessee loss 
By KATIE HEIT 
Sports Writer 

The Irish split their two games in Tennessee over the weekend, falling to the Volunteers 6-1 on Friday before gaining momen­tum and defeating Vanderbilt on Sunday 5-2. 
To start off the weekend, the No. 24 Irish faced off against No. 17 Tennessee. 
Senior co-captain Shannon Mathews started her second week in the No. 1 singles position and gained the only point for the Irish by defeating the Volunteers’ No. 24 Natalie Pluskota. The rest of the squad was unable to gain any momentum, each falling in only two sets. 
“It’s always challenging play­ing teams at their home with the crowd against us,” sophomore Britney Sanders said. 
Senior co-captain Kristy Frill­ing said that Notre Dame did not play to the best of its ability. 
“I think Tennessee is a good team, but I also think the score wasn’t indicative of how we can play,” Frilling said. “The doubles point is always crucial, and I think it’s really important for us to get that first point.” 
The Irish took on No. 18 Vanderbilt at their home court to round out the weekend. After a battle that took over five hours, Notre Dame clinched the win 5-2. 
Against the Commodores, Notre Dame came out with more energy than in its previous con­test and earned the doubles point with victories from partners Mathews and Frilling, as well as the pair of junior Chrissie McGaf­figan and sophomore Kellner. 
Mathews dropped her sin­gles match in two sets against Vanderbilt’s Jackie Wu. Frilling and Sanders both closed their matches in three sets. Frilling won after three sets of 6-3, 4-6, 7-5, and Sanders dropped her first set 4-6 before coming back and winning the final two 6-4, 6-4. 
Kellner and McGaffigan also took their matches to three sets apiece and snatched the final two points for the Irish. 
“We all came out much stron­ger against [Vanderbilt],” Frill­ing said. “We played much more aggressive and confident, and that really helped us in the end. 

[Vanderbilt] is a great team and we won all our matches in three sets, and that will really help boost our morale.” 
Sanders said an attitude change on behalf of the entire team was key to the win Sunday. 
“We realized we didn’t have anything to lose,” Sanders said. “Vanderbilt was ranked higher than us, so we just gave it our all out there. Instead of playing to not lose we played to win.” 
The Irish will begin a string of home matches Saturday against North Carolina at 11 a.m. 
Contact Katie Heit at kheit@nd.edu 



SMC BASKETBALL 


Mahoney leads Belles to win 
the Comets (6-15, 4-8 MIAA) in a win that required them to focus on the fundamentals. 
Senior forward Kelley Mur­phy’s 14 boards added to the team’s plus-nine rebound margin over the Comets for a 12-6 difference in second chance points for the Belles. 
In the first half, the Belles and Comets exchanged leads until Mahoney hit a three point shot, increasing the gap to five points. By the end of the half, Saint Mary’s had taken a 33-23 lead. 
The Belles led by 18 points in the second half, but with two minutes remaining, Oliv­et managed to climb back into the game. With 13 sec­onds left on the clock, Saint Mary’s held Olivet down 57­
54. Olivet got the ball off a Murphy turnover, then turned the ball back over to the Belles. Mahoney went up for two foul shots, made them both and sealed the 59-54 victory. 
Another key factor for Saint Mary’s was its 22-30 shooting from the foul line, compared to Olivet’s 8-14. 
Now 7-6 in MIAA play, Saint Mary’s is making its final push to reach the four-team playoff for conference champion held from Feb. 23 to 25. Three MIAA games stand in their way. 
Saint Mary’s will face Adrian at 7:30 p.m. at home Wednesday in the Think Pink Game for breast cancer awareness. 

Observer Staff Report 

Senior forward Patsy Ma-honey put up a career-high 29 points in Saint Mary’s 59­55 conference win over Olivet on Saturday. 
Mahoney shot nearly half the team’s points, went 78 percent from the field and made 83 percent from the foul line. She brought a spark to an offense that was oth­erwise only shooting 31 per­cent for the game. 
The Belles (11-11, 7-6 MIAA) reached the .500 mark for the season after beating 

page 16 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u SPORTS Monday, February 6, 2012 

TRACK AND FIELD 


Rae defends title, Irish notch six victories at Meyo Invite 
By JOSEPH MONARDO 
Sports Writer 
The 25th installment of the annual Meyo Invitational played out Friday and Sat­urday in the Loftus Sports Complex and contained all of the elite competition and im­pressive performances that have come to define the event since its inception. 
The host Irish captured six victories, and the field as a whole rewrote seven meet re­cords during the weekend. 
Highlighting the meet for Notre Dame was junior mid­dle distance runner Jeremy Rae, who defended his title in the Meyo Mile, a signature event of the Invitational. Rae completed the distance in less than four minutes for the second consecutive year with his time of 3:59.31. 
“It was unbelievable,” ju­nior sprinter Brendan Dough­erty said. “He is an amazing athlete. It was a lot of fun to watch. Second year winning the male mile is a big deal, so I think everybody on the team is proud of him.” 
Rae had to battle through the pressure that comes with an attempt to repeat a win­ning performance, especially with his parents making the trip down from Ontario to watch their son race. 
“The time was kind of a bonus, getting under four is always fun,” Rae said. “But really seeing as how it’s at home and in front of all my teammates, and my parents were here, and friends came down to watch the race I put a lot of pressure on myself to make sure I won the race … just to be able to [win] again is a big relief and a lot of pressure off my shoulders.” 
Sophomore sprinter Patrick Feeney also scored a victory for the Irish with his school record time of 46.73 in the 400-meter race. The reign­ing conference champion in the event, Feeney crossed the finish line just .07 seconds ahead of freshman sprinter Chris Geisting, who took sec-


ND WOMEN’S SWIMMING AND DIVING 


ND closes regular season with win over Ball State 
By BRIAN HARTNETT 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame concluded its regular season with a win Sat­urday, placing first in nine of 13 events on its way to a 143-100 victory over Ball State in Mun­cie, Ind. 
Senior Amy Prestinario led the attack for the Irish (6-6), picking up wins in two individ­ual events. Prestinario won the 100-yard and 200-yard freestyle events and also swam one leg for the 200­yard free­style relay team, which concluded the meet with a nar­

“I think that the team 
row victory. 

Notre is peaking at the right Dame’s tal-time and will have a lot ented group of fast swims at the [Big of freshman East championships].” swimmers made a sig-
Erin Foley 
nificant im-

Freshman swimmer 
pact in the meet, win­ning three events for the Irish. Freshman Erin Foley won the first race of her Irish career, breaking away from the field to win the 1,000-yard free­style event. Freshman Bridget Casey continued her recent streak of success, claiming first place in the 200-yard freestyle event, and freshman swimmer Emma Reaney added another victory to her list of first-year accomplishments, winning the 200-yard individual medley race for the fifth time this sea­son. 
The Irish also received points thanks to strong performances from sophomore Kelly Ryan and junior Jaime Malandra. Ryan took first in the 100-yard back­stroke race, withstanding a late charge by Reaney to earn the victory. After placing second in the 1,000-yard freestyle event, Malandra rebounded to win the 500-yard freestyle competition. 
“Jaime has been doing a really awesome job, and she showed it yesterday,” Foley said. “To swim the 1000-yard and 500-yard [freestyle events] and win them both in the span of about thirty minutes is really impressive.” 
The Irish diving team also contributed to the team’s win­ning effort, with junior diver Jenny Chiang winning one indi­
vidual event and finishing sec­ond in another. Chiang won the 1-meter diving event by a com­fortable mar­gin, finishing 38 points ahead of the second place finisher, Irish freshman diver Jordan Russell, while also fin­ishing second in the 3-meter event, losing by just 1.55 points. 
With the regu­lar season fin­ished, the Irish will turn their 
attention to the Big East cham­pionships. 
“I think that the team is peak­ing at the right time and will have a lot of fast swims at the [Big East championships],” Fol­ey said. “We’ve been training really hard for this meet, so I think that it’s going to be a good meet for us.” 
The Irish diving team will compete at the Big East Diving championships in Pittsburgh, Penn., next weekend, while the swimming team will compete at the Big East Swimming champi­onships in Pittsburgh from Feb. 15- Feb. 18. 
Contact Brian Hartnett at bhartnet@nd.edu 
ond. 
“They are both excel­lent runners and I think they make each other bet­ter,” Dougherty said. “Pat gets out really fast and that makes Chris get out faster. Chris finishes so strong that it makes Pat finish stronger. They are great runners.” 
The pair also contributed to an Irish win in the 4x400­meter relay, in which Dough­erty, Feeney, sophomore sprinter Jarrod Buchanon and Giesting recorded a time of 3:10.4. Giesting overtook the Rutgers team with less than 100 meters remaining to secure the come-from-be­hind victory for Notre Dame. 
“In years past, our 4x400 hasn’t been as strong, so it’s extremely exciting that we’ve been doing so well,” Dough­erty said. “With guys like Chris and Pat, it’s always fun to watch because you never know. Even if we are behind, we probably have a chance to win, just knowing that Chris is getting the baton last.” 



Jackson 
continued from page 20 

Irish without a series sweep since accomplishing the feat against Alaska in mid-No­vember. 
“It’s really disappointing [to lose] going into the third period with the lead,” sopho­more defenseman Stephen Johns said. “We had a few breakdowns out there and that was the difference in the game.” 
Notre Dame held a 2-1 lead heading in to the third be­
hind  goals  from  freshman  
defenseman  Robbie  Russo  
and Johns.  

Russo struck first with a one-timer slap shot from the top of the left face-off circle, beating Falcons junior goalie Andrew Hammond over his left shoulder. The score was Russo’s fourth goal of the year, all on the power play. Johns capitalized on the pow­er play again for the Irish, whipping a wrist shot from the blue line past Hammond. The goal marked the third straight game Johns has registered a point for Notre Dame. 
Hammond rebounded from the rough start to record 20 saves on the game. 
“[Hammond] makes a dif­ference,” Jackson said. “He made some big saves tonight. We still need to find a way to finish in those situations. He definitely was a difference maker in net.” 
The Irish appeared to ex­tend the lead to 3-1 nearly six minutes into the second period after sophomore de­fenseman Kevin Lind shot a pass from sophomore center 
T.J. Tynan past Hammond. The goal was reviewed and the original call was upheld. 
At 10:18 of the second pe­riod, Falcons junior center Marc Rodriguez was called for a 10-minute misconduct penalty, resulting in his ejec­tion from the game. The ejec­tion was part of a nearly four minute stretch where the Fal­cons racked up four different penalties. The Irish, however, were unable to take advan­tage of the opportunities. 
On the women’s side, fresh­man Emily Frydrych placed first in the 1000-meter re­lay with her Big East cham­pionships qualifying time of 
2:48.94 on Friday for Notre Dame’s first victory of the weekend. On the following day, Frydrych placed second in the unseeded mile and qualified for the conference meet again with her time of 4:53.95. 
Freshman sprinter/hurdler Kaila Barber won the 60-me­ter hurdles and recorded a Big East championships qualifying time of 8.44 on the meet’s second day. Also on Saturday, sophomore sprint­er Aijah Urssery captured the third and final victory for the Irish women with her Big East qualifying time of 7.48 in the 60-meter dash. 
The meet witnessed re-cord-breaking performances in the women’s long jump, women’s distance medley re­lay, men’s 1,000-meter run, women’s weight throw, men’s 500-meter run, men’s long jump and women’s 800-meter run. 
“It’s pretty amazing,” Dougherty said. “The level of talent that was there, I would guess it rivaled anywhere in the country in that day, so it’s a lot of fun to be in a meet like that.” 
With only one meet remain­ing before the Big East cham­pionships begin on Feb. 18, the Irish feel confident that they are ready to face the conference’s best athletes. 
“Certain events, we look re­ally good … across the board we are pretty good,” Rae said. “The Big East [champi­onships] is [one of the most important meets] of the sea­son because everybody is working together to drive the team to win.” 
The Irish return to action on Feb. 10 when they travel to Allendale, Mich., for the Grand Valley State University Big Meet. 
Contact Joseph Monardo at jmonardo@nd.edu 


“I think our team has more offensive ability than what we’re showing,” Jackson said. “When we keep the game sim­ple and grind it out, get pucks to the net, we score goals.” 
After firing 13 shots on goal in the first period, Notre Dame managed just five in the second period and four in the third period. 
“You have to give Bowling Green a lot of credit, they played really hard, right till the end,” Johns said. “It just wasn’t our night tonight.” 
Falcons freshman center Ryan Carpenter scored two goals in the third period to give the Falcons a lead they would not give up. Carpen­ter’s second goal came with just 1:38 left in the third pe­riod. 
“Bowling Green did a good job in the third period,” Jack­son said. “They were getting everything to the net, and our guys were making drop pass­es. That’s the difference.” 
With the goalie pulled and time winding down in regula­tion, the Irish almost scored a late equalizer. With less than five seconds left, Bowling Green had the puck pinned deep in their own zone. The puck squirted out to Irish ju­nior center Riley Sheahan, who had an open look, but Hammond denied him with a glove save to end the game. 
While Hammond started both games for the Falcons, Notre Dame once again used two different netminders. Junior goalie Mike Johnson started during Notre Dame’s win Friday night and sopho­more goalie Steven Summer-hays played Saturday. 
Johnson notched 24 saves in the win while Summerhays stopped 21 shots in the loss. 
“They have both had their spells where they’ve played extremely well,” Jackson said. “I didn’t think Steven played poorly tonight. With the exception of last Friday night, we’ve been getting good goaltending.” 
The Irish got goals from Tynan and junior left wing Nick Larson Friday night, with Larson’s score coming at 
5:45 of the third period. 
Jackson said the difference from night to night was sim­ple. 
“[Bowling Green] scored two [more] goals,” he said. “They play hard, they com­pete hard, they execute their system well. I expect that they’ll only get better.” 
Notre Dame faces No. 7 Ferris State next weekend in a crucial conference series. Friday’s game will be played at the Compton Family Ice Arena and Saturday’s contest will take place in Big Rapids, Mich. Both games start at 
7:05p.m. 

Contact Matthew DeFranks at mdefrank@nd.edu 

Monday, February 6, 2012 The Observer u SPORTS ndsmcobserver.com | page 17 


Diggins 
continued from page 20 
scored more than 10 points, including Mallory with 14, sophomore forward Nata­lie Achonwa with 16 and graduate student forward Devereaux Peters with 11, sharing the offensive wealth. 
“[Passing] has been the hallmark of our team,” Irish coach Muffet McGraw said. “We are an incredibly un­selfish group. It starts at the point [guard position] with Skylar. She is doing a great job with her assist-to-turn­over ratio. 
“We find somebody that has a better shot than we do, and we are willing to give it up. We don’t care about the credit. We just want the win. That’s something I’ve been really proud of all year long.” 
Despite the point-heavy first half, McGraw didn’t see the defense she wanted to see against the Blue De­mons. 
“I still complained about the defense at halftime,” McGraw said. “I was just overall disappointed with the defense the entire game. Our transition defense gave up layups and our post de­fense struggled. You have to credit [DePaul]. Their post play was outstanding. They just played so well, and we couldn’t guard them one-on­one.” 
Notre Dame’s early lead allowed McGraw to substi­tute bench players earlier than usual, specifically ju­nior guard Kaila Turner, who added six points for the Irish. 
“I subbed too early and we went flat,” McGraw said. “That was disappointing. The posts just weren’t ready to play today. I think that was the most disappoint­ing part of the game … Our posts just weren’t able to de­fend.” 
Mallory and the Irish kept DePaul’s leading scorer, ju­nior guard Anna Martin, in check, as she shot just 17 percent from the field. 

“Brittany Mallory was outstanding as always,” Mc­Graw said. “She locked down their leading scorer. She did a magnificent job as she does every game.” 
The Irish travel to Syra­cuse, N.Y, to take on the Or­ange at the Carrier Dome on Tuesday at 7 p.m. 
Contact Molly Sammon at msammon@nd.edu 
FENCING 



Irish fencers impress at Northwestern Duals 
By MIKE MONACO 
Sports Writer 
The No. 4 men’s squad and No. 3 women’s team combined to go 12-2 at the Northwestern Duals on Saturday. The day’s only blemishes were a pair of one-point losses, one for each side of the team. 
“We’re all very happy about the outcome of the tournament,” se­nior epeeist Diane Zielinski said. “The level of competition was much harder than the previous weekend at the [Notre Dame] Du­als. We have improved as a team and our losses [this weekend] were extremely close, which shows how much potential our team has.” 
The women’s squad (25-6) fol­lowed up an undefeated weekend at the Notre Dame Duals with a 7-1 showing in Evanston, Ill. The Irish split their two opening matches, a 17-10 win against North Carolina and a close 14-13 loss to Duke, be­fore winning their final six match­es against Stanford, UC San Diego, Temple, Cal Tech, Princeton and Stevens Tech. 
“There are still areas of im­provement to be made,” Zielinski said. “Our coaches and captains have been working collaboratively in our relentless effort to defend our championship.” 
The men’s team (29-6) went 5-1 on the day against some stiff competition. The Irish opened the Northwestern Duals with wins against Duke, UC San Diego and North Carolina before facing Princ­eton. 
The Tigers downed Notre Dame 14-13 in a match that came down to wire. An epee battle between two longtime rivals decided the match as Irish junior James Kaull fell to Princeton junior Jonathan Yergler. Yergler, a two-time All-American, earned a 5-3 victory in a hard-fought match. 
“I have been competing with Jonathan Yergler since I was eight years old,” Kaull said. “The number of close bouts we have had against each other is probably in the hun­dreds. The bout this weekend is a continuation of that rivalry. This weekend he beat me, [but] I will use this bout to better my prepara­tion for NCAA Championships.” 
Kaull carried the Irish epeeists and finished with an 8-3 record at the Northwestern Duals. Senior Reggie Bentley led the way for the foilists with nine wins, while soph­omore Kevin Hassett went 11-2 to pace the sabreurs. 
The women’s team will travel to Durham, N.C. to try their luck against the Blue Devils again on Saturday. The men are off until Feb. 17, when they will join the women’s team for the USFA Na­tional Junior Olympics in Salt Lake City, Utah. 

Contact Mike Monaco at jmonaco@nd.edu 


page 18 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u SPORTS Monday, February 6, 2012 



Brey 
continued from page 20 
Marquette hung around throughout the first half, thanks in large part to Notre Dame’s poor shooting from beyond the arc. The Irish shot just 3-10 from distance before the break and went into half­time with a four-point lead. 
Notre Dame extended the lead slowly throughout the second half, but turned the tide strongly in their favor when senior guard Scott Mar­tin buried a jumper as the shot clock expired to give the Irish a nine-point lead with just over eight minutes to play. That started a 16-3 run which included 3-point­ers from Martin, Grant, Con­naughton and Atkins, putting the game out of reach. 
“We did hit a couple amaz­ing ones,” Atkins said. “Scott [Martin] hitting that last-second one. That was when I thought we were going to win this game.” 
The Irish shot a sizzling 
57.7 percent from the floor in the second half, including 8-13 from beyond the arc in the second half. 
“I hope we’re starting to get in that territory with shoot­ing,” Brey said. “I think we’re a better shooting team than the numbers have said, and maybe this could jump-start us shooting it from behind the arc.” 
The win over Marquette moves the Irish to 7-3 in the Big East, placing them in fourth in the conference, only a half game behind second-place Georgetown. 
“We’re still changing,” Brey said. “Last year’s team was last year’s team on December 
20. They were really good, but they weren’t changing. We’re still changing, we’re still learning about our group. 
“Why not us? We have one heck of a strong resumé. Our resumé is very strong with what we’ve done. It’s excit­ing to think about that that’s possible with this team after where we were. But I think our guys are very focused on showing up on Selection Sun­day. And God bless them, they should be, because they’ve put us in this position with their focus and business-like approach to go get it.” 
Contact Eric Prister at eprister@nd.edu 
MEN’S LACROSSE 



Irish end preseason play strongly 
By MEGAN GOLDEN 
Sports Writer 

The Irish discovered their new-look team in three shortened scrimmages against Robert Mor­ris on Sunday at home. No. 9 Notre Dame topped the Colonials in all matches by scores of 8-5, 5-1 and 2-1, respectively. 
The first match lasted three pe­riods and featured a high-scoring first quarter. Notre Dame led 4-2 heading into the second period, when both teams exchanged mul­tiple goals to make it a 6-4 Irish advantage. 
The Colonials struggled offen­sively in the second match, which lasted just one quarter. The heated match quickly became one-sided, as all the bounces went in favor of the Irish. 
Robert Morris opened the third match with an immediate goal, taking an early 1-0 lead. The Irish responded in the middle of the pe­riod to tie the game, but both teams struggled to find the net in the final 10 minutes. Notre Dame went on to win 2-1 after scoring with 20 sec­onds remaining in overtime. 
“This is a practice day; it’s a practice day with another team. It’s another day toward us being prepared on Feb. 18th [against Duke],” Irish coach Kevin Cor­rigan said. “My expectations are geared toward that and not toward whatever the scoreboard said at any point during the scrimmage. I think that we’re getting better, and we are finding some different people. We’ve got some guys hurt, some guys stepping up today and playing and doing a good job.” 
Notre Dame opens the season against No. 2 Duke and will face No. 20 Drexel, No. 12 Hofstra and No. 5 Denver over its next five games. 
Corrigan said Robert Morris provided the Irish defense with a chance to experiment against a Canadian-style offense similar to that of Notre Dame’s upcoming op­ponents. 
“They’re a very talented of­fensive team, and they put a lot of pressure on you,” he said. “They’ve got a lot of Canadians; they play a unique style, an almost box-type style. [They] keep everything real tight and force everything inside, which is great for us. That was a great go for us, great preparation for our season, no question.” 
Corrigan added the Irish are not preparing specifically for Duke’s arrival until the team polishes its fundamentals. 
“I think there was a lot of good stuff out there, but I’m disap­pointed in our fundamentals, and that’s something that we preach, something we all believe in not just our coaches but our players,” he said. “We just simply didn’t ex­ecute fundamentally today the way we are capable of executing, and that’s where we’ve got to start, par­ticularly early in the year like this. We’ve got to be sound, and we’re still a work in progress.” 
Notre Dame fell to Duke in the quarterfinals of the NCAA cham­pionships last season. Upon con­clusion of the 2011 season, the Irish lost former co-captains and midfielders David Earl and Zach Brenneman to the 2011 National Lacrosse League Draft. 
Corrigan said Notre Dame has adjusted its style of play to be fo­cused more on the team playing as one unit. 
“I think we found out in the fall that we’re at our best with this team when we’re not trying to sad­dle up and ride one guy,” he said. “We could do that some last year; Dave and Zach could make some­thing out of nothing. I don’t think that’s who we are this year, and I think our guys know it, but I think we’re still learning how to do it in game situations. 
“When we’re really sharing the ball, and playing unselfishly, and everybody’s communicating well and we’re really playing as a group, we’ve got a lot of guys that can make plays in that kind of sce­nario.” 
Notre Dame will open its regular season at home against No. 2 Duke on Feb. 18. 
Contact Megan Golden at mgolde01@saintmarys.edu 



MEN’S TENNIS 


New lineup yields mixed results 
By SAM GANS 
Sports Writer 

The No. 30 Irish started this weekend with a 6-1 win at No. 39 Wake Forest on Friday before falling to No. 10 Duke 6-1 on Sun­day afternoon. 
Notre Dame (5-3) dominated the Demon Deacons (4-3) early, winning all three doubles match­es to take the doubles point and winning five of the six singles matches. Irish coach Bobby Bayl­iss was particularly impressed with his squad’s ability to handle a difficult environment. 
“Any time you go on the road, you’re concerned about making adjustments and whether our guys will handle the crowd well,” Bayliss said. “And so I think from that end we did a reasonably good job.” 
However, the Irish were unable to keep the momentum going against the talented Blue Dev­ils (6-0). Notre Dame kept many matches close early, but Duke pulled away to earn the win. 
Irish senior Sam Keeton was the only singles winner for Notre Dame on Sunday, after being the only player on the Irish to lose against Wake Forest. Sophomore Greg Andrews also dropped his first singles match of the season against the Blue Devils. 
Bayliss made a noticeable change in his doubles lineup for this weekend by teaming seniors Casey Watt and Niall Fitzgerald together, along with junior Spen­cer Talmadge with Andrews. Previously, Fitzgerald had been paired with Talmadge and Watt with Andrews. The switch pro­vided mixed results, with both groups winning Friday, but only Talmadge and Andrews prevail­ing Sunday. 
“We really felt we needed to mix up our doubles. We had lost the doubles point several times in matches where we felt we could have won it, so we took the same two teams and we just switched personnel,” Bayliss said. “Spen­cer and Greg are right now play­ing great doubles … Casey and Niall have some nice things to­gether, some nice chemistry, but [are] a little bit inconsistent on the returns and [did not have] a high-enough first-serve percent­age today.” 
The Irish return to action when they travel to No. 62 Northwest­ern on Tuesday. 
Contact Sam Gans at sgans@nd.edu 



SMC SWIMMING AND DIVING 


Belles’ comeback falls short against rival Albion 
By MIKE MONACO especially from the standpoint of usual cast of upperclassmen. showed,” Benishek said. “Also, expectations with the fifth-place Sports Writer where we’re at in the season,” Ben-Senior Audrey Dalrymple won when you factor in our training trip finish in the conference champion­ishek said. “I know it isn’t really re-the 100-yard breaststroke, the 200-over winter break, we’ve been get-ships … I’m looking to see more of 
The final score may show a 153-flected in the score, but the thing is yard breaststroke and 200-yard ting a lot stronger. I think it showed the same this year.” 125 loss for St. Mary’s after swim-that we don’t have any divers rights individual medley races. Fellow se-today with some really phenom-St. Mary’s is one of the smaller ming against conference rival Albi-now, and it’s tough to recover from nior Megan Price had wins in the enal times and some great time teams in the MIAA, a reality height-on at home Saturday, but the Belles being down by 24 before we even 1000-yard freestyle and 500-yard drops.” ened by the loss of sophomore Alex (1-7, 0-6 MIAA) had a solid perfor-start swimming.” freestyle events. The loss to Albion closes out Kane, who is studying abroad. mance on their Senior Recognition When the Belles did eventually Junior Kristyn Gerbeth recorded the regular season for St. Mary’s, “We’re even smaller than we Day . considering they don’t have hit the water, they tried to make a trio of second place finishes in but the team remains optimistic were last year,” Benishek said. “But any divers. up for the initial deficit. Junior Liz the 50-yard freestyle, the 100-yard heading into the MIAA champion-we’re at the same level as a team 
The Britons (2-3, 2-3 MIAA) got Palmer and senior Katie Donovan freestyle and 100-yard butterfly ships that begin Feb. 15. The Belles and probably even a little stron­out to a 24-0 lead after the diving turned in strong performances for races. had a strong showing at last year’s ger strength-wise and swimming-portion of the meet, but St. Mary’s St. Mary’s. Palmer finished third in Saturday marked the first meet conference championship, a fin-wise.” kept it competitive during the both the 1000-yard freestyle and for the Belles since Jan. 20, and ish Benishek is looking to improve St. Mary’s concludes its season swimming events, falling by the the 500-yard freestyle races, while the team took full advantage of upon. with the MIAA championships, narrow margin of 129-125. Donovan won the 200-yard free-the two-week layoff to train harder “My expectations for the team which begin Feb. 15 in Holland, 
Belles coach Mark Benishek said style competition and came in third and get stronger, Benishek said. are still pretty high,” Benishek said. Mich. he was satisfied with the end result in the 100-yard freestyle event. “We’ve been training a lot these “Every year you try to set a new given his team’s initial deficit. In addition to Palmer and Dono-last two weeks as we geared up bar. Last year was my first as the Contact Mike Monaco at 
“It was a great meet for the girls, van, the Belles were led by their for Albion, and I think it really head coach, and they exceeded my jmonaco@nd.edu 
Monday, February 6, 2012 The Observer u TODAY ndsmcobserver.com | page 19 
EUGENIA LAST 

WILL SHORTz 
HOROSCOPE 
CROSSWORD 



HENRy ARNOLD 

ALEx GRISWOLD and LEE HAGGENJOS 

JUMBLE
LONDON EXPRESS 
MIKE ARGIRION 

JOE MILLER and KELLy LyNCH 

THE CLAMMY HANDSHAKE 




Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556

 Enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year


 Enclosed
 is $75 for one semester 


Name ____________________________________________________ Address __________________________________________________ City ____________________ State___________ Zip______________ 

Monday, February 6, 2012 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 20 
MEN’S BASKETBALL 





Thrown down 
ND continues hot-streak, notches third straight win over ranked opponent with victory over No. 15 Marquette 

By ERIC PRISTER 
Senior Sports Writer 
For Irish coach Mike Brey, 
it  was  a  season-changing  
win.  
Over  the  course  of  Notre  

Dame’s 76-59 blowout win over No. 15 Marquette, Brey said he saw his young and in­experienced team transition from boys to men. 
“I continue to be very, very proud of the team I work with,” he said. “I thought to­day we took another step and played like men. And we’re very cruel competitors when we have a chance to put it away, so I’m thrilled to see that from this group. 
“Seeing that today, that was a cruel way of getting it done today. We’ve been winning games, but that was a differ­ent and another step forward as far as our mentality, our maturity, and I’m going to re­fer to them on Monday when I see them again.” 
The Irish were led by the youngest and most inexperi­enced among them, namely freshman guard Pat Con­naughton, who scored 23 points on 9-12 shooting and added a career-high 11 re­bounds. But Brey said Con­naughton, who is also a pitch­er for the Irish baseball team, has been a man from the day he started at Notre Dame. 
“He was grown up when he got here,” Brey said. “Watch­ing him that July and [he] got in a little late, there was a fearlessness and a belief that he was really ready. Anybody who stands on that mound and has the game on his shoulders, there’s a psyche there that maybe oth­er freshman don’t have. He’s had the game on his backside many, many times. So lining up a [3-pointer] to put you up six or converting key free throws, I think that really converts over. People are still surprised how athletic he is. He rebounded, he blocked some shots, so he was really flying all over the place.” 
Connaughton was one of four Irish players who fin­ished in double-figures against Marquette. Sopho­more guard Eric Atkins scored 18 and added five as­sists, while fellow sophomore guard Jerian Grant led the team with eight assists and chipped in 12 points. 
“They might [underesti­mate us], because you look at us across the board and we don’t have one kid that every­one’s afraid of,” Connaughton said. “We have an entire team that people are starting to be afraid of. And that’s a dan­gerous thing, because when you have a team, especially one that’s this young, that’s coming together this much at this point at the season; we’re hitting our stride.” 
The real key for Notre Dame, Brey said, was passing, which allowed the Irish to score 16 points more than their con­ference average heading into the game against Marquette. Of Notre Dame’s 28 made bas­kets, 22 were assisted. 
“I just don’t think anybody passes it any better than us in the country,” he said. “I think that’s one of our great­est strengths, and when you have guys delivering open shots a little more than we have in the past on a day like this, it’s beautiful to watch.” 

see BREY/page 18 
ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 



Irish down DePaul, stay undefeated in Big East 
By MOLLY SAMMON 
Sports Writer 
The Irish won their 20th straight game for the third time in program history af­ter beating DePaul 90-70 at the Purcell Pavilion on Sun­day. No. 2 Notre Dame is just three wins shy of tying the consecutive record set by the 2000-01 team that went on to win the national champion­ship. 
“We love to win, but we al­ways have space for improve­ment,” Irish fifth-year guard Brittany Mallory said. “We can see that today because we gave up 70 points to DePaul. That’s not what we’re proud of. We’re always looking to get better on both ends.” 
Eight of the last 12 games between Notre Dame (23-1, 10-0 Big East) and DePaul (17-7, 5-5) came down to sin-gle-digit margins. 
On the offensive side of the ball, the Irish looked strong. Notre Dame closed out the first half with 56 points, its third highest first-half score this season. The Irish shot 72 percent from the field and 85 percent on three-pointers be­fore the break. 
Senior guard Natalie No­vosel shot 8-for-12 from the field, highlighted by three 3-pointers and 17 points in the first half. She finished with 21 points to lead the Irish in scoring. Junior guard Skylar Diggins earned a dou­ble-double with 11 points and 10 assists. 
Three more Irish players 

see DIGGINS/page 17 
HOCKEY 



Notre Dame settles for split 
By MATTHEW DeFRANKS 
Sports Writer 
The search for the elusive sweep continues. After de­feating Bowling Green 2-1 on Friday, No. 6 Notre Dame could not beat the Falcons again, losing 3-2 Saturday night. 
The loss marked the third in the last five games for Notre Dame (16-11-3, 11-8­3-0 CCHA), who slipped into a tie for fourth place in the CCHA standings with Mi­ami and Ohio State. 
“It’s very frustrating, but we had plenty of chances to score goals and we didn’t,” Irish coach Jeff Jackson said. “You can only put guys in position to score, and we lacked that ability to finish tonight.” 
The split with the Falcons (9-16-5, 4-14-4-3) leaves the 


see JACKSON/page 16 





