The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 46, issue 41 | THURSDAY, OCTOBER 25, 2012 | ndsmcoBserver.com 
ELECTION 2012 

Mourdock aims for Senate seat 
Indiana State Treasurer vows to encourage austerity if elected in upcoming contest 


By NICOLE MICHELS 
news writer 

    Editor’s Note: This story is the second in a series featuring the race for the Indiana seat in the United States Senate. 
republican state Treasurer richard mourdock promised to bring a sense of fiscal dis­cipline to the u.s. senate if hoosiers vote him into the seat currently held by gop senator richard lugar. 
“you have to make the tough decisions to make sure we live within a budget,” mourdock said. “i think that’s the type of thing i’d like to see and carry to washington.” 
mourdock’s foremost op­ponent for the nov. 6 elec­tion is democratic rep. Joe donnelly, a six-year veteran of the house of representatives. strengthening indiana busi­nesses and rejuvenating its economy are the concerns at the forefront of voters’ minds, mourdock said. 
“without question, [the most important issue] is get­ting this economy going again … we’ve had 8 percent or more unemployment over the last 43 months,” mourdock said. “some people say that’s the new normal and that we should expect that, but i totally disagree and most hoosiers disagree.” 
mourdock’s extensive ex­perience in the private sector makes him especially qualified for the position, he said. 


“having worked 31 years in the private sector as a ge­ologist and in the energy busi­ness before i ever became state Treasurer, i think i have a wealth of experience in the private sector that is pretty un­usual for someone who might get the chance to serve in the senate,” mourdock said. “i’d certainly like to take that ex­pertise in business, finance and energy to the senate.” 
mourdock said his track record in indiana as state Treasurer speaks to his ability to stimulate the economy.“ 
see mourdock PAGE 6 


professor visits refugees abroad 
By KRISTEN DURBIN 
news editor 
in the Bible, moses is given a vi­sion of the promised land atop mount nebo. 
But as Fr. daniel groody stood atop the same ridge in Jordan, he saw the antithesis of that divine vision. “we looked to the south and saw issues of trafficking. we looked southeast into iran and iraq and saw persecution of religious mi­norities. we looked north into lebanon and saw the situation of undocumented refugees,” he said. “we looked further north into Turkey and saw people fleeing vio­lence there. we looked all around Jordan and saw refugee camps and unaccompanied minors fleeing syria without parents.” 
as a member of a seven-per­son delegation sent by the u.s. conference of catholic Bishops’ (usccB) migration and refugee services committee, groody 
see syria PAGE 5 


students engage in mock debate 
By CAROLYN HUTYRA 
news writer 


senior mickey gardella from the college republicans and senior adam newman from the college democrats addressed this question in a mock presi­dential debate wednesday night. students and faculty gathered in mckenna hall for the hour-and-a-half event that covered the main issues of this year’s presidential election, followed by a mock election. 
The questions were created and presented by the mod­erator of the debate, senior clara ritger, editor-in-chief of scholastic. gardella and newman received the ques­tions a week in advance. 

ritger said the major talking points were based on her close following of the election since the summer. 
“i was a state politics reporter in pennsylvania over the sum­mer,” she said. “i went to some romney and obama events so i had that whole experience.” 
she said she gathered in­formation from watching all of the presidential and vice-presidential debates, as well as reading the newspaper every day. The questions were de­signed to give students the 
see deBaTe PAGE 6 



Libertarian speaks at IUSB 
By SAM GANS 
news writer 

libertarian presidential candidate gary Johnson visit­ed south Bend on wednesday afternoon to address a politi­cal science class at indiana university south Bend and to publicly endorse Joe ruiz, the libertarian candidate for indiana’s 2nd district seat in the house of representatives. 
Johnson has campaigned on his desire to break a two-party system in american politics, and he reaffirmed this idea wednesday. as a third-party candidate, he has little chance to win the election and trails his 
see Johnson PAGE 7 



smc ZumBaThon PAGE 4 viewpoinTPAGE 8 pem-co preview PAGE 10 men’s soccer PAGE 20 waking The echoes PAGE 20 




Have a question you want answered? 
Email obsphoto@gmail.com 




QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
ndsmcobserver.com 
p.o. Box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
allan Joseph 
Managing Editor  Business Manager 
megan doyle  Jeff liptak 
Asst. Managing Editor: andrew owens 
Asst. Managing Editor: sam stryker News Editor: John cameron News Editor: kristen durbin 
Viewpoint Editor: meghan Thomassen Sports Editor: chris allen Scene Editor: kevin noonan Saint Mary’s Editor: Jillian Barwick Photo Editor: suzanna pratt Graphics Editor: Brandon keelean Multimedia Editor: sarah o’connor Advertising Manager: monica mccormack Ad Design Manager: sara hilstrom Controller: peter woo Systems Administrator: william heineman 

Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ajoseph2@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 mdoyle11@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 aowens2@nd.edu sstryke1@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 

Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 

Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 

Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 observer.scene.editor@gmail.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
jbarwi01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 

Policies 
The observer is the independent, daily newspaper 
published in print and online by the students of the 
university of notre dame du lac and saint mary’s 
college.  editorial content, including advertisements, is 
not governed by policies of the administration of either 
institution. The observer reserves the right to refuse 
advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively 
as possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion 
of the majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, 
assistant managing editors and department editors. 
commentaries, letters and columns present the views of 
the authors and not necessarily those of The observer. 
viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include 
contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed 
to Editor-in-Chief Allan Joseph. 
post office information The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The observer is published at: 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-0779 periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices posTmasTer send address corrections to: The observer p.o. Box 779 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-077 The observer is a member of the associated press. all reproduction rights are reserved. 


What is your favorite thing to do during Halloween? 

Kyle Sant 
sophomore 
sorin 
“definitely impersonating a scarecrow on my porch and scaring trick-or-treaters.” 


Christopher Barnes 
sophomore 
carroll 

“pass out after consuming too much candy.” 

Rose Raderstorf 
senior 
mcglinn 
“eat candy.” 



Michael Gruliano 
sophomore 
sorin 

“i love to go to the one-piece­only houses and take two, then quietly celebrate my victory.” 

Laura Mellitt 
sophomore 
mcglinn 

“go trick-or-treating in Zahm.” 

Matthew Kudija 
senior 
siegfried 
“corn mazes.” 




Want your event included here? 

News Sports 
Tori roeck Jack hefferon Email obsnews.nd@gmail.com 




THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 
nicole michels laura coletti rebecca o’neil vicky Jacobsen 
Graphics Scene 

Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday Monday 
Brandon keelean maría Fernández 
Photo Viewpoint 

Zen Meditation Writing Successful “next to normal” Vision Walk “The Effective 
mackenzie sain caroline schurz 
102 Coleman-Morse Grants Washington Hall Fundraiser Leadership” Center McKenna Hall 7:30 p.m.-10 p.m. Irish Green Carole Sandner Hall 
5:15p.m.-6:15 p.m. 9 a.m.-12 p.m. PEMCo’s fall 1:30 p.m.-5 p.m. 3 p.m.-4:30 p.m. 
Corrections 

Open to students of all Introductory workshop production, a rock $15 registration fee for An Irish perspective 
The observer regards itself as faiths. for grant writing. musical. stem cell research. from Mary Hanafin. a professional publication and strives for the highest standards 
“Thriller” NBA Exhibition Game Film: “Take this Film: “The Blob” Film: “Alotrolado, To 
of journalism at all times. we do, 
Rolfs Purcell Pavilion Waltz” DeBartolo Performing the Other Side” 
however, recognize that we will make 
8 p.m.-10 p.m. 7 p.m.-9 p.m. DeBartolo Performing Arts Center Geddes Hall 
mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 
Learn to dance like Joakim Noah and the Arts Center 3 p.m. 7 p.m. 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
Michael Jackson with Chicago Bulls face the 9:30 p.m.-11:30 p.m. Recommended for Screening and panel 
we can correct our error. 

RecSports. Indiana Pacers. $4 for students. ages 7+. discussion. 


SENATE 

group discusses discrimination, dorm alarms 
By MADDIE DALY 
news writer 
This week’s meeting ad­dressed two main topics: dorm alarm systems and diversity on campus. right at the start, stu­dent body vice president katie rose reminded the senators to be respectful of each other. 
“For our discussions today some of the information might be sensitive. Just know that if there’s anything you want to keep anonymous you can come meet with any of us one­on-one,” rose said. 
student body president Brett rocheleau surveyed the sena­tors to see how dorm alarms worked in their halls.  after asking which male dorms had side door alarms set for midnight or any time, no one raised his hand. conversely, when asking which female dorms did not have alarms, no one raised her hand. 
senators said they would like to see dorm alarms standard­ized around campus.morrissey senator Billy mcmahon said he can swipe in any door at any time. 
“i fully support pushing for equality but by scaling back alarms rather than adding alarms,” mcmahon said. 
ryan hall senator grace carroll saw a discrepancy with parietals and alarms. 
“our alarms go off every night at midnight if you leave from the side door. we want to make it so they go off at pari­etals,” carroll said. “The rea­son they only want the main door open at night is to keep tabs of people. it deters them from using any other door.” 
class of 2015 president Tim scanlan tied this comment back to the Board of Trustees’ presentation on residence life. 
“This is one of the reasons we listed for why people are mov­ing off campus,” scanlan said. “Twenty-year-olds don’t want people to ‘keep tabs’ on them.” 
class of 2014 president lizzie helpling said she is unsure of how effective the alarms truly are. 
“This is one of the reasons we listed for why people are moving off campus ... Twenty-year-olds don’t want people to ‘keep tabs’ on them.’ 
Tim Scanlan 
president 
Class of 2015 
“i was talking to some other girls who said the alarms re­ally are not that effective. i accidently set off the mcglinn alarm once during Frosh-o and just started running.  it really doesn’t do anything be­sides get the rector out of bed. By the time they’re there, the perpetrator’s already gone,” helpling said. “also, the doors that are alarmed are tucked away, making it difficult for the rectors to get there quickly.” 
student union treasurer alexa shaw shared insight from her experience as a resi­dent assistant (ra). 
“Being an ra myself, i know it is really, really tough for the first floor ras to have to get up at 3 a.m. to turn off the alarm and run after whoever it was,” shaw said. “obviously the number one priority is safety, but the doors are locked any­way so are the alarms adding anything or are they really just detracting?”The senators con­cluded that alarms should be uniform across all dorms and that they were maybe not the most effective method for en­suring safety. The group then transitioned to talking about diversity by explaining why it was immediately relevant. 
“This is a bit of a followup from last spring, but it’s been one of our goals to get a call to action movement re-energized and to make sure all concerns are being addressed,” rose said. “we will be meeting with several groups over the next few weeks, and we need feed­back so we can speak on behalf of undergraduate students.” 
walsh hall senator veronica guerrero began the discussion with a specific comment from someone in her dorm. 
“a girl from walsh said that she felt like diversity was not addressed in a negative or a positive way on campus. it’s a topic we push to the side and sort of cover up,” guerrero said. “she said she thinks that inter­racial friendships are not en­couraged on this campus.” 
helpling compared the issue to sexual assault here at notre dame. 
“Just personally i feel like notre dame is going about this issue the wrong way. They’re going about it in the same way they’re going about sexual ha­rassment — they send out a sur­vey asking us what we think and try to figure out the one thing we can do to fix it,” she said. “i think that’s discouraging for a lot of students who sense that notre dame is just trying to do a quick fix to improve the way we adhere to society.” 
lewis hall senator casey spreen said the administra­tion’s approach didn’t seem very effective. 
“a lot of the stories from these people being discriminated against are a lot more individu­al and involve pain and suffer­ing. you don’t want to talk about these stories; they just wall up inside,” spreen said. “a way to solve this could be sending out anonymous surveys i guess, but is that too impersonal? maybe one-on-one meetings or more town hall meetings would be helpful.” 
mcmahon expressed concern over the lack of student pres­ence in this issue. 
“more student control over the process instead of just the administration behind closed doors would be helpful,” mcmahon said. “it has to be in a way where the people that are most affected would be the ones helping to change policies rath­er than just the people already in student government.” 
rose addressed this problem between student and adminis­


“We need to show 
people that even 
the ones that are 
‘in charge’ can be 
the problem and 
the students feel 
like they can’t do 
anything about it.” 
Carolina Ramirez 
senator 
Pasquerilla West Hall 
tration involvement. 
“This balance between the administration and students is that both have encour­aged each other to do certain things which causes lapses. sometimes they’re afraid to speak on behalf of one another which is why it may seem as if the administration is trans­parent or delayed,” rose said. 
chief of staff katie Baker added to rose’s statement by referring to the specific exam­ple from last spring. 
“right after the town hall meeting last spring, the call to action movement, a group of students who felt passion­ate about the things going on, worked to come up with a list of recommendations,” Baker said. “They gave a huge report to student affairs generated by students’ feedback and topics from the town hall meeting. we see now that the movement has slowed down since last march and april, and we want to make sure it continues this year.” 
pasquerilla west senator carolina ramirez brought up an issue she has heard from fellow students. 
“i’ve heard from a lot of people that there has been discrimination not just from students but from rectors, ras and professors. we need to show people that even the ones that are ‘in charge’ can be the problem and the students feel like they can’t do anything about it,” ramirez said. 
rocheleau concluded the discussion by suggesting fur­ther aid in addressing these is­sues and answering questions. 
“i think you guys have brought up several good points,” rocheleau said. “maybe dr. david moss who is spearheading the campaign could come into a senate meeting to answer questions and get feedback on what’s go­ing on.” 
Contact Maddie Daly at mdaly6@nd.edu 


paid adverTisemenT 




Belles gather donations for cancer research 
By CLAIRE CREELY 
news writer 
The saint mary’s chapter of stand up to cancer will sponsor the second-annual Zumbathon from 6 p.m. to 8:30 
p.m. this Friday in the angela athletic center with the lo­cal party in pink organization to raise money for cancer re­search and the susan g. komen Foundation. 
senior devon graham, who organized the event, said stand up to cancer ensures that all funds raised go directly to can­cer research. 
“stand up to cancer is differ­ent from other organizations that raise money for cancer be­cause 100 percent of anything you donate goes to cancer re­search,” graham said. “all do­nations go to ‘dream teams,’ or research teams, that research many different types of cancer, including the rarer forms.” 
while student donations go to stand up to cancer, dona­tions from the general public are sent to the susan g. komen Foundation, graham said. 
“we’re working together in that way and both collaborat­ing with each other,” she said. Though the donations will be separated, graham said the event is an opportunity to combine awareness for both organizations. 
“it’s pretty awesome. it’s a really good way to raise aware­ness for both organizations. 

susan g. komen is obviously a very well-known one. stand up to cancer … it is getting much greater now in the public,” graham said. “we’re all really looking forward to it. it worked in october for breast cancer awareness so we’re really ex­cited for it.” 
about 200 people attended last year’s party in pink event, and graham said she expects an increase in attendance this year for the Zumbathon. 
graham said local Zumba instructors will lead the event, and the space will be decked out for a dance party. 
“it should be a really good time,” graham said. “They’re bringing in a dJ. They’re go­ing to turn it kind of into a club with lights.” 
Besides Zumba, guests can expect to learn new moves from polynesian dancers, belly dancers, hip hop dancers and even one woman who created her own type of dance. 
“There will be a lot of variety, and the bleachers will be down so people can sit or walk and see the vendors,” graham said. 
in addition to the dancing, 
“You’ll see 70-year­olds out there shaking it to Zumba.” 
Devon Grahm 
senior 
vendors will be selling pink glow stick bracelets for stand up to cancer and Zumba clothing. attendees can also try samples from avon and eat free food. 
The general public is very excited for the event, graham said, and students should pre­pare to match their enthusiasm by being loud and wearing pink clothing. 
“apparently, these people re­ally get into it,” she said. “you’ll see 70-year-olds out there shaking it to Zumba … They get the loudest. They get the most into it.” 
The event will offer students the opportunity to interact with the public and work to­gether toward a common goal, graham said. many saint mary’s alumnae are expected to attend the event as well, in­cluding some who will travel from chicago. 
“everyone looks silly, ex­cept for the instructors. you just have to have fun with it,” graham said. “you’re not there to look a certain way … you’re just there to be lively with ev­eryone else.” 
if one night of Zumba is not enough to satisfy your desire to dance, graham said stand up to cancer hosts several Zumba events throughout the year, as well as a prom dance in the spring for cancer patients and survivors. 
Tickets for this Friday’s Zumbathon are $5 in advance and $10 at the doo, and will be sold in the saint mary’s student center during lunch and din­ner this week. notre dame students may email graham at dgraha01@saintmarys.edu to reserve tickets and pick them up at the door. Ticketholders must also bring their student id to the event. 
Contact Claire Creely at ccreel01@saintmarys.edu 

paid adverTisemenT 


all.” 
Syria 
with more than 100,000 reg­
conTinued From page 1 

istered syrian refugees each in traveled to Jordan, lebanon, egypt Jordan, lebanon and Turkey and and Turkey last week to get a first-an estimated 150,000 syrians liv­hand perspective on the situa-ing in egypt, the magnitude of tion of syrian refugees fleeing the syria’s violent internal conflict country’s ongoing civil war. now extends throughout much of 
“it was no longer a cnn report,” the middle east, groody said. groody, a notre dame theology in all, more than 359,000 professor, said. “There were actu-syrians fleeing the war have reg­ally people right there in front of istered in four neighboring states, me, who i could touch, see, feel and including iraq, since conflict hear.” broke out between the syrian gov-
To gain a comprehensive un-ernment and opposition groups derstanding of the plight of syrian in the spring of 2011, according to refugees, groody said the del-an oct. 23 report from the united egation met with government nations high commissioner for officials, ambassadors, vatican refugees (unhcr). officials, church leaders, ministers The majority of refugees living of foreign affairs and several faith-in camps are women and chil-he met will be living in a state of based organizations, including the dren, groody said, many of whom limbo with no stability in any as-red crescent, caritas and catholic lost one or more family members pect of their lives. relief services. during the conflict. “There were some common 
“it’s a major humanitarian crisis “in one camp, we sat down with threads in our conversations with going on,” groody said. “we looked one extended family that included refugees,” he said. “They told us, at coalitions of governments and three women who married three ‘we are not safe. we have no home organizations trying to have con-brothers, all of whom were killed to go back to. we want to return to certed responses to the situation in the war,” groody said. “Their our country. The winter is coming. … and tried to get their takes on fourth brother had been jailed the we have no food. and we are hu­what’s happening and how we can day before, and the mother found man beings.’” advocate for issues in the u.s.” out her grandson was just killed.” groody said the catholic church 
But more important than these groody said unaccompanied has been working “on the front diplomatic meetings, groody said, refugee minors and young wom-lines” to provide immediate food were the conversations with the en, especially widows, face addi-and medical relief for refugees, as-refugees themselves in official tional hardships in the camps. sist with registration of refugees in camps in Jordan and unofficial “This was just a sea of children, united nations records and create sites in lebanon. of women who, in that culture, schools. These initiatives benefit 
“The stories of these people have very few opportunities and any refugee, regardless of their re-meant the most in all those con-are unable to work at all,” he said. ligious affiliation. versations. There, the statistics “now they’re undocumented refu-“[The church] isn’t asking became human,” he said. “The gees, not simply migrants, facing a questions. if anyone is in need, if people you saw in front of you very unknown future.” anyone is hurting, if anyone is suf­were facing a level of vulnerabil-The “hardest part” for groody is fering or if anyone is in pain, the ity i’d never seen before. They had not knowing when the conflict in church is there for you because such a thin line of protection and, syria will end because the longer it you’re a human being. you’re a god,” groody said. possibly creating a film, groody in some sense, no protection at continues, the longer the refugees child of god and you’re loved by in the case of a refugee camp said. 
playground in Jordan, groody “listening to those stories, see-
paid adverTisemenT 

said the church created a space ing those faces, meeting those for children to “develop some people was more than seeing peo­sort of identity” in the midst of ple in poverty. it was seeing people their emotionally and physi-with absolute vulnerability that cally taxing displacement. simply cried out for some kind of “The church serves as a safe place solidarity and help,” groody said. to reestablish communities and “what’s important for the notre connections and help people be-dame community to understand gin to develop their education and is the actual scope of the conflict knowledge,” he said. “But i think and its human costs, as well as the part of the message is that the desperate plea for humanitarian church is … engaged in this, but assistance.” most of us don’t have the aware-despite u.s. and usccB re­ness that this is going on, and we settlement efforts and the u.s. often don’t know what to do. we government contribution of more can’t do everything but we can do than $100 million to refugee relief, something.” groody said more international 
additionally, groody said the cooperation is crucial. delegation was “impressed” by the “we’re left with the sense that high level of involvement of neigh-there are many ways to be motivat­boring state governments. ed to respond to this. Faith groups 
“we were impressed by how are responding, but even that can-much the government of Jordan not be done without the support of is willing to take on refugees at governments,” groody said. “The great costs, how Turkey is not only needs are so much greater that we providing tents but also areas for need a concerted effort from the heating and insulation,” he said. international community to bring “They’re not just giving out hand-about some kind of durable solu­outs. They’re providing space for tions for folks in this kind of pain.” refugees to be treated as human even more than a sense of moti­beings.” vation to act, groody was left with 
But the common denomina-the images he saw from mount tor among refugee relief efforts, nebo. groody said, was the emphasis “The question is, have we really on maintaining self-worth and crossed the Jordan into a promised human dignity “for people whose land where all humans can live in lives are completely shattered.” dignity … and develop and grow 
upon returning to the u.s., the as god intends? That faith vision usccB delegation is working to is something that still has yet to be promote awareness of the refugee realized.” situation by holding congressio­nal briefings to influence policy, Contact Kristen Durbin at writing about refugees’ stories and kdurbin@nd.edu 




The oBserver | THURSDAY, OCTOBER 25, 2012 | ndsmcoBserver.com 

seniors create Facebook app, connect consumers 
By ANNA BOARINI 
newswriter 
seniors robb crow and kyle kober never thought a summer wakeboarding trip would create a friendship that changed their ca­reer paths. The two met while they were interning in new york city between their sophomore and ju­nior years. 
“at a notre dame network­ing event, kyle invited me to go wakeboarding on long island, so i stayed at his house for a few days before getting to really know him,” crow said. “ever since then, we’ve been best buddies.” 
soon after the two became friends, they decided to create shopTalk, a Facebook application that provides discounts for online shoppers who post their purchases on their Facebook pages. 
“shopTalk … allows retail­ers to tap their online shoppers’ 


Mourdock 
conTinued From page 1 
in indiana we have been one of the most fiscally respon­sible states in the country, and we are probably in the most healthy financial shape of any state in the country,” mourdock said. “working with governor daniels and with state legisla­tors to impose the kind of disci­pline that it takes to live within a budget, that’s been a very good thing.” 
mourdock said his wish is for the senate to maximize efficien­cy, accountability and transpar­ency on a daily basis. 
“i certainly am willing to work with anyone, be that republican, democratic or in­dependent, who understands the urgency that we must get this economy fixed, and that a big part of fixing it means making government more ac­countable, more efficient, and transparent,” mourdock said. “it’s not about creating govern­ment programs, it’s about living within our means.” 
social networks through our unique plug-in application,” kober said. “By placing our plug-in on the checkout screen, shoppers can post their purchases to their Facebook networks’ news feeds and instantaneously receive a dis­count provided by the retailer be­fore payment.” 
kober brainstormed the initial idea while working at a venture capital firm specializing in e-com­merce and retail space, crow said. 
“after a few late-night skype ses­sions and a few weeks of convinc­ing me, i came on board and we finalized the idea together, creat­ing shopTalk,” he said. 
shopTalk’s design drives traffic to retailers by linking both the pur­chased products and fan page of the retailer to the post, kober said. 
“This process is simple and automatic for the shopper, only requiring them to sign up for shopTalk with Facebook,” he said. 
as senator, mourdock said he would rely on a three-pronged approach to turn around the economy. 
“number one, as in indiana, i think the federal government has to learn to live within its means so it requires less from the people to fund the federal government. number two, we have to change the tax code to make it more of a pro-growth tax code and not simply look at it as a way to get money from those who would otherwise be creat­ing jobs,” mourdock said. “last but certainly not least, we have to loosen the regulatory noose that so many agencies have put on hoosier businesses.” 
indiana voters would pre­
fer  the  implementation  of  
another healthcare  plan  be­ 
sides the  affordable  care  act  

(aca), mourdock said. instead, mourdock said he would work on a healthcare plan more fiscally responsible than the aca, com­monly known as “obamacare.” 
“i get a little frustrated with republicans who say, ‘repeal obamacare!’ without saying what they’re going to replace it with,” mourdock said. “we have to deal with both the health­care insurance side and the healthcare cost side: much of obamacare actually drives up the cost of healthcare, and that ends up driving up the costs of health care insurance as well.” 
“I certainly am willing to work with anyone ... who understands the urgency that we must get the economy fixed.” 
Richard Mourdock 
U.S. Senate candidate 
Republican Party 
mourdock said he will solve at least part of the healthcare issue by allowing the private market to find alternatives not mandat­ed by the government. 
“speaking broadly here, if you want to buy insurance for your car you can buy insurance from any number of national companies because car com­panies advertise their products across state lines — but health care companies can’t do that,” mourdock said. “if we allow the health care companies to sell their products across state lines it would bring a lot more peo­ple into those risk pools, which would mean that there’s more cash there that is available to companies.” 
The lawsuit filed by notre dame and other religious organizations against the department of health and human services revealed the excessive power of the govern­ment, mourdock said. 
“obamacare is about more than just health care,” he said. “This is not something that i think government needs to be involved in: telling people what their morality needs to be and what their moral decision mak­ing process should be.” 
mourdock said he has sup­ported notre dame’s position in the lawsuit from the outset. 
“when notre dame joined the lawsuit against health and human services, i actually came up to south Bend and did a news conference,” mourdock said. “my comment was how ironic it was that a kid from Ball state university is here — me — to defend notre dame when my opponent who has two degrees from notre dame isn’t taking its position.” 
mourdock said he hopes col­lege students take the time to discern what which candidate will enact policies that will sup­port pursuit of their dreams. 
“i would hope that all college students would take the time to take the long term view, and what i mean by that is to look at the candidates not just by what they’re saying today, but what it is they’re saying today that could make the world next year and the next year after that and five years out and ten years out a bet­ter place, america a better place and give each student a greater chance at reaching his dream,” he said. 
Contact Nicole Michels at nmichels@nd.edu 
Debate 
conTinued From page 1 
opportunity to see where each candidate stands on the most important issues. 
“i tried to focus on what the talk on campus was from students, what students were really interested in or what is­sues were going to sway their vote one way or the other,” she said. 
The six major segment top­ics of the debate were jobs, 
u.s. debt, healthcare, religion, foreign policy and relation to college students. 
gardella opened the first question section of the debate by bringing up the creation of more jobs. he spoke of the dodd-Frank bill, obamacare, romney’s proposed 20 percent tax cut across the board and the institution of freedom in the american economy. 
“we should free the private sector to grow the economy,” he said. 
when it came to the issue of the environment, newman fo­cused on the need to invest in the energy of tomorrow. 
“we’re producing more fos­sil fuels than ever before,” he said. 
This problem can be changed by investment in other energy forms such as solar and wind power, he said. 
when the conversation shifted to the growing deficit, newman argued that obama is better equipped to handle the problem. 
“obama understands our debt is unsustainable,” “ultimately, our mission is to save you money when shopping online, while promoting the interesting products and brands you find on Facebook.” 
while creating a Facebook appli­cation is not simple, kober said the process has been quick. The pair started development in september. 
“we are now one month away from our beta launch in which we’ll have a select 25 retailers run­ning the application on their sites,” kober said. “Both of us don’t have an expertise in software or cod­ing so we’ve been working closely with a team of developers based in new york city to make the idea 
newman said. 
he also said romney’s plan to increase defense spending by $2 million does not help the issue. 
But gardella said obama’s term as president contributed to the deficit. 
“all of([obama’s) presiden­cy he had $1 trillion or higher in deficits,” gardella saie. 
The debate also included a number of other topics that included student tuition mort­gages, healthcare lawsoand catholic social Teaching in governmental policy. 
in closing, newman reiter­ated obama’spfour-step plan. in terms of encouraging stu­dents to vote for the democrat­ic candidate, he cited student loan reform, the doubling of Federal pell grant, and the a reality.” 
Thus far, the only investors in shopTalk are crow and kober’s close friends and family. 
“we are in the process of raising an angel round [second round of investors], and are aiming to close the round by early december this year,” he said. “we are finding an­gels through our connections here at nd and also through one of our advisers in new york.” 
crow said neither senior imag­ined they would be involved in en­trepreneurship after graduation. 
“a year ago if you asked both of us what we wanted to do after gradua­tion our answers would have been 
ability of students to stay on their parents’ insurance plan until the age of 26 as reasons to cast a ballot for obama. 
gardella ended with a re­flection on the last four years of obama’s presidency. he saidsthese years are charac­terized by partisanship and division, low confidence in the econom, and years of tril­lion-dollar deficits. 
“romney will get people back to work,” he said. 
newman  said  he  and  
gardella  were  equally  
matched.  

“i think( gardell ] was a strong debater … but even if it wasn’t me([debatin ], even if it was someone less prepared, the divisions in the beliefs still speak for themselves,” newman said. 
investment banking or private eq­uity,” he said. “we have had more passion working on shopTalk than we have had in any of our previous finance internships.” 
The Facebook app will not be the end of the friends’ business part­nership, crow said. 
“our discount sharing app is a stepping stone for bigger and bet­ter things for shopTalk,” he said. “at the beginning of next year we will begin phase two of development, creating a desktop and mobile app for our users.” 
Contact Anna Boarini at aboari01@ saintmarys.edu 
Junior matthew Jewell said the democratic represen­tative was more eloquent and presented his argument better, but the republican representative made more compelling arguments in re­gards to the functioning of the economy. 
“while i agree with the policies of. romney that the republican representative put forward, i believe that from an objective standpoint the democratic representa­tive won the debate,” Jewell said. 
The debate was followedeby a mock election, and the re­sults of that willtbe released nov. 1. 
Contact Carolyn Hutyra at chutyra@nd.edu 



Johnson 
conTinued From page 1 
democrat president Barack obama and republican for­mer mass. gov. mitt romney, significantly in polls. 
But he is hopeful enough voters will cast ballots for the libertarian ticket to make him the 45th president of the united states. 
“i’m just hoping that enough people waste their vote on me,” Johnson said. “if enough people do that, i’m the next president of the united states, and i’m making a vow that no one will be disappointed by actually electing a leader that will get up and lead what needs to be a raging debate and discussion in this coun­try about all the issues that we face.” 
The former two-term gov­ernor of new mexico an­nounced in april 2011 he was running for the presidency as a republican before deciding to seek the libertarian nomi­nation in dec. 2011. on may 5, he won the libertarian party’s official nomination. 
Johnson said he can provide an honest assessment to col­lege students of the national challenges that will impact their futures, unlike obama and romney. 
“[i can bring] the truth that we are really in deep trouble in this country and to get out of all this deep trouble, it’s going to involve mutual sac­rifice on the part of all of us,” Johnson said. “But we’ve got to engage in this, and right now, young people are being unfairly handed a bill that’s never going to get paid.” 
Johnson said his plan to slash government programs, including medicare, makes him a viable choice over obama and romney. as presi­dent, Johnson would repeal the affordable care act and place more control over health care policies in the hands of individual state governments. 
“Two weeks ago, obama and romney are arguing over who’s going to spend more money on medicare, when medicare has to be slashed,” Johnson said. “medicare is a program that you and i put $30,000 into, and we receive a $100,000 benefit. nothing about medicare is sustain­able. nothing. and that is indicative of a lot of other gov­ernment programs.” 
Just two days after obama and romney debated for­eign policy, Johnson said his policies abroad also dis­tinguish him from the two front-runners. 
“i think people are hungry to elect a leader, as opposed to the lesser of two evils,” Johnson said. “and talking about [the presidential de­bate] the other night, really what you come away with, we’re going to see ourselves in a continued state of war in this country. They’re arguing really over who’s going to pull the trigger first in these areas. 
“when they talk about the [attack on the] libyan embassy, why did we have embassy personnel there in the first place? we’re present­ing targets in an area that is looking for targets.” 
ruiz, from nearby mishawaka, works with at-risk youth at the Family and children’s center. he too hopes to break the two-party system with his platform on the libertarian ticket. 
Johnson said ruiz earned his endorsement over republican Jackie walorski and democrat Brendan mullen because the libertarian candidate holds similar values to his own. 
“Joe ruiz would be talking about the same things that i’m talking about,” Johnson said. “i’m proud of libertarians that are talking about these is­sues in the same way on a con­gressional level that i am at a national level, and Joe’s that congressional level.” 
ruiz said his standing as a third-party candidate means if he were elected, he would face more scrutiny to achieve promises made than either a republican or a democrat. 
“i have a sincere interest in succeeding and i don’t think that either of my opponents would have that,” ruiz said. “if either of them go along and they break the promises that they make, and two years from now, the republicans or the democrats, whoever wins, will just run another candidate who will make more promises that the people can either take or leave, and that potentially, his­torically, they would probably break, right?” 


like Johnson, ruiz said this desire to succeed would lead him to keep his promises if elected. 
“well, if i get elected, by people who believe in limited government philosophy, and i don’t do the things that i say i’m going to do, it’s potential that you’re never going to vote for a libertarian again,” he said. “and so i have a sincere deter­mination coming into this be­cause i have way more to lose than either of my opponents.” 
Contact Sam Gans at                   sgans@nd.edu 

Thailand women undergo unsafe plastic surgery 
surgeries, chin augmentation, Associated Press  swelled.  better chances in life.”  customers in vans to admin- 
lip trimming, skin whiten- after costly and painful  her quest for beauty at bar­ ister cheap injections straight  
Bangkok — her dream ing and dozens of Botox-type  corrective surgeries, she is  gain prices was a painful mis- from their bags.  
was to look less Thai and more injections.  now content with her appear- take. a pseudo-beautician  last week, the health  
like Jennifer lopez, so the The goal had been to rede­ ance, though it bears no re- injected commercial-grade  ministry and police declared  
25-year-old street food ven­sign her entire face, but things  semblance to her american  silicone into her cheeks,  a small victory after arrest­ 
dor went to the internet and went horribly wrong. “i start- pop idol.  chin and under her eyes;  ing someone they called “the  
typed in “cheap Botox.” ed to look like a witch,” she  Thailand is swarming with  it all needed to be surgi­ most dangerous” operator  
That was the start of a five-recalled. her upper eyelids  cheap but risky cosmetic  cally scraped out. she spent  to date: a 37-year-old former  
year makeover for ratphila sagged; her lower lids erupted  clinics, thanks to two pow­ 500,000 baht ($16,000) over  beautician’s assistant with no  
chairungkit that included two in tapioca-like bumps. her  erful forces: Their prices are  five years, a huge sum by her  medical training who had set  
nose jobs, two eye-widening chin drooped and her nose  designed to attract the poor,  humble standards, mostly to  up an all-purpose clinic in her  
and Thai so- fix his handiwork.  home.  
paid adverTisemenT  ciety defines  “i’m lucky i didn’t die,” she  inside the woman’s pale yel­ 
beauty as  said, trying to smile through  low town house in a working- 
fair and deli- her cosmetically corrected  class Bangkok neighborhood,  
cate. it looks  face.  authorities found box-loads  
down on the  Far from having regrets, she  of counterfeit Botox, cheap fa- 
ethnic facial  says, her ordeal has turned  cial fillers, intravenous skin- 
features as- into a business opportunity  whitening chemicals and a  
sociated with  and she plans to open her  variety of banned products  
the lower  own cosmetic clinic later this  known to have dangerous side  
classes — the  month. “now, i’ve become a  effects. The arsenal of poten­ 
wide noses  beauty guru. everyone comes  tially toxic beauty products  
and dark  to me for advice,” she said.  underlined the lengths that  
skin most of  not all of Thailand’s beauty  women — and some men —  
the country  victims live to tell. The death  take to improve their looks.  
possess.  this month of a 33-year-old as­ “This is terrifying,” said  
“i used  piring model from a botched  phasit sakdanarong, chief  
to look like  collagen injection has fo­ adviser to the public health  
a factory  cused nationwide attention  minister, who joined the raid  
worker,” said  on the illegal beauty industry  and has since advised the  
ratphila, now  and intensified a government  government to expand the  
30, cring­ crackdown.  crackdown nationwide. “This  
ing at an old  nearly 40 illegal beauti­ woman was not a doctor. This  
snapshot of  cians have been arrested in  clinic has no license, and the  
her smiling  Bangkok, the capital, in the  products she was using are  
former self.  past two months, but authori­ not Fda-approved.”  
“now, when  ties believe nearly 200 are  “we are facing a very, very  
i look in the  still operating. advertising in  serious problem,” said phasit.  
mirror, i’m  plain sight on the internet,  “when people go to illegal  
happy. with  they’re commonly known as  clinics like this, it is very easy  
a better face,  “bag doctors” because many  to get an infection — and  
you have  make house calls or meet  sometimes it is easy to die.”  


A reason for our routines 
n.d. weather 

Brian Hartnett 
sports writer 

as i write this column, it is cur­rently 77 degrees. in south Bend. in late october. which means it’s a perfect time for me to talk about one of the most no­torious aspects of notre dame life: the weather. 
south Bend’s weather is easily de­scribed as frigid, miserable and even bipolar. The area’s seemingly endless winter is marked by the appearance of an all-encompassing permacloud, a con­stant white blanket of snow and a bitter wind fierce enough to turn south Quad into a veritable wind tunnel. 
however, despite all these factors, i’m of the opinion that south Bend’s weather is nowhere near as bad as most notre dame students make it out to be. i think the climate of michiana even enhances life at notre dame rather than dimin­ishes it. 
yet, i must confess that i do love warm weather and wish at times that the weather here was nicer. however, in comparing my experiences to those of students at warm-weather schools, i’ve found that i’m not missing out on too much. 
although notre dame students may not be able to throw the Frisbee around or tan on the quad for more than 10 percent of the school year, we do get the privilege of experiencing four seasons. 
Take a look at campus right now. god Quad looks downright majestic with the wide array of vivid colored leaves dotting its trees, a sight witnessed nationally by viewers when they see notre dame make its saturday appearance on nBc. speaking of football, some of our team’s most memorable games have come in the unpredictable fall weather. i feel many of us will still talk about our recent win over stanford in a monsoon several decades from now. 
now on to winter. The treacherous and impassable conditions created by the constant snow may force us inside, but this fact spurs most of us to really get to know those living nearest to us, there­by building dorm community. and for the times we do make the trek outdoors, we can enjoy events like the massive north Quad/south Quad snowball fight or sledding on dining hall trays. 
The final season in most notre dame students’ lives is spring. The constant rain in this season may make south Bend occasionally seem like seattle, but it is always glorious to see campus come back to life and the quads full of baseball gloves and lacrosse sticks. 
as nice as the weather is now, though, temperatures this weekend are sup­posed to dip into the 40s. yes, we’ll see if my feelings about the weather are still the same come monday. 
Contact Brian Hartnett at bhartnet@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Fr. Lou DelFra 
Faithpoint 

at mass a couple of mondays ago, we read the gospel of the parable of the good samaritan. as i proclaimed it during mass, i did so with some worry. we have all heard this parable so many times that i feared the congregation would tune out as soon as i read the parable’s well-known opening line: “a man was going down from Jerusalem to Jericho, and was attacked by robbers.” i was afraid others might become dis­tracted, mainly because i found myself doing the same as i read that morning! my mind quickly summarized the re­mainder: two men pass him by because they’re too busy, then a samaritan, who doesn’t get along with Jews, sees him and takes care of him. “got it, we need to be more like him.” 
Then, as is often the case when read­ing the scriptures, i was surprised to find that a little phrase caught my eye. The samaritan takes the beaten man to a local inn, gets him medicines, room and board to heal and then, as he is leaving, says to the innkeeper: “if you spend more than i have given you, i will repay you on my way back.” 
“on my way back” grabbed hold of me. on his way back? so, he travelled this road often. For only someone trusted by the innkeeper could have run a credit line at the inn. “i’ll pay you the rest of it later.” The road to Jericho was the samaritan’s turf. he probably walked it monthly, maybe weekly. he probably knew every turn, every ditch and every establishment along the way. This road was part of the samaritan’s routine. 
my interaction with this gospel had come full circle. i began reading the good samaritan with the worry that there was nothing new to be gained. But, i ended with this insight: only be­cause i had read it so many times could my mind and heart grasp something new, something unexpected in it, a surprising little revelation. it all got me thinking … 
The routines of our life, the roads and pathways we walk week after week, can have two, totally opposite effects on us. They can become so repetitive, so well-known, so comforting or so boring that we become deadened to the dynam­ics that unfold in them. we hardly pay attention to them. if something unex­pected happens, it is quickly perceived as something to be avoided. 
like the first two men, a priest and a levite, in the parable who encounter the beaten man on the side of their well-trod road. They too, as Temple functionaries, walked that road to the Temple as a matter of routine. and when something out-of-the-ordinary appeared on that road — a man, beat­en, in a roadside ditch — they did what perhaps we all sometimes do when the unexpected enters our daily routine. They moved quickly to the other side, and kept their comforting or deadening routine uninterrupted. 
The good samaritan, on the other hand, reveals a quite opposite insight about the remarkable opportunity that lies latent in our routines. precisely because the good samaritan travelled this road so often, he knew every inch better than anyone else. he knew the perils of the road, and so was travelling with oil and bandages. he had estab­lished networks along the road, and knew exactly the innkeeper who would watch over this man. routines can be opportunities for extraordinary love. 
we understand our routines better than anyone in our existence. who knows your family, your best friends or an issue you have been researching better than you? yes, our over-familiar­ity with these routines can deaden us to the dynamics trying to unfold within them. But what if it has not been ran­domness, but god’s providence, that has led us to these very people, places and issues? our intimate understand­ing of the routines also empowers us to love in utterly extraordinary ways. 
what and who are your roads from Jerusalem to Jericho? as november rolls in, and the routines of our semes­ter start to calcify, beware! They can lock us up, dull our vision and deaden our hearts. or, our daily routines can sharpen our understanding, deepen our gaze and surprise us by calling us to extraordinary acts of love. perhaps god has been leading us down this road, over and over, for a reason. 
Fr. Lou DelFra, CSC, is a campus min­ister and the Director of Pastoral Life for the ACE Program. He can be reached at Louis.A.DelFra.2@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

QUOTE OF THE DAY WEEKLY POLL 
what would you ask the presidential
“our duty is to preserve what the past has 
candidates if you moderated the debate?
had to say for itself, and to say for ourselves what shall be true for our future.” 
Tweet your response with #ViewpointPoll
John Ruskin English critic, essayist and reformer by 5 p.m. on Thursday 


Trust your training 
Carolyn Green 
holy half marathon 

running is relatively low key — all you need is a pair of shoes (or no shoes, but that’s another article), and you can run almost anywhere in the world. Just talk to notre dame senior and last year’s holy half champion ian montijo, who often ran at 5 a.m. in the desert heat of oman last summer. one of my favorite ways to explore a new city is by running its streets, and i try to take part in a dif­ferent race whenever i am home from school. This fall break, i participated in the run like hell half marathon, a halloween-themed race in my home­town of portland, ore. 
having experienced an injury that put me out for a significant period of time at the beginning of my training, i was more nervous than usual for this race. with accolades for being one of the best running cities in the country comes more competition, and i found myself standing at the starting line with the young and elite 20-somethings of portland’s thriving running community. a guy standing next to me, acting as if he was just out for a morning jog, casually told another participant that he planned to run “fives.” as in five-minute miles, and a run like hell of a lot faster than i planned to go. 
The start of the race was delayed in­explicably, and, as we waited for further information from race officials, a cold rain began to fall. everyone was pretty antsy by the time we received word to move to the starting line. i felt particu­larly sorry for the man wearing nothing but a Batman speedo and a cape, who looked especially uncomfortable. 
i had read in various running maga­zines about the importance of mantras as a tool for easing race jitters, but i had never utilized a mantra before now, be­sides maybe imagining my high school cross country coach yelling at me from the sidelines, or picturing the free bagels i would receive at the end of the race. however, a race such as the holy half marathon is a long time to be alone with your thoughts, and, if those thoughts are all negative, you have more worries than trying to remember whether or not you applied Body glide that morning. 
so, when the gun finally went off, i took a deep breath, focused ahead and told myself: “Trust your training.” i eased into my desired pace, and even found myself taking the time to enjoy the stunning views of the city along the course. when my ipod died about half­way through the race, i did not worry about losing my crutch, but considered its failure an opportunity to become more self-aware and keep repeating my new mantra. 
“Trust your training” is a good phrase to consider in all areas of life: before an exam, walking into a job interview, traveling to a new country and on a first date, (well, in that case, maybe trust what your mama taught you), but it is by no means the only mantra a run­ner should use during a race. Try: “stay steady,” “Be smooth,” “Focus here,” or “keep calm and run on.” i saw a sign during the half marathon that said: “Believe with all your heart that you will become what you were meant to be.” a little long, but good nonetheless. 
Thanks to the power of positive think­ing and some timely down hills, i fin­ished the race strong and with a smile on my face. i gave a high five to waldo (i had been wondering where he was), and then took a few laps around the block to cool off and recollect. 
Telling myself “Trust your training” had worked, and deciding to make a repeated mantra a permanent part of my race strategy. Try repeating a man­tra, yourself — yes, when you are out on a run, but also when you are stressing over homework, applying for intern­ships or trying to navigate your bike through rush hour in front of deBartolo. everyone’s mantra will be different, but if it focuses on the positive, it will be ef­fective. maybe we should find out what the football players are telling them­selves … it seems to be working. 
Carolyn Green is the student director of the Holy Half Marathon. She can be reached at cgreen9@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

Bring back the offbeat 
Back when i was a young whipper­snapper (read-until this semester), The observer ran a hilarious, enter­taining and surprisingly informative section. 
This section was called “the offbeat” and offered out-of-the-ordi­nary news from around the country. sadly the offbeat no longer exists. 
its place has been filled by “The next Five days” and by slightly en­larging the “Question on the day.” please bring back the offbeat. after all, the “next Five days” is only really applicable every fifth day. right. 
Best, 

Benigno Sandoval 
senior keenan hall oct. 25 

ceo of me, inc. 
Kevin Monahan 
The career center 

some students, especially those with younger siblings, may know of veggieTales, a children’s animated video series featuring Bob the Tomato and larry the cucumber. at the end of each video, Bob the Tomato addresses the viewers by saying: “remember kids, god made you special and he loves you very much.” in addition to being a healthy message for kids, we can use this sentiment to help us in our career planning efforts; indeed, god did make you special. each person is a unique creation, and we each have special gifts and talents. 
a month ago i was addressing a group of students and asked them what differ­entiated them from their peers. nd edu­cation? no, everyone in the room had that. intelligence? no, everyone in the room was of above-average intelligence. leadership/teamwork/active in clubs? no, no, and no … everyone in the crowd could claim these attributes as well. i prompted the group by asking: “what makes you special? what are the gifts and talents that god has given you?” 
This idea and subsequent questions shocked most of the audience. a notre dame degree did not separate the stu­dents from each other nor guarantee a job. when they looked around, students began to realize the room was full of individuals who had the same degree, grades and academic background — and who were applying for the same jobs. it dawned on them that each per­son had to discover the unique gifts and talents they could offer an employer, the unique gifts and talents that would make them memorable and valued to the hiring manager. They needed a per­sonal brand. 
some readers may doubt the serious­ness of personal branding. is this is a new fad or buzzword in career manage­ment circles? no, it is a concept that has been around for years. Tom peters wrote a provocative article for Fast company magazine entitled “The Brand called you” (8/31/97). peters’ message is time­less: you are the ceo of me, inc., and it is crucial to identify the attributes that differentiate you from the masses and identify the way you wish to commu­nicate this message. no one else can or will market you as well as you can. you need to be in charge of promoting your skills and articulating the experience you seek. 
The concept of personal branding is even more important today than it was fifteen years ago when the peters’ article was published. with massive job boards and online resume submis­sions, it is more difficult each day to get noticed. recently, an hr manager from a large aerospace firm mentioned they had received over 1,000 applications for an engineering opening. last year, a recruiter in the pr industry relayed that she received over 600 resumes from individuals vying for six spots. Job and internship seekers need to think about how they can stand out from the resume pile. This is accomplished by commu­nicating one’s brand: a clear message of who you are, what makes you unique and what you can offer. personal brand­ing is not relegated to the corporate world. Being unique in the eyes of hiring managers at non-profits, government agencies or Fortune 500 companies help you get noticed. 
so, how does one identify and manage his/her personal brand and how can the career center help? 
Firstly, identify your skills and pas­sions: The career center offers assess­ments that can help you identify some of your gifts and talents. Talk to friends, family and mentors who can provide an external perspective on your unique attributes. 
hone your marketing materials: refine your resume and cover letter to communicate a positive image of you, what type of opportunity you desire and what skills you can offer. 
craft an online presence: linkedin, blogs, Twitter and other social media sites can help craft an online image to support your unique brand. 
network: many of the items we buy are ones that have been recommended to us by others. reach out to your net­work and share your gifts, talents and dreams. These people can help com­municate your brand to their circles of influence. 
Thinking of one’s career search through the lens of personal branding can give a sense of ownership and con­trol to one’s career path. you influence how you are perceived, what opportuni­ties you decide to pursue and how you react to setbacks as well as the oppor­tunities. in short, you are the ceo of me, inc. specializing in the brand called “you.” remember, god made you spe­cial. celebrate the unique aspects of you. 
Welcome to the @NDCareerCenter Column. Please let us know if you have any questions you would like covered in the column. Email us at ndcps@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
The oBserver | THURSDAY, OCTOBER 25, 2012 | ndsmcoBserver.com 

i’ve seen,” he said. and it does it very well. 
By PATRICK McMANUS 

he also knew that there would be a lot of in-“next to normal” is a terest in the show. The cast of six has been tire-moving show that does This weekend the pasquerilla east musical lessly rehearsing for only the past four weeks, not allow the audience company presents “next to normal.” The mu-not including fall break, to put on this amaz-to forget the mental sical tells the story of a mother’s chronic men-ing production, which is entirely the result of anguish or fragility of tal illness and the effects it has on her and her the vision and talent of passionate students. its characters. it is held family. producer nathan williams was confident back from being an it is not exactly typical musical fare. That that even though it is a difficult show dra-outright depressing seriousness, however, earned “next to nor-matically, emotionally and musically, the experience by deft di­mal” the pulitzer prize for drama in 2010, cast was able to handle it and turn in great rection and acting, and one of only eight musicals to win that award. performances. its beating heart, the The show also took home three Tony awards graduate student will docimo ,who plays rock score. The music, when it opened on Broadway in 2009. dan, the father and husband character, said composed by Tom kitt, 
director charlie o’leary was at first hesi-he likes how the musical is untraditional. with lyrics by Brian tant to take on such a lauded and serious “it’s a good example of how musicals can be yorkey, has an eclectic show but felt compelled to do so. a serious medium, rather than just lights and feel that can set different 
“[it was]one of the most powerful musicals flash,” docimo said. moods. yet, it moves with a fluidity that never put-off by sillier and more chipper musicals, 
indeed, by taking on a more really makes you feel comfortable. this production of “next to normal’ is a must solemn subject matter than although o’leary says “characters and see. honestly, it is nothing like, and so much most musicals and handling story remain forefront,” the show’s subject better, than when my high school did “Bye it in a responsible and engag-matter and portrayal of a character living Bye Birdie.” ing way, “next to normal” with bipolar disorder creates an opportunity Tickets are available for purchase ($6 for proves to be a unique theatri-for this show to not just raise awareness, but students, $8 for the public) at the laFortune cal experience. start a dialogue across the campus commu-Box office and at the door. performances will 
The plot, though full of rev-nity. To that end, the production is partnering take place in washington hall on Thursday, elations, is not really the point. with the national alliance on mental illness oct. 25 at 7:30 p.m., Friday, oct. 26 at 7:30 p.m. rather, the feel of the musical chapter of notre dame, who will have a booth and saturday, oct. 27 at 7:30 p.m. becomes paramount. more at the show. than a story, it is a sense of For people who like musicals and Contact Patrick McManus at what certain things feel like even people who traditionally have been pmcmanu1@nd.edu 
scenewriter 





KNOW 
THY 

SHELF LITERATURE IS NOT DEAD 
Meghan Thomassen 
scene writer 

“i always wanted to be a novelist. i just never wanted to write a novel.” 
so said kathleen parker when she vis­ited campus oct. 2 to talk about journal­ism in the age of “Twitterature.” with those words she gave a voice to the moral dilemma my inner Jane austen wrestled with for years. i had all the right ingre­dients: an insatiable appetite for books, an inordinate vocabulary and an insane obsession with used bookstores, not to mention a major in english. 
But when it came to whipping out a “heartbreaking work of staggering genius,” every idea fell flat. i would spend random afternoons crafting char­acters and plotlines in my head, only to have them fall apart on the rare occasion i tried to put them on the page. eking out word after word was like carving into a chalkboard. every sentence sounded painful and forced, and once composed, seemed irreversible. 
eventually i gave up, crammed my half-filled notebooks into the bottom of my bookshelf, and tried to accept my fate. i was never going to write a novel. 
it wasn’t until last week, however, that i realized i was doing it wrong. over fall break, i went to west virginia as a part of the center for social concern’s appalachia program. The trip was awe­some, my group was wonderful and i will never forget some of the things we saw or did. one of the goals of the program was to change preconceptions about poverty, the environment and social responsibil­ity. at nazareth Farm, the staff encour­aged us to put away our phones when with friends, spend daily quiet time with god and be better stewards of our envi­ronment. so far, these habits have stuck with me. granted, it’s been less than a week, but i’m hopeful these changes are long-lasting. 
one of the changes was truly un­expected. during one of our precious downtime periods, one of the volunteers from another college started telling me about how much he loves to write. at first i thought he had just another run-of-the-mill blog about life or politics or how much he loves the packers. But i could not have been more wrong. To demonstrate his point, he reached into his backpack and pulled out a stack of manuscripts, covered in the red ink of his own comments. 
This kid actually wrote a 200-page nov­el on his own accord, all while juggling the responsibilities of a student. he said his writing process consisted of sitting down and just doing a little bit each day. it sounded hard, but he was able to write something substantial just because he felt like it. For him, writing was more of a habit than an inspired, earth-shattering revelation. he also said he didn’t worry too much about getting each sentence perfect — he could spend forever being nitpicky about diction and structure. 
i found a strange amount of comfort in his dedication, as well as a challenge. There are few things i can commit to do­ing every day. But to see his reward of a fascinating and personal body of work showed how it’s the daily habit that makes the novelist. 
Contact  Meghan Thomassen at mthomass@nd.edu 
The views in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
BRANDON KEELEAN | The Observer 


The oBserver | THURSDAY, OCTOBER 25, 2012 | ndsmcoBserver.com 
WEEKEND EVENTS CALENDAR 
THURSDAY 

What: “Thriller” Where: rockne memorial When: 8 p.m. - 10 p.m. How Much: reserve your spot for free at recregister 
are you ready for halloween? start getting ready for the weekend and learn the steps to michael Jackson’s famous “Thriller” dance at The rock. recsports will provide food and Thriller-themed prizes. don’t miss it! 
FRIDAY 

What: rock musical: “next to nor­mal,” presented by pemco Where: washington hall, mainstage auditorium When: 7:30 p.m. - 10 p.m. How Much: $6 for students 
pemco is back with what prom­ises to be a great performance of award-winning musical “next to normal”. although not a typical musical, the show will definitely capture the audience’s atten­tion. it’s a must-see! 
SATURDAY 

What: salsaween Where: legends When: 12 a.m. How Much: Free for students 
dance the night away in your favorite halloween costumes saturday night. gather a group of friends and enjoy good music and a fun time at legends. 
SUNDAY 

What: “The Blob” Where: deBartolo performing arts center When: 3 p.m. How Much: $4 for students 
Take a break on sunday and watch irvin yeaworth’s “The Blob” at dpac. The movie tells the story of a mysterious crea­ture that lands on earth and as time goes by keeps growing and destroying the land. 

By JESUS MENDOZA 
scenewriter 
mentioniowa in any conversation, and, well, good luck keep­ing anyone’s attention. it’s not that the state is bad or anything, it’s just that one can’t help but think of cornfields, cornfields, and oh look, more cornfields. 
hopefully, though, these thoughts won’t deter you from sampling indie bandunknown component, which hails from centraliowa.not so much a band,unknowncomponent is the brainchild of solo artist keith lynch. he alone is responsible for all the instruments you hear in his music, as well as recording and mixing, truly earning himself the title of one-man band. 
unknown component’s latest album “Blood v. electricity,” released oct. 23, provides exactly the moody, melancholic sound one would expect from the jagged grays, blacks and purples that make up the cover art. 
The first track off the album, “intuition,” quickly introduces the listener to the mix of instruments with electronic ambience lynch seems to employ throughout the entire album. here, slow piano builds into a steady guitar riff, backing up lynch’s echoed vocals. ending with a haunting string set, this track sets a sense of hopelessness that pervades through other tracks. 
next up, “nowhere is alone” picks up the tempo with more guitars, eerie chant-like vocals, and introduces lynch on the drum set. lynch now appears to empower the listener, saying how “you can forget about your enemies / and all the damage they can do tonight,” odd considering the imminent demise he then suggests in “gypsies of the apocalypse.” Built upon a lynch’s fingerpicked guitar, mixed with electronic ambience, moving into his standard drumming and strumming. here again he provides some cautious, optimistic words, remind­ing the listener to not fall victim to the “sensory deprivation” others may impose on you, and to keep open eyes, living for the moment. 
more gloom and doom are abundant in lynch’s next couple tracks “moral vultures,” “For all intents and purposes” and “dust and the shadows.” at this point in the album, i’m look­ing for some sense of joy to climb out of the pit of despair lynch has successfully thrown me in. Thankfully, i find some of this respite in a pair of tracks at the end of the album. 
“painting the weather” and “Through the surface,” my fa­vorite track on the album, are centered aroundlynch’s acoustic guitar, already a happier sounding instrument than the usual electric effects lynch is so fond of. really, the content of these songs deals with familiar themes of disillusionment and unre­solved questions prevalent in the album. Frankly, they succeed thanks to the uplifting sound of the guitar. 
while maybe not exactly everyone’s cup of tea, unknown component has created a well recorded and professional sounding album, especially considering it’s a one-man opera­tion in the middle ofiowa. Fans ofnine inchnails, another solo musical project, and some oflinkin park’s work will find them­selves at home with unknown component. as for me, i’ll stick to some more upbeat tunes. 
Contact Jesus Mendoza at jmendoz6@nd.edu 
booming electronic beat, drums and the occasional guitar ef­fect, this track is dark and foreboding — chaotic to say the least; 
“Blood v. Electricity” 
people don’t just throw around the word “apocalypse” without 
Unknown Component 
wanting to insinuate some ominous tone. “pendulum” returns us to a more instrumental sound, fo-
Label: Independent 
cusing on a pounding drum and guitar line. This beat gets to 
Tracks: “Intuition,” “Pendulum,” “Painting the Weather,” 
a point of redundancy, steady and everlasting, much like the 
Through the Surface” 
namesake pendulum being used as a metaphor for man’s back­and-forth hypocrisy. yet, lynch suggests some hope for our hu-
If you like: Ghostriders, Radiohead and Coldplay 
man condition in that a pendulum always corrects itself back to center, no matter how far it has swung in either direction. “sensory deprivation” begins with an ethereal sound from 

BRANDON KEELEAN | The Observer 


SPORTS AUTHORITY 

athletes win at the lying game 

Sam Stryker 
assistant managing editor 
if there is one thing my mom emphasized to me when i was a kid, it was never to lie. she always would say she would find out i was lying, in a half-threatening, half-kidding way. 
“i would rather you tell me the truth, that you did some­thing bad,” she would say, “then to find out later you were lying.” 
well, it’s a good thing i stink at sports, because by follow­ing my mom’s advice, i would never be able to compete with the top professional athletes who also are frequently profes­sional liars. 
it seems to be that if you’re a coach or athlete nowadays, you better be able to lie your pants off. it doesn’t matter what you are not telling the truth about — you just cannot be honest. Tiger woods and Bobby petrino lied about their infidelity. Jim Tressel and pete carroll lied about recruiting violations. pete rose lied about betting on baseball. george o’leary lied on his resume when he was hired by notre dame — and then resigned five days later. 
But perhaps the most preva­lent lie in all of sports is cov­ering up doping — steroids, hgh, blood transfusions and so on. when pinocchio lied in the classic disney cartoon, his nose grew, and the audience knew he was telling a lie. when athletes cheat, they too change physically — yet fans seem to ignore the fact they clearly aren’t clean. 
Barry Bonds? roger clemens? sammy sosa? They lied to fans. They lied to the press. They even lied under oath to the united states government. in the age of the internet, of Twitter, of cell phone cameras and fact-checking, you would think athletes would know they will be caught and punished. it may not be punishment in the physical sense, but in terms of legacy, some things can never be recovered. Tiger woods may be able to keep his millions and his trophies, but his status in the sports world will never be the same. 
The most tragic liar is none other than (former) seven-time Tour de France winner lance armstrong. unlike woods, armstrong’s trophy room took a hit when the truth came forward. The cyclist has been stripped of his titles, and on monday, the international cycling union announced it would not appeal the united states anti-doping agency’s verdict to bar armstrong from life from olympic sports for blood-doping. 
The punishment didn’t end there. armstrong was found instrumental in organizing doping for his Tour cycling squads — a team bully, if you will. nike and other sponsors ended their affiliation with the cyclist, and armstrong resigned from his seat as chair­man at his livestrong charity foundation. 
But the damage done goes far beyond the titles and spon­sorship money armstrong lost. The cyclist was a beacon of hope, having overcome tes­ticular cancer to become one of the most successful athletes of all time. he inspired count­less fans and raised millions of dollars for cancer research. now, however, that image is tarnished. a hero was lost. 
For a while, i wanted to believe armstrong — while cycling has a long history of doping, i gave him the benefit of the doubt. after a while, the allegations seemed to resonate more. But still, this was lance armstrong. The man overcame cancer to become the best cy­clist ever, and besides, didn’t all cyclists cheat? 
But now lance is an outright liar. he has denied allegations of doping countless times, but at this point, the evidence is irrefutable. lance also has taken us for fools. he hasn’t apologized. he hasn’t owned up to what he did. The closest he has come to admitting any wrongdoing is removing from his Twitter bio that he was a seven-time Tour champion. That isn’t enough. 
he may have raised millions for cancer research — but he did so under the guise he was a clean champion who over­came the odds. he was selling a wholesome image, and once again, sports fans fell for it. 
part of the joy of sports is es­capism. going to the ballpark, watching a match on television or playing a game of pickup is about leaving the troubles of real life behind, even if for a few minutes. we shouldn’t have to be cynical about the sports world, but by now, that is the nature of the game. luckily for fans, there are plenty of admirable athletes and coaches still out there — the Jeters, messis and Federers. we just have to root that much harder for them to succeed. 
and for all you athletes out there, follow my mom’s advice: don’t lie. 
Contact Sam Stryker at sstryke1@nd.edu
     The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer 
MLB 

Teams grow playoff beards 
Associated Press 

san Francisco  — This is going to be a very hairy world series. 
giants outfielder hunter pence is looking seriously scrag­gly. same goes for teammate sergio romo, whose facial fuzz has its own Twitter account. Tigers slugger prince Fielder goes for a double — dreadlocks and an overgrown beard. 
and not to forget injured san Francisco closer Brian wilson. his dyed, jet-black thicket inspired a “Fear the Beard” campaign in the Bay area and beyond. 
“They’re good beards this se­ries — i think they’re all good,” Fielder said. “mine’s just my wife won’t let me shave it off. she just likes the way it looks.” 
There have been a bushel of beards, mustaches and flowing locks throughout the postseason, from the wild-haired oakland athletics to st. louis closer Jason motte to washington outfielder Jayson werth. 
superstition, busy schedules, hectic cross-country travel, there are all sorts of reasons for ditching the razor. kind of like hockey, where playoff beards have long been tradition. 
“maybe people are just pay­ing more attention,” wilson said. “i think every postseason has beards, every sport they do the playoff beard. i remem­ber watching as a kid all the playoffs, and guys would grow beards. it’s kind of like when you buy a new car and you real­ize everyone has it on the road. 
“it’s facial hair. you either have it or you don’t. There’s only a 50 percent chance you’re going to have a beard,” he said. 
so, who is sporting the best 

FOR RENT 

Rent Knute Rockne’s home for football weekends. Perfect location 
- 1 block from Eddy St. Commons. Sleeps 8-10. Contact 574-876-4324 
WANTED 

PART TIME WORK $14.25 base­appt earnparttime.com 
PERSONAL 

UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don’t go it alone. Notre Dame has many resources in place to assist you. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Ann Whitall at 1-0084 or Karen Kennedy at 1-5550. For more information, visit ND’s website at: http://pregnancysupport@nd.edu 
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
Lyrics: It’s Time By Imagine Dragons 
So this is what you meant When you said that you were spent 
And now it’s time to build from the bottom of the pit 
Right to the top Don’t hold back 

Packing my bags and giving the acad­emy a rain check 
I don’t ever want to let you down I don’t ever want to leave this town 
‘Cause after all This city never sleeps at night 
It’s time to begin, isn’t it? I get a little bit bigger, but then I’ll admit 


look this fall? That’s a tough one going into wednesday night’s game 1 at aT&T park. 
romo’s hair has the Twitter account of (at)romosBeard. wilson’s growth has three dif­ferent Twitter handles. 
“we’re just a little weird. we’re a little wacky,” romo said. “i just think we’ve got no shame. i wear mine confidently and i’m pretty sure he does as well.” 
wilson is still recovering from elbow surgery in april. yet the quirky reliever continues to attract some of the loudest cheers from the home crowd. 
wilson can’t remember when he last trimmed the beard. he figures it’s been at least a year. 
“he hasn’t cut it in three years,” fellow reliever santiago casilla offered. 
giants general manager Brian sabean — he has a small beard, too — recently watched some old clips of wilson from the team’s 2010 run to the world series championship, the year the right-hander led the majors with 48 saves. 
“he looked very groomed compared to (this) look,” sabean said. “as he’ll tell you, the beard has its own checking account. romo, romo’s tight­ened himself up. pence, not so good, bad look. it’s like ‘The axeman’ or something.” 
any other grooming critiques? 
“i’m not going to get into other people’s beards,” sabean said. 
if wilson were healthy and available to pitch, sabean kids that the beard might get in the way. 
“it’s not as aerodynamic,” the gm said. “maybe things would fly out of it and be a distraction to the hitter.” 
all over baseball, facial hair has become a hot topic. 
last weekend, former giants pitcher Brad hennessey posted this as his status on Facebook: “pence needs to shave that aw­ful thing on his face! are u say­ing that it grows in all white trashy like that all on its own?” 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit 
I’m just the same as I was Now don’t you understand That I’m never changing who I am 
So this is where you fell And I am left to sell 
The path to heaven runs through miles of clouded hell Right to the top 
Don’t look back Turning to rags and giving the com­modities a rain check 
I don’t ever want to let you down I don’t ever want to leave this town 
‘Cause after all This city never sleeps at night 
It’s time to begin, isn’t it? I get a little bit bigger but then I’ll admit 



NFL 

Ryan calls for apology from Bush 
Associated Press 
Florham park, n.J. — rex ryan already said he’s sorry. he thinks it’s about time reggie Bush did, too. 
The new york Jets coach is still bothered by the miami dolphins running back’s comments a few weeks ago that darrelle revis’ season-ending knee injury was a case of “what goes around comes around.” 
“i apologized for my com­ment,” ryan said wednesday. “i expect him to do the same.” 
ryan drew the ire of the dolphins star when the coach said the Jets were going to put “hot sauce” — saying he meant lots of attention, not intent to injure — on Bush before new york’s 23-20 overtime win last month. Bush hurt his left knee in the game on a hit by laron landry, and later implied it was karma that revis also hurt his knee and was lost for the season. 
Bush told reporters in miami that he wasn’t concerned that the Jets might try to get him back sunday when the teams meet at metlife stadium. 
“retaliation? They’re the ones who started this,” Bush said. “if there was ever any retaliation, it would come from us. But this team and the caliber of guys and the character we have are guys who play with respect for the game and play hard. it’s foot­ball. i didn’t go and complain or whine about being a target of the Jets. i expect that every game. i don’t expect for it to be any dif­ferent this game. i expect it to be a tough game, probably some trash talking going on. it’s going to be a physical, tough game. 
“it’s a divisional opponent. That’s the great thing about play­ing divisional opponents. you get to play them twice. it’ll be fun this time around.” 
landry was told of Bush’s com­ments, and said he didn’t want to add to a war of words — but then added fuel to the fire. 
“when guys yap back and forth, obviously you’ve done a great job,” landry said. “no matter if it was a bonehead play or whatever, i mean, you got to them in some type of way that they had to speak on it. i don’t really get into all that and the Twitter and everything. we’ll see on sunday. 
“i’m grateful for another op­portunity to play this guy, and he will remember that hit. every time he sees me, he will remember that hit. if i’m in the box or i’m coming downhill, whatever, he will remember that hit. i don’t worry about what those guys say.” 
landry, known for his physical and aggressive style of tackling, says it’s clear when a team has gotten into an opposing player’s head. and, he thinks, Bush will be the perfect example of that. 
“Just watch the way he runs,” landry said. “we’ll see when he comes out here this sunday. i don’t want to say too much and i’m not going to overtalk it and make a story.” 
ryan said after the teams last played on sept. 23 that his “hot sauce” comment was misinter­preted and he never coaches to hurt another player. linebacker calvin pace raised some eye­brows, though, saying the Jets planned to “put him on out,” but later apologized and insisted there was no “bounty” on Bush or anything malicious meant by his comment. 
Bush, whose injury wasn’t se­rious, was angry, though, saying during a radio interview: “They talked all week about putting hot sauce and this and that, and they ended up losing their best player for the rest of the season. so, it’s 
paid adverTisemenT 


sad that it happened because of that, but i’m going to be back.” 
revis had surgery last week to repair a torn anterior cruciate ligament in his knee, and hopes to be back in time for training camp next summer. 
ryan said he wasn’t worried about miami retaliating, ei­ther, and again reiterated that his comments were taken out of context. 
“i never said we were trying to injure reggie Bush, that’s not even close,” ryan said. “he’s go­ing to get our attention. i’m sorry, but he’s a player that’s going to warrant a lot of attention and that’s what i meant by my com­ments. if it was taken differently, i apologized for that. But trust me, we know when he’s in the game.” 
ryan added that he respects Bush’s abilities and “that’s bad for football” when any player of his caliber is injured for any pe­riod of time. 



The oBserver | THURSDAY, OCTOBER 25, 2012 | ndsmcoBserver.com 

NBA 

knicks top nets in exhibition 
Associated Press 
uniondale, n.y. — once their extended preseason fi­nale was over, the knicks and nets could look ahead to the one that counts next week in Brooklyn in the season opener. 
The knicks hope their front-court is ready by then. 
already without amare stoudemire, new york lost center Tyson chandler to a left knee injury less than a minute into the game in a 97-95 over­time victory over the nets on wednesday night. 
steve novak made two 3-pointers in overtime, in­cluding the go-ahead shot with 1:26 left, in the final tuneup before the teams meet in their hyped, nationally tele­vised regular-season opener on nov. 1 at the new Barclays center. 
The knicks expect to play that night without stoudemire, who has a cyst behind his left knee and is out a couple of weeks. chandler left on crutches and said he would have an mri exam Thursday, but said he didn’t have much concern after his injury, which occurred when he fell to the court after a col­lision with the nets’ gerald wallace. 
“it’s frustrating, because like i say i felt great before the game,” chandler said. “i was excited, team’s looking good and we were up for this game to try to set the tempo moving into the first game of the year. and i mean i look at the stat sheet, i played 44 seconds, so it’s just disappointing to hap­pen at all.” 
chandler got up and walked to the locker room, but the knicks said there was no reason to risk the defensive player of the year’s return in calling his injury a sore left knee. 
“i was just hoping that it wasn’t too serious. after talking to him, seeing him at halftime, after the game, doesn’t seem like it’s too seri­ous,” knicks forward carmelo anthony said. “probably a real bad bruise, i don’t know how they’re going to call it. good thing is now preseason is over with, we got a week before the real thing starts, so hopefully he gets himself back ready.” 
anthony and raymond Felton each scored 15 points for the knicks before leav­ing things to the reserves, who blew a 12-point lead in the fourth quarter but pulled out the victory to finish 3-3. rookie chris copeland, who has played well in the pre­season, led new york with 16 points. 
deron williams scored 22 points for the nets, who dropped their final three games and also finished 3-3. 
Brooklyn had a chance to force a second overtime, but reserve marshon Brooks missed a runner in the final seconds. 
“our young guys that were in there at the end helped get the game into overtime, un­fortunately we just didn’t have that last one go down for us to go into double-overtime,” nets coach avery Johnson said. 
The nets, who have watched their home games against the knicks feel like road contests for years in new Jersey, are hoping the blue jerseys will turn to Brooklyn black-and­white, with their new arena giving them a real home-court advantage. 
They sure didn’t have one here. 
The nets were technically the home team, playing in a nassau coliseum that they once called home when they were a power in the aBa. But the court was surrounded by fans in knicks jerseys, and the nets were booed during pre­game introductions and early in the game. 
part of the anger could have been left over from the press conference earlier wednesday that the nhl’s new york islanders will be leaving this arena to begin playing with the nets in Barclays center starting in 2015. an an­nouncement during the game about the move was greeted with scattered boos. 
The knicks are also with­out backup marcus camby (strained left calf). another forward, rasheed wallace, still isn’t ready to play as he works himself back into shape following a two-year retirement. without them, the knicks could choose to use anthony as a power forward, especially since Johnson said last week his team struggles to defend teams when they go small at that spot. 
The nets jumped to a 23-16 lead after one quarter behind 12 points from williams, but the knicks shot 9 of 14 (64 per­cent) in the second, outscor­ing Brooklyn 30-20 to take a 46-43 advantage into the half. 
The knicks were ahead by six after three and pushed the lead into double digits early in the fourth as both teams went mostly with bench players in the final period. The nets ral­lied to grab an 86-84 lead on Brooks’ three-point play with 
1:01 left before copeland’s free throws tied it with 47 seconds to go and neither team scored again in regulation. 
MLB 

sandoval lifts giants 

Associated Press 

san Francisco — with three mighty swings, pablo sandoval put the san Francisco giants ahead in this world series and put himself in a class with mr. october. 
sandoval hit three home runs and joined reggie Jackson, Babe ruth and albert pujols as the only sluggers to do it in the series, and the giants jolted Justin verlander the detroit Tigers 8-3 on wednesday night in game 1. 
a rollicking aT&T park crowd — a sea of black and orange outfits — roared as sandoval connected in his first three at-bats. popular in the Bay area as the kung Fu panda for his roly-poly shape, he went 4 for 4 and drove in four runs. a giant panda for sure. 
verlander, the reigning cy young winner so dominant in this postseason, looked un­comfortable from the get-go and constantly pawed at the mound. 
The final score raised a nag­ging question for manager Jim leyland and his favored Tigers: did too much rest after a playoff sweep of the yankees mean too much rust? 
Tagged by sandoval for a solo shot in the first inning, verlander could only mouth ‘wow!’ after the giants star launched a two-run drive in the third. sandoval reprised his power show from this year’s all-star game, when his bases-loaded triple high­lighted a five-run first inning against verlander. 
and if there was any doubt that verlander was shaky, the best sign came in the fourth. That’s when pitcher Barry Zito, a career .099 hitter, sliced an rBi single with two outs off the current al mvp for a 6-0 lead. 
The festive crowd stood and applauded when it was an­nounced that verlander was being pulled for a pinch hit­ter in the fifth. sandoval gave them another reason to get up moments later when he hit a solo homer off reliever al alburquerque in the fifth, an­swering the cheers by waving his batting helmet in a curtain call. 
pujols homered three times last year, Jackson accom­plished the feat in 1977 and ruth did it in 1926 and again in 1928. 
For good measure, sandoval lined a single his last time up. 
From start to finish, it was basically a perfect game by the giants. coming off a game 7 win over st. louis on monday night, they looked totally fresh. 
Zito shut out the Tigers until Triple crown winner miguel cabrera hit an rBi single in the sixth, and Tim lincecum came out of the bullpen to pre­vent further damage. 
nl championship series mvp marco scutaro hit rBi singles after doubles by angel pagan. nl batting champion Buster posey contributed two hits and left fielder gregor Blanco made diving catches to rob cabrera and prince Fielder. 
game 2 is Thursday night, with doug Fister starting for the Tigers against madison Bumgarner. 
The Tigers seemed out of sync in their first game fol­lowing a five-game layoff. That was an issue in 2006, too, when verlander and his team­mates had nearly a week off before getting wiped out by the cardinals. 
alcs mvp delmon young failed to run after a tapper in front of the plate that the giants turned into a double play. The giants, meanwhile, kept getting good bounces, with pagan hitting a double that hopped off the third-base bag. 
pitching in san Francisco for the first time since 2008, verlander scuffed at the rub­ber while warming up for the first inning, pulled off his glove after badly overthrowing a curve and kept taking deep breaths. he hardly resembled the guy who was 3-0 with an 
0.74 era in three playoff starts this year. 
ever since two poor outings in the 2006 series against st. louis — punctuated by two throwing errors — verlander has worked hard to harness his emotions and 100 mph in the early going. 
verlander was trying to set­tle in when sandoval tagged him, pouncing on an 0-2 fast­ball and lining it into the front row over the center-field wall. Quite a start for the team that finished last in the majors in home runs. 
get this: it was the first three-homer game at the sta­dium originally known as pac Bell park since the very first one, when kevin elster did it for the dodgers in 2000. nope, not even home run king Barry Bonds had done this. 
it was certainly a moment of retribution of sandoval. he was benched during the 2010 world series, his production and confidence down, his weight up. in the stands on this night, fans wearing furry panda hats celebrated with him. 
verlander got into trouble again the third, and pitching coach Jeff Jones strolled to the mound when the count went to 2-0 on sandoval. verlander stared at Jones and shook his head. on the next pitch, verlander could do little but watch the ball sail into the front row in left. 



SMC VOLLEYBALL | sainT mary’s 3, alma 0 
saint mary’s tops alma in a three-set sweep 
digs in a strong defensive ef-
By AARON SANT-MILLER 
fort. schneider and hecklinski 
each had 16 and 24 digs, 

while locked in a close race respectively. for the fourth and final spot kuschel said that the Belles’ into the miaa tournament, defense was key to the win. saint mary’s won in a three-saint mary’s had a total of set sweep over conference ri-five players get into the dou­val alma. The Belles won three ble digits for digs, includ­close sets, winning the match ing sophomore defensive 25-21, 25-20, 25-19. specialists meredith mersits 
“we had a magnificent game and samantha grady. mersits [yesterday]. we just played had 14 digs, while grady was great volleyball,” Belles coach second on the team with 19. Toni kuschel said. “we were so “Both of them played great,” composed and under control. kuschel said. “it was just an we’ve been very focused on all-around fantastic defensive control and consistency this performance for our team.” week in practice and that re-Based off of their conference ally shined through.” record, saint mary’s is now tied 
offensively, sophomore for fourth in the miaa with outside hitter kati schneider alma (14-12, 7-7). yet, alma paced the Belles (13-12, 7-7 holds the tiebreaker over the miaa) with had 17 kills. close Belles, as the scots have a half-behind schneider was fresh-game lead in overall record. man outside hitter katie going forward, the Belles hecklinski, who had 12 kills. have three matches left in nationally — calvin is no. 2 in matches, kuschel said. come along. we did get a lot of sophomore middle hitter the season, including match-the nation while hope is no. 4. “i think we need to play like touches tonight, which bodes melanie kuczek also managed es against two miaa oppo-“we have a tough road ahead we did [last night]. we hit ex-well for our defense,” kuschel to get into the double digits, nents. on Friday, the Belles of us. we’re very excited to play tremely well,” kuschel said. said. “still, we will need to as she finished with 11 while play miaa leader calvin (24-them,” kuschel said. “They are “we came up with big kills come up with some kill-blocks hitting at an impressive 55 2, 12-0). Then, on saturday, two of the best teams in our when we needed them and on Friday and saturday to slow percent. saint mary’s wraps up its sea-conference, and we’re excited we played extremely tough their hitters down.” 
“we had some phenomenal son against conference rival for the remainder of our sea-defense.” The Belles will first look to performances,” kuschel said. hope (24-3, 12-2) before facing son. we just want to finish our still, kuschel said that the do just that against calvin. on “Three double-doubles with wheaton (11-20, 2-5 cciw). season very strong.” Belles have plenty of room for Friday, saint mary’s travels to kati, katie and [senior setter] hope currently sits right be-For the Belles, the team’s improvement heading into calvin for a 7 p.m. match. danie [Brink} is just awesome.” hind calvin in the miaa rank-performance against alma their final weekend of the reg-
Brink led all players with 34 ings. Both conference foes acts as model for how to play ular season. Contact Aaron Sant-Miller at assists while also providing 12 are ranked in the top-five in those critical conference “our blocking does need to asantmil@nd.edu 
sports writer 


SMC SWIMMING 

Belles prepare for conference competition 
two scoring events this week-
By PETER STEINER 

sports writer end, competing in the albion dual meet on Friday, followed The Belles will enter  their by a double dual meet with official miaa schedule with hope and alma on saturday. 
paid adverTisemenT 

after swimming in the miaa relays — a non-scor­ing, warmup event — last Friday, the Belles are excited to compete in their first con­ference meets, Belles coach mark Benishek said. 
“we’ve been training hard this week and we are look­
“We should be 
pretty competitive 
on Friday with 
Albion. Across the 
board, we should 
see some strong 
swims.” 
Mark Benishek 
Belles coach 
ing forward to the end of this week,” Benishek said. “we are going to back off a little bit on our training as we head into the back half of this week be­cause we have back-to-back meets with a Friday meet and a double dual meet saturday as well. 
“we should be pretty competitive on Friday with albion. across the board, we should see some strong swims.” 
in addition to kicking off the fall season, the miaa relays provided the Belles a chance to evaluate the makeup of their relay teams. The relay lineup will have a different look when saint mary’s competes this week­end, Benishek said. 
“i’m really curious about what our relays can pull out this weekend,” Benishek said. “we kind of retooled them all after last weekend. it’s a whole new lineup and dif­ferent swimmers with each other so i think we should see some fast swims.” 
of all the swimmers competing this weekend, Benishek is particularly in­terested in the newest mem­bers of the Belles squad. seven freshmen make up saint mary’s 14-person ros­ter, which does not include a junior swimmer.
 “i’m really curious to see how our entire freshmen class does,” Benishek said. “i’m looking forward to see­ing them in action and see­ing how they respond to their first dual meet. 
“i think there are some nerves and i think we may see a little bit of that, but we’ve been trying to prepare them for this first meet. so i think they’ll be able to keep those in check and swim strong.” 
saint mary’s is also eager to see how its first diver in three years performs in the one and three meter div­ing events. Freshman diver andrea canacci will finally help the team receive points in the diving categories. 
“we haven’t had a diver in the last three years for the school so it’s great to have somebody on the boards,” Benishek said. “we’ve been missing out on points in the one meter and three me­ter events so this year we’ll someone there. she did a great job last weekend as her introduction to diving [at the collegiate level] so i think she’s excited about this week­end and being able to get out there and compete.” 
The Belles will travel to albion, mich., on Friday to swim in their first confer­ence dual meet with albion, before heading to holland, mich., on saturday to swim in a double dual meet with hope and alma. 
Contact Peter Steiner at psteiner@nd.edu 


The oBserver | THURSDAY, OCTOBER 25, 2012 | ndsmcoBserver.com 

SMC SOCCER 

saint mary’s prepares for hope 
By KATIE HEIT 
sports writer 
as the season rounds to a close, every point will count as the Belles square up against hope in an at­tempt to gain a spot in postseason competition. 
saint mary’s (11-4-2, 8-4­1 miaa) is currently ranked fifth in the miaa stand­ings. only the top four teams are given the chance to compete for a spot in the ncaa tournament. 
senior midfielder and captain maddie meckes said her team has a good chance to come out on top in the matchup. 
“our game [Thursday] will be very challenging,” meckes said. “hope is a quick team with a lot of tal­ent, but i believe we can beat them.” 
The Belles are neck-and­neck in the rankings head­ing into their game against hope (11-4-2, 8-3-2), who is currently ranked second in the conference. hope, in saint mary’s postseason bid. 
“The win is basically es­sential for our chances of making the postseason conference,” meckes said. “we really need to focus to­morrow and play a full 90 minutes.” 
meckes said the Belles 2-0 loss against alma on Tuesday taught them the type of focus they will need for a victory against hope. 
“every person on the field needs to be on top of their game,” meckes said. “i know that all of us are pre­pared to do just that.” 
meckes said the team’s devotion to success will play a key factor in their performance. 
“our team has a lot of heart, and all of us want all of our hard work this sea­son to pay off as a post sea­son berth,” meckes said. 
The two teams last met oct. 6 when saint mary’s claimed the 1-0 victory ear­ly in the match. sophomore goalkeeper chanler 

“Every person on the field needs to be on top of their game. I know that all of us are prepared to do just that.” 
Maddie Meckes Belles Captain 
kalamazoo (10-5-2, 8-4-2) and alma (11-5-2, 8-4-2) are all tied for second in the conference, with only one more point than saint mary’s. 
a victory over hope should give the Belles the boost they need to reach the postseason tournament which could qualify them for the ncaa tournament. 
meckes said the game against hope will be key rosenbaum was a key fac­tor in the win, grabbing back-to-back-to-back saves late in the second half and preventing the Flying dutch from scoring a late equalizer. 
The Belles look to secure their place in the postsea­son as they take on hope at 7 p.m. Thursday. 
Contact Katie Heit at kheit@nd.edu 
SMC CROSS COUNTRY 

 Belles prepare for miaa meet 
By BRIAN HARTNETT 
sports writer 

saint mary’s will look for a strong showing against its conference competi­tion when the Belles travel to albion, mich., to com­pete in the miaa champi­onships on saturday. 
saint mary’s returns to competition after hav­ing last weekend off. The Belles last competed oct. 13, when the team finished 28th at the university of wisconsin-oshkosh turn its attention to the miaa championships, which are hosted by albion. Belles coach Jackie Bauters said she feels her team is prepared to com­pete against the best of the conference competition. 
“in preparation for [the conference] champion­ships, i’m feeling very con­fident in our team’s ability to put out their best per­formances of the season,” Bauters said. “we had a productive fall break and put in quality miles. we 
“Having three teams ranked in the top 10 of the region is an indication of the talent we compete with on a regular 
currently sit in sixth place in the standings after the Jamboree, which they hosted on sept. 21. 
Bauters said the team is looking to move up a few positions in the stand­ings but noted she was more concerned about the team’s ability to turn in consistent performances. 
“while we would love the fifth spot, if we are putting out personal records and keeping our pack tight, it is going to be a successful day,” she said. 
moving up in the stand­ings will be a tall order for saint mary’s. The Belles will face three teams ranked in the top 10 in the great lakes region, in­cluding no. 1 calvin, no. 3 hope and no. 9 alma. 
Bauters said the rank­ings reflect the strength of the miaa. 
“having three teams ranked in the top 10 of the region is an indication of the talent we compete with on a regular basis,” Bauters said. 
saint mary’s will compete at the miaa championships in albion, mich., on saturday at 12 p.m. 
Contact Brian Hartnett at bhartnet@nd.edu 


basis.” 
Jackie Bauters Belles coach 
Brooks invitational. 

Junior Jessica Biek was the top finisher for the Belles at the Brooks invitational, as she fin­ished 74th in a field of 500 runners with a time of 23:31.50. sophomore samee chittenden placed second for the Belles, as she set a personal record in the collegiate 6-kilo­mter event with a time of 24:52.30. 
saint mary’s will now are doing final tune-ups this week for champion­ships and the final results will be a function of where our best lies against what other teams put out.” 
The miaa cross-country champion is determined by the miaa Jamboree, which counts toward one-third of the final standings, and the miaa champion­ships, which account for the other two-thirds of the final standings. The Belles 
paid adverTisemenT 



mistakes you get punished whereas in college there is room for error. That’s not the case at all in [the mls]. … it’s a very tough transition physi­cally too, because it’s a very athletic and physical league. we have a lon­ger season that started in January and ends in october, so you have to get your muscles ready. it’s tougher competition day in and day out and you have to take care of your body off the field.” 
despite the trials and tribulations of being a rookie facing stiffer com­petition, maund said he felt well pre­pared by the professional nature of the irish soccer program. 
“The transition could have been a lot harder,” maund said. “Bobby clark runs a very tight ship. The program is very professional with its facilities and the responsibilities you’re given as a player. … my time at notre dame taught me that level of responsibility you have to have to play professionally. as the level of competition gets higher and higher, you always have to be on top of your game. The way things were run at notre dame are not a far cry at all from the professional environment i’ve seen.” 
since getting accustomed to the professional ranks, maund has made nine starts and played in a to­tal of 15 games for Toronto Fc. But the 6-foot-1, 185-pound newcomer has been playing a new position: center midfield. and just as in his freshman season in south Bend, maund has been making an impact in his inaugural campaign, albeit in a different role. 
Things worked out just fine the first time. 
Contact Mike Monaco at jmonaco@nd.edu 

Maund 
conTinued From page 20 
didn’t know at first and it has helped me at [the professional level]. 
“off the field it’s incredible with his morals and his values that he instills in all his players. it’s something he reiterates and he wants us to be qual­ity men with the right morals and the right work ethic and that’s so valuable as players and men in the real world.” 
For maund, the real world is now Toronto. The 22-year old was select­ed with the 12th overall pick in the 2012 mls superdraft in January by Toronto Fc. maund said it was thrill­ing to hear his name called on draft day. 
“it was a great experience,” maund said. “i was at home in Boston with my family watching on Tv. i thought i would get drafted, but not that high. 

it was a great experience just to see the looks on my parents’ faces and my whole family because they have sacrificed so much for me.” 
But the excitement of being a first-round pick evaporated almost im­mediately for maund, who found himself stuck on the bench in eight of his first 11 games with the reds. 
“[Being drafted] was really re­warding because it made me feel that my hard work had paid off,” maund said. “But it’s short-lived because be­ing a rookie is hard. now i have to make [being drafted] worth some­thing. it is so hard to be a rookie in this league. That was my next thought.” 
maund said professional soccer has been more difficult due to both mental and physical factors. 
“There’s more attention to detail,” maund said. “you have to think a lot faster. There’s really no room for error. in this league if you make 
paid adverTisemenT 


Clark 
conTinued From page 20 
freshman midfielder patrick hodan earned the assist on notre dame’s third goal in the seven-minute span. 
“Some of our stuff was magnificent. Their goalkeeper had some fantastic saves in the second period. But it was still a close game ... so it was just a really good [advertisement] for Big East soccer.” 
Bobby Clark 
Irish coach 
“some of our stuff was mag­nificent,” clark said. “Their goalkeeper had some fantas­tic saves in the second period. But it was still a close game … so it was just a really good [advertisement] for Big east soccer.” 
notre dame continued to threaten even with a two-goal lead as the irish forced lyon to make a number of difficult saves to prevent his team from falling behind by three. The golden eagles countered with chances of their own but notre dame closed out the game in front of junior goalkeeper patrick wall, who recorded seven saves on the night. 
The victory offered a chance for several irish players to shine, clark said. 
“patrick hodan came on, really lit things up,” he said. “he’s doing a terrific job as a freshman. and, of course, Finley is always there. The great thing about Finley, ryan is now bringing other players into the game. he is not just going himself … he set up sev­eral good opportunities. There was a good spell in the second half where we could have had several goals, there could have been more. 
“patrick wall was very good in goal, he had a good save there near the end. i thought both fullbacks did well, be­cause that’s one of the things. They are very good on the flanks, marquette. They serve great balls and i think our full­backs did a great job of stop­ping their service at source.” 
notre dame will con­clude regular season play on saturday when it travels to marquette for a rematch with the golden eagles at 8:05 p.m. 
Contact Joseph Monardo at jmonardo@nd.edu 


The oBserver | THURSDAY, OCTOBER 25, 2012 | ndsmcoBserver.com 

Fisher 
continued from page 20 
with a then-career high 140 yards on 26 carries while for­mer irish quarterback Jarious Jackson also topped the cen­tury mark on the ground, to­taling 107 yards. 
Following a third quarter sooner score that extended the oklahoma lead to 30-14, the irish faced a daunting task — erase a 16-point deficit against a team that threw the ball 40 times per game. 
“it’s always tough [to come back] when they have a wide open offense,” Fisher said. “at the same time, when you stick to your game plan and everything starts working for you, you can’t worry about what the other team is doing. you just have to continue to do what you’re doing and just grind it out. hopefully, the chips fall your way.” 
The irish scored the game’s final 20 points to claim a 34­30 victory, sealing it with an 11-play, 98-yard drive for the winning score in the fourth quarter. 
notre dame sputtered to a 5-7 record the rest of the way, ending the season with a four-game losing streak. 
Fisher, who also considered ohio state, michigan state and michigan, said he chose notre dame, in part, because of the weekly exposure the irish had on nBc. 
“it would be saturday morning cartoons and then when the cartoons were done, it would be notre dame foot­ball,” Fisher said. “how many schools basically have their own television network like how we’re on nBc every week throughout the whole coun­try? some schools could say they have their own network but it’s still only shown in that area. ours is shown through­out the country.” 
Fisher, a former sorin college resident, had the un­enviable task of replacing irish all-time leading rush­er autry denson, who was a senior when Fisher was a freshman. 
“autry denson was there when i was a freshman so he was the big brother to me,” Fisher said. “it wasn’t tough because i had such good lead­ers to teach me the ropes and what’s going on.” 
Fisher followed in denson’s footsteps and played in the national Football league (nFl). Fisher was not drafted coming out of notre dame but signed a free-agent con­tract with the green Bay packers. Fisher said once he got the call from the packers, his mindset changed. 
“it’s time to go to work,” Fisher said. “i was happy and ecstatic about the opportu­nity because it was another dream that was able to come true.” 
Fisher played four years in green Bay and likened the at­mosphere to the one at notre dame. 
“it was a wonderful situa­tion,” Fisher said. “The way lambeau Field was set up was a lot like notre dame stadium. it was a professional team in a college town. it was a great atmosphere.” 
after four years with the packers and one with the st. louis rams, Fisher blew out his knee, tearing his acl, mcl and meniscus in his right knee. 
“i rehabbed, came back, did some workouts with some teams but nothing really ma­triculated the way i wanted it to,” Fisher said. 
Fisher, 33, now coaches running backs at euclid high school in ohio, the same high school he was named mr. Football at in 1997. 
“it’s my way of giving back to the community,” Fisher said. 
Contact Matthew DeFranks at mdefrank@nd.edu 



paid adverTisemenT 


CROSSWORD | will shorTZ 


HIGHLY PUNLIKELY | chrisTopher Brucker 
SUDOKU | The mepham group 

LOWER YOUR EXPECTATIONS | rago & paTrick cross HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: kyla ross, 16; shenae grimes, 23; B.d. wong, 52; kevin kline, 65. 
Happy Birthday: you must take action and make things happen if you want to readjust your life to suit your needs. a change in the way you do things or present what you have to offer will lead to a better lifestyle and greater opportunities. love and romance are highlighted. your numbers are 7, 12, 19, 27, 35, 43, 47. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): a sudden change in your financial situation looks positive. check over investments and contracts carefully, and don’t be afraid to revise small details that favor you. attending a celebration will result in an inter­esting conversation.  


TAURUS (April 20-May 20): enjoy pastimes that let you use your skills and inter­act with people who share your concerns. a chance to move ahead professionally or to find a position that suits your lifestyle will develop through a conversation with an influential individual. 

GEMINI (May 21-June 20): don’t make physical changes based on what some­one else suggests. get the lowdown on procedures before moving forward. de­ception is apparent and will lead to an unsavory situation if you are not upfront about what you want and what you have to offer.  


CANCER (June 21-July 22): rework an old plan or pick up new skills and you will be able to raise your earning potential. creative collaboration will bring good results. your intuition will lead you down the right path. socializing will be rewarding. 


LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): don’t make a promise you cannot keep. additional responsibilities will cost you mentally, physically and emotionally. overspending to keep the peace will lead to stress and worry regarding your future. look for alternative ways to cut corners. do the work yourself. 


VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Talks will lead to solutions. your dedication and hard work will inspire others to help. steer clear of those looking for handouts or excess in any way. a change at home can be good if it stifles someone’s poor habits. 


LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): mixing the old with the new will result in an interest­ing payoff. you’ll attract someone from your past if you attend a reunion or visit places you used to frequent years ago. an emotional issue regarding money can be resolved. 


SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): share your talent, skills and knowledge with others. you will attract attention and interest in what you have to offer. romance is in the stars, and planning a late-night celebration will ensure that you enhance your love life. enjoy the moment. 

SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): you’ll upset someone if you neglect your duties or you don’t show appreciation. a force play at home may appear detrimental at first, but in the end, it will help you move forward and follow a path better suited to your needs. 


CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): pull in favors. suggest different ways to use your skills more effectively and you will advance professionally. a financial gain is heading in your direction. a commitment made to someone you have something to share with will bring high returns. 


AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): don’t question what everyone else is doing. Take care of business and do what’s expected of you without complaint. putting up a fuss will make you look bad and could cost you financially. stick close to home and honor your word.  


PISCES (Feb. 19- March 20): arguing will be a waste of time. do everything in your power to develop your interests and negotiate deals that promise a brighter future. Travel or expanding an interest you have will also enhance your personal life and important relationships. 

Birthday Baby: you are sensitive, intuitive, a helper, a giver and a dedicated lob­byist. 
JUMBLE | david hoyT and JeFF knurek 



make checks payable to and mail to: The observer 
p.o. Box 779 
notre dame, in 46556 


enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year 


enclosed
 is $75 for one semester


Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
name 

Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying 
address 

form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
city      state Zip 

The oBserver | THURSDAY, OCTOBER 25, 2012 | ndsmcoBserver.com 
WAKING THE ECHOES | Tony Fisher 
running back reflects on win over oklahoma 
By MATTHEW DeFRANKS 
sports writer 
Tony Fisher’s favorite notre dame memory was not a 196­yard outburst against Boston college his junior season. it was not leading the irish in rushing in 1999 nor was it a Fiesta Bowl appearance in 2000. 
it was Bookstore Basketball. 
“i  used  to  love  when  
Bookstore  Basketball  came  
around,”  Fisher  said  in  a  

phone interview with The observer. 
Fisher’s team — named coco Butter — consisted of cornerback lee lafayette, tight end John owens and track athletes red croker, doug conners and marshaun west. coco Butter never won the title but made it to the semifinals. 
“That’s all part of the notre dame, college experience,” Fisher said. 
while Fisher fondly remem­bers his days on the outdoor courts next to the bookstore, some irish fans note him for his career game in a 1999 win over oklahoma, the last time notre dame faced the sooners. 
coming into the showdown with the sooners, notre dame had lost three consecutive games, bringing its record to a lowly 1-3 after starting the year ranked no. 18. 
“losing three straight games is never really accept­able at notre dame,” Fisher said. “we had to do whatever we had to do to right the ship. at the same time, we had to go out there, stay focused and handle your business and ev­erything else will take shape. it was a real big game for us during that time.” 
oklahoma entered the game undefeated and ranked in the top 25 under new coach Bob stoops and his wide-open offense. The teams had not played since 1968. 
“notre dame, oklahoma, they’re two storied schools in college football, there was a lot of hype going into that game,” Fisher said. “regardless of how both teams had been playing, there was still a whole lot of hype going into that game.” 
on the opening play, Fisher took the handoff and darted to the right before rumbling 55 yards to the oklahoma 21­yard line. 
“any big play in any foot­ball game of that magnitude is definitely a tone-setter, especially when it’s the first play of the game,” Fisher said. “That’s how you set the tone and give the other team the mindset that it’s going to be a long day when we’re coming out the first play of the game like that. able to make a play.” 


“The offensive line did a Fisher, a 6-foot-2, great job and it was a good 220-pound back, did not stop call. we caught them in the there. he finished the game right defense and we had the right play called and i was see FISHER/page 18 
MEN’S SOCCER | nd 3, marQueTTe 1 
irish finish strong at home 
By JOSEPH MONARDO 
sports writer 
no. 7 notre dame saved the best for last as it closed out the home portion of its regular season schedule wednesday with a thrilling, come-from­behind 3-1 victory over no. 3 marquette. 
The irish (13-3, 5-2 Big east) unleashed a three-goal bar­rage in the second half to erase a 1-0 first-half deficit and improve their standing in the Big east Blue division. 
with the win, notre dame moves into a three-way tie with no. 6 georgetown and no. 2 connecticut for first place in the division with only one game remaining. 
notre dame controlled play in the opening minutes of the game, jumping out to an 8-2 advantage in shots while generating multiple scor­ing chances. however, it was marquette that began the scoring with a goal from red-shirt freshman defender axel sjoberg in the 25th minute. The golden eagles found the 6-foot-7 defender on the door­step of the irish goal off a cor­ner kick to set up the go-ahead goal. after allowing the goal, notre dame failed to compile long possessions and generate scoring chances heading into halftime. 
“i think we opened the game very well,” irish coach Bobby clark said. “The first 15 minutes, i thought we were very good, we could have had two or three goals at that point. and then we just lost our way. when they got the goal we just went into a funk. you know, they are a good team and they’ve got some very good players … it was a hard little spell there but then the second half we came out, i thought we got back to how we started playing.” 

The irish reasserted con­trol in the second half as the teams spent much of the first 10 minutes in the area of the marquette box. notre dame netted the equalizer in the 55th minute when senior mid­fielder kyle richard gathered the ball at the top of the 18­yard box and sent a shot past marquette redshirt sopho­more goalkeeper charlie lyon and inside the left post. it was richard’s first career goal. 

in the 60th minute irish senior forward ryan Finley drew a penalty kick after be­ing on the receiving end of a tackle from lyon. Finley con­verted his second penalty shot in as many games to give notre dame the 2-1 lead. 
less than two minutes later, Finley accepted a pass deep in the opposition’s box and slid in a 61st-minute goal, his 16th of the season. irish 
see clark PAGE 17 

WAKING THE ECHOES | aaron maund 
Standout moves on to MLS 
By MIKE MONACO 
sports writer 

one thousand, nine hundred and thirty-six. 
at the end of his freshman season in 2008, former notre dame star and current Toronto Fc rookie aaron maund had played every possible minute for the irish. maund was one of just two irish players to log the maximum. The other: then-senior all-american matt Besler. 
given his successful freshman campaign, it may seem maund had easily transitioned to collegiate soc­cer. That, however, was not the case, maund said. after joining the team as an outside midfielder as an incom­ing freshman before the 2008 sea­son, maund was quickly switched to center back. The dorchester, mass., native said the move was a difficult one at first, but he acclimated gradu­ally to his new position. 
“That transition wasn’t easy,” maund said. “it was tough. it was really tough. But iwas lucky. i’m ath­letic and a lot of times i would make up for not knowing how to play the position with my athleticism. i had a lot of good role models and leaders around me my freshman year, guys like [then-seniors] alex [yoshinaga], [Jack Traynor], [andrew Quinn] and Besler. They showed me the ropes and made the transition a lot easier than it could have been.” 
it ended up being a smooth tran­sition for maund to both Big east soccer and the back line. maund helped lead the irish to seven shut­outs and the ncaa tournament, where they eventually lost in the sec­ond round tonorthwestern. 
maund started 77 of 83 possible games in his career at notre dame and earned all-Big east honors in his sophomore, junior and senior sea­sons. in 2011, maund was a captain, played every possible minute again and landed on the all-Big east first team. despite all his accomplish­ments, maund said his overall devel­opment during the course of his four years at notre dame was his greatest achievement. 
“i think personally, just the strides i made as a player while playing at notre dame over four years and the way i developed [is my greatest ac­complishment],” maund said. “my knowledge as a player and my abili­ties as a player gradually increased by a lot. That’s a testament to my teammates and the coaching staff.” 
maund specifically praised irish coach Bobby clark for his role in developing him as a player and as a person. 
“There’s a lot that [clark] did,” maund said. “Technically he’s so good with defenses and just that understanding he gave me of how defenses work and how other teams work and how the back four is sup­posed to move and drop and work together. That’s something thati 
see maund PAGE 17 




