


Kelly speaks at his introductory press conference Dec. 11, 2010. 
The Hiring 
The Process brought Kelly to notre dame. When director of Athletics Jack swarbrick an­nounced his decision to hire Kelly, he said as much, if not in so many words. 
“At every step along the way, it kept taking me back to the same place. It kept taking me back to the conclusion that brian Kelly was the right person to lead this program,” swarbrick said during Kelly’s introductory press con­ference. “he has won at every level with every kind of team. he is a winner. And he’s a winner that at every stop along the way has done by doing it the right way. 
“he was the right man at the right time for notre dame. And 

THE PROCESS 
Since taking over three years ago, Brian Kelly has emphasized The Process — and used it to earn a shot at a national title 
football. And The Process is a process. making sure you have 
By ALLAN JOSEPH and 
very simple plan to do one thing: your hand [on] those things that 

ANDREW OWENS 
editor-in-chief and Win. go directly to win it. most of the Assistant managing editor “I think it’s just being commit-time it’s eradicating those things ted to winning. You know, you that go to not winning more than Up. down. bumpy. smooth. can’t win unless you eradicate anything else. so I think that’s 
Wins. Losses. all the things that go against it, the process.” 
Irish coach brian Kelly has and that is the process,” Kelly When Kelly first met with the seen it all at notre dame since he said oct. 2. “It’s looking at all of media after he was officially an-was hired almost exactly three the things that go into winning. nounced as notre dame’s 29th years ago. but through it all, … There are so many factors that head coach, he never once men­he’s stuck with one thing: The you have to concentrate on and tioned The Process — not by that Process. the details on a day-to-day basis name, at least. Yet from the very 
The Process has taken notre that goes to winning. beginning of his tenure, he set dame from the depths of medi-“That’s what I think people about putting The Process into ocrity to the pinnacle of college mean when they talk about the place. 

Observer File Photo 

we are very fortunate to have in terms of what they want to do the same things that we did. him lead our program.” achieve under my leadership, This job is different, but we’re go-
before his move to notre and that is they want to be suc-ing to do the same things behind dame in 2010, Kelly already had cessful. so we’ve got the same the scenes we did everywhere a long track record of build-
along the way.” ing winning programs, from 
his priority for installing The 

“He was the right 

Process was simple. central michigan to cincinnati. 
division II Grand valley state to 
man at the right “Well, the first thing is you’ve he described the notre dame 
got to stop losing,” Kelly said in 


time for Notre 

August 2010. “All the things that program, with all of its unique 

Dame. And we are 

detract you from winning, you opportunities and challenges, 

very fortunate to 

know, how do you live your life? but he said he would stick to 
as a new task in many ways — 
have him lead our … so I look for all those things his tried-and-true formula: The 
program.” that can keep you from winning Process. 
because I know how to win and 
Jack Swarbrick 
I know what the things are that “First, this one is totally dif­
director of athletics 

needed to be put in place here. ferent than any of the other jobs 
Dec. 11, 2010 

“To me, that’s how you win. It’s facet,” he said on the first day of 
that I’ve had. It’s unique in every 
not just about what the score-fall camp in 2010. “but the one thing we had at cincinnati. board says; it’s about how you go consistency here are the play-We’ve got a bunch of kids that about doing your job seven days ers. The players are the same want to win. now, we’re going to a week, 24 hours a day.” 
Kelly answers a question after his inaugural win as coach, a 23-12 victory over Purdue on Sept. 4, 2010. 
2010: Installation 
From the first day of spring practice in 2010, Kelly empha­sized The Process would be key to molding the Irish to his vision. 
“We don’t have five years to put this thing together. We’ve got to do it right away,” he said march 26, 2010. “We give them some very basic parameters to start with. If they stick to those basic parameters, we can move them quickly through the process.” 
by the time mid-August rolled around, Kelly said he had already noticed a change in his players. 
“All of the players have done exactly what we’ve asked them to do,” he said on media day. “They knew there had to be a sense of urgency relative to their 





THE KELLY ERA AT NOTRE DAME 
DEC. 2009 

notre dame fires charlie Weis after a 6-6 season and hires brian Kelly, who led cincinnati to a 12-0 regular-season finish in 2009. 

SEPT. 2010 

Unlike his previous two predecessors, Kelly begins his notre dame career sluggishly with a 1-3 start and losses to michigan, michigan state and a blowout defeat to stanford. 

OCT. 2010 

navy trounces notre dame 35-17. The Irish return home and are upset by Tulsa 28-27 to fall to 4-5 on the season. 

NOV. – DEC. 2010 
After a bye week, notre dame upsets no. 14 Utah 28-3, beats Army at Yankee stadium and tops Usc for the first time since 2001. The Irish finish the season on a four-game winning streak with a 33-17 blowout vic­tory over miami in the sun bowl. 

FEB. 2011 
Kelly reels in a top-10 recruiting haul that includes everett Golson, stephon Tuitt, matthias Farley, Ishaq Williams, George Atkinson and Kyle brindza. 

SEPT. 2011 

With bcs hopes heading into the season, the Irish stumble out of the gate with a 23-20 home loss to south Florida and a 35-31 defeat at michigan after leading 24-7 through three quarters. 

OCT. 2011 

The Irish win four consecutive games heading into a home matchup with Usc, but come out flat as the Trojans prevail 31-17. during the following week, Kelly upsets some players with some comments to the me­dia in what becomes known as ‘Twittergate.’ 


preparation. They were sick and tired of being sick and tired, too. They were 6-6. They felt that walking around campus. We got that buy-in from our guys im­mediately. really what it’s been about is just a paradigm shift [of] different leadership styles.” 
Although the groundwork had been laid during the previous offseason, it looked like the same old Irish during the first half of 2010. mired by a three-game los­ing streak, capped by a 37-14 loss at home to stanford, notre dame simply wasn’t physical enough to compete with elite teams like the cardinal. 
“[The players are] going to be back next week and they’re going to strap it back up and they’re going to fight and play as hard as they can,” said Kelly of continu­ing to build a physical mentality. “We’re going to build this pro­gram to where it needs to be. 
“There’s going to be success down the road for them if they stay with it, and I’m certain that they will.” 
The Irish then won three con­secutive games, but the short-term outlook hardly remained rosy with a blowout loss to navy and a home defeat to lowly Tulsa to fall to 4-5. Kelly was heavily criticized for trying for a touch­down with freshman quarter­back Tommy rees when a field goal from david ruffer (18-for-18 in his career at that point) would have given the Irish a win. 
Kelly, though, stuck behind his vision and decision-making. 
“Keep in mind, you better get used to it, because that’s the way we’re playing,” he said. “To me this is how we play. We’re going to play aggressive. We’re going to play smart.” 
Few could have foreseen it at the time, but the Tulsa loss marked the final defeat of the season for the Irish. In need of two wins in the final three games to become bowl-eligible, notre dame upset no. 14 Utah at home, beat Army at Yankee stadium and concluded the reg­ular season with a 20-16 win over Usc, the program’s first win over the Trojans since 2001. A month later, Kelly became the first Irish coach to win a bowl game in his first season when notre dame dominated miami 33-17 at the sun bowl. 
With the 4-0 finish, the Irish used the momentum to finish the recruiting season with a bang, earning commit­ments from three four- or five-star defensive players in the final month of recruiting. 

The Process was beginning to take hold. 
2011: Sticking with it 
All the positive momentum garnered from the end of Kelly’s inaugural season seemed to vanish in a thundercloud in the 2011 home opener. between two weather delays, notre dame’s bcs hopes received a reality check in the season opener as south Florida topped the Irish 23-20. 
outside of the loss, the biggest story was Kelly’s handling of the quarterback situation, a theme that would persist throughout the season. senior starting quar­terback dayne crist was pulled at halftime with the Irish losing 16-0, and the job was rees’ the remainder of the season. 
“You can’t start winning until you stop losing, and the things that we did today out there obvi­ously go to the heart of how you lose football games,” said Kelly of his team’s error-laden perfor­mance. “You lose football games because you turn the ball over. You lose football games because you miss field goals. You lose the football game because you have four personal foul penalties. The list is long.” 
For three quarters of the following week’s contest at michigan — the first-ever night game at the big house — notre dame played its best football to date under Kelly. The of­fense clicked, the defense held michigan quarterback denard robinson in check and it looked like the season-opener was more an aberration than foreshadowing. 

however, the Irish suffered a complete meltdown in the fourth quarter, surrendering 28 points in the stanza, the final seven of which transpired with two seconds remaining in the game. 
For Kelly and the Irish, it was back to the drawing board and a commitment to trusting The Process. 
“We’re shaping our team ev­ery single day,” Kelly said the day after the michigan loss and 0-2 start. “Again, there are so many frustration. 
“but we’re building it the right way. We’ll get them there. We’re not there yet. I know this journey all too well. I’ve been on it before. It’s frustrating. It’s disappoint­ing. It’s all those things. We’ll break through. There’s too many good things happening out there for us not to break through.” 
The Irish sparked a four-game winning streak the following week with a 31-13 beat down of no. 15 michigan state. It wasn’t a perfect contest, but it was the most convincing sign The Process was working and Kelly’s squad was on the rise in the na­tional outlook. 
“I know one thing is that they weren’t lacking confidence, but sooner or later you gotta get paid,” Kelly said. “You gotta be validated in what you do. And so it was a big win for us.” 


“You can’t start winning until you stop losing, and the things that we did today out there obviously go to the heart of how you lose football games.” 
Brian Kelly 

Irish coach Sept. 3, 2011  
details to that. All you guys care about — and I understand that, and our fans — is that it equals wins, and we’re not doing that for them. I understand the  heading into the Usc game with a four-game winning streak, the Trojans hampered by ncAA sanctions and the 2010 win at the Los Angeles coliseum,  

it appeared the rivalry might be shifting in notre dame’s favor. Usc emphatically put those thoughts to rest with a 31-17 vic­tory in notre dame’s first home night game since 1990. 
The following Thursday, Kelly created a controversy regarding players he recruited and ones Weis had recruited. 
“You can see the players that I recruited here. You know who they are,” Kelly said. “We’ve had one class of recruiting, kids that I’ve had my hand on. The other guys here are coming along, but it’s a process. It can’t happen overnight. They’re getting there. They’re making good progress.” 
A Twitter firestorm erupted as some players rushed to social media to let out their frustra­tion. (Irish linebacker manti Te’o tweeted, “Playin for my bros and that’s it!!!!”) 
After Kelly apologized to the team, the Irish recorded a four-game winning streak for the second time in 2011. however, the Irish were no match physi­cally for an elite stanford squad in the regular-season finale; in the champs sports bowl, notre dame blew a 14-0 second-half deficit and lost 18-14 to Florida state to finish 8-5 for the second consecutive season. 
The Process was tested, and so was the team’s resolve. A quar­terback battle ensued. A me­diocre recruiting class enrolled. Two players transferred, includ­ing defensive end Aaron Lynch, who dazzled during his fresh­man season with five and a half sacks. 
“The challenges are great here,” Kelly said. “If your head and heart is not in it, you just can’t be successful. Aaron and I talked about it and mutually agreed that the best decision for him is to leave the football team. 
“I’ve been in it 25 years — peo­ple are going to quit all the time. It happens. It’s part of the pro­cess. … Why is it newsworthy? because [Lynch] is a really good player.” 
While Lynch and cornerback Tee shepard left and a class of new players signed, the most important recruiting pitch Kelly had to make was to Te’o and tight end Tyler eifert to return for their senior seasons. 
Trusting The Process, both did so. 
see KeLLY PAGE 4 



DEC. 2011 

notre dame surrenders a 14-0 lead to Florida state in the champs sports bowl and loses 18-14, concluding Kelly’s second consecutive 8-5 season. 

JAN. 2012 

Irish linebacker manti Te’o and tight end Tyler eifert forgo the nFL draft to return for their senior seasons. Kelly announces a four-way quarterback battle, a derby Golson eventually won. Assistants ed Warriner, Tim hinton and charley molnar depart and Aaron Lynch and Tee shepard leave the University. 

SEPT. 2012 
The Irish start 4-0 for the first time since 2002, high­lighted by a victory at top-10 michigan state and their first victory over michigan since 2008. 

OCT. 2012 
notre dame holds stanford at the goal line to secure a 20-13 overtime victory as esPn’s “college Gameday” visits campus for the first time since 2005. Two weeks later, the Irish hand bob stoops and no. 8 oklahoma a 30-13 loss as notre dame improves to 8-0. 

NOV. 2012 

The Irish clinch a perfect home record for the first time since 1998 and rise to no. 1 in the polls for the first time since 1993. A week later, the Irish win at the Los Angeles coliseum for the second straight time and finish a 12-0 regular season with a 22-13 win at Usc. 

JAN. 2012 

notre dame and Alabama face off with a national championship on the line. A victory would give the Irish their first championship since 1988. 



better over the last year and a “When you go in that locker half.” room and you’re around the 
And when his team finally lit guys I’m around, you’re not sur­up the sign atop Grace hall, need-prised because what they’ve ing only to vanquish rival Usc to done, the commitment they’ve earn a trip to the bcs national made, they’ve done everything championship Game, Kelly em-I’ve asked them to do,” said Kelly phasized The Process once more. after the season-concluding win 
“We’re operating on, ‘You better at Usc. “everything. so it doesn’t have a good day today in practice surprise me anymore because of because you just watched film, the guys that we’re around.” and we saw the things you did Twenty-two high school pros-wrong yesterday,’ he said nov. 20 pects have committed to notre before the Irish traveled to Los dame so far in the 2013 recruit-Angeles. “We keep them away ing cycle, good enough for a no. 2 from the big picture, because they ranking nationally on rivals.com. don’t see it that way. They don’t Kelly will continue to stress de­come to work that way on a day-fense on the recruiting trail and to-day basis.” in the locker room, and offen-
Finally, in the aftermath of a sively the next step for the Irish is raucous celebration in the Los to build around sophomore quar-Angeles coliseum, notre dame’s terback everett Golson. 
Former Irish coach Ara Parseghian, who led the program “These wins to national championships in 1966 and 1973, said he has wit-
happen over 
nessed The Process while observ­


periods of 

ing the program. time, not “he’s done a good job re-just one-year cruiting, he’s well organized,” 
no. 7 national ranking, Kelly had effect that this football team is Parseghian said. “he can moti­

cycles.” 
Kelly 

to make it clear to his players that now positioning itself to win vate. I’ve gone out to practice a 
Brian Kelly 
conTInUed From PAGe 3 

attention to detail mattered more these kinds of games because of few times and talked to him and 
Irish coach 

than ever, especially with a titanic what they’ve gone through the what he’s been able to do — and 
Oct. 27, 2012 

2012: Proof home date with stanford looming last two years.” 
this is important for coaches — is The Process guided Kelly as he days ahead. As his team continued to win 
place the personnel where they prepared for a pivotal third year “We don’t talk from that lev-games and rise up the rank-best function for the team. with a schedule harder than any el from 30,000 feet because it ings, with a shot at the national ticket to miami punched, Kelly “he would just spend so many other in the nation. doesn’t do us any good. All we can crown becoming ever more tan-said The Process had been hours between the end of one 
“Year one, it’s the typical learn focus on is what we can control on gible, Kelly said he could feel The vindicated. game and the beginning of the the names of the players, begin a day-to-day basis,” he said before Process had firmly taken root in “here’s what I know: We set out next. Time is at a premium, so any to implement your schemes; year the matchup with the cardinal. his program. this season to build our program wasted period wasted on some-two, try to develop that depth in “Among us, it’s about today and “It’s a process, that when you’re and get it back into the national thing not important is thrown the units; and I think for me in what we do today.” so involved in it that you don’t discussion when you’re talking right out the window. I think he year three it’s a comfortable feel-Yet with esPn’s “college know there is a particular day, but about championship programs, does a great job of that.” ing that I know my football team Gameday” in south bend for the you do know that things are being and we’re in that discussion,” he Kelly’s next challenge is to sus­very well going into year three,” first time in seven years and hype done the way you want them on a said. tain the program’s success on a he said at the beginning of spring building around notre dame’s day-to-day basis. You sense and The Process brought the Irish consistent basis. Past coaches practice. rise in the polls, The Process was feel it,” he said nov. 13. “I don’t back to the top. have noted the stress of working 
Kelly said The Process was beginning to deliver results that know that there was one partic-long-term at notre dame, even more about preparing his team would only draw more attention ular day. I think the last couple 2013 and beyond when they are successful. If Kelly for the grueling slate mentally to the big picture. years our players really under-even with tangible proof of the can stick to The Process, there’s and physically. “I’ve worked this plan for a stood preparation. They under-validity of The Process, don’t ex-no telling how long he might last. 
“one part of the challenge to number of years. I’ve had great stood how to prepare. They were pect Kelly to abandon the mes-our football team is to get all of success with it,” Kelly said. “If [the learning how to play the game. sage, regardless of the result of Contact Allan Joseph at our players to play at a champi-players] choose to continue to fol-“I think we’ve learned how to the bcs national championship ajoseph2@nd.edu and Andrew onship level on a consistent ba-low it they’re going to continue play the game on saturdays a lot Game. Owens at aowens2@nd.edu sis,” he said sept. 11. “I think you to have success. It’s the trust ele­build toughness in so many ways ment of staying focused on what before you get to the season, and we can handle and what we need then when you get to the season to handle and we will be fine.” you look to see it come together. If the players didn’t embrace it, … I think we are developing it, The Process would consist only of and I think it’s something that words from the head coach, and we continue to talk about every they would not translate to the single day.” field. 
After reeling off four wins to “I’ve always felt that teams in start the 2012 campaign, Kelly november have a distinct ad-said The Process was finally start-vantage if they’re enjoying the ing to show results. process, if they really come over 
“our guys have been com-here and feel good about prac­mitted to the process. It’s pains-tice,” Kelly said before facing takingly slow, sometimes it’s oklahoma. “I think you really quicker. but they’ve been com-have to enjoy the process and en­mitted to the process,” he said. joy winning in particular. “It’s taking that and translating “I’ve had teams that have re-it to saturdays. And this group is ally enjoyed the process. And this translating it to saturdays, at least group does.” for the first four weeks. The Process, which had been in 
“but they’ve done a nice job of place since Kelly’s arrival, led the preparing and doing the things then-no. 5 Irish to a dominating we’ve asked them to do.  We think 30-13 victory over the then-no. 8 we’re close to being consistent in sooners, a win a long time in the that approach.” making. 
Part of the Process-based ap-“I think it’s a process of not just proach involved keeping the Irish this year,” Kelly said after the win. focused on the game ahead — “These wins happen over periods with the grind of week-in, week-of time, not just one-year cycles. out competition, a single glance This has been a group that has at the final goal could mean the had to take some lumps and learn season would be derailed. When along the way. It’s got great lead-his squad improved to 5-0 and a ership. I think it’s a cumulative 




Golson leads Irish to title game in first season 

SUZANNA PRATT | The Observer 

Sophomore quarterback Everett Golson escapes pressure in the pocket and looks for an open receiver in No. 1 Notre Dame’s 22-13 win over USC at the Los Angeles Coliseum on Nov. 24. In his last four games, Golson has thrown for seven touchdowns with one interception while averaging 247.5 passing yards per game. 
By ANDREW GASTELUM 
Associate sports editor 
everett Golson heard about the blinding spotlight of being the starting quarterback at notre dame. he knew about its legendary aura, its golden tradition and the blaring pres­sure to wake up the echoes. 
but to the sophomore quar­terback, pressure is simply an eight-letter word. 
“I’ve always been a guy that never really feels pressure,” Golson said. “I think pressure is all about personal percep­tion. I’ve never really been the guy to feel pressure. I just want to be the best team­mate I can be for the rest of these guys, for the rest of the seniors. I just want to try to learn as quick as I can to help the coaches and the players around me. I want to achieve what we want to achieve this year.” 
Golson came out of myrtle beach high school as a three-star recruit with an average 6-foot, 170-pound build, yet his first game action wearing a gold helmet was as notre dame’s starting quarterback in Ireland. Fast forward three months, and the first-year sig­nal-caller has led an improba­ble march to the bcs national championship Game all while leading the no. 1 Irish to its first undefeated regular sea­son since 1988. 
“I would like to say that I [thought I could lead notre dame to the national cham­pionship] but really I couldn’t have,” Golson said while hold­ing an award for offensive newcomer of the Year. “With me being so young, you don’t really think about that. You think about the small things because you definitely don’t want to mess up the little details. 
“one thing that I can say that I really saw in this team is that unity. Like manti [Te’o] talked about numerous times, our teammates can hold it to­gether as a family. once you have that in your team, any­thing can happen.” 
And at the end of Golson’s meteoric rise to prominence awaits Alabama’s vaunted de­fense — no. 1 in total defense 
— and crimson Tide coach nick saban, winner of two of the last three national titles. 
“[The key is] just to stay lev­el-headed,” Golson said. “Just knowing that there will be mistakes out there and I un­derstand that. but it’s about what happens at the end of the night. Just keep working and it and keep pushing it and be able to look up at the score­board at the end and see what happens.” 
Golson’s 11 wins — he missed notre dame’s 17-14 win over bYU on oct. 22 with a concussion — 2,135 passing yards, 305 rushing yards and 16 touchdowns haven’t come without taking every possibly opportunity to learn. 
“There were a couple of late-night discussions where he’d ask me what I though he need­ed to improve on and not hold anything back,” junior quar­terback Tommy rees said. “I told him the truth, although sometimes it wasn’t what he wanted to hear.” 
For Golson, the steep learn­ing curve of the Kelly offense has been more of a roller coaster ride. he endured three benchings, one on the final drive in his first home game as notre dame squeaked by Purdue with a 20-17 win on sept. 8, another coming after two poorly thrown intercep­tions in a 13-6 win over then­no.18 michigan on sept. 22 and the most recent coming in 29-26 triple-overtime win over Pittsburgh on nov. 3. 
“he’s come very, very, very far,” senior running back Theo riddick said. “Who would’ve ever thought? And he did it so quickly. he grew on the scene and that was the most signifi­cant thing. A lot of guys grow in the back, in the offseason or in the preseason. he did it during the regular season when all of the lights were on.” 
Golson has fought through the challenges of growing into his hype to become a versa­tile dual-threat quarterback with the chance to lead notre dame to its 12th national title and first in 25 years.
 “I think I have been through a lot and overcome a lot of adversity,” he said. “I think it comes back to me al­ways playing with the bigger guys. There’s times growing up where I never got picked so I decided to keep working and that kept me motivated. That’s what shows now, what was instilled in me in my childhood.” 
but on Jan. 7 in miami, he will be Irish coach brian Kelly’s first pick with an op­portunity to complete notre dame’s cinderella season with a glass football. 


Contact Andrew Gastelum at agastel1@nd.edu 




COMMENTARY 

Irish 60 minutes away from best season ever 



Chris Allen 
sports editor 
sixty minutes. 
The 2012 season has been an epic four-month journey for notre dame, from Ireland to california and everywhere in between. but those sixty minutes are all that remain. 
sixty minutes. An hour of football between the Irish and a most improbable championship. 
At stake is a simple propo­sition. It has been 125 years since the first season of notre dame football in 1887. In that time, the Irish have amassed the greatest history of any program in college football. but if brian Kelly and his team defeat Alabama and hoist the crystal ball at midfield of sun Life stadium in January, they will have capped off what will be re­garded as the greatest sea­son in notre dame history. The history books that tell tales of The Gipper, the Four horsemen and the era of Ara will be rewritten around the miracle run of manti Te’o and his brothers. In a spar­kling history, 2012 will be the crown jewel. 
You would be right to point out that I have not been alive for a notre dame national championship — those gold­en years were before my time. but this group of Irish players has a special claim at glory, and with a crystal ball in tow they will have achieved more as a unit than any previous iteration to wear the blue and gold. 
A win over Alabama would bring an undefeated, national champion notre dame team to an unprecedented 13-0 record. First, the obvious: no notre dame team has ever won 13 games in a season before, not to mention doing so without losing a game. It is a remarkable number. 13 times notre dame will have lined up against an Fbs op­ponent, and 13 times it will have fended the opponent off. In 1988, Lou holtz’s Irish went 12-0 to set the record for wins in one season already tied by this year’s group. before that, it was customary for national champion Irish teams to fin­ish 10-0, 9-0 or even 9-1. 
but it’s so much more than numbers. It’s the collective revival of passions that oc­curred this fall, the rumbling of decades-old fervor and the waking of seemingly dormant echoes. At no point in his­tory has notre dame been declared dead and irrelevant in college football more than in the past decade. It has been 24 long autumns since notre dame touched the crystal ball and stood at the mountain­top of college football — the longest drought previously was 17 years between 1949 and 1966. While notre dame stood still and cycled through one disappointing coach after another, the college football world was seemingly passing it by. The sec rose as a domi­nant conference and new pol­ished offenses with speed and athleticism made the Irish look archaic by comparison. even in 2010 and 2011, with Kelly at the helm, the Irish were out of gear and lost to Tulsa and south Florida on their own hallowed stadium ground. 

Then 2012 happened. 

every cliché, every slogan used to describe the decline of notre dame is now out the window — with a first-year quarterback, an inexperi­enced secondary and an un­ranked spot in the preseason Associated Press poll, notre dame ripped off a season that nobody who works outside the walls of the Guglielmino Athletics center could have seen coming. The season has been a cathartic release for a fan base that had grown tired of pointing to a past that was fading further into memory by the year. The domer faith­ful have new heroes now. A whole generation of Irish fans are seeing a nationally relevant notre dame for the first time. If it is notre dame that leaves the field in miami the victors, they will tell sto­ries of 2012 for decades, and they will do so pointing to a bronze statue of Kelly outside the house that rockne built. 
The debate of which notre dame team is best on the field is another one entirely — and a fun one at that. but if Te’o and Kelly raise the coaches’ Trophy under a sea of falling confetti, the debate of which notre dame team will have accomplished the most will yield an easy answer: It will be the current group. 
before they can stand as immortals in notre dame lore, though, they must con­quer one final hurdle, equally simple and steep. 
sixty minutes. 

Contact Chris Allen at callen10@nd.edu 
The views in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

PAId AdverTIsemenT 






Te’o, Eifert bring home national awards 

By MATTHEW DeFRANKS 
Associate sports editor 
coming into the season, Irish senior linebacker manti Te’o was an All-American selection 
— but never in anyone’s wild­est dreams was he a heisman Trophy contender. but still, Te’o sat in new York on saturday as a finalist for the most famous tro­phy in college football. 
Te’o made history by finishing second to Texas A&m redshirt freshman quarterback Johnny manziel and securing the most points ever by an exclusively de­fensive player. The senior from Laie, hawaii, tallied 1,706 points and 321 first-place votes. 
“It’s motivation,” Te’o said saturday night. “I always want­ed to be the best. I just use that motivation too. Just to be the best I can be. obviously, I have a lot of work to do and I’m just 
PAId AdverTIsemenT 

the butkus Award, nagurski Award (best defensive player), Lombardi Award (best lineman or linebacker), Walter camp Player of the Year, bednarik Award (most outstanding defen­sive player) and maxwell Award (most outstanding player). 
In newport beach, calif., on sunday night — a day after los­ing the heisman Trophy in new York — Te’o won the Lott Trophy, awarded to college football’s de­fensive ImPAcT Player of the Year. 
“To be a player and do the stuff that he wants to do on a team that’s 12-0 playing in the na­tional championship that hasn’t been there in years is absolutely breathtaking,” sophomore de­fensive end stephon Tuitt said Friday night after notre dame’s annual awards show. “he is the leader on a team going to the na­tional championship.” 
Te’o accumulated 103 tackles, 
5.5 tackles for loss, 1.5 sacks, four quarterback hurries, two fumble recoveries and seven interceptions. his nine caused turnovers are tied for tops in the country. 


Eifert wins Mackey 
senior tight end Tyler eifert took home the mackey Award, annually presented to the top tight end in the nation. 
eifert has 44 catches for 624 yards and four touchdowns this season. he beat out finalists Zach ertz of stanford and Austin seferian-Jenkins of Washington. 
The senior from Fort Wayne, Ind., is notre dame’s all-time leading receiver among tight ends and is the first Irish player to win the mackey Award. 

Coaches earn honors 
both Irish coach brian Kelly and defensive coordinator bob diaco also won prestigious awards. 
Kelly won the home depot coach of the Year award, be­coming the first coach in the award’s history to win twice. he also won in 2009 as head coach of cincinnati. Kelly has led the Irish to its first undefeated regu­lar season in 24 years. 
diaco, meanwhile, won the broyles Award as the best assis­tant coach in the country. diaco built the nation’s top scoring de­fense, allowing 10.3 points per game. The Irish defense ranks in the top 20 nationally in 16 dif­ferent statistical categories. he is the first notre dame coach to win the award. 


AP All-Americans 
The Irish placed four play­ers on the Associated Press All-American teams announced Tuesday. 
Te’o earned first-team hon­ors while eifert and Tuitt were named to the second-team. Graduate student center braxston cave garnered third-team honors. 

Contact Matthew DeFranks at mdefrank@nd.edu 
excited to get back and get things cracking.” 
Te’o said he was happy the awards circuit was done with so he could prepare for no. 2 Alabama in the bcs national championship Game in miami on Jan. 7. 
“I’m relieved it’s over. I’m ex­cited that I get the chance to prepare for bama,” Te’o said. “heisman Trophy or national championship, I’ll take a na­tional championship 100 times out of 100.” 
his runner-up finish for the heisman was just part of a hec­tic week of traveling to awards shows around the country. Te’o traveled to five different cities and three different time zones to rack up seven national awards, more than anyone in college football history in one season. 
before the heisman cer­emony, Te’o had already won 





RECRUITING 


Undefeated season draws elite recruits 
linebacker Alex Anzalone are
By CHRIS ALLEN 

sports editor committed to join the lineback­
ing corps in 2013 and fill the 
2012 has been a year of no. void left by Te’o. Anzalone said 1s for notre dame — for the he relishes the opportunity to first time in college football, join smith and fellow lineback­a single program paired a no. ing commits doug randolph 1 bcs ranking with a no. 1 and michael deeb in replacing Graduation success rate. That Te’o. success has trickled down to “[manti’s year] had a signifi­the recruiting effort of the Irish cant impact on me committing coaches, who have assembled to notre dame. he is a great guy a class ranked in the top-three that I’ve developed a relation-by most recruiting services. The ship with,” Anzalone said. “I unique position of offering the love [the other linebackers]. We top graduation rate in the coun-all mesh together so well and try along with the top football are excited to get to notre dame team in the bcs rankings gives and continue the linebacker notre dame its strongest posi-tradition.” tion from which to recruit in Frank said the way Te’o’s recent memory. Irish recruiting strong integrity and character expert mike Frank said notre were publicized in the media dame’s recruiting momentum will help notre dame recruit by is unmatchable at the moment. sending strong messages to par­
“nobody has all the advan-ents of prospective recruits. tages that notre dame has in “manti’s such a good kid. recruiting when notre dame is Parents of these prospects see good in football,” said Frank, that,” Frank said. “They see running back Greg bryant, the speed along with God-given going to have to ink a few more who runs the esPn-affiliated notre dame is developing more no. 27-ranked player in the ability, you look at that as some-players, definitely,” Frank said. Irish sports daily. “stanford than good football players; country according to esPn, body who can play right away. “They’re set to cash in on this is a fantastic school and so is they’re developing good people committed to notre dame. I’d be very surprised if, come great season, they’ve put them-northwestern, but they just and good leaders. They want Frank said bryant will imme-the end of fall camp, his name is selves in a great spot.” can’t compete with notre dame their sons to be around people diately compete to start in the not up there near the top com-when it comes to exposure like that.” backfield. peting for the starting job.” For more on Notre Dame and a lot of other things. While The special class of commit-“The biggest thing you can While the 2012 season has recruiting, check out Mike Frank’s those schools offer great oppor-ments, a group that will likely say about bryant is in Florida he captivated Irish fans every-irishsportsdaily.com tunities, it’s just not quite the end up as one of the best recruit-was going up against the best where, the work of the Irish re-Email Mike at full package that notre dame ing classes in recent memory for of the best competition in the cruiting staff has quietly laid mikefrank18@sbcglobal.net and offers. stanford’s been good in notre dame, has even earned a country, and absolutely domi-the foundation to keep notre tell him The Observer sent you. football so they are competing nickname — The “Irish mob.” nated,” Frank said. “he has for a dame among the nation’s elite. with notre dame, but they’ll The nickname started as a couple of years. When you have “They have a great shot to get Contact Chris Allen at never offer the game experience joke between butler, quarter-that kind of strength, size and the no. 1 class this year. They’re callen10@nd.edu notre dame does.” back commit malik Zaire and 
PAId AdverTIsemenT

“They’re playing in the Pac-wide receiver commit James 12 championship and their onwualu, and evolved into a so-stadium is half full. That’s just cial media phenomenon unit-ridiculous. When notre dame ing all 2013 Irish commits. is winning football games, they “It was way back when it was are very, very difficult to beat in only 11 commits,” butler said. “I recruiting” was just talking to malik Zaire 
notre dame’s recruiting staff and James onwualu about has turned that momentum how we ‘mob,’ which is slang into a standout, 22-commit-for playing well, and they both ment class of players that ranks said, ‘We are the Irish mob,’ and among the nation’s elite. As the we ran with it. It helps to keep 2012 Irish continued to win us close because it’s just a way games, the 2013 class of recruits to unite us and keep us all to-continued to grow larger and gether without being together.” more talented by the week. 2013 Frank said the cohesiveness cornerback commitment devin of the class owes a lot to the butler, a native of Washington, leadership of butler, onwualu d.c., said notre dame’s unde-and tight end commit mike feated run attracted talented heuerman, all of whom com-recruits. mitted before the 2012 season 
“There is a new kind of buzz began. with the team and the fans. I “What you had was a couple of feel like the team has handled guys who committed who were the success well, and college just natural-born leaders. Guys football is better when we are like onwualu and heuerman playing great like we are,” butler and devin butler, some of those said. “There is a real good buzz. types of guys are leaders. When A lot of people are attracted to they committed, they took it success and once someone gets upon themselves to go out and on campus and sees all that recruit as many guys as they notre dame has to offer it’s hard could to join them. That’s had a not to seize that opportunity.” big, big impact,” Frank said. “A 
The dream season of notre ton of these kids have worked dame senior linebacker manti hard to make them feel wel­Te’o, who finished second in come. You had a kid in onwualu voting for the heisman Trophy, who was at nearly every game helped notre dame attract a despite being from minnesota, star-studded class of lineback-and he took it upon himself to ers to fill the shoes he will va-make the other recruits feel at cate this spring as he heads to home on their visits.” the nFL. Five-star linebacker The “mob” gained its new-Jaylon smith and high four-star est member sunday as Florida 


PAId AdverTIsemenT 




Way to go IRISH! Good luck in the Championship! 



ALABAMA PASSING 

Junior signal-caller A.J. mccarron has been stellar in his second season as a starter after leading Alabama to a title in his first year at the helm. mccarron is the nation’s most efficient passer with a passer efficien­cy rating of 173. he has enjoyed the  pro­tection of the country’s best offensive line, including outland Trophy finalist barrett Jones at center and top tackles d.J. Fluker and cyrus Kouandjio. At wide receiver, freshman All-American Amari cooper has torched defenses on passes down the field and in the flat. cooper leads Alabama with 895 yards receiving and nine touch­downs through the air. beyond cooper, no crimson Tide player has emerged as an elite receiving threat. running backs eddie Lacy and T.J. Yeldon are threats to catch the ball out of the backfield and make people miss on screen plays. Without an elite passcatch­ing option behind cooper, the Irish second­ary will key in and try to force turnovers. Though the young group in the notre dame secondary was scrutinized heading into the season, they performed well against more prolific passing games than the one Alabama will bring to sun Life stadium. EDGE: NOTRE DAME 

ALABAMA RUSHING 

The recent Alabama national champi­onships have been built around a strong running game. 2009 heisman winner mark Ingram and All-American back Trent richardson powered wins in the 2010 and 2012 incarnations of the bcs national championship Game. This year’s version of the crimson Tide was expected to take a step back in the rushing department after richardson departed to the nFL. Junior eddie Lacy has taken the mantle as Alabama’s rushing threat and established a physical presence in the crimson Tide backfield. Lacy totaled 1182 yards and 16 touchdowns on the ground and rose to the occasion against Georgia in the sec championship Game. Lacy gashed the physical bulldog defense for 181 yards be­hind a physical offensive line. Lacy’s ascen­sion has been boosted by the impressive freshman-year performance of T.J. Yeldon in the backfield. Yeldon added 1,000 yards of his own on 30 fewer carries through­out the season and scored Alabama’s 





HEAD TO 
NO. 2 ALABAMA 



AP 

game-winning touchdown against LsU on the road.  notre dame brings its own stout defense in the run game to clash with Lacy, Yeldon and the crimson Tide offensive line. defensive end stephon Tuitt, nose guard Louis nix and linebacker manti Te’o form the foundation of the nation’s best scoring defense. notre dame has been particularly strong in run defense, holding oklahoma to an impossibly-low 15 rush­ing yards and limiting high-profile big Ten rushers in michigan’s denard robinson and michigan state’s Le’veon bell. 
EDGE: EVEN 
ALABAMA OFFENSIVE COACHING 
Alabama offensive coordinator doug nussmeier has adjusted nicely to play-calling in his first season at the position. he has been interviewed for head coach­ing positions as a result of his success. but he faces a true chess match with the man recently named the best assistant coach in the country — bob diaco. diaco has shown the ability to scheme against great offenses all season, bottling up Usc, michigan and oklahoma. EDGE: NOTRE DAME 

ALABAMA SPECIAL TEAMS 
Alabama employs a unique, two-kicker system to kick field goals. short field goal kicker Jeremy shelley is nearly automatic and has not missed on the season. Long field goal kicker cade Foster is only 4-of-9 on the season but has a big leg. christion Jones has a 99-yard kickoff return for a touchdown and averages 30 yards per kickoff return. 
EDGE: ALABAMA  
ALABAMA SCHEDULE  
sept. 1  vs. Michigan  W 41-14  
sept. 8  Western Kentucky  W 35-0  
sept. 15 @ Arkansas  W 52-0    
sept. 22 Florida Atlantic  W 40-7  
sept. 29 Mississippi  W 33-14  
oct. 13  @ Missouri  W 42-10  
oct. 20  @ Tennessee  W 44-13  
oct. 27  Mississippi State  W 38-7  
nov. 3  @ LSU  W 21-17  
nov. 10  Texas A&M  L 29-24  
nov. 17  Western Carolina  W 49-0  
nov. 24  Auburn  W 49-0  
dec. 1  vs. Georgia  W 32-28  
Jan. 7  vs. Notre Dame  




AP 
(Jr.) Eddie Lacy
(Fr.) T.J. Yeldon 

(Jr.) A.J. McCarron
 (so.) blake sims 


(Sr.) Robert Lester 

S
(so.) vinnie sunseri 3 


(Sr.) Nico Johnson 

(Jr.)  c.J. mosley 32 


(So.) Trey DePriest

(sr.) nico Johnson 35 


(So.) HaHa Clinton-Dix 

27 
S 


Allan Joseph 
editor-in-chief 
Wow. notre dame. Alabama. A crystal football on the line. It’s an unbelievable matchup between two unbelievable teams. championship-winning football teams ride their defense. They avoid mistakes. And they make plays when it matters most. 
both squads fit that bill, but the Irish are rightfully under­dogs. nick saban has earned the right to be favored in any game, and Alabama has an unbelievable amount of talent packing its roster. 
Yet there’s something special going on. I can’t deny it, and I’d be foolish to pick against it. The crimson Tide have shown just enough weaknesses to be vulnerable, and with the game on the line, there’s no unit I trust more than manti Te’o’s de­fense. notre dame will win the national title. Wow, indeed. 



Andrew Owens 
Assistant managing editor 
This one should be a game for the ages. Anyone who has watched Alabama or notre dame this season knows it won’t be a blowout either way. The Tide’s 1-2 rushing combination has yet to face a front seven as physical as notre dame’s, while sophomore quarterback everett Golson’s stiffest challenge comes in the season finale. If the Irish are to surprise the college football world, they need to score touchdowns in the red zone. 
In the championship game, the teams are typically more or less even, so it comes down to preparation and focus. nick saban and brian Kelly’s squads will certainly have that, so it very well could come down to the final possession as notre dame chases the most unlikely of what would be 12 national championships. 
(Jr.) nick Perry 



(Sr.) Jeremy Shelley
 (Jr.) cade Foster 


(Jr.) Cody Mandell
 (sr.) Jeremy shelley 


(So.) Christion Jones 
(Fr.) cyrus Jones 


(Jr.) Kevin Norwood

 (so.) christion Jones 22 

(So.) Christion Jones
 (Fr.) cyrus Jones 

(So.) Cyrus Kouandijo
 (Jr.) Kellen Williams 


(Sr.) Chance Warmack 
RB
4 (so.) chad Lindsay 


(Sr.) Barrett Jones 
QB
6 (r-Fr.) ryan Kelly 

(Jr.) Anthony Steen
 (so.) Arie Kouandijo 

(Jr.) D.J. Fluker
 (so.) Austin shepherd 

(Sr.) Michael Williams 
(so.) brian vogler 


(Fr.) Amari Cooper

 (r-Fr.) marvin shinn 80 

WR 

8 
WR 

63 
LT 

78 
LG 

70 
C 

77 
RG 

79 
RT 

84 


TE WR 
(so.) Jeoffrey Pagan 8
ILB 

(Sr.) Jesse Williams 


NG
(so.) brandon Ivory 62 
ILB 


(Sr.) Damion Square


DE
(sr.) Quinton dial 90 

(So.) Adrian Hubbard 



OLB 
(Jr.) Jonathan Atchison 19 

(Jr.) Dee Milliner 


CB
(Jr.)  John Fulton 10 


(Jr.) Deion Belue 

CB
(Fr.) Geno smith 24 

(So.) Xzavier Dickson 




OLB 
(Fr.)denzel devall 30 

(Jr.) Ed Stinson 


DE 
43  PK  (Jr.) Cade Foster (sr.) Jeremy shelley  5  KO  
5  P  (Fr.) Cyrus Jones(Jr.) dee milliner  28  KR  
8  PR  (Sr.) Carson Tinker (sr.) Kelly Johnson  31  LS  











Chris Allen 
sports editor 
This season has been one big storybook tale for notre dame and its fans. Like any good storybook, the ending has to have a triumph over a great and powerful villain. Alabama is the ultimate power in college football — and it is one win away from staking a claim to a true dynasty. The question everyone will eagerly wait to see answered is: do the Irish have it in them to take down the mighty Alabama and write the storybook ending? 
I see no reason why the Irish can’t pull off a victory for the ages. notre dame’s identity all season has come from its front seven. They will rule the day and bottle up Alabama’s rushers, forcing A.J. mccarron to win the game with his arm. he won’t. notre dame will punctu­ate the most remarkable season in its history with a win. 

FINAL SCORE: notre dame 20, Alabama 16 FINAL SCORE: notre dame 17, Alabama 16 FINAL SCORE: notre dame 23, Alabama 20 







TO HEAD 

NO. 1 NOTRE DAME 

SARAH O’CONNOR | The Observer SUZANNA PRATT | The Observer 
IRISHPASSING just 92.4 yards per game. bYU leads the sophomore quarterback everett Golson country in that statistic (84.2 yards per has guided the Irish to an undefeated re-game) and the Irish torched the cougars KeiVarae Russell (Fr.) 
cord by tossing for 2,135 yards, 11 touch-for 270 yards on 43 carries in a 17-14 notre 

CB 43 Josh Atkinson (so.) 
downs and five interceptions. but now, the dame win. first-year starter will face his toughest test The crimson Tide have allowed an oppo-

Danny Spond (Jr.) 

OLB 
yet in Alabama’s top-ranked defense. nent to top 100 yards only three times out 
30 ben councell (so.) 


Zeke Motta (Sr.) 



29 nicky baratti (Fr.) The crimson Tide bring in the nation’s of 13, including holding missouri to three 
S

Kapron Lewis-Moore (Gr.) 


no. 6 pass defense, giving up just 166.2 rushing yards. In their 29-24 loss to Texas 
DE 
91 sheldon day (Fr.) 

Dan Fox (Sr.) yards per game through the air. senior A&m, the crimson Tide gave up 165 rush-


ILB 
44 carlo calabrese (sr.) 

Louis Nix (Jr.) safety robert Lester and sophomore safety ing yards on 46 attempts. 
NG 
Kona schwenke (Jr.) 


Manti Te’o (Sr.) haha clinton-dix lead Alabama with four Junior linebacker c.J. mosley leads the 


96 ILB 
59 Jarrett Grace (so.) 

DE 
Stephon Tuitt (So.) interceptions apiece. The crimson Tide Alabama defense with 99 tackles, including 
69 Tony springmann (so.) 

Matthias Farley (So.) have 17 as a team and have held four oppo-seven for loss and four sacks. The crimson 
24 chris salvi (sr.) 

S 
nents (Arkansas, Florida Atlantic, Western Tide boast five players with more than 50 
Prince Shembo (Jr.) 

OLB 
11 Ishaq Williams (so.) carolina and Auburn) to less than 100 tackles this season. yards passing. EDGE: EVEN sophomore linebacker Adrian hubbard CB 
21 Bennett Jackson (Jr.) leads Alabama with six sacks on the sea-IRISH OFFENSIVE COACHING 
Jalen brown (so.) 

son from his outside rushing position. The Alabama defensive coordinator Kirby crimson Tide have five players with more smart has been an integral part to nick than three sacks each and have totaled 33 saban’s national championship runs in on the season, good for 26th in the ncAA. both 2011 and 2009. smart, along with 

T.J.Jones (Jr.) 


2 
The Irish, meanwhile, boast a bevy of ca-notre dame’s bob diaco, figures to get his 
WR 
chris brown (Fr.) 

pable receivers, with senior tight end Tyler shot at running a marquee program very 

Robby Toma (Sr.) 


19 davonte’ neal (Fr.) eifert leading the way. The mackey Award soon. chuck martin and brian Kelly have winner tallied 44 catches for 624 yards and done a good job this year but are not up to four touchdowns. of eifert’s 44 receptions, smart’s level. 

Christian Lombard (Jr.) 33 have been good for either a first down EDGE: ALABAMA 
WR 
RT 
72 nick martin (so.) 

or a touchdown. That figure is second to 

Theo Riddick (Sr.) 
Mike Golic Jr. (Gr.) 


51 
20 cierre Wood (sr.) only junior receiver T.J. Jones’ 35. eifert and IRISH SPECIAL TEAMS 
RBRG 
bruce heggie (Jr.) 

Jones help make up a group of five Irish re-sophomore kicker Kyle brindza is tied for 

Everett Golson (So.) 
Braxston Cave (Gr.) 

C 
57 mike Golic Jr. (Gr.) QB 
11 Tommy rees (Jr.) ceivers with more than 20 catches. third in the country in field goals per game, EDGE: ALABAMA which is more a knock on the Irish offense 

Chris Watt (Sr.) 
65 conor hanratty (so.) 

LG 
than a plus for brindza. The Irish average 
LT 

Zack Martin (Sr.) IRISH RUSHING 2.4 yards per punt return and 20.0 yards 
78 ronnie stanley (Fr.) 


While most people are looking at this per kick return. Those figures are 115th and 
TE 
Tyler Eifert (Sr.) matchup on the other side of the ball, the 84th in the nation, respectively. senior ben 
18 ben Koyack (so.) 

Irish may be able to control the time of pos-Turk averages 40.6 yards per punt. session by owning the ground game. notre EDGE: ALABAMA 
WR 

John Goodman (Gr.) dame has evolved over coach brian Kelly’s 
87 daniel smith (Jr.) 

tenure from an air-it-out spread team to a IRISH SCHEDULE grind-it-out power squad. sept. 1 vs. Navy W 50-10 

senior running backs Theo riddick and sept. 8 Purdue W 20-17 cierre Wood have combined for 1,620 yards sept. 15 @ Michigan State W 20-3 and nine touchdowns and have carried the sept. 22 Michigan W 13-6 load for an Irish rushing attack that aver-oct. 6 vs. Miami W 41-3 
Kyle Brindza (So.) 
Kyle Brindza (So.) 


40 nick Tausch (sr.) 
40 nick Tausch (sr.) ages 202.5 yards per game. sophomore oct. 13 Stanford W 20-13 (OT) 
KO 
PK 
running back George Atkinson has aver-oct. 20 BYU W 17-14 

George Atkinson (So.) 
Ben Turk (Sr.) 

6 Theo riddick (sr.) 27 Kyle brindza (so.) 
KR 
P 
aged 7.1 yards per carry while scoring five oct. 27 @ Oklahoma W 30-13 
PR 
LS 

Davonte’ Neal (Fr.) touchdowns and Golson has also chipped nov. 3 Pittsburgh W 29-26 (3OT) 

Jordan Cowart (Sr.) 


61 scott daly (Fr.) 81 John Goodman (Gr.) 
in on the ground. he has 305 yards and five nov. 10 @ Boston College W 21-6 touchdowns. nov. 17 Wake Forest W 38-0 Alabama, meanwhile, brings in the no. nov. 24 @ USC W 22-13 4 rushing defense in the country, yielding Jan. 7 vs. Alabama 



Andrew Gastelum 
Associate sports editor 

This game is going to be an all-out showdown. This game will make you tired just from watching it. This game will not be pretty, and notre dame shines in these types of games. 
notre dame’s chances in this game will depend on its offensive line. The front five will have to pave the way for a running game that is the only hope for the Irish. It will also have to protect everett Golson on key conversions. but its success will also keep the ball from a very underrated Alabama offense. 
This game will see Golson start his legend, manti Te’o seal his legend and brian Kelly become a legend. I cannot believe I am writing this, but somehow this game will crown notre dame as champion. 
FINAL SCORE: notre dame 24, Alabama 23 



Matthew DeFranks 
Associate sports editor 
no one could have seen this coming: the two most storied programs in college football history playing in the national title game a season removed from an 8-5 season for the Irish. no one could have seen coming af­ter the crimson Tide fell to Texas A&m at home a month ago. but here we are, set to watch notre dame and Alabama tussle and tug and grind in a national cham­pionship game that will please purists everywhere. 
This game is not about sec speed or the sec’s supe­riority or nick saban’s championship pedigree to go along with his napoleon complex. This game is about the running games and the rushing defenses — which plays to the strengths of both teams. but this season has been too perfect for the Irish to not actually be perfect. 
FINAL SCORE: notre dame 19, Alabama 17 









THE ROAD TO 12–0 

NOTRE DAME 50, NAVY 10 NOTRE DAME 20, PURDUE 17 


NOTRE DAME 20, MICHIGAN STATE 3 NOTRE DAME 13, MICHIGAN 6 


NOTRE DAME 41, MIAMI 3 NOTRE DAME 20, STANFORD 13 (OT) 


NOTRE DAME 17, BYU 14 NOTRE DAME 30, OKLAHOMA 13 


NOTRE DAME 29, PITTSBURGH 26 (3OT) NOTRE DAME 21, BOSTON COLLEGE 6 


NOTRE DAME 38, WAKE FOREST 0 NOTRE DAME 22, USC 13 



Photo Illustration by Kevin Noonan and Brandon Keelean 

KNUTE ROCKNE, THE MAN 
Everyone knows the tales of Knute Rockne’s coaching career. But who was he? 

Andrew Owens 
Assistant managing editor 

B 
AZAAr, Kan. — It’s no secret that notre dame is a place chock-full of mystique. As with many places that are tradition-laden, people stop asking “Why?” about certain questions and just accept it because it’s the way it’s always been. don’t walk up the front steps of the 
main building or you won’t graduate. If you walk around the lake with a significant other, you 
better be ready to marry her. don’t tread on the God Quad grass, or else. At what point do we lose our curiosity? I’ve always been intrigued by Knute rockne’s place in notre dame lore. We know he went 105-12-5 
and won three national championships, popularized the forward pass and put notre dame on the map, both in football and as a University. but what do we know about the man? 
With notre dame’s 12-0 season and impending national championship berth, I’ve grown increasingly inquisitive about who the man who got the ball rolling for the nation’s most storied program. I, like so many others, didn’t choose to attend notre dame because of football, but the sport is what put notre dame on the map. If it weren’t for rockne, how many of the 8,452 undergraduate students currently at­
tending the University would actually be here? 

I realized just how little I know about the man who started it all. rockne is forever immortalized in bronze form outside the tun­nel on the north side of notre dame stadium. realizing Irish coach brian Kelly is one win away from getting his own stat­ue someday, I considered what parallels, if any, exist between the two men. 
It’s unfathomable to think of a seemingly immortal brian Kelly, but is that how he too will be viewed someday if he wins in miami on Jan. 7? Will he be perceived as a man of destiny for notre dame, pulled by unseen forces to south bend to fix the program after the failures of davie, Willingham and Weis? 
I’ve witnessed brian Kelly in action the past three seasons. I’ve seen brian Kelly struggle, fail and, in his third season, lead the Irish to within a game of adding a 12th national cham­pionship banner to the tunnel. I’ve seen brian Kelly alienate the players recruited by the previ­ous regime before ultimately endearing himself to them. I’ve seen him deal with tragedy and heartbreak. Through the highs and the lows, we’ve seen brian Kelly the man. 
I realized I needed to go find Knute rockne the man. 
I started at the end, the site of rockne’s grave at highland cemetery, a few miles west of campus. It’s december in south bend, and while snow had yet to hit the region, it is nonetheless a frigid day. The grass at the ceme­tery is not the luscious green you find during the summertime; it is transitioning to a season in which it will be covered by a snowy blanket. 
rockne’s headstone is unre­markable in that it is no different from any other one at highland cemetery. It reads: “KnUTe K. rocKne,” and lists him not as coach, but as “FATher” above his name. Football is the source of his fame, but not of his iden­tity. In the bottom left corner, his birth year, 1888, is engraved and the year of his death, 1931, in the bottom right corner. some of the corners have been chipped off, probably by notre dame fans looking for a keepsake to cherish the myth. 
but a headstone is hardly a glimpse into a man’s life. needing to quench my desire for more information on who this man was, I headed to notre dame Archives on the sixth floor of hesburgh Library. I discovered rockne wrote guest columns for different publica­tions, including notre dame’s own scholastic magazine. The topics ranged from the virtue of collegiate athletics to football strategy. 
In one of his accounts, when recalling his initial reaction to a friend’s suggestion that he play football at notre dame, rockne said, “Who ever heard of notre dame? They’ve never won a football game in their lives.” 
but of course he ultimately decided to attend notre dame and, looking through the ar­chives, I can’t imagine what the University in 2012 would look like had he chosen another path. 
When perusing through items related to the airplane crash in which rockne died, the most striking visual was a photograph of rockne’s rosary. The black rosary snapped in two places on impact and the bottom of the miniature crucifix is bent. When authorities arrived at the scene of the plane crash, they found him clutching it in his hand. 
What was swirling through rockne’s mind as the plane plunged to the frozen earth be­low? notre dame? his family? his mortality? A prayer? 
rockne boarded the F10 plane in Kansas city at 9:15 a.m. on march 31, 1931. It was an icy day, and the pilot lost control of the plane when ice froze over the left wing in bazaar, Kan., 140 miles southwest of Kansas city. 
Fourteen-year-old easter heathman heard the plane above but could not find it in the cloudy sky. he heard the wood­en plane carrying eight people tumble into the hillside. each one died instantly. 
Later in the 1930s, a memo­rial was constructed at the site in to honor rockne and the seven others who perished at the scene. heathman main­tained the grounds from then through his 2008 death. The University honored him in 2006 for his service with an honorary monogram. 
rockne and his team always returned to a boisterous crowd of thousands at Union station in south bend after prevailing in an important road game. The final time he arrived at Union station, it was in a cas­ket. nonetheless, thousands gathered. This time, it wasn’t in support of Knute rockne the coach. It was in support of Knute rockne the man and the wife and children he predeceased. 
In order to fully find rockne, I needed to drive bazaar, Kan., and see and feel the memorial for myself. how could I expect to 







KEVIN NOONAN | The Observer 

A portion of the F10 plane Rockne died in is displayed at the Chase County Historical Museum in Cottonwood Falls, Kan. The wooden, cloth-winged plane was headed from Kansas City to Los Angeles, where Rockne was scheduled to participate in a film promoting Notre Dame athletics. 
truly understand the man un-cattle inside. death for the myth to be this south bend and met sr. Anthony had limited memories of his less I traveled into his past to the We trek through the bumpy grand and everlasting. Wargel, a 98-year-old Ursuline father to share with nils. location of his untimely death? trail, and after a few minutes we While his name is the only nun, in Louisville. A lifelong As I explain to nils my search 
can see the memorial atop the one remembered of the eight notre dame fan (she paces with for his grandfather, he interrupts hill. who died in the crash, in that her walker while watching the me. Upon sight, we are speech-moment he was just as vulner-Irish play), she remembers the “excuse me, but I have to 
observer colleague Kevin less. nothing but plains stretch able and helpless as the others national impact of rockne’s correct you. You’re saying my noonan and I drove more than beyond the memorial for miles. aboard the flight. When it dove death when she was a 17-year-grandfather’s name wrong. It’s 1,700 miles in three days across engraved on the granite monu-into the hill in the middle of old girl growing up in evansville, ‘Kuh-newt’ rockne, not ‘newt’ the midwest and into the Great ment are eight names. Atop America with nothing around Ind. rockne.” Plains to find Knute rockne. the list it reads, “rocKne them, Knute rockne the man As a woman who has de-It says a lot about how his easter’s son, Tom, now leads memorIAL.” There is a small ceased to exist, but the legend voted her life to religion, Wargel myth has perpetuated that we occasional tours to the site. (“my wiry fence around the monu-found a new beginning. considers rockne’s faith to don’t even pronounce rockne’s dad always said, ‘I’ve taken a lot ment easter constructed years have been his most striking name correctly. of people up here, and not one of ago to protect it from the cattle. characteristic. The only vivid memory Jack them was a dud.’”) even today you’ll find bits “he was so inspired that the passed down to nils was playing 
It’s saturday afternoon, and of glass from the plane sitting on the trip back to south boys would always make it to on a miami beach in march of we park at a one-room school-atop the soil. It was a cloudy day bend, we stop near Kansas city sunday mass, regardless of 1931: Knute the father enjoying house in bazaar to meet him. when we were there, but Tom to meet Kay sizelove. her father, when or where they played, that a respite from football season 
he arrives in a black pickup said when the sun shines or the Paul Kennedy, ran track for he converted to catholicism,” with bonnie and their sons, truck and tells us we should rain pours down, you can see rockne from during the early Wargel said. “That tells you oblivious to the impending trag­all ride together, “because the the hill shine from miles away. 1920s. he was the team cap-about a place like notre dame.” edy that would shake a family rental car won’t make it on this Perched atop the hill, the tain and an accomplished mile rockne converted to and a university and consume terrain.” world comes to a halt. I picked runner. catholicism in 1925 (in fact, he the nation. 
We hop in the truck and Tom up a couple small shards of on one occasion, when the was baptized on campus in st. There, in miami, Knute drives toward the site. Kansas glass, and was immediately team was aboard a train to edward’s hall), and just six years rockne the man existed for is experiencing a pretty rough humbled as I realized I was han-south bend after a meet, rockne later, as a 43-year-old man, he what would only be a few more drought, so the ground is dry dling one of the last remaining pulled Kennedy aside. he asked died clutching a rosary. days. The man would soon be and the grass yellow. In order to physical connections to Knute him to join him in a different he wasn’t just a football replaced by myth and legend in reach the memorial, he opens rockne, the man. compartment. Kennedy was coach. he was a God-fearing an obscure Kansas field. two gates that are locked with a suddenly, it all makes sense. worried he had done something man who worried about what to There, in miami, brian Kelly combination to keep horses and rockne needed to die a heroic wrong and wondered why the get his wife for their anniversary will descend on Jan. 7 to try and 
coach singled him out. and where to spend time with secure his position among notre 
When they reached the adja-his children. dame immortals with rockne, cent room, they sat down and That’s Knute rockne the man. Leahy, Parseghan, devine and rockne looked into Kennedy’s As the days pass by, that image holtz. eyes. fades from our consciousness There, in miami, the birth of 
“I need your help, Paul,” he and the mythic figure builds. the brian Kelly myth can take said. “my wife and my anniver-even his grandchildren don’t place. If he wins, his story will sary is coming up soon. I don’t know who Knute rockne the span generations to come. If he know what to get her. man was. Pretty soon all we will wins, when the man is gone, 
“What should I get her, Paul?” have are legends and tales. only the myth will remain. 
even when rockne was in his element, among his athletic Contact Andrew Owens at squads, he could not help but aowens2@nd.edu think of his wife. When I return to south bend, The views expressed in this 
I call Knute’s grandson, nils column are those of the author rockne, who resides in san and not necessarily those of The KEVIN NOONAN | The Observer Antonio. his father, Jack, was 5 Observer. 

The Chase County Historical Museum has an exhibit dedicated to After meeting with Kay, we years old when Knute was killed Sports writer Kevin Noonan Knute Rockne’s life and includes parts of the plane Rockne died in. took an indirect route back to in the plane crash, so even he contributed to this report. 



Alabama fans harbor hatred for Irish 

By MATTHEW DeFRANKS 
Associate sports editor 
Paul Finebaum hosts a wild­ly popular radio show in the south, has his own radio net­work and has been called “The voice of the sec.” but Finebaum has something most sec fans 
do not   — an affinity for notre  
dame.  
“I’ll  say  this  quietly  but  

I’ve always been a big fan of notre dame,” Finebaum said. “Growing up, notre dame was always the school.” 
As no. 1 notre dame prepares to face no. 2 Alabama in the bcs national championship Game in miami on Jan. 7, southern fans are ratcheting up the dis­dain for notre dame, even though the two schools have not played since 1987. 
“Alabama fans are still upset about 1966 when notre dame stole a national championship from them and they’re still talk­ing about 1973,” Finebaum said. “There’s not a lot of love here among the fan base for notre dame.” 
In 1966, former Irish coach Ara Parseghian went for the tie against no. 2 michigan state in the second-to-last game of the season instead of the win. The tie gave notre dame the nation­al title, and in doing so, took it away from Alabama. 
The Irish hold a 5-1 all-time edge over the crimson Tide, including wins in the 1973 sugar bowl and the 1974 orange bowl. The two schools combine to claim 25 national championships. 
marquavius burnett, sports editor at The crimson White, the student newspaper at Alabama, said the history of two of college football’s most storied programs adds to the game. 
“You got bear bryant, you got Knute rockne,” burnett said. “All the history behind this matchup was notre dame lead­ing the series 5-1. I think a lot of Alabama fans who do remem­ber those times want this one really bad.” 
burnett said many of Alabama’s students are not tak­ing notre dame very seriously. 
“A lot of the students are looking at this like it’s going to be one of the easiest national championships Alabama has ever gotten and I just don’t think that’s true,” burnett said. 
“A lot of students see it as ‘Well, if we can get past LsU, if we can get past Georgia.’ And then you see the vegas lines that had been saying every top-10 sec team would be a favorite against notre dame and our students see that and kind of disrespect notre dame a little bit.” 
most of, if not all, students at both notre dame and Alabama have never witnessed notre dame as a perennial national power. The Irish have not won a national championship since 1988 and, prior to this season, had not been ranked no. 1 since 1993. 
“It hasn’t been since Lou holtz, before you and I were born, back in the 80s when notre dame was truly a national power,” burnett said. “I’m not talking about win­ning some games and being in the [national championship] conversation. I’m talking about truly one of the dominant pro­grams in college football. It’s been a really long time. At least not in my lifetime. down south, I think people just feel like notre dame isn’t worthy of a national championship.” 
Finebaum also said notre dame’s recent history has led to its current reputation as a school that sits on a pedestal and is annually overrated. 
“People down here, I don’t think they know what to make out of notre dame. I think some of it is embedded in them from the past,” Finebaum said. 
recently, it has been the crimson Tide and coach nick saban who have built a dynasty, winning two of the last three championships while vying for another one this year. 
“In some respects, Alabama has replaced notre dame as that school in college football every­one’s trying to beat,” Finebaum said. 
Alabama has not only become the standard nationally, but also in the cutthroat sec, which has produced the last six national champions. Fans in the south have tried to relate notre dame to an sec school. 
“I still think Alabama fans look at notre dame and go ‘Well, how would they do in the sec? could they have survived the gauntlet of LsU and [Texas] A&m or Georgia?’” Finebaum said. 
The fact that notre dame does not belong to a conference 
— and does not have to play a conference championship game — is also a sticking point for Alabama fans, burnett said. 
“I still believe the perception in the south is that notre dame gets to play 12 regular sea­son games, yes, but they don’t have a conference so they don’t have that 13th game where an Alabama goes to play a hard-fought game against Georgia that takes a lot out of a team,” he said. “but notre dame gets to go 12-0 and they’re in the na­tional championship regardless whether they win a conference or not. 
“That’s not notre dame’s fault, they have a sweet deal, television-wise. everybody wants them to be included but at the same time, down south, people think that notre dame hasn’t really been challenged to the level of an Alabama or some of these other teams that week-in and week-out have to go through the sec conference.” 
Although the Irish do not be­long to the sec, they have used an sec plan to construct a team based on tough defense, a strong 


running game and a game man- Tide faithful.  
ager quarterback.  “sometimes you have to un­ 
“I think they’re built just like  derstand  that  if  you’ve  never  
an  sec  team,”  burnett said.  been outside the south, notre  
“The only question I have is do  dame is just something you  
they have that elite sec speed  grew  up  hating.  And  quite  
that sets teams apart like Florida  frankly, a lot of Alabama fans,  
or LsU?”  because of the past, grew up  
Finebaum  said,  despite  hating notre dame.”  
Alabama  and  notre  dame’s  
similarities, hating the Irish is  Contact Matthew DeFranks at  
just engrained in the crimson  mdefrank@nd.edu  








Observer File Photo Observer File Photo 
Former Irish coach Ara Parseghian lifts the Sugar Bowl trophy after Notre Dame’s 24-23 Former Irish coach Dan Devine patrols the sideline in 1977. Devine and the Irish won win over Alabama in 1973. The win gave Notre Dame the national title. the national title that year and Devine finished his career at Notre Dame 53-16-1. 
PAId AdverTIsemenT 





WAKING THE ECHOES | LoU hoLTZ 
Holtz retells story of ’88 title team 

By MATTHEW DeFRANKS 
Associate sports editor 
Lou holtz had an undefeated Irish team that had already beat michigan, miami and Usc, so the preparations for the 1989 Fiesta bowl were simple — rest the seniors, take pictures and practice celebrations. 
holtz, the former Irish coach whose 1988 team finished 12-0 and as consensus national champions, took to a few un­orthodox measures to prepare notre dame for a showdown with undefeated West virginia, including not practicing the se­niors for three weekends dur­ing the long layoff before the bowl game. 
“We felt this, we could not maintain the same momentum we had so we had to treat that like a one-game season,” holtz said in a phone interview with The observer. “I loved their preparation because the first three weekends, I didn’t prac­tice the seniors.” 
notre dame’s seniors entered their final season under the Golden dome with an unin­spiring 18-16 record but came to life in holtz’s third season, carrying the team with them. but, before and after the Fiesta bowl, it would be the under­classmen carrying the seniors 
— literally. 
“I assigned each underclass­man a senior to carry off the field after we won,” holtz said. “We worked on carrying the se­niors off the field after we won. I just wanted to be in a good mental state that we were going to win this game and there was no doubt. 
“We practiced that. This is what we’re going to do when we win and this is how we’re going to handle it: carry the seniors off the field. They’re the ones that provided the leadership for us. That also sent a mes­sage to the players that we were confident.” 
The current esPn college football analyst also said the day before the bowl game, the Irish spent the day taking pic­tures with each other in the stadium. 
holtz and the notre dame coaching staff kept the Irish on a tight schedule during the extended 37-day break. After scrimmaging on dec. 22, they reviewed the tape the morn­ing of dec. 23 before sending the players home for christmas that afternoon. The team reas­sembled in Tempe, Ariz., on christmas night after the Irish spent the morning with their families. 
“Then we had our game plan and all we had to do was perfect it,” holtz said. “We didn’t have to teach anything, just per­fect it, keep them sharp, work on fundamentals. When game time came, it was a one-game season. We were ready.” 
The Irish had already navi­gated a tough schedule that featured defending national champion and powerhouse miami and rivals michigan and Usc. All three teams were ranked in the top 10. 
but it was after a 30-20 win over a mediocre Pittsburgh squad that holtz realized he had a special team on his hands. 
“Just the way they competed, they were on the road in a dif­ficult situation,” holtz said. “They knew something about winning and competing and they hung in there together.” 
The following week, notre dame had to face miami, per­haps the most hated team not only in south bend but also the country. holtz enlisted the ser­vices, and advice, of michigan coach bo schembechler, whose Wolverines had already fallen to both notre dame and miami. 
“I had called bo prior to the miami game and I said, ‘bo, how good is miami?’ and he said, ‘They’re awfully good,’” holtz said. “I said, ‘do we have a chance to beat them?’ and he said, ‘Yeah, you’re going to have to play a good game but yeah, you can beat them.’ 
“After the Pittsburgh game, the confidence of talking to bo, I felt we really had a chance to do something special. We played such a difficult schedule, every week it was just another battle and we had to find a way to get through it.” 
so when notre dame had to face yet another undefeated team in the Fiesta bowl, the Irish felt no additional pressure. 
“You always have pressure,” holtz said. “We were there on a mission. It’s easier to keep them focused when you’re playing for a national championship than if you’re just playing in a bowl game.” 
notre dame jumped out 
“There is no tomorrow, there is no looking at film, practicing, no more, it’s over. It’s done. It just felt like a burden off your shoulders.” 
Lou Holtz 
former Irish coach 
to an early 16-0 lead on the mountaineers and never looked back despite a late West virginia rally, cruising to a 34­21 win and the school’s first national championship in 11 seasons. 
Just as he wanted the seniors to be carried off, holtz himself was lifted in the air after the win. 
“The first thing you’re worried about is them dropping you,” holtz said. “You don’t know if they have a good hold of you.” 
holtz said the emotions af­ter the game were tough to describe. 
“You don’t realize the im­pact that winning the national championship at notre dame,” he said. “You never rely on yourself to say ‘This is what it’s going to be like’ or ‘This is how I’m going to feel.’ You’re just constantly prepared.” 
That impact finally hit holtz in a locker room overflow­ing with exuberant players, trustees and other University administrators. 
“There is no tomorrow, there is no looking at film, practicing, no more, it’s over. It’s done,” holtz said. “It just felt like a bur­den off your shoulders.” 
but still 24 years later, it feels as if that burden has been placed back on notre dame’s shoulders as they prepare to face no. 2 Alabama in the bcs national championship Game in miami on Jan. 7. 
holtz said he never envi­sioned the Irish would go that far between national title game appearances but said it is good for college football when they do. 
“I’ll tell you this, it’s great for college football when notre dame is on top,” he said. 
“I’ve been going up to esPn for eight years and have to eat in restaurants and there are about five or six restaurants I rotate. I think eight years, no one’s ever said a word to me. All of a sudden, I’ve got waitresses, the same waitresses that hav­ing been waiting on me for eight years, saying ‘boy, what a great year for notre dame. do you think they can win?’ They don’t know anything about football. That’s because of notre dame.” 
Contact Matthew DeFranks at mdefrank@nd.edu 









1988 NATIONAL CHAMPIONS 

Observer File Photos 

In 1988, the Irish navigated a schedule that featured four top-10 opponents to finish 12-0 and win the school’s first national title since 1977. Quarterback Tony Rice, top right, led Notre Dame with 1,389 passing yards and 775 rushing yards. The Irish defense gave up only 13 points per game and held four opponents to less than 10 points. 



