The IndependenT newspaper serVIng 
Notre Dame 22, noTre dame and USC 13 saInT mary’s 


Volume 46, Issue 59 | TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 27, 2012 | ndsmcobserVer.com 




ndsmcobserver.com 
p.o. box 779, notre dame, In 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, In 46556 
editor-in-Chief 
allan Joseph 
managing editor  Business manager 
megan doyle  Jeff liptak 
asst. managing editor: andrew owens 
asst. managing editor: sam stryker News editor: John cameron News editor: Kristen durbin 
Viewpoint editor: meghan Thomassen Sports editor: chris allen Scene editor: Kevin noonan Saint mary’s editor: Jillian barwick Photo editor: suzanna pratt Graphics editor: brandon Keelean multimedia editor: sarah o’connor advertising manager: monica mccormack ad Design manager: sara hilstrom Controller: peter woo Systems administrator: william heineman 
office manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 
advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 
editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ajoseph2@nd.edu 
managing editor 
(574) 631-4542 mdoyle11@nd.edu 
assistant managing editors 
(574) 631-4541 aowens2@nd.edu sstryke1@nd.edu 
Business office 
(574) 631-5313 
News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 
Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 observer.scene.editor@gmail.com 
Saint mary’s Desk 
jbarwi01@saintmarys.edu 
Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 
Systems & Web administrators 
(574) 631-8839 
Policies 
The observer is the independent, daily newspaper 
published in print and online by the students of the 
university of notre dame du lac and saint mary’s 
college.  editorial content, including advertisements, is 
not governed by policies of the administration of either 
institution. The observer reserves the right to refuse 
advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively 
as possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion 
of the majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, 
assistant managing editors and department editors. 
commentaries, letters and columns present the views of 
the authors and not necessarily those of The observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include 
contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed 
to Editor-in-Chief Allan Joseph. 
post office Information The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The observer is published at: 024 south dining hall notre dame, In 46556-0779 periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices posTmasTer send address corrections to: The observer p.o. box 779 024 south dining hall notre dame, In 46556-077 The observer is a member of the associated press. all reproduction rights are reserved. 


allan Joseph 
editor-in-chief 
los angeles — as the final sec­onds ticked off the clock saturday night, director of athletics Jack swarbrick made celebratory rounds on the notre dame sideline, embrac­ing sweaty Irish players while wear­ing a sharp grey suit. as he moved from player to player, he wore an ear-to-ear grin, and with good reason: swarbrick’s most prominent employee had never looked like a better hire. 
before the season, swarbrick said Irish coach brian Kelly was on the “coolest seat in america” after two consecutive five-loss campaigns. many fans scoffed at swarbrick’s seeming overconfidence — as much as the program had improved in two years, it also seemed to be in a state of flux. 
chuck martin, a safeties coach for two seasons, had risen the ranks to lead an inconsistent Irish offense. The quarterback position was mad­deningly unsettled, and after moving Theo riddick to receiver right after they arrived, Kelly and martin asked him to move back to running back two years later. The defensive front had lost what seemed to be its best player to south Florida, and the secondary appeared vulnerable at best. 
It didn’t help that the previous season‘s turnover-prone offense fell short of its talented potential — yet after truly ugly wins over far-inferior teams (see: at pittsburgh), Kelly was just happy his team was develop­ing a “winning instinct.” The Irish 



swarbrick and Kelly carrying out a grand vision for notre dame 
struggled mightily at times, but he seemed to forgive all after a win. 
Through it all, Kelly stuck with his quiet confidence. he brushed off con­cerns about his sideline demeanor and player management while insist­ing his program was on track. he deflected questions challenging his decisions with his usual polished ease, but there appeared to be an un­dercurrent to his answers. 
“I’ve got this,” he seemed to want to say. “Just wait and see.” 
Then, of course, came the 2012 

The Irish should be 
competing for BCS bowl 

berths for years to come. 
quarterback controversy. There were tortured baseball references, but it just looked like indecision at the most important position on the field. but the Irish kept winning, and Kelly kept forging ahead with his plan. 
Fast-forward to the end of the sea­son. The notre dame offense has found its stride, led by the two play­ers whose management had seemed most confusing. everett golson plays with aplomb more befitting a third-year starter than a sophomore who had been benched twice, while Theo riddick earns the Irish the toughest yards when they need them most. The Irish defense looks better than it ever had, shutting down explosive offenses like oklahoma and usc and reducing aaron lynch to a mere afterthought. 
and most importantly, the coach who insisted developing a nebulous “winning instinct” mattered above all has shown us what he meant: against purdue, michigan, stanford, byu, oklahoma and in legendary fashion, pittsburgh, his Irish found a way to win time and time again. Twelve times, to be exact. 
now, Kelly has led an admittedly imperfect team to a perfect regular season. his vision has come together in a way only he could have foreseen, and he’s one game away from add­ing a new banner to the notre dame stadium tunnel. 
but Kelly is no gene chizik-style one-hit wonder. perhaps the truly amazing part of this transformation is how much notre dame will improve in the next few years. golson will be­come a feared offensive weapon, the special teams have all the room in the world to improve and the incom­ing recruiting classes herald an era of unprecedented talent on the notre dame sideline. The Irish should be competing for bcs bowl berths for years to come. 
swarbrick’s were not the only eyes smiling saturday night — Irish eyes around the country were smiling too. and they had every right to be: They had all just glimpsed the reason Kelly had been hired in the first place: his vision was grander than anyone could have seen coming. 
Contact Allan Joseph at         ajoseph2@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


ndsmcobserVer.com | TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 27, 2012 | The obserVer 



Undefeated 
Riddick’s rushing, late goal-line stand close out 12-0 regular season with win over USC 
By aNDreW oWeNS 
assistant managing editor 
los angeles — after the fi­nal seconds of a perfect regular season vanished and the Irish celebrated at midfield, brian Kelly put his arm around his daughter and paced toward the tunnel. on his way to the jubilant locker room, he looked toward the notre dame fan contingent on the south side of the los angeles coliseum and lifted his index finger. 
no. 1 notre dame had risen to the task for the 12th time this season, and now a champion­ship berth in miami awaits the undefeated Irish following a 22­13 defeat of archrival usc (7-5). 
“It was as you would’ve ex­pected,” Kelly said of the post-game scene in the locker room. “There was a lot of singing, dancing. It was what you would expect it to be for a team that’s this close and has won so many games in that fashion. It was fun to be in there.” 
with the conquest of the Trojans, the Irish will play the winner of saturday’s sec championship game between no. 2 alabama and no. 3 georgia in atlanta. a win would secure notre dame’s first na­tional championship since 1988, with the current 24-year drought serving as the longest in program history since the Irish won their first in 1924. 
director of athletics Jack swarbrick, who hired Kelly nearly 36 months ago, had one word for the feeling as he cele­brated with players on the field. 
“phenomenal.” 
The Irish held their opponent to fewer than 20 points for the 11th time this season, and the final instance might have been the most impressive, even with usc quarterback matt barkley watching from the sidelines with a shoulder injury. outside of a 53-yard reception by soph­omore marqise lee, the notre dame secondary largely held the receiver and his talented teammate, robert woods, in check. 
“I think notre dame showed me they have phenomenal se­nior leadership,” embattled usc coach lane Kiffin said. “you can see those guys un­derstand the game and they re­ally play well together. They’re really physical and pretty old school — that’s why they have so many close scores — but they don’t screw up. you have to play really well to beat them. They don’t hand you things.” 
leading by nine points with a little more than five minutes re­maining, notre dame’s defense buckled down and held usc out of the end zone with anoth­er iconic goal-line stand. The Irish took over on downs with 
2:33 remaining after a dropped pass by fullback soma Vainuku, a symbol of how the archrivals’ fortunes have changed since last season’s 31-17 usc victory at notre dame stadium. 
“If you followed us at all this year, that was how we play,” Kelly said. “we come up big de­fensively at sometime during the game. we did that again. unbelievable goal-line stand to hold any program, any team … to get inside your two and come up with a great goal-line stand.” 
notre dame’s offense out-gained usc 439 yards to 281 and more than doubled the Trojans’ rushing output. sophomore quarterback everett golson and senior running back Theo riddick fueled the Irish offense, with the former once again showing no nerves on the road and the latter breaking count­less tackles to secure precious yardage and field position. 
golson completed 15 of 26 passes for 217 yards and added another 47 rushing yards as he improved to 10-0 in his first season as a starter. 
“he’s making better decisions with the football,” Kelly said. “I guess the difference is he’s not careless with the football. careless I can’t take. he’s going to make some bad decisions ev­ery once in a while, but he’s not careless with the football. 
“we couldn’t win the game if we were going to control the game [in a conservative] fash­ion. I felt all week that you can’t come in here hoping that usc doesn’t play well. you’ve got to come in here and take it from them. our gameplan was to let [golson] play.” 


golson engineered scor­ing drives on notre dame’s first three possessions, as the Irish jumped out to a 13-7 lead midway through the second quarter. 
as has been the case dur­ing much of the season, notre dame stalled inside the red zone, one of the points Kelly said he needs to address dur­ing the six weeks and two days leading up to the bcs national championship game on Jan. 7. 
“It means there’s things we still need to work on,” said Kelly of an offense that scored just one touchdown in six red-zone appearances. “we’re not a per­fect team. we know that. here’s what we like: we know that’s going to get better as our quar­terback matures.” 
but sophomore kicker Kyle brindza converted five of six attempted field goals, the lon­gest of which he booted from 52 yards out as the first half ex­pired, giving the Irish a 16-10 halftime lead. 
“I know [Kelly] has confidence in me and it’s a great thing to have from a coach, rather than having a coach trying to rip your head off,” brindza said. “he’s a great guy and is able to go up to everyone, even if they made a mistake and be able to talk to them about what you did wrong and what you did right and be able to instill the con­fidence that you’re going to go out there the next time and do the right thing.” 
brindza contributed with a key special teams tackle as well. lee, a heisman candidate, found a seam in the Irish kick­off coverage with the Irish up 22-13 with 5:58 remaining in the game, but it was the notre dame kicker who forced the speedster out of bounds at the Trojan 45. 
“That was one of my night­mares all week,” said brindza on being the last man between lee and the end zone. “It was a nightmare and when lee was running up, I was a deer in the headlights. It was like a night­mare coming back to me, but then I turned it off and I real­ized I had to make the tackle and I was glad I was able to help my team.” 
after the ensuing goal-line stand and the game’s con­clusion minutes later, senior linebacker manti Te’o, who re­corded his seventh interception of the season in the third quar­ter, found his coach in the tun­nel and had a simple message 




PLAYER OF THE GAME 
for him. 
“I said, ‘I love you.’ I love him,” Te’o said. “[our relation­ship] was bumpy at first, but it’s great [now]. I’m happy to be part of this and have him as our coach. he’s the best coach in college football.” 
Te’o said the Irish reached a goal with the 12-0 regular-sea­son finish, but that there’s one remaining chapter in the 2012 book yet to be written. 
“we’ve brought a lot of pride back to notre dame,” he said. “I’m grateful to be a part of it. 
“we’re the best team. we’re no. 1.” 
notre dame will have the opportunity to finish as the best team and win 13 games for the first time in program history at the bcs national championship game on Jan. 7 against either no. 2 alabama or no. 3 georgia. 
Contact andrew owens at aowens2@nd.edu 
THEO RIDDICK 
NOTRE DAME RUNNING BACK 
riddick had a career game and spurred notre dame to an unde­feated season with 179 total yards. The converted wide receiver took 20 carries and fought for each of his 146 yards on the ground. his highlight-reel spin move set up the game’s final score on a cru­cial drive in the fourth quarter. 


REPORT CARD 




QUARTERBACKS 
everett golson continued a remarkable run of play dat­ing back to the win over oklahoma. The sophomore made plays with his arm and legs, and most importantly pro­tected the ball on the road to ensure the win. 
RUNNING BACKS 
It has been a group effort at running back all season, but under the brightest lights senior Theo riddick shined even brighter as notre dame’s offensive star. riddick had 179 total yards and countless highlight-reel moves. 
RECEIVERS 
another solid, if not spectacular, performance by the receivers. robby Toma and Tyler eifert showed remark­able concentration on bobbled balls down the field. eifert  finally had a defensive back knock a pass away from him on a jump ball in the end zone. 
OFFENSIVE LINE 
It was a great effort in run blocking by the offensive line, particularly the stalwarts on the left side — Zack martin and chris watt. Theo riddick had room to run and make people miss thanks to the group’s work. 
DEFENSIVE LINE 
Though the duo of usc backs silas redd and curtis mcneal got loose a few times, the unit had a solid day. louis nix was a force in goal-line situations and Kapron lewis-moore recorded one-and-a-half sacks in his final regular-season effort. 
LINEBACKERS 
manti Te’o returned to the stat sheet in the interception column with his incredible seventh pick on the year. Te’o and fellow inside linebacker carlo calabrese had a solid game tackling the shifty usc running backs and outside linebacker prince shembo recorded half a sack. 
DEFENSIVE BACKS 
he had to interfere with the best receiver in college football — usc sophomore marqise lee — on multiple occasions, but freshman KeiVarae russell had an inter­ception and contained the star lee and robert woods. 
SPECIAL TEAMS 
Kyle brindza had a career day, making five field goals despite a miss at a crucial time. Though the punt re­turn game was again quiet, george atkinson put to­gether a big kick return in the fourth quarter. 
COACHING 
brian Kelly has completed his transformation of the notre dame program from mediocre to elite. If he can win the bcs national championship game, he will become a legend. 
OVERALL GPA: 3.60 
The Irish played in their 12th game as they had in the previous 11 
— as a team. riddick paced the offense, Te’o and russell paced the defense and brindza shined on special teams. Kelly spoke in his first two seasons of a “winning instinct” he hoped to instill. The Irish clearly listened — they are 12-0 and headed to miami. 


PLAY OF THE GAME 
WITTEK’S PASS TO VAINUKU DROPPED ON FOURTH DOWN 
after stuffing three straight runs inside the 2-yard line in a valiant effort, the Irish defense completed yet another memorable goal-line stand as the fourth-down pass in the flat from usc quarterback max wittek to fullback soma Vainuku was bobbled and dropped. 
NOTRE 
DAME 

VS.USC 
BY THE NUMBERS 
Brindza’s big day 
Irish sophomore kicker Kyle brindza had a career day saturday with five made field goals. brindza now has 23 converted field goals on the year — the highest single-season total in notre dame history. brindza passed the mark of 21 set by long-time nFl kicker John carney in 1986 with a 33-yard kick in the third quarter. brindza’s 31 at­tempts on the season are also the most in notre dame history, besting carney’s 28 in 1986. with his 52-yard field goal as time expired in the first half, brindza tied ex-teammate david ruffer for the second-longest field goal in school history. his kick was one yard short of the record of 53 yards set by dave reeve in 1976. 


The Irish have allowed only nine points in the first quarter all season. 


Golson unbeaten as starter 

Irish sophomore quarterback everett golson improved to 10–0 as a starter in saturday’s win over usc. his 10 consecutive victories to start his career are the second-most in notre dame histo­ry, trailing only bob williams’ mark of 11 set from 1949–50. golson attempted 26 passes without throwing an interception against the Trojans. he has not thrown an interception on the road since the season opener against navy in Ireland, span­ning games against michigan state, oklahoma, boston college and usc. 



only three notre dam have scored more tha touchdown against th all season (purdue, b 
ndsmcobserVer.com | TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 27, 2012 | The obserVer 




Riddick leads the way 
on the strength of senior running back Theo riddick’s 146 yards on the ground, notre dame rushed for 222 yards in its regular-season finale, compared to just 95 for the Trojans. notre dame is 43-2 in its last 45 games in which it gains more yards rushing than its opponent, with the only losses in that run coming against michigan and Florida state during the 2011 season. The Irish have now recorded 200 rushing yards or more seven times in 12 games this season. 

me opponents an one offensive he Irish defense yu, pittsburgh). 

By CHrIS aLLeN 
sports editor 


Lucky number 13 

The Irish completed an undefeated regular season saturday, defeating usc 22-13 to improve their record to 12-0. The undefeated run marks the 13th time in the 125 seasons of notre dame football that the Irish have finished the regular season unbeaten and untied. The last time notre dame went undefeated in the regular season was in 1988, posting an 11-0 mark under then-coach lou holtz. The Irish then followed that up with a 34-21 victory over west Virginia in the Fiesta bowl to clinch the national championship. 

Third time’s the charm 

Irish coach brian Kelly can become the latest in a growing list of notre dame coaches to win the national championship in their third season leading the Irish. predecessors Frank leahy, ara parseghian, dan devine and lou holtz all won a national championship in the third year of their respective tenures as coach. The undefeated reg­ular season also continues a personal trend for Kelly, who led cincinnati to a 12-0 season in 2009, his third year as head coach of the bearcats. Kelly was hired at notre dame before cincinnati com­peted in the sugar bowl to close that season. 

Te’o records 100 tackles — again 
senior linebacker and heisman Trophy candi­date manti Te’o upped his season total in tackles to 103 with five against the Trojans. Te’o is the first notre dame player since bob crable during the 1979-81 seasons to record three straight seasons of 100 tackles. Te’o also intercepted Trojan quar­terback max wittek for his seventh interception of the season. The mark is the highest for a Football bowl subdivision (Fbs) linebacker in 13 seasons. Te’o is second in Fbs this season in interceptions, trailing only Fresno state safety phillip Thomas. 

notre dame finishes the regular season with an average of 10.3 points allowed per game, a mark second only to alabama’s 9.3. 
SCORING SUMMARY 

1ST  2ND  3RD  4TH  TOTAL  
0  10  0  3  13  
10  6  3  3  22  






NOTRE DAME 3, USC 0 
Kyle brindza 27-yard field goal 

11:25 remaining 
Drive: 9 plays, 66 yards, 3:35 elapsed 
NOTRE DAME 10, USC 0 
Theo riddick 9-yard run (brindza kick) 

1:48 remaining 
Drive: 12 plays, 87 yards, 6:57 elapsed 
NOTRE DAME 10, USC 7 
robert woods 11-yard pass from max wittek (heidari kick) 

14:55 remaining 
Drive: 6 plays, 75 yards, 1:53 elapsed 
NOTRE DAME 13, USC 7 
Kyle brindza 29-yard field goal 

9:19remaining 
Drive: 13 plays, 67 yards, 5:31 elapsed 
NOTRE DAME 13, USC 10 
andre heidari 39-yard field goal 

3:50remaining 
Drive: 9 plays, 54 yards, 5:24 elapsed 
NOTRE DAME 16, USC 10 
Kyle brindza 52-yard field goal 

0:00remaining 
Drive: 9 plays, 48 yards, 1:25 elapsed 
NOTRE DAME 19, USC 10 
Kyle brindza 33-yard field goal 

0:31remaining 
Drive: 9 plays, 70 yards, 5:24 elapsed 
NOTRE DAME 19, USC 13 
andre heidari 21-yard field goal 

9:20remaining 
Drive: 13 plays, 80 yards, 6:05 elapsed 
NOTRE DAME 22, USC 13 
Kyle brindza 19-yard field goal 

5:58remaining 
Drive: 8 plays, 54 yards, 3:13 elapsed 
STATISTICS 

RUSHING YARDS 
95 
222 

PASSING YARDS 
186 
217 


Time of Possession 
Time of Possession 
25:22 34:38 
PASSING 
RUSHING 

Redd 12-77 Riddick 20-146 McNeal 9-38 Golson 9-47 Lee 1-(-1) Wood 8-20 
RECEIVING 
Woods 7-92 Eifert 4-69 Lee 5-75 Jones 3-40 
TACKLES 

Pullard 13 Farley 9 Dawson 10 Jackson 6 McDonald 10 Motta 5 Starling 8 Te’o 5 Williams 8 Shembo 5 



The obserVer | TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 27, 2012 | ndsmcobserVer.com 
Defense records another goal-line stand 
By aLLaN JoSePH 
editor-in-chief 
los angeles — yet again, the game was on the line. yet again, the opponents were at the goal line. yet again, the Irish were de­fending a perfect season. and yet again, the notre dame defense came through. 
“This was another clear indica­tion of how we got to 12-0,” Irish coach brian Kelly said. “our guys have an incredible resolve regard­less of the circumstances of com­ing up and finding ways to win. That’s all we talk about.” 
no. 1 notre dame (12-0) had entered saturday’s showdown at the los angeles coliseum prepar­ing for a pair of explosive receivers in usc’s marqise lee and robert woods. yet through 54 minutes, the Irish had contained the usc passing attack, holding redshirt freshman quarterback max wittek to just 124 yards on 12-of­18 passing with two interceptions. 
but facing a 22-13 deficit with 
5:50 left at their own 45-yard line, the Trojans (7-5) came to life. wittek found lee down the left side of the field for a 53-yard com­pletion to the 2-yard line, bringing the flow of usc fans leaving the stands to a loud and immediate halt. 
with its back in the shadow of a flaming olympic torch on the sta­dium’s east end, the notre dame defense dug in and refused to yield a game-changing touchdown. 
“To be honest with you, with us, as long as you put the ball down and there’s time on the clock, we’re going to battle,” graduate student defensive end Kapron lewis­moore said. “we played hard, we got some pressure and we had 11 guys on the field believe.” 
The Trojans immediately backed up five yards on a false-start penalty before running back curtis mcneal pushed usc to the 4-yard line on first down. 
on second down, wittek lofted a pass toward lee in the corner of the end zone, but freshman cor­nerback KeiVarae russell com­mitted pass interference and gave the sophomore receiver no chance at catching the ball — and then did the same thing on the same play call on the very next snap. 
The penalties brought the Trojans to first and goal from the 1-yard line with 4:07 to go. with just three feet separating the Trojans from a two-point game, the situation was reminiscent of notre dame’s overtime win over stanford six weeks ago — and the Irish defense knew it. 
“It gives you confidence that we have done it before, that it can be achieved, that it’s possible,” lewis-moore said. “yeah, we’ve been here before, so that should give us a little more energy. we’ve done this before, so what’s the dif­ference between then and now?” 
There wasn’t much of one, as it turned out. wittek plunged for­ward twice in an attempt to get the yards himself, but the notre dame defensive line held firm, anchored by junior nose tackle louis nix. 
“he’s a hell of a player,” lewis­moore said. “he’s a big guy and he’s really active in the backfield.” 
with precious seconds bleeding off the clock after two consecutive failed rushing plays, usc coach lane Kiffin burned a timeout — and came out of it with a running play for mcneal. Irish safeties matthias Farley and Zeke motta crashed in from the edges and nix blew through blockers in the middle to stuff mcneal yet again, bringing up 4th-and-goal. 
“whenever the ball is that close to the goal-line, we have to tighten up and that’s what we did,” senior linebacker manti Te’o said. 
on fourth down, wittek found soma Vainuku, but the fullback couldn’t hold on to the low pass and the ball bounced to the ground, giving the Irish another goal-line stand in a season full of memorable moments. 
“we did it,” lewis-moore said. 
“we did it. It’s crazy, you know? no. 1 and keeping that no. 1 and being 12-0 and playing for a na­tional championship, it’s some­thing spectacular. 
“It’s awesome. you just put the ball down and if there’s time on the clock we’re going to battle. we’re not going to give up. This team and this defense, we’ve got a lot of character. we’ve got a lot of guys that play hard, and they play with heart. as long as you put the ball down and they’re not in the end zone we’re going to fight.” 

Contact allan Joseph at ajoseph2@nd.edu 

riddick earns tough yards to lead offense 
with flawless pass blocking through the line and looked and caught three passes — in-sure to drop him for a loss. cluding a crucial third-down riddick quickly spun away conversion along the notre from the pursuing defend-dame sideline. ers and broke through a hole, 
but it was his bruising rush-driving through cornerback ing performance that earned nickell robey downfield for his coach’s accolades. many a 15-yard gain into the red of riddick’s 146 yards on the zone. The run set up a chip-ground came after contact. shot field goal for sopho­
“you just look at his jersey more kicker Kyle brindza that after the game and you go, proved to be the game’s final ‘There’s no wonder why this score. team has the toughness that “my will is the same it does,’” Kelly said. throughout every game. I 
Though the 5-foot-11, mean I never try to go down 200-pound back has gained easy,” riddick said. “I keep on a reputation for playing like fighting. I was lucky to get out a much larger back due to his of some tackles today.” bruising style, riddick said on a night notre dame fans his ability to run after contact will not soon forget, riddick is just his natural instinct. completed his season-long re­
“I was just running hard. turn from receiver to running That’s what I’m supposed back by taking 20 handoffs to do,” he said of his perfor-and running right into notre mance. “The offensive line dame lore. For riddick, it was did a great job today. I was the final regular-season game able to explore holes and of a career played at multiple make people miss. positions with his teammates 
“It was just great to see all in mind. the linemen doing their jobs “what can I say? I play back over the last three sea-receiver for me the first two up front, and moving those for my teammates. during 
By CHrIS aLLeN 
sports editor sons, turned in the best game years, we asked him to move big guys to make great holes those transitions, I didn’t re-of his career as the Irish de-back to running back, and for us. like I said, my hat goes ally have a problem with it,” 
los angeles — with one feated usc 22-13. The senior in game 12 he manages 140 off to my offensive linemen. riddick said. “coach Kelly win left to clinch a national rushed for 146 yards — a ca-yards, but broke countless without them, there’s no me.” wanted me to play wide re-championship berth and fac-reer high — and added 33 re-tackles and got us the tough riddick produced the of-ceiver, I played it. getting ing a hostile road environ-ceiving yards while breaking yards that we needed today.” fensive highlight of the game back in the backfield, I did ment against its biggest rival, countless tackles throughout riddick’s versatility as a for notre dame as the Irish that too. I do it for my team­notre dame rode the legs of the game. running back was on display clung to a 19-13 lead with mates … I’m a team guy. I have senior running back Theo “If you want to know about all over the field through-7:47 left on 1st-and-10 from been my whole career. I’ll do riddick to the bcs national the Fighting Irish, you just out the Irish victory. The the usc 26-yard line. riddick anything for my teammates.” championship game. need to look at Theo riddick,” senior from manville, n.J., took a handoff as usc defen­
riddick, who has bounced Irish coach brian Kelly said. kept sophomore quarterback sive lineman morgan breslin Contact Chris allen at between receiver and running “here’s a guy that was a wide everett golson from pressure and safety Josh shaw broke callen10@nd.edu 


ndsmcobserVer.com | TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 27, 2012 | The obserVer 




THE ROAD TO 12–0 

NOTRE DAME 50, NAVY 10 NOTRE DAME 20, PURDUE 17 


NOTRE DAME 20, MICHIGAN STATE 3 NOTRE DAME 13, MICHIGAN 6 


NOTRE DAME 41, MIAMI 3 NOTRE DAME 20, STANFORD 13 (OT) 


NOTRE DAME 17, BYU 14 NOTRE DAME 30, OKLAHOMA 13 


NOTRE DAME 29, PITTSBURGH 26 (3OT) NOTRE DAME 21, BOSTON COLLEGE 6 


NOTRE DAME 38, WAKE FOREST 0 NOTRE DAME 22, USC 13 

The obserVer | TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 27, 2012 | ndsmcobserVer.com 



NEXT STOP: 

MIAMI 
The Irish completed a regular season for the ages under the lights in Los Angeles, defeating USC 22-13 to go 12-0. Senior running back Theo Riddick ran for a career-high 146 yards on 20 carries and senior linebacker Manti Te’o intercepted his seventh pass of the season. Notre Dame is likely to play either Alabama or Georgia in the BCS National Championship Game on Jan. 7. 








