
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


Week celebrates Holy Cross 
Panel discusses influence of Congregation on Notre Dame community 

By KRISTEN DURBIN 
News Editor 
In celebration of Holy Cross Week, four prominent members of the Notre Dame community reflected on the unique spirit of the Congregation of Holy Cross and its impact on their personal experiences at the University in a panel discussion Monday. 
“Partners in Mission: Work­ing Side-by-Side with the Con­gregation,” moderated by Uni­versity President Emeritus Fr. Edward Malloy and hosted in Geddes Hall, demonstrated the wide-ranging influence of Holy Cross on the Notre Dame com­munity through the personal reflections of the three diverse panelists. 



Lectures honor archbishop 
By TORI ROECK 
News Writer 

Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s will mark the 32nd an­niversary of the assassination of Oscar Romero this week with Romero Days, a series of lectures and events honoring the Salvadorian archbishop’s advocacy for the poor.  
Fr. Bob Pelton of the Kel­logg Institute for International Studies said he hopes Romero Days will inspire students to carry on Romero’s legacy. 
“I would hope that [Rome­ro’s] example would help oth­ers to follow the example with their own attitudes, through the types of service they do and through relating their studies to a larger, stron­ger social commitment,” Pelton said. 
As Archbishop of San Salva­dor, Romero stood up for the poor and marginalized in his home country of El Salvador and was assassinated while saying Mass in 1980, Pelton said. He was also nominated for sainthood. 
“Archbishop Romero was extraordinarily devoted to the peasants of his country,” Pel­ton said. “He gave his life out of love for them and for our 

Campus Ministry to welcome new director 
By ANN MARIE JAKUBOWSKI 
News Writer 
Fr. James King, C.S.C., re­ligious superior of Holy Cross priests and brothers at Notre Dame, will begin his term as director of the Office of Campus Ministry on April 2. 
Appoint ­ed by Fr. Tom Doyle, C.S.C., vice president of student af­fairs, King will replace Interim Director Fr. Joseph Car­ey, C.S.C., who has served in the position since July 2010. 
King said he is a three-time Notre Dame graduate, having earned an undergraduate de­gree, a Masters of Divinity and a Masters of Nonprofit Adminis­tration from the University. Af­ter graduation, he said he chose to stay and serve the Notre Dame community. 
“I’ve spent 21 years living in residence halls after graduat-ing since entering [the Con­gregation of] Holy Cross,” King said. “I was the rector at Sorin College from 2003 to 2010 and vocation director for Holy Cross from 1997 to 2005. I’ve taught business ethics, first year semi­nars, and pastoral practice and ethics for the [Masters of Divin­ity] program.” 

Doyle said King’s “strong vi­sion and broad worldview” will serve him well as director of Campus Ministry. 
“The University community is lucky to have the pastoral leadership of Fr. Jim King,” he said. “As an administrator, Fr. Jim has served and earned the respect of his fellow priests and brothers on campus.” 
Carey said the director’s du­ties include organizing campus-wide events and supervising Campus Ministry and the Ba­silica of the Sacred Heart. 
“It’s the director’s responsi­bility to respond to the needs of the Notre Dame community, sacramental preparation, re­treats, faith sharing, and over­seeing all that goes on in the 

see DIRECTOR/page 5 
“In reflecting on what they’ve seen as partners in mission with Holy Cross, our colleagues tell us who we are and remind us who we are called to be,” Vice President of Student Affairs Fr. Tom Doyle said in his introduc­tion of the panel. 
Malloy said individual mem 


see PANEL/page 5 
Committee raises funds to support Relay for Life 
By MEGHAN THOMASSEN 
Viewpoint Editor 
Students will see purple this week as the campus fundraises for the American Cancer Society’s Relay for Life, scheduled for April 27 and 28 at Notre Dame Stadium. 
As part of Purple Week, purple hair extensions will be sold for $10 at the Coleman-Morse Center on Wednesday from 10 a.m. to 2 
p.m. Students are encouraged to wear purple Thursday to show support for those battling cancer, survivors, their families and those who have been lost to the disease. 
Senior Ali Vos, student chair for the Relay for Life committee, said the dining halls will serve purple food Thursday in honor of Purple Week. 
“[The dining hall staff] have so much fun making the food purple for us,” she said. “There will be a lot of purple, like purple mashed pota­toes and purple icing on desserts.” 
Vos said faculty members will take part in the color overhaul by decorating their offices with pur­ple crepe paper and participating in the relay itself. 
“[Participation is] well split be­tween students, staff and faculty, pretty much whoever is on cam­pus,” she said. 
Teams of students, faculty and staff will occupy the stadium overnight as they walk to support the fight against cancer, Vos said. This will be the eighth year Relay for Life occurs at Notre Dame and the third year it takes place in the Stadium. 
Vos said more than 1,200 people registered for the event in 2011. She said each team typically has at least one member walking around the Stadium through the night. 
“It’s really fun,” Vos said. “You gather in the stadium for the gath­ering ceremony and walk around the Stadium all night.” 
Vos said Fr. Paul Doyle, C.S.C., assistant rector of the Basilica of the Sacred Heart, will speak and the Notre Dame Marching Band will perform at this year’s opening ceremony. 
“There’s also a Luminaria Cer­emony to remember those who have been lost and honor those who are still fighting,” she said. 
see PURPLE/page 5 

Lord.” 
Pelton said Romero Days be­gins today at 4:15 p.m. in the Hesburgh Center for Interna­tional Studies with a workshop on teaching students about Romero’s social justice. The event will feature professor of theology Margaret Pfeil and educational specialist Michael Amodei. 
The workshop will precede a 7 p.m. screening of the film “Monseñor: The Last Journeyof Óscar Romero,” a documen­tary which Pelton said follows the last three years of Rome­ro’s life. 
Pelton said the Kellogg In­stitute chose to sponsor the workshop because it is impor­tant for educators to pass on Romero’s legacy to the next generation. 
“We want to understand bet­ter the social teaching that was embodied both in the instruc­tions and in the life of the ex­ample of Romero himself,” he said. 
Kevin Dowling, bishop of Rustenburg, South Africa, will preside over a commemorative Mass on Wednesday in the 
see ROMERO/page 5 

INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER Expert discusses pediatrics page 3 u Viewpoint page 6 u Twilight vs. Hunger Games page 8 u Women’s basketball to face Maryland page 16 
page 2 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u DAY-TO-DAY Tuesday, March 27, 2012 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT IS YOUR FAVORITE BEVERAGE FROM THE HUDDLE? 

www.ndsmcobserver.com P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 Editor-in-Chief Allan Joseph Managing Editor Business Manager Megan Doyle Jeff Liptak Asst. Managing Editor: Andrew Owens Asst. Managing Editor: Sam Stryker News Editor: Kristen Durbin Viewpoint Editor: Meghan Thomassen Sports Editor: Chris Allen Scene Editor: Kevin Noonan Saint Mary’s Editor: Jillian Barwick Photo Editor: Suzanna Pratt Graphics Editor: Brandon Keelean Advertising Manager: Katherine Lukas Ad Design Manager: Amanda Jonovski Controller: Jason Taulman Systems Administrator: William Heineman Office Manager & General Info (574) 631-7471 Fax (574) 631-6927 Advertising (574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu Editor-in-Chief (574) 631-4542 ajoseph2@nd.edu Managing Editor (574) 631-4542 mdoyle11@nd.edu Assistant Managing Editors (574) 631-4541 aowens2@nd.edu, sstryke1@nd.edu Business Office (574) 631-5313 News Desk (574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com Viewpoint Desk (574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com Sports Desk (574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com Scene Desk (574) 631-4540 knoonan2@nd.edu Saint Mary’s Desk jbarwi01@saintmarys.edu Photo Desk (574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com Systems & Web Administrators (574) 631-8839 Policies The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College.  Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Allan Joseph. Post Office Information The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 and additional mailing offices 024 South Dining hall Notre Dame, IN 46556-077 The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved.  
TODAY’S STAFF News Sports Marisa Iati Sam Gans Christian Myers Conor Kelly Adam Llorens Peter Steiner Graphics Scene Lauren Kalinoski Maija Gustin Photo Viewpoint Mackenzie Sain Ren Brauweiler  
CORRECTIONS The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so we can correct our error.  
HIGH 64 LOW 55 



Heather Boldt  Adam Barsella  Chinelo Onyeador  Mike Davis  Phillip Bauman  Kevin Callaghan  
freshman  senior  sophomore  freshman  senior  freshman  
Ryan  Off-Campus  Lewis  Dillon  Fisher  Keenan  
“Tao bubble tea.”  “Three parts  “Kiwi­ “Peace Tea.”  “Any Monster  “Arnold Palmer.”  
crummy  Strawberry  energy drink.”  
cookie: one  Snapple.”  
part chocolate  
shake.”  

Have an idea for Question of the Day? Email obsphoto@gmail.com 


OFFBEAT 
Stuttgart spared disruption over suspected bomb 
BERLIN — German au­thorities have scrapped plans to cordon off part of the city of Stuttgart and shut its main station after dis­covering a suspected World War II bomb was actually an old water pipe. 
Officials had announced that the station, a major rail­way hub, would be shut for several hours Sunday while experts defused the bomb, found in a nearby park. 
But city police said ex­perts — on closer exami­nation early Sunday — had determined the object was actually a cast-iron pipe that wasn’t marked on any map. 
That meant authorities no longer needed to evacuate a 355-yard (325-meter) radius around the site or ask local residents to leave. 

Unexploded World War II bombs are still found fre­quently in Germany, some­times leading to large-scale evacuations as a precaution. 
Ohio troopers, boss at odds over short sleeves 
COLUMBUS, Ohio — Ohio state troopers are hot un­der the collar in a dispute over who determines when they can switch from long-sleeved to short-sleeved uni­forms. 
The Columbus Dispatch newspaper reports record-high spring temperatures prompted the troopers’ union to request the change earlier than specified in their contract. 
Patrol superintendent Col. John Born told the union on Thursday the troopers could switch early only if manage­ment gets to make the call in future years. Troopers opted to stick with long sleeves and ties. 
The contract says short-sleeved, open-collared uni­forms can be worn from April 15 to Nov. 1. 
Union president Larry Phillips says when the long-sleeved Ohio State Highway Patrol uniform is worn with a tie and a protective vest, a trooper’s body temperature rises “significantly,” espe­cially in 80-degree weather. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 


IN BRIEF 
J. Christopher Love, the Latham Family Career De­velopment Professor of Chemical Engineering at Massachusetts Institute of Technology, will present a seminar discussing single-cell bioanalytic processes and complex cellular sys­tems today from 3:30 to 
4:30p.m.  in 155 DeBartolo Hall. 
Fr. Larry Snyder, presi­dent of Catholic Charities USA, will meet with in­teresed students to learn about the mission of Cath­olic Charities, getting in­volved in Catholic Chari­ties and professional and entry-level positions today at Giovanini Commons in­side Mendoza College of Business. Pizza will be pro­vided. 
A panel of educational leaders in the South Bend area will stimulate discus­sions about issues that have emerged during the Notre Dame Forum and how to view them from a local per­spective today at McKenna Hall from 5 to 6:30 p.m. The event is free and heavy hors d’oeuvres will be provided. 
Fr. Pete McCormick will preside at a senior class Mass today at 5:15 p.m. at the Basilica of the Sacred Heart. 
Four panelists will dis­cuss the question, “Can We Do Well and Do Good?” today at 7 p.m. in the An­drews Auditorium of Ged­des Hall. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews.nd@gmail.com 



LOCAL WEATHER 

TODAY TONIGHT WEDNESDAY THURSDAY FRIDAY SATURDAY 









HIGH 68 LOW 38 
HIGH 55 LOW 38 
HIGH 53 LOW 45 
HIGH 54 LOW 40 

Tuesday, March 27, 2012 The Observer u NEWS ndsmcobserver.com | page 3 
Local doctor discusses pediatrics 
By JILLIAN BARWICK 
Saint Mary’s Editor 
As part of Saint Mary’s Cross Currents Collegiate Speaker series, Dr. Colleen Morrison spoke Monday about her deci­sion to develop a health care program for underserved chil­dren in South Bend. 
“Many people may think of third world countries as need­ing better health care pro­grams for children,” Morri­son, a 1996 graduate of Saint Mary’s, said. “There are a lot of areas in the United States that are in great need for pediatric programs, as well.” 
Morrison, a pediatric hema­tologist/oncologist at Memorial Children’s Hospital in South Bend, attended medical school at Loyola University Stritch School of Medicine in Illinois after graduating from Saint Mary’s. 
“My parents always knew I would come to Saint Mary’s, even if I did not,” Morrison said. “I really fell in love with biology after taking my re­quired science course. I wasn’t sure what I wanted to do when I graduated, but I knew that I liked science.” 
Board-certified in general pediatrics and pediatric hema­tology/oncology, Morrison com­pleted a fellowship in pediatric hematology/oncology stem cell transplantation at Children’s Memorial Hospital in Chicago. 
“After working in a lab for two years collecting bone mar­row, I realized that I wanted to learn more about the people who were giving the bone mar­row,” Morrison said. “I began assisting with bone marrow procedures for a couple of years.” 

While researching, Morrison said she believed she would eventually work in adult on­cology but liked pediatric he-matology/oncology more as a medical student. 
“I loved pediatrics,” she said. “It just felt right.” 
When Morrison moved back to South Bend a year-and-a­half ago after completing her fellowship, she said she was eager to start a pediatric pro­gram at Memorial. 
“My recruiter ended up leav­ing Memorial right as I was deciding to join the team,” she said. “This was an interesting experience to go through, espe­cially right after finishing my fellowship.” 
Morrison said it is important to develop a children’s health care program at Memorial be­cause there are few other op­portunities for children to re­ceive health care in the South Bend area. 
“Memorial Children’s Hospi­tal in South Bend has 72 beds for children, 15 specialists and 9 specialties,” she said. “The next closest children’s hospital is in Fort Wayne.” 
It is important to develop these health care programs be­cause the number of children who need high quality health care has increased in the South Bend area, Morrison said. 
“The recruitment of young people who are dedicated to changing the culture is greatly needed,” Morrison said. “Re­cruiting experts as well as having people investing in the programs are also needed.” 
Contact Jillian Barwick at jbarwi01@saintmarys.edu 
CAMPUS LIFE COUNCIL 
Group reviews bike shop 
By NICOLE TOCZAUER 
News Writer 
Members of Campus Life Coun­cil (CLC) reviewed a resolution Monday proposing the revival of the Campus Bike Shop. 
The resolution specifies the bike shop would aim to provide a sustainable model for students to access free repair services using salvaged parts from abandoned and damaged bikes. 
John Sanders, residence life director for student government, said the resolution was a re­sponse to the Dec. 31 closure of the bike shop. He said the Design department moved into the space where the shop was previously housed. 
“In some way, shape or form, the idea is to keep [the bike shop] a free service, as well as sus­tainable,” he said. “The Univer­sity loses something by losing the bike shop.” 
The shop, which used un­claimed bike parts collected by Notre Dame Security Police (NDSP), requires approximately $7,000 a year from its budget, Sanders said. The costs cover the price of tools, special-order bike parts and standard wages for student technicians. 
“It’s mostly a matter of space on campus,” Sanders said. “[But] it’s becoming a matter of budget as well now because NDSP has revised their budgeting for the year since [the bike shop closed].” 
Sister Carrine Etheridge, rec­tor of Farley Hall, said a bike auction could generate money for the shop. 
“They used to just auction [bikes] off,” she said. “You would pay a certain amount and then you’d have a tier of bikes you could choose from. That’s one an­swer to any funding problems.” 
Student body president Pat Mc­Cormick said CLC will vote on the resolution next Monday. 
Members of CLC also discussed possible spaces in which to re­open the shop. Sanders said ad­vocates are considering a space behind Stepan Center. 
“There’s the option of using the back restroom of Stepan,” he said. “It’s a disaster, but they’re cleaning it out right now. The problem is how long are we going to have Stepan?” 
McCormick said the resolution could represent student advocacy and make it easier for students to access a bike repair shop. 
“Our concern is many stu­dents, particularly freshmen and sophomores, have no means of going off campus except a taxi,” he said. “The resolution could serve as a way to indicate how we could continue a bike shop that has been a service to stu­dents and staff over the past few years.” 
Sanders said comments and questions can be sent to savethe­bikeshop@gmail.com. 
Contact Nicole Toczauer at ntoczaue@nd.edu 



Tuesday, March 27, 2012 The Observer u NEWS ndsmcobserver.com | page 5 
Director 
continued from page 1 
Basilica,” Carey said. “Also, he takes care of things like the memorial Masses we’ve had for students who have died and the September 11 anniversary Mass this fall. Things just happen, and then he responds to them.” Carey said his experience as interim director was “a joy of his life.” 
“I’ve been at Notre Dame for a long time, and work­ing in Campus Ministry con­firmed what I believe — that the students, faculty, and staff at Notre Dame are among the finest people any of us will ever meet,” Carey said. 
Carey said he is confident King will positively affect Campus Ministry. 
“I hope that through his leadership, he will continue to inspire the wonderful staff of Campus Ministry and contin­ue to make God known, loved and served,” Carey said. 
Doyle expressed similar confidence in King. 
“His gifted mind and gener­ous heart will bless students, faculty and staff at the Uni­versity of Notre Dame,” he said. 
King expressed his excite­ment to begin working as di­rector. 
“Campus Ministry fulfills a vital role in the spiritual and liturgical life of Notre Dame that helps to define it as a place where the Holy Cross charisma of living and work­ing among students is at the core of its mission,” King said. “I am excited and blessed to have the chance to work with such great people dedicated to furthering that mission and growing together in faith.” 
Contact Ann Marie Jakubowksi at ajubow@nd.edu 
Panel 
continued from page 1 
bers of the Holy Cross and Notre Dame communities uniquely embody the mission and spirit of the University. 
“The room I live in in Sorin Hall was previously inhabited by Fr. Paul Fenlon for more than 60 years. He befriended three generations of students and rep­resented the best of what Notre Dame is about,” Malloy said. “My years have been full of individu­als like him … who have their blood in the bricks.” 
Malloy said Fenlon and the rest of the Holy Cross communi­ty have instilled in the University an “intergenerational sense of responsibility.” 
“Even in its earliest days, Notre Dame was a place where Holy Cross religious and lay col­laborators have shared a com­mon sense of responsibility for the institution to our benefit and to the service of Church and so­ciety,” Malloy said. 
John Affleck-Graves, Univer­sity executive vice president, said he has developed a “deep respect” for the Congregation, as well as meaningful friendships, during his 26 years of service as a professor and an administra­tor. 
“It was intimidating at first, but after you get past the ‘men in black’ thing, you realize what special people [Holy Cross reli­gious] are,” he said. “The four people who served in my position ahead of me, [University Presi­dent Emeritus] Fr. Ted [Hes­burgh], Fr. Ned [Joyce], Fr. Bill Beauchamp and Fr. Tim Scully, were wonderful priests and truly exceptional people.” 
Affleck-Graves used his ex­pertise as a finance professor to compare his relationship with University President Fr. John Jenkins with that of a CEO and his employees. 

“The relationship between me and in handling everything that and my boss is different, because followed. We were responsible, he is a priest and a president,” but he did it in a way no other or­Affleck-Graves said. “Most CEOs ganization could have done.” think about next quarter’s earn-Joe Russo, director for student ings, but Fr. John has an insa-financial strategies, said his per­tiable quest for knowledge and sonal philosophy on financial truth and how students can gain aid was a “good match” with the an understanding of that. He’s University’s core values. a reflective person, and it gives “We had to [manage student him an enormous sense of inner financial aid] in a way of being peace.” accountable, disciplined and 
Affleck-Graves said Jenkins’s structured and develop policies “commitment to the core person” and procedures that reflect the gives him a unique perspective responsibility we have with con-on leading Notre Dame, espe-sistency,” he said. cially in relation to its core val-Russo said the principle of ues of accountability, teamwork, leadership in mission provides integrity, and leadership in mis-him with a unique angle on do­sion and excellence. ing the “right thing” in his work. 
“I don’t think you get leader-“Leadership in mission means ship in mission without having a doing what we do in a struc­priest as a university president,” tured, disciplined way, but with Affleck-Graves said. “If you have compassion when appropriate,” 
a priest as pres- he said. “Those  
ident,  it  gives  things  seem  
the  institution  contradictory,  
a much longer- but  they  don’t  
term focus than if you had a lay­person presi­dent, because a priest brings a real sense of  “When I think of the Notre Dame family, [the Congregation] is the sinew that holds it together.”  have to be.” A ss o ci a te Vice President for Residence Life Heather Rakoczy Rus­ 
eternity to the  sell  said  the  
job.”  John Affleck-Graves  “i r resisti ble”  
A f f l e c k-Graves said the adminis- University executive vice president  charism of Holy Cross played a crucial role in  

tration’s first meeting follow­ing the death of student Declan Sullivan last year demonstrated the real importance of having a “priest first and a president sec­ond.” 
“Everyone was shocked, and it was a very painful moment,” he said. “Someone started talk­ing about legal liability, which is something any CEO would have brought up first, and Fr. John re­sponded by saying, ‘We can deal with that tomorrow. Tonight, we pray for Declan and his family.’ How fortunate we were to have a priest as president at that time her religious 
and vocational 
formation over 
the past 23 years, beginning with her first year as a transfer student at Notre Dame, and culminating with her return to campus as a rector, director of the Gender Relations Center and her current position. 
“When I think about the Holy Cross constitution and its call ‘to form communities of the com­ing kingdom,’ I think about the priests, brothers and sisters I’ve met and the roles they’ve played in my life and faith formation,” she said. “I have met professors, 

Romero 
continued from page 1 
Church of Loretto at Saint Mary’s at 4 p.m. Dowling will lecture on Romero’s life in Carroll Auditorium at 7:30 p.m. 
Pelton said Bishop Dowl­ing is a strong supporter of Romero’s teachings on social justice and Church teaching, proving Romero’s influence is ubiquitous. 
“The example of Arch­bishop Romero has spread throughout the world,” Pelton said. “Here we have all the way in South Africa a bishop who follows that example in his service to the very poor.” 
Dowling’s lecture com­memorates not only the 32nd anniversary of Romero’s death, but also a longstand­ing tradition of social justice, Pelton said. 
“The annual Romero Ad­dress [will honor] 40 years of justice education on the part of the Catholic Church and also the 30 years of the Jus­tice Education Center at St. Mary’s College,” he said. 
Pelton said students should emulate Romero’s drive and fortitude to advance causes of social justice. 
“It’s important for us to be willing to see the real needs of our sisters and brothers and to take the effective steps to bring about an improvement of that situation,” he said. 
Contact Tori Roeck at vroeck@nd.edu 
counselors, supervisors, men­tors and friends in Holy Cross.” 
As she studied as a philoso­phy and theology double major at Notre Dame, a master’s in di­vinity at Vanderbilt University in Tennessee and her various posi­tions at the University, Russell said she realized the charism of Holy Cross drives the formation of “communities of the coming kingdom,” especially in terms of the formation of Notre Dame students. 
“With rectors as role models … that charism becomes con­tagious and starts the transfor­mation of communities at Notre Dame,” she said. “When that happens, we who are formed in Holy Cross are let loose on the world to transform it … which is what the Church and God call us to do.” 
Russell said rectors and resi­dence hall staff also play a cru­cial role in extending the sense of the “Notre Dame family” to all its members, especially those who may be marginalized by factors like race, gender, class or religious affiliation. 
“The ‘Notre Dame family’ can be off-putting if someone doesn’t feel they’re a part of it,” she said. “Communities form within the community … but these com­munities are sustained because [Holy Cross religious] living among students can see who is marginalized and call everyone back home.” 
The vital link between genera­tions of the Notre Dame family is the continual presence of Holy Cross at the University, Affleck-Graves said. 
“When I think of the Notre Dame family, [the Congregation] is the sinew that holds it togeth­er,” he said. “It’s a permanent thread that’s always there. It’s why other universities are differ­ent and why Notre Dame would lose everything without it.” 
Contact Kristen Durbin at kdurbin@nd.edu 
Purple 
continued from page 1 

Relay for Life has been successful in the past, Vos said. She said the event raised $160,000 last year and was among the top five fund­raising sectors in the nation. 
“Every year we have more stu­dents come and raise more money than before, and they have a lot of fun,” Vos said. 
This will be Vos’s second year as the student chair for Relay. She said she started planning Relay for Life with a committee, comprised mostly of faculty and staff, at the beginning of the semester. 
“I love the event,” she said. “I think it’s a cool way for the cam­pus to come together as a group and fight for this cause … Unfortu­nately, a lot of people know some­one who has been affected or who had cancer.” 
Vos said besides contributing to a good cause, students have an extra incentive to raise money, as the top fundraiser will receive a free se­mester of books, compliments of the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore. 
“The fee [to participate] is only $10, and you get a T-shirt and ad­mission into the event,” Vos said. 
Relay was originally held in Ste-pan Center but was moved to the Stadium during Vos’s sophomore year, she said. 
“It’s a lot more exciting,” she said. “When else do you get to sleep in the Stadium and watch the sun­set on the concourse?” 
Students can register until the day of the event at relay.org/ndin. 
Contact Meghan Thomassen at mthomass@nd.edu 


page 6 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com Tuesday, March 27, 2012 
INSIDE COLUMN 
What do 1912, ‘97 and 2012 have in common? 
My heart will go on and on. 
Near, far — wherever you are, I believe you’ve all watched “Titanic” at least once, or so I hope. But are you as excited and ready as I am for Jack and Rose’s 
love story to come back to the big screen next week in 3D? This is debatable. 
I remember perfectly the first time I saw “Titanic.” My cousins and I 


had a sleepover, watched it to­gether and automatically fell in love with the movie’s characters and epic plot. A boy and a girl from completely dif­ferent social backgrounds falling in love and fighting to survive a tragic shipwreck — what else could a girl ask for? 
After that first watch and find­ing out the movie was based on true events, I became a bit obsessed with “Titanic” — just a little. I wanted to find out more about the ship, its remains and survivors and how the movie was made. I also became a huge fan of Kate Wins-let and wanted to marry Leonardo DiCaprio. 
So after many years of gathering interesting and random facts about “Titanic,” I will share some here with you in an attempt to remind everyone how amazing this movie is and how everyone should not miss this classic film in theaters next Thursday. 
First released in 1997, “Titanic” tied the record for most Oscar wins. With 14 nominations it took home 11 Academy Awards, including Best Picture and Best Director. The movie shares this record with “Ben-Hur” (1959) and “Lord of the Rings: The Return of the King” (2003). 
Also, remember the portrait Jack drew of Rose in the film? James Cameron, the film’s director, was the artist behind this sketch. The drawing symbolized the beginning of their romantic relationship. 
Shifting to the historical event of the sinking of the RMS Titanic, its last survivor, Millvina Dean, died in 2009 at 97 years of age. Dean was a baby when she boarded the Titanic with her parents. She and her mother were among the 706 survivors of the accident. 
Finally, the 3D remake of “Ti­tanic” was set to be presented in theaters on April 4 to commemorate the centenary of the ship’s tragic sinking in the North Atlantic Ocean waters April 15, 1912. 
I hope these facts will intensify your love and appreciation for “Ti­tanic” or lack thereof. I just know that no matter how many times I watch it, my heart will forever go on. 
Contact Maria Fernandez at      mfernan5@nd.edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Standing on Irish Green on Satur­day, I watched graduate students who had been training for months, fathers completing their first half-marathons with their daughters and alumni running next to fellow classmates Carolyn Green they hadn’t seen in years, all Holy Half cross the finish Marathon line of the Holy Half Marathon. Seeing their shared expressions of relief, joy and accom­plishment, I could hardly believe that just a few months ago, the Holy Half almost didn’t happen. 
When we first spoke to the admin­istration about our plans for Holy Half 2012, we were met with some resistance, and understandably so. Running a half-marathon is a huge physical endeavor and the risks are high. I mean, when Phidippides ran from the Battle of Marathon to Athens, he died of exhaustion shortly after finishing the 26 miles. Who was the first person to say, “Running 26 miles was a great idea, let’s do that again!” 
In last year’s Holy Half, due to the freak heat wave, poor preparation or whatever else, far too many people were dropping like flies. In fact, my dad was one of the injured runners, so I can personally attest that the emergency room of St. Joseph Re­gional Medical Center was practically a Notre Dame reunion. 
However, there was no way the 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“Nothing gives one person so much advantage over another as to remain always cool and unruffled under all circumstances.” 
Thomas Jefferson 
U.S. president 

Thank you 
Holy Half tradition was not going to continue. Since its creation in 2004, the Holy Half has become an inherent part of the Notre Dame experience. Just ask Ian Montijo, the junior who placed first among male undergradu­ate runners, about the emails he ex­changed with his fellow Stanford Hall mates about their training plans. Or talk with Eliza Nagle, whose parents and sister traveled to Notre Dame from Nashville, Tenn., to watch their daughter run her first half-marathon. Fr. John Patrick Riley, priest of St. Joseph’s Parish, said after the race, “Although my body is pretty well battered from the effort at my age, happy memories will help in the recovery.” 
We could not have asked for better weather, a more dedicated group of volunteers and support staff or greater enthusiasm from runners and spectators alike. This was some­what of a transition year for the Holy Half, but for being a transition year, it was one heck of an event. 1,144 runners completed either the half-marathon or 10K on Saturday, and we raised approximately $30,000 to be split among our three charities: Hope Ministries, the St. Joseph County Public Library and the Literacy Council of St. Joseph County. 
In the past, the Holy Half has been linked with the class of 2011, but af­ter their graduation from the Univer­sity, the Holy Half moved on to new leadership under the class of 2014. 

Though it has not yet been approved for club status, we hope to eventually be recognized as an “organization” similar to Bookstore Basketball. With the encouragement of the student body, the great Holy Half tradition can carry on and we can continue to make a lasting impact on campus and in the South Bend community. 
Of course, there is much upon which to improve. A few runners in the 10K somehow missed the lakes entirely and we were not able to provide the Gatorade that we had promised. We rely on the support of Notre Dame students, staff, alumni and all other patrons of the Holy Half to let us know what we can do to make ourselves better and how we can make the Holy Half the best it can be for years to come. 
Even if you didn’t run Saturday, you probably know someone who did, or maybe you just saw someone limping down the stairs due to the sweet burn of post-race lactic acid buildup. Make sure you tell that person congratula­tions, because he or she has accom­plished something great. Thank you to everyone who was a part of the Holy Half Marathon 2012. We could not have done it without you. 
Carolyn Green is the student director of the Holy Half Marathon. She can be reached at cgreen9@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
WEEKLY POLL 
What are you giving up for Lent? 
Huddle candy Facebook stalking Super Smash Brothers Naps 
Vote by 5 p.m. Wednesday at 
ndsmcobserver.com 


Tuesday, March 27, 2012 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 7 
Backstory behind Kony 
Although we appreciate the fact that the Kony 2012 video has alerted about 80 million people to a conflict to which they had previously been oblivious, we find the campaign itself to be slightly flawed. As such, we would like to offer Sarah McGough an appendix to the Katie Rose video. 
First, Northern Africa Working Uganda has been Group peaceful for over five years; the IDP camps are almost entirely dispersed and people no longer live in constant fear. The video shows one map of the LRA spreading into the neighboring central African countries, but portrays the situation of 2003 (the one which they first filmed) as the cur­rent situation. When spreading advo­cacy about Joseph Kony, make sure you are advocating on behalf of his victims in that area of the continent and not Northern Uganda. 
The war itself is never explained in the video, so while the background of the war is incredibly confusing, we’ll give you a few simple notes. The LRA movement started in 1986 with Alice Lakwena, but there have been ten­sions between what is now North/ South Uganda since the fourth century. Furthermore, although it may be less well known know, the LRA did start as a movement with a purpose. One of the key factors in the war is that Kony is a medium for spirits (a prophet in the movement) and if he is killed the spirit can be transmitted, just as it was from its original host, Alice Lakwena. So the solution is a little more complicated than killing Kony. If you want more info on the background, Google it — it’s definitely worth your time. 
Next, there are tons of complexities involved in the ICC arrest warrant. One of the reasons Kony left the peace talks a few years ago was because of the indictment; much of Uganda frowned upon the ICC intervention, believing Uganda could handle its own problems. This warrant in fact makes it much less likely that Kony will ever willingly leave the bush and ensures a military intervention which will kill even more of Kony’s soldiers. 

Another omitted part of the video is the role of the Ugandan government. It has been very aware of the conflict in Northern Uganda since it began shortly after Museveni took over. Museveni basically left the North alone to fend for themselves for about two decades. All the while, the U.S. government contin­ued to supply ODA and military aid to Uganda, perpetuating the belief that Uganda would have international sup­port without responding to the conflict. Any military that went to the North was not supervised to the extent needed and therefore committed incredible hu­man rights abuses of their own. There is more than one person at fault in the conflict, so while you’re asking your congressman/woman to take action to stop Kony, ask them to reevaluate their support of the Museveni regime while they are at it. 
Also, not all Africans are helpless, impoverished, child soldiers and vic­tims of rape, as is perpetuated in the video. In fact, most people in the North, although scarred by the war, are living pretty normal lives — delivering pizza and all. 
If this video has pulled at your heart strings and inspired you to make a dif­ference, absolutely go for it. But first, get a bit more background (like by join­ing the Africa Working Group). That way we are sure to make the policy we encourage one that will help more people than it hurts. 
The Africa Working Group, as part of the International Development Research Council, meets weekly to discuss issues related to international development in Africa. Katie Rose can be reached at krose1@nd.edu and Sarah McGough can be reached at smcgough@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Reactions to “Race” 
After attending “Show Some Skin: The Race Monologues” this weekend in the Hesburgh Library auditorium, we shared two reactions.  First, we agreed that the talent and effort of the writers and speakers/ac­tors made for a compelling and unique performance that cap­tivated an overflowing crowd. Second, while heartened by the response of those present, we wished that the entire Notre Dame community — students, faculty, administrators and staff — had been able to at­tend, for the real-life stories of a diverse array of Notre Dame students were always revealing, often disheartening  and some­times heartbreaking.  The Notre Dame family, it became evident, can learn to be more welcoming to all. 
“Show Some Skin” was won­derful; it addressed a difficult topic of race on campus with spirit, humor, and honesty.  We hope that more and more members of the Notre Dame community will take advantage of opportunities like the one of­fered to us this past weekend. 
Kevin Barry 
faculty Kaneb Center 
Denise M. Della Rossa 
faculty German and Russian 
Joan Fallon 
faculty Kroc Institute 
Stephen Fallon 
faculty PLS and English 
Dan Graff 
faculty History and Higgins Labor Studies Program 
Stuart Greene 
faculty English 
Cecilia Lucero 
faculty Show Some Skin advisor 
Nicole Maclaughlin Lucero 
faculty University Writing Program 
Maria McKenna 
faculty Africana Studies 
Jessica McManus Warnell 
faculty Management and Business Ethics 
Richard Pierce 
faculty History and Africana Studies 
Ann Marie Power 
faculty Sociology 
Clark Power 
faculty PLS 
Jason Ruiz 
faculty American Studies 
Elizabeth Van Jacob 
faculty Hesburgh Libraries 
Dave Williams 
faculty Hesburgh Libraries March 26 

UWIRE 

Ruling shows will to reform 
The U.S. Supreme Court came to a smart decision on Wednesday by ruling that “crimi­nal defendants have a constitutional right to effective lawyers during plea negotiations,” according to The New York Times. 
Criminal defendants deserve to face a more for-Megan Hurley mal and regulated process of plea bargaining. Wheth-The Arizona er or not the defendant is Daily Wildcat guilty, he or she still needs to be able to see all of his or her options as clearly as possible. 
In that same article, effective lawyers boil down to the fact “that what used to be informal and unregulated deal making is now subject to new constraints when bad legal advice leads defendants to reject favorable plea offers.” 
The importance of guilty pleas is obvious when looking at the numbers. According to The New York Times, about 97 percent of federal convictions resulted from guilty pleas, with 94 percent in state convictions for 2006. 
These plea deals decide whether people spend a year or a decade in prison. Whether the general public agrees with what the de­fendant did or not, there is a reason that these policies exist. 
The Sixth Amendment guarantees a fair trial, but the word “fair” can be incredibly subjective. Many court cases from centuries ago are still analyzed, but that is what is sup­posed to happen. The U.S. Supreme Court does not deal with open-and-shut cases. 
This decision confronts the idea of fixing the system. The court system and its many opera­tors do great work for the nation. This decision to expand the protections of criminal defen­dants just shows how much more attorneys can do. 
No one is getting thrown under the bus — instead, the highest court in the United States is admitting that there still needs to be fine-tuning. 
Decisions by the Supreme Court don’t just affect the people directly impacted by the out­come of what they implement. Every case sets precedent and brings up new questions. The judiciary branch of the federal government is independent of Congress, separated from politi­cal squabbles. 
Furthermore, these judges are not dealing with just the imminent present, but also cen­turies to come. Pointing out what needs fixing seems like a smart move from a judiciary body that deals with so many controversial cases. 
If all of the states can listen and try to alter the judicial system in a positive direction, this ruling will not just help who pleads guilty. It will also help everyday people see transpar­ency in a government that needs it. 
This article first ran in the March 26 edition of the Arizona Daily Wildcat, the daily publication serving the University of Arizona. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 



page 8 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com Tuesday, March 27, 2012 

Wading through the excessive amount of horrible 
.lms on Net.ix Watch Instantly can be daunting for 
any subscriber. To ease the process, Scene has gra­
ciously provided a list of the best Net.ix has to offer. 
1. “Psych” season 5 
Season 5 of this USA comedy didn't hold back any punches. 
Shawn (James Roday) faced his fear of commitment, only to stumble in chasing his dreams. Gus (Dulé Hill) explored his love of tap dancing. Despereaux (Cary Elwes) returned. And in the 
case of Yin (Peter Weller) and Yang (Ally Sheedy) was .nally 
resolved, though not without drama. Despite the action-packed season with lots of guest stars, the show retained its typical, offbeat humor, and even surpassed expectations from previous seasons. 
2. “Wet Hot American Summer” 
This 2001 summer camp parody wasn't a big hit with the 
critics, but like so many critically panned comedies before it, 
that doesn't mean it isn't hilarious from start to .nish. It's the 
last day of camp and the end of summer, which means the last chance for a summer romance for a cast brimming with come­dic stars in the making. The whole movie is worth it just to see Christopher Meloni (seen in a more serious role on “Law and Order: SVU”) as a deranged Vietnam veteran cook. 
3. “Primal Fear” 
Edward Norton is known for the colorful range of charac­ters he's played over the course of his career, but this .lm in­troduced him to the world, and his portrayal as a young altar boy in the midst of a murder scandal instantly established him as a serious star. Richard Gere stars as a cynical defense at­torney trying to unravel the controversy, and the movie thrills throughout, all the way up to the stunning .nale. 
4. “Saved By the Bell” 
Bayside High was the how-to guide for the .90s. Premiering in 1989, the gang led by cool troublemaker Zach Morris and the object of his affections, Kelly Kapowski, showed us how to live the decade right. Think of the fashion advice Lisa Turtle can give, about Slater's pecs, Screech's nerdiness and Jessie Spano's smarts. Hanging out at the Max and getting called into Mr. Belding's of.ce are essential .90s experiences that need to be relived. The original show is streaming, but unfor­tunately we'll just have to wait for the new class and college years spinoffs and “Saved by the Bell: Hawaiian Style/Wed­ding in Vegas.” 
5. “Art & Copy” 
Even as modern media and technology are changing, the power of good advertising remains true. From the Budweiser frogs to Nike's “Just Do It,” there are certain ad campaigns that stick in our memory as stubbornly as a .rst kiss or the best slice of pizza you've ever eaten. This documentary goes behind-the-scenes of some of the world's most successful advertising campaigns, interviewing the creative minds behind famous taglines and characters and giving an insider's look at the world of advertising. Pair it with “Mad Men” and some Super Bowl commercials on YouTube for a complete view of the importance of advertising. 


LAUREN KALINOSKI | Observer Graphic 


Tuesday, March 27, 2012 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 9 

By PATRICK McMANUS 
Scene Writer 
Comedian Aziz Ansari released his latest comedy special, “Dan­gerously Delicious,” directly on his website for $5 on March 20. 
This model of comedians releas­ing their stand up specials direct­ly to the public through their web­sites — and bypassing middlemen like Comedy Central or HBO — is still in its infancy. Louis C.K. set what seems to be a burgeoning trend by releasing his special, “Live at the Beacon Theatre”, on his website last December. That special was very successful, as it grossed over $1 million. 
Jim Gaffigan announced he would release his next special the same way April 11. 
Comedians like this method of distribution because it allows them complete creative control and gives them a larger share of the profits. The success of Louis 
C.K. also supports the arguments of many people who download media illegally when they say they would pay for content if it were available in a convenient format at a reasonable price. 
Time will tell whether this dis­tribution model will become the new standard or if only the biggest name comedians can find success without the marketing arm of a major corporation. 
Ansari is perhaps best known for his role as Tom Haverford on “Parks and Recreation,” but he has also appeared in a number of films like “30 Minutes or Less” and “Fun­ny People.”  

“Dangerously Delicious” is an ex­citing effort that revisits many of the same themes from Ansari’s first special, “Intimate Moments for a 

Sensual Evening.” There are stories about his cousin Harris, R. Kelly and food. Though he doesn’t break new ground as far as material is con­
cerned, this special is a solid come­
dic performance that will be enjoyed 
by fans of Ansari’s comedy. Though he jokes that comedy tours are nothing like tours of rock stars like Mötley Crüe, he still has stories of hanging out with Jay-Z, so comedy tours are ap­parently still a lot crazier than regular people’s lives. In one hilarious bit, Ansari discusses overhearing 50 Cent at a restau­rant, and apparently the rapper did not know what a grapefruit is. Ansari receives a lot of laughs from such a simple premise. 
His delivery is marked by both a sort of sophisticated cool and a manic excitement. The interplay of these drives makes Ansari’s analysis of situations, both mundane and extraordinary, way funnier than they probably should be. 
Also included for those who buy the special is a digital bonus pack including photos from the tour and a list of restaurants he ate at on the tour. If you want to give the special as a gift or just have it look cool on your shelf, it also includes materials for fans to make their own DVD covers. 
If you are undecided about whether Mr. Ansari’s stand up fits your comedic sensibilities, a preview of the special is avail­able on his website. 
This is an exciting time for stand up comedy, with a lot of auteurs putting out quality ma­
terial in innovative ways. 
Contact Patrick McManus at pmcmanu1@nd.edu 


By ALEX KILPATRICK 
Scene Writer 
What is the Port of Morrow? 
According to The Shins’ lead singer and frontman James Mercer, the Ore­gon-based band named its fourth and latest album after a port authority that neither he nor any of the band members have visited in Boardman, a city on the Columbia River. 
Mercer explained the LP title in the United Kingdom-based music webzine “Drowned in Sound.” “There’s a sign by the side of the road that says ‘Port of Morrow’ and I always just wondered about it, I guess ... I was thinking of it as death, like what’s beyond the exit point, the ‘port of morrow,’ the port into tomor­row? ... Like the ace of spades, port of morrow, life is death, death is life,” he said. 
In line with its dark premise and Mer­cer’s venture into digital music with his side project Broken Bells, “Port of Mor­row” certainly has a more digitally lay­ered sound overall than the band’s pre­vious releases. In the album’s opener “The Rifle’s Spiral,” Mercer’s signature falsetto echoes over an impressive sonic bass line with the subtle yet biting lyrics: “You’re not invisible now/You just don’t exist/Your mother must be so proud/You sublimate yourself, drowning us of rich.” 
“Simple Song” sounds more upbeat and in tune with The Shins’ usual sum­mery indie pop sound. Booming with both enthusiasm and nostalgia, the song is exactly as Mercer defines it in the cho­rus: “Well, this is just a simple song/To say what you’ve done./I told you ‘bout all those fears/And away they did run.” The 
piece is the album’s signature simple pop song, both melodically and lyrically. Although “Port of Morrow” sounds more digital than the 2003 song “Chutes Too Narrow” or 2007’s “Wincing The Night Away,” Mercer attempts to make the new LP somewhat diverse in its reach of sound and genre. Mercer suc­ceeds with a new vocal sound in the soul ballad and title track “Port of Morrow” 


AP 

and tries on psychedelic folk for size in “September.” 
The album transcends its decade fur­ther with a ‘70s new-wave sound in “Bait and Switch,” a ‘90s layered Upper North­west guitar nod in “For a Fool” and an all-American pop rock feel in “No Way Down,” which includes a guitar hook comparable to that of “Jack & Diane.” “Fall of ’82” clearly gives a nod to ‘80s soft rock with a muted trumpet solo and completes the album’s overall nostalgic feel. 
Overall, The Shins meet expectations for “Port of Morrow” after a five-year hiatus. Mercer proves that although he made the decision to go digital with Danger Mouse in his musical side project Broken Bells, he hasn’t lost his raw tal­ent or gone mainstream since “Wincing the Night Away.” Rather, he’s expanded his horizons and welcomed even more genres and decades of influence into his musical repertoire. 
Contact Alex Kilpatrick at akilpatr@nd.edu 




page 10 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u CLASSIFIEDS Tuesday, March 27, 2012 
SPORTS AUTHORITY 
Jets take huge risk with acquisition of Tebow 
Tebowmania has come and gone. 
Once the nation’s permanent SportsCenter top story and Twitter trend, Tim Tebow’s star has come back to Earth. After proving he could win in the playoffs, Tebow was uncer­emoniously thrown out of Denver, scrapped to make room for an almost 40-year­old back patient named Peyton Manning. This allowed the New York Jets to pick up one of the NFL’s marquee players out of the bargain bin, giving up only two low-round draft picks in return. 
Of course, anytime you can turn a fourth-round flier into a proven NFL quarterback, it’s a no-brainer, right? 
Unfortunately for the Jets, wrong. 
While Tebow certainly has more value than the assets they gave up, the Jets could not have added more of a mis­matched piece to their jagged 

Jack Hefferon 
Sports Writer 
he recently tweeted welcoming messages like “Y bring Tebow in” and “We don’t need Tebow.” 
The Jets fell apart last season due to locker room issues, and the last thing they need is another polarizing figure in the mix. 
But even in strictly football terms, the trade doesn’t make sense. 
Jets quarterback Mark San­chez led the team to two AFC Championship games in his first two seasons, but his inconsis­tent play last year drew the ire of the ruthless New York press and fans. To boost their star’s confidence, the Jets went all in on Sanchez last month, signing him to a three-year extension. But the move to get Tebow only undermines that confidence, and the clamor to see Tebow in the starting job will now begin with Sanchez’s first incompletion. 
The Jets claim Tebow will be used only as a backup and in special packages, but they had just signed backup Drew Stanton to a new deal as well. And while the Jets and Tony Sparano, their new offensive coordinator, have both had success with ‘Wildcat’ packages in the past, the team 
and the 
league may 
have moved 
edge, barbed The Jets fell apart last on. wire jigsaw “The Wild-
season due to locker 
puzzle. cat? Nobody 
room issues and the 
Tebow, in runs that 
last thing they need 
addition to his anymore,” an 
is another polarizing 
play at quar-anonymous 
figure in the mix. 
terback, is the Jet told ESPN 
most famous spokesperson for Christianity in pop culture, and he brings his ‘Oh, jeez’ innocence and squeaky-clean persona along with his arm. Tebow’s faith and charity were a juxtaposition inside a take-no­prisoners, bounties-on-injuries NFL locker room, but it was able to work out oddly (and, as Satur­day Night Live proved, comically) in Denver. 
But the New York Jets are an entirely different animal. You couldn’t get Tebow to say ‘damn’ unless he was referring to the final judgment, while coach Rex Ryan is famous for his profanity-fueled speeches, tirades and even snacking plans. 
Tebow has been celebrated for his ministry to prison inmates, while the Jets were more likely to spend time on the other side of the bars. 
Outspoken cornerback Antonio Cromartie has had legal trouble in the past, as last season he request­ed a $500,000 salary advance to pay his child support. How­ever, Cromartie has gotten in hot water with the team as well, as after Tebow’s 
acquisition. 
“We’re tak­ing three steps back and the rest of the league is taking four steps forward.” 
When you factor in the $2.5 million the Jets are paying Tebow after they misread a clause in his contract, the Tebow trade could ultimately be destructive on the field, in the press, in the locker room and on the payroll. 
Ryan and the Jets love to gamble, and they’re pushing all their chips in here, hoping their new backup can terrorize defenses without upsetting their starter. If they’re right, Tebow could be the X-factor that brings the franchise their second Lom­bardi Trophy. 
But if they’re wrong, it’ll Te-blow up in their faces. 
Contact Jack Hefferon at wheffero@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
NFL 

Luck to work out with Colts 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS — The In­dianapolis Colts will soon get a more thorough look at Andrew Luck. 
They won’t have the same op­portunity with Robert Griffin III. 
General manager Ryan Grig­son said Monday the Colts plan to bring Luck to Indianapolis for an individual workout during the next couple of weeks. Luck is widely expected to be the No. 1 pick in next month’s draft. Grif­fin is expected to go second, but Grigson said the Colts wouldn’t see the Heisman Trophy winner work out at the team complex. 
“Circumstances didn’t allow us to do anything private with him (Griffin) so we did the usual Pro Day,” Grigson said during a conference call. “We did the best we could with that situation. We do have a private workout that we’re scheduling with Andrew in the future.” 
Grigson was ill last week and could not attend Griffin’s work­out in Waco, Texas, or Luck’s workout in Palo Alto, Calif., though there were Colts repre­sentatives in both places. 
Team owner Jim Irsay has already said he plans to take Peyton Manning’s successor with the No. 1 pick, but nobody within the organization is say­ing whether they’ll take the con­sensus favorite, Luck, or the fast riser, Griffin. 
Luck is considered the most polished quarterback to come out of college since Manning was taken No. 1 overall by the Colts in 1998. 
“Obviously you want to go No. 1, who wouldn’t want to go No. 1?” Luck said after last week’s Pro Day workout. “I’m just try­ing to prepare myself for the NFL, whichever team that is. Whether it’s watching certain defenses or going out there and working on throws I’ve never done before. That’s been my fo­cus and it hasn’t been hard to stay on that path.” 
Without the 35-year-old Man­ning, the Colts collapsed last season. They went a league-worst 2-14, and have embarked on an ambitious rebuilding proj­ect—one that no longer includes Manning. 
Indy released its franchise quarterback March 7, and last week the four-time league MVP signed a new five-year deal with the Denver Broncos. 
But Grigson insisted Monday that the team has not decided who to take and would likely wait until after the first round is completed April 26 before nego­tiating a deal with the top pick. 
“We’re going to do it the old-fashioned way, and that’s not something that’s been discussed at this point about how we would go about that,” Grigson said. “I think we’ll do it like teams always have and keep it simple.” 
Clearly, this is a team in transi­tion. 
In addition to releasing Man­ning, the Colts made a series of cost-cutting moves by releasing defensive captains Gary Brackett and Melvin Bullitt and former Pro Bowlers Dallas Clark and Joseph Addai earlier this month. They also have lost longtime center Jeff Saturday to Green Bay, emerg­ing receiver Pierre Garcon to Washington and backup tight end Jacob Tamme to Denver in free agency. 
There was even speculation that the Colts may try to save more money by trading perennial Pro Bowl defensive end Dwight Freeney, who will count $19 mil­lion against the salary cap this season. Grigson denied those ru­mors. 
“There’s never been any sub­stance that would suggest we’re doing anything like that. He’s a Colt, period,” Grigson said. 
“Everything with Dwight is great. He’s going to be here this year,” Grigson added. “We expect him to be a major contributor and a guy who strikes fear in our op­ponents and those offensive line­men every week.” 
The Colts haven’t completely gutted the roster. 

They did re-sign receiver Reggie Wayne to a three-year deal, and Pro Bowl defensive end Robert Mathis to a four-year deal. Mathis and Freeney have been one of the league’s most feared pass-rushing tandems since 2004. 
New coach Chuck Pagano has called them “game-wreckers” and is still contemplating how best to use the two as he tries to switch from the Colts’ trademark Tampa 2 scheme to Pagano’s fa­vored 3-4 system. 
Grigson’s biggest concern has been putting together an offen­sive unit in which the new quar­terback—Luck or Grigson—can thrive. 
The Colts have stockpiled talent along the offensive line by trading for Winston Justice and signing free agents Mike McGlynn and Samson Satele. They also signed free agent receiver Donnie Avery, a speedster who could give them a major deep threat if he’s healthy. 
“He’s always been a fast guy,” Grigson said of Avery. “He’s had considerable production early on in his career and, of course, he as well as we, hope he gets back to that level. We sure hope he does and I know he does. It’s a nice get for us based on what he brings to the table and what he can help in this offense with much needed wrinkle of speed.” 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The 
Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
FOR RENT 
House for rent. 3BR $600 per bedroom. Utilities included. 
506 No ND Ave. Call 574-272-2940 
PERSONAL 
A Baby is a Blessing: Adoption We’re both educators who value learning, family and our happy 8 yr marriage. We’ll give your child a happy home, a stay-at-home mom and a large, devoted Catholic family (9 cousins and growing!). We very much look forward to talking to you. Call Kim & Robert (855) 788-2810. 
WANTED 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don’t do it alone. Notre Dame has many resources in place to assist you. If you or someone you love needs 
confidential support or assistance, 
please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819. For more information, visit ND’s website at: http:// pregnancysupport@nd.edu 

Give the gift of FIRST SMILE and earn up to $60,000 as an EGG DONOR www.FirstSmileEggDonation.com 
Walking in Memphis Marc Cohn Put on my blue suede shoes And I boarded the plane Touched down in the land of the Delta Blues In the middle of the pouring rain 
W.C. Handy, won’t you look down over me 
Yeah I got a first class ticket 
But I’m as blue as a boy can be Then I’m walking in Memphis Walking with my feet ten feet off of Beale Walking in Memphis But do I really feel the way I feel 
Saw the ghost of Elvis On Union Avenue Followed him up to the gates of Graceland Then I watched him walk right through Now security they did not see him They just hovered ‘round his tomb 
But there’s a pretty little thing Waiting for the King Down in the Jungle Room 
They’ve got catfish on the table 
They’ve got gospel in the air And Reverend Green be glad to see you When you haven’t got a prayer But boy you’ve got a prayer in Memphis 

Tuesday, March 27, 2012 The Observer u SPORTS ndsmcobserver.com | page 11 
ND SOFTBALL 
Irish begin homestand with Western Michigan 


By KATIE HEIT  In 2011, Western Michigan end- 
Sports Writer  ed Notre Dame’s 21-game home  
winning streak, the fifth-longest  
After  three  consecutive  rain  in the country at the time. Senior  
po st po n e ­ infielder  Dani  
ments,  the  Miller said the  

Irish are eager “We’ve been able to rest, Irish are taking for some nice this game seri­
which has been great 
weather and ously, as they 
... A lot of girls today 
tough compe-learned last 
were saying that their 
tition as they year that West-
bodies felt fresh. We’ve 
prepare for a ern Michigan is 
been practicing and 
long stretch of a threat. home games, working on what we “I don’t think beginning with needed to learn from we can ever a matchup and we’re just moving take a team against West-forward from here.” lightly,” Miller ern Michigan said. “We just on Tuesday. plan to play our 
Alexa Moldonado 
The Irish game and we 
Irish senior outfielder 
(11-10) have know we can not competed do well against in more than a any team.” week after playing eight games in Maldonado said the loss last seven days over spring break. The year was a result of the Irish being contest against Western Michigan overconfident in the matchup with (11-9) will begin a series of six the Broncos. home games in the next six days, “We played down to their level including doubleheaders against and we let them inch up behind us Toledo (7-17) and Connecticut (10-and beat us,” Maldonado said. “It’s 11). one of those losses where you just 
Senior outfielder Alexa Mal-think, ‘I can’t believe that just hap­donado said pened.’” the break the Maldonado postponements said a win 
caused has giv­en the players a chance to re­cover from their spring break competitions.  “We want to come out hard, come out playing our top game and come out with a big win... We want to roll into  against West­ern Michi­gan will give Notre Dame the momen­tum it needs  
“We’ve been able to rest, which has been great,” Maldona­ conference play on a win and ultimately go undefeated in conference.”  as it heads into confer­ence play this weekend.  
do said. “A lot of  “We  want  
girls today were  Alexa Moldonado  to come out  
saying that their  Irish senior outfielder  hard,  come  
bodies felt fresh.  out  playing  
We’ve been prac­ our top game  
ticing and work- and come out  
ing on what we  with  a  big  

needed to learn from and we’re win,” Maldonado said. “We want just moving forward from here.” to roll into conference play on a 
Maldonado said that the stretch win and ultimately go undefeated of home games looks more daunt-in conference.” ing than it actually is. Both Maldonado and Miller said 
“I actually don’t think it’s as the Irish will attempt to cut down hard as it sounds,” Maldonado on small errors and encourage one said. “Once we start winning, we another to stay positive. get on a roll and it keeps us fresh Notre Dame will take on West-in the game mentally. When we’re ern Michigan Tuesday at 6 p.m. at practicing nonstop, it gets monoto-Melissa Cook Stadium. nous. It’s good to just play and see what we’ve been working on this Contact Katie Heit at whole season.” kheit@nd.edu 

page 12 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u SPORTS Tuesday, March 27, 2012 
ROWING 
Irish rowers post wins in Indianapolis regatta 
By ERNST CLEOFE 
Sports Writer 
The Irish finished strong with six wins in the four-team regat­ta Sunday after a rough start in a one-on-one matchup at Ohio State the day before. 
The team faced a tough chal­lenge in its Saturday matchup against Ohio State, one of the top teams in the central region. The first race of the day between each team’s novice number eight set the tone, with the Irish losing by only seven seconds. Notre Dame had difficulties keeping up with Ohio State and did not win any races. 
Despite not notching any vic­tories, the Irish were competi­tive throughout the day. Both the varsity eight boat and the second varsity eight boat finished seven seconds behind the Buckeyes in their respective head-to-head matchups. 
“I definitely think we could have done better against Ohio State and beat them,” junior Abby Meyers said. “They are highly ranked. We were a little intimidated and it hurt us.” 
After a successful previous weekend and a solid week of practice, the Irish were set to challenge the Buckeyes. How­ever, the mental aspect of the races was the difference in the matchup. 
“After Ohio State, we learned how much the mental side of it affects as we race,” Meyers said. 
“We had a good week of practice and we were doing really well physically. Then, at Ohio State, we rowed with our emotions and we couldn’t pull out the victory.” 
The next day, the Irish traveled to Indianapolis for their four-team regatta against Indiana, Louisville and Purdue. The Irish put aside what happened against Ohio State and displayed a strong showing with six victories over the course of the day. 
Although Notre Dame finished two seconds behind Indiana in the first varsity eight race, the Irish finished with wins in the three varsity four races and the second and third varsity eight races. 
“On Sunday, we more worried about our boat and not how fast the other boats were,” Meyers said. “We can only control what’s going on in our boat so when we focused on the internal parts of racing, we were successful.” 
The Irish now have 16 wins over the past two weekends. However, they will have to wait another three weeks before their next chance to prove themselves in the Virginia Invitational. 
“I think the next three weeks are going to be important for im­proving our technique and get­ting better,” Meyers said. 
Notre Dame will next be in ac­tion April 14-15 at the Virginia Invitational in Charlottesville, Va. 
Contact Ernst Cleofe at ecleofe@nd.edu 
SMC TENNIS 
Coming off split, Belles travel to take on Albion 
By ISAAC LORTON 
Sports Writer 
Coming off a split-decision in its doubleheader against No. 9 regionally-ranked Wheaton and Judson in Hanover Park, Ill., Saint Mary’s looks to beat Albion to­night in an MIAA match. 
The Belles (7-4, 1-0 MIAA) lost their first match 8-1 to undefeated Wheaton (7-0), with sophomore Margaret Boden gaining the sole victory at the No. 6 spot. They bounced back and were victori­ous in their second match against Judson (0-7) by a score of 7-2. 
“I thought overall we did okay,” Belles coach Dale Campbell said. “Wheaton was a strong team and we recognize that but they were a non-conference team which makes it less painful. We played well against Judson but [Jud­son] was not at the same level as Wheaton. I’m glad we did not play down to Judson’s level and got work done when we needed to.” 
The Belles mixed up their lineup Sunday, making a small change in the doubles teams. Freshman Au­drey Kiefer swapped with fresh­man Kayle Sexton, moving from the No. 1 to No. 2 doubles team. Kiefer joined freshman Shannon Elliott, while Sexton was paired with sophomore Mary Catherine Faller. 
“We tried something different in doubles this weekend before conference games got underway,” Campbell said. “We felt that this change will take advantage of the different styles and the players will complement each other bet­ter at these spots. It was tough to judge how well this move worked since we faced such different cali­bers of competition this weekend, but we will be keeping the switch for the match against Albion.” 
In the conference matchup against the 2011 MIAA champion Britons (5-2, 1-0), there will be no switch in the Belles’ singles lineup or in the No. 3 doubles team, con­sisting of Boden and freshman Jackie Kjolhede. 
“We are going to leave alone the third team of doubles,” Campbell said. “They have good chemistry and have done well so far this year. We have a better record in doubles than singles this year so hopefully the changes in doubles do not affect our play. Even though we have a worse singles record, everyone will stay in their spots.” 
According to Campbell, Saint Mary’s is ready to play against the defending MIAA champions. 
“Being a conference match, there is definitely an importance placed on this match,” Campbell said. “They have more experience in their lineup, but we are excited to match up against them and I believe we will match up well.” 
The Belles look to defeat the reigning MIAA champion Albion today at 4 p.m. in Albion, Mich. 
Contact Isaac Lorton at ilorton@nd.edu 
Thomas 
continued from page 16 
“We look to use our length to get on the glass,” Thomas said Monday. “We know that gives a lot of teams a lot of trouble. We’re able to use our length on defense and create havoc out there. 
“We know we have a height advantage on [Notre Dame], especially inside, so I know our inside game is going to be a huge thing for us tomorrow.” 
Maryland starts a 6-foot­4 center in sophomore Ali­cia DeVaughn, a 6-foot-3 forward in junior Tianna Hawkins and a 6-foot-2 for­ward in sophomore Thom­as. On the other hand, Notre Dame starts four guards and 6-foot-2 graduate stu­dent forward Devereaux Peters, who averages 9.4 re­bounds per game. 
“When you talk about an Alyssa Thomas who’s playing your three-spot at 6-foot-2 and now your three, four and five [positions] are rebounding the way they are … Those are the intan­gibles,” Frese said. “For us, it gives us second-chance opportunities, it gives us more looks at the basket and it’s been an emphasis and kind of a trademark as we continue to recruit play­ers into this program.” 
McGraw acknowledged the inability to replicate Thomas in practice due to her versatility and skill set as a forward-guard hybrid. 
“It’s impossible to simu­late [Thomas]. We’ll have to talk about what we’re go­ing to do and just use their imagination because she’s a great player,” McGraw said. “She’s really hard to guard because she’s so strong and she’s got a lot of guard skills in a post body. She can do a lot of things around the basket.” 

Despite Notre Dame’s great­er postseason experience, Thomas said a difficult confer­ence schedule, including two matchups apiece against top­10 teams in Duke and Miami, has prepared the Terrapins for the physical and mental chal­lenge of unseating the Raleigh region’s No. 1 seed. Thomas led the ACC in scoring as the conference’s most dynamic of­fensive threat. 
“We know it’s going to be a very physical game,” she said. “We know Notre Dame is a very physical team in general. We just have to come out there and take the hits and give it back to them, and just plan on it for 40 minutes.” 
Ultimately, each team’s greatest strength may be the one intangible Diggins and Thomas share — the ability to take over a close game in the final minutes. 
“When we are down and we need a quick hitter, my team has confidence in me to come down the stretch and hit a big shot,” Thomas said. 
Contact Chris Masoud at cmasoud@nd.edu 


Tuesday, March 27, 2012 The Observer u SPORTS ndsmcobserver.com | page 13 
SMC SOFTBALL 
Pitching leads to Belles sweep of Yellow Jackets 
By MATT UNGER 
Sports Writer 
Back-to-back complete games by sophomore Callie Selner and senior Monica Palicki led Saint Mary’s to a doubleheader sweep over Defiance on Monday. 
The Belles (13-5) took advantage of a struggling Yellow Jackets squad (4-13), winning both road games by scores of 4-0 and 6-2, respectively. 
With Selner on the mound in the first game, the Belles capitalized on an error-ridden second inning by the Yellow Jackets to grab a 2-0 lead. 
Senior Kristen Nelson’s RBI single with two outs plated the first run of the game and the second scored on Defiance’s third error of the inning. 
In the sixth inning, the Belles blew the game open with a two-run home run by freshman Jordie Was­serman. 
“Our bats fell asleep Saturday and Sunday, but today we were much more relaxed and weren’t pressing at the plate,” Belles coach Erin Sullivan said. 
Meanwhile, Selner (6-3) went the distance in pitching seven shutout innings as she yielded only five hits, walked two and struck out four. 
“[Selner] threw really well today and pitched ahead in the count on hitters,” Sullivan said. “She had a great outing and continued what she’s been doing all year.” 
This marked the second-consec­utive shutout for the Belles af­ter defeating North Park 4-0 on Sunday. 
In the second game, the Belles again seized an early lead, scor­ing on an RBI single by junior Morgan Bedan in the first in­ning. After the Yellow Jackets briefly took a 2-1 lead in the bottom of the second, the Belles quickly responded with two runs in the third. 
After freshman Victoria Con­nelly stole second base, Nelson singled her home to tie the game and then scored on senior Kate Mitchell’s sacrifice fly to take give the Belles the lead for good. 
Senior Lauren Enayati, who batted 3-for-4 in the second game, added an RBI single in the fifth, as Saint Mary’s padded its lead with three more runs. 
Meanwhile, Palicki (6-0) struck out three during her complete game performance, while allowing just one earned run, along with three hits. 
“Monica threw awesome Sun­day and carried that into today,” Sullivan said. “The early run support helped both our pitchers and gave them a nice cushion.” 
The Belles return home to host Carthage in a doublehead­er Thursday beginning at 3:30 p.m. 
Contact Matt Unger at munger3@nd.edu 

McGraw 
continued from page 16 
Notre Dame suppressed its three previous tournament oppo­nents to a 33.1 percent shooting percentage from the field for an average of 46.7 points per game. After knocking Liberty and Cali­fornia out of the tournament at home, the Irish earned a spot in the Elite Eight with a 79-35 win over St. Bonaventure on Sunday. The Bonnies’ 35 points were the fewest scored in a regional game in the history of the NCAA tour­nament. 
“I think we’ve held our compo­sure and I think that’s what sets us apart from the rest because we hold our composure,” gradu­ate student forward Devereaux Peters said. “We’ve been there before, we’ve done this last year and we have players that are sea­soned and have done this before. We know what it’s like, we know what we have to do to execute. I think we’ve done a great job of coming out from the start and be­ing ready. That’s something we’ve done well all year and something that we’ll keep doing.” 
In the first round of the tour­nament, Maryland rallied to top Navy 59-44 despite the Midship­men’s four-point lead at halftime. Maryland then snuck by seventh-seeded Louisville 72-68 in the second round after trailing by five points with six minutes left. 
After Louisville, the Terrapins met up with the Aggies, who had an 18-point lead in the first half. Maryland caught up in the sec­ond half and used a 21-4 run in the final minutes of the game to dispose of Texas A&M and ad­vance to a showdown with the Irish. 
Notre Dame’s last loss, a 63-54 defeat at the hands of Connecti­cut in the Big East championship game March 6, is similar to one suffered by the 2001 national championship team, McGraw said. 

“After a loss, it takes a couple games to figure out if you learned anything from it or not,” she said. “When you have a winning streak as we did going into that West Virginia game during the year, you don’t realize it kind of weighs on you a little bit. Some­times when you lose, you almost get a fresh start. So I think com­ing out of the [Big East] tourna­ment, we likened it to our cham­pionship year — we lost in the final of the Big East tournament, we came back and won the na­tional championship.” 
The Irish endured a difficult regular-season schedule, an ex­perience Peters said prepares Notre Dame for some of the na­tion’s most talented squads in the tournament. 
“The Big East is like the tour­nament where any team can come out and beat you any day,” Peters said. “You have to treat every team like they’re Connecti­cut or Tennessee or one of the big-name teams. The Big East has definitely prepared us for where we are now, and they all have athletic players and work hard and I think that’s why we excelled. 
“Our [preparedness] is a mix of that and how far we went last year, and having that experience definitely prepares you for games like this and being in these types of situations.” 
The Irish tip off against the Terrapins with a coveted Final Four spot on the line Tuesday at 9 p.m. at PNC Arena in Raleigh, 
N.C. The game will be televised on ESPN. 
Contact Molly Sammon at msammon@nd.edu 


DILLON WEISNER/The Observer 

Irish freshman infielder Conor Biggio legs out a ground ball during Notre Dame’s 3-2 victory over 
Pittsburgh on March 24 at Frank Eck Stadium. 
Aoki 
continued from page 16 
“In the event that we don’t win the Big East tournament, we’ve got to make sure we’re taking care of business.” 
Though the non-conference schedule is important, it offers the Irish a chance to fine-tune their lineup and give some new faces a chance to become regulars. 
One position battle Aoki has not yet set is shortstop, where fresh­men Phil Mosey and Jason McMur­ray have received the majority of playing time this season. McMur­ray started most of the games early in the season, but Mosey got the nod to start all three games last weekend. Mosey has flashed some leather at the position and has been a strong double-play pivot in the Irish infield, he now finds his bat­ting average under .100 after a hit­less weekend against Pittsburgh. 
“We’ll have to search a little bit [at shortstop],” Aoki said. “Phil did play good defense for us, and I thought his at bats later in the weekend were a little better than they were in the early part of the weekend. But that is certainly a place where we still have some question marks about what we’re looking for there.” 
While UIC’s record may be under .500, the Flames will certainly pose a challenge for the Irish. UIC comes into its date with Notre Dame rid­ing a four-game winning streak and has beaten the Irish in each of their last three yearly meetings. But after opening conference play in such strong fashion, the Irish self-belief is running high. 
“We have a lot of confidence go­ing into it,” Aoki said. “We’ll have to play well. We’re not at the point where we can just out-talent every­body. We have to work, and we have to come ready to play. UIC is always a good club in that Horizon League and they’re well coached. We’re go­ing to be on the road, so we’re going to have to go in there and do a re­ally good job of competing.” 
The Irish and Flames will square off Tuesday night at Les Miller Field in Chicago, with first pitch sched­uled for 7:05 pm. 
Contact Jack Hefferon at wheffero@nd.edu 

draw controls as well, including for her coach is she wasn’t pre-she was and how quickly she that matter: a Big East title and 
Powell 

several late in the game to help pared for it before she joined could make adjustments, and I a national championship. seal the victory. Notre Dame this summer. On knew she was going to be a big “I’m definitely a one-on-one continued from page 16 “They’ve just recently started a team with several marquee player for us,” Halfpenny said. driver, but I feel really comfort-
putting me up there, but I like upperclassmen, Halfpenny Powell will no longer be able able playing in our offense,” gled with winning draws early it,” Powell said. “Draws are def-didn’t realize just how much of to surprise teams as she slices Powell said. “We have a great in the season, Halfpenny moved initely a big part of the game, so a weapon Powell was until she through defenders and puts up attacking unit and we work re-Powell up to the circle in Sun-we just need someone in there was able to watch her in prac-huge numbers, but that doesn’t ally well together. We have a day’s 13-11 win over Louisville. who can get the ball.” tice. seem to bother her. With Notre ton of threats.” In a game where she led all The best gifts are often sur-“Once she came in this fall, Dame’s versatile offense, she’s scorers with four goals, Pow-prises and part of what made I saw how she could get down said the team should be able to Contact Jack Hefferon at ell won five of the team’s nine Powell’s performance so special to the cage, and how coachable compete for the only two goals wheffero@nd.edu 


Tuesday, March 27, 2012 The Observer u TODAY ndsmcobserver.com | page 15 
WILL SHORTz 
EUgENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 
CROSSWORD 



HENRy ARNOLD 

LEE HAggENJOS and ALEX gRISWOLD 
JUMBLE 
THE LONDON EXPRESS 
MIKE ARgIRION 





Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 

Make checks payable to The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556

 Enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year


 Enclosed
 is $75 for one semester 


Name ____________________________________________________ Address __________________________________________________ City ____________________ State___________ Zip______________ 

Tuesday, March 27, 2012 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 16 
ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 
Irish to face Maryland for trip to Final Four 
By MOLLY SAMMON 
Senior Sports Writer 
Only Maryland stands in the way of Notre Dame’s second con­secutive trip to the Final Four of the NCAA tournament. To win the Raleigh, N.C., regional fi­nal, the top-seeded Irish need to beat the second-seeded Terra­pins, the same team that ousted defending national champion Texas A&M 81-74 in the Sweet 16. 
“We’ve got to really be able to run our offense and execute against a team that’s very physi­cal and very fast,” Irish coach Muffet McGraw said. “They’ve got some good matchups on their side. I think the mismatch­es are all us trying to guard them. We’ve just got to go into it, play our game and defensively you don’t have anybody you can leave on their team.” 
see McGRAW/page 13 

Terrapin Time 

Similarities with Notre Dame abound 
By CHRIS MASOUD 
Senior Sports Writer 
The similarities are staggering. 

Notre Dame and Maryland will be playing for each program’s fourth trip to the Final Four in NCAA tournament history. Irish coach Muffet McGraw and Ter­rapins coach Brenda Frese are responsible for each program’s only national title. Big East Player of the Year Skylar Diggins leads Notre Dame; ACC Player of the Year Alyssa Thomas leads Mary­land. 
But the source of each team’s success couldn’t be more dif­ferent: Maryland uses its size to overpower opponents while Notre Dame uses its quickness. 
Averaging 17.2 points and eight rebounds per game, Thomas highlights a Terrapin frontcourt that ranked first in the ACC in re­bounding margin at plus-13.8. 
see THOMAS/page 12 
WOMEN’S LACROSSE 
Healthy Powell leads prolific Irish attack 
By JACK HEFFERON 
Sports Writer 
Coming into this season, Notre Dame was expected to have an explosive, record-breaking offense that could light up the scoreboard and carve through opposing de­fenses. What no one expected, however, was sophomore at­tack Lindsay Powell would be the one doing most of the scor­ing. 
Powell currently leads all Irish players with 23 goals and has registered a hat trick or better in six of the team’s seven games. That consistent scoring has come as a result of her ex­ceptional dodging and shooting abilities and has helped lead Notre Dame to an undefeated start and national top-10 rank­ing. 
For Irish coach Christine Halfpenny, Powell’s athleticism has been a revelation this year. 
“I think Lindsay brings an incredible ability, athletically, to attack dynamically in a one­on-one situation,” Halfpenny said. “Her zero-to-sixty is in­credible. Her first step is awe­some, her acceleration is awe­some and she has the ability to change the momentum of a game with one shot, because it’s just so pretty to watch.” 
Powell’s explosive first step and prolific offense are made even more impressive by the fact she missed her entire freshman season with a knee injury and her recent scoring tear has come in the first action of her college career. While her injury may have taken away the first year of her collegiate career, Powell said it also gave her the drive that has allowed her to finally excel. 
“[Recovering from the inju­ry] was really hard, obviously, and it took a lot of hard work, but it feels great to be back,” Powell said. “It taught me that hard work pays off, and that I have to work hard on every play, because you never know how many chances you’re go­ing to get.” 
Powell has taken that deter­
mination and applied it wher­
ever Halfpenny and the Irish 
ask. After the team had strug­
see POWELL/page 14 
BASEBALL 

Squad to take on UIC on Tuesday 
By JACK HEFFERON 
Sports Writer 

Notre Dame jumped out to a perfect start in Big East play with its dramatic three-game sweep of Pittsburgh at home over the week­end. After a day off, the team will hit the road for a non-conference battle at Illinois-Chicago on Tues­day night, hoping to keep its mo­mentum rolling. 
The fans at Eck Stadium were treated to three exciting wins over Pittsburgh (10-11, 0-3 Big East), as the Irish (15-7, 3-0) won with a walk-off home run Friday, a leap­ing, game-saving catch Saturday and a clutch save to stop a ninth-inning Panther rally Sunday. The series sweep gave Notre Dame its best conference start since 2008, and Irish coach Mik Aoki said it supplied positive energy to build on, as well. 
“I think this is a situation where we can build on it and hopefully move forward,” Aoki said after Sun­day’s victory. “We get the chance to enjoy it for a couple of days before we’ve got to tee it up against UIC, and then that becomes the most important game of our lives.” 
Tuesday’s matchup against UIC (9-12) will be the first of eight mid­week, out-of-conference games for Notre Dame this season, which are scheduled to get the teamwork between each weekend Big East series. And while these matchups may have no immediate relevance in the race for a conference cham­pionship, they are critical for Notre Dame’s postseason hopes on a na­tional level. 
“I think we have to get our pro­gram in a mindset where every one of these opportunities to play — conference or non-conference — is a chance to add to our résumé to put in front of a committee at the end of the year, to see whether or not we’re deserving of going to the NCAA tournament,” Aoki said. 


see AOKI/page 13 







