
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


Fans support professional soccer 
By MEGHAN THOMASSEN 
News Writer 
It’s almost summer and football season is in full swing 
— for students loyal to the Eu­ropean and Mexican soccer leagues, that is. 
Every week, fans gather informally in the LaFortune Student Center to watch their favorite teams battle it out on the big screen. The Champions Leagues are currently in their playoff stages, and for senior Oscar Gonzalez, these crucial games could call him home to watch his local team, Tigres UANL, play in the finals. 
“It’s a team I’ve been fol­lowing since I was a kid … It’s pretty important to me,” Gon­zalez said. 
Gonzalez said he follows all five major soccer leagues and is considering skipping the Com­mencement ceremony for the North American Champions League finals if Tigres goes to the finals. 
“I’m a fanatic, and if they make it to the finals, I will surely skip [Commencement],” he said. 
LaFortune serves as a hub for the international games un­available to students through 

see SOCCER/page 4 


Leaders address racial discrimination 
“Call to Action” committees work to change campus culture, foster inclusion 
By NICOLE MICHELS 
News Writer 
After testimonies at a March 5 town hall meeting called to ad­dress instances of racial discrim­ination revealed a widespread problem of racial discrimination on campus, community leaders are working to foster an environ­ment that better embodies the ideal outlined in Notre Dame’s “Spirit of Inclusion” statement. 
The statement asserts the University welcomes “all people, regardless of color, gender, reli­gion, ethnicity, sexual orienta­tion, social or economic class, and nationality, for example, precisely because of Christ’s call­ing to treat others as we desire to be treated.” 
Senior Brittany Suggs, former chair of the Black Student As­sociation, said everyone at Notre Dame needs to take responsibil­ity for the well-being of the entire community. 
“These problems are not just one group’s problems … and as a member of the Notre Dame fam­ily, it is your duty to be informed and to take up this cause,” Suggs said.  “We want a place that can feel like home for everyone … If we are a family, it is important to also be attentive to the needs of all of the other members of our family.” 
Suggs said “Call to Action” committees formed to address racial discrimination, and those groups synthesized the concerns voiced at the town hall meeting into a plan of action. 


“We are working on a response that aligns with many of the plans … that come from what the student body and greater Notre Dame community presented at the town hall meeting,” she said. 
Suggs said the committees con­sidered stories of struggle voiced by the students at the town hall meeting to form an overarching plan of action meant to correct a campus culture in which dis­crimination can persist. 
“We shared the stories that were presented during the town hall meeting … Then we also shared the more general sugges­tions from the town hall meet­ing,” Suggs said.  “What we did from there was discussed more in-depth how to create responses to these two sets of information and worked with these different departments.” 
Two preliminary results of 
the committees’ work have been 
heartening, Suggs said. 
“Immediately after the town 
hall meeting, there was an in­
crease in reporting [instances of 
discrimination] and an increase 
in faculty members being avail­
able to assist students with re­
porting,” Suggs said. “Another 


see ACTION/page 4 


Campus Girl Scouts receive community service award 

By TORI CREIGHTON 
News Writer 
Campus Girl Scouts of Notre Dame and St. Mary’s received the 2011-2012 Community Recogni­tion Award from the Northern Indiana-Michiana Service Unit last week for its service to the lo­cal area. 
Sophomore Jamie Pfaff, former club president, said Campus Girl Scouts filled a community need by leading Troop 00087, which served girls on the west side of South Bend who could not be placed in other troops due to lack of leadership. 
“They probably wouldn’t have been able to be in Girl Scouts with­out us,” she said. 
Pfaff said club members led the troop of approximately 25 girls from 2 to 3:30 p.m. twice a month in Pasquerilla West Hall. 
People often think Campus Girl Scouts is a club for college-aged Girl Scouts, Pfaff said,  but mem­bers are actually volunteers with­in a service group that works with the local Girl Scout council. 
Past involvement in Girl Scouts is not necessary to join, and men are encouraged to participate as well, Pfaff said. She said 
Campus Girl Scouts is a con­venient way for Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s students to connect with and serve girls in the com­munity. 
“If you’re doing community ser­vice, you’re being a Girl Scout,” Pfaff said. 
According to the Girl Scouts of the USA website, Campus Girl Scouts organizations areis present nation-wide on college campuses. The service clubs are certified by Girl Scouts of the USA but are separate entities that exist to col­laborate with Girl Scout councils. 
In her nomination letter for the award, Service Unit 206 Manager and Campus Girl Scouts Liaison Dawn Cole said Troop 00087 is unique because it is a multi-age 


see SCOUTS/page 4 

INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER Graduate students study texts in Italy  page 4 u Viewpoint page 6 u Sweeney Todd Review page 8 u Men’s Lacrosse Big East tournament page 16 
page 2 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u DAY-TO-DAY Tuesday, May 1, 2012 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: IF FATHER JENKINS HAD A SUPERPOWER, WHAT WOULD IT BE? 

www.ndsmcobserver.com P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 Editor-in-Chief Allan Joseph Managing Editor Business Manager Megan Doyle Jeff Liptak Asst. Managing Editor: Andrew Owens Asst. Managing Editor: Sam Stryker News Editor: Kristen Durbin News Editor: John Cameron Viewpoint Editor: Meghan Thomassen Sports Editor: Chris Allen Scene Editor: Kevin Noonan Saint Mary’s Editor: Jillian Barwick Photo Editor: Suzanna Pratt Graphics Editor: Brandon Keelean Multimedia Editor: Sarah O’Connor Advertising Manager: Katherine Lukas Ad Design Manager: Amanda Jonovski Controller: Jason Taulman Systems Administrator: William Heineman Office Manager & General Info (574) 631-7471 Fax (574) 631-6927 Advertising (574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu Editor-in-Chief (574) 631-4542 ajoseph2@nd.edu Managing Editor (574) 631-4542 mdoyle11@nd.edu Assistant Managing Editors (574) 631-4541 aowens2@nd.edu, stryke1@nd.edu Business Office (574) 631-5313 News Desk (574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com Viewpoint Desk (574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com Sports Desk (574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com Scene Desk (574) 631-4540 knoonan2@nd.edu Saint Mary’s Desk jbarwi01@saintmarys.edu Photo Desk (574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com Systems & Web Administrators (574) 631-8839 Policies The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College.  Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Allan Joseph. Post Office Information The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 and additional mailing offices 024 South Dining hall Notre Dame, IN 46556-077 The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved.  
TODAY’S STAFF News Sports Marisa Iati Matthew Robison Christian Myers Joseph Monardo Adam Llorens Ernst Cleofe Graphics Scene Lauren Kalinoski Maija Gustin Photo Viewpoint Ashley Dacy Meghan Thomassen  
CORRECTIONS The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so we can correct our error.  
HIGH 76 LOW 59 



Madison Boyle  Emily Danaher  Lauren Leniart  Alvin Hu  Luke McNiff  Drew Williams  
sophomore  freshman  junior  junior  junior  junior  
Pasquerilla East  Breen-Phillips  Pasquerilla West  Sorin  Stanford  Stanford  
“The power to  “Mind reading  “Being invisible  “Teleportation.”  “The ability to  “I forgot what  
control people’s  so he knows  because I’ve  seduce people  it is called but  
emotions around  what everyone  never seen him  with his eyes.”  Jigglypuff has  
him.”  at Notre Dame is  around.”  it.”  
thinking.”  


Have an idea for Question of the Day? Email obsphoto@gmail.com 


OFFBEAT 
Mass. woman balks at pay­ing old $73 debt to N.J. 
AMESBURY, Mass. — A Massachusetts woman who got a bill for $73 from the state of New Jersey for a de­cades-old debt says she has no intention of paying. 
Alice Mainville, of Ames-bury, got a letter recently telling her she owes New Jersey’s Department of La­bor $73 because it gave her too much money in an un­employment check 35 years ago. 
Mainville tells the Daily News of Newburyport she collected unemployment during a labor dispute at the bakery where she worked when she was 17. 
Mainville, who moved to Massachusetts after high school, says she won’t pay because New Jersey offi­cials have not explained how they concluded she owes the money. 

New Jersey Department of Labor spokeswoman Kerri Gatling says there is no bad debt “write-off” in unem­ployment insurance law. 
Ala. police dept. in posse­sion of two unused UAVs 
GADSDEN, Ala. — An Alabama police chief says he recently discovered that his department has two un­manned aerial vehicles. 
Gadsden Police Chief John Crane tells The Gadsden Times he learned two weeks ago the department has had the unmanned aerial vehi­cles since 2010. 
The revelation came to light after the Federal Avia­tion Administration released a list of agencies certified to fly drones and unmanned aerial vehicles. The Gadsden Police Department was on the list. 
Crane, who was named police chief in February, says he doesn’t know why they were purchased. The cost was about $150,000, paid through a federal law enforcement grant. 
Crane says the depart­ment’s UAVs, which have video surveillance capabil­ity, haven’t been used be­cause there hasn’t been a need for them. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 


IN BRIEF 
There will be a blood drive sponsored by Friends of the Orphans and hosted by the American Red Cross today from 12 to 6 p.m. in Stepan Center. 
Kelly McMann, an associ­ate professor of political sci­ence at Case Western Uni­versity, will deliver a lecture titled “Outside Capitals: Measuring and Explaning Subnational Democracy” to­day from 12:30 to 1:30 p.m. in Room C103 of the Hes-burgh Center. 
Stephen E. Zitney, the di­rector of the AVESTAR Cen­ter, will present a seminar addressing the challenges of attaining operational excel­lence for clean energy plants today from 3:30 to 4:30 p.m. in 155 DeBartolo Hall. 
There will be a freshmen finals prayer service tonight at 9 p.m. at the Grotto. 
The “Operation Smile Can­dy Gram Fundraiser” will happen tomorrow from 3 to 6 p.m. at LaFortune Student Center. 
Celebrate the spring season with free food, inflatables, games, face painting, balloon animals, juggler and a pet­ting zoo at the Zahm Spring Carnival tomorrow from 4 to 7 p.m, on North Quad. 
Dr. Roderick J.A. Little will deliver a lecture titled “Much More Than Bean Counting: Why You Should Become a Statistician” tomorrow from 4 to 5 p.m. at 127 Hayes-Healy. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, email detailed information about an event to obsnews.nd@gmail.com 



LOCAL WEATHER 

TODAY TONIGHT WEDNESDAY THURSDAY FRIDAY SATURDAY 










HIGH 86 LOW 65 
HIGH 83 LOW 65 

HIGH 80 LOW 62 
HIGH 82 LOW 61 

Tuesday, May 1, 2012 The Observer u NEWS ndsmcobserver.com | page 3 


CAMPUS LIFE COUNCIL 
Group advocates for inclusion 
By NICOLE TOCZAUER 
News Writer 
In their final meeting of the semester, members of Campus Life Council (CLC) discussed how to best advocate for the expansion of inclusion on the basis of sexual orientation, race and ethnicity in student government’s Year End Report to the Board of Trustees. 
Student body president emeritus Pat McCormick said student government regularly reports student concerns to a Board of Trustees committee responsible for the Board of Student Affairs. These reports usually happen two to three times each year. 
“In the fall, we presented students’ advocacy of sustain­ability, informing the building of a Notre Dame for the 21st century,” McCormick said. “We thought this time it would be especially valuable to talk about how we might expand inclusion in the Notre Dame family, particularly ethnicity and race, as well as sexual ori­entation, based on events in the past couple of months.” 
Ed Mack, rector of O’Neill Hall, said although student gov­ernment has tried to expand in­clusion in the past, there might be better ways to work with the University administration. 
“I’m wondering if after the presentation we can ask, ‘What are we missing?’ What’s their advice to us?” he said. “The best and brightest of student government have worked on this for several years and there hasn’t been much progress.” 
McCormick said Student Senate passed resolutions re­questing the addition of sexual orientation to its nondiscrimi­nation clause and the approval of a gay-straight alliance (GSA) or equivalent student group. 
“The University ran a press release last week on their in­tent to expand inclusion. We don’t think it has been unsuc­cessful,” McCormick said. “I hope this year’s work speaks to a broad consensus on all sides on sexual orientation and race that we have made progress.” 
Members of CLC also dis­cussed concerns students have voiced in the past week. 
Former Zahm Hall Senator Kevin Noonan said students thought the administration’s press release was ambiguous. (Editor’s Nnote: Noonan is the Scene editor for The Observ­er.) 
“There’s been a lot of stu­dent support, specifically for a GSA and a sexual orientation clause,” he said. “I think for the very least, ask [in the Year End Report] for an explanation, a public explanation, of what’s holding it back when students have supported this for so long.” The work of several campus stakeholders was essential to the progress made this year, McCormick said. 
“We are committed to en­suring discrimination in every form is confronted,” he said. “Students have advocated in extraordinary ways and in ways that remain in line with the mission of the University. We hope to express our grati­tude that engagement from other stakeholders has oc­curred and hope to progress in weeks to come.” 
Contact Nicole Toczauer at ntoczaue@nd.edu 




SMC student studies world female leaders 

By JILLIAN BARWICK 
Saint Mary’s Editor 
For Saint Mary’s junior Lindsay Ellis, summer break will be an opportunity to ex­plore the cultures of young fe­male leaders from around the world. 
After receiving an email from the Center for Women’s Intercultural Leadership (CWIL) regarding new em­ployment opportunities on campus, Ellis said she was in­trigued by the chance to inter­act with international female leaders. 
“I am really excited to share my culture with other women leaders,” Ellis said. “With this opportunity, I will be able to find out how different I am from these other young wom­en and how our cultures com­pare and contrast.” 
Ellis will participate in a study at Saint Mary’s that ex­amines undergraduate women leaders from Burma, Egypt, Libya, Mongolia and Tuni­siaUnited States State Depart­ment’s Ellis . Ellis said the U.S. State Department’s Bureau of Educational and Cultural Af­fairs selected Saint Mary’s for a grant to conduct the study. 
Titled “Educating Tomor­row’s Global Women Leaders,” the institute will consist of four weeks of intensive studies of American women’s history, leadership and intercultural skills. This will be followed by a week of educational travel, culminating in a conference in Washington, D.C., Ellis said. 
“I am participating in the four weeks as a student men­tor on campus, beginning on June 16 and ending on July 14,” she said. “I will be shar­ing a room with two interna­tional participants where we will participate in all of the activities. I will basically be an American host to the par­ticipants.” 
Hosted through CWIL, the institute helps participants to learn about the United States and to get to know their peers, Ellis said. 
“The program is designed through CWIL to include stu­dent mentors like myself so that the participants will have us as their American tour guides and mentors during their stay here,” Ellis said. 
Strong leadership skills and excellent intercultural compe­tence were prerequisites for becoming student mentors, Ellis said. 
“I am a resident advisor in McCandless Hall, and women’s studies is one of my minors,” Ellis said. “This opportunity seemed to fit right in with what I like to do.” 
Ellis said she thought her experience as a Resident Advi­sor strengthened her applica­tion for the CWIL program. 
“We do diversity training and are involved with a lot of conflict resolution,” she said. “We also plan many events throughout the year, so all of that sort of molds us into peo­ple who fit the job description perfectly. I can’t wait to meet the other girls in my section, because I know we all bring something different to the ta­ble.” 
In addition to learning about other female leaders and their cultures, Ellis said she and other mentors will receive room and board as well as a stipend for their participation in the study. 
“I found the incentive in ap­plying was that I’d be able to be back on campus for a few weeks and get to travel around while meeting new friends,” Ellis said. “The opportunity to travel to places like New York, Boston and Washington, 
D.C. all in one summer will be amazing.” 
The participants and their mentors will also make week­end trips from South Bend to Chicago, Ellis said. 
“This opportunity to travel and get to know women from other countries is going to be an experience I will never forget,” she said. “I am really looking forward to meeting all the participants and learning more than I ever imagined … I think because I love Saint Mary’s so much, I always want to share that love with new people, so this is the perfect opportunity for me.” 
Contact Jillian Barwick at jbarwi01@saintmarys.edu 


page 4 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u NEWS Tuesday, May 1,  2012 
Grad students study ancient texts 
By ANN MARIE JAKUBOWSKI 
News Writer 
Over Spring Break, 10 Notre Dame graduate students enrolled in a classics seminar taught by Professor Martin Bloomer gained hands-on experience with an­cient texts and manuscripts at the Ambrosian Library in Milan, Italy. 
The class, composed of stu­dents from the classics, literature and history departments as well as the Medieval Institute, joined students from Loyola University Chicago and the University of Wisconsin to tour the world-re­nowned library and examine the texts. 
Bloomer said the seminar ex­amines how ancient texts are transmitted. 
“When we study classical texts in introductory classes, we study them as if they had been printed once by someone in, say, the 4th century,” Bloomer said. “The fact is, however, that we are actually reading copies of copies of copies of the original texts.” 
By focusing on the editorial process, Bloomer said scholars can gain insight into interpreting the manuscripts. 
“Any editor of these texts is making decisions about what to include, which is shown in the text’s physical properties, like commentary notes in the mar­gin,” he said. “In my seminar, we were looking at all these process­es by which a text is reprocessed and interpreted.” 
The students spent most of the week-long trip researching how to interpret  the texts using their physical properties, Bloomer said. He said students usually spent half the day in the library, while they spent the other half touring museums and historical sights in Milan. 
“We went to an art gallery which housed fantastic works of art, including Da Vinci’s note­books, as well as the old Chris­tian churches founded by St. Am­brose, the place where Ambrose baptized St. Augustine, and Augustine’s nearby birthplace,” Bloomer said. “The library cura­tors, known as the Doctors of the Ambrosiana, took us on wonder­ful tours.” 
Literature graduate student Bobby McFadden, a member of Bloomer’s seminar, said the trip made him appreciate the impor­tance of examining ancient texts in person. He said it also provid­ed an opportunity to explore the resources of a prominent Euro­pean library. 

“The trip wasn’t just about our own study of how these texts are received and the questions we could ask of them, but also on a larger scale, seeing what kinds of texts are preserved in European library and the necessity of going over there and researching them ourselves,” McFadden said. 
McFadden said his research concerns the relationship be­tween classical literature and the Catholic Church fathers. 
“I’m interested in the recep­tion of classical literature by the Church fathers, particularly Am­brose and Augustine,” he said. “This particular class provided a great opportunity to focus on texts from the Middle Ages and Renaissance periods in a Chris­tian context.” 
Bloomer said decades ago, a relationship between Fr. Theo­dore Hesburgh, University presi­dent emeritus, and Ambrosia’s Giovanni Battista Montini, who later became Pope Paul VI, re­sulted in the University’s acquisi­tion of digital copies of many an­cient texts. As a result, Bloomer said his students were familiar with the texts before examining them in person. 
“A microfilm photograph pre­serves certain aspects, but as historians, we want to examine the actual article and read signs of use into it, the kind of thing you can know only by holding it in your hands,” Bloomer said.
 Bloomer said the trip to Milan marked the culmination of the class and allowed the students to apply the work they did dur­ing the semester in an exciting setting. 
“Milan is a great city, and part of my idea was to demystify the whole process of using ancient and medieval materials,” Bloom­er said. “By going to a major collection such as Ambrosia, I wanted to provide students with the know-how and practical ex­perience, and then give them context by meeting many of the fine scholars and curators at the Ambrosiana.” 
McFadden agreed the research opportunities available at the Ambrosian Library were unpar­alleled. 
“Exploring the collections of the library, and particularly the tour of Milan that the Ambrosia­na hosts gave us, was especially beneficial for me because of my research with saints Augustine and Ambrose,” he said. “Seeing the city that Ambrose helped to build brought me to a new un­derstanding of what he was try­ing to do there during his time as bishop, so I really appreciated the graciousness and help of our pro­fessor and guides.” 
Contact Ann Marie Jakubowski at ajakubo1@nd.edu 
Scouts 
continued from page 1 
troop. It allows for siblings to attend the same meeting, but they are split into groups, called Daisies, Brownies and Juniors, based on their grades. 
“The idea of this troop is that it’s a one-stop shop for the par­ents,” Pfaff said. “It makes them 
more will­ing to keep their girls in Girl Scouts  “A goal of Girl Scouts is to get girls thinking in a more futuristic way.”  to do them,” Fausto said. “It was a good l e a d e r s h i p  
because they  ex per ienc e,  
only  have  to  Jamie Pfaff  and a lot of  
bring them to one meeting.”  sophomore  the little girls were so cute.”  
Pfaff  said  In  Febru­ 
t y p i c a l l y ,  ary,  Campus  
eight  volun- Girl  Scouts  

teers led each meeting. The and Troop 00087 sold more girls worked to earn badges than 350 boxes of Girl Scout and promote the Girl Scout Law, cookies and spent the profit which focuses on values like on Build-A-Bear teddy bears, honesty, responsibility, courage Fausto said. and respect, she said. They also “I liked it when we sold cook-participated in cultural and ies,” Fausto said. “It was more academic activities like taking fun because the girls had more interaction. They got to see the campus and the students and do something active.” 
Pfaff said Saint Mary’s fresh­man Kaitlin Maierhofer and Notre Dame freshman Emma O’Shea will head the club as co-presidents next year. She said the club plans to continue lead­ing Troop 00087 and expand by hosting larger events for local troops, like a sleepover or lead­ership day. 
“A goal of Girl Scouts is to get girls thinking in a more futuris­tic way,” Pfaff said. “These girls are coming to Notre Dame and meeting girls that did that. It’s huge for them to start thinking about their futures.” 
Campus Girl Scouts works to give the girls in its troop a com­munity in which they can be themselves, Pfaff said. 
“A big thing for me was to see these girls who were per­fect strangers and had probably never been to Notre Dame be­fore become comfortable with each other and become like a little family,” she said. 
Contact Tori Creighton at tcreight@nd.edu 
Soccer 
continued from page 1 
Notre Dame’s regular Comcast cable offerings. 
“I know there are a lot of peo­ple on campus who like it and I’ll watch it with them in La-Fortune, but not all my friends like soccer,” Gonzalez said. 
Gonzalez said he loves soc­cer because he grew up playing back home in Mexico. 
“You can easily play on the streets … People have soccer balls or just have a can, as long as you have something to kick around,” he said. 
Gonzalez said he preferred soccer over American football and basketball because soccer is a continuous game. 
“It’s not like American foot­ball [where] you play for ten seconds and stop for a little while,” he said. “Anybody can play it. You don’t have to be too fast or skilled … You can play and don’t have to be an ath­lete.” 
Sophomore Michael Gills said he follows his team, Newcastle United, both on the big screen in LaFortune and in his room. 
“I watch multiple games a week of soccer,” he said. “It’s 
Action 
continued from page 1 
reaction has been the [increased] vigor that people have for the is­sue … keeping the discussion very much alive.” 
Student government leaders have participated in the commit­tees attempting to address dis­crimination at Notre Dame and have taken initiatives to comple­ment the conclusions drawn in those committees, student body president Brett Rocheleau said. 
“Student government has been heavily involved with each of the committees, and Student Senate just passed a resolution the other day that basically said we are looking for a University task force to go through and review the sys­tems of how training is done … looking back on what’s going on and taking a second look at how we can improve the processes that could be a part of this inclu­sion,” he said. 
Student body president emeri­tus Pat McCormick said he is working alongside Rocheleau to develop a presentation for the up­coming Board of Trustees meet­ing that will focus on ways to build an inclusive community. 
“Our hope is to offer a forward-looking view as to how we might build a more inclusive commu­nity on campus with a wide vari­ety of campus stakeholders that is truly consistent with the mission of the University of Notre Dame,” McCormick said. 
Rocheleau said while acknowl­edging the long-term vision nec­essarily defines these efforts, stu­dent government hopes to begin to implement programs that will change the atmosphere before the next school year. 
“We are going to hit the ground running in the fall when every­one is back on campus, whether it is new faculty diversity training or new events during Freshman Orientation,” Rocheleau said. “We are trying to make everyone more informed on diversity issues on campus and trying to expand the resources already offered at Notre Dame ... making sure when we get to campus this issue re­mains relevant until it gets solved and there is a culture of inclu­sion.” 
Vice President for Student Af­pretty easy to watch here in LaFortune. I [also] watch in my room because I pay [extra] for the cable service.” 
Gills said he likes watching the games in LaFortune due to the exciting atmosphere that usually accompanies impor­tant games. 
“You come to LaFun and you see huge groups of people watching it,” he said. “All the students are very passionate about it, and I like to watch with them because they care a lot.” 
Gills said he has been watch­ing soccer since he was born because his dad is from New­castle. He said the Champions League is comprised of the top teams from around the world. 
“It’s the best players from around the world playing in one competition,” Gills said. “It happens every year, and [they] qualify by previous per­formances in your respective league.” 
Gills said one of the most ap­pealing parts of soccer is its large audience. 
“Everybody watches it,” he said. It is really the world’s game.” 
Contact Meghan Thomassen at mthomass@nd.edu 
fairs Fr. Tom Doyle said his office has a similarly long-term vision for implementing programs to change the campus atmosphere, but it also seeks to create short-term progress. 
“We want to make sure that there’s a real awareness and sensitivity to things that might be part of our tradition that are unwittingly off-putting to parts of our community,” Doyle said. “We are taking a look [at programs in place] and saying, ‘Are there things that we can do better for our rectors, our assistant rectors, our RAs … our Freshman Orien­tation staff?’” 
Doyle said his office will em­phasize training residence halls’ Freshman Orientation staffs in racial sensitivity. 
“We are trying to make sure that each dorm understands how important it is to extend hospital­ity and welcome not just students of color, but also to international students, students who might be gay, lesbian or questioning and students who might be disabled,” he said. 
The University will also focus on ensuring that hiring practices build this sense of community, Doyle said. 
“In our own hiring, [we will be] making sure that we have much more diverse pools of applicants, and for all of our applicants try­ing to ask better questions about their cultural competency, pre­paredness to work in a diverse setting, and readiness to … teach and lead,” Doyle said. 
Doyle said although this pro­cess will not yield quick results, the unique climate currently at Notre Dame enables the commu­nity to become one that is truly catholic, not just Catholic. 
“There’s no one thing that will fix the culture or will fix opera­tions,” he said. “It’s going to take trust, mutual good will, and some risks on everyone’s part — but I think what we have realized is that the risks are well worth the reward. We want to be Catholic and catholic, meaning that we are a Roman Catholic university and a catholic community … an environment on campus that is welcoming and hospitable to everyone in a deep and abiding way.” 
Contact Nicole Michels at nmichels@nd.edu 
a trip to the Snite Museum of Art and participating in Think­ing Day. 
Sophomore Celine Fausto, who co-led the Juniors, said she enjoyed helping her group earn patches in subjects rang­ing from nature to first aid and emergency response. 
“It was fun to see what they do because I was a Daisy and Brownie but never reached the Girl Scout [Junior] level, so I never got 

Tuesday, May 1,  2012 The Observer u NEWS ndsmcobserver.com | page 5 
Skyscraper replaces World Trade Center 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK — One World Trade Center, the monolith be­ing built to replace the twin towers destroyed in the Sept. 11 attacks, claimed the title of New York City’s tallest sky­scraper on Monday, as work­ers erected steel columns that made its unfinished skeleton a little over 1,250 feet high, just enough to peek over the roof of the observation deck on the Empire State Building. 
City officials and iron work­ers applauded as the first 12­ton column was hoisted onto the tower’s top deck. 
“This project is much more than steel and concrete. It is a symbol of success for the nation,” said David Samson, chairman of the Port Author­ity, the agency that owns the World Trade Center. 
Clear skies afforded an im­maculate 360-degree view from the top, although it wasn’t easy getting up there. After riding an elevator to the 90th floor, a small group of of­ficials and journalists had to climb three steep ladders to reach the top platform, which was encircled by blue netting along the perimeter. 
The milestone is a prelimi­nary one. Workers are still adding floors to the building once called the Freedom Tow­er. It isn’t expected to reach its full height for at least an­other year, at which point it is likely to be declared the tallest building in the U.S., and third tallest in the world. 
Those bragging rights, though, will carry an asterisk. 
Crowning the world’s tallest buildings is a little like pick­ing the heavyweight cham­pion in boxing. There is often disagreement about who de­serves the belt. 
In this case, the issue in­volves the 408-foot-tall needle that will sit on the tower’s roof. 
Count it, and the World Trade Center is back on top. Otherwise, it will have to settle for No. 2, after the Willis Tow­er in Chicago. 
“Height is complicated,” said Nathaniel Hollister, a spokes­man for The Council on Tall Buildings and Urban Habitats, a Chicago-based organization considered an authority on such records. 
Experts and architects have long disagreed about where to stop measuring super-tall buildings outfitted with masts, spires and antennas that ex­tend far above the roof. 
Consider the case of the Em­pire State Building: Measured from the sidewalk to the tip of its needle-like antenna, the granddaddy of all skyscrap­ers actually stands 1,454 feet high, well above the mark reached by One World Trade Center on Monday. 
Purists, though, say anten­nas shouldn’t count when de­termining building height. 
An antenna, they say, is more like furniture than a piece of architecture. Like a chair sitting on a rooftop, an antenna can be attached or removed. The Empire State Building didn’t even get its distinctive antenna until 1952. The record books, as the argu­ment goes, shouldn’t change every time someone installs a new satellite dish. 
Excluding the antenna brings the Empire State Build­ing’s total height to 1,250 feet. That was still high enough to make the skyscraper the world’s tallest from 1931 until 1972. 
From that height, the Em­pire State seems to tower over the second tallest completed building in New York, the Bank of America Tower. 
Yet, in many record books, the two skyscrapers are sepa­rated by just 50 feet. 
That’s because the tall, thin mast on top of the Bank of America building isn’t an an­tenna but a decorative spire. 
Unlike antennas, record-keepers like spires. It’s a tra­dition that harkens back to a time when the tallest buildings in many European cities were cathedrals. Groups like the Council on Tall Buildings, and Emporis, a building data pro­vider in Germany, both count spires when measuring the to­tal height of a building, even if that spire happens to look ex­actly like an antenna. 
This quirk in the record books has benefited build­ings like Chicago’s recently opened Trump International Hotel and Tower. It is routinely listed as being between 119 to 139 feet taller than the Empire State Building, thanks to the antenna-like mast that sits on its roof, even though the aver­age person, looking at the two buildings side by side, would probably judge the New York skyscraper to be taller. 
The same factors apply to measuring the height of One World Trade Center. 
Designs call for the tower’s roof to stand at 1,368 feet — the same height as the north tower of the original World Trade Center. The building’s roof will be topped with a 408-foot, cable-stayed mast, making the total height of the structure a symbolic 1,776 feet. 
So is that needle an antenna or a spire? 
“Not sure,” wrote Steve Coleman, a spokesman for the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, which owns the building. 
The needle will, indeed, function as a broadcast anten­na. It is described on the Port Authority’s website as an an­tenna. On the other hand, the structure will have more meat to it than your average an­tenna, with external cladding encasing the broadcast mast. 
Without that spire, One World Trade Center would still be smaller than the Wil­lis Tower in Chicago, formerly known as the Sears Tower, which tops out at 1,451 feet (not including its own anten­nas). 
Debate over which of those buildings can truly claim to be the tallest in the U.S. has been raging for years on Internet message boards frequented by skyscraper enthusiasts. 
As for the Council on Tall Buildings, it is leaning toward giving One World Trade the benefit of the doubt. 
“This is something we have discussed with the architect,” Hollister said. “As we under­stand it, the needle is an ar­chitectural spire which hap­pens to enclose an antenna. We would thus count it as part of the architectural height.” 

CHINA 


Blind Lawyer narrowly escapes house arrest 

Associated Press 
BEIJING — Chen Guangcheng’s blindness was a help and a hin­drance as he made his way past the security cordon ringing his farmhouse. 
He knew the terrain — he had explored his village in ru­ral China as a blind child and moved as easily in darkness as in daylight. He was alert for the sounds of people, cars and the river he would have to cross. 
But he stumbled scores of times, arriving bloody at a meeting point with a fellow dis­sident — the first of an under­ground railroad of supporters who eventually escorted him to safety with U.S. diplomats. 
A self-taught lawyer who angered authorities by expos­ing forced abortions, Chen is now presumed to be under U.S. protection, most likely in the fortress-like American Em­bassy in Beijing. Details of his improbable escape — making his way last week through fields and forest, then being chased by security agents in Beijing — are emerging in accounts from the activists who helped him. 
Chen and his family had been harassed and kept under house arrest since the summer of 2005, except for a four-year period when Chen was jailed on charges of disrupting traf­fic and restrictions were eased on his wife and daughter. The couple’s young son lives with his mother’s sister. 
After Chen’s release in Sep­tember 2010, the family was again placed under house ar­rest, their movements severely restricted, with even 6-year­old daughter Kesi subjected to searches when she came home from school. Chen and his wife, Yuan Weijing, were beaten sev­eral times. 
The 41-year-old activ­ist hatched his escape plan months ago with a simple idea 
— he would just lie still, said Bob Fu, founder of the Texas-based rights group ChinaAid and one of a handful of people to speak to Chen since he fled his village. 
For weeks on end, Chen stayed in bed, saying he was too feeble to rise. 
In fact, Chen wasn’t well; his stomach was bothering him as it had for years. But he exag­gerated his condition to lull the guards into a sense of compla­cency. 
The ruse worked. The guards didn’t look in on him constant­ly, assuming he was still bed­ridden, and when he escaped under cover of darkness, it took three days for them to notice. 
“He did a darn good job. ... He prepared for months, at least two months,” Fu said. “He didn’t really move much, just laying in bed and making the impression that he couldn’t move.” 
The night was cool with just a sliver of crescent moon in the sky on April 22 when Chen slipped out of his farmhouse in eastern China’s Shandong province. Blinded by fever as a child, Chen grew up exploring the nearby cornfields and dirt paths sightless, so he had his bearings. 
It wasn’t the first time he had run away from Dongshigu village and his bitter, nearly decade-long feud with local of­ficials. 
In 2005, Chen, his wife and a friend made a dash out of the village, running through a cornfield to evade guards. He and his friend got all the way to Beijing, where they met with diplomats and journalists, but his wife was captured. Days later, Chen was seized by secu­rity guards on the streets of the capital and returned to house arrest. 
On that brief escape he had been helped by his sighted friend; this time Chen was alone. 
He followed a path to a field and from there took a road he knew would lead him to a nar­row river. After crossing it, he entered a wooded area that gave way to less familiar ter­ritory, ground that continually tripped him up. He fell at least 200 times, he would tell his supporters. 
He walked for hours, trying to put as much distance be­tween himself and his heav­ily guarded home as possible before daring to slip a battery into his mobile phone and call He Peirong, a Nanjing-based English teacher-turned-activist who had promised to help. She was waiting with a car. 
When she finally found him, Chen was wet, covered in mud and blood, and had numerous cuts and bruises. 
“He was in very unbelievable shape when he was picked up,” said Fu, citing a conversation with He. Chen “was trembling, was physically weak. ... But he was determined to escape from that miserable condition.” 


page 6 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com Tuesday, May 1, 2012 
INSIDE COLUMN 
My senior thesis on Star Wars 
The undergraduate thesis might just be the ultimate form of self-inflicted punishment. Whether you’re in the Honors program, a PLS major or just plain ambitious, interested and a little bit crazy, the undergraduate thesis is all on you, in both times hard and good. 
It seems like such a good idea at the beginning 
— 50 pages is nothing! That’s, like, five 10 page Maija Gustin papers, which I write all the time, Senior Scene thank you very Writer much. I’ve got a whole year to do it, and that’s one less class I have to take each semester. 

And then your bibliography gets bigger, your research more in-depth, your nights more sleepless. You start to wonder, “Was this really all worth it?” 
You will face many hardships on your way to writing that senior undergraduate thesis, and you will consider just laying it all down and giving up many times, but on that day you finally turn it in — well, you might never feel better. 
I know this from personal experi­ence — this past Friday, I turned in 70 pages of blood, sweat and tears. It was cathartic, it was a relief, it was celebratory — and it was all worth it. 
It was worth it, not because I have 70 pages of academic insight to my name, but because I wrote my thesis on just about the coolest thing I could 
— “Star Wars.” Yeah, all that writing was hard. But even at its worst, my thesis was about “Star Wars!” 
I spent countless hours reading about the most prolific movies of my childhood, the stories that inspired my young imagination and propelled to be a film major today. It was the closet to reading for fun that I’ve ever gotten in school. 
Thanks to my thesis, I also received funding to visit Skywalker Ranch in Marin County, Calif., to do research and conduct interviews. It may have been a working trip, but I’ve never had more fun doing work in my life. 
Writing 70 pages about “Star Wars” (and the many complexities behind the life of that franchise), it turns out, was pretty easy. I was a fan girl writ­ing something I would have enjoyed reading myself and, unsurprisingly, that made the whole thing an ulti­mately enjoyable experience. 
So, don’t let 20 or 50 or 70 pages scare you away from taking on some­thing really challenging but really re­warding. But when you set your mind to it, choose a topic you’re interested in. You will spend an entire year on it, no matter what you might think now, so settle in for that year with some­thing you love. Be smart, be original and, most importantly, be you. Find your personal “Star Wars” and the pain and suffering will, as it turns out, be one of the most rewarding ex­periences of your academic career. 
Contact Maija Gustin at      mgustin@nd.edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


Nine rules to live by in college 
One of the absolutely worst quotes of all time is “college is the best years of your life.” Every college student on the planet rolls their eyes because it’s something the grown-up folk love to pass around like it’s phenom-Marc Anthony Rosa enal counsel. It’s just a Bro Meets World terrible ex­pression. Right off the bat, it indirectly reminds us that life doesn’t get any better after college. Immediately afterwards, it instantly puts us students in this emo­tional indebtedness, like we need to owe reverence towards an experience that we’ve yet to have. 
As a graduating senior here at Notre Dame, rich with the experiences of our campus, it’s my duty to take the reigns of our forefathers and join the monotony of alumni banter. However, I refuse to tell you that college is the best years of your life. For your sake, I hope it’s not. 
We can’t settle with this four-year experience as being the most dynamic, exciting periods of our lives, because it means our aggressive risk-taking and belligerent socializing meant nothing for our future. Our adult lives cannot become torpid shadows of our four-year lifestyle, where passions from college fade away by the rhythmic droning of mediocrity. We can’t settle for alumni dinners as our only reminder of a life in which we fully lived. 
While college shouldn’t be the best years of our lives, it is arguably the most important years of our lives. It’s an en­vironment that’s so unlike anything else in life. Here, we’re forced to understand everything about ourselves. We discover how we learn, the ways we think and the philosophies that make us tick. College is a place where, for the first time ever, we are truly accountable to ourselves. There are thousands of moments that each of us experience here — both beautiful and tragic — where success is measured not by the quality of the journey, but by actually having these experiences. To celebrate the gift of life, we must be will­ing to experience everything that comes with it. 

There are so many things I’ve learned from my time here at Notre Dame. Instead of taking up more newspaper real estate, I’m going to share the top nine rules that I learned from college. It’s my sincere hope that these will help the most important years of your life become legendary. 
Rule No. 1: Don’t be logical about your major. Follow your passions and pursue something that you love to do. The worst thing you can do with your parent’s hard-earned money is to invest it in something that you’re not passionate about because it looks employable. Don’t ever sacrifice intellectual satisfaction in the name of job uncertainty. 
Rule No. 2: Don’t let schooling get in the way of your education. If I had listened to my professors, I’d be an A student and completely unhappy. Instead, I’ve learned far more than my courses have allowed and love life, because I spent time learn­ing rather than mastering intricacies of an antiquating school system. You can’t teach how to be passionate in a class cur­riculum. Don’t expect to learn it there. 
Rule No. 3: Manage your homework and your course load incredibly well. The amount of things you have on your plate will never subside, ever. Develop the tools now to tackle the things that get in the way of living. 
Rule No. 4: Don’t waste all of your time partying. Don’t get me wrong; I love the rage. But, there’s far more to life than getting drunk when it’s accessible. Grab a camera, get on a bike and experience, even if it means doing it alone. 
Rule No. 5: This comes from a Wall Street Journal Article (“10 Things Your Commencement Speaker Won’t Tell You,” April 28): “Your parents don’t want what is best for you. They want what is good for you, which isn’t always the same thing.” Despite what you’d like to believe, your parents might be purposefully limiting you. With so much risk in the world, can you blame them? To settle for a riskless, safe life is to settle for a life not lived. 
Rule No. 6: Contrary to what we’re taught, the most powerful word in the dictionary is not yes, but rather, no. Fo­cus is an unbelievably valuable commod­ity. To have the discipline and strength to turn down exciting opportunities is something that will make your life more fulfilling and less scattered. 
Rule No. 7: Most of life’s problems can be solved with good sleep, waking up early and eating breakfast. The Denver Omelet is the gold standard of this lesson. 
Rule # 8: Discover what it is that you live for. Everyone has it. If you haven’t found it, you haven’t tried hard enough to find it. And when you find it, you’ll know. Take time to find it, because nobody else will. Nor will they give you permission to do so. 
Rule No. 9: Do crazy things and believe in something. When you’re 65 years old, you’re not going to care about how well you played the rules. What you’re going to care about is how you stood up for an idea, a movement, something that resonates with you and that you’re better because of it. One of the greatest things in the world is to truly own your own beliefs. 
Marc Anthony Rosa is a senior management entrepreneurship major. He can be reached at mrosa@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

A call for vocations 
Editor’s Note: The Observer is refraining from naming the author of this letter because of a concern for his personal safety away from Notre Dame. The Observer has verified the authenticity of the letter, as well as the legitimacy of the author’s concern. 
Dear Holy Cross Priests of Notre Dame, 

Each week at Mass, the same petition resurfaces. “For an increase in vocations to the priesthood and religious life, especially to the Congregation of the Holy Cross.” I have been discerning the priesthood for some time now and would like to say ‘thanks’ for including me in your weekly prayers. In addition, thanks for the incredible examples you have been for me and all students here at Notre Dame. Whether in the residence halls, on campus ministry retreats, or in the classroom, your day-to-day work shapes this University. 
I am also gay. And in all likelihood, some of you are too. You know the deep loneliness, the awkward conversations that make you cringe inside, and the joy that comes with making yourself known to the people closest to you. Even with your vow to remain celibate (and thus, never to engage in sexual acts of any kind), that sexuality is still very much a part of who you are and who you are called to be for this university and its students. 
As it stands, with the exclusion of sexual orientation from the non-discrimination clause (or, to avoid double negatives, the inclusion of sexual orientation in the discrimination clause) and our lack of a GSA, you too are second-class citizens. This is a call for your vocations — that you might more fully live up to the people God is calling you to be. In doing so, 
you’d be helping us to do the same. In Notre Dame, 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“The very essence of leadership is that you have to have vision. You can’t blow an uncertain trumpet.” 
Fr. Theodore Hesburgh President Emeritus 


Anonymous 
senior 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 

“Forever is composed of nows.” 
Emily Dickinson American poet 


Tuesday, May 1, 2012 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 7 
Never alone 
Consider the rock star, politician, superhero, genius, prodigy and ce­lebrity at the apex of their fame. Fans clamor, fight, squeal and foam, hoping for a chance to be close to the object of celebration. The multitude Blake J. Graham continuously validates the Erudite Techno-Lust celebrity — book signings, trans-continental tours, award ceremonies, collaborations, presidential dinners, photo-op hand­shakes. One night she sends a Facebook friend request to an old fling, someone who understood her before the fame, pomp and fancy. For weeks she checks her account wait, wait, waiting for a response — electronic affirmation from someone who really matters—nothing ever comes. 
It’s a strange condition, to be so sur­rounded, yet so distant from those who matter, and yet it’s an ever-popular one. The social Internet promised us a flat world of friendship: a realm of decency, camaraderie and meaning. But what we have is quite different from that. And the profiles that represent our persons online are quite different from who we really are. 
If we assume that the modern Inter­net began with Google, we can put an age on it of 14 years. Based on that, anybody born after 1987 has spent the majority of her intelligent life sur­rounded by a web-centric culture. This generation doesn’t know any different from what they have experienced and continue to experience. During the ages of much needed social experimentation and expansion, technological products have been released almost directly in sync. The social pressures of high school or college were alleviated with MySpace, Facebook or Twitter. Para­digms of mental development have been altered to include the social web. 
The thing is, people don’t change much. That isn’t to say individuals don’t change, but the human race exists and reacts in ways very similar to our gen­erational ancestors. Technology devel­ops at an insane velocity. Only five years ago the first truly “smart” phone was released. It’s been within this period that technology has forcibly inserted itself as an essential component of life. 
At first the benefits were simple: tech­nology would allow people to connect with one another across vast physical distances in a short amount of time. But to establish connections, we were given the tools to create a web presence — a means of identifying ourselves online. Somewhere in the evolution of technolo­gy, the importance of those two flipped: our profiles began to say more than we actually did. Better than just saying who we were in real life, we were given the ability to alter our profiles to reflect whatever we wanted them to. We could 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
In solidarity 
While this letter was composed by eight students who happen to be mem­bers of the Core Council for Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual and Questioning Students, we do not speak on behalf of the council itself, the faculty and administrators involved, or the other student leaders on the council. These are our personal opinions. 
We, as student leaders, would like to take this opportunity to share with the campus community our opinions regard­ing the University’s recent decision to not add sexual orientation to the official non-discrimination clause and to weigh in on the impending decision concerning the club status of AllianceND. 
While we remain committed to serv­ing on the Core Council because of the opportunity it provides to engage in dia­logue with the administration regarding our concerns for the GLBTQ community, we want to emphasize that the Core Council alone is not sufficient to effective­ly change the atmosphere on Our Lady’s campus toward GBLTQ individuals, nor is it capable of adequately serving the thousands of students, faculty and staff who are concerned with GLBTQ rights and inclusion. 
Those of us returning for the 2012 -2013 school year will continue to use our roles on the council to improve the climate on this campus for GLBTQ students. We want, however, to express our full support of the recognition of Al­lianceND for the coming school year and the inclusion of sexual orientation in the University’s non-discrimination clause. 
It needs to get better on this cam­pus. We believe that these changes are long overdue and have the potential to improve the atmosphere on this campus drastically for both GLBTQ and Ally members of the Notre Dame community. We want every student, staff and faculty member frustrated by the current cli­mate to know that we stand with you in this struggle, and that we, as individuals, support you. 
In solidarity, 


Sean Cotter 
freshman Zahm Hall 

Elie Elian 
junior O’Neill Hall 

Jason G’Sell 
senior Duncan Hall 

Tom Lienhoop 
sophomore Dillon Hall 

Mia Lillis 
sophomore Cavanaugh Hall 

Lauren Morisseau 
freshman Breen-Phillips Hall 

Maggie Waickman 
freshman Pasquerilla East Hall 


Brenna Williams 
senior off campus April 30 


also be selective or encompassing in who we interacted with. Profiles, posts, texting and whatnot let us present the image of who we want to be. We can edit out our inadequacies and short­comings, we can skip the messy bits of face-to-face conversations, we can all become awesome beings totally in con­trol of our lives. Dangerously, we begin to forget how fallible we are. 
Technology is fascinating and power­ful. So is human interaction, and that’s something a generation is increasingly forgetting. A connection is not a con­versation. Being friends with someone on Facebook is not equitable to human interaction. Yet we thrive on these superficial connections. People take to Twitter or Facebook in the middle of the night in hopes of a chance to express and be recognized. People log into Facebook before they brush their teeth in the morning, before they have coffee, before they get dressed. There’s a fas­cination in the voyeurism of exploring others lives. After all, if you’re inspect­ing their projected life, wouldn’t they be inspecting yours? 
Seldom do people have the opportuni­ty to look at their social profiles and ac­tually compare what’s on the page with what’s on their mind. A photo album of 300 pictures can reflect the atmosphere of a party, but reality proves you spent a night observing a party from behind a camera lens in hope of preserving it. 
As great as technology is, I challenge you to give up on it. Turn it off, shut it down, launch it to the moon, blow it to pieces. It’s not that the Internet must be ruining your life, nobody is saying that. Rather, those born after 1987 haven’t lived without technology, at least not of a long while. Quitting Facebook won’t be enough. Quitting the Internet is a start. Henry David Thoreau would be proud. 
We expect more out of technology than we do out of each other, and that is a fundamental flaw. By leaving the internet behind, you will be forced to examine your interactions. And I sus­pect you will find more trust in those you care for, and those who care for you. Self-reflection requires intimacy and empathy, two things which can­not be found on a broadcast system to 1,000 of your best “friends.” Maintain­ing your identity is exhausting; specifi­cally when it’s something you have to do twenty-four hours a day. Forget about fans, likes, views, comments, reblogs, @replies and everything. Forget about yourself for a bit, disconnect and live for a bit. 
Blake J. Graham is a freshman. He can be reached on Twitter @BlakeGraham or at bgraham2@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
‘Father Jenkins, this is not about an agenda’ 
Earlier this semester, I gave an inter­view to The Observer in which I shared intimate details of an attempted suicide during my freshman year. Frankly, I gave the interview hoping to bring light to the gravity of a situation about which Sam Costanzo the University has acted cowardly. I’m Guest Columnist not referring just to depression and suicide on college cam­puses — though these are issues about which I remain very concerned — but rather to the condition of GLBTQ students at Notre Dame. And honestly, I also gave the interview in part to make good on my past failure to speak up in your office hours last semester. 
I’d applied multiple times for the chance to attend your office hours (which we all know are a limited, highly-selec­tive affair), so you can imagine my hap­piness this past fall when I was notified of my successful application. I had fifteen minutes to sit with you and one other stu­dent in your office, so there was clearly not much time for meaningful dialogue between us. I, a cowardly fifth-year senior, shrunk from the opportunity to speak freely, though, as we ran through the usual exchanges and you eventu­ally asked, “How has your time at Notre Dame been?” 
I don’t question your genuine inter­est in student life, but instead of saying, “Good, but ...,” I simply said, “Good.” We shook hands a short while later and my guilt grew as you wished me good luck on my way out. “What waste of time,” I thought. In failing to be honest in describing my time here, I failed to ac­curately pay witness to the reality some students face. I failed to give a voice to my peers. My response was a lie. 
I should have looked you in the eye and said, “It has been difficult, and here is why,” because Father John, you need to understand what is at stake here. You and the administration cannot afford to make vacuous public statements of support and intent that are actually of no real substance. The University cannot continue to prioritize a desired public im­age over the welfare of its student body. Some of my fellow students are suffering the same feelings of isolation and depres­sion that led me to make a dangerous decision four years ago. These students can barely trust their residence hall staff, much less a clergy person or someone on one of your administrative committees. Some of these women and men remain in the closet, and we may never know their identity. But I know how they feel because I was once one of them, and out of silent desperation I eventually tried to kill myself. 
I failed to do the right thing when I met with you, but I am graduating soon and cannot afford to waste any more time with empty words. What I and the student body need from you is the op­portunity to make a significant change in the lives of Notre Dame’s students, most especially those students who feel they are losing their tether to the world. 
So amend the non-discrimination clause. Officially recognize the student club. You and the administration must not contribute to a situation in which a student does not make it out of here alive, and I dread the day when my Univer­sity springs to action too late, and only after a student takes their own life out of despair. 
Father John, this is not about an agenda — it is about people. Stand up to the political and derisive opposition, and rally your fellow University leaders. We can never stop trying to make life better for those present and future Notre Dame students to whom I so powerfully relate. I hope you can find the courage to do the right thing. 
Sam Constanzo is a senior. He can reached at scostanz@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

page 8 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com Tuesday, May 1, 2012 

By TESSA DEMERS 
Scene Writer 
This past weekend, the Music Department and the Notre Dame Opera joined forces to put on a production of “Sweeney Todd: The Demon Barber of Fleet Street.” Although not an opera, this show is a challenging and thought-provoking piece of musical drama that pushes audiences past tradi­tional comfort zones. 
For those who don’t know the show, it tells the tale of a barber named Benjamin Barker. After the local judge lusts after his wife and deports him far away for a crime he didn’t commit, Barker finally returns to civilization as Sweeney Todd, bent on seeking his revenge. As he waits and conspires ways to kill the judge, he ends up killing multitudes of others, deciding everybody deserves to die because “the lives of the wicked should be made brief; for the rest of us, death will be a relief.” 
This musical is neither focused on love nor tap dancing. The feelings onstage are dark through­out, angry, and even murderous –— a fact creator Stephen Sondheim addresses with bits of humor and even a bit of a twisted love story. It’s hard to put it any other way when Sweeney Todd en­ters into a somewhat romantic relationship with one ditzy London widow named Mrs. Lovett, who makes and sells “the worst meat pies” in the Brit­ish capital. 
Audiences watch in horror as Mrs. Lovett’s meat pies become the best and most popular around, thanks to the abundance of extremely fresh meat Sweeney Todd accumulates in his barber shop. The story is full of suspense and plot twists, and no shortage of spilled blood — hopefully of the fake stage variety. As Sweeney focuses on the on­going plot to kill the judge when he comes in for a shave, he gets caught up in the dementia first of his progress and then of his postponed success in the only mission that really matters to him. Todd grows even angrier as his proto-serial killer personality starts to come apart at the seams. As they say: you always hurt the ones you love. 
The Music Department and Opera made a gutsy choice in this show. It is a difficult piece in terms of subtext and general dark themes, many of which interact and interplay in ways that are hard to grasp. It is never certain how a show like this — far removed from what’s normally con­sidered “entertainment” – will be received. How­ever, Notre Dame has done justice to the piece, adhering to Sondheim’s conditions and adding its own innovative flares. 
For instance, in the song “A Little Priest” — which discusses the types of people they can bake into pies because “everybody shaves” – the com­pany performers come onto the stage dressed as recognizable character types and join the rest of the future pie fillings in a background dance. Al­though this innovative addition to the style of the show added a comedic break from the darkness and tension, it distracted from the heart of the piece that comes from the playd on words that keep coming line after line. 
Filled with such gems as “This might be a little bit stringy, but then, of course, it’s fiddle player!” and “We’ll serve anyone — and to anyone — at all,” this is definitely a time when the strength of the scene lies within the lyrics. Sondheim has been a master of literate, unexpected lyrics show after show since his earliest lyricism penning the words to “West Side Story.” In any Sondheim mu­sical, song lyrics are not something you want to lose to attentions focused elsewhere. 
Another significant change made by this pro­duction was to have Sweeney kill himself at the end —– as opposed to having the young boy Toby kill him. This is likely intended to show how des­perate Sweeney Todd is and perhaps has been through the whole show. After seeing how his re­venge-seeking behavior and grotesque destruc­tion of his own humanity has killed the person he cared about most and for whom he went through this ordeal, he despises himself and meets his end the same way his victims did — slitting his own throat. This was a powerful moment in the show, with the audience left both to watch as Sweeney’s madness literally kills him and to contemplate their own vendettas and how they could be af­fecting both themselves and those around them. 
Anthony (Mike Clark) really stood out as a powerhouse. Clark’s voice was clear and strong, and fit well with Anthony’s character. The actors playing Sweeney Todd (alternately Zach Angus and Sean McGee), however, have the biggest chal­lenge. Not only is the character the most complex and demented in the show, but also, with prede­cessors like Len Cariou in the original Broadway cast and Johnny Depp in the movie version, they have a lot to live up to. Taking into account that Angus (Sweeney in the performance I attended) is not an actor with 30-plus years of experience, he fit the shoes of his predecessors well, and did justice to the role. 
The orchestra for the show did a fantastic job handling Sondheim’s chilling and breathtakingly beautiful music; the composer is famous for writ­ing rather difficult pieces for musicians to play. The real power of this show comes from the mu­sic: the swift changes in mood, the suspenseful dissonant chords, the rising crescendos and the eerie combinations of notes. In this sense, thanks to the orchestra, the intent of “Sweeney Todd” as off-kilter musical drama was heard loud and clear. 
Overall, I hope Notre Dame continues to make gutsy choices such as this: shows that are thought-provoking and deep are great for stu­dents to broaden their minds and consider pos­sibilities previously not considered. Open minds and greater cultural literacy should be goals for every Notre Dame student, and this weekend, the Music Department and Opera brought them one step closer. 
Contact Tessa Demers at tdemers@nd.edu 


By BRENNA WILLIAMS 
Scene Writer 

Decisions are hard. Some days you really want a cookie. Other days, you crave a brownie. Today, I’m giving you a chance to have both. With finals looming, you need a quick, easy, Huddle-friendly treat to fuel your study sessions and late night paper-writing. Luck­ily, our friends at Betty Crocker understand our plight as college students, and have come up with the wonderful recipe for Choco­late Chip Cookie Dough Brownies. 
Like I said, this recipe is Huddle-friendly, using things that are easily found and bought with your dwindling Flex Points or, for those of us off campus, able to be found on a five-minute midnight grocery run. 
Ingredients: 

1 box of store bought brownie mix, plus water, vegetable oil and egg called for on the box 
(Tip: Some boxes say they are made for a specific size pan. Make sure yours will cover a 13x9 pan) 
1 box or pouch of store-bought chocolate chip cookie mix 
½ cup butter, softened 
1 egg 

(Tip: Egg whites are acceptable) 
Directions: 

1.  
Preheat oven to 130 degrees Fahrenheit. Mix brownie mix as directed on the box and spread in a pan lightly coated with cook­ing spray. 

2. 
Combine cookie mix, butter, and egg. Drop dough, evenly spaced, 2 tbsp. at a time onto the brownie batter and press down lightly. 

3. 
Bake for 42 to 47 minutes or until a toothpick inserted into the middle of the batter comes out clean. Cool for at least 30 min­utes before serving. 


Optional: If you have the extra Flex Points or need the extra sug­ar, you can top the brownies with your favorite kind of frosting. 
(Tip: If you’re getting supplies at the grocery store, some brownie mixes come with little pouches of frosting that you can drizzle over this recipe) 
This recipe can make around 40 servings if you cut them right, so there are plenty to share with roommates, section friends and random people walking by you on the quad. Everyone needs a pick­me-up this time of the year, and with a combination of two of the world’s best freshly baked treats, these are the perfect remedy to the end-of-the-year blues. 
This will be the last installment of “Baking with Brenna” be­cause of this thing called “graduation” that I’m supposedly sup­posed to attend in a matter of weeks. It’s been a blast trying out new recipes and talking to people who have shared their favorite treats with me. Hopefully you’ve seen a recipe that you’ve tried or will try making sometime. 
Contact Brenna Williams at bwillia9@nd.edu 

BRENNA WILLIAMS/The Observer 
LAUREN KALINOSKI | Observer Graphic 


Tuesday, May 1, 2012 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 9 

By CHRIS COLLUM 
Scene Writer 
Yes, this is the Jack White (born John Anthony Gillis) — Jack White of the White Stripes, the Raconteurs, the Dead Weather and about two dozen other col­laborations. While technically his debut solo album, White’s music has been a part of the public consciousness for over a decade, at least since that animated video for “Fell in Love with a Girl” star­ring Lego figures in 2001. 
This is also, perhaps more important­ly, the first piece of music we’ve heard from White since he and sister/wife/ ex-wife (depending on whose story you believe) Meg White, whose surname he now bears, dissolved the White Stripes a little over a year ago. 
The thirteen songs that comprise “Blunderbuss” came out of recording sessions with various guest and session musicians in late 2011 in his Nashville studio. According to Rolling Stone, White said in a statement that the record is “an album I couldn’t have released un­til now. I’ve put off making records un­der my own name for a long time but these songs feel like they could only be presented under my name. These songs were written from scratch, had nothing to do with anyone or anything else but my own expression, my own colors on my own canvas.” 
While Jack has also said that Meg White “completely controlled the White Stripes,” he wrote and composed all of their songs; so naturally, the obvious starting point when talking about “Blun­derbuss” is the White Stripes’ music. 
As far as the sound of this record goes, it probably sounds the most like “Get Behind Me Satan,” the band’s second-to-last album which featured rock radio hit “My Doorbell.” The keys, the guitar sound on most songs, the tinkling bells in the background — all of these things recall “Get Behind Me Satan.” The new album’s first single, “Love Interruption” is especially reminiscent of that record. 
However, some tracks, such as sec­ond single “Sixteen Saltines” — also the album’s high point — or “I’m Shakin’,” sound more like the thrashing garage rock of the Stripes’ second album “De Stijl,” or the Raconteurs’ debut. 
This kind of back-and-forth between tracks with lush, sometimes acoustic instrumentation and straightforward riff-driven blues or garage rock is typi­cal of White’s style in recent years. His signature guitar sound is unmistakable, but at times he gives the listener a break from it. This only makes it all the more thunderous when he returns to it, such as on the aforementioned “I’m Shakin’” halfway through the record. 
“Blunderbuss,” for the most part, sounds great. White’s voice has never sounded better, the arrangements are peerless, and when he does cut loose like on “Sixteen Saltines,” it’s very difficult to sit still when listening. 
White’s lyrics on this record focus pri­marily on love lost, and the utter confu­sion that follows from it. Opener “Missing Pieces” sums it up perfectly: “Sometimes someone controls everything about you / And when they tell you that they just can’t live without you / They ain’t lyin’, they’ll take pieces of you.” 
On first single “Love Interruption,” he sings, “I want love to: / change my friends to enemies, / change my friends to enemies, / and show me how it’s all my fault.” 
This kind of morose introspection is everywhere on the album, more of­ten than not in juxtaposition with the album’s bouncy, often sunny arrange­ments. Usually it works, and on the few occasions when it doesn’t, such as on closer “Take Me with You When You Go” 
— which feels more like a cut-and-paste collage of three different songs than one coherent one — it’s still a lot of fun. 
Elsewhere, on “Freedom at 21,” he ex­plores “freedom in the 21st century,” de­scribing a character who has “Two black gadgets in her hands / All she thinks about / No responsibility no guilt or mor­als / Cloud her judgment,” before erupt­ing into one of his now-famous squelch­ing, cry-out-to-the-heavens guitar solos. 
“Blunderbuss,” if nothing else, serves as a closing statement on the White Stripes era of White’s musical career, as well as a closing statement on the con­fusing relationship (whether romantic, familial or otherwise) with his ex-White Stripes band mate. To that end, it accom­plishes its purpose masterfully. 
With “Blunderbuss,” Jack White has created a record that first of all sounds really, really good; secondly, is a ton of fun to listen to and third, has the abil­ity to make the listener stop and think on repeated listen. It is not a high water mark of his career — in other words, he has created better pieces of music in the past, and probably will again in the fu­ture. 
Any fan of White’s previous work is sure to enjoy this record, even if they don’t count it among their favorites in his expansive catalog. 
White will be doing a lot of touring in the coming year, including two shows at Lollapalooza in Chicago this fall. Check out his complete touring schedule at http://jackwhiteiii.com/tour-dates/ 
Contact Chris Collum at ccollum@nd.edu 



Summer is almost upon us, so what are you going to do with all that free time? Jobs and internships may take up some of it, but history proves that the best use of your time in those warm summer months is binge-watching entire TV series in one pop. Catch up with a show on its summer hiatus or digest a com­pleted series — the possibilities are endless. Since the 
funds are not, Net.ix has you covered with a vast collection of some of TV's best. 
1. “Arrested Development” 
With a new series via Net.ix just around the corner, whether new to “Arrested Development” or an old fan, now is the time to ready your chicken dance and make some horrible mistakes with an all-star cast sure to go straight to your funny bone. 
2. “Lost” 
Still don't know why there was a polar bear on a tropical is­
land? Answer that and many more questions with the complete 
series of “Lost,” right at your .ngertips — no painful months-
long waits included. 
3. “Breaking Bad” 
Who thought meth dealers in New Mexico could be so 
darn interesting? Catch up with Walter White and the rest of 
the gang at Net.ix. 
4. “Battlestar Galactica” 
If you like science .ction, you'll likely love “Battlestar.” But even if you don't the difference between a lightsaber and a tribble, “Battlestar” will enthrall you with its intense drama and profound exploration of humanity. With starships and robots. 
5. “Buffy the Vampire Slayer” 
Before Joss Whedon created a musically-inclined “super vil­lain” and directed a bunch of superhero cohorts, he created the best series of vampire stories around. And they are all waiting at Net.ix. 
6. “Psych” 
The most recent season ended on a cliffhanger, so you'll want to catch up with Shawn and Gus before the USA hit returns in the fall. 
7. “Arhcer” 
Biting, irreverent and always immature, this animated show about a spy organization is the perfect way to unwind after another hectic academic year. 
8. “Friday Night Lights” 
For sports and drama fans alike, this story of a Texas com­
munity and the high school football team at its heart is both 
enchanting and down to earth, sure to ensnare you right from 
9. “Sports Night” 
Cancelled long before its time, this Aaron Sorkin drama 
featured the writer's famous quirky characters and quick ban­
ter, this time centered in the world of a sports news show. 
LAUREN KALINOSKI | Observer Graphic 

page 10 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u CLASSIFIEDS Tuesday, May 1, 2012 
SPORTS AUTHORITY 
Playoffs bring meaning and excitement to NBA 
MLB 

Marlins fall again in Miami 

And finally, the games mean something. 
With a multitude of post­season-changing injuries, crazy finishes and senseless ejections, the NBA playoffs have begun 
— and with a bang. 
The NBA’s regular season, to me and to a lot of people around the nation, is meaning­less. You already know who will be in the playoffs (or at least be a big factor in them) before the season even begins. Prior to this year, you looked at the Heat, the Bulls, the Thunder, the Lakers, the Spurs and the Mavericks to be championship contenders. And guess what? They all made the playoffs. 
To those teams, the season was a mere formality (other than the risk of injury dur­ing a compacted and tight 66-game schedule). They knew what they had. They knew who they had to beat. No win meant much. No loss meant much (unless you work for ESPN and need to fill 12 hours of SportsCenter with a Panic Meter). 
The Heat knew they needed to prove they could win a title. The Thunder needed to show that Kevin Durant and Russell Westbrook could be a dynamic duo. The Bulls needed to prove Derrick Rose could carry the team by himself. 
None of those goals could be accomplished in the regular season. Now, they must all step up and shine in the NBA’s second and most important season. But now nothing is like it was before. 
Chicago’s title dreams all but went out the window when Rose jumped, passed and collapsed in writhing pain, clutching his left knee that now had a torn ACL. Now, the deep and unher­alded Chicago supporting cast will have to pick up the slack left by last year’s most valuable player. 
The Bulls may very well streak past the struggling Sixers but could struggle in the next round against either the Hawks or the Celtics. 
The regular season — and the home-court advantage it secured — mean nothing for the Bulls. 

For the aging Celtics, their blistering second half came as a surprise to every­one, except Boston. But now, age could be catching up with the original Big Three in the playoffs. Ray Allen, the best three-point shooter in the league, is out with an injury while immaturity bothers young point guard Rajon Rondo. 
Because of an argument 
and altercation with a ref­
eree during Boston’s Game 
1 loss to Atlanta, Rondo 
has been suspended for a 
game. By the time he gets 
back into the lineup, the 
Celtics may have to win 
four out of five games to advance. What seemed like a potential championship sleeper is now reeling after just one postseason game. 
The regular season — and Boston’s two late wins over Miami — mean nothing for the Celtics. 
While injuries have de­railed Eastern Conference contenders, furious finishes have given a couple Western Conference teams new life. 
Kevin Durant’s game-win­ner in the opener against Dallas lifted Oklahoma City to a win, avoiding an upset bid from the defend­ing champions. While a loss in Game 1 would not have been catastrophic for the young and athletic Thun­der, a win for the Mavericks could have given an expe­rienced and savvy veteran-laden squad more confi­dence. 
In Memphis, meanwhile, the Clippers — led by Chris Paul’s brilliance and un­likely hero Nick Young — rallied from a 27-point defi­cit to top the Grizzlies in a Game 1 thriller. Last year, it was the Grizzlies who shocked everyone and beat the top-seeded Spurs in the first round. This year, they were the ones stunned by a result. 
So I know only a few games have been played so far. But these games are the reason the NBA exists. 
You can now start watch­ing the NBA. These games actually matter. 
Contact Matthew DeFranks at mdefrank@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Associated Press 
MIAMI — Ozzie Guillen headed to the airport Mon­day evening for a six-hour flight — plenty of time to decide how to shake up his slumping team. 
The Miami Marlins fell deeper into last place in the NL East with a 9-5 loss Mon­day afternoon to the Arizona Diamondbacks, and Guil­len said something needs to change. 
It might be the lineup. Guil­len criticized his players’ failure to change their booed for the second game in a row. 
“Can you blame them?” Guil­len said. “I was booing, too. It’s a shame, because we’ve got a better ballclub than we’ve showed. The last couple of games, things got out of hand 
— very lousy baseball, period.” 
The Marlins, expected to con­tend for a division title after an offseason spending spree, are 8-14 as they begin a nine-game trip Tuesday in San Francisco. 
“We are too good to continue to play the way were playing 

approach “Can you blame them? 
at the plate 

... I was booing, too. It’s 
or on the 

a shame, because we’ve 
mound. 

got a better ballclub than 
“If you 

we’ve showed. The last 
cannot make 

an adjust-couple of games, things ment, I will got out of hand — very make it for lousy baseball, period.” you,” he said. “I’m go-
Ozzie Guillen 
ing to make 

Marlins manager 
a very dras­tic change. I don’t know which one yet, but I’m right now,” shor tstop Jose Reyes said. “We need to turn it around quickly.” 
The 22-year-old Corbin, a left-hander called up from Dou­ble-A Mobile, struck out six and allowed three runs in 5 2-3 in­nings. Cody Ransom and Justin Upton hit two-run the left-hander lasted only five innings and allowed seven runs 
— four earned — and eight hits. 
“I guess it could get worse,” Buehrle said. “We won eight games this month. We could have won none. We’ve got to keep going at it.” 
Struggling closer Heath Bell gave up two runs in a non-save situation in the ninth. His ERA rose to 10.80. 
“Everybody knows he has struggled,” Guillen said. “Ev­erybody knows he has a lot of problems. Make an adjustment, and hopefully it can work.” 
After the Marlins threatened in the first inning, they didn’t manage another hit off Corbin until the fifth, when John Buck singled and pinch-hitter Don­nie Murphy homered. 
Miami’s Austin Kearns hit a two-run homer in the seventh. 
“At least we fought back,” Reyes said. “We put some runs on the scoreboard. That’s good. But still we lost the game. It’s kind of disappointing for us, because we’re better than this.” 
The Marlins fell to 2-6 against left-handers with a batting av­erage of .188. 
Thanks to the retractable roof on the Marlins’ new ball­park, a rainout may have been averted for a second day in a row. Announced attendance was 31,008, and the afternoon crowd included 12,000 school­children who generated a high-
pitched  din  throughout  the  
game.  
There  were  jeers  from  the  

adults in the crowd during Ari­zona’s five-run fourth inning. “I’d be booing us too, the way we’re playing,” Buehrle said. 
going to make an adjust­ment. I’m pretty good at that. That’s my job.” 
The Marlins have lost eight of their past nine games, and the latest defeat was galling because it came against Ari­zona’s Patrick Corbin, mak­ing his major-league debut. 
One day after falling be­hind 8-0, the Marlins trailed 7-0 by the fifth inning. Fans homers for Arizona, and Wil­lie Bloomquist had a two-run double. 
Miami tapped into a 1-2-3 bases-loaded double play and committed three errors, includ­ing one on a misplayed bunt that led to a five-run inning. 
Mark Buehrle (1-4) endured his worst outing this season. Facing Arizona for the first time in his 370th career start, 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The 
Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
PERSONAL 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don’t go it alone. Notre Dame has many resources in place to assist you. If you or someone you love needs 
confidential support or assistance, 
please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819. 
For more information, visit ND’s 
website at: 
http://pregnancysupport@nd.edu 
 Game of Thrones
  Tyrion: You love your children. It’s your one redeeming quality; that and your cheekbones. 
Stannis: They’ll bend the knee or I’ll destroy them. 
Jaime: Three victories don’t make you a conquerer. Robb: It’s better than three defeats. 
Fat boy: You better give me that sword! Arya: You want it? I’ll give it to you. I’ve already killed one fat boy. I bet 
you’re a liar, but I’m not. I’m good 
at killing fat boys. I like killing fat boys. 
Viserys: No! You cannot touch me. I am the dragon! I want my crown! 
Daenerys: He was no dragon. Fire cannot kill a dragon. 

Tywin: Your mother’s dead, before long I’ll be dead, and you, and your brother, and your sister and all of 
her children. 

All of us dead, all of us rotting in 
the ground. It’s the family name that lives on. That’s all that lives on. 
Not your personal glory, not your honor, but family. 
Do you understand? 

Tyrion: Have you ever heard the phrase “Rich as a Lannister?” Of course you have. You’re a smart man. You know who the Lannister’s are. I am a Lannister. 
Tyrion, son of Tywin. Of course, you have also heard the phrase, a 
Lannister always pays his debts. If you deliver a message from me to 
Lady Arryn, I will be in your debt. I 
will owe you gold. 

If you deliver the message, and I live, which I very much intend 
to do. 
Daenerys: I am a Khaleesi of the Dothraki. I am the wife of the great Kahl and I carry his son inside me. The next time you raise a hand to me will be the last time you have hands. 
Bran: I’m not a cripple. 
Tyrion: Then I’m not a dwarf. My father will be rejoiced to hear it. 

Tuesday, May 1, 2012 The Observer u SPORTS ndsmcobserver.com | page 11 
NBA 

Thibodeau says Rose’s injury will not derail Bulls’ playoff run 
Associated Press 
DEERFIELD, Ill. — One bad land­ing finished Derrick Rose’s season. The Chicago Bulls insist it hasn’t dashed their NBA title hopes. 
With their superstar point guard out for the rest of the season with a left knee injury, the Bulls will try to take a 2-0 lead over the Philadelphia 76ers when their first-round playoff series resumes Tuesday night after realizing their worst nightmare in the opener. 
There was Rose writhing in pain with just over a minute left after tearing the anterior cruciate liga­ment. Now, the Bulls will have to pick themselves up. 
“I’ve watched them respond to ev­ery challenge all year long,” coach Tom Thibodeau said. “This is the next one.” 
And it’s a big one. 
The Bulls came into the season looking for more after posting the league’s best record and advanc­ing to Eastern Conference finals a year ago. They earned homecourt advantage throughout the playoffs again even though Rose and Rich­ard Hamilton missed significant time because of injuries, which ex­plains why they believe they can get through this. 
Even so, the sight of Rose go­ing down late in Saturday’s 103-91 victory sent a major chill through Chicago and stirred a debate over whether he should have been in the game at that point. Players and general manager Gar Forman pub­licly defended Thibodeau’s decision, but losing Rose to many wiped out whatever chance the Bulls have at advancing to the NBA finals, much less winning it all. 
“It’s more fun being the underdog, right?” said Kyle Korver, who sat out Monday’s practice but is expected to play. “I don’t think a lot of people ex­pected us to win a championship to begin with. But even now, it’s prob­ably moreso that way. We’re defi­nitely confident in ourselves.” 
They realize the task just jumped a few levels in difficulty, though. 
“Without Derrick Rose, it is a dif­ferent team,” the 76ers’ Jrue Holi­day said. “They don’t really have that scoring and passing that Der­rick Rose brings. At the same time, they’ve had an awesome record without him.” 
Rose was playing more like an MVP with 23 points, nine rebounds and nine assists after being limited down the regular-season stretch, only to see his season end in a flash. He landed awkwardly on a jump stop, went up for a pass, and that was it. Korver said Rose was at the practice facility on Monday, but he did not talk with reporters. 
Rose faces surgery at some point once the swelling goes down and he regains his full range of motion, but his status for the start of next season is up in the air. The Bulls, meanwhile, will try to do what they did all season — shrug it off. 
The Bulls were able to start their top five just 15 times this season be­cause of injuries to Rose, Hamilton and Luol Deng (torn ligament in his left wrist), yet they still tied San An­tonio for the league’s best record at 50-16. 
In the games Rose missed, they were 18-9. 
“We’re not going to let the media or anybody paint the picture for us,” center Joakim Noah said. “We’ve played good basketball without Der­rick as well. It’s a tough blow. Unfor­tunately in sports, there’s no feeling sorry for yourself.” 
With Rose sidelined, they figure to lean on Deng, Carlos Boozer and Hamilton — who had 19 points on just seven shots in Game 1 — for scoring. C.J. Watson, who made 25 starts and averaged 9.7 points, is ex­pected to get the nod at point guard with John Lucas III backing him up. 


“Derrick Rose so distorts your defense,” Sixers coach Doug Collins said. “Everything you do is tilted to­ward him. It frees up a lot of oppor­tunities for a lot of other guys.” 
The Sixers might not have to trap as much or worry about the point guard creating havoc in the paint the way Rose does, but they still have to be careful. Watson scored 20 on them twice in the regular season. 
In the games Rose missed, the Bulls’ approach didn’t change much. They still rebounded and de­fended, and they might have moved the ball even more when he was out. 
“I think you stay with what you are as a team,” Thibodeau said. “It’s the defense, it’s the rebounding, keeping our turnovers low, inside-out. Whether it’s off the dribble or through the post-up, the ball has to (get to) the paint. The final thing is sharing the ball. We have to keep the ball moving, but we have to do that when Derrick plays. From that standpoint, I don’t think we have to change. It’s impossible to make up for Derrick’s individual greatness, but our collective greatness would cover that up.” 
Korver said it was his brother Klay’s idea to post an eloquent ap­peal to fans to keep backing the Bulls on Facebook after Rose went down. 
“I was surprised how many peo­ple read it and commented,” Korver said. “When things are tough, that’s when a lot of good can happen.” 

NCAA BASKETBALL 

Butler debating move from Horizon League 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS — Small-school Butler could soon be making a big move. 
The NCAA tournament darling is reportedly debating whether to leave the Horizon League for the stronger, higher-profile and po­tentially more profitable Atlantic 10. 
Bulldogs athletic director Bar­ry Collier met Monday with his coaches, part of a regular meeting process he has with athletic de­partment employees. Spokesman Jim McGrath said Collier declined to comment on what was dis­cussed at the meeting or where the decision-making process stands. 
“We’ve been longtime members in good standing of the Horizon League and we continue to exam­ine the ever-changing landscape of conference affiliation,” McGrath said. 
The Indianapolis Star first re­ported that university President James Danko notified trustees in a letter that the school had been conducting a cost-benefit analysis of changing conference affilia­tions. Coaches have been fielding questions, too, and trustees have been told not to discuss the possi­bility of a move that has caught the ear of Horizon League officials. 
“Our commissioner, Mr. (Jon) LeCrone, has been in contact with the president and athletic director and they’ve not said anything to him,” Horizon League senior as­sociate commissioner Bill Benner said Monday. “As far as we know, the status is quo.” 
Butler’s board of trustees is scheduled to meet May 9-10 and this month’s staff assembly gen­eral meeting is slated for May 16. 
Danko did not immediately re­spond to an interview request from The Associated Press. Neither did Butler board of trustees Chairman Craig Fenneman or A-10 Commis­sioner Bernadette McGlade. 
The Atlantic 10 is looking to re­place Temple, which will join the Big East in all sports other than football in 2013-14. The football team will begin playing football in the Big East this fall. 
A-10 officials are reportedly in­terested in adding three schools -- Butler, George Mason and Vir­ginia Commonwealth -- following Temple’s departure. 
All three have played in the men’s Final Four since 2006, but the Bulldogs are the only one of those three to reach the champi­onship game. Butler lost to Duke in the 2010 title game when Gor­don Hayward’s half-court heave bounced off the rim in Indy. The Bulldogs then lost to Connecticut in the 2011 championship game when they shot just 18.8 percent from the field. 

page 12 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u SPORTS Tuesday, May 1, 2012 
CLUB SPORTS 

Costello, Ventrella, Siebert, Hannigan post impressive scores 
Men’s rowing finishes third in Mid-American Collegiate; sailing fifth in Wisconsin; men’s ultimate falls in regionals 
Special to The Observer faced familiar programs Playing for ninth place Sun-Division I College Women’s Nickodem, Indiana’s zone 
from Michigan State, Grand day, Notre Dame opened Regionals tournament.  The defense was tough to break Gymnastics Valley, Michigan, Purdue against Michigan-B and women entered the tourna-and Notre Dame lost 11­
Notre Dame-Saint Mary’s and Mercyhurst. The Irish worked out some of their ment ranked fifth. 8.  In the third-place game, attended the NAIGC National fell behind on the start after frustrations from the previ-Saturday started with pool Notre Dame faced Illinois Gymnastics meet at the Salt failing to replicate their ear-ous day with a 15-5 win. play with a game against Il-again.  The second game Palace Convention Center in ly speed from the heat.  With In the ninth-place game, linois.  The game started was closer. Seniors Stefanie Salt Lake City over the week-a strong middle half of the Notre Dame faced Illinois out with the teams trading Zipf and Elise Garton helped end.  There were a total of race, Notre Dame was able to State. Playing with each points but Notre Dame even-the team with good cuts and 57 other teams competing. pull ahead of the Spartans, other for the last time, Notre tually fell 9-5. throws.  The game eventu-In Notre Dame’s session, Purdue and Mercyhurst, Dame won 15-10 to send This loss was followed by ally came down to the uni-other competitors included and was in a dead heat with the seniors off with a vic-an easy win against North-verse point.  All five seniors North Carolina State, North-Grand Valley. However, the tory. Freshmen Kyle Hill, western-B, 11-0. The next were on the line and fought ern Arizona, Ohio Univer-Irish could not find a high Jason Wassel, Erich Ker-game proved to be harder hard for the up-wind point, sity, Penn State, Illinois, enough gear, and Grand Val-ekes and Danny Kerekes all than expected, but Notre but Notre Dame ended up Minnesota, North Carolina, ley was able to move back made strong contributions Dame beat Chicago on ni-losing, 11-10. American, Boston Univer-through them.  Notre Dame to the team all season in verse point for a final score The women ended a very sity, Emory, Georgia Tech, finished third, falling to their first year of college of 9 to 8.  Handler junior good season with a fourth Hardin Simmons, MIT, SUNY Michigan by open water and ultimate. From the cutting Kelly Taylor was essential place finish at Regionals Cortland, Texas State, Texas to Grand Valley by what is line juniors Jonathon Koch, to this win whose up-wind and the underclassmen are Tech, Buffalo, Tennessee, becoming a too familiar Zack Woodruff, Charlie throws found sophomore hoping to improve over the Xavier, Vermont and South-margin of about half a boat. Bowen, and Connor Sea and cutters Molly Carmona and summer and start next sea­ern Maine. The team now turns its at-Conor Hanney played excel-Kelsey Fink. son strong. 
Saint Mary’s freshmen tention to preparation for lent defense and got open The women then went on to Christa Costello and Gi-the ACRA National Champi-at will all season long.  Ju-beat Michigan-B 11-3, using Women’s Rugby anna Ventrella teamed with onship in Gainesville, Fla., nior handlers Colin Mackett, a strong zone defense.  The Notre Dame drove to Chi-Notre Dame sophomore Em-at the end of May, with a Dan Bolivar and Eric Bens last game of the day against cago on Saturday to play ily Siebert to post impressive tune up in St. Louis on May all moved the disc well and Michigan State proved to be Northshore, last year’s Di-scores.  Siebert scored 8.3 13. found open cutters upfield to a very tough game.  Layout vision I national champion. on the vault, 9.0 on the floor move the offense along. catches from junior Allie Expecting to use this as a and 8.3 on the beam. Costel-Sailing Notre Dame-B finished Hawkins and sophomore Eli-learning experience for their lo earned 8.05 on vault and Notre Dame raced in Wis-second in the developmen-za Herrero helped the wom-year of growth the Irish took 
6.2 on floor, while Ventrel-consin in the Team Race tal tournament with wins en secure the win 11-8 and the field with excitement. la posted a 4.8 on floor and Championship for the MCSA over Kalamazoo-B, Chicago-finish second in their pool. During the first half the 
4.65 on bars. Senior Mike this weekend.  The Irish B and Northwestern-B, their Sunday began with a game Irish led 12-0, demonstrat-Hannigan scored 11.4 on the finished fifth out of six only loss coming to Indiana-against rival Northwestern ing their immense heart and vault, 9.1 on the floor and schools, racing against the B. Captains junior Andrew in the championship brack-technical skill. 
13.0 on the rings. best teams in the Midwest. Romero and sophomore Jor-et.  The teams traded points Scores were made by 
There were 66 women Seniors Jeff Miller and Na-dan Lange were thrilled with most of the game, but patient sophomore Leah Fisher and competitors in Notre Dame’s thaniel Walden sailed well the improvement of the team throws from senior captains freshman Shannon Kenny. session and 81 male compet-and were victorious in two all season long.  Freshmen Ashley Satterlee and Vicke Northshore came back with itors. races for the Irish. Peter Hall, Steven Zurawski, Hadlock helped the women speed and agility to score 
Wisconsin was followed in Brian Calcutt, Kevin Song pull ahead in the end for a two more on the Irish. In her Men’s Rowing order by Michigan, North-and Keith Podgorski all had 13-10 victory. last game at Notre Dame, 
This weekend the Irish western, Minnesota, Notre impressive performances In the semifinal, Notre senior Christina Konkey traveled to Grand Rapids, Dame and Ohio State.  Soph-over the weekend. Dame went up against In-crashed through the strong Mich., for the Mid-American omores Sarah Eide and Anne The women’s Notre Dame-diana. Despite very good defensive line to score for Collegiate Rowing champi-Schoenwetter, freshmen Pat A traveled to Naperville, Ill., defense from junior Court-the Irish. Northshore won onship.  After some early-Gallagher and Mike Flani-as well for the Great Lakes ney Iverson and senior Kelly 32-19. morning snow, the Irish took gan also competed for the to the water in some fast Irish. conditions with the heats of the novice eight, novice four Ultimate and varsity eight events, Notre Dame’s men’s teams with all boats advancing travelled to Naperville, Ill., easily to their respective this weekend to compete in grand finals. the Great Lakes Regional 
After a short break for tournament.  Notre Dame-B lunch, the afternoon brought finished second out of five hotly contested finals for teams in the developmental the Notre Dame crews.  The division while Notre Dame-second novice eight took to A finished a disappointing the river first, finishing sec-ninth of 16 to end the sea­ond to Michigan and beat-son.  ing Purdue.  Next up was the Saturday brought cold and novice eight, with the Irish windy conditions, which lim­taking an early lead and ited everyone’s deep looks. holding on through the first The day began for No. 4 seed 1,500 meters.  But Michi-Notre Dame-A with a rela­gan’s relentless attack was tively easy win over Loyola, just enough, as the Irish fell 15-4.  Next up in the quar­to a fast boat by half a deck terfinals was a game against in a heartbreaking race. Indiana. Despite hanging Next up was the .burly pair. close the entire game, Notre of Notre Dame, taking fifth Dame never made a run to after only three days of take a lead in the second practice in their boat, and half. The game ended in a sophomore Grant Tobin tak-14-12 win for Indiana, which ing fourth in the single.  Af-put Notre Dame in the back­ter advancing to the grand door bracket in the double final, the novice four could elimination tournament. not find the necessary speed The loss set up an elimi­and fell to sixth against a nation game against West-collection of schools who ern Michigan.  Just like the prioritize fours racing.  Then previous game, Notre Dame the third varsity eight, com-never really got going. The prised of both novice and team was further hampered varsity rowers, took third. by the loss of senior handler They were followed by the and emotional leader Adam second varsity event, where Barsella to injury.  Notre the Irish finished in fourth. Dame lost to Western Michi-Racing concluded with the gan 15-10, eliminating the varsity eight final. The Irish Irish from the tournament. 




Tuesday, May 1, 2012 The Observer u SPORTS ndsmcobserver.com | page 13 
ND SOFTBALL 

Irish seek 12th straight win, take on Northern Illinois 
By ERNST CLEOFE 
Sports Writer 
Rain or shine, the Irish are looking to continue their re­cent 11-game wining streak against Northern Illinois on Tuesday. 
The contest against North­ern Illinois (19-31) and a 
game against 
“If someone misses a 
Eastern Michi-moved for-
hit, we know the person 
gan on Thurs-ward to 4
behind us can get 
day give Notre p.m. to com-Dame (32-13, the hit. We pick each pensate for 13-3) a break other up and we have the sporadic between its each other’s backs.” weather. Big East con-In any ference games. case, Notre 
Alexa Maldonado 
The Irish look Dame will be 
senior outfielder 
to continue their winning streak against the Huskies, who have lost nine of their last 10 games. 
While Northern Illinois does not seem to pose a strong threat to the Irish, senior cap­tain and outfielder Alexa Mal­donado said the contest will be a test of Notre Dame’s abil­ity to stay focused. 
“To be honest, I don’t know too much about them,” Maldo­nado said. “The game is going to be a nice break from our Big East schedule, but we still need to play well so we can keep our momentum.” 
One other problem the Irish could face is something com­pletely out of their control: rain. The game, previously scheduled for 5 p.m., has been 
ready for the 
weather con­
ditions. In 
their last se­ries in the rain, the Irish swept Seton Hall, 8-0 and 5-1. 
“I don’t think the rain is go­ing to affect us. Last time we played in the rain against Se­ton Hall and we played really well,” Maldonado said. “We have played in the rain before and we practice in the rain all the time. So, we’re used to it already.” 
By AARON SANT-MILLER 
Sports Writer 
Despite missing the conference tournament, the Belles still man­aged to end the season on a high note. On Monday the team trav­eled to Naperville, Ill., to take on North Central in the last game of their season. When all was said 
If nothing else, the game will be important to the Irish winning streak. With the Big East championship and post­season coming up, the Irish need to keep the positive mo­mentum going. 
“Right now this is the best we have played all year,” Mal­donado said. “Our pitching is top notch. Our defense is play­ing great. Everything is click­ing right now — and now our team chemistry is really high. We just have a lot of confi­dence in each other.” 
With team chemistry high, the team has learned to rely on each other and the game has become fun. 
“Honestly, there’s a lot less pressure out there and we are having fun out there,” Maldo­nado said. “If someone miss­es a hit, we know the person behind us can get the hit. We pick each other up and we have each other’s backs.” 
The Irish hope to ride the wave of recent success against Northern Illinois at home to­day. The game starts at 4 p.m. in Melissa Cook Stadium. 
Contact Ernst Cleofe at ecleofe@nd.edu 


SMC TENNIS 

Belles wrap up season with a win despite sophomore’s absence 
and done, the Belles left with an-“It ended up being a good win 
other win as they beat the Cardi-overall for us.” 
nals 6-3. Uncharacteristically, the Belles “I thought we did pretty well,” (11-9, 3-5 MIAA) started slow in 
Belles coach Dale Campbell said. doubles. The Cardinals (9-7, 3-3 CCIW) jumped out early, claim­ing both the first and the second doubles. Yet the Belles were able to claim the third doubles be­hind the strong play of freshmen Audrey Kiefer and Kate Snyder. Snyder and Kiefer won in decisive fashion with a final score of 8-2. 
played every single match at No. 1 singles and was on her way to a strong sophomore campaign. 
Faller’s absence gave the Belles an opportunity to display some of their depth, as Snyder and sopho­more Sarah Monte stepped in. Both players were able to claim victories for the Belles and per­formed admirably, Campbell said. Monte pulled out a straight-set victory in the sixth singles, Sny­der helped claim the only doubles 
victore play­
ing alongside 
Kiefer. 
“Kate and 

“We didn’t play the great­est in doubles to start, but we played better and better as the match went on,” Campbell said. 
Part of this slow start could be attributed to playing on an indoor surface, Campbell said. 
“We played on an indoor sur­face, which is a little different, and that took us a little while to get a rhythm,” Campbell said. 

“I think everyone has Audrey are 
good friends 

basically been able to 
and they 

take an inventory on what 
played very 

we have to work on for 
well togeth­

next year ... I think we 
er,” Camp-

learned that we have to 
bell said. “It play even more aggressive worked out, and have realized that but it wasn’t we have to work harder any sort of on our footwork” lineup deci­sion based on talent or per-
Dave Campbell 
formance.” 

Belles coach 
“I think once we got in a rhythm and played our game, we played well enough to get the job done.” 
This was apparent as the Belles were able to bounce back in sin­gles, winning five of the six match­es. The Belles only loss was on the No. 1 singles court, as freshman Kayle Sexton fell to North Central senior Cory Schillerstrom. The Belles claimed straight set victo­ries in the second, third, fourth and sixth singles. In the fifth sin­gles, sophomore Margaret Boden earned the last victory for the Belles. She won 2-6, 6-3, 10-5. 
The Belles faced an unexpected challenge as well. Due to personal reasons, sophomore Mary Cath­erine Faller was unable to make the trip. Until Monday, Faller had As this was 
the last match 
of the season 
for the Belles, 
the team can now look back on the season and evaluate how things have gone Campbell said. 
“I think everyone has basically been able to take an inventory on what we have to work on for next year,” Campbell said. “I think we learned that we have to play even more aggressive and have real­ized that we have to work hard­er on our footwork.” The goal is to play better in the conference against the top teams, Campbell said. 
“We have to be more athletic,” he said. “But, more importantly, we have to be steadier in singles to beat the top teams.” 
Contact Aaron Sant-Miller at asantmil@nd.edu 

page 14 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u SPORTS Tuesday, May 1, 2012 
Big East 
continued from page 16 
the Red Storm (7-6, 3-3) 13-6 on April 1. 
Kemp said he believes the Irish have the advantage as they face St. John’s for the second time this season. 
“Familiarity with what they’re doing and the confidence knowing that you’ve beaten them and 


you can do “There is no better it again [is momentum coming into important],” the NCAA tournament he said. “The than winning a conference obvious [dis-tournament.” advantage] is going and John Kemp thinking 
senior goaltender 
you’re not go­ing to have to play your best game. The way we treat every game is that anyone can beat us, so I don’t think that will be a problem for us.” 
The tournament will be played at Villanova Stadium, where the Irish have already defeated the No. 2-seeded Wildcats (8-6, 4-2) this season. Unlike most lacrosse sites, Villanova’s field runs east to west, making the sun an issue during the day. 
The Irish have made an ap­pearance in the NCAA tourna­ment every year since 2006. 
Notre Dame appeared in the NCAA finals in 2010, when it fell to Duke 6-5 in overtime. 
Rogers said winning the Big East tournament would bring Notre Dame one step closer to a national title. 
“The conference tournament is a whole different ballgame. For us, we know we are pretty much guaranteed to make the tournament,” he said. “As [Irish 
coach Kevin Corrigan] said, ‘There is no better momen­tum coming into the NCAA tournament than winning a conference tournament.’ In order to win the conference tournament, we have to beat two quality teams.” 
The Wildcats will face No. 3 seed Syracuse 
in the other semifinal matchup. The winner of each game will play in the tournament champi­onship Saturday at 12 p.m. 
Notre Dame will begin its search for its first Big East tour­nament title against St. John’s on Thursday at 4:30 p.m. in Vil­lanova, Pa. All Big East tourna­ment games will be televised live on ESPNU. 
Contact Megan Golden at mgolde01@saintsmarys.edu 
Scodro 
continued from page 16 

competition is third-place St. John’s, 14 strokes back. 
“Overall, I was very happy with how the guys played to­day,” Kubinski said. “They played through some very tough conditions out there, as they have for the last few weeks. It was really tough to know where some of the balls were heading today.” 
Scodro’s impressive second-round performance slightly overshadowed the solid day of junior Paul McNamara, whose even-par 72 belied the fact that he played a o-under front nine and still remains in competi­tion for the Big East individual title. McNamara’s 4-under-4 score through two rounds puts him just three strokes behind Scodro and one behind Louis­ville’s Justin Dorward, good for third place in the field individ­ually. Senior Chris Walker, tied for sixth, rounds out the Irish representation in the top ten. 
“Of all people today, I was very impressed with Paul [Mc­Namara]. He played some great golf and is giving us the consis­tency we need,” Kubinski said. “Obviously, Max [Scodro] had a great round, but it’s good to see other guys stepping up.” 
Though the Irish hold a sev­en-stroke lead over the Red Storm, Kubinski and his team know that no lead is safe. he noted at the same time that, barring catastrophe, it is likely a two-horse race between the Irish and Red Storm. 
“Seven shots seems like a decent lead,” Kubinski said. “But when you think of it, that just means a couple of shots per golfer since we’re counting four. Anything could happen. It would take a lot for a team to come up from below, but we have to be very wary of St. John’s.” 
This experienced and tal­ented group has been in this position before. With the Irish in first and Scodro leading the field, the scene is eerily similar to the 2011 Big East champion­ship in which both Notre Dame and Scodro took first. With 18 holes to gt, Kubinski hopes to achieve a similar result. 
“We just have to take care of business tomorrow,” Kubinski said. 
The Irish tee off today at 
8:50 a.m. at the Reunion Re­sort Watson Course in Orlando, Fla. 
Contact Conor Kelly at ckelly17@nd.edu 
Aragon 
continued from page 16 
chase. 
Aragon attributes her versatil­ity to her high school track ex­perience in her native Billings, Mont., where she was a four-time all-state runner, as well as her training regimen. 
“In high school, I did a cross country and a lot of different events on the track team because it was a small school and you could do whatever you wanted,” she said. “But I also change my training a little bit, so in the fall I work on a lot more distance-re­lated stuff and during track sea­son, I’ll be doing a lot more speed work.” 
Aragon’s emphasis on speed in her middle distance role has helped her earn accolades in her sophomore campaign on the track. After starting her season with a third-place finish in the National Catholic Cross Country Invitational, Aragon found suc­cess in indoor track, her self-pro­claimed favorite season to com­pete in. Competing in her favorite event, the mile, Aragon ran a per­sonal-record mark of 4:43.88 in a fifth-place finish at the Meyo Invitational and followed it with a fourth-place showing in the event at the Big East Indoor champion­ships. 
She has continued her success in the outdoor season, setting personal records in the 3,000-me­ter steeplechase and 1,500-meter run en route to multiple top-three finishes. 
Despite her individual suc­cesses, Aragon said she is most proud of her role as a member of the Irish 4x800-meter relay team. In her time on the relay, she has helped lead the team to a second-place finish at the Big East Indoor championships and a victory at the prestigious Drake Relays this past weekend. 
“I think a lot of [our success] is that we train together, we work hard together everyday, and we’re going through tough workouts to­gether,” Aragon said. “We take that into the race and say, “I’m do­ing this for my teammates as well as myself,” so having that motiva­tion contributes to our success.” 
Aragon and her relay team face their next challenge this weekend at the Big East outdoor champi­onships. When asked about her preparations to earn a title there, Aragon said she plans to simply continue her hard work and pro­gression as a runner. 
“I’m going to continue work­ing hard and training hard this week,” she said. “I’ve seen my­self progress a lot from freshman year to this year, so I’m hoping the same thing will happen from this year to next year too.” 
With her many running ex­ploits, it might seem unlikely that Aragon has time to devote to many off-the-track activities. Yet the science pre-professional major and poverty studies minor managed to combine her aca­demic passions and give back to the community over spring break when she traveled with her father, an anesthesiologist and former Notre Dame runner, on a medi­cal mission to repair cleft lips and palettes in Puebla, Mexico. 
“I first went on one of these [medical trips] four years ago, and I just loved it,” Aragon said. “I loved serving the people and getting to know them. I wanted to go on another trip with [my dad], and it happened that it was on our spring break, so I was able to go.” 
With a packed schedule of ath­letics, academics and service, Aragon admitted she completes her tasks with the help of a lesson learned through running. 
“I think running just teaches you to work hard and not give up when things get tough,” she said. “When you’re hurting, you just have to continue that endurance.” 
Aragon and the Irish will trav­el to Tampa, Fla., on Friday to compete in the Big East Outdoor championships. 
Contact Brian Hartnett at bhartnet@nd.edu 


Aoki 
continued from page 16 
formance together with a hitting performance with a defensive performance,” Aoki said. “I think it’s just one of those things where there’s a whole lot of things that play into it.” 
With the calendar turn­ing to May and the postsea­son looming ever closer, the Irish must continue to im­prove against the Bulldogs (20-24, 8-13 Horizon). Butler is also entering on the wrong side of a losing spell, as the team has lost nine of its last 11, but also boasts likes of junior first baseman Jimmy Risi, who leads the Horizon League with 10 home runs. 
With the potential postsea­
son implications of every re-time at the end of the week maining game, Aoki said the with Villanova, and I think time is now for his team to we’re fighting for our [NCAA] find its stride and end its run tournament lives at this point of inconsistent right now. play. So I think “I think the it’s impor-
Butler game is “I think the Butler game is tant that really impor-really important for us ... I we do start tant for us,” think it’s important that we playing Aoki said. “I come out and put forth a better and think it’s im-really good effort, put forth feeling bet­portant that a really good approach.” ter about we come out ourselves.” and put forth a The Irish really good ef-will square 
Mik Aoki 
fort, put forth off with 
Irish coach 
a really good Butler to-approach.” night at 
“We’re in Frank Eck the midst of a St adi um. four-game losing streak, and First pitch is scheduled for you certainly don’t want to 5:35 p.m. extend it to five. You’re going against a team that’s seem-Contact Jack Hefferon at ingly getting hot at the right wheffero@nd.edu 


Tuesday, May 1, 2012 The Observer u TODAY ndsmcobserver.com | page 15 
WILL SHORTz
CROSSWORD 

HOROSCOPE EUgENIA LAST 


LEE HAggENJOS and ALEx gRISWOLD 
THE LONDON EXPRESS 
JUMBLE 
JEFF KNUREK 

JON REPINE
EXPND 





Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 

Make checks payable to The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556

 Enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year


 Enclosed
 is $75 for one semester 


Name ____________________________________________________ Address __________________________________________________ City ____________________ State___________ Zip______________ 

Tuesday, May 1, 2012 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 16 
MEN’S LACROSSE 

Big stage debut 
Top-seeded Irish look forward to inaugural Big East conference tournament and beyond 
By MEGAN GOLDEN 
Sports Writer 
After being crowned Big East regular season champions Sat­urday, top-seeded Notre Dame hopes to add to its trophy case by winning the first-ever Big East tournament this weekend. 
The No. 2-ranked Irish (11-1, 6-0 Big East) outscored confer­ence rival Syracuse 8-6 to win their 10th consecutive game and capture the program’s first Big East regular season title. The vic­tory ended Notre Dame’s 0-5 spell against the Orange (7-7, 3-3). 
“You come here to win champi­onships. You come to Notre Dame to get a great education and play lacrosse, but you come here to play on the main stage and in the big games. You come here to play Syracuse under the lights on se­nior night,” Irish senior attack Sean Rogers said. “We are excited about the opportunity, and I’m glad we were able to finish.” 
The addition of a conference tournament in the Big East pro­vides three of the top teams with a chance to become an automatic qualifier in the NCAA tourna­ment. The Big East regular-sea­son schedule also becomes much more significant as conference re­cords determine seeds in the Big East tournament. 
“The motivation is there to win the regular season and get the easiest first-round game, depend­ing on who you play. The motiva­tion is there, but the goal is always to win all the games, and we just try to win,” Irish junior goal­keeper John Kemp said. “I think the tournament brings out more incentive because of the trophy aspect.” 
The Irish will face No. 4-seeded St. John’s in the semifinals of the Big East tournament, which fea­tures the top four teams in the conference. Notre Dame defeated 
see BIG EAST/page 14 


BASEBALL 
Irish battle four-game losing streak 
By JACK HEFFERON 
Sports Writer 
Win five. Lose five. Win three. Lose four. 
Those streaks have been the marks of a wildly incon­sistent season for the Irish, but they will try again to bounce back and snap out of their latest four-game skid in an intrastate showdown against Butler tonight. 
The three most recent Notre Dame (22-20, 9-9 Big East) setbacks came last weekend at the hands of conference-leading St. John’s. Despite the sweep, the Irish had their chances throughout the series. Notre Dame lost each game by just two runs and stranded a total of 17 runners in scor­ing position. Friday’s open­er may have been the most frustrating near-miss, as the Irish committed five er­rors in the field, leading to five unearned runs and a 6-4 loss. 
Irish coach Mik Aoki said youth could be one factor for the team’s struggle to find a way to win. 
“I hope [the recent incon­sistency] is part of the mat­uration process,” he said. “I think we certainly need to learn how to win games. You look at that first game on Friday and a championship caliber team is going to win that game, and they won it.” 
Another issue for Notre Dame has been its inability to turn in a complete per­formance in all facets of the game. Even when the team finds success both in the field and at the plate — as it did in the first half of Fri-well enough and some other day’s doubleheader — it can instances it’s just a combi­be undone by mistakes in nation where we weren’t the field. able to put a pitching per­

“I think sometimes it’s that we just haven’t played see AOKI/page 14 
MEN’S GOLF 

Scodro leads squad to brink of conference title 
By CONOR KELLY 
Sports Writer 
Senior Max Scodro carded the only score lower than 70 in the tournament’s entire field, grabbed the individual lead and helped the Irish extend their first day lead as the Big East tournament heads into its final round. 
“Max had a fantastic day to­day,” Irish coach Jim Jubinski said. “He even had a chance to do even better. He came into the par-five 17th thinking birdie but hit his only bad shot of the day on 17 and ended up with a bogey. It could have been a very special round.” 
Despite windy conditions Monday, the Irish posted a 2-unde2 mark as a team, pow­ered by Scodro’s 4-unde4 round of 68. The round puts the Irish seven strokes ahead of second-place Louisville with 18 holes of golf to plan Tuesday. After the Cardinals, Notre Dame’s closest 
see SCODRO/page 14 
TRACK AND FIELD 

Aragon excels as student, three-season athlete 
By BRIAN HARTNETT 
Sports Writer 
As competitors at a top Division I institution, Notre Dame student-athletes face the intimidating challenge of balancing rigorous academics with a steady stream of practices and nationwide com­petitions. For sophomore middle distance runner Alexa Aragon, this task is an even more com­plex one, as she must juggle her pre-med studies and her role as a three-season athlete. 
“It’s pretty tough,” Aragon said of her daily schedule. “I just have to work hard whenever I have free time, not procrastinate and try to be efficient with my time.” 
Aragon spends much of her time on the track, where her practice schedule reads much like a heat sheet at one of the many meets in which she has competed. A member of the cross country, indoor track and outdoor track teams, Aragon competes for the Irish from September to May and runs a variety of events, ranging from the 800-meter run to the hurdle-filled 3,000-meter steeple-
see ARAGON/page 14 





