THE INDEPENDENT TO UNCOVER NEWSPAPER SERVING THE TRUTH NOTRE DAME AND AND REPORT SAINT MARY’S IT ACCURATELY 

VOLUME 46, ISSUE 53 | MONDAY, NOVEMBER 12, 2012  | NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
Notre Dame ROTC program honors Veterans Day 
‘It is a day to really think about people who have done this before you’ 
By MEGAN DOYLE 
Managing Editor 
Every Tuesday, senior P.J. Moran wears the blue uniform that marks him as a member of the Air Force ROTC program. 
The lapels are crisp, and colored pins line the front of his shirt to recognize the ac­complishments he has tackled in nearly four years at Notre Dame. 
But the blue uniform really stands for what he has yet to do. 
“We’re standing here in uni­form … but we really haven’t done anything yet,” Moran said. “I think it speaks to the character of individuals in ROTC who are willing to do this, that they soon will be peo­ple who will be going off and deploying, people who will be going off to war and unfortu­nately people will be going off and dying for their country.” 
Moran will also wear this uniform today during the 24­hour vigil that began Sunday night to honor Veterans Day. He will take his turn, along with other cadets and midship­men from the program’s Army, Navy and Air Force branch­es, to stand in front of Clarke Memorial Fountain and re­member those who have served in the country’s military. 
“It is a day to really think about people who have done this before you,” Moran said. “Veterans Day is more to me about the people like my grandparents [and] the people like the ones who are over there right now and who have come back, some without limbs, some losing their friends, some losing their lives. 
“Today is about them.” 
The ROTC program hosts more than 300 students, in­cluding a number of students from area schools such as Saint Mary’s and Trine University. For Moran and these other students, today is one more re­minder of the unique path they will take after graduation. 
“I mean, [the ROTC program administrators] don’t pull punches,” Moran said. “We are in wartime. They’re upfront with you. They tell you we are in global conflict against ter­rorism, you will almost cer­tainly deploy multiple times in your career, no matter what you do. And we prepare very seriously.” 
Junior Mike Falvey, a mem­ber of the Marine Corps op­tion in the ROTC program, is no stranger to the idea of ac­tive duty. His father, a Marine Corps colonel, left for service in the Middle East two days after the 9/11 attacks in 2001. His brother and sister-in-law are both first lieutenants in the Marines as well, and they both deployed about a year ago for a tour in Afghanistan. His brother is set to deploy again in January. 


“You’ve always got to be thinking outside of yourself,” he said. “It’s never enough to just do what you want, you have to think about these greater virtues and greater purposes. … [In a military family,] you’re 
see VETERANS PAGE 5 




Campus Ministry 


Students petition for light 
By ANN MARIE JAKUBOWSKI 
News Writer 
After senior Monica O’Hearn was hit by a car Wednesday night at the intersection of Twyckenham Road and Vaness Street, her roommate, senior Karen Allen, started a personal petition on behalf of O’Heam to install a stoplight. 
The petition has gathered more than half of the 300 sig­natures Allen set goal for. She plans to submit the signatures to the University when she reaches her goal 

O’Hearn said she walked there. away from the accident, but “I was biking to my apart-she said it could have been pre-ment and had stopped at the vented if there were a stoplight crosswalk,” O’Hearn said. “The 


holds silent retreat 
By JOHN CAMERON 
News Editor 
While much of campus was wrapped up in game day ex­citement this weekend, a small group of students took a step out of their daily rou­tine and participated in the Silent Retreat sponsored by Campus Ministry. 
The retreat, held from Friday to Sunday in the Moreau Seminary, was in­tended to help participants develop their relationship with God in the context of qui­et prayer and contemplation with the assistance of a “spiritual director,” accord­ing to the retreat’s Campus Ministry website. 

“Each attendee will be paired with a spiritual di­rector, a person experienced in ministry and trained to assist you in your personal relationship with God,” the website stated. “You will meet once a day with your spiritual director who can help you get the most out of your prayer time during the week.” 
see RETREAT PAGE 5 
road has two lanes in each di­rection, and a car in the far 
see STOPLIGHT PAGE 6 


MATH AWARD PAGE 3 VIEWPOINT PAGE 9 ASIAN ALLURE PAGE 10 NOTRE DAME 21, BOSTON COLLEGE 6 WITHIN 



ndsmcobserver.com 

P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
Allan Joseph 

Managing Editor  Business Manager
                  Megan Doyle  Jeff Liptak 

Asst. Managing Editor: Andrew Owens 
Asst. Managing Editor: Sam Stryker News Editor: John Cameron News Editor: Kristen Durbin 

Viewpoint Editor: Meghan Thomassen Sports Editor: Chris Allen Scene Editor: Kevin Noonan Saint Mary’s Editor: Jillian Barwick Photo Editor: Suzanna Pratt Graphics Editor: Brandon Keelean Multimedia Editor: Sarah O’Connor Advertising Manager: Monica McCormack Ad Design Manager: Sara Hilstrom Controller: Peter Woo Systems Administrator: William Heineman 

Office Manager & General Info 
Ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ajoseph2@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 mdoyle11@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 aowens2@nd.edu sstryke1@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 

Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 

Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 


Scene Desk 

(574) 631-4540 Observer.Scene.Editor@gmail.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
jbarwi01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 


Policies 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper 
published in print and online by the students of the 
University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s 
College.  Editorial content, including advertisements, is 
not governed by policies of the administration of either 
institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse 
advertisements based on content. 

The news is reported as accurately and objectively 
as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion 
of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, 
Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. 
Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of 
the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include 
contact information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed 
to Editor-in-Chief Allan Joseph. 

Post Office Information The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The Observer is published at: 024 South Dining Hall Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame and additional mailing offices POSTMASTER Send address corrections to: The Observer P.O. Box 779 024 South Dining hall Notre Dame, IN 46556-077 The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
What is your favorite Taylor Swift song? 

Kristi Skowron 
senior 
Walsh Hall 
“Forever and Always.” 
Mary Kate Holmes 
freshman 
Badin Hall 
“Enchanted.” 
Justyna Twardowski 
freshman 
Lyons Hall 
“22.” 

Have a question you want answered? Email obsphoto@gmail.com 


Liz Anthony 
freshman 
Ryan Hall 
“All Too Well.” 
Erin Brown 
junior 
Walsh Hall 
“I Knew You Were Trouble.” 
Megan Fabry 
freshman 
McGlinn 
“Our Song.” 

The Asian American Association presented the dance event Asian Allure for individual and group performances Friday in Washington Hall. The group is one of several Notre Dame cultural clubs that celebrate Asian heritage and culture. 

Want your event included here? 
News Sports 

Meghan Thomassen Joseph Monardo Email obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 

Christian Myers Conor Kelly Carolyn Hutyra Aaron Sant-Miller 
Graphics Scene 

Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday 
Steph Wulz Courtney Cox 
Photo Viewpoint 

Lecture: “The  Maya Blood Drive “Man as the “An Irish Perspective: “The World’s Need 
Suzanna Pratt Amber Galik 

Mysteries” Geddes Hall Primary Way for the Doing Business in a for Strong American DeBartolo Hall 10 a.m.-5 p.m. University” Global Economy” Leadership” 
4:30p.m.-5:30 p.m. Sponsored by the Carole Sandner Hall Mendoza College Geddes Hall 
Corrections 

Study on archaeology, Graduate Student 12:30 p.m.-1:30 p.m. 5 p.m.-6:15 p.m. 2 p.m.-4 p.m. 
The Observer regards itself as prophecy and fantasy. Union. Lunch and lecture. Speaker Mary Hanafin. Speaker John Keane. a professional publication and strives for the highest standards 
Veteran’s Day Film: “Asterix chez “Re-Personalizing Notre Dame Fall Concert: Notre 
of journalism at all times. We do, 
Ceremony les Bretons” Medicine” Symphony Orchestra Dame Glee Club 
however, recognize that we will make 
Fieldhouse Mall 329 DeBartolo Hall Jordan Hall DeBartolo Performing DeBartolo Performing 
mistakes. If we have made a mistake, 
5 p.m.-5:30 p.m. 6 p.m.-8 p.m. 7 p.m.-8 p.m. Arts Center Arts Center 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
Follows a 24-hour vigil. Dinner, screening and Lecture on reinforcing 8 p.m.-9:30 p.m. 8 p.m.-9 p.m. 
we can correct our error. 

Open to the public. discussion. pathos in medicine. Concert tickets $3-$6. Tickets $5-$10. 

NDSMCOBSERVER.COM | MONDAY, NOVEMBER 12, 2012  | THE OBSERVER 

Senior recieves award for mathematics 
MurphyKate Montee is the first Notre Dame student to win the Alice T. Schafer Mathematics Prize 
By NICOLE MICHELS 
News Writer 
Senior MurphyKate Montee never questioned her decision to pursue a double major in honors mathematics and mu­sic, despite the intimidating course load. 
“I’ve known that I love math since middle school — it’s nev-

er been a question what I want to do with my life and where I’ve wanted to go with my life,” Montee said. “I’ve known since eight grade since I was going to be a mathematics professor … but [music and mathematics] are both equally important to me.” 
Her achievement in math­ematics earned her the 2013 Alice T. Shafer Mathematics Prize from the Association of Women in Mathematics, a national award meant to honor an outstanding undergradu­ate female mathematician, Montee said. 
“It’s an award that’s given out for excellence in math­ematics to an undergraduate women majoring in math,” Montee said. “The point of the award is to encourage women in mathematics.” 
The Association for Women in Mathematics (AWM) es­tablished the award in 1990. Former winners have contin­ued on to be distinguished mathematicians. Five Notre Dame students had placed highly in the competition in previous years, but Montee is Notre Dame’s first winner. 
The application process for the award was unique, Montee said. 
“It’s an interesting applica­tion process — they say [to] send a letter of nomination and anything else you want,” Montee said. “I sent in two recommendation letters: one from the assistant advisor here and one from a profes­sor that I worked with this summer at Williams College. … I also sent in a personal statement, my CV and a copy of three papers that I’ve writ­ten for publication.” 

Montee said attention gar­nered by her recent research 
“Today I don’t think there is any disadvantage to being a woman in mathematics 
— I think everyone is really encouraging, especially here [at Notre Dame].” 
MurphyKate Montee 
senior 

likely played a large part in her successful bid for the prize. 
“This past summer I was at the SMALL program at Williams College where I worked with Professor Colin Adams, a very well-known knot theorist,” Montee said. “I was in the group that was work­ing with him, and we came up with some really surprising re­sults that were not expected at the beginning of the summer.” 
Montee said her summer experience researching at Louisiana State University af­ter her junior year also encour­aged her development to be the mathematician she is today. 
“This past summer was where it all came together,” Montee said. “That project is being submitted for publi­cation, and I also worked on a side project that has been submitted for publication as well.” 
Montee said she hopes to have all three projects pub­lished in the near future, two of which have been submit­ted to peer-reviewed profes­sional journals and the ArXiv, an open e-print archive of preprint academic papers. She said she expects to submit the third project for publication soon. 
Montee currently is work­ing on a senior honors thesis, titled “On the Construction of the Chern Classes of Complex Vendor Bundles.” 
Montee said her passion for mathematics has driven her far in the field. 
“I just absolutely love math­ematics; I love the rigor and the beauty of mathematics,” she said. 

Though the discipline is tra­ditionally considered to be a male-dominated discipline, Montee said this has never stopped her. 
“Today I don’t think there is any disadvantage to being a woman in mathematics — I think everyone is really en­couraging, especially here [at Notre Dame,]” Montee said. 
Montee said any student — male or female — considering mathematics should try the discipline. 
“I think people should do what they love. … If you love mathematics and have a talent for mathematics, we’re always looking for more mathemati­cians,” Montee said. “People tend to get scared away from mathematics, maybe from all the calculations people have to do, but in real life there are not a lot of calculations that go into pure math — there’s a lot of logic and rigorous thinking or reasoning. … It’s beautiful, an art form in and of itself.” 
Contact Nicole Michels at nmichels@nd.edu 
PAID ADVERTISEMENT PAID ADVERTISEMENT NDSMCOBSERVER.COM | MONDAY, NOVEMBER 12, 2012  | THE OBSERVER 





Event promotes safe driving 
By BRIDGET FEENEY 
Saint Mary’s Associate Editor 
Students, faculty and staff will have the opportunity to experience distracted driving firsthand at the “Arrive Alive” present Tuesday at the Student Center atrium. 
The event, co-sponsored by the Student Government Association (SGA) and 
“With the simulation, students will be able to truly experience what it feels like and what can happen drinking and driving or texting while driving.” 
Maureen Parsons 
senior 
SMC student body president 
Women’s Health, Saint Mary’s health services center, is in­tended to increase awareness about drunk driving and tex­ting while driving. 
“I think texting while driv­ing is especially important for students to understand the consequences of because it is a more recent problem with the increase in technology over the last decade,” senior stu­dent body president Maureen Parsons said. “People are now tweeting, using Facebook and emailing while driving. It is important for students to un­derstand what can happen and the risks of texting and driving. 
“As college students, it is always important to remind students of the dangers of drinking and driving.” 
According to the U.S. Department of Transportation, more than 3,000 people were killed as a result of drivers sending text messages while behind the wheel in 2010. In the same year, more than 10,000 people were killed due to drivers getting behind the wheel while under the influ­ence of alcohol, the equivalent of one crash every 51 minutes. These statistics lead Women’s Health and Parsons to bring “Arrive Alive” to campus. 

The event will feature a car simulation to help partici­pants to get an idea of what it is physically like to drive while drunk or texting. 
“With the simulation, stu­dents will be able to truly ex­perience what it feels like and what can happen drinking and driving or texting while driv­ing,” Parsons said. 
The presenting company, UNITE, is a top health and wellness organization in the country. UNITE visits schools and universities to educate students of all ages across the nation about the risks of dis­tracted driving. Parsons said she is thankful to Women’s Health for bringing the con­cept to SGA’s attention. 
“Women’s Health brought the idea to SGA, and we felt that it was a great idea,” she said. “We think the texting while driving simulation is es­pecially worthwhile because it is something that is gain­ing more attention across the country.” 
Parsons said that while there is no set speaker or planned discussion, students are able to stop by the “Arrive Alive” at any point during the afternoon to participate in the simula­tor, ask questions or get more information about UNITE. She expects students to gain a new level of respect for the im­portance of not taking part in risky driving behaviors and the simulator is an effective way to help spread this message. 
“[SGA] hopes that students learn of the consequences that can come from drinking and driving as well as texting while driving,” she said. “I think anytime you allow students to physically participate in some­thing, the message is better understood.” 
“Arrive Alive” will take place Tuesday from 3 p.m. to 7 p.m. in the Student Center atrium. 
Contact Bridget Feeney at bfeene01@saintmarys.edu 
Veterans 
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1 
raised a certain way.” 

Junior David Murphy, a mid­shipman in the Naval ROTC program, also drew on a fam­ily experience with the armed forces, saying his grandfather’s stories from the Pacific as a World War II veteran piqued his interested in military service as a child. 
“I would hear about things in history class and go home and call him, and he would say, ‘Oh yeah, I was there,’” Murphy said. “He loved the military and the service and the values it instilled in him.” 
The bond across the entire military, Murphy said, is a strong connector. 
“In the same way as Notre Dame, having the culture, hav­ing the tradition, being able to talk to someone who gradu­ated from the Class of 1980 or something, I think it’s similar to talking to someone in the military,” Murphy said. 
Murphy and Falvey are both political science students. Their classes hit a little harder, Falvey said, because they de­scribe the places and forces that will directly shape their lives after they graduate. 
“Looking at current foreign policy issues like … Iranian turmoil or trouble with North Korea, studying those issues is kind of interesting because those are, in a very real sense, places we could be,” he said. “It’s not just this theory of political science dictates we might be at war with China in 20 years. It’s an interesting per­spective to take that we might be there.” 
After completing his degree, Moran will work as a physicist for the Air Force when he grad­uates in May. 
“I feel almost all the time like a perfectly regular Notre Dame student, going to football games, still messing around, having a good time,” he said. “But there are ties where on Tuesday [for ROTC classes] or for PT [physical training] on Monday mornings where your buddies are still in bed or play­ing Xbox, and you’ve got to all of a sudden transition from a regular college student to an officer candidate. 
“We talked all the time in ROTC about a concept called ‘the switch,’ where you’re off, you’re switched off, you’re a regular guy, a regular gal, liv­ing your life, and at a moment’s notice you’ve got to be able to switch it on and take seriously the fact that you are prepar­ing to be a U.S. armed forces officer, which is a humungous responsibility.” 

Moran said his ROTC com­mitment presented a unique lens through which to see the foreign policy debates and po­litical conversations during this election season. 
“We are called very explic­itly as military members to participate in the election pro­cess, to participate in demo­cratic America, but to do so very much under the radar. … It doesn’t matter who wins, it doesn’t matter what party’s in control, we still have to go out there and do our jobs,” he said. 
Senior Theo Adams is months away from completing her undergraduate degree in art history and Italian. But as a member of the Naval ROTC branch, her graduation will send her back to school — flight school on a military base in Pensacola, Fla. 
“[Deployment] is never something that you look for­ward to,” she said. “But that is the reality of my situation and the other midshipmen on cam­pus, that that will happen.” 
Adams’ father served in the Navy, and her brother is cur­rently serving on a Navy boat in the Middle East. 
“I won’t get to see [my brother] for Thanksgiving and Christmas and the holidays, but it’s the type of thing that you know you’ll make those sacrifices and you have a big­ger image in mind that you do it for the people back home. I know my family, while we hate not seeing him, we also understand.” 

As she waits for emails and phone calls from her brother overseas, Adams said Veterans Day is just a day to be “very proud.” 
“Just because of the fact that our military is totally volun­teer, you’re not drafted into it, you’re not told you have to,” she said. “You are the one who goes to find the paperwork. … It makes me very proud to do this and to be American.” 
The students enrolled in the University’s ROTC program are regular students. But they are also future members of the military, future veterans of this country’s conflicts. 
Today they stand in uni­form outside Clark Memorial Fountain as a remembrance of the past, but also a testimony to the service of the life that lies ahead for them. 
“Veterans Day is an incred­ibly important day because it points to those people we kind of strive to be,” Falvey said. “If we can become those men and women who served our country, especially those who gave that highest price, who gave their lives, what more can we ask for than to honor that memory? 
“Not many people out there are willing to give their lives for you on any given day, and that’s what the American vet­eran is.” 
Contact Megan Doyle at mdoyle11@nd.edu 

PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
Retreat 
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1 

The retreats differ from the Freshman Retreat and Notre Dame Encounter with their focus on individual contem­plation as opposed to group discussion and prayer. 
Sophomore Leila Green, one of the retreat partici­pants, said the experience fulfilled the goals she set out with when applying for the retreat. (Editor’s Note: Green is a columnist for The Observer.) 
“I went on the retreat to give myself a break from stress, and for spiritual rea­sons,” she said. “I gained more peace and a deeper re­lationship with God.” 
Given how involved students are between academics, athletics, ex­tracurricular activities and football season festivities, Green said it was a much-welcomed escape from the fast-paced campus life. 
“No phones, Internet or talking,” she said. “The si­lence helped with lessening distractions and being able to hear God more clearly.” 

With the emphasis on com­munal living across residence halls, she said the solitude was refreshing. 
“My favorite part was the privacy,” she said. “It’s hard to find privacy on this campus.” 
The retreat is the first of three silent retreats planned for the year. A second, five-day retreat will take place in January, with the third and final weekend retreat occur­ring in late February. 
Contact John Cameron at jcamero2@nd.edu 

THE OBSERVER | MONDAY, NOVEMBER 12, 2012 | NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 

Stoplight 
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1 
lane had honked his horn for me to pass. I hadn’t noticed as I started to pedal that there was a car in the near lane, and when the driver and I realized what was about to happen, I pedaled faster and he hit the brakes, but the car still hit my bike. 
“I was thrown off the road, but thankfully, my injuries are minor and I walked away with only bruises and cuts on my legs and sides.” 
O’Hearn said she believes a stoplight at the intersection would remove these commu­nication issues between driv­ers and pedestrians. 
“If there were a stoplight, it would provide an opportunity for pedestrians and bikers like myself to cross safely, as well as clear doubt in drivers’ minds about whether stopping was necessary,” she said. 
Senior Mary Jeanne Brenholts, one of the 163 sign­ers of the petition, said the current situation at the inter­section is not safe for pedestri­ans. The intersection, near the student housing at Irish Row and Clover Ridge, currently has a crosswalk light that alerts oncoming cars when people are crossing. 

“When you’re crossing the street, you push a button and 
the  yellow  flashing  lights  
come  on,”  Brenholts  said.  
“Sometimes  the  lights  are  

on and the drivers still don’t slow down, so every time you cross the street you’re not sure whether they’ll slow down this time or not.” 
Brenholts said the problem is partially because drivers are unfamiliar with the meaning of the yellow lights. 
“The lights come on right away when you push the but­tons because the pedestrians do have the right of way, but drivers don’t always slow down for us,” she said. 
Senior Kevin Condit said he signed the petition because he thinks the area is at a “high risk” for pedestrian-automo­bile accidents, and he has seen too many close calls. 
“I ride my bike through that intersection every day, so I’m familiar with it, and I see people go pretty fast through there,” Condit said. “I think a stop sign would be a good addi­tion because it’s a high-traffic intersection.” 
Both Brenholts and Condit said that they became aware of the petition through Facebook, and signed because of their per­sonal connection to the area. 
“I live off-campus in Clover Ridge, and I bike to campus because I don’t have a car,” Brenholts said. “Sometimes, it just doesn’t feel safe, and I know [O’Hearn’s accident] is the kind of thing that could have happened to anyone.” 
Condit said he thinks that installing a stoplight is the best way to make students feel saf­er when passing through the area. 
“The importance of this cause is definitely highlight­ed by the fact that someone got hit there,” Condit said. “Sometimes, it unfortunately takes an accident like that to show you just how important it is.” 
O’Hearn said Allen con­tacted the Department of University Affairs in student government to see what can be done within the university, and the two are hoping to get the city of South Bend involved as well. 
“We are looking into pos­sibilities in South Bend, and hoping to use the petition as an indicator of student concerns.” 
Students interested in ac­cessing the petition can find it at http://www.change.org/ petitions/university-of-notre­dame-put-a-stoplight-at-the­c r o s s w a l k-at-v a ne s s-a nd­twyckenham 
Contact Ann Marie Jakubowski at ajakubo1@nd.edu 

Petraeus resigns amid scandal 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON — Members of Congress said Sunday they want to know more details about the FBI investigation that revealed an extramarital affair between ex-CIA Director David Petraeus and his biographer, questioning when the retired general popped up in the FBI inquiry, whether national security was compro­mised and why they weren’t told sooner. 
“We received no advanced no­tice. It was like a lightning bolt,” said Democratic Sen. Dianne Feinstein of California, who heads the Senate Intelligence Committee. 
The FBI was investigating ha­rassing emails sent by Petraeus biographer and girlfriend Paula Broadwell to a second woman. That probe of Broadwell’s emails revealed the affair between Broadwell and Petraeus. The FBI contacted Petraeus and other in­telligence officials, and Director of National Intelligence James Clapper asked Petraeus to resign. 
A senior U.S. military official identified the second woman as Jill Kelley, 37, who lives in Tampa, Fla., and serves as an unpaid so­cial liaison to MacDill Air Force Base in Tampa, where the mili­tary’s Central Command and Special Operations Command are located. 

Staffers for Petraeus said Kelley and her husband were regular guests at events he held at Central Command headquarters. 
In a statement Sunday evening, Kelley and her husband, Scott, said: “We and our family have been friends with Gen. Petraeus and his family for over five years. We respect his and his family’s privacy and want the same for us and our three children.” 
A U.S. official said the coalition countries represented at Central Command gave Kelley an ap­preciation certificate on which she was referred to as an “hon­orary ambassador” to the coali­tion, but she has no official status and is not employed by the U.S. government. 
The official, speaking on con­dition of anonymity because he wasn’t authorized to discuss the case publicly, said Kelley is known to drop the “honorary” part and refer to herself as an ambassador. 
PAID ADVERTISEMENT NDSMCOBSERVER.COM | MONDAY, NOVEMBER 12, 2012  | THE OBSERVER 




Indianapolis explosion levels homes, kills two 
Associated Press
 INDIANAPOLIS — Splintered beams and boards on a piece of charred earth were all that remained Sunday where three Indianapolis homes were leveled in a blast that killed two people and rendered homes for blocks uninhabitable. 
A backhoe raked through the rubble in the middle-class sub­division as clusters of firefighters and rescue workers weary from a long, chaotic day that began late the night before waited for their next assignment. 
The two-story, brick-faced homes on either side of those demolished by the blast were ru­ins. One home’s roof was gone, a blackened husk left behind. On the other side of the gap, the side of a home was sheared off. Across the street, garage doors had buckled from the heat. 
It wasn’t yet clear what caused the blast that shook the neigh­borhood at 11 p.m. Saturday. Residents described hear­ing a loud boom that blew out windows and collapsed ceil­ings. Some thought a plane had crashed or that it was an earthquake. 
Alex Pflanzer, who was asleep when the nearby homes were leveled, said he heard his wife screaming and thought some­one was breaking in his house. 

Utility LIPA frustrates region 

Grabbing his gun, he checked the house and saw the front door was standing open. 
“I walked outside and all the houses were on fire,” he said. 
Pflanzer, his wife and two dogs were staying in a hotel room Sunday night. They were, howev­er, without their cat, who refused to budge from the crawl space. 
Deputy Code Enforcement Director Adam Collins said as many as 31 homes were dam­aged so badly that they may have to be demolished. The explosion damaged a total of 80 homes, he said. He estimated the damage at $3.6 million. 
Some residents were allowed to return to their homes to re­trieve a few belongings Sunday 
PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
under police escort, officials said. Others whose homes weren’t as badly damaged were allowed to go home, but officials said they would have to do without elec­tricity overnight. 
Officials did not identify the two people who were killed. 
Deputy Fire Chief Kenny Bacon told reporters Sunday in­vestigators haven’t eliminated any possible causes for the blast. But U.S. Rep. Andre Carson, who represents the area, said he had been told a bomb or meth lab ex­plosion had been ruled out. 
Bacon said the crisis could have been much worse. “I know we’re very fortunate that some of the people weren’t home,” he said. 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK — New Yorkers railed Sunday against a util­ity that has lagged behind oth­ers in restoring power two weeks after the superstorm that socked the region, criticizing its slow pace as well as a dearth of information. 
About 120,000 customers in New York and New Jersey re­mained without power Sunday, including tens of thousands of homes and businesses that were too damaged to connect to power even if it was running in their neighborhood. More than 8 million lost power during the storm, and some during a later nor’easter. 
Separately, U.S. Secretary of Homeland Security Janet Napolitano visited with disas­ter-relief workers Sunday in Staten Island’s Midland Beach neighborhood, which is still devastated two weeks after Sandy hit. 
The lack of power restora­tion for a relative few in the densely populated region at the heart of the storm reinforced Sandy’s fractured effect on the area: tragic and vicious to some, merely a nuisance to others. 
Perhaps none of the utilities have drawn criticism as wide­spread, or as harsh, as the Long Island Power Authority. Nearly 50,000 of the homes and busi­nesses it serves were still with­out power Sunday evening, and 55,000 more couldn’t safely connect even though their local grids were back online because their wiring and other equip­ment had been flooded. It would need to be repaired or inspected before those homes could regain power, LIPA said. 
“We certainly understand the frustration that’s out there,” LIPA’s chief operating officer, Michael Hervey, said in a con­ference call late Sunday. But, he said, the storm had been worse than expected, no utility had as many workers in place before­hand as it would have liked, and the power was coming back rap­idly “compared to the damage that’s been incurred.” 
Customers told of calling LIPA multiple times a day for updates and getting no answer, or con­tradictory advice. 
“I was so disgusted the other night,” said Carrie Baram of Baldwin Harbor, who said she calls the utility three times a day. “I was up till midnight, but nobody bothered to answer the telephone.” 
Baram, 56, said she and her husband, Bob, go to the mall to charge their cellphones, and Bob, a sales manager, goes there to work. They trekked to her par­ents’ house to shower. At night, they huddle under a pile of blan­kets and listen to the sound of fire engines, which Baram assumes are blaring because people have been accidentally setting blazes with their generators. 

“It’s dark,” said an exasperated Baram, “it’s frightening, and it’s freezing.” 
LIPA has said it knows that customers aren’t getting the information they need, partly because of an outdated informa­tion technology system that it is updating. Sunday, executives said they were working on set­ting up information centers near the most heavily damaged areas. The company also said it had de­ployed 6,400 linemen to work on restoring power, compared to 200 on a normal day. 
“’They’re working on it, they’re working on it’ — that would be their common response,” Nassau County Executive Ed Mangano said Sunday, describ­ing LIPA’s interaction with his office. 
He said LIPA had failed to an­swer even simple questions from its customers and that Sandy’s magnitude wasn’t an excuse. 
“How could a utility of that size, with the financial support that it receives, fail to communi­cate with its residents?” he said. “Its basic logistics seem to have failed.” 
Mangano and other lawmak­ers have called for the federal government to step in and as­sist with restoring power to Long Island, saying LIPA could not be trusted to get the job done. 
On Sunday, LIPA said it had restored power to 95 percent of homes and businesses where it was safe to receive power and that that figure would be 99 per­cent by the end of Tuesday. It didn’t give an estimate for the remaining customers. 
“When we’re done, we will look at any improvements we need to make in the process,” Hervey said. “My appeal to those customers is once the crews ar­rive, stand back and let them get their work done.” 
Phillip Jones, 43, a parole of­ficer in Uniondale, said he had called LIPA about 10 times a day before his power was turned on Saturday and usually just got a busy signal. A few times he got a recording saying the company was aware of the problems and would call if it needed to speak to him. 
“Which was kind of strange,” Jones said, “because most of the phones were not working that well.” 
Jones also criticized LIPA’s failure to find a way to tell people how long to expect to be without electricity. 
“If they had said the lights won’t be on until two weeks from now, I could have made a two-week plan,” he said. Instead, he and his wife and two children had been sleeping in one bed to try to stay warm, and he missed two weeks of work. “All you could do was hope that today would be the day.” 



THE OBSERVER | MONDAY, NOVEMBER 12, 2012  | NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Vegetarian nightmare 

Maddie Daly 
News Writer 

Thanksgiving: The one day a year where you can get away with eating literally all day long and doing nothing but sitting around feeling like you’re going to explode. Turkey, stuffing, cran­berries, sweet potatoes topped with marshmallows, green bean casserole ... Sounds like heaven, right? 
Wrong. Thanksgiving is an organ­ic-loving vegetarian’s nightmare.  Watching the toddler-sized bird being baked, fried or browned, then stuffed and pulled apart ... I have to leave the room to keep my breakfast down. It’s not even that I feel bad for the turkeys (although baby turkeys are adorable; Google it and see) — I just can’t stand the muscle-y, dripping-wet texture and the irrational thought that I will acci­dentally bite into a bone. 
Then, there is the preservative-filled “bread” that has been soaking in the bird’s bodily fluids for hours, appropri­ately named stuffing, the cranberries that slide out of the can in perfect cylin­drical shape, still ribbed from the can’s contours, the browned marshmallows ruining perfectly delicious and healthy sweet potatoes, green bean casserole burying the actual green beans in fried onions, fat and oil ... I think I’ll pass. 
However, it’s just awkward to sit there with an empty plate while everyone else stuffs their faces, not to mention it is a huge insult to the cook. So whenever we travel to see family for Thanksgiving, I am forced to fill my plate with a little bit of everything and sit there hiding my scowl, nibbling and moving food around to give the appearance that maybe I had too many snacks during the day and can’t eat another bite … as I suppress my growling stomach.          
Come to my house for Thanksgiving and I guarantee you will be pleasantly surprised. Not only do I cook half the food myself, but also it is fresh, natural and (partly) meat-free. Of course, my family rolls their eyes at my refusal to participate in the ritualistic eating of the turkey, but I know they secretly love my pumpkin ravioli, butternut squash and walnut risotto, sautéed green beans with bacon (confession time: I am a shameless bacon-loving ‘vegetarian’) and mashed sweet potatoes dusted with cinnamon sugar. This feast of healthy deliciousness is absolutely as fulfilling as the typical American spread, if not more. 
So next Thursday as you’re slicing your gelatinous “cranberries” and vio­lating your turkey by stuffing it with perfectly cubed bread, you’ll wish you were at my table. Now who wants some pumpkin pie? 
Contact Maddie Daly at mdaly6@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Time not wasted 
Bridget Galassini 
Bitter Bridget 
I have approximately twenty min­utes until I need to leave for my next class, but these twenty minutes are not enough for me to actually get anything productive done. 
I can’t take a nap because the optimal nap time is around 23 minutes, and that doesn’t even include the time it takes to fall asleep. So, by the time I ac­tually fell asleep, those twenty minutes I had would already be over — wasted. I can’t start writing a paper because what if I get on a roll, just to be inter­rupted by my next class? I can’t start on another subject like chemistry because by the time I find my notebook and folder and print out whatever I need to print out, it will be time to leave. I can’t take a shower because there is no way I would be ready to go to class on time. I can’t clean my room because that would take hours. So I’m left doing nothing, nothing at all, except sitting on the computer and wasting time on Facebook or Pinterest. 
That is what usually happens. But to­day I will try to be productive. I decided that I should attempt to finish my col­umn in these twenty minutes. I doubt that this will actually work because I now have sixteen minutes left — not nearly enough time for 500 more words, but I can try. 
If I do finish this column, these twenty minutes were not wasted. Even if I don’t finish this column, it’s good that I got a head start, so I did use these twenty minutes wisely. But it would irk me if I have to stop right in the middle of my column and come back to it later 

— Writing it in one sitting is easier be­cause my voice stays the same through­out. Sometimes I’ll start writing a paper for class and get interrupted, and when I come back to it later, I’m in such a dif­ferent state of mind that the paper no longer flows well. 
Nonetheless, I’ve heard that Ernest Hemingway always stopped in the mid­dle of a really good sentence, so that when he started again he would start with those same creative juices flow­ing. There was never an opportunity for writer’s block, because he left himself a perfect place to start every time. He said, “The best way is always to stop [writing] when you are going good and when you know what will happen next … you will never be stuck.” 
Maybe this works for Hemingway, but it doesn’t work for me. If I’m on a roll, I’d rather just finish that paragraph or section or column. I don’t want to stop mid-thought. I don’t want to have to put my pen down when twenty min­utes are over. 
Since I hate stopping in the middle of something, I know I have to finish this column within the next nine minutes. The extra motivation helps me write this column without distraction — no Facebook or Twitter or Tumblr, no texting or calling. Perhaps having these little pieces of time is a good thing: It gives a concrete deadline. 
I now have eight minutes of my twen­ty minutes left, and just over a hundred words to go. This is actually doable. So, these twenty minutes were put to good use, but there are so many other little chunks of time throughout the week that are not. If I added all of them up, I’d probably have at least four extra hours of time. And for college students like myself who never seem to have enough hours in a day, four hours would be splendid. 
I guess utilizing these bits of time can be achieved through little things 
— writing a short paper, doing a math problem or reading a chapter of a book. The 20- or 30-minute deadline would be the motivation since it seems that almost everyone works best under pressure. 
So maybe these awkward extra 20 or 30 minutes here or there are use­ful after all. Who knew? My column is finished with two minutes to spare. Granted, I’ll go back and revise, but that is usually done in two sittings any­way. Now, what to do with these extra two minutes? I wouldn’t want to waste them. Maybe I’ll just check Facebook. 
Bridget Galassini is a freshman. She can be reached at bgalassi@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

Honoring the veterans 
The University of Notre Dame and the U.S. Military share a very proud history. For more than 60 years, stu­dents at the University of Notre Dame have trained as cadets and midship­men and commission as officers in the Army, Marines, Navy and Air Force. 
Many Notre Dame graduates have gone on to serve distinguished ca­reers in the Armed Forces, along with millions of other Americans. Veterans Day is a day that we remember the sacrifices of these brave men and women. 
Here at Notre Dame, the Cadets and Midshipmen in the Army, Navy, and Air Force ROTC units show their respect for all veterans during our annual Veterans Day Vigil and Ceremony. The Vigil takes place at Clarke Memorial Fountain, more commonly known as Stonehenge, and lasts 24 hours, beginning yesterday evening at 4 p.m., and ending this evening at 4 p.m. 

This year, our annual Veterans Day Ceremony begins at 5 p.m., also at the Clarke Memorial Fountain. We stand guard there to show that we will never forget the sacrifices that the men and women of the U.S. Military have made for the freedoms that we all share and are truly blessed to have.
 While you are walking by Clarke Memorial today and see your fellow students standing guard, or attend­ing the ceremony this evening, we respectfully ask that you take a mo­ment out of your day to reflect and give thanks to those who have served, those who are serving, and those who will serve in the defense of this great 
Nation.  
Thank you.  
Ted Spinelli  Kevin Hickey  
Army ROTC  Navy ROTC  
senior  senior  
off campus  off campus  
Nov. 11  Nov. 11  
Patrick Bowlds  Mike Dompierre  
Air Force ROTC  Army ROTC  
senior  senior  
off campus  off campus  
Nov. 11  Nov. 11  

QUOTE OF THE DAY WEEKLY POLL 
“Life is a voyage that’s homeward bound.”  What’s your favorite part of Thanksgiving? 
Herman Melville Tweet your response with #ViewpointPoll 
U.S. novelist & sailor by 5 p.m. Thursday 


THE OBSERVER |MONDAY, NOVEMBER 12, 2012  | NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 

Who we are and what we do 
Elliott Pearce 
The Human Interest 

How do you define yourself? Often, we describe who we are by stating what we do. Rene Descartes associated his actions as a philosopher with his being as an individual when he said, “I think, therefore I am.” Many of us view our being in similar ways: “I study biology, therefore I am,” or “I run track, there­fore I am,” etc. Being and doing are not identical, though. We still are who we are even when we are not doing what we do. I believe being is even more im­portant than doing because we can do the things we do only because of who we are. 
One of my friends recently wrote a blog post for a contest in which she encouraged her readers to stop “do­ing” and start “being.” I agree with her because I believe that the differences in what we do matter far less than the similarities in who we are when it comes to how we should relate to each other. We are all human beings living human lives, and we must never let actions, whether good or bad, ours or someone else’s, overshadow this fact. 
For example, most of the rhetoric exchanged between Obama and Romney during the recent presiden­tial election had to do with jobs. They would have us think that people with jobs are happy and fulfilled because they contribute to the greater good of society and provide for their mate­rial wants and those of their families. People without jobs are pitiable fel­lows who face fear everywhere they go because of their inability to ensure a stable material future for themselves and their loved ones. (And if you fall into the second group, it’s the other guy’s fault.) 
As you might have guessed, I do not think this is a full and accurate picture of American life. I will now tell a story to help explain why. About a year ago, when I went to visit my sister at college in Philadelphia, I went for a morn­ing run down by the Schuylkill River. (Don’t ask me how that’s pronounced; I’m still not quite sure.) It was a beau­tiful day, and I was enjoying the fine weather and picturesque scenery of the waterfront. Soon, I ran by a homeless woman who had just gotten up after sleeping on a bench by the river. I no­ticed she was smiling and cheerfully singing to herself as she folded up the elements of her makeshift bed and put them into her backpack. 

This woman probably didn’t have a job. Therefore, it is likely that she did not perform the same functions and acquire the same means of purchasing material comforts that the employed visitors to the river did. Despite not do­ing those things, though, she still had as much right to be there and experi­ence the beauty of the river as anyone else, and she seemed to be taking as much joy from it as all of the people around her, if not more. In this way, she was no different from the wealthi­est person in Philadelphia. Both live human lives in which they experience joys and sorrows. Make no mistake: The homeless face extremely difficult challenges that the rich and even the middle class never experience and can only partially understand, but they are also spared the unique disorders and discomforts brought on by wealth. Uninterrupted happiness belongs to no one. We are all humans, and as such, we all share the ups and downs of hu­man life. 
This notion could change the way we think about jobs and other subjects of political debates. People do not “earn” the right to a living by doing things that others value. Instead, they deserve to be offered a productive outlet for the creative powers they possess by virtue of being human. I did not hear either Obama or Romney talk enough about creating jobs that affirmed hu­man dignity instead of degrading and instrumentalizing it. While America has created plenty of jobs, robots and computers do most of them. We need to find means of production that augment and harness the human spark within workers instead of ignoring it and turn­ing those we don’t replace with robots into robots themselves. 
I hope President Obama and all of our other newly elected and re-elected leaders can look at things from this perspective when considering which legislation to enact. I also hope that we ourselves can use this insight to inform the way we treat our “neighbors.” I know that I have failed in this regard. Just as a new term brings new hope to President Obama, each new day brings new hope for us. Let’s all use our next opportunities wisely. 
Elliott Pearce can be reached at Elliott.A.Pearce.12@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
The Irish through English eyes 
Theo Brun 
Guest Columnist 

As an Englishman, it pains me to say much of what you are about to read. 
I’ve visited the States a few times now, and I didn’t think there could be that much left in American culture that held any real surprises. That was, until my friend in town said he’d got tickets to the game last Saturday. He explained the “Fighting Irish” were something called “Eight-and-Zero” — which ap­parently was extremely unusual and important. 
So much so that within a day or two of arriving in South Bend, I’d been taught that instead of using common­place phrases like “Hi” and “See ya lat­er,” I was to mutter “Irish, Irish, Irish.” 
This novel practice, he told me, came from an incident when one of the Holy Fathers of Notre Dame was attending a game some years back. He found he was standing next to a grizzle-chinned fan, who was stood alone and evidently talking to himself. The good father wondered whether he’d had the mis­fortune to run into a schizophrenic, or worse still, a man possessed. But as he moved closer, he realised that if the guy was possessed, it had to be by some demonic leprechaun, since he was repeating over and over, “Irish, Irish, Irish, Irish …” Instead, our hearty priest concluded that the man was probably the sanest person in the park, and he took to doing the same if ever he had a moment to spare. 
By the time we were climbing the stairs to the press box — somewhere several thousand feet above the field 
— to watch the Irish take on the Pitt Panthers, I’d been well-briefed on what I was about to witness. I had also been beguiled into stepping into the book­store shop, where I had been separated from no less than 170 of my hard-earned dollars (and I’d just gone in for a t-shirt). So I felt that if I didn’t yet have any emotional investment in the Irish, I had at least made something like a financial one. 
Irish, Irish, Irish, Irish … 
We reckon ourselves great sports fans back over the Pond, but frankly, after Saturday, I don’t think we have any clue. Where are our bands? Where are our flags? Where is our fighter-jet fly-by? Where is our national anthem? (Okay, we have one of those.) But where is our second national anthem? And most im­portantly, where are our cheerleaders? 

The most fun English fans have at a game is getting drunk, insulting the rival fans’ mothers and crushing each other to death. So it was a bewildering experience to see what can be done to make a football game such a grand spectacle. (I mean, sideways-marching xylophone players — dozens of them!)  
Was it actual pride I was feeling when attempting to sing along to the Star-Spangled Banner, trying to remember exactly which great-grandparent it was my mom had told me was American? I think so. (Although I forgot to cover my heart with my hat — sorry about that.) 
Irish, Irish, Irish, Irish … 
And then the game. The clock ticked its way through the third quarter and the score was still at 20-6. I felt faint embarrassment that I’d managed to jinx Notre Dame’s winning streak. Meanwhile my friend was dying inside. “There’s still time,” he said, while his doubting English friend smiled and pitied such blind faith. But a late third quarter prayer to Touchdown Jesus seemed to do the trick, and the Irish proved why they come with their com­bative descriptor. By the time the lads had levelled it back to 20-20, I was a changed man — I believed. I had seen the light, and the light was green. 
Irish, Irish, Irish, Irish … 
Then came overtime — a fumbled touchdown, a missed Panthers field-goal (how the Holy Mother loves her children!), and then — sweet glory — a rushin’ touchdown and the Irish had done it again.  
When Jesus comes back, South Benders are going to have a problem — could the crowd here really be more ex­cited by the Second Coming than they were by the score that would take them to “Nine-and-Zero”? I fear there may be stern words if you can’t find something a little extra. 
Still, even to an ignorant Englishman, it was clear that there is something spe­cial about this place. About this team. Could they be? Surely they must be.  
A “Team of Destiny”? Really? 
I just don’t know. It’s too hard to think straight with all the voices in my head. 
Irish, Irish, Irish, Irish, Irish … 
Theo Brun recently completed a solo bi­cycle journey from Hong Kong to Norfolk, England. He visited campus to talk about it and stayed for the Pitt game. He can be reached at theobrun@gmail.com 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


THE OBSERVER | MONDAY, NOVEMBER 12, 2012  | NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
ASIAN 
ALLURE 
TAKES OVER WASHINGTON HALL 
On Friday and Saturday, the Notre Dame Asian American Association put on its annual “Asian Allure” performace. With a reenactment of Gangnam Style” and a traditional fashion show, it was an exciting event 
that showcased the heritage and traditions of all club members. 

STEPH WULZ | The Observer Photos: JOHN NING | The Observer 

Notre Dame 21, BostoN college 6 | MONDAY, NOVEMBER 12, 2012 | NDsmcoBserver.com 
Staying perfect 
Irish use long drives to build lead, hold on to beat Eagles on same day No. 1 Alabama falls 

By MATTHEW DeFRANKS 
associate sports editor 
cHestNUt HIll, mass. — an early 95-yard touchdown drive was all No. 4 Notre Dame needed as it beat Boston college 21-6 in front of 44,500 people at alumni stadium on saturday. 
Irish sophomore quarter­back everett golson engineered the 13-play, 95-yard march on Notre Dame’s first possession of the game, going 3-for-5 and scoring on a 2-yard touchdown plunge on third-and-goal. 
the Irish (10-0) were 3-for-3 on third downs on the opening drive and converted their first 10 attempts on third down for the game. golson picked up six first downs on the ground. 
“We did a nice job on third down,” Irish coach Brian Kelly said. “our quarterback play was really good, picked up one of the best plays I think he had when he ran it on third down, put his foot in the ground and ran north and south and showed some real toughness. We were effective because our quarter­back was effective tonight.” 
golson finished the game 39 rushing yards on 11 carries. 
“We got a great push up front and I was able to run for the first downs,” golson said. “I like to think that’s what makes me, me. … It also takes the other guys around you to comple­ment you and can finish the play off.” 
Dating back to the Pittsburgh game, Notre Dame converted on 12 consecutive third downs before an incompletion in the third quarter. 
“It’s something we harped on, a lot of repetition,” senior run­ning back theo riddick said. “everyone was very detail-ori­ented in what they were doing. everyone was on the same page and it worked out tonight.” 
Notre Dame entered the game scoring touchdowns on less than half of its red zone chances but converted all three red zone trips into touchdowns saturday, including scoring passes to sophomore tight end troy Niklas and graduate stu­dent receiver John goodman. 
“everett golson played the way he needs to play, especially in the red zone,” Kelly said. “once he starts playing at the level we need him in the red zone, we’ll start scoring touch­downs and not just field goals.” 

two series after Boston college (2-8) cut the Notre Dame lead to 7-3 with junior kicker Nate Freese’s 36-yard field goal, Notre Dame scored again on a long drive. 
this time, the Irish went 87 yards in 16 plays, taking up 
8:30 of the second quarter. Notre Dame went 4-for-4 on third down on a drive capped by a 7-yard touchdown pass to Niklas. the grab was Niklas’ first touchdown of his career. 
riddick, who ran for 104 yards on 18 attempts, said golson was the key to the long drives. 
“long drives are going to tire out the defense and [golson] made perfect checks and he knew what he was doing and it was a result of his play,” riddick said. 
senior tight end tyler eifert continued to develop a rap­port with golson, grabbing six catches for 67 yards. 
“I think they’re feeling more comfortable with each other,” Kelly said. “getting the ball to eifert is very important and putting the ball in a good po­sition where he can go up and use his size. that’s what I liked tonight. the little nuances of [golson’s] game tonight is he put the ball in areas where tyler can play [6-foot-5] because if he can play at that size, he’s hard to defend.” 
Notre Dame turned the ball over twice on fumbles by riddick and sophomore run­ning back george atkinson. the Irish now have five turnovers in the past two games. 
“the only thing I’m not happy with is the turnovers, we’ve got to take better care of the foot­ball. they played hard and they played physical for four quar­ters,” Kelly said. “these are guys that have carried the ball a lot, they’ve got to do a better job.” 
the Irish defense allowed just 300 total yards of offense, in­cluding only 53 rushing yards. the eagles were creative on offense, calling screens and reverses to try and catch Notre Dame off guard. 
“there were some plays where you thought you were at Disney World, there was mickey mouse plays everywhere,” senior line­backer manti te’o said. “there were reverses, screens, that was the most screens I’ve ever de­fended in one game. our guys came out and everyone flew to the ball. When something hap­pened, was somebody there.” 
eagles junior quarterback chase rettig was 27-for-43 for 247 yards and an interception. He was also sacked five times. 
Boston college became the fifth team to not score a touch­down against Notre Dame. 
“I think they ran every play imaginable,” Kelly said. “our guys defensively saw so many different plays tonight but they kept fighting and kept them out of the end zone.” 

PLAYER OF THE GAME 
Junior linebacker Prince shembo said the Irish were pre­pared for the various plays. 
“We knew this was like their super Bowl so we knew there was going to be a lot of trick plays and stuff like that. everyone was ready and pre­pared,” shembo said. 
Junior cornerback Bennett Jackson led the Irish defense with a team-high eight tackles, including seven solo stops and one tackle for loss. shembo re­corded three sacks in the win. 
“I wasn’t doing anything spe­cial, just chasing quarterbacks,” shembo said. “In the past weeks, I would get to the quar­terback and he would throw the ball every time, throw it out of bounds. this guy wanted to hold it so I was like ‘all right, cool, it’s about time.’” 
graduate student defen­sive end Kapron lewis-moore and sophomore defensive end stephon tuitt each added sacks of their own. 
te’o bolstered his Heisman trophy candidacy with five tackles an interception in the fourth quarter. It was his sixth of the season, the most in a sin­gle year by an Irish linebacker. te’o leads the country in turn­overs forced, with two fumble recoveries in addition to his six picks. 
“When you need a big play, he’s going to be around the foot­ball,” Kelly said. 
te’o said the Irish can still be better. 
“We can do better with our ef­fort,” he said. “We can do better executing. We’ll come back on sunday and monday and cor­rect the mistakes and get ready for Wake Forest.” 
the Irish will welcome the Demon Deacons to Notre Dame stadium on saturday at 3:30 p.m. 
Contact Matthew DeFranks at mdefrank@nd.edu 
EVERETT GOLSON 
NOTRE DAME QUARTERBACK 

golson only threw for 200 yards but completed 16 of his 24 passes and did not turn the ball over. He continuously converted third-down runs into first downs and accounted for all three Notre Dame touch­downs. the sophomore signal caller also ran for 39 yards on 11 car­ries, making him Notre Dame’s second-leading rusher for the game. 

tHe oBserver | MONDAY, NOVEMBER 12, 2012| NDsmcoBserver.com 

REPORT CARD 









QUARTERBACKS 

everett golson had another solid performance as a game manager and avoided any turnovers. He made plays with his legs as well while tommy rees was per­fect in his one play of action. 
RUNNING BACKS 

theo riddick topped 100 yards again but the Irish backs were marred by turnovers. riddick lost a fumble and george atkinson also coughed the ball up. cierre Wood was almost a non-factor, getting only six carries. 
RECEIVERS 

tyler eifert had another nice game as golson contin­ues to look for him on offense. He had six catches for 67 yards. tJ Jones had key catches on third down while John goodman and troy Niklas each made their only reception count, scoring touchdowns. 
OFFENSIVE LINE 

the offensive line continued their quiet dominance of opponent, this time opening holes and allowing the Irish to average 4.6 yards per carry. the unit also did not allow the eagles to sack golson. 
DEFENSIVE LINE 

every game, the defensive line seems to get better. they continously pressured chase rettig and did not allow the eagles to establish any rushing game. Boston college managed just 2.3 yards per carry as stephon tuitt and Kapron lewis-moore tallied sacks. 
LINEBACKERS 

Prince shembo was the star of the linebacking corps, outshining manti te’o with three sacks. te’o recorded five tackles while also intercepting a Boston college pass. Ishaq Williams also had a solid game with three tackles. 
DEFENSIVE BACKS 

the secondary allowed rettig to throw for 247 yards but he did so on 43 attempts. Bennett Jackson had a team-high eight tackles but dropped an interception. Zeke motta continued his solid season with seven stops. 
SPECIAL TEAMS 

Kyle Brindza made all three of his extra points and the kickoff coverage team held spiffy evans to 56 return yards on three attempts. Ben turk also landed two punts inside the 20-yard line. 
COACHING 

at some point, the Irish should dominate the inferior teams they face instead of producing underwhelming efforts in victories. 
OVERALL GPA: 3.33 

the game was never in doubt and the Irish dominated Boston college even if the score did not show it. Notre Dame played down to the 2-8 eagles but still found a way to win. For the first time since 1993, Notre Dame is 10-0, but they still find themselves on the outside looking in, sitting at No. 3 in the latest Bcs rankings. 
PLAY OF THE GAME 
TE’O SEALS THE GAME WITH HIS SIXTH INTERCEPTION 
With Boston college driving and the game still within reach, manti te’o made a diving catch on a tipped chase rettig pass to steal possession and seal the game. Notre Dame was able to run the clock down before punting the ball back to the eagles. 

Chris Allen 
sports editor 

cHestNUt HIll, mass. — all week they heard the noise, even if they did not listen. 
there was the caution­ary tale of David gordon, the heartbreak of the 1993 bunch, who scored the big win against Florida state and let it slip away to Boston college. there was the 2002 group, who fell to the very same fate against the eagles. 
But from the opening whis­tle, this 2012 incarnation of the Irish seemed unburdened by history. every college foot­ball team will say it is unaf­fected by outside noise, it does not look at history or trends or hype. But it is becoming evident that this Irish bunch actually means it. 
Under a microscope more powerful and more magnify­ing than they have been in de­cades, the Irish are currently the subject of unprecedented national attention as they sit two games from finishing a once-unthinkable undefeated 2012 season. the closer the Irish get to that goal, the loud­er the “noise,” as Irish coach Brian Kelly calls it, will get. on saturday night in Boston, the Notre Dame team that took the field was deaf to the hype being tossed around in the stands around it. 
the Irish quickly ensured that Boston college would stage no upset bid by aggres­sively running the football and passing the football on the edge, exploiting a huge talent advantage in the trenches and at the skill posi­tions. those 1993 and 2002 squads let upset-minded Boston college teams stick around — a recipe for di­saster, as opponents smell a monumental late-season up­set to highlight their seasons. these 2012 Irish shut the door early with two long, thorough scoring drives in the first half and solid, opportunis­tic defense. a team that was concerned with a haunting history of upsets would not have come out to such a start. Kelly and his bunch don’t just talk about ignoring the noise. they displayed it on the field saturday night. It wasn’t the prettiest victory Kelly will bask in all season, but the eagles never got close to the upset they so desperately wanted. 

the Irish do not listen to the outside hype. Which is good, because it’s about to get a lot louder, still. 
Just minutes before Notre Dame kicked off against the eagles, clear-No. 1 alabama fell 29-24 to texas a&m in a thrilling game that will thrust the Irish even closer to the top of the Bcs rankings. after the game, a handful of Irish play­ers spoke about the different ways they found out about alabama’s loss. But the play­ers all shared the same senti­ment: the loss did not affect them. the game did not affect what happened between the white lines at alumni stadium between the Irish and the eagles. the players knew that and did what they needed to do to get the win. 
that ability to block out the outside world will be crucial in the coming weeks. sure, many will agree that Notre Dame needs a loss by either oregon or Kansas state to ensure a chance to play for the Bcs title. But the play of the Ducks and the Wildcats will not affect what happens against Wake Forest or at Usc. the Irish now play with a large, inviting target on their backs. Wake Forest will give Notre Dame its best game 
— and everyone knows how much Usc would love to add a loss to Notre Dame’s resume. If the Irish are caught watch­ing the scoreboard or think­ing of Bcs scenarios in their heads for even a second, they will get beat. the leadership of Notre Dame, Kelly and manti te’o, has done a great job in­stilling a week-to-week men­tality. Just as they did for each of the previous nine wins this season, Notre Dame will cel­ebrate for 24 hours. then, with Bcs winds swirling, with me­dia attention and magazine covers and awards lists rolling in daily, with hype coming in from every direction, they will go back to work. 
and they won’t hear a word of what is said. 
Contact Chris Allen at callen10@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


NDsmcoBserver.com | MONDAY, NOVEMBER 12, 2012 | tHe oBserver 

Notre Dame stays focused after No. 1 alabama’s loss 

By MATTHEW DeFRANKS 
associate sports editor 
cHestNUt HIll, mass. — everett golson was watching it. Bennett Jackson found out before the game. theo riddick said no one knew about it. But Irish coach Brian Kelly and the Notre Dame coaching staff did. 
No. 1 alabama had lost. 
the top-ranked and previ­ously undefeated crimson tide dropped their first game to 29-24 to texas a&m on saturday. the upset happened before No. 4 Notre Dame took the field for its game against Boston college, but Kelly said the coaches did not share the news with the players. 
“absolutely not,” the Irish coach said. “We didn’t talk about alabama.” 
With a 21-6 win over Boston college, coupled with alabama’s loss, the Irish moved up to No. 3 in the Bcs rankings sunday night. 
Jackson said the result of the game did not impact Notre Dame’s game plan. 
“We had our minds focused on what we wanted to get done. We really weren’t too concerned about it,” the junior cornerback said.  “You can’t come out and be happy that a team lost when you still have a game to compete in.” 

Prior to its win over Boston college, the Irish (10-0) were part of a logjam of four un­defeated squads at the top of the rankings. While alabama fell, No. 2 Kansas state beat tcU and No. 3 oregon topped california. 
Notre Dame is now one of three teams vying for just two spots in the Bcs National championship game in miami on Jan. 7. 
With the Irish unbeaten through 10 games, senior line­backer manti te’o said the na­tional championship picture is in sight, but Notre Dame can­not get too far ahead of itself. 
“It’s only as real as Wake Forest,” te’o said. “We have to deal with them and play one game at a time, that’s college football. anyone can beat any­one at any time.” 
the Irish have been unim­pressive in wins over BYU, Pittsburgh and Boston college, but have found ways to pull out wins and stay undefeated. 
“a win is a win, and a win is not easy,” Jackson said. “style points are style points. We’re going to come out and give it our all and try to come up with a victory.” 
te’o, who had five tackles and an interception in the win, said Notre Dame does not fo­cus on style points. 
“It’s always about the win, that’s all that matters to us,” he said. 
Kelly said the Irish have their sights set on Wake Forest, their next opponent, and not on how many points they win by. 
“We’re going to work on win­ning against Wake Forest and take care of what we can take care of and then when it’s all said and done, we’ll see where we are,” Kelly said. “We really can’t waste any of our energy. You see how hard it is to win in college football. We can’t wor­ry about those things. 
“We have to focus on what we can do and that is win it on the field. If people don’t like us winning, I don’t know what else to tell you.” 
Contact Matthew DeFranks at mdefrank@nd.edu 

Irish start with long drive 
By CHRIS ALLEN 
sports editor 
cHestNUt HIll, mass. — the Irish initiated the scor­ing in their 21-6 victory over Boston college on saturday with a 95-yard touchdown drive in the opening half of the first quarter. the drive, which lasted 13 plays and spanned 5:39, was the longest Notre Dame touchdown drive of the season. the Irish last record­ed a touchdown drive of over 95 yards in the 2011 season opener against south Florida, when they drove 99 yards for a touchdown in the waning sec­onds of a 23-20 loss. 
the Irish followed up that drive with an 87-yard drive in the final minutes of the second quarter. the drive culminated in a seven-yard touchdown pass from sophomore quarter­back everett golson to sopho­more tight end troy Niklas. In total, Notre Dame possessed the ball for 12:27 of the second quarter and extended its lead to 14-3 in the period. spanning the Pittsburgh game and the first half of saturday’s win, Notre Dame had five out of six scoring drives take 11 plays or more. 

Moving the chains 
Notre Dame senior tight end tyler eifert helped golson move the chains through­out Notre Dame’s win. Five of eifert’s six catches against the eagles resulted in a first down. on the season, eifert has either converted a first down or scored a touchdown on 24 of his 34 total receptions. Notre Dame started the night converting its first 10 third-down conversions and fin­ished 11-of-14 on third down. the eagles converted 8-of-15 third-down conversions by comparison. 
“some of it was our execu­tion. some of it was their ex­ecution. some of it was their improvisation,” eagles coach Frank spaziani said. “When you’re losing, you’re not mak­ing your share of plays.” 
Contact Chris Allen at callen10@nd.edu 

SCORING SUMMARY 


1ST  2ND  3RD  4TH  TOTAL  
7  7  7  0  21  
0  3  0  3  6  






NOTRE DAME 7, BOSTON COLLEGE 0 
everett golson 2-yard run (Brindza kick) 

7:26 remaining 

Drive: 13 plays, 95 yards, 5:39 elapsed 
NOTRE DAME 7, BOSTON COLLEGE 3 
Nate Freese 36-yard field goal 

14:55 remaining 

Drive: 15 plays, 69 yards, 7:31 elapsed 
NOTRE DAME 14, BOSTON COLLEGE 3 
troy Niklas 2-yard pass from everett golson (Brindza kick) 

0:26 remaining 

Drive: 16 plays, 87 yards, 8:30 elapsed 
NOTRE DAME 21, BOSTON COLLEGE 3 
John goodman 18-yard from everett golson (Brindza kick) 

10:44 remaining 

Drive: 9 plays, 65 yards, 4:16 elapsed 
NOTRE DAME 21, BOSTON COLLEGE 6 
Nate Freese 45-yard field goal 

13:44remaining 

Drive: 12 plays, 58 yards, 4:56 elapsed 
STATISTICS 

RUSHING YARDS 
184 
53 
PASSING YARDS 
209 
247 

Time of Possession  Time of Possession  

 32:23  
 27:37  
PASSING  
Golson  16-24-200  Rettig  27-43-247  
Rees  1-1-9  
RUSHING  
Riddick  18-104  Finch  7-40  
Golson  11-39  Amidon  1-14  
Wood  6-33  Swigert  1-9  
Atkinson  4-9  Dudeck  4-9  
RECEIVING  
Eifert  6-67  Amidon  6-84  
Riddick  4-56  Finch  5-25  
Jones  3-39  Evans  4-47  
Daniels  2-22  Dudeck  4-40  
Goodman  1-18  Swigert  3-23  
Niklas  1-7  Pantale  3-14  
TACKLES  
Jackson  8  Rositano  10  
Motta  7  Daniels  8  
Te’o  5  Simmons  7  
Shembo  5  Sylvia  7  
Fox  4  Divitto  6  
Calabrese  4  Duggan  6  

KICKOFF RETURNS Atkinson  3-78  Evans  3-56  
SACKS Shembo Tuitt Lewis-Moore  3 1 1  


tHe oBserver | MONDAY, NOVEMBER 12, 2012| NDsmcoBserver.com 


MACKENZIE SAIN | The Observer 

Junior cornerback Bennett Jackson, 2, attempts to tackle Eagles junior receiver Alex Amidon as senior linebacker Manti Te’o, center, and freshman safety Nicky Baratti, left, trail the play. Jackson finished the game with a team-high eight tackles during Notre Dame’s 21-6 win over Boston College at Alumni Stadium in Chestnut Hill, Mass., on Saturday. 
Notre Dame opened the game with a 95-yard touchdown drive  
GROUNDING THE  and never looked back, cruising to a 21-6 win over Boston College. Sophomore quarterback Everett Golson threw for two  
EAGLES  touchdowns and ran for another as the Irish rolled up 393 total yards on offense. The win pushed Notre Dame to 10-0 for the first  
time since 1993 and into the No. 3 position in the BCS rankings.  







By COURTNEY COX 
Associate Scene Editor 

It was the breakup heard round the world. Brad and Jennifer for the tween set. This weekend, when reps for the couple confirmed that Selena Gomez had indeed ended her relationship with Justin Bieber, girls around the world rejoiced that their man (boy) was single once again. For all of you who haven’t been paying attention, we’ve provided a timeline to get you up to speed. 
Jan. 3, 2011 — When pictures of the couple kissing in St. Lucia surfaced, hints of a possible romance became much more concrete, though the two never confirmed it. 
Feb. 13, 2011 — Rumors continue to swirl after Selena gives Justin a huge hug following his Grammy performance. 
Feb. 27, 2011 — The couple makes their official debut at the Vanity Fair Oscar Party in matching black and red outfits. If it was a secret before, it wasn’t any longer af­ter the two took sweet PDA pictures in the party’s photo booth. 
and make no attempt to hide their relationship, kissing in the waves in front of the paparazzi. 
June 19, 2011 — Justin gets a little touchy-feely on the stage of the MuchMusic Video Awards in Toronto while Selena was presenting awards. 
Sept. 23, 2011 — Bieber puts every boyfriend to shame by renting out the Staples Center in Los Angeles for a pri­vate screening of “Titanic.” 
Nov. 4, 2011 — Bieber talks to Ellen DeGeneres about his girlfriend saying, “She has very kissable cheeks.” That explains all the PDA. 
Nov. 20, 2011 — The couple takes to the red carpet of the American Music Awards in matching old Hollywood glam styles. 
Dec. 8, 2011 — Selena and Justin attend a friend’s wedding in Cabo San Lucas together and once again steal the show, mackin’ it after the ceremony. 
April 21, 2012 — Selena visits the set of Bieber’s video looks strikingly like Selena herself. Selena didn’t feel threatened, however, and the two were on PDA over­load as usual. 
June 16, 2012 — Biebs treats Selena to a helicopter tour of his homeland of Canada, just a casual afternoon out. 
July 2, 2012 — Gomez was reportedly seen crying over Justin at Ashley Tisdale’s birthday party. 
Nov. 7, 2012 — Bieber performs at the Victoria’s Secret Fashion show and is linked to 19-year-old Hungarian model Barbara Palvin. He was seen in a photo with Palvin and rapper Lil’ Twist that was later taken down but not before Selena reposted the shot with the caption “…”. 
Nov. 10, 2012 — After weeks of rumors, the couple an­nounces that they have indeed split. 
After almost two years it’s hard to say goodbye to this power couple, but we’ll do our best to keep our heads up. 
Contact Courtney Cox at ccox3@nd.edu 

STEPH WULZ | The Observer 


SPORTS AUTHORITY 

Bryant is the real boss in L.A. 

Mike Monaco 
Sports Writer 
The player-coach is back. 
In a move that stirred up memo­ries of former Celtics legend Bill Russell and his ridiculously suc­cessful three-year stint as both a three-time All-Star and a two-time championship-winning coach, the Los Angeles Lakers fired Mike Brown on Friday. 
Enter Kobe Bryant, de facto player-coach. 
In Wednesday’s loss to the Jazz and in a now-infamous YouTube video, the ever-intense Bryant directed his “death stare” at Brown, and in less than 48 hours Bryant high school coach getting fired because you didn’t fit well within the offense? Certainly not, because that’s not the way sports are sup­posed to work. Yet that’s how it works in Los Angeles, where Kobe seems to have the sway to depose a coach like Brown. 
Granted, the NBA is different from CYO or Pop Warner. It’s hard to imagine Brown walking into practice Thursday and making Kobe run suicides for an hour for insubordination. That’s just not the way professional sports work. The players and coaches are similar in age and even closer in ego size. 
The best teams have a mutual respect between the superstars and the coaches. Doc Rivers, Paul 

This isn’t a Little League, high school, college or even a functional professional team, where coaches have the final say. The Lakers are run differently, because Kobe runs them differently. 
seemingly ousted the man who was in just the second year of a four-year, $18 million deal. 
Yes, Kobe Bryant is bigger than his coach. Kobe Bryant is the mod-ern-day player-coach. 
Brown’s Princeton offense clearly wasn’t working in Lakerland. The win-now lineup of Dwight Howard, Pau Gasol, Ron Artest, Steve Nash and Kobe was expected to domi­nate the Western Conference, espe­cially after the James Harden trade left the Thunder worse off. 
But the Lakers struggled mightily in the first five games of the season, going 1-4 during a time when three of its four stars were battling inju­ries. Howard is still recovering from back surgery. Nash played just one and a half games of that first quin­tet and Bryant has been playing through a foot ailment. 
Yet something about Brown’s firing screams that Kobe played a part. Bryant has clashed with coaches in the past, and he always has gotten his way. The Lakers are now on their ninth coach (Bernie Bickerstaff holds the position in the interim) during the Kobe Bryant era. 
Phil Jackson went through vari­ous stints in Los Angeles and won five titles with Kobe, but they still had their problems. After a tumul­tuous 2003-04 season that ended Jackson’s first stint coaching Kobe, Jackson wrote a book detailing the campaign. In the book he criticized Bryant, calling him “uncoach­able.” And Jackson is exactly right. Bryant is uncoachable. He’s bigger than the team. He’s bigger than the coach. 
This isn’t a Little League, high school, college or even a functional professional team, where coaches have the final say. The Lakers are run differently, because Kobe runs them differently. 
Can you imagine a Duke Blue Devil shooting a death stare at Mike Krzyzewski and living to play another day? Can you imagine your Pierce and Kevin Garnett are equals with a respect for each cog’s role in the Celtic machine. Tim Duncan and Gregg Popovich have made a model out of a winning squad in which the player and the coach are the key constants, and their relationship is predicated on respect. 
But Kobe doesn’t have that respect for his coaches and, as a result, Brown got fired. 
Now obviously it wasn’t just because Kobe gave Brown the stink eye. Ownership was undoubt­edly fed up with the 1-4 start after emptying the piggy bank to make a championship run. But if Kobe doesn’t sign off on it, do you really think Brown is getting his pink slip? 
And is it really even a pink slip? Brown will get $11 million no matter how long he lasts on the unemployment line. That number seems even crazier when you con­sider just how early in the season he was canned. Five games. Five games out of an 82-game season. It’s the equivalent of being fired with 1:28 left in the first game of the NFL season, or in the eighth inning of the tenth game in the MLB, or before the end of the third quarter in game one of a 12-game college football season. The bottom-line: It was too soon. 
Give the Lakers and their stars a chance to get healthy and get accustomed to playing with one another. But that’s not what hap­pened. Instead, Brown was showed the door and now the Lakers are trying to successfully woo Jackson back. 
Are 11 NBA championships enough to warrant some respect from Kobe? 
Contact Mike Monaco at jmonaco@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
NBA 

Brown out after five games 
Associated Press  
LOS ANGELES — Mike Brown  
followed an 11-time NBA cham­ 
pion coach with the Los Angeles  
Lakers, taking charge of a roster  
packed with aging talent and  
a franchise anticipating more  
titles.  
And after just 71 regular-sea­ 
son games, the Lakers decided  
Brown wasn’t the man for a pres­ 
sure-packed job.  
The Lakers fired their coach  
on Friday after a 1-4 start to his  
second season in charge, mak­ 
ing one of the earliest coaching  
changes in NBA history.  
Lakers general manager  
Mitch Kupchak announced the  
surprising move several hours  
before the club hosted Golden  With a combination of an aging  
State. Assistant coach Bernie  core of talent and a massive payroll,  
Bickerstaff agreed to run the  Kupchak and owners Jim and Jerry  
Lakers against the Warriors  Buss decided they couldn’t wait  
while the club’s top brass began  even one more weekend to start  
what’s likely to be a swift search  winning. Brown was dismissed in a  
for Brown’s replacement just 18  morning meeting before the Lakers  
months after his hiring.  began a six-game homestand.  
“The bottom line is that the  “We’re not looking five or 10 years  
team is not winning at the pace  down the road,” Kupchak said.  
we expected this team to win,  “This team was built to contend this  
and we didn’t see improvement,”  year. There’s no guarantee that this  
Kupchak said at the Lakers’  team can win a championship, but  
training complex in El Segundo.  we feel that it can be deeply in the  
Los Angeles began the sea- hunt. We’re also aware that our play- 
son with sky-high expectations  ers ... are getting older, so our feeling  
after trading for center Dwight  is that we can contend at this level  
Howard and point guard Steve  for another couple of years.”  
Nash, adding two superstars  Bickerstaff said he was “shocked”  
alongside Kobe Bryant and Pau  by Brown’s firing, echoing the feel- 
Gasol. But the Lakers went 0-8  ings of virtually every assistant  

“I’ve seen coaches as well as friends 
come and go. No matter how many 
years I’ve been playing, it’s still hard to 
deal with.” 
Kobe Bryant 
shooting guard 
Los Angeles Lakers 

during the preseason last month coach and player. The 68-year-old for the first time in franchise his-veteran coach only joined Brown’s tory before stumbling into the staff in September, but agreed to regular season with an 0-3 start, take over on an interim basis when losing to Dallas, Portland and Kupchak, his former player in the Clippers. Washington, asked him. 
After finally beating Detroit “We have a professional obliga­last Sunday for their first win, the tion to come to work and do our Lakers looked listless again in a jobs,” Bickerstaff said. “The emo-loss at Utah on Wednesday, drop-tional part of it has to be set aside. ... I ping to last place in the Western just don’t want the guys looking over Conference. Los Angeles’ de-at the bench tonight. I want them fense has been largely poor, and to go play and have some fun. You the players acknowledge they can’t make a multitude of changes still haven’t figured out the new in six, seven hours.” offense installed by Brown dur-In his brief news conference, ing training camp. Kupchak did nothing to squelch 
“They either weren’t getting speculation Phil Jackson could it, or they were going to take too return for a third tenure with the long to get it,” Kupchak said. Lakers. The 67-year-old Jackson “And we weren’t willing to wait walked away from the club in 2011 to see which of the two it was.” with few apparent hard feelings, 


The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit 
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 

and his health has markedly im­proved after knee replacement sur­gery during his time away from the NBA. 
Kupchak said he hadn’t reached out to any candidates for the job, but thinks it’s likely the Lakers will hire an experienced coach who isn’t cur­rently working. Jackson still spends most of his time in Los Angeles, even visiting the Lakers’ offices on occa­sion — and Jim Buss’ sister, Lakers executive Jeanie Buss, is Jackson’s longtime girlfriend. 
“When there’s a coach like Phil Jackson, one of the all-time greats, and he’s not coaching, I think you would be negligent not to know that he’s out there,” Kupchak said. 
Mike D’Antoni also is a likely can­didate for the job, given the former Phoenix and New York coach’s ties to the Lakers’ roster. Nash enjoyed a long stretch of success in D’Antoni’s up-tempo offense with the Suns, winning back-to-back MVP awards, and Bryant was a big fan of D’Antoni as a player while he grew up in Italy. 
Brown, the longtime Cleveland Cavaliers coach, was hired in May 2011 to replace Jackson, signing a four-year deal worth roughly $18 million. Kupchak said the eight-fig­ure payout they’ll have to make on Brown’s contract wasn’t a factor in their decision. 
“It’s a pretty direct message to all of us,” Gasol said while leaving the Lakers’ shootaround Friday morn­ing in El Segundo. “There’s no mess­ing around. It’s time for all of us to step it up.” 
Bryant, in his 17th season with the Lakers, posted his thoughts on Facebook after shootaround. 
“Tough day,” Bryant wrote. “I’ve seen coaches as well as friends come and go. No matter how many years I’ve been playing, it’s still hard to deal with. I had a good relationship with Mike and I will continue to have one. ... I’m not sure what direc­tion we are heading in next. All I can do is focus on the here and now.” 
WANTED 

PART TIME WORK $14.25 base-ap­pt earnparttime.com 
PERSONAL 

UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don’t go it alone. Notre Dame has many resources in place to assist you. 
If you or someone you love needs con­fidential support or assistance, please call Ann Whitall at 1-0084 or Karen Kennedy at 1-5550. For more informa­tion, visit ND’s website at: http://preg­nancysupport@nd.edu 


NDSMCOBSERVER.COM | MONDAY, NOVEMBER 12, 2012 | THE OBSERVER 

ND WOMEN’S SOCCER | ND 3, WISCONSIN-MILWAUKEE 1 
Irish hang on to win in first round of NCAAs 
By CORY BERNARD 
Sports Writer 
From the way Irish coach Randy Waldrum reacted to his team’s performance Friday, one would think Notre Dame lost. 
The Irish (14-5-2, 8-1-1 Big East) defeated Wisconsin-Milwaukee 3-1 in their first-round NCAA championship match at Alumni Stadium, thanks to goals from freshman defender Katie Naughton, soph­omore forward Lauren Bohaboy and freshman forward Crystal Thomas. Naughton’s goal came in the 44th minute and evened the game just before halftime, while Bohaboy’s score came at the beginning of the second half, putting the Irish ahead for good. 
Although the victory seemed impressive on paper, Waldrum said his team won without play­ing its best soccer. 
“Honestly, and I hate to say it, I wasn’t very pleased tonight,” Waldrum said. “I didn’t think the performance was very good, I didn’t think we were very sharp in any aspect.” 
Statistically, Notre Dame dominated the Panthers (8­9-1, 5-2 Horizon). The Irish attempted all of the game’s four corner kicko, held an 18-3 shots advantage, and controlled pos­session throughout. However, Waldrum said his team played uncharacteristically poorly on both offense and defense. 
“I thought we’d been so good defensively and I thought we were lackadaisical with that,” he said. “You know, you saw I made a change there in the back with [sophomore/defender] Sammy [Scofield]. We had to put [fresh­man/midfielder Cari] Roccaro back there to solidify that in the last few. 
“So even though we were dominant statistically, and they really didn’t create much at all, I still didn’t think we created enough offensively.” 
After barely seven minutes had elapsed in the first half, severe weather necessitated a stoppage in action. After ap­proximately 30 minutes, the two teams returned to the field. Waldrum said the unexpected delay did not contribute to his team’s struggles. 
“We weren’t good from the beginning,” he said. “In the first seven minutes we looked flat. Even though it was only seven minutes of action, we weren’t ef­ficient in that seven minutes, so I think it was a slow start. I think it was just a lackluster perfor­mance the whole day.” 

Though never perfect, Notre Dame’s play did improve signifi­cantly in the second half after abandoning a new alignment and returning to a more tradi­tional shape. 
“We talked about a couple things [during halftime],” Waldrum said. “One is we had kind of changed the shape, in the first half, of our team and were hoping to get more movement and more mobility offensively out of it. It was great during the week, but when we got into the game things just set in and we didn’t have that mobility, so we had to kind of go back the sec­ond half to the way we’ve always played with more three-out­and-out up front.” 
In addition to changing Notre Dame’s schemes, Waldrum mo­tivated his players to improve their effort. 
“It just was kind of a kick in the rear end kind of a discussion in the halftime to say, ‘It’s just got to be better or you’re going to be done,” he said. 
PAID ADVERTISEMENT 


Freshman defender Brittany Von Rueden, who assisted on Naughton’s goal with a perfect corner kick, said the players also talked amongst themselves at halftime. 
“Our first half wasn’t our best performance, definitely, but we had a good team talk be­fore the coaches came in [the locker room at halftime] and we pulled it together,” she said. “We decided we need to pick it up right now otherwise we’re going home, and we weren’t ready for that.” 

Unseeded Notre Dame will play No. 3 Wake Forest on Friday in the second round of the NCAA Championship in Gainesville, Fla. 
Contact Cory Bernard at cbernard@nd.edu 


THE OBSERVER | MONDAY, NOVEMBER 12, 2012 | NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 

FENCING | LEE KEIFER, 2ND PLACE 
Kiefer takes silver in Virginia Beach 

By PETER STEINER 
Sports Writer 
With one day remaining in the November North American Cup, Notre Dame fencers have already put up a strong showing. 
The Irish have taken home three medals in the individ­ual tournament in Virginia Beach, Va. Each of the three medals have come from the Division I women’s events, with Olympian and freshman foilist Lee Kiefer’s second-place finish in the women’s foil highlighting the weekend. 
Sophomore foilist Madison Zeiss placed third in the wom­en’s foil, while sophomore epeeist Nicole Ameli tied for third place in the women’s epee. U.S. Olympian and 2010 Notre Dame graduate Kelley Hurley took home first place in the women’s epee. 
“I performed really well this weekend, especially for the Division I category,” Zeiss said. “I fenced really strong and was able to adjust to many different situations.” 
Because the North American Cup is solely for individual fencers, it does not have col­legiate implications. The fencers compete for national points in order to qualify for the national team for the World Championships, World Cups and future Olympic games. In addition, the nature of the in­dividual tournament differs from collegiate events, Zeiss said. 
“The NAC differs a lot from college events mainly because the format is different,” Zeiss said. “At the NAC, you just fence a round-robin round of pools with a group of six to seven girls, then do direct elimination bouts to 15 touch­es. Your ranking after the pool round determines your place in the direct elimination tab­leau. The direct elimination bouts then continue until one person wins the tournament.” 
At the November North American Cup, there are typi­cally at least 115 fencers com­peting in the various Division I and Junior division events for each weapon. As a result, there is a wide range in competition and opponents, Zeiss said. 
“The level of competition at any NAC varies by age catego­ries and skill level,” Zeiss said. “At this specific tournament, I competed in the Division I cat­egory, which anyone is allowed to compete in depending on their ranking, and the Junior category, which is for fencers 19 and under.” 
Senior foilist Gerek Meinhardt will compete Monday against 191 other com­petitors in the Division I men’s foil event to conclude the Cup. 
Contact Peter Steiner at psteiner@nd.edu 

ND CROSS COUNTRY | GREAT LAKES REGIONAL 
Teams earn NCAA bids 
By  AARON SANT-MILLER 
Sportswriter 

Both Irish cross country teams went into the NCAA Great Lakes Regional meet looking for a top-two finish, which would automatically qualify them for next week­end’s NCAA Championships in Louisville, Ky. 
The men, who finished in fifth, and the women, who finished third, both missed that goal Friday at the Thomas Zimmer Cross Country Course in Madison, Wisc. But the Notre Dame squads were given a second chance that night, as they earned at-large bids to compete at the nation­al championship Sunday. 
“I feel pretty good about how we ran this weekend. We really put together seven peo­ple that were all ready to come out and run a good race,” se­nior Rebecca Tracy said. “We got out well as a team and did a pretty good job of staying within sight of each other. We weren’t always right together, but we had the smallest gap one to five all season.” 
Junior Kelly Curran led the women with a six-kilometer time of 20:40 and a 10th­place finish. Tracy finished behind Curran for the Irish, finishing 15th with a time of 
20:48. Two seconds behind Tracy was freshman Molly Seidel, who claimed 19th (20:50). Sophomore Hannah Eckstein and junior Alexa Aragon rounded out the top­25 finishes for the Irish, with finishes of 22nd (20:53) and 23rd (20:56) respectively. All five runners earned NCAA all-region honors for their efforts. 
“We feel pretty good about it,” Tracy said. “We knew if we wanted to score well, we would have to have five of us in the top 25. Having all five of us earn all-region is some­thing I haven’t ever really seen since I’ve been here. It is pretty exciting.” 
For the men’s squad, the team’s finish was marred by an injury to senior Jeremy Rae. Rae has been the top run­ner for the Irish this fall, but has been battling a nagging Achilles tendon injury for the last few weeks. Rae attempted to compete in the meet, but was unable to finish, dropping out just after the two-kilome­ter mark. The Irish were also competing without graduate student Jonathan Shawel, who was unable to race due to an Achilles injury as well. 
“They are two of our best for sure, so that was really tough for us to deal with,” ju­nior Martin Grady said. “We barely squeaked into the top five. I thought everybody ran well though. Losing those two definitely hurt, but I thought we did well considering the circumstances.” 
Despite competing without Rae and Shawel, the Irish still ran strong in the men’s race, finishing with three runners in the top 25. Grady finished ninth for the Irish with a time of 31:02 over the 10-ki­lometer course. Junior Walter Schafer was the next Notre Dame runner to cross the line at the 31:37 mark, earning an 18th-place finish. Senior J.P. Malette wrapped up the top finishes for the Irish, finishing 23rd with a time of 31:46. All three runners claimed NCAA all-region honors as well. 
“It was cool for us to get for sure,” Grady said. “[Sophomore] Jake [Kildoo] probably could have been there too. He’s been look­ing really good. It was a good race for all of us, especially for Walter. That was a big step forward for him. With all-re­gion, it’s kind of arbitrary, so we kind of take it with a grain of salt.” 
Still, the Irish remain are very excited, Tracy said, as they look forward to a chance to compete in the NCAA championships. 
“We’re very excited. We ran in Louisville last year for the Big East. I personally like the course. It’s pretty flat. It will be pretty good for some of us who want to get out fast and hold our position. If we can tighten up our group a little and actually run with each other, that would give us a huge advantage.” 
For the men, without two of their best runners, their chances of a top team fin­ish have greatly diminished, Grady said. Still, the NCAA championships give a lot of runners the opportunity to really push themselves individually. 
“I think it’s going to be good. I’m really excited, I love that stuff,” Grady said. “We have a couple guys who can really go for it. Without Jeremy and Shawel, we don’t have that much to lose. We won’t be too nervous, which will be cool. We’ll be able to just go out there and race as hard as we can without a worry.” 
On Saturday, the Irish will look to do just that, as they travel to Louisville, Ky., to compete in the NCAA championships. 
Contact Aaron Sant-Miller at asantmil@nd.edu 

PAID ADVERTISEMENT NDSMCOBSERVER.COM | MONDAY, NOVEMBER 12, 2012  | THE OBSERVER 


MEN’S BASKETBALL | ND 58, EVANSVILLE 49 
Irish take season opener despite poor shooting 
By MIKE MONACO 
Sports Writer 
From beyond the three-point line, Irish senior forward Jack Cooley stared down his defender, who dared him to shoot. The 6-foot-9 big man launched the first three-point­er of his career and nailed it. 
Cooley’s three-pointer gave the No. 22 Irish an early 9-4 lead in Saturday’s season-opener against Evansville in the opening round of the Coaches vs. Cancer Classic. Cooley, who scored those first nine points, and Notre Dame (1-0) never looked back in their 58-49 victory over the Purple Aces (0-1). 
“I’ve done it in practice be­fore, and all my friends have been texting me to do it and I was just open and I was like, ‘if [the defender] is this dis­respectful — he’s 12 feet off me — I have to just shoot one of these,’” Cooley said of the three-pointer. “And then I hit it and I was pretty excited.” 
The preseason first team all-Big East selection powered the Irish with 19 points, 11 re­bounds and six blocks while graduate student forward Scott Martin netted six points and 17 rebounds. The two for­wards closed out the game when Cooley delivered an overhead pass to Martin, who just 48 points. The Purple Aces shot 31 percent from the field and senior guard Colt Ryan, who averaged 20.5 points per game last season and was named to the Missouri Valley all-conference first team, was held to two points in the first half and 15 total on 6-for-14 shooting. 


Irish coach Mike Brey said the defense keyed the victory against a strong opponent. 
“I’m pleased with our win because I think we beat a re­ally good team and I think that’s a win that can be part of our résumé,” Brey said. “One of the things we talked about in practice on Wednesday was our defensive identity improv­ing and really being able to rely on it. And that’s the only way we won the game tonight: 31 percent shooting by them.” 
Notre Dame led by as many as 10 points in the first half, but the Purple Aces kept it close and went into halftime trailing 28-21. Brey said he was pleased with the way his team responded to Evansville’s resiliency. 
“[We were] very poised,” Brey said of his team. “Very poised. One of the things I said before the scouting report the other day was to remind them of who they are, especially that starting nucleus. Never panic. Always poised. 
“Every time they made it in­teresting, I thought we really executed or got a key stop or made a heck of a play. I think that will do us well over the course of five months.” 
The Irish will have a quick turnaround as they take on Monmouth on Monday in the finale of the opening round of the Coaches vs. Cancer Classic. 
In Friday’s season-opener, the Hawks (1-0) defeated Hofstra, 91-62. 
Brey said he is expecting to face a playing style like that of former North Carolina coach Dean Smith. 
“[Monmouth coach] King Rice [is] a former North Carolina guard, I hear they’re going a lot of old Dean Smith’s run-and-jump [defense],” Brey said. “[Saturday] we had [former] Indiana coach [Bob] Knight stuff, on Monday we have Dean Smith stuff, which is interesting. And a lot of run-and-jump, trapping the pass, trapping the dribble, which is how Dean Smith played a lot before the three-point line.” 
The Irish will also look to make the most out of the Saturday-Monday set of games. Notre Dame has four such two-game stretches in the Big East portion of the schedule. 
“I talked to [the team],” Brey said. “I said this is a good warm-up for four pivotal Saturday-Mondays in Big East season, so let’s practice this thing and be really good at it.” 
Cooley said the Irish are just looking to play as many games as possible. 
“It’s good always to play more games because you don’t learn better outside of a game,” Cooley said. “A game is where you learn the most about your team. So the more games you can have the closer together, the better it is.” 
Notre Dame battles Monmouth to close out the opening stage of the Coaches vs. Cancer Classic on Monday at 7 p.m. at Purcell Pavilion. 
Contact Mike Monaco at jmonaco@nd.edu 
threw down an emphatic dunk to cement the victory. 
“It was one of those days where you couldn’t get a shot to go in, so it’s nice to get a nice easy one,” Martin said of the game-sealing dunk. “I took a little frustration out on the rim 
PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
there.” 

While Martin and the Irish struggled to shoot the ball con­sistently — Notre Dame shot 40 percent from the field and 24 percent from three-point range — the defense was dom­inant in holding Evansville to 

THE OBSERVER | MONDAY, NOVEMBER 12, 2012 | NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 

WOMEN’S TENNIS | WESTERN MICHIGAN SUPER CHALLENGE 
Freshman reaches finals 
By VICKY JACOBSEN 
Sports Writer 
Junior Britney Sanders became the two-time reigning Big East Player of the Month last week, but this weekend freshman birthday girl Quinn Gleason also com­manded attention as the Irish closed out their fall season. 
Gleason reached the finals in both the second flight singles and doubles draws at the Western Michigan University Super Challenge in Kalamazoo, Mich. 
“Playing in the finals of singles and doubles this weekend was really exciting for me, especial­ly since Saturday was my 18th birthday,” Gleason said. “The tournament was so much fun. As a whole I think our team played very well.” 
Gleason did not take the easy route to the finals. In her first round match on Friday, she had to outlast sophomore Ksenia Pronina of Iowa State in the first set before finally winning 7-5. Gleason then swept the second set 6-0. 
In Saturday’s semifinal match against No. 124 Rebecca Shine, a junior from Louisville, Gleason had to endure a third set and a tie-breaker before she eventually won 2-6, 6-2, 1-0 (11-9). Gleason ended her fall season with an­other tie-breaker, losing 6-2, 7-6 (8-6) to sophomore Jasmin Kling of DePaul. 
Gleason and sophomore Katherine White missed out on a doubles title by a similarly close margin, losing 8-6 to Indiana sophomores Carolyn Chupa and Katie Klyczek. Still, Gleason said she and her teammates are pleased with their performances and their preparation for the spring, when they will compete as a team in conference and na­tional tournaments. 
“The fall season was an amaz­ing experience for me,” Gleason said. “I’ve learned a lot that I’m sure will help me in my matches this spring.” 
There were also highlights from Gleason’s teammates. Junior No. 106 Jennifer Kellner forced a third set in the consolation match of the first singles draw before falling to DePaul freshman Matea Cutura 6-2, 4-6, 1-0 (1-0). Freshman Darby Mountford competed in her first collegiate tournament, winning the consolation match of the seventh singles draw by dominating Penn State freshman Lisa Petruzillo, 6-0, 6-0. 
Instead of joining the rest of the team at Western Michigan, Sanders and fellow junior and doubles partner Julie Sabacinski traveled to Florida to compete at the Lakewood Ranch Dick Vitale Clay Court Classic. Sanders said there were definite perks to play­ing at a tournament named after a well-known Irish fan even though they lost in the quarterfinals. 
“[College basketball analyst] Dick Vitale’s daughters played tennis at Notre Dame and one of his daughters, Terri Vitale, was our housing parent,” Sanders said. “A lot of the families living in the area, including the Vitales, were huge Notre Dame fans so we had a lot of people cheering for us. Being so far away from home we didn’t think we’d have so many fans so it was an awesome experience.” 

Since the tennis team usually travels as a whole, Sanders said it felt strange for her and Sabacinski to be separated from the rest of the team. 
“Julie and I definitely missed our teammates,” Sanders said. “It got lonely at times, but we kept in contact with our group chats and snap chats.” 
Sanders and Sabacinski also had to adjust to playing on an un­familiar surface. 
“The courts we played on were clay courts so it was extremely different from the hard courts we were used to,” Sanders said. “We have also been playing on indoor courts for a few weeks now so it was different playing in the tour­nament outside. It was difficult because we weren’t as prepared for this tournament as most of the other teams were. Most teams have been practicing outside on clay for a week or so whereas Julie and I only had two days to practice outside and one day to practice on clay. We did our best though, and had a lot of fun.” 
The Irish have now concluded their fall tournament season. Their first competition of the new year will be a home dual meet against Bowling Green in the Eck Tennis Pavilion at 1 p.m. on Jan. 18. 
Contact Vicky Jacobsen at vjacobse@nd.edu 

ND VOLLEYBALL | ND 3, CINCINNATI 2; ND 0, MARQUETTE 3 
Irish title hopes fall short 
By CONOR KELLY 
Sports Writer 
It was a weekend of ups and downs for the Irish as they fol­lowed a triumphant comeback victory over Cincinnati on Friday with a 3-0 loss at Marquette on Sunday in a match that would have given Notre Dame the Big East regular season championship. 
With the loss, the Irish (20-7, 13-2 Big East) will be the No. 3 seed when they take on South Florida back at Marquette on Friday in the quarterfinals of the Big East tournament. 
It took five sets for the Irish to defeat the Bearcats (11-18, 9-6) on Friday, but they did it in dramatic fashion, coming back from two sets down to win 3-2 on Senior Day at the Joyce Center. After dropping the first two sets to the Bearcats, the Irish faced the pros­pect of their first loss since Sept. 29 and the end of their regular season title hopes, but the team rallied to take a close third set be­fore dispatching Cincinnati with ease in the fourth and fifth sets. 
“I was just so proud of how the team played and responded on Friday,” Irish coach Debbie Brown said. “The perseverance was incredible. I loved the way we got better with each game. We showed you can lose the first two games and still come back to win.” 
Led by 22 kills from sopho­more outside hitter Toni Alugbue and 46 assists from junior setter Maggie Brindock, the Irish kept their shot at first place in the con­ference standings alive with a gutsy performance. 
“I thought we were overeager in the first two games and played tight,” Brown said. “After the sec­ond game we really settled down.” 
Playing in their last home game, seniors Hilary Eppink and Marie Roof helped to key the comeback that preserved Notre Dame’s elev-en-game unbeaten streak. Eppink notched 14 kills and a career-high nine blocks while Roof contribut­ed four kills on six attempts. 
“I think both of them played re­ally well,” Brown said. “Both knew that they wanted to keep our dream alive, which I think was re­ally important.” 
Needing just one win to secure the Big East regular season title, the Irish traveled to Marquette on Sunday but fell to the Golden Eagles (24-5, 13-2) in straight sets. 

“There was such a desire to win the conference championship, and the team was so focused on it that it makes it tough,” Brown said. “I didn’t feel we had any­one who was on today. That can’t happen if you’re trying to win a championship. It stings more be­cause of the opportunity that we had.” 
Brown said that, even down two sets, she never doubted her team would pull the game out as they did on Friday. 
“I absolutely believed that we could still do it,” Brown said. “We just needed to execute better. We were not as sharp as we needed to be.” 
Despite the disappointment of not winning the regular season, the Irish still have great oppor­tunities ahead with the Big East tournament and the possibil­ity of an NCAA bid. Notre Dame will have just one practice in the Joyce Center before departing for Marquette on Wednesday after­noon to face the Bulls at 7 p.m. on Friday. 
Contact Conor Kelly at ckelly17@nd.edu 

ND WOMEN’S SWIMMING | FRIDAY WIN, SATURDAY LOSS 
ND splits meets over weekend 

Observer Staff Report 

The Irish split a tough week­end of competition with a 188­112 victory over Pittsburgh on Friday followed by a close 162-138 loss to Louisville on Saturday afternoon. 
Against Pitt, the Irish took the lead early with the top three spots in the 200 Medley Relay. Senior captain Kim Holden claimed the 200 butterfly and the 100 freestyle. Junior Kelly Ryan snatched the gold in both backstroke events. Sophomore Emma Reaney, junior Lauren Stauder and junior Sarah Dotzel all ended the meet with individual victories. In diving, senior Jenny Chiang claimed the 3 meter gold and sopho­more Allison Casareto took first in the 1 meter dive. 
Overall, the Irish claimed 12 of 16 events and clenched the victory over Pittsburgh. 
Saturday, the Irish took on two-time National Champion Louisville. Though the Irish won victory in eight events, they were unable to match the depth of the Cardinals. 
Reaney dominated the field, winning the 100 and 200 breaststroke and the 200 IM. Holden swept the backstroke events and Chiang claimed gold in the 1 meter dive. 
Freshman Catherine Galletti won her first event of the week­end with the 50 freestyle. 
Holden’s time in the 200 back qualifies her for the NCAA B-cut. Reaney swam qualify­ing times in all three events she won on Saturday. 
Despite the victories, the Cardinals had more people in the two through six spots in the 100 and 200 freestyle and were able to get a leg up over the Irish. 
The Irish head to Topeka, Kan., this weekend to compete at the Kansas Women’s Classic. 

PAID ADVERTISEMENT NDSMCOBSERVER.COM | MONDAY, NOVEMBER 12, 2012  | THE OBSERVER 



MEN’S TENNIS | TRIBE INVITATIONAL 
Irish dominate invitational 
By PETER STEINER 
Sports Writer 
The Irish finished their fall sea­son on a high note, winning 20 of 26 singles matches and 10 of 15 doubles matches at the Tribe Invitational in Williamsburg, Va. 
Over the three-day event, Notre Dame faced off against Harvard, Old Dominion and William and Mary, the host of the invitational. 
“The weekend overall was great,” junior Ryan Bandy said. “We performed really well as a team and finished off the fall on a strong note.” 
The Irish began play against Old Dominion on Friday, winning six of the nine singles matches. Notre Dame found even more success Saturday and Sunday against Harvard and William and Mary, respectively. The Irish took home 15 singles matches between the two days, including a sweep of Harvard in the top-six singles flights. 
Junior Greg Andrews, senior Blas Moros and freshman Quentin Monaghan were all named to the Tribe Invitational All-Tournament singles team, while Andrews and senior Spencer Talmadge made the All-Tournament doubles team. 
Monaghan highlighted the ac­complishments of his fellow fresh­men on the Irish squad. Monaghan and freshman Alex Lawson com­bined for eight singles and doubles victories over the three days. 
“We learned this fall that al­though we’re a young team, we have countless freshmen that can adjust to the college level quickly and make an immediate impact,” Bandy said. “In addition, we learned that we have the ability to be a special team this year, as long 

“We learned this fall that although we’re a young team, we have countless freshmen that can adjust to the college level quickly and make an immediate impact.” 
Ryan Bandy 
junior 
as we continue to work hard and stay focused on the goals we set to achieve this season.” 
Despite the overall success of the Irish, top singles player Andrews had an up-and-down weekend as he lost singles matches in the top flight Friday and Sunday but pre­vailed over No. 104 Denis Nyugen of Harvard on Saturday. 
With the completion of its fall season, Notre Dame now looks ahead to its spring and Big East conference seasons. Meanwhile, the Irish will spend the two-month respite improving their game, es­pecially their doubles play, Bandy said. 
“During the offseason we can definitely work on improving the things we’ve been working on all season,” Bandy said. “We’ll con­tinue to develop into a stronger doubles team and have a keen focus on fitness, strength and conditioning.” 
Notre Dame will be back in ac­tion Jan. 19 against Marquette. 
Contact Peter Steiner at psteiner@nd.edu 

MEN’S SWIMMING AND DIVING | WINS FRIDAY, SATURDAY 
Team continues win streak 
By NICK BOYLE 
Sports Writer 
No. 18 Notre Dame kept its un­defeated season going over the weekend, scoring a 176-124 vic­tory over Pittsburgh on Friday evening before squeaking out a 155.5-145.5 victory over No. 23 Louisville at Rolfs Aquatic Center on Saturday. 
“These two meets [against Pittsburgh and Louisville] have been in less than 24 hours, so it has been a great deal of racing,” Irish coach Tim Welsh said in an interview with UND.com. “To finish with two wins is really ex­citing for these guys who have put in a lot of work.” 
Notre Dame (5-0, 2-0 Big East) took 10 of the 16 events against Pittsburgh (2-2, 1-1) on Friday, posting its eighth straight win over the visiting Panthers. 
Junior swimmer Frank Dyer took home gold in both the 1000­yard freestyle and the 100-yard freestyle for the Irish.  Sophomore diver Nick Nemetz swept the div­ing events for the Irish, finishing first in both the one-yard and three-yard diving events. 
Junior swimmer Colin Babcock was also doubled for the Irish, claiming first in both the 100­yard and 200-yard breaststroke events. 
The Irish took a close contest over visiting rival Louisville (2-1, 0-1) on Saturday in one of the Big East’s marquee matchups. 
Dyer again led the way for the Irish, scoring victories in both the 200- and 500-yard freestyle races. 
“This was probably the show­down race of the season in the Big East Conference,” Welsh said. “Frank was phenomenal and he is just such a reliable performer for us.” 
Sophomore Zachary Stephens scored a record-setting victory in the 200-yard breaststroke for Notre Dame. Stephens complet­ed the race in 1:59.53, becom­ing the first swimmer to break the two-minute barrier at Rolfs Aquatic Center. 
Nemetz took gold again in the one-yard dive before sophomore Michael Kreft won gold in the three-yard dive for the home team. 
“Today was a great job by the guys doing what they needed to all the way down the line,” Welsh said. 
With five wins under their belt to start the season, the Irish are off to their best start in six years. 
“There is a lot of good stuff within this group, and we know there is a lot more ahead, and we will be back to work on Monday,” Welsch said. 
Notre Dame returns to the pool Nov. 30 when they travel to Iowa for the Hawkeye Classic. 
Contact Nick Boyle at nboyle1@nd.edu 
McGraw 
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 20 
into the 40s and the wind picked up, creating unique challenges for both teams. 
“I thought it was good we got a chance to handle some adversity with the elements,” McGraw said. “I was wishing a few more of the girls had played Bookstore Basketball because that would have been good practice with the wind.” 
Both the Irish and the Buckeyes (0-1) struggled to score in a first half that fea­tured several lead changes. The Irish shot only 32.3 per­cent from the field in the first half, but carried a 25-22 lead into halftime. 
“Offensively, we can play better,” McGraw said. “We can be a little bit sharper with our execution. I think we turned it over too much, but we had some mistakes I don’t think we’ll make throughout the year.” 
The Irish started the second half on a 10-3 run and took a 35-25 lead, their largest of the contest, after Diggins sunk a free throw with 15:41 left in the game. Ohio State re­sponded with a 10-2 run to cut Notre Dame’s lead to two with 
11:05 remaining, but McBride put an end to the run with a jumper on the opposite end. 
“Kayla McBride hit a huge basket when they cut it to two late in the game,” McGraw said. “She and [Diggins] re­ally showed their leadership.” 

The Buckeyes cut the lead to 47-45 after senior guard Amber Stokes intercepted Diggins’ pass and drove for an uncontested layup with 
4:35 to go. The Irish forced a turnover on Ohio State’s next possession, and Achonwa hit a jumper to widen the lead to four. The Buckeyes would not come within three points the rest of the half, as Notre Dame held on to win 57-51. 
“There were times when we got ahead and let them back in the game, but it was a good chance to handle adversity,” McGraw said. “Playing in a close game our first time out is really going to help us down the road.” 
Notre Dame won the battle on the boards, as the team had a 43-32 edge in rebounds. Freshman guard Jewell Loyd led the team with 12 re­bounds. Sophomore forward Markisha Wright added seven rebounds off the bench. 
“I was really pleased with our defense and rebounding,” McGraw said. “We really felt the game was going to be won on the boards. I’ll be ecstatic if we can keep that effort up all year.” 
Notre Dame played in front of a crowd filled with hun­dreds of active duty and re­tired troops. One of those in attendance was 1999 Notre Dame graduate and former Irish women’s basketball player Danielle Green, who was wounded in action while serving in Baghdad in 2004. McGraw said the atmosphere of the game created a memo­rable experience for the team. 

“I thought it was phenom­enal and something that we’ll always remember,” McGraw said. “It was great to be sur­rounded by the military and have a chance to thank them for everything they’ve done for us.” 
Notre Dame will return home to battle Massachusetts on Nov. 18 at Purcell Pavilion. 
Contact Brian Hartnett at bhartnet@nd.edu 
PAID ADVERTISEMENT 



Champions 
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 20 
crossed the ball into the box, but no Irish or Hoya players made contact with it, as the ball snuck by Wall into the right side-netting. 
Notre Dame almost did not make it to overtime. With 32 sec­onds remaining in regulation and the Hoyas leading 2-1, Irish senior midfielder Danny O’Leary stopped a Georgetown clearance pass. O’Leary then crossed the ball into the box, where Besler was wide open and headed the ball home to force overtime with his first career goal. 
Clark said the Irish are a tough team to keep down and can never be counted out. 
“This is a special group of guys,” Clark said. “This team will never lose. They may run out of time, but won’t ever lose. They play to the very end every single game. They are a tough, determined group of young men.” 
Notre Dame led Georgetown 22-13 in shots and both teams had seven corner kicks. Wall came up with four saves while Gomez had five. 
“I think we carried both games,” Clark said. “We led in shots both games and controlled possession.” 
On Friday, the Irish took the lead early and never looked back in a 1-0 shutout win over Connecticut. 
“It was very much a team effort in both games,” Clark said. “We defended as a whole team and attacked as a whole team. I don’t think you can give it just to our de­fense Friday or just our offense.” 
In the 11th minute, junior for­ward Alex Priede got the ball to the touchline and passed it back across the box to Powers, who blasted the ball into the left side of the net past a diving sopho­more goalkeeper Andre Blake. Blake, the Big East Goalkeeper of the Year, made four saves on the night, while Irish senior goal­keeper Will Walsh earned his fifth shutout of the season with two saves. The Irish led Georgetown in shots 13-7. 
The Irish will now wait to see where they are placed in the NCAA tournament bracket. Notre Dame will be one of the top-16 teams that receive a first-round bye. 
“Now starts a different season,” Clark said. “First it was the regular season, then the Big East season, and now the NCAA tournament season. We need three wins. We’ll take each game one at a time, that’s the key for us.” 
The Irish will find out their po­sition in the NCAA tournament as the selection show takes place Monday at 5:30 p.m. on NCAA. com. 
Contact Isaac Lorton at ilorton @nd.edu 
Mullane 
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 20 

zone for a breakaway chance. He deked Summerhays before back­handing the puck past him. The goal was Mullane’s fourth of the season. 
“That kind of got the whole at­mosphere electric,” Eagles coach Jerry York said. “Once you get that first one, it just really helped our home team.” 
The goal came after Boston College killed a Notre Dame five­on-three power play opportunity. The Irish had three shots with the two-man advantage, but could not capitalize with a score. 
Gaudreau scored the even­tual game-winner with 3:30 left in the second period, beating Summerhays over his right shoul­der and later added an empty-net goal late in the third period to give the Eagles a two-goal victory. 
With 12:50 left in the third pe­riod, the Irish finally got on the board. After sophomore right wing Peter Schneider carried the puck towards the net, DiPauli fought through a scramble in front of the crease to poke in Notre Dame’s only goal. 
Summerhays finished the game with 19 saves, matching Eagles senior goaltender Parker Milner’s total. Milner continuously foiled Irish scoring chances with acro­batic saves from pipe to pipe. 
“[Milner] played well. He made some really big saves, especially down the stretch,” Jackson said. 
Milner gave up the winning goal in overtime in 2011 but came into the game with a 1.99 goals against average and a .932 save percent­age, a season after winning the national championship. 
“Right at the end of the game, they had some ‘Grade-A’ chances that Parker stopped and made some outstanding saves,” York said. 
Notre Dame’s penalty kill held Boston College’s lethal power play unit scoreless in six opportuni­ties, but the Irish could not break through with the man-advantage, going 0-for-5. They also managed a season-low 20 shots on goal. The Eagles had 22 shots for the game. 


Jackson said the game could be used as a barometer for the Irish. 
“Anytime you play the national champs, it’s always a measuring stick,” Jackson said. “We aspire to play the way they play. Their speed is certainly a factor in everything they do, put a lot of pressure on you and break you down. They’re a good team, as advertised, as I expected.” 
Notre Dame will look to rebound when they travel to Michigan on Thursday for a two-game series. 
Contact Matthew DeFranks at mdefrank@nd.edu 
PAID ADVERTISEMENT NDSMCOBSERVER.COM | MONDAY, NOVEMBER 12, 2012 | THE OBSERVER 




CROSSWORD | WILL SHORTZ 


HIGHLY PUNLIKELY | CHRISTOPHER BRUCKER 

LOWER YOUREXPECTATIONS|LENNYRAGO& PATRICKCROSS 


Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
SUDOKU | THE MEPHAM GROUP 


HOROSCOPE | EUGENIA LAST 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Leonardo DiCaprio, 38; Calista Flockhart, 48; Demi Moore, 50; Stanley Tucci, 52. 
Happy Birthday: Sincerity will be required to attract the help needed to reach your goals. Don’t hesitate to make personal changes that will show others that you are not too set in your ways to create something fresh and original. Your image will make a difference to the way others respond to your requests. Partnerships will lead to greater opportunities. Your numbers are 4, 13, 15, 19, 24, 30, 46. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Refuse to let emotions tamper with your plans. Be honest about the lifestyle changes you want to make and it will help you bypass any opposition that someone might present. A relationship will play a role in a decision you must make. 


TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Spice things up -- add a little excitement to your life. Get out and do things that will make you think or challenge you physically. Take on a project that will help others help themselves. Creative suggestions will enhance your reputation. 


GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You can chat all you like, but don’t stretch the truth. Sticking to facts will give you credibility. Getting together with someone you want to work with creatively will lead to a long-lasting work-related partnership. 


CANCER (June 21-July 22): Emotional moments will surface while socializing. Keep an open mind and don’t take what’s said personally. Criticism can be productive if delivered diplomatically. Size up your situation and make it clear that charity begins at home. 


LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Problems at home will escalate if you don’t take care of your responsibilities. You may want to socialize, but it won’t be much fun if you have left chores unfinished. Organize your day and you’ll fit both work and pleasure into your schedule. 


VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You can’t please everyone. Avoid arguments you can­not win. You are better off doing what’s expected of you and moving along to the pastimes that you find more enjoyable. A reminder of someone from your past will resurrect an old idea. 


LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): Put love and romance at the top of your to-do list. It’s important to have some fun with someone you find entertaining and interesting to be around. A short day trip will enhance your personal life and help establish a future commitment. 


SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Embrace the moment and do whatever it takes to follow through with your plans. Sitting back and letting negativity and depression take over will not get you heading in the right direction. Live, love and laugh and you will at­tract positive people and encounters. 

SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Make a difference by lending a helping hand to a cause you believe in. Spend time with people who have the same interests, as that will lead to an adventure that will change your personal life. 


CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Don’t show emotion when dealing with anyone competing with you. Complete whatever you start and execute your plans only when you are positive that you have taken care of every detail. It’s what you do that will count. 


AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18):Take care of private matters such as your finances, medical issues or pending settlements. You should collect debts or pay off what you owe. Spending time with someone you love will lift your spirits and enhance your future prospects. 


PISCES (Feb. 19- March 20): Less talk and more action will bring rewards. Go the distance and don’t leave anything unfinished. If you surpass expectations, you will win favors and enhance your reputation. If someone wants to argue, back away -- it’s a waste of time. 


Birthday Baby: You are interesting and imaginative. You are trendy, stylish and a pioneer. 
JUMBLE | DAVID HOYT AND JEFF KNUREK 

Make checks payable to and mail to:  The Observer P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
 Enclosed is $130 for one academic year Enclosed is $75 for one semester  
Name  

Address 

City State Zip 

THE OBSERVER | MONDAY, NOVEMBER 12, 2012  | NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
MEN’S SOCCER | ND 3, GEORGETOWN 2 (2 OT); ND 1, CONNECTICUT 0 
Heroics earn Big East championship 
Besler scores equalizer with 32 second remaining in regulation, Finley notches winner in overtime 
By ISAAC  LORTON 
Sports Writer 
After a 1-0 win Friday against No. 8 Connecticut in the Big East semifinals, senior forward Ryan Finley scored a golden goal with one minute remaining in double-overtime in the conference finals against Georgetown. His tally cap­tured the Big East title for the No. 5 Irish in a 3-2 win over the No. 6 Hoyas at PPL Park in Chester, Pa., on Sunday. 
With the win, Notre Dame (16-3­
1) clinches an automatic berth in the NCAA tournament. 
“It was a very, very exciting game [Sunday],” Irish coach Bobby Clark said. “It came down to the very wire. It was a great performance all around this weekend. We played two tough teams and were able to come out on top.” 

The game-winning goal came off a corner kick taken by senior captain and midfielder Dillon Powers. Sophomore midfielder in the championship game, taking goal, or at least make the keeper Andy Reimer tipped the ball past Harry Shipp dummied the pass Nick Besler headed the ball down-his season total to 20 goals. Clark work.” Irish junior goalkeeper Patrick and an oncoming Finley ripped wards and Georgetown sopho-said Finley has a natural instinct The Irish fell behind 1-0 late Wall. the ball by Gomez into the lower more goalkeeper Tomas Gomez as a scorer. in the first half and had to fight Notre Dame was quick to re-left corner to tie the game. looked to be in position to save the “[Finley] is a predator,” Clark their way back in the second half. spond in the second half. In the Georgetown took a late 2-1 lead ball, but Finley redirected the ball said. “He’s one of those people who Georgetown (17-3-1) scored in the 51st minute, junior defender Luke in the 82nd minute on Reimer’s past the leaning keeper. comes along and finds a way to get 39th minute when freshman for-Mishu beat a Hoya defender to the second goal of the day. Reimer 
Finley, the Big East Offensive in there and score. Every time he ward Melvin Snoh headed the ball touchline and sent a ground pass Player of the Year, scored two goals gets the ball, he’s looking for the toward the net and senior forward through the box. Junior forward see CHAMPIONS PAGE 18 

HOCKEY | BOSTON COLLEGE 3, ND 1 
Irish fall to Eagles in Holy War 
By MATTHEW DeFRANKS 
Associate Sports Editor 
CHESTNUT HILL, Mass. — A year after a dramatic overtime goal lifted Notre Dame over Boston College, the No. 7 Irish could not overcome a poor second period in a 3-1 loss to the No. 1 Eagles on Friday in front of a sellout Conte Forum crowd. 
Eagles sophomore left wing Johnny Gaudreau scored two goals, while Irish freshman left wing Thomas DiPauli tallied Notre Dame’s lone score. 
After firing nine shots on goal in the first period, Notre Dame (6-3­
0) managed just two shots in the second frame while defending na­tional champion Boston College (7-1-0) peppered Irish junior goal­tender Steven Summerhays with 12 shots. 
“The second period was a con­cern of mine,” Irish coach Jeff Jackson said. “I thought we did an okay job in the first and third against them. Second periods have been a problem for us this season. I don’t know if we lose our edge in the locker room. I take re­sponsibility for that. 
“I’m going to have to have a pump-up talk, I guess, as we ap­proach the second period. That’s been a little bit of an issue for us in the three games we’ve lost.” 
The Eagles held the Irish with­out a shot on goal for 7:45 during the second period. The Irish also had eight penalty minutes in the frame. 
“I thought we slept through the whole period, frankly,” Jackson said. “We were on our heels and we didn’t have the same energy that we started the game with. I thought we had a good first, I thought we had a pretty good third. You can’t play 40-minute hockey games and expect to beat a team like this.” 
Boston College opened the scor­ing at 4:41 in the second period, when Eagles senior defenseman Patrick Wey hit senior center Pat Mullane in stride in the neutral 
see MULLANE PAGE 18 

ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL | ND 57, OHIO STATE 51 
ND plays on aircraft carrier 
By BRIAN HARTNETT 
Sports Writer 

No. 7 Notre Dame faced an unprecedented venue and uncertain weather con­ditions when it took to the makeshift court on the U.S.S. Yorktown in Charleston, S.C., on Friday to battle No. 19 Ohio State. 
The results, however, were familiar to the Irish, as they won their 18th-consecutive season opener with a 57-51 victory over the Buckeyes in the inaugural Carrier Classic. 
Junior forward Natalie Achonwa paced the Irish (1-0) with 17 points and 10 rebounds, registering her second career double-dou­ble. The trio of Achonwa, junior guard Kayla McBride and senior guard Skylar Diggins accounted for 44 of Notre Dame’s 57 points, as McBride finished with 16 points and Diggins added 11. 
“[Achonwa] is going to be the one we count on,” Irish coach Muffet McGraw said. “I would say she’s capable of averaging a double-double aircraft carrier, Notre Dame in every game, depending faced a backdrop of bright on the minutes she plays. sunshine to start the game. She makes a huge difference As the sun set in the second when she’s on the floor.” half, temperatures dropped 

Playing in the first wom­en’s basketball game on an see MCGRAW PAGE 17 




