
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


Corbran, Helpling to lead classes 
By SARA FELSENSTEIN  
Associate News Editor 
Officers for next year’s ju­nior and senior class coun­cils were named late Thurs­day night. 
Tricia Corbran will serve as senior class president and Lizzie Helpling will serve as junior class president. 
Due to a campaign viola­tion in the Sophomore Class Council election, Judicial Council held the results until 10 a.m. today. 
Corbran’s ticket won 436 votes out of a total 693, or 
70.7 percent of the votes, de­feating one opposing ticket. 
Her council will include se­niors Claire George, Daniel Klodor and Chris Champlin. 
Corbran said their plans for next year involve throw­ing large-scale events to strengthen class unity. 
“For next year we’re look­ing forward to involving ev­eryone in the class … mak­ing sure everyone has a voice and making it really about the senior class,” Corbran 

see COUNCIL/page 5 


Tuition continues to rise 
University attempts to provide best education for undergrads 

By SARA FELSENSTEIN 
Associate News Editor 
Notre Dame’s undergraduate tuition continues to rise for the 2012-2013 academic year by 3.8 percent to $42,971, a University press release stated Feb. 9. 
The rate of increase is the same as the previous two years, which was the lowest since 1960, the release stated. Combined with average room and board rates of $11,934, total student charges will be $54,905. 
Executive Vice President John Affleck-Graves said Notre Dame strives to keep tuition increases down while maintaining Notre Dame’s tradition of academic ex­cellence. 
“We’re about educating people for the rest of their lives, and we just have to think about how we can do that in the best way pos­sible, and try to make it more affordable as possible, but not allow the affordability to com­promise the educational experi­ence,” Affleck-Graves said. 
He said he expects the rate of tuition increase to remain about the same over the next few years. 
“I think in the future we’re go­ing to continue to see increases in tuition, hopefully the students 


Student attends Grammy’s 
By CAITLIN HOUSLEY 
Saint Mary’s Editor 
While many students spent last Sunday watching the Grammy’s on TV, Saint Mary’s senior Briana Coyne experienced the red carpet, celebrities and awards up close as her father was nominated for his work on Adele’s album “21.” 
“After going to the Grammy’s two years ago for his work on Be­yonce’s ‘I am Shasha Fierce’ album, he promised my mom that if he was ever honored with another Gram­my opportunity, he would make it a family affair,” Coyne said. 
Coyne said she would never for­get walking down the red carpet and sitting with nominees. 
“I just had to pinch myself to see if it was real,” she said. “I was within touching distance of bands like Fos­ter the People and Kings of Leon, and I accidentally bumped into Paul Schaffer from ‘The Tonight Show.’” 
Her father, Tom Coyne is partner of Sterling Sound Mastering Studios in New York City. 


see GRAMMY/page 7 

AP 
Adele performs during the Grammy Awards last Sunday in Los Angeles. Saint Mary’s senior, Briana Coyne, attended the event. 

are getting the value of that,” Af­fleck-Graves said. “But I don’t see us getting much below the four percent a year increase.” 
In a letter to parents and guardians of students return­ing for the next academic year, University President Fr. John Jenkins said the University rec­ognizes the financial challenges families may be facing and seeks to provide the utmost value for their investments. 
“Notre Dame’s administration and Trustees continue compre­hensive efforts to contain its costs 

see TUITION/page 6 
NAE elects engineering professor 
By ADAM LLORENS 
News Writer 
The National Academy of Engineers (NAE) elected Joan Brennecke, the Keat­ing-Crawford Professor of Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering, to their pres­tigious organization ear­lier this month. 
Membership in the gov­ernmental-based non-profit group is considered among the top titles an American engineer can hold, Bren­necke said. Of the 1,100 members in the NAE, 156 are chemical engineers. 
“It’s a recognition by your peers that you’ve made significant contribu­tion to chemical engineer­ing,” she said. “It’s sort of like a lifetime achievement award. Kind of a stamp of approval that you’ve really made a difference, and that feels great.” 
Brennecke said elec­tion to the NAE is based on a scholar’s entire con-
see PROFESSOR/page 7 
Notre Dame welcomes junior parents to campus 
By DAN BROMBACH 
News Writer 
Tonight marks the be ­ginning of Junior Par ­ents Weekend, a three ­day event when sons and daughters of Notre Dame will show their parents how they have spent the past three years. 
JPW co -chair Marta Stepien said the week­end will give parents 
of junior students a unique opportunity to share in their chil ­dren’s college experi ­ence. 
“It ’s really a setting for both parents and students to get to know the energy and envi ­ronment of the school,” Stepien said. 
The weekend festivi ­ties will kick off with an evening Gala, fol ­lowed by a Saturday 
of 
collegiate work­shops hosted by each 

of 
the four colleges, she said.  After a Sat ­urday night mass, stu ­dents and their parents 


w i l l g at h e r f o r  a  P r e s i  - 
d e n t ’s  D i n n e r  at  t h e  
J oyc e C e nt e r.  

Stepien said the seat ­ing arrangement of the dinner will allow stu ­dents to bond with their parents while also becoming better ac ­quainted with the fam ­ilies of their friends and classmates. 
“We set up the seat ­ing so that everyone sits with their friends, and all their families 
see PARENTS/page 7 

INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER SMC celebrates Love Your Body Week page 3 u Viewpoint page 10 u Worst Week Ever page 12 u Men’s basketball aims to win at Villanova page 24 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: IF YOU COULD HAVE AN ALL-EXPENSE PAID TRIP TO ANYWHERE IN THE WORLD, 
WHERE WOULD YOU CHOOSE? 


Asst. Managing Editor: Adriana Pratt Asst. Managing Editor: Chris Masoud News Editor: Sam Stryker Viewpoint Editor: Meghan Thomassen Sports Editor: Allan Joseph Scene Editor: Maija Gustin Saint Mary’s Editor: Caitlin E. Housley Photo Editor: Pat Coveney Graphics Editor: Brandon Keelean Advertising Manager: Katherine Lukas Ad Design Manager: Amanda Jonovski Controller: Jason Taulman Systems Administrator: William Heineman 
Office Manager & General Info 
(574) 631-7471 
Fax 
(574) 631-6927 
Advertising 

(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
Editor-in-Chief 

(574) 631-4542 dfarmer1@nd.edu 
Managing Editor 

(574) 631-4542 smervosh@nd.edu 
Assistant Managing Editors 

(574)631-4541 apratt@nd.edu, cmasoud@nd.edu 
Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 
News Desk 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
Viewpoint Desk 

(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 
Sports Desk 

(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
Scene Desk 

(574) 631-4540 mgustin@nd.edu 
Saint Mary’s Desk 
chousl01@saintmarys.edu 
Photo Desk 

(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 
Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 
Policies 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College.  Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Douglas Farmer. 
Post Office Information 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 and additional mailing offices 024 South Dining hall 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-077 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

Anna Fanelli  Callie Brown  Gretchen Newcomer  Lupita Quintana  Maureen Parsons  Silvia Cuevas  
first year Regina  first year McCandless  first year Le Mans  senior Holy Cross  junior Le Mans  junior Holy Cross  
“Munich.”  “Back home to the San  “Hawaii.”  “An outer space orbit.”  “Greece.”  “Bora Bora.”  
Francisco Bay  
Area.”  

Have an idea for Question of the Day? Email obsphoto@gmail.com 


OFFBEAT 
$1 million worth of gold coins discovered in ceiling 
LES RICEYS, France — A French Champagne producer is spreading the wealth with his workers after they discov­ered nearly $1 million in gold coins stashed away in the building’s rafters, accord­ing to Agence France Press (AFP). 
“One of the workers (was) attacking the building’s ceil­ing with a crowbar when gold coins started to rain down on him, followed by sacks of gold,” Francois Lange, head of Alexandre Bonnet in Les Riceys France, told AFP. 
It’s not unusual to hear about treasure hunters combing the ocean’s depth for gold and other precious metals lost at sea, but find­ing $1 million in your office attic is quite a steal. And a valuable one too, given that demand for gold has reached new heights recently. In 2011, just an ounce of gold was val­ued at $1,920.30. 

In all, 497 gold coins were unearthed, with the major­ity literally raining down upon the workers who were busy renovating the build­ing. Minted between 1851 and 1928, the coins have a face value marking of $20 each. However, together they are now worth an estimated $980,000, according to AFP. 
Tightrope walker attempts to cross Niagara Falls 
ONTARIO, Canada — Can­ada agreed on Wednesday to allow a member of the Fly-
LOCAL WEATHER 
ing Wallenda family of dare­devils to attempt a tightrope walk over Niagara Falls, clearing the way for the stunt some time during the sum­mer. 
Nik Wallenda, 33, secured support on the American side of the falls last September when New York Governor An­drew Cuomo signed a bill giv­ing him one year to perform the feat, which Wallenda says will be the first attempt in more than a century. 
On Wednesday, the board of Canada’s Niagara Parks Commission voted unani­mously to allow Wallenda to go ahead, reversing its ear­lier decision. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
IN BRIEF 
The Kaneb Center for Teaching and Learning will host a workshop called “Teaching Problem Solv­ing Strategies in Science and Engineering” today from 9:30 to 10:45 a.m. in the LaFortune Student Center. For more informa­tion, email kaneb@nd.edu. 
The Ten Years Hence Lecture Series will con­tinue today with a lecture called “Innovations in Poverty”  from 10:40 a.m. to 12:10 p.m. in Jordan Auditorium of the Men­doza College of Business. The speaker is Larry Sny­der, president of Catholic Charities USA. 
Today from 4 to 5 p.m., the Hesburgh Libraries In­formation Desk will host a library workshop called “Researching the Visual and Built Environment.” The workshop will be in room 222 of the Hesburgh Library. Refreshments will be provided. For more information, contact Max Tolomei by email at mtolo­mei@nd.edu or by phone at 574-631-1856. 
“Taste of Brazil” will be today from 7 to 9 p.m. at the Hesburgh Center for International Studies. The event includes Brazilian foods, samba dance lessons taught by certified instruc­tors, a craft station for kids and activities offered by the Brazil and Portuguese language clubs. The event is free and open to the public. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, email detailed information about an event to obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
TODAY’S STAFF 
News 
Nicole Toczauer Jillian Barwick Bridget Feeney 
Graphics 
Marina Kozak 
Photo 
Kirby McKenna 
Sports 

Chris Allen Megan Finneran Mike Monaco 
Scene 

Carrie Turek 
Viewpoint 
Meghan 

TODAY TONIGHT SATURDAY SUNDAY MONDAY TUESDAY 
Thomassen 







CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
Panel looks at int’l women’s issues 
By KAITLYN RABACH 
News Writer 
The Student Diversity Board (SDB) hosted an International Student Women’s Issues Panel on Thursday evening as part of Women’s Appreciation Week at Saint Mary’s Col­lege. The discussion fo­cused on diversity and women’s rights. 
Co-women’s representa­tive junior Jean Oseberg­er and three internation­al students led the panel discussion. 
“I think that we often forget about International issues and focus mainly on issues that pertain to America,” Osberger said. “This discussion focused on a very large spectrum of women’s issues and I felt it was important to integrate the Interna­tional Students so they could participate and be involved on campus.” 
First year Aneth Batam­uliza, who represented Tanzania and Rwanda, began her discussion by painting an image of dai­ly life for women in her home countries. 
“In Tanzania, you see more women staying home and not taking leadership opportunities. In both countries, you see groups of girls who do not have the same opportunities as others,” Batamuliza said. “In Rwanda, the af­termath of the genocide is still very present, but the government is taking steps to give young wom­en more opportunities.” 
Michelle Espinal, a 16-year-old from Nicara­gua studying at the Saint Mary’s English Language Center, said women in her country struggle as sec-ond-class citizens. 

“My country definitely sees men as superior to women,” Espinal said. “This feeling of superi­ority is engrained in the culture and I see it is a domino effect.” 
Espinal said younger generations learn from older ones and continue these problems. 
“Men abuse women and create a sense of power that is then observed by their children,” she said. “The cycle then continues on.” 
In contrast to the other representatives, senior Christine Clissold of Aus­tralia said she doesn’t see many differences between women in Austrailia and the United States. 
“Though many of the schools in Australia are separated on the basis of gender, we see females in leadership positions and we then model ourselves after these leaders,” Clis­sold said. “In my country, women are expected to be educated and go to uni­versity.” 
The depictions of women in these cultures differ, but the role of media por­traying the ideal beauty was a common experience among women, Clissold said. 
“In Australia, me­dia portrays the perfect woman as being sporty, blonde, blue-eyed and skinny,” Clissold said. 
Batamuliza said this idea of beauty is different from those in both Tanza­nia and Rwanda, though the media’s influence has grown in recent years. 
“One thing that was in­teresting for me when I came to America was the idea of dieting. In my home countries we do not diet, and we are not pushed to be of a certain weight,” Batamuliza said. “But girls tend to stick to trends that they see in the movies and magazines now.” 
Clissold said the expe­riences of young women differ with each nation, but understanding these other cultures is essential to becoming a more glob­al-minded citizen. 
“I think it is important that other women see what is happening in the world around them be­cause women will be tak­ing more leadership roles in the future and they must be aware of women’s issues worldwide,” she said. 
Batamuliza said discus­sion is the first step to­ward interconnectedness. 
“Diversity is something that is very important. Many people intend to learn different cultures, but never really take the steps to do so,” Batamuli­za said. “ Attending these panels and learning of the issues of the world is the first step toward chang­ing the global system of women’s equality. 
Contact Kaitlyn Rabach at krabac01@saintmarys.edu 




Love Your Body Week connects SMC, ND 

By JILLIAN BARWICK 
News Writer 
“Love Your Body Week” at Saint Mary’s College begins next week and aims to help women critically analyze the negative media stereotypes about their bodies. 
Laura Glaub, a senior and founder of “Love Your Body Week” said the ultimate goal of the week is to foster self-confi­dence. 
Glaub said this year the week will include a wide range of events, from speakers from the community to physical exer­cise. 
Christina Grasso, a 2011 graduate from Saint Mary’s, will speak again this year about her struggle with anorexia. Af­ter coming forth last year to speak about eating disorders, Grasso saw an enormous re­sponse from students. 
“Talking about it is so impor­tant. Whilst in the throes of an­orexia, I was very, very private. Had I not eventually spoken up, the disease would have killed me very shortly,” Grasso said. “I see a desperate need for re­sources and awareness, and I am fully committed to seeing that it happens.” 
Communication Studies pro­fessor Terri Russ, who has done research on gender and the ef­fect of the media on women, will also speak at an event dur­ing the week. 
“Basically, I am going to fo­cus on how Barbie is a doll, but a doll that comes with a lot of baggage,” Russ said. “I want to talk about the connections be­tween Barbie and beauty and the ideals that we think people want to see.” 
Russ said “Love Your Body Week” is important in combat­ing the hyper awareness society has on image. 
“This is played out through potentially harmful practices like excessive exercising, eat­ing disorders and many more extremities,” Russ said. 
Glaub said this year’s “Love Your Body Week” will also fea­ture a collaboration with Notre Dame’s Gender Issues Depart­ment. Katie Rose, director of the Notre Dame Gender Issues Department, said the teamwork has allowed the two campuses to coordinate events more effi­ciently. 
“Our week is called ‘Body Im­age Week’ this year. Although our names are different, our mission will be the same as Saint Mary’s,” Rose said. “We have many events that overlap between the campuses.” 
Glaub said the rich tradition between the schools allows the two to focus on issues encoun­tered on both campuses. 
“We are constantly in contact and share many of the same problems since our cultures are very similar,” Glaub said. 
Rose said each school’s week has gender specific events as well as community events. She said she hopes this year’s body image weeks will have an im­pact on both campuses. 
“I hope that through these programs we can work to change the culture on campus so that people can feel comfort­able getting fro-yo when they have a sweet tooth, or skipping a day at the gym if they really need a nap instead,” Rose said. 
Contact Jillian Barwick at jbarwi01@saintmarys.edu 




Army ROTC to host annual ball 

MARINA KOZAK | Observer Graphic 

Council 
continued from page 1 
By CHRISTIAN MYERS 
News Writer 
Fighting Irish Army ROTC cadets will look to show off their best dance moves next weekend as the battalion hosts its annual Army Ball on Friday, Feb. 24, at the Hilton Garden Inn in South Bend. 

There’s a real sense of ac­complishment from knowing I’ve worked hard the last few years,” Waliszewski said. 
Major General Longo is the deputy-commanding general for Initial Military Training for the United States Army Training and Doctrine Com­mand. Longo is stationed at 
Senior cadet Trevor Wal­iszewski said the ball will feature a saber arch in honor of the senior cadets, an ad­dress by guest of honor Major General Rich­ard Longo, a class dance competition and a tradi­tional formal dance. 
Waliszewski said each of the battalion’s 

“As a senior, I’m looking forward to the saber arch. There’s a real sense of accomplishment from knowing I’ve worked hard the last few years.” 
Trevor Waliszewski senior cadet 
Fort Mon­roe, Va. 
Sopho ­more ca­det Julia Steines ­Berke­meier said she is looking forward to Longo’s speech. 
“It should be interest­ing. Ev­er yone ’s who’s 

graduating been in the army for that 
seniors will walk through the arch while a brief biog­raphy of their accomplish­ments is read. Many of the seniors’ parents will be in at­tendance, he said. 
“As a senior, I’m looking forward to the saber arch. 

long has a lot of good insight to share,” Steines-Berkemei­er said. “They’re very expe­rienced and knowledgeable.” 
There will also be a dance competition between the dif­ferent classes, Waliszewski said. Each class is working hard on the choreography, he said. 
“We didn’t have a class dance competition last year, so I am excited that it is com­ing back this year,” Steines-Berkemeier said. 
The rest of the night will feature traditional danc­ing with students attired in dress uniforms and gowns, Waliszewski said. 
The event is an opportu­nity to build a sense of com­munity amongst members of ROTC, Steines-Berkemeier said. 
“The ball is definitely good for building camaraderie and gives you a different atmosphere for interacting with other cadets. They like to say it builds ‘esprit de corps’ [morale of a group],” she said. 
Steines-Berkemeier said he enjoyed last year’s event asa fun way to spend time with other cadets outside of ROTC. 
“Last year’s ball was re­ally fun,” Steines-Berkemeier said. “It is a nice way to see people in a more social set­ting, everyone is more re­laxed.” 
Contact Christian Myers at cmeyers@nd.edu 


said. “Our main goal is to re­ally reduce the gap between Class Council and the class 
as a whole and also have a great year that we can all talk about for years to come,” she said. 
For Ju­nior Class Council, Helpli ng ’s ticket se­cured 71 percent of the votes, defeating one oppos­ing ticket. The ticket received 
436 votes out of a total 673. 
Helpling’s council will in­clude Neal Ravindra, Jessica Puricelli and Greg Yungtum. 
“We’re so excited, we ab­solutely cannot wait to get to started,” Helpling said 
She said her council’s big­gest goal is to integrate the student body more with stu­dent government. 
“We want students to know more what student govern­ment’s doing and feel they 
The Judicial Council found the Kevin Walsh, Martin Walsh, Jeanette Kim and Shannon Hogan ticket in the Soph omore Class Coun­cil election in violation of the Constitu­tion because a 
“We want students to member of the know more what student ticket posted government’s doing and a link to the 
polling site
feel they have a say in 
on the Notre
student government.” 
Dame Class of 2015 Facebook
Lizzie Helpling 
group. president-elect The Consti-
Junior Class Council tution states 
that only Ju­
dicial Coun­
cil may post 
a link to the 
polling site. 
As an ap­propriate sanction, the Elec­tion Committee decided the ticket’s Facebook page must be removed by 11:59 p.m. Thursday night and no new web page may be created for the ticket. The Election Com­mittee also required that a member of the ticket post an apology to the Class of 2015’s Facebook page. 
Contact Sara Felsenstein at sfelsens@nd.edu 


NJ Assembly passes Tuition 
continued from page 1 

gay marriage bill and limit spending in response to the ongoing economic uncertain-

Associated Press 
TRENTON, N.J. — The New Jer­sey Assembly on Thursday passed a bill legalizing same-sex marriag­es, setting the stage for an expected veto by Gov. Chris Christie. 
The 42-33 vote sends the bill to Christie, who won’t take immedi­ate action. The Republican gov­ernor who opposes gay marriage had promised “very swift action” if the bill passed both houses of the Legislature, but the Assembly isn’t required to send the bill to his desk until the close of business Friday. The Senate approved the bill Mon­day. 
“Without question this is a his­toric day in the state of New Jersey,” Assembly Speaker Sheila Oliver said after the vote. She said she had never been more proud of the Democratic caucus for doing “what citizens sent us here to do: to delib­erate, to use the legislative process to represent the interests of all New Jerseyans.” 
Christie and most state Republi­can lawmakers want gay marriage put to a popular vote. Democrats say gay marriage is a civil right pro­tected by the Constitution and not subject to referendum. 
Six states and Washington, D.C. recognize gay marriages. Wash­ington State’s new gay marriage law is scheduled to take effect in June. 
The affirmative vote in the As­sembly after more than two hours of debate ended weeks of specula­tion over whether Democrats who control the chamber would muster the 41 votes needed for the mea­sure to pass. Four of the Assembly’s 47 Democrats voted no, and a fifth was out of town and didn’t vote. No Republicans voted in favor of the bill. 
Instead, they plan to bide their time in hopes that support for gay marriage will continue to grow. 
“We do have two years,” said Reed Gusciora, a Trenton Democrat who sponsored the bill in the As­sembly and one of two openly gay state lawmakers. “We changed a lot of views in the last couple of weeks. Give us two years and we’re going to change a heck of a lot more.” 
In case same-sex couples can’t win gay marriage through legisla­tion, they have engaged in a par­allel fight in the courts. Seven gay couples and several of their chil­dren have sued, claiming that the state’s civil union law doesn’t work as intended. 
Civil unions were designed to provide the benefits of marriage to gay couples without the title. They were adopted after the Supreme Court instructed the Legislature to provide marriage equality to same-sex couples. 
The state’s own review commis­sion has since found problems with the law, however, and many same-sex couples have backed that up with testimony before the Legisla­ty that affects many of our Notre Dame families,” he wrote. “These financial challenges are not likely to ease soon, nor will our efforts to increase the efficiencies of our operations and the quality of our student experience.” 

Affleck-Graves said the Univer­sity’s largest source of revenue is tuition and the second largest is payment out of its endowment. The University’s endowment has not been as large as past years, he said. 
“The endowment has done rea­sonably well given the economic conditions, but it’s still below the level it was in 2008 and 2009, so there’s some pressure for us on that source of revenue,” he said. 
Affleck-Graves said the Univer­sity’s other major sources of rev­ture. 
enue include auxiliary operations Gay rights advocates say civil 
like the Hammes Notre Dame unions have not provided true 
Bookstore and Food Services. equality. They complain that they 
These have also experienced sig­set up a separate and inherently 
nificant pressure in recent years, unequal classification for gays — 
he said. something social conservatives 

“I think generally like the rest dispute. 
of the economy, the University is seeing pressure on all revenue sources and I think that’s why we have to increase tuition [but] we try to keep it as moderate as we can,” he said. 
He said more than 50 percent of the University’s expenses tie to salaries and benefits. But Notre Dame is not willing to trade ex­ceptional faculty for a lower cost of tuition, Affleck-Graves said. 
“We want to give our students … really great faculty, and that means we have to pay them com­mensurate with what they’re worth, and so that’s a big factor,” he said. 
Notre Dame is working to re­duce costs on the administrative and operational sides of the Uni­versity, Affleck-Graves said. He said reducing energy use is one way to drive down utilities costs. 
“It’s responsible on both the cost side and the environment side if we’re all careful about the amount of electricity and utili­ties we consume,” Affleck-Graves said. “And the student body’s been reasonably good … in helping us … you know, switching off com­puters at night [and] turning off lights.” 
As a need-blind University, Af­fleck-Graves said Notre Dame has offered more financial aid since the 2008 economic downturn. 
About 48 percent of Notre Dame students are currently on some form of financial aid. 
Affleck-Graves said the issue of college affordability in the United States is more complex than the media portrays it. Some families have voiced anxieties about the rising cost of a Notre Dame edu­cation. 
“We understand especially in this economy it’s very hard for some parents, that’s why we do the financial aid … but there are parents who don’t get the finan­cial aid who also need help,” he said. 
He said a Notre Dame educa­tion comes with both academic and personal benefits, and the University will not compromise those benefits simply to reduce cost. 
“The problem is, [parents] send us the children because they think we can give a high qual­ity education, we can give a good residence life experience, so if we don’t do that just because we want to save some money, in the end I think we’re shortchang­ing the students,” Affleck-Graves said. “And that’s the last thing we want to do.” 
Contact Sara Felsenstein at sfelsens@nd.edu 



Professor 
continued from page 1 
tribution to the industry. Brennecke said fellow en­gineering professor Dr. Ahsan Kareem is the only other NAE member induct­ed while at Notre Dame. 
“When people look at schools and ranking uni­versities, they’ll look at the National Academy to determine if it’s a top place,” Brennecke said. “So, for the university, it’s really important.” 
Brennecke said her re­search specializes in the use of ionic liquids and su­percritical fluids for envi­ronmentally benign chem­ical processing. Brennecke 


Parents 
continued from page 1 
are together,” Stepien said. “Not only do you get to spend time with your parents, but also with the people you chose to sit with and their parents.” 
Stepien said the week­end concludes with a brunch Sunday morning in the Joyce Center. 
Stepien said she ex­pects this year’s JPW will be extremely suc­cessful. The rise in ticket sales for week­end events demonstrat­ed an unexpected rise has three postdoctoral, 11 graduate and seven under­graduate students working in her Ionic Liquids Lab. 

“In my 23 years here, we have seen huge growth in external research fund­ing the number of Ph.D. students,” Brennecke said. “That has been important to me because I’ve been able to do research that I’m interested in.” 
The focus on under­graduate teaching is also a very important facet of Notre Dame, she said. 
“Notre Dame has pro­vided me with the op­portunity to teach really great students in a setting where teaching is valued and appreciated,” Bren­necke said. “Notre Dame is very committed to en­hancing and growing our graduate programs.” 
Brennecke said Notre Dame is a wonderful envi­ronment to work in since the research conducted on campus makes a differ­ence. 
“Notre Dame has created an environment that’s very conducive to doing great research,” she said. 
Brennecke said her elec­tion is advantageous for both her work and the uni­versity. 
“Everybody tells me it’s great for me, the depart­ment and Notre Dame,” Brennecke said. “It’s great that we’re being recog­nized here.” 
Contact Adam Llorens at allorens@nd.edu 


in student enthusiasm, she said. 
“In preemptive tick­ets sales we have sur­passed the total people expected from the past 10 years,” Stepien said. “However, we’re still hoping that even more parents and students will show up.” 
Despite the time-in­tensive effort required to plan and coordinate JPW, the job was not stressful due to the de­votion and hard work of her co-workers, who ul­timately made the plan­ning experience a posi­tive one, Stepien said. 
“I’m really just happy that I get to be a part of it all,” Stepien said. 
Stepien said parents will not only see what their sons and daugh­ters are studying aca­demically, but also how they relax outside of the confines of the class­room. This makes JPW a very special weekend, she said. 
“At Notre Dame, there’s such a balance between work and play that students really want to show their par­ents what they do in the classroom, but also what they do to un­wind,” Stepien said. 
Contact Dan Brombach at dbrombach@nd.edu 


Grammy 
continued from page 1 
He said the event was even more enjoyable because he was able to experience it with his family. 
“It’s always fun to share expe­riences with others and having my children attending the parties and all the hoopla surrounding the Grammys was great,” he said. “[I wanted] to start filling up their memory bank.” 
Coyne said the most memorable part of the weekend was seeing her dad receive his award. 
“My dad booked it up to stage. He would have won the 100-meter dash,” she said. “He even got up there before Adele.” 
Tom Coyne said he tried to wait long enough for Adele to reach the steps. 
“I walked a little too quickly and reached the steps of the stage be­fore Adele. I stopped cold and … that was just enough time to see Adele start up the steps,” he said. “So after another second I walked up and LL Cool J came over and congratulated me.” 
Coyne said if he were lucky enough to be on the Grammy stage again, he’d take a back row posi­tion. 
“I [initially] put my cement shoes on and stood just to the left of Adele,” he said. “If I were lucky enough to win again, I’ll go right to the back row and give someone else their chance. The pressure is just too great.” 
But Briana Coyne said her dad deservedthe front-row recognition. 
“No one deserved [this recogni­tion] more than my dad,” she said. “I know that’s being biased, but se­riously, I saw him work so hard. I couldn’t be more proud of him.” 
Contact Caitlin Housley at chousl01@saintmarys.edu 


Greek debt crisis raises concern for EU 

Associated Press 
BRUSSELS — The debate over what Greece must do to get more rescue loans has sparked a war of words with other eurozone countries, with top politi­cians trading barbs over Greece’s trustworthiness as a borrower. 
In recent days, politi­cians from Germany and the Netherlands lashed out at policymakers in Athens, questioning their promises to implement far-reaching cuts and reforms in return for a second, €130 billion ($169 billion) bailout. The comments illustrated in­creasing distrust and un­certainty over the bailout, unnerving markets as in­vestors worried Greece may not get the expected bailout and could default next month. 
Jose Manuel Barroso, the president of the European Commission, struck a con­ciliatory tone on Thursday in a bid to mend fences. 
“I would like to salute the courage of the Greek government and the Greek people in these very chal­lenging times and I would hope that the members of the European Union will accept the commitments given by Greece.” 
The comments are sure to strike a chord in Greece, where resentment has been mounting over what many see as the humilia­tion of the country and the hardship brought on by in­creasing demands from the country’s creditors that have left the country in the fifth year of recession. Eurozone nations want as­surances that Greece will repay its bailout loans if it is extended another €130 billion rescue package. 
After the Greek govern­ment faced down violent riots on Sunday and vot­ed through a contentious austerity plan, eurozone ministers imposed further conditions, such as written commitments from politi­cians and even more cuts. 
The delay to the bailout agreement even after Ath­ens has fulfilled these de­mands have frayed nerves. 
German Finance Minis­ter Wolfgang Schaeuble further rankled Greeks when he urged the coun­try to postpone its gen­eral elections, tentatively set for April, to make sure the current government has time to implement re­forms. 
“We are very much aware of our responsibility for Greece and the Greek peo­ple. But, as I have also said, we can help, but we can’t pour into a bottom­less pit,” Schaeuble said Wednesday in an inter­view. 
The comments caused outrage in Greece, where President Karolos Papou­lias lashed back. 
“I will not accept my country to be disparaged by Mr. Schaeuble,” he said Wednesday during an event at the defense minis­try. “Who is Mr. Schaeuble to disparage Greece? Who are the Dutch? Who are the Finns? We always had the pride to defend not just our freedom, not just our country, but the freedom of Europe,” he said. 
Eurozone ministers are due to meet on Monday to decide on the bailout, but the uncertainty over the bailout and tension be­tween officials who should be cooperating to defuse Europe’s biggest financial threat caused markets to drop. 
Other officials in Athens also voiced indignation over the blunt approach taken by Germany and oth­er European nations. 
“What is happening to­day with Greece is unprec­edented,” said Greek Citi­zens’ Protection Minister Christos Papoutsis, who is a former European Com­missioner. “The sacrifices of the Greek people are unbearable.” 
“Any other new demands from our partners make a mockery of our country,” he said in a statement Thursday. “It is raw black­mail of the Greek govern­ment and of the political system in Greece. It is a direct insult of Parlia­ment, the basic pillar of Greek democracy. It is a direct insult to the dignity and the pride of the Greek people. Some in Europe forget that behind the nu­merical targets there are people.” 


No restrain on anti-whaling activites 
Associated Press 
SEATTLE — A federal judge in Seattle declined to imme­diately restrain the activities of a Washington state-based anti-whaling group Thursday. 
Judge Richard Jones said he would issue a written ruling later, but that he’s inclined to deny a request for a prelimi­nary injunction made by Japa­nese whalers against the Sea Shepherd Conservation Soci­ety. 
The whalers — the Institute for Cetacean Research — said the Sea Shepherd group has attacked and rammed their ships off Antarctica during the whaling season, and asked the judge to order them to stop. Some of the clashes have been shown on the “Whale Wars” reality TV show. 
Sea Shepherd activists use stink bombs and other nonle­thal means to interfere with the whalers. The group argues that its activities are support­ed by international law, that the court doesn’t have juris­diction in the Southern Ocean, and that it’s the whalers who have rammed its vessels. 
“It is a victory for the Sea Shepard, for environmen­talists. It’s a victory for the whales,” said Charles Moure, an attorney with the Seattle firm of Harris & Moure repre­senting the Sea Shepherd. 
In a federal lawsuit filed in Seattle on Dec. 8, the institute argued that the whalers are “entitled to be free from at­tack by what are essentially self-proclaimed pirates with a base in the state of Washing­ton.” 
Japan’s whaling fleet kills up to 1,000 whales a year, an allowed exception under a ruling by the International Whaling Commission. Ja­pan is permitted to hunt the animals as long as they are caught for research and not commercial purposes. Whale meat not used for study is sold as food in Japan, which critics say is the real reason for the hunts. 
Activists launched or threw glass bottles containing paint or butyric acid in one attack last year, the captain of a 
AUSTRALIA 
Bankrupt airline strands thousands of passengers 

whaling vessel said in an af­fidavit translated from Japa­nese. 
“A crew member could be blinded in such an attack,” said Tomoyuki Ogawa, cap­tain of the Nisshin Maru. “These attacks also cause fear in the crew, thus interfering with the prompt and accurate carrying out of orders.” 
Sea Shepherd president Paul Watson said in documents that his activists have never injured any whalers. He ac­cused the whalers of attack­ing activists with concussion grenades, long-range acousti­cal devices, bamboo spears, heavy nuts and bolts, water cannons and prop foulers. 
Associated Press 
SYDNEY — Thousands of travelers from Hawaii to Thailand were stranded Fri­day after budget airline Air Australia ran out of money and went into voluntary ad­ministration, immediately grounding its five-jet fleet. 
The Brisbane-based inter­national and domestic air­line, formerly known as Stra­tegic Airlines, said all flights had been canceled and the airline would not be accept­ing new bookings because it could no longer pay its bills. Voluntary administration in Australia is similar to bank­ruptcy protection in the U.S., and can buy a company time to trade out of its financial problems. 
“It currently appears that there are no funds available to meet operational expenses so flights will be suspended immediately,” the airline said in a statement. Passen­gers who bought tickets with credit cards or had travel insurance may be given a re­fund, the airline said. 
Around 4,000 passengers were overseas with Air Aus­tralia round-trip tickets, vol­untary administrator Mark Korda said. Some of those af­fected were stranded in Ho­nolulu and Phuket, Thailand. 
“Overnight, the compa­ny was unable to refuel its planes in Phuket,” Korda told Australia’s Fairfax Ra­dio. “The directors appointed us at 1:30 this morning and the boys have been working throughout the night to deal with what’s a very difficult situation.” 
Stranded in Honolulu, Priya Sinh was forced to postpone her 18th birthday party on Saturday at her home on Aus­tralia’s Gold Coast. She used her iPad to log onto Facebook to tell her 70 guests not to come because she wouldn’t be back in time. 
“We tried to laugh about it, but it wasn’t funny,” she said while her family called ho­tels looking for a room. Her mother managed to reserve the last four seats on a Jet-star flight to Sydney leaving Saturday. 
Air Australia’s fleet con­sists of five Airbus A330­200 and A320-200 aircraft, and regularly flies to Bali, Phuket, Honolulu and cities within Australia. 
Korda said in a statement that Air Australia’s admin­istrators were calling for immediate expressions of in­terest in the sale of the busi­ness. 



INSIDE COLUMN 

Relocating
Notre 
Dame 

It is kind of a thing here at the University this time of year to say you have seasonal affective disorder, commonly known as SAD. 
In fact, I’d venture to say that you wouldn’t truly be a Notre Dame stu­dent if you didn’t wear a North Face, like squir­rels and have SAD. 
But I don’t have SAD because of the winter weath­er; rather, the winter weather just makes me Sam Stryker plain sad. Some people whine News Editor and complain about the weather for the sake of doing it. I truly hate the cold. 

I always say the day of graduation I am going to have a diploma in one hand and a plane ticket to some­where warm in another. However, I would like to save the future genera­tions of Notre Dame students the pain and suffering of the winter lake effect. Therefore, I have taken the time out of my busy schedule to find potential sites for the University to relocate to. 
Miami, Florida: 

Why not pull a Lebron James and take our talents to South Beach? Miami is warm, it has beaches and it has nightlife. What is not to like? We could even replace the campus squirrels with campus dolphins. It is a win-win. In fact, I like this idea so much, I’m going to throw an extra win in for good measure — it’s a win-win-win. We even get to encroach on the convicts’ home turf. 
San Francisco, California: 

Admittedly, this is not the warm­est choice or even the city with the best possible weather. However, not only is San Francisco a beautiful city, but it would provide the perfect liberal juxtaposition for our ultra­conservative Catholic university. San Francisco has hippies, druggies and gays and lesbians, and we have priests, nuns and parietals. Instead of ResLife, we’d have Alcatraz. It’s a match made in heaven! 
Plus, instead of Jimmie Johns, we get In-N-Out. Someone call the mov­ing vans. Now. 
Yakutsk, Russia: 

Moving the University here would be the only possible way to get peo­ple like me from complaining con­stantly about South Bend’s weather. Yakutsk is officially the coldest cityin the world, with an average yearly high of 25 degrees Fahrenheit. The average January high is a balmy 33 degrees. 
All I can say is that makes Notre Dame seem tropic in comparison. Maybe if Fr. Jenkins threatened to move the University here, the whole SAD craze would go away. 
Well, it’s your move, Fr. J. Hope­fully the dolphins or the promise of Alcatraz will help you make the right decision. 
Contact Sam Stryker at      sstryke1@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Parents, welcome to the fold 
As the cars roll up and the parents get dropped off with suitcases and eager smiles in tow, a moment of panic grips you. A weekend awaits, full of galas and Mass and brunch and bonding. Will it be awkward? Will it be fun? Will it be worth the drive? 
Is Junior Parents Weekend as great as it’s made out to be? 
what’s ahead. It’s a rare moment when adults and children get to experience a beautiful thing called college together. For this one special weekend, the stars align and maybe, just maybe, the sun comes out. 
Open your doors and hearts to your parents and let them know how much you appreciate their love and support. The 

It is if you embrace it for all its worth. 
pride that fills their eyes when they see the 
For one special weekend in the midst of great company you keep and the curriculum your college career, Notre Dame plays host to you conquer will ease any and all tensions. hundreds of middle-aged and elderly adults This weekend is about so much more than (no offense, parents), a much different crowd checking events off the list. As sappy as it than the 20-somethings that usually rule sounds, it’s about letting your home and Notre the scene. Parietals persist, parties move off Dame family become one. 
campus and students get to focus on develop­ing relationships with the ones who have loved them since before they were born — their parents. 
At first, Junior Parents Weekend might feel a little forced as you introduce your folks to your friends under the guise of a fancy gala. You walk around the Purcell Pavilion, not sure if you need to hold Mom and Dad’s hands like it’s their first day of kindergarten. Can they mingle by themselves? Do they know what to do and where to go? Will they play nice with others in the sandbox? 
Maybe your parents are the kind who love college and all it implies, ready to go out and be the lives of the party. Maybe they’re more reserved, shy and a little nervous when thrown into unknown situations. Maybe they couldn’t make it, and instead you’re on your own to entertain the massive influx of adults swarming campus. 
Whatever the situation may be, sit back, relax and enjoy 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“Any man who afflicts the human race with ideas must be prepare to see them misunderstood.” 
H. L. Mencken 
U.S. editor 
Parents, this is your chance to catch a glimpse of the adults your kids are becoming. They’re let­ting you into a world that has allowed them to grow in a multitude of ways. Take advantage of the opportunity to see their lives both academically and socially. It’s a rare time, a period of formation both you and their peers play a large part in. 
Embrace their friends and their friends’ parents, people who have influenced and shaped your child’s life in more ways than you can count. 
Next year, when you meet again amidst tailgates and football games, bond over that first encounter, the one that started it all. Know that your children are well taken care of by the University, their peers and those who have raised the class of 2013. 
Hold onto this weekend. Like your college career, it goes by fast. Do your best to make it last. 





Friday, February 17, 2012 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 11 
The characters who define our society 
Consider for a moment the characters of Pride and Prejudice: Elizabeth, Jane, Darcy, Bingley, Lady Catherine, Bennett and the rest. They are about as different as they could be almost carica-Dan Sportiello tures. 
Nonetheless, Bound Variables they are charac­ters who repre­sent their time and place. They all are, despite their diversity, committed to British society in its absolute commit­ment to politeness, specifically to honor­able marriage in the context of a hierar­chical agrarian order. The climax of the novel comes when Lydia nearly destroys her family by absconding to London; she enters into a romantic relationship with Wickham with neither the permission of her father nor the consecration of a cler­gyman and, scandalously, earns neither money nor power from the transaction. 
Darcy’s commitment to the moral order of honorable marriage is such that he is willing to reestablish order at great personal cost to himself — thereby becoming a hero to the lovely Elizabeth. 
The point is worth repeating: Darcy is, for Austen and her audience, a moral exemplar precisely because he has the will to defend the institution of marriage 
— and the money to pull it off. Gentle­men, take note. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

South Bend still a food desert 
The front page of the Feb. 16 issue of The Observer boasted “Whole Foods to open in fall: High-end grocer will offer more dietary options to students.” While this store will make a wonderful use of the vacant Borders building on Grape Road and a wonderful addition to the number of food options in Mishawaka, we must be conscious of who this store is for. 
The headline says it pretty clearly. Notre Dame students, who typically have the economic power to be able to shop at more expensive grocery stores, will be able to enjoy a wider selection of healthy, organic products. Meanwhile, many residents of South Bend are stuck in food deserts. 
Food deserts, as defined by the Center for Disease Control, are areas charac­terized by poor access to healthy and affordable food. As has been explained, fresh and organic foods are more expen­sive than less healthy, processed foods. It makes sense that Whole Foods is located in Mishawaka; it’s close to the suburban­ites and the students who can afford to shop there. But Whole Foods is not the only retailer with this mentality. Other stores such as Target and Meijer have moved from west to east to capitalize on “being where the money is,” leaving even less food options for low income families and slowing South Bend’s economic devel­opment even further. 
So while you are on your next shopping trip, I urge you to think about why you are driving to Mishawaka instead of into South Bend, and how your buying power affects your eating habits. And when Whole Foods opens in the fall, I hope the Notre Dame family will make a conscious effort to share these nutritional opportu­nities with the residents of South Bend. 
Stephanie Pedicini 
senior McGlinn Hall Feb. 16 
It may be you are not a fan of “Pride and Prejudice.” If so, then you should read it again. In the meantime, though, realize it is not only novels characters who reveal the moral orders which define them. A character is, in a certain sense, a caricature — a somewhat ideal­ized expression of something profound about his social context. And whether that social context is actual or fictional, those within it understand and define themselves in relation to those charac­ters, whether that relationship is one of opposition or affirmation. 
It’s obvious different societies under­stand themselves in relation to different characters, especially since Cervantes created his Don Quixote. The knight, a character defined by his perfect fusion of courage and piety, is as noble in one age as he is absurd in the next. Moreover, ours is no longer a moral order defined by its commitment to honorable mar­riage in the context of a hierarchical agrarian order. 
Who, then, are the characters who define our society — one that lacks any agreement upon the meaning of life, in which talk about right and wrong is therefore unjustified? 
According to Alasdair MacIntyre, who, in his “After Virtue,” calls characters “the masks worn by moral philosophies.” The Manager, the Therapist, the Aes­thete and the Conservative Moralist are prominent among them. Such characters are not the inventions of MacIntyre; they are idealized versions of the men and women whom he sees every day. 

Consider as examples Mitt Romney, Doctor Phil, Paris Hilton and Glenn Beck, respectively. Some of these char­acters inhabit the political right while others are rather further left. Some are respected public figures while others are media darlings known largely for their nuttiness. Despite their great diversity, however, they are manifestations of the same spirit, a refusal to ask about right and wrong, about the point of life, beyond what people happen to want or what they themselves happen to decide. 
Mitt Romney, for instance, drones endlessly about how, if elected, he will make the national economy run better and about how he is an expert in making things run better. What we should do with all of the extra money, of course, he would not presume to say — we would not begin to listen. 
Doctor Phil, for his part, talks people through the deviancy within their lives, helping them to conform to what is con­sidered normal in our society. Although, he would never think to ask whether what is considered normal should be so considered. 
Paris Hilton is good at spending her family’s money to make herself constant­ly, deliriously happy in the most public, grotesque way possible. What things should make her happy, of course, is not something she bothers to ask herself. 
Glenn Beck, finally, screams endlessly about how liberals, minorities or those intelligent enough to read this essay are destroying America. Whether or not America should be a place of liberals, minorities and those intelligent enough to read this essay is not something he bothers to ask his viewers — or himself. 
I have no particularly strong feelings toward any of these individuals. If I criticize anything, it is the moral order they presuppose in their words and deeds. Even in this criticism, though, I still define myself in relation to (albeit in opposition to) these characters. 
For we are narrative animals: each of us makes himself what he is. He tells the story of his life only in the context of the stories, the characters and the people confronting him. 
I wonder if it is not time to start telling better stories. 
Daniel John Sportiello is in his fourth year in the philosophy Ph.D. program. He can be reached at dsportie@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

Scientific theory no matter of faith 
Many people like to hold Galileo up as the supreme ex­ample of the Church changing its teaching (“‘Never,’ is a strong word,” Feb. 16). But the fact is, the Church never has and never will define a scientific theory as a mat­ter of faith. Galileo actually demanded that the Church change her teachings on Scripture. Galileo insisted he was right even though his foundations were flawed, leaving the Church with only two choices: accept it or condemn him. The third choice that the Church offered was calling the theory plausible but in need of more evi­dence, however, this would not satisfy Galileo. 
Galileo was not the first scientist to propose the he­liocentric view. Johannes Kepler proposed his theory of heliocentricity 10 years earlier and was ridiculed by his colleagues. The main source of intolerance for their theories was from the esteemed scientific community of that period, not the Church. The hierarchy of the Catho­lic Church only stepped in when Galileo presumed to try to tell them they needed to defer to his flawed scientific findings. Furthermore, Galileo’s heliocentric theory said that the sun was the center of the universe, a theory that has later been shown to be false. 
The Church tribunal that judged Galileo’s case may have been mistaken in saying the sun is not the center of our solar system. They were, however, completely correct in declaring Galileo’s entire attitude towards the Church and Scripture dangerously heretical. Also, that tribunal was a small group of men that definitely did not have the authority to declare any of the immutable teachings of the Church. This authority is reserved for the Pope in specific circumstances. The tribunal only had disciplin­ary power. 
So, Josh was completely correct in his claim “the Church has never been known to waver on its teaching.” The Church as the Mystical Body of Christ on this earth has never changed its dogmatic pronouncements on faith and morals. These are truths that will last to the end of the world, no matter how the collective morals of our weak human society fluctuate. 
Adrienne Chabot 
junior Badin Hall Feb. 16 

Church should be open to change 
Dear Josh, 

In your letter (“Church over society,” Feb. 15), you condemn an individual who “… had the audacity to claim to have knowledge that supersedes 2,000 years of church teaching … to suggest that the Church should rethink its teaching based on the whims of a generation.”  You also claim that throughout its 2,000 years, “… the Church has never been known to waver on its teaching…” and that the Church cannot represent a “pillar of truth” by “bend­ing to the will of society.” 
As Catholics, we belong to a church devoted to God, inspired by Jesus, but comprised of humans — living, emotional and flawed. While you state that the Church remains “the beacon that lights the way to heaven,” that same Church also initiated the Inquisition, started the Crusades, sold indulgences, colonized peoples who did not ask for such indoctrination and persecuted scientists, artists, and philosophers. 
As Mr. Niehaus and Mr. Schlehuber noted in their Feb. 16 letter (“‘Never,’ is a strong word”), not even Galileo, a man who did indeed have knowledge that superseded what was over 1,000 years of Church teaching, was spared. 
If the Church “… has never been known to waver on its teaching…”, then what was the purpose of the Sec­ond Vatican Council? The Church endures because of a willingness to recognize its flaws and grow with human­ity. Our Church embodies a living entity, not an archaic institution incapable of self-examination and change. 
You also argue that because Jesus “went against many societal values,” the Church should not become subject to the “constraints” of society. Perhaps you have forgotten that Jesus also opposed the inflexibility and misguided practices of his society’s dominant religious leaders. If anything, Jesus would promote a collaborative dialogue. 
The most disturbing aspect of your letter remains the line, “The Church is not part of society, it’s above it.” As a Catholic and student of this University, I beg to differ. The Church operates soup kitchens, homeless shelters, hospitals, schools and development programs around the world — are these not part of society? Is this University not part of society? 
Catholic universities, food programs, medical initia­tives and outreach efforts exist in prisons, in impover­ished neighborhoods, in war zones and in the fabric our communities, making a visible difference. 
As part of society, the Church needs to remain open to discussion with all people, for that remains the true message of Christian action and love.
                                                Austin Hagwood 
freshman Dillon Hall Feb. 16 


This fashionista first fell in love with stereotype. all things Brazilian upon discover-The thing about fashion in Brazil, ing a little restaurant-club in the 10th too, is that the middle class is a new arrondissement of Paris, Favela Chic. phenomenon, and to retain a sense of Memories made with best friends to status, people don’t mix high and low the rhythm of “Magalenha” ampli-fashion, like you see in the States. Ser­fied the already vices in Brazil are cheap, products are strong impact the 
expensive, so the cost of clothes is also Brazilian mystique 
much higher, naturally. exerts on us all. 
FbyF: Growing up and then coming The breezy natural 
to Notre Dame, how was your fashion beauty of the 
aesthetic formed and then changed? Brazilian fashion 

TS: Well, at about 16 or 17 I really aesthetic captures 
fell into the Carioca style with my One day he was just a dog, the next, Mean” and “I Ride Inside.” our style senses. 
friends. Going to the beach so much, he was the bane of Mitt Romney’s The campaign has its own website Thankfully se­
you wear something that can translate existence. and claims 30,000 members. Seamus, niorRio de Janeiro 
easily from there to a restaurant to the Seamus, the precious Irish Setter wherever you are, there’s an abun­native Tatiana mall. I don’t think Brazilian fashion is pup of the Romney family, has taken dance of treats guaranteed in your Spragins let us in so different from fashion at ND in that the world by storm.  name. on the secret. it’s casual, and you don’t really try to Word recently got 
Collins apparently also has a FbyF: So, Tati, stick out or be flashy. But I distinctly out of Seamus’ 
vendetta against the presidential-tell us about the remember getting a Lewis Hall t-shirt misadventure in the 
hopeful. She’s mentioned the Romney fashion aesthetic as a freshman, and cutting it up im-presidential hope-
incident numerous times since his in Brazil. mediately, making the neckline lower, ful’s past. 
campaign began and tosses references TS: Well, first of all Brazil is a large cropping it at the waist, to make it fit This pooch is hav­
to Seamus’ story around in her col-country with many different regions, better, not 
ing the worst week 
umn regularly. In a Feb. 1 piece, she and therefore, different styles. Sao knowing 
questioned whether Romney would Paolo, for example, is like New York, we were 
ever. 

ever plan ways to fix the safety net to many more suits and businesswear. going to 
As the old tale 

goes, little Seamus benefit the poor. I’ll speak to the aesthetic of Rio where wear these 
was a pup who loved “Be real. This is the guy who I grew up. Carioca (a person from Rio) shirts for the 
the rush of wind in drove to Canada with the family dog fashion reflects the hot temperature whole week. 
his ears. He en-strapped on the roof,” she wrote. of Rio, with bright, vibrant colors and I looked dif­
joyed it so much,the Woof. organic fabrics like linen and cotton, ferent. 
Romneys This week, while pristine puppies and sandals. Patterns are extremely Also, I 
would 

were primed for the Best in Show popular. Certain stores market their find there’s 
stick 

prize, the memory of Seamus lived on own for strong brand recognition. Pat-less of an 
in protests and on poster boards. terns take the place of logos in Carioca impetus here 
man’s 
best 

Nothing maintains the memory of fashion, acting as a status symbol. to dress for 
friend in 

someone like writing, so Seamus will The key is to look natural, with not too class. There’s 
also forever be immortalized in Col-much makeup, and flowing hair. A pair a fashion 
a crate 
strapped 

lins’ columns. of well cut jeans with a flowing, loose, divide — 
atop their 

Re-bright top. It’s very basic. Carioca either you 
gardless, fashion is as much about how you wear try too hard 
car and 
drive 12 

Seamus, it as what you wear. Taking care of or not at all. 
hours 

wherever yourself 
In Brazil, 

you’re is impor­
from 
everyone Boston to 

frolicking tant. 
makes an Canada. 

(hope-FbyF: 
effort. 

fully in What do 
Word 
I’ve recently 

a Cana­you think 
adapted got out 

dian field of the 
some-Brazilian 
to ND Carioca Style: Shop on Politicker, a political website, one of 
where), fashion 
naturally 126 the Romney sons let it slip off-the-re­
by buying cord Seamus skedaddled once the fam­
you’re mys-
most of my winter clothes in the States, ily parked at their final destination. 
having tique? 
UGGs and fleece for instance. There Previously, Romney’s wife, Anne, 
the worst TS: 
are some conditions, like the weather, had claimed Seamus went on to live 
week Actually 
whose affect [on your style] you can’t to a “ripe old age,” according to The 
ever. I think 
Though it’s quite 
control. But when summer comes, out Toronto Star. Something smells doggy. 
come my Carioca dresses. My Brazil-Many parties have cried foul at the Romney funny, 
ian style has become stronger. I miss Romneys’ care of their pup, claiming might this ob-
what I can’t find here in the States. this is surely an indicator the presi-publicly be taking the heat, it’s you session 
And of course, when I’m in New York, dential elect is unsympathetic toward who felt it in the first place. We know with where they really express personal the underdog. you love your master, even if he might Brazil-style, I take my true [Brazilian] fashion Though the event took place in 1983, have taken the phrase “catch some ian aesthetic out of the closet. the story has gained recent traction fresh air” a little too literally. beauty. I And on that note, darlings, let the thanks to two forces: the Westminster Here’s to you, Seamus the Irish Set-think it’s Carioca style summit begin! Dog Show and New York Times colum-ter, and  to hoping your dog days aren’t natural nist Gail Collins. over just quite yet. 
— that Contact Felicia Caponigri at The Seamus-inspired movement, a beauty that is different has a wow fcaponig@nd.edu “Dogs Against Romney” made a special Contact Adriana Pratt at factor. It does deserve attention, but The views expressed in this column appearance at the Westminster Dog apratt@nd.edu to us it’s not that exotic.  I’ve always are those of the author and not Show this week. About a dozen angry The views expressed in this column been very aware of the reality of the necessarily those of The Observer. people held up signs reading “Mitt is are those of the author and not 
MARINA KOZAK | Observer Graphic 










Friday, February 17, 2012 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 13 

By MARIA FERNANDEZ 
Scene Writer 
Today, the festivities of Junior Parents Weekend (JPW) begin. JPW is a University tradition in which junior class parents come to Notre Dame “to get a glimpse of their sons and daughters’ lives at their home away from home,” said Caitlin Connelly, co-chair of the JPW Presidential Dinner. 
“This year is particularly spe­cial because we also celebrate the event’s 60th anniversary,” Con­nelly said. 
With a full schedule of activities planned from Friday to Sunday, Connelly said this JPW promises to be “a fun and entertaining weekend for the 2013 junior class and their parents alike.” 
Friday 
JPW festivities begin today at 1 p.m. with Air Force ROTC and Art Department receptions. Later in the afternoon, the Black Cultural Arts Council (BCAC) will host Black Coffee House in the LaFortune Student Center Ball­room. This signature event show­cases various talented singers, dancers and poets.
 The JPW Opening Gala begins at 9 p.m. in the Joyce Athletic & Convocation Center. 
“[The Opening Gala is] one of the weekend’s most important and awaited events,” Connelly said. 
This activity serves as a way “for students and their parents to socialize with other classmates and their parents,” she said. Cocktail attire is suggested for the Opening Gala. The event will have different entertainment sta­tions with food, professional pho­tographers, music and a dance floor. 
Saturday 
Saturday’s schedule is busy, packed with events from morning to night. 
From 9 a.m. to 11 a.m., each University college will offer a con­tinental breakfast and a variety of receptions and presentations for students and their families. 
“It is a great way for parents to learn more about their kids’ learning environment and faculty at Notre Dame,” Connelly said. 
After a busy morning, Resi­dence Hall staffs will host semi-formal luncheons from 12:30 p.m. to 2 p.m. in student’s respective dorms. Later, the Notre Dame Jazz Band will perform a special num­ber for JPW attendees at Leighton Concert Hall in the DeBartolo Per­forming Arts Center (DPAC.) 
“The more formal and elegant activities begin at 5:30 p.m. with the JPW Mass at Purcell Pavilion, followed by the Presi­dent’s Dinner at the Joyce Center Fieldhouse,”Connelly said.Junior class president Kevin Doherty and University President Fr. John Jenkins will address the class of 2013 and their parents Satur­day evening. The University Glee Club will also perform during the event. 
Sunday 
JPW festivities come to an end Sunday with the Clos­ing Brunch in the Joyce Center Fieldhouse. With guest speak­ers and closing remarks from the coordinating staff, juniors will enjoy a relaxing meal with their parents as the weekend 







By ALEXANDRA KILPATRICK 
Scene Writer 

Everyone’s been anticipating Daniel Radcliffe’s first cinematic moment in the spotlight since the conclusion of the “Harry Potter” franchise. 
“The Woman in Black” hit the­aters nationwide Feb. 3, and Rad­cliffe’s wacting abilities in the new horror-thriller period-piece unfor­tunately prove to place him in the long list of typecast actors. 
Director James Watkins’ thriller 
is based on Susan Hill’s 1983 novel of the same name. “Woman in Black” is certainly not as light­hearted or geared to young audi­ences as the “Harry Potter.” 
Nonetheless, Radcliffe contributes to the film in the same way he con­tributes to the character of Harry Potter, with a sense of obligated al­truism. One wonders whether this was Watkins’ intention or Radcliffe simply fails to act beyond his self­less and earnest role in “Harry Pot­
ter.” 
Radcliffe portrays protagonist Arthur Kipps, an early 1900s British lawyer whose wife Stella (Sophie Stuckey) died during childbirth. Kipps’ past only makes his career more difficult. 
After facing finan­cial problems from his law firm, he is as­signed the task of fi­nalizing the estate of Alice Drablow ¾ one final chance to prove his worth to his em­ployer. 
Drablow’s estate rests on a marshy is­land in the creepy North Eastern English village, Crythin Gif 

ford, where children keep mysteri­ously committing suicide. 
Watkins adds an obvious, albeit appropriate, aspect of horror to the movie by locating Drablow’s house on an island linked to the mainland village by only a long road covered at high tide. 
Kipps must unravel the mystery of the deaths while also finalizing the legal documents of Drablow’s estate. The enigma revolves around the title “Woman in Black,” Drab­low’s sister Jennet Humfrye, whose son Nathaniel drowned in the wet­lands during a tragic carriage ac­cident. 
The lack of realism in “The Wom­an in Black” diminishes the scare factor and instead merely adds sus­pense to the majority of the film. 
Radcliffe’s token altruistic role seems out of place in a setting where most of the other characters warn against his delving too far into the frequent deaths. The villagers insist Kipps leave the town before another death occurs, but he refuses. 
Kipps’ only reservations about going to Drablow’s estate, which has all the visual appearance of a haunted house, appear to stem from his desire to reunite with his four-comes to a close. 
“We’ve put a lot of effort into all of this year’s JPW activities and the class has shown a lot of participation and enthusiasm,” Connelly said. 
 Contact Maria Fernandez at mfernan5@nd.edu 
MARINA KOZAK | Observer Graphic 

SPORTS AUTHORITY 

Why the Colts should keep Peyton Manning 
Let’s talk generalizations. 
As the owner of an NFL team, you’re given the choice between an aging quar­terback who missed the last entire season due to injury and the top quarterback prospect in 25 years, according to some. 
The older quarter­back has a contract worth millions of dollars and if you keep him around, you have to pay him a $28 million bonus within the next month without knowing how healthy he actually is. You can pay the new quarterback much less because of new rookie con­tract limitations. 
Your team went 2-14, you fired your general manager and head coach and you’re just looking to rebuild. 
The logical move in this situation is to get rid of the aging quarterback, avoid pay­ing the high salary and bonus and see how the young gun can lead your team. 
Let’s move into specifics now. 
Jim Irsay, the owner of the Indianapolis Colts, has a choice between retaining Peyton Manning as his quar­terback or drafting and giving the starting job to Andrew Luck. 
Manning is 35 years old and missed all of last season after neck surgery. But we’re talk­ing about Peyton Manning, and that’s as far as we need to go. Keep Manning. 
Hypotheticals don’t matter in this case. Manning is not an aging quarterback who missed all of last season — or at least he’s not only that. Manning is the quarterback who led Irsay’s team to a Super Bowl title, who led the Colts to the playoffs in nine straight seasons and who won four MVP awards. 
The Colts went 2-14 last season, the first time since 2001 they didn’t win double-digit games, and anyone could see it was because Manning wasn’t on the field. Now Irsay thinks it’s in the best inter­est of the franchise to play another season without him? 
Andrew Luck may be the next great quarterback. He may be the best prospect to enter the NFL draft since 

Eric Prister 
Senior Sports Writer 
John Elway, as ESPN’s Mel Kiper, Jr. has said. He may be the closest quarterback to a sure thing we’ll see in our lifetimes. But he’s not Peyton Manning. 
Manning isn’t a young man anymore € that can’t be disputed. Even if he’s fully healthy after his surgeries, he can’t have more than five good years left, and that’s if he plays until he’s 40. But giving up the quarterback who has built the Colts into the perennial powerhouse they are (except for last year) is unintelligent at best, professional suicide at worst. 
Irsay should make the decision to keep Manning 
— that shouldn’t even be a question. The question should be whether or not to draft Andrew Luck and have him play under Manning, one of the greatest quarter­backs of all time. Manning’s days are numbered, and Luck would be learning from the best. 
The Colts could draft Luck — they have the space under the salary cap to do so. They could give him the opportunity of a lifetime to be mentored by a Hall of Fame quarterback. If he’s too proud to spend a few seasons as a backup, then he’s missing out. It would be far less risky to draft Luck and hope he’s content than to place all of the hopes of the franchise on him and lose Manning. 
The Colts could also choose to draft an elite player at another position. Judging from last season, they could use the help in many different areas. Offen­sive and defensive linemen have proven to be far easier to judge, and so drafting a player at either position is much more of a sure thing than drafting Luck. 
The Colts are faced with a rare situation — the ability to draft an elite quarterback with another still under contract. Someone with no prior knowledge of the situ­ation might think Luck is the safer, more reasonable choice. But that someone would be wrong. Never bet against Peyton Manning. 
Contact Eric Prister at eprister@nd.edu 
The views expresseed in this Sports Authority column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
NBA 

LeBron would return to Cavs 
Associated Press 
CLEVELAND — LeBron James could picture returning one day to the place where his NBA journey began. 
Back in Cleveland. 
Imagine that. 
After practicing in a gym where he refined his game for seven seasons, James said Thursday he would not rule out a return to the Cavaliers, a team he carried to the brink of a title before he spurned an en­tire region by leaving as a free agent in 2010 to chase a cham­pionship with Miami. 
Asked if he could play for the Cavs again, James initially paused before giving his an­swer. 
“I don’t know. I think it would be great,” he said. “It would be fun to play in front of these fans again. I had a lot fun times in my seven years here. You can’t predict the future and hopefully I continue to stay healthy. I’m here as a Miami Heat player, and I’m happy where I am now, but I don’t rule that out in no sense. 
“And if I decide to come back, hopefully the fans will accept me.” 
James’ comments may have been calculated, coming one day before the Cavs host the Heat for the third time since the superstar’s infamous and messy exit from Cleveland. In mentioning a possible reunion, he may be trying to soften the negative response he’ll get Fri­day night from fans who haven’t forgotten what he did to them. 
However, James appeared sincere when talking about a potential return to the Cavs, his fractured relationship with Cavs owner Dan Gilbert and topics ranging from phenom Jeremy Lin to rookie Kyrie Ir­ving following practice on the fourth floor of Quicken Loans Arena. 
Perhaps it was because he was back in familiar surround­ings that prompted James’ re­marks. Or maybe it’s part of a larger agenda. Whatever the case, his past with Cleveland, and his decision to bolt from the Cavs, will always be a sensitive subject. 
After all, James put Cleveland back on the NBA map by taking the Cavs to one finals and win­ning two MVP awards during his stay. He left the franchise during a summer in which he held an entire city at bay as it awaited his decision. After he announced he was joining the Heat during a nationally tele­vised special, the Akron native was vilified by the same fans who cheered every one of his dribbles and dunks. 
Time has healed some of the wounds — not all. 
James said he has made no attempt to patch things up with Gilbert, who harshly criticized James in a scathing letter to Cleveland’s fans. Gilbert prom­ised to win a title before James, questioned his character and told The Associated Press he felt James quit on the Cavs during the playoffs. 
James said he has no bitterness toward Gilbert. They have not spoken since James met with the Cavaliers on July 3, 2010, when they were one of several teams courting him to sign with them. 
“I don’t have any hard feelings. He said what he said and I’ve moved on,” said James, who is under contract with the Heat for two more seasons. “But there’s been no attempt to patch things up.” 
James, however, said he can envision being friends again with Gilbert. 
“I don’t hold grudges,” he said. “I hold them a little bit, but I don’t hold them that long. He said what he said out of anger and he would probably want to take that back. But I made a mistake, too, and there are some things I would want to take back as well. 
“You make mistakes and move on.” 
But could he play for Gilbert? 
“Dan is not the coach,” he said. “I can play for any coach. We’ll see what happens.” 
Attempts to reach Gilbert were unsuccessful. 
It wasn’t clear if by “mistake” James meant the way he an­nounced his departure from Cleveland or joining the Heat. He insists he’s happy in South Florida and committed to winning a title with the Heat, who are favored to win it all this season after losing to Dallas in the finals last June. 
James acknowledged he’s changed and enjoying hoops the way he once did. 
“I’m back to how I was in Cleve­land, having fun with the game, appreciating the game, loving the game and playing at a high level,” he said. “I got away from that last year. It was a difficult year for me last year, making the whole transition, on and off the floor, going through everything I went through. 

“I just got back to how I got to this point, back to playing the way I know how to play.” 
James’ comments about a re­turn to Cleveland — albeit un­likely — caught former teammate Antawn Jamison off guard. 
“It surprises me that he’s say­ing that now,” said Jamison, who played 25 games with James in 2010 after coming over in a trade. “Three years down the road it wouldn’t surprise me if he entertains the idea. But hey, after the first go-round, I don’t think anything would surprise you as far as scenarios taking place.” 
Cavs guard Daniel Gibson can’t envision Cleveland fans ever re­ceiving James warmly again. 
He may have moved on. They haven’t.. 
“I don’t think he’d be welcome,” Gibson said. “Not with the way that went down. It was a pretty tough situation. I’m sure they wouldn’t feel comfortable with that at all.” 
James knows what’s coming on Friday. He’s prepared for a rough reception, but not as hostile as the one the seven-time All-Star got on Dec. 2 last season. James expects to hear boos, but maybe not as many obscenities. 
“It doesn’t sting anymore,” James said. “The booing isn’t as bad as it was last year so it’s not even a big deal.” 
James’ comments about a hy­pothetical return to Cleveland didn’t surprise teammate Dwy­ane Wade, his running mate in Miami. 
Even Wade, who stayed with James at his home Bath, Ohio, could imagine his friend reunit­ing with the Cavs — some day. 
“Anything is possible,” Wade said. “Hopefully, I’m retired.” 
CLASSIFIEDS 
FOR SALE 
South Side Gem 19370 Sunny 
Slope $155,000 Move In Condition!! 1,824 sq ft. Updated kitchen, remodeled baths new furnace, deck and much more. Family room - gas log fireplace, 4 bedrooms, carpet and hardwood floors. Appliances included. Cressy Everett Pam DeCola MLS 
252702 574-532-0204 

Open House 1215 Oak Ridge Dr. 
Sun 2/19 2-4 
Walking distance to ND 3 plus Brs, 2 Fbaths, 
Finished basement. 
Cressy Everett Pam DeCola 
574-532-0204 
FOR RENT 
WALK TO CAMPUS
 Great Specials! Studio, 1, 2, 3 Bedroom; Townhomes available. (574) 272-8124. 
www.clovervillageapartments.com 

Six student rental for the 2012­13 school year. Extra nice, 3 year old house, one mile south 
of campus at 330 Sunnyside 
Avenue. Three two student furnished suites with common living area, hardwood floors, granite, stainless appliances, 40¿ flat screen TV, cable, wireless internet, ADT security. $3,600/ month. Please contact Rob or Bob at 574-271-4060 or email 
robpryor@cressyandeverett.com or bobdunbar@cressyandeverett. com 
PERSONAL 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don’t 
go it alone. Notre Dame has many resources in place to assist you. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819. For more information, visit ND’s website at: 
http://pregnancysupport@nd.edu 
Born on this day: 
1966 - Luc Robitaille, Montreal, NHL left wing (NY Rangers, Pitts Penguins) 
1966 - Ioannis Kalitzakis, Greek footballer 
1966 - Michael Lepond, American 
musician 
1967 - Gary Shuchuk, Edmonton, NHL center (LA Kings) 

SMC BASKETBALL 

Belles to close regular season with home game 
By NICK BOYLE 
Sports Writer 
Having already clinched a berth in the MIAA tourna­ment, Saint Mary’s will take on Kalamazoo on Saturday looking to pick up momen­tum heading into the post­season. 
This will be the last reg­ular-season game for the Belles (12­12, 8-7) be­fore they 


compete in “Playing on this team tourna­the newly has definitely made me ment.” restruc-a better person as well Saint 
tured four-as a better player ... Mary’s fea­team MIAA The friends I have made tures a tournament core group 
on this team over the 
starting of seniors 
years are lifelong and 
next week. who will 
I know I will always be 
“We are be honored 
able to count on them 
looking Saturday.  
for anything I need.” 
forward These play-to playing ers include at home to Patsy Mahoney seniors Ma-finish out Belles senior guard honey, for-
the season,” Belles se­nior guard Patsy Mahoney said. “We are ready to work hard and take care of business.” 
With a playoff spot se­cured, Saint Mary’s will use its game Saturday to pre­pare for postseason play. 
“Looking to next week for our first-round game, we are excited to play Cal­vin for the third time and show them a team that is not ready for our season to end,” Mahoney said. “We are doing new things to pre­pare and think we have the mentality to come out and win the first round [playoff] game and continue on.” 
The game will also serve as a special occasion for many of the Saint Mary’s players.  The game will 

serve as Senior Day for the Belles, as it is their last regular season home game. “This last home game is full of mixed emotions,” Mahoney said. “I am sad that it is my last home game at Saint Mary’s, but I also know that it doesn’t mean my season is over since we have at least one more game the following Thurs­day for the first round of the MIAA 
ward Kel­
ley Murphy, 

forward Jessica Centa, guard Mag­gie Ronan and guard Katie Sullivan. 
Mahoney said their time together has brought the seniors close on and off the field. 
“Playing on this team has definitely made me a better person as well as a better player,” Mahoney said. “The friends I have made on this team over the years are lifelong and I know I will always be able to count on them for anything I need.” 
Saint Mary’s seniors will play their last home game Saturday at 3 p.m. when the Belles take on Kalamazoo. 
Contact Nick Boyle at       nboyle1@nd.edu 
ND WOMEN’S SWIMMING 
Irish hold on to second place 
By MATT UNGER 
Sports Writer 
The Irish could not muster enough points in four events Thursday to keep up with first-place Louisville in the Big East Swimming and Div­ing championships. 
However, the team kept its hold on second place and also saw impressive performanc­es from freshman swimmer Emma Reaney and the 200­yard freestyle relay team. 
After trailing Louisville by nine points entering the day, the Irish concluded Thursday with 212 points, well behind the Cardinals’ 304-point total. While the defending cham­pion Cardinals appear headed toward a second straight Big East title, the Irish still re­main 12 points ahead of West Virginia for second place. 
The most impressive Irish swim of the day came from Reaney in the 200-yard indi­vidual medley. Reaney domi­nated the field in the event fi­nals, winning in 1:56.42, more than three seconds clear of second place. 
The time was Reaney’s per­sonal best on the season for that event and fell just less than a quarter of a second shy of the automatic qualifying NCAA A-cut time. 
Meanwhile, the closest women’s finish on the day oc­curred between Louisville and Notre Dame in the 200-yard free relay. The team of senior Amy Prestinario, junior Lau­ren Scott, sophomore Kelly Ryan and freshman Hannah Bowen finished just .22 sec­onds behind first-place Louis­ville in an exciting finish. 
The Irish suffered in the team points category as none of their swimmers placed in the top eight of the 50-yard and 500-yard freestyle events. However, Bowen and Presti­nario finished ninth and 10th respectively in the 50-yard freestyle, which were the top two places in the consolation bracket. 
The events on Thursday marked the second of four days for the swimming por­tion of the Big East Swimming and Diving championships. The Irish will face their busi­est day of the Big East cham­pionships today, with five in­dividual events and one relay race at Trees Pool in Pitts­burgh. Preliminary races be­gin at 10 a.m. with the finals occurring at 6 p.m. 
Contact Matt Unger at             munger3@nd.edu 
SMC SWIMMING 

Belles stand in sixth in MIAA meet 
Observer Staff Report 
After the first full day of competition, Saint Mary’s stands at sixth in the MIAA championships with 124 points. At the top of the lead­erboard, Hope leads Calvin by 
1.5 points with 255 points to­tal. 
In the morning session Thursday, the Belles qualified swimmers for each of the five events they competed in. The Belles competed well in their two relay races. In the 200­yard freestyle relay, consist­ing of freshman Ann Nolan, sophomore Sarah Thompson, senior Katie Donovan and freshman Julianne Divine, the Belles took third in quali­fying with a time of 1:43.65. Also taking third, with a time of 4:13.34, was the 400-yard individual medley relay of freshman Anna Nolan, junior Kristyn Gerbeth, senior Au­drey Dalrymple and senior Megan Price. 
Saint Mary’s competed just as well in the individual events during the preliminary round. With an eighth-place finish and time of 5:21.05, se­nior Megan Price qualified for the 500-yard freestyle finals. Audrey Dalrymple qualified in fifth place (2:13.90) and Katie Donovan in 15th place 
(2:22.06) in the 200-yard in­dividual medley. Rounding out the qualifying rounds was No­lan, who finished 10th in the 50-yard freestyle with a time of 25.13. 
The Belles improved their times for the final round Thursday evening, but for the most part finished in the same places. In the relays, the 200­yard freestle relay finished in sixth (1:43.02) and the 400­yard individual medley re­lay moved up, taking second (4:09.91). 
On the individual level, Price again finished eighth in the 500-yard freestyle (5:19.38). For the 200-yard individual medley, Dalrymple finished fifth (2:12.45) and Donovan moved up, finishing 13th (2:19.90). After many races, Nolan’s 50-yard freestyle time slowed slightly to 25.30, but she retained her 10th place position. 
The Belles continue in the MIAA championships today and Saturday in Holland, Mich. 


several new faces on the field, In a preseason coaches’ poll, as the team looks to fill the the Cardinal were picked to void left by the departure of win the MPSF [Mountain Pacif­all-Americans Shaylyn Blaney ic Sports Federation], but have and Jackie Doherty, along with dropped their first two games, three other starters from last losing to No. 1 Northwest­year’s team. Halfpenny said the ern and No. 18 Ohio State last team’s talented underclassmen weekend. Stanford graduated will take on an increased role its top four goal-scorers and and become valuable contribu-starting goalkeeper from last tors. season but features a strong 
“I’m excited to see some of core of seniors in Anna Boeri, the young kids step up because, Emilie Boeri and Catherine losing several players to grad-Swanson. Swanson was named uation, we’ll need to rely on the MPSF’s Player of the Week youthful fac-for her ef­es starting forts in the this week-team’s first 
“We have a number of very 
end,” Half-two games. penny said. talented and skilled ahletes Half­“I’m hop-here who are also very smart, penny said ing to see a so they have been quick on beginning number of the uptake ... Our four-week the season contributors preseason could not have against a 
on the field, top-ranked 
been more effective, and the 
and I’m ex-opponent 
players are certainly seeing 
cited to see provides a
some success in the system.” 
what combi-good mea­nations we suring can come up Christine Halfpenny stick for with.” Irish coach her young 
Despit e team. 
the losses to “I think 
graduation, it’s great 
the Irish do return 16 mono-that we get an early test with 
gram winners. Key returnees an opponent that has been to 
for Notre Dame include senior the NCAA tournament in each 
attack Maggie Tamasitis and of the last two seasons, as it 
sophomore midfielder Kaitlyn will give us a good measure 
Brosco, who were both named of where we are at this point,” 
to the all-Big East preseason Halfpenny said. “Athletically, I 
team. The Irish also feature a think we match up very nicely 
strong and experienced defen-with them, and we’re very ex-

focuses on a high-tempo pace here who are also very smart, sive front that includes seniors cited for this game.” 

Halfpenny 

of play designed to maximize so they have been quick on the Jordy Shoemaker, Megan Sulli-The Irish will open their sea-shots on goal. Halfpenny said uptake,” Halfpenny said. “Our van and Kate Newall. son against Stanford on Sunday continued from page 24 the team has been remarkably four-week preseason could not Although the Irish received at 12:00 p.m. at Arlotta Sta-
quick in picking up the new of-have been more effective, and strong preseason prepara-dium. 
one she describes as “learn fensive style. the players are certainly seeing tion against teams like Johns 
fast, think fast, play fast.” As “We have a number of very some success in the system.” Hopkins, the team will face its Contact Brian Hartnett at 
the name indicates, the style talented and skilled athletes This year’s Irish will feature toughest test in Stanford (0-2). bhartnet@nd.edu 


MEN’S SWIMMING 

Dyer’s record-setting times give ND lead in Big East 

By MEGAN GOLDEN 
Sports Writer 
The Irish entered the second day of the Big East champion­ships on Thursday with a solid lead over Pittsburgh and Lou-
Seventh 
continued from page 24 
the top five CCHA teams earn byes in the confer­ence tournament, while the five conference tour­nament winners and top 11 at-large teams in the Pair-Wise make the NCAA tour­nament. 
“It’s as frustrating for [the players] as it is for me and our staff,” Irish coach Jeff Jackson said. “It’s a matter of we won all those games [early in the sea­son] struggling with our time of 1:18.79. 
The results of the 200-yard freestyle relay were not offi­cially released due to contro­versy regarding one of Con­necticut’s exchanges in the race. The Huskies will most likely be disqualified in the race. 
Irish freshman Nick Nemetz had won the Big East title earlier this week on both the 1-meter and 3-meter boards, giving Notre Dame and early lead. 
Welsh said the Irish swim­mers have rallied behind Nemetz’s success. 
“We haven’t lost the lead that our divers gave us, and we love our divers,” Welsh said. “Louisville was heavily, heav­ily favored to win; that’s why you have the meet. What we’ve been trying to focus on is tak­ing care of business between the Ts.” 
Today’s competition features several 100-yard races, includ­ing backstroke, breaststroke and butterfly. Saturday marks the final day of the meet, which opens at 10 a.m. with the 1650­yard freestyle race. 
The Big East championships continue today at Trees Pool in Pittsburgh at 10 a.m., begin­ning with the 400-yard indi­vidual medley. 
Contact Megan Golden at        mgolde01@saintmarys.edu 
isville and built on that lead with strong swimming across all events. Sophomore Frank Dyer’s record performance gave Notre Dame a 406-330.5 first-place lead over the Cardi­nals. 
Just a day after leading an 
secondary scoring and all of a sudden now our pri­mary scoring’s not scor­ing. I think that’s tough. And then when the goal­tending’s been pretty good in the second half — we’ve had a few inconsistent starts — it’s challenging.” 
The Irish have notably had strong performances against high-profile op­ponents such as Boston College, Michigan, Boston University and Minnesota this season, yet struggled against small-name teams such as Alaska and Bowl­ing Green. 
“When we play with that said Dyer stands out among others, even against the best opposition in the conference. 
“He beat his own meet re­cord from last year, and he broke the pool record from 1993. His time is one of the very, very fastest times in the country. Frank’s just having a terrific meet,” Welsh said. “The thing about Frank is he earns it. He does everything the right way, which does not mean it’s easy, but he earns his success. He trusts what he does. He’s a great competitor.” 
Irish junior Bill Bass earned the gold medal in the 200-yard individual medley. The Irish trio of freshmen Cameron Mill­er and Zachary Stephens and sophomore Colin Babcock also finished in the top six. 
Defending champion Lou­isville controlled the top four spots in the 50-yard freestyle, and West Virginia rounded out the top-six. 
“[Louisville is] loaded with talent. They are loaded with talent. That’s a tribute to them,” Welsh said. “It’s been a great competitive race; a great matchup between the two of us. It’s been, ‘You punch me in the nose, I’ll punch you in the nose.’” 
The 200-yard freestyle relay team of Dyer and juniors Bill Bass, John McGinley and Kev­in Overholt finished in second place behind Louisville, with a Irish relay team to a school re­cord, Dyer set a new Big East record with a time of 4:18.50 in the 500-yard freestyle. Notre Dame freshman Brennan Ja­cobsen earned second place in the race at 4:24.28. 
Irish head coach Tim Welsh 
underdog mindset, we’re a pretty darn good team,” Jackson said. “When we play against Boston College or Michigan, we still be­lieve that we have that un­derdog mindset. But when we don’t play with that un­derdog mindset, we’re just as good as everybody else.” 
The underdog mindset will likely be around when the Irish travel to raucous Steve Cady Arena. The Redhawks, who possess the Mason Cup after win­ning last season’s CCHA tournament, have been inconsistent this season but are full of talent. The squad features all-CCHA junior forward Reilly Smith, who leads the team with 30 points, and the senior goaltending duo of Cody Reichard and Connor Knapp. 
“[Miami] is a very good hockey team,” Jackson said. “We have to do a re­ally good job with the puck, but I think against this team, we’re going to have to make sure that we don’t give them a lot of odd-man rush situations. 
“They’ve got great team speed. They’re a little younger up front than they’ve been in the last few years. They’re still real ex­perienced on the back end and in goal. Their forwards are very talented, but they’re young. And they’ve had ups-and-downs like we’ve had this year and we just have to play real smart hockey with the puck, not taking unnecessary penal­ties.” 
Despite the stretch of poor play recently, Irish se­nior captain and defense-man Sean Lorenz believes his team still has time to turn things around. 
“We’re excited. It’s crunch time and as bad as we’ve been playing the past 10 games, honestly, there’s so much more time in the season,” Lorenz said. “There’s four games and those four games could boost us up into the top four in the conference and top 10 nationally. So these last four are really impor­tant and going to Miami is always a challenge and always fun in my opinion, just because of the atmo­sphere, and we’re looking forward to it.” 
Jackson has echoed those sentiments to his club, re­ferring frequently to the 2008 Irish squad that made the national championship game after hobbling into the NCAA tournament. 
“You have to take solace in the fact that if you main­tain the right attitude, re­gardless of how bad things look, is that anything’s possible,” Jackson said. “Anything’s possible until your heart’s not beating anymore.” 
The Irish will face the Redhawks in a critical se­ries at Miami tonight at 
7:35 p.m. and Saturday at 
7:05 p.m. 
Contact Sam Gans at sgans@nd.edu 



ND WOMEN’S TENNIS 

Irish host first meet since big Vanderbilt upset 

By VICKY JACOBSEN 
Sports Writer 
The Irish will face two talented rivals from differ­ent conferences this week­end, with matches against North Carolina and Illinois at the Eck Tennis Pavilion. 
Saturday’s match against No. 13 North Carolina (6-4, 1-0 ACC) will be the first 
SMC TENNIS 

Underclassmen look to step up for young Belles 
By ISAAC LORTON 
Sports Writer 
After graduating a remark­able five seniors out of six singles players last season, the Belles will begin the 2012 season hoping to build on last season’s 11-6 record — but with a new group of athletes. 
The Saint Mary’s squad will be made up of entirely fresh­men and sophomores this sea­son. 
“Replacing the seniors over­night will definitely be hard to do,” Belles coach Dale Camp­bell said. “This young team though, has a lot of talent and I think the team is full of solid competitors.” 
There is hope to build upon the success attained last sea­son, but Campbell is not set­ting any specific goals for this season until he sees the girls play in matches. 
“Right now, we are not look­ing to set goals until we see them compete,” Campbell says. “Maybe after the first few matches, we will set sea­son goals.” 
Campbell saw the group of sophomores improve last sea­son and believes they can help the freshmen, who will be competing at the college level for the first time. Campbell said the team spent the off­season working on speed and conditioning. 
“This season we are going to want to improve our foot­work and speed,” Campbell said. “This will contribute to our offense greatly.” 
The strength of the Belles lies in their athletic ability and their doubles play, but Campbell wants his young team to not commit unforced errors and be precise. 
“We have a lot of doubles savvy for a young team,” Campbell said. “I think this team as whole will come along well.” 
For leadership, the Belles will look to the only player who held a top-six spot last season who was not a senior 
— sophomore Mary Catherine Fuller. 
“She was the No. 3-seed last season and this year she’s go­ing to be our No. 1,” Campbell said. “She really has raised her level and she’ll be one to look out for this season.” 
The Belles first match will be at home against Case West­ern on Friday at 6 p.m. 
Contact Isaac Lorton at                  ilorton@nd.edu 
for the No. 23 Irish (5-2, 1-0 Big East) since they upset No. 18 Vanderbilt on Feb. 5 in Nashville. 
“We are playing two tough teams this weekend, but we have been working hard in practice and the coaches have been pre­paring us for what to ex­pect,” junior Chrissie Mc-Gaffigan said. “We hope to build momentum from our upset win at Vanderbilt.” 
The Tar Heels have been ranked in the top-10 na­tionally for much of the season, but fell from the No. 8 spot after two losses over the weekend at the ITA National Team Indoor 
Championships. their recent struggl es, Irish coach Jay Louder-back said the Tar Heels are an elite op­ponent. 
“They got a win over Ten­nessee who we lost to, so they’re going to be tough,” he said. “They’ve got good doubles teams and they compete really well. We always, when we play 
Despite 
Carolina, we always have just tough matches.” 
Louderback also said he expects a challenge from Illinois (5-1, 0-0 Big Ten) because of his ties to the Illinois coach Michelle Dasso. 
“They’re always a tough regional team. Their coach played for me and was my assistant, and so when we play then she always has them ready. They always play really well against us,” Louderback said. “They aren’t ranked as highly, but it’ll be a tough match.” 
The Fighting Illini come into the match with mo­mentum from a Feb. 3 home win over Southern Meth­odist. The Illini have only dropped one singles match at home so far this semes­ter — to SMU No. 1 singles player Edyta Cieplucha — but have not been as domi­
“We are playing two tough teams this weekend, but we have been working hard in practice and the coaches have been preparing us for what to expect ... We hope to build momentum from our upset win at Vanderbilt.” 
Chrissie McGaffigan Irish junior 
nant on the road. 
Al­though the matches fall on Junior Parents Weekend, Louder-back said the event should not have a large impact on the matches . McGaf­figan is the only 
junior on the squad. When asked if the team was pre­paring anything for JPW, Louderback said they only planned on winning. 
Notre Dame will take on the Tar Heels at 11 a.m. Saturday and face the Il­lini at 12 p.m  Sundayin the Eck Tennis Pavilion. 
Contact Vicky Jacobsen at vjacobse@nd.edu 



FENCING 

Irish travel to Salt Lake City for national spots 

By MIKE MONACO 
Sports Writer 
With the regular season in the books, the Irish will take a break from collegiate action to participate in the United States Fencing Association’s National Junior Olympics this weekend in Salt Lake City. 
The event provides fencers under the age of the 20 with the opportunity to qualify for the Olympic team. 
“We are sending just four 
[freshmen] fencers at this mo­ment,” Irish coach Ja­nusz Bed­narski said. “We qualify by age so we don’t typic ally send any ju­niors. It’s an event for the fresh men and sopho­mores.” 
With fenc­ers from all over the country 

“This is a qualifying event for the world so it’s a very tough tournament.” 
Janusz Bednarski Irish coach 
competing for prestigious na­tional team spots, the Irish are prepared for fierce competi­tion. Bednarski said he is ex­cited to see how the four per­form against top talent. 
“This is a qualifying event for the world so it’s a very tough tournament,” Bednarski said. 
“We will observe the prog­ress of our freshmen and see how well they do.” 
The quartet of Irish fencers consists of foilist Gabriel Acu­na and epeeists Michael Rossi, Nicole Ameli and Ashley Sev­erson. 
Acuna saw action in the fi­nal two meets of the season and compiled an 18-6 record, 
including a 13-4 per-for ma nce at the Notre Dame Duals on Jan. 29. 
Rossi com­peted in all five meets and posted winning re­cords in four as part of his 36-21 re­cord for the regular sea­son. 
Ameli, who posted 39 wins on the season, 
was one of the top performers on the women’s epee squad. 
Rounding out the group is Severson, who finished right behind Ameli in the win col­umn with a 37-7 mark for the campaign. Bednarski said he expects a strong performance from Severson in Utah. 
“From this group Severson is probably the most experi­enced,” Bednarski said. “She has already played in many top competitions against top fencers in the nation. I think she can maybe medal or may­be even reach the final [this weekend]. She probably will qualify for the national team. That’s our goal [for her], to fence in [the World Cadet and Junior Fencing Champion­ships] in Moscow in March and April.” 
After the National Junior Olympics are over, the team will return to action as a group Feb. 26 for the Squad Champi­onships in New York. The four freshmen will use the National Junior Olympics as a building block for the rest of the season, Bednarski said. 
“We’re competing in [the Squad Championships] next week,” Bednarski said. “We can try to use the [National Junior Olympics] as a promo­tional event for next week. We will see how [the freshmen] will compete in two weeks.” 
The National Junior Olym­pics begin today at the Salt Palace Convention Center in Salt Lake City. 
Contact Mike Monaco at            jmonaco@nd.edu 



ND SOFTBALL 

Young Irish travel to Calif. to begin season 

By KATIE HEIT 
Sports Writer 
After losing eight seniors to graduation, the inexperi­enced Irish begin their sea­son with a tough weekend as they compete in the Camp­bell Cartier Classic in San Diego. 
The slate of games begins today with a doubleheader against San Diego State, fol­lowed by a game against San Diego. The Irish will face Oregon State and UC Santa Barbara on Saturday before rounding out the tournament on Sunday against Boise State. 
Junior catcher Amy Buntin said she is eager to see what this year’s team is capable of. 
“Compared to last year, this team has the ability to play with speed and quick­ness,” Buntin said. “We have put in a lot of prepara­tion scrimmaging ourselves in Loftus, so it will be nice to compete outside against some tough competition.” 
Buntin said she sees Or­egon State as Notre Dame’s toughest competition this weekend, but senior out­fielder Alexa Maldonado said the Irish are unfamiliar with many of the teams they will face this weekend. 
“We are going out there and focusing on playing,” Maldonado said. “We are go­ing out there and focusing on playing our game. In our eyes, the competition doesn’t matter. As long as we play Notre Dame softball, we can beat whoever we face.” 
As one of four seniors, Maldonado said her personal goal for the season is to be a strong leader for the younger girls. 
“I want to help this team get to the next level,” Mal­donado said. “Not only by my playing ability but as a leader.” 
One of the talented new­comers to the roster, fresh­man catcher Cassidy Whid­den said she is looking forward to the start of her first collegiate season. She said that her team is ready to face competition outside of practice. 
“For the past five weeks we have been working really hard to make ourselves bet­ter,” Whidden said. “I just can’t wait to see what this team will do this season.” 
Maldonado said most of the team’s preseason work has taken place on indoor prac­tice facilities, which adds a challenge to tournament. 
“The most difficult part of this weekend will be get­ting used to playing outside on the dirt and grass,” Mal­donado said. “It’s going to be different, but we are so excited to just get out there and play in beautiful weath­er.” 
Maldonado said the team has one goal in mind. 
“We are a great group of girls all working toward the same goal — to be the 2012 College World Series cham­pions,” she said. 
The Irish will begin play in the Campbell Cartier Classic with a game against San Di­ego State today at 5 p.m. 
Contact Katie Heit at kheit@nd.edu 


MEN’S TENNIS 

Irish to face familiar foe in Wolverines 
By WALKER CAREY 
Sports Writer 
No. 30 Notre Dame re­turns to the court Saturday when they travel to Ann Ar­bor, Mich., to take on No. 28 Michigan. The Wolverines present a challenge that is quite familiar to the Irish. 
“We know Michigan pret­ty well,” Irish coach Bobby Bayliss said. “They beat us in a real close 4-3 match last season on our home court, so we know we can definite­ly play with them. They re­turn a lot of the same guys, so personnel-wise, we have a pretty good idea of what we are dealing with.” The two teams feature a similar national ranking, and Bayl­iss believes the two squads are evenly matched. “I think both teams are fairly simi­lar in their strengths,” Bayl­iss said. “There is definite­ly some differences, but I think their balance is a lot like ours. Like us, they have a strong lineup with good players at each position.” Bayliss was quick to point out one Wolverine in partic­ular that could give the Irish some trouble. “[Junior] Evan King is their guy at No. 1 singles and he is a very good player,” Bayliss said. “He is probably going to be one of the better guys that we will see all season, so he is go­ing to be a real tough test for us. Playing good competition will make a team better and [King] definitely counts as good competition.” Bayliss said the trip to face Michi­gan (4-3) will put the Irish in a hostile road environ­ment. “[Michigan] has one of the nicest facilities in the country,” Bayliss said. “The court is a little faster and the lights are not as bright as ours, so some adjust­ments will have to be made in those areas. They have a great seating area for their matches and I know they do an excellent job of promot­ing them, so we will prob­ably be playing in front of a lot of Michigan fans. Dealing with the opposition’s fans is always one of the challenges of playing on the road.” Out­side of notching the victory, Bayliss would like to see Notre Dame (8-4) continue to improve in its doubles play. “We have been much better in our doubles play over the last few weekends,” he said. “I think it is important for us to continue to improve in that area. Ever since we switched up the combina­tions to have [seniors] Casey Watt and Niall Fitzgerald playing together and [ju­nior] Spencer Talmadge and [sophomore] Greg Andrews playing together, I have seen all four of those guys re­spond and play some really good tennis. Strong doubles play is always going to be one of our goals.” The Irish take the court against the Wolverines on Saturday at 3 p.m. 
Contact Walker Carey at          wcarey@nd.edu 
Cooley 
continued from page 24 
who leads the team in re­bounding, is third in scor­ing and has recorded five double-doubles during the seven-game streak, has spurred the Irish charge. Cooley said he hopes op­ponent’s attention turns to him, because that will allow his teammates to take over. 
“The more focus that’s on me is the less that’s on the in the last month, they re­ally have become one of the better backcourts in this league. And they believe it, and their teammates know to kind of play off of them and get out of their way.” 
Villanova (11-14, 4-9) comes into the contest in a tie for 11th in the Big East and has struggled defen­sively. The Wildcats are ahead of only DePaul in scoring defense. 
“Our team ball-handling is excellent,” Brey said. “That group has a lot of fun play-
rest of my team­mates,” Cooley said. “Every ­one for­gets that [sopho ­more guards Jerian Grant] and [Eric Atkins], they ’re knock­down shoot­ers. The reason I’ve been scoring so much 
“Our team ball-handling is excellent ... That group has a lot of fun playing together. They all can pass, they know where each other is supposed to be. It’s certainly not any predictable movement — it’s a group kind of moving and reading the defense.” 
Mike Brey Irish coach 
ing togeth­er. They all can pass, they know where each other is supposed to be. It’s certainly not any predictable movement 
— it’s a group kind of moving and read­ing the de­fense.” 
Brey said despite the progress it has made, his team is still hun­
is probably that they’ve been focusing on them so much. So if they put the fo­cus on me, that’s fine, those guys will go for 20 each. It’s going to work out well for our team.” 
The two young guards have led the Irish with their ball-handling. Notre Dame ranks second in the Big East in assist-to-turnover ratio, which Brey attributes to his backcourt. 
“I think it’s fun playing with these guards,” he said. “These guys, as you’ve seen 
gry for more. 
“We’ve been very greedy winners, and that’s been good to see,” he said. “I think you see that more with a team that has more older guys. But this group, even though there’s still some youth, has that and that’s been very impressive to me.” 
Notre Dame and Villanova tip off Saturday at 9 p.m. in Philadelphia. 
Contact Eric Prister at            eprister@nd.edu 




TRACK AND FIELD 

Irish travel to NY for Big East Indoors 
By JOSEPH MONARDO 
Sports Writer 
As the indoor portion of the 2012 schedule nears its conclusion, the Irish will head to New York for the Big East Indoor Champion­ships. 
One of the most anticipat­ed meets on Notre Dame’s schedule, competing in the conference indoor cham­pionships has been the goal for Irish athletes dur­ing the season’s first two months. The importance of qualifying for and perform­ing well at the meet cannot be overstated, Irish coach Joe Piane said. 
“How important is breath­ing? Does that sum it up quickly? Everybody goes into the Big East wanting to win and we are no differ­ent, no different at all,” Pi­ane said. “The two biggest meets on our schedule, both indoor and out, are the Big East meet and the NCAAs.” 
The field, which will in­clude the top athletes in the Big East, promises to provide strong competition across the board. 
“The Big East historically has been outstanding in the middle distance to distance area, but that’s not to say that the sprints are bad and the jumps and field events are bad,” Piane said. “It’s a very, very, very competitive conference.” 
The men’s side enters the meet having placed in the top two in four consecutive Big East Indoor champion­ships, including a first-place finish in 2010. This year, the Notre Dame men and women both hope to revisit the top spot on the podium. 
“[To win] is great, it re­ally is,” Piane said. “That’s why you have a team, to go out and win. We have a very good, solid team … it doesn’t matter if it’s the men or the women, we are pretty solid.” 
On the men’s side, several athletes will attempt to de­fend Big East titles in their respective events. Senior pole-vaulter Kevin Schip­per hopes to earn the gold for the third straight year, and junior middle-distance runner Jeremy Rae looks to defend his title in the mile and lead the 4x800­meter relay to victory for the second straight year. Sophomore sprinter Pat­rick Feeney, who won the 400 -meter race last year in his first conference meet, will have to defend the title from Irish freshman sprint­er Chris Giesting, among others. 
For the women, junior middle-distance runner Rebecca Tracy enters the meet having won last year’s mile run. The Irish expect contributions from a vari­ety of other sources as well, Piane said. 
“We have [senior pentath­lete] Maddie Buttinger, who is one of the best multi­eventers not only in the conference but in the coun­try, she is very good,” Pi­ane said. “We have some terrific sprinters — [fresh­man sprinter] Kaila Barber has done a great job, [soph­omore sprinter] Michelle Brown is a terrific 400-me­ter lady and we have some very good distance ladies.” 
Although Notre Dame’s primary focus is winning the conference meet, ath­letes are also competing for the opportunity to compete in the NCAA Indoor Cham­pionships in March. With only one meet between the Big East and NCAA Indoor Championships, the end of the indoor season is right around the corner. 
“There is a lot to come for the track season in to­tal, but for the indoor sea­son, we really just have two meets [left],” Piane said. “The indoor season goes very quickly.” 
The Irish begin their fi­nal indoor Big East compe­tition Saturday, with action concluding Sunday. 
Contact Joseph Monardo at        jmonardo@nd.edu 


Corrigan 
continued from page 24 
Tewaaraton Award, given to the top player in collegiate lacrosse. According to Corrigan, keeping these midfielders in check and slowing them down is a top pri­ority. 
“The biggest challenge for us is the athleticism they have in the middle of the field and the way they use that to try to play an aggressive full-field style of game,” Corrigan said. “The challenge for us is to control tempo and make sure the game is being played at our pace. We can’t let them get out and get easy goals in transition.” 
To control the Blue Devils, the Irish will need to use a different strategy than in prior years. In 2011, the Irish featured a host of upperclassmen, including five since-graduated all-Americans. The beginning of this year will be a different story, as a total team effort will be called upon to battle top teams like Duke, Corrigan said. 
“We did lose five all-Amer­icans from last year but at the same time I’m confident in the guys we have,” Corrigan said. “We’re not looking at any one guy [to carry us]. As a group these guys have worked really hard and I’m really confident in our guys.” 
Midfielder Max Pfeifer, defen­seman Kevin Randall and at­tack Nicholas Beattie will lead the 2012 team as senior co-cap­tains after all seeing double-digit starts last season.  Others who will be counted on heavily include sophomore attack Wes­ty Hopkins, senior attack Sean Rogers and junior goalie John Kemp. Hopkins and Rogers tied for the team lead in goals last season with 18 apiece, while Kemp started all 14 games and was also recently named to the Tewaaraton watch list. 
Just as Corrigan is not wor­ried about the loss of last year’s all-Americans, so too is he not worried about expectations for the Irish, both for the season and in the season opener. 
“We don’t burden ourselves with expectations,” Corrigan said. “We’ve been working hard and we’re excited to get started. I know our guys will play as hard and well as they can … If we play smart and hard I know we’ll make enough plays and we should be fine.” 
Notre Dame looks to gain the edge in its growing rivalry with Duke at 1 p.m. Saturday at Ar­lotta Stadium. 
Contact Mike Monaco at jmonaco@nd.edu 

Aoki 
continued from page 24 
tation] to contribute and help out the team,” Aoki said. “They have some big shoes to fill, but now they will have the oppor­tunity to start and potentially have some success. Hopefully, these guys can jump right in and do a good job for us.” 
Meanwhile, the Irish return their young offensive core in junior second baseman Frank DeSico, sophomore center field­er Eric Jagielo and sophomore first baseman Trey Mancini. As a freshman, Mancini carried the Irish offense with nine home runs and 34 RBIs while hitting .323 — the only Irish player to bat above .300 last season. 
“We are really looking to build upon what we started last year,” Aoki said. “We really can’t get too much worse when looking at our offensive output, but we are looking to get go­ing with the guys we have. We need to build some more depth around Mancini and Jagielo in the lineup, but I am optimistic we will have a better offense this year.” 
The Big East/Big Ten Chal­lenge provides Notre Dame with an early-season opportu­nity to compete against NCAA Regional contenders in Illinois, Iowa and Purdue, which Aoki said would considerably test his young team. 
“Illinois almost went to the Super Regionals last year, while Iowa beat us twice,” he said. “Purdue has a lot of hype around them as well because they have basically returned all their starters. So we are in for a test but the guys are excited to get out there and see what we can do.” 
Notre Dame will start its sea­son against Illinois today at 1 
p.m. in St. Petersburg, Fla. 
Contact Andrew Gastelum at agastel1@nd.edu 


CROSSWORD WILL SHORTz 
HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 



HENRY ARNOLD 
JUMBLE

LONDON EXPRESS ALEX GRISWOLD and LEE HAGGENJOS 
MIKE ARGIRION 






Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556

 Enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year


 Enclosed
 is $75 for one semester 


Name ____________________________________________________ Address __________________________________________________ City ____________________ State___________ Zip______________ 

Friday, February 17, 2012 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 24 

MEN’S BASKETBALL 

Second-place stride 
Brey proud of team’s double-digit wins 
By ERIC PRISTER 
Senior Sports Writer 
No. 23 Notre Dame returns to the road riding a seven-game win streak to face Vil­lanova on Saturday. 
The Irish (18-3, 10-3 Big East) have vaulted themselves into a tie for second place in the Big East and have the tie­breaker advantage over four of the five teams immediately behind them. Irish coach Mike Brey said his team’s double-digit conference win total is quite an accomplishment. 
“Anytime we get to double-digit wins, that’s great con­sistency in this league,” he said. “That’s maybe one of the things I’m most proud of with the program, is that we get into double-digit league wins, because once we get into that, the other stuff kind of takes care of itself, with double-byes and Selection Sunday.” 

Junior forward Jack Cooley, JULIE HERDER/The Observer 
Irish sophomore guard Alex Dragicevich, right, shields the ball from Rutgers guard Myles Mack on see COOLEY/page 20 Wednesday. The Irish won their seventh straight victory when they beat Rutgers 71-53. 


WOMEN’S LACROSSE 
Newcoach brings new Irish style 
By BRIAN HARTNETT 
Sports Writer 
The new-look Irish will put their transformed style of play to the test when they open the season at home against No. 6 Stanford on Sunday. 
Coming off a 10-9 season that ended with a loss in the Big East championship game, the No. 20 Irish will look significantly different than last year’s team. First-year coach Christine Half­penny, who comes to Notre Dame after leading William & Mary to four consecutive 10-win seasons, will make her debut on the sidelines for the Irish. In her brief time at Notre Dame, Half­penny has worked to imple­ment a new style of play, 
see HALFPENNY/page 16 


MEN’S LACROSSE 

Notre Dame seeks revenge against rival Blue Devils 
By MIKE MONACO in the past two seasons. One trade it all for that champion-It’s our decision-making. We cerned with their own athleti-Sports Writer of those meetings came in the ship in 2010, but the thing is all have plenty of athleticism and cism, they are fully aware of 2010 NCAA national champion-the games have been really well will be able to handle them. It the skilled athletes the Blue Notre Dame and Duke will ship, which the Blue Devils won contested between two pretty comes down to being smart and Devils put on the field, Corri-write the next chapter of their 6-5 in overtime. evenly matched teams.” being selective in the opportu-gan said. Among those athletes rivalry Saturday, when the No. “The thing is all four games Once again, Corrigan expects nities we want to take in the full are senior midfielder Justin 9 Irish kick off their 2012 cam-in the last two years have been his team to stack up evenly field game. We need to make Turri and senior midfielder C.J. paign against second-ranked great games,” Irish coach Kevin against Duke. sure we get back [on defense] Costabile, both recently named Blue Devils. Corrigan said. “They’ve won “I think we match up fine and do not give them easy tran-to the watch list for the 2012 The two teams are famil-two and we’ve won two. That with them,” Corrigan said. “It’s sition goals.” 
iar foes, having met four times being said, we would gladly not a matter of our athleticism. While the Irish are not con-see CORRIGAN/page 22 

BASEBALL 

Season kicks off early with trip down south 
By ANDREW GASTELUM 
Sports Writer 
Spring will start early for the Irish as they make their annual trip to the Sunshine State for the Big East/Big Ten Challenge to kick off the season. 
Last year at the Big East/Big Ten Challenge, the Irish took two of their three games, outscoring their opponents by 20 runs. But following the tournament, Notre Dame went on to lose five of its next seven, keying a season-long slide the Irish struggled to turn around. Irish coach Mik Aoki, now in his second year with Notre Dame, said he expects the team to have a different approach en­tering the new season. 
“You don’t want to overstate anything and make it more seem more important than it really is,” Aoki said. “I want to see them play well. I’m anxious to see how some of these guys who are turned from role players into full-time players react to the opportu­nity they have.” 
According to Aoki, the big­gest challenge for the Irish this season will be replacing last year’s senior-laden starting ro­tation. Departed right-handers Cole Johnson, Brian Dupra and Todd Miller each logged over 80 innings in 2011 and provided a consistent force to aid a strug­gling Irish offense. Aoki said he is confident in his new rotation of senior Will Hudgins, sophomore Sean Fitzgerald and junior Adam Norton — all of whom built ERAs under four from the bullpen and occasional spot starts last sea­son. 
“I fully expect [the starting ro­
see AOKI/page 22 


HOCKEY 

Irish hope to break losing streak 
By SAM GANS 
Sports Writer 
One week ago, the No. 13 Irish faced a two-game se­ries against now-No. 1 Ferris State with the opportunity to make a run at a CCHA cham­pionship. After being swept by the Bulldogs, Notre Dame will travel to No. 19 Miami this weekend, with both a bye in the CCHA tournament and an NCAA tournament berth in serious jeopardy. 
The Irish (16-13-3, 11-10-3­0 CCHA) limp into this week­end’s showdown against the Redhawks (17-13-2, 11-11-2­
1) with a three-game losing streak and just a 3-7 record in their last 10 games. After a season that started prom­ising, Notre Dame now sits tied for seventh in the confer­ence and 18th in the crucial PairWise rankings. Only 
see SEVENTH/page 17 

SARAH O’CONNOR/The Observer 
Senior center Patrick Gaul, left, attacks the puck in an Irish 3-2 loss to Bowling Green on Feb. 4 in the Compton Family Ice Arena. 





