
Unbearable 
Baylor center Griner scores 26, grabs 13 rebounds as Lady Bears down Notre Dame in national championship 

By CHRIS MASOUD like their victory over No. 2 sessions. ket.” achieve 142 wins and reach Senior Sports Writer Stanford in the national semifi-But momentum turned when Griner and the Lady Bears four Sweet Sixteens, two Final 
nals, the No. 1 Lady Bears (40-Peters was sent to the bench took advantage of Peters’ ab-Fours and two national cham-
DENVER — The scene was 0) broke the game open in the just two minutes and 38 sec-sence on both ends of the floor, pionship games. all too familiar. The buzzer second half, outscor-outscoring Notre “It’s just a great senior class. sounded, the confetti fell and ing the Irish 46-33. Dame 40 to 22 I know me watching their Notre Dame was denied in the Irish junior guard in the paint and whole careers on the sidelines 
“I think there was some 

national championship for a Skylar Diggins paced outrebounding — just amazing what they’ve second consecutive season. Notre Dame with 20 the Irish 46 to been able to do, [bringing] this 

frustration that everybody 

Baylor looked every bit like points and sopho-27. Baylor soph-program back to an elite pro-the national favorite that had more guard Kayla omore guard gram and being able to lead 

didn’t play as well as they 

not lost a game all season, McBride added 11, Odyssey Sims this team to back-to-back na­blowing past the Irish 80-61 but the rest of the contributed 19 tional championship games,” 

wanted to, but it’s still pretty 
to claim the program’s second Irish were plagued points and seven Irish coach Muffet McGraw national title. Naismith Player by cold shooting. rebounds cap-said. “I hate that it ends on a 

much the same [feeling]” 

of the Year Brittney Griner led “We just kept dig-taining the Lady game like this because you fail the Lady Bears with 26 points, ging ourselves into Bears front-to see everything they did to 13 rebounds and five assists, as a hole by not taking court. get to this point.” Baylor became the first team in our shots,” Diggins “It’s frustrat-Notre Dame returns just two 


Muffet McGraw 

Division I basketball history to said. “I don’t think ing,” Peters said. starters, Diggins and McBride, finish a season 40-0. we were taking the Irish coach “But you can’t but McGraw said several bench 
“I think it hurts no matter shots that we had knock what the players are ready to step into how much you lose by,” Irish and when we were, team has done larger roles next season. coach Muffet McGraw said. “I we weren’t shooting them con-onds into the game after pick-this year in being able to get to Diggins added that her role think the feeling last year was fidently … We spent a lot of en-ing up two quick fouls. back-to-back Final Fours and as a leader will also expand a little different, more of ‘We ergy chasing.” “When we got into foul trou-back-to-back national cham-as Notre Dame’s lone return-kind of let it slip away,’ but McGraw’s game plan was ble, it just destroyed our game pionships. We’ve just done so ing senior starter and its top this game got out of hand. I simple and effective in the plan,” McGraw said. “We really much and my teammates have scorer. think there was some frustra-opening minutes: double-team needed Devereaux — she was stepped up when they needed “I’ve got to be a better job tion that everybody didn’t play Griner on defense and engage a big part of the plan and we to.” being a leader,” she said. “I as well as they wanted to, but the center on offense before didn’t have her … But in the Peters, senior guards Nata-thought I didn’t have very good it’s still pretty much the same finding the backdoor cut. Dig-second half we were afraid to lie Novosel and Fraderica leadership there tonight as far [feeling].” gins and Irish graduate stu-foul, and every time Brittney Miller and graduate student as keeping our fire, but I’ll be 
No. 4 Notre Dame (35-4) kept dent forward Devereaux Peters got the ball, even when we guard Brittany Mallory leave better. I promise.” the contest close in the first scored a quick five points on brought the double team, we behind quite a legacy. During half, heading into the break two field goals and a foul shot didn’t really lean on her and their combined five-year ten-Contact Chris Masoud at down by just six points. But in Notre Dame’s first three pos-she got really close to the bas-ure, they helped Notre Dame cmasoud@nd.edu 
page 2 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u IRISH INSIDER Wednesday, April 4, 2012 

By the numbers 
1 17 46 0 3 63 6 2 
Baylor becomes the first team in NCAA basketball history to win 40 games in one season while going undefeated on the year. 
Points scored by Brittney Griner in the second half. Griner finished with 26 points, 13 rebounds and five blocks and earned MVP honors for the national championship. 
Rebounds by Baylor, compared to Notre Dame’s 27. The Lady Bears also record­ed 16 offensive rebounds, compared to Notre Dame’s nine. 
Shots made by senior guard Natalie No­vosel in the game. The guard went 0-for­11 against the solid Baylor defense in 30 minutes of play. 
The Baylor lead with 15:09 left in the second half before graduate student forward Devereaux Peters picked up her fourth foul and went to the bench. 
Percent shooting for Baylor in the sec­ond half. The Lady Bears ended the game shooting 50 percent on 29-of-58 shooting. 
The number of wins Baylor had this season over teams ranked in the top-10 in the polls. 
Consecutive years the Irish have lost to a Texas team in the national champion­ship game while wearing green. 
The attendance at the Pur­cell Pavilion for the national 
1,038 championship game watch. 
Wins by the senior class of Natalie Novosel, Brittany Mallory, Devereaux 
117 Peters and Fraderica Miller. 



Baylor deserved win, but ND will be back 
DENVER — Last year Notre Dame ran into a buzzsaw. Texas A&M had beaten Baylor and Stanford on its way to the cham­pionship game. This year, Notre Dame hit a brick wall in the form of 6-foot-8 Brittney Griner and Baylor. 
When it boils down, Baylor was the better team Tuesday. There is ab­solutely no doubt about that. The Lady Bears solidified their year­long assertion they are the best team in the country. 
While the pressure should have been entirely on Baylor, Notre Dame was the team who came out tight. Devereaux Peters picked up two quick fouls, Natalie Novosel could not hit a shot and no one beside Skylar Diggins or Kayla McBride looked willing to step up and make a play. One bright spot was the play of Natalie Achonwa and Markisha Wright, who did ev­erything they could to slow down Griner. 
But, like Dan Patrick used to 

Matthew Robison 
Sports Writer 

say, you can’t stop her, you can only hope to contain her. Griner got hers, as expected — but the Baylor supporting cast stepped up as well. Odyssey Sims effectively controlled the pace and Destiny Williams pounded the offensive glass. 
There was a question as to whether Griner’s physical presence and the Lady Bears’ undefeated re­cord created a psychological com­ponent to beating Baylor. Looking at the way the Irish played, I don’t really think that is a question any­more. The Lady Bears were physi­cally, mentally and psychologically dominant throughout the game. 
When it all boils down, Baylor simply outperformed Notre Dame. The Lady Bears came ready to play, they executed on their game plan and they made shots. They deserved the title. 
It is yet to be seen how Notre Dame will recover from a second consecutive loss in the national title game. As heartbroken as the team was last year, this one has to sting even more. The worst part about the loss might be that this was probably Notre Dame’s best chance to win a title since 2001. 
Before the game against Con­necticut, Huskies coach Geno Auriemma said Notre Dame lacked a weakness. The Irish had great guards, a strong corps of seniors and solid post players. Unfortu­nately, the pieces just did not fall into place when it mattered most. 
Diggins has made an incredible impact on the program, but one has to wonder if her legacy will be shadowed if she fails to take home a championship during her career. Undoubtedly, Mallory, Peters and Novosel all had tremendous ca­reers. But none of them have quite the reputation Diggins carries. 
This generation’s great players 
—
 Diana Taurasi, Candace Parker, Maya Moore, even Brittney Griner 

—
 all have titles. Right or wrong, people will hesitate to put Diggins in that category if she does not win a championship for Notre Dame. 


There is a bright side to all the heartbreak. Among all the ques­tions, all the uncertainty, one thing is for sure. McGraw has turned the Irish into an elite pro­gram. 
If the play of freshman Wright, sophomore Achonwa and sopho­more McBride on Tuesday is any indication, the future of the Irish is blindingly bright. 
Notre Dame will be back. 
Contact Matthew Robison at mrobison@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


Wednesday, April 4, 2012 The Observer u IRISH INSIDER ndsmcobserver.com | page 3 


Peters’ foul trouble plagues Irish 

By MOLLY SAMMON 
Sports Writer 
Trying to beat Baylor in the na­tional championship is tough enough. Trying to beat Baylor with 6-foot-2 graduate student forward Devereaux Peters on the bench for more than half of the game is even tougher. 
Early foul trouble for Peters inhib­ited Notre Dame’s ability to keep up with the Bears’ defense, especially junior center Brittney Griner, for the entirety of the 80-61 Irish loss for the national title at the Pepsi Center in Denver. Peters went to the bench early in the first half, but came back in and helped the Irish climb to a six-point deficit before the break. She sat out again in the second half and the Bears ran away with the lead. 
“It was really disappointing that [Peters] got the third foul in the first half,” Irish coach Muffet McGraw said. “That was really disappointing. Because she was why we made that run, having her back in.” 
With Notre Dame’s top rebounder off the court for most of the game, Griner flirted with the possibility of a triple-double, put up 26 points for the Bears, had 13 rebounds and made five steals to wrap up the Bears’ per­fect 40-0 season and national cham­pionship win. 
“When [Griner] got the ball we didn’t lean on her and she shot over us,” McGraw said. “She made great shots, she’s a great player. She was unstoppable. 
“It would have been great to see Devereaux play 39 minutes, but I don’t think it would have changed a lot. [Griner] is one-of-a-kind.” 
Throughout the season, Peters averaged 24.5 minutes of play per game, but plagued by fouls in the title game, Peters spent just 15 minutes on the court. During the season she av­eraged 9.4 rebounds a game overall and 10.9 in the Big East, but grabbed only 3 against the Bears. 
“We just couldn’t get key stops when we needed to,” Peters said. “Down three, we give up an offensive rebound, they get a put back. Or we might have a call not go our way and get a foul and then we’re not as ag­gressive as we normally were. We just were struggling today and it showed.” 
Peters went 3-for-5 from the field for a total seven points. 
“I thought we did a great job get­ting [Peters] in foul trouble because 

NOTES 



Quartet caps historic tenure at ND 

By CHRIS MASOUD 
Senior Sports Writer 
DENVER — Graduate students De­vereaux Peters and Brittany Mallory and seniors Natalie Novosel and Fra­derica Miller leave Notre Dame as one of its most accomplished classes. The foursome compiled 142 wins and one Big East regular season title, while reaching four Sweet Sixteens, two Fi­nal Fours and two National Champion­ships in their combined five seasons. 
“I’m just completely just so proud of them and what we’ve done this year and how we fought back,” Peters said. “Even this game we didn’t quit throughout the game. I’m just happy for them and for what we’ve accom­plished in our careers. Not many peo­ple can say what we’ve done.” 
Back-to-back national runner-up 
Notre Dame has now lost back-to­back national championship games, falling to Baylor 80-61 after losing to Texas A&M 76-70 in 2011. Notre Dame became the third team to do so, join­ing Tennessee in 2003 and 2004 and Auburn in 1988, 1989 and 1990. 
“I feel a little numb right now,” No­vosel said. “To get all the way back to this point, it hurts the most because we came up short once again. To come all this way, especially as a senior, and wanting and willing a sense of urgen­cy to come back this whole way and to not be able to come out on top against is what hurts the most.” 
Senior-itis 
Devereaux Peters was on the floor for just 15 minutes and played in foul trouble all night, finishing with four fouls. Her regular-season average was 
24.5 minutes per game. 
Natalie Novosel failed to record a field goal Tuesday, finishing 0-for-11 from the floor and five-for-eight on free throws. Novosel led Notre Dame in scoring with 28 points in its Nov. 20 loss to Baylor. 
“I was trying to get confidence bas­kets, trying to get a layup or get to the line, and even my free throws weren’t going in,” Novosel said. “I thought they she helped Notre Dame out with re­bounds and blocking shots,” Baylor redshirt junior forward Destiny Wil­liams said. “We had to rebound. We couldn’t allow them to get second-chance points. If so, it would have kept them in the game, and we had to limit them to one shot. A couple times they did and they’d score off it. And it’s something that we had to do in or­der to win.” 

Sophomore forward Natalie Achon­wa and freshman forward Markisha Wright got a chance to play the posi­tion in a national championship situ­ation that does not usually lend itself to much dependence on the bench. But with Peters on the bench, they got prime preparation for their future seasons with the Irish in that role. 
Achonwa tied graduate student guard Brittany Mallory in rebounds for the Irish with six. 
“I think [foul trouble is] something we’ve had to deal with before,” Peters said. “It wasn’t that difficult. It’s a po­sition we’ve been in. We’re fighters. We never quit. We’ve never been that type of team.” 
Contact Molly Sammon at msammon@nd.edu 
did a really good job on me defensively, not helping off me at all so I could get a clean look at the basket. They always had a hand in my face.” 
Big time on the big stage 
Baylor junior center Brittney Griner registered 26 points, 13 rebounds and five blocks in the win, earning herself the title of Final Four Most Outstand­ing Player. Prior to the contest, Griner was named the Associated Press Play­er of the Year, the Naismith Player of the Year and the Wade Trophy winner. 
“Brittany Griner comes to work ev­ery day,” Baylor coach Kim Mulkey said. “A lot of great players think they’re all that and they half go through drills and they come to prac­tice and they dog it. That child comes to work and brings her work pail every day.” 
Sports writer Kelsey Manning also contributed to this report. 

Contact Chris Masoud at cmasoud@nd.edu 



page 4 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u IRISH INSIDER Wednesday, April 4, 2012 






Title game heartbreak 
A dominant performance from Baylor junior center Brittney Griner handed Notre Dame a loss in the national championship game for the second straight season. Lady Bears sophomore forward Odyssey Sims added 19 points of her own and Notre Dame All-American Skylar Diggins scored 20 points as Baylor built a second-half lead and cruised to an 80-61 victory. 
PAT COVENEY/The Observer 



PAT COVENEY/The Observer PAT COVENEY/The Observer 
Clockwise from top: Irish senior guard Natalie Novosel rises for a shot attempt; Baylor guard Odyssey Sims shoots from the corner; Baylor center Brittney Griner blocks an Irish shot attempt; Notre Dame junior guard Skylar Diggins attemps a shot over Griner; Irish coach Muffet McGraw cries during the postgame press conference. 


