
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


Ticket goes unchallenged in campus election 
Rocheleau, Rose only candidates to submit completed petition; Senate votes to proceed with contest 

ELISA DECASTRO | The Observer 
By SAM STRYKER 
News Editor 
For the first time in re­corded history, Notre Dame will hold a student body president and vice president election featuring only one approved ticket. 
Juniors Brett Rocheleau and Katie Rose filed the only completed official petition by the Jan. 27 deadline. If no write-ins are approved, they will run unopposed in the Feb. 8 election. 
Tuesday evening, the Stu­dent Senate voted against a recommendation by the Ju­dicial Council to suspend the election, as outlined by the Constitution of the Under­graduate Student Body. 
If the order had passed, Ro­cheleau and Rose would have assumed the positions of stu­dent body president and vice president, respectively, with­out being elected by the stu­dent body. 
According to the recom­mendation, the request to suspend the elections was made to save “financial and human resources that would otherwise be expended in the conduction of an election.” The recommendation was filed because Rocheleau and Rose were the only interested candidates to file a successful official petition. 
Sophomore class presi­dent Nicholas Schilling, who served as Senate Chairman pro-tempore as Rocheleau was absent from the meeting, said the group decided it was in the best interest of the stu­dent body to go forward with the election. 
“The general feel from the Senate was they didn’t want to deprive the student body from the right to vote,” he said. “Also, in case there were any write-in candidates they wanted to make sure there was an opportunity for those candidates to come forward.” 
Sophomore Cait Ogren, 

see ELECTIONS/page 5 



Belles for Fitness get into shape 
By CAITLIN HOUSLEY 
Saint Mary’s Editor 
The women of Saint Mary’s gained 134 new BFFs on Mon­day — Belles for Fitness, that is. 
The Belles for Fitness pro­gram, created in 2008, encour­ages participants to exercise 200 minutes per week over a five-week period. 
Bridgette Van Schoyck Clark, fitness instructor and Belles for Fitness director, said the 

see FITNESS/page 5 



Students network at Winter Career Fair 
By LISA SLOMKA 
News Writer 

Armed with crisp résumés, snappy suits and firm hand­shakes, hundreds of students descended on the Joyce Cen­ter Field House Wednesday to speak with recruiters from 130 companies at the Winter Career and Internship Fair. 
Students from all colleges and majors were invited to explore summer job oppor­tunities and career options spanning several industries, from accounting and market­ing to engineering and health care. 
Senior marketing major Emma Higgins said the fair provided opportunities for students to network with companies they are interest­ed in working for. 
“The fair is a great way to talk to people who have already had internships and to get your name out there,” Higgins said. “Advertising doesn’t hire until they have a need. Typically you won’t know if you have a job until July. I want to go into adver­tising though, so I’m looking at those firms.” 
Like many other Career Fair attendees, senior mar­keting major Lindsey Downs said she took time to pre­pare for the fair prior to speaking with companies she was interested in. 
“I researched the differ­ent companies that would be present and what jobs they offered,” Downs said. 
Senior marketing major 
see FAIR/page 4 

ALEX PARTAK/The Observer 
Senior Christine Hamma talks to a representative from Target at the Winter Career and Internship Fair in the JACC on Wednesday. 



Administrators dedicate new London Program building 

By MEGAN DOYLE 
News Editor 
First the building housed a hospital for women and chil­dren in the early 20th century. 
Then it was a gloomy, dilap­idated building in the back­ground of a Sherlock Holmes film. 
Now it is home to more than 130 Notre Dame students studying abroad in London during the spring semester. 
University President Fr. John Jenkins and University administrators officially ded­icated Conway Hall during a ceremony in London on Fri­day. The dedication marked the beginning of the build­ing’s second semester as the new residential space for stu­dents studying abroad in the capital of the United King­dom. 
Since the building officially opened in August 2011, Lon­don Program Director Greg Kucich said it has been “a major center for Notre Dame’s international operations in London.” 
The building had been abandoned and was “an eye­sore” when Notre Dame be­gan its renovations, Kucich said. 
When its first residents moved into the flats last fall, that eyesore was completely transformed. 
“There was an incred­ible process of renovating the building over less than a year period actually, a major renovation project to turn it into the very efficient and el­egant building that it is now,” Kucich said. “I think you get the impression when you go in there that it looks like a four-star hotel.” 
The University previously rented accommodations for its students in London, but Kucich said owning a unique property was financially ben 


see CONWAY/page 5 

INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER Students teach RecSports page 3 u Viewpoint page 6 u Super Bowl watch guide page 8 u Cooley heats up men’s basketball page 16 
page 2 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u DAY-TO-DAY Thursday, February 2, 2012 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: YOU HAVE JUST BEEN CROWNED KING OF THE WORLD. WHAT IS YOUR FIRST ACT? 

www.ndsmcobserver.com P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 Editor-in-Chief Douglas Farmer Managing Editor Business Manager Sarah Mervosh Jeff Liptak Asst. Managing Editor: Adriana Pratt Asst. Managing Editor: Chris Masoud News Editor: Sam Stryker Viewpoint Editor: Meghan Thomassen Sports Editor: Allan Joseph Scene Editor: Maija Gustin Saint Mary’s Editor: Caitlin E. Housley Photo Editor: Pat Coveney Graphics Editor: Brandon Keelean Advertising Manager: Katherine Lukas Ad Design Manager: Amanda Jonovski Controller: Jason Taulman Systems Administrator: William Heineman Office Manager & General Info (574) 631-7471 Fax (574) 631-6927 Advertising (574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu Editor-in-Chief (574) 631-4542 dfarmer1@nd.edu Managing Editor (574) 631-4542 smervosh@nd.edu Assistant Managing Editors (574) 631-4541 apratt@nd.edu, cmasoud@nd.edu Business Office (574) 631-5313 News Desk (574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com Viewpoint Desk (574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com Sports Desk (574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com Scene Desk (574) 631-4540 mgustin@nd.edu Saint Mary’s Desk chousl01@saintmarys.edu Photo Desk (574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com Systems & Web Administrators (574) 631-8839 Policies The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College.  Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Douglas Farmer. Post Office Information The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 and additional mailing offices 024 South Dining hall Notre Dame, IN 46556-077 The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved.  
TODAY’S STAFF News Sports Kristen Durbin Mike Monaco Tori Roeck Joseph Monardo Dan Brombach Kelsey Manning Graphics Scene Elisa DeCastro Alex Kilpatrick Photo Viewpoint MacKenzie Sain Caroline Lang  
CORRECTIONS The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so we can correct our error.  
HIGH 41 LOW 32 


Alec Vanthournout  Angie DiNinni  David Flemming  Grace Wessel  Kristen Jackson  Mark Paluta  
sophomore  sophomore  sophomore  sophomore  sophomore  sophomore  
Dillon  Badin  Keough  Lyons  Welsh Fam  Dillon  
“Sleep in a  “Buy everyone a  “Bring pizza  “Serve Panera  “Make money  “Build a colony  
queen bed for  puppy.”  bread back to  in the dining  with my face on  on the Moon.”  
the sake of  the dining hall.”  halls.”  it.”  
irony.”  


Have an idea for Question of the Day? Email obsphoto@gmail.com 


OFFBEAT 

Toothless bank robber   suspect needed dentures 
WAYNESBURG, Pa. — A woman who appeared to not have any teeth in surveil­lance photos from a western Pennsylvania bank robbery last month has confessed, apologized and told police she planned the heist because she needed the money for den­tures. 
Evelyn Marie Fuller, 49, of Carmichaels, on Wednesday remained in the Greene Coun­ty Jail unable to post bond on bank robbery and other charges filed Tuesday by po­lice in Waynesburg, where she allegedly robbed the First National Bank on Jan. 20. 
Arresting Officer Tom An­krom said Fuller explained her motives when she con­fessed to the crime. 
“During her confession, she stated she wanted to use the money to pay for dentures she was unable to get through welfare until next year,” An­krom said. 
After her arraignment, Fuller told a reporter, “I’m very sorry for what I did and I know God is going to punish me for it,” before explaining that her pastor told her to tell the truth about what she did. 
Ohio woman gives birth in car after traffic stop 
COLUMBUS, Ohio — A woman’s speeding got her a warning from an Ohio state trooper but wasn’t enough to keep her grandchild from be­ing born in her car. 
Donna Richmond got pulled over on Tuesday morning as she was trying to rush her daughter to a Columbus hos­pital. She told reporters that the State Highway Patrol of­ficer told her she was going 90 mph. 
That’s when daughter Debbie Richmond says she screamed from the front pas­senger seat, “I’m in labor!” 
The trooper let them go with the warning. But the de­lay from the traffic stop kept them from reaching the hos­pital in time, so Debbie Rich­mond gave birth to a daughter in her mother’s Hyundai. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 


IN BRIEF 
A lecture by Professor Asli Baykal titled, “Neither Postsocialist Nor Transi­tioning: The Pressure of Living Under Uncertainty in Post-Soviet Uzbeki­stan,” will be held at 4 p.m. tonight in Room C103 of the Hesburgh Center.  The lecture is free and open to the public. 
The film “On the Bridge” will play tomorrow at 7 
p.m. in the Browning Cin­ema  of the Debartolo Per­forming Arts Center. “On the Bridge” is a powerful study of post-traumatic stress disorder and will be shown as part of the 
ScreenPeace 2012 Film Festival. 
The Office of Sustain­ability, the Center for So­cial Concerns and GreeND will be co-sponsoring a film screening of “Sun Come Up” tomorrow at 8 p.m. in the Geddes Hall Auditori­um. “Sun Come Up” is an Academy Award-nominat­ed short documentary of 40 minutes in length  that follows the experiences of the Carteret Islanders, a community living on an is­land chain off the coast of Papua New Guinea, as they are forced to relocate due to a sea-level rise. 
SUB will be hosting a screening of the movie ‘50/50’ tomorrow at 10 
p.m. in Room 101 of De­bartolo Hall. The movie is a comedy starring Seth Rogen and Joseph Gor­don-Levitt and will cost $3. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed in­formation about an event to obsnews.nd@gmail.com 



LOCAL WEATHER 
TODAY TONIGHT FRIDAY SATURDAY SUNDAY MONDAY 









HIGH 47 LOW 35 
HIGH 40 LOW 33 
HIGH 42 LOW 34 
HIGH 40 LOW 31 

Thursday, February 2, 2012 The Observer u NEWS ndsmcobserver.com | page 3 




Students lead RecSports fitness classes for their peers 
By CAROLYN GARCIA 
News Writer 
Between schoolwork, so­cializing and extracurricu­lar activities, many Notre Dame students turn to fit­ness classes to incorporate exercise into their busy schedules. 
But some students take that commitment to fitness even further by working as RecSports student fitness in­structors. 
Senior Caitlin Kinser chan­nels her interest in dance by teaching Zumba, a dance-based fitness program that involves routines set to inter­national music. After attend­ing her first Zumba classes with a friend two summers ago, Kinser continued pursu­ing her interest in the pro­gram through a RecSports class the following fall and became a licensed instructor that October. 
For Kinser, the decision to become a student instructor instead of a class participant was an easy one. 
“I said to myself, ‘Okay, I could either pay to take the class or I could get paid to work out and do something that I love,’” Kinser said. “It’s a win-win situation.” 
Kinser said student fitness instructors are responsible for creating unique rou­tines and workouts for each class meeting and are free to choose accompanying music for the classes. As a member of the Zumba Instructor Net-is essentially an individual work (ZIN), Kinser said she sport, Hamman said her role receives CDs and DVDs with as an instructor has allowed suggested songs and chore-her to encourage class par­ography. ticipation in common fitness 

Although the provided ma-goals. terial would simplify Kins-“Normally, working out is er’s role as a Zumba instruc-more of a personal thing and tor, she said she prefers to instructing’s more about pro-choreograph most of her own jecting what you want people material set to her favorite to do,” Hamman said. music, even if it requires Both Kinser and Hamman more time and effort to do so. said they faced some initial 
“I really enjoy [choreo-difficulties leading their graphing classes], but at first few classes. the same time, it’s the hard-“Having the microphone est and most time-consum-on definitely took some get­ing part,” Kinser said. “My ting used to. I think that was 
classes  are  the  hardest  
one  hour,  thing,” Kinser  
but it may take me all day to make up new rou­tines.” Senior Al­lie Hamman decided to  “It’s always rewarding to see people doing something I enjoy and knowing that they are feeling the enjoyment that I am trying to project.”  said. “Because I did a lot of dance in high school, I’m used to learn­ing and doing c ho r e o g r a ­phy, but when  
becomeindoor  an  cy- Allie Hamman  you’re dancing you don’t have  
cling  in- senior  to tell people  
structor  af­ what’s coming  
ter her own  next, you just  
i n s t r uctor  do it.”  

of two years encouraged her However, Kinser said those to pursue the opportunity challenges gradually disap­through RecSports. To qual-peared as she became ac­ify for the position, Hamman customed to teaching her took a grueling indoor cy-classes. cling instruction course that “After teaching for about involved six hours of biking a month, I got comfortable and a written exam. She is with it and started being now completing her second able to have fun when I was year as a RecSports instruc-teaching, so now I’ve kind tor. of got my own style,” Kinser 
Although indoor cycling said.  
Though developing class workouts can be challeng­ing, Hamman said she tries to motivate her students by providing them with fresh, interesting workouts each week. 
“You never want someone to come to a class and think, ‘I could have done this on my own. Why am I here?’” she said. “You want to be push­ing them further than they would normally push them­selves, which I think is the goal of having a fitness in­structor.” 
Whatever the difficulties of their respective positions, Kinser and Hamman agreed the rewards of seeing stu­dents improve outweigh the challenges of their jobs. 

“There were people that I could see a physical differ­ence in, and that’s really re­warding, because ultimately you want to see your students succeed and you want to see them getting fitness results,” Kinser said. 
“It’s always rewarding to see people doing something I enjoy and knowing that they are feeling the enjoyment that I am trying to project,” Hamman said. 
Students can visit recsports.nd.edu for more information on student-in­structed fitness courses and other RecSports fitness pro­grams. 

Contact Carolyn García at cgarcia7@nd.edu 


page 4 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u NEWS Thursday, February 2, 2012 


SENATE 


Crawford addresses College achievements 
By MARISA IATI 
News Writer 
Dean Gregory Crawford spoke to Student Senate Wednesday about the College of Science’s accomplishments since it set goals for development in 2008. 
The College aimed to improve its undergraduate program, grow economically and advance its Catholic character, Crawford said. Crawford focused on the College’s success in developing its academic curriculum. 
“We really put a lot of effort the last three years in biology,” he said. “A lot of the young peo­ple that we hired [for that de­partment] we got from incred­ible schools.” 
Crawford said the College of Science added a new depart­ment called Applied and Com­putational Mathematics and Statistics, noting the Universi­ty’s previous lack of a variety of statistics courses. 
“It was becoming an issue that we didn’t have the exper­tise to really dig deep into some of these questions that our re­searchers had,” Crawford said. 
The College also launched a minor in sustainability last fall, Crawford said. The program, open to all students in all ma­jors and colleges, incorporates elements of science, human health, the environment and energy. 
“There are different tracks you can take, so you can … find 


Fair 
continued from page 1 
Chrissy Carson said she used campus resources to prepare for the fair. 
“I had my résumé looked over and printed out some business cards,” she said. 
Students with career goals outside the traditional corpo­rate world were able to speak with companies in specific in­dustries. Sophomore Science major Elizabeth Leonard said she came to the fair in search of a position in a health-relat­ed industry. 
“This is the first career fair I’ve been to. I’m looking for an internship from either Cardi­nal Health, Stryker or Health-scope,” Leonard said. 
Although he began apply­ing for positions with several advertising firms prior to the fair, junior marketing major Tom Temmerman wanted to speak with a few of the firms he applied to in person. 
“I have already applied to [advertising] firms. One that I’m interested in is Leo Bur­nett, and today I’m hoping to talk to them directly,” he said. 
Temmerman said he thinks the Career Fair provides Notre Dame students the chance to make valuable connections that may lead to interviews and eventually job offers. 
“I know some people who’ve been asked for an interview and then have a job the next day,” Temmerman said. 
Senior Accountancy and Spanish major Anna delCas­tillo came to the fair in search of a job with one of the “Big 4” accounting firms. 
your own niche in what you might be interested in doing,” Crawford said. 
The College of Science ex­panded its membership in the Glynn Family Honors Program, which endeavors to bridge the arts, humanities and sciences, Crawford said. 
Student body president Pat McCormick said he has been in conversation with the staff of the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center (DPAC) about creating an arts advisory council. 
“DPAC has been working to really try to develop this pro­posal to really advance the arts at Notre Dame,” he said after the meeting. “I think they’re still determining what the membership of the coun­cil would be, but essentially it would be a means of providing student input into the arts at Notre Dame and also work to coordinate among students in efforts to advance advocacy for the art community.” 
McCormick said he also scheduled a meeting with the South Bend Police Department next week to promote commu­nity relations between Notre Dame and South Bend. 
“We’re looking forward to just continuing to try to build up good relations and also a shared commitment to keeping the community safe,” he said. 
Contact Marisa Iati at miati@nd.edu 
“I’m looking at jobs with Ernst & Young, Deloitte, PWC and KPMG,” delCastillo said. “I’m staying for a fifth year [master’s] in Accountancy, so I’m trying to get a feel for the job market.” 
Alumni presenters and PricewaterhouseCoopers em­ployees Chris Cugliari and Lauren Wickel are proof of the career fairs’ success in plac­ing students in employment opportunities after gradua­tion. They both obtained in­terviews for their current positions by attending Notre Dame career fairs. 
Cugliari said he attended every Notre Dame career fair since the spring of his sopho­more year, and Wickel said she spoke with employers at the fair during her junior spring semester and senior fall semester. 
Sophomore Civil Engineer­ing and Spanish major Emily Palmer said the career fairs have given her the skills to put her best foot forward in the often overwhelming job market. 
“[The fairs] are pretty help­ful. You learn how to talk both to interviewers and in the work place and how to articu­late yourself well,” she said. 
Sophomore Jennifer Locon­sole, who is studying the same fields as Palmer, said she has become more comfortable in what to do at the fairs. 
“The first one I went to, I learned that I wasn’t really good at it,” she said. “Now I’m less nervous and know more about what to say and do, and I should get better each fair I go to.” 


Contact Lisa Slomka at lslomka@nd.edu 
SGA 

Group passes Senate resolution 
By CAILIN CROWE 
News Writer 

The Saint Mary’s Col­lege Student Government Association (SGA) passed legislation outlining the future structure of Senate and announced the dates of the upcoming College-wide elections in their meeting Tuesday. 
The student body election period will take place from Feb. 27 to March 1. Candi­dates for SGA, Residence Hall Association, Student Activities Board, Student Di­versity Board, student body president and vice president may begin campaigning Feb. 26. The results of the elections on March 1 will be announced the follow­ing day. 
Senate and Class Board candidates may begin campaigning March 4 for the March 8 elections, with results announced March 9. Current juniors, sophomores and first years can campaign for Senate positions during this period. 
Incoming first years will round out the Senate with elections in Septem­ber. 
SGA members will staff an informational table from Feb. 13 to 17 to in­troduce students to the future structure of SGA. Though the table’s loca­tion has yet to be deter­mined, SGA members will inform them about the election process, Ex­ecutive Secretary Emma Brink said. 
“We are committed to get­ting as many students as possible to participate in the elections, whether by running or voting,” Brink said. 
Brink said SGA hopes the presence of the information­al table will increase voter participation in the upcom­ing election. Part of SGA’s new structure will involve incorporating creative ways to get more students to vote and promoting enthusiasm about running for Senate. 
In its meeting, SGA also approved legislation out­lining the new structure of the Senate, which will now be comprised of fifteen stu­dents who represent diverse interests and student in­volvement at Saint Mary’s. The students will be divided by class year to guarantee fair representation of the student body, with positions allocated for four seniors, four juniors, four sopho­mores and three first years. 
“SGA is extremely excited to introduce the new struc­ture to students and pro­mote the new opportunities that students will have on the Senate,” Brink said. 
Contact Cailin Crowe at ccrowe01@saintmarys.edu 



Thursday, February 2, 2012 The Observer u NEWS ndsmcobserver.com | page 5 
Shape Magazine ideas, recipes, 
Conway Fitness 
new ab routines, or discuss the helpful information put togeth­
continued from page 1 

continued from page 1 er for each huddle.” Clark added she is trying to need to walk about 15 minutes 
unhealthy fitness behaviors of freshen up the routine with to reach the London Center 
some students prompted her to new activity offerings for par-in Trafalgar Square for their 
create the program. ticipants this year. classes. 
“I started this program in “I’m trying to change it up “That not only provides stu­
2008 because as I would spend and keep it fresh and fun, so dents with a wonderful walk 
[about] three hours per day in [teams] will be getting free across the bridge every day, but 
the Angela [Athletic Facility], passes to some of the local it also integrates the two facili-
I noted that one to two weeks facilities to change up their ties really nicely so we can do 
before Spring Break the stu-workouts,” she said. “They can academic events and cultural 
dents were in there killing go to the ICE [Athletic Center] events at Conway Hall, as well 
themselves with these ridicu-for a Piloxing class, Memorial as in the London Center,” he 
lous marathon workouts to lose [Health and Lifestyle Center] said. “Notre Dame becomes 
their holiday pounds before [bi-to swim in the pool, Solace like a colossus with one foot in 
kini season],” Clark said. [Yoga Studio] for Hot Yoga and Trafalgar Square and another 
“I decided to develop a pro-the Kroc [Corps Community foot in South Bank, striding the 
gram that would help them Center] for the rock climbing Thames.” among different flats as well at the School of Oriental and Af­
shed their holiday pounds safe-wall. I also have guest trainers Conway Hall is also located when students get together rican Studies through the Uni­
ly over a [five] week period in-coming in on the weekends to next to one of the campuses of through meals,” Kucich said. versity of London and 22 are 
stead of two.” take the girls through some fun King’s College in London, and “Along with that … arranging Notre Dame law students. Stu-
Clark said Belles for Fitness Belles for Fitness workouts.” students have access to the col-for dinners in your flats means dents from other universities 
helps students safely shed their Clark’s creative ideas have lege’s student union, gym and going out in London and shop-occupy the remaining spots. 
winter break weight by en-produced positive results for library facilities. ping in London and going to At the dedication ceremo­
couraging participants to form Belles for Fitness. The pro­“One of the challenges of the markets and engaging with ny, Jenkins said the building 
teams of two to 10 people for gram’s record turnout over the London program tradition-London life, rather than just go-strengthens Notre Dame’s his-
motivation and moral support. past four years is 150 partici­ally has been for students to ing to a dining hall the way you torical ties to London. 
“Research has proved over pants, and this year’s pace is move outside of the Notre Dame would at Notre Dame.” “Notre Dame has had a pres-
and over that women have a on track with that record, with friend-work of living together, Junior Dylan Tramontin said ence in London since 1968, 
greater chance of success with 24 teams totaling 134 students taking classes together, which the apartment-style living in when our first students came 
the support of their friends and and faculty members partici­has its benefits but has its limi-Conway Hall helped her get to here to study law,” Jenkins said. 
family; thus, the teams,” she pating so far. tations too because as an in-know the other members of her “Since that time, we have been 
said. As a team-based initiative, ternational student, one really study abroad program. able to expand our interna-
And the choice of a 200-min-Belles for Fitness helps stu­wants to become immersed in “I love how it encourages a tional presence here, enabling 
ute weekly fitness goal was no dents push themselves to work local contacts and meet new sense of community, even more the Colleges of Arts and Letters, 
accident either, Clark said. out not only on an individual people,” Kucich said. so than the dorms,” Tramontin Business Administration and 
“The goal of 200 minutes level but also as integral mem­“This opportunity to link with said. Engineering to develop their 
comes from the recommenda-bers of a team. King’s College in this way is ac-Tramontin and junior Kailey own programs in London as 
tion of the American College of “In January and February, complishing or fulfilling one of Grant, who live together in a flat well.” 
Sports Medicine that we need to we can easily go 10 days with-the principle goals for this pro-with eight other girls, said they Kucich said the building 
exercise 300 minutes per week out seeing any sunshine, which gram, which has been a chal-especially enjoy cooking with opens new doors for the ex-
to prevent weight gain,” Clark makes it easy to hibernate in lenge for many years now. So we their roommates and gather-panding international pro-
said. “So 300 minutes minus our nice warm dorm rooms are overjoyed at the connection ing for meals around their large grams at Notre Dame. 
about 100 minutes of walking and eat comfort food, cooped we have now with a British uni-dinner table. “The number one issue is 
on campus to and from classes up with all the germs that run versity and its environment.” “I love our weekly flat din-Notre Dame’s commitment to 
equals 200 minutes.” rampant through campus,” Students living in Conway ners,” Grant said. expanding and strengthen-
Clark said various types of Clark said. “This program gives Hall are equipped with kitch-Conway Hall accommodates a ing its international centers, in 
exercise count as fitness, in-the girls that little extra push en and living spaces, and the total of 268 students, according London in particular because 
cluding cardiovascular and to get out and exercise, relieve building also includes small to a University press release. this is the flagship international 
strength training, flexibility, some stress, build up their im­study areas, a chapel and a stu-Kucich said 132 of those stu-study abroad program, but also 
fitness classes, exercise videos mune system, work the kinks dent activities center for larger dents are Notre Dame under-around the world,” he said. 
and sports. out and exercise their most im­gatherings. graduates participating in the 
Teams are also encouraged portant muscle — their heart.” “You develop community London program, six are Notre Contact Megan Doyle at 
to exercise and meet outside of Clark has a simple message within individual flats and Dame undergraduates studying mdoyle11@nd.edu 
the Angela Athletic Facility. for students considering joining 
“[Teams] come together once the initiative: “Just do it.” a week for a ‘team huddle’ to keep each other motivated,” Contact Caitlin Housley at Clark said. “[They can] share chousle01@saintmarys.edu 
ticket emerge through this 
Elections 
process is unheard of. “If for some reason in the 
continued from page 1 past somebody has dropped out or has been deemed in­eligible for some reason and 
president of elections, said the ticket has wanted to con-the circumstances surround-tinue with a new candidate, ing this election were unprec-that has happened before, but edented in recent history. never in a situation like this,” 
“Since 1996, there has been she said. no situation like this,” she Ogren said it is too soon to said. “Whether one happened decide if there will be a de­before, we don’t have record bate or public forum in which of.” students can discuss campus 
Though Rocheleau and issues with eligible candi-Rose will run unopposed on dates. the ballot, write-in candi-“We just found out the elec­dates have the opportunity tion will be proceeding, so to be approved up until mid-there are some things we night Monday. are going to have to take 
As outlined by the Consti-into consideration with these tution, those interested in unique circumstances,” she running as write-ins must said. “The one thing we know provide 100 extra unique sig-is the election will take place natures in addition to the 700 as planned.” signatures mandatory for all Though Rocheleau and candidates. They must also Rose are the only official furnish proof of academic ticket, Ogren said she hopes good standing from the First students approach this year’s Year of Studies or the Office election as they have in the of the Registrar, and prove past. good disciplinary standing as “We are hoping that stu­determined by the Office of dents will participate in this Residence Life. election as fully as if it were 
According to Ogren, no a normal year,” she said. “We write-in candidate has been hope that everyone considers approved yet. it their duty to the Student 
Ogren said that while write-Union to vote for the candi­in candidates have been ap-date they see fit for the posi­proved in Student Govern-tion regardless of the unique ment elections in the past, circumstances.” they have usually replaced a candidate on a ticket. She Contact Sam Stryker at said having an entirely new stryke1@nd.edu 




page 6 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com Thursday, February 2, 2012 
INSIDE COLUMN 



Senior year, no regrets 
This is it. The moment I’ve been waiting for my whole life. Tonight is the night I turn 21. When the clock strikes 12:00 and my Mac-book calendar tells me it’s finally Feb. 3, 2012, I’ll let out a sigh of relief while casu­ally sipping a legal drink. Along with that sigh, though, I’ll shed a tear or two. You see, I am the second-to-last last senior to turn 21 (Pat Coveney is Thomas La last, in case you were wondering), and that Staff is not an easy title to Photographer give up. You don’t go all your life as the youngest person in the room just to be put on the same playing field as everyone else by some legal threshold. My time is here, but I’m not ready to go. What if I didn’t have to? 

Today is Groundhog Day, after all. What if, like Bill Murray, I kept reliving today over and over again? Wouldn’t that be ironic? What if I never turned 21 and became forever stuck in a state of underage youth, reveling in my inability to buy girls drinks or set foot inside the Backer? What if I never had to be an adult, never had to grow up? 
Don’t get me wrong, I can’t wait to turn 21. I’ve been looking forward to this day since I learned the effects of drinking when mixed with fun. But there’s a part of me that’s refusing to let go. Besides, there are plenty of advantages to being underage while everyone else is raging hard. Big test coming up and have to study?  Oops sorry, can’t go out because I’m not 
21. “Hey can you buy me a case for my dorm party this weekend?” Nope, sorry, I’m not 21. Although perks of being underage are nice, my hesita­tion stems from a deeper realization. 
The longer I think about it, the more I realize that tonight is not about me. It’s not about manhood. It’s not about getting wasted. It’s not even about Club Fever. No, tonight is about the Class of 2012. Tonight is about our collective 21st birthday. It’s a sobering thought, graduation. Some of us are sprinting to the fin­ish, excited at the prospect of what awaits us. The rest of us are going to be dragged out by our ankles swearing that these were the best four years of our lives. (Let’s not kid ourselves, it’s only downhill from here). However we choose to look back on our time here, let’s not look back in regret. As exciting as dorm parties and off-campus ragers may be, an entirely new world awaits us. We’re legal now. Let’s make the most of what life’s proverbial Mulligan’s and Kildare’s have to offer us. 
So, seniors, let this final semes­ter serve as our birthday party. Let’s celebrate like we’ll never get a chance at being 20 years old again. Climb Stepan. Run the Holy Half. Go to Feve sober. (Warning: Some re­gret may be involved). Because when we’re stepping into the Stadium come May, when we’re minutes away from turning 21, wouldn’t it be nice not to have to ask, “What if?” 
Contact Thomas La at      tla@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
The value of a ‘like’ 
What is a “like” worth? 
It’s nice to get the occasional per­sonal validation. When one of your friends “likes” your post on Facebook, he or she is tell­ing the world Grace Concelman that they, too, agree that you Options and are incredibly Futures witty/beautiful/ raising an important social issue. 
It feels good to be liked. 
You could say “likes” are priceless because they relieve the remnants of our middle school insecurities. But any good economist knows nothing is priceless, and pretty soon we’ll get to find out what all of those “likes” are worth in cold hard cash. 
On Wednesday, Facebook filed for an initial public offering (IPO), to take place later this spring. An IPO is the first time a private company sells stock to the public, thereby becoming a publicly traded company. Since pub­lic companies have to submit finan­cial statements to the Securities and Exchange Commission, we’re about to get a little more information about our beloved social network. 
IPOs happen almost every day with­out any fanfare, but not this one. 
The first time the general public ac­tually started caring about IPOs was in the late 1990s. We were finishing up elementary school, busy trading pastel gel pens and Pokémon cards while the “adults” were going wild buying stock in any company that had “technology” or “internet” in the description, regardless of whether that company earned profits or had a proven business model. 
Of course, the dot-com bubble burst long ago, but investors still flock to revolutionary technologies like Face­book. The Facebook IPO is expected to raise at least $5 billion, which would place it within the top ten U.S. IPOs. 
That would value the company between $75 and $100 billion. As a comparison, McDonalds and Anheuser-Busch are both currently worth about $100 billion, and Amazon is valued at about $82 billion. Sounds reasonable, right? 
But McDonalds sells Big Macs, An­heuser-Busch sells beer and Amazon sells everything except Big Macs and beer. These companies have products, services, plants, customers and, most importantly, profits. 
What does Facebook have? Data. 
Facebook has 800 million users who have created a profile and made friends and tell those friends about all of the cool stuff they do. Every day 400 million users log on to upload 250 million photos, share the latest viral videos and “check up on” friends from the past. Most importantly, though, each user is connected to an average of 80 pages, groups or events that mimic his or her real-life social interactions. 
What do all those “likes” add up to? 
Right now they add up to an adver­tiser’s dream. Not only do advertisers have people “liking” their pages, they know whom those people interact with. If your friend likes something, odds are that you will, too, and since you both spend so much time on the site, odds are also pretty high that you’ll see an ad and click through. 
To justify a $100 billion valuation, however, the Facebook model has to be good for more than advertising. The market, at least, thinks it is. 
Facebook began as a pioneer in the communication revolution, but its real value is its use of the information it has gathered through fostering communi­cation and networking of its users. 
Facebook continues to develop tech­nology to aggregate and analyze the massive amount of data generated each day on the site — data about you and me. Tag suggestions? Location check-ins? Facebook knows where you are, what you’re doing and whom you’re with. It knows the ebb and flow of your high school relationships and which restaurants are gaining popularity in your town, all because you and 800 bil­lion people are willing to share. 
If you think about it, there’s a lot that Facebook could glean from this data. People’s locations could predict traf­fic patterns or the spread of disease. The types of pages they link to could indicate political leanings, intelligence or even credit worthiness. At the most extreme, the possibilities bring a whole new meaning to creeping on someone. 
Of course the key question moving forward is whether all of this data will add up to long-term profits for Face­book. If it does, investors are going to have a whole lot to “like.” 
Grace Concelman is a senior majoring in finance and philosophy. She can be reached at gconcelm@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 

‘Father, I have had impure thoughts’ 
I could never list all the things that I love about being a priest. There are very many. Of the top things that I love about being a priest is the in­credible privi­lege that it is Father Joseph V. to hear confes-Corpora, CSC sions. I am al­ways grateful to Guest Columnist be able to be a minister, unworthy that I am, of God’s grace and mercy in the confessional. 
I have the privilege of hearing con­fessions a lot at Notre Dame — most often in the Basilica, on NDEs and re­treats, and sometimes in my room in Dillon Hall. One of the most common things that I hear is, “Father, I have had impure thoughts.” I hear it a lot. I suppose that most priests do. 
While I know what the penitent means by saying “impure thoughts,” I wish to look at a different meaning or take on these words. 
Not one of us could really begin to understand the unconditional and ever-present love of God. The love of God is greater than what we can 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“Those who control their passions do so because their passions are weak enough to be controlled.” 
William Blake English illustrator & poet 
imagine. The love of God is free. The love of God is unconditional. God initi­ates this love in each one of us. God loves us when we sin and when we don’t sin. God loves us when we suc­ceed and when we fail. God loves us when we win and when we lose. God loves us when we turn towards Him and when we turn away from Him. God loves us without reason. 
The Scriptures tell us that God’s love is like the rain, which falls on the good and on the bad. God loves us in season and out of season. God loves us when we are hopeful and when we are despairing. God loves us when we do good and when we do evil. 
St. Paul repeatedly assures us that nothing can separate us from God’s love. Even if we wanted to escape from God’s unconditional love, we could not. God loves us at every moment of our existence. If God stopped loving us for a split second, we would become like a grease spot on the floor somewhere. 
I long to know that love more deeply. I want to be penetrated by that love to the core of my being. I think that the only “impure thought” I can really have is that I am not totally loved by God or that I am unlovable or that something that I have done could cause God to withhold His love from me. 
These thoughts are impure because they are so against the love and nature of God. That is more impure than any other “impure thought.” My most im­pure thought is that I could be outside of the love and embrace of God. 
I wish that this would be the under­standing that we might have of impure thoughts. God’s love is so overwhelm­ing and so great and so large that to doubt it or to think that you are outside of it is what real impurity is. 
This week’s column is written by Fr. Joseph V. Corpora, CSC., the Director of University-School Partnerships with the Alliance for Catholic Education (ACE) and an Assistant Rector in Dillon Hall. He is a sinner whose sins are forgiven. He can be reached at jcorpora@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


WEEKLY POLL 
What’s the best part of the Super Bowl? 
The advertisements The food The uniforms The rivalry 
Vote by 5 p.m. Thursday at 
ndsmcobserver.com 


Thursday, February 2, 2012 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 7 
Ron Paul’s undesired candidacy 
The GOP field currently features three presidential candidates who appear will­ing to do anything short of making a deal with the devil simply to be addressed as ‘Mr. President’ come 2013. But the fourth 
candidate seems  
fine with keeping  John Sandberg  
the title ‘Dr. Paul.’  
 
Just ask Ron Paul’s  Columnist  
campaign chair­ 

man, Jesse Benton, whose words were featured in a September issue of Time Magazine: 
“He does not have a great personal 
desire to be the President,” said Benton. Come again? Paul is a man with intellect, experi­
ence and the courage to present radical ideas in an environment full of empty rhetoric. But he should not be running for president. 
Perhaps we need to take Mr. Ben­ton’s quote in context. After all, it was published at a time when Paul’s clos­est competitor in the polls was Michele Bachmann and he was still trailing not only Mitt Romney, but Rick Perry as well. Maybe at the time he truly did not have the desire to be president, but it has since changed. Isn’t it funny how a tumultu­ous four months of polling and a strong showing in Iowa can suddenly make a man want to be leader of the free world? 
It is more likely the case that Paul actually does not want to become the president. Benton’s quote did seem to be pretty cut and dry. Even now, with mil­lions of dollars in campaign funds and resilient polling numbers, some maintain that his campaign is about ideas. There is the notion that the presidential elec­tion is Paul’s platform for spreading the message of minimized government, and any discussion on winning or losing is secondary. 
All of this is enough to make many Americans crazy. We are talking about the presidency, the highest office in the land, a position that only a handful of people have known and some of the most extraordinary people have served. Sure, a few dim bulbs slipped into the White House over the years, but overall the in­stitution has shown bright. So if someone lacks the burning desire to go after it with all that he or she has, or if there is even a shadow of a doubt about whether that desire will stay lit for eight challeng­ing years, don’t run. 
I, like the vast majority of Americans, also grow tired of watching candidates bash one another month after month. A primary battle filled with attacks and counterattacks — like we just saw take place in Florida — often reaffirms the reasons why so many people find politics entirely unattractive. 
Say what you will about the personali­ties, policies and/or credibility of Rom­ney, Gingrich and Santorum, but nobody can deny that they want the job. This alone anyone can appreciate, even if we don’t necessarily appreciate the distaste­ful ways in which they compete. 
As far as “spreading a message” is con­cerned, why does Paul’s platform need to be the presidential election? Aside from the fact that he has already run for president twice before, Paul serves in the 
U.S. Congress and sits on the House Com­mittees on Foreign Affairs and Financial Services, some influential stages in and of themselves. 
And why must this campaign of ideas 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

So long bike shop, sustainability 
Dear Students and Faculty, 

This may come as a surprise to some of you, but the Notre Dame Bike Shop is closing indefinitely this semester. It has been wonderful serving the Notre Dame community by working at the bike shop for the past three years. For those of you who haven’t heard of the bike shop, it provided free bicycle repair for Notre Dame students and workers. We repaired 331 bikes last school year and also fixed-up old bikes for priests and rectors on campus. All parts we used were salvaged from bikes NDSP collects at the end of the year. 
This leads me to two main reasons why the shop closing is such a big loss for the Notre Dame community: sustainabil­ity and safety. Our school is making great strides to become a greener, more sustainable family. The bike shop was one of the most sustainable endeavors on campus: all parts were reused from old bikes, all junk parts were recycled and, of course, the shop encouraged riding bikes, the most efficient form of transportation. 
The shop was also responsible for promoting safety across campus. A large number of repairs were on broken brakes. I imagine that now most students don’t have the resources readily available to fix their broken brakes. Therefore, in the coming months there may be many students speeding through campus without a way to stop for that freshman looking for Geddes Hall or that Jimmy John’s driver zipping into campus for a fast drop-off. 
It won’t take much to restart this invaluable service. All we need is a heated garage where we can store tools and bikes. NDSP is willing to reopen the shop, but for that to happen there needs to be a visible and vocal desire for it. So, I encourage anyone who is reading this to write into the Observer or email me (jschomme@nd.edu) with a positive bike shop experience or even just a wish for this free and friendly service to be available to the Notre Dame family once again. 
Jon Schommer 
junior Knott Hall Feb. 1 

SMC is doing it right 
Regarding medical amnesty in the Observer’s Jan. 27 article, “ND explains lack of medical amnesty,” Brian Coughlin stated, “It is hard to fathom one Notre Dame student acting so much out of a perceived self-interest that they may not help a fellow student in need because they are more worried about potential discipline.” 
In my mind, this situation is easy to fathom. Let’s say that a friend of mine is extremely inebriated and I’m really not sure whether he or she needs medical help. Of course, the smart thing to do is err on the side of caution. How­ever, the threat of discipline stands as the primary motivation to do otherwise. 
There’s a simple rule of economics that states that people respond to incentives. Discipline is a significant disin­centive when one is unsure if their friend needs help. It is also important to bear in mind that the people making these decisions are often inebriated as well; they can’t be expected to make rational choices. 
The University should be more concerned with ensuring the safety of students than its right to discipline. 
Brian Appleton 
junior Morrissey Hall Feb. 1 
Matthew Planell 
junior Morrissey Hall Feb. 1 


cost so much? More individuals donate personal money to Paul’s campaign than any other candidate’s. Given this, the grand promotion of ideas which we are seeing seems excessively expensive, and ironic, considering that the man at the center of the campaign has long been a crusader against excessive spending. 
Paul has strong academic credentials, a history of military and governmental service and unflinching resolve in his beliefs on governmental policy. Not to mention he’s easily the most entertaining guy to watch in the Republican debates. For these things he should be applauded. 
In a presidential election, however, these merits don’t mean a thing when some voters still aren’t convinced that you want the job. 
John Sandberg is a sophomore politi­cal science major from Littleton, Colo. He is a fan of the Chicago Cubs, Dave Matthews Band and good Mexican food. He can be reached at jsandbe1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
Protecting the right to choose 
The recent issue of the availability of contraceptives on Notre Dame’s campus has sparked much controversy. A letter from the officers of Notre Dame’s Right to Life Club (Feb. 1) states that artificial contraception is “neither a ‘right’ nor health care.” I would like to respec­tively disagree. 
The choice of whether or not to use prescriptive contraceptives is a choice involving a woman’s body and subse­quently her health. The act of procre­ation involves carrying a baby that is taxing on both the physical health of the woman and on the emotional health of both the man and the woman. It is a difficult decision to make that certainly concerns multiple aspects of the par­ents’ health.
 The officers’ letter also quotes the Catechism of the Catholic Church (2399) stating, “Without the [unitive and procreative] aspects the sexual act is stripped of its meaning, and man and woman fail to give themselves to each other in complete love.” The deci­sion whether or not to have children involves many factors in a person’s life, such as finances, the woman’s job and the current health of both parents. 
The decision to hold off on having children or to not have children at all does not diminish the love between two people. The love expressed through in­tercourse is defined by much more than the possibility of procreation. 
I realize that not everyone has these same opinions and that it is their right to form their own opinions, but it is also their right to be able to take prescriptive contraceptives if they so desire. The University’s denial of coverage of these prescriptions in their health insurance strips this right away from many women whose thoughts differ from that of the Catholic Church. I am happy that the right to choose has come full-force to Notre Dame in terms of reproductive services. 
Evan Graham 
sophomore Carroll Hall Feb. 1 


page 8 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com Thursday, February 2, 2012 

By PATRICK McMANUS 
Scene Writer 
The Super Bowl, in addition to being a showcase for some of America’s finest football, is also famous for having the best commercials. Rightfully so, a lot of time is spent discussing the best of those commercials. But the commercials that air every other day of the year often go unsung, probably because most of them are un­interesting, annoying distrac­tions from our favorite televi­sion programs. However, the best of the best ordinary time commercials deserve some recognition before the furor over Super Bowl ads begins in earnest. 
There are probably some hilarious or otherwise effective commercials out there, which, despite the technical facility with which they were assem­bled, are obscure. 
In this age of Hulu and DVRs, and with the myriad choice of cable channels, it is all too easy to circumvent or simply miss the majority of television adverts. So only those com­mercials that have attained a very high degree of market saturation are discussed in the national forum. Because these commercials are aired so frequently and widely, it is especially important that they be entertaining. 
Perhaps because car in­surance is so boring and the different companies all offer basically the same thing, many car insurance commercials are among the best that air throughout the year. 
One of the best is the series of Allstate commercials in which actor Dean Winters por­trays Mayhem. Always clad in his black suit, he personifies a variety of dangers on the road that might cause an accident and hence bring insurance into the mix. They are quite humor­ous. 
Another great car insur­ance commercial of the pres­ent is the Geico one featuring a woman driving home with a pig in the back seat, literally going “wee, wee, wee” all the way home. Sure, it is random and maybe a little bit annoy­ing, but the pig is so cute and the concept so elegant that the whole package is endearing. The same cannot be said for the sequel with the pig on the zip line, however. 
One of the most interesting commercials to pop up in a while is the Direct TV com­mercial that features a series of causal relationships beginning with having cable and waking up in a roadside ditch. On first viewing it is something of a revelation, though the novelty does subsequently wear off. It remains to be seen whether this genre of commercial has any staying power, but it repre­sents good initiative. 
The Old Spice commercials featuring “The Man Your Man Could Smell Like,” Isaiah Mus­tafa, are fantastic. Something about the way he talks, the crisp colors and the striking visual effects make those com­mercials endlessly entertain­ing. The Old Spice commercial with Terry Crews’ brain flying around is not as good. 
All of the above commercials are worthwhile, but undoubt­edly the greatest advertising character of our time is the Dos Equis’ “Most Interesting Man in the World.” Those commercials drastically increased sales of the product they were advertis­ing, entertained America and spawned an Internet meme. What more could one ask for? 
Unfortunately, for every good commercial there are count­less bad ones. The current most annoying commercial has to be the AT&T spot with the tailgating guys and their 4G phones dismissing everyone else who has slower phones. It seems like 4G technology makes peoples jerks. Hopefully in between the drives of Sun­day’s big game, a host of new advertisements will enter the pantheon of great commercials. 
Contact Patrick McManus at pmcmanu1@nd.edu 
By KEVIN NOONAN 
Scene Writer 
This is the Scene section, not the Sports section. I know that. If you read Scene regularly, you know that. But this week is one of those rare times when the single most important event in the entertainment industry is a sports event — the Super Bowl. 
Now if you’re a Scene regular, there’s at least a mild chance that you’re not a big sports fan. But this being America and what not, there’s a great chance that at least some of your friends are and that you’re go­ing to get roped into watching the Super Bowl with them. 
This can be an uncomfortable experience; if you don’t care about the game, don’t know anything about football or both, it can cause tension between you and your friends. No fear, here are a few things to re­member on Sunday to make a smooth game for everyone. 
This is football, not a fashion show. 
There are few things more irritating while watching a football game than someone commenting on the style sense of the uniforms. 
If you don’t believe me, start doing it on Sunday and watch the collective rolling of eyes that you get in response. One team will be in blue. One team will be in white. That should be the extent of your concern about uniforms. 
I know Tom Brady is mar­ried to a supermodel. I’m also well aware of his objective attractiveness. I’ll make you a deal, and I’m sure any good sports-loving man would agree with me here — if you don’t talk about Gisele and fashion during the Super Bowl, then I won’t talk about Tom Brady and football while I’m watching the Victoria’s Secret Fashion show. 
ELISA DE CASTRO | Observer Graphics 
Pick a quarterback to hate, you’ll fit right in. 
Nothing bonds sports fans more than common hatred, and there is so much to go around in this game you really can’t go wrong. Just pick someone to actively root against and your friends will both be surprised by your sports knowledge and respect you as a person. 
There are two safe bets in this game — the two quarter­backs, Tom Brady (Patriots) and Eli Manning (Giants). Why people hate Tom Brady is pretty simple: He’s wildly success­ful. And if there’s one thing that people will hate you for in sports, it’s killing dogs. No, just kidding, it’s being successful. Ironically, being successful is also the only way to be forgiven for something horrific, like a dog fighting scandal. But that’s a topic for another time. 
Eli Manning is a little more difficult to explain. He’s been portrayed, fairly or not, like an overrated, possibly selfish brat ever since he came in the league. He also plays in New York, and after being suc­cessful, the second best way (although slightly redundant) to get yourself hated in sports is to play for a New York team. 
Moral of the story: Complain every once in a while when your player of choice makes a good play, and your friends will cut you some slack when you don’t understand what “first down” means. 
If you don’t understand, just pretend. Dear God, please just pretend. 
This is really a big one. It’s okay if you don’t understand everything that’s going on. You think I know what peep-toe heels are? Or who Valentino Garvani is? No, I don’t. And your sports fan friends won’t expect you to know every detail of the game either. 
The best way to handle it is to just pretend like you know what’s going on. Cheer when everyone else cheers, boo when everyone else boos. Football teams only get three timeouts per half; maybe think about limiting yourself to three questions about the rules and gameplay per half. 
The snacks aren’t healthy, we know. 
Part of the Super Bowl tradition for most people is an abundance of food. No, it’s not healthy. We know that, we ac­cept it and we move on. 
Football is a dangerous sport. You take risks. 

If all else fails, there is one thing that every football fan can agree on (outside Boston): Bill Belichick is evil. 
Bill Belichick is the head coach for the Patriots. You can recognize him by the nasty sweatshirt he wears and the maniacal scowl etched across his face. 
Belichick has a whole host of factors going against him. He’s successful. Boom, people hate him. He coaches in Boston, the second worst city in America in terms of the people-will-hate­you factor (also known as the “Johnny Damon” factor). 
No matter how successful he is, he always comes off like an ungrateful jerk in interviews. And on top of it all, he’s really, really successful. 
So if you ever find yourself in a tight spot, or make an egre­gious error (like calling a field goal a free throw, or saying that the Patriot’s uniforms are tacky), just cover it up with one of these: “Yeah, but Belichick is the worst, right guys?” And now you’re the most popular person in the room. 
Contact Kevin Noonan at knoonan2@nd.edu 



Thursday, February 2, 2012 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 9 
Restaurants Week  Tiffany Haddish and DJ3J  “The Princess Bride”  A Fantastic Afternoon with  
Restaurants in Downtown  Legends  Browning Cinema  Georges Melies  
South Bend  10 p.m.  $3  Browning Cinema  
All day  Free  Midnight  $3  
Discounted meals at selected  3 p.m.  
restaurants  Comedian Tiffany Haddish  The  ‘80s  fantasy  classic,  
has performed at comedy ven­ about the vivid characters of  Pioneering filmmaker Georg- 
The  second  annual  “Eat.  ues around the world and ap­ a  children’s storybook, is the  es Melies was the subject of  
Drink. Downtown South Bend”  peared in guest spots on shows  first of this semester’s Midnight  Martin Scorsese’s Oscar-nom­ 
is upon us. Through Feb. 4,  such as “My Name is Earl” and  Movie series at the Browning  inated  “Hugo.”  A  screening  
various restaurants in Down­ “It’s Always Sunny in Philadel- Cinema. Spawning such clas- Saturday at 3 p.m. will feature  
town South Bend will feature  phia.” She will perform at Leg- sic lines as “Hello. My name is  a collection of the director’s  
specials and discounts on their  ends beginning at 10 p.m., fol- Inigo Montoya. You killed my  short works, while the Sun- 
food and beverages. Each par- lowed by an old school hip-hop  father. Prepare to die”; “As you  day program will present his  
ticipating restaurant offers a  DJ set from DJ3J at midnight.  wish” and “Have fun stormin’  most famed film, “A Trip to  
special dinner menu for $25  Legends is always free for stu­ da castle,” “The Princes Bride”  the Moon,” and a documentary  
along with various other dis- dents and the event is open to  is the perfect way to cap off  about its creation, “The Ex- 
counts on individual items.  all ages.  your Saturday night.  traordinary Voyage.”  


By COURTNEY ECKERLE 
Scene Writer 
“Good old Freddy Mercury’s the only guy who advises me,” The Hold Steady front man Craig Finn belts on his first solo venture, “Clear Heart Full Eyes,” in true cool-guy fashion. Really, invok­ing the name of Freddy in a song is second only to well ... God, and this album sees Finn doing that too. Rock idolatry and religion, all in one album. Let the smiting and lightning strikes begin. 
The Hold Steady is currently working on their sixth album, but fans shouldn’t worry; this solo debut is not a sign of the dreaded band-pocalypse breakup. In other words, no need for a Destiny’s Child-era flashback. 
The album was recorded in Austin, Texas, with Spoon’s producer Mike McCarthy. Use local musicians and add in a nod to television show “Friday Night Lights” (a clever switch up of its mantra, “Clear Eyes Full Hearts Can’t Lose”), and you have a rock and roll front man in Finn who is seriously dipping his toe into the Americana pool. 
Lighter musically but lyrically darker than the usual Hold Steady fare (see the band’s 2008 album “Stay Positive”), most of the tracks reflect the yin and yang otherwise known as the human condition. Dynamically narrative, “Jackson” talks about depression, and “No Future” references the Sex Pistols both in title and with the lyrics, “The best advice I’ve ever gotten/ was from good old Johnny Rotten/ he said God save the Queen/he said, no future for you/no future for me.” 
The Americana flair emerges again in the emotionally taut, “When No One’s Watching,” which tells a tale about telling tales, something any Texan would heart­ily get behind.  
“There’s somethin’ in how well you tell the story/The way you overcame the odds all stacked against you/The way that you prevailed in the face of greater danger/The way at first that they misunderstood you ... That’s the pieces come together that’s these things I keep hearing, about the hero that you are when no one’s watching.” 
Another bit of the Texas ele­ment that comes out in the album is when Finn, in true Hold Steady style, mentions “The Wagon Wheel” in more than one song. The band commonly encourages the interaction of people and plac­es across songs and albums. Also, the description sounds like a place that would have great barbecue. 
Finn is a rarity in the rock world. He is openly Catholic (he gives up drinking every year for Lent) and is an avid sports fan, although only one side of his personality is reflected in this album. “Clear Heart Full Eyes” often weaves religion throughout, a common thread that continues through all of his tracks, although Finn certainly isn’t peddling any message, just his thoughts. 
“New Friend Jesus” is a perfect example with its gospel-like romp­ing, guitar-picking opus of love gone wrong because the redemp­tion of one person comes too late. 
Finn comically croons, “I wish I was with Jesus when I met you ... You’d give yourself right up to me.” He continues, “It’s hard to suck with Jesus in your band,” a clear reference to the Notre Dame marching band. 
In “Western Pier,” Finn char­acterizes Jesus as a judge: “He is kind, and he’s just.” But it isn’t all happy-go-lucky religious hand-holding. There’s real doubt and pondering in his lyrics. In “Hono­lulu Blues,” he laments, “All those hymns you learn as a kid and they make perfect sense to you,” and “you’ve got to think that maybe Jesus isn’t getting through.” 
However, the lyrics conclude, “We’re all good, we’re all bad, we’re euphoric and we’re sad,” reflecting this up and down, light and dark, saints and sinners (mostly sinners) album. As with any good solo venture, Finn’s core fans will feel at home, while at the same time new fans will be wel­comed in this Americana infusion. 
Contact Courtney Eckerle at cecker01@saintmarys.edu 

Craig Finn “Clear Heart Full Eyes” 
Label: Vagrant Records If You Like: The Hold Steady, Bruce Springsteen & the E Street Band 
ELISA DE CASTRO | Observer Graphics 

page 10 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u CLASSIFIEDS Thursday, February 2, 2012 
SPORTS AUTHORITY 

Time to trim the fat of the four major sports 
I’m going to skip to two topics and two topics only: contraction and contracts. 
As the Sultan of Sports, I have supreme authority over the four kingdoms of the NBA, the NHL, the MLB and the glori­ous realm, the NFL. My first order of business is to cut the excess fat holding back each league from reaching its true potential, and that means axing teams through contraction. Nothing is quite as embarrassing and uncom­fortable to watch as a sporting venue take place in a half-filled stadium, even when the home team is battling for playoff con­tention. 
Day 162 of the 2011 baseball season may go down as the greatest regular season day of play, with the Tampa Bay Rays which honors former play­ers who regularly competed against teams brimming with fellow Hall of Famers. 

And contraction would not be limited to just the MLB. The Jaguars (NFL), the Lightning (NHL) and the Bobcats (NBA) are all on the chopping block (maybe I’ll just contract Florida sports under an executive or­der). Again, more competition leads to more fun for the fans and a better product on the gridiron/diamond/ice/court. 
Now to contracts: Scott Bo­ras, you are hereby relieved of your duties, and Dwight How­ard, you are hereby ordered to stay in Orlando or remain silent. 
But seriously, Scott Boras throws his weight around harder than Fielder rounding the bases. I realize he repre­sents the greatest players in baseball, but owners and gen­eral managers quiver in fear at the sight of his phone number across their cell phones. Now playing hardball with Boras is a losing prospect, because if you tick him off once you lose 
access to the 
best talent. 

and St. Louis But if ev-
The contraction 
Cardinals both erybody plays 
of just four MLB 
fighting their way hardball … 
teams (Rays, 
into the playoffs Which will never 
Padres, Marlins and 
thanks to the col-happen without 
Royals) from 32 to 
lapse of the At-a salary hard lanta Braves and 28 would create a cap rather than Boston Red Sox. more competitive a luxury tax. If With their season environment, one you really want on the line, Evan in which Prince parity in base-Longoria and the Fielder may actually ball, stop letting Rays closed a the big markets 
deserve a $214 
seven-run deficit push everyone 
million contract. 
in the eighth and ninth innings to clinch a Wild Card berth in extra innings. They did so in front of less than 30,000 fans, or about 65% of the capacity at Tropicana Field. 
The Rays are just one of sev­eral teams I’m shutting down for good. If your city can’t even sell­out a play-in game three years removed from a World Series appearance, you simply don’t deserve the privilege of hosting a professional organization. 
The contraction of just four MLB teams (Rays, Padres, Marlins and Royals) from 32 to 28 would create a more competi­tive environment, one in which Prince Fielder may actually deserve a $214 million contract. Not only would rotations be stacked, but lineups would give fans what they longed for during the steroid era: power hitting. Contraction would also preserve the sanctity of the Hall of Fame, around. 
Finally, pro­
spective free 
agents, you must first become a free agent to act like a free agent. Nothing is more unsettling than watching a seven-footer with massive deltoids cry his way out of a city. Hate LeBron all you want, but at least he waited until his summer of free agency to make a Decision. 
One more thing: I am mov­ing the headquarters of sports from Bristol to San Francisco, removing Skip Bayless from television and replacing his show with my own: West Coat Bias, airing Monday through Friday at 8 p.m. Pacific Time. 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Chris Masoud at cmasoud@nd.edu 
NFL 

Irsay postpones decision on QB 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS — Jim Irsay is putting the Peyton Manning decision on hold. 
The Colts owner said Wednesday he will moni­tor Manning’s recovery from Sept. 8 neck surgery over the next month and may wait un­til the last possible moment to determine whether to pay the quarterback a $28 mil­lion roster bonus, redo the five-year contract he signed last summer or risk losing the four-time MVP as a free agent. 
“It’s two-phased. There’s the medical aspect, as to whether he can play at a re­ally high level and that’s the only place he wants to be. Can he drill it in Foxboro in 10 degrees, 50 yards, that sort of thing,” Irsay told a small group of reporters. “The sec­ond issue has always been his health and the risks of going back onto the field. When the Super Bowl ends, he and I will continue to talk about it.” 
The sticky situation has been a hot topic in Indianapo­lis, where Manning’s younger brother, Eli, will try to win his second Super Bowl ring with the Giants on Sunday against Patriots quarterback Tom Brady, who is trying to win his fourth title. 
No matter what Giants and Patriots players and coaches have said this week, Peyton Manning somehow winds up stealing the headlines. 
Just two days after Irsay said he wouldn’t talk about Manning again this week, he broke that embargo and discussed the ongoing over­haul of the franchise. Since Jan. 2, Irsay has fired vice chairman Bill Polian, general manager Chris Polian, coach Jim Caldwell and most of Caldwell’s staff. 
The next big decision is all about Manning, who didn’t play a minute last season. The surgery was his third in 19 months, and he still hasn’t fully recovered. With a March 8 deadline to pay the bonus, Irsay intends to take his time making this call. 
“Look, anything is possible if the two parties choose to get together,” Irsay said when asked about redoing Man­ning’s $90 million contract. 
Even if Manning is healthy enough to play a 15th season, the questions are sure to con­tinue. 
Earlier Wednesday, new offensive coordinator Bruce Arians said he hopes Manning returns to the Colts though he believes the best way for a rookie quarterback to learn is by playing. He didn’t drop hints about the Colts’ plans for Manning or what Indy would do with the No. 1 overall draft pick. 


Irsay has already said the Colts will choose Manning’s successor in April. The decision is expected to come down to presumed No. 1 choice Andrew Luck or Heisman Trophy win­ner Robert Griffin III -- either of whom would get playing time if Arians has a say. 
“I say let him grow, man, put him out there and let him play,” Arians said. “They are going to make mistakes. You have to live with it and learn from it to get better.” 
Arians was the first NFL quarterbacks coach to work with Manning, the No. 1 choice in 1998. He also tutored former No. 1 pick Tim Couch in Cleve­land and Ben Roethlisberger in Pittsburgh during the last five seasons. 
“It’s kind of like deja vu (in Indy). It’s scary,” he said. “There is a new general manag­er and a new coach. Hopefully Peyton can come back and get ready to go. But, there will be a new quarterback and a new beginning. It’s exciting.” 
The multi-million dollar question is whether Manning can come back. 
There have been whispers all week that Manning might retire rather than land with a new team next season, and there has been rampant speculation about the velocity on his throws and whether the nerve will re­generate. 
“I have no plans on doing that,” he said Tuesday when asked about retirement. “My plan hasn’t changed. I’m on track with what the doctors have told me to do, and I’m do­ing that. I’m rehabbing hard.” 
Irsay’s decision may be based on more than Manning’s arm strength. He is still willing to pay the bonus if he can find a way to make it work under the salary cap, and if he determines bringing back Manning would be the best move for the organi­zation. Yes, Irsay wants to keep No. 18 for the rest of his career. 
But it may not make good business sense. 
“Emotionally, I think it’s dif­ficult from a sentimental point of view,” Irsay said. “I think it’s even harder on the fans be­cause you don’t want to look at the reality. But my responsibil­ity is that when we go on the field on opening day, the circle is as strong as we can be to win.” 
Separately, Irsay said he ex­pects former offensive coor­dinator Clyde Christensen to remain on new coach Chuck Pagano’s staff though it hasn’t been determined whether Christensen will coach quar­terbacks or receivers. The team plans to interview defensive co­ordinator candidates Wednes­day and Thursday, and Irsay called re-signing defensive end Robert Mathis and receiver Pierre Garcon offseason priori­ties. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The 
Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
FOR RENT 
WALK TO CAMPUS Great Specials! Studio, 1, 2, 3 Bedroom Townhomes available. (574) 272­8124. 
www.clovervillageapartments.com 

PERSONAL 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don’t do it alone. Notre Dame has many resources in place to assist you. If you or someone you love needs 
confidential support or assistance, 
please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819 or Ann Firth at 1-2685. For more information, visit ND’s website at:
 http://pregnancysupport@nd.edu 
Born on this day: 
1979 - Brandee Dawn McCoskey, Miss Alaska Teen USA (1996) 1979 - Lindsay Langston, Modesto 
California, archer (Olympics-1996) 
1979 - Petra Cada, Prague Czech, Canadian table tennis player 1979 - Fani Halkia, Greek hurdler 1979 - Irini Terzoglou, Greek shot 
putter 1979 - Shamita Shetty, Indian actress 

1980 - Teddy Hart, Canadian professional wrestler 
1980 - Gucci Mane, African-American rapper 
1980 - Oleguer Presas, Spanish football player 
1981 - Jason Kapono, American basketball player 
1982 - Han Ga In, South Korean model/actress 
1982 - Sergio Castao, Spanish footballer 
1982 - Kelly Mazzante, American basketball player 
1983 - Carolina Klft, Swedish athlete 
1983 - Alex Westaway, British musician 
1983 - Will South, Thirteen Senses frontman 
1983 - Jordin Tootoo, Canadian hockey player 
1987 - Gerard Piqué, Spanish football player 
1987 - Martin Spanjers, American actor 
1992 - Rebop Rundgren 

Thursday, February 2, 2012 The Observer u SPORTS ndsmcobserver.com | page 11 
NFL 

Woodhead battles stereotypes to reach Super Bowl 
Associated Press four years, the diminutive star from Division II Chadron State 
INDIANAPOLIS — Under-has made it to the pinnacle of sized and undrafted, Danny the NFL. Woodhead had two things The 5-foot-8, 195-pound run-against him when he set out ning back has been a steady on his pro career. In less than contributor to New England’s Super Bowl season. Woodhead has become an inspiration for other undersized players — proof that a small guy from a small school can make it in the NFL. 

To him, it’s not all that im­pressive. 
“I’m not too concerned with the past,” he said. “I think ev­ery day is the drive, not neces­sarily something in my past. I just want to get better every single day.” 
Woodhead was a star run­ning back at North Platte (Neb.) High School, where he was the Omaha World-Her­ald’s male Athlete of the Year in 2004. Like most youngsters in his state, he wanted to play college football for the Nebras­ka Cornhuskers. Nebraska and the other big schools weren’t interested, so he stayed in state and went to Chadron State. 
He won the Harlon Hill award in 2006 and 2007 as the nation’s top Division II player and finished his career with a then-NCAA record 7,962 yards rushing. 
Those numbers weren’t enough to impress pro scouts, and he went undrafted. The New York Jets signed him as a free agent in 2008, but he missed the season with a knee injury. He played sparingly for the Jets in 2009, then they cut him at the start of the 2010 season. The Patriots signed him four days after the Jets cut him, and he has been a solid contributor since. 
The Giants respect his tenac­ity. 
“Woodhead’s a good football player,” Giants defensive end Osi Umenyiora said. “I love his story. I love where he’s come from to be what he is now.” 
Woodhead always thought he’d make it in the league, even after the Jets cut him. 
“I felt like I’d get another chance,” he said. “I don’t know if there was something that made me believe that. I guess I just didn’t think it was over. I felt like I had a lot of football left in me.” 
His first year with the Patri­ots, he ran for 547 yards, aver­aged a team-record 5.6 yards per carry and caught 34 passes for 379 yards. This season, he ran for 351 yards, caught 18 passes for 157 yards and re­turned 20 kickoffs for a 21.9­yard average. 
Woodhead is humbled, but not surprised about his suc­cess because he never saw his size as a negative. 
“To me, it is not an issue,” he said. “I don’t think it is some­thing that I have to fight at all, because it is not something I have had to worry about ever. I don’t think being 5-8 has ever hurt me. Maybe in the eyes of some, but it is not something that I worry about at all.” 
His toughness makes him a favorite of his teammates. 
“Woody’s a great player, man,” Patriots receiver Deion Branch said. “The coaches tru­ly enjoy him. The players — we love him. He’s another small guy that has done a lot for this league and changed the nay­sayers minds. He’s one of my guys.” 
Woodhead knew he’d get a chance to show what he could do when the Patriots picked him up. 
“I think they just try to get the guys that they think will work in their system the best, and we go out there and try to do our job every single play,” he said. “They are going to do their job trying to find the best players for them and we are going to go out there and work as hard as we can.” 
His approach to the game has earned respect from his peers. 
“Woody comes to practice, he works hard,” BenJarvus Green-Ellis, the team’s leading rusher, said. “He’s extreme­ly fast, quick. He does good things as a running back.” 
The Patriots don’t see Wood-head as a novelty — they need him. 
“The things that this guy brings to the team are truly unbelievable,” Branch said. “We truly appreciate this guy being here, and he has a big role this game this week.” 
Kevin Faulk, another under­sized back on the team, paid him perhaps the best compli­ment: “He’s everything you want in a small guy.” 


page 12 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u SPORTS Thursday, February 2, 2012 
INTERNATIONAL SOCCER 

Upset victory in Egypt leads to devastating riots 
Associated Press 
CAIRO — At least 74 people were killed and 248 injured af­ter soccer fans rushed the field in the seaside city of Port Said Wednesday following an upset victory by the home team over Egypt’s top club, setting off clashes and a stampede as riot police largely failed to intervene. 
It was a bloody reminder of the deteriorating security in the Arab world’s most populous country as instability continues nearly a year after former Presi­dent Hosni Mubarak was swept out of power in a popular upris­ing. 
The melee — which followed an Egyptian league match be­tween Al-Masry, the home team in the Mediterranean city, and Al-Ahly, based in Cairo and one of Egypt’s most popular team 
— was the worst case of soccer violence in Egypt and the dead­liest worldwide since 1996. One player said it was “like a war.” 
In Cairo, fans angered that another match between Al-Is­maili and Zamalek was halted because of the Port Said vio­lence set fire to the bleachers at the main stadium in the Egyp­tian capital, authorities said. No injuries were reported and employees said firefighters ex­tinguished the blaze before it caused much damage. 
The clashes and ensuing stam­pede did not appear to be direct­ly linked to the political turmoil in Egypt, but the violence raised fresh concerns about the abil­ity of the state police to manage crowds. Most of the hundreds of black-uniformed police with helmets and shields stood in lines and did nothing as soccer fans chased either, some wield­ing sharp objects and others hurling sticks and rocks. 
Security officials said the min­istry has issued directives for its personnel not to “engage” with civilians after recent clashes between police and protesters in November left more than 40 people dead. 
The violence also underscored the role of soccer fans in Egypt’s recent protest movement. Orga­nized fans, in groups known as ultras, have played an impor­tant role in the revolution and rallies against military rule. Their anti-police songs, pep­pered with curses, have quickly become viral and an expression of the hatred many Egyptians feel toward security forces that were accused of much of the abuse that was widespread un­der Mubarak’s regime. 
Egypt is not immune to soccer violence. In April, the ineffec­tiveness of the police force also was on display when thousands of fans ran onto the field before the end of an African Champi­ons’ game between local club Zamalek and Tunisia’s club Af­ricain. The hundreds of police on duty at Cairo International Stadium could not stop the vio­lence then either. 
Activists quickly scheduled rallies Thursday outside the headquarters of the Interior Ministry in Cairo to protest the inability of the police to stop the bloodshed. 
The scuffles began out after fans of Al-Masry stormed the field following a rare 3-1 win against Al-Ahly. Al-Masry sup­porters hurled sticks and stones as they chased players and fans from the rival team, who ran toward the exits to escape, ac­cording to witnesses. One man 
WOMEN’S TENNIS 

Venus practices, aims for return at Fed Cup 

told state TV he heard gunshots in the stadium, while a law­maker from Egypt’s powerful Muslim Brotherhood said the police didn’t prevent fans car­rying knives from entering the stadium. 
TV footage showed Al-Ahly players rushing for their lock­er room as fistfights broke out among the hundreds of fans swarming on to the field. Some men had to rescue a manager from the losing team as he was being beaten. Black-clothed po­lice officers stood by, appearing overwhelmed. 
The Interior Ministry said 74 people died, including one police officer, and 248 were injured, 14 of them police. Security forces arrested 47 people for involve­ment in the violence, the state­ment said. 
State TV appealed to Egyp­tians to donate blood for the injured in Port Said, and the military sent two aircraft to evacuate serious cases to the capital, Cairo. 
Field Marshal Hussein Tan­tawi, the head of the military leadership that assumed power after Mubarak’s ouster, wel­comed Al-Ahly team players who were flown back to Cairo from Port Said on a military air­craft. 
“This will not bring Egypt down,” he said at a military air base east of Cairo. “These inci­dents happen anywhere in the world. We will not let those be­hind it go ...This will not affect Egypt and its security.” 


Associated Press 
WORCESTER, Mass. — Recov­ery never comes fast enough for Venus Williams. 
The latest has been especially slow for Williams, who plans to return this weekend in the Fed Cup matches against Belarus after a five-month layoff caused by Sjogren’s Syndrome, an auto­immune disease that can cause fatigue and joint pain. 
Williams practiced with the 
U.S. team Wednesday morn­ing and said she’s thrilled to be so close to competing again for the first time since the opening round of the U.S. Open. 
“I think just being on a team and just having some adrenaline just gives me even more energy, to be honest,” she said at a news conference Wednesday. “I need to be on a team every week and not at home.” 
Williams has had to learn the difference between recovering from an injury and an illness. That has meant pacing herself more in practice and mind­ing doctors’ orders not to push it while she tries to regain her form. The former world No. 1 and seven-time Grand Slam singles winner, Williams isn’t used to taking it easy. 
“The difference is acceptance 
— trying to accept how you feel and limitations. Listening to your body and taking care of your­self,” she said. “Instead of trying to run through a wall, just really kind of take a step back and be smart. I think that’s kind of what I’ve learned.” 
Williams hasn’t played a sanc­tioned match since the U.S. Open in August. She withdrew after the first round and was not ready to return last month for the Aus­tralian Open. 
“There are some things you can’t keep going through,” she said. “I still have to be reminded to slow down, but hopefully there will be a day when I don’t have to be reminded of that.” 
Williams played her younger sister, Serena, in an exhibition in Colombia in November, but that has been her only public com­petition since Aug. 29 at the U.S. Open. 
The recovery has been frus­tratingly slow at times, but she feels ready for this weekend when the U.S. begins its quest to return to the top tier in the Fed Cup. The Americans were bounced to Group II in a 5-0 loss to Germany last year, when Venus was with the team but couldn’t play be­cause of a hip injury. 

Thursday, February 2, 2012 The Observer u SPORTS ndsmcobserver.com | page 13 
NCAA MEN’S BASKETBALL 
Michigan bounces back against IU 

Associated Press 
ANN ARBOR, Mich.  — Trey Burke scored 18 points, and No. 23 Michigan raced to a 20-point first-half lead before holding on for a 68-56 victory over No. 20 Indiana on Wednesday night. 
The Wolverines (17-6, 7-3 Big Ten) remained unbeaten at home. They got off to a quick start after last weekend’s loss at No. 3 Ohio State, scoring the first 13 points and eventually taking a 28-8 lead. 
Indiana (17-6, 5-6) twice fought back within two points in the second half, including at 52-50 with 3:20 remaining. Tim Hardaway Jr. hit a big 3-pointer for Michigan, and after Indi­ana’s Derek Elston missed the front end of a 1-and-1, Stu Dou­glass made a 3-pointer to put the Wolverines up by eight. 
Jordan Hulls scored 18 points for Indiana. 
During the final seconds, the Michigan fans began chant­ing “Beat the Spartans!” — the Wolverines will try for their fourth straight victory over Michigan State on Sunday in East Lansing. 

The Hoosiers beat Michigan with a spinning layup and add-for Michigan. 73-71 earlier in the season, part ed two 3-pointers, and Zack No-Indiana trailed by six points of a 15-1 start for Indiana that vak’s 3-pointer from the right when Hulls made a 3-pointer included wins over Kentucky corner put Michigan ahead 13-and Watford added a free throw and Ohio State. The Hoosiers 0. to again cut the deficit to two. have lost five of their last seven It was 28-8 after a free throw But Hardaway, who has strug­to fall well off the pace in the by Michigan’s Jordan Morgan, gled with his outside shot, con-Big Ten race. but Indiana answered with nine nected from the left wing after 
Burke opened the scoring straight points. Burke found a a pass from Burke to make it 
cutting Hardaway with an al-55-50. 
ley-oop pass to make it 33-20, Hardaway and Novak each 
and the Wolverines led 33-22 at scored 13 points. Cody Zeller 
halftime. had 11 for Indiana but was out-
Michigan had only one turn-shined by Burke in a matchup of 
over in the first half, while Indi-two of the country’s top fresh­
ana had eight. men. 
The Hoosiers kept chipping Hulls went 4 of 5 from 3-point 
away in the second half. Wat-range, but the rest of the Hoo­
ford’s three-point play made it siers were 1 of 9. 
38-36 with 12:53 remaining, There were eight fouls called 
but Novak answered with a in the first half and 25 in the 
3-pointer, the start of a 9-2 run second. 




said. “They assumed I would fig-
Kuall 
ure it out.” The lack of All-American star continued from page 16 power does not mean the Irish 
lack the skill or preparation to ample has been the most effec-defend their title, however. The tive method, but that does not junior said Notre Dame is as mean he won’t use a hands-on confident as ever in its ability to approach to leading if it is neces-capture another national cham­sary. pionship. 
“It’s a lead by example ap-“We’re ready to go,” Kaull proach,” Kaull said. “[But] I ab-said. “We don’t have as many big solutely do take time to break names as we did last year, but I down certain techniques and feel like we have all the talent in skills and mindsets going into the world to win it. It’s not going tournaments.” to be a big flash performance. It’s 
This mode of leadership stems going to be a lot of grit and a lot from the approach of the coach-of upsets that we’ll need to pull ing staff, which allowed the cul-off to win, but I feel like we abso­ture of collaboration to rise “or-lutely have the people to win it.” ganically,” Kaull said. 
“[The coaches] didn’t ask me Contact Matthew Robison at to do anything in particular,” he mrobison@nd.edu 

page 14 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u SPORTS Thursday, February 2, 2012 

Murphy 
continued from page 16 
game. 
“We all have to step up,” Hen­ley said. “We have to do that on the defensive end.” 
While the Britons shot 46 lean on its seniors during the fi­nal stretch of the regular season. Under the new structure of the MIAA tournament, the top four teams will play for the confer­ence title, providing an addition­al incentive for the Belles to earn a postseason berth. 
“With this being the first year that the MIAA has gone to this four team playoff with basket-


percent from the floor for the game, in 
the  last  five  
minutes  the  
Belles  held  
them  to  just  

nine points. The Belles also held the ad­vantage on the boards, out-re­bounding the Britons by a count of 42-26. Murphy was a big contributor to that tally, 

“With this being the first year that the MIAA has gone to this four team playoff with basketball, I think this entire team is really focused on making sure we are one of those four.” 
Jennifer Henley Belles coach 
ball, I think this entire team is re­ally focused on making sure we are one of those four,” Hen­ley said. “We kind of had some bumps and bruises with key loss­es early in the season that we are to avenge right now as we go through 
grabbing 11 boards of her own. 
“[Murphy] had a pretty solid week for us on both ends of the court,” Henley said. “We’ve been talking to her about her re­bounding ability, and I think that showed up this week.” 
Saint Mary’s will continue to 
Johnson 
continued from page 16 
tense practices approaching the championship meet and is mentally prepared for the big meet. 
“I know we’re all excited the second round.” 
The Belles look to earn anoth­er conference victory when they take the court Saturday at 3 p.m. at Olivet. 
Contact Brendan Bell at bbell2@nd.edu 
and ready to get there and race,” Johnson said. 
The Irish will travel to Pitts­burgh for the Big East Swim­ming Championships, which take place from Feb. 15 to Feb 18. 
Contact Megan Golden at mgolde01@saintmarys.edu 
Cooley 
continued from page 16 
pounds and enlisted in a cardio program, which in­cluded strenuous workouts and conditioning six days a week. But Cooley said the real change in his game oc­curred midway through the season, when the Irish en­dured a rough stretch, los­ing four of five games just two weeks before the start of conference play. 
“When I was sick [with the flu] and watching the Maryland game, I got pretty upset with how the season had been going so far,” he said. “I was really disap­pointed in myself and how I had been playing. I made sure that I made chang­es, and that was the point where it really started.” 
The mellow, soft-spoken junior seems anything but laid-back on the court, es­pecially in Notre Dame’s 67-58 win over then-No. 1 Syracuse, during which he was praised nationally for his unyielding grit and te­nacious defense. Cooley re­corded a double-double (17 points, 10 rebounds), out-muscling and outhustling the Syracuse big men in a brilliant performance ac­centuated by the raucous cheers of the sellout crowd. 
Then that same crowd joined the big man on the court. 
“I was in shock,” Cooley said. “I was just glad to be a part of one of the real rush-the-court games and not one of those lame ones where an underdog beats the No. 10 team. To beat the No. 1 team in the coun­try, especially here because that is what we do here, it felt like a bunch of history was coming together at that moment. It was pretty surreal. 
“We know that we play so well in [the Purcell Pavilion]. I don’t know if the fans realize this, but if they jump up-and­down during free throws the basket shakes, so that pretty much makes it impossible to make a shot. There is a special presence during home games.” 
One thing that has been con­stant in Cooley’s time at Notre Dame is the eerie comparison to former Irish forward Luke Harangody. Although Cooley said the comparisons don’t bother him, he said it gets to one person more than anyone. 
“It’s not a bad person to be compared to. My girl­friend gets pretty upset over it though. She’ll get visibly and verbally upset,” he said jokingly. “It’s all just for fun though. Although, I didn’t help myself by picking number 45 … It was kind of weird meet­ing him for the first time, but we are two totally different personalities and two differ­ent people.” 
Cooley admitted it would be tough to match what Haran­gody accomplished at Notre Dame. But one thing Haran­gody never had was a sellout crowd shouting how ‘Coooool’ he is after every big play. 
Contact Andrew Gastelum at agestel1@nd.edu 


Thursday, February 2, 2012 The Observer u TODAY ndsmcobserver.com | page 15 
WILL SHORTz 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 
CROSSWORD 



HENRy ARNOLD 

JON REPINE 
JUMBLE
EXPND 
MIKE ARGIRION 






Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556

 Enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year


 Enclosed
 is $75 for one semester 


Name ____________________________________________________ Address __________________________________________________ City ____________________ State___________ Zip______________ 

Thursday, February 2, 2012 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 16 
MEN’S BASKETBALL 

Cooley heating up 
Jack Cooley powers Irish with his competitiveness in midst of a breakout season 
By ANDREW GASTELUM 

Sports Writer  
On Jan. 10, Notre Dame  
junior forward Jack Cooley  
dunked over a South Florida  
opponent. He landed, stared  
the Bulls in the face and dared  
the defenders to challenge him  
again with a booming roar.  
“It was just a way to let it  
all out,” Cooley said. “I knew  
I was going to get [a technical  
foul]. A little voice in my mind  
told me to stop and avoid the  
technical foul but there was  
a bigger voice that told me to  
keep doing it if it looks cool. At  
that point in the game I knew  
it really didn’t matter, and  
[Irish coach Mike Brey] said  
he loved it.”  
It was unlike anything he  
had ever done in a Notre Dame  
uniform, the junior said — a  
microcosm of his breakout  
season with the Irish.  
DILLON WEISNER/The Observer At Media Day in October,  
Brey said he couldn’t ever see Junior forward Jack Cooley battles for a rebound in Notre Dame’s 67-58 victory over then-No. 1  
Cooley, who is averaging 10.7 Syracuse at the Purcell Pavilion on Jan. 21. Cooley had 17 points and 10 rebounds in the game.  
points and 8.4 rebounds per  
game, playing for 30 minutes  that I am a guy who can get 20  I wanted to work hard to play  “Now he just tells me to not  
in a single game. Now, the ju­ minutes [per night],” Cooley  more than that and I kind of  get in foul trouble so I could  
nior has logged 30-plus min- said. “But I think he did that  took it upon myself to try and  go that long,” Cooley said  
utes in seven of the last nine,  to get me a little angry, get  prove him wrong and change.”  bluntly. “That works for me.”  
including 43 minutes in Notre  me to work harder and get in  But the 6’9” forward said  During the offseason, the  
Dame’s 67-65 double-overtime  better shape. I know I wasn’t  Brey’s message has changed  Chicago native lost over 30  
victory at No. 10 Louisville.  planning on being a starter  ever so slightly as the season  
 
“Coach [Brey] used to tell me  and playing only 20 minutes.  has progressed.  see COOLEY/page 14  

SMC BASKETBALL 
Belles get late surge, beat Albion 
By BRENDAN BELL 
Sports Writer 
Saint Mary’s displayed the importance of senior leader­ship Wednesday night, as se­nior forwards Kelley Murphy and Jessica Centa guided the Belles to a 70-62 victory over Albion. 
“We are riding our seniors,” Belles coach Jennifer Henley said. “There isn’t one particu­lar player that we need to help 
—  we all do.” 
The significance of experi­ence has never been more evi­dent for the Belles (10-11, 6-6 MIAA) than when they found themselves tied against the Britons (13-7, 8-4 MIAA) with five minutes remaining in the contest. At a critical point in the game, Saint Mary’s was able to fall back on its seniors for 16 of its final 17 points. 
Murphy and Centa’s offen­sive production, along with strong defensive play from the team as a whole, helped Saint Mary’s slowly work its way up to an eight point lead, a lead it maintained for the rest of the 
see MURPHY/page 14 

MEN’S SWIMMING AND DIVING 
Postseason training begins 
By MEGAN GOLDEN 
Sports Writer 
After falling to Iowa in the Shamrock Invitational last weekend, the Irish find them­selves with less than two weeks to prepare for the Big East Swimming Champion­ships. 
With the regular season in the books, Notre Dame junior and co-captain Chris Johnson said he is excited to see the team’s 16 freshmen train for the postseason. 
“Going through these next few weeks with no meets, it’s important for guys to focus on being ready come game time,” Johnson said. “Some of the new guys haven’t done this type of taper before, so it’s im­portant for all the older guys to let them know how things work and how they should be feeling in the water.” 
No. 12 Louisville, the de­fending conference champion, is the lone Big East squad ranked in the top 25. The last time Notre Dame faced off with the Cardinals, the Irish fell 191-109 at Ralph Wright Natatorium on Nov. 12. 
With Louisville leading a talented Big East conference, Johnson said Notre Dame is taking advantage of its time off to prepare for a challeng­ing field of swimmers at the championship event. 
“Competition this year in the Big East is tougher than ever,” Johnson said. “Louis­ville is returning nearly ev­eryone from their champion team last year, and they’ve added a fast freshman class. West Virginia isn’t nearly as close, but they always do well.” 
The title meet will be held at Trees Pool in Pittsburgh, a location Notre Dame has al­ready captured a win at this year. The Irish topped the Panthers 193-107 on Oct. 28, earning three victories from freshmen swimmers Michael Kreft and Cameron Miller. 
Irish sophomore Frank Dyer, who has secured a spot in the championships, also had a standout performance at Pittsburgh, earning gold in the 200-yard freestyle. 
With underclassmen like Kreft, Miller and Dyer step­ping up throughout the sea­son, Johnson said he has high expectations for the Irish in spite of their youth. 
“I do think this freshman class is going to have a huge impact in Pittsburgh,” he said. “With all of the depth and experience we have from the upperclassmen, the fresh­men just add to that. “ 
Johnson added Notre Dame understands the need for in 
see JOHNSON/page 14 
FENCING 

Irish eye title despite departures 
By MATTHEW ROBISON 
Sports Writer 
During the 2011 campaign, the Irish were loaded with a talented crew of seven seniors and 11 All-Americans, even­tually winning the national championship. Although the objective is the same this year, the approach is totally different. 
The nature of the 2011 na­tional championship team was a top-heavy ensemble of talented seniors who carried the Irish to the title. However, the lack of star power on this year’s squad has created an entirely new atmosphere, an atmosphere that junior James Kaull said has brought a new culture to Notre Dame fenc­ing. 
“There were a lot of talent­ed kids who not only had big personalities but who were also very good,” Kaull said. “Everyone else just kind of fell into place behind them.” 
This year however, there is a distinct feeling of coopera­tion among experienced fenc­ers and new ones alike, unlike the upperclassmen-dominat­ed 2011 squad. This top-to­bottom style of improvement was something Notre Dame did not see last year, accord­ing to Kaull. 
“It’s definitely something new this year,” he said. 

This season, several veterans have risen to replace the lead­ership and talent of graduated seniors. However, their focus is more on developing the youth than carrying the team to victory by themselves. 
The result is a dynamic envi­ronment that features young and experienced fencers working to­gether every day. The leadership roles are constantly evolving, Kaull said. 
“With them gone, the lead­ership roles aren’t so defined,” Kaull said. “People don’t neces­sarily fall into place naturally. The new leaders have to figure out their own leading style, and the younger ones have to cope with that period of uncertainty.” 
For Kaull, leadership by ex 
see KUALL/page 13 




