THE INDEPENDENT TO UNCOvER NEWSPAPER SERvING THE TRUTH NOTRE DAME AND AND REPORT SAINT MARY’S IT ACCURATELY 

vOLUME 46, ISSUE 10 | MondAy, SEPtEMbEr 3, 2012 | NDSMCOBSERvER.COM 
‘A connection of ancestry, a connection of name’ 
Fans travel for international season opener 

By SAM STRYKER 
Assistant Managing Editor 
DUBLIN — It would be hard to determine who enjoyed their Irish experience even more — the Notre Dame football team, who throttled Navy 50-10 in their season opener, or Fighting Irish fans, who enjoyed all the Irish capital had to offer over several days of Celtic fun. 
Thousands of fans descended upon the Irish capital for the Emerald Isle Classic festivities, including a pep rally in The O2, tailgate in the Temple Bar District and to cap off the weekend, the season-opening football game against Navy in Aviva Stadium. 
Even Irish football coach Brian Kelly said he enjoyed his time in Dublin during his postgame press conference, despite previously saying while a fan of Ireland, he didn’t relish the idea of playing a game overseas. 
see REACTION PAGE 4 




Dublin pep rally highlights Irish heritage 
By SAM STRYKER 
Assistant Managing Editor 
DUBLIN — Notre Dame’s Emerald Isle heritage was on full display this weekend, be it on the football team’s Irish flag cleats or a Mass of Celebration at Dublin Castle. Friday evening, that heritage was reaffirmed and deepened in a spectacle of music, dance and dialogue on the banks of the River Liffey. 
Notre Dame introduced Ireland to the concept of a pep rally and the Emerald Isle greeted the University with open arms in Friday’s “Notre Dame: A Welcome Home,” held in The O2. 
Irish Taoiseach (prime min­ister) Enda Kenny kicked off the event with a welcome to Notre Dame and Navy fans alike, noting the long-standing rivalry between the two teams as “characterized by a deep respect and warmth” 
see RALLY PAGE 4 


Interns work the Capitol 
By NICOLE MICHELS 
News Writer 
Several Notre Dame students traded the golden dome for the Capitol dome to intern in Congressional offices over the summer, while others worked in district offices throughout the country. 
The Washington Post reported between 20,000 and 40,000 in­terns descended on Washington, D.C., during the summer months. The 535 Congressmen hire sets of interns to contribute to daily office operations, rang­ing from a single intern to as many as 15 in their D.C. offices, with similarly sized staffs in dis­trict offices. 
Senior political science major Alex Bowman was one of the interns in the D.C. office of Rep. Joe Donnelly, where he said he worked on both substantive and clerical tasks. 
“My daily tasks included answering phones, checking voicemail messages, sorting emails, leading tours around the Capitol building and doing independent research for some of the more specific constituent requests. … Generally, [the in­terns] just did what needs to be done,” Bowman said. 


Bowman said the tasks as­signed to the interns each pre­sented unique challenges. 
“It was nerve-wracking. … In all honesty when you pick up the phone as a Congressional intern, 
see INTERNS PAGE 4 



Lunch series prompts debate 
By CHRISTIAN MYERS 
News Writer 
A football game was not the only event to bring together the various groups within the Notre Dame community this weekend. 
Hosted in the Oak Room of South Dining Hall on Friday, the first installment of this year’s Professors for Lunch series fea­tured discourse among faculty, alumni and both undergraduate and graduate students. 
The discussion focused on the book “Just and Unjust Peace” by associate professor of political science and peace studies Daniel Philpott. 
Philip Muoz, director of the Tocqueville Program for Inquiry Into Religion and American Public Life and associate profes­sor of political science, created the Professors for Lunch series last year. He said part of the pur­pose of the series is to promote the work of professors like Philpott. 
“One of the aims is to celebrate significant faculty accomplish­ments, like Daniel’s book,” Munoz said. “We have this world-re­nowned scholar down the hall, let’s have lunch with him and learn from him.” 
Philpott spoke first, followed by comments on the book from Margaret Pfeil, assistant professor of theology, and Paolo Carozza, professor of law and director of the Kellogg Institute for International Studies. The professors then opened the floor to questions and comments from the audience. 
Philpott said he agreed to par­ticipate in Professors for Lunch because the event is a valuable oc­casion for conversation. 
see LUNCH PAGE 3 


NOTRE DAME DEFEATS NAvY 50-10 IN DUBLIN iriSh inSidEr 




Have a question you want answered? 
Email obsphoto@gmail.com 



QUESTION OF THE DAY: 

ndsmcobserver.com 

P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
Allan Joseph 

Managing Editor  Business Manager
                  Megan Doyle  Jeff Liptak 

Asst. Managing Editor: Andrew Owens 
Asst. Managing Editor: Sam Stryker News Editor: John Cameron News Editor: Kristen Durbin 

Viewpoint Editor: Meghan Thomassen Sports Editor: Chris Allen Scene Editor: Kevin Noonan Saint Mary’s Editor: Jillian Barwick Photo Editor: Suzanna Pratt Graphics Editor: Brandon Keelean Multimedia Editor: Sarah O’Connor Advertising Manager: Monica McCormack Ad Design Manager: Sara Hilstrom Controller: Peter Woo Systems Administrator: William Heineman 

Office Manager & General Info 
Ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ajoseph2@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 mdoyle11@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 aowens2@nd.edu sstryke1@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 

Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 

Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 


Scene Desk 

(574) 631-4540 Observer.Scene.Editor@gmail.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
jbarwi01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 


Policies 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper 
published in print and online by the students of the 
University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s 
College.  Editorial content, including advertisements, is 
not governed by policies of the administration of either 
institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse 
advertisements based on content. 

The news is reported as accurately and objectively 
as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion 
of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, 
Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. 
Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of 
the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include 
contact information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed 
to Editor-in-Chief Allan Joseph. 

Post Office Information The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The Observer is published at: 024 South Dining Hall Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame and additional mailing offices POSTMASTER Send address corrections to: The Observer P.O. Box 779 024 South Dining hall Notre Dame, IN 46556-077 The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 


Where did you watch the Notre Dame vs. Navy game? 

Becca Self 
freshman 
Welsh Family Hall 
“Fourth floor of Keough.” 

Imani Parker 
freshman 
Lyons Hall 
“24 hour lounge of Lyons.” 

James Heisler 
sophomore 
Keenan Hall 
“In my room with a bunch of friends.” 


John McKeown 
sophomore 
Alumni Hall 
“At my friend’s apartment.” 

Kara Neumann 
freshman 
Howard Hall 
“In the Howard Hall basement.” 


Pat Bottone 
sophomore 
Dillon Hall 
“In my dorm.” 




Want your event included here? 

News Sports 

Mel Flanagan Peter Steiner Email obsnews@gmail.com 
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: Christian Myers Conor Kelly Carolyn Hutyra Jack Hefferon 

Graphics Scene 
Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday 

Steph Wulz Courtney Cox 
Photo Viewpoint 

Labor Day Opera Notre Dame Blood Drive Fall Career Expo Law and Human 
Kirby McKenna Amber Galik 
Campus-wide Auditions Legends Joyce Center Development Lecture Administrative offices Washington Hall 11 a.m.-5 p.m. 4 p.m.-8 p.m. Law School closed all day. 5 p.m.-7 p.m. Donate to save a life. Annual internship fair. 12:45 p.m.-1:45 p.m. 
Corrections 

The Observer regards itself as News Media: From Forum Discussion Fall Career Expo Nieuwland Lecture Men’s Soccer a professional publication and 
the Middle Ages to DeBartolo Performing Joyce Center Series Alumni Stadium 

strives for the highest standards 
the Digital Age Arts Center 4 p.m.-8 p.m. Jordan Hall of Science 7:30 p.m.-9:30 p.m. 

of journalism at all times. We do, 
O’Shaughnessy Hall 7 p.m.-8:30 p.m. Full-time fair open 7 p.m.-8:30 p.m. ND vs. Oregon State 

however, recognize that we will make 
5 p.m.-7 p.m. “Being a Person of to students in all “The Higgs Boson: 

mistakes. If we have made a mistake, 
“Hey Babe, What’s Faith in a Liberal colleges and majors. Beyond the Headlines” 

please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
Your Sign?” Democracy.” 
we can correct our error. 


NDSMCOBSERvER.COM | MondAy, SEPtEMbEr 3, 2012 | THE OBSERvER 


CAMPuS LifE CounCiL 

Council discusses student life 
By CAROLYN HUTYRA 
News Writer 
During its first meeting Friday afternoon, the Campus Life Council (CLC) discussed several aspects of student life including dorm alcohol policies and mental health. 
Judicial Council president Michael Thomas said the new rec­tor of Stanford Hall is enforcing a stricter alcohol policy in the dorm this year. 
“Stanford has done a 180-degree switch in alcohol policy,” Thomas said. 
The council also discussed the fairness of excluding under­graduate students from scholarly lectures and activities because alcohol is present for faculty and upperclassmen. 
The council also discussed the mental health resources available for students. 
Junior John vernon said the group PILLARS, which stands for “Peers Inspiring Listening, Learning, and Responsible Socializing,” focuses on student health and related issues such as lack of sleep. 
Chief of staff Katie Baker said there is also a committee on cam­pus that is dedicated to the ex­amination of students at risk of dropping out of Notre Dame. One aspect of the committee’s job in­cludes speaking to the student’s professors and rector in order to better assess the obstacles that may cause the student’s departure. 
“The panel has never been made public,” Baker said. “It’s a really important resource that should be publicized.” 
As the council members dis­cussed the year ahead, Morrissey Manor rector Fr. Ron vierling ref­erenced the cutback in University services that came at the same time as a price increase in room and board. 
vierling said one housekeeping staff covers four buildings on the weekends, and there has not been an increase in the number of work­ers being hired. 
“Cost cutting is impacting the quality of student life,” Fr. Ron said. 
Contact Carolyn Hutyra at chutyra@nd.edu 
Lunch 
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1 
“It’s a fantastic series,” he said. “This is just what we need at Notre Dame. Substantive in­teraction between professors and students,” he said. “College is a once-in-a-lifetime oppor­tunity to go deep into ideas and shouldn’t be wasted.” 
Philpott discussed his book and its emphasis on forgiveness and reconciliation as a means of bringing peace in the wake of civil war, dictatorships and other periods of turmoil. 
“The central idea is the resto­ration of relationships,” he said. “This way of thinking comes to us from religious traditions. Religious traditions offer con­cepts of forgiveness and rec­onciliation that can inform a global conversation among the religious and the non-religious.” 
He cited the ongoing peace process following the more than 20 years of war in northern Uganda as an example. 
“When I visited [Uganda], I was told, ‘There’s an end to war, but no peace here,’” Philpott said. 
He said a coalition of Ugandan religious leaders is advocating the philosophy of forgiveness and reintegration. 
“Forgiveness was an impor­tant part of their portfolio,” Philpott said. 
A rejection of the message put forth by a dictator or perpetrator of war crimes is another impor­tant part of the peace process out­lined in his book, Philpott said. 
“The ‘de-legitimation’ of the perpetrator’s message is some­thing victims desire out of a sense of justice.” Philpott said. “It is symbolic, but as important as monetary reparations. The two go together.” 
Philpott said the rejection of the perpetrator’s message often requires uncovering and pub­licizing the experiences of the victims. 
“You want something that’s going to be seen as a national narrative,” he said. 
In her comments, Pfeil focused on the importance of restorative justice to Philpott’s ideas. She said there is a need for more to be done in situations of systematic institutional injustice. 
Pfeil said she decided to par­ticipate in the program because she enjoys the topic of the book. 
“This is an area of scholar­ship of great interest to me, in particular the area of restorative justice,” she said. “In my work, I study restorative justice and Catholic social teaching.” 
Carozza said Philpott’s ap­proach to peace is better than the current conventional approach to human rights issues. 
“It is contrary and superior to the dominant method by which human rights have been addressed for 60 to 70 years,” Carozza said. 
The book also shows how rec­onciliation is reached over time, Carozza said, and it is not a con­cept that can be achieved in a single peace accord. 
“Reconciliation is something that becomes a human experi­ence,” he said. “It becomes the experience of a people and it emerges over time.” 
Junior Neal Ravindra, one of three students helping to orga­nize the series, said the event is beneficial to both students and faculty. 
“This event is a great opportu­nity for students and faculty to meet in a forum and exchange ideas,” Ravindra said. 
Muoz said the topics of the lunches are decided upon based on the relevance to the campus community. 
“The goal is to create a forum where students and faculty can share a meal and learn from each other about a topic worthy of conversation and of interest to the community,” Muoz said. 
The next installment of the series will be located in North Dining Hall at 12 p.m. Friday, and the discourse will focus on the Department of Health and Human Services healthcare mandate, Munoz said. 
Contact Christian Myers at cmyers8@nd.edu 
PAID ADvERTISEMENT THE OBSERvER | MondAy, SEPtEMbEr 3, 2012 | NDSMCOBSERvER.COM 





tries his best to serve the constitu­
interns 
ents and make people happy, but 
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1 
none of them are perfect and it’s you are the vocal representa-hard to make everyone happy.” tive of your boss, the member of Sophomore political sci-Congress,” Bowman said. “You ence and peace studies major have to keep in mind that every Pat Roemer interned for House word that you say the constituent Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi will construe to be his, which is a this past summer, who he said scary thought.” has a personal appreciation for 
Donnelly’s participation in the Notre Dame. contest for the Indiana Senate “When I walked into the room seat prompted a greater num-to say hello to the leader, the ber of calls from constituents, first thing she asked me was Bowman said. where I go to school,” Roemer 
“People call all the time about said. “When I said that I go to the election, and because Joe is Notre Dame, she said, ‘Oh, I love moving from a district to a state-Father Ted Hesburgh. He’s a wide office, he gets people from great man.’” 

atmosphere that has made it a choice, but it was an extra boost.” 
all over the state asking ques-Roemer said he appreciated 
reaction 

little bit extra [special]. It’s nice to Patrick Schmitz, a junior set to tions,” Bowman said. opportunities during his intern-
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1 

see Notre Dame and South Bend study at Trinity College, came to 
Sophomore political science ship to hear different viewpoints “[Ireland is] such a friendly in Dublin.” Ireland early to attend the game. 
major Colin O’Shea interned in on the major issues, particularly place,” he said. “[There is] beau-Pearce said Notre Dame’s ex-He said as soon as he stepped off 
Sen. Richard Durbin’s Chicago foreign affairs. tiful scenery. The hospitality was isting Irish identity was accentu-the plane in Ireland, the hospi­
office with the press team, “I attended primarily hear-amazing. It just feels welcoming ated by the game’s location. tality of the host nation was in 
where reading the morning pa-ings at the House Judiciary coming to Ireland.” “Notre Dame folks like to think full effect. 
per was part of his job each day. Committee and the House Kelly said playing an interna-they’re Irish, and we get a very “It’s been very welcoming,” he 
“Every morning, I would read The Committee on Foreign Affairs, tional game represents a unique Irish vibe,” he said. “It’s almost said. “Just arriving at the airport, 
Chicago Tribune, The Chicago and the Senate Committee on opportunity for the University. like it is done to an even greater everything was decked out with 
Sun Times and state papers Foreign Relations,” Roemer said. “It galvanizes your fans, your degree here, because this is ac-American flags and Notre Dame 
looking for any news relevant to “But I also was able to go outside alumni, everybody that is a tually Ireland. There are [thou-flags and Navy flags. They were 
[Durbin] or any news that men-the Capitol to get some more bi-Notre Dame supporter, you get sands] of us here, and that makes very excited about it, and it made 
tioned his name,” O’Shea said. ased viewpoints, which was cer­the opportunity to bring every-it feel even more like a Notre me even more excited than I 
“I’d send on a list of the news clips tainly different. … The hearings body together in such a great at-Dame place.” would be about a regular game.” 
to the press secretary in Illinois, can be biased and partisan, but mosphere,” he said. Playing more international Schmitz said attending the 
who forwarded it to the D.C. off the hill they have agendas that Kelly quipped that now the games in the future should be in season opener compensated for 
office.” they want to promote.” team had the logistics for trav-store for Notre Dame, Pearce said. the fact it would be his only foot-
O’Shea said he also helped to His daily tasks ranged widely eling mapped out, the Fighting “I think it’s a fantastic idea,” he ball game of the year. 
plan Durbin’s press conferences depending on whether or not the Irish would be more than happy said. “I’m looking forward to go-“I was upset that I wasn’t going 
when the senator returned to House was in session, Roemer to make a return trip. ing to the next one.” to be at all the other home games, 
Chicago. said. “We’ll be back any time you Gallagher also said an interna-but I think this made up for all 
“I would call the reporters and “Some days when the house ask us,” he said. tional game has benefits for all of the home games I am missing,” 
tell them about the conferences, wouldn’t be in session, I’d be run-For fans that made the trip, the those involved. he said. 
distribute the media releases and ning trying to find a stapler, but weekend was a resounding suc-“I think it is really good for Notre Dame alumni made up 
tape the actual conferences for other days I’d be running to drop cess. Senior Elliott Pearce said a fan base, and that it is good a large contingent of the thou-
the website,” O’Shea said. off something on the [House] gameday in Dublin surpassed for the University and for both sands of Fighting Irish fans who 
The primary difference be-floor, running to Fed-Ex down even that of a home Notre Dame countries to have an alliance.” made the trip overseas. One of 
tween the state office and the D.C. the street, researching specific football game in South Bend. For juniors studying abroad those alumni, Arnie vance, a 
office is that Chicago handles pieces of legislation, depending “It’s a lot more exciting, I in Dublin at University College member of the Class of 1968, at-
constituent casework while D.C. on what’s going on,” Roemer said. think,” he said. “Everybody’s of Dublin (UCD) and Trinity tended through the Notre Dame 
handles policy issues, O’Shea Roemer said his time on the excited to come to Ireland and College this semester, Saturday’s Club of Greater Sarasota. 
said. Hill has infected him with a de­visiting Dublin and being in a game was their only opportu-vance, who serves as president 
“We have caseworkers that sire to return to the fast-paced new city, and being welcomed as nity to experience a Notre Dame of the club, said 37 club mem­
handle all the constituency-based world of politics. warmly as we have by the Irish gameday until their senior year. bers made the trip, including 
things, trouble with a utility or “I definitely want to be up on people here [has been great.] Sara Dryden, a junior set to alumni ranging from the classes 
government agency, something the hill, whether it’s after gradu­Everyone’s been in a good mood study at UCD for the semester, of 1952 to 2007. Like Pearce and 
service-based,” O’Shea said. ation, running for office or just and been happy.” said the Emerald Isle Classic was Gallagher, vance said he hopes 
“Anything policy related would holding doors for the people who Caroline Gallagher, a Saint the perfect way to kick off her se-more international games are in 
be directed to the D.C. office.” walk into the House and Senate Mary’s senior, said the weekend’s mester in Dublin. Notre Dame’s future. 
O’Shea said he appreciated the galleries,” Roemer said. “I’ve got events were made even more spe-“We knew [about the game] “It’s a wonderful idea,” he said. 
chance to gain insight into the life the disease. It’s a sickness, this cial by the fact she studied abroad when we were applying, so that “We should do it every 10 years or 
of one of his elected officials. Washington thing. I want to be in Ireland her sophomore year. kind of factored into where we so. We should do it again.” 
“It humbles you, to realize that there.” “It’s the combining of two forc-were going to apply,” she said. “But 
even the senator can’t do every-es I really love, Notre Dame and Ireland is great for everything else. Contact Sam Stryker at 
thing that he wants to do,” O’Shea Contact Nicole Michels at Ireland,” she said. “I think it is the … Ireland was always my first sstryke1@nd.edu 
said. “The senator legitimately nmichels@nd.edu 
rally 
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1 
between the two teams. 
Kenny urged visiting fans to experience their time on the Emerald Isle to the fullest. 
“Enjoy, explore,” he said. “Make the best of the next few days with us in Ireland. Be sure to make and take home great memories. Be sure to make the most of your time in Ireland.” 
Kenny promised an exciting weekend lineup for fans attending the big game. 
“This is a wonderful event for Ireland to host,” he said. “It’s going to be a mighty few days showcasing what Ireland is and has to offer.” 
The Taoiseach closed his wel­come by focusing on the impor­tance of sporting competition to the Irish nation in recovering from its recent economic downturn, comparing the spirit of the Irish people to the “soul” of Notre Dame. 
“Ireland and its people, in true ‘Fighting Irish’ style, with gust and courage and discipline, are fight­ing back in the face of economic challenges we face as a country,” he said. “Why wouldn’t we? Sport is the soul of what we are. The ‘Fighting Irish,’ the soul of Notre Dame, is what we exemplify in how we approach our world.” 
Filled with a lineup of top Irish musical artists and Notre Dame performing arts groups, the over­seas pep rally captivated a live audience of more than 9,000. The Irish public broadcast network RTE televised the event nationally. 
Ranging from the Notre Dame Folk Choir and the Band of the Fighting Irish to Irish artists Anthony Kearns and the High Kings, performances often fea­tured collaborations from those hailing from the Emerald Isle and those from the University. 
In addition to the slew of musi­cal and performing arts guests, Irish talk show host Miriam O’Callaghan went through a series of interviews with Notre Dame figures. First up was Notre Dame athletic director Jack Swarbrick. 
O’Callaghan noted Ireland does not possess the same passion for college athletics as the United States, and Swarbrick said this school pride is evident in many facets of the University. 
“You see it in our marching band, you see it in our cheerlead­ers, you see it in our great alumni and fans,” he said. 
When asked by O’Callaghan what was at the source of the “suc­cess” of the University, Swarbrick turned and acknowledged the audience. 
“It’s out here,” he said. “The peo­ple make Notre Dame special. It’s the ones who went to school there or the ones who have just adopted it, the faculty, the administration, our remarkable leadership in Fr. Jenkins. I think all of that is what makes it a special institution.” 
O’Callaghan also spoke to University President Fr. John Jenkins and asked what inspired Notre Dame to return to play a match in Ireland after 1996’s matchup against Navy. 
“We wanted to come back here,” Jenkins said. “We feel a con­nection of ancestry, a connection of name but more importantly a connection of spirit. 
“Fight against the odds. Overcome the obstacles. A com­mitment to life, that total commit­ment. That’s what Notre Dame is about, and that is what Ireland is about.” 
When asked about the chal­lenges and rewards of leading the University, Jenkins said his pride goes beyond Notre Dame’s aca­demic prestige. 
“[Notre Dame] stands for so much more, and that’s why I am proud,” he said. “As [earlier guest] Martin Short said, spiri­tual values, service, things that go [beyond] excellence, I’m tremen­dously proud to be a part of this institution.” 
Contact Sam Stryker at sstryke1@nd.edu 


THE OBSERvER | MondAy, SEPtEMbEr 3, 2012 | NDSMCOBSERvER.COM 
Romney’s big mistake 


inSidE CoLuMn 

Arts and crafts 

Christian Myers 
News Writer 

At some point during my freshman year, I heard the students of the College of Arts and Letters (and therefore my­self) referred to as arts and crafts majors. 
At the time, I was just confused and thought to myself, “Why is this guy, who is drawing triangles while I critically an­alyze the ‘Summa Theologica,’ implying that my academic pursuits are equiva­lent to finger painting or crocheting?” 
Recently, however, I came to the re­alization that my course of study has prepared me to be a master of arts and crafts (I was Miagi-ed, if you will). After two full years at Notre Dame, I made a poster for the men’s lacrosse club to use at Activities Night. 
Before doing anything related to the poster, I stopped, as advised by Aristotle and the more modern philosopher John Rawls, and confirmed creating the post­er would serve my overall life plan and the end goal to which it is directed. 
Next, given my extensive training in the liberal arts, I was able to locate poster board in the art supplies section of the bookstore and to note the liberal price mark-up. 
Since I do so many arts and crafts in my courses, I had some colored sharpie markers that my parents bought for me before my freshman year. 
Having read Augustine’s ‘On Christian Teaching,’ I know that words are symbols of true things. Therefore, I made sure to write “club lacrosse” on the poster, knowing that the poster it­self was a symbol for our club. 
I employed some creative word play, specifically emphasizing the letters “lax” in the word “relax.” This subtle product of wit, of course, was a direct result of studying the works of the Bard himself, Shakespeare. 
I recalled in the ‘Republic,’ Plato warned against art that imitates bad things and men, and recommended only imitations of good and noble things and men. So the pictures I chose to attach were of noble defensemen and defensive midfielders, rather than of vain attackmen (I have to tell it like it is — Plato says lying is wrong, except in the case of the noble lie). 
When I was printing off images and there was a problem with the printer, I took the counsel of Epictetus and did not allow myself to be troubled by things beyond my control. 
For those of you wondering how much I valued this well-crafted piece of art, the poster is now in a garbage can. 
My name is Christian, and I’m an arts and crafts major. 
Contact Christian Myers at cmyers8@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Adam Newman 
Scientia Potentia Est 
On Aug. 11, Mitt Romney announced Paul Ryan, controversial Wisconsin representative and author of the even more controversial “Path to Prosperity” budget, would be his running mate. The running mate decision is one of the most important that a candidate can make in a campaign, and unfortu­nately for Romney, his choice of Paul Ryan was one of the worst ones he could have made. 
A running mate has to complement the candidate in some way. It may help him or her receive more votes from a certain demographic group, energize the respective “base,” win a certain state or give the candidate credibility in a specific policy area. Regardless of why the running mate is chosen, the rule “do no harm” must be followed. 
Romney’s reasoning for choosing Ryan is somewhat clear. Ryan is a favorite of both the Republican estab­lishment and of the Tea Party, a feat that few others hold. Since Romney is still not trusted by either the estab­lishment or the Tea Party, Ryan can give him much needed credibility. Moreover, Ryan, despite his age (42), is an extremely experienced campaigner, speaker and debater. Ryan’s district in Wisconsin is heavily industrialized and went for Obama in 2008, but Ryan was successfully able to explain the major cuts he made in his budget to them. Romney is surely hoping Ryan can expand that explanation from his district to the national level. 
However, Romney broke the “do no harm” rule. If Romney wants to win this election, he needs to run on the bad economy and explain to voters why he, as president, can get the econ­omy moving again. An argument that is extremely tempting for him to make, but unwise, deals with the size and role of the government. This is not a good argument for two reasons: It detracts from his strong argument on the econ­omy, and more people favor Obama’s vision for the role of government over Romney’s. Americans have begun to distrust the government more and more over the past few decades, but this should not be mistaken for them necessarily wanting a smaller one. Most people believe Social Security, Medicare and Medicaid, along with other assistance programs and in­vestments, are an engrained fabric in American life. 
By choosing Ryan, Romney made this election about the size and role of government, whether or not he wants it to be. Ryan is unique among politi­cians because he has created his own detailed and ambitious plan for how he is going to reduce the size of gov­ernment: massively cutting Medicare, Medicaid, food stamps and other welfare spending, while simultane­ously increasing defense spending and cutting taxes for the wealthiest Americans. The choice of Ryan as run­ning mate now ties Romney to this budget that deals more with governing philosophy than the economy. 
The Democrats want to talk about the bad economy as little as possible. This is why the choice of Ryan as run­ning mate is seen by Democrats as a gift. They can argue that Romney is going to unfairly cut the safety net, cut taxes for the wealthy and point out many other unfavorable details of the Ryan budget. These charges will have to be responded to, and the focus will be taken off the economy. Perhaps even more significantly, Romney’s choice of Ryan as running mate will energize the Democratic base in a way no other choice could have, because Ryan is more hated by the Democratic base than perhaps any other Republican on the national stage. This will cer­tainly increase Democratic turnout in an election where many believe the Republicans have the advantage in voter enthusiasm. 
Romney had a pool full of pos­sible choices for his running mate. Currently, the Republicans have a much more robust “farm team” than the Democrats do, meaning they have more young political stars that could play a larger role on the national stage in coming years. Obvious choices were Rob Portman of Ohio and Marco Rubio of Florida. Both are less controver­sial than Ryan, and both come from important swing states, while Ryan’s Wisconsin will still probably go to Obama in the election. 
Mitt Romney has made the argu­ment that his background as a CEO and state governor has given him the decision-making skills to be President. But when it came to his running mate pick, Romney failed. Instead of picking someone who will be ready to lead and help him win the election, he chose a conservative ideologue who will make him more popular with his Republican base but will only help him lose the election. 
Adam Newman is a senior political science major. He can be reached at anewman3@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
EditoriAL CArtoon 

QuotE of thE dAy 
“Don’t accept your dog’s admiration as conclusive evidence that you are wonderful.” 
Ann Landers 
Advice columnist 
WEEkLy PoLL 
How do you keep up with news on campus? 
Tweet your response with #viewpointPoll by 5 p.m. Thursday. 



THE OBSERvER | MondAy, SEPtEMbEr 3, 2012 | NDSMCOBSERvER.COM 
LEttErS 

ND lawsuit offends gender equity 
Recently, my colleagues and I drafted to Catholic teaching. If the University a petition against the University’s law-can provide access to medications that suit over the Department of Health and treat erectile dysfunction without ques-Human Services mandate requiring no-tion, because it trusts that men will use cost birth control coverage. I would like it wisely, why not treat women likewise to discuss more fully one point our peti-when it comes to contraceptives? The tion addresses: Regardless of whether or University’s policies do not treat men not contraceptives themselves promote and women as equally capable and gender equity, pursuing this suit is an trustworthy moral agents, and the affront to gender equity at Notre Dame. University is going to court to defend 
On account of serious deficiencies that disparity. in campus services and support, the While it is not clear to us that compli­very families that are the likely and ance with the mandate would violate welcome outcome of University policy Catholic conscience, it is clear that will find themselves unable to afford gender inequity is wrong both legally University-sponsored healthcare, with-and morally. ‘Dignitatis Humanae,’ the out access to affordable childcare, and vatican’s 1965 declaration of religious quite possibly hindered in their own freedom, says: “[G]overnment is to academic careers. These issues have a see to it that equality of citizens before systematically disproportionate effect the law, which is itself an element of on women. These are also matters of the common good, is never violated, Notre Dame’s Catholic identity, yet the whether openly or covertly, for religious University does not address them. This reasons. Nor is there to be discrimina­is disconcerting. tion among citizens.” 
Further, the University already pro-Truly living out the University’s mis­vides access to medications that treat sion and Catholic identity requires erectile dysfunction, without requir-creating more equitable University ing the insured to justify their use of it policies and a more family-friendly (medically or morally), even though it environment. requires women to justify contraceptive use. If students or employees are un-Kathryn Pogin married, providing access to such medi-graduate student cations is also materially contributing off-campus to gravely immoral behavior, according Sept. 2 
Segregation at the Tabernacle 
Heal, “Unify” and Enlighten? these events may have been pure of 
Last year, we saw the three words heart, the concept is by definition the “Heal, Unify and Enlighten” show up most racist thing I have ever heard of all over campus. While I question what on this campus. By focusing incom-Fr. Jenkins was referring to with “heal-ing freshmen on their race, we are ing” (I hope he meant something to do not “unifying” them with the rest of with the goals of the Center for Social campus. Until Notre Dame stops clas-Concerns) and the “enlighten” term sifying its students by race or orienta­seems grossly condescending, the word tion, the campus will have problems. “unify” has had me thinking. Does We, as Notre Dame, are not made up of Notre Dame strive for unity in its stu-“white students,” “black students,” “gay dent body? students,” etc. No. We are Notre Dame. 
After reading Fr. Corpora’s “One Segregation at the Tabernacle needs to Eucharist, many expressions” (Aug. stop. 29), I have to say that Notre Dame has a long way to go in “unifying” its cam-Johnny Whichard pus. Hosting retreats and/or Masses junior for specific races is a sheep in wolf’s Sorin College clothing. While the intentions behind Sept. 2 
Doctrine clarification 
In the letter “ND needs to reconsider the bad effect he should do so. The bad lawsuit” (Aug. 28) and the petition effect is sometimes said to be indirect-mentioned in that letter, author Rossi ly voluntary” (1021). suggests that the University could Just as it has in previous years, the justifiably comply in good Catholic University could continue to provide conscience with the HHS mandate to healthcare without providing contra-provide contraceptive services due to ceptive services, therefore achieving the doctrine of double effect. the good effect without the bad effect. 
While I welcome continuing dia-Thus Rossi’s argument clearly fails the logue regarding the HHS mandate, second statement of condition two and contraception and the University’s the doctrine of double effect cannot be decision to sue, I would like to submit applied in the manner he suggests. an explanation as to why the doctrine I will not concern myself with condi­of double effect is not applicable in tions one, three and four, but would be this instance. Because the previously open to allowing that providing con-mentioned letter and petition attempt traception in order to comply with the to use Catholic principles and teach-new healthcare laws may meet these ings to justify their arguments, I, too, conditions; regardless, all four condi­will argue from this basis. As such, the tions must be met for the doctrine of good effect being considered is provid-double effect to apply. Because the ing healthcare whereas the bad effect University could provide healthcare is providing contraceptives for contra-without providing contraception, con­ceptive purposes. dition two of the doctrine of double 
According to The New Catholic effect is not met, and this doctrine Encyclopedia, four conditions must be cannot be applied. met for the doctrine of double effect Peace in Christ, to apply. Rossi’s suggestion fails most clearly due to condition two, which Zach Harris states, “The agent may not positively senior will the bad effect but may permit it. If Siegfried Hall he could attain the good effect without Sept. 2 
Parietals and football 
The University of Notre Dame has change in parietals. Only one thing one set of rules that make it one of did: Notre Dame football. The pres-the most unique, and sometimes one ence of the Notre Dame vs. Navy foot-of the most frustrating, places to live ball game starting at 9 a.m. caused and work. These rules, of course, are the University to end parietals an parietals. hour earlier. And yet, if you want to 
violation of parietals results in meet with a friend of the opposite sex punishments as extreme as the loss of to handle something before class, it is on-campus living privileges. Projects, not allowed. school work or simple conversation Parietals have been fairly constant are never legitimate reasons to “break at Notre Dame since its foundation, parietals.” and I know nothing is ever going to 
This rule has always been a part of change that. Notre Dame, and neither the chang-However, if something were to ing times nor the pressures of a soci-change at this school, I feel like it ety driven by gender equality caused should be for the right reasons. Giving this rule to change. I had assumed students more time to work collab­that nothing would ever change the oratively, relieving some of the social parietals structure, until a trip to the tension generated by these situations, dining hall revealed a sign announc-or helping to improve the lives of stu­ing that parietals would start at 8 dents would all be great reasons. 
a.m. instead of the normal 9 a.m. on The fact that a football game over Saturday. 3,500 miles away is causing this 
Why this drastic change? Did the change shows what the ideals of this University decide that its students University are really centered on, and should have more freedom with who it’s not the average student. they talk to and when? Was it finally realized that being able to meet some-Matt Charnley one in class, but not in your dorm senior room, does not make sense? No, Keenan Hall neither of these reasons caused the Sept. 2 



THE OBSERvER | MondAy, SEPtEMbEr 3, 2012 | NDSMCOBSERvER.COM 

FLOBOTS & ALEX  ANDRE 
RE-ENERGIZE LEGENDS 


By CLAIRE STEPHENS 
Scene Writer 

Saturday’s concert by student artist Alex Andre and the Flobots featured energetic music and even more enthusi­asm from the performers for social awareness. 
Andre, a senior who opened for Macklemore and Rye Rye at Legends last year, returned Saturday before the Flobots show with a night of high-energy hip-hop and rock. Students Mike Nichols, Eugene Staples and Priscilla Nyankson joined Andre on stage for his performance. 
Andre and friends performed new music that will be on his upcoming mixtape this fall and kept the perfor­mance fun and personal by calling out to their loyal fans in the audience. The energy of the supportive crowd fed back into Andre’s vocally strong performance. His un­failing, smooth flow matched with fun beats and the dif­ferent rapping styles of Staples and Nichols gave the early comers a solid start to the night. 
Flobots, the concert’s headliner, took the stage short­ly after Andre’s performance, which they had watched from the audience. They began with pulsing high energy that spread to the jumping, clapping, swaying crowd. The band’s opening numbers featured rock heavy songs in which the lyrics were often lost in the music. 
Flobots used the small space and lack of barriers be­tween themselves and the audience to create an immer­sive and distinctly personal show, often literally getting in the students’ faces. The event was not well attended, but the band gave crowd a rocking show with little rest. Although the outskirts of the crowd were excluded from the colors and visuals of the performance, the music filled the gap and had even the outsiders swaying to the sound. 
The band also lived up to its reputation for emphasiz­ing political and social awareness by telling students that building the world they dream of is a greater victory than any football game or political race. The lead singers said they were energized by the youth of the audience, who they called the new generation of leaders. 
Earlier in the night, Andre also wore a 4-to-5 Movement shirt while he performed and gave a brief shout-out to the group. Flobots member Jonny 5 said the movement was something he might want to be a part of, and after Stephen Brackett’s impassioned speech about making a difference, he led the audience in a “fight with tools” chant that bled into the next song. 
Much of the Flobots’ set included rock-focused music with rap and hip-hop vocals, including the rowdy, harder rock sound of a song from their new album, “Circle in the Square.” They also slowed it down with some of their more issue-oriented songs like “Superhero.” Slower songs featured the vocals and of the band’s female violinist, giving their rock and hip-hop sound a refreshing, unique twist. Quieter moments in the strings and drums also al­lowed for interesting vocal harmonies to shine through. 
Flobots got the enthusiastic participation of the audi­ence for finally playing popular single “Handlebars” and concluded by calling Notre Dame to rise, leading into another famous single “Rise.” Though some of the crowd had trickled out as the show went on, those who stayed were rewarded with the loud, infectious energy of the band. 
After the show, a couple of Flobots members spent time with Andre and Nichols, discussing Andre’s performance and quoting their favorite lines from his music. Andre, who also talked with them about music and life for a long time, applauded them for being “really humble guys, true artists and students of music.” 
Contact Claire Stephens at cstephe4@nd.edu 


STEPH WULZ | The Observer 


NOTRE DAME 50, NAvY 10 | MondAy, SEPtEMbEr 3, 2012 | NDSMCOBSERvER.COM 
business trip 

Notre Dame outrushes Navy’s triple option en route to a 50-10 victory at Aviva Stadium in Dublin 
By ANDREW OWENS                
Assistant Managing Editor 
DUBLIN — In a series of events nearly as rare as Notre Dame playing a football game abroad, it was the Irish who controlled the ground game to run away with a 50-10 season-opening victory against Navy at Aviva Stadium in Dublin on Saturday. 
Fueled by a dominating two-pronged rushing effort, Notre Dame (1-0) rolled to its second consecutive blowout win against Navy (0-1), after struggling might­ily against the Midshipmen dur­ing the previous five seasons. 
“I think the story for me was be­ing able to control both lines offen­sively and defensively,” said Irish coach Brian Kelly, whose squad nearly doubled Navy’s rushing yardage output by the count of 293-149. 
Notre Dame’s defensive play wasn’t pristine, but it refused to break for most of the day, forcing four turnovers and recording a critical fourth-down stop early in the contest. 
With the Irish leading 6-0 in the first quarter, sophomore Ishaq Williams tackled Navy quarter­back Trey Miller a yard short of the first down marker at the Irish 30-yard-line. A play later, seniors Manti Te’o and Dan Fox pushed Miller back for no gain, giving the ball back to the offense. 
“I think we’re just carrying on where we were last year as a de­fense that’s very stingy against the run,” Kelly said. “That’s a huge rea­son why. We’re very blessed with a physical group, a great scheme, they’re well-coached and it’s not often you can hold Navy down to 10 points.” 
Four plays after the turnover of possession, sophomore George Atkinson broke away for a 56-yard romp to the end zone, providing the Irish a 13-0 lead they would never come close to relinquishing. 
“We felt the strength of our football team laid up front,” Kelly said. “We believe we’ve got physi­cal backs, with home run ability with George, [senior running back Theo Riddick] ran physical and has great instincts. Cam McDaniel came in and of course you can’t forget Robby Toma’s run, because he’s going to talk about it for the next six months.” 
Atkinson rushed for 99 yards and scored two touchdowns on nine carries, while Riddick com­piled 107 yards on 19 carries with two scores in the absence of start­ing running back Cierre Wood, who was suspended for two games last week. 
In his debut as the starting sig­nal caller for the Irish, sophomore Everett Golson completed 12-of­18 pass attempts for 144 yards, a touchdown and an interception. 
“I thought he managed the game and made one bad decision when he threw the interception, but the great thing about Everett is he picks it up,” Kelly said. “He’s not going to make the same mistake twice. Other than that, I was really pleased with the leadership, the ability to get in the right plays and keep our offense running. 
“We knew what we were getting with Everett. It’s not like we didn’t know what we were getting.” 
Golson’s five-yard touchdown pass to senior tight end Tyler Eifert came early in the second quarter to widen Notre Dame’s advantage to 20-0. It was the second consecu­tive fade throw to Eifert, as he fell just out of bounds on the first at­tempt. Eifert also made contribu­tions out wide in the passing game and in run blocking. 
“It’s versatility,” Kelly said. “There’s matchup problems with [sophomore tight end] Troy Niklas on the field too. They just make it really difficult by having them and [sophomore tight end] Ben Koyack on the field. 
“When you utilize [Eifert] as a wide receiver and someone who can block for the backfield, you have a very special player and we want to utilize his talents. That’s why he does [so] many things and does them so well.” 
Sophomore Stephon Tuitt picked up a Miller fumble and rumbled 77 yards to the end zone to put the Irish ahead 27-0. In his first collegiate score, the 303-pound defensive end was able to outrun the Navy offense and record the longest Irish fumble return since Steve Lawrence’s 79-yarder in 1985. It was the third longest in school history. 
“Stephon is a tremendous ath­lete with some speed,” Te’o said. “When you see No. 7, he can out­run pretty much any skill player on offense.” 
Te’o highlighted the Irish de­fense with the fourth-down stop, as well as a fumble recovery and interception — both career firsts. He totaled six tackles to begin his senior season. 
The win puts the Irish on strong footing to start the 2012 campaign, which contrasts sharply with last year’s season-opening loss at home against South Florida. 
“They looked at last season as we did as coaches. Each player took it upon themselves to pay attention to all of those little things that are Russell, the first cornerback to necessary to be successful,” Kelly start as a freshman in school his-said. “I think it’s a cumulative ef-tory — Kelly said he was pleased fect of everybody coming together with the unit’s play. and doing the little things.” “I thought they did some good 

Twenty-one Irish players saw things,” he said. “I was really excit­their first collegiate game action ed about their ability to go out and in the 40-point blowout as a way to compete. Regarding experience build depth moving forward this season, Kelly said. 
they got today was great for us as we move on to our next challenge, playing Purdue. We’ll enjoy this for 24 hours and get ready for a great rivalry game against Purdue.” 
Contact Andrew Owens at aowens2@nd.edu 
“We got a lot of young players valuable experience today to go along with our veterans on our 
PLAYER OF THE GAME 
football team,” he said. 
Navy mustered its only touch­down on the first series of the third quarter on a three-play, 75-yard THEO RIDDICK drive that culminated in a 25­
NOTRE DAME RUNNING BACK 
yard strike from Miller to receiver Shawn Lynch. All three plays on In his first game at the position since 2009, Riddick rushed for 107 the drive were passes. yards and two touchdowns on 19 carries. The senior was the go-to 
Despite the big plays allowed by player on third downs as well and averaged 5.6 yards per carry while the inexperienced Irish second-filling the void left by starting running back Cierre Wood’s two-game ary — which includes Keivarae suspenstion. 


THE OBSERvER | MondAy, SEPtEMbEr 3, 2012| NDSMCOBSERvER.COM 

REPORT CARD 








QUARTERBACKS 

Making his first start, Everett Golson impressed with 144 yards and his first career touchdown pass in the second quarter. More importantly, the sophomore didn’t make any major mistakes besides a red-zone interception. 
RUNNING BACKS 

The Irish have not rushed for more yards in a game since 2003 and were without their starter in Cierre Wood. Theo Riddick and George Atkinson led the dominant rushing attack which accumulated 293 yards on 46 carries. 
RECEIVERS 

Three receivers made their first career receptions as the young receivng corps made some key blocks on the pe­rimeter to help out the rushing attack. Although, a few dropped passes marred  a near-stellar effort. 
OFFENSIVE LINE 

The front five dominated the trenches throughout the game, taking pressure off Golson and helping the Irish outrush the Midshipmen. That makes 12 rushing TDs for the Irish in team’s last two meetings. 
DEFENSIVE LINE 

Louis Nix and Stephon Tuitt each recorded three tackles, including 2.5 tackles for a loss. The line set up camp in the Navy backfield, constantly disrupted the triple-option. And Tuitt even returned a fumble 77 yards for a score. 
LINEBACKERS 

What most considered the strongest part of this Irish de­fense certainly lived up to the hype. Led by preseason All-American Manti Te’o — who recorded both his first fumble recovery and interception — the Irish limited Navy to its lowest rushing output in almost two years. 
DEFENSIVE BACKS 

The supposed weakness coming into the season on de­fense certainly looked like it. The secondary was caught out of position often and gave up 192 yards to a triple-option attack. 
SPECIAL TEAMS 

The kicking game couldn’t do much, muffing two extra points, which could prove to be crucial in close games. On a good note, Davonte Neal nearly quadrupled Notre Dame’s 2011 regular season punt return yards with an 11­yard return. 
COACHING 

The Irish coaching staff did enough to stifle the triple-option attack and ease into the Golson era smoothly. 

OVERALL GPA: 3.1 

Putting up 50 points was definitely a plus for the Irish and the strong running game took a lot of pressure off Everett Golson. But there are some glaring weaknesses for the Irish, with the biggest being the performance of the secondary against a pass-reluctant team. Things won’t be this easy against the likes of Landry Jones and Matt Barkley. 
PLAY OF THE GAME 
STEPHON TUITT’S 77-YARD FUMBLE RETURN FOR A TOUCHDOWN 
Following a red-zone interception, Navy put together its first threat­ening drive, consisting of 12 plays for 68 yards. But with 2:12 left in the second quarter, Tuitt picked up Trey Miller’s fumble — caused by interior pressure from the Irish defensive line  — and took it to the endzone to give the Irish an insurmountable 27-0 lead before the half. 

Allan Joseph 
Editor-in-Chief 
DUBLIN — There are plen­ty of reasons to see Notre Dame’s season-opening vic­tory over Navy as some sort of fluke. The Midshipmen are young and not at their best. The Irish secondary showed some glaring holes. The Irish benefited from turnovers on lucky bounces. To look at the game that way, however, is to miss the forest for the trees. 
Saturday’s contest was a promising step for the rest of the season and beyond. Two years ago, in the midst of Brian Kelly’s first season at the helm, the Irish played sloppily in every facet of the game. Simple run blocking was nearly impossible, the defense missed an astound­ing number of assignments and you could forget about the quarterback consistently throwing catchable passes. The Irish had their occa­sional moments of brilliance 
—
 such as a gutty win at USC 

—
 but overall, they were in a pretty sorry state. 


If the 50-10 victory over Navy was any indication, this season promises to be a different experience. It started in the trenches. The Notre Dame offensive front used to be not much more than a speed bump for opposing defenders, and a small one at that. Now, led by captain Zack Martin, the line seems to relish pushing defensive linemen around; running backs Theo Riddick and George Atkinson can at­test to the width of the holes they got to run through this weekend. The Irish defen­sive line a few years ago was supposed to be impressively strong and quick; it turned out to be neither. Now, ath­letes like Stephon Tuitt and Kapron Lewis-Moore can go both through and around blockers — and as Tuitt dem­onstrated, they’re pretty fast too. 

The success of the offen­sive and defensive fronts meant the Irish could estab­lish a rhythm in the rush­ing attack, and the ability of Notre Dame receivers to block on the perimeter meant Riddick and Atkinson had room to break big plays open like Atkinson’s 56-yard touchdown scamper. With a talented line leading the way, the Irish defense could pressure the quarterback, stop short-yardage runs and even force turnovers. None of these were regular occur­rences just two years ago. 
Obviously, Notre Dame has a bevy of aspects to improve upon as well. The second­ary has to do a better job of adjusting to new wrin­kles. There were too many dropped passes. The special teams were positively atro­cious, with two missed extra points and some scary mo­ments on both ends of punts. But this time, Irish fans can start believing those things will actually get better, be­cause for the first time since 2005, Notre Dame is playing with true confidence. 
Last year’s squad thought it had the potential to win every game, but it didn’t ex­pect to. There’s a different vibe coming from this group. Whether it’s Navy or USC, Wake Forest or Oklahoma, this team will go into the game expecting to win; they’ll work on everything and anything to do so. It’s been too long since that type of atmosphere pervaded the Irish locker room. 
It’ll still be a year filled with ups and downs. The schedule is too tough to ex­pect the nascent confidence to translate into a BCS berth. Mistakes will be made, weaknesses will be exposed and the Irish will lose a few games. If you replay the Emerald Isle Classic in your head, though, you’ll see a swagger about the Irish you might not recognize. They’re not back yet, but they’re on their way. Don’t miss the for­est for the trees. 
Contact Allan Joseph at ajoseph2@nd.edu 


NDSMCOBSERvER.COM | MondAy, SEPtEMbEr 3, 2012 | THE OBSERvER 


Irish running backs step up 

By ANDREW OWENS 
Assistant Managing Editor 
DUBLIN — In the absence of 1,000-yard rusher Cierre Wood to suspension, Notre Dame relied on a running back who started at re­ceiver the past two seasons and a sophomore whose only extensive experience is on kickoff returns. 
The result was a 50-10 Irish win, achieved by Notre Dame dominat­ing Navy at what the Midshipmen do best: running the football. 
Starting running back Theo Riddick — who dabbled at running back as a freshman before moving to the slot position in 2010 and 2011 
— has returned to the position at which he feels most comfortable and, in Week One, the results were dazzling. 
His 108 yards and two touch­downs on 19 carries, coupled with sophomore George Atkinson’s 99 yards and two touchdowns on nine carries, powered the Irish offense and relieved the load on first-time starter Everett Golson’s shoulders. 
Riddick and Atkinson have cre­ated a muddled situation atop the depth chart — a good problem for Irish coach Brian Kelly to have. While Riddick won’t be confused as a power back a la Jonas Gray or Robert Hughes, his contributions in the short-yardage game were paramount in the Irish win. 
“It keeps me motivated and brings that ‘want to’ in terms of wanting to get another touch­down,” Riddick said. “We were very confident today. We knew what we had to do. We came in with a great, great gameplan.” 

Atkinson’s 56-yard first-quarter touchdown jaunt displayed some of the electricity that allowed him to make an impact on special teams during his freshman season in 2011. 
So much for first-game jitters. 

“I was excited,” Atkinson said. “You don’t want to come in think­ing about negative things, you want to think about how you can be successful.” 
With he and Riddick serving as the team’s thunder and lightning in Wood’s absence, what role does that provide for Wood and injured running back Amir Carlisle in the Irish attack? 
“I don’t know, we’re going to see though,” Atkinson said. “I can’t wait when all of us are on the field together.” 
With Wood watching the game on television from South Bend and Riddick confounding the Midshipmen defense, Kelly said future starting decisions will be made based on future production. 
“Everybody has an opportu­nity to contribute. Those are team­mates that we respect and we’ll count on them as we move for­ward,” said Kelly regarding the four players suspended for the season opener, including Wood. “What their roles are will be defined as we move through the season. They’re valuable members of our football team and we respect that every­body’s got to earn their spot on the field.” 
Riddick said the jumbled running back situation motivates him to reach another level, as he said the rushing attack has room for improvement. 
“We didn’t have the best game in terms of running, but we just have to improve week in and week out,” he said. 
When Atkinson reached the end zone for the first time as a running back, he didn’t perform a special stunt or celebration in the end zone. He simply placed the ball on the ground and ran to the sidelines. 
“I watch a lot of guys in the NFL,” he said. “I like to see big runners get broken in. I saw Chris Johnson do it. I watch a lot of highlight tapes … and I just try to imitate [some of] the pros.” 
Atkinson fell just a yard short of giving the Irish a pair of 100-yard rushers in the victory, but he wasn’t aware of that fact until postgame interviews. 
“I didn’t know. Numbers don’t matter to me as long as we get the victory,” he said. 
Riddick said he expects the Irish to run a balanced offense onto the field each week, with each lifting the other 
“We can stretch it out and we can run,” Riddick said. “I think [Saturday was] a real coming out for our team. Usually we struggled in the first game in previous years. Today we did very well.”       But with Wood and Carlisle’s return on the horizon, it might just be the tip of the iceberg. 
Contact Andrew Owens at aowens2@nd.edu 

Golson, Kelly extend streak 
By ALLAN JOSEPH 
Editor-in-Chief 
DUBLIN — Sophomore quar­terback Everett Golson made his first start Sunday, completing 12 of 18 passes for 144 yards, one touch­down and one interception. In the win, Golson extended an impres­sive streak for Irish coach Brian Kelly: In each of his last six games with a new starter under center, Kelly has emerged a winner. The last quarterback to win his first start under Kelly was junior quar­terback Tommy Rees, who started in Notre Dame’s 28-3 Senior Day victory over No. 15 Utah in 2010. Before Rees, Dayne Crist won his first start in that same season, leading the Irish to victory over Purdue in the 2010 season opener. 

Opener holds many firsts 

Senior linebacker Manti Te’o recorded two “firsts” in Saturday’s contest. Te’o recovered a fumble for the first time in the second quarter, and after halftime record­ed his first interception. 
Twenty-one players made their first appearance in a Notre Dame uniform Saturday, including 14 in the first quarter. Golson was among those making their first career appearance. 
Senior receiver Robby Toma scored the first rushing touch­down of his career on a nine-yard scamper with just 39 seconds left in the contest. 
Offensive reversals 
In 2010, Notre Dame gave up 367 rushing yards to the Midshipmen, who normally outrush the Irish due to a rush-heavy triple-option attack. Navy recorded just 149 yards on the ground in Saturday’s contest, its lowest total since the 2010 season. The Midshipmen did throw for 192 yards at 9.7 yards per attempt. 
The Irish rolled up 293 yards on the ground, their biggest total since a 320-yard rushing output against Stanford in 2003. They added 192 yards through the air, normally their primary method of moving the ball. 
Contact Allan Joseph at ajoseph2@nd.edu 
SCORING SUMMARY 

13 14 13 1050 03 7010 




NOTRE DAME 6, NAVY 0 
Theo RIddick 11-yard run (Tausch kick failed) 

9:12 remaining Drive: 11 plays, 75 yards, 5:48 elapsed 
NOTRE DAME 13, NAVY 0 
George Atkinson 56-yard run (Tausch kick good) 

3:02remaining Drive: Four plays, 70 yards, 1:59 elapsed 
NOTRE DAME 20, NAVY 0 
Tyler Eifert 5-yard pass from Everett Golson (Tausch kick good) 

11:20remaining Drive: 10 plays, 80 yards, 3:32 elapsed 
NOTRE DAME 27, NAVY 0 
Stephon Tuitt 77-yard fumble return (Tausch kick good) 

2:12remaining 
NOTRE DAME 27, NAVY 3 
Nick Sloan 26-yard field goal 

0:00remaining Drive: 10 plays, 74 yards, 2:12 elapsed 
NOTRE DAME 27, NAVY 10 
Shawn Lynch 25-yard pass from Trey Miller (Sloan kick good) 

14:03 remainingDrive: Three plays, 75 yards, 0:57 elapsed 
NOTRE DAME 33, NAVY 10 
George Atkinson 3-yard run (Turk rush failed) 

8:45remainingDrive: 12 plays, 87 yards, 5:18 elapsed 
NOTRE DAME 40, NAVY 10 
Theo RIddick 3-yard run (Tausch kick good) 

4:06 remaining Drive: 7 plays, 49 yards, 3:07 elapsed 
NOTRE DAME 43, NAVY 10 
Nick Tausch 34-yard field goal 

5:54remaining Drive: Seven plays, 42 yards, 3:53 elapsed 
NOTRE DAME 50, NAVY 10 
Robby Toma 9-yard run (Tausch kick good) 

0:39 remaining Drive: 8 plays, 68 yards, 3:48 elapsed 
STATISTICS 

RUSHING YARDS 
293 149 
PASSING YARDS 
197 192 

Time of Possession 
Time of Possession 
33:37 26:23 
PASSING 
Golson 12-18-144 Miller 14-19-192 Hendrix            4-5-53 Reynolds 0-1-0 
RUSHING 
Riddick 19-107 Christian 2-39 Atkinson 9-99 Greene 3-33 McDaniel 9-59 Copeland 6-29 
RECEIVING 
Eifert 4-22 Lynch 4-87 Daniels 2-49 Bolena 3-61 
TACKLES 
Jackson 7 Gaines 12 Fox 7Bush 8 Te’o 6 Ferguson 7 


THE OBSERvER | MondAy, SEPtEMbEr 3, 2012| NDSMCOBSERvER.COM 


SARAH O’CONNOR | The Observer 

Senior linebacker Manti Te’o waits to congratulate his teammates following a Notre Dame touchdown. The preseason All-American recorded six tackles along with an interception and a fumble recovery, both were the first of his storied collegiate career. 
Notre Dame kicked off the 2012 campaign in unfamiliar terri- 
IRISH  tory, but the trans-Atlantic trip had no effect on the Irish. Notre Dame scored touchdowns on its first three drives to start the  
HOSPITALITY  game, taking a 27-3 lead into the half. Theo Riddick and George Atkinson combined for 206 yards and four rushing TDs as the  
Irish cruised to a 50-10 victory before returning stateside.  






SARAH O’CONNOR | The Observer 

Notre Dame gathers during a timeout at a nearly sold-out Aviva Stadium in Dublin. The stadium holds 51,700 people and was constructed in 2010 on the famous site of Lansd­owne Road for rugby and national team soccer. 
THE OBSERvER | MondAy, SEPtEMbEr 3, 2012 | NDSMCOBSERvER.COM 


By KEVIN NOONAN 
Scene Editor 

Sometimes the great can be the en­emy of the good. It’s one of the biggest and frustrating pitfalls of many good movies, including, unfortunately, Shia LaBeouf and Tom Hardy’s prohi­bition-era gangster drama, “Lawless.” 
The film tells the story of the three Bondurant brothers in the 1920s in backwoods virginia. The two older brothers, Forrest, played by Tom Hardy (aka Bane from “The Dark Knight Rises”), and Howard (Jason Clarke), run a successful, if small­time, moonshine operation, while Jack, the youngest brother (Shia LaBeouf), is on the outside looking in. 
Forrest and Howard live in an air of invincibility, a feeling that in­spires fear and deep-founded respect among the native virginians. A recur­ring theme throughout the film is the larger than life status of Forrest, who survives and avenges multiple murder attempts that easily would have killed a normal man. 
Jack is clearly the runt of the lit­ter and is labeled as such by another character in the film.  He lacks the physical prowess, fear-inspiring pres­ence and violent nature that make his older brothers infamous. But where he differs from his brothers, he has wild ambition. 
His ambition takes form at a bad time, as a big-city special agent, played by the always spectacular but seldom seen Guy Pearce, has just arrived in town to break up the moonshiners. 
In many ways, “Lawless” is a solid film. It’s at times exciting and intrigu­ing. It features strong performances from Hardy as a seemingly immortal living legend who’s begun to believe his own myth and Pearce as a wormy, corrupt, violent police agent with a sickening sneer. Its scenery and direc­tion are impeccable, and the recre­ation of the bootlegger lifestyle in the prohibition era is outstanding. 
It’s a good movie. But it’s not an epic, modern-day western, and it wants to be so badly it actually takes away from the movie itself. 
The pace is slow and drawn out, leaving action scenes few and far be­tween. The film tries to fit too much into too little, leaving many parts of the film horribly undeveloped and seemingly unnecessary. 
Gary Oldman plays a big time gang­ster with no fear who does business with Jack and gets his own moonshin­er career started. But his character, one of the most interesting in the film, gets lost and disappears for the last end of the film for no real reason. 
The film wants to be an epic, and therefore has a lot of ground to cover. There’s family drama, the cops-and­gangsters action, small town versus big city, outlaws becoming heroes (which is how the movie was tag lined, but in reality is only about three min­utes at the very end of the film), a character study in what it means to be a living legend in Hardy’s role and countless other little lines of thought and plot the movie tries to hone in on. And on top of it all, Jessica Chastain plays Maggie, Forrest’s love interest 
— a big city girl with a shady past. She is another interesting character and love story between the cold Forrest and broken Maggie, but it just doesn’t fit well with the rest of the film — it feels forced. 
On the flip side, more time and effort is put into Jack’s love life, as he pursues a “crazy Christian” girl, Bertha, played by Mia Wasikowska. 
Even though it’s commendable that they tried, and really it is clear LaBeouf is trying his best, it’s still Shia LaBeouf we’re talking about — the dude’s not winning an Oscar any time soon. 
It’s really a shame this film couldn’t be better. It’s so almost great that it’s not even that good. If the run time was three hours instead of two, we might be talking about a modern-day clas­sic. As it stands though, it’s good, but good just isn’t good enough. 
Contact Kevin Noonan at knoonan2@nd.edu 
“Lawless” 
Directed By: John Hillcoat 
Studio: Filmnation Entertainment 
Starring: Shia LaBeouf, Tom Hardy, Gary Oldman, Mia Wasikowska, Jessica Chastain, Guy Pearce 

Scene Staff Report 
“trouble With the Curve” 
Like “Moneyball” for girls. What ap­pears to be a sentimental feel-good film about family, baseball, friend­ship and love (again, sports for girls) features big names like Amy Adams as that one pretty, smart girl that works in baseball, Clint Eastwood as her cranky old father who is a base­ball scout and Justin Timberlake as a random friend Adams’ character will likely be romantically interested in. With all the Hollywood clichés for in­spirational movies both about family and the sports business, it’s the perfect way for girlfriends to trick their boy­friends into seeing a sentimental flick disguised as a baseball-themed movie. 
“taken 2” 
Remember when Liam Neeson killed EvERYONE in “Taken”? It turns out those people actually worked for someone bigger and scarier, who is now sending his gangsters to avenge the many killed. This time Neeson’s character is on vacation in Istanbul, and the stakes are raised when the bad guys take him and his wife, and they go after his daughter … again. Dramatic and awesome conversation about being taken on the phone again, along with all the action, promises a movie just as epic and ridiculous as the first. Much like “The Hangover 2,” it’s the same movie, just in a different place. So if you liked “Taken,” you will likely not be disappointed. 
“Seven Psychopaths” 
Colin Farrell, Woody Harrelson and Christopher Walken. They’re only three of the titular characters in the film “Seven Psychopaths,” but they account for the bulk of what looks like one of the most offbeat comedies this fall. It follows a group of dog kidnap­pers who have mistakenly held the wrong shih tzu hostage as they wait for its gangster owner Harrelson to pay them off. The appearance of Tom Waits as a man with an unhealthy attach­ment to his pet rabbit just drives home how strange but wonderful this movie could be. The shih tzu takes a starring role with “Awww”-inducing puppy dog eyes and surprisingly great comedic timing. If the story is any match for its all-star cast, it looks to be one of the most hilarious movies this year. 
“the Perks of being a Wallflower” 
Regardless of whether or not you have read the novel of the same name, the trailer for “Perks of Being a Wallflower” looks impressive. As it is directed by Stephen Chbosky, the nov­el’s author, “Perks” just might be able to live up to its acclaimed status as an oft quoted contemporary coming-of-age story. Notably full of angst and inten­tionally indie, this teen-centered film looks to exaggerate and bring out the inner thoughts of those high schoolers that feel they just don’t belong.  Emma Watson’s presence in “Perks” certainly makes it appealing and, if nothing else, the soundtrack clips (selected by au­thor Chbosky) sound promising. 
“the Words” 
“The Words” looks like a combina­tion of “The Time Travelers Wife” and “Midnight in Paris.” With romantic, suspenseful music and quick shots from golden-era Paris to modern-day New York, the trailer bounces back and forth between the parallel universes of Rory Jensen, played by Bradley Cooper, and that of the true author. The movie is set simultaneously in Paris and New York (directors Brian Klugman and Lee Sternthal filmed in Montreal to take advantage of the city’s aesthetic versatility and portray both cities). The film teases with a stunning cast 
— Bradley Cooper, Zoe Saldana, Olivia Wilde, Dennis Quaid, Zeljko Ivanek, 
J.K. Simmons, and Jeremy Irons. While the plot seems simplistic (Bradley is a desperate beat writer who plagiarizes another man’s book, which compli­cates his rocketing literary career), we will be seeing this for the star-studded lineup. 
“django unchained” 
Writer and director Quentin Tarantino’s latest film, “Django Unchained,” premieres Dec. 25. It is a western set in the deep south, and it stars Jamie Foxx and Christoph Waltz as bounty hunters. Foxx’s eponymous character seeks to find his wife and win his freedom, and like in all Tarantino revenge films that process will prob­ably be extremely violent and filled with obscure references. Tarantino and Waltz worked together on the film “Inglourious Basterds” another histor­ically inspired revenge film, which was nominated for eight Academy Awards. Leonardo DiCaprio also stars as a plantation-owning antagonist. Fans of Tarantino movies will no doubt find this movie right up their alley. 
STEPH WULZ | The Observer 


SPortS Authority 

Erasing wins misses the point 

Vicky Jacobsen 
Sports Writer 
Maybe it’s the history major in me, but one of my favorite parts of following sports is getting to see history as it happens. 
Sometimes these earth-shattering events are com­pletely unpredictable, like each of the three perfect games we’ve seen in the ma­jors this summer. Sometimes they’re pleasant surprises, like America’s newest sweet­heart Gabby Douglas win­ning gold in the Olympic all-around competition. And some were so predictable that the congratulatory com­mercials were shot months early — for an example, see “Phelps, Michael,” or simply Google “all-time Olympic medal-winner record.” 
But while we were watch­ing legends in the making this summer, the specters of “vacated wins” and “stripped titles” came for Penn State and Lance Armstrong, prov­ing some governing bodies are all too eager to whitewash historical results when it fits their purposes. 
We still quibble over in­dividual cases, but most have come to accept strip­ping away wins from victors who now appear “tainted,” for reasons varying from amateurism violations (USC, Ohio State) to classroom cheating (Florida State) to cheating in the training room (Armstrong and pretty much every other cyclist for the past 20 years). 
But the entire concept still feels wrong to me, even though I agree that teams shouldn’t get away with that sort of behavior. Maybe it’s because I internalized too much of “1984,” but I will always hate the idea we can go back and “change” the official outcome of an event that has already happened. Someone won, someone lost. Maybe the game wasn’t won “fair and square.” What in life is? 
I would feel differently if I thought the threat of a losing a season or career’s worth of games kept people from breaking rules. But college kids are still trading their gear for tattoos, and baseball players are still do­ing steroids. Of course their behavior is dishonest, but isn’t “vacating” a win also somewhat misleading? Isn’t it dishonest to downplay Armstrong’s return from cancer and his joy when he triumphed again and again (against a field where you’d be hard-pressed to find one clean cyclist)? We all remem­ber the pictures of Armstrong powering up a mountain, the agony etched on his face. Does that not count? 
And then there’s the inher­ent silliness in pretending the victor didn’t win the competition. For those keep­ing track at home, 14 of the last 17 Tour de France win­ners have lost their titles for alleged PED use. Dozens of other competitors have been banned for PEDs. Hint: If you’re still getting updates on whom “won” an event that occurred in 2004, it’s time to stop caring. 
But here’s the real reason we shouldn’t toss the win-loss record when a program gets to smelling bad: It just reinforces our confusion of success with honor and integrity. It’d be nice if the most accomplished men and women in history were also the kindest and wisest, but that’s not true in politics or art or business, and it’s cer­tainly not true in sports. 
In Greek theater, many dra­mas centered on great men undone by their “tragic flaw,” which was usually associated with the feature that made them great in the first place. The audience wasn’t asked to ignore the impressive feats of their fallen hero — those were as much a part of him as his failures. 
This brings us to Joe Paterno, a man who was well on his way to the summit of Mount Olympus when the world discovered he cared so much about the pristine rep­utation of the Penn State pro­gram he built that he chose to protect his assistant coach instead of reporting allega­tions of child abuse. 
We could have used this scandal to teach our children that winning is great, but the person at the top of the wins list isn’t always the best man or woman on the list. Personally, I think we should remember Paterno as a man who was great at coaching football teams and building the reputation of his univer­sity, yet still failed what must have been the greatest moral test of his life. 
But I suppose the NCAA doesn’t think they have an asterisk that can convey all that, so they simply swept away his wins instead. 
Contact  Vicky Jacobsen at vjacobse@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of  The Observer. 
nCAA footbALL 
Clemson wins opener 

Associated Press 
COLUMBIA, S.C. — After watching Clemson’s offense make a major leap forward last year, Tigers coach Dabo Swinney hopes it’s the de­fense’s turn to improve this fall. 
He saw plenty of hopeful signs Saturday night in No. 14 Clemson’s 26-19 victory over Auburn at the Georgia Dome. 
There were plenty of mis­takes Swinney and first-year defensive coordinator Brent venables will highlight on tape before moving forward. But they also won’t be able to ig­nore how a group that gave up 28 points or more in seven of its’ final eight games last year forced Auburn to settle for field goals over touchdowns. 
“We kind of settled in and re­ally played clean in the fourth quarter,” Swinney said Sunday. “That was good to see.” 
Especially after some of the showings Clemson’s defense closed with a year ago. The 

PERSONAL 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don’t do it alone. Notre Dame has many resources in place to assist you. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Ann Whitall at 1-0084 or Karen Kennedy at 1-5550. For more information, visit ND’s website at: http://pregnancysupport@nd.edu 
unit was torched for 37 and 34 points in losses to North Carolina State and South Carolina. The capper was the disastrous 70-33 defeat to West virginia in the Orange Bowl that left some at Clemson feel­ing less like Atlantic Coast Conference champions and more like beaten down dogs. 
Enter venables, the longtime Oklahoma defensive coordina­tor brought on to do what of­fensive leader Chad Morris did for Clemson’s offense a year ago. 
The Tigers came last fall as a team that struggled to score, producing two touchdowns or less in four of its final reg­ular season games in 2010. Under Morris’ super-charged schemes last season, Clemson set school records with 6,171 yards and 470 points. 
It’s only a one-game sample size, but indicators are already pointing up for venables and the defense. Clemson ran past Auburn in 2011 for a 38-24 win. This time, Clemson held the Tigers to fewer yards (374 to 
435) and points than a year ago. 
“There’s a lot of room for im­provement. We’ve got to be a lot more consistent,” venables said after the game. “We can’t give up big plays and leave guys uncovered. But we knew it wasn’t going to be easy, either.” 
Swinney said last week called venables “a caged animal” who was ready to see his guys in live action. venables didn’t like much of what he saw early on. 
Auburn receiver Emory Blake was all alone behind the secondary for a far-too-easy 54-yard TD catch. Auburn re­ceivers broke free a couple of other times, too. 
venables, though, said his players kept up their aggressive approach and became sounder on technique as the game went on. That was particularly true at the start of the fourth quar­ter with the game tied at 16 when Auburn’s Darren Bates picked off quarterback Tajh Boyd to set his team up on the Clemson 35. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit 
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
Opening to “1984” by George Orwell 
It was a bright cold day in April, and the clocks were striking thirteen. Winston Smith, his chin nuzzled into his breast in an effort to escape the vile wind, slipped quickly through the glass doors of Victory Mansions, though not quickly enough to prevent a swirl of gritty dust from entering along with him. 
The hallway smelt of boiled cabbage and old rag mats. At one end of it a coloured poster, too large for indoor display, had been tacked to the wall. It depicted simply an enormous face, more than a metre wide: the face of a man of about forty-five, with a heavy black moustache and ruggedly hand­some features. Winston made for the stairs. It was no use trying the lift. Even at the best of times it was seldom working, and at present the electric current was cut off during daylight hours. It was part of the economy drive in preparation for Hate Week. The flat was seven flights up, and Winston, who was thirty-nine and had a varicose ulcer above his right ankle, went slow­ly, resting several times on the way. On each landing, opposite the lift-shaft, the poster with the enormous face gazed from the wall. It was one of those pictures which are so contrived that the eyes follow you about when you move. BIG BROTHER IS WATCHING YOU, the caption beneath it ran. 
Inside the flat a fruity voice was reading out a list of figures which had some­thing to do with the production of pig-iron. The voice came from an oblong metal plaque like a dulled mirror which formed part of the surface of the right-hand wall. Winston turned a switch and the voice sank somewhat, though the words were still distinguishable. The instrument (the telescreen, it was called) could be dimmed, but there was no way of shutting it off completely. 


NDSMCOBSERvER.COM | MondAy, SEPtEMbEr 3, 2012 | THE OBSERvER 


SMC VoLLEybALL | BELLES 3, NORTHWEST 1 | BELLES 3, NORTHWEST 0 
Belles out to perfect start 
By AARON SANT-MILLER 
Sports Writer 
For the first time in coach Toni Kuschel’s four-year ten­ure at Saint Mary’s, the Belles sit at 4-0 to start the season. This past weekend, the team traveled to North Park for the North Park Classic, where they collected four wins in domi­nant fashion, scoring three 3-1 victories and a 3-0 victory over 
“I thought we 
played really well 
together, and 
being an extremely 
young team, 
we have great 
leadership.” 
Toni Juschel 
Belles coach 
IU Northwest. 
“Being the first tournament of the year, we just really want­ed to go in, play our best, fig­ure out a starting rotation and try a few new things,” Kuschel said. “We were able to win four matches and be very success­ful, so it’s pretty exciting.” 
Friday evening, the Belles (4-0) claimed the first vic­tory of the season against IU Northwest (0-7). The win was highlighted by a superb per­formance by sophomore out­side hitter Kati Schneider, who led the team with nine kills. Freshman setter Abby White also started the season well with 35 assists in her first col­legiate match. 

Later on Friday, the Belles defeated Howard Payne (3-1), 3-1. Against the Yellow Jackets, Schneider continued her im­pressive day with 14 kills and 14 digs, while getting help from freshman outside hitter Katie Hecklinski, who led the team with 19 kills and provided de­fensive help with 11 digs and two blocks. 
The impressive showing continued Saturday as Saint Mary’s took on North Park (2-2) and Kenyon (1-3) and claimed two more 3-1 victories. Schneider and Hecklinski, who combined for a total of 47 kills on the day, again paced the offense. 
“They both really owned their roles this weekend and really led by example,” Kuschel said. “Speaking of freshmen, [Hecklinski] being able to come in and put up numbers like that was pretty impressive.” 
The Belles also got an add­ed boost Saturday as senior Danie Brink – the team’s lone upperclassman – returned to the lineup, totaling 72 assists, 19 digs and six aces. That per­formance led to Brink being named, along with Schneider, to the all-tournament team while playing in only two of the four games. 
And even though there were plenty of impressive perfor­mances, Kuschel said she believes her squad’s impres­sive weekend was a result of 
the  team  functioning  well  
together.  
“It  was  a  really  exciting  

weekend, and it was definitely a team effort,” Kuschel said. “Everyone contributed to our success this weekend and we got great play out of our role players.” 
A lot of this success has to do with the team developing a strong chemistry early on, de­spite being a very young team, Kuschel said. The Belles’ roster of 14 players includes no ju­niors and only one senior. 
“I thought we played really well together, and being an ex­tremely young team, we have great leadership,” Kuschel said. “I just felt like this was a team that had been playing to­gether for a while.” 
For Saint Mary’s, conference play begins on Tuesday as the Belles travel to Trine. 
“We’re really excited to get into conference competition, but we’re really hoping to play together as a team and take it one set at a time,” said Kuschel. 
The Belles will look to do just that Tuesday at 7 p.m. at Trine. 
Contact Aaron Sant-Miller  at asantmil@nd.edu 
PAID ADvERTISEMENT 
nd CroSS Country | SECOND PLACE 
Irish teams take second to Purdue 

By AARON SANT-MILLER 
Sports Writer 
Despite giving their best run­ners the weekend off, the Irish per­formed admirably Friday night in the Crusader Open against their opponents’ top athletes. 
Both the men’s and women’s teams traveled to Sunset Hills Farm, where both Notre Dame teams claimed second at the meet. For both the men and the women, the Purdue runners brought home the victory, squeaking by the Irish by two and six team points respectively. 
“It was a good weekend,” wom­en’s coach Tim Connelly said. “You want to win every time out, but the kids who I hoped to see compete well did a really good job.” 
Even though the Irish failed to claim first at the meet, Connelly said the race was very important and successfully got some young­er and less experienced runners competition time. 
“There is a huge difference be­tween going out training, and lining up and actually racing,” Connelly said. “So, the people who raced on Friday were people who I thought really needed more experience.” 
Even without their best runners in the lineup, Notre Dame turned in a strong team performance. The Irish men went on to claim eight of the top 14 spots, while the women claimed three of the top six, with two runners in the top three. 
For the men, the Irish were led by senior Jeff MacMillan, who fin­ished third with a time of 19:20.7. Juniors Patrick Lesiewicz and DJ Thornton finished close be­hind, claiming fourth and fifth respectively, with times of 19:25.8 and 19:32.6. For Thornton and Lesiewicz, this was their second straight year finishing in the top-five for this meet. 
For the Irish women, junior Meg Ryan claimed second with a time of 17:48.3 and was only two seconds behind the winner, Purdue senior Samantha Walkow. Finishing third was Irish fresh­man Sydni Meunier with a time of 18:10.2 in her first ever cross-country race. Meunier was a track and field standout in high school but did not run cross-country while attending high school in Melvin, IL. Sophomore Katie Moran rounded out the top-six finishes for the Irish, claiming the sixth spot with a time of 18:20.9. 
These younger and less ex­perienced runners faced quite the challenge though, as Purdue raced their whole team. 
“That was Purdue’s best team that competed,” men’s coach Joe Piane said. “They put everybody that they had on the line. Now, keep in mind, we’ll do significant­ly better when we run our better kids.” 
Regardless of competing against more experienced oppo­nents, Notre Dame’s runners were able compete well and impress the coaches Connelly said. 
“I thought we had a bunch of kids compete well,” Connelly said. “I didn’t have a lot of preconceived notions, but they all did a really good job.” 
Even if the performance did not represent the best product the Irish can put on the course, it strongly reflected the depth of a talented team with high aspira­tions for this season. 
“We’re going to get better, we’re going to keep learning and we’re going to be really good this year,” Piane said. 
The Irish will look to do just that after a couple weeks of hard training. Notre Dame returns to action in two weeks, when the Irish host the National Catholic Championships on Sept. 14 on the Burke Golf Course. 


THE OBSERvER | MondAy, SEPtEMbEr 3, 2012 | NDSMCOBSERvER.COM 

SMC SoCCEr | BELLES 1, BETHEL 0 
SMC GoLf | SECOND PLACE 

Win marks promising start 
Belles take second 
Observer Staff Report 
Saint Mary’s came out on top of a local rivalry this weekend when they earned a 1-0 vic­tory against Bethel College. The promising win, marked by su­perior defense, gives the team a solid basis to build on as the sea­son progresses. 
The Belles (1-0) limited the Pilots (2-1) to nine shots on the game — just four of which were on goal — keeping Bethel off the scoreboard and making the job easy for sophomore goalkeeper Chanler Rosenbaum. 
Heading into half, the game was scoreless, and both sides had six shots. The Belles had many close scoring opportuni­ties in the first half of the game but came up short each time. 
After the half, the close game shifted completely in the Belles’ favor. The Belles maintained ball possession for much of the second half and did not allow a shot on goal for the last 25 min­utes of the game. The game-winning goal came in the 55th minute of the competition as junior forward Kaitlin Teichman gave the Belles the edge. 
Teichman’s early second half goal came after sophomore midfielder Courtney Wright crossed the ball to Teichman in the middle of the penalty area. Teichman slotted the ball just inside the right post to give St. Mary’s the advantage. 
Teichman’s goal was the only 

in rainy match 
By LAURA COLETTI 
Sports Writer 
Looking to rebound from a dis­appointing 2011 season, Saint Mary’s finished sixth this weekend at the 50th annual Wabash College Hokum Karem race. 
The Hokum Karem-style race featured pairs of runners alter­nating one-mile loops around Wabash’s campus to total of four miles. The tandem of senior Emma Baker and junior Jessica Biek fin­ished first for the Belles and in 13th place overall with a time of 24:50. Saint Mary’s coach Jackie Bauters said she was happy with her team’s performance. 
“Overall I’m really pleased with how the team ran,” she said. “In general, we ran better this year than last year as a team, even though it doesn’t look like it in the results. I think it provided us with a good idea of our fitness at this point in the sea­son and where we need to focus on some of our attention.” 
In future meets, the Belles will be running more classic-style races. Bauters said she is looking forward to see how her squad fares in a 5K next weekend. 
“Getting a chance to race a full 5K next weekend will help highlight which areas really are weak,” she said. “It’s so early in the season that there is plenty of room for improve­ment, and I’m sure that we will see some major gains in the next few weeks.” 
Trying to recover from last fall’s disappointment, the Belles have set lofty goals for themselves this year. 
“The team has their eyes set on breaking back into the top half of the conference after a disappoint­ing team finish in the conference last season,” Bauters said. “I believe we are on pace to meet this goal.” 
Instead of being led by a single captain, Bauters looks to have each of her six seniors act as an example to the entire team. 
“For leadership this year, we de­cided not to have a captain, but rather a leadership panel as a senior class,” she said. “Each of our seniors shot the Belles put in the back of the net on the game, despite their 15 total shots, seven of which were on goal. 
After its dominant opening win, Saint Mary’s will return to the field at Holy Cross on Tuesday at 5 p.m. for their last game be­fore beginning conference play. 
brings a different way to contribute and lead the team. Their combined leadership has already positively impacted the team, and I believe they will be the momentum to get us where we want to go this season.” The Belles will next take the 
course this Saturday in Rapids, Mich., at the Invitational.  Grand Calvin  
Contact Laura Coletti at lcoletti@nd.edu  

PAID ADvERTISEMENT 
By PETER STEINER 
Sports Writer 
Despite stormy conditions on the final day of competition Sunday, No. 15 Saint Mary’s fin­ished second place at the rain-shortened Anderson University Invitational at Killbuck Golf Course in Anderson, Ind. 
The Belles turned in a 27-hole team score of 481, placing them 27 shots behind top-finishing No. 2 DePauw. 
“Seeing as it was their first real tournament, I think they per­formed quite admirably against tough conditions,” Belles coach Mark Hamilton said. “Today we got about 12 holes in, and we got rained out. We were actually playing pretty well despite the rain and making a move on the leaders up top.” 
The Belles entered their first fall tournament with three freshmen golfers in their starting lineup. But Saint Mary’s didn’t encounter any issues with inex­perience, especially as freshman Amanda Graham carded a 122 to finish play as the top Belles fin­isher at third overall. 
“I think in a way, [the new players are] good for the chem­istry of the team,” Hamilton said. “Everybody gets to know each other, and it’s a little more competitive. We have a great group, and they get along well, and they take that onto the golf course. Everybody wants to play hard for themselves and for their teammates.” 
With their first tournament under their belt, the Belles now prepare to play in their home tournament in two weeks, the O’Brien National Invitational at the Warren Golf Course. 
“They’ve basically got two weeks until the next one, one of the biggest tournaments of the year,” Hamilton said. “We are go­ing to work hard the next couple of weeks to get ready to play the No. 1 team in the country.” 
Contact Peter Steiner at psteiner@nd.edu 

PAID ADvERTISEMENT 

SMC CroSS Country | SIxTH PLACE 
Squad finishes sixth in relay 



NDSMCOBSERvER.COM | MondAy, SEPtEMbEr 3, 2012 | THE OBSERvER 


MEn’S tEnniS | IRELAND 9, NOTRE DAME 3 
Irish take on Davis Cup team in Ireland 
Weekend exhibition match, international travel prove valuable experience for Notre Dame players 
By PETER STEINER 
Sports Writer 
The Irish were going to win, no matter what. 
Even though it was the other Irish — the members of Ireland’s Davis Cup team 
— who came out on top, 9-3, Friday at the Fitzwilliam Lawn Tennis Club in Dublin, Ireland, the Notre Dame ten­nis team also won in a figura­tive sense as they enjoyed an unforgettable experience to kick off their fall season. 
“I think fabulous doesn’t do it justice,” Irish coach Bobby Bayliss said. “It was cultur­ally, athletically and socially everything we could have hoped for and expected. The Fitzwilliam Lawn Tennis Club and the members of the Davis Cup team there treated us tremendously.” 
Despite the success of the event, the Notre Dame play­ers faced challenges early on, namely jetlag and adapting to the new court surface. 
“We arrived, and as you can imagine, we felt like we’d been beaten up by a gang,” Bayliss said. “We’d been up for how many hours straight, and we went straight to the club to practice. 
“The surface was very dif­ferent. It’s synthetic grass, and the bounce is low. The Following a day of prac­courts were very fast, and it tice, the team faced off was a significant adjustment against the members of the for our guys. But I thought Irish Davis Cup team in in most cases we did a pretty singles and then doubles. good job of handling it.” Senior Michael Moore and 



PAID ADvERTISEMENT 
sophomore Michael Fredericka pulled out two tight singles matches, while No. 1 doubles team of junior Greg Andrews and senior Spencer Talmadge took home Notre Dame’s lone doubles victory (6-7, 6-3, 10-8) against James Cluskey and Conor Niland. 
“The highlight for us was winning No. 1 doubles and playing very well,” Bayliss said. During that match, Talmadge served big and took over the net and made his presence felt. 
“Out of the 12 matches, we lost four matches in third-set tiebreakers,” Bayliss said. “So with a little bit of luck we could have made it certainly a lot closer, if not had a chance to win. 
“But that wasn’t the impor­tant thing. The important thing was getting to play in that environment, on that stage, against that caliber of player. And the experience from that end was a resound­ing success.” 
Notre Dame’s top two sin­gles players, Andrews and se­nior Blas Moros, also played exciting matches. Andrews lost in straight sets to Niland, who played against Novak Djokavic in the U.S. Open one year ago. Meanwhile, Moros put up a valiant effort against Cluskey, but lost in a third set tiebreaker (4-6, 6-4, 10-4). 
“I know Greg had some trouble getting used to the court,” Bayliss said. “It really cost him, and he had to search for some different answers, which was great. I think you grow tremendously in that situation when you are forced outside your comfort zone. 
“We were position to win at No. 2 singles. Blas Moros was up a set and at 4-3 serving, but couldn’t quite hold on and lost in a tiebreaker.” 
After the match was com­pleted, the team also had an opportunity to eat din­ner with the players on the Davis Cup team and offi­cials of the Fitzwilliam Lawn 
Tennis  Club.  The  players  
then  cheered  the  football  
team  onto  victory  Sunday  

at Aviva Stadium, where the Notre Dame played Navy on Saturday. 
Bayliss said the experience was not only remarkable, but the team also made many practical gains as a result. 
“I think it immediately takes all the freshmen and integrates them into a team environment where you are traveling, and it really accel­erates that process,” Bayliss said. “The second thing is the opportunity to culturally do what we did. I think they re­ally appreciated the opportu­nity to go and to see what the kind of doors Notre Dame can open for you. 
“Finally, we got to see them in a position of adversity. I think they had the benefit from being thrown in the fire right away.” 
The Irish now prepare for the Illini Invitational and Western Michigan Invitational, both taking place on the weekend of Sept. 14. 
Contact Peter Steiner at psteiner @nd.edu 


THE OBSERvER | MondAy, SEPtEMbEr 3, 2012 | NDSMCOBSERvER.COM 


Alugbue 
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 16 
player to hit .700 in a four-set match. Though Waller hit .750 in a match in 1986, she did it on only 20 at­tempts. Alugbue attempted 30 and finished with 21 kills in a thoroughly dominating performance that didn’t in­clude an error. On Sunday, she was named tourna­ment MvP, narrowly edging Houser for the honor. 
Coming  off  the  disap­ 
pointment  of  falling  to  
Nebraska  just  five  days  

earlier, the Irish struggled out of the gate but fin­ished strong in dispatch­ing UAB on Friday behind a career-high 20 kills from Houser. The 3-1 (20-25, 25­23, 27-25, 25-23) victory was more evidence for Brown of her team’s increasing resiliency. 
“We made some of the 
Clark 
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 16 
the 2-1 win. Irish junior goalkeeper Patrick Wall earned the victory and re­corded two saves in his first career start. 
“Both games we dominat­ed shot-wise,” Clark said. “I felt we could have put San Diego State away early, and I think Clemson was the same.” 
“The goals you give away, you aren’t happy about any of them. We gave up three goals over the weekend and we are not happy with that.” 
Clark said his offense also missed too many scoring chances over the weekend. 
“I think the offense we generated was very good. I don’t think we were able to capitalize on that offense,” he said. “I felt we should have had more goals over the weekend.” 

same errors that we did last weekend against UAB, but we were still able to win,” Brown said. “It’s tough to come from behind.” 
The Irish were helped by strong efforts by Alugbue (11 kills) and juniors Andrea McHugh (10 kills) and Andie Olsen (10 kills). Freshman libero Taylor Morey paced the team in kills with 16. 
On Saturday, Alubue’s transcendent performance led the Irish to a four-set victory over Buffalo, 3-1 (25-23, 25-10, 23-25,25-18) at the Joyce Center. Houser and McHugh also notched double-digit kills for the Irish. Morey showed the tal­ent that has enabled her to grab the starting libero spot as a freshman in grabbing 21 digs, the second time in her short career she has notched over 20 in a match. 
The Irish took care of business in straight sets on Sunday, putting away 
For the third straight game the Irish outshot their opponent, the high­light being a dominant 19-5 margin in attempts 
“Harry [Shipp], he’s a little magician. He was just shaking and baking — he scored a goal, had [two] assists. Ryan Finley [made] those superb runs in behind defenses. These guys just carved it up.” 
Bobby Clark 
Irish coach 
against Clemson. In total, Notre Dame has unleashed 52 shots this season while limiting its opponents to Eastern Kentucky in domi­nating fashion. Alugbue finished her strong week­end with 17 kills and was later joined on the all-tour­nament team by Houser and junior Maggie Brindock (111 assists, 28 digs). 
For Brown, the emergence of Alugbue and Houser as formidable frontcourt has been a blessing for the Irish. 
“We want to have an at­tack that is both balanced and powerful,” Brown said. “Having those two playing at this level, joined with Andrea McHugh, makes us 
really  comfortable  going  
forward.”  
McHugh  and  senior  

Hillary Eppink both suf­fered minor injuries but are expected to play next week­end when the Irish travel to California for the USC tournament. 
Contact Conor Kelly at ckelly17@nd.edu 
just 18. Despite the massive advantage in shots, Notre Dame has only scored six goals while allowing three and has finished every game with only a one-goal advantage. 
“We shouldn’t be hanging on for the end for the last 10 minutes because no mat­ter how much you territori­ally dominate in this game, when it comes down to the last two minutes and the game’s close, they become very direct,” Clark said. 
Looking to improve to 4-0, the Irish will aim to capitalize on their oppor­tunities when they host the Mike Berticelli Memorial Tournament in Alumni Stadium. Notre Dame will kick off the tournament against Oregon State on Friday, and conclude it against Akron on Sunday. 
Contact Joseph Monardo at jmonardo@nd.edu 
Waldrum 
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 16 
“I thought our back four and … Elyse played really well for us, considering we absorbed so much in the second half,” Waldrum said. “They really took it to us in the second half. I thought we were really poor in midfield and I thought we were really poor up front.” 
This year’s squad is one the youngest Notre Dame has ever had, and there will be some growing pains. 
“We started seven fresh­men today,” Waldrum said. “It’s a really, really young team.” 
Despite all their youth, the Irish played well in the first period. The second period made the difference. 
“I’m disappointed because I thought the first half we were in there and competi­tive, and I thought we had some chances,” Waldrum said. “I thought we would come out even better in the second half. We’re real big on our possession, and we had over 150-something passes and I think they had 130 or 
140. So the possession point in the first half was pretty even. We came out in the second half and just threw it all away. It was just youth and inexperience. We’ll learn from it and get better.” 
North Carolina is a young team this year, just like the Irish. But they capitalized on one of their chances, Notre Dame did not and that de­cided the game. 
“I thought, of all the games we’ve seen of theirs this year so far, both on video tape and then watching them Friday, I thought this was their best half of soccer they’ve played 
— this second half too,” Waldrum said. “So you’ve got to give credit where credit is due as well.” 
In the game against Santa Clara, the Irish did capitalize on their chances. With 18:25 remaining in the second half, sophomore defender Sammy Scofield headed in a cross from junior midfielder and tri-captain Elizabeth Tucker to break a 1-1 tie. Freshman forward Crystal Thomas scored the first Irish goal on a penalty kick before Santa Clara tied the game early in the second half. 
Considering the lapse they displayed Sunday in mid­field, Waldrum said he is looking forward to the return of freshman Cari Roccaro and junior tri-captain Mandy Laddish to boost that line. The two are in Japan right now playing for the U.S na­tional team in the Under-20 FIFA Women’s World Cup. 
“I really felt they domi­nated us most of this game in midfield,” Waldrum said. “I thought that’s where they took over the game. Those two kids coming back for us in midfield will be a big plus.” 
Scofield, Hight and fresh­man midfielder Glory Williams were all named to the All-Tournament team for their efforts in the two games. 
This season will be a time of learning, Waldrum said. Every week is an opportu­nity to get better and every game is a chance to show improvement. 
“I think we’ll get a little more settled with [the fresh­men],” Waldrum said. “Now I think it’s just getting them to understand and execute a little better.” 
Next up for Notre Dame is the team’s annual West Coast road trip. The Irish will travel to No. 20 Portland on Friday night, then will con­clude their western swing at Washington on Sunday. 
Contact Matthew Robison at mrobison@nd.edu 
PAID ADvERTISEMENT NDSMCOBSERvER.COM | MondAy, SEPtEMbEr 3, 2012 | THE OBSERvER 




CroSSWord | WILL SHORTZ 


hiGhLy PunLikELy | CHRISTOPHER BRUCKER 

obSErVEr CoMiC | LENNY RAGO & PATRICK CROSS 


Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Sudoku | THE MEPHAM GROUP 

horoSCoPE | EUGENIA LAST 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Salma Hayek, 46; Keanu Reeves, 48; Mark Hamon, 61; Terry Bradshaw, 64. 
Happy Birthday: A change at home or to your financial situation is evident. Prepare to make the most of your money and to alleviate any stress hanging over your head. Now is the time to reduce and to look at your personal and professional options. Honesty will be key to making the best choice. Your numbers are 2, 14, 21, 28, 30, 35, 44. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Impulsiveness will be difficult to control. Speak up and get whatever is bothering you out of the way. Openness gets results, but expect to face opposition. Be prepared to take on added responsibility as a result. 

TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Don’t divulge secrets or take part in gossip. You need to keep the peace, not be part of the problem. Taking part in community events will enhance your relationships with people you enjoy. Nurture important rela­tionships.. 

GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Less talk and more action will make a lasting impres­sion. Your desire to help the underdog or offer solutions to a pending problem will put you in the spotlight and help you gain recognition. Jealousy may lead to a negative reaction. 

CANCER (June 21-July 22): Relax and take in everything unfolding in front of you. Positive thoughts and energy will bring good results. Love is highlighted, and emotional encounters will bring out the best in everyone involved. 

LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Try new things, or travel to unfamiliar destinations that can stimulate you mentally or motivate you emotionally. You have plenty to discover if you participate and engage in new and interesting events or activities. Love is in the stars. 

VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Don’t spend on items you don’t need. Impulsive pur­chases or falling prey to false advertising will set you back financially. Do your due diligence before you make a move emotionally, financially or physically. A mistake will be costly. 

LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): A change of heart due to information you receive is ap­parent. Look at your personal situation before making a life-altering decision. The way you move forward can work in your favor, if you negotiate a deal that brings you additional benefits. 

SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Pick up the pace and keep the momentum going. Personal relationships and improvements to your living arrangements or quarters will motivate you to do better. Love is on the rise, and discussing future plans will pay off. 

SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Be careful what you say and where you travel. Problems are apparent if you get into a discussion with someone who is authorita­tive. Stretching the truth will not go over well. Put more time and effort into home and family improvements. 

CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Opportunities are likely to develop if you look into investments related to home, family or your own small business. Discussing money matters will bring good results. Avoid overindulgent, erratic or impulsive individuals. Love is highlighted. 

AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Revisit ideas and plans that have not been ac­complished. It’s time to resurrect a goal that has greater potential for success now. Invite old partners or friends to get involved. There is money to be made if you follow through. 

PISCES (Feb. 19- March 20): Honesty must be first and foremost when discussing future plans or personal problems. Put more effort into how you can earn more money using skills and services you have to offer. A partnership can be beneficial if it is based on equality. 

Birthday Baby: You are quick, impulsive and eager to excel. You defend your rights. 
JuMbLE | DAvID HOYT AND JEFF KNUREK 

Make checks payable to and mail to:  Enclosed is $130 for one academic year Enclosed is $75 for one semester  The Observer P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Name Address City  State  Zip  



THE OBSERvER | MondAy, SEPtEMbEr 3, 2012 | NDSMCOBSERvER.COM 

MEn’S SoCCEr | ADIDAS/IU CREDIT CLASSIC nd WoMEn’S SoCCEr | ADIDAS INvITATIONAL 
Irish dominate weekend 
Notre Dame defeats San Diego, Clemson 

Young team falls to UNC 
By MATTHEW ROBISON 
Sports Writer 
After defeating No. 24 Santa Clara 2-1 Friday night in Alumni Stadium, the Irish fell to No. 19 North Carolina 1-0 on a late goal in Sunday’s adidas Invitational final. 
After an evenly-played first half in which neither team could break through for a goal, the Tar Heels took over in the second half and finally put one in the back of the net in the 85th minute. North Carolina (2-1-1) freshman forward Summer Green streaked down the left flank and turned the corner into the penalty area. She connected with senior midfielder Maria Lubrano who was cutting down the middle, and Lubrano buried the shot. 
“[Green is] special,” Irish coach Randy Waldrum said. “That’s why she is a national team kid. She showed her abil­ity there. I thought obviously, though, that we were really poor at that moment. She got turned around the corner there and we didn’t win that initial ball. And then she turned it inside. I thought we did a poor job picking up [Lubrano] com­ing across.” 
Notre Dame (3-2) attempt­ed a few late-minute tries but could not muster enough to score the equalizer. 
Waldrum attributed the loss to poor play on the offensive end. But he said he was proud of his defense’s efforts under pressure and pleased with the play of freshman goalkeeper Elyse Hight, who made seven saves. 
see WALDRUM PAGE 14 
nd VoLLEybALL | SHAMROCK INvITATIONAL 
Homecourt wins develop team’s underclassmen 
By JOSEPH MONARDO 
Sports Writer 
With two decisive victo­ries this weekend, No. 15 Notre Dame swept the adi­das/IU Credit Union Classic in Bloomington, Ind., and continued its hot streak at the start of the 2012 season. 
A 3-2 victory over San Diego State and a 1-0 defeat of Clemson, push the Irish (3-0) to their best start since 2004. 
The Irish began the week­end Friday afternoon against the Aztecs by putting three shots on goal in the first eight minutes of play. The aggressive attack barely slowed from there, as Irish junior forward Harrison Shipp scored the game’s first goal in the 26th minute. 
In the 38th minute, San Diego State converted its first shot of the game to even the score at 1-1 before half­time. The Irish responded authoritatively in the sec­ond half, however, as Shipp assisted both of senior for­ward Ryan Finley’s goals in the 61st and 82nd minute. The Aztecs added a final goal in the 85th minute, but the Irish hung on to take the 3-2 decision with senior Will Walsh earning the win in net. 
“We started the game very well, and I thought we … re­ally looked good for most of the first half,” Irish coach Bobby Clark said. 

“In the second half, we had a 25-minute spell where we were absolutely brilliant. … Harry, he’s a little magi­cian,” Clark said. “He was just shaking and baking. He scored a goal, had [two] as­sists. Ryan Finley [made] those superb runs in behind defenses. These guys just carved it up.” 
Notre Dame came out strong again Sunday against Clemson, jumping out to a 1-0 lead off junior forward Alex Priede’s first career goal. Priede slammed home a rebound from senior mid­fielder Kyle Richard’s at­tempt in the 15th minute. 
Clemson drew even in the 37th minute off an Irish own goal, but Irish senior mid­fielder and captain Dillon Powers restored Notre Dame’s lead in the 43rd min­ute. Finley pushed the ball down the field and into the 18-yard box before dumping off the ball to Powers, who found the back of the net from 15 yards out. The Irish outshot Clemson 12-2 in the opening frame and carried their one-goal advantage into the break. 
Notre Dame also had a majority of scoring chances in an active, albeit scoreless, second half as they secured 
see CLARK PAGE 14 

By CONOR KELLY 
Sports Writer 
After facing two of the na­tion’s top teams last week­end in No. 1 UCLA and No. 4 Nebraska, the Irish came out rejuvenated by the stiff competition and swept their slate at the Shamrock Invitational at the Joyce Center. 
The team captured 9 of 11 sets en route to victories over Alabama-Birmingham, last weekend’s gauntlet of a schedule for much of her team’s improved play. 
Buffalo  and  Eastern  
Kentucky.  Irish  coach  
Debbie  Brown  credited  

“The benefits of having played such great competi­tion are many,” Brown said. “We really got a picture of the way the top teams in the country are playing, and we learned a lot about ourselves. Our increas­ing knowledge showed this weekend. It’s things like not going for a kill on every swing that help us keep our unforced errors down.” 
Though Brown might have seen greater maturity from her squad, there was no shortage of offensive firepower on display, es­pecially from the tandem of sophomore outside hit­ters Toni Alugbue and Jeni Houser. The duo combined for 93 kills on the weekend (49 for Alugbue and 44 for Houser) and paced an Irish squad that hit at over a .300 clip for the three games. Alugbue alone slugged .700 on Saturday against Buffalo, joining Mary Kate Waller as the only Irish 
see ALUGBUE PAGE 14 






