
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


Mod quad, God quad win energy competition 
Winning dorms reduce energy consumption by 15.7 percent as part of Campus Conservation Nationals 

By ANN MARIE JAKUBOWSKI 
News Writer 
This past month, conserv­ing energy was a regional affair on campus, as dorms grouped as quads competed in the inaugural Quad Ener­gy Competition. 
According to a press re­lease from the Office of Sus­tainability, the Mod Quad and God Quad team of Car­roll Hall, Knott Hall, Pas­querilla East Hall, Pasque­rilla West Hall, Siegfried Hall, Sorin College, St. Ed­ward’s Hall and Walsh Hall won the $1,000 grand prize decisively, reducing energy consumption by 15.7 percent between March 10 and 30, compared to baseline data from the end of February. 

North Quad finished sec­ond, conserving energy by 7.3 percent. South Quad saved 
6.6 percent more energy and West Quad decreased energy consumption by 3.1 percent, according to the press re­lease. 
Rachel Novick, outreach program manager for the Of­fice of Sustainability, said Notre Dame’s Quad Energy Competition is a part of Cam­pus Conservation Nationals (CCN), a nationwide energy conservation contest in col­lege dorms involving over 150 schools. 
“Each school gets to pick a three-week period between February and April in which to run their competition, 

see ENERGY/page 5 


Student coalition seeks to promote human dignity 
By DAN BROMBACH member groups. call to make this university man dignity issues,” he said. tions such as Right to Life News Writer “We thought that maybe if a healing, unifying and en-Caponigro said the coali-and the Black Student Asso­
we started a dialogue with lightening force in a world tion hopes to become a pow-ciation, and hopes to further 
The Notre Dame Coalition each other that we could that’s deeply in need,” he erful advocate for human expand as it becomes better for Human Dignity formed help each other to move for-said. “That has been our dignity by bringing together organized, Caponigro said. this semester with the goal ward on some of these hu-rallying call.” a diverse spectrum of clubs He said the coalition is em-of fostering communication man dignity issues, to be Caponigro said the coali-and individuals from across powered by its diverse mem­among clubs working on is-more effective and reach out tion is inspired and driven campus. bership, but this diversity sues of human dignity, as to more people,” he said. by Notre Dame’s special sta-“We want to build a coali-can complicate its ability to well as raising awareness of Caponigro said the Notre tus as a university focused tion that bridges the gap be-make unified decisions. the work these clubs do on Dame Coalition for Hu-on social concerns issues. tween students, administra-“The coalition revolves campus. man Dignity was founded “We at [Notre Dame] have tors and faculty members so around partnership, sitting 
Freshman organizer Matt as a passionate answer to a a unique calling, especially that we can be truly effec-down at the table and talk-Caponigro said the coalition heartfelt request from Fa-among other universities, to tive in restoring human dig-ing about what we’ve been derives its strength from the ther Jenkins. do some real good for our nity to all people,” he said. working on,” he said, “But cohesion and spirit of co-“The coalition is our re-brothers and sisters to start The coalition has already operation shared among its sponse to Father Jenkins’ serious dialogue about hu-grown to include organiza-see COALITION/page 5 

Acousticafe features student musicians 
By TORI ROECK 
News Writer 
On Thursday nights at 10 p.m., Acousticafe transforms the basement of LaFortune Student Center from a dreary study space to a hip venue for live music. 
Junior Matthew Alma­rio, the Student Union Board (SUB) Acousticafe program­mer, said the weekly event showcases students’ perfor­mance skills in an informal, low-key atmosphere. 
“Aside from bigger concerts at Legends, there are not re­ally too many places where students can perform,” Alma­rio said. “So it’s a way for mu­sicians here on campus to get their music out there and to create a nice environment on Thursday nights.” 
Each week, students sign up for six 15-minute slots, and each act performs three to four songs, Almario said. 
Although the most popu­lar format for performers is a singer accompanied by acoustic guitar, Almario said Acousticafe attracts a wide 


see MUSIC/page 5 

GANEY COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT AWARDS 

JODI LO/The Observer 

Professor James Schmiedeler received the Capital Faculty Community-based Research Award on Wednesday for his work in technological innovations for people suffering from paralysis. 
INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER DPAC director performs in show page 3 u Viewpoint page 8 u New actresses in Hollywood page 10 u Football spring practice page 20 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: IF YOU COULD HAVE AN ACCENT, WHAT WOULD IT BE? 

www.ndsmcobserver.com 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
Allan Joseph 

Managing Editor Business Manager 
Megan Doyle Jeff Liptak 
Asst. Managing Editor: Andrew Owens Asst. Managing Editor: Sam Stryker News Editor: Kristen Durbin Viewpoint Editor: Meghan Thomassen Sports Editor: Chris Allen Scene Editor: Kevin Noonan Saint Mary’s Editor: Jillian Barwick Photo Editor: Suzanna Pratt Graphics Editor: Brandon Keelean Advertising Manager: Katherine Lukas Ad Design Manager: Amanda Jonovski Controller: Jason Taulman Systems Administrator: William Heineman 

Office Manager & General Info 
(574) 631-7471 
Fax 
(574) 631-6927 
Advertising 

(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 

Editor-in-Chief 

(574) 631-4542 ajoseph2@nd.edu 
Managing Editor 

(574) 631-4542 mdoyle11@nd.edu 
Assistant Managing Editors 

(574) 631-4541 aowens2@nd.edu, sstryke1@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 


News Desk 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
Viewpoint Desk 

(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 
Sports Desk 

(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 

Scene Desk 

(574) 631-4540 knoonan2@nd.edu 
Saint Mary’s Desk 
jbarwi01@saintmarys.edu 


Photo Desk 

(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 


Policies 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College.  Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Allan Joseph. 

Post Office Information 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 and additional mailing offices 024 South Dining hall 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-077 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

Alessandro DiSanto  Caroline Bernardi  Mackenzie Kraft  Vincent Aquino  Chrissie Diebold  Rob Piscatelli  
freshman Keough  sophomore Lewis  sophomore McGlinn  junior Dillon  junior Ryan  junior Dillon  
“Southern Baptist.”  “Tami Taylor.”  “Texas forever!”  “Canadian.”  “British.”  “Australian.”  



Have an idea for Question of the Day? Email obsphoto@gmail.com 


TODAY’S STAFF 
News 
Tori Roeck Dan Brombach Abi Hoverman 
Graphics 
Elisa De Castro 
Photo 
Mackenzie Sain 
Sports 

Mike Monaco Joseph Monardo Peter Steiner 
Scene 

Kevin Noonan 
Viewpoint 
Caroline Lang 
OFFBEAT 
Alabama judge orders man to jail for sagging pants 
PRATTVILLE, Ala. — A central Alabama judge or­dered a man to serve three days in jail for contempt of court for wearing so-called saggy pants. 
Twenty-year-old LaMar­cus D. Ramsey was in Au­tauga County Circuit Court on Tuesday to enter a plea on a charge of receiving sto­len property. 
Circuit Judge John Bush told Ramsey his blue jeans were sagging too low and gave him the three-day stint. The judge told Ramsey to buy pants that fit or a belt when he gets out of the county jail. 
The judge says he finds 

LOCAL WEATHER 

it disrespectful and a dis­ruption when people wear pants below their waistline in his chambers. 
“To me it’s not any differ­ent than if someone stood up in court and started cussing everybody out,” Bush said. “It’s disrespectful conduct and I think as judges we’re expected to at least have some degree of control and respect for the courtroom the people have given us charge of.” 
Cow escapes slaughterhouse, will be spared 
PATERSON, N.J. — A cow that escaped from a New Jersey slaughterhouse will be spared. 
The black-and-white bo­vine was running through the streets of Paterson sometime after 8 p.m. Tues­day. 
Animal control officer John De Cando tells The Record newspaper it was like “Dodge City” with po­lice cars trying to corral the 750-pound animal. But the cow managed to break loose. 
De Cando tranquilized the cow after it became trapped between a fire hydrant and a truck. 
De Cando says the slaugh­terhouse owner has prom­ised to take the animal to a farm. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
IN BRIEF 
Sorin College hosts the third annual chicken nugget eating contest, the Chick-Fil-A Challenge today from 4 to 7 p.m. in the Sorin Room of the LaFortune Stu­dent Center. The $10 entry fee includes all the chicken you can eat in 90 seconds. 
The Higgins Labor Stud­ies Program is hosting a workshop titled “Blogging the Crisis,” based on eco­nomics professor David Ruccio’s blog on the Second Great Depression tonight at 5 p.m. in the Geddes Hall Coffee House. Participants should familiarize them­selves with his blog before the workshop and come with comments, suggestions and questions. 
A panel discussion “Sa­bor Latino Voices of the Community” will discuss Latino community efforts and engagement opportuni­ties in Michiana today at 6 
p.m. in the Coleman-Morse Student Lounge. 
Notre Dame College Re­publicans will host their signature event, the Lin­coln Day Dinner, today at 6 p.m. in the Oak Room of South Dining Hall. Steve Lonegan, director of the New Jersey chapter of Americans for Prosperity, and Gretchen Hamel, ex­ecutive director of Public Notice, will be speaking. 
Installation and sculpture artist Patricia Villalobos will give a lecture today at 7 
p.m. in Room 200 of the Ri­ley Hall of Art and Design. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews.nd@gmail.com 

TODAY TONIGHT FRIDAY SATURDAY SUNDAY MONDAY 









CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
HIGH 49 LOW 34 

HIGH 64 LOW 52 
HIGH 68 LOW 60 

HIGH 67 LOW 46 
HIGH 65 LOW 47 

DPAC director to perform in charity dance showcase 
By JILLIAN BARWICK 
Saint Mary’s Editor 
A small town farm girl who grew up on disco fever, Anna Thompson, executive director for the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center, will fulfill her dream of being a dancing queen in “Danc­ing with Our Stars,” an event benefitting the South Bend Cen­ter for the Homeless. 
Thompson will participate in the competition at the Hilton Garden Inn on April 20 at 6:30 p.m. 
Thompson said she will per­form the hustle at the event to the Motown classic “Working My Way Back to You” by The Spin­ners. 
“I know the basic tango, fox trot, cha-cha and the hustle,” she said. “I have always loved danc­ing, and I have been watching ‘Dancing With the Stars’ since it began. My all-time favorite [con­testant] was Emmett Smith.” 
Thompson said her love of dance started early. 
“My dad was a wonderful dancer, and I followed him wher­ever he led me,” she said. “When I was in college, I would bring my friends back home to Kalam­azoo, [Mich.,] and we would go dancing and have a great time.” 
Thompson said as the curator of performing arts programming at Notre Dame, she develops in­terdisciplinary projects with vis­iting artists to the University. 
In addition, Thompson said she has commissioned the first new works in music, dance and theatre bearing the name of the University to tour nationally and internationally. 
Thompson said she has man­aged to balance her demanding job with intense dance practice. 
“As part of the competition, DanceSport in Mishawaka has donated 10 lessons to each con­testant for preparation,” she said. “I really, really love to dance though, so I have taken more lessons outside of the allot­ted 10.” 
Thompson’s partner for the gala, Matt Smith, has been dancing for four years and has taught ballroom, Latin and swing dancing at DanceSport. Thompson said Smith is cur­rently the dance director and full-time dance instructor at the studio. 


“Matt has been wonderful,” she said. “He is an excellent teacher, and had to take on the task of teaching me to not lead him.” 
Thompson said Smith choreo­graphed the dance as soon as she specified the song and style she wanted.  
“When I told him I wanted to perform the hustle to ‘Working My Way Back to You,’ he looked at me, turned on the music, and began leading me into step af­ter step,” she said. “The song is over three minutes unedited.” 
As part of the competition, people donate $39 to vote for their favorite performers. This amount is the minimum num­ber of dollars it takes to support one person at the center for one day, Thompson said. 
“The Center for the Home­less is not a revolving door of people just walking in and out every day and night,” she said. “The center seeks to help their guests for as long as it takes to get them back on their feet. These donations will really help operations at the center.” 

Thompson is currently third in the polls. She said her total fundraising goal is $20,000, and she needs around 200 more votes to reach her target. 
People can vote for Thomp­son online, or can send a check made to the South Bend Center for the Homeless. 
“This really is a great cause for people to donate their time and effort to,” Thompson said. “My personal motto has always been ‘Just get up and dance!’ and that is exactly what I am doing.” 
Contact Jillian Barwick at jbarwi01@saintmarys.edu 
SENATE 

Group discusses The Shirt 

By MARISA IATI “It definitely needs to be Associate News Editor a student effort,” he said. 
“We’re working really closely 

Student Senate discussed with the dorms to be a re-potential changes to freshman source … [The] goal is creat­orientation and the upcoming ing a sense of belonging on unveiling of The Shirt at its campus.” meeting Wednesday. To improve orientation, 
Junior Ricky Bevington, senators suggested increas-Student Campus Orientation ing the comfort of lesbian, Committee chairperson, said gay, transgender and ques­the committee hopes fresh-tioning (LGBTQ) students, man orientation can be a “ve-instituting diversity training, hicle for inclusion” at Notre reforming the College HAS Dame. (Hookups, Alcohol and Sex­ual Assault) Issues program, hosting a sexual education session and distributing a sheet with useful miscella­neous information. 
Bevington said anyone with suggestions about reforming freshman orientation should email scoc@nd.edu. 
Senior Paul Baranay, vice president of The Shirt Proj­ect, said The Shirt will be un­veiled April 20 at the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore. Alta Gracia Apparel, a company with a social concerns focus, will produce this year’s The Shirt, he said. 
“They have a factory down in the Dominican Repub­lic where they pay all their workers a living wage, sev­eral times higher than other factories,” he said. 
The price of The Shirt will increase from $15 to $18 this year, Baranay said, but shirts will be sold to students for $15 at the unveiling ceremo­ny. 
Baranay said some of the proceeds from sales will ben­efit The Shirt Charity Fund, which gives money to stu­dents who could not other­wise afford to participate in campus activities. The rest of the profits will cover stu­dents’ medical costs and fund student organizations, he said. 
“Last year, we sold 165,000 shirts and we raised over $700,000 for students,” Ba­ranay said. 
Senate also approved junior Katie Hennessy for the posi­tion of Judicial Council’s vice president of elections. 
Contact Marisa Iati at miati@nd.edu 


Council honors work of intercultural leadership center 
By BRIDGET FEENEY 
Associate Saint Mary’s Editor 
The National Council for Research on Women (NCRW) recently named Saint Mary’s Center for Women’s Intercul­tural Leadership (CWIL) the recipient of the 2012 Diversity and Inclusion Award. 
According to the organi­zation’s website, the NCRW is composed of a team of re­searchers dedicated to cre­ating informed policies and debates to explore issues prevalent to young girls and women. 
The Diversity and Inclusion Award is presented to organi­zations that expand upon its leadership, programs, policies and research activities in or­der to include minorities, the website said. This year, CWIL was one of two centers chosen for the award. 
Elaine Meyer-Lee, director of CWIL, said the recogni­tion is a great honor for Saint Mary’s. 
“NCRW involves many high­ly accomplished women lead­ers and institutions, and this award affirms Saint Mary’s national leadership role in improving the lives of women and girls,” she said. “It high­lights our success and com­mitment to the challenging is­sues of diversity.” 
Meyer-Lee said the group’s mission to promote diversity has only become more promi­nent at Saint Mary’s since the center was founded in 2000. 
“Inclusive excellence is in­fused through all that CWIL has done over the past decade, attracting, engaging and men­toring diverse staff, students and participants on and off-campus to foster intercultural competence in the next gen­eration of women leaders,” she said. 
Meyer-Lee said this award is especially important, because it comes from a national level. 
“It is a great honor to have 
“We have been quite suc­cessful in the criteria the award addresses, such as in­corporating diverse leaders, attracting and engaging di­verse participants, building in mentorship, having an impact on our broader community and establishing sustainable and replicable diversity and inclusion strategies,” she said. 
Despite the award and rec­ognition that comes with it, 
there are still 
some chal­
the creative, p a s s io n at e , and sustained work towards  “Winning this award is important to us because Saint Mary’s has invested so much effort into our  lenges with p r om o t i ng diversity on campus. Mey­ 
inclusive ex­cellence that CWIL staff has dedicated themselves to … rewarded  commitment to diversity and inclusion, including through CWIL, and our results do deserve national recognition.”  er-Lee said. “At Saint Mary’s, as in other higher e duc a t i o n institutions,  
by not only s u c c es s f u l  Elaine Meyer-Lee  any kind of i n stit ution- 
achievement  director  wide  change  
and local im­pact, but also r e c o g n i t i o n  Center for Women’s Intercultural Leadership  p r o c e s s moves slow­ly, given the  
from such an  c o m p le x i t y  

esteemed national organiza-of all the different aspects it tion as the [NCRW],” she said. will have an impact on, on top 
Meyer-Lee said some of of the normal human comfort the noteworthy programs with familiarity,” she said. CWIL offers include a nation-“Keeping a persistent, creative al “Women as Intercultural and multi-faceted approach is Leaders” conference, unique necessary to move the whole study abroad opportunities in institution forward.” Africa and Asia and the cre-Saint Mary’s and CWIL will ation of the Women’s Entre-formally receive the award at preneurship Initiative. All of the opening night of NCRW’s these programs achieve the annual conference, “Agenda goals outlined by the NCRW, Setting 2012 Nationally and she said. Globally: Leveraging Wom­en’s Voices,” in Washington on June 20, Meyer-Lee said. 
“Winning this award is im­portant to us because Saint Mary’s has invested so much effort into our commitment to diversity and inclusion, in­cluding through CWIL, and our results do deserve na­tional recognition,” she said. “I hope this award might bring additional support to Saint Mary’s for the College’s great commitment to this area.” 

Contact Bridget Feeney at bfeene01@saintmarys.edu 


Music 
continued from page 1 
variety of artists. 
“There are people who do four or five-piece sets,” he said. “This Thursday, there’s going to be a person doing a guitar, a box-drum and a trombone in one act. Another act is going to be a person on a trumpet [with] violin and guitar. Some­times, we get a lot of differ­ent instruments.” 
Best of Acousticafe takes place at Reckers the last Thursday of every month. Acts are chosen by students’ votes in an online poll avail­able on the SUB website and Facebook page, a change Al­mario said started this year. 
“Before, it was a subjective thing. [SUB] would just pick the four or five perform­ers people thought were the best,” he said. “But this is a way for students to provide their input.” 
Reckers is also a new ven­ue for Best of Acousticafe, which used to take place in LaFortune basement before this year, Almario said. 
“Reckers has given us a nice stage, so we’ve had a much larger turnout,” he said. 
Almario said at its peak, Acousticafe attracts about 75 attendees, and he encour­ages students to come sup­port their peers. 
“It’s a good time to see peo­ple you know in your classes and say, ‘Oh wow, this kid’s got a voice,’” he said. 
Sophomore Erin Hanratty said she began performing at Acousticafe last spring at her resident assistant’s [RA] suggestion. 
“I originally heard about it from my RA last year, be­cause one of her friends used to do it,” Hanratty said. “I had my guitar here and I would play guitar with my friends and sing for them … and my RA said, ‘You would like doing Acousticafe.’” 
Hanratty said she per­formed at open mic nights in high school and wanted to continue in college. 
“In high school, I played random stuff at my school, and a little bit of open mic stuff where I lived, so when I came to college, I was defi­nitely interested in doing stuff like that because I re­ally liked performing for people,” she said. 
Hanratty said she sings and plays guitar at Acousti­cafe, performing both covers and original songs. 
“I write my own songs, so sometimes I do a couple orig­inals and then mix in a few covers too, like Taylor Swift or Matt Nathanson,” she said. 
Acousticafe is a good, re­laxed environment for stu­dent musicians to display their talents, Hanratty said. 
“It’s cool to be able to have a place to perform and have it be really low-pressure and for the fun of it,” she said. “It doesn’t need to be a big orga­nized choir or anything you need to try out for. If people want to share their music, they have a place to do it.” 
Contact Tori Roeck vroeck@nd.edu 
Coalition 
continued from page 1 

it’s tricky, because there are a lot of different people at the table.” 
In the future, the coali­tion hopes to host a signa­ture event before the end of the year to raise awareness and encourage student par­ticipation in the fight for 
Energy 
continued from page 1 

and each uses a baseline to level the playing field,” Novick said. “At the end of April, CCN will announce the final results, and we’ll find out how we did rela­tive to other participating schools.” 
Novick said publicity made a difference in the competition’s results. 
“From what I’ve heard from Mod [and] God Quad, there was a ton of publicity and residents really rallied around the competition and made a concerted effort to keep up the energy conser­vation,” Novick said. “Ini­tially, they were behind, but they didn’t give up and surged ahead in the last week of the competition.” 
Junior Martha Dee, Walsh Hall sustainabil­ity commissioner, said pro­moting the competition in her dorm contributed to its success. 
human dignity, Carponigro said. 
“We’re hoping to do something like a concert on South Quad that brings everybody together, that shows our classmates and the rest of the Notre Dame community that we really do care about human dig­nity issues,” he said. 
Caponigro said he is ex­cited for the coalition to forge closer bonds with Notre Dame as it matures and expands as an organi­zation. 
“We’re looking forward to developing stronger relation­ships with the administration and with our peers so that we can really work together as a unified front,” he said. 
Contact Dan Brombach at dbrombac@nd.edu 

“I used Hall Council as a way to get the word out about the competition and to rally up some support,” Dee said. “We put up signs strips and defrost their re­frigerators for the week,” she said. “We tried to de­crease elevator use and use the stairs more often.” 
in each of the bathrooms During the to promote turning off the lights “I used Hall Council as a and made way to get the word out a conscious about the competition and 
effort to 

to rally up some support. 
turn off 

We put up signs in each of 
lights in 

the bathrooms to promote 
large social 

turning off the lights 
spaces.” 

and made a conscious 
Part of the compe-effort to turn off lights tition took in large social spaces.” place dur­ing spring 
Martha Dee 
break, and 

sustainability commissioner 
Dee said 

Walsh Hall 
eliminating “vampire energy” from unused electronics for potential 
competition, the Energy Dashboard on the Of­fice of Sus­tainability website was updated fre­quently to track the competi­tion’s prog­ress. This feature will continue to run to chart the energy use of indi­vidual dorms to increase awareness 
 opportuni­

during this time was impor­tant to the victory. 
“Since the competition was over spring break, I really tried to encour­age girls to unplug their chargers, switch off power ties to save energy in the dorms, according to the Of­fice of Sustainability press release. 
Contact Ann Marie Jakubowski at ajakubo1@nd.edu 


Government sues Apple over ebooks 

Associated Press 
WASHINGTON — The gov­ernment says avid best-seller readers who use electron­ic books have been getting ripped off. Tina Fey’s “Bossy Pants,” Tim Tebow’s “Through My Eyes” and Keith Richards’ “’Life” — maybe they should have cost less. 
The Justice Department and 15 states sued Apple Inc. and major book publishers Wednesday, alleging a con­spiracy that raised the price of electronic books. They said the scheme cost consumers more than $100 million in the past two years by adding $2 or $3, sometimes as much as $5, to the price of each e-book. 
If there was price fixing, even the e-book version of the hot-selling Walter Isaacson bi­ography of Steve Jobs, the late genius behind Apple comput­ers, may have cost too much. 
Attorney General Eric Hold­er said executives at the high­est levels of the companies conspired to eliminate com­petition among e-book sellers. Justice’s antitrust chief, Sha­ris Pozen, said the executives were desperate to get Amazon. com — the marketer of Kindle e-book readers — to raise the $9.99 price point it had set for the most popular e-book titles, because that was substan­tially below their hardcover prices. 
The federal government reached a settlement with three of the publishers, Ha­chette, HarperCollins and Simon & Shuster. But it will proceed with its lawsuit in federal court in New York City against Apple and Holtzbrinck Publishers, doing business as Macmillan, and The Penguin Publishing Co. Ltd., doing business as Penguin Group. 
Connecticut and Texas, two of the 15 states filing a sepa­rate lawsuit, reached agree­ments with Hachette and HarperCollins to provide $52 million in restitution to con­sumers, using a formula based on the number of states par­ticipating and the number of e-books sold in each state. Other states in the case may sign onto the agreement, and other companies might be per­suaded to join. 
Susan E. Kinsman of the Connecticut attorney general’s office said it’s too early to say how consumers can go about getting refunds. But there could be millions of people ap­plying. A recent Pew Research Center survey found that 21 percent of adults said they had read an e-book in the last year. 
Since Amazon introduced the Kindle in 2007, e-book sales have surged. They rep­resented just 2 percent of all titles sold in the United States that year, but soared to 25 per­cent last year. In 2010, about 114 million e-books were sold at a total cost of $441.3 mil­lion. 
Holder told a Justice Depart­ment news conference that “we believe that consumers paid millions of dollars more for some of the most popular titles” as a result of the al­leged conspiracy. Pozen said the scheme added an average of $2 to $3 to the prices of in­dividual e-books. 
Connecticut Attorney Gener­al George Jepsen said the indi­vidual book markups went as high as $5 and the total cost to consumers was more than $100 million since April 2010, when the scheme allegedly took effect. 
The government lawsuits did not disclose individual titles whose prices were allegedly jacked up. The Fey, Tebow, Richards and Isaacson books all came out in electronic ver­sions from the named publish­ers after April 2010. 
According to Pozen, Apple’s Steve Jobs told publishers in­volved in the alleged conspir­acy that “the customer pays a little more, but that’s what you want anyway.” 
The lawsuit said the effort to get e-book prices increased by Amazon.com came as Ap­ple was preparing to launch the iPad. The government said the conspirators agreed that instead of selling books to re­tailers and letting them decide what retail price to charge, the publishers would convert the retailers into “agents” who could sell their books but not alter the publisher-set retail price. The scheme called for Apple to be guaranteed a 30 percent commission on each e-book it sold, the lawsuit said. 
“To effectuate their conspir­acy, the publisher defendants teamed up with defendant Apple, which shared the same goal of restraining retail price competition in the sale of e-books,” the lawsuit said. 


Obama and Romney prepare to square off 

Associated Press 
WASHINGTON — For all the turmoil of the long primary season, President Barack Obama is right where he ex­pected to be: taking on Mitt Romney and targeting him as a wishy-washy protector of the rich. With the November outcome likely to hinge on the economy, Obama will now en­gage more directly with the help of an experienced, well-financed campaign organiza­tion. 
The campaign for the White House took on a decidedly dif­ferent feel on Wednesday, a true two-man race for the first time. Yet even as Republican Rick Santorum’s withdrawal a day earlier changed the dy­namic, beginning the general election in earnest, the con­tours of the Romney-Obama race had already been becom­ing clear. 
Both sides will keep pound­ing voters with ferocious ar­guments over who has the best vision for jobs, economic security and giving Ameri­cans a shot at a better life. In sharp and steady doses, directly or through aides, Obama and Romney will also accuse the other of be­ing dishonest with voters and out-of-touch with their daily woes. 
Everything gets faster and louder now. 

Obama will pick his spots in targeting Romney directly until the election draws clos­er, needing to juggle the de­mands of his job and eager to remind everyone that he is the one who is already the president. Obama’s Chicago-based campaign, meanwhile, will be working vigorously to challenge Romney and try to define him. 
In a sign of the bitter fight ahead, Obama campaign manager Jim Messina went after Romney the day the race was joined: “The more the American people see of Mitt Romney, the less they like him and the less they trust him.” The Obama campaign followed that on Wednesday with a video of some of Rom­ney’s most divisive or awk­ward moments during the Republican primaries, titled: “Mitt Romney: Memories to last a lifetime.” 
The events that shape the race may well be surprises to the candidates as well as everyone else, like the eco­nomic collapse of late 2008. If the campaigns have their way, however, the narratives are set: Romney assailing Obama as an economic fail­ure who had his shot, and Obama depicting Romney as one who would gut middle-class America. 


page 8 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com Thursday, April 12, 2012 
INSIDE COLUMN 

The view from halfway 
Don’t look now, but the year is almost over. 
One month separates us from the freedom, sunshine and boredom of summer. I am not sure where the year went, but we are entering into the Conor Kelly last quarter of the semester, or eighth Sports Writer of the year, at least according to the highly scientific approach of dividing the school year up into the periods between breaks. As we begin the last sliver of the year, a segment that passes faster than good weather in South Bend, I have come to the startling realization that, for all in­tents and purposes, I am halfway done with my time at Notre Dame. Class, weekend, class, weekend, class, week­end, finals, out of here. 
While current juniors and seniors might smirk and say that it is both way too soon and way too indulgent of me to think about my dwindling days on Our Lady’s campus, the sudden shift over the hump that is the end of sophomore year is somewhat unsettling. I think of it as a metaphorical continental divide, where one stops looking back to the past and reverses the flow towards the future. 
I remember taking stock at the end of the first semester four months ago and being somewhat comforted by the fact that I had five semesters remain­ing in college. Three-eighths is not so intimidating of a fraction. Now, all of a sudden, the denominator of that frac­tion has changed to a two for the first time, and the thought is sobering. If there were a giant line that demarcated the two halves of one’s time in college, I feel that my classmates and I are in the process of storming across it. 
Last month, most of us engaged in the annual ordeal of room picks, the majority of us for the second time and, for many of us, the last. In just a couple of weeks, we will choose classes for the fifth time. For those of us studying abroad, this means that we will regis­ter for classes only two more times at Notre Dame, most likely for senior year. Things get real quickly. 
On the topic of study abroad, perhaps there is nothing else that makes your time feel more fleeting than the pros­pect of spending a semester somewhere else. I find myself talking to friends going abroad in the fall (I am going in the spring) and realizing that after this month, many of us will not see each other until senior year. 
Senior year. It is a scary thought. 
Luckily, however, there still is plenty of time left. I have still never climbed Stepan, won an interhall champion­ship, even considered attempting the Hesburgh Challenge, or done many of the other things that must grace a Notre Dame student’s bucket list. Three semesters is more than enough time to do all that, if I move fast. 
Up until this point, I’ve still thought of myself as somewhat of a newcomer to Notre Dame, still learning the ropes in some places. The thought that I will soon be older (and hopefully wiser) than the average student here has me won­dering if it isn’t time to start being more responsible, stop going to bed so late, maybe grab more vegetables at the din­ing hall. You know, more like an adult. 
Nah, there’s still plenty of time. 
Contact Conor Kelly at      ckelly17@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Primary nonsense 
Many conservatives, myself included, have been pretty disappointed with this year’s Republican presidential pri­mary. While the field is narrowing and a winner seems to be emerging, Mark Easley the entire pro­cess has been Elephant in taxing on an the Room electorate that was so charged to displace the current incumbent after all the damage done to this country for present and future generations. A conservative revival that began shortly after 2008 and manifested itself in Tea Party politics that showed tremendous influence in 2010 has taken a huge hit by the lack­luster choices in candidates for the top position in global politics. 
While the battle cry still remains “Anybody but Obama” in most Republi­can circles, it is hard to get excited for a Wall Street fat cat, who is detached from most of America and thinks he can simply buy power, even though his stated policies are significant improve­ments over the current regime. It is my belief that the primary system is largely to blame for our poor choice of party nominees this year and in the past.  
Drawn-out primaries are bad for ev­eryone. The voters get tired of hearing about the race, and it’s not even the big dance yet. The party establishment is forced to pick sides and bicker amongst 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

each other until a victor emerges. The candidates weaken each other with devastating attacks that should be reserved for the other side. Crazy ideas of stolen conventions, wild card delegates and phantom votes begin to emerge to comfort supporters of losing candidates. And the worst of all is the last few states to vote basically don’t get their voices heard after all is said and done. Indiana is among these unlucky few. 
Something does not add up in this system. If a short primary is good, that means most states’ votes don’t count and a few relatively small states get to dictate party nominees. If a long pri­mary is good, then the party is not in as strong a position to win the actual presidential race that matters at the expense of more people getting their votes counted. Does anyone else think this is stupid? 
Primaries should be held on the same day. Every state gets their voice heard without significant influence from others. All the candidates get to campaign on a national level, not state by state, just as they would in the real campaign. If you want financing, you better be famous or creative with your personal branding. How many great candidates have fallen over the course of a race because they did poorly in certain geographies or were victims of bad press in the 24-hour news cycle? 
If we examine the last few years we likely would have seen Bush vs. Gore in 2000 like we did, but Bush vs. Wesley Clark or Howard Dean in 2004 would be more likely on a same day primary schedule. Hillary Clinton vs. Rudy Guil­iani or Mitt Romney would have been a likely match-up in 2008. And for 2012, Newt Gingrich or Herman Cain or even Rick Perry would have had much stronger showings. 
Maybe a counterargument would be that the candidates won’t be properly vetted, but I what I’m proposing is not an accelerated primary season, just one where voting takes place on a set date. If the last vote of the season is in early June now, just have the Repub­lican primary in June. Alternatively, have it on Super Tuesday. The day does not matter. The point is everyone is aware when the election is supposed to take place and that it is nationwide.  
If the real presidential election was spread out over five months and went state by state, I think everyone would agree that the process would be totally ludicrous. So why do we have to put up with it in the primaries? Let people make up their own minds and let every vote count. 
Mark Easley is a senior computer science major. He can be contacted at measley@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“Don’t go around saying the world owes you a living. The world owes you nothing. It was here first.” 
Mark Twain 
U.S. author 


WEEKLY POLL 

Is Haley Scott DeMaria a good choice to be the Commencement speaker? 
Yes — she’ll be inspiring No — she’s too low-profile 
Vote by 5 p.m. Thursday at 
ndsmcobserver.com 


Thursday, April 12, 2012 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 9 
A blueprint for America’s fiscal future 
Social Security, Medicare and Med­icaid are fundamental to American society. They provide much-needed financial security to the poor, disabled and elderly. But as I wrote last time, these programs are growing at unsustain-Adam Newman able rates, and there are economic, fiscal Scientia and moral imperatives Potentia Est for reform. Too often lawmakers and other commentators speak about the need to reform these programs without offering solutions (as I did in my last article.) To break this trend, I am going to explore the best policy options for reforming each of these programs. 
There are only two changes that can be made to Social Security in order to avoid it going bankrupt in 2036: raising the amount collected through payroll taxes and lowering future benefits. Raising the payroll tax (currently paid at 6.2 percent of income by both em­ployer and employee) and the income cap (currently at $110,000) are neces­sary, but projections show that neither alone will be enough to fund Social Security over the long term. Thus, along with tax increases, benefit increases will have to be slowed for most but raised for the neediest seniors. The re­tirement age will have to increase by a year or two but exempt those who are in physically intensive labor professions. 
What usually gets lost when examin­ing Social Security is that it was never meant to provide a retiree’s entire source of income. Currently, Social Security provides only half of what a middle class American would need for a comfortable retirement. Thus, to promote better savings, the government should reform the tax code and create mandatory 401Ks for retirement (in ad­dition to Social Security) that would give people the flexibility to choose how they invest. 
Many people currently believe that Social Security poses a larger fiscal problem than Medicare and Medicaid. This is partially due to the fact that the Social Security trust fund will go bank­rupt in 2036 and currently makes up the same percentage of the federal bud­get as Medicare and Medicaid combined (roughly 20 percent.) However, as health care costs grow, Medicare and Medic­aid will grow much faster than Social Security, which is why reforming these two programs should have much higher priority than reforming Social Security. 
The overall issue with Medicare and Medicaid is that they simply reimburse for the high cost, low quality care that has become the trademark of the Amer­ican health care system. Most people believe that our system is the best in the world, and on some metrics (usu­ally inputs) they are correct: doctors, technology, treatments and prescrip­tion drugs. However, on other metrics, (usually outcomes) the U.S health care system is mediocre: child mortality, life expectancy and even preventable deaths. Even with mediocre outcomes, America spends more on health care per person and as a percentage of GDP than any other country. 

The remarkable thing about health care is that changing how it is delivered can actually allow us to receive higher quality care while paying less. This can be achieved by implementing within the health care system the “Three I’s,” a concept belonging to Stanford Univer­sity Professor Victor Fuchs: infrastruc­ture, incentives and information. 
Infrastructure: America’s health care system does not have a seamless infrastructure where health care pro­viders coordinate patient care. Instead, America has a fractured infrastructure where thousands of independent provid­ers provide care to Americans without coordination. A robust health care infrastructure amongst other charac­teristics, would mandate collaboration amongst providers for patient care and incentivize a group of providers to pro­vide care to patients as a team. 
Incentives: America’s health care system utilizes “fee for service” reim­bursement, meaning providers are re­imbursed for every test, procedure and visit regardless of the health outcome. Incentives need to be realigned in the health care system by shifting from a fee for service reimbursement system towards a “fee for value” reimburse-
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Un-Christian behavior at Mass 
First off, I would like to commend everyone involved in the Easter Triduum at the Basilica of the Sacred Heart for such beau­tiful Masses. I highly suggest it for anyone who hasn’t yet gone; words cannot describe the experience. However, there was an aspect of Easter Vigil that I found particularly distasteful. Since it is such a special and unique Mass, a large line had built up outside of the Basilica, à la Disney World. Once the church bell tolled at 7:30 p.m., however, any semblance of order immedi­ately broke down. In a fashion reminiscent of a Black Friday opening at Wal-Mart, everyone ran in a haphazard scramble to claim a pew. For a few minutes, an unspoken mob mentality seemed to rule. When the dust settled, everyone sat solemnly as they waited for Mass to begin at 9 p.m., as if that shameful display a couple of minutes ago never happened. 
I don’t wish to place myself on some moral high ground, or be some kind of Jeremiah of Notre Dame; we each have our own sins and faults which only we and God can ever truly know. However, I want to point out the bitter irony of this un-Christian action in such a holy environment. One would think that in certain places, like the Basilica of the Sacred Heart, people would be more mindful of God’s presence and of their actions to their fellow neighbors. If you are sprinting into the Basilica to get a “pew with a view,” perhaps you should reevaluate why you are coming to Mass in the first place. The Mass is a time when all members of the Notre Dame family can come together and unite under the Roman Catholic faith that this University was founded upon. I did not see a spiritual family during the opening of the Basilica doors on that Saturday evening. 
David Smith 
sophomore Keough Hall April 11 

John Bolton at Notre Dame 
Former U.S. Ambassador to the United Nations John Bolton spoke this past Thursday at the Law School. The event was sponsored by the Notre Dame Federalist Society. 
As the Undersecretary of State for Arms Control and International Security Affairs for George W. Bush, Bolton was one of the principal architects in the build up for the illegal, immoral U.S. invasion of Iraq in 2003 and the execution thereof. Therefore, he is partly responsible for the deaths of thousands of Iraqis and Americans. 
In more recent years, John Bolton has clamored for attacking Iran in similar preemptive fashion. 
Speakers of different opinions should be welcome on our campus. John Bolton is no exception. However, his visit should not have been given a free pass. It should have been met with protest and moral outrage. 
Among the many things to say about John Bolton, one thing is for sure: He espouses positions and has helped enact poli­cies that are antithetical to Catholic teaching. One might say he does not respect the sanctity of life. And we should hold him accountable. 
Terry Fitzgibbons 
rector Duncan Hall April 11 


ment system. A fee for value reimburse­ment system would reimburse providers not for how many tests and procedures they utilize, but for the health outcomes of their patients. 
Information: Currently, there is a lack of information to inform doctors and insurers about the cost-effectiveness of different treatments, known as com­parative effectiveness research, or CER. Research shows that over 50 percent of treatments are not backed by any re­search into cost-effectiveness. If CER is funded and disseminated, the insurers could incentivize providers to practice the treatments that are the most “cost­effective.” 
I do not think I have ever produced a more boring article in my entire life, but I probably have not produced a more important one either. Reforming Social Security, Medicare and Medic­aid may be one of the most politically difficult, logistically challenging and most important things we can do as a country. There is no question that these programs are going to be reformed; the only question is whether it will be before or after an American sovereign debt crisis. 
Adam Newman is a junior finance major. He can be reached at anewman3@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
Postings at SMC 
To whom it may concern: 
This letter is in response to particular fliers, hanging in Regina Hall and which were reportedly posted by Feminists United. 
The fliers in question present a par­ticular political viewpoint in a pugilistic manner; namely, they attack specific members of an opposing political party by means of presenting quotes from the individuals under attack without proper context or citation. Furthermore, the fli­ers then proceed to give overly-simplistic interpretations of the candidates’ politi­cal views or platforms. This propaganda is neither helpful, respectful nor even in keeping with the goals of free speech at Saint Mary’s. As a Catholic institution of higher learning, Saint Mary’s has a responsibility to defend every individual’s right to express his or her viewpoint in a manner consistent with the College’s mis­sion of charitable, open-minded, construc­tive debate, which should facilitate an enrichment of all parties’ understanding of the issue at hand. There is no place at Saint Mary’s for discriminatory, passive-aggressive propaganda, which only serves to vent a particular group or individual’s perspective without allowing for any kind of open exchange of ideas between intel­ligent individuals. 
I am not writing in order to defend a particular political party, ideology, or per­spective beyond my own desire for a more mature and thoughtful discussion of po­litical issues, rather than a flier campaign which violates the principle of “caritas in veritate” — charity in truth — which, I hope, remains a fundamental part of the Saint Mary’s approach to the search for knowledge through questioning. 
Rebekah Wielgos 
junior St. Mary’s April 11 




By SAM STRYKER 
Assistant Managing Editor 
Spring has sprung, and with it, a new batch of chicks is hatching. No, not the avian kind, but of the cinematic vari­ety. The Hollywood box office is start­ing to heat up, and it isn’t just thanks to blockbusters like the recently released “The Hunger Games” or the heavily anticipated summer slate of films. No, there is something to be said for the ladies of many of these movies — they are young, gorgeous and most impor­tant, vying to be Hollywood’s next “It-Girl.” 
The barrage of eligible young lasses first hit with “The Hunger Games.” To be sure, the film’s massive box office haul is largely a product of the popular­ity of the book it was based off of. But someone had to bring these characters to life, most importantly, the heroine Katniss Everdeen. Many an actress could have simply shown up to the set, but Jennifer Lawrence embodied Kat­niss to the core. Lawrence is beautiful, spunky and talented — she was nomi­nated for an Oscar for Best Actress at the age of 20 for her work in “Winter’s Bone,” the second-youngest ever to ac­complish such an honor. 
Following swiftly behind Lawrence is Lily Collins, daughter of British musi­cian Phil Collins. Don’t be fooled by the famous last name — Collins may have a famous dad, but she is coming into her own, starring opposite Julia Roberts in the recently-released take on Snow White, “Mirror, Mirror.” Lily is young, beautiful and a hot acting commod­ity and like Lawrence, she seems to be known for her thespian talent, not her off-the-screen antics. 
Rounding out the list of up-and­coming actresses is Emma Stone, who perhaps best embodies this notion of the “new” Hollywood actress. Stone is swiftly approaching household-name status, thanks to her work in the crit­ically-acclaimed “The Help” and her upcoming role as Gwen Stacy in the superhero blockbuster “The Amazing Spiderman.” 
Once again, Stone is a young lady known for her acting chops — namely her biting wit and easygoing persona. It is easy to forget how beautiful she is when she is so talented and driven in her craft. It would seem Hollywood is in good, albeit manicured, hands. 
So why, all of a sudden, are these Hol­lywood actresses known for being just that — actresses, not celebrities, tab­loid-fodder and lightning rods for con­troversy? Point the figure at the long list of ladies who enjoy the spotlight too much – Lindsay Lohan and Megan Fox at the top — and to those who are ar­rogant or spiteful about their place in American culture — Katherine Heigl and Kristen Stewart immediately come to mind. 
Audiences tend to forget how tal­ented Lindsay is — “Mean Girls” is a cult-classic — and Fox starred in the first two installments of the gargan-tuan “Transformers” series. But then legal and personal problems began to envelope Lohan’s public persona, and Fox was essentially fired for comparing director Michael Bay to Hitler. Neither were very endearing to the American public and consequently, they may have blown their shot at Hollywood glory — though media attention seems to be in their grasp. 

Whereas some actresses become too media-exposed, others display a disdain for the limelight audiences find pretentious. Stewart’s notoriously pouty face and Heigl’s bratty com­ments — she withdrew her name from Emmy consideration because she didn’t feel her “Grey’s Anatomy” role was de­veloped enough, a slight to the show’s writers — have certainly pushed them out of favor with theatergoers, with neither attracting the following of lead­ing ladies such as Stone. Fame seems to be fickle, like a tightrope — you don’t want to be too comfortable with it, yet you also need to embrace it to a certain degree so as to not appear ungrateful. 
That isn’t to say the bevy of talented, young, spunky yet endearing young actresses are coming out of the blue. Emma Watson provides the blueprint for the latest crop of starlets. Despite starring in the “Harry Potter” series, one of the biggest Hollywood jugger­nauts ever, Watson still seems normal. 
While she embraced the spotlight, she also attended college for a few years, stayed out of the clubbing scene, never made any offensive comments and consequently has a following of millions of adoring fans. Following Hermione’s — sorry, Emma’s — blue­print seems to be a surefire way to suc­cess. America loves talented actresses 
— not talented train wrecks. 
Contact Sam Stryker at sstryke1@nd.edu 
By MARIA FERNANDEZ 
Scene Writer 

Who’s that girl? It’s Zooey Deschanel, starring as the adorable Jess Day in Fox’s latest TV sitcom, “The New Girl”. 
The show is centered on Jess’s every­day life as an elementary school teacher in her late 20s, which might seem dull, cliché and somewhat repetitive. Yet “The New Girl” has a unique and witty twist that has audiences hooked. 
After a devastating break up with her cheating boyfriend, Jess decides to move in with three single men — Schmidt, Nick and Winston. And from this mo­ment on, all of the fun and laughs begin. 
Her three new roommates each have very different jobs and personalities. However, they compliment each other 
very well, adding a lot of humor and ex­citement to the story line. Living with Schmidt, Nick and Winston, you never know what to expect.  
Schmidt, played by Max Greenfield, is a businessman who sees himself as a modern-day Casanova. He uses a very elegant and intricate vocabulary when speaking, and is constantly trying to im­press everyone, especially women. 
On recent episodes, his particular charm has captivated Cece’s attention. Cece (Hannah Simone) is Jess’s best friend. She is a tall and beautiful model with many love interests. Will Schmidt and Cece’s relationship become official? We’ll just have to stay tuned and watch. 
Overall, Schmidt is a perfectionist. He constantly picks up after his two other wild and careless male roommates, sometimes acting as a “mature” father figure. 
Lamorne Morris’ character, Winston, is a former professional athlete who did not have much success abroad, and is adjusting to life back in the United States. While looking for his dream job, he works as an afterschool nanny-tutor. 
On the latest episode, Winston finally found his dream job at a sports radio station, but it quickly turned out to be a nightmare. 
Winston’s facial expressions and fights with his other half, Nick, are hi­larious. Their relationship and rapport with super-polite Schmidt are also very well interpreted, providing some comic relief to their everyday struggles for em­ployment, money and love.  
The funniest and quirkiest of Jess’ roommates, Nick, played by Jake John­son, is a law school dropout who cur­rently works as a bartender. Nick’s life is characterized by an endless wave of unfortunate events. 
Yet his carefree and relaxed person­ality helps him tackle all of these crazy misfortunes with laughs, games and lots of beer. 
From the three male roommates, Nick 
is the closest to Jess. He is approachable, relatable, simple, funny and a great friend to her. I hope I am not the only one wishing they become more than friends some time soon in the show. 
Coming from heartbreak, Jess’s life is quickly transformed into a fun and thrilling adventure with these three new roommates. Recently, she has even started dating Russel (Dermont Mul­roney) or as her roommates call him, Mr. Fancyman. Russel is a handsome and wealthy father of one of Jess’s el­ementary school students. 
Deschanel plays an amazing role as Jess. Her cute style, demeanor and awk­ward but hilarious comments complete the show. Her presence makes every scene better and I am sure by now she has captured viewers’ hearts. 
“The New Girl” is a funny and enter­taining show that will get your mind off of studies and immerse you into the average, but unpredictable lives of Jess, Schmidt, Winston and Nick. 
The show airs Mondays at 9 p.m. on Fox. 
Contact Maria Fernandez at mfernan5@nd.edu 


ELISA DECASTRO | Observer Graphic 


Thursday, April 12, 2012 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 11 
Thirsty Thursday at the Silver  Allen Hemberger, Special Ef- Australian Chamber Orchestra  “Searching for Bobby  
Hawks When: 7:05 p.m. Where: Covelski Stadium  fects Extraordinaire When: 7 p.m. Where: 102 DeBartolo Hall  When: 7:30 p.m. Where: DeBartolo Performing Arts Center  Fischer” When: 3 p.m. Where: DeBartolo Performing  
How Much: $6 for Field Box  How Much: Free  How Much: $15  Arts Center  
How Much: $3  
The Silver Hawks are one of  The  Department  of  Com- Artistic  director  Richard  
the more underrated attrac­ puter Science and Engineer- Tognetti and his crew of ex- This 1993 film gave audienc­ 
tions in South Bend, and the  ing presents Allen Hemberger,  traordinarily  talented  musi­ es an inside look at the world of  
season is just starting for this  a premiere talent in the world  cians travel to Notre Dame this  chess  competition, especially  
Class-A minor league affiliate  of Hollywood visual effects.  weekend, and bring with them  the intensity it demands even  
of the Arizona Diamondbacks.  Hemberger will speak to the  their unique combination of  in young children. But even  
The tickets are cheap and on  workflow of feature film visual  classical  sophistication  and  more, it’s a fascinating look at  
Thursdays the beverages are  effects. Hemberger has worked  rock ‘n’ roll sensibility. The re- a father and son trying to be  
even cheaper — $1. So grab  on a number of films and was a  sult, according to reviews from  close, even when their inter- 
a few friends, and have a fun  part of the “Avatar” special ef­ across the globe, is a raw and  ests and dreams aren’t quite  
start to the night.  fects team that won an Oscar  explosive show.  in line.  
for its visuals.  


By ALEX KILPATRICK 
Scene Writer 
While a British romance cel­ebrating the sport of fly-fishing in a dry desert Middle Eastern climate may seem preposterous, “Salmon Fishing in the Yemen” has everything a good dramedy should, from religious and polit­ical discussion, to international affairs, to a preponderance of salmon. 
Ewan McGregor portrays Fred Jones, a British govern­ment fisheries expert who is approached by international consultant Harriet Chetwode-Talbot (played by Emily Blunt) to assist in a project to intro­duce the traditionally Western sport of salmon fishing to the desert country of Yemen. 
Harriet represents the liber­ally minded and wealthy Yemeni sheikh Muhammed (portrayed by Amr Waked), who commis­sions the project in order to im­prove Anglo-Arab relations. 
Although Fred seems dubious of the plausibility of the project, considering the Yemen’s dry arid climate and general lack of proper conditions for salmon to thrive, as well as the astro­nomical amount of money and resources necessary to fund the project, he eventually agrees to advise Harriet and Sheikh Mu-hammed. As to be expected in almost any dramedy, a predict­able romance eventually buds between Fred and Harriet. 
Kristin Scott Thomas plays the high-strung Prime Minis­ter’s press secretary Patricia Maxwell, who must find a Middle East story “without ex­plosions.” 
She hits the jack­pot when she dis­covers the news of Sheikh Mu­hammed’s budding salmon fishing proj­ect. Director Lasse Hallstrom sets the movie up as a feel-good international affairs drama, but it quickly becomes apparent the story is much more com­plicated. 
A side plot runs parallel to the main plot’s idealistic ex­pectations of Anglo-Arab coop­eration and portrays Harriet’s paramour Robert (played by Tom Mison) going missing in action in the War in Afghani­stan. Hallstrom juxtaposes the war against the cooperation be­tween Sheikh Muhammed and the British government. 
Hallstrom also occasionally dabbles in religious discussions. Sheikh Muhammed questions Fred when the self-proclaimed man of science claims to be an atheist. 
The sheikh uses fishing as an analogy for religion at one point in the film, explaining to Fred anyone willing to wait for a fish to bite for hundreds of hours on end must have some semblance of faith. 
Aside from the predictable romantic development and sev­eral lulls in the film’s pace, the movie is an excellent British ro­mantic dramedy that covered everything from international affairs to religion to the sci­ence of salmon fishing, offering a different look at a region of the world typically portrayed as troubled. 
Contact Alex Kilpatrick at akilpatr@nd.edu 


Photo Courtesy of Lionsgate 
ELISA DE CASTRO | Observer Graphic 

SPORTS AUTHORITY 

Coaches in headlines spoil week of sports 
It’s the first line and I am already dropping the bomb. Well, now it is the second line but here it is: This week in sports was the best one of the year. 
We saw national champi­onships won, Opening Day celebrated, an underdog story at The Masters and the start of the hectic NHL play­offs. 
So there is plenty to talk about, right? 
But check the head­lines. They are not the glory of the green jacket or the start of baseball. They are about coaches. 
The same guys who sit inconspicuously at the end of the bench are now more important than the players on the court. The same middle-aged men who are well re­moved from their playing days are the ones making the most noise. The figures who head the front lines of their teams in press conferences and appearances are now mak­ing the headlines, for all the wrong reasons. 
One of these coaches can­not leave a football team on good terms. Former Arkansas coach Bobby Petrino crashed his motorcycle, joined by an Arkansas assistant.  And she was around the same age as Petrino’s daughter. And she was engaged. And she was hired improperly and given $20,000 as a gift. Oh, and Petrino tried to cover it all up. That merits a firing, and that should be the end of it. 
Another coach has a bad habit of running his mouth. Marlins manager Ozzie Guil­len expressed his love for Cuba’s very own Fidel Castro. The coach who was supposed to usher in the new era of Mi­ami baseball with Latin flair enraged fans in Little Havana — of all places — by saying the worst possible thing to the community. The Marlins (and Miami) had to have known what they were getting with Ozzie, an unfiltered, un­plugged loudmouth who can go off at any time. That merits a suspension, and that should be the end of it. 
And just to continue the trend in sports’ Big Three, Or­lando Magic coach Stan Van Gundy told reporters Dwight Howard called for his fir­ing. It’s an asinine move for a team in the middle of a playoff race. If a trade at the deadline in the whole Dwight Howard scenario is a perfectly-cooked, medium-well steak (the best possible case), then the waiter has served us a burnt crisp. And we are still eating it up. And what did Van Gundy’s move accomplish? It merely grabbed attention away from the players, the games and the rest of the NBA. That merits swift criticism, and that should be the end of it. 

In the Petrino case, we are not thinking about the players who lost a coach and a leader in the middle of spring practices, and were on the cusp of doing some serious damage in the SEC. 
And in the Ozzie case, we are not thinking about the offended Cuban-Americans who escaped Castro’s op­pressive regime and lost loved ones in the process. 
I am ashamed these are our headlines, coming off such a thrilling week in sports. 
It’s not just these three either. See Sean Payton, Urban Meyer, Mike D’Antoni, John Tortorella and even Jose Mourinho. 
But don’t blame the media. They are simply reporting a story worth reporting. It is our faults as sports fans, for letting controversies and scandals take control of our sacred games. I want to talk about Bubba golf, Kentucky basketball and Dodger Sta­dium’s 50th anniversary, not infidelity, insensitive re­marks and hurt feelings. 
We feed these stories by giving them the fervent at­tention we should be giv­ing to the better things in sports. It defeats what we love most in sports: the thrill and fun of the game. It turns ESPN into TMZ, and sports reporting into near-tabloids. 
Good stories like Bubba Watson’s improbable Mas­ters win are ruined by our insatiable need for the juicy news of the day. 
I just want my sports back. You should too. 
Contact Andrew Gastelum at agastel1@nd.edu               
The views expressed in this Sports Authority column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
MLB 

Nationals take down Mets, 4-0 

Associated Press 
NEW YORK — Johan San­tana had already thrown 93 pitches. He was due up in the bottom of the fifth and it ap­peared to be a natural spot for a pinch hitter. 
So when Santana saun­tered out to the on-deck circle with a runner on in a one-run game, it created quite a buzz at Citi Field. No, it had nothing to do with his ability with the bat. It was seeing the Mets’ No. 1 starter ready for another inning on the mound. 
Santana walked the only batter he faced in the sixth but he managed to turn in another positive performance in a 4-0 loss to Stephen Stras­burg and the Washington Na­tionals on the 50th anniver­sary of the Mets’ first game. 
“I was able to compete and I feel good,” Santana said Wednesday. “I told (manager Terry Collins) I felt good and he let me go back out there. I didn’t come through, but at least I was able to warm up and come back out again. So that’s a good sign.” 
Meeting in a blustery, chilly matinee, Strasburg (1-0) and Santana each got off to an er­ratic start but settled into a duel of pitchers coming back from major arm operations. 
Santana (0-1) allowed five hits in five-plus innings but his wild pitch gave Washing­ton a 1-0 lead in the second inning of a game that lasted 3 hours, 36 minutes even though the Mets had only three hits. New York pitchers combined to walk 10 and hit one batter. 
“I’m very happy at this stage,” Collins said, “and five days from now you’ll see him again.” 
Strasburg allowed two hits and struck out nine while throwing more than 100 pitch­es for the first time in the major leagues. He helped the Nation­als take the final two games of the three-game series against their division rival with stel­lar pitching — Ross Detwiler shut down the Mets on Tuesday night. 
“I was going to hold him to 100 pitches but I didn’t know who to go to to get out of the jam,” Nationals manager Dav­ey Johnson said of the two-on, one-out jam in the sixth. “I probably would’ve had to strangle him to get the ball to get him out of the game.” 
Ryan Mattheus, Sean Bur­nett and Henry Rodriguez each pitched a scoreless inning for a Nationals bullpen that is with­out closer Drew Storen, who is out with an elbow injury. 
New York’s bullpen gave up two bases-loaded walks and a run-scoring grounder by Chad Tracy in the eighth. By that time, much of the announced crowd of 34,614 had left. 
The 33-year-old Santana, a two-time Cy Young Award win­ner, was making just his second start in 19 months after under­going left shoulder surgery. His operation was about two weeks after Strasburg had elbow lig­ament-replacement surgery in September 2010. 
Santana’s fastball was clocked at about the same speed (a high of 90 mph, reached once) as the 23-year-old phe­nom’s changeup (89 mph). 

Strasburg’s fastball peaked at 98 mph. 
Strasburg gave up a single to his first batter, Ruben Tejada, and walked Daniel Murphy in a 26-pitch first inning. Af­ter starting the second with a walk, he started to command his curveball better and went on a run of retiring 10 in a row until hitting Ronny Cedeno with a pitch with one out in the fifth. 
“I was really concerned early because he was pitch­ing backward. He was using a lot of changeups, back-to-back changeups, curveballs, even cutting his fastball,” Johnson said. “He got straightened out in the third inning and started pitching like he can.” 
Said Strasburg: “I have four out pitches. It’s just a matter of commanding them.” 
Ike Davis singled in the sixth, ending an 0-for-18 start. That was just the second hit for the Mets, who wore their white uniforms instead of their tra­ditional pinstripes for the an­niversary game. 
Santana needed 27 pitches to get through the first and fin­ished with 99 overall. In the second, he bounced a slider in front of the plate that went to the backstop, allowing Mark DeRosa to score. DeRosa sin­gled leading off the inning and moved to third on Xavier Nady’s single to right. 
Santana retired 10 in a row, striking out four straight at one point, before allowing back-to­back hits in the fifth. 
“He looks great,” catcher Josh Thole said. “I think it’s what everybody expects from him.” 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The 
Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

ATTN: Faculty/Grad Students. This Day in History: 1945 - President Franklin D. 
FOR RENT PERSONAL WANTED 
Roosevelt dies at Warm Spring, 1606 - England adopts the Union Georgia. Harry S. Truman Spacious 2br,2-1/2 ba with Jack as its flag. becomes president. 
Attn: Faculty/Grad Students. UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Summer Child Care Needed LR,DR,fam rm, 4-season rm, AC, 1770 - Parliament repeals the 1955 - Dr. Jonas Salk’s discovery 
Don’t go it alone. Notre Dame Sec Sys, 2-car gar, near campus, Townsend Acts. of a polio vaccine is announced. 
Immac 3br with large rec room, has many resources in place to Seeking female college student bsmt, fen. yrd + utility rm, no pets. 
garage, walk to campus. assist you. If you or someone you to care for 8-year-old boy and 1861 - Fort Sumter is shelled by 1961 - Soviet Yuri Alexeyevich 
love needs confidential support transport 16-year-old girl to/from Confederacy, starting America’s Gagarin becomes first man to orbit 
or assistance, please call Sr. work weekdays during summer in $1500/mo + utilities. Civil War. the Earth. 
$1200/mo + utilities Sue Dunn at 1-7819. For more Mishawaka. 
information, visit ND’s website at: Must have own car. Hours 7:30 1877 - The first catcher’s mask is 1983 - Harold Washington is elected 
a.m. to 6 p.m. 262-332-0015 used in a baseball game. the first black mayor of Chicago. 
847-420-7589 http://pregnancysupport@nd.edu Call 574-274-3778. 
NFL 

Briggs, Bears agree to extension 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO — Lance Briggs once vowed he would never play anoth­er down for the Chicago Bears. He keeps negotiating new deals with them, though. 
The Bears agreed to a one-year contract extension through 2014 with the Pro Bowl linebacker, keeping one of their cornerstone players happy. 
“This was by far the least amount of time I’ve ever had with the Bears trying to (negotiate) a contract,” Briggs said on a confer­ence call with reporters Wednes­day. 
A person familiar with the situ­ation said the new deal basically guarantees about $8 million over the next two years. The person spoke on the condition of ano­nymity because the terms were not released. 
Briggs, whose six-year, $36 million contract would have ex­pired in 2013, was scheduled to make nearly $4 million next season. Instead, he gets a $3 mil­lion bonus up front, along with a $250,000 workout bonus and $3 million in salary. 
His salary for 2013 is $4.5 mil­lion, with $2 million guaranteed and $4.75 million for 2014. The deal also includes $250,000 work­out bonuses in 2013 and 2014, plus roster bonuses of $1 million and $500,000 for those seasons. 
“I’m grateful,” Briggs said. “I’m just very appreciative right now that the work has been recog­nized and that it got handled as fast as it did.” 
Agent Drew Rosenhaus met with new general manager Phil Emery and lead contract negotia­tor Cliff Stein at the combine, and they agreed to table the discus­sions until the Bears addressed other roster needs. Once they re­sumed talks, it didn’t take long to reach an agreement. 

“It’s a good thing for Lance,” Rosenhaus said. “It’s good for the Bears. It’s nice to see a happy out­come.” 
Briggs pushed hard for a new contract at the start of last season, but the Bears wouldn’t budge. 
With three years left on a six-year, $36 million contract, gener­al manager Jerry Angelo basical­ly told Briggs at the time to leave him alone when the linebacker asked for permission to seek a trade if he couldn’t get a rene­gotiated deal before the season. Briggs said he thinks they would have reached an agreement even if Angelo had not been fired fol­lowing an 8-8 finish. 
“There were some times where it was kind of difficult dealing with Jerry. At the end of the year, we had some open talks with Jer­ry, and he voiced that my contract is something that needs to be ad­dressed,” Briggs said. “It just so happens that he got fired the very next morning.” 
Briggs vowed he would never play “another down for Chicago again” after the Bears slapped the franchise-player tag on him for the 2007 season. He wound up accepting a one-year, $7.2 million contract and agreed to that six-year deal in March 2008. 
Now, he hopes to finish his ca­reer in Chicago. 
“My dream is to retire a Bear, and I know that I will retire a Bear,” he said. 
Briggs entered select company this past season when he be­came just the fourth linebacker in franchise history to make seven straight Pro Bowls, joining Hall of Famers Dick Butkus, Bill George and Mike Singletary. 
He led the Bears with 147 tackles last year, his eighth straight with 100 or more, and had eight tackles for loss. He also forced two fumbles, broke up three passes and intercepted one. 
“We’re very excited for Lance and for the Bears,” Emery said in a statement. “Lance has been a very valuable and productive member of our team. Seven straight Pro Bowls is quite a record of success. This is a very positive step for our team in our efforts to win championships.” 
The extension for Briggs is just the latest in a long line of moves since Emery was hired. He addressed the Bears’ biggest need by acquiring Pro Bowl re­ceiver Brandon Marshall in a blockbuster trade with Miami and signed running back Mi­chael Bush to a four-year, $14 million from Oakland to team with the disgruntled Matt Forte in the backfield. 
He also signed Jason Camp­bell to back up quarterback Jay Cutler, brought in special teams star Eric Weems and added cornerbacks Kelvin Hayden and Jonathan Wilhite for depth in the secondary, but there are still some issues to address. 
Forte hasn’t signed his $7.74 million franchise tender, and linebacker Brian Urlacher’s contract expires after the up­coming season. 
Briggs said he hopes Forte’s situation gets resolved, adding “I want him to be happy.” As for Urlacher? 
“I think that the Bears will do right by him,” Briggs said. “He’s coming off a great year, and hopefully, we can play until we’re 49 years old, if that’s pos­sible.” 


MLB 

Verlander, Tigers falter in ninth, lose to Rays 

Associated Press 
DETROIT — For most of the game, Justin Verlander was calm and efficient, seemingly headed for another master­piece. 
In the ninth inning, he began reaching back for a little more speed — and that might have cost his team the game. 
“Once a couple guys got on, really the first time I’ve cranked it up like that — and lost a little bit of my consistency that I’d had all day,” Verlander said. “It’s inexcusable. This loss rests solely on my shoulders today.” 
Ben Zobrist hit a tiebreak­ing two-run single, part of a four-run ninth inning by Tam­pa Bay in its 4-2 win over Ver­lander and the Detroit Tigers on Wednesday. Verlander took a one-hitter into the ninth and hadn’t allowed a run all season, but he couldn’t close out the Rays. 
Verlander (0-1) gave up a run on a wild pitch, and Evan Long­oria then tied the game at 2 with a single to left on his 104th and final pitch. 
Daniel Schlereth came on and allowed a walk to load the bas­es, and Zobrist singled up the middle off Jose Valverde. 
“They are never going to give up,” Rays manager Joe Maddon said. “Say what you want about this team, but they play nine hard innings.” 
The Tigers (4-1) lost for the first time this season. 
James Shields (1-0) allowed six hits and two runs in eight innings. Fernando Rodney pitched the ninth for his third save. 
For most of the day, Verlander was marvelous. He took a no-hitter into the fifth and had thrown just 81 pitches through eight. 
But pinch-hitter Jeff Kep­pinger started the ninth with a single, and Desmond Jennings added another one an out later. 
“When you go against Ver­lander, if you get the ball in between the giant white lines, you’ve accomplished something. You know he’s going to beat you most of the time, but you just hope he makes a mistake and you can take advantage,” Jen­nings said. “Kepp gave us a lot of confidence. We hadn’t been doing anything before that, but he got a hit and we got things going from there.” 

Carlos Pena drew a walk — with ball four skipping past catcher Alex Avila for a wild pitch that made it 2-1. 
Verlander’s final pitch to Longoria was clocked at 100 mph, but the star third base­man was able to hit a sharp sin­gle through the left side of the infield, and neither Detroit re­liever was able to stop the rally until it was too late. 
“I got away from what I’d been doing all day,” Verlander said. “I’d been playing to those guys’ aggressiveness, getting them out in front on off-speed stuff and then just got away from it there in the ninth for no rea­son.” 
Verlander allowed four runs and four hits in 8 1-3 innings. He walked two and struck out seven. Verlander, last year’s AL Cy Young and MVP winner, pitched eight scoreless innings against Boston last week. He didn’t get the win that day ei­ther — Valverde squandered the lead, although the Tigers did win that game. 
“Both starting pitchers were terrific again today. You figure runs are going to be scarce,” Ti­gers manager Jim Leyland said. “We couldn’t add on to that two-spot. It made you a little uneasy but the way he was pitching, you certainly felt pretty com­fortable.” 
Wednesday was Verlander’s first regular-season loss since July 15. 
Shields, who finished third in last year’s Cy Young voting, allowed an RBI single in the first to Miguel Cabrera. He also balked in a run in the fifth. 
Shields bounced back from a shaky first start, when he al­lowed six runs and nine hits in five innings against the New York Yankees. 
The Rays are 4-1 for the first time in franchise history. The Tigers were trying to start 5-0 for the first time since 2006, when they won the American League pennant. 
NBA 

Pacers beat Cavaliers 104-98 in overtime 
Associated Press 
CLEVELAND — One of Indi­ana’s players wrestled Cleve­land’s furry mascot before the game. The Pacers then had to fight off the spunky Cavaliers. 
Danny Granger made a 3-pointer in overtime and scored 23 points, and George Hill made a dagger 3-pointer in the extra session, lifting Indiana to a 104-98 victory on Wednesday night and al­lowing the Pacers to hold onto the No. 3 spot in the Eastern Conference 


“George Hill made some 
for one in averaging 
huge plays. He’s down 
more day. 24.7 points 
David on himself right now for in his past West added missing those three free three games, 
19 points, throws, but I told him dropped a Hill had he was the reason why sweet floater 17 and Roy we got the lead back. in the lane over Hibb ert West with 1.2 
He was able to turn 
fi nished seconds to go. 
the corner and make 
with 11 The Pacers 
some plays for us.” 
rebounds, had one last five assists chance in reg-and four Frank Vogel ulation, and blocks for Pacers coach Hibbert nearly that allowed the Cavs to overcome a 10-point deficit and open a seven-point lead. 
Granger then nailed a 3-pointer, and after Hudson scored for Cleveland, Indi­ana’s leading scorer made an 18-foot jumper to put the Pacers ahead 101-96. Af­ter Jamison misfired, Hill put the Cavs away with his 3, making it 104-96 with 53 seconds left. 
It was some vindication for 
Hill, whose three missed free throws gave the Cavs late life and they tied it when Hudson, the D-League cast­off who came 
India na , 6-1 in its last seven. The Pacers outscored the Cavs 10-4 in OT and stayed just ahead of Boston, Atlanta and Orlando in the standings. 
This was a dogfight — play­fully and literally. 
During pregame introduc­tions, West got into a mock fight with Moondog, the Cavs’ floppy-eared mascot, who of­ten interacts and teases op­posing players. West acciden­tally struck the character in the mask, sending him to the hospital with an eye injury. 
“I feel terrible about that, I really do,” said West, who was visibly upset. “We were just having fun. We were just messing around. I real­ly hope he’s OK. Make sure he knows I’m sorry.” 
A Cavs spokesman said the mascot was checked out and released. 
Hibbert thought Moondog was joking when he went down holding the head of his costume. 
“For real?” Hibbert said. “We thought he (Moondog) was just playing when it hap­pened. Oh man, that’s crazy. I can’t believe it happened. I’ve never heard anything like that in the NBA.” 
Antawn Jamison scored 21 and Lester Hudson 19 for the Cavs, who dropped to a league-worst 0-5 in over­time games. The Cavs, who were just 2 of 9 in the extra five minutes, were officially eliminated from the playoffs. 
“We fought hard,” Hudson said. “We played very hard, but we just came up a little short.” 
The Pacers should have put the Cavs away in regulation but Hill, starting in place of the injured Darren Collison, missed three free throws in the last 21 seconds. 
West opened overtime with a bucket for the Pacers, who went without a field goal for a 6:41 stretch of the fourth made an im­
possible shot, 
arching an at­
tempt from 
behind the 
backboard that bounced off the front of the rim. 
Indiana finally took care of business in overtime. 
“We knew we were in a tough fight tonight,” West said. “We’re playing for home-court advantage, so there is no room for any slip­page on our part.” 
Indiana improved to 17-14 on the road, the club’s first winning record outside Indi­ana in eight years. 
Cleveland played its fifth straight game without rook­ie Kyrie Irving, who has a sprained right shoulder. 
The Cavs were down 78-68 after Dahntay Jones dropped a 3-pointer for Indiana. 
But Hudson heated up and the Cavs responded with an 18-1 run, taking an 86­79 lead on Omri Casspi’s 3-pointer from the left wing. Hudson scored six points during the improbable run, which the Pacers helped by making four turnovers and missing four shots. 
Indiana ended up going nearly seven minutes be­tween field goals, with Hill’s 3-pointer with 4:19 pulling the Pacers within 88-85. 
Hill then converted on two drives and after Hib­bert dunked, the Pacers appeared on their way to a win, leading 93-89 with 30 seconds left. 
Hill, though, failed to put the game away at the line and the Pacers had to work an extra five minutes to hold onto their playoff seed. 
“George Hill made some huge plays,” said coach Frank Vogel. “He’s down on himself right now for miss­ing those three free throws, but I told him he was the reason why we got the lead back. He was able to turn the corner and make some plays for us.” 
NBA 

Surging Celtics beat Hawks 
Associated Press 

BOSTON — Paul Pierce over­came a miserable shooting game with a key jumper in overtime and Rajon Rondo finished with a triple-double with 20 assists, 10 points and 10 rebounds to lift the surging Boston Celtics to an 88­86 win over the Atlanta Hawks on Wednesday night. 
Kevin Garnett had 22 points and grabbed 12 boards before fouling out with just under 3 minutes left in OT, and Brandon Bass, who also hit a jumper in OT, scored 21 points. 
It was Rondo’s 19th straight game with double digits in as­sists. 
Jeff Teague led the Hawks with 21 points and Josh Smith had 20 with 11 rebounds. The Hawks had won eight of 11 since losing to Boston at home on March 19. 
It was the Celtics’ 11th win in 14 games. Pierce finished with 14 points. 
Bass and Pierce hit jumpers, giving Boston an 88-84 lead early in the OT, but the Hawks sliced it to a one possession game on Kirk Hinrich’s open jumper. 
The teams traded turnovers over the next 2 minutes — with the Hawks’ Smith getting picked cleanly by Pierce with 30 seconds to play, but the Celtics’ captain was called for an offensive foul on the other end with 10.1 sec­onds to go. 
Smith front-rimmed a 3 and Boston gained possession after a battle for the rebound went out of bounds off a Hawks’ player in front of Boston’s bench with 1.3 seconds left. 
Boston inbounded the ball to Rondo, who fired it in the air as the horn sounded. Pierce, just 6 of 19 from the floor, raised his arms in triumph. 

In a back and forth fourth quarter during which the teams traded the lead five times, Bos­ton went up 82-81 on Garnett’s jumper from the top of the key with 1:26 to go, but Zaza Pachu­lia hit one of two free throws on the Hawks’ next possession, tying it with 74 seconds left. 
Bass then hit a short jumper in the lane and the Hawks’ tied it again on Joe Johnson’s jumper with 47 seconds to play. 
Pierce, who struggled from the floor all night, missed a 3 but Garnett grabbed the rebound. 
After Boston’s time-out, Gar­nett was forced to take a long fadeaway that missed the rim badly and the 24-second shot ex­pired during a scramble for the rebound. 
Teague front-rimmed a long jumper as the horn sounded, sending the game to OT. 
Boston opened an 80-76 lead on Garnett’s 3-point play when he drove around Pachulia for a reverse layup and was fouled, hitting the free throw to cap a 7-0 spree with 4:04 to play. The Hawks then retied it on Teague’s jumper from the left wing a min­ute later after Johnson hit two free throws. 


WOMEN’S LACROSSE 

Basketball star Mallory joins lacrosse squad 
Observer Staff Report 
Just a week after losing in the national champion­ship game with the women’s basketball team, graduate student Brittany Mallory has joined the women’s la­crosse team. 
Mallory, a guard, aver­aged 5.8 points per game and started all 39 games for the Irish. She also tal­lied 2.1 steals per game in helping Notre Dame to its second consecutive run­ner-up finish. 
The Baltimore native played lacrosse during her first three years of high school and earned All-County and All-American honors as a midfielder. 
Mallory will play defense for the Irish for the re­mainder of the season. 

Mallory is not the first Notre Dame player to play a second sport this year. Freshman Pat Connaugh­ton now pitches for the Irish baseball team after starting at guard for the men’s basketball squad. Freshmen George Atkin­son III and Josh Atkinson participated in events for the track team, along with sophomore Bennett Jack­son, after all three com­peted for the Irish football team in the fall. 
Mallory and the rest of the No. 7 Irish return to action this weekend when they take on Connecti­cut on Saturday in Storrs, Conn. 
MLB 

Denorfia leads Padres to win 
Associated Press 
SAN DIEGO — Chris Denorfia hit a two-run homer with one out in the eighth inning Wednesday that carried the San Diego Pa­dres to a 2-1 win over the Arizona Diamondbacks, who had been the last unbeaten team in the major leagues. 
Denorfia’s clutch shot to straightaway center field — his first of the season — came on a 2-1 pitch from David Hernandez (0-1). Cameron Maybin was aboard on a walk. 
Center fielder Chris Young lost his glove over the fence trying to make a leaping grab. Someone from the Padres’ bullpen retrieved it for him. 
Ernesto Frieri (1-0) threw 1 1-3 innings, and Huston Street pitched a perfect ninth for his first save with the Padres. 
Until the homer, the Padres had only one baserunner advance as far as second. 
Arizona was trying for the first 5-0 start in franchise history. 
Hernandez had replaced Joe Saunders, who allowed four hits over seven innings in his season debut. He struck out four and walked two. 


San Diego’s Cory Luebke strug­gled in the first inning, when he threw 43 pitches and walked four. With two-outs, he loaded the bases by walking Chris Young and then forced in Willie Bloomquist with a walk to Jason Kubel. Luebke struck out Paul Goldschmidt to end the threat. 
Luebke then threw 61 pitches over his final 4 1-3 innings. He al­lowed one run and four hits, struck out five and walked four. 
With two outs in the second, Bloomquist hit a ball off the top of the wall in left field that was ruled a triple. Three of the umpires went in for a video review and upheld the call. Bloomquist was stranded when Aaron Hill flied out to center. 
Arizona loaded the bases again in the seventh on a single and two walks before Frieri got Kubel to pop up to second baseman Orlando Hudson. 
Luebke allowed one run and four hits in 5 1-3 innings, struck out five and walked four. 
SMC TENNIS 

Belles set to square off with Bethel 

By ISAAC LORTON 
Sports Writer 
In one of its biggest reg­ular-season matches of the year, Saint Mary’s will look to take down Mishawaka ri­val Bethel. Even though the Pilots are a mere five miles away, the Belles will en­joy home-court advantage against the familiar foe. 


“Our conference matches are the most important to us,” Belles coach Dale Camp­bell said. “But this game is definitely up there in terms of importance. You want to beat your cross-town rivals because there will be some bragging rights, which are always nice.” 
The Belles (8-6, 1-2 MIAA) seek to draw upon confidence gained from a hard fought 5-4 victory over Trine last week. 

“We look to continue 
“I think the singles the win will this winning streak order is serve us well,” against Bethel. However, partially a Campbell we do not want to product of said. “It was a underestimate them.” trying to good bounce-tailor the back win after lineup to 
Dale Campbell 
a close loss to best match-
Belles coach 
Alma. It was a great con­fidence boost because it is pleasing to see the team turn around a tough loss into win.” 
Saint Mary’s has had the upper hand against Bethel (10-5, 4-4 MCC) in recent his­tory, winning the past three matchups against the Pilots under Campbell’s coaching term. 
“We look to continue this winning streak against Beth­el,” Campbell said. “However, we do not want to underesti­mate them. They have some new players who we are not familiar with, and we can’t look past that. They have a good record this year, so we are expecting a matchup.” 
Recently, Campbell has been tinkering with the dou­bles lineup, but has left the singles side alone. Camp­bell is now satisfied with the doubles lineup, and as of Wednesday’s practice said there will not be any further changes. He did not count out the possibility of a change occurring in the singles ros­ter before match time, how­ever. 
“We have not made any changes to the lineup at this point,” Campbell said. “We might take a look at the order of our singles [Wednesday] at practice. We will primarily be making sure we are in the 
right spots.” 
Camp­
bell’s de­
cision re­
garding 
up against 
the oppo­
nent, he 
said. 
“It’s hard 
to judge singles based on match play, because other teams have different lineups consisting of different talent at each spot,” Campbell said. “It is also difficult to do challenge matches within our team during the season, because we have a limited time dur­ing practice. Despite how the lineup will end up, the team is just excited for and look­ing forward to the upcoming string of matches.” 
The Belles start off the first of three matches in a five-day span as they take on the rival Pilots at home today at 4 p.m. 
Contact Isaac Lorton at ilorton@nd.edu 

ND SOFTBALL 

Irish split with Scarlet Knights 

By ERNST CLEOFE 
Sports Writer 
After beginning the day by extending their winning streak to nine games, the Irish picked up their first Big East loss of the season in the back half of a doubleheader with Rutgers on Wednesday. 
The Irish (20-11, 4-1 Big East) started off their day in Piscat­away, N.J., with a 4-1 win over the Scarlet Knights (17-21, 6-7) behind an impressive effort by sophomore pitcher Laura Win­ter. Winter threw a complete game with seven strikeouts, giv­ing up only one run on three hits. 
“She had great presence and she played with intensity that rubbed off on the team,” senior captain and outfielder Alexa Maldonado said. “Even when there were moments where she gave up hits, she had the pres­ence to keep control of the game, and she could count on us to give behind her.” 

In the third inning, freshman designated hitter Cassidy Whid-good start by picking up a five-ing two runs on four hits. den gave Winter the only cush-run lead after four innings at the In the second game, Notre ion she needed with a three-run plate. But in the bottom half of Dame’s errors prove to be home run. Junior catcher Amy the fourth, Notre Dame started enough to deny them the series Buntin added to the Irish lead to make mistakes. Following two sweep and their tenth-straight shortly thereafter when she con-Irish errors, the Scarlet Knights win. tinued her current hot streak loaded the bases. After Rutgers “In the first game, we were in with a solo home run in the scored a run with an RBI single, control during the game.” Maldo­fourth. the Scarlet Knights tied the game nado said. “[In the second game,] 
Along with the offensive out-at five with a grand slam. we let things get out of control on put, the defensive effort behind After falling behind by a run defense and we stopped making Winter was key to the Irish vic-in the sixth inning after a Rut-batting adjustments during the tory. gers’ solo shot, the Irish knotted time.” 
“We played good defense that the game again in the seventh Notre Dame will look to get kept the game in control for us,” inning to push the game into back on track in the Big East Maldonado said. “And we scored extra innings. In the bottom of when it travels to Syracuse for when we needed to.” the ninth, Rutgers catcher Kylee a three-game weekend series 
After cruising to a victory to Bishop drove in the game-win-starting Saturday. open the series, Notre Dame ning double off Winters, who faced trouble in the day’s sec-took on the loss after pitching Contact Ernst Cleofe at ond game. The Irish got off to a five innings of relief and allow-ecleofe@nd.edu 



Gallagher 
continued from page 20 
with or seen playing club,” he said. “He had two amazing digs in the championship game, which were some of the best I’ve seen.” 
The Irish have a motto of “All we do is block and dig,” which understates the team’s offensive prowess and puts a focus on de­fense. 
“Our defense definitely im­proved from last year and con­tributed a great deal to this year’s success,” Bauer said. 
On a student-run club without a paid coach, Gallagher said he gives credit to the cohesiveness of the team. 
“I am just so happy that we won for all of my friends who are seniors,” Gallagher said. 
The Irish prepare to lose three of their starting seniors — Rehberg, middle blocker Steven Walsh and opposite hitter Tom Johnson — but look forward to next year’s campaign with an eye on the repeat. 
Contact Isaac Lorton at ilorton@nd.edu 




XULE LIN/The Observer 

Irish pitcher Donnie Hissa throws a pitch during Wednesday’s 5-4 loss to Western Michigan at Frank Eck Stadium. 
Broncos 
continued from page 20 
their arms and couldn’t put to­gether a string of timely hits. 
“It has been a lot of different things that (have) conspired against us,” Aoki said. “Bottom line is we are dealing with a very young team who lost every shred of confidence from that good start we had and are try­ing to refind themselves.” 
Western Michigan blew two one-run leads in the fourth and fifth innings, mostly due to a solid day at the plate by Irish freshman outfielders Mac Hudgins and Ryan Bull. Hudgins went 2-for-4 with a triple and an RBI single while Bull contributed a single and a leadoff double, later scoring to tie the game at four in the fifth inning. 
Broncos freshman catcher Jared Kujawa led the way for Western Michigan and deliv­ered the final blow, a tiebreak­ing home run in the seventh to give the Broncos the 5-4 lead. 

The former high-school hockey and football star went 2-for­4 with two RBIs and a walk, sparking the team’s three-run rally in the third. 
Notre Dame was without two key starters in junior outfielder Charlie Markson (virus) and sophomore first baseman Trey Mancini, who injured his shoul­der in the weekend series at Se­ton Hall. 
Despite the missing pieces, Aoki still said the Irish must continue to fight and be ag­gressive if they want to break through at such a crucial point in the season. 
“We have got to be stubborn about competing and playing to the best of our ability,” the second-year coach said. “There is no magic recipe to it, we just have to go out and attack … We are certainly struggling to find our way right now.” 
The Irish will look to snap their losing skid Friday in a weekend series at home against Cincinnati. 
Contact Andrew Gastelum at agastel1@nd.edu 
SMC SOFTBALL 

Belles take opener, lose game two in 11 innings 
By NICK BOYLE 
Sports Writer 
Traveling to Hope College, Saint Mary’s split its double­header Wednesday against its conference foe, taking the first contest in a 3-0 shutout while losing the second, 9-7, in an 11-inning thriller. 
The first game featured an effective team effort from the Belles (16-8, 3-3 MIAA) to keep the hosts off of the scoreboard. Belles sophomore pitcher Cal­lie Selner dominated for the visitors, throwing a complete-game shutout. 
“Game one was a great group effort, we played very clean softball,” Belles coach Erin Sul­livan said. “Selner threw a fan­tastic game, and our defense was solid with no errors.” 
Saint Mary’s was able to get on the board in the fourth in­ning when freshman first base­man Jordie Wasserman drove in two with a home run. The Belles manufactured one more run in the seventh inning to se­cure the shutout win. 
“Wasserman hitting the homerun was huge for us,” Sul­livan said. “We had quality at-bats all game.” 
The Belles didn’t fare as well in the second game, falling af­ter 11 innings of play in a tight contest. 
Hope got off to a quick start in the second contest, scoring two runs in as many innings. The home team added three more runs in the fifth and sixth in­nings, before taking a 5-0 lead into the bottom of the seventh. 
With two outs and no runs, the Belles looked to be all but finished before rallying to score five to tie the game and send it to extra innings. Senior pitcher Angela Gillis, freshman infield­er Michelle Duncan, and junior infielder Emily Sherwood all contributed RBI hits in the in­ning. 
“We didn’t hit super-well in game two, but we were able to come back to score five runs in the seventh to tie the game,” Sullivan said. “That was very timely, clutch hitting.” 
The two teams traded runs in the ninth and 10th before Hope moved two across in the top of the 11th inning. The Belles were not able to answer in the following frame, ending the game. 
“While our six errors hurt us, the team stayed determined through 11 tough innings . coming back to tie three times . but we fell just short,” Sullivan said. “It was a tough loss, but was also very motivating to see us play so well against a good team.” 
The Belles next take on con­ference foe Olivet on Saturday at home. First pitch is sched­uled for 1 p.m. 
Contact Nick Boyle at nboyle1@nd.edu 


PAT COVENEY/The Observer 

Irish senior running back Cierre Wood tries to break away from a defender in a Nov. 26 away game against Stanford. 
Spring 
continued from page 20 
Gasp, shock, awe. 
That’s right, it’s the person next to Tommy Rees that will decide Notre Dame’s fate this year. It’s the person to the left of Andrew Hendrix that should carry the load for the Irish. It’s the person to the right of Ev­erett Golson that will be better than they were a year ago. It’s the player sharing a backfield with Gunner Kiel that will grind out the wins for Notre Dame. 
And with a returning back­field featuring 1,000-yard rusher Cierre Wood, running back-converted-receiver­converted-running back Theo Riddick and USC transfer Amir Carlisle, why shouldn’t the run­ning back be the most mean­ingful position on the field? 
Wood — who combined with Jonas Gray to top nearly 2,000 yards rushing — enters camp the undisputed starter in the backfield and will look to build on last season, when he scored nine touchdowns on the ground. 
Riddick and Carlisle will fight for playing time behind Wood, while George Atkinson III could provide the “big back” option for the Irish. Atkinson has the size (he stands at six­foot-one) and speed (remember his two kick returns last sea­son) to also challenge for a spot in the lineup. 
Don’t forget the Irish un­orthodoxly group the running backs and slot receivers into the same position group under Irish running backs coach Tony Alford. That means Robby Toma could get some carries as well. 
While having four options at quarterback may be a bad thing, having five at running back certainly is not. 
I know you’ve heard all about the turnovers costing the Irish football game after football game. And that is right, with­out a doubt. But you probably haven’t heard about 41, 57 and 93. Those are the rush­ing totals in Notre Dame’s last three losses last year to USC, Stanford and Florida State, respectively. 
Comparatively, in their eight wins, the Irish averaged nearly 200 yards rushing per game. The lowest total in a victory was a 114-yard output in the 31-13 win over Michigan State. 
Clearly, success of the run­ning game is paramount to the success of the program. It’s not just Notre Dame, either. 
Each of the last six BCS champions has leaned heavily on the run game and ridden star running backs (or run­ning quarterbacks) to cham­pionships. Of course, each squad also had a stringent defense. 
But wait, don’t the Irish have a pretty tough front seven themselves? Led by linebacker Manti Te’o and de­fensive end Aaron Lynch, the answer is a simple yes. 
If the running backs can move the chains and keep the ball away from the quarter­backs — and, therefore, from other teams — the Irish could fare favorably against a quite unfavorable schedule. 
If the running backs can chew up yards and the clock, Notre Dame alums may stop calling for Brian Kelly’s job. 
If the running backs live up to their potential, it may not even matter who the signal caller is. 
Run and win. It is just that simple. 
Contact Matthew DeFranks at mdefrank@nd.edu 


MACKENZIE SAIN/The Observer 

Notre Dame senior offensive lineman Mike Golic Jr. (no. 57) blocks against Maryland on Nov. 12 in Landover, Md. Golic Jr. will compete for a starting job this season. 
Riddick 
continued from page 20 
said he is focused on working hard to improve all aspects of his offensive game. 
“I mean, everyone wants the ball. It’s why you play the game,” he said. “But it just makes you come to work every day, instead of taking days off and saying ‘I’m in this posi­tion, I have all this and I’m at this rank’. Everyone’s on an even playing field, so you have to come out and bring your ‘A’ game every day.” 
The Irish coaching staff un­conventionally groups slot re­ceivers and running backs into the same skill group during practice, meaning Riddick has split reps with senior Cierre Wood, sophomore George At­kinson III and senior Robby Toma, among others. Riddick said the focus on both positions makes him and the other hy­brids more versatile. 
“You can be very dangerous if you can [play] both [slot re­ceiver and running back], So far, I’m doing both, and I’m lik­ing where I’m coming. It’s very exciting, but you have to get in shape, and I’m getting there.” 
Blue-collar Golic 
Senior offensive lineman Mike Golic Jr. has been identi­fied throughout his career as a hard worker in all aspects of the game. With the addition of Harry Hiestand as offensive line coach in the offseason, Gol­ic believes he has a coach who shares his blue-collar mental­ity. 
“I definitely would describe coach Hiestand as a very blue-collar guy,” Golic said. “He’s about coming in and working hard and giving a great effort every day, and we’ll work on ev­erything else from there. He’s said the one thing you can al­ways control is your effort, and that’s one thing we’ll never sac­rifice is a great effort on the of­fensive line.” 
Filling the vacancy left by Ed Warriner’s move to Ohio State in the offseason, Hiestand was hired from Tennessee as Notre Dame’s offensive line coach and run game coordinator. Golic said the 29-year coaching vet­eran has returned focus to technique and helped him im­prove his fundamental game. 
“Something that [Hiestand] has been really focused on is technique, and not so much scheme and working on scheme and things like that, but those basic techniques that can bail you out of a bad situation,” Gol­ic said. “Whether you’re seeing a new scheme or not, if you’re in that fundamental position that he’s teaching, you’ll be able to handle anything a defense will throw at you. It’s something that’s already helping us all out a lot.” 
After seeing extensive time on the offensive line in 2011, Golic returns to Notre Dame for a final year of eligibility hoping to improve his game and follow his father’s footsteps into the NFL. 
“Most of the guys that come here, if you come to play big-time Division I football, you have [NFL] aspirations,” Golic said. “I absolutely want to take my shot and try to play in the NFL, but I’m worried about this year first and worried about a great senior season. We’ll let the chips fall where they may after that.” 
Contact Chris Allen at callen10@nd.edu 


WILL SHORTz 
EUgENIA LAST 
CROSSWORD 
HOROSCOPE 



HENRy ARNOLD 

JON REPINE 
JUMBLE
EXPND 
MIKE ARgIRION 





Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556

 Enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year


 Enclosed
 is $75 for one semester 


Name ____________________________________________________ Address __________________________________________________ City ____________________ State___________ Zip______________ 

Thursday, April 12, 2012 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 20 
FOOTBALL 

The chronicles of Riddick 
Riddick and Golic look to improve this spring 
By CHRIS ALLEN 
Sports Editor 
In addition to the signature gold helmet, senior playmaker Theo Riddick has worn many hats for Notre Dame. First, he was a dangerous kick returner and situational running back. Then, he was a lightning-quick slot receiver. Entering his fourth season in an Irish uniform, Rid-dick finds himself playing both running back and slot receiver as the most experienced mem­ber of a group of hybrid offen­sive players grouped under run­ning backs coach Tony Alford. 
Riddick said at this point he does not have a defined role. 
“I don’t think anyone has roles right now,” he said. “At this point, like coach [Alford] said, everybody wants the ball in their hands, so we’re still try­ing to find out who can do what.” 
Instead of trying to find a niche in the offense, Riddick 
see RIDDICK/page 18 


Running backs could take pressure off QBs 
This is spring ball. 

Almost everything means nothing. Almost nothing means anything. Players have 15 practices to prove to the coaching staff — and an overeager fan base —next year will be different. You’ll hear about so-and-so impress­ing and this-and-that position battle. 
But you won’t hear that from me. I’m here to talk about the most meaningful position for Notre Dame this year: running back. 
see SPRING/page 18 

Matthew DeFranks 
Associate Sports Editor 
BASEBALL 
CLUB SPORTS 

Broncos hand Irish 5-4 loss 
Men’s volleyball team 
By ANDREW GASTELUM 
Associate Sports Editor 
It is that time of the year again when the Irish can’t seem to catch a break, culmi­nating in a five-game losing streak after a 5-4 home loss to Western Michigan on Wednes­day night. 
Freshman pitcher Kyle Rub­binaccio got his first collegiate start for the Irish (17-15, 4-5 Big East), but only lasted 3 1/3 innings despite a promising start. Notre Dame’s first four batters reached base to open the game, but the Irish could only score one run from the inning on an RBI-double from Irish sophomore third base­man Eric Jagielo. Notre Dame had the bases loaded with no outs following Jagielo’s double and a walk to junior catcher Joe Hudson, but Broncos fresh­man pitcher Will Nimke man­aged to find his way out of the jam, striking out two straight Irish batters. 
Nimke threw a seven-strike­out complete game for the Broncos (15-15, 5-3 MAC), but was far from dominant. The Irish had the chance to knock the freshman out of the game early, but couldn’t capitalize on a few key chances in the open­ing innings. The right-hander soon settled into a groove, lim­iting the Irish bats to one hit in the last four innings of the game. 
“I think we had some really bad at-bats once we loaded the bases there in the bottom of the first,” coach Mik Aoki said. “Those string of at-bats let them off the hook there with one run. As the game went on I think we lost our approach. 



By ISAAC LORTON 
Sports Writer 
The words “national champi­onship” resonate for all athletes and sports fans, speaking di­rectly to the desire to be on top. 
The No. 1 Irish earned their place at the top this weekend by capturing the title of Div. I na­tional champions at the National Collegiate Volleyball Federation [NCVF] championship in Kan­sas City, Mo., on April 7.  Notre Dame (34-7) finished a grueling weekend with a 2-0 (25-23, 25­
2) victory over UC Berkeley. 
Success is not uncommon for the Irish. Last year in the NCVF championships, Notre Dame fell short in the title game and took second place. Team leaders said the title-game loss provided the Irish with motivation this year. 
“It feels great to get the win,” junior outside hitter Rob Bauer said. “We came in second last year and had a chip on our shoulder. We had something to show, and we wanted to prove to ourselves we could do it this year.” 
The Irish had their hands full in the championship game this season, however, with a tough opponent in Cal. 
“This capped off a winning season the best way possible,” senior setter and Josh Rehberg said. “This showed our hard You have got to give [Nimke] cos broke through for three 

a lot of credit. He battled and runs against Rubbinaccio, who 
work throughout the season they made some plays as the struggled to throw strikes as 
paid off.” game went on and down the he trudged through the lineup. 
Notre Dame proved its deter-stretch they kind of out-com-Compounding the issue, the 
mination during the final day of peted us.” Irish bats struggled to support 
the national tournament with The Irish led 2-0 heading into 
three three-set matches Satur­the third inning, but the Bron-see BRONCOS/page 17 
day. 

wins national title 
“The most impressive thing this weekend was how we dealt with adversity,” sophomore li­bero Liam Gallagher said. “We lost our first set to Indiana, and it is hard to come back from that, but we did it.” 
The championship year brought two extra honors for Bauer, as he earned the titles of NCVF Player of the Year and tournament MVP on Saturday. 
“I really want to thank my teammates,” Bauer said. “With­out them, we wouldn’t have got­ten to the championship game, and I wouldn’t have won this award. It is because of them, not me, that I won this award. I wasn’t happy with how last year ended, so I went out there to prove we could win the national championship.” 
Bauer earned high praise from his team captain Rehberg. 
“Rob definitely earned it and carried us through the tourna­ment,” Rehberg said. “Whenev­er we needed a point, he came up big.” 
Gallagher brought home an­other accolade for Notre Dame by earning All-Team honors. 
“I am absolutely honored to be recognized,” Gallagher said. “One of the deciding factors of All-Team honors is the captain or coach vote. I am happy Re­hberg saw me as a contributor and it means a lot coming from someone I respect.” 
Gallagher was deserving of the award, Rehberg said. 
“Liam is one of the best de­fensive players I’ve ever played 
see GALLAGHER/page 16 






