
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


University addresses LGBTQ concerns 
Notre Dame announces it will not add sexual orientation to non-discrimination clause 
By SARAH MERVOSH 
Senior News Writer 
Following public requests from students and faculty ask­ing Notre Dame to improve inclusion of its gay, lesbian, bisexual, transgender and questioning (LGBTQ) commu­nity, the University announced Wednesday it would not add sexual orientation to its non­discrimination clause. 
University Spokesman Den­nis Brown declined to provide an explanation for why sexual orientation would not be added and would not say who made the final decision. 
The announcement came in the wake of increased pressure to create a more inclusive at­mosphere for LGBTQ members of the Notre Dame community. 

Student and Faculty Senates recently passed resolutions asking for sexual orientation to be included in the non-discrim-When asked when and if the it would take other steps to discrimination policies. ination clause. The Student University would provide such enhance inclusion of LGBTQ The University’s handbook, Senate resolution also asked a public response, Brown de-members. For example, the du Lac, includes a “Spirit of In-that the University publicly ad-clined to comment. University plans to reaffirm clusion,” which states that dress why the phrase is not in-However, Notre Dame an-and spread awareness about cluded. nounced in a press release the University’s existing non-see LGBTQ/page 6 



Letter calls for bishop’s response 
By SAM STRYKER 
Assistant Managing Editor 
At least 143 Notre Dame pro­fessors and faculty have signed a letter requesting Bishop Dan­iel Jenky of the Diocese of Peoria, Ill., to re­nounce controver­sial state­ments he made in an April 14 homily, or to resign from the University’s Board of Fellows, of which he is a member. 
The group submitted the original letter over the weekend to University President Fr. John Jenkins and Richard Notebaert, University Fellow and chair of the Board of Trustees. The let 


see JENKY/page 6 



Author discusses state of religion in America 
By ANNA BOARINI 
News Writer 
In a lecture sponsored by the Notre Dame Federalists Society, New York Times columnist and author Ross Douthat spoke about his new book, “Bad Religion: How We Became a Nation of Heretics” Tuesday afternoon in the Eck Hall of Law. 
Douthat said his own unique re­ligious upbringing influenced him to write his book. 
“I grew up Episcopalian, but when I was about six or seven my mother was very sick and ended up attending some faith healing services, with guitars and singing, preaching and then people would come forward and would be prayed over,” he said. 
Eventually Douthat and his fam­ily converted to Catholicism. 
“I was very pleased to become a Catholic,” he said. “I was pleased to get the structure of Catholicism.” 
Douthat said he has an interest­ing perspective on religious life in America, specifically noting the parallel between his own religious experience and the American ex­perience on a whole. 
“The church-switching we did in the search of the one true faith, that’s a pretty typical American phenomenon,” he said. “About 45 percent of Americans have switched.” 
Douthat said he chose to begin his book by examining the 1940s and 1950s because it was a period of convergence in American Chris­tianity, one that was followed by steep decline in mainline church attendance. 
“I started the book in the 40s and 50s, the post-war revival of American life,” he said. “This was a period of mass religiosity, the intel­lectual rebirth of religion.” 
Douthat said right now in Ameri­can religious life, tension lies be­tween the traditionally religious and the religious freelancers. He discussed this in his book by ad­dressing four themes. 
Currently, America is an ex­tremely partisan country, regard­ing both religion and politics, Douthat said, and Americans have launched a movement for secular political reform. 
The second cause of the weaken 

see LECTURE/page 6 



Priest addresses HHS mandate 
By NICOLE MICHELS 
News Writer 

On Wednesday night, retired priest Fr. Edward Ruetz spoke to Call to Action Michiana about the United States bishops’ stance on President Obama’s healthcare plan, insisting their handling of the issue is flawed. 
Call to Action is a nationwide Catholic group focused on alter­ing the way the Church engages in the modern political sphere. According to its website, Call to Action demands Catholic politi­cal ideology first and foremost focused on “advocat[ing] for justice and building inclusive communities based on anti-rac­ism and anti-oppression.” 
Ruetz traced the development of Catholic doctrine through history, concluding the bishops’ call for the repeal of the recent-ly-revised Health and Human Services (HHS) contraceptive mandate fails to abide by the 1965 Constitution on Religious Freedom. 
“I believe that the U.S. Catho­lic bishops have not read the 1965 document on the Con­stitution of the Church in the modern world and that if they did, they would take a different stance on the HHS mandate,” he said. 

The bishops’ failure to abide by the Constitution’s guarantee of religious freedom is alarm­ing, because this article is sup­posed to define the behavior of all Catholics, Ruetz said. 
“What I’m concerned about is that the bishops do not follow the Constitution on Religious Freedom … Even though the Church promulgated that this is what we should be living by, they are not abiding by it,” he said. 
The most important element of this Constitution is the way it supports social justice efforts in politics, which is maintained by allowing those of a different 


see HHS/page 7 

INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER CCAC discusses student safety page 3 u Viewpoint page 8 u Top five baseball movies page 10 u Women’s lacrosse falls to Northwestern page 20 
page 2 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u DAY-TO-DAY Thursday, April 26,  2012 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT’S YOUR FAVORITE PLACE ON CAMPUS? 

www.ndsmcobserver.com P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 Editor-in-Chief Allan Joseph Managing Editor Business Manager Megan Doyle Jeff Liptak Asst. Managing Editor: Andrew Owens Asst. Managing Editor: Sam Stryker News Editor: Kristen Durbin News Editor: John Cameron Viewpoint Editor: Meghan Thomassen Sports Editor: Chris Allen Scene Editor: Kevin Noonan Saint Mary’s Editor: Jillian Barwick Photo Editor: Suzanna Pratt Graphics Editor: Brandon Keelean Multimedia Editor: Sarah O’Connor Advertising Manager: Katherine Lukas Ad Design Manager: Amanda Jonovski Controller: Jason Taulman Systems Administrator: William Heineman Office Manager & General Info (574) 631-7471 Fax (574) 631-6927 Advertising (574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu Editor-in-Chief (574) 631-4542 dfarmer1@nd.edu Managing Editor (574) 631-4542 smervosh@nd.edu Assistant Managing Editors (574) 631-4541 apratt@nd.edu, cmasoud@nd.edu Business Office (574) 631-5313 News Desk (574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com Viewpoint Desk (574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com Sports Desk (574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com Scene Desk (574) 631-4540 mgustin@nd.edu Saint Mary’s Desk chousl01@saintmarys.edu Photo Desk (574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com Systems & Web Administrators (574) 631-8839 Policies The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College.  Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Allan Joseph. Post Office Information The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 and additional mailing offices 024 South Dining hall Notre Dame, IN 46556-077 The Observer is a member of the Associated Press.  
TODAY’S STAFF News Sports Tori Roeck Sam Gans Dan Brombach Mike Monaco Abi Hoverman Matthew DeFranks Graphics Scene Elisa DeCastro Kevin Noonan Photo Viewpoint Mackenzie Sain Caroline Lang  
CORRECTIONS The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so we can correct our error.  
HIGH 53 LOW 50 


Christine Lewis  Julia Revord  Sun Hee Park  Laura Thelen  Chris Torres  Allison de Luna  
freshman  freshman  junior  senior  freshman  sophomore  
Ryan  Ryan  Pasquerilla West  Lyons  St. Edward’s  Farley  
“DeBart lounge.”  “Lafunderground  “My dorm.”  “The muffin  “Middle bench  “The Wellness  
(the LaFortune  section at South  in St. Edward’s  Center, because  
basement).”  Dining Hall.”  Park.”  we had too  
many parking  
spots...”  


Have an idea for Question of the Day? Email obsphoto@gmail.com 


OFFBEAT 
Invite mix-up leads Swede to minister’s dinner 
STOCKHOLM, Sweden — Sweden’s environment minis­ter thought she had asked the country’s former agriculture minister to attend a glam dinner. But the invitation went to the “wrong” Marga­reta Winberg - an ordinary Swede who jumped at the chance to mingle, even par­ticipating in the group photo. 
Winberg, a 67-year old re­tiree from Sundbyberg out­side Stockholm, told Swedish daily Dagens Nyheter that although she doesn’t know much about the environment, she didn’t hesitate in taking up Lena Ek on the offer last week. 
She told the paper that she wore black trousers and a blouse “with some things on,” and that she met interesting people, “like that guy Blix,” a reference to former chief U.N. weapons inspector Hans Blix. 

Ek’s spokesman said the minister found the situation “extremely funny.” 
Ukraine protests Dutch ad warning against Euro2012 
KIEV, Ukraine — The Ukrainian Foreign Ministry is protesting a Dutch televi­sion ad that advises women to keep their husbands from attending the Euro 2012 foot­ball championship in June because they are likely to be seduced by Ukraine’s beauti­ful women. 
In the clip titled “Keep Him Home,” the Netherlands En­ergy Company offers a free beer tap to customers who sign up for its services. If Dutch men were able to tap their own beer, the ad im­plies, they would be more likely to watch the games at home instead of traveling to Ukraine. 
An Internet search of “Ukrainian woman” shown in the clip yields dozens of photos of women in erotic outfits and poses. 
Foreign Ministry spokes­man Oleh Voloshin said Wednesday the ad was “hu­miliating and discrimina­tory.” 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 


IN BRIEF 
The Graduate Student Union will host a blood drive today from 9 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore. Donors could win $1,000 vouchers to Edgerton’s Travel or Visa. 
Juan E. Mendez, United Nations Special Rappor­teur for Torture and hu­man rights activist, will give a presentation about his memoir “Taking a Stand: The Evolution of Human Rights” today at 
12:30 p.m. in Room 1140 of the Eck Hall of Law. 
Badin Hall hosts their Signature Event “Badin Breakdown: Karaoke” to­night from 5 to 7 p.m. on South Quad. Pizza and soft drinks  will be provided. 

RecSports will host the workout event “Zumba Thon” tonight from 7 to 9 
p.m. on the front lawn of the Rockne Memorial. The free event is part of SUB Antostal Week. 
Opera Notre Dame will perform “Sweeney Todd” tonight at 7:30 p.m. in De-Bartolo Performing Arts Center. Tickets are $7 for students. 
College Libertarians will host a presentation called “Why Do Cops Sup­port Drug Legalization?” tonight at 7:30 p.m. in Room 138 of DeBartolo Hall. James Gierach from Law Enforcement Against Prohibition will be speak­ing 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews.nd@gmail.com 



LOCAL WEATHER 

TODAY TONIGHT FRIDAY SATURDAY SUNDAY MONDAY 










HIGH 56 LOW 40 
HIGH 46 LOW 37 

HIGH 57 LOW 38 
HIGH 61 LOW 43 

Thursday, April 26, 2012 The Observer u NEWS ndsmcobserver.com | page 3 


SENATE 



Group considers loft resolution 
By MARISA IATI 
Associate News Editor 
Student Senate discussed Sat­urday’s cancellation of PigTos­tal and the Office of Housing’s decision to remove lofts from St. Edward’s Hall at its meeting Wednesday. 
Student body president Brett Rocheleau said police forces told him a neighbor alerted them that a party that was planned did not have a permit. He said people must request these permits at least 15 days in advance, so the students organizing PigTostal could not get one in time for the event. 
“It was completely an isolated incident where basically the po­lice force and the administration weren’t looking to cancel this par­ty,” Rocheleau said. “They were working with it, they were expect­ing it to occur. So it’s not going to keep coming up every weekend, these types of incidents.” 
Senate considered a resolution asking the Office of Housing to reconsider its decision to remove all lofts from St. Edward’s Hall by the 2013-2014 academic year and replace them with modular furni­ture. 
Sean Long, St. Edward’s sena­tor, said building the lofts is a First Year Orientation ritual for the residence hall. 
Rocheleau said the Office of Housing considers the lofts a safe­ty issue because they block the spots in the ceilings that release water in the case of a fire. 

“By them knowing that this is occurring, they don’t feel right let­ting it slide,” he said. 
The group passed the resolu­tion after debate. 
Senate passed a resolution re­questing Auxiliary Operations to ask for student feedback about the Notre Dame ID card. It also passed resolutions asking for the creation of serve.nd.edu to cen­tralize service opportunities and asking for revision of the Physical Education wellness program to initiate discussion about gender issues. 
Senate passed a resolution amending the student govern­ment elections process. 
The resolution stated, “For the purpose of petitions, the original signature of an undergraduate student shall be required to sig­nify approval of the placement of a candidate or ticket on the bal­lot … In the event that an election proceeds to a runoff, all tickets in the runoff may have a nominal increase in their funding equiva­lent to 20 percent of the funding initially allocated for the primary election.” 
Campus Ministry Liaison Ellen Carroll introduced a resolution requesting the University begin each home football game with a prayer. She said the football team would be a starting point, but the practice would ideally extend to other varsity sports. 
“A lot of students who went to Catholic high schools, their sports games would start with a prayer,” Carroll said. “People have been talking about what would it be like to start Notre Dame football games with the same kind of thing.” 
If the prayer were instated, the exact wording would be deter­mined through collaboration be­tween various University offices, such as the Office of Campus Min­istry and the Office of the Presi­dent, Carroll said. 
Rocheleau said the resolution is not meant to impose religion on anyone, and the prayer would not profess belief in any specific faith. 
“It just says bless the players so no one gets hurt, no one gets harm, there’s fair play,” he said. “So I hope no one would ever feel that we’re imposing our religion on anyone … And we would make sure the prayer focuses on being generalized for all religions.” 
Senate tabled the prayer reso­lution and will discuss it again at the next meeting. 
Student body vice president Katie Rose reminded senators if someone feels a discrimina­tory incident was not handled correctly by his rector, he can report the incident to someone in a position of greater authority. 
“If you do have a problem, if you think you weren’t treated correctly or a matter wasn’t treated correctly, you can go to the head of the rectors, who is [Associate Vice President for Residential Life] Heather Rus­sell,” she said. 
Contact Marisa Iati at miati@nd.edu 




Community members discuss student safety 
By MARISA IATI 
Associate News Editor 
Leaders from South Bend and local colleges discussed student safety and the relationship be­tween the city and schools at a Community/Campus Advisory Coalition meeting Wednesday. 
Mark Kramer, owner of Kram­er Properties, which provides housing to many local college students including those at Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s, said four larcenies occurred last weekend amid Blue-Gold Game festivities. 
“[Larcenies have] really been happening in the last two or three weeks, I guess,” Kramer said. “The students need to warn their fellow students to keep their laptops out of sight or out of the car … It can happen anywhere.” 
Student body president Brett Rocheleau said student govern­ment has sent emails to the stu­dent body about protecting them­selves from theft. 
“In our Good Neighbor Guides that we give out to everyone at the beginning of the year, we’re going to add a whole section about stay­ing safe,” he said. “Things like lock your door, don’t think you’re safe all the time and fall into that false sense of security.” 
Mike Carrington of the South Bend Alcoholic Beverage Board said students often host large off-campus parties this time of year because the weather becomes nice. He said excise and local po­lice can become involved in these situations. 
“It’s possible to come out with a bus and take everybody to jail, and we’re not advocating for that,” he said. “We want to avoid that … When somebody shows up [at a student party] and says, ‘Hey, you need to turn it down and close it down,’ they need to understand that they need to do that.” 
Carrington said underage stu­dents who enter bars using fake identification cards are jeopar­dizing themselves and the busi­ness owners. 
“If [students] want to have good places to go to and have them be safe and good places, then we need to have the cooperation of those [owners] and … them not being inundated with students trying to get in with false IDs,” he said. 
St. Joseph County Sheriff Mi­chael Grzegorek said cooperation between local colleges and the city has been “fantastic” recently. 
Jeffrey Walters, Uniform Di­vision chief for the South Bend Police, said his department was pleased with the relationship that has developed over the past few years between South Bend resi­dents and college administrators, students and faculty. 
“We’ve solved a lot of problems and I’m happy to report that we don’t have a whole lot of issues right now,” he said. 

Contact Marisa Iati at miati@nd.edu 



Thursday, April 26, 2012 The Observer u NEWS ndsmcobserver.com | page 5 



Speaker warns of texting, driving 
By KAITLYN RABACH 
News Writer 
Diveeta Thompson, an activist against distracted driving, spoke to students about the dangers of texting and driving Wednesday in the Student Center Lounge. 
In the lecture, sponsored by the Office of Student Involve­ment, Thompson said drivers have a responsibility to them­selves and to other drivers not to drive distracted. 
“Driving is a privilege,” Thompson said. “Distracted driving affects not only you as an individual but also everyone else on the road.” 
She spoke about the organi­zation “Stop Texting AND Dis­tracted Driving (STANDD)” she founded after she lost her son to distracted driving in 2008. 
“My son Rodney was a senior in high school and had a lot go­ing for him,” Thomspon said. “He was reaching for his phone one night because someone had texted him. He was getting ready to read a message and lost control of his car. He hit a utility pole and was killed instantly.” 
Since the death of her son, Thompson said she has made it her life’s work to promote aware­ness about texting and driving. 
“Unfortunately, it became my passion to stop distracted driv­ing,” she said. “Every time a family is touched with this issue it rivets me. I am happy to lend my voice to the cause, and I hope you will all do the same.” 
Thompson said it is important for individuals of all ages to join the cause but believes this is especially true for college stu­dents. 
“Being young college students you have so much promise,” Thompson said. “You all have such a bright future ahead of you. Is it really worth the risk to text and drive?” 
As part of the presentation, Lieutenant Tim Williams of the Mishawaka Police Department also spoke on the issue. 
Williams said a person driving while using her cell phone has the equivalent distraction level of someone driving with a .08 blood alcohol content. 


“When you are texting and driving you show the same signs that a person makes when they are impaired,” he said. 
Williams said the conse­quences of texting and driv­ing are more than just a $500 fine in the state of Indiana. 
“If you are involved in a se­rious crash and we find out you were texting while driv­ing you could face both jail time and hefty fines,” he said. 
He said any driver’s prima­ry responsibility is to make sure he or she drives safely. 
“As a driver your responsi­bility is to the safe operation of your vehicle,” Williams said. “It is not to the person on the other end of the phone or your passengers in the car.” 
First year student Morgan Carroll, who worked with the Office of Student Involvement to invite Thompson to cam­pus, said texting and driving is a serious issue. 
“I think it is important to be educated on this issue be­cause it not only affects you as an individual, but also ev­eryone on the road,” Carroll said. “It is a real life problem, and I think that Thompson’s lecture did a wonderful job of bringing this issue down to a personal level.” 
Thompson said she believes change starts with a voice. She has traveled the country lending her voice to the cause, and at the end of her lecture she asked everyone in the au­dience to lend theirs as well. 
“Be a voice for us,” Thomp­son said. “Be a voice for my son. Save a life.” 
Contact Kaitlyn Rabach at krabac01@saintmarys.edu 




Play tackles controversial topics, student labels 
By ABI HOVERMAN 
News Writer 
The play titled “Playing, Dating aND Maybe Mating,” written and directed by se­nior Matthew Mancini, ad­dresses Notre Dame student stereotypes and follows these characters as they navigate friendships, dating and hook-ups. 
students in November across campus, Arbuckle said. Man­cini said he then compiled common stories and experi­ences to form the script, with rehearsals starting immedi­ately after Spring Break.
 “They’re real stories but 
none of the characters are based off of one person,” Arbuckle said. “We made a list 

The show’s of the differ­
“If people come they 
online trail-ent people 
will be really surprised 
er mentions we wanted 
by the content and just 
charac-to hit and 
how intricate all the 
ters such as then we went 
“The Bro,” characters are.  We really around and “The Best dove into so many topics interviewed Friend” and and issues on campus.” friends or “The Campus whoever we Catch.” could for 
Matthew Mancini 
“If people about two 
director 
come they will be really surprised by the content and just how intricate all the characters are,” Mancini said. “We really dove into so many different topics and is­sues on campus.” 
Sophomore producer Blair Arbuckle said the play, which will be performed Thursday, Friday and Saturday at 7:30 
p.m. in Washington Hall, cov­ers topics such as females on birth control, eating disorders and domestic violence. 
“We have one character in specific that is interesting be­cause you can see the differ­ent sides of his mind working,” Arbuckle said. “There are two people playing his other roles … demonstrating how you can have internal dilemmas and fights trying to find yourself and trying to deal with not only Notre Dame but life in general.” 
Arbuckle said despite the strong labels Notre Dame stu­dents place on each other, no one perfectly fits into these categories. 
“We were 


“The overall theme is self-
just surprised Mancini
love and individuality, 
by how all said. “I had 
the stereo-finding confidence with worked with types were being you.  I guarantee some of them broken,” she everyone that comes before, but a said. “People to this production will lot of them aren’t as one-see someone they know were inter-dimensional ested in be-
or personally identify 
as people ing part of 
with. They’ll relate 
think. There’s the produc­
with the characters.” 
no algorithm tion.” for anyone.” Arbuck-
Mancini le said she 
Matthew Mancini said the Gen-director hopes the 
weeks … We all came back togeth­er and had a meeting and talked about 
everything, all the different impressions. We took what we found, overriding themes and put them together to make characters.” 
Mancini said every Notre Dame student can identify with something he or she has struggled with as it is por­trayed in the production. 
“The overall theme is self-love and individuality, finding confidence with being you,” he said. “I guarantee everyone that comes to the production will see someone they know or personally identify with. They’ll relate with the charac­ters.” 
Mancini said the cast is very diverse. Not all are FIRE Start­ers, and actors and actresses include political science, eco­nomics and even anthropology majors. 
“It’s all over the place. 
They were interested in do­ing the play and it was kind of word of mouth,” 
der Stud­ies Program sponsors the play and all the directors and producers participate in the Gender Re­lations Center’s “FIRE Starter” program, which aims to edu­cate students about relation­ships and identity. 
“Many of us participated in ‘Loyal Daughters and Sons’ last year,” he said. “The pro­ducers and I are part of the creative team of ‘FIRE Start­ers,’ and it was our job to cre­ate a creative program for campus.” 
He said the theatrical venue appealed to him because it of­fered a freedom and creativity to explore taboo topics. 
To properly address these issues, the creative team worked together to interview play fosters 
dialogue 
about the 
issues pre­sented, many of which may be completely new and un­comfortable for the audience. 
“It’s more about getting it out there,” she said. “It’s un­like any play I’ve seen here because we say a lot that people keep to themselves and that people are afraid to say. We just want to put it out there and have it said, maybe for the first time you’ll hear it out loud, but then … we want you to go in your own direc­tion.” 
Tickets for the play are available in the LaFortune Box Office for $3. 

Contact Abi Hoverman at ahoverma@nd.edu 

Thursday, April 26, 2012 The Observer u NEWS ndsmcobserver.com | page 6 


Jenky 
continued from page 1 
ter appeared in The Observer’s Viewpoint section on April 23 with 95 signatures. 
Members of the faculty and staff continue to add their sig­natures to the letter via email to its original signees. 
The letter also requests the University issue a statement distancing Notre Dame from Jenky’s “incendiary statement.” 
In his homily, the bishop criti­cized President Barack Obama’s healthcare policy and its impact on the Catholic Church. Jenky compared the current impact of such policy to other histori­cal challenges the Church has faced, citing the regimes of Ad­olf Hitler and Joseph Stalin as examples. 
“Hitler and Stalin, at their better moments, would just barely tolerate some churches remaining open, but would not tolerate any competition with the state in education, social services and health care,” Jen­ky said. “In clear violation of our First Amendment rights, Barack Obama — with his radi­cal, pro-abortion and extreme secularist agenda, now seems intent on following a similar path.” 
Under the sors and faculty before it was submitted to Jenkins and Note­baert. 
“I was incredibly angered and distressed by Bishop Jenky’s comparison of anything Presi­dent Obama has done to Hitler or Stalin,” Holland said. 
Theatre professor Kevin Dreyer, who also signed the let­ter, said professors and faculty were upset media coverage of Jenky’s homily strongly asso­ciated the bishop’s statements with the University. 
“The homily and the report­ing seemed to us to be tying the words to Notre Dame,” he said “And that’s where the reaction came from. It was one of those situations where there was a very strong sentiment.” 
Dreyer said his issue with Jenky’s statements is they are “adversarial,” and “cut off any discourse” that might take place in a university environment. 
“This is not the image of Notre Dame,” he said. “Notre Dame is a place of civility, of discourse, of engagement, and it is the thing that I have come to value about this institution above vir­tually everything else.” 
English professor John Duffy, a co-signer of the letter, said it is important to note the profes­sors and faculty who submitted the letter are only looking to ad­dress Jenky’s statements, not to 
make a politi­

revised con­t r a c e p t i o n mandate, the r es pon si bi l-ity for fund­ing contra­ception was shifted from r el i g io u s l y - “Bishop Jenky gave several examples of times in history in which religious groups were persecuted because of what they believed. We certainly have not reached the same level  cal statement. “The letter does not take a position on he a l t hc a r e reform,” he said. “It does not take a po­sition on life  
affiliated in­stitutions to i n s u r a n ce  of persecution. However, history teaches us to be cautious once we start  issues. It does not take a po­sition on the  
c o m p a n i e s, but will apply to self-insured  down the path of limiting religious liberty.”  relationship of the U.S. gov­ernment to  
employers. In his hom- Patricia Gibson  the Catholic Church. The  
ily, Jenky said  diocesan chancellor  purpose of the  
Catholic insti- Diocese of Peoria  letter is not to  

tutions can­not cooperate with pro-choice legislation “un­der any circumstance.” 
“No Catholic ministry — and yes, Mr. President, for Catholics our schools and hospitals are ministries — can remain faith­ful to the Lordship of the Risen Christ and to his glorious Gos­pel of Life if they are forced to pay for abortions,” he said. 
In the letter to the editor, the signees said it was “profoundly offensive” that a member of the Board of Fellows should com­pare Obama’s actions to “those whose genocidal policies mur­dered tens of millions of people, including the specific targeting of Catholics, Jews and other mi­norities for their faith.” 
“Jenky’s comments demon­strate ignorance of history, in­sensitivity to victims of geno­cide and absence of judgment,” the letter stated. 
Patricia Gibson, diocesan chancellor of the Diocese of Peoria, released a statement April 19 that claimed Jenky’s statements were taken out of context. 
“Bishop Jenky gave several examples of times in history in which religious groups were persecuted because of what they believed. We certainly have not reached the same level of persecution,” the statement read. “However, history teaches us to be cautious once we start down the path of limiting reli­gious liberty.” 
Calls to the bishop’s office Wednesday were not returned. 
Associate Dean for the Arts Peter Holland wrote the initial version of the letter, which was edited and signed by profes­address any 
of those sub­jects. The purpose of the letter is to address the analogy Bishop Jenky made in his sermon.” 
On Tuesday morning, professors and faculty re­ceived an email statement signed by Jenkins and Notebaert in response to the letter submitted. The email thanked the profes­sors for the letter, but de­clined to comment on Jen­ky’s homily. 
“As you might imagine, members of the Board of Trustees have taken po­sitions on a wide array of issues through the years,” the email stated. “When the person does not appear to be speaking on behalf of Notre Dame, as is the case here, it has been and re­mains our policy to refrain from comment.” 
Jenky, a 1970 graduate of Notre Dame, has served as a trustee and member of the Board of Fellows, the highest level of the Board of Trustees, since 2003. He previously served as direc­tor of Campus Ministry and rector of Dillon Hall. 
University Spokesman Dennis Brown declined to comment on Jenky’s state­ments. 
“Notre Dame does not comment on the personal views of Board members other than to say that they do not necessarily reflect those of the University,” he said. 
Contact Sam Stryker at sstryke1@nd.edu 



Lecture 
continued from page 1 

ing of mainline religion, Douthat said, is the sexual revolution. 
“There isn’t that much to say, but it’s pretty obvious the ideals coming out of the sexual revolu­tion do not mesh with Christian morals,” he said. “This is a social landscape where it is harder and harder to imagine a traditional Christian ethic.” 
Money is the third factor con­tributing to the downward trend of mainline Christianity, Douthat said. 
He said the Old Testament puts a heavy stress on the suspicion of wealth, which can be difficult to reconcile in a capitalist country like the United States. 
“There is a general sensibil­ity that makes the New Testa­ment emphasis on asceticism easier and easier for Americans to just set aside,” he said. “This [focus on wealth] has affected the ability of the church to at­tract people to the ministry … It seems like a much less attrac­tive, lucrative and secure way of life.” 

LGBTQ 
continued from page 1 

Notre Dame welcomes its LG­BTQ community and seeks to create an environment in which “none are strangers and all may flourish.” 
University President Fr. John Jenkins affirmed the Spirit of Inclusion in the press release. 
“In all of our efforts, we seek within the context of Church teaching to better realize the ideals expressed in the Uni­versity’s ‘Spirit of Inclusion’ statement — to create an en­vironment of mutual respect, hospitality and warmth,” he said. 
The University also con­demns harassment and dis­crimination toward LGBTQ individuals in its discrimina­tory harassment policy, which is designed to protect current students and employees. 
The non-discrimination clause primarily addresses discrimination against pro­spective students and em­ployees in areas such as admissions, employment, scholarships and athletics. The current clause states that the University “does not discriminate on the basis of race, color, national or ethnic origin, sex, disability, veteran status or age.” 
In response to student sug­gestions, the University will make ally training more widely available, improve hall staff training and continue communication between ad­ministration and student leaders regarding LGBTQ is­sues, according to the press release. 
Notre Dame also plans to improve the structure and functioning of the Core Coun­cil for Gay, Lesbian and Bi­sexual Students, a group com­prised of administrators and students that advises the Vice President for Student Affairs on LGBTQ needs. 
Brown also said some changes have already been made to improve inclusion of LGBTQ students, such as pro­viding Core Council with per­manent space in the LaFor­tune Student Center. 
“There have been some things that have been done,” 

Douthat said, globalization is the last cause of the decline of religion in America. 
“At the end of imperialism, it meant Christianity became more attractive [in former co­lonial nations],” he said. “That process undercut Christianity’s appeal in the West.” 

Contact Anna Boarini at aboari01@saintmarys.edu 
he said. “That’s an example.” 
Brown said the University plans to solidify a specific plan for enhancing inclusion of LGBTQ students in the up­coming months. 
“Those are going to be things that will be in discus­sion with students over the summer and early in the fall semester to put details in place,” he said. 
Vice President for Student Affairs Fr. Tom Doyle said Notre Dame has made prog­ress over the past 15 years in its support for LGBTQ stu­dents and said the University appreciates student input on the subject. 
“We’ve always emphasized the desire to continuously im­prove and to be responsive and at much personal expense this entire year for full inclu­sion of gay, lesbian, bisexual, transgender, and questioning members of the community,” Coccia said. 
The 4 to 5 Movement re­leased a video in February titled, “It Needs To Get Bet­ter,” in which students, fac­ulty and staff call for a more inclusive environment for the LGBTQ community. The video has over 20,000 views on YouTube. 
The video specifically asks that Notre Dame include sex­ual orientation in its nondis­crimination clause and that the University approve a gay-straight alliance (GSA) as an official club. 
AllianceND, which is cur-
to student concerns,” he said in 

“I want to commend all
the press re­

lease. “The of the students, faculty, conver sa-and staff who, through tions be-the 4 to 5 Movement, have tween stu-worked tirelessly and at dents and much personal expense the adminis-this entire year for full 
tration both 

inclusion of gay, lesbian, 
recently and 

bisexual, transgender,
over the past 

and questioning members 
several years 

of the community.” 
have been very impor­tant.” Alex Coccia 
Sophomore co-president Alex Coccia, 
Progressive Student Alliance 
co-president of the Pro­gressive Stu­rently the campus’s unofficia l GSA, applied for official club status in February. 
Brown said the University’s decision rega rding the nondis­crimination clause is separate from a deci­sion regard­ing a GSA, which will be made through 
dent Alliance (PSA), said the University’s release is a step in the right direction. 
“With such a statement from the University, it is important that each individual respond according to his or her own vantage point,” he said. “I be­lieve that it is important to ac­knowledge the initiative of the administration both to release a public statement regarding first steps for inclusive and to recognize expressed student suggestions.” 
Coccia, who is also a colum­nist for The Observer’s View­point section, is actively in­volved in the 4 to 5 Movement, an initiative of PSA in which allies promote an environ­ment of inclusion for LGBTQ students, faculty and staff. 
“I want to commend all of the students, faculty, and staff who, through the 4 to 5 Move­ment, have worked tirelessly the Student Activities Office (SAO). 
Director of Student Activi­ties for Programming Peggy Hnatusko, who makes the final decision regarding club status, told The Observer on Tuesday that all applications for new clubs were still under review. 
Hnatusko said she hopes all decisions regarding new clubs will be made by the end of the summer and will send letters to prospective clubs when the review process is finished. 
However, Coccia said he re­ceived verbal commitment from an SAO representative earlier in the semester that a decision regarding GSA’s club status would be made by May 1. 
Kristen Durbin contributed to this report. 


Contact Sarah Mervosh at smervosh@nd.edu 

Thursday, April 26, 2012 The Observer u NEWS ndsmcobserver.com | page 7 
HHS 
continued from page 1 
faith to adhere to their personal belief system, Ruetz said. 
“They are saying these ac­tions are intrinsically evil, say­ing Catholic institutions would be violating their conscience in offering these services to people who are not Catholic,” he said. “However, they have a different conscience, and that’s where the conflict of personal rights comes up.” 
Ruetz said the Constitution guarantees the right of every individual to follow the dictates of his or her conscience, free of coercion.  Catholic institutions such as Notre Dame and the Church hierarchy should show respect for this right, he said. 
“Every human being has the right of private conscience, and they’re trying to coerce that,” Ruetz said. “The right of private conscience within each human individual comes from their in­herent human dignity. There­fore, the right of religious free­dom has its foundation not in the subjective disposition, but in the very nature of the human being.” 
Problems arise when the Church presumes to moderate the consciences of non-Catho­lics because that infringes upon their religious freedom, Ruetz said. 
“[From the Constitution] it fol­lows that he should not be forced to act in a manner contrary to his conscience … But let’s look at the other side. What if the con­science of a non-Catholic tells them it is inherently good to use these services?” he said. 
Members of Call to Action Mi­chiana debated these issues, fo­cusing on analysis of the gap be­tween Church rhetoric and the expressed desires of the people. 
Call to Action member Tom Murray said he thought the bish­ops presumed too much when they expressed Catholics are against artificial contraception, and Catholics with a differing opinion should simply opt out of the artificial contraceptive services potentially provided by these insurance plans. 
“Though we know that 90 per­cent of Catholics practice artifi­cial birth control if they are able to, if artificial birth control was to be paid for by this enacted insurance program, it seems to me that if Catholics don’t want to use it, they’re free not to use it,” Murray said.  “I don’t understand why the bishops are allowed to get away with the lie that they are speaking for all Catholics.” 
Hank Mascott, a member of Call to Action, said he hoped for similar attitudes to prevail in In­diana, following the pattern of the 18 states that have already accepted Obamacare.  
“Catholic institutions in those 18 states have somehow worked out compromises with state arrangements, and it has not caused this ‘brouhaha,’” Mascott said. “It would be interesting to go back and look at how the Church has negotiated its posi­tion within those states.” 
Call to Action Member Br. John Dolan said he also believed careful analysis of the frame­work of the discussion will lead to a more productive result. 
“There are arguments and log­ic and reasoning on both sides, but the truth is somewhere in the middle,” Dolan said.  “I thought the truth of this debate was that these sides are using overcharged emotional rhetoric.” 
Ruetz said he agreed with hopes for a compromise between the dissenting political factions and he thinks Notre Dame would likewise agree to potential ar­rangements. 
“I would hope that Notre Dame could agree with the com­promises that have been made, that they would be able to com­promise and accept the mandate like many colleges have done,” he said. “Social justice says that Notre Dame should look at the justice issue involved with offer­ing these services to non-Catho­lic people who think the services are good actions.” 
The bishops’ stance on the health care mandate repre­sents a larger trend within the Church of strictly adhering to established doctrine, which Ru­etz said disconnects the Church from the concerns of the people it serves. 
“The hierarchy is losing touch with what is happening in the modern world … It is not willing to look at [certain] issues and confront them,” Ruetz said.  “It doesn’t want to bring them up because if they did they would have to look at women’s equality, same-sex marriage, homosexu­ality, married priesthood and the ordination of women.” 


Contact Nicole Michels at nmichels@nd.edu 



Gingrich prepares to end campaign 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON — Newt Gin­grich began taking steps Wednes­day to shut down his debt-laden White House bid, setting the stage to endorse one-time rival Mitt Romney next week and rally Republicans behind their appar­ent nominee. 
Gingrich had a friendly tele­phone conversation Wednesday with Romney and had started planning an event where he would throw his support behind the likely nominee, Gingrich spokesman R.C Hammond said. The pair agreed to work together to unite conservatives against President Barack Obama. 
“It’s clear Romney is the nomi­nee and the focus should be on defeating Obama. We should not focus on defeating ourselves,” Gingrich told disappointed sup­porters in Kings Mountain, N.C., the morning after Romney tight­ened his grip on the nomination by sweeping primary contests in five states. 
Gingrich also telephoned Re­publican National Committee Chairman Reince Priebus and supporters, such as Texas Gov. Rick Perry, in states with upcom­ing primaries to inform them of the decision he had been hint­ing at for days. Perry endorsed Gingrich when he ended his own White House bid in January but later Wednesday posted an en­dorsement of Romney on his campaign website. 
Gingrich had been under pres­sure for some time to leave the race and clear a path for Romney. 
“You have to at some point be honest about what’s happening in the real world as opposed to what you would like to have hap­pened,” he told supporters at a suburban Charlotte, N.C., restau­rant. 
Gingrich declined to comment when asked about his plans multiple times during the Kings Mountain stop. 
“There are times when the mountain gets bigger than your ability to climb it,” he said. 
The White House acknowl­edged that the contest had come down to Obama and Romney. 
“There seems to be a general acknowledgment that the process has moved to that stage,” press secretary Jay Carney told report­ers traveling with the president. 
As the White House ratchets up its focus on Romney, Gingrich will shift to helping Republican candidates across the country, paying off more than $4.3 million in campaign debt and rebuilding his reputation among conserva-tives. 

Gingrich’s campaign tested conventional wisdom from the beginning. Could the 68-year­old grandfather — a politically divisive figure shamed by an eth­ics probe and subsequent repri­mand, pushed out of congressio­nal leadership and saddled with marital scandal — find accep­tance among cultural conserva­tives? 
His campaign was full of con­tradictions. He pointed to his 20 years as a congressman from Georgia, including four as House speaker, and claimed a political kinship with President Ronald Reagan. Yet he also contended to be an outsider and anti-estab­lishment candidate. 


TSA screeners charged in drug trafficking probe 
Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES — Duane Eleby, a suspected drug courier, was all set to sneak 10 pounds of co­caine through a security checkpoint at Los Angeles International Airport last February with the help of a former Transportation Security Administration employee and a screener. 
Eleby, however, bungled the plan by going to the wrong terminal and was arrested after another TSA screener found the cocaine, which set in mo­tion a series of undercov­er operations that led to Wednesday’s announce­ment that two former and current TSA employees had been indicted on fed­eral drug trafficking and bribery charges. 
A 22-count indictment outlined five incidents where the TSA employ­ees took payments of up to $2,400 to provide drug couriers unfettered ac­cess at LAX over a six-month period last year. In all, seven people are facing charges, including Eleby. 
“The allegations in this case describe a signifi­cant breakdown of the screening system through the conduct of individuals who placed greed above the nation’s security needs,” said U.S. Attorney Andre Birotte Jr. 
Among those arrested and charged are Naral Richardson, 30, of Los An­geles, who was fired by TSA for an unrelated mat­ter in 2010 and accused of orchestrating the scheme; John Whitfield, 23, of Los Angeles, a current TSA screener; Joy White, 27, of Compton, who was termi­nated last year; and Cap­eline McKinney, 25, of Los Angeles, also a current screener. 
It wasn’t immediately known if any of the four had retained attorneys. Authorities didn’t say what post Richardson, who began working for TSA in 2002, once held. 
Eleby was given spe­cific written instructions by White last February to ensure his safe passage through the airport, accord­ing to the indictment. In­stead of going to Terminal 6 where White, who was hired six years ago, was located, Eleby went to Terminal 5 where his plane was sched­uled to depart, authorities said. 
The plan, court documents show, was to have Eleby use a secure tunnel linking the two terminals after he was allowed through security by White. 
Despite Eleby’s arrest, the smuggling scheme continued and federal agents set up a sting where informants were able to pass cocaine and methamphetamine through security checkpoints without further inspection. 
In one case, after nearly 8 pounds of meth went through an X-ray machine, Whitfield and an operative met in an airport bathroom where Whitfield was paid $600 for his efforts, court documents show. 
In another instance, McKinney let more than 44 pounds of cocaine pass through her security check­point, authorities said. 
None of the drugs ever made it to their final desti­nation, authorities said. 
Randy Parsons, TSA’s se­curity director at LAX, said the agency is disappointed about the arrests but that it remained committed to holding its employees to the highest standards. 
If convicted, all four em­ployees face a minimum of 10 years in federal prison. Whitfield, who has worked at TSA since 2008, and McK­inney, a seven-year veteran, are under suspension, au­thorities said. 
There have been a hand­ful of other arrests of TSA employees since the agency was created in response to the Sept. 11, 2001 terrorist attacks. 
Last week, former TSA of­ficer Jonathan Best pleaded guilty to conspiracy to dis­tribute and to possess with intent to distribute oxycodo­ne for his role in a painkill­er trafficking ring. Another former TSA officer, a former New York police officer and a former Florida state trooper have already pleaded guilty. 



page 8 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com Thursday, April 26,  2012 

INSIDE COLUMN 


To all the draftniks 
Today is the day that many have been awaiting for the past two months — or more for some. The NFL Draft is here. Sure, it is overhyped, and most so-called “draftniks” are downright crazy. 
Yes, there are the Ernst Cleofe people who spent hours at the com-Sports Writer puter compiling lists of mock drafts while consciously ignoring personal hygiene. For every person like that, there is another who has tossed and turned over whether Ryan Tannehill is going to get Mi­ami out of what has been a 10-year Marino hangover. Don’t even get me started on the people who actually listen to Todd McShay. So, yes, there are crazy people out there. 
But let’s be honest. They are a good kind of crazy about a good thing. 
First, the draft is something to pay attention to. It is, as apparently everyone at ESPN is brainwashed to say, the roots of a good team. Suc­cessful teams like the Packers, Giants and even those dreaded Patriots are the experts of using the draft to re­load continuously. 
Consider this, eight of the past nine Super Bowl champions have been led by a quarterback originally drafted by that team. Of those eight, six were chosen in the first round. 
Then, there are teams that are consistently at the top of the draft, like the pre-2008 Detroit Lions or the Cleveland Browns. Year after year of terrible picks turn into years of sink­ing faces into emotionally charged ice cream and heartache (which seems a bit fitting). 
More importantly, these draft fans are a personal favorite kind crazy They are the nerdy, chubby kid that is obsessed with the hot girl who is as uninterested in him as draftniks love the combine. And trust me, they love the combine. 
Weird metaphor aside, what I’m trying to say is that draftniks are toiling away time worrying about something over which they have almost no control. They chase after something that likely won’t end up in their favor. A few wrong moves here and there, and then everything goes straight downhill. Eventually, most people end up disappointed while trying to reconcile themselves with the “terrible” draft picks of their respective front office (which, by the way, will probably be the case for the wonderfully pitiful fans of the Dol­phins.) 
But then, there is that spark of hope, that moment when the girl falls for nerdy charm. Okay, fine, this hap­pens as often as the Raiders make good picks and mostly in Jonah Hill movies, but it happens. And when it does it is life- or, in this case, fran­chise-changing. 
When fans see everything align and fall into place, it’s pure excite­ment. It’s what makes fans great. It’s the crazy. More exactly, that crazy is unadulterated passion for something that is basically inconsequential. That kind of passion is rare and, if nothing else, respectable. 
So, go get your draft on, draftniks. Let me go find my tub of Mel Kiper Hair Wax, and we’ll go to town to­night. 
Contact Ernst Cleofe at            ecleofe@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

A fond farewell 
Today is a celebration because today marks my final column in this great newspaper. For many campus liberals, this day has not come soon enough. Over the past four years, this column has been a bastion Mark Easley of conservative thought in these Elephant in pages, and I ap-the Room preciate all my fans and detractors that have silently agreed with and publicly dissented on my viewpoints. Through the ups and downs of the election cycle, the pressing issues of the day and even the occasional life commentaries, I have written many opinions that I hope you found engaging and pro­vocative. 
Conservatives across America are disturbed by what lies ahead for our nation. Many challenges have arisen, even in the short time I have been in school. I hope for my younger peers that Notre Dame remains a sanctu­ary where you can learn and prog­ress without feeling too strongly the troubles of the real world. I would like to close my career like I began it — with a story about values that I hope will inspire and keep the fire in your heart burning one more day. 
Great Grandpa Easley was alive at the turn of the century. He was just another American living in the heartland of Indiana. He suffered through the depression and raised a family that even sent one kid to col­lege. Great Grandpa didn’t have much in terms of money or education, but he had a little plan and made reason­able life decisions. He would see to it that his family was educated and that his daughters were married to good husbands — the best way for females to gain financial stability at the time. Although he didn’t get to the top of anything, most people would count his life as a success. I certainly do. 
Grandpa Jack Easley was another American success. Growing up under Great Grandpa’s roof, Jack didn’t have much either, but he had a good head on his shoulders and strong work ethic. He graduated high school, a place in which his father never stepped foot, and he became an elec­trical engineering student at Purdue. Grandpa Jack built tanks during the war and then moved on to air con­ditioning and automotive electron­ics. Jack got married and raised a family and like his father, made sure education was the top priority. All four of his kids became graduates of Purdue University, with two of them earning graduate degrees. Jack even started his own small business at one point, which he eventually sold. Jack wasn’t anything special, just an­other kid who made decent decisions along the way. He was never rich by any account but he was able to push himself and his family into a place where there were opportunities for the future. 

Mark Easley Sr. didn’t grow up rich. Born in Indianapolis, he lived in a house that had four young mouths to feed and clothe. Mark was most like Jack in his school work and en­deavors. He, too, followed his father into engineering. For 20 years, Senior pioneered the personal computer revolution in Silicon Valley, and was able to retire early. He didn’t inherit anything. He reaped the fruits of his labor through the opportunities that were presented to him. 
When I was born in February of 1990, my family had come a long way. It took three generations and over 100 years to get me, the fourth generation of Easley to have the unlimited opportunity that everyone seems to be looking for, and I wasn’t even guaranteed success. For years I worked on my schooling, getting straight As year after year. While others got distracted, I always kept education as my top priority. I didn’t have to do it. I could have quit, but I had a plan for myself. I wanted to do something that no Easley had done before — attend a premier university like Notre Dame. I’m not smarter than anyone else, nor do I work harder than anyone else. The reason why I am where I am is because I just don’t quit on my plans. I don’t quit on myself by making poor decisions. 
Through college, I worked and sacrificed. Engineering is no cake walk. Courses are challenging and homework comes in piles comparable to mountains. I experienced many times where I wanted to give up or toyed with serious regrets of com­ing to Notre Dame in the first place. But I learned to take my beatings and turn to God, and somehow in the end, I came out the other side with a prestigious degree, experiences, knowledge and relationships that will never leave me. I am charged up more than ever to go out into the world and begin solving problems. The challenges I lived through here have turned into opportunities to be pursued out there. 
The American Dream is not about rags to riches in a lifetime. It’s about sustained progress over generations, where the next has more than the last, where the values of hard work and family and education are passed on. It’s a long road and all people have their struggles, but, by default, living in this exceptional nation is your best chance of making it in the long term. 
It’s not all about intelligence or money. It’s about taking good risks for personal betterment and not endangering your success with bad life choices. America’s middle class is filled with family histories similar to mine. If you want to have an Ameri­can Dream, look to what others have done to achieve it and learn from their example. Knowledge, education and determination are the corner­stones of success. 
Mark Easley is a senior computer science major, and you can follow his blog at www.markeasley.org and can reach him at measley@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

Notre Dame and the LGBTQ community 
On Wednesday, the Notre Dame News (ND Newswire) page featured an article stating that “Notre Dame enhances support for gay and lesbian students.” While the changes are a nice gesture of support for the LGBTQ community and their straight allies, they are not an adequate response to the problem. In the article, Fr. Tom Doyle is quoted, saying, “The University has made significant progress over the past 15 years in its support for gay, lesbian, bisexual and questioning students, but we’ve always emphasized the desire to continuously improve and to be responsive to student concerns. The conversations between students and the administration both recently and over the past several years have been very important.” If student concerns are so important to the administration, then the administra­tion would seriously examine the reasons and understand the need for the inclusion of sexual orientation and gender identity in the official non-discrimination clause and the approval of an official gay-straight alliance. These are the things the students are asking for. The administration needs to listen to them before they claim that student concerns are so important. 
Nathan Lamp 
freshman Siegfried Hall April 25 



QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“Courage is fear that has said its prayers.” 
Dorothy Bernard 
U.S. actress 



WEEKLY POLL 
How do you deal with finals-week stress? 
Coffee breaks Naps Pick-up basketball A visit to the Grotto 

Vote by 5 p.m. on Thursday at 
ndsmcobserver.com 


Thursday, April 26,  2012 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 9 

We the people 
One never-ending argument in the realm of American politics is over the weight politicians should give public opinion. Should legislators follow public opinion? Or should they work to influ­ence it? This de­bate is central to Adam Newman our democracy but usually receives Scientia far too little atten-Potentia Est tion. 
When a politician finds himself or herself on the side of public opinion, they often justify their decision by evoking it. One notable example is John Boehner, the Republican Speaker of the House, when arguing against the health care bill. 
His statement at the “health care summit” in February 2010 is just one example: “I think our job, on behalf of our constituents and on behalf of the American people, is to listen. 
“And I spend time in my district, I spend time in a lot of places. I’ve heard an awful lot. And I can tell you the thing that I’ve heard more than any­thing over the last six or seven months is that the American people want us to scrap this bill. 
“They’ve said it loud, they’ve said it clear.” 
While Boehner used this argument for health care reform, he conveniently ignored it for many other policy issues when the polls clearly showed he was against public opinion. According to a Gallup poll in December 2010, 54 per­cent of Americans supported granting children brought to America as illegal aliens legal status if they joined the military or went to college. This is the premise of a bill called the DREAM Act, but Boehner voted against the DREAM Act in December 2010. Another Gallup poll conducted in December 2010 found that 67 percent of Americans supported a law that would allow gay men and women to openly fight in the military. This is the entire premise of a repeal of the military policy “Don’t Ask Don’t Tell” (DADT), but Boehner voted against a repeal of DADT in December 2010. Boehner has also gone against public opinion on raising taxes for the top two percent of earners and privatizing Medicare among other issues. 
Is John Boehner a hypocrite? I think so. But he is just one example of a politician who justifies a policy decision based on the American people when public opinion falls on his side, and con­veniently ignores it when it is not. All politicians engage in this hypocrisy. 
However, there is a more important question that usually isn’t asked: Why should politicians listen to the Ameri­can people on complicated policy ques­tions? 
The average American is not an expert in health care, the military or immigration policy, so why should their opinion matter? Winston Churchill was famous for saying the “best argument against democracy is a five-minute con­versation with the average voter.” Many of the founders, most notably James Madison, were suspicious of popular opinion, which is why anti-democratic institutions, such as the Supreme Court, Senate and Electoral College were in­cluded in the Constitution. 

Moreover, public opinion often contra­dicts itself. One famous example is that Americans want a balanced budget, but poll after poll shows that they are usually against cuts to Medicare, Medic­aid, Social Security and defense. These programs, along with the interest on the national debt (which has to be paid) makes up nearly 70 percent of the feder­al budget. Given these constraints, it is almost impossible to balance the budget unless Congress ended all welfare pro­grams and shut down most government agencies. While public officials may say they are simply following the will of the people, it really is closer to glorified cherry picking. 
This leads me to the two trends that will define the 21st century for America. 
The first is the growing cost of en­titlement spending on Social Security, Medicare and Medicaid, which has put the federal government on the road to bankruptcy. 
The second is the increasing threat of global warming, which will shift weather patterns, increase extreme climates while also increasing the number and intensity of natural disas­ters. Dealing with these issues through a long-term approach starting now will allow us to avert disaster. Unfortunate­ly, the solutions to dealing with both of these trends are immensely unpopular with Americans (cutting entitlement spending to balance the budget and raising energy prices to lower consump­tion and spur investment.) This means that as usual, the “can will get kicked down the road,” giving us less time to deal with these problems and making it more likely that future Americans will not share in the quality of life we have today. To put it simply, if our leaders were to follow the will of the American people on entitlement spending and global warming, these problems will turn into nightmares. 
Given the reality of the situation, the difference between our country’s future being one of American renewal instead of American decline will not be politi­cians who follow the will of the people, but leaders who have the courage to save us from ourselves. 
Adam Newman is a junior                  finance major. He can be reached at                     anewman3@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 


LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

Compassionate condemnation 
Dear Mr. Coccia, 

Your attack on the Church’s Doctrinal Assessment of the Leadership Conference of Women Religious (LCWR) was not only erroneous but deeply disturbing. While the Church has handled conflict poorly in the past (in particular, the sex-abuse scandal you mentioned in your article), their investigation of the LCWR is neither unjustified nor uncompassionate, as you suggested in your article, “Catholic Compassion, not Condemnation” on April 25. 
Firstly, you portrayed the “condemnation” of the LCWR as unreasonable without mentioning the source of controversy. The LCWR has preached wildly un-Christian theology, including an invective for “moving beyond the Church” or beyond Jesus. They have additionally (and bizarrely) object­ed to the fact that celebrating Mass requires an ordained priest and have preached messages contrary to the Church’s teachings on sexuality, ac­cording to the published Doctrinal Assessment of the LCWR. Clearly, their teachings do not coordinate with the Church’s teachings, and the problem must be rectified. 
Secondly, your idea of “compassion” is gravely askew. Allowing the LCWR to deviate from Church teaching and consequently lead Christians away from the truth would itself be uncompassionate. 
You imply that the Church ought to tell people what they want to hear in order to promote Jesus’ teachings — yet Jesus himself never told people what they wanted to hear, but rather what they needed to hear, public opinion be damned! A classic example is the story of the woman at the well, in which Jesus called her out for having five husbands. Certainly, the woman was shocked by this “condemnation,” but she consequently converted. Correcting her unrighteous behavior was the ultimate act of compassion. The Church acts in Jesus’ role in correcting the teachings of the LCWR and therefore acts with utmost compassion. 
Finally, the underlying message of your article, that “the Church must consider the image it creates for itself in the United States,” in its teach­ings is deeply troubling. Suggesting that the popularity of the Church should dictate the extent to which it preaches the Gospel is absolutely insane. The Church exists to illuminate the truth, not to make people “feel a sense of belonging.” To forsake the truth in an effort to gain popularity and positive image is directly contrary to the Church’s mission. Further­more, it stands in embarrassingly stark opposition to Jesus, who continued to preach the truth regardless of what the public thought of it — to the point of death! 
Therefore, Mr. Coccia, I beg you to reevaluate not only your opinions about the LCWR’s actions, but your alarming underlying logic. The text of the Doctrinal Assessment of the LCWR can be found at 
http://www.usccb.org/news/2012/12-062e.cfm for all those who are inter­ested. 
Caroline Jansen 
freshman Cavanaugh Hall April 25 




4 

the world of sports. The whole story is told as a biography, but has the feel of an oral history of early 1900s baseball. Hobbs builds his bat out of a tree that was struck by lightning, strikes out a fictional version of Babe Ruth at a carnival event, takes a bullet and mysteriously disappears but resurfaces with a dif­ferent team, turns down a bribe to throw the big game and comes out of the hospital to play for the pennant. He’s like a walking, talking fable of how life is supposed to be lived, and how baseball is supposed to played. 
2 



“The Natural” 
1984 
Based on a novel by Bernard Malamud of the same name, “The Natu­ral” brought to life the idea of a larger-than-life hero — Robert Redford’s Roy Hobbs is almost a mythological figure in 


3 


“Major League” 1989 
One of the more irreverent baseball films, “Major League” pays tribute to the lowly Cleveland Indians. If this film were made today, it would be about the Royals (a single tear rolls down my cheek as I make this realization). 
Their owner, a conniving and horrid woman, is determined to move the team to Miami, but needs to keep ticket sales low in order to do so. Her strategy is to put together the worst and cheapest team possible, with has-beens and never-will-bes, as the players comment in the film. Charlie Sheen is a slightly deranged ex-con with a rocket for an arm and Tom Berenger as an over-the-hill catcher with bad knees trying one last time to win it all lead an ensemble cast of unique characters that make the move hilarious. 


It’s the most wonderful time of the year. The smell of pine tar and freshly landscaped grass is in the air. The Yankees just purchased a small country in order to secure the rights to a single prospect. My Kansas City Royals have already decided that they’ll be darned if the future is going to be this year. It’s baseball season, a six-month-long Christmas season for all fans of the country’s pastime. 
Kevin Noonan Somewhere in the tomes of history, the gods of baseball and (usually) soul-sucking hea-
Scene Editor thens that run Hollywood got together to form on of the greatest creations of mankind- the baseball movie. 
Baseball movies can define childhood (“The Sandlot”), teach us a little math (“Moneyball”) or even give the world a few hints about a movie star’s future personality disorders (Charlie Sheen in “Major League”). 
But which ones are the best? It would be impossible to make a definitive list. Who could be arrogant enough to think he could make such a thing? Well, here’s the top five. 
5 


“Rookie of the Year” 1993 
It’s the movie that gave hope to a genera­tion of young pitchers that they could one day fall down and somehow gain the ability to throw a 100-mph fastball because of it. Henry Rowengartner, played by Thomas Ian Nicholas, is a 12-year-old Cubs fan who breaks his arm trying to catch a fly ball. 
The arm doesn’t fully heal, and results in a funky arm motion 
that gives him a triple-digit heater. The Cubs quickly pick him up as a publicity stunt, but he proves to be a lights-out reliever. The season pro­vides a growing experience for Row­engartner, as he learns from veteran Chet Steadman (Gary Busey), but also teaches Chet a little about how to enjoy life as well. The arm eventu­ally heals, forcing Rowengartner to go back to his normal life (prevent­ing him from being the youngest-ev­er Tommy John surgery candidate), but the journey provides for a family classic, and one of the best baseball films of all time. 

“The Sandlot” 1993 
In the opinion of some, the quality of a childhood can be quantified in a direction rela­tion to the number of times you watched “The Sandlot.” Whether or not that’s true (I think it might 
be), it’s still a fantastic film and a 



must-see for any young kid who’s trying to fit in. Scotty Smalls moves into a new town in the summer of 1962 with his mother and stepfather, and must integrate himself into the neighborhood on the sandlot where the local boys play baseball. He’s terrible at sports in general, but Benny “The Jet” Rodriguez teaches him what he can, and he begins to fit in. The film created a number of popular cultural references (see: P.F. Flyers) and has inspired a generation of young baseball players, in addition to being a heartwarming story about growing up and making friends. 

1 
“Field of Dreams” 1989 
“If you build it, he will come.” It’s one of the most famous lines in movie history, and belongs to, in my humble opinion, the greatest baseball film of all time. The film is an ode to baseball in many 
ways, and follows Kevin Costener on his quest to find out who’s going to come when he builds whatever it is. It turns out to be a baseball field in the middle of his cornfield, and the man he’s wait­ing on turns out to be his father. It’s another wonderful story of 
reconnection and bonding through baseball, but more importantly it’s a great story about baseball. 
Contact Kevin Noonan at knoonan2@nd.edu The views in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
ELISA DE CASTRO | Observer Graphic 


Thursday, April 26, 2012 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 11 
ND Playwrights Now!  Battle of the Bands  Vanessa Carlton  End of the Week Beach Party  
When: 8 p.m.  When: 9 p.m.  When: 10 p.m.  When: 5 p.m.—8 p.m.  
Where: Philbin Studio The- Where: Legends  Where: Legends  Where: Behind St. Liam’s  
atre, DeBartolo Performing  How Much: Free  How Much: Free  How Much: Free  
Arts Center  
How Much: Free, but ticketed  
Head to Legends on Friday  OMG VANESSA CARLTON!!!  In case you hadn’t heard,  
night for what will most cer- I would walk a thousand miles  Antostal is going on this week.  
The  DeBartolo  Perform­ tainly be entertaining perfor­ to see this concert. Too easy?  But all the fun ends on Sunday  
ing  Arts  Center  will  feature  mances by Notre Dame student  Probably, but the point is that  with a big party by the beach  
readings of scenes written by  bands. See the hidden talent in  she’s coming to campus, she  volleyball courts behind  St.  
Notre  Dame students Thurs- the kid you sit next to every- has one awesome song, and  Liam’s. There will be island  
day evening, as a part of the  day in class. Maybe you have  hopefully she’ll play it four or  music and a pig roast. It’ll be  
Film, Television and Theatre  a friend taking part who just  five or 10 times. She probably  pretty chill. Come celebrate  
Department’s spring semester  doesn’t want to tell you about  won’t, but still head to Legends  the end of the week and mourn  
playwriting course taught by  his secret metal band dreams.  to hear her perform the song  the quickly approaching finals  
Anne García-Romero. The eve- Who knows what will happen,  you’ve been getting noise com- week.  
ning will feature scenes from  but it’ll certainly be fun.  plaints for all year.  
13 different students.  


By DAN BROMBACH 
News Writer 

In an interview the night before the re­lease of his new EP “All American,” rap­per Hoodie Allen promised to personally call every fan that purchased the album in its entirety. 
I would argue “All American,” an album fusing catchy, well-produced beats with Hoodie’s skilful wordplay and amusing pop culture references, is worth buying even if you have no inter­est in receiving such a phone call from Mr. Allen.  
To all the students who attended this year’s SUB spring concert, I’ll be the first to admit Hoodie didn’t exactly blow me away. His flow sounded flat, his punch lines were off and it was difficult to hear him despite the fact few students had shown up yet, leaving Stepan Cen­ter emptier than the crowd at a WNBA game. 
“All American” pushed this bad expe­rience from my mind, however, giving me some great new songs I can’t wait to blast this summer. 
Hoodie is at his finest in “No Inter­ruption,” a highly entertaining song in which he and an unnamed woman ar­range the “time and the place and the function” during which they will, um, engage in respectful conversation.  You get the point. 

The album’s third track “Eighteen Cool” is filled with the kind of great lines that made me a fan of his music in the first place. Rapping over a fairly simple beat, Hoodie takes a humorous stab at some kids from his old high school with whom he presumably didn’t get along very well. Throughout the song, he po­litely informs these kids they “peaked at eighteen” and that his success contrasts with their likely futures “bagging gro­ceries.” 
Hoodie takes a slightly more introspec­tive approach in “No Faith in Brooklyn,” reflecting on his home of New York City and the impli­cations of leaving it behind.  The song’s intro, sung by Jha­meel, contains the lyrics, “If I move out one day/It will make me a better man/ But I don’t want to leave this place/No faith in Brooklyn.” Combine lyrical depth with a catchy, piano-infused beat 

and you have my favorite song of the al­bum. 
Listeners should be warned that Hood­ie does  some brief singing at points in the album. These segments aren’t ter­rible, but they can definitely be an awk­ward buzz-kill. 
“All American” is an overall im­pressive effort from one of those most promising and hard-working rappers in the game today. Hoodie’s sound has certainly become more ‘party-friendly’ since his earlier mix tapes, but contrary to conventional hipster wisdom, artists who change their style are not necessar­ily struck by lightning or dragged to hell by a demon wearing a flannel shirt and skinny jeans. 
Hoodie has come along way since “You Are Not a Robot” vaulted him to fame in 2010, and I can’t wait to see where his future will take him as he continues to grow and mature as an artist. For now, I’m content to just sit back and put his latest album on repeat. 
Contact Dan Brombach at dbrombac@nd.edu 
“All American” 



ELISA DE CASTRO | Observer Graphic 

page 12 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u CLASSIFIEDS Thursday, April 26, 2012 





SPORTS AUTHORITY 


Champions League final brings disappointment 
There is good news based on these past two days in sports: The world will not end in 2012. Why not? Because Barcelona and Real Madrid are not meeting in the Champions League final. 
The Ma­yans were pretty close in their prediction though. Except they, like the rest of us, didn’t think there was any way a 10-man Chel­sea could have upset Barcelona at the Camp Nou — al­though they probably could have predicted John Terry’s red card. 
With wins in the last two days, Barcelona and Real Madrid would have met in the UEFA Champions League Final on May 19 in Munich. It would have been El Clásico to end all Clásicos. The biggest rivalry in all of sports, on the biggest stage in club soccer: It would have been too much. 
The rivalry goes beyond sports 
— as soccer does better than any other sport — and ventures into the realm of nationalism and regional rivalry. 
Barca represents the Catalans, who have constantly fought for independence from Spain. The region supports its own language and culture and manifests itself in the Blaugrana. Alternating blue and red stripes, Lionel Messi and a beautiful, fluid attack — that is Barcelona. 
Real represents the central Spaniards. The region includes basically anyone who calls himself a Spaniard, creating the Spanish language and culture we know today. And all of this is most clear in Los Blancos. Im­maculate white with gold trim, Cristiano Ronaldo and a power­ful, high-octane attack — that is Real Madrid. 
It would have been perfect. But it would have been too much. 
So Chelsea and Bayern Munich saved the world, stealing victo­ries from Barca and Real so that we could all live to see another day. 
Last week in west London, Chelsea wrestled a 1-0 victory away from Barcelona much to the surprise of the Barca bandwagon and the soccer world in general. But there was no way Chelsea could go onto the heralded grounds of the Camp Nou and do it again. 
Things looked even more bleak for the Blues on Tuesday, when 

Andrew Gastelum 
Associate Sports Editor 
Captain Controversy, himself, John Terry decided to see how far Barcelona forward Alexis Sanchez’s leg would bend. Terry’s antics earned him a red card, leaving the Blues without their captain and top defender against the pack of wolves led by Messi and Xavi. 
But a 10-man Chelsea did its best impression of the Italian national team, throwing every player within 10 meters of the penalty box and just defended for the game’s entirety. Then, the impossible happened in stop­page time with Barca mounting a furious attack: Fernando Torres scored a goal for Chelsea. 
And just like that, the dream matchup was ruined, with Chel­sea somehow advancing to the ‘ship in Munich. 
To make matters worse, Real Madrid couldn’t even add some excitement to the champion­ship. It would have still been a great final, with Real coach Jose Mourinho up against his old team for the trophy. But Los Blancos couldn’t get past Bayern Munich on Wednesday, losing in dreadful penalty kicks. Ronaldo scored two goals, but missed his penalty kick to start the round — apparently distracted by his sud­denly messy hairdo. And Bayern stormed out with the win. 
We expected to see an epic Barca-Real showdown for the biggest trophy in soccer, and instead we get two teams who have no shot at a league title. In fact, Chelsea probably won’t even make the Champions League next year, yet will have a chance to win it this year. 
Instead of seeing the likes of Messi, Ronaldo, Xavi, Sergio Ra­mos, Carles Puyol and Iker Casil­las vying for a Champions League title, we will see the Chelsea and Bayern reserve squads, as the two will lose a combined seven starters for the championship game due to an absurd accumu­lation of yellow and red cards. 
If we had gotten our way, the final would have ended the debate as to who sits at futbol’s throne. Instead we will have to enjoy the final for what it is worth: just another good game rather than “El Clásico Clásico” 
— no that is not a typo — that would have done wonders for the sport. 
It would have been perfect. To see that game, I would just have let the world end. 
¿Cómo se dice, ‘do-over’? 
Contact Andrew Gastelum at agastel1@nd.edu
    The views expressed in this Sports Authority column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
NFL 


Falcons trade for CB Samuel 

Associated Press 

ATLANTA — Asante Samuel was willing to restructure his contract to play for the Atlanta Falcons. 
“I wanted to be a Falcon, so we made it work,” Samuel said. 
The Falcons gave up only a seventh-round draft pick Wednesday when they acquired the four-time Pro Bowl corner­back from the Philadelphia Ea­gles. 
The Falcons announced the trade after Samuel agreed to restructure his contract to a three-year, $18.5 million deal. His contract with Philadelphia called for him to earn $9.9 mil­lion in 2012 and $11.4 million in 2013. 
The Falcons were 10-6 last season and 13-3 in 2010, but lost their first playoff game each season. 
“The Falcons already have an excellent team and excellent coaches and schemes and talent and all that good stuff,” Samuel said in a telephone interview. “I’m just going to add to the bunch to get the one common goal.” 
Samuel noted he’s already had a warm reception from Falcons fans on his Twitter account. 
“I’m getting (followers) every second of the minute,” he said. “It’s fun. Everybody is excited and pumped up. It feels like I’m a missing link, so we’ll see how this thing goes.” 
The 31-year-old Samuel gives Atlanta a strong but high-priced trio at cornerback with Dunta Robinson and Brent Grimes un­der new defensive coordinator Mike Nolan. 
Grimes, who signed his fran­chise tag tender Tuesday, will make $10.262 million this sea­son. Robinson will earn $6 mil­lion. 
“Asante has established him­self as a very productive player during his career,” Falcons gen­eral manager Thomas Dimitroff said. “He is a proven player in this league and we feel that this move upgrades the talent of our roster and improves our football team.” 
Dimitroff was New England’s director of scouting when the Patriots selected Samuel in the fourth round in 2003. Samuel set a career high with 10 inter­ceptions for the Patriots in 2006. 
“He was a big part of mak­ing this deal happen,” Samuel said of Dimitroff. “He’s excited, too, you know? He knows what I bring to the table and I’m going to come in there confident. 
“I knew he had a lot of famil­iarity with me. We talked every time we played each other. It definitely had a lot to do with it and he definitely made me com­fortable.” 
The Falcons are left with five picks but no first-round selec­tion in the NFL draft. 
Samuel became expendable when the Eagles signed Nnamdi Asomugha and acquired Domi­nique Rodgers-Cromartie last July, giving them three Pro Bowl cornerbacks. But the team couldn’t find a suitable deal for Samuel, so they kept him and used Rodgers-Cromartie in the nickel spot. 
While Asomugha and Rod­gers-Cromartie struggled in a new defense and new roles, Samuel was the most consis­tent of the trio. The outspoken Samuel probably sealed his fate in Philadelphia when he criti­cized the front office at the trade deadline, saying management was “playing fantasy football with the owner’s money.” 
Perhaps the biggest surprise was the Falcons only lost a sev­enth-round pick in the trade. 
“I wish Philly nothing but the best,” Samuel said. “I love the organization and Eagles Nation. I know it was sad to see me go. I know everybody can’t figure why this is happening and why it is going this way, but this is business.” 
Philadelphia coach Andy Reid said Samuel “has been a very productive member of the Ea­gles for the past four years and we appreciate all that he has done for our organization. 
“We obviously feel good about our cornerback situation mov­ing forward with Nnamdi Aso­mugha and Dominique Rodg­ers-Cromartie as our starters. Those two played very well to­gether in the latter part of the season and we anticipate that will continue as we head into the 2012 season.” 
The Eagles, who were look­ing to clear payroll, now have 10 picks in the draft, including three of the top 51. 
Samuel has 45 career inter­ceptions in nine seasons, fourth among active players. He had only three interceptions in 14 games last season, but his 38 in­terceptions since 2006 lead the NFL. 
“We just improved our team today,” Falcons coach Mike Smith said. “Asante Samuel is a good football player and you can never have enough good players on your team. Our game has be­come more of a passing game, and you have to have the play­ers who can neutralize how of­fenses are trying to attack you.” 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The 
Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 

CLASSIFIEDS 

Technical Language Service (www. Mitchell: Oh my God, there’s Gloria [punches guy]: Nobody calls 
FOR SALE PERSONAL WANTED tls-translations.com) is looking Sandy. him grandpa! for Jpn majors capable of being trained as technical translators Cam: Sandra Bullock? Luke: I do. from Jpn to Eng. 
MUST SELL! UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Dance teacher wanted for 2012-13 Mitchell: Yeah we’re such good school year. friends, I just call her Sandy. 21915 Locust Bend, SB Gorgeous! Don’t go it alone. Notre Dame Please go to http://goo.gl/CZq87 has many resources in place to Beginning levels, children, teens. to complete a test. ND neighborhood assist you. If you or someone you Mitchell: Okay birthday boy, what’s love needs confidential support Openings for ballet, modern, tap, it gonna be, rom-com or horror? 4BD 3BTH or assistance, please call Sr. jazz. Follow Chris Allen @callenND Mitzi [to Phil]: Haven’t you ever Or we could do both and watch 
Sue Dunn at 1-7819. For more seen an NBA game? Oh in your Maid in Manhattan. Jackie information, visit ND’s website at: Early evenings. Follow Mike Monaco @jmm032 case I mean the WNBA. 574 276 8530 http://pregnancysupport@nd.edu Call 574-247-1590 
Thursday, April 26,  2012 The Observer u SPORTS ndsmcobserver.com | page 13 
MLB 



A’s score three runs in 14th, beat White Sox 5-4 
Associated Press 
OAKLAND, Calif. — The White Sox head back to the Windy City from a solid road trip with a pair of milestones to celebrate alongside their home fans. 
They nearly had one more win to take along, too. 
With two of the American League’s top pitching teams dueling it out for a third straight day, Kila Ka’aihue blooped a winning single in the 14th inning soon after Yoe­nis Cespedes’ tying two-run homer, and the Oakland Ath­letics rallied past the White Sox 5-4 on Wednesday. 
A 4-2 trip will have to do. It featured Phil Humber’s perfect game Saturday at Seattle, then Paul Konerko’s 400th career home run Wednesday to tie the game in the ninth. 
“We had a lot of chances,” Konerko said. “It was nice to get back in the game and give ourselves a chance at getting the win but it just wasn’t in the cards.” 
Josh Reddick hit a one-out single in the 14th, then Ces­pedes delivered his fifth homer of the season against Hector Santiago (0-1) after Chicago took the lead in the top half of the 14th. Ka’aihue came through with the big hit in a game that lasted 3 hours, 56 minutes. 
“You relish that, you look forward to it when you’re tak­ing your BP and your work,” Ka’aihue said. “You prepare to get that big hit. You don’t work on grounding out and flying out. It wasn’t the hardest ball I’ve hit in my life. It won the game for the team, that’s all that counts.” 
Jim Miller (1-0) struck out Brent Lillibridge for his first major league win after being called up earlier in the day. 


Alexei Ramirez hit a go-ahead two-run double with two outs in the top of the 14th on a day “Take Me Out to the Ball Game” played twice to go along with a 14th-inning stretch. 
After a pair of gems from Chicago starters this trip — Humber pitching the 21st per­fecto in major league history, then Jake Peavy’s three-hit shutout Monday — this day be­came about the terrific White Sox bullpen until Oakland fi­nally got to the relievers. 
Konerko sent the first pitch from A’s closer Grant Balfour onto the left-field steps to start the ninth. Konerko became the fourth player in franchise history to reach the 400- or 500-homer mark while wear­ing a White Sox uniform, join­ing Frank Thomas, Jim Thome and Andruw Jones. 
“Everybody likes the round numbers,” Konerko said. “When it comes to that kind of stuff, I think when I’m done playing and look back, that’s when it might hit home more. But when you’re in the middle of the grind and you’re grind­ing every day and working, you tend not to think about that stuff, and you probably shouldn’t.” 
It looked like the White Sox would take this one after scor­ing two unearned runs in the top of the 14th. 
But Cespedes showed why the A’s gave the prized Cuban defector a $36 million, four-year contract. 
“I was lucky enough to hit home runs to decide games. This was not the first time,” Cespedes said of his time growing up in Cuba. “The team is a very young team, but the way we play together we’re going to get very far this sea­son.” 
Dayan Viciedo reached on third baseman Eric Sogard’s fielding error and Brent Morel sacrificed him to second. Edu­ardo Escobar flied out and Ale­jandro De Aza walked before Miller relieved Jerry Blevins to face Ramirez. 
The A’s saved themselves in the 13th with a two pretty de-fensive plays. Catcher Kurt Su-innings following his call-up zuki caught pinch-runner Lil-from Triple-A Sacramento. libridge well off second base, The 23-year-old Parker, then shortstop Cliff Penning-making just his second career 



ton  chased  start,  exhib­ 
down  Alex  ited the poise  
Rios’  double  and improved  
that  skipped  c o m m a n d  
into the Oak- the A’s hoped  
land bullpen and made a  “We had a lot of chances.  he would af­ter sending  
quick throw to Sogard, who then re­layed to Suzu­ki just in time to get a slid- It was nice to get back in the game and give ourselves a chance at getting the win but it just wasn’t in the cards.”  him down this spring to work some things out. Red d i c k ’s two-out dou­ 
ing Gordon Beckham.  Paul Konerko  ble to right-center in the  
K o n e r k o’s  White Sox first baseman  sixth brought  
fourth  homer  home  speedy  
of  the  year  leadoff hitter  
spoiled  an  Jemile Weeks,  
i m p r es si v e  who  started  
A’s  debut  by  the rally with  
Jarrod  Park­ a one-out sin- 

er, who struck out five in 6 1-3 gle. Cespedes followed with an 
RBI single. 
The White Sox responded with Kosuke Fukudome’s RBI double in the seventh that Ces­pedes got his glove on in center but couldn’t control, and Rios just beat a late throw home to Suzuki. 
But Chicago missed a chance to tie it when Fukudome was caught stealing on a squeeze attempt after Morel couldn’t deliver a bunt on a 2-1 count. 
“It’s like you’ve seen that hundreds of times, long games and anything happens,” White Sox manager Robin Ventura said. 
He knows his team will re­turn home for a seven-game homestand to plenty of fanfare as the Red Sox arrive for four. Humber starts Thursday’s se­ries opener. 
“It’s nice. I don’t know how long it lasts,” Ventura said of good feelings still surrounding Humber. “It was a good bond­ing thing for the team.” 
Home plate umpire Jerry Layne took a foul from Esco­bar off the left shoulder in the fifth and was briefly examined by the A’s training staff before staying in the game. Layne re­turned to the box and playfully grabbed Escobar’s bat and jok­ingly pretending to swing it. 

page 14 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u SPORTS Thursday, April 26,  2012 
MLB 



Ted Williams memorabilia to be auctioned in Boston 

Associated Press 
BOSTON — He was a skilled fisherman, a veteran of two wars and an accomplished hunter. Oh, and Ted Williams also played baseball. 
Fans seeking to buy items once owned by the legendary Red Sox slugger traveled to Boston’s Fen-way Park on Wednesday for a preview of the first major auction of sports, military and personal memorabilia documenting Wil­liams’ life. 
The preview runs through Fri­day at the world’s oldest baseball park and home field of the only team that Williams played for dur­ing his 1939-1960 major league career. The auction will be Satur­day and some of the proceeds will benefit The Jimmy Fund, a charity affiliated with Boston’s Dana-Far­ber Cancer Institute for which the slugger helped raise money during his life­time. 
Williams, He’s sort of like the John Wayne of baseball and sports of that time period and I think that’s evi­denced by all these artifacts that documents his life.” 
Among the nearly 800 items up for auction is a baseball in pris­tine condition that Babe Ruth autographed for Williams with the inscription “To my pal Ted Williams, From Babe Ruth.” That unique ball is expected to go for between $100,000 and $200,000, Hunt said. 
The ball, which was stolen from the family’s Florida home in the 1970s and not recovered until 2005, had a special place in Ted Williams’ heart, his daughter said. 
“It influenced his personaliza­tions to so many kids in the fu­ture, as he always loved the way Mr. Ruth signed the ball, ‘Your pal,’” Claudia Williams wrote in 
an email to The 
Associated 
Press. 
Others items 
include Wil­collection. 
Merrill said the experience brought a flood of memories from the 1950s when he used to watch the slugger play or listen to the game on the radio. It was, howev­er, memorabilia highlighting Wil­liams’ role as a U.S. Marine at war that made Merrill emotional. 
“Just to see him in uniform and to see some of the photographs that were taken with Ted in the Marines almost brought tears to my eyes — to think that he would give up his career . to be in the service of our country ... made me emotionally, you know, surprised ...” Merrill said, trailing off as he struggled to control his emotions. 
Carol Barton traveled from Lynnfield, north of Boston, to see the collection. She said she was thrilled to see Williams’ house­hold items, golf clubs, letters from presidents and even a wooden duck collection that revealed the personal side of the legendary hit­ter. 
“Ted was a hero. He was a real ballplayer back when the real American pastime, I hate to say it, but not like these multimillion­dollar guys who only play half a game,” Barton said. “To me, he was just Mr. Baseball, but seeing all the personal checks that, of course, were saved for his auto­graph, and his own belongings — I mean furniture from his home . his favorite books, and all the awards that he won — it’s unbe­lievable, it’s a thrill being here.” 
Claudia Williams says her dad’s intent was always to auction the items for charity. 
“I’m rather certain, in his last year with the Red Sox, he earned less than $100,000,” she said. “So, my dad was always amazed at the sale prices garnered from sales of sports memorabilia.” 
Hunt said the auction caps a process that began nearly six years ago when his company did some appraisals for her. 
Claudia Williams, Hunt said, had discussed selling some of the items with her father and brother, who both supported the idea. That occurred before Ted Williams died in 2002, followed by his son in 2004. 
The 10-year anniversary of Wil­liams’ death at age 83 and Fenway Park’s ongoing 100th anniversary celebrations provided an ideal timing for the auction, Hunt said. 
“Claudia kept things that are important to her, donated things to museums ... Why not do this in celebration of his life, benefit the charity that he loved and make it a positive thing for everybody,” Hunt said. 
Claudia Williams said: “I am incredibly proud of my father. My father lived a wonderful life, and did all he could for his fans, his country, and his family.” 


the last major league hitter to bat .400 — posting a .406 average in 1941 — enjoyed a diverse life, including as a U.S. Marine in  “I’m rather certain, in his last year with the Red Sox, he earned less than $100,000. So, my dad was always amazed at the sale prices garnered from sales of sports memorabilia.”  liams’ 1949 A mer i c a n League MVP award val­ued between $150,000 and $250,000, a silver bat for winning the  
World War II and the Korean War, a member  Claudia Williams daughter of Ted Williams  AL batting championship in 1957 val- 
of  the  fishing  ued  between  
hall  of  fame  $100,000  and  
and  a  skilled  $200,000,  as  
hunter. He flew  well  as  bats  
39 combat mis- and  jerseys  

sions in Korea and took enemy fire that the slugger used, Hunt said as three times, including during an workers unpacked the memora­encounter that forced him to land bilia for display at a luxury suite his stricken jet on its belly. at Fenway Park. 
“There’re not many elements “These objects really just chron­of his life that did not exude the icle this man’s life and, I think, same excellence as he did on the show how great he was, not just as baseball field,” said David Hunt, a baseball player,” Hunt said. whose company, Hunt Auctions Baseball fans who viewed the Inc., is selling the memorabilia memorabilia include Malcolm on behalf of Williams’ daughter, Merrill, 82, whose son arranged Claudia Williams, of Hernando, a surprise trip from Hopkinton, Fla. “And that is really unique ... N.H., to Boston to check out the 

Thursday, April 26,  2012 The Observer u SPORTS ndsmcobserver.com | page 15 
NFL 



Payton to coach son’s youth football team in 2012 
Associated Press 
AVONDALE, La. — Sean Payton played a round of golf with tour pro Ryan Palmer, posed for pho­tos with his ever-supportive fans and then spoke about his eager­ness to get back to coaching foot­ball as early as this fall. 
No, not pro football. Payton said he’s staying in constant con­tact with NFL officials to ensure he doesn’t run afoul of the rules of his season-long suspension in connection with the league’s bounty investigation of the Saints. 
However, Payton’s son, Con­nor, who will soon turn 12, will be playing football in suburban Dallas in the fall. Whether the younger Payton’s team runs the double-reverse known as the Su­perdome Special remains to be seen, but his father plans to be on the sideline and very involved. 
“One of the things I’m looking forward to doing this fall is help­ing coach my son’s football team and doing a few things that you normally wouldn’t be able to do” while coaching in the NFL, Pay­ton said Wednesday after playing in the Zurich Classic pro-am. 


“I look forward to cutting the oranges, hauling the Gatorade and watching my son play every game — and being a part of call­ing plays for his offense and do­ing some things like that that re­ally get me excited and I know get him excited.” 
While Payton seems to be com­ing to grips with his suspension, and appeared gratified support at the course from fans — some of whom wore “Free Payton” T-shirts — he was annoyed by re­cently reported wiretapping alle­gations against the Saints. 
“It’s hogwash,” Payton said about the allegations that gen­eral manager Mickey Loomis’ Superdome booth was wired so he could eavesdrop on opposing coaches. 
The allegations, made public in an ESPN report Monday, have spawned a joint Louisiana state police and FBI probe. The alleged activity covers a period between 2002 and 2004, before Payton took his first head coaching job in New Orleans in 2006. 
“It’s garbage,” Payton contin­ued. “Obviously, I wasn’t here, but I know Mickey Loomis well enough and I would consider him a close friend and professionally one of the best general manag­ers in sport. ... If you really study what he does in the booth, he listens closely to the broadcast, watches the games and for him to begin to try to dissect that lan­guage and everything — just the way it was reported was awful, I’ll say that.” 
Payton’s suspension began April 16 and runs through the Super Bowl, which, incidentally, is in New Orleans. During that time, Payton may not even have casual, non-football conversa­tions with anyone on any NFL team without at least notifying the league office. 



The pro-am was one such event where Payton had to be care­ful because Saints running back Mark Ingram attended the event and hit some balls on the driving range. If Payton finds such exten­sive restrictions upsetting in any way, he did not let on about that after his round of golf. 
“It’s unimportant how I feel. Really it’s just the terms of the suspension and it’ll be easy to fol­low and pay attention to,” Payton said. “I told (NFL executive) Ray (Anderson) when we first began talking that we’ll talk frequently.” 
Payton said he phoned Ander­son after recently running into linebacker Akin Ayodele at a restaurant and also called about whether he could play in the Saints Hall of Fame golf outing in May. He was given the OK to take part in that as well. 
Payton said he’ll watch the NFL draft closely, albeit on TV, likely while sitting at home like a fan. He said there were no “24-hour meetings” in his final days of work and that he simply remind­ed his experienced staff to do their jobs as they have during the past few seasons, which had in­cluded three straight playoff ap­pearances and a Super Bowl title. 
“This team is weatherproof,” Payton said in an apparent allu­sion to the uplifting role the club played in New Orleans since Hur­ricane Katrina hit in 2005. “It was built with the right type of players and right type of coach­ing staff, from the front office and ownership on down to handle the challenges ahead. We’ve handled them before. We’ll handle this one.” 
Payton was gracious when­ever he was approached by fans and signed autographs, including one on a woman’s “Free Payton” shirt. 
“It’s humbling. It’s overwhelm­ing,” Payton said. “We’ve got the greatest fans in sport. ... There’s that bond that’s been uniquely formed. It certainly started long before we ever arrived, but it’s gotten stronger since Katrina and the Super Bowl and so there’s a close relationship.” 
Payton said he suspects there will be moments this fall when he’s watching the Saints and struggles with the fact that he cannot be with the club, but said those feelings won’t overwhelm him because of the enjoyment he’ll get from being with Connor and teenage daughter Meghan. 
“Often times with what we do, the time we get to spend with our children is limited,” Payton said. “So I’m looking forward to taking advantage of that.” 


SMC SOFTBALL 


Belles’ doubleheader postponed due to rain 
Observer Staff Report 
Due to inclement weather, Saint Mary’s non-conference doubleheader at Manchester College in Fort Wayne, Ind., was postponed Wednesday and re­scheduled for Thursday at 3:30 p.m.. 
The Belles (24-10, 9-5 MIAA) will play their last non-con­ference games of the season against the Spartans (18-18, 7-7 HCAC). 
Weather forecasts Thursday in the Fort Wayne area call for temperatures in the low-60s with overcast skies in contrast to the mid-50s temperatures coupled with rain that forced cancellation of Wednesday’s games. 
Thursday’s games, however, are not as critical for the Belles as their doubleheader to close MIAA play Saturday at home against Alma College at 1 p.m.. In order to clinch a top-four fin­ish and a spot in the conference tournament, the Belles must win at least one of two games against Alma (23-9, 9-3 MIAA), the second place team in the MIAA. 
Saint Mary’s took over the fourth spot in the conference standings after a doubleheader sweep of last-place Kalamazoo on Saturday. In the two con­tests, which were shortened to a mercy rule, the Belles outscored Kalamazoo (2-27, 1-14) 23-0.  
Saint Mary’s will attempt to squeeze in a pair of games against Manchester College Thursday, starting at 3:30 p.m. before concluding their regular season Saturday. 

page 16 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u SPORTS Thursday, April 26, 2012 

TRACK AND FIELD 


Team heads to Iowa for Relays 


By JOSEPH MONARDO 
Sports Writer 
Entering their last competi­tion before the Big East outdoor championships, some Irish ath­letes will get a jump start on the weekend as they travel to Des Moines, Iowa, for the Drake Relays. 
Last weekend the Irish cap­tured eight individual victories at the Polytan Invitational at Indiana University while senior middle distance runner Johna­than Shawel and junior middle distance runner Jeremy Rae turned in impressive perfor­mances as the only Irish repre­sentatives at the Mt. SAC Relays in Walnut, Calif. 
This year’s installment of Drake University’s track and field event is the 103rd running and is the largest ever with 120 events spread over four days. The meet welcomes both high-school and college athletes and will also feature some of the world’s top pole-vaulters in a special event. 
Notre Dame will use the Drake Relays primarily as a fi­nal tune-up before the confer­ence championship, sophomore sprinter Patrick Feeney said. 
“Mostly everyone who is go­ing has qualified,” he said. “[Most of us going to Iowa] are just running relays, mainly, be­cause Big Easts is next week so [the coaches] kind of just want­ed us to get fresh for that.” 
Feeney will compete in the 4x400-meter relay for the Irish at Drake, alongside junior sprinter Brendan Dougherty, senior middle distance runner Mitchell Lorenz and freshman sprinter Chris Giesting. The Irish foursome hopes to turn in its lowest time of the year against top competition, Feeney said. 
“In the [4x400-meter relay], we want to beat the fastest time we have run this year be­cause there are definitely a lot of good teams that are going to be there,” he said. “Arkansas is going to be there, Minnesota, Florida, and they all have teams that have gone 3:05, 3:06, some of them even 3:03. Our best is 3:07, so we will definitely be able to compete with [them].” 
Still, Notre Dame’s main fo­cus is on the Big East champi­onships, which begin May 4 in Tampa, Fla. Senior pole-vault­er Kevin Schipper is among the Irish athletes expected to compete for a conference title. Schipper has won four titles during the 2012 outdoor season and is currently ranked third in the Big East with a high mark of 5.4 meters. On the women’s team, junior middle-distance runner Rebecca Tracy enters the Drake Relays after captur­ing a pair of victories at Indi­ana last weekend. 
As the Irish prepare for the conference event and continue on to the NCAA national out­door championships in June, the Drake Relays will act as a measuring stick, Feeney said. 
“These are probably the fast­est people we have run with … so it will definitely push us,” he said. “Hopefully we can stay up there with them, because if we want to go to Nationals those are some of the same teams we are going to be seeing.” 
Some Irish athletes not com­peting in Iowa this weekend will make the trip to Hillsdale, Mich., for the Hillsdale Gina Re­lays, which begin Friday. Irish competition at the Drake Relays begins today in Des Moines and continues through Saturday. 
Contact Joseph Monardo at jmonardo@nd.edu 



Irish 
continued from page 20 
pewa freshman right-hander Jordan Foley struggled early, throwing 10 consecutive balls and walking four in the first. But Foley, who was drafted by the Yankees in last year’s Major League Baseball Draft, settled down through his 109 pitches in 4 2/3 innings. 
Notre Dame’s middle of the lineup didn’t do much to pres­sure the freshman, going a combined 2-for-7 with no RBIs. The Chippewas walked eight Irish batters, but Notre Dame was unable to capitalize with the extra baserunners. 
“I think the whole thing changes in the first few innings if we get a timely hit, and we didn’t. And they did,” Aoki said. “They got their timely hits when they needed to and they con­verted guys that they bunted over. We had guys in scoring po­sition that we couldn’t convert. It comes down to them playing better than we did.” 
The Irish tried to stage a comeback, pulling within one in the fifth on an RBI-double by junior center fielder Charlie Markson. But Central Michigan added a run in the sixth and two more in the seventh on an RBI-walk by MacKenzie. 
First pitch, which was origi­nally scheduled for 5:35 p.m., was moved up to 4:35 p.m. in an attempt to avoid a pend­ing thunderstorm. Rain began to fall hard in the third inning and lasted through the sixth as umpires elected to continue the game. But Aoki was quick to avoid blaming the weather for his team’s struggles. 
“I would like to think we are a little tougher than that,” Aoki said. “But I think the bottom line is that we played poorly, they played better, they deserved to win and we deserved to lose.” 
The Irish will try to bounce back Friday as they host St. John’s for a three-game series. 
Contact Andrew Gastelum at agastel1@nd.edu 

win and we inning to 
“The key to the game 
did a great seal the win. 
was hitting and being 
job all over In the fifth the field,” smart about our choices inning, the Ma ldonado against their pitchers.” Irish scored said. “[Win-four runs to ter] got a Alexa Maldonado put them-great start selves ahead 
Irish senior centerfielder 
and we by the final strung to-5-1 mar­gether a few gin. Miller hits.” hit another 
Maldonado home run led the Irish during Notre with two hits Dame’s fifth and two RBIs, while senior inning run, pushing her home infielder Dani Miller added a run streak to three games. home run. For a team whose “In the second game, it took season has been focused us awhile to get started,” Maldonado said. “But after we started to get hits, we started to play better and it showed in the fifth inning.” 
The sweep aids Notre Dame’s goal of making the Big East tournament and fin­ishing the rest of its Big East schedule undefeated. 
“We need this win to keep our momentum going es­pecially after the way the game went,” Maldonado said. “These were big wins espe­cially because we want to fin­ish the season undefeated.” 
The day was a big test for the Irish, but the team still finished with two impressive wins. 
“We had a long game, and even though it was tough, I think it didn’t affect us at all,” Maldonado said. “We stayed focused throughout the game, and each time we stepped on to the field, we didn’t seem like it had any ef­fect on us.” 
The Irish continue their Big East schedule with three games at Providence this weekend. 

Contact Ernst Cleofe at ecleofe@nd.edu 




Winter 
continued from page 20 
against the Pirates (20-27, 2-14) and kept the lead. After getting a run in the first in­ning, the Irish exploded for five runs in the second that gave Winter the cushion to pitch domi­nantly and earn the 8-0 win. 
“We had a great team around defense, the offense was the big difference that sparked the team’s success. 
“The key to the game was hitting and being smart about our choices against their pitchers,” Maldonado said. 
Problems with the weather caused a slow start to the sec­ond half of the doubleheader for the Irish. After Seton Hall tied up the game in the top of the fifth inning, the Irish had another big 

Thursday, April 26, 2012 The Observer u SPORTS ndsmcobserver.com | page 17 
fense from the start. The Leg-physical presence in the post jump for Joe, and I was just Old Time’s Sake senior captain 

Sophs 

acy of Alex Klupchak matched to outlast No. 12 Howard Street wide open.” and forward Brian Schafer de­
its strong defense with a hard-Foodmart 21-16, returning to With the victory, Team Trill cided to switch his team’s de­continued from page 20 nosed offense, taking most of its the Elite Eight. advances to the Elite Eight for fense from a 2-3 zone to a man-
shots in the paint. With the courts still slick the second consecutive year. to-man. Trumbetta, Matt Harbrecht, “We play well as a team, we from a rainstorm, both teams Gesicki said he is confident his “We went man [early] in Eddie Linczer, Aaron Zeese and play hard and we play good struggled to maintain posses-team can break through to the the first half and they tore us Jon Chepkevich, had a hard defense,” former Ferris State sion of the ball early in the first Final Four this time around. apart,” Schafer said. “But I felt time penetrating Hoops’ de-basketball player and gradu-half. Team Trill jumped out to “We’re definitely hungry to once the weather changed, it fense, which resulted in turn-ate student Bryan Pasciak said. an early 5-1 lead behind the get on, move to the Final Four, was a little bit more wet out overs and early foul trouble “Good defense and old man strong cuts and sharp jump and eventually make the cham-and they struggled to shoot the as they tried to stop the fast know-how won us this game.” shooting of senior guards J.P. pionship,” Gesicki said. ball, so the man-to-man was breaks. Joining Pasciak on the top-McCabe and Joe Mezyk. The more effective.” 
“We played a better team seeded team are graduate team maintained a five-point No. 10 One More Time for Old The defensive switch proved today,” Super Sophs captain students John Rompf, Zander cushion for much of the half, Time’s Sake def. No. 7 The effective initially, as One More Trumbetta said. “We had a de-Shadley, Fritz Shadley and taking an 11-5 lead into half-Twine Ticklers Time for Old Time’s Sake cut cent run and we’re happy to get Mauri Miller. time. the lead to 14-13. But Williams [to the Sweet 16].” Before the reseeding, CZ for Howard Street Foodmart se-In a game loudly interrupted soon opened the lead back up to 
Although his team had the Days was ranked No. 64. In nior forward Kyle Obendorf by Mother Nature, No. 10 One four with an array of jumpers. upper hand for the majority their run to the Sweet 16, the said the wet court made it dif-More Time for Old Time’s Sake Despite the deficit, One More of the game, Hoops We Did It team was able to defeat the No. ficult for his team to generate kept its dreams of a Bookstore Time for Old Time’s Sake main-Again captain Bauer was not 1 team. They had to keep fac-offense in the first half. championship alive for at least tained its focus on settling for impressed with his team’s play. ing the toughest teams as The “The conditions certainly one more day by rallying to a good perimeter looks and be­“We played bad actually,” Bauer Legacy of Alex Klupchak was didn’t help,” Obendorf said. 21-19 comeback win over No. 7 gan to chip away at the Twine said. “This was the worst game originally seeded No. 2 overall. “Usually, we look to get in the The Twine Ticklers. Ticklers’ lead. A coast-to-coast we have played so far. This is “It was fun to be in it and post and work it around a lot, The game got off to a fast-basket by Schafer off a steal the first game where we have get some early wins,” graduate but it’s easier to turn the ball paced start, as both teams uti-tied the game at 18 and a sub-given up double digits.” student Patrick Cassidy said. over when you’re passing a lot lized a strong perimeter game sequent made free throw by 
Going forward, Hoops We Did “We were getting top-of-the-in these kinds of conditions.” and saw many of their long-dis-Schafer gave the lead back to It Again is looking to hit its easy line competition and hope that Howard Street Foodmart tance jumpers fall. The Twine the No. 10 seed. Senior guard layups and free-throws. [The Legacy of Alex Klupchak] gained some momentum ear-Ticklers broke a 7-7 deadlock Ed Redden iced the game for 
“We just missed a lot of shots will represent the law school.” ly in the second half, scoring by feeding the ball to lengthy One More Time for Old Time’s today,” Bauer said. “We need to Cassidy led fellow gradu-the first four points out of the junior center Erik VanEperen, Sake with a layup off a forced make our free-throws and put-ate students Jason Cellier, Ja-break behind some long-range who scored four of the final five turnover, giving his team the backs off of offensive boards.” son Torfin, Mike Grathwol and shots from senior forward Matt points of the half and led the improbable comeback win. 
Kristian Weir on CZ for Days. Knapke. This momentum was team to an 11-7 halftime lead. Schafer and Redden have se-No. 1 The Legacy of Alex Klup-On the winning team, Rompf soon put to a stop by imposing “I just try to work hard with-niors Joe Idaszak, Wes Howard chak def. No. 16 CZ for Days — “The Old Man” or “Seasoned Team Trill senior forward Will out the ball, and my teammates and Corey Scott as teammates 
Vet” as his team fondly calls Gesicki, who made several low-find me when I’m open,” VanE-on One More Time. 
In a law-school showdown, him — remained diplomatic post shots, en route to leading peren said. “They do a really “We’re the underdog, origi-No. 1 The Legacy of Alex Klup-about The Legacy’s chances go-all scorers with nine points. good job of giving me an oppor-nally being seeded 14th, so chak, named after former ing further in the tournament. Gesicki also spurred the team’s tunity to get open shots, and winning this round was getting tournament-participant and “There are a lot of good teams defense with multiple blocks. it’s just a major part of our of-past where we expected to be,” the 2011 Bookstore Basket-out there,” Rompf said. “There Gesicki credited the guard fense.” Schafer said. “We’re just going ball MVP, controlled the game are five or six teams who could tandem of McCabe and Mezyk Juniors Matt Kilgannon, Joe to do the best we can moving against No. 16 CZ for Days and easily win this.” for his success in finding open Williams, James McClay and forward.” earned the bragging rights with shots. senior Matt Cirillo joined VanE-Bookstore basketball action a 21-6 win. No. 5 Team Trill def. No. 12 “It was the first team we peren on the Twin Ticklers. continues tonight with Elite 
The Legacy of Alex Klupchak Howard Street Foodmart played that had two pretty tall The second half had barely Eight action beginning at 5 began the game with a massive guys, but we did a pretty good come to a start when the skies p.m. block on a three-point attempt In a turnover-laden, physi-job with Joe [Mezyk] setting opened up, and the teams were that ended up flying out of cal contest, experienced No. 5 screens down low,” Gesicki forced to the sidelines for a fif-Contact Isaac Lorton at bounds and into the side street, Team Trill relied on a combina-said. “I made some pretty easy teen-minute delay. Coming out ilorton@nd.edu and Brian Hartnett setting a precedent of hard de-tion of skilled guard play and layups because they would both of the break, One More Time for at bhartnet@nd.edu 
NHL 



Capitals beat Bruins 2-1 in overtime to advance 
two minutes left in regulation. Eastern Conference semifinals 
Hendricks scored midway since 1998, when they made it 
through the first period, and to the Stanley Cup finals but 
Seguin tied it in the second. were swept by Detroit. 
It stayed that way through a This year’s regular season 
scoreless third, with Wash-wasn’t as successful. 
ington killing off a penalty in But the playoffs have a 
the final 3 minutes to send the chance to be even better. 
game into overtime. Entering the postseason as 
Patrice Bergeron had a a No. 7 seed, the Capitals won chance to win it in the first three times in Boston — they minute of the extra period, but also won Games 2 and 5 — he couldn’t get off a solid shot to earn a berth in the East-from Holtby’s right. Two min-ern Conference semifinals. utes later, the Capitals broke Their second-round opponent into the Boston zone with for-won’t be determined until af­mer Bruin Mike Knuble lead-ter Game 7s Thursday night ing a 2-on-1. between Ottawa and the New 
Knuble shot, and Thomas York Rangers, and Florida and 
left the rebound out where New Jersey. 
Ward could reach it with his The Bruins needed an un­
backhander. precedented three Game 7s to 
The building fell silent as win the Cup last year, includ­the Capitals celebrated just ing the 4-0 victory over Van-their third postseason series couver that gave the Origi­win since a run to the Stanley nal Six franchise its first title Cup finals in 1998. Some fans since 1972. Thomas also had a littered the ice with debris, but shutout in the Game 7 win over the Bruins waited for the post-Tampa Bay in the Eastern Con-game handshake. ference finals. 
Thomas, bringing up the But that streak ended mid-rear, gave Holtby a tap on the way through the first period shoulder and said, “Great job, when Carlson shot from right kid.” point and Hendricks tipped it 
No team has repeated as past Thomas’ right shoulder to 
Stanley Cup champions since give the Capitals a 1-0 lead. 
the Detroit Red Wings in 1997-The Bruins tied it with 5:33 Associated Press ing the defending Stanley Cup Tyler Seguin scored, and 98. left in the second when Holt-champion Bruins’ hopes of a Tim Thomas made 26 saves for The Capitals earned more by kicked Andrew Ference’s BOSTON — Joel Ward repeat. Boston. than 100 points in the previ-shot wide to his left to Johnny slammed home a rebound at Rookie Braden Holtby It was the first time in NHL ous three seasons, leading the Boychuk, whose shot trickled 
2:57 of overtime to give Wash-stopped 31 shots for Washing-history that a playoff series NHL with 121 in 2010, but had through the goalie’s pads and ington a 2-1 victory over Bos-ton in Game 7 — the seventh had seven games determined little to show for it once the into the crease. Seguin dove for ton on Wednesday night, send-one-goal game of the series. by one goal. Four of the games postseason started. They won it, with two defenders crashing ing the Capitals to the second Matt Hendricks scored the went to overtime, and two oth-just two series over that span on top of him, and swiped it round of the playoffs and end-Capitals’ other goal. ers were decided with less than and have not made it out of the into the net to make it 1-1. 

page 18 | ndsmcobserver.com The Observer u SPORTS Thursday, April 26, 2012 

Wildcats 
continued from page 20 
four first-half goals, North­western took a 12-3 lead into halftime. 
The game could have been even further out of reach if not for the outstanding play of Irish junior goaltender Ellie Hilling. Hilling made seven saves in the first half 
— several from point-blank range — to keep the Wildcats within striking distance. 
Hilling, who had a few for­mer teammates from Brigh­ton High School in Rochester, N.Y., in the Northwest ­ern lineup, said she had mixed feel­


ings about 

“We know darn well 
the prospect 

that [if] you see them 
of shutting 

in the regular season, 
down her 

friends. you’re pretty lucky. 
“I think it A lot of people have kind of hurts to go through them to me a little win a national title.” bit,” Hilling said. “In-
Christine Halfpenny 
stead of just 

Irish coach 
playing like they’re any­one else, I have in the back of my head that I know them and I don’t want them to score on me. So, in­stead of just reacting, I’m thinking ‘[Shoot], I don’t want them to score on me.’” 
Northwestern continued to bring its ‘A’ game in the second half and further built up its lead behind the play of senior attack Shannon Smith. Smith, the defend­ing Tewaaraton Award win­ner, led all scorers with five points on the evening, and kept the high-flying Wild­cat offense in gear as they cruised to the 10-goal win. 
While the loss was certain­ly a disappointment to Notre Dame, Irish coach Christine Halfpenny said before the game her team was fortu­nate to get a tune-up against such an elite team before the postseason begins. 
“We know darn well that [if] you see them in the reg­ular season, you’re pretty lucky,” she said. “A lot of people have to go through them to win a national title.” 
The Irish will return to ac­tion at home this weekend against Cincinnati. The team will honor its seniors at that game, including attack Mag­
gie Tama­sitis, who was selected as a nomi­nee for the Tewaa rat on Award be­fore Wednes­day’s game. 
In a possible Tewaa rat on jinx, Tama­sitis was kept off the scoresheet Wednesday for the first time since her fresh­man year, ending a 51­
game scoring streak. Tama­sitis was one game shy of breaking the school record, held by former Irish mid­fielder Caitlin McKinney, but now the two will share the honor. 
Tamasitis’s achievements will be honored Saturday, along with those of her seven fellow seniors. The game will take place at Arlotta Stadium and begins at noon. 
Contact Jack Hefferon at wheffero@nd.edu 



Plot 
continued from page 20 
NCAA tournament. 
This season’s novel tells the story of a preseason top-20 team with a new head coach and unproven and youthful contributors. But as the season has worn on, the Irish have climbed up the rankings instead of sliding down. 
So, simply put, despite the loss to top-ranked Northwestern, Notre Dame is still headed in the right direction. 
The difference can only be one thing — Christine Halfpenny. 
Don’t get me wrong, for­mer coach Tracy Coyne did great things for the pro­gram she initially started, including a Final Four trip in 2006. It’s just that Halfpenny has changed the culture — and, thus, the results — around the program. 
The energetic former William & Mary coach has brought both a younger vibe and a high-scoring spread offense to the team that has translated to a 12-3 overall record and a 5-2 Big East mark. 
Need proof Halfpenny’s system works? 
The Irish have scored 10 or fewer goals just three times this season while last year they saw seven such performances. De­spite the loss of All-Amer­ican midfielder Shaylyn Blaney, the Notre Dame offense is averaging two more goals per game. Six Irish players have regis­tered more than 20 points so far this season, high­lighted by senior attack Maggie Tamasitis’ 50 as­sists and 19 goals. 
For as much firepower and flashiness as the Irish of­fense possesses, the defense is stellar as well, anchored by junior goalkeeper Ellie Hilling. Now with two years of starting experience under her belt, Hilling has strung together career performances this season in helping the Irish to a 4-0 record in games decided by two goals or fewer. 
And the stats are only part of the story — the results are the other part. 
The Irish have taken care of business against teams they are on the same level with. In beating the Stanfords, the Vanderbilts, the Cornells and the Ohio States of the wom­en’s lacrosse world, Notre Dame is finally playing up to its potential. While the over­all success of the program may be judged by its perfor­mance against elite competi­tion, wins over equal compe­tition show much-needed and wanted progress. 
So don’t worry about a loss to Northwestern — Halfpenny and the Irish are headed in the right direction. 
In 2011, the Irish missed the NCAA tournament. In 2012, the final chapter has yet to be written. 

Contact Matthew DeFranks at mdefrank@nd.edu 


Thursday, April 26, 2012 The Observer u TODAY ndsmcobserver.com | page 19 
CROSSWORD WILL SHORTz 
HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 


THE LONDON EXPRESS ALEX GRISWOLD and LEE HAGGENJOS JUMBLE DAVID HOYT JEFF KNWEK 




Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 

Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556

 Enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year


 Enclosed
 is $75 for one semester 


Name ____________________________________________________ Address __________________________________________________ City ____________________ State___________ Zip______________ 

Thursday, April 26, 2012 The Observer | ndsmcobserver.com page 20 
WOMEN’S LACROSSE 





Beaten by the best 
Northwestern wins 

Despite loss, 2012 is top-10 matchup, 17-7 
still different for ND 

By JACK HEFFERON 
Sports Writer 

In 2011, Notre Dame lost to Northwestern, Loyola and After climbing near the top 
Syracuse. In 2012, Notre of college lacrosse rankings 
Dame lost to Northwestern, with four straight wins, No. 
Loyola and 6 Notre Dame looked to chal-
Syracuse. lenge for the peak in its game 
But if you against No. 1 Northwestern 
think the on Wednesday. The Irish were 
story is the unable to knock the Wildcats 
same as a off their throne, losing to the 
year ago, perennial powerhouse, 17-7. 
you would Notre Dame (12-3, 5-2 Big 
be wrong East) actually jumped out to 
— dead 1-0 lead when sophomore at-
wrong. tack Lindsay Powell scored 
Last the first of her team-leading 
season’s three goals, but Northwest-
book told ern (15-1, 4-1 American) 
the story of would quickly respond. The 
a preseason Wildcats, who have won six 
top-10 of the last seven national 
squad with championships, found their 
an experienced coach and form through the play of ju­
two program-changing All­nior attack Erin Fitzgerald 
Americans. The plot fell apart and jumped back into control. 
as the team dropped games to Powered by Fitzgerald’s inferior teams and missed the 

see WILDCATS/page 18 see PLOT/page 18 


Matthew DeFranks 
Associate Sports Editor 


BASEBALL 


Irish fall 9-4 to Chippewas 
By ANDREW GASTELUM 
Associate Sports Editor 
Notre Dame’s recent start­ing-pitching success came to a halt Wednesday afternoon as Central Michigan out-slugged the Irish 9-4 at Frank Eck Sta­dium. 
Led by its strong starting ro­tation, Notre Dame (22-17) had won five of its last six coming into the midweek test against the Chippewas (18-24). But the Irish struggled on the mound on a cold and rainy night, as Notre Dame went through eight pitchers on the evening. 
Freshman right-hander Matt Ternowchek started the game for the Irish, but only lasted 1 1/3 innings, giving up five runs on six hits. The freshman squandered an early two-run lead with a four-run second inning. 
After the first two Chippewa hitters reached base in the sec­ond inning, redshirt freshman second baseman Pat MacKen­zie tied the game on a two-RBI single up the middle. MacKen­zie came into the game hitting in the ninth spot with only five RBIs on the season, but proved to be a key contributor to the Central Michigan victory with four RBIs. 
Central Michigan junior shortstop Jordan Dean added to the Irish woes with three RBIs, highlighted by a two-RBI double in the second inning, which ended the day for Ter­nowchek, down 5-3. 
“In a midweek game, you want to try to get a few guys in there anyways. Going into it we knew we were going to throw a lot of pitchers,” Irish coach Mik Aoki said. “We were hoping that Matty would give us three or four [innings] and turn it over to the pen. But I thought Matty didn’t pitch very well. His stuff was soft and he got behind in counts. He is usu­ally a little better than that. He didn’t really have it and quite frankly the whole team didn’t have it.” 



After Ternowchek gave up a run in the first inning, the Irish responded quickly with a three-run bottom half. Chip 


see IRISH/page 16 
BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL 
Tournament continues with Sweet 16 action 
By ISAAC LORTON and BRIAN HARTNETT 
Sports Writers 
No. 5 Hoops We Did it Again def. No. 12 Super Sophs 
The rain was harsh, and so was the offense and defense of No. 3 Hoops We Did It Again as it went on to defeat No. 14 Super Sophs 21-12 in a Sweet 16 game Wednesday night. 
Hoops We Did It Again com­piles four freshmen in Zoe Bauer, George Stainko, Darrell McLintyre and Won Edwards, as well as Notre Dame sports properties employee Beau Bau­er.  The higher-seeded team started off with style on a fast break with a behind-the-back pass and a smooth layup. Most of Hoops’ points were on fast breaks, coming off steals and quick outlet passes. 
Super Sophs, a team com­posed of sophomores Chris 

see SOPHS/page 17 


ND SOFTBALL 
Winter leads squad to sweep over Pirates 
By ERNST CLEOFE 
Sports Writer 
Facing not only a Big East op­ponent in Seton Hall, but also the length of a mid-week double­header with long rain delays, the Irish pulled out two good efforts to sweep the Pirates on Wednes­day. The Irish stood behind strin­gent defense and the continued hotstreak of sophomore pitcher Laura Winter. 
Winter continued her domi­nant pitching performances after throwing a no-hitter Saturday. She provided a steady force on the mound with a complete game in the first game and six innings-pitched in the second game. Win­ter ended the day with 17 strike­outs, only giving up six hits. 
Senior outfielder and captain Alexa Maldonado said Winter is a sparkplug for the team. 
“She’s done an unbelievable job recently,” Maldonado said. “We work off her energy, and when she has been on the mound, she’s brought intensity. We played a great all-around game and it helped us pull out a big win.” 
In the first game, Notre Dame (29-13, 10-3 Big East) struck first 
see WINTER/page 16 





